LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Bateman A rrAC III 30106023983769fyxYd A'Q/\ \ Cool^af | A (M II—I m—COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLDEDITED BY FLORENCE B. JACK AND RITA STRAUSS THE WOMAN’S BOOK UNIFORM IN STYLE AND PRICE WITH COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD T. C. & E. C. JACK, AND BOOKSELLERSCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD BY FLORENCE B. JACK FOR MANY YEARS PRINCIPAL OF THE SCHOOL OF THE DOMESTIC ARTS, EDINBURGH, AUTHOR OF “ INVALID COOKERY,” AND “ THE DOMESTIC ARTS ” SERIES, AND JOINT-EDITOR OF “THE WOMAN’S BOOK” LONDON: T. C. & E. C. JACK 67 LONG ACRE, W.C. : AND EDINBURGH 1914PREFACE In offering yet another book of Cookery to the public, I feel that I may seem to be doing what has often been adequately done before. This, however, is not the case. As an active teacher and constant student of Cookery both at home and abroad, I have found that even the best books frequently assume in readers a knowledge which they do not in fact possess. The details which are omitted from the instructions are generally simple ; but if a simple precaution be unknown, it is as vital as if it were most complicated. Having encountered many difficulties myself, I can well appreciate and sympathise with the difficulties of others. In giving most complete, clear, and accurate directions as simply as possible, I have done my best to smooth away difficulties for those who have little or no proficiency in the subject, and this book represents the results of many years of hard work. The book is not merely a recipe book. It will be evident, from what has been said, that many trifling but necessary details are included; and guidance is given as to the best ways of economising time and money. My aim is to furnish at the same time a good, and an economical cuisine. While the greater number of the recipes are for simple home dishes, there are also more elaborate ones for other grades of housekeeping, and there are plain, old-fashioned dishes as well as recent and elegant novelties. I think cooks of every standard of proficiency will find the book of value. The young housekeeper, who has her experience to gain, will by its use gain her experience at the expense of a minimum of failure, with little or no waste of good material, and with a minimum expenditure of nerve force. The book should also appeal to the skilled cook who wishes to learn new dishes, or to improve those she already knows. Even the novice, provided she brings an average amount of intelligence and care to bear upon her work, should be able to achieve a fair degree of success by following the instructions given.vi COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Wherever possible, exact weights and measures have been given. The resources of the ordinary kitchen have been borne in mind, and simple substitutes are suggested for the more elaborate appliances. At the head of each section are given some general rules for the making of the dishes included therein. Much care has been taken to give a complete index, so that, even where the ordinary classification is not understood, anything in the book may be quickly found. As the majority of my readers may stand in need of some assistance in the compilation of their menus, a few specimens have been given at the end of the book. As attractively prepared food is so important to the health of everyone, and as it is so easy to rest upon one’s achievements and fall into a groove, I strongly urge all who are charged with the cooking for a household to try new dishes, so as to introduce more variety into the daily bill of fare. F. B. J. May 1914.CONTENTS PAGE The Importance op Cookery . . 1 Points to Remember in Cookery . 3 Hints to Readers i .... 5 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD Part I—The Kitchen— Choice of the Kitchen ... 7 Kitchen Utensils . . . .10 Order and Cleanliness in the Kitchen 11 Cleaning of Utensils. . . .13 Washing of Dishes—General Direc- tions ...... 14 Kitchen Refuse . . . .15 How to get rid of Flies, Beetles, and other Pests . . . .16 Part II—Cooking Stoves and their Management— The Kitchen Range. . . .16 To Clean a Kitchen Range . .18 Cooking by Gas . . . .19 How to Use a Gas Stove . . .20 Cooking on Oil Stoves . . .21 Cooking by Electricity . . .22 Part III—Marketing Hints . .23 What to Buy 25 Notes on Choosing Provisions . . 25 A Monthly Calendar of Food . . 26 Part IV—The Larder and Care of Food 29 Care of Various Kinds of Food . 31 Farm Produce . . . . .32 Miscellaneous . . . . .32 Storing of Fruit and Vegetables . 33 Some Useful Weights and Measures 34 The Thermometer . . . .34 PAGE (3) Farinaceous and Fish Soups, &c. 58 (4) Fruit Soups . . . .62 Part III—More Expensive Soups-— (1) Clear Soup and Brown Soups . 63 (2) White Soups and Vegetable Cream Soups . . . .70 FISH Part I—Various Preliminaries— On Choosing Fish . . . .77 General Rules for Cleaning Fish . 77 To Skin and Fillet Fish . . .78 Fish Stock from Trimmings . .78 General Rules for Cooking Fish . 78 Part II—Saltwater Fish . .81 Part III—Freshwater Fish . .101 Part IV—Shellfish . . . .105 Part V—Fish Redressed, etc. . 113 Part VI—Some more Elaborate Fish Dishes 119 YEGETABLES AND SALADS General Remarks on the Cooking of Vegetables. . . .126 Part I—Fresh Vegetables and how to Cook them . . . .127 Part II—Dried and Preserved Vege- tables 171 Part III—Salads— The Ingredients of a Salad . .175 The Preparation of Salad Vegetables 176 The Dressing and Serving of Salads . 176 STOCKS AND SOUPS Part I—Preliminary to Soup Making— Different Kinds of Soups . . .35 The Making of Stock and the Stock Pot 36 Different Kinds of Stock . . .36 Part II—Plain Soups for Family Use— (1) Meat Soups and Broths . .41 (2) Vegetable Soups .. . .47 SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET General Remarks on Sauces . .182 To keep Sauces Warm . . . 182 To Tammy a Sauce .... 183 Part I—Simple Hot and Foundation Sauces— Seasoned Milk for Sauces . . .183 Foundation Sauces . . . .183 Part II—More Elaborate Hot Sauces 188Vlll COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Part III—Cold Sauces and Savoury Butters— page Salad Dressings . . . .192 Savoury Butters . . . .193 Part IV—Sweet Sauces . . .194 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES Part I—Choice, Preparation, and Cooking of Meat— Hints on Choosing Meat . . . 200 Different Joints of Meat and their Uses 201 Beef 202 Veal 203 Mutton ...... 203 Lamb 204 Pork ...... 204 Price of Meat ..... 204 Some Preliminaries .... 205 Different Methods of Cooking Meat . 207 Approximate Time required for Boil- ing or Roasting Meat . . .210 Part II—Beef . . . .211 Part III—Mutton and Lamb . . 225 Part IV—Veal 234 Part V—Pork and Ham . . . 242 COLD MEAT REDRESSED General Directions for Re-heating Meat 248 SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 260 POUI.TRY, RABBITS, AND GAME Part I—Poultry— On Choosing Poultry . . .274 Preparation of Poultry for Table . 275 Part II—Rabbits, Hares, and Veni- son— To Choose Hares and Rabbits . . 290 Venison ...... 297 Part III—Game Birds . . . 299 FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES EGG DISHES AND OMELETS Part I—Egg Dishes— page Simple Methods of Cooking Eggs . 315 Dishes with Hard-boiled Eggs— I. Hot 316 Dishes with Hard-boiled Eggs— II. Cold 320 Variations of the Poached Egg . 321 Variations of Eggs sur la Plat . .323 Variations of the Fried Egg . . 324 Variations of Scrambled Egg . . 325 Miscellaneous Egg Dishes . . 325 Part II—Omelets— General Remarks . . . .327 Recipes 328 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES Materials Required .... 332 On Mixing and Rolling . . . 332 Hints on Baking Pastry . . . 333 To Glaze Pastry .... 333 Part I—Different Kinds of Pastry 333 Part II—Meat and Savoury Dishes with Pastry— Meat Pies ..... 336 Meat Puddings . . . .341 Raised Pies ..... 343 Miscellaneous Pies and Pasties - . 345 Patties and Small Savoury Pastries . 350 Patties 352 Part III—Sweet Dishes with Pastry— Fruit Pies and Tarts . . . 354 Various Tarts and Flans . . . 356 Tartlets and Small Sweet Pastries . 362 RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES Part I—Rice Dishes— Rice ...... 370 Part II—Macaroni Dishes— Macaroni and other Italian Pastes . 373 Part III.—Nut Dishes— Nuts and their Value . . .376 BREAKFAST DISHES General Remarks .... 380 Recipes ....... 380 Part I—Forcemeats and Stuffings 307 Part II—Balls, Dumplings, and Quenelles for Garnish . . 309 Part III—Various Garnishes . .311 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS Part I—Simple Milk Puddings— General Remarks .... 390 Recipes ...... 391CONTENTS IX Part II—Boiled and Steamed Pud- dings— PAOE Some Preliminaries . . . 394 Recipes ...... 396 Part III—Bailed Puddings— Introductory . . . . . 408 Recipes ...... 409 Part IV—Fritters and Fried Pud- dings— General Remarks . . . .418 Recipes 418 Part V—Souffles and Sweet Ome- lets— Remarks on Souffles . . . 425 Recipes . . . . . . 426 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS General Remarks . . . .432 Part I—Inexpensive Cold Sweets . 433 Part II—Jellies and Sponges . 438 Part III—Custards and Creams . 443 Part IV—Various Fancy Sweets and Gateaux 450 FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES Part I—Fruit Compotes and Sal- ads, etc 461 Fruit Salads 464 Part II—Jam Making— A few Hints on Jam Making . . 465 Part III—The Bottling of Fruit . 473 ICES Preliminary to Ice Making . .478 Part I—Simple Ices— 1. Water Ices ..... 480 2. Cream Ices ..... 481 Part II—Moulded and Fancy Ices— To Mould an Ice .... 485 Ice Puddings 485 Small Fancy Ices .... 485 Iced Souffles, Mousses, Parfaits, and Biscuits HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES General Remarks on Hors-d’(Euvre and Savouries . . . .491 Savouries 492 Preliminary Recipes . . . 492 Part I—Hors-d’CEuvre and Small Cold Savouries . . . 494 PAGE Part II—Small Hot Savouries . 502 Part III—Some more Substantial Savouries .... 514 SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET Some Preliminaries . . . 520 Part I—Savoury Sandwiches . .621 Part II—Sweet Sandwiches . .525 INVALID COOKERY A Few Hints on Invalid Cookery . 627 Part I—Invalid Soups and Meat Jellies— Introductory 527 Recipes 527 Part II—Invalid Fish and Vegetable Dishes— Introductory 532 Recipes 532 Part III—Invalid Meat Dishes— Introductory ..... 535 Recipes ...... 535 Part IV—Puddings and Sweets for Invalids 539 Part V—Drinks and Miscellaneous Invalid Dishes . . . 542 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES Various Preliminaries . . . 550 Preparation of Cake Tins . . 550 Choice and Preparation of various Materials used in Cake Making ..... 551 About Yeast 552 Explanation of various Terms used in Cake Making . . . 552 The Baking of Cakes . . . 553 To Keep Bread and Cakes . . 554 What to do with Stale Cakes and Biscuits 555 Part I—Bread, Scones, and Tea Cakes 555 Part II—Buns and Small Cakes . 561 Part III—Biscuits . . . .571 Part IV—Large Cakes . . .575 Part V—Cake Icings and Decora- tions 589x COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD SWEET MAKING Part I—Various Preliminaries— page Utensils for Sweet Making . . 595 Materials for Sweet Making . . 596 General Directions for Boiling Sugar 596 Syrups for Sweet Making . . 597 Pari II—Fondants, Creams, and Tablets 598 Part III—Chocolates . . . 602 Part IV—Toffees, Candies, and Caramels 605 Part V—Sweets with Marzipan . 608 Part VI—Miscellaneous Sweets, etc. 612 DRINKS AND BEVERAGES . .615 CHAFING-DISH COOKERY The Chafing Dish and how to Use it 621 Recipes ...... 622 PAPER-BAG COOKERY The Bag and how to Use it . . 626 Recipes ...... 627 HERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS, ETC. Herbs 629 Spices, etc 630 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES . . 634 FRENCH TERMS FOR VARIOUS FOODS 636 Explanation of French and other Terms used in Cookery . . 638 SERVIETTE FOLDING The Pocket PAGE . 642 The Roxburgh . . 643 The Bishop’s Mitre . . 643 The Tent . . 644 The Orchid . 644 The Cockade . 645 The Vase and Pocket . 645 The Bow yf . 646 The Fan . 646 The Scroll . . 647 The Water Lily . 647 The Cockscomb . . 648 The Hamburg . 648 The Empress . 649 The Cardinal’s Hat . . 649 The Palm . . 649 To Fold a Plate Doyley OR Serviette . . 650 HINTS ON TABLE DECORATION 652 WAITING AT TABLE AND TABLE SERVICE 655 THE ART OF CARVING . . .658 MENUS AND THEIR CONSTRUC- TION 663 SIMPLE DINNERS FOR A MONTH. In Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter 665 DINNERS OF FIVE OR SIX COURSES 668 MENUS FOR FIFTY BREAKFASTS 672 SEASONABLE LUNCHEONS . . 675 INDEX 678THE IMPORTANCE OF COOKERY There is perhaps no science which has done more for the health and happiness of mankind than that of good cooking. The provision of good and suitable food is a necessity to every form of life : it is required both to nourish the body and to keep it in good condition. Indeed, it is becoming more and more a recognised fact that health depends largely upon diet, and that cookery in its perfection is one of the most important factors in comfortable living. Unfortunately, we as a nation are very much behindhand in our ability to cook well. It seems strange that in this country, where there are plenty of materials at hand, plenty of first-rate utensils, cooking stoves and labour-saving appliances, plenty of aids in the way of condi- ments and flavourings, and where raw meat is perhaps better than in any other country in the world, the results shown are so very poor. Perhaps want of interest, want of daintiness, lack of discriminating taste, and above all, a desire to save trouble on the part of the average British cook, are at the root of the comparative inadequacy of our cooking. The French or Italian cook spares no trouble which will ensure good results—she takes a real pride in turning out good and appetising dishes. The British cook, on the other hand, is inclined to hurry through her work and expect the food to cook itself. Is it to be wondered at, therefore, that the results are not always so satisfactory as can be desired ? Within the last few years, however, considerable attention has been drawn to the subject of the improvement of British cookery. It is beginning to be realised that training in the culinary art should form an important part of every girl’s education—indeed, that it should rank among the other branches of so-called “higher education.” ACOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2 Cookery schools have been established all over the country, where the science is not only taught in practice, hut where lectures are given on the nutritive value and chemistry of food as well. It would almost seem as if a new era were dawning in this respect, and that bad cooking will soon be a relic of the unenlightened past. It is to be hoped that the time is near when every woman—even she who can afford to maintain a large staff of trained servants—will have the science of cookery at her finger-ends, for the usefulness of a thorough knowledge of cookery and food values cannot be too highly estimated. Our bodies are either poisoned or nourished by the food we eat, and its proper choice and preparation are well worth the con- sideration of every woman who has to do with the life of the home. Truly it may be said that she who has mastered the art of cooking in all its branches has gone a long way towards solving the secret of good health for those fortunate people who reap the benefit of her culinary knowledge ; for good cooking means appetising food—appetising food means good digestion—and good digestion goes a long way towards the securing of perfect health.POINTS TO REMEMBER IN COOKERY The value of food depends largely on its preparation, and the aim in cooking it must be : (1) To retain the nutritive properties of the various foods. (2) To assist mastication and make food more digestible. (3) To sterilise the food. (4) To improve the flavour and make it more pleasing to the palate. (5) To improve the appearance and make it more attractive to the eye. (6) To combine foods and condiments in such a way that one may assist and supplement the other. All good cooking is the result of care, undivided attention, and love of the art. A book on the subject may act as a guide and prevent many mistakes ; but practical experience is the best teacher. Take for example seasoning, which in its perfection is the art of bringing out the special savour of each class of food. The true cook has this art at her finger-ends. She knows how to harmonise to a nicety the different condiments or flavourings in such a way as to prevent any one clashing with, or unduly predominating over the others. Now a cookery book cannot teach this knack of seasoning, it can only suggest, care and a nice sense of taste must do the rest. The good cook neglects no single detail in regard to the dainty preparation of food. She realises that even its suitable decoration helps to make it appetising, and so takes a pride in the garnishing of her dishes as well as in their preparation and seasoning; Although that ultra elaborate style of decoration (unpleasantly sug-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 4 gestive of much fingering!) which was once in vogue, is now a thing of the past—still, there is a wide difference between a too highly decorated dish, and one that is carelessly and unappetisingly served. The experienced cook can distinguish to a nicety as to just what little finishing touches are required to give dishes that dainty appearance, which is so irresistible in its appeal to the eye and to the appetite, and which, by helping to stimulate the appetite, serves to stimulate the digestion as well.5 HINTS TO READERS (1) Read through the introductory matter to each section, as it contains many instructions which are general, in order to avoid repetition in the individual recipes. (2) Before starting to make a dish, read the selected recipe carefully from beginninjg to end, and give the directions fair and just treatment. (3) If several dishes are to be made, commence with the one which will take the longest time to cook. (4) See that the tire is in good condition for the cooking required, and if the oven is needed, see that it is likely to be at a right degree of heat by the time it is wanted. (5) Gather together the materials and utensils required for each dish before beginning to work. (6) Let all the ingredients used be good of their kind, and be par- ticular as to their freshness. (7) Weigh and measure accurately and don’t trust to rule of thumb. Theje should be no guess-work. An ounce or a table-spoonful more or less may spell ruin to all your labours. It is only after years of experience that quantities can be gauged accurately without weighing. (8) Do not of set purpose substitute one ingredient for another and expect the same results; although sometimes an expensive ingredient may be omitted without substantially interfering with the success of a dish. A note to this effect is added to many of the recipes. (9) Pay particular attention to the mixing in accordance with the directions, and give the greatest care to every detail in the preparation of each dish.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 6 (10) Be as accurate as possible about the time required for cooking, and try to place each dish or saucepan in the most suitable position on the stove or in the oven. (11) Give the saucepans the necessary attention when they are on the fire, and do not forget to watch the oven. (12) Clear up as you go along, and after finishing one dish, put away everything for which there is no further use before commencing another. (13) Dish everything neatly and garnish simply. (14) Serve punctually, and hot dishes really hot.7 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD Every cook has a right to a pleasant, cheerful kitchen with its full complement of those labour-saving devices which help to make cooking a pleasure instead of a task. A well-organised kitchen, good culinary implements, and last but not least, the best of provisions are essential to secure first-class results in oookery. This section deals very fully not only with the kitchen and its equipment, but also with all the chief points a housewife should know in regard to marketing and the choice and care of food. PART I THE KITCHEN Choice of the Kitchen.—This should be a bright and airy place, with enough room for the work that is to be carried on in it. Unfortunately we cannot always have ideal conditions in this respect, especi- ally in town houses where there are underground premises with an area, and the kitchen window, as often as not, looks out on a stone wall. Still, the importance of a bright kitchen should be carefully considered when choosing a house, and special thought given to the apartment, where not only is our food prepared, but where our servants have to live, as we do in our dining-rooms and drawing- rooms. Sometimes an unavoidably dark kitchen can be made brighter by having an outside wall painted white or a very light colour. Besides a cheerful aspect there are several other points which must be carefully attended to in the choice of a kitchen. The ventilation must be good, not only on account of those who have to live and work in it, but also for the benefit of the whole house. With a badly-ventilated kitchen the fumes of cooking are almost bound to spread where they are not wanted. In addition to the door and window it is sometimes a good plan to have a ventilator put in the wall above the height of the window to carry off the steam from cooking. Whenever work is going on in the kitchen the window should be kept open at the top, even in winter. The sanitary arrangements must also have par- ticular attention, and there must be a good and plentiful supply of water. The lighting is another important point, and the light, whether it be gas or electricity, should be so arranged as to make it possible to see clearly both at the table and at the stove. As regards position the kitchen should be within easy reach of the dining-room, and yet so placed that the odours of cooking do not penetrate to other parts of the house. The larder and store-room, too, should be near at hand to avoid all unnecessary running about. The Walls and Ceiling.—The ceding of the kitchen ought to be smoothly plastered and then white- washed. This whitewashing should, if necessary, be renewed every year, not only for cleanliness but also to keep the kitchen as light as possible. For the walls glazed tiles are the ideal covering, as they can so easily be washed, or a high-tiled dado with distemper, or other suitable finish above. But both these methods of wad-covering prove somewhat expensive, and people of moderate means have to content themselves with something a little cheaper. The walls may be washed all over with a simple distemper, and as this process costs very little the distemper may be renewed whenever it becomes dirty. Pretty light colours, such as buff, pink, pale blue, or pale green are the most effective. Varnished paper makes another appropriate covering ; it lasts well, looks bright, and can very easily be cleaned ; or, again, the sani- tary or so-called washable paper might be used,— this is less expensive than varnished paper, although it will not last so well nor stand so much cleaning. Specially prepared washable paints are also to be recommended ; they are to be had in a variety of shades, and make a kitchen look very pretty. The woodwork in the'kitchen should either be paintedCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 8 the same colour as the walls in a darker shade, or with white paint or a light oak stain. The Flooring.—This will be found to vary according to locality. In some parts of the country we find red flags, in others glazed tiles, red and yellow bricks, concrete or wooden boards, &c. When the flooring consists of flags, tiles, or bricks, it does not as a rule require further covering, as these are easily washed, and one or two rugs for standing on will be all that is necessary. But with a wooden floor it is different, as boards soon become soiled and are difficult to keep in order. In this case it is important to cover them with some material that is easily washed. Good well-seasoned linoleum is the best covering for a kitchen floor, and one with A well-arranged Kitchen Dresser a pattern is generally to be preferred to a plain one, as it does not show marks so readily. The inlaid linoleums are the best, as their colourings and designs are so worked into the materials that they cannot wear off or be obliterated. The initial outlay will be somewhat greater, but a good inlaid linoleum will be found cheaper in the end, as it is so much more durable than the other makes. Linoleum requires to be very carefully laid; it should either be glued to the floor or have the edges of each breadth fastened down by a few headless brads. Care must also be taken in the washing (see p. 12). Fittings and Furnishings.—The number of im- movable fittings in a kitchen will vary considerably with the style of house, but they usually com- prise a dresser, shelves, cupboards, a pulley for hanging up towels, &c., a roller for towel, gas or electric fittings, bells, sink, and a kitchen range or stove. The most important fixture in a kitchen is the range or stove, and this is treated in a section by itself (see p. 16). The dresser is really the kitchen sideboard, and as a rule it is fitted against one of the W'alls and belongs to the house. If it has to be made to order, take careful measurements of the wall space avail- able and have it made to fit. The upper part is usually made with grooved shelves, on which the plates and dishes of the dinner service are kept, or it may be fitted with shelves for jars with hooks along the edge of the shelves on which to hang small utensils; the latter is the better plan when space is valuable. The top part of the dresser will give room for soup tureen, vegetable dishes, sauce boats, knife trav, weights and scales, &c.—beneath there should be two or three drawers for holding spoons, knives, &c., and kitchen towels, while the lower part is fitted up with cupboards for holding dishes and the larger cooking utensils. Extra accommodation can often be provided by having one or two shelves fitted up in these cupboards. If the dresser is a large one it will be found moro useful to have part of the top enclosed as cup- boards ; this will be found more useful than shelving, as things are kept covered and out of the dust. A hinged flap fitted at one end of the dresser and held up with a swinging bracket in order to make it level with the permanent top, will often be found useful. It will provide an extra bit of space while cooking is going on or during the service of meals when the dresser is apt to become uncomfortably crowded. Cupboard accommodation is always most valu- able in a kitchen, but unfortunately in many of our modern houses, and especially in flats, the supply is very inadequate. In this case it is some- times possible to have a cupboard fitted up on the wall in which a small store of provisions and bottles can be kept. A recess or corner might be utilised for this purpose, and a joiner will often be able to fit up a set of shelves with a simple door at a very small cost. When time and labour are both precious, as much as possible should be kept under cover in order to save continual dusting. If the kitchen is small, the most must be made of it by using the walls. Sometimes it will be found a con- venience to have a shelf carried round all the available wall space on which to rest some of the larger cookery utensils, store jars, &e. This shelf must not be placed too high, it ought to be within easy reach without having to climb on a chair. High shelves in a kitchen are practically useless, and they only harbour dust. A strip of wood fixed below the shelf and fitted with a number of hooks will also be found useful for hanging up some of the smaller utensils, such as gravy strainer, grater, measures, &c. Nails should never be driven into the wall itself, as they are sure to come out and bring some of the plaster along witli them. If there is a separate scullery this would naturally contain the sink. This should be fitted against an outside wall, and near a window if possible, and it9 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD should be a convenient height for working at. A stoneware or tiled sink is best, as it is the easiest to clean and keep in good order. The back of the sink, if it is not placed in a window, should be made of some material 'which will not spoil with the splashing of the water. If not already fitted with tiles, a sheet of zinc might be fitted up, or a sheet of “ Emdeca,” which is a kind of tin, enam- elled in imitation of tiles, and very clean and prac- tical. A plate rack in which plates can be drained should be fitted up above the sink, and this will avoid the necessity of drying them. The space underneath the sink might be fitted with one or two shelves, or a small cupboard for holding cleaning requisites. Then at the side of the sink, and this is very important, there should be a well-grooved board sloping towards the sink on which dishes, &c., can be laid to drain. If table space is scanty a flap table might also be fitted up at the side, where dishes, when they are dried, could be placed. The walls of the scullery should be fitted with shelves and as much as possible made of the available space. The shelves on which saucepans are placed should be sparred, as this allows the air to get inside them, and they are kept drier. If there is little room for shelving, a sauce- pan stand, which can be placed either in kitchen or scullery, is often found most useful. Every kitchen should be supplied with a pulley on which to dry kitchen towels, &c., unless these can be hung elsewhere; there should also be a roller with brackets on which to hang a roller towel. In the ordinary kitchen there is very little movable furniture required, and it should never Saucepan Stand be filled up with unnecessary articles. One of the most im- portant articles is the table, and this ought to be as large as is convenient—ample table room will simplify kitchen work considerably. When there is not much floor space available it is better to have it made with flaps, which can easily be put down when not in use. It should be made of plain un- painted wood, and ought to be of a convenient height to work at and very steady on its legs. A kitchen table is generally made oblong in shape, and preference should be given to one that has drawers at the end, as this will be found a distinct advantage. Sometimes, too, a narrow shelf is fitted underneath on which articles can be placed when cookiiig is being done, thus keeping the table itself more clear. A piece of white or light-coloured oilcloth, cut to fit the table, laid smoothly on the top, and held in position with small tacks, will save a great deal of unnecessary scrubbing, but care must be taken to lay nothing hot upon it. Where space allows, a smaller table will always be found useful—a smaller and lighter one which can be moved about, or even a collapsible one which can be put aside when necessary. A cheerful coloured tablecloth might also be supplied to cover one of the tables and give it a less forbidding appearance. In large kitchens where much cooking is done, it is very useful to have a table covered with zinc placed near the stove upon which the dishing up can be done. Kitchen chairs should be made of plain varnished wood, or the seats may be of strong rush, but not cane. The number will depend upon how many maids there are—there should be one for each, and one over. Then, if the kitchen is also the maids’ sitting-room, there ought to be one or two com- fortable chairs for resting in the evening. Strong wicker ones and the light-coloured Windsor arm-10 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Coal Hod chairs are both suitable—or even camp-chairs with a strong carpet cover might be used, as they can be folded up during the day and put out of the way. In any case it should be remembered that our maids require something a little better than a straight- backed wooden seat when their day’s work is over. One or two good strong rugs will be necessary, or pieces of stout carpet neatly bound at the edges will serve the purpose very well. These rugs should be rolled up and put aside at night, and then not laid down again until the principal work in the kitchen is finished the following day. A fender may also be required; a simple curb is all that is necessary, although one made of steel will of course be more ornamental. In very small kitchens the fender can sometimes be dispensed with altogether, if a light screen is hooked on to the front of the fire to prevent the cinders falling out, and also as a protection from the heat. A strong poker, coal shovel and scuttle should also be provided. The best shape of scuttle is that known as a coal hod; it takes up little room, and is not so easily knocked over as the scoop shape. The flue rake and flue brush are generally supplied along with the stove. The arrangement of the kitchen window depends very much on the style of the house. As a rule a short muslin curtain across the window is all that is necessary, and all there is room for. A strong washing muslin is best, or, if preferred, a fight casement cloth, but it must be a material that will wash well and not lose its colour in the tub. This curtain must be simply made with a hem top and bottom and no lace or frills. If the window is wide, it should be made in two parts with a division in the middle, but if narrow, it will look better in one piece. The curtain should be half as wide again as the width of the window, to allow for fulness. A fight brass or wooden rod should be fitted across the window at a convenient height and the curtain fixed to that, either by means of small rings, or by slipping the rod through the upper hem of the curtain. If the kitchen is large and the window wide, Bhort side curtains, of some pretty cretonne, linen, or casement cloth might add very much to the comfortable appearance of the room. These are easily washed, and, provided they are not made long, they will not be found an inconvenience. A simple rod should be fixed across the window and the curtains attached to that by means of rings sewn on to the upper hem or heading. By this means the curtains can easily be slipped off when they require washing. Woollen draperies must never form part of the kitchen furnishing, as they hold the odours of cooking and are not healthy. A good clock must not be forgotten when fur- nishing the kitchen—-either one to hang on the wall or a good alarm clock, which can easily be carried about or taken to the maids’ bedroom at night. KITCHEN UTENSILS It is impossible to enumerate exactly the number and kind of utensils required in any house; this must be determined somewhat by the style of the house and the accommodation there is for keeping things, the number in the family, and their require- ments, and also upon the funds at disposal, so that when making a selection these points must be borne in mind. Whatever is bought should be good of its kind, and as simple in construction as possible. Well- made cookery utensils will last a lifetime, while an inferior class of goods is never cheap. A little extra outlay at the commencement in order to obtain thoroughly good articles will be well repaid in the long run. Cheap tin goods which rust and lose their shape in no time, thin enamelled ware, especially enamelled saucepans, which chip and become dangerous to use, or knives made of poor steel, which are useless for cutting purposes, are always false economy. In most circumstances, it is best to buy only what is strictly necessary to begin with, and then to add to the supply by degrees and as occasion demands. It is often nice as time goes on to get a pretty new mould or set of small moulds, a few fresh and dainty dishes for serving purposes, or some up-to-date cutter or labour-saving appliance, and such little additions generally give pleasure to the cook, if she is one who takes pride in her work. In small houses and flats where shelf accommo- dation is scarce and cupboard room often noticeable by its absence, the number of cooking utensils in- vested in must naturally be reduced to a minimum ; large and heavy-saucepans and a multifarious col- lection of moulds and dishes would only be in the way; all the more need then for judicious care in the selection, in order to obtain what is necessary and easy to work with. Then again, unless there is a kitchenmaid, or a cook who has plenty of time at her disposal, it is a mistake to buy a number of utensils which require polishing, or are difficult to clean. At the same time it is unreasonable to expect dainty cooking without proper implements, and every facility should be given to those who undertake the work. It will generally be found that the better the cook the smaller number of utensils she will require; but still, maids have different ways of working, and it is always wise to give what they ask for within reasonable limits. Choice of Saucepans.—Except in large estab- lishments where cooking has to be done in big quantities, it is a mistake to invest in a number of heavy iron saucepans. One or two will be quite sufficient, and the others might be made of some material which will be lighter to handle and easier to clean. When iron saucepans are invested in, those with a sificated fining should be selected, as they are so much more easily kept in order than an unlined pan, and they do not discolour the food cooked in them. Copper saucepans are very durable, and they are excellent as far as cooking is concerned, but they are expensive to. buy and hard to clean. They also require re-fining from time to time, because, unless they are kept intact as far as this is con- cerned, they are liable to verdigris. Steel and aluminium saucepans are to a large extent superseding copper, and their price is very much lower than it was a few years ago. They are easy to clean, light to handle, and are absolutely safe from all fear of verdigris. Nickel saucepans are also excellent, but owingTHE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 11 to theiE high price they still remain luxuries, which only the wealthy can indulge in. Enamelled tin saucepans will be found most useful, but they must be bought in a good quality. The hard grey enamelled lining lasts better than the white, and will stand any amount of hard wear. The cheap make of this saucepan should be avoided unless it is only for boiling water, as the enamel very soon chips and breaks off, and they become positively dangerous to use. Stoneware saucepans and clay terrines, so dear to the heart of the French and Italian housewife, are coming more and more into favour in this country. There is nothing cleaner to work with, and they are excellent for all kinds of slow cooking, especially stewing and soup-making. Some of them are so ornamental that the food can be served in them, thus saving the trouble of dishing up and the subsequent loss of heat. When once a trial has been made of the lighter kinds of saucepans, there will seldom be a return to the heavy iron make, which are so heavy to clean, not to speak of the lifting. Choice of Kettle.—This depends on the kind of stove used. If for a kitchen range a strong block- tin or a wrought-iron one might be bought, but there is no need to have it very heavy, better to have two lighter and smaller kettles than one that is a labour to lift. A good enamelled ware is also nice, it is so easily cleaned. For gas stoves choose a kettle of a strong light make. Those with a cor- rugated bottom are considered the best, as this increases the heating surface, and the water will boil in a shorter time than in a kettle with an ordinary flat bottom. Kettles that boil over are very troublesome, and those that are guaranteed not to do this can now be bought. One of the newest inventions in the kettle line is the whistling kettle, which gives a shrill whistle as soon as the water boils, and summons one to the spot. The following list of kitchen utensils with ap- proximate prices has been drawn up for a small house or flat with one or two servants, and may prove suggestive for those about to furnish. The number of articles may be reduced to suit the circumstances of those who live in a very quiet way, on the other hand many extra utensils will be necessary in a house where a luxurious table is kept; but what has been said as regards quality remains true whether the house be large or small The list does not include jars and tins for keeping stores, nor crockery, &e., for servants’ table use, which must be supplied according to the number of servants kept and reserved for its special purpose : 8. d. 8. d. 1 Galvanised bath . 2 2 1 Wire sieve . . . i 2 1 Galvanised pail 1 2 1 Baking board . . 2 6 1 Tin enamelled basin 1 0 1 Chopping board X 0 1 Fish kettle . . . 3 3 1 Pot rest .... 0 3 1 Frying pan . . . X 0 1 Bolling pin . . . 0 6 1 Omelet pan . . . 0 S 1 Flour dredger . . X 0 1 Iron stewpan (sili- 1 Sugar dredger . . 0 6 cated) 2 0 1 Funnel 0 3 1 Iron saucepan . . i 9 1 Corkscrew . . . 0 6 2 Enamelled sauce- 1 Pair scissors . . . 0 xo pans or 2 earthen- 1 Tin opener . . . 0 4 ware ditto . . . 3 0 2 Oven tins .... X 4 1 Small egg pan . . 0 6 1 Yorkshir e pudding 1 Large kettle . . 3 0 tin 0 6 ISmall ditto . . . 1 6 1 Cake tin ... . 0 8 1 Double cooker or 1 Tray 2 0 steamer .... 6 0 X Sink tidy .... 0 6J S. d. 1 Gridiron or grill . 1 0 1 Trussing needle . 0 1 1 Grater 0 6 1 Egg whisk ... 0 6 1 Soap dish .... 0 4 1 Lemon squeezer . 0 4J 1 Gill measure ..05 1 Jelly mould ... 1 0 1 Doz. patty pans . 0 4 1 Palette knife ..10 1 Cook’s knife ... 1 3 1 Table knife and fork 10 1 Potato knife . . . 0 4J 2 Iron spoons ... 0 6 1 Perforated spoon . 0 3 2 Wooden spoons . 0 5 1 Dessert spoou ..03 2 Tea-spoons ... 0 4 1 Toasting fork . . 0 4J 1 Gravy strainer ..10 s. d. 1 Fish slice . . . 0 7£ 1 Knife-board . . . 0 10" 1 Boasting tin and stand 16 1 Spring balance ..60 1 Shovel 0 6 1 Poker 0 9 1 Coal scuttle ... 2 0 1 Long broom ... 1 6 1 Set stove brushes . 2 9 1 Sweep’s brush ..09 2 Scrubbing brushes 1 6 1 Sink brush ... 0 6 2 Egg brushes ... 0 3 1 Dish mop . ... 0 41 3 Jugs 10“ 2 Pie dishes ... 1 6 2 Pudding bowls ..12 2 Mixing bowls . . 0 10 2 Cups and saucers . 0 8 6 Plates (assorted) . 1 0 Note.—The above does not include utensils for laundry work, nor brushes, &c., required for housemaid's work. The following might b allow: s. d. 1 Hair Sieve ... 2 0 1 Mincing machine . 4 8 1 Meat saw . . .26 1 Knife sharpener . 0 10 1 Box cutters ... 1 0 2 Fancy jelly moulds 3 0 A doz. small fancy moulds .... 1 0 1 Frying basket ..16 A salad basket or washer .... 1 7 There are also many labour and simplifying would be most desirabl e added if space and means s. d. 2 Sandwich cake tins 1 0 1 Preserving pan ..46 A pestle and mortar. 3 0 A vegetable presser (wooden) . . . . 0 51 1 or 2 larding needles .... 0 2 1 Wire cake stand . 0 10 i Pt. measure ... 0 6 1 Pt. measure ... 0 8 1 Pair steak tongs . 1 1 little inventions for saving work, and some of these ■> additions to the kitchen equipment, in fact the purchase of anything that will make kitchen work lighter, by even a feather’s weight, should never be considered an extravagance, but rather a particular economy. ORDER AND CLEANLINESS IN THE KITCHEN Order and Method.—These are two of the most prominent factors in the management of a kitchen. The old rule, “ A place for everything and every- thing in its place,” must be rigidly adhered to if order is to reign in this department, and it may be taken as a fact that if it doesn’t reign in the kitchen it won’t reign anywhere else in the house. It is very important that the kitchen be well arranged to start with, and that all utensils, stores, &c., be placed as near as possible to the place where they are to be used and handled. This will save unnecessary trotting backwards and forwards. Strength is often wasted in having to take journeys which might be avoided, as also in standing to do work which could be done just as well while sitting. In some kitchens one would think the aim had been to make the work as difficult as possible, and to try the patience of the cook by way of discipline —saucepans and moulds put on shelves quite out of reach without mounting on a chair, baking tins and lids at the back of a dark cupboard, quite inaccessible unless one goes down on one’s hands and knees to reach them, stores to be fetched from another far-distant cupboard each time they are wanted, &c. &c. It certainly requires some thought to arrange everything comfortably and conveniently, but withCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 12 a little trouble it can generally be done, and the actual labour of cooking will thus be lightened to a very considerable extent. It is often better to hang many of the smaller utensils that are constantly being required, such as strainers, measures, jugs, &c., as they are more easily reached than when put away in drawers and cupboards. A supply of groceries, too, especially such things as are frequently wanted, should always be kept in the kitchen itself and be ready to hand. Then there is a great art in keeping a place in order when once it is well arranged, and this gift of order, which would seem to be inborn, is, alas! one of the most difficult to acquire. Still, no good work can be done in a muddle, and it will generally be found that it is the best cooks who make the least mess and use the fewest dishes and utensils. When cooking is going on there must always be clearing up at the same time, and when the making of one dish is finished, everything for which there is no further use must be put away before another is started. Often, too, a small washing up can be managed now and again, and thus a big one at the end avoided. Cleanliness.—The kitchen and all that it contains must be kept spotlessly clean, this is imperative both to health and comfort. Cleanliness is one of the first attributes of a good cook, it ought therefore to form the groundwork of all training, as without it there can be no good results as far as cooking is concerned. Not only must the kitchen itself have its systematic daily and weekly cleaning, the utensils, too, must be kept in good condition, and their cleaning must never be neglected nor put off from one day to another. “ You can judge a workman by his tools ” cannot be better applied than to a cook, as no woman who has any pleasure in her profession would put up with a dirty saucepan nor an untidy kitchen— the scrupulous cleanliness of both should be her special pride and care. Below are given a few general rules for the clean ing of a kitchen and its contents. Cleaning the Kitchen.—This may be accomplished all in one day or by degrees, as is found most con- venient. If the kitchen is a large one and there is much to be done, the latter plan is generally the better of the two, as the work is then less obtrusive and it does not upset the comfort of the household so much as a big turn-out would do. The flues and range might be cleaned one day, with the scrubbing of the floors and tables to follow, the cupboards and windows another day, and the larder and out- side premises another, and so on. This is entirely a matter of arrangement, and must be planned to suit the ways and circumstances of each individual household. The following are a few hints regarding the various cleaning operations : To Clean the Range and Flues (see pp. 16-17). The Walls.—These should be kept well dusted. To do this, tie a clean soft duster over the head of a long soft broom and sweep every part of the wall with this, moving the brush up and down in long straight lines and being particular to remove all dust from the corners. The ceiling can be cleaned in the same way. When the walls are covered with some washable material, such as varnished paper, paint, or tiles, they should be well washed when a more thorough cleaning is required. Take a pail of tepid water and add to it enough soap to make a light lather. Use a sponge and wash the wall well over with this. Then carefully remove the soap with a second sponge or chamois leather wrung out of cold water, and leave the wall to dry without further wiping. The Floor.—As a rule the kitchen floor will require a good scrubbing once a week, other days it must be carefully swept or washed over if necessary. If the floor is covered with linoleum it should not be washed too often, as much washing and scrubbing is bad for the ordinary kind. Take a pail of warm water, some plain yellow or carbolic soap and a floor cloth and wash the linoleum with this. Then wring out the floor cloth and take up as much of the mois- ture as possible. If the linoleum is very dirty and requires a brush, then a soft one must be used. The use of soda, ammonia, or washing powders must be avoided. Of course the Greenwich linoleum, or that which has the pattern all the way through, can stand a little harder treatment, but even this must never be left too wet. Windows.—First dust the windows and also the woodwork surrounding them. Then take some tepid water and add enough liquid ammonia to make it smell slightly, or a small quantity of paraffin. Wring a chamois leather out of this and wash over the window with it, paying particular attention to the sides and corners. Then finish off with a soft cloth or dry leather. No material of a fluffy nature must be used. Clean soft paper makes a very good polishing pad. Commence always at the top of the window and work downwards. Paint or other stains can be removed from the glass with vinegar or oxalic acid. It must be remembered that windows should never be cleaned on a frosty day, as the glass is then very brittle and would be liable to break as soon as moisture was applied. Choose a dull dry day when the sun is not shining on them. Tables and Boards.—An effort should be made to keep kitchen tables and boards as white as possible. The following will be required for clean- ing them : a pail or basin of warm water, a piece of house flannel, scrubbing brush, sand, soap, and a stout cloth for drying. Wash the wood over with the flannel wrung out of warm water. Rub a little soap on the brush, dip in sand, and scrub with the grain of the wood. Rinse well in order to remove all grit, and dry quickly with a clean cloth. Soda should not be used, as it tends to discolour the wood, while sand helps to whiten it. When cleaning a kitchen table the legs should not be forgotten. If plain wood they may be scrubbed in the same way as the top, but if painted they must only be wiped over with a damp flannel and dried. Cleaning Mixture.—The following is good for the scrubbing of wood and also for scullery work of all kinds : Take 1 lb. each of powdered whitening, soft soap, and silver sand and 1 quart hot water. Mix the whitening with the water and put them into a sauce- pan with the soap. Bring these to the boil over the fire and simmer for 10 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and when the contents have cooled a little stir in the sand, and stir occa- sionally until nearly cold, to prevent the sandTHE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 13 sinking to the bottom. Pour the mixture into a jar or tin and use as required. This will keep for quite a long time and will be found most useful. CLEANING OF UTENSILS Care of Saucepans.—Now that saucepans are used almost entirely on gas stoves and close ranges where there is no smoking from an open fire, there is no excuse for having the outside coated with soot or black grease, which comes off on everything that touches it. The handle and outside of the sauce- pan should receive the same attention as the inside. As soon as the saucepan is finished with, it should be filled with warm water and left soaking until it can be cleaned. Care must be taken not to pour cold water into a hot enamelled saucepan or there will be danger of cracking the lining; in fact it is always a risky thing to do if the pan is very hot. Saucepans should be cleaned as soon as possible after they are taken from the fire and never allowed to remain dirty overnight except in very special circum- stances. The method of cleaning will depend somewhat upon the kind of saucepan, but the rule that they must be made clean and free from taint of any kind applies to all. If the contents of a saucepan have become burnt, boil some hot water and soda in it before attempting to do the cleaning. No saucepan must be laid away before it is per- fectly dry unless it is placed where the air can reach the inside, as on a sparred shelf. New Saucepans should be filled with cold water and brought to the boil, then well washed and rinsed before using. How to Clean Iron Saucepans.—Wash them well in hot water and soda, scrubbing inside and out with a pot brush. Use a little sand, if necessary, to make them clean. The sand must be used almost dry or it will not be so effective. When clean, rinse thoroughly so as to get rid of any grit, and dry with a coarse cloth. Enamelled Saucepans.—Wash well in hot water and soda, and then apply a little Brooke’s soap or sapolio to take off any marks or discoloration. Salt or fine silver sand may also be used, or even crushed egg-shells are very good for whitening the enamel. Rinse thoroughly and dry with a cloth. Tin and Steel Saucepans.—dean in the same way as enamelled saucepans. Earthenware Saucepans.—Wash first in hot soapy water, then apply a little fine sand or sapolio, if necessary, to remove any marks. Rinse thoroughly and dry with a stout cloth. Copper Saucepans.—These require very special care as, if once neglected, they are apt to har- bour verdigris, which is very poisonous. For this reason the tinned linings should always be kept intact, and directly there are signs of wear and the copper begins to show through, the saucepans should be sent away to be re-tinned. Clean the inside of copper saucepans with a mixture of soft soap and Brooke’s soap, or soft soap and fine silver sand applied with a piece of flannel or soft cloth wrung out of warm water. For the outside use the skin of a lemon dipped in bath-brick dust, or salt and vinegar applied with a flannel. Rinse the saucepan well with hot water and dry quickly and thoroughly. The outside may be further polished by rubbing it with a little dry whitening. Aluminium Saucepans.—Wash well with hot soapy water, using a little silver sand if necessary to remove any discoloration or burnt matter. Rinse thoroughly first in hot and then in cold water and then dry with a soft cloth. Soda must on no account be used with aluminium ware, and patent cleaning mixtures should also be avoided. The outside may be polished occasionally with metal polish. The vessels should not be scraped, nor should the fight brown enamel which will form inside be disturbed, as it is not only quite harmless, but adds considerably to the fife of the articles. Omelet Pans.—Unless absolutely necessary these should not be washed. After use rub them well with a piece of imprinted paper and then wipe with a dry cloth. Washing will often cause the omelet to stick to the pan the next time it is used, unless a little fat is melted and well rubbed into it first. To Clean a Kettle.—A kettle must always be kept free from soot, otherwise it will take an unnecessary long time to boil, soot being a non-conductor of heat. A brown deposit, known as “ fur,” will very often form on the inside of a kettle owing to the hardness of the water. This may be prevented “ Octopus ’’ or Anti-Incrustator by placing a marble or “ octopus ” in the kettle, which, with the movement of the water as it boils, will keep rubbing against the bottom and sides of the kettle, and the deposit will have no chance of resting. If this deposit has been allowed to accumulate, it may be removed by filling the kettle with water and adding a good piece of washing soda or some strong ammonia. Bring this to the boil and boil slowly for some time. This will dissolve the “ fur,” which should be easily washed off with a cloth. Boil one or two fresh waters in the kettle before using the water for drinking purposes. Kitchen Knives and Forks.—Wipe these with a cloth wrung out of hot water to remove any grease, but do not allow them to lie in hot water, which would tend to loosen the handles. Then rub off any stains with a little Brooke’s soap or sapolio applied rather dry on a piece of flannel. Rinse off and dry with a knife cloth. It is not necessary to polish kitchen knives on a knife board; it only wears them unnecessarily. Baking Tins.—Wash well in very hot water with a little soda in it, using a strong brush and a little sand if necessary. Rinse well and dry with a coarse cloth. If a roasting tin has become very brown and is difficult to clean, let it soak in hot water and soda for an hour or two to soften the burnt substance. Kitchen Cloths.—At the end of the day all kitchen cloths which have been used and soiled should beCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 14 washed in soapy water with a little soda, then thoroughly rinsed, wrung out, and hung up to dry. At the end of the week they ought to be laid aside in order to have a more thorough washing and boiling with the rest of the household linen, and a fresh supply put into use. Zinc. Sometimes the surrounding of a sink is covered with zinc, and this may be cleaned in the following way : Scrub first with hot soapy water to which a little soda has been added. Rinse and dry. The zinc may then be polished with a little whiten- ing mixed to a paste with turpentine. Apply with a piece of flannel, and when dry rub off with a duster. Cake Tins.—Cake tins, like omelet pans, should not be washed oftener than is necessary. If they have been lined with paper, a good rub with un- printed paper or with a dry cloth should be quite sufficient to clean them. When they do require washing, see that they are thoroughly dry before being laid away, as they are very liable to rust. They should be put on the rack above the stove or in a cool oven for a short time. Tin Lids, Moulds, and Dish Covers.—Hot water with a little soap powder or plain soap should be used for washing these. They must be well rinsed and then dried at once. Saucepan lids should be washed, or at least well wiped with a cloth each time after use. The rim must have special attention, as any grease from a stew or such-like will lodge there. It is a good plan to give all saucepan lids a good washing once a week. A brush may be used when washing fancy moulds of any kind. When the insides become difficult to clean the moulds should be put into a saucepan with hot water and a little soda, and boiled for half an hour. This will loosen any matter or burnt pieces which may adhere to them. Th^y may also be scoured with a little silver sand, or Brooke’s soap may be used to remove any discoloration. Thorough rinsing will be necessary. All tinned goods must be well dried before being put away, as they are liable to rust. Tins that are put up for show may be polished to make them look bright, but this should never be attempted before making sure that they are quite free from grease. Make a smooth paste with whitening and water—rub this on the tins with a piece of flannel, and when dry, rub off with a duster. A soft brush may be used to remove the whitening from any corners. A few drops of ammonia may be added to the whitening, but as the tinning of some moulds and lids is very thin, strong cleansers should, as a rule, be avoided. The inside of moulds should never be polished. Sieves.—A sieve should be cleaned as soon as possible after it has been used. If any substance is allowed to harden on it the cleaning will be much more difficult. Wash thoroughly with a little hot water and soda and scrub well with a brush. If it is a wire sieve, hold it up to the light and see that none of the little holes are.blocked up. Be par- ticular also to scrub round the sides where the rim joins the surface part. Rinse well and dry with a strong cloth. The sieve should then be put in a warm place or at an open window to dry. If this is not attended to a wire sieve will become rusty and a hair one coated with mildew. Sieves must always be kept in a dry and clean place. Pudding Cloths.—After a pudding cloth has been used it should be thrown into hot water with a little soda in it and allowed to soak for half an hour or so. Then wash out and rinse with care until no trace of the soda water remains. Dry in the open air if possible. Fold up carefully and keep in a clean place. A pudding cloth must only be used for its own special purpose. If the above process is not enough to make the cloth clean it ought to be boiled in a saucepan for half an hour with hot water and a small piece of soda, and then rinsed in the same way. The use of soap and soap powder should be avoided if possible. Jelly Cloths and Tammy Cloths.—Wash in the same way as pudding cloths. Mincing Machine.—After use a mincing machine should be taken to pieces and any remains, such as the fibrous parts of meat and vegetables, carefully removed from it. The different parts should then be washed in hot water with a little soap or soda and a small brush used if necessary. Rinse the parts in clean hot water, dry them with a cloth, and then set them on a tin on the rack or in a cool oven until all signs of moisture have disappeared. The machine may then be put together again, and it must be kept in a dry place to avoid all danger of rust. WASHING OF DISHES—GENERAL DIRECTIONS Before commencing the actual washing, see that there is a sufficiency of hot water, as without this it is impossible to clean greasy dishes properly. Then everything that requires washing must be collected together and put within easy reach. The contents of dishes on which food has been served should be put away on clean plates cr in basins, and all scraps of food removed from plates. It is even a good plan to rub over greasy plates and dishes with a piece of paper. If this is done before washing, the water will not become unneces- sarily greasy nor require such frequent changing, neither will the work itself be so disagreeable. Another aid to the washing of dishes is to fill with cold water all basins used for the making of pud- dings, pastry, and other mixtures. This should be done directly a basin is finished with, as it will prevent any remains of mixture hardening on the sides and making it doubly difficult to wash. Whenever possible it is better to have two basins or small tubs for the “ washing up,” one for hot water and the other for a cold or tepid rinsing water. This second rinsing water is especially necessary when a plate rack is used, in order that the plates may be put into it quite fresh and clear of soiled or soapy water. Pie dishes that have become burnt in the oven may be cleaned with a little salt or Brooke’s soap, or some of the scouring mixture (see p. 12) may be used. If the water is hard, it must be softened with a little soda or borax, and a little soap or soap powder must be used if required. Care must, however, be taken to avoid unnecessary extrava- gance in the employment of these materials ; there is frequently considerable waste caused by their needless use, and this must be guarded against. With regard to dishcloths, these are best made of some open material which will not retain the grease.15 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD such as thin old towelling, or a cheap canvas-like material sold for the purpose. Some people prefer a mop or dish brush instead of the dishcloth, and both are useful. The water must be changed whenever it becomes dirty ; continuing to wash in the dirty water would only result in smeary dishes, with probably an unpleasant smell. This is one of the most import- ant points to pay attention to. Another very important point is the use of dry and clean towels, the thickness being regulated according to the kind of article being dried. Finally, when the “ washing up ” is finished and everything put away in its place, the dishcloth or mop that has been used must be washed well and hung up to dry, and also any towels that require it. The tub or basin, too, must be washed and rinsed and set on end to air. All then will be clean and ready when wanted again. Care of the Sink.—It is very important that this be kept in a thoroughly clean and sanitary con- dition. Nothing indicates an untidy and careless worker more than a dirty and greasy sink. Every sink should be provided with a sink basket or tidy and a sink brush. The former is used to place over the opening to keep back any tea-leaves, vegetable parings, or other refuse which might block the pipe. Do not throw anything but water down a sink, and if the water is greasy flush it well afterwards with hot soapy water. It is a good plan also to pour down some very hot soda and water when the washing up is finished ; a little disinfectant may also be used occasionally. If water in which vegetables have been cooked is not kept for making soup, it should never be Sink Brush poured down a sink, as it would cause an unpleas- ant smell, but should be emptied straight into a drain or outside in the garden. An effort should be made to keep the pipe and trap (an elbow-like bend in the pipe, just below the sink) in good order, by preventing grease and refuse collecting in them. If these become choked and clogged an unnecessary expense must be in- curred to have them cleaned out, not to speak of the annoyance and dangers arising from the smell of such an accumulation. Do not be afraid of plenty of hot water when washing up ; it is greasy lukewarm water that clogs the pipe sooner than anything. When the washing up is finished the sink should be well scrubbed out with some hot water and soda and a little soap, rinsed with hot water, and then finally the iold pipe should be allowed to run. If the sink becomes discoloured, use a little sand, or Brooke’s soap. The sink brush and any dishcloths must also be washed out and hung up to dry, not left lying about in the sink. Also any tub or basin that has been used for washing up. KITCHEN REFUSE In every household there must of necessity be a certain amount of refuse to dispose of, consisting of ashes, sweepings from the floors, broken crockery, empty tins, food remains, &c. Part of this refuse should be put into a dustbin or ashpit, with either of which every house should be provided, while the remainder should be burnt. The ashpit is more frequently found in country districts where the removal of rubbish cannot be so frequent as in towns. It is usually built of brick or of stone, and should be well cemented and placed at some distance from the house. The best kind of dustbin is one made of galvan- ised iron and round in shape. The size will depend on the needs of the household, but it is better to have two, if necessary, of a medium size, than one that is too heavy to be lifted. These dustbins are very often provided by the landlord and belong to the house. There should always be a lid to fit the dustbin to prevent damp from entering or dust from flying about. It should be placed at least a few feet from the house and never near a window. The emptying of the dustbin will depend on local authorities, but it should be done not less than twice a week and oftener for large establish- ments. Nothing but dry refuse should be put into a dustbin unless it can be emptied very frequently, as damp favours decomposition, and very soon causes an unpleasant and very unhealthy smell. Animal and vegetable refuse in this case is better burnt, and if there is a kitchen range in use it is a comparatively easy matter to dispose of all vege- table parings, tea-leaves, and such like. There are two ways of burning food remains. They may either be dried slowly at the back of the fire or underneath the grate, after which they will burn quite readily, or they may be nut into theCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 16 stove in small quantities when the fire is very bright and hot enough to consume them quickly. If refuse is put on to a low fire in a damp condition it will cause a most unpleasant smell. Nothing must be thrown out or burnt except that which is absolutely of no value. In some houses the dustbin is one of the most fruitful sources of waste. HOW TO GET RID OF FLIES, BEETLES, AND OTHER PESTS At various times of the year unwelcome guests force their way into our kitchens and larders, not to speak of the other rooms in the house. Some are more unwelcome than others because they bring dirt and often disease in their train. Chief among these are the house-fly and the blue-bottle fly, the beetle, the red ant, to say nothing of rats and mice. Absolute cleanliness is one of the best preven- tives against vermin of all kinds; then all food must be kept covered, there must be nothing left for them to feed upon. These precautions, however, are not always sufficient to keep intruders away, and other remedies have to be resorted to. Flies.—When flies are numerous it is most im- portant to keep all food, and especially milk, care- fully covered. Flies are not only carriers of dust and dirt, but often of disease germs as well, and when they crawl over our food these are left behind to taint and sometimes even to poison it. Flies are very fond of laying their eggs along window ledges and in the crevices of the woodwork of the windows and shutters, therefore it is very import- ant to keep these parts thoroughly clean and well dusted, as the eggs should never have a chance of hatching. If flies abound it is a good plan to wash the windows and window ledges with a strong solution of carbolic, or if the smell is an objection, sprinkle with Persian powder at night, and then sweep up in the morning. Fly papers will also catch a number, but they are rather disgusting things to use. They should if possible be put in out-of-the-way places, such as the tops of cupboards. A very simple fly-paper can be made by spreading treacle or honey on brown paper, and sprinkling it with Persian powder or other insect poison. Fly- papers prepared with some sticky substance to which the flies adhere and endure a slow torturing death should be avoided. The blow-fly, which is larger than the common house-fly, is the kind most to be dreaded, as it is a great enemy in the larder. It frequently lays its larvae in meat, which causes it to decompose very quickly. In hot weather all meat should be ex- amined when it is received, and if anything of this kind is suspected it should be carefully washed with a solution of Condy’s fluid and water (see p. 12). Beetles.—These objectionable insects very often infest the ground floor and kitchen premises of our houses. They disappear in the daytime and come out at night through the cracks in the flooring, and they multiply so rapidly that sometimes they can be counted by the thousand. They will attack food of all kinds, and even the leather of boots and shoes. They have a horrible smell too, which hangs about anything they come near. Many different kinds of traps have been invented for catching beetles, and they all serve their purpose for the time being; there are also different kinds of beetle paste which can be used with success, and instructions for using these are given with the different preparations. One of thesimplest remedies, and a very effectual one too, is the liberal use of powdered borax. This should be sprinkled about their haunts and repeated every night until the beetles disappear. Mice.—The best plan is to starve them out. All eatables must be enclosed and nothing left that would supply them with food. A cat or small dog which is a good mouser will also help to hasten their departure. A trap, too, is often very effectual in catching a stray mouse here and there, and in frightening away others. There are many differ- ent kinds, but perhaps the old-fashioned make, which catches the animal alive, are the most humane; others, which are supposed to kill in- stantaneously, often succeed in only half doing it, and so cause unnecessary suffering. There are also different poisons which can be bought for the destruction of mice, of which phos- horous paste is perhaps the best; but care must e taken in using them, and especially if there are domestic animals in the house. Rats.—When rats enter a house, it is often a sign of insanitary drainage, and if that is the case the wrong must be seen to at once, and the neces- sary repairs carried out. Or it may be that the house is in close proximity to a stable, and the rats have made their way into the house through some holes. A trap is sometimes of good service for catching the rats, and directions for baiting them are usually given with each special kind. Poisoning is another method; but this must be done with caution, and especially if there are any domestic animals in the house. Another danger of poison- ing is that the dead bodies of the rats sometimes decompose under the flooring, and cause a very bad smelL A small dog, a terrier, sometimes keeps them away most effectively. If the rats become numerous, a rat-catcher should be employed, who will hunt the rats out with trained ferrets. When once the vermin have been got rid of, all holes by which they have entered should be carefully filled up with cement or plaster. Ants.—These are rarely seen in town houses, but in the country they not infrequently appear. They are very troublesome creatures to get rid of, and sometimes different remedies have to be tried before one succeeds. One of the best is to find the opening through which the ants come, drop in some quicklime, and wash it over with boiling water. A strong solution of carbolic acid or spirits of camphor might also be tried, as ants are very averse to strong smells. Or, again, some petroleum or tobacco juice poured over their nests is some- times effectual. PART II COOKING STOVES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT THE KITCHEN RANGE This is the most important fixture in the kitchen, as it is impossible to do good cooking without an efficient stove.THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 17 There are two kinds of kitchen stoves in common use, the open range and the closed range. The Open Range is not so general as it used to be, although it is still to be found in country places and in some of the provincial towns. The dis- advantages of this kind of stove are that one’s sphere of work is considerably limited, food runs the risk of being smoked, the saucepans have very hard wear, and become black and sooty, not to speak of the discomfort of having to stand over an open fire whilst doing the cooking. On the other hand, an open stove generally burns less fuel than a closed range; it makes a kitchen look brighter and more comfortable, and it is also better for ventilating purposes. As far as cooking is concerned, it is certainly best for roasting (a roast never tastes so well as when done on a spit or roasting jack in front of the fire), it is also good for broiling or grilling, but with these its merits end. The Closed Range, in which the fire is covered with an iron plate, is much easier to work with, and it also allows of greater scope in cooking, as the heat can be so much more easily regulated. There is an endless variety of closed ranges or kitcheners, all more or less similar, but going under different names. Improvements, too, are con- tinually being made in their structure. It is not always that one has any choice as regards the kitchen range, a tenant has simply to take what is provided by the landlord, but before renting a house it is important to see that the kitchen range is a good one and in thorough working order. When a stove has to be bought, choose one of a thoroughly reliable make, as simple in construction as possible, and of good sound material. Then have it well fitted up by workmen who really understand the business. There is never any economy in buy- ing a cheap stove, as it is almost bound to be made of a thin light metal, which wears out quickly, causing waste of fuel and many other annoyances. The best type of stove is usually convertible, that is, it can be made into an open range by the simple sliding back of the top, thus a cheerful fire can be arranged in the kitchen in the evening. It should also have an adjustable bottom, which can be raised or lowered according to the size of fire required. Thus, when the stove is not being used for cooking purposes the fire may still be kept in and the water warmed, but with a very small consumption of fuel. There should also be a well- ventilated oven, a good boiler and water-supply, and a plate rack on which to warm dishes. It is a good plan to have a light screen made, which can be hooked on to the front of the fire, as this serves as a great protection when anyone has to stand near the stove to stir a sauce or do other cooking. Understand the Stove.—Another matter of very great importance is that the working of the stove should be throughly understood—just as a work- man understands the machine or engine of which he is put in charge, so a cook ought to understand her cooking stove. If it does not heat or “ draw,” the mistress or servant should know the reason why, and not be ready to condemn the stove at once as being inefficient. The best way to really learn the working of a stove is to take it to pieces and to do the cleaning of it — to thoroughly examine the dampers and flues and see how they act and how the temperature can be re- gulated. A Flue is passage leading from the stove into the chimney. A large stove will have two or even three flues—one leading from the oven into the chimney, another from the fire itself, and another from the boiler or from a second oven. In large stoves the boiler is generally placed behind the stove. A Damper is a flat plate of metal which can be pushed back or pulled forward from the front of the stove and is used to close or partly close the flue passage and thus lessen the draught. When a damper is pulled outwards there will be a good draught, causing the fire to burn quickly, and a rush of hot air towards that flue. It never does to close all the dampers entirely, as there would be no outlet for the smoke—one of them at least must be half-way out. Hints on Using the Dampers.—When lighting the fire, pull out all the dampers until it has well burnt up, then push back those that are not necessary. To Heat the Boiler.—Pull the boiler damper out and keep the other dampers in. To Heat the Oven.—Pull out the oven damper and keep the boiler damper in. If it becomes too hot, push the damper half-way in. To Keep a Low Fire.—Push in all the dampers except one—generally the boiler damper—which leave out half-way; then make up the fire with cinders. The adjustable bottom should also be raised as high as possible. The Oven.—Besides its own special flue and damper to regulate the heat, an oven is usually provided with one or two ventilators, one opening into the flue and the other into the kitchen. The former is usually regulated by a little knob placed at the top of the oven, which if pulled out opens a small aperture in the side or back of the oven, thus giving ventilation into the flue. The latter, placed in the oven door, is as a rule covered with a sort of grating, which can be opened or closed at will by means of a sliding plate. When either of these ventilators is opened the temperature of the oven is lowered. For roasting especially, one, if not both of these ventilators must be kept open, to allow of the fumes of cooking being carried off. The Fuel.—It is very important to have the right kind of coal for the range in use. As a rule range nuts or cobbles are the best; these are small, and they fit into the stove without having to be broken up. Some people, however, find it more con- venient to buy the larger coal and make it serve for all the fires in the house. This is especially necessary where cellar accommodation is too small to allow of two different kinds being stored. In these circumstances the smaller pieces of coal should be used for the kitchen range, and sometimes they can be supplemented with a small quantity of coke, which burns well and is cheaper than coal. In no case should a cheap and dirty coal be bought for kitchen purposes, this is never an economy. It only produces a quantity of shale and ash, which no amount of poking will make into a clear and bright fire, and this is naturally a drawback to ail good cooking. It is always a mistake to choke up a kitchen stove with a lot of dust, except for the purpose of keeping a fire in at night or after the BCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 18 cooking for the day is over. Then the fire may be “ backed ” with advantage. To do this, allow the fire to burn very low, and while it is still red place a good lump of coal well to the front, then fill up the back part with fine coal or slack slightly mois- tened with water. Prepared in this way and left undisturbed the fire should keep in for several hours, and will warm the kitchen and keep a pot simmer- ing at the same time. The cinders from other fires can often be utilised in a kitchen range, and used in combination with some fresh coal, they make quite a good hot fire. With careful manage- ment a great deal can be done towards economising the amount of fuel used, the chief point is to thoroughly understand the working of the stove and then to use it conscientiously. TO CLEAN A KITCHEN RANGE Unless a kitchen range is kept clean, good work cannot be expected of it. There is no more effec- tive non-conductor of heat than soot, and when an oven, boiler, or any other part of the stove be- comes coated with it the heat cannot penetrate. A sooty flue is one of the commonest reasons for a stove not working properly. The Weekly Cleaning.—A large strong apron, or overall, a pair of gloves, and a cap which covers tne hair should be worn when doing this piece of work. The kitchen, too, should be prepared by removing, or covering with a dust sheet or sheets of paper, anything that is likely to be soiled with dust. Window and doors should be kept closed until all soot and dust have been removed. Re- move any kettles and saucepans from the top of the range and put the fender, plate rack, and fire irons to one side. Put down a hearth cloth or some sheets of paper and have sweep’s brush, flue rake and brush, shovel and black- lead brushes in readiness. Commence by raking out the fire, and be par- ticular to pass the rake well to the back to get all the cinders and clin- kers out of the boiler flue. Brush out all cinders and ashes, and save the former for making the fire later on. To clean the flues, commence at the top. Open the dampers and the little doors or slides at the entrance to the flue or flues. Pass the flue brush up as far as it will go, then to the sides and then downwards, working it well against the sides of the flue. The loose soot will all fall downwards to the back of the stove and must be removed later on. In a large stove there may be two or even three flues, and each one must Sweep’s Brush be done in the same way. Brush the top of the dampers and brush the flue doors or slides and put them back in place. Now remove all rings and tops from the top of the stove and brush all the soot off the top of the oven with the sweep’s brush, letting it fall either down the side of the oven or into the fireplace—■ the former is the simpler. Also pass the flue brush down the sides and back of the oven if there is an opening. Brush the under-side of all the top pieces and put them back in place. If there is a boiler or second oven at the other side of the range, the top and sides of this must be cleaned in the same way. Every part must be freed from soot, and always work from the top downwards. When the top part is finished, remove the little door or slide which will be found underneath the oven, put a good-sized shovel below it, pass the flue rake in at the hole and draw out all the soot. Repeat the same at the other side if necessary. The soot must be taken outside at once, and if there is a garden it should be kept for manuring purposes. Next dust the stove all over, putting back the loose pieces, and if the top is greasy wash it with hot water and soda. Thoroughly dust or brush out the oven. If the shelves are greasy, wash them over with hot water and soda, then whiten them with a paste of whitening and water, which will give them a nice clean appearance. To Black-lead the Stove.—Use either black-lead moistened with a little water or turpentine; the latter is better, as it dries more quickly and helps to give a gloss; or, instead of black-lead, use a specially prepared stove polish, which is simpler and cleaner, as there is no danger of its being splashed over any surrounding tiles. Apply the black-lead very lightly with the black-lead brush, commencing with the highest part of the stove and doing only a small piece at a time. Brush off with a hard brush and polish with the polisher. The Tiles.—If there are tiles at the back of the stove these must be washed with a soft cloth, soap and water; then rinsed and finished ofE with a dry cloth. If the tiles are stained, a little sapolio or Brooke’s soap rubbed onthe cloth and applied rather dry -will generally remove the marks; then rinse off and dry as before. Do not use too much water, as it will be liable to sink into the cement and ultimately loosen the tiles. The Steel.—Clean all the steel parts with fine emery paper. No. 0 is best. Rub the steel back- wards and forwards with this and always in the one direction. Cross rubbing will not polish pro- perly. Emery powder, fine bathbrick dust, or crocus powder made into a paste with paraffin or methylated spirits are all good for the cleaning of steel. These should be applied with a piece of flannel and well rubbed on to the metal. Then a little of the dry powder should be used for polishing. The emery paper is, however, cleaner and simpler to use, and unless the steel is allowed to get into bad condition it ought to be sufficient to keep it in excellent order. To Lay the Fire.—Commence by laying a few cinders at the foot of the grate with some lightly crumpled paper on the top. Next place in a few dry sticks crosswise, allowing some of the ends to rest on the bars of the grate, and then some more cinders or small pieces of coal on the top. Do not pack too tightly, leave enough space for the air to get through between the paper and sticks. The fire should be made to slope backwards, so that the smoke does not blow forwards into the kitchen. Eire lighters may be used instead of sticks ; they are coated with resin and burn up very quickly. The Hearthstone.—Sweep this first, then wash it over with warm water and whiten with soft sandstone. Now put back the fender, fire-irons, &c., and put a light to the fire if required.19 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD Daily Cleaning.—The fire should be well raked out every day, the top of the stove brushed with the sweep’s brush and polished with the stove brushes. Black-leading should not be required more than once a week, except perhaps on those parts which are most used. Dust the tiles and rub up the steel parts with emery paper, or wipe them with a soft duster, and then clean the hearth. If properly done the flues should not, as a rule, require cleaning more than once a week, but if a large fire is kept constantly burning it may be neces- sary to brush over the top of the oven more fre- quently. Sometimes, too, in the case of small stoves, the flues require more frequent attention. This must be regulated according to how the stove burns. The Chimney.—The kitchen chimney should be swept every six months at least; some will require cleaning every three months. COOKING BY GAS There is no doubt that, if thoroughly understood and properly managed, a gas stove can be a great saving of time, labour, and expense. The. economy as regards the working expenses of a gas versus a coal stove is not all that has to be considered, as this will depend to a large extent upon how the stove is used, and also upon the current price of coal. But it is the saving of time and labour which are the strongest points in favour of gas, and these two mean money; in fact, if time is of any value at all a gas stove will repay its original cost in a very short time. A gas stove is especially useful in flats where ladies very often have to do all their own work, or the greater part of it, themselves, and where actual labour must be reduced to a minimum. In small houses, also, where a gas stove and gas fires are fitted up, one servant may often suffice, where certainly two would be required if a kitchen range' and coal fires had to be kept clean and burning. And again, in larger establishments the services of one servant might often be dispensed with if the work of the others were made lighter with gas cooking and heating appliances. Then there is the great advantage of cleanliness; no smoke and dust, as from a coal stove, to soil the kitchen and everything it contains, not to speak of blackened saucepans and soiled hands : with a gas stove the labour of cleaning can be reduced at least one half. In hot weather, too, a gas stove will be found a great comfort, as it will save the excessive heat of a constantly burning coal fire, and the exhaustion which results from having to cook under such trying conditions. Many houses, especially those where only one maid is kept, or perhaps no maid at all, would be infinitely better without the ugly black range, which entails so much labour in stoking and clean- ing, and in the end provides a very inadequate supply of hot water and has to be supplemented with a gas stove as far as cooking is concerned. In its place, why not have a small open fireplace or well-grate where a fire can be lit when warmth in the kitchen is required for the maids’ comfort, and then do all the cooking by gas ? The hot wat^r difficulty can be overcome by the introduc- tion of a hot-water “ Circulator.” This is a copper boiler heated by gas which can easily be connected to the “ flow ” and “ return ” pipes from the coal- range boiler, and will then, with a quite moderate Hot-water Circulator consumption of gas, supply hot water to the circu- lating tank, either independently of, or in con- junction with, the coal-range boiler, the working of the latter, in the event of the kitchen fire being lighted, being in no way interfered with. These circulators are specially adapted for use in flats, and in villas where the length of the circulating pipes are not abnormal. These circulators can be had in different sizes to suit various requirements, and can either be hired, bought on the hire-purchase system, or bought outright, as is found most convenient. Full particulars as regards price and fitting can be obtained from any of the gas company’s offices. Of course, the initial cost of some of these appli- ances may be found somewhat heavy, and when a house is only rented one is inclined to hesitate at the outlay, but the convenience and comfort must be weighed against this, and when it can be contrived the use of gas both for cooking and water heating will be found a very economical way of managing. Choice of Stove.—Gas stoves can be had in differ- ent sizes and various makes. Improvements are constantly being made, and there is great com- petition among the different makers as to who will produce the most perfect article. Before buying a gas stove it is a good plan to go to one of the gas company’s offices or exhibitions, where all the different kinds of stoves are displayed, and where they can often be seen in actual use. Failing this, a fully illustrated catalogue should be sent for, and a stove, which best suits the requirements of the household, carefully selected. Those with an enamelled lining in the oven and an enamelled plate under the burners are the easiest to clean and the most hygienic. Many of the newest makes have a plate rack fitted above the burners, which is most useful for warming dishes. Then care should be taken to select a stove that is a convenient height for working at; in some of them the oven is placed so low that it occasions a great deal of unnecessary stooping ; but fortunately the tendency nowadays is to raise them well aboveCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 20 the ground, and this also does away with the necessity of having a slab on which to place the stove for the sake of protection. The size chosen must depend upon the amount of cooking to be done and the oven space required, and also upon the size of the kitchen. It is a mis- take to have one larger than necessary, as it always means a greater consumption of gas to heat the oven, &e. The price of gas stoves runs from about £4 to £12 and more according to size, while they can also be hired at a rental of about 2s. 3d. per quarter and upwards. In fact, in many cases it is better to hire than to purchase, as the gas company not only supply the stove, but keep it in repair, and will change it when desired for one of another description. By this means one can have the ad- vantage of any recent improvements. If the whole stove is not required, and the oven part would be of little or no use, a small griller, or Gas Boiling Bing even a gas ring, is often a great comfort and saving. It can be placed on the top of the range, or on a small table in the scullery, and will often save the keeping up of a fire for the sake of boiling a kettle or doing some light cooking in the evening. A little griller would also be found a great boon in Breakfast Cooker the morning when an early breakfast has to be prepared, as it will not only boil a kettle, but make toast or grill fish or bacon at the same time. A very nice griller and boiler can be bought for 7s. 6d. or 8s. 6d., while a small boiling ring will only cost 2s. or 3s. plus the india-rubber tubing (6d. to 9d. per foot) required for attaching it to a gas bracket. Placing the Stove.—A gas stove should be placed in as good a light as possible and out of a draught. It is very important to have it properly fitted up, and to see that there is the necessary ventilation. The work should be put into the hands of a capable workman, because unless the pipe to which the stove is connected is of the right size and there is sufficient pressure of gas, the stove will not work properly. The larger ones, too, will require a venti- lating flue into a wall or chimney to carry off the fumes of combustion. It is sometimes a good plan to have a separate meter for the gas stove in order to regulate the consumption of gas. HOW TO USE A GAS STOVE It is very important that the working of the gas stove should be thoroughly understood, otherwise there may be needless waste of gas and many spoilt dishes. The gas companies give special demonstrations, all over the country, at which the working of the various stoves is fully explained and a cookery lesson given at the same time. Sometimes, also, they will send out lady demonstrators to private houses to show how each part of a gas stove should be used in order to secure the best possible results for the smallest consumption of gas. The hints given below may be of use to those who cannot avail themselves of these special lessons. Every gas stove is provided with several burners on the top, and each burner has a special tap in connection with it. There will also be a special tap for the oven. A taper is preferable to matches for lighting the gas. Do not turn on more taps than are actually re- quired at one time, and be careful to turn off the gas directly you have finished using it. When about to use the oven, open the door first, turn on the gas, and then apply the light. Be sure that all the little burners inside are lighted and on both sides. If they should become clogged with grease or other matter, the little holes must be cleared with a needle or fine wire. Never keep the gas burning longer than is necessary—for instance, when once the contents of a kettle or saucepan have come to the boil the merest flicker of light will keep them simmering. The large round burner should not be used when the smaller one is sufficient. Then, again, when the griller is being used a saucepan or kettle of water should always be placed on the top to utilise the top heat as well as that of underneath. Gas may also be economised by using a steamer or patent cooker (see p. 208) in which several different articles can be cooked one above the other with only one jet of gas underneath. It is also a waste of gas to use heavy saucepans, as they require an unnecessary consumption of gas to bring them to the boil. Steel, aluminium, and enamelled saucepans are all suitable, also the fireproof china and the glazed earthenware ones. The saucepans must also be clean at the foot; if there is a coating of soot or black grease it acts as a non-conductor of heat, and this again will cause a waste of gas. It is always better, if possible, to keep a separate set of saucepans for a gas stove and not to use them indiscriminately for a gas cooker and a coal stove. The flame of gas must not be allowed to blaze up the sides of a saucepan, but only underneath, any- thing beyond this is simply waste. When a saucepan has to be left boiling a long time without attention, as in the case of a stew, it is a good plan to place an asbestos mat under- neath it. This will ensure even and regular cook- ing and avoid the annoyance of liquids boiling over. These mats are very inexpensive, costing about 6d. each, and can be used equally well on a kitchen range. When once the oven has been properly heated the fight should for most purposes be turned down half-way, and in some cases even lower. Then theTHE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 21 cooking should be so arranged that when the oven is lighted it should be made use of to the fullest extent, two or three dishes being cooked in it at the same time. It is a waste of gas to light the oven to cook one dish. For instance, if there is a small roast it maybe cooked on a roasting tin on the bottom shelf, while such things as a milk pudding, potato or macaroni pie, baked potatoes, or stewed fruit might be cooking above. Or, when pastry is being cooked, cakes or scones might be cooked at the same time. It would not, however, do to cook pastry with a roast, as the air of the oven would be too moist. To Grill.—A special grill pan is supplied with every gas stove, and this can be used for many pur- poses, such as the cooking of a chop, steak, kidneys, bacon, fish, or, in fact, anything that could be cooked on an ordinary grill. Very good toast can also be made under the grill. Place the grill pan under the griller, light the gas, and wait until the griller is red-hot before putting the meat or whatever is being cooked underneath. Then proceed as for ordinary grilling, turning the meat and reducing the heat as required. A kettle or saucepan of water may be boiled above the grill light when it is in use. To Make Toast.—Light the gas and wait until the griller is red-hot. Then turn down the light and put the bread underneath on the grid of the grill pan. Watch it very carefully and turn when necessary. The toast must not be made too quickly, or it will be soft and heavy. To Use the Oven.—A gas oven generally contains two or three grid shelves and always one solid shelf. The latter is used to throw down the heat, and is placed above anything that requires browning. Nothing should be placed on the solid shelf or it will burn, with the exception of liquid things or anything that can be placed in a tin of water. The top of the oven is always the coolest part. When dishes in course of baking are becoming too brown before being sufficiently cooked, the solid shelf should be removed altogether. It used to be thought necessary to place a tin of water at the foot of the oven, but this is no longer considered necessary. When roasting meat the joint should either be hung on a hook attached to a bar which runs across the top of the oven, or put on a roasting tin placed on one of the grid shelves at the lower part of the oven. If the former method is adopted the shelves of the oven will require to be removed and nothing else can be cooked at the same time. The thickest part of the joint must always be hung downwards. Heat the oven well before putting the meat in, and after the first 10 minutes reduce the gas one-half, or even more, according to the amount of pressure ; follow in fact the general rules for roasting. When baking cakes the oven should first be thoroughly heated and then the gas turned down more or less according to the special kind of cake, and whether it requires a moderate or hot oven. Place the cake or cakes on the grid shelf and below the browning shelf, and gradually reduce the heat until the cakes are ready. If the cake is large it may be better to keep out the solid shelf altogether and even to cover it over with a double piece of kitchen paper to prevent its taking too much colour. With large cakes, too, it is a good plan to leave them in the oven for about half an hour after the gas has been turned off, and to let them dry slowly in the gradually reducing heat. The same rules will apply to the baking of pastry. If a little care is taken, and attention given to details, a gas oven is really very easy to manage, and after a little practice one becomes quite expert at regulating the heat to a nicety. How to Clean a Gas Stove.—It is very important that a gas stove should be kept clean. The un- pleasant and objectionable fumes which sometimes arise from it are very often due to the greasy and dirty condition of the stove itself. Weekly Cleaning.—Put down a hearth cloth and have in readiness a pail of hot water and soda, one or two strong cloths or swabs, and black-lead brushes, &c., for cleaning purposes. Remove the bars from the top of the stove and wash these in the pail of hot water, using a brush if necessary. Wash the top of the stove, being very careful to make the burners clean; sometimes it may be necessary to clean out the little holes with a piece of wire or a fine skewer if they have become clogged. Wash also the tray under the burners, the oven shelves, the sides of the oven, which are some- times fitted with movable linings, and the tin which stands at the foot. If there are enamelled linings, as in some of the stoves, a little salt or Brooke’s soap may be used for cleaning purposes, and also for the oven tin to remove any brown marks or other dis- coloration. Then black-lead the bars, the top and body of the stove, and put back the different parts in their proper places. Polish the brass taps with metal polish, rub up the steel with fine emery paper, and the stove is finished. Daily Cleaning.—If the stove is thoroughly cleaned once a week it will not require much black- leading the other days, a good brush over with the harder polishing brush should be sufficient. The tray underneath the burners should be washed and also the oven tin if the oven has been used. Whenever grease or any kind of food is spilt on a gas stove during cooking, it should be washed off at once with a cloth wrung out of hot water and soda, because if allowed to remain it will cause the stove to smell the next time it is used. COOKING ON OIL STOVES A small oil stove may sometimes be a conveni- ence when neither gas nor electricity is within reach. In summer, when a big kitchen fire is not required, a stove of this description will often perform all the cooking operations necessary. Being independent of any fittings, it can be moved about at will, and placed wherever it is most convenient. Sometimes, too, in country quarters where the kitchen range is inadequate for the cook- ing required, an oil stove will be found of valuable assistance, and it can even be used in an out-house if the kitchen is small and inconvenient. They are to be had in various sizes, ranging from a small stove on which only one saucepan or kettle can be placed, to a large family stove with oven, boiler, and accommodation for several saucepans as well. It is important to buy a stove of a thoroughly good make, and of late years so many improvements have been made in their construction22 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD that they are now more easily regulated and the danger of their smoking is considerably lessened. It is always well to see the stove at work before buying it, and to obtain full instructions as to its use, as with each special make there are certain points which require explanation. One of the greatest objections to oil stoves is their smell, but this can be to a large extent, if not altogether, avoided by proper management and care. Care of the Stove.—To secure the best results, care must be taken to keep the stove very clean and to use only good oil. Inferior oil not only burns badly and gives a poor heat, but it is the cause of many an explosion. The oil receivers should be three-parts filled before using the stove, and the oil should never be allowed to burn too low. It is better to do the filling by means of a feeder, or, failing that, the oil should be poured through a small funnel into the reservoir, care being taken that it is not spilt over. The wicks, too, must fit properly and be kept free from all charring. They should be just long enough to reach the bottom of the receiver. As a rule, a wick should not require cutting, but should be turned low and the uneven charred part gently rubbed off with a piece of cardboard or brown paper and the surface made even with the top of the tubes. If it still remains uneven, it may then be trimmed carefully with a pair of scissors. After this any black pieces of wick must be removed from the burner, and the outside of the receiver rubbed first with a piece of newspaper and then a soft rag, until free from oil. The wicks will require renewing every two or three months if the stove is much used. See that the new wicks are quite dry, and dip the end to be lighted in the oil first. From time to time, both the reservoir and the burner will require to be thoroughly cleaned. The reservoir should be emptied of all oil and washed out with warm suds to which a few drops of am- monia have been added. Rinse thoroughly, and then turn upside down in a warm place to dry. When the burner becomes clogged and dirty, it should be taken to pieces (care being taken to notice how it is fixed together) and put into an old sauce- pan with a lump of soda and enough cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and boil for half an hour. Then rinse in warm water, and use a brush if necessary to remove any charred wick. When quite clean, place in a warm place or a cool oven to dry. The stove must not be refilled until both reservoir and burner are quite dry, or the oil will splutter. To Use the Stove.—It is important that the stove should stand out of a draught, and for this reason, as well as for the sake of convenience, it is better to raise it above the ground. It may be placed either on a simple four-legged stand or, if it is a portable stove, it is a good plan to have a box made which will serve at the same time as packing-case and a stand upon which to place it when in use. The stove should be lit up about 10 minutes before it is required. After lighting the wicks, turn them very low and push the oil lamps back into their place. Then turn up the wicks gradually as far as they will go without smoking. When the stove is thoroughly heated, they may again be slightly lowered. Thin light utensils should be used on the top, so that the heat may penetrate them readily. When baking food in the oven turn it occasionally, as the heat will likely be greater at one side than the other. COOKING BY ELECTRICITY Although we have long been accustomed to the use of electricity for lighting and heating purposes, it is only during the last few years that the public have become familiar with its use in connection with cooking. There is no doubt, however, that this method of cooking will finally supersede the older methods, by virtue of its greater cleanliness, simplicity, safety, reliability, and economy. At the present day, in this country alone, there are thousands of electric cooking stoves in use in private houses, while the fact that many restaurants and business firms use electricity for cooking purposes proves that it is a good business proposition. Many designs of electric cooking stoves can now be obtained, and new ones are continually being invented, the price of which is by no means pro- hibitive. Their use will without doubt make cookery a more exact science than it is at present. Full particulars and prioes of these stoves can be obtained from the manufacturers and electric supply companies. The following are the principal features: 1. The oven is so constructed that the heat from the top and bottom can be independently regulated by switches, and an absolutely even temperature may be maintained as desired. 2. Two or three boiling rings are provided, usually above the oven, all of which can he regu- lated by separate switches, and each one is capable of giving at least three different heats, according to whether boiling, simmering, or frying, &c., is required. 3. A grill is attached which gives out full heat within about thirty seconds of switching. 4. On many stoves a hot chamber is provided for warming plates. It can also be used for baking small cakes, &c. Eclipse Breakfast Cooker The following are the chief advantages of electric cooking: 1. In every case the heat is produced in exactly the place where it is required and only there, the result being that cooking can be carried on in the hottest days without fatigue. 2. Electric cooking is perfectly safe, there being no flames and no combustion of any kind. 3. No especial knowledge is required to operate the stoves, and absolute certainty of results is obtained. 4. All the cooking utensils remain perfectlyTHE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 23 clean, as there is no smoke or soot to soil them, hence great saving of labour. 5. The loss of meat by shrinkage in cooking is only from 6 to 10 per cent., in comparison with a loss of from 25 to 33 £ per cent, which occurs in meat cooked in coal or gas ovens. The following table shows the saving effected in cooking by electricity, and it will be noticed that the cash saving is actually more than the cost of the electricity consumed, so that if coal or gas cost nothing it would still be cheaper to cook a joint of meat by electricity: Weight of Meat avail- able for serving. Amount c be obtair the Bute cooking The Electric Way. f Meat to led from ler when is done. The Coal and Gas • Way. The Saving in Weight. The Saving in Cash at lOd. per lb. Cost of Cooking with Elec- tricity at Id. per unit.' lbs. lb. oz. lb. OZ. lb. oz. 8. d. d. 4 4 8 5 11 1 3 0 hi n 5 5 11 7 3 1 8 i 3 H 6 6 13 8 9 1 12 i 54 H 7 7 15 10 0 2 1 i 8.} n 8 9 2 11 7 2 5 l 11 n 9 10 4 12 14 2 10 2 2* ‘4 10 11 6 14 5 2 15 2 61 24 11 12 8 15 11 3 3 2 7} 2? 12 13 10 17 2 3 8 2 11 3 This table is compiled from information published in Electricity for Everybody (Electrical Press Ltd.) Any ordinary cooking utensils may be used on electric stoves, but to get the best results it is pre- ferable to use those specially designed for electric cooking, and which can be obtained at practically the same cost. The bottoms of the vessels should be perfectly flat, in order that the whole surface may come in contact with the hot plate and thus avoid any waste of current. In addition to electric cookers, separate articles can be used, each provided with its own heater, such as electric kettles, coffee percolators, toasters, tea infusers, hot plates, boiling rings, breakfast cookers, irons, &c. All of these consume very little current, and many may be used from any electric lampholder. A little breakfast cooker, consisting of a combined grill and hot plate, will be found particularly useful, and in many cases quite sufficient to cook a simple dinner Credenda Electric Cooker Many electric supply companies and municipal authorities hire out electric cookers, and practically all charge a special low rate for electricity used for cooking and heating purposes. PART III MARKETING HINTS There is nearly as much skill required in proper marketing as there is in preparing the food when once it has been purchased. It needs a little fore- thought and a good deal of common sense to buy just what is necessary for the needs of a household, to secure the best value for one’s money, and to be economical in the true sense of the word without being mean. It is only the few who have not to consider ways and means, who can pick and choose from the best of the market, and not think of prices. But whether there is much or little to spend on the feeding of the family, it behoves the one who does the marketing to spend the money to the best advantage, and the less there is the more need to make the most of it—then each purchase should beCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 24 carefully considered, and funds should not be frit- tered away on useless trifles, which have no real value. The aim should be to obtain good material of its kind, always remembering that it is never economical to buy goods of an inferior quality in order to save a few pence. Of course it requires some experience to do marketing well, and the art cannot be acquired in a day. The young housekeeper will be liable to make mistakes at first, in not knowing how to choose nor what to order, but the knowledge will soon come, if only a little common sense and good- will are applied to it. There is no reason, however, why experience should be gained by mistakes alone, there are other and less expensive ways of learning how to do marketing. Girls at home should be taken round the shops occasionally and be shown how to select the different articles required, and then later on given the opportunity of doing the shopping themselves. Where this has not been possible, special lessons on marketing can often be had from one of the numerous schools of cookery, or, failing this, a little diligent study of a book on the subject will often be an immense help to the practical as well as the theoretical side of the sub- ject, and will prevent one from being entirely at the mercy of the tradespeople. Choice of Shops.—When starting housekeeping for the first time, or moving to a new neighbourhood, it is always worth while to take some trouble at the beginning in finding the best shops with which to deal. As a rule, it will be found the most con- venient plan to patronise the shops in one’s im- mediate neighbourhood. Not only is this fair to local tradespeople, who will generally take trouble to serve you well, but it will be a saving of time as well, and when things are not right they can be spoken about at once. Sometimes at the begin- ning it is a good plan to distribute one’s custom a little, until it is found out who gives the most satisfaction: one class of goods will be best in one shop, and another elsewhere. It is always best to deal with thoroughly good shops and reliable tradespeople, and not to be continually hunting after the cheapest market. This is especi- ally necessary for the young and inexperienced housekeeper, who has yet to learn how good fish, meat, vegetables, &c., ought to look; in fact, it is only the very experienced who can afford to shop in less high-toned markets, where they can occa- sionally pick up a bargain. On the other hand there are some shops which have an exaggerated scale of prices, their standard being based partly on reputation, partly on high rent, and also on the fact that they cater for a wealthy class of customers, who do not trouble to question prices, but pay whatever is demanded of them. This class of shop must be avoided by those of modest means, there are plenty others where they can do just as well at more reasonable prices, although it must always be remembered that it is false economy to buy food of an indifferent quality. It is a good plan to compare two or three differ- ent price lists, and thus to get a fair idea of how prices run in a certain neighbourhood. Then choose by preference shops where there is likely to be a good turnover, as then goods are much more likely to be fresh. This applies specially to groceries and other dry stores,which can be kept from year to year in shops where there is very little trade, until they become quite old and musty. Then be most particular as to the way in which the goods are kept, that the conditions are orderly and cleanly, that they are not exposed to the dust and dirt of the street nor placed where they can be handled by any passers-by. Insist also that such articles as bread and meat be delivered carefully covered or wrapped in paper. The way in which our bread is often delivered is a disgrace to civilisation—carried in an open basket (perhaps not too clean) through the dusty streets and then passed from one pair of dirty hands to another before it finally reaches its destination— and bread above all things, which cannot undergo any preliminary washing or wiping like meat and vegetables. The state of the dairy must also be very care- fully looked into, to see that milk is kept under thoroughly sanitary conditions and then delivered in a cleanly manner. When a fixed quantity is sent every day, it is best to have it delivered in sealed bottles. The proper hygienic delivery of our food is not sufficiently insisted on, and if mistresses themselves were only more particular on this point the trades- people would be obliged to conform. Personal Shopping.—Although the introduction of the telephone into many of our modern houses has reduced the labour of shopping to a minimum, this is a luxury which cannot always be indulged in without leading to extravagance, or in having an inferior class of goods delivered to us. The same would apply to orders given to message boys at the door. All domestic economists agree in telling us that the mistress of the house or housekeeper should do her own shopping, not necessarily every day, but certainly occasionally. By this means the tradesmen get a better idea of her likes and dis- likes, and can generally serve her better. Variety will also be suggested by what is seen in the shops, and a knowledge of what is in season more quickly gained. A personal visit to the butcher’s is speci- ally advantageous from time to time, as a better joint or a suitable piece of meat is more likely to be obtained if it is carefully selected, cut, and weighed under supervision, than when it is simply left to the butcher’s discretion. At the fishmonger’s too, a personal visit is a wise plan, as the price of fish varies so much, and even from day to day according to the weather and other circumstances. The more plentiful kind will always be the cheapest for the time being, and it will generally be found that it is the best as well. It is important also to do this shopping as early in the day as possible, as there is generally a better selection in the shops in the forenoon, and provisions are fresher. If this personal shopping cannot be managed, and a telephone is not available to give one’s orders direct to the tradespeople, a duplicate order-book should be used and verbal orders not given hap- hazard to message boys. A separate list for each tradesman should be written out in duplicate form, giving exact quantities required and price if possible. The tradesmen can then send for their orders, one list being given to them and the other retained for reference and for the purpose of check- ing the house books.THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 25 Checking the Orders.—All goods when they are received should be carefully checked. Vouchers or weight bills should accompany all orders sent from the shops, and these should be used for check- ing the various items, and then kept to compare with the accounts when they are sent in. With regard to milk and bread, which are usually taken daily from a man at the door, it is a good plan to keep a small book or slate at hand on which the amount taken can be marked down. If anything is wrong as to weight or kind it should be spoken about at once, and not allowed to remain over until it is no longer fresh in the memory of either trades- people or housekeeper. It is the duty of every mistress to see that the merchandise she receives is good ; there is no virtue in allowing short weight and inferior quality, nor in permitting oneself to be imposed upon in any way. One only gets the best attention by expecting and demanding it. Payment of Provisions.—This book does not claim to deal with the management of the income nor to state how much money should be allotted to household expenses, but a chapter on marketing would scarcely be complete without saying a few words on the payment of provisions. Although there is much to be said in favour of paying cash for everything, and many economists recommend it strongly, the system has its drawbacks as well. There is no doubt that the cash method is a trouble- some one, it means more entering up each day and there is more detail work, as a small note-book would require to be kept and all payments entered as they are made. Time, too, is often lost in waiting for change or in hunting for the required amount of money. For the woman who has little time to spend on such items a system of weekly bills and tradesmen’s books will prove a decided saving both of time and trouble, and will keep the matter in a more concise form. Of course the dangers of the method are that one is more inclined to be lavish with the ordering when there is a standing account, and the bill is sometimes allowed to run on, and these risks have to be guarded against. For small households the system of weekly pay- ments should, if possible, be adopted, and especially so if the income is a limited one. Running up long bills is not economical, and if one wishes to be well served house books must be paid regularly. Of course there are special circumstances where it is not convenient to pay weekly, and where even the tradespeople prefer a monthly payment, but the books should in any case be made up and checked weekly. If accounts are only rendered once a month it is much more difficult to keep a check on the items, and mistakes are apt to pass unnoticed. WHAT TO BUY In deciding this question there are several points which must be considered, and among others the following may be mentioned : 1. The Needs and Number of the Family.—This will decide to a large extent the quantity required, and especially so as regards the daily provisions such as meat, fish, bread, milk, vegetables, &c., which are needed fresh from day to day. The likes and dislikes of thevarious members of thefamilymust be borne in mind asfar as possible,and thiscanoftenbedone with- out any extra trouble, by exercising a little thought. 2. The Money at Disposal.—This must regulate the kind of (thing to buy, whether plain, good food only has to be the rule, or whether delicacies and luxuries can be added to the daily bill of fare or only indulged in occasionally. 3. Available Storage.—The accommodation there is for keeping things must also regulate the quantity to order, especially as regards dry groceries. It is impossible for flat dwellers in large towns and others whose space is limited to lay in stores of provisions, also for those living in districts where things won’t keep beyond a certain length of time. Under such conditions it would be false economy to buy in large quantities. On the other hand, given a good dry store room and a nice airy larder there is some- times a distinct advantage to be gained by ordering in bulk such articles as will keep well. 4. The Season of the Year.—This must also be thought of when ordering food. Hot, muggy weather, for instance, is never the time for ordering in supplies, then the daily needs should be satisfied and no more. Light and cooling foods such as fish, fruit, vegetables, &c., should form the bulk of the supply, and the heavier and richer articles of diet avoided. Those who live in towns and have difficulty sometimes in keeping meat and fish even for a few hours in very hot weather, can generally get this done by the tradespeople, who will put them in cold storage and only deliver them when actually wanted, and even on Sunday morning if desired. In cold weather, on the other hand, this difficultyhas not to be thought of, and food can often be ordered for more than one day at a time with ad- vantage and a saving of both time and trouble. It must also be borne in mind that there is often a cheap and a dear season for certain classes of food, and an attempt should be made to benefit by the former by buying in as large a .store as possible of any special commodity that will keep well, and for which there is likely to be use. 5. The Daily Bill of Fare.—Previous to making out her order the mistress should go through the larder and store and make a note of what is required, always bearing in mind the bill of fare for the day. Sometimes it is possible to order for two days at a time, or to order always one day ahead to ensure having provisions in the house in good time in the morning. This is often necessary in houses where a very early dinner has to be provided for, or when one lives far from the shops, and it enables the cook, or whoever undertakes the cooking, to start preparations directlythe breakfast things are cleared away. For such things as dry groceries, a slate or indicator should be kept hanging up in the store room or kitchen, on which articles finished or nearly so can be noted, and then these articles included in the next order. When possible the grocery order should be given once or twice a week only, as this will save time and trouble. NOTES ON CHOOSING PROVISIONS For directions for choosing vegetables, fish, and meat, see under special sections. All Grains and Cereals, Soda and Salt, may be bought in moderate supplies according to the needs of the household. Sugar may be bought in considerable quan-26 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tities, although moist sugar must be watched, as it sometimes becomes infected with sugar mite. Cane sugar is the best for all preserving purposes; jams made with it will keep longer and have a better colour than if beet sugar were used. Beetroot sugar is, however, quite good for other sweetening purposes. Soap improves with keeping, and may safely be ordered in large quantities. The drier it is, the less it will waste when used. There are many different kinds—plain yellow soap, mottled soap, paraffin soap, Sunlight soap, and carbolic soap are all useful for household purposes ; also the soft soap, which should be bought in large tins and given out as required. Candles will also improve with keeping. Tea should be bought in moderate quantities. It should be well twisted and the leaves not too small. The special blend to use is entirely a matter of taste. China tea is considered the most delicate and the best suited to invalids and those of weak digestion, but the flavour is not liked by all. A mixture of China and Indian tea makes a very good blend for ordinary use. Coffee should be bought freshly roasted and ground at home, or else bought in very small quantities as required; it very soon loses its flavour with keeping. Some people roast it at home as well, but this is rather a troublesome process and one which requires very great care and attention. Spices, like coffee, should be bought in small quantities, as they are apt to deteriorate. This applies to all strong-smelling and strong-tasting articles. Dried Fruits will keep well in a good store room, and should be bought in the autumn when the new fruit comes in. Figs, however, must be carefully watched, as they often become infected with small maggots. Tinned Goods.—Choose tins that are in perfect condition and free from rust. There should be no bulges, which are a sign of fermentation ; the tops and bottoms should be rather concave. Foods preserved in earthenware or glass jars are better and safer than tinned ones, but they generally cost more money. Cheese.—The choice of cheese is almost entirely a matter of taste. For a moderately priced cheese some of the American cheeses, similar to our Cheddar cheeses, are to be recommended, also the round Dutch cheeses. In choosing such cheeses as Stilton, Gorgonzola, and Roquefort, select one that combines moisture with green mould. Cream cheeses must always be bought very fresh and used at once. Butter must always be chosen by taste, and cheap inferior butter avoided. Better far to use good dripping, lard, or margarine for cooking purposes than questionable butter. Good salt butter will keep well in an airy larder, but fresh butter must be ordered as required. Eggs, if fresh, are clear when held up to the light; if stale there is a dark spot or cloudy-looking part. They may be tested by putting them in salt and water—1 ounce salt to 1 pint water ; eggs that float in this are not good. They should not be too light, and when shaken the inside should not float about. When eggs are cheap it is sometimes a good plan to buy in a large quantity and store them for the winter (see p. 32). A MONTHLY CALENDAR OF FOOD Although the following calendar has been com- piled as carefully as possible, it can only be taken as a guide, there are so many circumstances which tend to vary the season and sale of different articles of food. In the case of fish, for instance, it will be found that the season varies somewhat in different dis- tricts, and the laws as regards salmon and other fishing are not the same in all parts of the country (see Note, p. 29). Then, again, some kinds of fish are obtainable all the year round, and the calendar may only state when they are at their best and cheapest. As far as vegetables and fruit are concerned the vagaries of weather and climate must be taken into consideration, and the season will vary somewhat according to whether a district is in a mild or sheltered situation, or otherwise. For those who live within touch of the London amd other large markets it would almost seem as if some kinds of food were never out of season. So much is now imported from foreign countries, as well as from the colonies, that as soon as the home products are finished they are supplemented by those from other parts. There are others, however, who are not so highly favoured, and for those it is hoped that the following will be a help in making up their daily bill of fare : JANUARY Meat Beef, mutton, house lamb, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capons, capercailzie, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, hares, landrails, larks, partridges, pheasant, pigeons, pintail, plover, ptarmigan, pullets, quails, rabbits, snipe, teal, turkeys, wild-fowl, widgeon, woodcock. Fish Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, floun- ders, gurnet, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, red mullet, salmon (Dutch and Canadian), skate, smelts, soles, sprats, tench, turbot, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe, Japanese, and Jerusalem), beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, car- doons, carrots, celeriac, celery, chervil, chicory, cress, cucumber (forced), endive, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms (cultivated), onions, parsnips, potatoes, radishes, salsify, savoys, Scotch kale, winter spinach, tomatoes, turnips- turnip tops. Fruit Apples, bananas, cranberries, grapes, lemons, limes, oranges, pears, pine-apples, rhubarb (forced), nuts (almonds, Brazil, chestnuts, cobs, walnuts, &c.).THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 27 FEBRUARY Meat Beef, mutton, house lamb, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capons, capercailzie, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, hares, larks, landrails, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, pintail, plover, ptarmigan, pullets, prairie- hen, quails, rabbits, snipe, teal, turkeys, wild-fowl, widgeon, woodcock. Fish Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, flounders, gurnet, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, red mullet, salmon, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, tench, trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, prawns, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe, Japanese, and Jerusalem), beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, ear- doons, carrots, celeriac, celery, chervil, chicory, cress, cucumber (forced), endive, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms (cultivated), onions, parsnips, potatoes, radishes, salsify, savoys, Scotch kale, sea-kale, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, turnip tops. Fruit Apples, bananas, cranberries, grapes, lemons, limes, oranges, pears, pine-apples, rhubarb (forced), nuts (almonds, Brazil, chestnuts, cobs, walnuts, &c. MARCH Meat Beef, mutton, house lamb, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capons, capercailzie, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, guinea-fowls, hares, landrails, ortolans (par- tridges, pheasants, and plover (until middle of month), prairie-hens, ptarmigan, pigeons, pullets, quail, rabbits, ruffs and reeves, snipe (until 15th), teal, turke widgeon, wild-fowl, woodcock (until Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, flounders, gurnet, haddock, halibut, ling, mackerel, perch, pike, salmon, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, tench, trout, turbot, whiting, whitebait. (Fresh- water fish stop on the 15th.) Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, prawns, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe, Japanese, and Jerusalem), asparagus, beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cardoons, carrots, cauliflower, celeriac, celery, chervil, chicory, cress, cucumber (forced), endive, greens, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mush- rooms (cultivated), onions, parsnips, potatoes, new Jersey potatoes, radishes, salsify, savoys, Scotch kale, sea-kale, sorrel, spinach, tomatoes, turnips. Fruit Apples, bananas, grapes, grape berries, lemons, limes, oranges, pears, pine-apples, rhubarb (forced), nuts (almonds, Brazil, walnuts, &c.). APRIL Meat Beef, mutton, grass and house lamb, pork, veal. Game and Poultry Capons, chickens, ducks, ducklings, fowls, guinea-fowls, goslings, hares, leverets, ortolans, pigeons, prairie-hens, ptarmigan, quail, rabbit, rufis and reeves. Fish Bream, brill, cod, dory, eels, flounder, gurnet, haddock, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, plaice, red mullet, salmon, skate, smelts, soles, trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, prawns, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe and Jerusalem), asparagus, beetroot, broccoli, cardoons, cauliflower, celery, chervil, chicory, cress, cucumber, endive, greens, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, parsnips, new potatoes, radishes, Scotch kale, sea- kale, sorrel, spinach, tomatoes, turnips. Fruit Apples, bananas, grapes, grape berries, lemons, limes, melons (hothouse), oranges, pears, pine- apples, rhubarb, nuts (almonds, Brazil, walnuts, &c.). MAY Meat Beef mutton, lamb, veal. Game and Poultry Capons, chickens, ducks, ducklings, fowls, gos- lings, guinea-fowls, green geese, hares, leverets, ortolans, prairie-hens, pigeons, ptarmigan, pullets, quail, rabbits, ruffs and reeves. Fish Bass, brill, cod, dory, eels, gurnet, hake, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, mullet, plaice, salmon, skate, soles, trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobster, prawns, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe and Jerusalem), asparagus, beans, beetroot, cabbage, cardoons, new carrots, cauliflower, chervil, cress, cucumbers, endive, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, peas, new potatoes, radishes, sea-kale, sorrel, spinach, tomatoes, new turnips.28 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Fruit Apples, bananas, cherries, green gooseberries, grape berries, grapes, lemons, limes, melons (hot- house), oranges, pears, pine-apples, rhubarb, nuts, strawberries (hothouse). JUNE Meat Beef, mutton, lamb, veal. Game and Poultry Capons, chickens, ducks, ducklings, fowls, guinea- fowls, goslings, green geese, hares, hazel hens, leverets, ortolans, pigeons, pullets, quails, rabbits, rufis and reeves, turkey poults, wheatears. Fish Bass, bream, flounders, grey mullet, gurnets, haddock, hake, halibut, herrings, mackerel, perch (after 15th), plaice, red mullet, salmon, soles, tench, trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, prawns, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe), asparagus, beans (broad and French), beetroot, cabbage, cardoons, carrots, cauliflower, chervil, cress, cucumber, endive, horse- radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, peas, new potatoes, radishes, sea-kale, sorrel, spinach, tomatoes, turnips. Fruit Apples, apricots, bananas, cherries, grapes, green gooseberries, lemons, melons, nectarines, oranges, peaches, pine-apples, raspberries, rhubarb, straw- berries, nuts, &c. JULY Meat Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capons, chickens, ducks, ducklings, fowls, green geese, goslings, hares, leverets, ortolans, pigeons, pullets, quail, rabbits, rufls and reeves, turkey poults, wheatears. Fish Bass, bream, flounders, grey mullet, gurnets, haddock, hake, herring, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, red mullet, salmon, sea-bream, soles, tench, trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, prawns, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe), asparagus, aubergines, beans (broad and French), beetroot, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, chervil, cress, cucumber, endive, horse- radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms, peas, potatoes, scarlet runners, sorrel, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrow. Fruit Apples, apricots, bananas, cherries, currants, (red, black, and white), green figs, grapes, goose- berries, melons, nectarines, oranges, peaches, pine- apples, raspberries, rhubarb, strawberries, &c. AUGUST Meat Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capercailzie, capons, chickens, wild and tame ducks, ducklings, fowls, geese, goslings, grouse (on 12th), hares, larks, leverets, pigeons, plover, pullets, quails, rabbits, snipe, teal, turkey poults, woodcock, wheatears Fish Barbel, bass, bream, dory, eels, flounders, grey mullet, gurnets, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, mackerel, plaice, perch, pike, red mullet, salmon, soles, tench, trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, prawns, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe), aubergines, beans (broad and French), beetroot, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, chervil, cress, cucumber, endive, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms, peas, potatoes, scarlet runners, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrow. Fruit Apples, apricots, bananas, cherries, currants, green figs, filberts, gooseberries, grapes, greengages, melons, nectarines, peaches, pears, pine-apples, plums, raspberries, strawberries, &c. SEPTEMBER Meat Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capercailzie, capons, chickens, wild and tame ducks, fowls, geese, grouse, hares, larks, leverets, moor-game, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, plovers, pullets, rabbits, snipe, turkeys, turkey poults, teal, widgeon, woodcock, wheatears. Fish Barbel, bass, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, flounders, grey mullet, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, red mullet, salmon, soles, smelts, trout, turbot, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, prawns, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe), aubergines, French beans, beetroot, broccoli, cabbage, red cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, celery, cress, cucumber, endive, horse- radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, parsnips, peas, potatoes, scarlet', runners, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrow.THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 29 Fruit Apples, apricots, bananas, blackberries, bil- berries, morella cherries, cranberries, damsons, green figs, grapes, greengages, medlars, melons, mulberries, nectarines, peaches, pears, pine-apples, plums, quinces, nuts, &c. OCTOBER Meat Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Black game, capercailzie, capons, chickens, wild ducks, fowls, geese, grouse, hares, larks, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, pintails, plover, ptarmigan, pullets, rabbits, snipe, turkeys, turkey poults, teal, widgeon, woodcock. Fish Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, floun- ders, grey mullet, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, red mullet, salmon (Canadian), skate, smelts, soles, tench, turbot, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, prawns, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe and Jerusalem), aubergines, French beans, beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, red cabbage, cardoons, carrots, cauli- flower, celeriac, celery, chervil, cress, cucumber, endive, greens, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mush- rooms, onions, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, scarlet runners, sorrel, spinach, tomatoes turnips, vege- table marrow. Fruit Apples, bananas, blackberries, cranberries, dam- sons, grapes, lemons, limes, medlars, melons, nectarines, oranges, peaches, pears, pine-apples, plums, pomegranates, quinces, sloes, nuts, &c. NOVEMBER Meat Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Black game, capercailzie, capons, chickens, wild and tame ducks, fowls, geese, grouse, hares, larks, landrails, partridges, pheasants, pigeons, pintails, plover, ptarmigan, pullets, rabbits, snipe, turkeys, turkey poults, teal, widgeon, woodcock. Fish Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, flounders, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, salmon (Canadian), skate, smelts, soles, sprats, tench, turbot, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, scal- lops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe and Jerusalem), beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, red cabbage, carrots, cardoons, cauliflower, celeriac, celery, chervil, cress, endive, greens, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms (cultivated), onions, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, turnip tops. Fruit Apples, bananas, cranberries, grapes, lemons, medlars, melons, oranges, pears, pine-apples, pomegranates, quinces, nuts (various). DECEMBER Meat Beef, mutton, house lamb, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Black game, capercailzie (until 20th), capons, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, grouse (until 18th), hares, landrails, larks, partridges, pheasants, pin- tail, plover, ptarmigan, rabbits, snipe, teal, turkeys, turkey poults, widgeon, woodcock. Fish Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, floun- ders, gurnet, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, salmon (Canadian), skate, smelts, soles, sprats, tench, turbot, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, prawns, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe, Japanese, and Jerusalem), beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, red cabbage, cardoons, carrots, cauliflower, celeriac, celery, chervil, chicory, endive, horse-radish, greens, leeks, mushrooms (cultivated), onions, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, tomatoes, turnips, turnip tops. Fruit Apples, bananas, cranberries, grapes, lemons, melons, oranges, pears, pine-apples, pomegranates, rhubarb (forced), nuts (various). Note.—The fishing of salmon is regulated by Act of Parliament. The following table gives the general close time, but there are local exceptions: England and Wales.—2nd November to 1st February for rods, and 1st September to 1st Feb- ruary for netting, with exceptions. Scotland.—1st November to 10th February for rods; 27th August to 10th February for netting, with exceptions. Ireland.—The time varies considerably. Dutch and Canadian salmon are obtainable almost all the year round. PART IV THE LARDER AND CARE OF FOOD A house of any considerable size usually contains a larder where perishable food can be kept, and the importance of having this cannot be over-estimated. The ideal arrangement is to have it in two parts, so that dairy produce may be kept separate from butcher meat, &c.30 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD The Position.—Whenever possible a larder should have a northerly or easterly aspect and compara- tive absence of bright sunshine. It is important, too, that it should be conveniently near the kitchen, although not near enough to be influenced by the heat of the range nor hot-water boiler. It should never be placed near a lavatory ; neither should the window overlook that part of the premises where the gulleys to receive the contents of the waste-pipes are placed. Ventilation and Temperature.—There should be one or more windows with which to ventilate the larder. If there are two, one should be glazed to let in light and the other should be fitted with wire gauze or perforated zinc, fine enough to exclude all flies. If there is only one window it should be kept open constantly, and a piece of muslin should be stretched tightly across it to keep out flies and dust. There should be a thorough ventilation, and some- times it is advisable to have one of the panels of the door fitted with perforated zinc in order to secure the necessary draught. Or sometimes per- forated bricks are let into the walls, which help considerably to ventilate the larder. The temperature of the larder should not exceed 50° F. in summer, nor fall below 38° F. in winter. Of course it is not always possible to regulate the temperature at will, but still with a little contriv- ance one can often manage to arrive approxi- mately near these figures. Arrangements and Fittings.—The ceiling should be lime- or white-washed. The walls too, if they are not tiled, should be lime- or white-washed or painted with some sanitary paint which can easily be washed. It is very important that no holes or crevices should be left in the walls through which mice and beetles may enter. When these appear, they should at once be filled up with cement or putty. The shelves are best made of stone, marble, or slate, although wooden ones are very often fitted for the sake of economy. In any case it is well to have a slab of slate or marble on which special things, such as butter and milk, can be placed to keep them cool. For the convenience of hanging meat, poultry, &c., strong hooks should be securely fixed in the ceiling or hung from rods of iron running from side to side of the larder. A few smaller hooks should also be fixed to the shelves or walls. All fittings should be as simple in construction as possible, so that they can easily be washed and cleaned. Useful Requisites.—A wire rack, baskets, or wooden boxes for holding vegetables; bags of netting for lemons, a bread pan, one or two earthenware pans for milk with pieces of muslin to cover them, wire covers for cold meat and fish, odd cups, basins, plates, and dishes, also a few muslin bags for holding meat, hams, &c., or some improvised meat safes made of muslin bags stretched out by wooden hoops. A refrigerator is an advantage in a larder but by no means a necessity, except in large establishments or in houses where ices are largely used (see Ices). Daily Inspection of the Larder.—Whatever else may have to be neglected in a house, a daily visit to the larder, or what constitutes the larder, should never be dispensed with. It is of the utmost im- portance that the food which is to nourish our bodies be kept in good condition and free from all im- urities, or bad health and even poisoning might e the result. Besides the necessity from a health point of view, a visit to the larder is helpful in making up the bill of fare for the day, as all “ left- overs ” should be considered before new material is ordered, also the utilisation of scraps. The condition of all food being kept, such as game, poultry, vegetables, stock, fruit, &c., must be looked into and nothing allowed to waste. Then, what is of paramount importance, the clean- liness of the larder must have the strictest attention, as nothing tends to destroy food more quickly than dirty and unhealthy conditions. Cleanliness.—Absolute cleanliness should be main- tained in the larder by daily and weekly cleaning. Daily Cleaning.—(1) Wipe over the shelves with a damp cloth and put food, not being used immedi- ately for cooking, on clean plates and dishes. (2) Wipe over the floor also with a damp cloth or with a brush with a damp cloth or swab tied over it. (Sweeping and dusting must never be done while food is in the larder, as it simply raises the dust to let it fall afterwards on the food.) (3) Wipe out the bread pan. (4) Burn any scraps of fish, bones, or meat, vege- tables, &c., that are not quite fresh. Weekly Cleaning.—A special day should be chosen for this: (1) Remove all food from the larder. (2) Sweep and dust the wall3 and floor, gather up the dust, and burn it. (3) When the dust has settled, dust and scrub the shelves and wash the window and any wire gauze or perforated zinc that covers it, using car- bolic soap, or, if the weather is hot, some disinfect- ant may be added to the water, such as carbolic, Jeyes’ fluid, Sanitas, or Izal. (4) Scrub floor with soft soap or carbolic soap and water. (5) Leave door and window open to dry the place, as damp is most detrimental to food. When dry, replace the dishes of food. (6) Thoroughly wash out the bread pan and leave it to dry and air before returning the bread. (7) In hot weather hang up bags of powdered charcoal or place bowls of disinfectant on the shelves. Occasionally.—(1) White-wash or lime-wash the ceiling about every six months. (2) Scald and scrub meat hooks and wire meat covers. (3) Wash muslin covers when necessary. (4) Fill up any cracks or mouse holes with cement, and place traps when necessary. To keep Food without a Larder.—In many small houses and flats there is no proper larder, and one cupboard has to serve the purpose of larder and store room, and sometimes as a place for keeping dishes as well. When this is the case the quantities ordered must be as small as possible, and cleanliness and order are all the more necessary. If the shelves are made of wood it is a good plan to have them covered with white oil-cloth, as this can so easily be wiped over, or washed. In addition to this cupboard, a meat safe should be provided and placed either outside or in a cool place. Needless to say, it should not be placed anywhere near a lavatory. A small31 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD meat safe can occasionally be fixed to tbe outside ledge of the kitchen window. If it is out of doors the top should be protected from rain by a covering of wood or galvanised iron,and it should be scrubbed out every week and just as carefully as an inside cupboard. Failing a meat safe, small cane and muslin cages should be bought in which meat can be hung up in any cool and well-ventilated place. They are very inexpensive to buy, or they can even be simply constructed at home by making a bag of muslin drawn in at top and bottom. Place a plate at the foot and keep out the sides with hoops of cane lightly tacked in position. CARE OF VARIOUS KINDS OF FOOD Meat, Game, Poultry, &e. Butcher’s Meat.—All uncooked meat should be hung. If there is a cut side, keep this uppermost to prevent the juice running out. Examine the meat carefully each day and wipe it with a cloth to keep it dry. It may also be dusted over with a little flour. The marrow should be removed from the bone of such joints as a sirloin, ribs of beef or loin of mutton, before the meat is hung up. If there is any sign of taint, cut ofl the infected part and burn it, then wash the meat with a weak solution of Condy’s fluid and water, vinegar and water, or borax and water. If there is a danger of flies attacking the meat, pepper it well and hang it up in muslin ; or if there is any fear of the meat not keeping it should be partially cooked. Cooked meat should be lifted out of the gravy with which it has been served and put on a dry plate covered over with a meat screen. Frozen meat should be well thawed before cook- ing ; it should be taken from the larder and kept .in a warm kitchen for an hour or two. Rabbits.—A rabbit should be used fresh and must be paunched at once. If it has to be kept a day or two, do not remove the skin until it is just about to be cooked, as it prevents the flesh from becom- ing dry. Tie two of the feet together and hang it up on a hook in the larder. Hares.—Contrary to the rabbit, a hare should be well hung before it is cooked, and it must be hung up without being paunched. About a week’s hanging will be required if the hare is fresh and the weather dry. It should be hung up head down- wards, and a'little tin cup may be tied on to the mouth to catch any blood. Poultry.—When poultry is bought quite fresh it may be hung for a few days. It should be plucked, but not drawn, until about to be used. Tie the two feet together and hang the bird up on a hook. Poultry must never be overhung ; when it shows the least sign of turning green it is unfit for food. Game.1—As regards the time for keeping game, it is almost impossible to lay down any definite rules. Much depends on individual taste, the state of the weather, the condition of the birds, and the accommodation there is for storing them. As a rule those who have game often like it less high than those who can partake of it but rarely, but most game birds should be hung a certain length of time or they will taste little diflerent from ordinary poultry. A young bird will not require so long hanging as an old one, and one that is badly shot or bruised in any way will not keep well. The condition of the weather will affect game very much, dry, cold weather being much better for keeping purposes than close or damp days. In fact, on what are called muggy days, game must be very closely watched, as it may ‘ go bad ” very quickly. Game should be hung unplucked and undrawn. The place in which it is kept should be cool and dry, and there should be a current of air if possible. Tie a piece of string tightly round the neck of the bird to exclude the air and hang it up. A little charcoal may be put inside the vent to help to preserve it. This may be made by putting a piece of wood in the oven and allowing it to remain until it is quite black. If several birds are being hung up, do not let them touch each other. If there is any danger of flies, dredge the birds with pepper or put them in muslin bags. For all practical purposes game is ready for cook- ing when the tail feathers will come away easily when pulled, only it must be remembered that if it is required to taste high when cooked, it should smell, almost disagreeably so, beforehand. If there should be the least taint, a bird can often be saved by washing it in strongly salted water with a little vinegar in it, and afterwards rinsing it in fresh water. Birds that should not Hang Long.—Wild ducks and other water-fowl should be used fresh. Their flesh is of a very oily nature and soon turns sour. In cold, dry weather they can be kept for a few days. Small birds, too, such as snipe and wood- cock, that are cooked without being drawn, should not be kept long. Venison.—This should always be well hung before it is cooked. In cool, dry weather it may hang for a fortnight or even longer.. Before hanging it should be well wiped with a dry cloth and sprinkled with black pepper, and if liked, ginger as well. Then during the hanging it must be well watched and dried every day. Its freshness can be tested by running a knife or skewer into the bone at the haunch ; if when withdrawn it smells well and is not sticky, this is a sure sign of good condition.32 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD FARM PRODUCE Butter.—Keep in an earthenware crock, cover with a piece of muslin wrung out of salted water and then with a tight-fitting lid. If there is a large quantity of butter to be stored it should be packed very tightly in the crock, so as to leave no room for air to get down the sides. Place the crock in a cool, dark, and airy place. To keep fresh butter in hot weather a butter cooler should be used; this is made with a cover into which is poured a little water. Failing a butter cooler, place the butter in a bowl standing in a larger bowl of cold water. Cover it with a piece of muslin, allowing the ends of the muslin to dip into the water. The water, which should be changed daily, is soaked up by the muslin and thus kept constantly wet. Butter must not be put near any strong-smelling substance, as it quickly absorbs any flavour. Cheese.—A cut piece of cheese should be wrapped in grease-proof paper or in damp muslin and kept in a cheese dish, or jar or tin in which there is a little ventilation. A large piece of cheese ought to be turned frequently and the rind rubbed occa- sionally with a cloth to prevent moisture collecting. A ripe cheese must be watched carefully to see that it is not attacked by the cheese fly. Milk and Cream.—Strict cleanliness is of the first importance in the keeping of milk and cream. The vessels in which they are kept must be tho- roughly washed and scalded and then rinsed with cold water before they are used. A milk jug should always be of a shape that can be washed easily, wide enough to allow of a dishcloth being used right to the bottom of it, and without bends and curves which are likely to evade proper washing. A dirty milk jug is quite enough to cause poisoning, and one cannot be too particular in this respect. The jugs and basins should also be kept free from dust—the form of jug known as the dust-proof is to be recommended for this; it is hung upside down and does not catch all the dust and smuts that are flying about. Milk should always be kept covered—a piece of muslin, a plate or saucer is good for the purpose— and it should never be put near anything with a strong smell, as it readily absorbs odours. Then, again, it is a bad plan to mix milk, that is to say, a fresh lot coming in should never be added to some that has been in the house for several hours, or the whole is likely to become sour. In hot weather the milk should be scalded if it has to be kept for several hours. Stand the jug containing it in a large saucepan of water and heat to almost boiling point, or this may be done in a double saucepan. A pinch of carbonate of soda or powdered Dorax may be added to the milk to preserve it, but this spoils the flavour. The same care must be taken with cream. If it is scalded as above it will keep sweet for several hours. A lump of sugar will also help to preserve it. Eggs.—If only few in number they may be kept in a basket, but when bought in dozens it is better to keep them on an egg stand where they do not touch each other, or in a wooden box with bran or sawdust. When there is room for storing, the thrifty house- keeper will sometimes buy a quantity of eggs in the spring and store them for winter use. They can then be preserved in one of the following manners : (1) Place them in an air-tight box between layers of coarse salt. The small end of the egg should be placed downwards, and they must never touch each other. Put a layer of salt two inches deep on the top, cover with a thick piece of calico or strong paper, and then a tight-fitting lid. This must be kept in a cool place. (2) Grease the eggs (they must be very fresh) over with lard, oil, or any pure fat, and place them on a tray with a layer of bran above and below. (3) Pack in lime, in the same manner as with salt, only this renders them so brittle that they are unfit for boiling. (4) Lay them in a bath of water glass, which can be bought for about 4<2. per lb., and full directions for its use are printed on each tin. MISCELLANEOUS Fish.—Fish should always be placed in the coolest part of the larder—on a marble or slate slab if possible—and covered with a meat screen33 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD or piece of muslin, if any flies are about. It is always better if it can be used fresh, but when uecessary to keep it for a day or two, sprinkle it liberally with salt, or in hot weather it may be wrapped in a piece of muslin wrung out of vinegar and water. Dried fish should be hung on a rod or hook. Ham and Sides of Bacon.—Hang in muslin bags dusted with pepper or ginger to keep oS the flies. If they are to be kept a long time the bags should be made of calico, or strong brown paper may be used for wrapping them in. To Keep Suet.—If there are any glands or kernels to be seen these should be removed, also any parts which show discoloration, as these very soon be- come tainted and spoil the rest. If the suet has to be kept for several days it is a good plan to bury it in flour. If it is put into the flour-bin it will not impart any flavour to the contents. Bones (for stock).—If unable to use at once, bake them in a sharp oven for a few minutes. Lard. — Keep in a closely - covered crock or basin. Stocks, Soups, and Sauces.—These should be kept in clean earthenware basins, and boiled up every day in summer and every second day in winter. STORING OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES Vegetables.—Although vegetables are at their best when freshly gathered they can, when necessity requires it, be kept for a limited period. Vegetables which are in daily use should be kept in baskets or on a vegetable rack where the air can Vegetable Hack reach them, and put in a cool place—the floor of the larder or cellar is the best. Potatoes alone, carrots, turnips, and parsnips together, and any special vegetables by themselves. Onions, shallots, chives, and garlic are best hung up by strings or in a net bag and kept away from other food. Parsley and mint should be kept with the stalks only in water, and the water must Ije changed every day. Tomatoes should be put on a dish or spread out on a shelf without touching each other. To Store Vegetables.—Sometimes it is necessary to keep vegetables for a longer period, and then greater care must be taken with them. Potatoes whdn bought in large quantities to be stored throughout the winter, should be put in a dry, dark cellar and covered with straw to prevent the frost attacking them. If kept in a bright or damp place they will become soft and withered and begin to sprout. They should be examined frequently ; any that show signs of decay should be removed, and all sprouts and shoots should be rubbed off. In the country potatoes are sometimes stored in a big hole in the ground lined with straw and banked up with sand. Artichokes can be treated in the same way as potatoes. Carrots, Beetroots, and Parsnips may be pre- served by burying them in dry sand or earth in a dark cellar. Turnips should be allowed to lie on the floor of a dark cellar. Vegetable Marrows and Cucumbers will keep for some time if they are hung up by the stalk in a cool situation. Cabbages, if they are sound and firm and cut before the frost touches them, can be preserved for a few weeks if they are spread on a stone floor in the dark. Herbs.—See under Herbs and Condiments. Fruit.—If only bought in small quantities, such fruit as apples, pears, plums, apricots, and oranges should be wiped and spread out on a tray, on the S±| - A Fruit Stand shelves of the store room or larder, or on a special frqit stand. Bananas and grapes should be hung. Softer fruits, such as currants and berries, should only be bopght as required and then used at once. Lemons should be wiped dry and hung up in nets, or if laid on a shelf they should be turned every day. All fruit should be kept in a cool place and out of the sun, unless it is a kind which requires further ripening. When apples have to be stored in large quantities for winter use they should be dry, sound, and not .too ripe. They should be spread out on shelves in a fruit room or in an attic that does not admit too much sunshine. They should not be allowed to touch each other, and any that show signs of decay should at once be removed. Rough-skinned apples, such as russets, keep best. Pears, if not ripe, may be kept in the same way or hung up by the stalks. cCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 34 SOME USEFUL WEIGHTS AND MEASURES Avoirdupois Weight This is used for the weighing of almost all house- hold commodities, &c. &c. 16 drachms (dr.) . 16 ounces . 28 pounds . 4 quarters . 20 hundredweights make 1 ounce (oz.). „ 1 pound (lb.). ,, 1 quarter (qr.). „ 1 hundredweight (cwt.). „ 1 ton. 14 pounds . . . make 1 stone. 8 stones ... „ 1 hundredweight. 112 pounds . . „ 1 hundredweight. Liquid Measure of Capacity 4 gills make 1 pint (pt.). 2 pints 1 quart (qrt.). 4 quarts „ 1 gallon (gal.). 2 4 8 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 Dry Measure of Capacity gallons . . . . make 1 peck (pk.). pecks 1 bushel (bush.). bushels ..... ,, 1 quarter (qr.). Homely Measures tea-spoonfuls . dessert-spoonfuls . heaped table-spoonful of solids .... tea-cupful of solids . tea-cupful of liquid . breakfast-cupful of liquid tumblerful of liquid . make 1 dessert-spoonful „ 1 table-spoonful. „ about 1 ounce. „ about ■} lb. „ fully 1 gill. „ fully \ pint. „ about £ pint. Coins as Substitutes for Weights halfpenny and a 3d. piece halfpennies and a farthing pennies or 5 halfpennies l oz. avoirdupois. i oz. 1 oz. ,, THE THERMOMETER Temperatures Required for Different Methods of Cooking Boiling . . 212° Fahr. Simmering .... . . 200° to 210° 99 Slow simmering . . . . 180° to 190° >» Baking—- Bread and pastry . . . 320° to 340° Cakes Meat peis . . 290° to 300° Meat . . 290° to 310° 99 Trying— Fish . . 360° to 380° Meat . . 360° to 380° Fritters . . 350° to 360° 99STOCKS AND SOUPS There is quite an art in making a good soup, but it is an art easily acquired if only a little care and trouble are expended. As soup is the prelude to the meal, it is important that it should be worthy of what is to follow. There are few things, whether fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetable, which will not lend themselves to soup making; and it is a mistake to think that stock is a necessary basis of them all. Many tasty and nourishing soups can be made without meat or stock of any kind, as the following recipes will show. Soup is not so generally used as it ought to be, and many people object to it on the ground that it spoils the appetite for what is to follow. The mistake, however, is often made of serving a soup that is over strong. If a soup such as ox-tail or kidney is served before a substantial dish of roast beef or steak and kidney pie, which is freely partaken of, it is bound to cut the appetite and harm the digestion. When soup forms one of several courses there is no need for it to be a satisfying production, but rather something warm and light, which will prepare the digestive organs for the more solid food to follow. This is why clear soup or consomme is the most popular soup for dinner parties. If, on the other hand, the soup is to form the principal part of the meal, something of a- thicker and more nourishing nature should be served. Again, when economy has to be considered, a simple and nutritious soup will be found of great value, and the marked saving in the consumption of meat, when soup takes the precedence, will be found a strong argument in its favour. The excellence of the soup will depend to a large extent upon slow and steady cooking and the judicious introduction of the flavouring. Although all soup should be sufficiently seasoned before it is sent to table, salt must always be added with care, as an over-salted soup can be relished by no one. In the following recipes the approximate amount of liquid required is always given, but the exact quantity will depend somewhat upon the rate of cooking. If the soup becomes too much reduced by boiling and, consequently, too thick, more water or stock must be added to make up the original allowance. PART I PRELIMINARY TO SOUP MAKING DIFFERENT KINDS OF SOUPS The variety of soups is very great, in fact the number of recipes to be found is legion. However, when these come to be examined it will be found that, broadly speaking, they can all be classified under one or other of the following headings : Clear Soups and Broths, Thickened Soups, and Purees. The number of soups is very much augmented by giving a separate title to every separate varia- tion of a combination. For instance, clear stock, which is the basis of so many clear soups or con- sommes, will take a different name from each special garnish or flavouring that is added to it. Many of the vegetable puree soups are made in the same manner, the only difference being in the vegetable used ; and again with the broths, by using a different kind of meat or different vegetables the name is altered—the slightest variation will furnish the occasion for a distinctive title. Clear Soups and Broths have as their foundation a clear stock or meat broth. Clear Soup is one of the most expensive kinds of soup as it must be made from good meat stock, which is generally clarified and then garnished according to fancy. A Broth differs from a clear soup in that it is unclarified, and the meat with which it is made is either served in the soup or lifted out and served as a separate course. There is usually a garnish of rice or barley and cut-up vegetables, or the vegetables may be cut in larger pieces and served as an accompaniment to the meat. A broth is generally a substantial soup, and, as a rule, unsuited as the prelude to a long dinner. It forms almost a meal in itself and is excellent as a luncheon dish, especially in cold weather, or for a nursery dinner. It is always acceptable to those who have been working in the open air or engaged in sports. It is one of the most economical forms of soup. Thickened Soups can be made of fish, meat, or vegetables, and they generally have some stock as their basis. The stock may be either brown, white, fish, or vegetable, according to the nature of the soup, or sometimes a mixture of stock and milk, or milk and water, is used. Some starchy or farinaceous material, such as flour, arrowroot, cornflour, tapioca, sago, &c., gene- rally supplies the thickening property, or, in the case' of the richer soups, a liaison, or combina- tion of eggs and cream, is used. Portions of the substance of which the soup is made are frequently served in them, as in kidney soup and ox-tail soup. Care must be taken not to make these soups too thick. A Puree is perhaps the simplest and most econo- mical kind of soup. It differs from other thickened soups in that its thickening is effected by rubbing36 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the meat, fish, vegetable, or other ingredients of which it is composed, through a sieve or colander and serving them in the soup. A puree can be made of almost any vegetable, whether fresh or dried, and of meat, game, fish, and some farinaceous substances such as rice, barley, macaroni, &c. The farinaceous or starchy vege- tables, such as potatoes, peas, beaus, and lentils, require no additional thickening to bind them together, since the flour they contain is sufficient to make a smooth and even puree, but the more watery vegetables, such as celery, carrots, turnips, vegetable marrow, &c., require some farinaceous substance, or yolks of eggs, added to make them cohere. The ingredients of which a puree is com- posed must always be simmered slowly until quite soft and pulpy, in order to facilitate the sieving pro- cess. Although a pur4e is never so smooth and soft as when rubbed through a hair sieve or tammy, when time and labour have to be considered a wire sieve or colander will suffice. For Sieving, see p. 40. A puree can always be rendered richer by the addition of some cream and one or two yolks of eggs, just before bringing it to table, or sometimes a small quantity of butter broken in small pieces is added at the last. A puree should be of the consistency of thick cream, and is usually served with crohtons of bread, or with “ pulled ” bread served on a separate dish. Quantity of Soup to Allow.—The usual quantity of soup to allow is | pint per person, but this is a liberal allowance when only one helping is reckoned on; and at a dinner of many courses, where there are more than four or five persons, the quantity may be considerably less. On the other hand, if the soup is to form an important part of the meal, rather more than \ pint per person should be allowed. THE MAKING OF STOCK AND THE STOCK POT General Remarks on Stock Making.—Stock is the liquid into which the juice and flavour of various nutritive substances have been drawn by means of long, slow cooking. In one form or another it serves as a foundation for most of our soups, and, besides furnishing the liquid part of stews, whether white or brown, it will go a long way towards making gravies and sauces a success. Stock can be made from various materials, and although meat and bones, cooked or uncooked and flavoured with vegetables, are the usual materials, poultry, game, or fish with vegetables, and even vegetables alone, can all be utilised for the purpose. For the better soups, such as clear soup and good white soup, fresh meat is required, while second stock, general stock, or meat boilings will serve for the making of most of the ordinary soups. Stock, and especially meat stock, should always be made the day before it is wanted, as a good result can only be obtained by long, slow cooking; it is only by this means, too, that the fat can be successfully removed from the top of the stock. The Flavouring of Stock.—This must be done very judiciously. In meat stocks the flavour of vegetables must not overpower the flavour of the meat, and one flavouring must not predominate over another. Spices and herbs must also be used with caution. Although quantities such as 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, &c., are given in the following recipes, discretion must be exercised as to the size of the vegetable chosen. As a general rule, from 4 to 6 oz. of vegetable flavourings is sufficient to allow to each pound of meat. Carrot, turnip, onion, and celery are the vege- tables generally used for flavouring stock, but there are others which can very well be employed in addition to these, such as leek, tomato, parsnip, artichoke, &c.; mushrooms also give a good flavour, especially in game or the darker meat stocks. In the following recipes the vegetables are always spoken of as “ prepared,” but full directions for doing this will be found in the “ Vegetable ” section of the book and under their respective headings. Vegetables used for flavouring stock should either be cut in blocks or left whole if they are small, they must never be chopped in small pieces. Neither should they be allowed to remain too long in the stock, as after a certain time they only absorb the meaty flavours instead of imparting any of their own goodness to the stock. So if a large quantity of meat is being used and the stock is likely to cook for many hours, the vegetables should either not be put in at the beginning or be lifted out before the stock has finished cooking. For this reason many cooks put the flavouring vegetables into a string bag, so that they can easily be removed. Stock vegetables can very well be served as a separate vegetable dish by themselves, or else made into a pur6e by mashing them up with a little butter or cream. A bunch of herbs or a bouquet garni, so often men- tioned in connection with stocks and soups, con- sistsof a sprig of thyme, parsley, marjoramand basil, a strip of lemon peel, a bay-leaf, &c., tied together with a piece of cotton or fine string. It is of course not absolutely necessary to have all this variety, one or other can always be omitted if not procur- able. When fresh herbs cannot be had, a prepara- tion of dried herbs can be substituted, and if in small pieces they should be tied in a piece of muslin. Any spices used, such as cloves, peppercorns, mace, allspice, &c., should also be tied in muslin; and also celery seed when it is used as a substitute for fresh celery. A word might be said here about the adding of wine to soup or stock. This must also be done with caution. A little wine is a great improve- ment in many cases, but an overdose will utterly destroy the flavour of a good soup, while it will never make an otherwise poor soup anything else but poor. The addition of colouring matter is another thing to be guarded against, it is only in rare cases that this should be necessary. DIFFERENT KINDS OF STOCK The following are some of the different kinds of stock which can be made :— Brown Stock.—Made principally from beef and beef bones, with sometimes a little veal or some chicken or game bones added, and usually flavoured with vegetables. White Stock.—Made principally from white meat, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, or mutton, with some- times a calf’s foot, a piece of calf’s head, or anSTOCKS AND SOUPS 37 ox foot added, and usually flavoured with vege- tables. First and Second Stock.—First stock is the first boiling of the meat and vegetables. Second stock is produced by putting the meat and vegetables on to boil a second time with fresh water. Fish Stock, as its name implies, is made from fish or fish trimmings with vegetables added to give flavour. The addition of a few trimmings of shellfish are also an improvement. Game Stock.—Made from any kind of game or trimmings of game, with vegetables added to give flavour. Bone Stock.—Made from bones alone, with vege- tables added to flavour. Vegetable Stock.—Made from vegetables alone, either dried or fresh, or a mixture of the two. It is used principally in the making of vegetarian soups and other vegetarian dishes. General Stock.—Made from miscellaneous scraps of meat, bones, and vegetables, and drawn from a stock pot. Meat Boilings or Pot Liquor is the name given to the water in which a joint of meat, fowl, or rabbit has been boiled. It is the simplest kind of stock. Directions for making the different kinds of stock are given below. Glaze.—This is stock which is so much reduced in quantity that it forms almost a solid substance when cold. It is a means of preserving any super- fluous stock. First Stock for Clear and Brown Soups 3 lbs. beef (shin or stick- ing piece) or 2 lbs. beef and 1 lb. knuckle of veal. 3 qts. cold water. T carrot. 1 turnip. 2 small onions. 2 leeks. 2 or 3 sticks of celery, or J tea-sp. celery seed. A bunch of herbs. 1 doz. peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 1 dessert-sp. salt. A few scraps of lean ham or a small ham bone. The meat for this stock must be very carefully chosen. It must be very fresh and juicy and have a fair proportion of bone and very little fat. Shin of beef is what is usually selected as it is gelatinous and produces a good jelly, but the neck or sticking piece is also valuable for the purpose and makes a stronger flavoured and more nutritious stock. Veal is often used along with the beef, as it gives a certain delicacy of flavour. Any uncooked chicken or game bones may also be added, and will all go to improve the flavour of the stock, but scraps of cooked meat must never be put in. Always keep the proper proportion of meat and water, i.e. 1 qt. of water to each 1 lb. of meat and bones. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and remove all marrow from the bones. Take a very sharp knife and cut the meat into small pieces or blocks, keeping back any fat, but using the skin and gristle. Break the bones in small pieces so that all the goodness can be extracted from them. Put the bones, meat, and trimmings of ham or ham bone into a large saucepan with the cold water and salt, and if time permits let them soak for hah an hour, or until the water is well reddened. Then put the saucepan on the fire and bring the contents slowly to the boil. Simmer slowly for half an hour, and then remove any scum that may be on the top. If the skimming is begun too soon, the best part of the stock is removed. When the stock has cooked about an hour and is clear of scum add the vegetables, pre- pared and cut in small blocks, the bunch of herbs and spices tied in a small piece of muslin. Simmer slowly from four to five hours longer, never letting it go off the boil and skimming when necessary. Then strain through a hair sieve, or cloth stretched over a colander, into a basin and stand until cold. If well made, the stock should be clear, brown, and transparent, and form a stiff jelly when cold. When used for clear soup or consomme it is generally further cleared with raw beef or the whites and shells of eggs. Notes.—A darker coloured stock may be obtained by frying the meat in a little dripping or butter before pouring on the water, but the present fashion is to have clear soups pale in colour. Do not throw away the meat and vegetables left after straining. The meat may be put on again, with the same quantity of water as before and some fresh vegetables, and a second stock made (see below). First Stock for White Soups 3 lbs. knuckle of veal or 2 lbs. knuckle of veal and 1 lb. neck or shank of mutton. A small ham bone. 3 qts. cold water. \ carrot. \ turnip. 1 onion and 1 leek. 1 stick of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 4 cloves. A small bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 8 white peppercorns. 1 dessert-sp. salt. This stock is used as the foundation for good white soups. Veal is the meat usually selected for its manufacture, but any white meat may be used, such as rabbit, mutton, chicken or calves’ feet, or a piece of calf’s head. A mixture of meat always produces stock of a better flavour than that which is made from one kind of meat alone. The best white stock is that which is made from a mixture of veal and chicken. Mutton has very little flavour of its own, but the shank bones can very well be used along with some veal, or a calf’s foot, or a piece of a calf’s head along with veal. Rabbit by itself is too strong in flavour, except for rabbit soup, but used along with veal it makes a nice stock. A piece of ham or a ham bone is always an improve- ment in white stock. Be particular to keep the proper proportion of meat and water, i.e. 1 qt. water to 1 lb. meat and bones. When making white stock follow the directions given for first stock for brown soup, using fewer vegetables, as they tend to discolour the stock. The meat and bones must of course never be browed. A second stock may be taken from the meat and bones (see below). Second Stock After first stock is made, the meat should be put on again with the same quantity of water as before and a fresh supply of vegetables, herbs, and spices and boiled as before. Naturally it will not have the same fresh flavour as first stock, but it will be found most useful in the making of sauces and gravies, qnd of many soups for which a very good stock is not required.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 38 Second, stock is generally a stiffer jelly than first, as more of the gelatine becomes extracted from the bones. Fish Stock 2 lbs. white fish or fish bones and trimmings. 2 qts. cold water. 1 small carrot and tur- nip. 1 stick celery. A few parsley stalks. 1 bay-leaf. 1 doz. white peppercorns. Rind and juice of £ lemon. Salt. This is used as a foundation for fish soups and fish sauces and also for stewed fish. Any white fish or trimmings of white fish, such as haddock, cod, halibut, flounder, ling, &c., may be used for fish stock; the thick-skinned fish are the best. Fish such as mackerel, herring, and salmon are of too oily a nature, and too strong in flavour. By fish trimmings is meant the bones, heads, fins, and skin of the fish, and these can be bought from the fish- monger for a few pence, if sufficient cannot be obtained from fish that has been boned and filleted at home. Uncooked trimmings will make a better stock than those which have already been cooked. A cod’s head will make a very economical founda- tion for fish stock. A lobster shell, or the heads and tails of prawns and shrimps, would be a valuable addition, as they would help to give flavour. If a light-coloured stock is required, avoid using too much dark-coloured skin. Care must be taken to see that the fish or trim- mings used are very fresh and free from taint. Wash them thoroughly in cold water and cut them in small pieces. Put them into a well-lined sauee- Ean with the water and salt. Bring slowly to the oil, add a little salt, and skim well. Then add the vegetables cut in small pieces, the parsley stalks, bay-leaf, peppercorns, and thinly-peeled rind of | lemon. Avoid the use of too many vegetables, as they will not only darken the stock, but will overpower the flavour of the fish. A tomato may be added with advantage. Alio wall to simmer slowly from 1 to 1J horns, add the lemon juice at the last and strain ready for use. Fish stock must not be allowed to cook as long as meat stock, or it will become bitter. Notes.—E brown fish stock is required, the bones and trimmings should be well dried and fried in a little dripping before pouring on the water. This is not very usual. Fish stock may also be cleared in the same way as meat stock by using raw fish and the white and shells of eggs, but clear fish soup is rarely seen. When fish stock is used for sauces it is usually mixed with milk, or made with milk and water. Game Stock 2 lbs. trimmings or pieces of game. 1 Id. shin or neck of beef. 3 oz. bacon. 3 qts. cold water. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, and 1 onion. 2 sticks of celery. 1 tomato. 6 or 8 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. A bunch of herbs. 1 dessert-sp. salt. A few mushrooms if possible. Any kind of game can be used for this, provided it is not high. Uncooked game is always better than that which has been already roasted, but both can be utilised. It is a very good way of using an old bird, or the carcase or trimmings of birds. A piece of beef is generally used along with the game. but it is not absolutely necessary. A piece of rabbit or some rabbit bones can also be used. Cut the game and other meat into small pieces, chop the bones and wash any parts that require it. Cut the bacon in small strips and melt it slowly in a large saucepan, put in the prepared game, &e., and fry them until nicely browned. Then add the water by degrees and bring slowly to the boil. Add the salt and skim well. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and cook slowly for an hour, skimming when necessary. Add the vegetables cut in small pieces and the other flavourings, and simmer all together for about three hours longer. Strain and set aside until cold. If slowly cooked and kept well skimmed, the stock ought to be nice and clear, but if a perfectly clear soup is wanted it may be further clarified. Bone Stock 4 lbs. bones. 4 qts. cold water. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 2 onions. Salt. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. A bunch of herbs. 12 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 2 oz. dripping. Bone stock is decidedly cheaper than that which is made with meat, but it is apt to be wanting in flavour. Still it is very useful as a foundation for many of the vegetable soups, and also in the making of stews and sauces, if no ordinary stock from a stock pot is available. Any kind of bones may be used for making stock, but uncooked are better than those which have already been cooked. If possible a ham bone should be included, as it will help to give flavour. In order to extract all the goodness from the bones they should be broken in small pieces. This is best done by the butcher when buying them, especially if they are large. Wash the bones in warm water, trimming awayany discoloured-looking meat or fat, and dry them in a coarse cloth. Melt the dripping in a large saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the bones and brown them on all sides, turning them over and over with a long iron spoon. When brown, add the water gradually and bring slowly to the boil. Simmer slowly for £ hour, care- fully removing all scum that rises. Then add the vegetables, herbs, and other seasonings, and boil all together for 7 or 8 hours until reduced to about half the original quantity. This stock should cook more rapidly than meat stock, in order to extract all the goodness from the bones. The bones will be white and dry and full of little holes if all the nutriment has been extracted from them. When ready, strain and stand till cold. Note.—If a light-coloured stock is required, omit the preliminary browning of the bones and do not use any dripping, Vegetable Stock 2 qts. cold water. J lb. carrot. 6 oz. turnip. | lb. onions. J lb. leeks. A small parsnip. | lb. celery. \ lb. trimmings of cauli- flower or lettuce. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. dripping or butter. A pinch of sugar. Salt. Vegetable stock is useful as a basis for many vegetable soups and also for vegetarian dishes of different kinds.39 STOCKS AND SOUPS It can be made of almost any kind of vegetable, and the more variety the better. The above quan- tities are only given as a guide as to what can be done. The trimmings and even the parings of vegetables can be utilised in this way, only care must be taken to see that they are thoroughly clean and fresh. About the usual proportion to allow is 1 lb. of cut-up vegetables to 1 qt. water. Instead of plain water, the liquid in which any vegetable has been boiled may be used for making the stock. There must, of course, be no soda in it. The water in which rice or macaroni have been cooked can also be utilised. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the vegetables well drained and dried, and stir them over the fire until brown. Then add a small cupful of water and cook again until all the liquid is absorbed. Pour on the remainder of the water, stir well and bring to the boil. Then skim, add the herbs with seasoning to taste, and simmer at least 2 hours. More water must be added if the liquid becomes too much reduced. When ready, strain and cool off quickly if not required for immediate use. Another Way 2 qts. cold water. I lb. lentils. | lb. haricot beans. lib. assorted vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. Wash the lentils and beans and let them soak overnight in some of the water. Next day turn them into a saucepan with the water in which they have been soaking and add more water to make up the quantity required. Bring to the boil, skim well and simmer for A hour, then add the vegetables prepared and cut in pieces, with a bunch of fresh herbs and seasoning to taste. Simmer about 2 hours longer and strain ready for use. Notes.—Any of the dried peas or beans may be used for making this stock. If a light-coloured stock is wanted, use haricot beans, butter beans, or peas; for a darker one lentils or red haricots. The vegetables which are left after straining off the stock may be rubbed through a sieve mixed with a little butter or cream, nicely seasoned, and served as a vegetable dish, or they may be made more liquid with the addition of milk and served as a soup. General Stock.—The Stock Pot In every household where meat is used daily a stock pot should be in general use. There should Stock Pot for large household be sufficient material left from the daily meals to furnish stock for ordinary family soups without having to buy fresh meat or use expensive meat extracts for the purpose. A regular stock pot is made of tinned copper, tinned iron, hluminium, or steel. In large estab- lishments, where much cooking is done, it is better to have one that is fitted with a tap, which will permit of the liquid being drawn off when required, without disturbing the fat, which rises on the top. For small households an ordinary tinned or sill- cated saucepan will serve the purpose very well. An earthenware casserole or marmite is also to be recommended for small quantities of stock; it is very clean, and it is easy to keep the contents simmering at a gentle rate. The saucepan chosen must be large enough to hold the bones, meat, water, &c., used for making the stock, and leave 4 inches over at the top to allow for skimming. All scraps of meat, cooked or uncooked, bones and pieces of vegetable, poultry giblets and rinds of bacon, should be kept for making stock. Remains of gravy, too, should be saved for the same purpose, although no thickened sauce must be added, as it would cloud the stock. For the same reason such things as rice, potatoes, bread, must not be added, as they would thicken the stock. Look over the scraps carefully and see that they are all clean and free from taint. Nothing must be added unless it is quite clean and contains some goodness. Scraps of game that are high must also be avoided. The more variety of meat and vege- tables used, the better will be the flavour. Break up the bones, remove any fat from the meat, and cut both meat and vegetables in small pieces. When all is ready, put the stock material into the stock pot and cover it well with cold water. To be exact, there should be double the weight of water there is of meat, &c. Instead of plain water, the liquid in which meat or vegetables have been boiled may be used, only avoid using the water in which cabbages or potatoes have been cooked, or that to which soda has been added, or any liquid that is too much salted. A few washed and crushed egg-shells put into the stock will help to clear it. Put the lid on the saucepan and bring the con- tents slowly to the boil. Then keep the stock slowly simmering, taking off the lid from time to time to remove the scum. Four to five hours, or at most one whole day, will be sufficient to cook it, and at the end of that time it must be strained off through a hair sieve, or through a cloth stretched over a colander, into a large basin, and then set aside to cool. Stock must never be allowed to remain in the saucepan overnight, neither must it be allowed toCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 40 stand for hours at the side of the fire without cooking. The stock pot itself must be thoroughly washed out and put to air before it is used again. Next day the bones and any pieces of meat of value should be put back into the stock pot along with any fresh scraps there may be ; but not the vegetables if they have boiled for long, as they are valueless. In fact it is a mistake to put too many vegetables into a stock of this kind, as they prevent it keeping so well. Neither should little bits of things be put into the stock pot at odd times; what is not ready when the stock is started should be kept for the next day’s use. The previous day’s stock may also be returned to the stock pot if it is poor in quality and not required for the day’s use. How to Keep Stock If stock has to be kept for some time, or if the weather is very hot, it is really better to make it without vegetables, as it will not turn sour so readily. The flavouring can easily be added when it is about to be used. It should be boiled up every day in summer and every second day in winter, and then poured into clean basins. In households where there are large quantities of stock, the surplus should be made into glaze (see below). To Remove Fat from Stock Have in readiness two iron spoons, a basin of boiling water, a cloth, and a small basin or dish into which to put the fat. Heat the spoons in the boiling water, and use first one and then the other to skim ofl the fat. The spoons, being hot, melt the fat, and make it much more easily removed. When as much as possible has been taken ofl with the spoons, dip the end of the cloth into boiling water and wipe the stock over with this until free from grease. If the stock is not a jelly, pieces of kitchen paper must be passed over the top of it instead of the cloth. Do not remove fat from stock or soup until it is about to be used, as it keeps out the air and helps to preserve it. If the fat is good it may be used for frying pur- poses. Glaze Home-made glaze can be very easily procured in houses where there are large quantities of stock and bones at disposal. Any good brown stock can be used, and the second boiling from meat and bones is almost preferable to freshly-made stock, as it is more gelatinous. Free the stock from all grease, and put at least one quart into a saucepan. Allow this to boil quickly with the lid ofl the pan until reduced to about half a pint, skimming when neces- sary. Then strain through a very fine strainer or piece of muslin, and reduce again in a smaller sauce- pan until the glaze becomes as thick as treacle, when it will be ready for use. If not required at once it should be poured into a jar, and if a little melted lard is poured over the surface the glaze will keep good for weeks. A little glaze is useful at all times for enriching soups and sauces as well as for coating meat, &e., and, diluted with water, it will again take the form of stock. To use glaze, see p. 2JO. To Sieve or Tammy Soup Always when sieving have two spoons in readi- ness, one to do the rubbing through, and the other for scraping the sieve underneath. For most soups Sieving Soup wooden spoons are to be preferred to iron ones, or a wooden presser may be used instead of one of the spoons. Stand the sieve with the narrow rim uppermost and within a basin. The basin must not be so small that the sieve covers the rim. Pour a small quantity of the mixture on the top of the sieve and commence the running through. Put two fingers on the bowl of the spoon and rub through with the edge. Moisten the mix- ture with some of the liquid part of the soup when necessary, and Wooden Presser from time to time remove what adheres to the lower side of the sieve with the second spoon. As little as possible should be left on the top of the sieve when finished, and upon the patient rubbing through the success of the soup will depend. In the case of a meat puree it will simplify the work if the meat is pounded in a mortar with a little of the liquid before sieving. Sieves should be well washed and brushed after use, and dried in a warm or airy place, but not too near a fire. If a particularly smooth soup is desired, it should be tammied instead of sieved, in the same way as a sauce is tammied. To Add Eggs and Cream to Soup When a whole egg is added to soup to enrich it, it should be beaten up with a fork, put into the soup tureen, and the hot soup poured gradually on to it, stirring all the time. If the yolk of the egg only is used, it should be beaten up with a table-spoonful of milk or water and added in the same way. When yolks of egg and cream are used for thicken- ing (a liaison), they should be beaten together, then the saucepan containing the soup should be drawn to the side of the fire where it will no longer boil, and the eggs and cream strained into it, stirring all the time. Then reheat very carefully, not ceas- ing to stir, and do not boil again or the soup will curdle.4l STOCKS AND SOUPS To Serve Soup Soup must always be served very hot; this is very important, and both soup tureen and plates should be carefully heated beforehand. No grease should be left floating on the top of the soup, but should be removed or absorbed in the making. Soup should be sufficiently seasoned before it is sent to table, but not overmuch so. A thick soup or pur6e must not be too thick, it is not meant to be like porridge, but of a nice creamy consistency. When croutons of toast or fried bread are served with soup, they should be placed on a small dish or plate with a dessert paper under them. For directions for making these see Recipe 1301. Grated cheese, when served as an accompani- ment, should also be placed on a small dish with a paper under it. The same with powdered mint, which generally accompanies pea soup; it must always be served separately as many people object to it. PART II PLAIN SOUPS FOR FAMILY USE (1) MEAT SOUPS AND BROTHS Note.—Some of the following meat soups may appear somewhat expensive for ordinary family use, but it must be remembered that the meat used is very often served as a separate dish, or else the soup is so substantial in itself that it might almost take the place of a meat dish. 1. Baked Soup 1 lb. lean beef. 2 qts. cold water. 1 teacupful split peas. $ teacupful rice. 2 tomatoes. 1 onion. 1 carrot. Salt, pepper. This soup is cooked in the oven instead of on the top of the stove, and it is a very tasty way of pre- paring it. Wash the peas, and if possible soak them overnight in a pint of the water. Next day, cut the meat in small pieces and put it into a large jar or saucepan with all the other ingredients—the soaked peas and the remainder of the water, the rice well washed, vegetables cut in pieces, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Cover closely and cook in a moderate oven until the meat and vege- tables are quite tender. Serve all together. If the soup pot is an earthenware one it may be served in the pot. Note.—This soup may be very much varied. Different kinds of meat may be used, and the peas may be omitted and other kinds of vegetables added according to season. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Quantity, 3 pints. 2. Beef Soup with Marrow Balls 2 lbs. shin of beef. About 2 qts. cold water. 2 onions. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. Choose a piece of meat with the marrow bone. Take out the marrow and reserve if for making the 3 or 4 sticks of celery. 2 or 3 leeks. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Marrow balls. balls. Wipe the meat and place it in a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring it slowly to the boil, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, the bunch of herbs (see p. 36), and the vegetables carefully prepared and cut in rough pieces. Put the lid on the sauce- pan and simmer slowly until the meat is tender. When ready, strain the soup into a clean saucepan, remove all grease from the top, and add more seasoning if necessary. Make the marrow balls according to Recipe 1292, drop them into the boil- ing soup and boil them 6 minutes. Then serve. Notes.—The meat and vegetables may be served as a separate course, or used again to make a second stock. Small suet dumplings (Recipe 1297) may be served in the soup instead of the marrow balls. Time to cook, 2\ to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 3. Bone Soup (Bouillon d’Os) 3 lbs. uncooked bones. 2 qts. cold water. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. 2 sticks of celery. A bunch of herbs. Salt to taste. 2 oz. dripping. 10 black peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 table-sp. ketchup. 1 table-sp. flour or crushed tapioca. This soup must be commenced the day before it is wanted. Wash the bones quickly, dry and break or saw them in small pieces. Melt the dripping in a large saucepan,‘and when smoking hot put in the bones and vegetables prepared and cut in pieces. Fry them a good brown colour, turning them over and over with an iron spoon. When ready pour in the cold water and bring to the boil. Skim well and add salt and other seasonings. Allow the soup to simmer slowly from 5 to 6 hours, skimming when necessary, and if it should boil down too much, add more water. When ready, strain through a fine sieve and let it stand until cold. Next day remove all fat carefully from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan. Mix the flour with the ketchup, adding a little stock if necessary to make it smooth. Add them to the soup when hot and stir until boiling. Cook a few minutes longer, skim again and add more seasoning if re- quired. If crushed tapioca is used for thickening, it must be sprinkled into the soup when boiling and cooked until it is quite transparent. Note.—A garnish of vegetables cut in fancyshapes, or of macaroni or Italian paste, may be served in this soup if desired. If one of the two latter is used, a little grated Parmesan cheese should be handed separately. Time to cook, 6 to 7 hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 4. Brown Soup 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 qt. good brown stock. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. I glass sherry or mar- sala. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan and allow it to brown slightly. Add the flour and brown it also, pour in the stock gradually and stir until boiling.42 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Add the seasonings, and let the soup simmer for 10 minutes, removing any scum that may rise. Add the wine last and serve with crohtons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. Note.—A garnish of vegetables may be added to the soup if wished. If the stock used is not well flavoured, add small pieces of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery to the soup, cook it for 1 hour at least, and strain before serving. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost, Is. Quan- tity, 2 pints. 5. Broth with Potato Dumplings 3 pts. good broth or brown stock. 1 head of celery. 1 table-sp. chopped par- sley. Seasoning. Potato dumplings. Any stock or broth may be used for this soup, but it must be well flavoured and of a good colour. Remove from it all grease, strain it into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Season to taste and add the celery, well washed and cut in fine shreds. Boil 10 to 15 minutes, or until the celery is nearly tender. Then add the potato dumplings (see Recipe 1293), cook them 5 minutes, sprinkle in the parsley, and the soup will be ready for serving. Time to cook, about \ hour. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 3 pints. 6. Cock-a-Leekie 1 old fowl. 6 or 8 leeks. 1 table-sp. chopped par- sley. 2 qts. of cold water. 2 or 3 table-sps. whole rice. White pepper and salt. An old cock is frequently used for this soup, hence the name. Draw and truss it as for boiling. Put it into a large saucepan with two quarts of cold water, or enough to cover it. Add the giblets care- fully washed and a good teaspoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil and skim well. Then simmer slowly for 2 hours, skimming when necessary. Cut the roots and most of the green off the leeks. Re- move the outside skin and split them in halves lengthways. Wash and rinse them thoroughly, cut them in thin slices with a sharp knife and wash again. Drain in a sieve or colander and add them to the soup along with the rice well washed. Simmer all together for 2 hours longer, or until the bird is tender. To serve, lift out the fowl and giblets from the soup, remove all grease from the top, and add the parsley and necessary seasoning. The fowl may either be served whole with parsley or egg sauce poured over it (see Boiled Fowl, Recipe 1127), or half of it may be cut in small pieces and served in the soup and the other half reserved for some other dish. Notes.—Any old game bird may be used for making this soup instead of the fowl. A few stewed prunes or French plums are sometimes served in this soup. The stones must of course be removed. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Cost uncertain. Quantity, 3 pints. 7. Cow-heel Soup (Soupe de Pled de Bceuf) 1 cow-heel. 2 qts. meat boilings. 2 onions. 1 carrot. A small bunch of herbs. Some ham trimmings. Rind of 1 orange. Juice of J orange. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. dripping or butter. Seasoning. Wash and scrape the cow-heel well, dividing it into four or five pieces. Then blanch it, unless this has already been done by the butcher—put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil and pour the water away, rinsing the heel again with cold water. When thoroughly clean, put it into a large saucepan with the meat boilings and a little stock, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim if necessary, add the vegetables cut in pieces, the bunch of herbs, ham trimmings or a small ham bone, and the rind of the orange peeled off very thinly. Simmer all slowly until the flesh slips away easily from the bone of the cow- heel and add more water if the quantity should reduce too much. When ready strain, remove all fat from the top of the stock, and cut the flesh in small pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and let it brown slightly, mix in the flour and brown that also, then add the stock and stir until boiling. Skim and add more seasoning if necessary, also the pieces of flesh and orange juice. Note,—A glass of port wine and a few forcemeat balls added to the soup will make it like mock-turtle. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 8. Croute-au-Pot This is Pot-au-Feu (Recipe 22) served with toasted bread and a garnish of vegetables. Cut a round roll in slices and toast the slices or bake them in the oven until a golden brown colour on both sides. Place those in the soup tureen and moisten them with a little of the hot soup or bouillon. Then fill up with more boiling hot bouillon and add some of the vegetables from the pot-au-feu, cut in small pieces. A little chopped parsley or chopped chives may also be added. Sometimes the bread is dipped in the bouillon before being toasted in the oven. 9. Giblet Soup (Potage aux Abatis) 2 or 3 sets of giblets. 3 pts. second stock 1 carrot. 1 small turnip. 1 onion stuck with 4 cloves. A small ham bone. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat 1 oz. flour. 1- glass sherry or mar- sala. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. The giblets of a fowl include as a rule the head, neck, liver, heart, gizzard, feet, and sometimes the pinions as well. Those of a duck, goose, turkey, or chicken may be used for making this soup. If turkey giblets are selected, a larger proportion of stock must be allowed. Wash and scald the giblets well, removing any ends of feathers. Skin the feet, remove the beak and split the heads in two, remove the inside skin from the gizzards, cut all in small pieces and dry them well. Now melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan, lay in the prepared giblets and fry them until nicely browned. PourSTOCKS AND SOUPS 43 in 1 gill of stock and the wine and reduce this until it becomes a glaze. Then add the rest of the stock, the vegetables cut in pieces, ham bone, and the bunch of herbs. Stir well for a few minutes and then simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, skimming when necessary. Strain through a hair sieve and stand until cold. Next day remove all fat from the top of the stock and put it into a saucepan to heat. Brown the flour and mix it to a smooth paste with a little of the stock, add this to the remainder of the stock in the pan and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, and more seasoning if necessary. If not perfectly smooth, sieve again, and tammy before serving. A garnish of cooked vegetables cut in fancy shapes may be added if liked. Notes.—If no stock is available for making the soup, water may be used and £ lb. of lean juicy beef cut up and used along with the giblets. The wine may be omitted. Time to cook, 4 hours. Cost uncertain. Quan- tity, 2 pints. 10. Gravy Soup 1 lb. lean juicy beef. 1 07.. butter or dripping. 2 or 3 cloves. 6 peppercorns. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. salt. 21 pts. cold water. (Potage au Jus) A small piece each of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 dessert-sp. crushed tapioca. A piece of beef from the round or shoulder is suitable for making this soup ; it ought to be freshly cut and juicy. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and, shred it down with a sharp knife, keeping back all fat and skin. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, but do not let it brown. Put in the meat with the seasonings and the vegetables cut in small pieces. Pound these with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the juice is well extracted from the meat. Then add the water gradually and simmer gently 1£ to 2 hours, stirring occasionally and skimming when required. When sufficiently cooked, strain through a sieve and remove any grease from the top of the stock. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it; bring to the boil and sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring all the time. Cook until this is quite transparent, and add the ketchup and other seasoning to taste. Some of the vegetables may be cut in small fancy shapes and added to the soup. Note.—If the liquid reduces much in the cooking, more water must be added. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 11. Hare Soup, Economical (Potage de Lievre) Remains of cooked hare. Second stock. A small quantity of car- rot, turnip, and onion. A little red currant jelly. A bunch of herbs. Rind of £ lemon. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 oz. flour. Seasoning. Pick the best part of the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar with a little stock and rub it through a wire sieve. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them. Bring to the boil and skim well. Then add the flavouring vegetables, lemon rind, and spices, and simmer all together about 2 hours. Strain through a fine sieve and remove any fat from the top. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan and let it brown, sprinkle in the flour and brown that also. Then pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Add the pur£e of hare, the red currant jelly, and flavourings, and cook a few minutes longer. See that the soup is nicely seasoned and serve with toast cut in dice. Notes.—Forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288) served in the soup would be an improvement. A little port vine may be added if wished. 12. Hotch Potch 2 qts. mutton broth. Equal quantities of young carrots, tur- nips, and spring onions. 1 lettuce. 1 cauliflower. 1 pt. green peas. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1£ lbs. lamb or small mutton chops. Pepper and salt. Put the mutton broth, or water in which some mutton has been boiled, into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil. Clean some young carrots, turnips, and onions; cut the carrots and turnips into very small neat pieces, and the onions into thin slices. About one teacupful of each will be required. Put them into the saucepan with the broth, and boil quickly for half an hour. Trim the chops neatly, removing most of the fat; add them next with the flower of the cauliflower, broken into small pieces, the green peas, and the lettuce, finely shred. Simmer the soup slowly for half an hour longer, or until meat and vegetables are tender. Add the parsley last, and season with pepper and salt. Notes.—The success of this soup depends on having the vegetables young and fresh. The kind of vegetable used may be varied according to what is obtainable. Time to cook, about If hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. 13, Kidney Soup (Potage de Rognons) 1 ox kidney. 2 qts. well-flavoured stock. 1 onion. 1 £ oz. butter or dripping. A bunch of herbs. Salt to taste. 6 cloves. 20 black peppercorns. A blade of mace. I tea-sp. celery seed. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. ketchup. Wash the kidney, dry it well, and cut it in small pieces, removing all the fat. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the pieces of kidney and onion cut in thin slices. Fry these in the fat until nicely browned. Pour in the stock and stir well for a few minutes. Add a little salt, and when boiling skim thoroughly. Then put in the herbs and the spices and celery seed tied in a small piece of muslin, and simmer all slowly from 3 to 4 horns, or until the kidney is tender. Care must be taken to skim the soup when necessary. When ready, strain through a fine wire or hair sieve, and if possible let it stand until cold. Remove all fat from the top of the soup and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Rinse the pieces of kidney with a little hot water and add them to it. Then mix the flour to a smooth paste with the ketchupCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 44 and a little water or stock, add it to the soup and stir until boiling. Cook a few minutes longer, add more seasoning if necessary, and a squeeze of orange or lemon juice just before serving. A little sherry may also be added if wished. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Notes.—If the stock used is not well flavoured, some pieces of vegetable should be cooked in the soup and then strained out when the soup is sieved. Sheep’s kidneys may be used for making this soup, from 6 to 8 would be required for the above amount, or 5 or 6 kidneys and a small piece of beef. They will take a shorter time to cook. Some- times the pieces of kidney are pounded and sieved, and added to the soup in the form of a puree instead of in small pieces. In this case 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of rice or oatmeal may be cooked in the soup and sieved along with the kidney. Any good flavouring sauce may be used instead of ketchup, but care must be taken not to add too much. A garnish of vegetables cut in fancy shapes is sometimes added to this soup. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. 14. Kidney and Tomato Soup (Potage de Rognons aux Tomates) I ox kidney. II oz. dripping. 1 onion. 3 pts. water. 1 tin of tomatoes. Salt to taste. A bunch of herbs. 4 cloves. 12 black peppercorns. £ tea-sp. celery seed. A blade of mace. 1 table-sp. crushed tap- ioca. A pinch of sugar. Prepare the kidney as in last recipe and fry it in the dripping with the onion cut in small pieces. When well browned, pour in the water and tomatoes and stir well for a few minutes. When boiling add the herbs and other seasoning and cook the soup slowly from 3 to 4 hours, or until the kidney is quite tender. Any scum or grease which rises on the surface must be carefully removed. When ready strain the soup through a fine sieve into a basin, remove the pieces of kidney and rub the tomato pulp through, keeping back the skins and seeds. Remove any grease from the top of the soup and return it to a clean saucepan to reheat. Rinse the pieces of kidney and add them to it along with any more seasoning that is necessary. When boil- ing sprinkle in the crushed tapioca and cook a few minutes longer, or until the tapioca turns quite clear. Serve the soup with croutons of fried or toasted bread, or with a dish of well-boiled rice handed separately. Time to cook, about 4 hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. 15. Mock £ lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. \ lb. gravy beef. 1 oz. beef dripping. 1 oz. flour. 1 qt. water. 1 or 2 onions. 1 cupful each of carrot and turnip. Hare Soup 1 teasp. celery seed. 12 black peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 tablesp. rice. 1 glass port wine. I dessert-sp. red currant jelly. Porcemeat balls. Cut the meat and liver in small pieces and roll them in the flour. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the meat and liver with the onion cut small. and brown these well over the fire. Then add the water gradually and bring to the boil. Simmer for a few minutes, skimming if necessary, and add the carrot and turnip cut small, the rice well washed and spices tied in muslin. Let the whole boil slowly for 2 hours and strain through a wire sieve. If time permits, the vegetables and some of the liver should be rubbed through the sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, bring to the boil again and add necessary seasoning, port wane and red- currant jelly. Put some forcemeat balls (see Recipe 1288) in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Time to cook, 24 hours. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, 3 pints. 16. Mock Kidney Soup £ lb. sheep’s or calf's liver. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 1 potato. I turnip. Seasoning. 1 qt. water or meat boilings. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. beef dripping. 1 table-sp. ketchup. Wash the liver and let it lie in salt and water for half an hour. Then lift it out, dry it in a cloth and cut half of it in small pieces. Put the flour on a plate and toss the small pieces of liver in it, coating them well. Melt the dripping in a sauce- pan, when smoking hot put in the floured liver and stir it over the fire until it is nicely browned. If any flour is left on the plate, sprirdde it over the liver and brown that also. Pour in the water or meat boilings and stir well for a few minutes. Add a little salt, and when boiling skim thoroughly. Prepare the vegetables, cut them in small pieces suitable for serving in the soup (there should be about 1 teacupful of each), and add them now with the other half of the liver in one piece. Simmer slowly from 2 to 2| horns until the vegetables are quite tender. Then lift out the larger piece of liver, grate it, and return to the soup, adding also the ketchup, pepper, and more salt if necessary. Simmer a few minutes longer and serve. Note.—If the soup becomes too thick while cook- ing, more water or meat boilings must be added. Time to cook, hours. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. Quantity, 3 pints. 17, Mulligatawny Soup (Potage a la Mulligatawny) 1 \ oz. flour or rice flour. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. curry paste. \ pt. hot milk. A small bunch of herbs. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. 14 lbs. lean mutton or 1 small rabbit, ljoz. butter or dripping. 3 pts. cold water. 2 oz. ham trimmings. 2 onions. 1 sour apple or a stick of rhubarb. A small piece of carrot and turnip. Wipe the meat and cut it in small pieces away from the bone. If using a rabbit, wash it well, and let it soak for half an hour in cold water with a little salt. Lift it out, dry, and cut into small joints. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, add to it the vegetables and apple cut in small pieces, and cook them for a few minutes over the fire. Add the curry powder, flour, and chutney, and mix well; then the meat, water, herbs, pepper and salt. Mix well for a few minutes and thenSTOCKS AND SOUPS 45 simmer slowly from 1J to 2 hours, skimming when necessary. When ready, strain through a fine wire or hair sieve into a basin. Lift out the best pieces of the meat for serving in the soup and rub as much as possible of the remainder through the sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it with the meat. Season carefully, add a little lemon juice if necessary and the hot milk just before serving. Serve the soup in .a hot soup tureen and serve plainly boiled rice separately (see Recipe 1586). A lemon cut in quarters may also be handed separately. Notes.—Almost any kind of meat may be used for the making of this soup, or if good stock is available, trimmings of meat and bones will serve the purpose. The amount of curry powder and paste used will depend somewhat on the kind used and also upon individual taste. The addition of a little cream, if it can be spared, is a great improvement to this soup. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. to Is. 8d. Quantity, 3 pints. skim well. Add the vegetables (one large cupful of each kind), the bunch of herbs and spices, and simmer all gently for 4 or 5 hours. Then strain off the stock into a basin and let it stand until cold. Next day remove all fat from the top of the stock. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, add the flour and brown them together, then pour on the stock gradually and stir until boiling. A small piece of glaze may be added if the soup is not a good colour. Put in salt to taste and add a squeeze of orange or lemon juice. A little wine, sherry, or marsala may also be added if wished. The soup may then be served as it is or with a garnish of vegetables cut in small pieces or fancy shapes. A few small pieces of the meat may also be added. Note.—The bones and meat should be put on again to make a second stock. Time to cook, 5 hours first day, \ hour second day. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 4 or 5 pints. 20. Ox-tall Soup (Potage de Queue de Boeuf) 18. Mutton Broth (Bouillon de Mouton) H lbs. neck or knuckle of mutton. 3 pts. cold water. 1 table-sp. rice or barley. 2 or 3 leeks or 1 onion. A small piece each of car- rot, turnip,andcelery. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Cut it in small pieces away from the bone and remove all superfluous fat. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in small neat pieces, allowing about 1 tea- cupful of each. Put the meat, bones, and water into a saucepan with a little salt, put on the lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim well, add the rice well washed and the prepared vegetables. (If barley is used it should be soaked overnight and blanched before being added to the soup.) Simmer the soup from 2 to 3 hours, or until the vege- tables are well cooked. Remove the bones and any grease from the top of the broth, add the parsley, pepper, and more salt if necessary, before serving. Notes.—If preferred, the meat may be kept whole, and served as a separate course, with parsley or caper sauce poured over it. For invalid mutton broth see Invalid Cookery. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. Gd. Quantity, 2\ pints. 19. Ox-cheek Soup 1 ox cheek. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 4 qts. cold water. A bunch of herbs. A ham bone. 20 black peppercorns. Carrot, turnip, and A blade of mace, celery. 3 or 4 cloves. 2 or 3 onions. Salt. A squeeze of orange or 2 oz. flour. lemon juice. Wash the cheek in several waters, let it soak in cold water with a little salt and wash again. Then cut up the meat in small pieces and break the bones. Put bones and meat into a large saucepan- with the cold water and an odd ham bone or some trimmings of ham. Bring slowly to the boil and * 1 ox tail. 2 qts. second stock. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 or 2 sticks of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 24 black peppercorns. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. dripping. 2 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. ketchup. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 table-sp. sherry or marsala. Seasoning to taste. Cut the tail in small joints, making two pieces out of the larger joints. Remove all superfluous fat, and wash the pieces well. Put them into a large saucepan with cold water to cover, bring to the boil and pom? ofl the water. (This blanches the pieces of tail and avoids an unnecessary amount of scum rising on the soup.) Rinse out the saucepan and rinse and dry the pieces of tail. Put half the flour on a plate and coat the pieces of tail with it. Melt half the dripping in a saucepan, and when smoking hot, put in the pieces of tail and brown them well on all sides. Add the stock and a little salt, bring to the boil, and skim well. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in rough pieces, not too small, and when the soup has ceased to throw up any scum, add them with the herbs and peppercorns, and let all simmer slowly about 4 hours until the pieces of tail are tender without falling to pieces. Then strain through a fine sieve into a basin and if possible stand until cold. Remove ail fat from the top of the soup and rinse some of the best pieces of tail for serving in it. Then melt the remainder of the dripping in a saucepan and let it brown. Add the remainder of the flour and brown that also. Next pour in the strained soup and stir over the fire until boiling. Put in the pieces of tail, the ketchup, and any other season- ing required and simmer a few minutes longer. Add the wine, and if liked some fancy shaped pieces of cooked carrot and turnip. Notes.—The wine may be omitted. The pieces of tail not used in the soup may be heated in some good sauce, such as tomato, curry, or brown sauce, and served at another meal. Time to cook, 41- hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 3 pints.46 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD good served cold with vinaigrette sauce. The 2s. Quantity, 3 pints. 21. Peasants’ Soup (Soupe a la Paysanne) 4 pt. lentils. 2 qts. cold water. 2 pigs’ feet (salted). 1 onion. 1 carrot. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. Wash the lentils and let them soak overnight in 1 quart of cold water. Wash and blanch the feet, that is, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring to the boil, pom- the water away, and rinse the feet. Now return the feet to the saucepan with 1 quart fresh cold water and add the lentils along with the water in which they were soaked. Bring to the boil and add the vegetables, all prepared, and cut in small pieces. Allow the soup to simmer slowly until the feet and lentils are quite tender, about 2 hours. Then lift out the feet and cut the meat from them into small neat pieces. Rub the rest of the soup through a sieve or colander, return it to the saucepan to reheat, season to taste, and add the pieces of meat. Notes.—If preferred the soup may be served without sieving. Peas may be used instead of lentils, but they will require rather longer time to cook. Time to cook, 2\ horns. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 3 pints. 22. Pot-au-Feu 4 lbs. shin or round of beef. 4 qts. cold water. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. 1 parsnip. 3 or 4 sticks of celery. 3 or 4 leeks. A bunch of herbs. 1 small cabbage. 20 black peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 small blade of maco. Crushed tapioca or sago. Salt to taste. This is the French national soup, and it is very often made in a large earthenware pot, sold specially for the purpose. The liquid part is called “ le bouillon,” and the meat from which it is made “ le bouilli.” Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and tie it in shape with a piece of tape. Put it into a large pot with the water, and bring to the boil. Add a good tea-spoonful of salt and skim well. Then allow the meat to simmer very gently for 2 hours. Mean- while have all the vegetables carefully cleaned and prepared, and, with the exception of the cabbage, cut them in moderate-sized pieces and tie them up in a piece of muslin. 'When the meat has simmered the required time, add the vegetables to the pot with a bunch of herbs and the spices, also tied in a piece of muslin. Simmer gently for 2 hours longer. Then add the cabbage, cleaned and trimmed, cut in two and tied together with a piece of tape. Cook again until the cabbage is tender, from £ to J of an hour. Lift out the meat on to a hot dish, remove the tape, garnish with the vegetables, and pour some of the bouillon round as gravy. Or the vegetables may be put in a separate dish and some good tomato sauce served with the meat. Remove all grease from the top of the liquid in the pot, sprinkle in the crushed tapioca or sago, allowing 1 oz. to each quart, and cook until quite transparent. Season to taste and serve in a hot soup tureen. See also La Petite Marmite (Recipe 143) and Croftte-au-Pot (Recipe 8). Notes.—The meat from the pot-au-feu is very carcase of a fowl boiled along with the meat will very much improve the flavour of the soup. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Probable cost, 3*. Quantity, 6 or 6 pints. 23. Rabbit Soup, Brown (Potage de Lapin) 1 small rabbit. 2 oz. fat bacon. A piece of carrot, tur- nip, and celery. 2 onions. 3 pts. meat boilings. A small bunch of herbs. 1 table-sp. crushed tapioca. 1 dessert-sp. Worcester sauce. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. Prepare the rabbit as in Recipe 1192 and dry the pieces very well. Cut the fat bacon in small pieces, melt it in a saucepan and put in the pieces of rabbit and vegetables cut in thin slices. Fry these over the fire until they are nicely browned and add the meat boilings slowly. When boiling, skim well, add the bunch of herbs and simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, or until all the goodness is drawn from the rabbit. Then strain through a fine sieve into a basin and remove all grease from the top of the stock. Reheat this in the saucepan and add to it some of the meat from the rabbit, either pounded and sieved or cut in small pieces. When boiling sprinkle in the tapioca and cook it until quite trans- parent. Add other seasonings to taste and serve with toast cut in dice. Notes.—Small forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288) may also be served in this soup. Remains of cooked rabbit may be used; they will not require so long to cook as a fresh rabbit. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Quantity, 2£ pints. 24. Scotch Broth (Potage Ecossais) 2 lbs. runner or flank of beef. 2 qts. cold water. 1 tea-cupful carrot cut in dice. 1 tea-cupful turnip cut in dice. 3 leeks. 1 table-sp. barley. 2 table-sp. dried green peas. 1 carrot grated. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Wipe the meat, tie it together if necessary with a piece of tape, and put it into a saucepan with the cold water (there should be enough to cover it). Add to it the peas, which have been well washed and soaked overnight in cold water, also the barley previously soaked and blanched in cold water. Bring these to the boil, add a little salt and skim well. Have the carrot and turnip cut in dice, and the leeks well washed and cut in thin slices. Add these next, and simmer slowly for 2\ hours, skimming when necessary. Twenty minutes before serving, add the other carrot grated, which helps to thicken the soup; and 5 minutes before serving, the chopped parsley. Season to taste and serve the meat separately with a little of the broth strained round it. Notes.—'Whole rice may be used instead of barley, and fresh green peas instead of the dried. If the soup reduces very much while cooking, more water must be added. Time to cook, 3 hours. Probable cost. Is. 8d. toSTOCKS AND SOUPS 47 25. Sheep’s Head Broth (Potage de Tete de Mouton) 1 sheep’s head. 3 qts. cold water. 2 table-sps. pearl barley. 2 carrots. 1 turnip (small). 2 or 3 leeks. 2 sticks of celery. 2 table-sp. dried green peas. 1 table-sp.chopped pars- ley. Pepper and salt. Wash the peas and the barley, and soak them in cold water overnight. Split the head, and remove the tongue and the brains. Wash the brains, and soak them in cold water with a little vinegar in it; these are not used in the broth. Wash the head thoroughly, removing the eyes and all the soft gristle from the nostrils ; wash also the tongue, and let these soak in cold water with a handful of salt in it for one hour or more. Then put the head and the tongue into a large saucepan with cold water to cover them and a little salt, bring to the boil, pour this water away, and rinse the head and the saucepan with clean water. Put the head back into the saucepan with the barley, the green peas, salt, and three quarts of cold water. Bring to the boil, and skim well. Add the turnip and one carrot cut into very small neat pieces, the leeks cut into thin slices, and the celery cut into shreds. Simmer slowly for three hours, add the other carrot grated, and cook for half an hour longer. Add the parsley at the last, pepper and more salt if necessary. Notes.—The head may be lifted out and served as a separate dish with parsley or brain sauce poured over it, the brains may be made into little cakes and used as a garnish. Or, as much as seems desirable of the meat may be cut in small pieces and served in the soup. The tongue should always be skinned before being used. Rice may be used instead of barley, and fresh green peas instead of the dried. The brains will also make a very nice savoury dish by themselves (see Savouries). Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Quantity, 4 to 5 pints. | lb. cooked tripe. 1 pt. tripe liquor. 1 pt. hot milk. 28. Tripe Soup 2 cooked onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 slice toast. Seasoning. To prepare the tripe and tripe liquor, see Recipe 884. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix until smooth. Pour in the tripe liquor and stir until boiling. Then add the tripe and onions finely chopped and simmer slowly 15 or 20 minutes. Add the milk and seasoning and boil again. Cut the toast in small pieces, put it in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over it. A beaten egg may also be added if liked. Note.—This soup is very light and nourishing for an invalid. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 27. Veal Broth (Bouillon de Veau) 3 lbs. knuckle or neck of veal. 2 qts. cold water. 2 table-sps. whole rice. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 1 or 2 onions. 1 egg- Seasoning. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and put it into a saucepaD with the cold water. Add a little salt and the rice well washed. Bring slowly to the boil, then skim thoroughly and add the celery carefully washed and the onions skinned, but left whole. Simmer slowly from 2£ to 3 hours, skimming when necessary. When ready take out the veal and serve it as a separate course, with parsley or celery sauce poured over it. Remove the onion and celery from the broth and beat it for a few minutes with a wire whisk to break up the rice. Season to taste. Beat the egg in a small basin and put it in the soup tureen. Pour the hot soup gradually on to it, stirring constantly, then serve. A little chopped parsley may be added if liked. Note.—Veal broth can also be made according to directions given for mutton broth. See Recipe 18. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Quantity, 3 pints. 28, Veal Soup with Macaroni 2 lbs. knuckle of veal. Cold water. A bunch of herbs. Flavouring vegetables. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 2 oz. macaroni. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, add the salt and bring the water slowly to the boil. Skim if necessary, add a small quantity of flavouring vege- tables and a small bunch of herbs, put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly for 2 hours. Then strain the stock into a basin and carefully remove all the grease. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, mix in the flour and cook a minute or two. Then pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Have ready the macaroni cooked as in Re- cipe 1606, and cut in small pieces (or one of the fancy Italian pastes may be used), sprinkle it into the boiling soup and allow to cook 10 minutes. Add the chopped parsley just before serving. Notes.—The meat may be served separately with a little parsley sauce poured over it; or it may be boiled again for a second stock. Time to cook, 2\ hours. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. (2) VEGETABLE SOUPS Note.—Many of the following soups are not strictly vegetarian, as meat stock is used to supply the liquid part of the soup, and beef dripping or ham fat to supply the fat required, but these can in most cases be substituted by using vegetable stock, water, or milk and water for the liquid, and some vegetable fat or oil for the fat. 29. Artichoke Soup (Potage a la Palestine) lb. Jerusalem arti- chokes. 1 oz. lean ham. stick of celery (white part) or J tea-sp. celery seed. 1 oz. butter. 1| pts. light stock. i pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Seasoning. The artichokes must be prepared with care, as they turn black very easily. First wash and brush them, then put them in a basin with clean cold water and peel them carefully, throwing them as they are ready into another basin of clean cold48 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD water, to which has been added a little vinegar od lemon juice, in order to preserve the colour. Melt the butter in a lined or enamelled saucepan, add the artichokes, drained and cut in thin slices, also the celery cut in shreds and the ham. Put the lid on the pan and cook over the fire about ten minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the con- tents burning. Then add the stock and seasoning and let all simmer gently from 1 to 1| hours until the artichokes are quite soft. Rub the soup through a fine wire sieve into a basin, pressing through as much as possible, then rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Put the flour into a basin, and add the milk gradually to it, mixing until quite smooth. Add this to the soup and stir over the fire until boiling. Continue boiling for a few minutes, and add more seasoning if necessary. Serve with fried or toasted crofltons of bread (see Recipe 1301). Note.—A better soup may be made by rubbing the ingredients through a hair instead of a wire sieve and adding 1 gill of cream and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs instead of the flour and milk. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, If pints. 30. Artichoke and Potato Soup Prepare in the same way as above, using equal quantities of artichokes and potatoes. This makes a very good combination. Artichokes and Spanish onions can be used in the same way. 31. Beetroot Soup (Soupe aux Betteraves) 2 cooked beetroots. 1 qt. meat boilings. 2 onions. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 1| oz. good dripping. 1 table-sp. flour. 4 pt. milk. Seasoning. Take two medium-sized cooked beetroots, peel them and cut them in thin slices. Wash the celery and cut it in shreds, and peel and slice the onion. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the sliced vegetables and cook them a few minutes over the fire without allowing them to brown. Then add the meat boilings (or any light stock will do), mix well, and allow all to simmer slowly at least 1 hour. When the vegetables are soft, rub as much as pos- sible through a wire sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Mix the flour smoothly with the milk, add them to the soup and stir constantly until boiling. Season to taste and serve with fried crofltons of bread. Note.—This soup may be made richer by adding 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream just before serving. A little finely shred lettuce or some chopped parsley may be used as a garnish. If the liquid reduces when cooking, more must be added. Time to cook, 1 £ hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2| pints. 32. Broccoli Soup 1 large broccoli. 2 onions. 1 large carrot. 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 1 tea-cupful rice. 4 pts. warm water or meat boilings. Use the flower and the best part of the stalk of the broccoli for making this soup. Wash and trim them carefully, then cut the stalk in thin slices and break the flower into small pieces. Peel the onions and cut them in small pieces also. Melt the drip- ping or fat in a saucepan, put in the prepared onion and broccoli along with the rice well washed, season with pepper and salt and cook over the fire for a few minutes without allowing the con- tents of the saucepan to brown. Then add the water or meat boilings, bring to the boil and allow the soup to simmer slowly for 1 hour at least. Grate the carrot, add it to the soup, and cook for half an hour longer. Heat the milk separately and add it to the soup at the last. Time to cook, 1 4 to 2 hours. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. Quantity, 3 to 4 pints. 33. Brown Vegetable Soup (Soupe aux Legumes) 1 cupful each of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. 3 pts. water or meat boilings. A bunch of herbs. 14 oz. butter or dripping. l| oz. flour. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Salt. Pepper. Prepare the vegetables, cut them in small pieces, and dry them in a cloth. Melt the fat in a saucepan, when very hot put in the prepared vegetables, and turn them over and over with a spoon until they are nicely browned. Then remove them from the saucepan, put in the flour and allow that to brown also. Add the water gradually and stir until boiling. Put back the vegetables with the herbs and seasonings and allow all to simmer slowly from 1| to 2 hours, or until the ingredients are quite soft and pulpy. Strain through a fine sieve, and rub through as much of the vegetable as possible. Return the soup to the saucepan to reheat. Season to taste and serve with fried crofltons. Notes.—The addition of 1 or 2 tomatoes is an improvement to this soup. They should be put in when the liquid comes to the boil and not fried with the other vegetables. A little cooked macaroni cut in rings or the fancy Italian paste may be used as a garnish. Time to cook, 2 to 2J hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 34. Broad Bean Soup (Soupe aux Feves) 1 pt. shelled beans. 2 pts. water or meat boilings. 1 onion. 1 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 1 cupful hot milk. White pepper and salt. A pinch of sugar. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Put the beans jnto boiling water slightly salted and cook them quickly 10 or 12 minutes. Drain off the water, rinse the beans in cold water to cool them, and then remove the tough outer skin, keep- ing only the green interior. Melt the fat in.a sauce- pan, put in the beans and onion cut in thin slices, sprinkle with pepper and salt and cook slowly for a few minutes with the lid on the pan. Add the water or meat boilings and mix well. Then cook until the beans are quite tender, from f to 1 hour according to the age of the vegetable. When ready, rub through a sieve, rinse out the saucepan, and return the puree to it to reheat. Add the hot milk, the parsley, sugar, and more seasoning if necessary. If too thick, a little more water or milk may be added. Serve with crofltons of toast. Time to cook, 1 to 14 hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, about 2 pints.STOCKS AND SOUPS 49 35. Cabbage Soup (Soupe aux Choux) A small ham bone. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. White pepper and salt. 1 slice of toasted bread. 1 cabbage, i pt. milk. 1 onion or 2 leeks. 1 qt. meat boilings. 1 table-sp. crushed tapioca. Wash the cabbage in cold water, and remove the coarse outside leaves and any hard pieces of stalk. Separate all the leaves, and let them soak in cold water for half an hour. Then drain off the water and shred the leaves finely. Put the shred cabbage into a saucepan of fast boiling water, slightly salted, boil quickly for 5 minutes and then drain. Slice the onion or leek finely, put it into a saucepan with the cabbage, ham bone, and meat boilings, and boil steadily for | hour. Then lift out the bone, sprinkle in the crushed tapioca, and add the milk and season- ing. Cook the soup ten minutes longer or until the tapioca turns quite clear, and add the parsley just before serving. Cut the toast into small square pieces, put them in the soup tureen, and porn’ the soup, boiling hot, over them. Note.—Rice may be used instead of tapioca, but it will require a longer time to cook. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 36. Cabbage and Potato Soup 1 cabbage. 1 oz. bacon fat. 4 or 5 potatoes. 3 pts. water. | pt. hot milk. 1 slice of toast French roll. Seasoning. or 1 Prepare and blanch the cabbage as in Recipe 35 and press the water well out of it. Melt the bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the cabbage and fry it a few minutes until it begins to take colour. Pour in the water, bring to the boil and add the potatoes peeled and cut in slices. Cook slowly for one hour or until the vegetables are well cooked, then beat with a wooden spoon or wire whisk until the potatoes are broken down and quite smooth. Add the milk and season to taste. Cut the toast in small pieces or break up the French roll, put it in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over it. Note.—Vegetable stock or meat boilings may be used instead of water and a ham bone and butter instead of the bacon fat. Time to cook, 1J horn?. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 1 qt. meat boilings. 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. ! pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. A pinch of nutmeg. 37. Carrot Soup (Soupe a la Crecy) 1 lb. red carrots. 1 onion stuck with 2 or 3 cloves. 1 stick of celery or . £ tea-sp. celery seed. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter or dripping. The carrots used for this soup should be very red; if the inside part is yellow, it should rather be kept for flavouring the stock pot. Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in thin slices, and let them soak in cold water a few minutes. Prepare the onion and cut it in thin slices, wash the celery and cut it in shreds and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, strain the water from the carrots and add them to it along with the prepared ham, onion, and celery. Put on the lid, and cook these over the fire for a few minutes, shaking the pan occasionally, and being careful that the contents do not burn. Add half the stock or water, the bunch of herbs and a little salt, and simmer slowly for one hour. Then add the rest of the stock, and cook one hour longer, or until the carrots are quite soft and pulpy. Rub the soup through a fine sieve, rinse out the saucepan, and return it to reheat, adding more meat boilings or a little water if the puree is too thick. Break the cornflour smoothly with the milk, add them to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add a pinch of nutmeg and other seasoning to taste and simmer 5 or 10 minutes longer. Serve with crofitons of toast, or a dish of well-boiled rice may be handed separately. Notes.—One dessert-spoon of fine tapioca may be used for thickening the soup instead of the corn- flour. A richer soup may be made by adding 1 gill of cream instead of the milk. Time to cook, 2 horns. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd Quantity, 2 pints. 38. Carrot and Lentil Soup | lb. lentils. 5 pts. cold water. 2 large red carrots. 2 onions. 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of sugar. 1 tea-cupful boiled rice. Wash the lentils and if time permits allow them to soak overnight in some of the water. Prepare the carrots and the onions and cut them both in small pieces. Melt the fat in a saucepan, put in the prepared carrot and onion and fry them a few minutes over the fire. Then add the lentils along with the water in which they were soaked and the remainder of the water. Bring to the boil, and add the bunch of herbs, pinch of sugar, and seasoning to taste. Simmer slowly until the lentils and vege- tables are quite soft, stirring occasionally. When ready, rub as much as possible of the soup through a sieve or colander and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Add the cooked rice just before serving, or a dish of plainly boiled rice may be served separately. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Probable cost, 5d. Quantity, 3 to 4 pints. 39. Cauliflower and Lettuce Soup (Potage de Choufleur et de Laitue) 1 large cauliflower. 1 small lettuce. 1 qt. meat boilings or second white stock. 1 oz. crushed tapioca. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. White pepper and salt, i pt. hot milk. Use the white part only of the cauliflower. Cut it in small pieces, wash in cold water, and scald in boiling water 5 or 10 minutes. Put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil, drain the cauli- flower and add it to it, and simmer slowly until tender, about half an hour. Then add the milk, the butter broken in small pieces, and the lettuce washed and cut in fine shreds. Sprinkle in the tapioca and cook all together for 10 minutes longer, stirring frequently. Season to taste and add the parsley at the last. Serve with toast cut in dice. D50 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Quantity, 2 pints. Quantity, 2 pints. Notes.—Broccoli may be used in the same way as cauliflower. Whole rice may be used for thicken- ing instead of tapioca, but it will require a longer time to cook. It must be well washed and put into the stock along with the cauliflower. Or it may be cooked separately and then added. Time to cook, J to 1 hour. Probable cost, 8d. to IOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 40. Celery Soup, Brown (Soupe au Ceteri) 1 large head of celery. 1 or 2 onions. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. A bunch of herbs. 2£ pts. second brown stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Prepare the onions and cut them in thin slices, wash and brush the celery and cut it in shreds. Take about 1 cupful of the whitest shreds of the celery, put them into a small saucepan with boiling water to cover them and a little salt, and simmer slowly over the fire until tender. Then take a larger saucepan, melt in it the butter or fat and allow it to brown, put in the prepared onion and remainder of celery and stir them in the fat until (hey are lightly brown. Add the flour and brown that also. Next pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Carefully remove any scum and add the bunch of herbs and other seasoning to taste. Allow the soup to simmer slowly at least one hour, skim- ming when necessary. Then rub as much as pos- sible through a fine wire sieve and return to the saucepan to reheat. Add the shreds of celery which were cooked apart along with their liquid, sprinkle in the chopped parsley and serve very hot. Time to cook, 1£ hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 41. Celery Soup, White (Soupe au Celeri) 1 large or 2 small heads of celery. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. A small blade of mace. 2 pts. light stock. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour or cornflour. 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. 1 yolk of egg. \ pt. milk. Seasoning. Wash and brush the celery, using the white part only, and cut it in shreds. Skin and slice the onion thinly and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the prepared vegetables, parsley stalks, mace, bay-leaf, and ham, and stir them over the fire for 5 minutes without allowing them to brown. Add the stock and simmer all these for one hour at least until the celery is quite tender. The time will depend on the age of the celery. When ready, rub the soup through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Put the rice flour or cornflour into a basin, and add the milk to it gradually, mixrng until quite smooth. Pour this into the soup and stir until boiling. Cook 10 minutes longer and season to taste. Put the yolk of egg in the soup tureen and pour the soup gradu- ally on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with crofitons of toast or fried bread, or with “puffed” rice crisped in the oven. Notes.—The yolk of egg may be omitted if a plainer soup is wanted. A richer soup may be made by using 2 yolks of eggs and a gill of cream for thickening purposes instead of the flour and milk. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 42. Celery and Barley Soup 1 large cupful sirred celery. | large cupful chopped onion. 1 qt. light stock. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. Robinson’s “ Patent ” barley. I pt. milk. 1 egg- Clean some celery carefully and cut the stalks across in fine shreds. Then chop the required quantity of onion, or one or two leeks may be used instead. Put a quart of stock or meat boilings into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Throw in the prepared vegetables and allow them to cook slowly until tender. Then mix the barley smoothly with the milk and add them to the soup. Stir until boiling, season to taste with white pepper and salt, and simmer about 10 minutes longer. Beat up the egg, put it in the soup tureen and pour the soup gradually on to it, stirring all the time. Notes.-—This is a particularly good soup, and one that is very easily made. The egg may be omitted and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream added. Time to cook, about £ hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 21- pints. 43. Chestnut Soup, Brown (Soupe aux Chataignes) 3 pts. brown stock. i 1 lb. chestnuts. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | Seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan and allow it to brown slightly. Add the flour and brown it also. Pour in half the stock gradually and stir until boiling, then add the remainder and let the soup simmer for 10 minutes, removing any scum that may rise. Remove both the shell and inner skin from the chestnuts (see Recipe 1625) and add them to the soup. Allow them to cook from 20 to 30 minutes until soft, but not reduced to a pulp. Season to taste. Note.—A little wine may be added to this soup if liked. Time to cook, 40 minutes. Probable cost. Is. Gd. Quantity, 2£ pints. 44. Chestnut Soup, White (Soupe aux Chataignes) J lb. chestnuts (weighed after peeling). 1 qt. light stock. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. A small blade of mace. 6 white peppercorns. 1 oz. butter. A pt. milk. Salt. Wash the chestnuts, cut a small piece off the end of each, throw them into hot water and boil for 10 minutes. Then skin them and put them into a lined saucepan, with the butter, celery, and seasonings. Cook for a few minutes over the fire without allowing the contents of the saucepan to brown, add the stock and simmer for one hour or more until the chestnuts are quite tender. Then, rub as much as possible through a fine wire sieve, using the liquid part of the soup to moisten the chestnuts. Return the soup to the saucepan to reheat and add the milk. Boil for 10 minutes longer, or until the puree is quite smooth. If too thick, more stock or milk must be added. Serve with small crofltons of fried or toasted bread. Note.—The addition of a little cream is an im- provement to this soup. Time to cook, 1J hour. Probable cost, 10d. to Is.STOCKS AND SOUPS 51 45. Cocoanut Soup (Soupe au Noix de Coco) 4 to 6 oz. cocoanut. 3 pts. light stock. 1 table-sp. rice flour. 1 gill cream or J pt. milk. 1 blade mace. Salt and cayenne. paste depends very much upon the kind used and also upon individual taste. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, 2 pints. Put most of the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Grate the cocoanut (fresh is best) and add it to the stock when boiling along with the mace and a little salt. Simmer slowly for i hour, add the rice flour, mixed to a smooth paste with the remainder of the stock and cook 10 minutes longer. Then rub the soup through a fine sieve and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Add the cream or milk and a pinch of cayenne, and serve with sippets of toast. If desiccated cocoanut is used it ought to be soaked for some time in a little of the stock, before being added to the hot stock. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 46. Corn Soup 1 tin sweet corn. 1 qt. meat boilings. \ pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. Salt. Pepper. Open a tin of sweet corn and put it into a sauce- pan with a quart of light stock or meat boilings. Bring to the boil and simmer slowly from 10 to 15 minutes. Then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it. Add the cornflour mixed smoothly with the milk and stir until boiling. Cook a few minutes longer and add the parsley, and seasoning to taste. Put the yolk of egg in the soup tureen and pour the soup gradually on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with sippets of toast or with puffed rice, lightly toasted. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, 2J pints. 47. Curry Vegetable 1 small carrot. 1 small turnip. 1 onion. 1 leek. 1 small cauliflower. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. whole rice. 1 cupful of milk. I apple. Soup (Soupe au Cari) 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. \ tea-sp. curry paste. A little chutney. 1 lump of sugar. 3 pts. stock or water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Clean and prepare the vegetables. Cut the carrot and turnip into dice, and chop the apple. Cut the leek and onion into thin slices, and break up the cauliflower into small pieces, keeping it separate in cold water until required. Melt the butter or drip- ping in a saucepan, put into it the prepared carrot, turnip, leek, onion, and apple, and stir these over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add the curry powder, curry paste, chutney, pepper, salt, and. the rice well washed. Mix thoroughly with an iron spoon, and then pour in the stock. Bring to the boil, and simmer from 1J to 2 hours, or until the vegetables are almost soft. Then add the cauliflower, and cook for half an hour longer. Add the milk, sugar, and lemon juice before serving. Serve plain boiled rice separately. Note.—The amount of curry powder and curry 48. Endive Soup (Soupe au Chieor6e) 2 or 3 heads of endive. I 1 qt. light stock. 1 egg. 1| or 2 oz. butter. 1 1 gill milk. Seasoning. Wash and trim the endives and shred them down finely. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and toss them over the fire a few minutes until thoroughly softened. Then moisten with some nicely-flavoured and light-coloured stock, bring to the boil, and simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Season to taste. Beat up the egg with the milk and add them to the soup at the last. Make all thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. Serve with crofitons of fried bread. Note.—A finer soup may be made by sieving the soup and thickening with yolks of egg and cream. Time to cook, J hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 49. Green Pea Soup, from Dried Peas (Soupe aux Pois Secs) i pt. dried green peas. 3 pts. meat boilings or water. 1 oz. dripping. A few parsley stalks. A handful of spinach. 1 lump of sugar. A sprig of mint or £ tea-sp. dried mint. 1 onion. £ pt. hot milk. Salt and pepper. Wash the peas, picking out any discoloured ones, and let them soak in the water or meat boilings overnight. Next day melt the dripping in a sauce- pan, add the spinach washed and picked, the onion chopped, mint and parsley. (If dried mint is used, it must be tied in a small piece of muslin.) Cook these for a few minutes and then add the peas along with the liquid in which they were soaked. Simmer slowly until the peas are quite tender from 2 to 3 hours, then rub as much as possible through a sieve or colander. Return the puree to a clean saucepan to reheat, adding the hot milk and seasoning. Serve with crofitons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. Notes.—The addition of a few cooked fresh peas or tinned peas is an improvement. The water in which a piece of ham or salt meat has been boiled (pro- vided it is not too salt) is excellent for making the soup. If it becomes too thick whilst cooking, more liquid must be added. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 50. Haricot Bean Soup (Soupe aux Haricots Secs) J lb. haricot beans. 3 pts. cold wateD or meat boilings. £ pt. milk. 1 or 2 onions. A few parsley stalks. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 2 oz. beef dripping or bacon fat. White pepper and salt. Put the beans into a basin and wash them well with cold water. Then pour over them the 3 pints of cold water or meat boilings, cover the basin, and let them soak overnight. Next day strain off the liquid and reserve it for making the soup. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the beans and vegetables cut in small pieces, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the contents to brown. Then add the liquid which was pouredCOOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 52 off the beans and stir well for a minute or two. Put the lid on the pan and allow the soup to simmer slowly until the beans are quite soft. It will require from 2 to 3 hours to do this. The soup must be stirred occasionally while it is cooking, and should it become too thick, more water or meat boilings must be added. When ready, rub the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a basin, have the saucepan rinsed out and return the soup to it. Add the milk, season to taste, and cook about 10 minutes longer. Serve with crofltons of fried or toasted bread. Note.—The liquid in which a piece of ham or salt meat has been cooked will do very well for making this soup, provided it is not too salt. Or, a small ham bone may be added to the soup when cooking, to give flavour. Time to cook, 2| to 3 hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 21 pints. 51. Haricot Bean and Tomato Soup Make in the same way as haricot bean soup (Recipe 50), with the addition of half a tin of tomatoes. This must be added to the soup along with the water. 52. Italian Soup (Soupe Italienne) | lb. haricot beans. 3 pts. water. 1 table-sp. salad oil or dripping. Salt, pepper. 2 oz. rice, macaroni, or tapioca. 2 cupfuls fresh vege- tables. Grated cheese. This is a “ maigre ” soup, and is very nourishing and good if nicely made. First wash the beans and soak them overnight in cold water. Nest day put them into a saucepan with the 3 pints of cold water, pepper, salt, and the salad oil or dripping. Bring to the boil and add the rice, tapioca, or macaroni, broken in smallfpieces. Simmer slowly at least 3 hours, adding more water if it becomes too thick. Any fresh vegetables that are in season may be added to the soup. These should be prepared and cut in small pieces before being added, and sufficient time must be allowed to cook them thoroughly. Serve grated cheese such as Gloucester or Cheddar with the soup, but on a separate dish. Time to cook, 3 hours. Probable cost, 7d. Quantity, 3 pints. 53. Leek Soup, 1 (Soupe aux Poireaux) 6 or 8 leeks. 3 pts. second stock or meat boilings. 2 table-sp. rice. | pt. hot milk. 1 slice of toast. Salt. Pepper. Remove the roots from the leeks, most of the green tops and the outermost skin. Split them in halves lengthways and wash them thoroughly in cold water. Then cut them in thin slices and throw them again into cold water. Rinse well and drain in a sieve or colander. The water in which a piece of veal or mutton, fowl or rabbit has been boiled is very suitable for making this soup. Put 3 pints of this water into a saucepan with the rice, well washed, and bring it to the boil. Skim if necessary, adding some salt. Then put in the prepared leeks, and simmer slowly for one hour, or until the leeks are tender. Add the milk and season to taste. A little chopped parsley may also be added if wished. Cut the toast in small pieces, put it in the soup tureen and pour the soup boiling hot on to it. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Quantity, about 3 pints. 54. Leek Soup, 2 (Soupe aux Poireaux) C or 8 leeks. 2 oz. butter. 1 qt. second white stock. J tea-sp. sugar. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. milk. 1 egg. 1 slice of toast. Prepare the leeks as in Recipe 53, put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, boil from 5 to 10 minutes and strain. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the leeks, and sprinkle them with the flour, pepper, salt, and sugar. Stir care- fully over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown. Then pour in the stock and simmer slowly until the leeks are quite soft. Rub as much as possible through a fine sieve and return the soup to the pan to reheat. Add the milk and more season- ing if necessary. Beat up the egg and strain it into the soup, stirring all the time. Be careful the soup does not boil again. Put the toast, cut in small pieces, into the soup tureen and pour the hot soup on to it. Time to cook, 1 to If hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 55. Lentil Soup (Soupe aux Lentilles) f lb. red or Egyptian lentils. 2f pts. water or meat boilings. 1 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 1 onion. A piece of carrot, turnip, and celery. A bunch of herbs, f pt. milk. Pepper and salt. A pinch of sugar. Put the lentils into a basin and wash them well in cold water, removing any discoloured ones which float on the top of the water. Then pour over them the 2f pints of cold water or meat boilings, cover the basin with a plate and let them soak overnight. Next day strain off the liquid and reserve it for making the soup. Prepare the vege- tables and cut them in thin slices. Melt the fat in a saucepan, add to it the lentils and sliced vege- tables and stir them over the fire until the fat is absorbed. Next pour on the liquid in which the lentils were soaked, stir well for a few minutes and let all come to boiling-point. Add the bunch of herbs and seasoning to taste. Allow the soup to simmer slowly for at least 2 hours, or until the lentils are quite soft and pulpy. Stir the soup occasionally to prevent it sticking to the foot of the pan and burning. If it should become too thick whilst cooking, add more water or a little stock. When well cooked, rub through a wire sieve or colander into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the milk, and more seasoning if necessary; bring to the boil a.nd simmer a few minutes. Serve with fried or toasted crofltons of bread. Notes.—The water in which a piece of ham or salt meat has been boiled does admirably for making this soup, provided it is not too salt. Or a ham bone may be boiled in the soup to give it flavour. If time does not permit of soaking the lentils, the soup may be made without this pre-53 STOCKS AND SOUP£ liminary preparation, but it will take a longer time to cook. The soup may be made richer by the addition of 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. It is not absolutely necessary to sieve this soup, but a much smoother preparation is obtained by doing so. Time to cook, 2| hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 56. Lentil Soup from Lentil Flour Make in the same way as pea soup from pea flour. See Recipe 64. 57. Lettuce Soup (Potage de Laitues) 2 lettuces. 3 or 4 spring onions. A handful of spinach. 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. 2 pts. light stock or meat boilings. 1 dessert-sp. crushed tapioca. Pepper and salt. First prepare the vegetables. Cut any hard stalk from the lettuce and remove any soft or discoloured leaves. Wash the leaves well and let them lie in cold water for half an hour. Wash and pick the spinach, removing the stalks. Cut the root and most of the green oS the onions and wash them in cold water. Then drain the vegetables and cut them all in thin slices or shreds. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the sliced vegetables and stew over a slow fire about 15 minutes, stirring frequently. Pour in the stock, bring to the boil and simmer slowly for 20 minutes. Sprinkle in the tapioca and cook until quite transparent, seasoning to taste. Beat up the egg, put it in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with fried crofttons of bread. Grated cheese may be handed separately. Note.—A cupful of hot milk and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs may be added instead of the whole egg. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 58. Neapolitan Soup (Potage Crdme Napolitaine) Make in the same way as Portuguese soup (Recipe 65), adding small pieces of cooked macaroni instead of the rice, and a little grated cheese. 59. Onion Soup (Brown), 1 (Soupe aux Oignons) 4 or 5 medium-sized onions. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 oz. rice flour. 1 qt. second brown stock. 1 oz. grated cheese. Pepper and salt. Skin the onions and cut them in thin slices so that they fall in rings. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and let it just turn brown. Put in the sliced onion and brown that also, but be careful it does not blacken, or the flavour of the soup will be spoiled. Then add the rice flour and mix it well in. Pour on the stock, stir until boiling and skim well. Let the soup simmer for 11 hours, or until the onion is quite soft ; then rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan, return the soup to it and reheat over the fire. Serve with crofitons of fried bread. The grated cheese can either be put into the soup or banded separately. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. -» Quantity, 1J pints. 60. Onion Soup (Brown), 1 or 2 Spanish onions. 1 oz. butter. I slice toast, slightly buttered. 2 (Soupe aux Oignons) 1 qt. brown stock. Grated Parmesan. A pinch of cayenne. Prepare the onions as in last recipe, slicing them very thinly. Cook them a few minutes in the butter, allowing them to brown, but not to blacken. The stock used must be clear and good. Make it very hot and pour it into the saucepan beside the onions. Season to taste and add a pinch of cayenne. Butter a slice of toast and cut it in dice or small round pieces, toss these in grated Parmesan, brown in the oven a minute or two, and float these on the top of the soup. Time to cook, 15 minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 61. Onion Soup, White (Soupe aux Oignons) 4 or 5 medium-sized onions. 1 oz. butter. 2 pts. meat boilings or white stock. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. 6 white peppercorns. A blade of mace. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. milk. Salt to taste. Skin the onions and scald them in boiling water a few minutes to remove some of the pungent flavour. Then slice them down as thinly as possible and so that they fall in rings. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put into it the sliced onion, bay-leaf, parsley stalks, peppercorns and blade of mace; put the lid on the pan and cook for 10 minutes over the fire without browning. Pour on the stock or meat boilings, simmer until quite soft and rub through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it. Break the flour gradually with the milk, add this to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil 5 minutes at least, and season to taste. Serve with crofitons of fried bread and hand grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese separately. Note.—This soup may be made richer by thicken- ing it with 1 or 2 yolks of eggs and a little cream instead of the flour and milk. Time to cook, 1 \ hours. Probable cost, 10d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 62. Parsnip Soup (Potage de Panais) 1J lbs. parsnips. 1 or 2 onions. 1 stick celery. A small bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Pepper and salt. 2 pts. meat boilings. | pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Wash and scrape the parsnips until quite white, cut oil the tops and then weigh them. Cut them in thin slices, and throw them into cold water for a few minutes. Prepare the celery and onion and cut them in thin slices also. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, strain the parsnips, and add them to it with the onion, celery, and bunch of herbs. Stir these over the fire for a few minutes until they absorb the fat, add pepper and salt and pour on the meat boilings. Mix well, put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 1| to 2 hours, or until the parsnips are quite soft. Rub the soup through a sieve into a basin, then rinse out the saucepanCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 54 and return the soup to it to reheat. Mix the corn- flour smoothly with the milk, add them to the soup and stir until boiling. Simmer 10 or 12 minutes longer, sprinkle in the parsley, and season to taste. Serve with croft tons of fried bread, or toast cut in dice. Note.—A little cream may be added if liked, or the yolk of an egg put in the soup tureen and the soup poured on to it, stirring all the time. Time to cook, 2 to 2£ hours. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 63. Pea Soup (Soupe aux Pois Casses) Make in the same way as lentil soup. Recipe 55, substituting split peas for the lentils and allowing the soup at least one horn longer to cook. The time will depend very much on the age of the peas, but they should be fresh and not old and musty. Fried crofttons of bread and dried mint, finely powdered and sieved, should be served separately. The latter must never be sprinkled over the soup, as it is not liked by everyone. Notes.—Whole dried peas can also be used for making soup, but they will require a still longer time to cook. The addition of 1 or 2 tomatoes gives a nice flavour to the soup. 64. Pea Soup from Pea Flour 1 qt. meat boilings. A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 2 oz. pea flour. 1 pt. skim milk. Pepper and salt. Put the meat boilings into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Prepare about 1 cupful each of carrot, turnip, and onion, cut in very small pieces, and add them to the boiling liquid. Add salt if necessary and simmer for 1 hour, or until the vege- tables are tender. Mix the pea flour to a smooth paste with the milk, add them to the soup and stir until boiling. Boil 15 to 20 minutes, add more seasoning if necessary, and serve dried and powdered mint separately. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 65. Portuguese Soup (Potage Creme Portugaise) 1 medium-sized onion. 4 or 5 tomatoes. 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Water or stock. Seasoning. 1 lump of sugar. 2 table-sps. rice. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion cut in thin slices without allowing it to brown. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in pieces and add them to the onion and butter. Mix in the flour and add enough stock or water to cover the tomatoes. Put on the lid and allow the soup to simmer slowly until the vegetables are quite soft. Then rub it through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, return the puree of tomatoes to it and thin down to a proper consistency with more stock or a little milk. Bring to the boil, add the remainder of the butter broken in small pieces, a lump of sugar to counteract the acidity of the tomatoes, and the rice previously cooked in stock but not broken. Time to cook, 1| hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 66. Potato Soup (Potage aux Pommes de Terre) 1 lb. potatoes. 1 or 2 sticks of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 2 onions. I oz. butter or dripping. II pts. stock or meat boilings. £ pt. milk. Seasoning. Wash and peel the potatoes and then weigh them. Cut them in thin slices and let them lie in cold water a short time. Wash and shred the celery and skin and slice the onions. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, drain the potatoes and add them to it, with the onion and celery. Put the lid on the pan and cook over the fire for a few minutes without browning, then pour on the stock, add the seasoning, and simmer slowly from 1 to 1J hours, or until the potatoes are quite soft. The soup must be stirred frequently as it is liable to burn, and should it become too thick more water or stock must be added. When sufficiently cooked, sieve or not as preferred, and add the milk at the last. Serve with fried crofttons or with toast cut in dice. Notes.—Any remains of cold potato may be used up in this soup, and a small ham bone cooked in it is an improvement. This soup is not good when the potatoes are new and waxy. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 67. Potato and Leek Soup 1 lb. potatoes. 3 leeks. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 2 pts. water or vegetable stock. J pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sago. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. White pepper and salt. Wash and peel the potatoes thinly, then weigh them. Cut them into thin slices, and throw into cold water. Cut the roots and most of the green off the leeks, split them lengthways with a knife, removing the outside skin, and wash them well in cold water. Then slice them thinly and throw them into cold water. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, strain the water from the leeks and potatoes, and add them to it. Stir these over the fire for a few minutes, until the vegetables absorb the fat, then pour on the stock or water, and simmer slowly for 1| hours, or until the potatoes are quite soft. Wash the sago in cold water, put it into a basin with the milk, cover it over and let it soak while the soup is cooking. When the soup has cooked sufficiently, rub it through a sieve or colander into a basin, pressing through as much as possible. Rinse out the saucepan, return the soup to it with the sago and milk, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil from 5 to 10 minutes longer to thoroughly cook the sago, add the parsley and season to taste. Serve sippets of dry toast separately. Notes.—This soup may be served without sieving, but it should then be well beaten with a wooden spoon or whisk to break up the vegetables. Tapioca may be used instead of sago. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 68. Potato and Tomato Soup 4 large cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J pt. tomato puree. 1J pts. light stock or broth. | pt. milk. Salt. Pepper. The potatoes used should be dry and mealy. Peel them and rub them through a wire sieve or55 STOCKS AND SOUPS Eut them through a vegetable presser. Melt the utter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix it in and cook 2 minutes. Then pour in the milk and stir until boiling and a smooth sauce is formed. Add the potatoes and stock, bring to the boil and boil 10 minutes. Rub some tinned tomatoes through a fine sieve, sufficient to make | pint, add it to the soup and bring to the boil once more. Season to taste and if too thick add a little more stock or milk. Time to cook, about \ hour. Probable cost, 9d. Quantity, 2 pints. 69. Pumpkin Soup, 1 (Soupe au Potiron) 1J lbs. ripe juicy pump- kin. 1£ pts. water. 2 oz. butter or good dripping. | pt. milk. A pinch of sugar. Seasoning to taste. Crofttons of fried bread. Peel the pumpkin, remove the seeds, and then weigh it. Cut it in thin slices, put it in a saucepan with the butter and a little water and cook until reduced to a pulp. Rub this through a fine sieve and return to the saucepan to reheat, thinning it down to the desired consistency with more water and the | pint milk. Season to taste and pour over fried crofttons of bread in the soup tureen. Note.—Light stock may be used instead of water and a little cream may be added. Time to cook, \ to £• hour. Probable cost, Scl. Quantity, 2 pints. 70. Pumpkin Soup, 2 lbs. pumpkin. 2 onions. 2 or 3 leeks. 2 carrots. 5 or 6 potatoes. 2 (Potage au Potiron) 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 2 qts. warm water. Salt. Pepper. As this soup is not sieved, the vegetables must be prepared carefully. Peel the pumpkin, remove all the seeds and stringy part from the centre, then weigh it and cut it in cubes. Peel and slice the onions, wash and scrape the carrots and cut them in thin rounds, wash the leeks and cut them in small pieces. Now melt the fat in a saucepan and when hot put in the onions and brown them slightly. Next add the carrots and leeks and cook them a few minutes without letting them brown. Add the pumpkin, season with pepper and salt and cover with the warm water. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly at least 1 hour. Then add the potatoes, peeled and cut in rough pieces. Cook £ hour longer and serve very hot. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 3 pints. 71. Red Haricot Soup (Creme Conde) 1 lb. red haricots. 3 pts. water or meat boilings. 2 onions. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. cream. Pepper and salt. Wash the haricots and if time permits soak them overnight in the cold water. Then put them into a saucepan with the water and bring them slowly to the boil. Add the onions cut in small pieces and simmer slowly until the beans are quite soft. Sieve the soup and return it to the saucepan with the butter and seasoning and allow it to simmer 10 or 15 minutes longer until quite smooth. Put the cream into a hot soup tureen and pour the soup on to it. Note.—Sometimes a glass of claret is added. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 72. Red \ lb. haricot beans. 1 cupful tomato pulp. 2 or 3 onions. 2 oz. dripping. 1 beetroot. Pottage 2 or 3 sticks of celery. 4 pts. water. A small bunch of herbs. Seasoning. Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 1 pint of cold water. Next day put them into a large saucepan with the water in which they were soaked, other 3 pints of water and the dripping. Bring this to the boil over the fire and add the vegetables prepared and cut in pieces. The beet- root should be peeled and cut in thin slices, and either tinned tomatoes used or fresh tomatoes cut in small pieces. Allow the soup to boil slowly until the haricot beans and other vegetables are quite soft. Then rub as much as possible through a sieve or colander. If the soup has reduced very much in quantity and become too thick, add more water or a little milk to make it of the right con- sistency. Season to taste and reheat. Time to cook, 2\ to 3 hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 73. Salsify Soup (Mock Oyster) 12 roots salsify. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. 1 oz. flour. J pt. milk. 1 qt. water or light stock. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. Prepare the salsify as directed in Recipe 564, and cut it in slices about \ inch thick. Put the water or stock, onion chopped finely and bay-leaf into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Throw in the salsify and allow it to cook until tender, from J to §■ hour. In another saucepan make a sauce with the butter, flour, and milk ; cook it well and pour it in beside the salsify. Season to taste, simmer a few minutes, lift out the bay-leaf and the soup is ready. Serve crofttons of fried bread separately. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 74. Scotch Kail 2 lbs. mutton. 3 qts. cold water. 1 firm white cabbage. 3 or 4 leeks. 2 table-sps. pearl barley. Salt. Pepper. Wash and blanch the barley and soak it over- night in a little cold water. Next day, wipe the meat and put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the cold water, the soaked barley, and 1 tea- spoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and simmer slowly for 1| hours. Then add the cabbage carefully washed and finely shred, and the leeks also washed and cut in thin slices. Cook for another 1£ hours, or until both vegetables and meat are well cooked. Season to taste. The meat may either be cut in pieces and served in the soup, or served whole as a separate dish. Notes.—If the somewhat strong flavour of the cabbage is objected to, it should be scalded for a few minutes before being added to the soup. Other vegetables may be added if wished, and oatmeal56 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Quantity, about 2 pints. remainder. Add the cornflour to the hot milk. is sometimes used instead of barley—it will not require so long to cook. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, 1$. 8d. to Is. lOd. Quantity, 2 quarts. 75. Sorrel Soup (Potage d’Oseille) J lb. picked sorrel. H pts. white stock or meat boilings. 1 cabbage lettuce. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1| oz. potato flour. £ pt. milk. A pinch of sugar. A small French roll. Wash the sorrel and lettuce very carefully and then shake them as dry as possible in a colander or salad basket. Cut them in fine shreds with a sharp knife, and put them in a saucepan with the butter. Cook slowly over the fire for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the potato flour and mix well, but be careful the ingredients do not discolour. Add the stock and stir until boiling, then put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly for 20 minutes. Add the milk and season to taste. Break the bread in small pieces and dry them in the oven. Put these in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 76. Spinach Soup (Soupe aux Epinards) 2 lbs. spinach. 2 pts. fight stock. 1 shallot. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. £ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Pick and wash the spinach very carefully. Put it into a saucepan with the stock, shallot cut in small pieces, and a little salt. Cook quickly until tender, from 20 to 30 minutes, and then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, stir in the cornflour and when smooth pour on the milk. Stir until boiling and cook for 10 minutes. Then add the spinach puree and season to taste. A little sap green may be added if the soup is not a good colour. Serve with croutons of fried or toasted bread, or with “ puffed ” rice crisped in the oven. Notes.—A few leaves of chervil, when it can be obtained, make a pretty garnish to this soup, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last will be found an improvement. Time to cook, to 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 77. Spring Soup (Potage Printaniere) Make in the same way as hotch potch (Recipe 12), omitting the meat. 78. Tomato Bisque 1 tin of tomatoes. 1 level tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. 1 table-sp. cornflour. 1 qt. milk. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Stew the tomatoes in their own liquor until quite soft and then rub them through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a fined saucepan and heat it gently over the fire. Heat most of the milk in another saucepan and mix the cornflour smoothly with the stir over the fire until boiling and boil a few minutes until smooth and creamy. Then add the soda (dissolved in a little hot water) to the warm tomato puree, and when it has ceased to fizz add the butter in small pieces, and the thickened milk. Mix well and season to taste. Serve at once with fried croft tons of bread, or a dish of plainly-boiled rice may be handed separately. Notes.—The milk must not be added to the puree until just before serving, as there is danger of the soup curdling. The soup may be made richer by adding 1 gill of cream and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs instead of the cornflour. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. Quantity, 2| pints. 79. Tomato Soup (Soupe aux Tomates) 1 tin of tomatoes or 2 lbs. fresh tomatoes. 2 to 3 pts. second stock. 1 onion. £ carrot. £ turnip. 1 stick of celery. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. 12 black peppercorns. A small blade of mace. 1 lump of sugar. 1 oz. crushed tapioca. A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt to taste. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put into it the carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, prepared and cut in thin slices, the bunch of herbs and ham cut in small pieces. Turn these about in the butter for a few minutes without allowing them to take colour. If fresh tomatoes are used, wipe them with a damp cloth, remove the stalks and cut them in slices on a plate so as to avoid losing any of the juice. Then add them to the other ingredients with 3 pints of stock. If tinned tomatoes are used, empty them straight into the saucepan and add only 2 pints of stock. Add the seasonings and let the soup simmer slowly about 2 hours, or until the vegetables are quite soft. Then remove the herbs and rub the soup through a sieve. Return it to a clean saucepan and bring to the boil. Sprinkle in the tapioca and allow it to cook until quite transparent. Add more seasoning if necessary and serve the soup with fried crofttons of bread, or a dish of cooked macaroni or spaghetti may be handed separately. Note.—One dessert-spoonful of cornflour and £ pint of milk may be used to thicken instead of the tapioca. A little cream may be added. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Quantity, 2-1, pints. 80. Tomato Soup with Rice Balls 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 pt. milk. Rice balls. 1 tin of tomatoes. 2 onions. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onions cut in very thin slices and cook them for 10 minutes, without browning. Then add the tomatoes, sugar, and seasoning, simmer slowly for J hour and rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the puree to it. Break the flour smoothly with a little of the milk and add it to the soup with the remainder. Stir until boiling and then simmer a few minutes longer. Serve with rice balls (see Recipe 1296), either in the soup or handed separately. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, la.STOCKS AND SOUPS 57 81, Turnip Soup (Soupe aux Navets) 1 lb. turnips. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Pepper and salt. A few parsley stalks. 1 slice of toast or a few crusts of bread. 1 qt. stock or water. \ pt. milk. Wash and peel the turnips thickly, then weigh them and cut them in very thin small pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and add the turnip to it with the onion thinly sliced and a few parsley stalks. Put the lid on the pan, and cook these over the fire for a few minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to keep them from burning. Add the stock and crusts of bread or toast broken in small pieces and boil until the turnip is reduced to a pulp, about an hour and a half. Rub through a sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it. Add the milk and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Make thoroughly hot and serve with crohtons of fried bread, which have been tossed in grated cheese (see Recipe 1301). Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 82. Vegetable Marrow Soup (Soupe au Courge) 1 lb. vegetable marrow (weighed after peel- ing). 1 bay-leaf. 1 Spanish onion. 1 stick of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 6 white peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. 1 oz. butter or drip- ping. 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. 1£ pts. second white stock or meat boilings, ltea-sp. crushed tapioca. \ pt. milk. Salt. Wash the marrow, then peel, weigh and cut it in thin slices, but do not remove the seeds. Skin and slice the onion thinly, wash the celery and cut it in shreds, and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and add to it the prepared vegetables, ham, and other seasonings. Put the lid on the pan and cook carefully over the fire for a few minutes. Shake the pan occasionally and be careful the contents do not burn. Then add the stock and simmer slowly from 1 to 1 \ hours, or until the vegetables are quite soft and pulpy. Next rub the soup through a fine wire or hair sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the milk and more seasoning if necessary. When boiling hot, sprinkle in the tapioca and cook until it is quite transparent, about 10 minutes. If the soup should be too thick, add more stock or a little water. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last would be an improvement. Serve with crofltons of fried or toasted bread, or with “ puffed ” rice crisped in the oven. Notes.—Hour may be used instead of tapioca for thickening. It should be mixed with a little milk before adding it to the soup, the soup should then be stirred until boiling and allowed to boil a few minutes. A richer soup may be made by adding i gill of cream and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs (see p. 40). In this case other thickening would not be re- quired. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost, Sd. to Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 83. Watercress Soup (Potage au Cresson) 2 bunches watercress. 1 small bunch spring onions. \ pt. haricot beans. White pepper and salt. 1 qt. cold water. 1| oz. butter. I table-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 or 2 table-sp. cream. Wash the beans in cold water. Put them into a basin with 1 quart of cold water, cover with a plate, and let them soak overnight. Next day put them into a saucepan with the water in which they were soaked, and boil until quite soft, about 3 hours. Then rub through a sieve into a basin, and make up this puree to 1 quart with boiling water. Wash and pick the watercress, carefully removing the stalks, and shred it finely with a knife. Wash the onions, removing the roots and most of the green part. Slice them also thinly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put the greens into it, and stew them gently for about 10 minutes, until they are just beginning to change colour. Then pour on the haricot puree, and simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Add the cream, pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley just before serving. Time to cook, 3& hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 84. Watercress and Potato Soup (Potage de Sante) | lb. peeled potatoes. J lb. watercress. 2 oz. butter. 1J pts. light stock. 1 gill milk. Seasoning. Cut the potatoes in thin slices and put them in a saucepan with the stock and butter. Cook them until reduced to a pulp and then rub through a sieve. Return the puree to a clean saucepan, add the cress, picked and chopped, the milk and sea- soning. Simmer 10 minutes and pour into a hot soup tureen over some fried crofitons of bread. Note.—If no stock is available, water may be used and the yolk of an egg or a little cream added at the last. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 11 pints. 85. White Vegetable Soup (Soupe aux Legumes) 2 leeks. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 or 3 sticks celery. 1 onion. 1 lettuce. 2 oz. butter or dripping. A small bunch of herbs. 11 pts. boiling water. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. flour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper, salt. A pinch of sugar. Wash and prepare the vegetables and cut them in thin shreds the same as for Julienne soup (Re- cipe 126) or in dice. Feep the lettuce apart from the other vegetables. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the prepared vegetables (except the lettuce) and the bunch of herbs and cook slowly over the fire about 10 minutes. Turn the vegetables over and over with a spoon without allowing them to take colour. Add the water and simmer gently until the vegetables are cooked without being broken. If the water boils down, more must be added. Mix the flour smoothly with the milk, pour it into the hot soup and stir until boiling. Remove the herbs and add the lettuce, well drained, and the seasoning. SimmerCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 58 10 minutes longer and add the parsley at the last. Serve crofitons of fried bread separately. Note.—The addition of a fewf resh green peas is an improvement to the soup. They will require about 20 minutes to cook. A little oream will also im- prove the colour and flavour. Time to cook, about 1J hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. (3) FARINACEOUS AND FISH SOUPS, &c. 86. Barley Soup (Potage d’Orge) 3 pts. of stock made ^tea-cupful pearl barley, from shin of beef or Seasoning, beef bones. Wash the barley and put it into a saucepan with the stock, bring to the boil and simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, or until the barley is soft. Any scum or skin which rises to the surface must be care- fully removed. Season to taste and rub the soup through a sieve into a basin. Return to the sauce- pan to reheat, adding a little milk if liked. Serve with fried crofitons of bread. Notes.—If the stock used is not well flavoured a few small pieces of vegetable may be added to the soup and strained out when sieving. If preferred the barley may be served whole in the soup, and the sieving dispensed with. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2} pints. 87. Bread Soup (Soupe au Pain) 6 oz. stale bread. 3 pts. meat boilings or light stock. A pinch of nutmeg. | pt. milk. Seasoning. 1 egg. Cut the bread in small pieces, crumb and crust together. Melt the butter in a saucepan and fry the bread for a few minutes until it begins to take colour. Then add half the meat boilings and simmer J hour. Beat out all lumps with a wire whisk, and when quite smooth add the remainder of the liquid and the seasonings. Bring to the boil and then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat up the egg with the milk, and strain them into the soup, stirring all the time. Make the soup thoroughly hot, but do not boil again after the egg is added. A little grated cheese may be served separately. Time to cook, f hour. Probable cost. Id. to 8d. Quantity, 2| to 6 pints. 88. Cheese Soup (Soupe au Fromage) 2 pts. milk, i lb. Cheddar cheese. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. Grate the cheese and melt it in a small saucepan with a little of the milk, without allowing it to boil. Put the remainder of the milk into a larger sauce- pan and heat it carefully over the fire. Mix the flour and butter together, add them to the hot milk and stir until the mixture boils and is quite smooth. Add the melted cheese and seasoning to taste, but do not boil again. Put the yolks of eggs into a soup tureen and pour the hot soup gradually on to them, stirring all the time. Serve with sippets of toast or fried croutons. Probable cost, lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 89. Macaroni Soup, Brown (Potage Macaroni) 2 oz. macaroni. 2 pts. brown second stock. i oz. butter. J- pt. water. Parmesan cheese. Crofitons of fried bread. Put the water into a small stewpan with the butter and bring it to the boil. Throw in the macaroni and cook it until soft, stirring frequently. It will take about 20 minutes, or perhaps longer, according to the kind used. It must be well cooked without becoming pulpy, and more water must be added if necessary. When ready, drain, reserving the water, and cut the macaroni in rings or short lengths. Remove any grease from the stock, put it into a saucepan with the water from the maca- roni, and bring it to the boil. Add the macaroni and season to taste. Serve this soup with croutons of fried bread which have been tossed in grated Parmesan cheese. Or grated Parmesan cheese without the croutons may accompany the soup. Note.—The stock used should be well flavoured or the soup will have a poor taste. Time to cook, $ hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 90. Macaroni Soup, White (Potage Macaroni) 3 oz. macaroni. 2 pts. light stock or meat boilings. 1 oz. butter. Salt to taste. | pt milk. 1 Spanish onion. 6 white peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. 1 bay-leaf. Break the macaroni into small pieces and put it into a saucepan with the stock, butter, onion skinned and cut in thin slices, peppercorns, parsley stalks, and bay-leaf. Let all these simmer for 1 hour or more, or until the macaroni is reduced to a pulp. Then rub the soup through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan, return the soup to it with the milk, bring to the boil and season to taste. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last would be an improvement, and a few cooked green peas might be used as a garnish. This soup should be served very hot, and a little grated cheese should be handed separately or fried crofitons of bread tossed in Parmesan cheese. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, hi. to (M. Quantity, 2 pints. 91, Macaroni and Tomato Soup (Potage Macaroni aux Tomates) 3 oz. macaroni. 2 pts. light stock or meat boilings. 4 fresh tomatoes or half a tin of tomatoes. A small bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 Spanish onion. A few trimmings of ham or a small ham bone. Pepper and salt. Break the macaroni and put it into a saucepan with the stock and tomatoes (if fresh tomatoes are used, wipe and cut them in slices). Bring to the boil, and add the butter, the onion, cut in small pieces, the bunch of herbs and other seasoning. Let all these simmer for 1 hour or more until the macaroni is reduced to a pulp. Then rub the soup through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add more seasoning if necessary. A little hot milk added at the last is an improvement. Serve with crofitons of fried or toasted bread.59 STOCKS AND SOUPS Note.—If preferred, the macaroni may be cut in small pieces and served in the soup instead of being sieved. Time to cook, 1| hours. Probable cost, 9ci. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 92. Oatmeal Soup, 1 2 cupfuls of oatmeal porridge. 2 pts. milk. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. Pepper. 1 yolk of egg. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and let it cook slowly by the side of the fire without browning. Then add the porridge, milk, and seasoning, and stir occasionally until boiling. Simmer until smooth and then sieve. Reheat the soup and pour into a hot soup tureen over the yolk of egg. Notes.—If more convenient, half stock and .half milk may be used for making the soup. A little cooked and chopped ham may be added after sieving. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 93. Oatmeal Soup, 2 (Soupe au Gruau) 2 oz. coarse oatmeal. 2 pts. meat boilings. 1 table-sp. butter or beef dripping. 3 or 4 leeks. | pt. milk. 1 or 2 sticks celery. Seasoning. The water in which a piece of meat has been boiled will do very well for making this soup, but it must not be too salt. Put the required quantity into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Sprinkle in the oatmeal, in the same way as for porridge, and simmer from 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occa- sionally. Now add the leeks, carefully prepared (Recipe 504) and cut in thin slices, using some of the green, also add the celery cut in shreds, and the dripping or butter. Allow the soup to cook for about an hour longer. Season to taste and add the milk at the last. Note.—If the soup becomes too thick while cook- ing, add more meat boilings or water. Probable cost, 9d. Quantity, 2| pints. 94. Rice Soup (Potage au Riz) £ teacupful rice. 1 oz. butter or beef dripping. 1| pts. water or meat boilings, b pt. milk. 1 small onion. 1 table-sp. bread crumbs 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 bay-leaf. White pepper and salt. Wash the rice well in several waters, then put it into a saucepan with the 1$ pints water or meat boilings and the butter or dripping. Bring to the boil, and add the onion finely chopped and the bay- leaf. Boil for half an hour or until the rice is soft, then add the milk and bread crumbs, and cook for 10 minutes longer. If the soup becomes too thick, more liquid must be added. Season to taste, lift out the bay-leaf and add the chopped parsley just before serving. Note.—The water in which a piece of mutton or a fowl has been boiled is very good for making this soup. Time to cook, f- to 1 hour. Probable cost, 7d. to 9d. Quantity, 2 pints. 95. Rice and Tomato Soup (Potage de Rlz aux Tomates) £ teacupful of rice. b tin of tomatoes or 4 or 5 fresh tomatoes. 2 pts. light stock. 1 oz. beef dripping or bacon fat. 1 red carrot. 1 onion. Seasoning. Melt the fat in a saucepan, put into it the onion and carrot prepared and cut in thin slices, and cook for a few minutes without browning. Then add the rice well washed and the tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are used they should be wiped and cut in pieces. Simmer the soup until the rice and vege- tables are tender—about 1 hour—stirring it occa- sionally and removing any scum that rises. When ready, rub it through a wire sieve or fine colander, and then return to the saucepan to reheat. Cook for a few minutes longer and add seasoning to taste. A cupful of hot milk added at the last would be an improvement. Serve with crofitons of fried or toasted bread. Time to cook, l£ hours. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 96. Sago Soup (Potage au Sagou) 1 qt. well-flavoured I 2 oz. small sago. stock. | £ pt. milk. Seasoning. Wash the sago and put it into a saucepan with the stock. Bring to the boil, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to simmer until the sago is quite clear (from 20 to 30 minutes), the time will depend on the kind of sago used. Add the milk, season to taste, and bring to the boil again. Serve with crofitons of fried bread or cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—If the fine prepared sago (sold in packets) is used it will not require washing, but may be sprinkled into the stock when boiling. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 97. Semolina Soup (Potage a la Semoule) 1 qt. well-flavoured I 2 oz. semolina. stock. ' | Pepper and salt. Put the stock into a saucepan, and bring to the boil over the fire. Skim if necessary. Hold the semolina in a piece of paper, and sprinkle it into the boiling liquid, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly for half an hour. Season to taste, and serve. Note.—A little milk may be added if liked, or a beaten egg may be put into the soup tureen and the hot soup poured gradually on to it. Time to cook, £ to £■ hour. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 98. Semolina and Sorrel Soup Make in the same way as above, adding a few sorrel leaves, which have been freed from their stems, and either finely shred or chopped not too finely. 99. Tapioca Soup (Potage au Tapioca) 1 qt. good stock or beef I 1 table-sp. fine tapioca. broth. Remove all grease from the stock or broth, put it into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Then60 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD sprinkle in the tapicoa and allow it to boil until it turns quite clear. Season if necessary and serve with sippets of toast. Notes.—A garnish of vegetables cut in fancy shapes may be added to this soup if liked. Large tapioca may be used, but it must be soaked first in cold water, and it will require a longer time to cook. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 100. Vermicelli Soup (Potage au Vermicelle) 1£ oz. vermicelli. 2J pts. well-flavoured stock. Put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the vermicelli slightly crushed and sim- mer gently from 15 to 20 minutes. Season to taste and serve with crohtons of bread sprinkled with Parmesan. A little milk may be added to the soup if liked. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 101. Clam Soup 25 to 30 clams. 1 pt. water. 3 potatoes. 1 onion. $ oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Cayenne pepper. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. If the clams are in their shells, well wash and brush them and put them in a stewpan with just enough water to prevent them burning. Cover them with a cloth and let them steam until the shells open. Then remove the clams and rinse them in 1 pint of water to get rid of the sand. Strain the rinsing water through a piece of muslin and put it into a saucepan with the hard parts of the clams cut small and the potatoes and onion sliced. Simmer for \ hour, then strain through a sieve, rubbing the potato and onion through. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, add the sieved mixture, parsley, seasoning, and soft part of the clams. Make the soup quite hot and serve with toast biscuits or dry toast. Time to cook, \ to 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 102. Eel Soup (Potage aux Anguilles) 1| lbs. of eels. 3 pts. cold water. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. 1 onion. A small piece of carrot. A small piece of turnip. 2 bay-leayes. 1 blade of mace. A small bunch of herbs. A few parsley stalks. Wash the eels, and cut them in pieces. Put them into a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt. Bring to the boil, and skim well. Then add the vegetables, prepared and cut into small pieces, the herbs and other seasonings. Simmer slowly for 20 minutes, then lift out some of the best pieces of the eels, free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Allow the soup to simmer from If to 2 hours longer, then strain through a sieve into a basin. Rinse out the sauce- pan, put the butter into it, and let it melt over the fire. Add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the milk, the pieces of eel which were reserved, and seasoning to taste. Boil for 5 minutes longer, and pour into a hot soup tureen. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Note.—A little cream added at the last will im- prove the soup. Time to cook, 2 to hours. Quantities, to 3 pints. 103. Fish Broth 3 pts. fish stock. 2 lettuces. 2 sticks celery. £ lb. sorrel leaves. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 1 slice of toast. Put the fish stock or broth into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Prepare the vegetables and cut them all in fine shreds, add them to the stock and allow them to cook until tender. When ready, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of eggs beaten up with a little water, the chopped parsley and seasoning to taste. Do not boil again. Cut the toast in small pieces, put it in a hot soup tureen and pour the broth boiling hot over it. Time to cook, about A hour. Probable cost, lOi. Quantity, 2|- pints. 104. Fish Soup, 1, White (Soupe au Poisson) 1£ lbs. of white fish or fish trimmings. 3 pts. cold water. 2 leeks. A small piece of carrot and turnip. A bunch of herbs. Some parsley stalks. 6 white peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. 3 cloves. \ tea-sp. celery seed. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. £ pt. milk. Any white fish may be used for this soup, such as whiting, flounder, haddock, or cod, trimmings of fish or a cod’s head. Wash the fish well and cut it in small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the cold water (which should cover it), add a little salt and bring to the boil. Skim well and boil about 10 minutes. Then remove a few nice pieces of fish free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Prepare the vegetables and add them to the soup with the bunch of herbs and spices tied in muslin. Let all simmer slowly from 1| to 2 hours. If a cod’s head is used, rather longer time will be required. When well cooked, strain through a fine wire sieve into a basin, rub- bing through a little of the fish and vegetables, but being careful that none of the bones slip through. Rinse out the saucepan and melt the butter in it, add the flour and mix until smooth, Then pour in the sieved soup and stir until boiling. Add the milk, chopped parsley, and pieces of fish, which were reserved, and cook the soup a few minutes longer. Note.—The yolk of an egg may be put in the soup tureen and the hot soup poured on to it, stirring all the time. Or a garnish of small egg balls (see Recipe 1287) may be served in the soup. Time to cook, about 2 horns. Quantity, 2} pints. 105. Fish Soup, 2 (Soupe au Poisson) 1 small filleted fish. 1 qt. fish stock. 2 onions. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 French roll. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onions peeled and thinly sliced and fry them to a pale61 STOCKS AND SOUPS brown colour. Then sprinkle in the flour, mix well, and add the stock by degrees. Bring to the boil, season to taste, and boil from 15 to 20 minutes. Then strain and return to a clean saucepan. Add the filleted fish cut in small pieces and allow it to cook in the soup. Cut the French roll in small slices and brown them slightly in the oven. Put these into a hot soup tureen and pour the soup boiling hot over them. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 106. Fish Soup, 3 2 pts. fish stock. I 1 table-sp. cornflour. \ pt. milk. | Pepper and salt. 1 egg. To Make the Slock.—Take any fresh trimmings of fish, bones, heads and white skin, wash them carefully and break them in small pieces. Put them into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, and let them simmer by the side of the fire until the flavour is well extracted. Then strain through a fine sieve or strainer, measure the stock, and allow the other ingredients in the above proportions. To Finish the Soup.—Return the stock to a clean sauoepan, break the cornflour smoothly with the milk and add it to it, then stir over the fire until boiling. Season with white pepper and salt, and simmer five minutes in order to cook the corn- flour thoroughly. Beat up the egg and put it in the soup tureen, then pour the soup slowly on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with sippets of toast. Note.—This is a very simple and delicious fish soup, and differs from other fish soups in having no vegetable flavouring. Time to cook, 1 hour. Quantity, 2\ pints. 107. Fish Mulligatawny (Mulligatawny de Poisson) 1£ lbs. white fish or trimmings. 1| oz.butter or dripping. l| oz. rice flour. 3 pints water or fish stock. 1 onion. Salt. 1 small carrot, i turnip. | oz. curry powder. | pt. milk or 1 gill of cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wash the fish well and cut it into small pieces. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, add to it the vegetables all prepared and cut in very thin slices, and cook them for a few minutes over the fire. Add the curry powder and rice flour—mix these well in. Then put in the fish and stock or water, stir until boiling, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Lift out some nice pieces of fish and reserve them for serving in the soup. Simmer from l£ to 2 hours longer, skimming when neces- sary. Strain through a fine wire sieve into a basin, rubbing through a little of the fish and vegetables, but be careful that none of the bones pass through. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the milk, small pieces of fish, lemon juice, sugar, and more seasoning if neces- sary. Serve with plain boiled rice on a separate dish. Time to cook, 2\ hours. Quantity, 2\ pints. 108. Lobster Soup, from Tinned Lobster 1 qt. fish stock. £ pt. milk. 1| oz. butter. 1£ oz. cornflour. \ tin of lobster. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. First melt the butter in a saucepan, add the corn- flour, and when well mixed pour in half the stock. Stir until boiling, and add the remainder of the stock and any trimmings from the lobster. Simmer for £ hour and strain through a sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan and add the milk, anchovy essence, seasoning, and lobster broken in small pieces. Simmer a few minutes to soften the lobster. Put the yolk of egg in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup gradually on to it, stirring all the time. A little cream may be added if wished. Time to cook, f hour. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 109. Mussel Soup (Potage aux Moules) 2 dozen mussels. 2 pts. white or fish stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A pineh of cayenne. | pt. milk. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. A squeeze of lemon juice. White pepper and salt. Soak the mussels in water for half an hour, and then clean them thoroughly (see p. 109). Put them into a stewpan with a little salt, and shake them over the fire for a few minutes, being careful they do not brown. As soon as the shells open, take them off the fire, and separate the mussels from the shells. Strain and reserve the liquor. Very carefully remove the beard, which looks like a piece of seaweed, and any small stones. Melt the butter in a saucepan, but do not let it discolour; add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Pour in the stock, and stir con- stantly until boiling, and skim if necessary. Add the milk, mussels and their liquor, and season to taste with white pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and a pinch of cayenne. Add a squeeze of lemon juice just before serving. Serve with toast. Note.—One or two yolks of eggs beaten up with a little cream may be added instead of the milk. Time to cook, J to 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 110. Skate Soup (Potage de Raie) 1| lbs. skate. 3 pts. cold water. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 blade of mace. Some parsley stalks. stick horse radish. 1 onion. 1 oz. vermicelli. A small bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. Wash the fish carefully and put it into a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt. Bring to the boil, skim well, and simmer for half an hour, or until the skate is cooked. Lift out the skate, remove the best pieces of flesh from the bones, reserving them for serving in the soup. Return the bones, &c., to the pan, and add now the onions, horse radish well washed, lemon rind peeled very thinly, parsley stalks, mace, and herbs. Let this all boil for two hours, then strain through a sieve into a basin. Return the liquor to the saucepan with the vermi- celli, slightly broken up. Boil gently for fifteen minutes, season with pepper and more salt if neces- sary, and add the pieces of skate. Serve with toast. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Quantity, 2\ pints.62 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD (4) FRUIT SOUPS These are more often served abroad than in this country, but they may appeal to some as a pleasant variety. They are to be specially recommended for use in summer, when they will be found cooling and refreshing. They are also very suitable for children's dinners, and are generally appreciated and taken with relish. The fruit being sieved or strained is given in its most wholesome form, and will often be digested when raw fruit, or the ordinary stewed fruit, causes trouble on account of the seeds and skins. Fruit soups can be made with either fresh or dried fruit, and the method for all is very similar. The fruit is stewed until soft with water and sugar to taste, and then strained or sieved. A little spice, such as cinnamon, ginger, or nutmeg, or the thinly peeled rind of an orange or lemon, is generally added to give flavour. Some soups, especially those made with the more watery kinds of fruit, will require to have a little thickening added, such as fine sago or tapioca, cornflour, potato flour, or arrowroot. White or red wine may also be used for flavouring, although this would naturally be omitted if the soup were being given to children. These soups can be served either hot or cold, or even iced in very hot weather. Rusks, zwieback (German rusks), toast, biscuits, puffed rice, &c., may be served with the soup, according to fancy. The following are a few recipes for fruit soups, which will serve as a guide to making others : 2 lbs. apples. 5 pts. water. Sugar. 111. Apple Soup 2 table-sps. fine sago. 2 inches cinnamon. \ lemon. Pare, core, and snce the apples and put them into a lined saucepan with a small quantity of the water. Add the stick cinnamon and the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon, and stew slowly until reduced to a pulp. Then rub the apple through a fine sieve, adding the rest of the water (which may be boiling). Return the puree to a clean saucepan, bring to the boil, sweeten to taste, and sprinkle in the fine sago. Cook until this is quite clear, then add the lemon juice and some white wine if wished. Notes.—If time permits the apple peelings and cores may be boiled separately in a small quantity of water, and this water used in the making of the soup. A small piece of butter may be added to the soup, or 1 or 2 yolks of eggs put into the soup tureen and the soup poured on to them. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2 quarts. \ lb. dried apricots. 2 qts. cold water. 1 orange. 112. Apricot Soup Sugar. 2 table-sps. potato flour. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash the apricots and soak them overnight in 1 quart of cold water. Next day put them into a lined saucepan with their water, the thinly-peeled rind of the orange and a pinch of nutmeg, and stew them until tender and reduced to a pulp. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve, adding sugar to taste, the remainder of the water and orange juice. Return this puree to a clean saucepan and bring it to the boil over the fire. Add the potato flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water and cook for a few minutes, stirring all the time. If too thick, add more water or some white or red wine. Serve either hot or cold, and hand rusks or fried and sweetened croutons of bread separately. Note.—A few stewed and stoned prunes may be served in the soup, or some sweet almonds finely shred. Whipped cream may be put on the top. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, 3 pints. 113. Bramble or Blackberry Soup 1 lb. blackberries 2 pts. water. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. potato flour. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 inch cinnamon stick. 1 glass port wine. Pick the blackberries carefully, washing them if necessary, and reserve a few of the best for serving in the soup. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato flour and stir over the fire until slightly browned. Now add the water by degrees and then the blackberries, cloves, and cinnamon. Simmer all gently until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Then rub through a fine sieve in order to keep back the seeds. Return the soup to a clean saucepan and add the wine and the few blackberries which were reserved. Cook a few minutes longer and serve with rusks, toast biscuits, or with puffed rice. Cut lemon should be handed separately. Time to cook, about J hour. Quantitv, 2 pints. 114, Cherry Soup 2 lbs. cherries. 2 qts. water. Sugar. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 1J oz. potato flour. 1 or 2 glasses red wine. Pick and wash the cherries, removing the stalks and any that are decayed. Then stone about half a pound of the best, stew them with a little water and sugar and reserve them for serving in the soup. Put the remainder of the cherries and stones into a mortar and pound them until the stones are well crushed. Then put all into a lined saucepan with the water, bring to the boil, and boil for J hour. Now strain and return the liquid to a clean sauce- pan. Add the potato flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water and stir constantly until boiling. Add sugar to taste, the almonds cut in shreds and the wine. Cook a few minutes longer and pour over the stewed cherries in the soup tureen. Serve hot or cold. Small spoonfuls of whipped cream may be served on the top of the soup. Time to cook, about f hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Quantity, 3 pints. 115, Gooseberry Soup 2 lbs. gooseberries. 2 qts. water. 1 lb. sugar. 2 table-sps. cornflour. 2 yolks of egg. 1 inch cinnamon stick. Wash the gooseberries (they do not require to be topped and tailed), and put them into a- saucepan with the water and sugar. Add a small piece of cinnamon stick and boil until the fruit is reduced63 STOCKS AND SOUPS to a pulp. Then strain and thicken with the corn- flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Add some Rhine wineif desired and simmer a few minutes to thoroughly cook the cornflour. Then pour the soup over the two yolks of eggs which have been well creamed in the soup tureen. Serve with rusks or finger biscuits. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 9d. without wine. Quantity, 3 pints. 116. Strawberry Soup 2 lbs. strawberries. Lemon juice. | lb. sugar. White wine. 1 qt. cold water. Pick the strawberries carefully and wash them if necessary. Take about \ lb. of the smaller ones, sprinkle them with sugar and set them aside in a cool place. Now mash the remainder of the straw- berries with a silver fork or spoon and add to them the strained juice of a lemon. Dissolve the sugar in the cold water, pour it over the mashed fruit, stand for J hour, and then strain through a sieve. Put the whole strawberries into a soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and add white wine to taste. Serve icy cold, and hand rusks, macaroons, or finger biscuits separately. Note.—Raspberry soup can be made in the same way. Quantity, 2| pints. PART m MORE EXPENSIVE SOUPS (1) CLEAR SOUP AND BROWN SOUPS Clear Soup or Consomme Consomme is the favourite soup for commencing a dinner of several courses. It is light and tasty and does not spoil the appetite for what is to follow. It is one of the most expensive soups to make, as a good stock made from fresh meat must form the foundation of it. Although it is possible to make consomme from second stock, or even from good stock from a stock pot, it is liable to taste gelatinous and to be wanting in that special meaty flavour so conspicuous in the genuine article, which ought to be the pure infusion of meat. Absolute cleanliness is also necessary to the making of clear soup, so that nothing may destroy its delicate flavour. The following are general directions for making 1 quart clear soup : 117. Clear Soup (Consomme) 1 qt. good brown stock 1 white and shell of egg. (p. 37). 1 lump of sugar. 6 oz. lean juicy beef. Carefully remove all fat from the top of the stock (see p. 40) and put it into a clean fined sauce- pan. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and shred it down finely as for beef-tea, removing all fat and skin. (If a larger quantity is being used, it may be put through the mincing machine.) Add this to the stock with the white of egg and the shell well washed. Whisk these over the fire with a wire whisk until the soup just comes to boiling- point. Then remove the whisk and let it boil well up. Draw the pan to the side of the fire where the soup will keep warm, but not simmer, and cover it over with a plate or saucepan lid. Let it stand from 10 to 15 minutes. Tie a clean cloth on to the four legs of a chair turned upside down, letting it fall slightly in the middle so as to form a bag. A fine but not too close textured cloth should be used. A well-worn piece of damask or thin huckaback towelling will serve the purpose excellently, or a special make of cheese-cloth is often used. This is infinitely better than the flannel bag formerly so much in favour, but which was kept clean with difficulty, and was always inclined to retain the flavour of the meat. Instead of using a chair, a special soup-stand may be bought for the purpose. and in households where clear soup is frequently served this would certainly be found a convenience. When all is ready, pour some boiling water through the cloth into a basin, to thoroughly heat the cloth. Put a clean dry basin underneath, and pour the soup gently through. The soup will not be clear the first time, as it gets shaken with the straining, so change the basin and pour the soup through again, repeating this process until the soup runs through quite clear. In reheating add a lump of sugar, which makes the soup sparkle. Once having mastered the making of a clear soup, little difficulty should be found in producing many different kinds, as they simply take their64 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD names from the garnish added to them. Some of these names are classic, and continue from genera- tion to generation, others change with fashion, and the passing of events, both social and political. The following recipes will serve as a guide to the formation of many others, in fact with a little in- genuity the number may be increased indefinitely. Note.—If the stock used is very strong, less meat might be employed for clearing, and an extra white and shell of egg added. 118, Brunoise Soup (Consomme a la Brunoise) Prepare in the same way as Julienne soup (Recipe 126), cutting the vegetables in dice or tiny square pieces instead of shreds. 119. Clear Soup a la Celestine (Consomme a la C61estine) 2 pts. clear stock or consomme. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp.-flour. | tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. J gill milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped tar- ragon and chervil. Pepper and salt. A small piece of butter. This is a clear soup garnished with fine shreds of savoury pancake. Put the flour, pepper, and salt into a basin, add the egg and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then pour in the milk and add the parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Allow this batter to stand for 15 minutes if possible. Then melt a small piece of butter in an omelet pan, pour in the batter, -and quickly spread it over the pan. Brown it on both sides like a pancake, and turn out on kitchen paper, roll it up and cut across in fine shreds with a sharp knife. Put the clear stock into a saucepan, bring it to the boil and add the pancake shreds. Notes.—Sometimes a little grated Parmesan is added to the batter. If tarragon and chervil cannot be obtained, about \ teaspoonful of dried herbs may be used, but they must be very finely powdered. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 120. Clear Game Soup (ConsommS Chasseur) Take any good game stock and clear it according to the directions given for Consomme (Recipe 117). Serve it with small game quenelles. 121, Soup Jelly (ConsommS FrappS) Clear soup is very good cold, served in cups for luncheon or supper. It should be perfectly clear and very delicate in flavour. Not too stiff, but just a melting jelly. A simple garnish may be added if liked, or the jelly may be flavoured with a little fight wine. 122. Clear Mock Turtle Soup (Consomm6 de Fausse Tortue) £ calf’s head. 1J lbs. shin of beef. 1 carrot. 2 onions. 1 turnip. J lb. lean ham. 4 qts. cold water. Salt. A bunch of herbs. 6 cloves. A blade of mace. 20 peppercorns. \ tea-sp. celery seed. Juice of \ orange. 1 glass sherry or mar- sala. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Garnish.—Egg balls, pieces of calf’s head. Prepare the head as directed in Recipe 144. After the head is boned, put the bones and flesh, the latter tied in a piece of muslin, into a large sauce- pan with the shin of beef and ham cut in small pieces and the cold water. Add a little salt and bring slowly to the boil. Skim well, and add the vegetables cut in small pieces, the bunch of herbs, and spices and celery seed tied in a piece of muslin. Let the soup simmer slowly from 8 to 9 hours until reduced to half the quantity, and remove any scum that may rise. Then strain through a hair sieve or cloth and let it stand until cold. ' Next day remove the fat carefully from the top of the stock and clear it with the whites and shells of eggs as directed for consomme (see Recipe 117). Reheat the soup, adding seasoning to taste, wine and orange juice, and serve with small pieces of the head cut in dice and egg balls (see Recipe 128). Note.—If some good second stock is, available for making the soup, the shin of beef might be omitted. In that case it would be better to use £ lb. lean beef for clearing and only one white of egg. Time to cook, 8 to 9 hours first day ; 30 to 40 minutes second day. Probable cost, 4s. to 5s. Quantity, 2 quarts. 123. Clear Mulligatawny Soup (Consomm6 l’lndienne) 2 oz. lean ham. 1 oz. butter. Juice of \ lemon. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Pepper, salt. 1 lump of sugar. Some pieces of cooked rabbit or chicken. 3 pts. second stock. 1 apple or 1 stick of rhubarb. 2 onions. 1 leek. 1 dessert-sp. curry pow- der. 1 tea-sp. curry paste. A little chutney. Peel, core, and chop the apple, skin and slice the onion, and prepare and slice the leek. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and add the vegetables to it with the curry powder, curry paste, chutney, ham chopped rather finely, pepper, and salt. Cook for a short time, stirring almost constantly, but do not let the contents brown. Pour in the stock, mix well, and simmer gently from 1 to 1| hours. Then pour the soup into a basin and let it stand until cold. Remove all grease from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan with the egg shells and whites slightly beaten. Whisk over the fire with a wire whisk until boiling, then remove the whisk, and let the soup boil well up in the pan. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the fid or cover with a plate and let it stand 10 minutes. Then strain as directed for consomme (see Recipet STOCKS AND SOUPS 65 117). Reheat, adding the lemon juice and lump of sugar, and serve in it some small pieces of cooked rabbit or chicken. Plain boiled rice should be handed separately. Nole.—The addition of a few poultry bones would be an improvement to this soup. Time to cook, 2 hours first day ; 30 to 40 minutes second day. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 124. Clear Soup It l’ltalienne (Consomm6 a lltalienne) This is a very favourite soup, as the garnish is so easily prepared. Macaroni, vermicelli, spaghetti, or any of the Italian pastes may be used. They must first be cooked in a small quantity of stock and then added to the clear soup. Some people cook them in boiling water, rinse them, and then add them, but although this rids them of all flour and keeps the soup very clear, it totally destroys the flavour of the paste, which becomes so soaked with water that it cannot absorb any consomme. A better plan is to cook the paste by itself in a small quantity of clear or light stock, then to drain it well and put it into the clear soup a few minutes before serving. A little of the clearness of the soup may be sacrificed by this means, but the taste will be infinitely better. In fact when this soup is served abroad, it has always a slightly hazy appear- ance. The time for cooking will depend on the kind of paste used. Some of the small ptites dl Italia will only require from 10 to 15 minutes, while macaroni will take a much longer time. Macaroni may without harm be cooked from 10 to 12 minutes in boiling water, then cut in small pieces or rings, and the cooking finished in stock. Naples macaroni is the best to use. From 2 to 3 oz. of macaroni or Italian paste will be enough to allow for each quart of soup. Grated Parmesan cheese should always be handed separately with this soup. 1 125, Clear Soup h la Jardiniere (Consommd a la Jardiniere) pts. clear stock or consomme, tea-cupful each of turnip, carrot, and | tea-cupful green peas. | tea-cupful white part of cauliflower cut in sprigs. 1 pt. light stock or water. 1 lump of sugar. cucumber cut in the shape of peas. Prepare the carrot, turnip, and cucumber, and cut out of each, round pieces the shape of peas, Cucumber cut with Pea-shaped Cutter using a special vegetable cutter or scoop for the purpose. Use the red part only of the carrot. Use the white part only of the cauliflower, cutting it in very small sprigs. Cook the vegetables first in light stock or water, putting in the carrot and turnip first, then the cauliflower, cucumber, and green peas according to the different times they will require to cook, and the age of the vegetables. Put the clear stock into another saucepan and bring it to the boil, strain the vegetables when they are ready and add them to it with a lump of sugar. Serve with dry toast cut in shreds. Note.—Other vegetables may be added if washed, such as asparagus points, very small button onions, a young lettuce, a little tarragon and chervil, &c. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 126. Julienne Soup (Consomme a la Julienne) £ cupful each of carrot, turnip,onion, leek and celery cut ill shreds. i tea-sp. castor sugar. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in thin strips like little matches, about 1J inches long. 3 pts. consomme or clear soup. 1 small lettuce. 1 oz. fresh butter. Julienne Garnish Use only the red outside part of the carrot, as it will give more colour to the soup. Wash the lettuce and cut it in very fine shreds and not too long. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add all the vegetables except the lettuce, and sprinkle them wdth the sugar. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly until all the butter is absorbed (about 15 minutes), shaking the pan frequently to prevent browning. This preliminary cooking may be done in the oven. Then add the clear soup and simmer until the vegetables are tender. Add the shred lettuce about 10 minutes before serving, as it does not require long cooking. A few crofttons of bread cut in Julienne shreds, dusted with castor sugar, and lightly browned in the oven, may be served with the soup or put in the soup tureen. Notes.—Other vegetables may be added accord- ing to the season of the year, such as a few fresh green peas, some young French beans cut in shreds, part of a spring cabbage cut in thin shreds, or some asparagus points. Half a dozen leaves of sorrel or spinach cut in shreds might also be added along with or instead of the lettuce, or a few fine leaves of tarragon and chervil. Many cooks boil the vegetables in water for this soup and then add them to the consomme, which of course makes a clearer soup, but this method is not so satisfactory in its results, as the vegetables are entirely lacking in taste. Others again cook them entirely in the clear soup, but this is extrava- gant, as the liquid is reduced unnecessarily. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. Quantity, 3 pints. ECOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 66 127. Macedoine Soup (Consomme h, la Macedoine) Prepare in the same way as clear soup a la jardiniere, cuttingthe vegetables in any fancyshapes with small cutters. Fancy Cutters for Vegetables 128. Clear Soup with Noodles (Consomme aux Nouilles) 2 pts. clear stock or I Noodles. consomm6. [ Some light stock. Make the noodles as directed in Recipe 1623. Cook them in boiling salted water for 5 minutes, then drain and let them simmer in light stock from 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are cooked. When ready, strain and add them to the hot soup. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 129. Clear Soup aux (Eufs Files (Consommd aux (Eufs Files) 1 qt. clear stock or con- somme. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. cream. Salt. Pepper, milk or Put the flour, pepper, and salt into a basin, drop in the egg and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then pour in the milk, and if time permits allow this batter to stand a short time before using. Put the clear soup into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Strain the batter through a fine strainer into it and cook about 10 minutes. The batter should look like golden threads in the soup. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 130. Clear Soup with Poached Eggs (Consomme h l lmperatrice) 1 qt. clear stock or consomme. 4 eggs. Poach the eggs lightly (see Recipe 1321), throw them in cold water for a moment and then trim them neatly. Heat the consomme and pour it boiling hot over the eggs in the soup tureen, or the eggs may be served separately with just enough hot soup to moisten them. Serve the soup with small round croutons or straws of cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—One egg and half a pint soup should be allowed per person. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 131. Clear Partridge Soup (Consomme de Perdrix) 1 or 2 old partridges or pieces of partridge. 1 lb. shin of beef. 3 qts. cold water. A bunch of herbs. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 onions. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 8 white peppercorns. 3 or 4 cloves. 1 small blade of mace. | lb. lean juicy beef or liver for clearing the stock. Salt. Game quenelles, to gar- nish. Prepare the shin of beef as for brown stock (see p. 37). Remove the flesh from the breast of the partridge and reserve it for making the quenelles. Cut the rest in small pieces, and wipe or wash any parts which may require it. Put the prepared game and meat into a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt, and, if time permits, let them soak half an hour. Then put the saucepan on the fire and bring the contents slowly to the boil, and skim well. Next add the vegetables, prepared and cut in small pieces, the herbs and spices. Simmer all slowly from 4| to 5 hours, never letting the contents of the saucepan go off the boil, and removing all scum as it rises. Then strain through a cloth or hair sieve, and stand until cold. Clear the soup with the raw beef or liver according to directions given for consomme (see Recipe 117). Serve withia garnish of game quenelles (see Recipe 1298). Notes.—A darker coloured soup may be obtained by frying the meat and game in a little butter before pouring on the water. The shin of beef may be omitted from the list of ingredients if light stock can be used instead of water. Time to cook, 5 hours first day, 30 to 40 minutes second day. Cost, uncertain. Quantity, 3 to 4 pints. 132. Consomme a la Portugaise Clear soup with a garnish of leeks and French plums. To prepare the leeks, well wash them and cut them in fine shreds of about an inch in length, and stew till tender in light stock. Allow one or two plums to each person, wash them and stew them in light stock until tender. Drain well both the leeks and plums, and add them to the clear consomme. 133. Consomm6 aux Profiteroles This is clear soup with profiteroles (Recipe 1307) served separately. A garnish of green peas and small sprigs of cauliflower may be put into the soup if liked. 134. Clear Soup with Quenelles (Consomme aux Quenelles) 3 pts. clear soup or ] \ lb. chicken or veal consomme. | quenelle meat. Make the quenelles according to directions given in Recipe 1298 and put them in a hot soup tureen. Make the clear soup boiling hot and pour it over them. 135. Clear Ox-tail Soup (Consomme de Queue de Boeuf) 1 ox tail. 1| lb. shin of beef. 3 qts. cold water. 1 turnip. 1 carrot. 1 or 2 onions. 1 stick of celery. A bunch of herbs. 20 black peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 1 glass of sherry. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Salt. Cut the tail in joints and remove all superfluous fat. Wash the pieces in cold water with a little salt in it, then put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover, bring to the boil and boil for ten minutes to blanch the tail. Pour away the water, and rinse both the tail and the saucepan with fresh cold water. Wipe the beef with a damp cloth and cut it in small pieces, removing the marrow from the bone, which is not used in the soup. Put the meat, bone, and pieces of tail into the saucepanI STOCKS AND SOUPS 67 with the cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Add a little salt and skim well. Then add the vegetables, herbs, and spices and simmer gently for 2 hours. Remove the pieces of tail and set them aside. Allow all that remains to boil 2 hours more, when it should be strained through a hair sieve and put aside till next day to get cold. Then remove the fat from the top of the stock, and put it into a saucepan with the whites and shells of eggs, and clear as directed for Consomme (see Recipe 117). Meanwhile trim some neat pieces of meat from the tail and heat them in a little stock. Reheat the cleared soup and add these pieces of meat as a garnish along with some pieces of cooked vegetable cut in fancy shapes. Notes.—The shin of beef may be omitted from this recipe if some clear light stock is available. This soup is sometimes thickened slightly with a little arrowroot. Time to cook, 4 hours first day, 30 to 40 minutes second day. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 136. Clear Soup k la Rachel (Consomm6 a la Rachel) This is the same as clear soup with quenelles (Recipe 134), but the quenelles should be in three different colours. Divide the quenelle meat in three parts, colour one part green with sap green or spinach or tarragon, another pink with lobster coral or beetroot juice, and leave the third part its natural colour. Shape the different mixtures in small egg-spoons or put each into a paper cornet and force it out as directed in Recipe 1298. Serve these quenelles in nice clear consomme. 137. Clear Soup with Ravioli (ConsommS aux Ravioli) 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. ltea sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream or white sauce. 1 yolk of egg. 2 pts. clear soup or consomme. jRavioli. 2 yolks of eggs. Flour, salt. 2 table-sps. cooked poultry or game. \ table-sp. cooked ham. To Make the Ravioli.—Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, add a pinch of salt and mix with enough sieved flour to make a stiff paste. Turn this out on a floured board and work with the hands until the paste no longer sticks to the fingers. Then roll it out until as thin as a sheet of paper and divide it into two equal-sized pieces. Chop the meat and ham finely, add to them the grated cheese and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Then moisten with the yolk of egg and a little cream or white sauce. Rub all through a sieve and add the chopped parsley at the last. With a tea-spoon place small portions of this mixture on one of the pieces of pastry, about 1 inch apart; slightly moisten the other piece of pastry with a little cold water or beaten egg and lay it on the top. Press the pastry round the meat mixture with the wrong side of a small cutter and then cut out with a cutter one size larger. The ravioli should be about the size of half a crown. About J hour before they are wanted, throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil for 10 minutes, then lift out with a draining spoon. Note.—Sometimes a little cooked spinach is added to the above mixture. To Serve.—Put the ravioli into the soup tureen and pour the consomme boiling hot over them. Hand grated Parmesan separately. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Quantity, 2 pints. 138. Clear Soup a, la Royale (Consomme I la Royale) 2 pts. consomme clear stock. 2 whole eggs. or 1 yolk of egg. 1 gill clear stock. Pepper. Salt. Make a custard by beating the eggs and one gill of stock together, season carefully with pepper, salt, and if liked, a pinch of nutmeg. Strain the custard through muslin or a very fine strainer and remove the froth. Pour it into a small greased cup or basin, cover with greased paper and steam very slowly from 10 to 15 mins, until the custard feels firm to the touch. Let it cool in the mould, as this will make it more solid, then turn out on a clean board. Cut it first in slices about J inch in thickness, then stamp out in fancy shapes with small cutters, or cut into diamonds or dice with a sharp knife. The stamping or cutting must be done very neatly and regularly. Put these little custards in a hot soup tureen and pour the con- somme boiling hot over them. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 139. Clear Turtle Soup (Consomir6 a la Tortue) Make in the same way as thick turtle soup (Recipe 146) as far as the straining of the stock. Then clear in the same way as Consomme (see Recipe 117). No butter and cornflour must be used. Serve the soup with the pieces of turtle and forcemeat balls. Other Clear Soups Consomme Alexandra.—Clear soup with a garnish of small chicken quenelles, the white meat of chicken cut in dice and asparagus points. Consomme Andalouse.—Clear soup with a garnish of balls or strips of cooked cucumber and fancy shapes of tomato custard. Consomme Christophe Colombe.—Clear soup with a garnish of tomato custard and yellow custard cut in dice and a few green peas. Consomme k la Duchesse.—Clear soup slightly thickened with arrowroot and garnished with poultry or game cut in strips. Consomme k la Dubarry.—Clear soup slightly thickened with tapioca and garnished with small pieces of cauliflower, custard in dice, and rice. ConsommS h la Favorite.—Clear soup slightly thickened with tapioca and garnished with tongue or ham, mushrooms and artichoke bottoms cut in Julienne shreds. Consommd Hongroise.—Clear soup with a garnish of tiny balls of savoury choux paste cooked in the soup. Consommd k la Jerusalem.—Clear soup with a garnish of Jerusalem artichokes cut in shreds. Consomme Invernaise.—Clear soup with a garnish of small fancy shapes of carrot and quenelles cut in slices. Consomme Parmentier.—Clear soup with a gar- nish of small quenelles of mashed potato. Consomme Prince.—Clear soup with a garnish of small balls of turnip.-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 68 as much of the blood as possible. Then wash the pints. Consomme a la Prince de Galles.—Clear soup flavoured with chicken and garnished with shreds of grilled and devilled almonds. Consomm6 Romaine.—Clear soup with a garnish of cheese quenelles. Consomm6 a la Sevigne.—Gear soup with a gar- nish of lettuce cut in shreds, green peas and small chicken quenelles. Consomm6 a la Tosca.—Clear chicken soup, slightly thickened with sago and garnished with ox tongue and truffle cut in shreds. Consomm6 Vert Pre.—Clear soup garnished with green peas, asparagus points, and lettuce, spinach, and French beans cut in shreds. BROWN SOUPS 140. Game Soup (Soupe au Gibier) 1 lb. trimming of game or remains of cooked game. i lb. lean juicy beef. 3£ .pts. cold water. 1 oz. arrowroot. 1 oz. butter. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. \ glass sherry. Asmall piece each of car- rot, turnip, onion and celery. Seasoning. Wash any parts of the game that require it, and break it down into small pieces. Wipe the beef and shred it down finely as for beef-tea, and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan and put in the game, ham, and the vege- tables also cut small. Fry all these a nice brown colour and then add the water gradually and the shredded beef. Add also the herbs and seasoning and simmer all gently from 3 to 4 hours. If the liquid reduces too much, more water must be added. When ready, strain through a fine sieve and remove all grease from the top. Remove some of the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar with a little of the stock and rub it through a sieve. Return the liquid to the saucepan and add to it the meat puree. Break the arrowroot with some of the stock, add it also and stir over the fire until boding. Simmer a few minutes longer, season to taste and add the wine at the last. The soup may be tam- mied, if it is wished very smooth. Notes.—The beef may be omitted from the above ingredients if stock can be used for making the soup. Instead of the sieved puree, small tender pieces of cooked game may be served in the soup as a garnish and crushed tapioca used for thickening instead of the arrowroot. Forcemeat balls may also be used as a garnish. Time to cook, 4 hours. Cost uncertain. Quan- tity, pints. 141. Hare Soup (Potage au Lievre) 1 small hare. J lb. lean ham. 3 qts. second stock. 2 oz. good dripping or butter. 2 onions. 2 sticks of celery. 2 small carrots. 1 small turnip. A bunch of herbs. 1J oz. flour. 1 doz. peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. The rind of £ lemon. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 glass port. Seasoning. Some forcemeat balls. Skin and paunch the hare, saving the liver and hare, dry it and cut it in small pieces. (If large, some of the best joints may be used for jugged hare or the back may be roasted (see Recipe 1209). Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, put in the ham cut in dice, the onions thinly sliced, and the joints of hare. Turn these over and over until well browned on all sides. Next add the other vegetables cut in pieces, the bunch of herbs, lemon rind, spices, and stock. Mix well and simmer gently for 4 or 5 hours, skimming when necessary. Then strain through a hair sieve into a basin and stand until cold. Remove the fat carefully from the top of the stock, put some of the meat from the hare into a mortar, pound it well with a little of the stock and rub it through a wire sieve. Return the soup to a clean saucepan with the meat puree and reheat over the fire. Brown the flour and mix it to a smooth paste with a little stock, or some ketchup and Worcester sauce. Add this paste to the soup and stir over the fire until boiling. Season to taste and add the wine, red-currant jelly, and blood just before serving. The soup must not boil after the blood is added or it will curdle. Put the forcemeat balls in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Forcemeat Balls for Hare Soup.—Make according to directions given in Recipe 1228, adding to the in- gredients the liver of the hare, cooked and finely chopped. Note.—If liked, some of the meat from the hare may be cut in dice and served in the soup; but this should be removed from the soup before it is too much cooked. Time to cook, 5 hours. Cost, 4s. to 5s. if a whole hare is used. Quantity, 2 quarts. 142. Partridge Soup (Potage de Perdrix) 1 cooked partridge or remains of partridge. £ lb. calf or chicken liver. 2 oz. bacon. 2 qts. second stock. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A bunch of herbs. A squeezeof lemon juice. 1 glass port or sherry. Pepper and salt. Remove the flesh from the breast of the partridge and cut the best of it in dice or shreds for garnishing the soup. Put these on one side. Break up the remainder in small pieces, wash and slice the liver and cut the ham in dice. Melt 1 oz. butter in a sauce- pan, put in the game, ham, and liver, and fry them until nicely browned. Then add the stock and herbs and bring slowly to the boil. Skim well, simmer slowly from 1J to 2 hours, and strain through a hair sieve into a basin. Take the best of the meat and liver, pound them in a mortar with a little of the liquid and rub through a wire sieve. Melt the other ounce'of butter in the saucepan and let it brown, then add the flour and brown that also. Pour in the strained soup, add the puree of meat, and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the wine, lemon juice, and pieces of game. Serve with toast cut in dice. Note.—Other kinds of game can be used in the same way. Time, 2 to 2| hours. Cost, uncertain. Quantity,69 STOCKS AND SOUPS 143. Petite Marmite This is pot-au-feu (Recipe 22) on croute-au-pot (Recipe 8) served in small earthenware pots with lids, sold specially for the purpose. 144. Mock Turtle Soup (Potage de Fausse Tortue) £ calf’s head. 1 lb. lean juicy beef. 4 qts. cold water. 3 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. A bunch of herbs. Salt to taste. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. cornflour. A piece of carrot and turnip. 2 onions. 12 black peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. £ tea-sp. celery seed. 1 glass of sherry or marsala. Wash the head well, removing the brains and tongue, which are not used in the soup, but may be kept for some small savoury dish or entree. Take away all the gristle from the nostrils, and let the head soak in cold water, with a handful of salt in it, for half an hour at least. Then blanch it, that is, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil, pour the water away, and wash the head again in cold water. Remove the pieat from the bones and tie it in a piece of coarse muslin, chop up the bones and cut the ham and beef in small pieces. Put the bones and different meats into a large saucepan and pour on the cold water (there should be sufficient to well cover them). Bring slowly to the boil and skim well. Add a little salt and simmer gently, skimming occasionally, for 3£ hours. Then strain the stock through a hair sieve and stand until cold. Melt the butter in a saucepan, have the vegetables and ham cut into small pieces, and fry them in it with the herbs and spices. Let them get a nice light brown colour, and stir well to keep them from burning. Then add the cornflour, and mix it smoothly in. Remove all fat from the top of the stock, pour it into the sauce- pan, and stir until boiling. Add pepper and salt to taste, and simmer slowly for one and a half hours. Remove any scum that may rise. Strain through a hair sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the wine and lemon juice, and serve in it forcemeat balls (see Recipe 1288) and small pieces of the head cut into dice. Note.—The raw beef may be omitted from the ingredients if good stock is used instead of water. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Cost, uncertain. Quantity, about 2 quarts. 145. Turkey Soup with Chestnuts (Potage de Dinde aux Marrons) Remains of roast tur- key. Some second stock. 1 or 2 oz. butter or dripping. A bunch of herbs. A small ham bono. 1 oz. cornflour or arrow- root. 1 table-sp. mush- room ketchup. 1£ to 2 doz. chestnuts. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon or orange juice. Reserve some of the meat from the turkey for serving in the soup, cut it in dice or fine shreds, and put this aside. Remove any stuffing from the bird, as this might give the soup too strong a flavour. Break up the rest of the remains in small pieces and chop the larger bones. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and make it smoking hot. Put in the turkey remains, the ham bone, and bunch of herbs, and fry these a good brown colour. Add by degrees enough stock to cover the contents of the saucepan and bring to the boil. Then skim well, simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, and strain through a fine sieve into a basin. Remove all fat from the top of the stock and return it to the sauce- pan to reheat. If time permits, pound some of the meat from the bones and rub it through a sieve, moistening it from time to time with some of the liquid. Add this pur6e to the stock in the saucepan along with the arrowroot or cornflour broken to a smooth paste with the ketchup and stir over the fire until boiling. Season to taste, add the chestnuts shelled (see Recipe 1625) and the pieces of meat, and cook again 15 to 20 minutes until the chestnuts are soft, but not too broken. A little sherry or marsala may bo added if wished. Note.—If no stock is available for making the soup, water may be used, but in this case a few vegetables should be added to give flavour. Time to cook, about 3 hours. 146. Turtle Soup, from Dried Turtle (Potage Tortue) 1£ lb. knuckle of veal. l| lb. shin of beef. £ lb. sun-dried turtle. £ lb. lean ham. 4 qts. cold water. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. 2 onions. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. corn- flour or arrowroot. 1 glasssherry ormarsala. Asqueeze of lemon juice. Salt, cayenne pepper. Buy the turtle four or five days before the soup is wanted. Wash it well in warm water, and soak it in warm water for three days at least, until it is well swollen and comparatively soft. Change the water every twelve hours. On the fourth day commence to make the soup. Wipe the beef and the veal, and cut them both into small pieces, re- moving as much fat as possible. Put the pieces into a large saucepan with the cold water, the ham cut in small pieces, and the turtle tied in a piece of muslin. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Add all the vegetables, cut in small pieces, and the bunch of herbs, and simmer the soup slowly for twelve hours, removing any scum as it rises. More water must be added if the liquid in the pan reduces very much. Strain through a hair sieve and let it stand till cold. Remove carefully all fat from the top of the stock, and cut the turtle into neat square pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and let it get slightly brown, then add the cornflour and70 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD mix until smooth, pour on the stock, and stir until boiling. Boil for a few minutes, and skim if neces- sary. Season with cayenne pepper and salt, and add the wine, pieces of turtle, and lemon juice. A few forcemeat balls may also be served in the soup. See Recipe 1288. Note.—If some good stock is available it may be used instead of the water, and less fresh meat, or even none, will be required. Time to make, several days required. Probable cost, 5s. Quantity, 4 to 5 pints. (2) WHITE SOUPS AND VEGETABLE CREAM SOUPS 147. Almond Soup (Potage Creme d’Amandes) 6 oz. sweet almonds. 1 qt. white stock. 6 white peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. 1 oz. butter. 1 bay-leaf. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 gill cream. \ pt. milk. Seasoning. First blanch the almonds and chop them finely. Then put them into a mortar and pound them well with a little water to prevent them oiling. Pour the stock into a lined saucepan, add to it the pounded almonds and seasonings and let them simmer by the side of the fire for one hour. Then rub as much as possible through a hair sieve or wring through a tammy-cloth. Rinse out the saucepan and put in the butter, when melted add the cornflour and mix until smooth. Then pour in the soup and stir until boiling. Add the milk and cream and cook a few minutes longer. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Notes.—Ground almonds may be used if preferred —4 oz. will then be sufficient. If liked, this soup may be coloured by adding a very little spinach green, it must be the palest shade possible. A few leaves of chervil may be used as a garnish. Time to cook, 1{- hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 148. Asparagus Soup (Potage Creme d’Asperges) 50 heads of small as- paragus. 1 qt. white stock. 1 gill of thin cream. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-cupful cooked green peas. 1 oz. butter. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. 1 oz. lean ham. A handful of spinach. Seasoning. Wash the asparagus in cold water, scraping the stalk end lightly with a knife. Cut off the points, reserving them for serving in the soup, and slice down the remainder into pieces about 1 inch in length. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and add the asparagus stalks to it with the ham cut in small pieces, the spinach carefully washed, the bay- leaf and parsley stalks. Put the lid on the pan and shake it gently over the fire for a few minutes until the butter is absorbed. Then pour in the stock and add a little white pepper and salt. Simmer slowly from 1J to 2 hours until the asparagus is quite tender Then rub as much as possible through a hair sieve or tammy, and return the soup to the saucepan to reheat. Thicken with the yolks of eggs and cream (see p. 40). Have the asparagus points cooked separately. Throw them into a saucepan with enough fast boiling water to cover them, add a little salt, and boil gently about 20 minutes or until tender. Drain, adding the liquid to the soup, and put the points in the soup tureen along with the cooked green peas. Pour the hot soup over them and serve with fried croutons of bread. Notes.—A little spinach green may be used in- stead of spinach, but the soup must on no account be made more than a very pale green colour. The yolks of eggs may be omitted and cream only used (along with 1 tea-spoonful cornflour), or the cream omitted and 1 gill of milk added to the yolks. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. Gel. to 3s. Quantity, 2 pints. 149. Barley Cream Soup (Potage Creme d’Orge) 3 pts. white stock. 2 oz. cream of barley. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill of thin cream. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. Garnish—Green peas or asparagus points. Melt the butter in a saucepan and put in the cream of barley (creme d’orge, sold in packets) and stir over a slow fire for a few minutes. Then pour on the stock and stir occasionally until boiling. Simmer slowly at least J hour, skimming when necessary. If the soup becomes too thick, add a little more water or stock to make it of the right consistency. When ready, rub it through a hair sieve or tammy and return to the saucepan to re- heat. Season to taste and add the yolks of eggs and cream just before serving (see p. 40). A garnish of cooked green peas or asparagus points may also be added if wished. Serve with croutons of fried or toasted bread. Note.—The stock used for this soup must be very light in colour; that made from veal or chicken is the most suitable. Time to cook, £■ to 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. Quantity, 2\ pints. 150. Bonne Femme Soup (Potage a la Bonne Femme) 1 qt. white stock. 4 or 5 spring onions. 1 lettuce. A few sprigs tarragon and chervil. | a cucumber. 1 gill green peas. 1J oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill of cream. Seasoning. Prepare the onions and cut them in thin slices. , Take the best leaves of the lettuces, and wash them carefully with the tarragon and chervil. Then drain for a short time in a colander or on the top of a sieve. Next shred all finely with a sharp knife. Peel the piece of cucumber, and cut it also in shreds and wash the peas. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the vegetables, and cook them gently over the fire for five minutes. Bring the stock to the boil in another pan, and pour it over the vegetables. Then allow the soup to simmer gently until the vegetables are quite tender, about half an hour. Beat the yolks of eggs and cream together in a basin with a fork. Draw the pan of soup to the side of the fire and strain them in, stirring constantly. Stir carefully over the fire until the yolks thicken, but do not boil again. Add white pepper and salt to taste. Serve with pulled bread or fried croutons of bread. Note.—The tarragon and chervil may be omittedSTOCKS AND SOUPS 71 if not procurable. A few leaves of sorrel are often added. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 151. Brussels Sprout Soup (Creme de Choux de Bruxelles) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. 1 qt. white stock. 1 gill cream. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. rice flour. Seasoning. Trim the sprouts, cutting away any decayed or discoloured leaves. Wash well, and let them steep in a basin of cold water with a few drops of vinegar for half an hour. Then drainand throw them into a saucepan of fast boiling water (salted in the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonful to 1 quart) and boil quickly from 15 to 20 minutes, removing any scum that may rise. Do not overcook the sprouts, or their colour will be destroyed. When ready, drain and rub through a fine sieve. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, add the rice flour and mix until smooth. Then pour in 1 pint of stock, stir con- stantly until boiling and boil 3 minutes. Add the remainder of the stock along with the Brussels sprout puree and bring to the boil again. Season to taste and add the cream and the remainder of the butter just before serving. Serve with croutons of toast or fried bread. Notes.—The remains of cooked Brussels sprouts may be used for making this soup, but they ought to be a nice green colour. The soup must not be cooked long after the puree is added, or the colour will be spoiled. A little green colouring may be added if necessary. A few leaves of chervil may be added as a garnish. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost, Is. Gel. Quantity, 2 pints. 152. Cauliflower Soup (Potage Creme de Choufleur) 1 large or 2 small cauli- \ pt. milk. 1 gill cream. flowers. 2 pts. white stock. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 lump sugar. White pepper and salt. Prepare the cauliflower and break it up in little bunches. Scald these in boiling water for 10 minutes, reserve a few of the best pieces as a garnish for the soup and coo1.:: them separately in boiling water until tender. Then put the rest of the cauli- flower into a saucepan with the white stock and simmer slowly over the fire until tender. When ready, rub all through a hair sieve. Melt half the butter in a clean saucepan and mix in the cornflour until smooth, add the milk and stir until boiling. Cook well for a few minutes and add the sieved soup. Bring to the boil again, add the rest of the butter and the cream just before serving. Season to taste and put in the small pieces of cauliflower. Serve with grated Parmesan. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 153. Egg Soup To each J pint of beef broth or stock allow 1 yolk of egg. Any good fresh beef broth or stock will do for this. Free it from all grease, put it into a saucepan and heat over the fire. Beat up the yolks of eggs with a little cold water or stock and strain them into the hot broth, stirring all the time. Make very hot, but do not boil. Season to taste, and serve with dry toast or unsweetened rusks. Note.—This soup is very suitable for serving at evening parties, in cup or ■petiles marmiies. 154. Calf s-tail Soup (Potage de Queue de Veau) 2 calves’ tails. 4 pts. second white stock. A bunch of herbs. A small piece of carrot and turnip. 1 onion. 3 or 4 cloves. A pinch of nutmeg. 1-| oz. butter. l| oz. flour. 1 gill of thin cream. 2 yolks of eggs. | glass of sherry. 1 oz. grated Parmesan. Wash the tails and cut them in pieces about 1J inches long. Put them into a saucepan with suffi- cient cold water to cover them, bring to the boil and pour the water away. Rinse off all the scum, put the pieces of tail back in the saucepan with the stock, bring to the boil again and skim well. Then add the vegetables and bunch of herbs, put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly from 1£ to 2 hours or until the meat will come away easily from the bones. Next strain the soup and if possible let it stand until cold, when all fat can easily be removed from the top. Then melt the butter in a saucepan and mix in the flour until smooth without allowing them to brown. Pour on the strained soup and stir over the fire until boliing. Put in the best pieces of the tail (free from all vegetables) and allow them to simmer in the soup 5 or 10 minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin with the sherry, and strain these into soup, stirring all the time. Add seasoning to taste, but do not boil again. Put the cheese into the soup tureen and pour the soup on to it. Notes.—The soup may be made plainer by adding \ pint of milk instead of the yolks of eggs and cream. Ti^e cheese and sherry may be omitted if the flavour is objected to. Time to cook, about 2£ hours. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. Quantity, 2b pints. 155. Chicken Soup (Potage de Volaille or a la Reine) 1 chicken. | carrot. 2 qts. cold water. A small piece of turnip, blade of mace. 1 oz. butter. \ oz. flour. 1 stick celery. 1 onion or leek. 1 gill of thin cream, or \ pt. boiled milk. Pepper and salt. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks* 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. Clean the chicken and cut it up in small pieces, breaking the bones. If wished the breast may be kept back to serve in some other way. Put all together into a clean lined pan, with enough cold water to well cover—about two quarts ; add a little salt, and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim well and add the vegetables, cleaned and cut in small pieces, the bay-leaf, blade of mace, and parsley stalks. Simmer slowly from five to six hours until reduced about one-third, removing any scum that may rise. When cooked sufficiently, strain through a hair sieve into a basin, and let it stand till cold. Remove all fat from the top of the stock. Take some of the pieces of meat from the chicken, pound them well in a mortar, then rub through a wireCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 72 sieve, and moisten with some of the liquid whilst rubbing through. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour and mis until smooth. Then pour in the soup and the puree, bring to the boil and pour in the cream or boiled milk. Season to taste with white pepper and salt. A yolk of egg may also be used if liked. Put the yolk in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup on to it, stirring all the time. Notes.—The breast of the chicken may be cooked in the soup, and then lifted out, cut into small pieces, and served in the soup when ready. The soup may be garnished with some cooked green peas, a little finely chopped parsley or chervil. Time to cook, 5 hours first day, \ hour second day. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. Quantity, 2\ pints. 156. Cream of Corn 1 tin sweet corn. 1 qt. milk. 2 oz. butter. 2 small table-sps. corn- flour. Seasoning. § pt. cream. Put the corn into a saucepan with the milk and bring it slowly to the boil (a double saucepan is the best for this), then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Return the soup to a clean saucepan, add the butter and the cornflour mixed to a smooth paste with a little milk or water. Stir until boiling, season to taste, and then simmer a few minutes longer. Add the cream at the last, but do not boil again. The yolk of an egg may be put into the soup tureen and the soup poured on to it, but this is not necessary. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Quantity, 2| pints. 157. Cucumber Soup (Potage CrSme de Concombres) 2 cucumbers. 1 onion. 1 qt. white second stock. A handful of spinach. A small bunch of herbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 gill cream. Seasoning. 2 yolks of eggs. Peel the cucumber, cut out some small pieces with a pea-shaped cutter, and reserve them as a gar- nish. Slice the remainder and scald the pieces in boiling salted water for ten minutes and drain well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the cucumber, spinach well washed, the onion thinly sliced, and the bunch of herbs. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook for a few minutes without browning. Then pour in the stock, and cook slowly from £- to 1 hour or until the cucumber is quite soft. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with the milk, add them to the soup and stir for a few minutes until the cornflour is cooked. Now rub the soup through a hair sieve or tammy and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Add the yolks of eggs and cream (see p. 40), the little fancy-shaped pieces of cucumber which should have been cooked separately in boiling salted water. A few leaves of chervil may also be used as a garnish. Serve with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Notes.—The yolks of eggs may be omitted if the soup is considered too rich. A little green colour- ing may be used if spinach is not obtainable, and some fine shreds of lettuce may be used for a garnish if chervil is not easy to find. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 158. Curry Soup, White (Potage au Kari) 2 pts. white stock. 1 table-sp. curry powder. 1 table-sp. rice flour. 1 gill milk. 1 gill cream. 1 yolk of egg. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 table-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. Small pieces cooked chicken or rabbit. Any light stock, or the water in which a fowl, rabbit, or piece of veal has been boiled, will do for this soup. Put the stock into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil. Put the curry powder and rice flour into a basin, add the milk gradually to them, mixing with an iron spoon until smooth. Add this to the stock, stir until boiling, and simmer for ten minutes. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and strain in the cream and yolk of egg mixed to- gether. Season to taste, and sprinkle in the parsley. If possible, add some small pieces of chicken or rabbit. Stir the soup over the fire until almost boiling. Do not boil, or the yolk of egg will curdle. Squeeze in the lemon juice, and pour the soup into a' hot soup tureen. Serve with plain boiled rice, on a separate dish. Time to cook, J hour. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 159. Green Pea Soup, St. Germain Soup (Potage St. Germain) 3 gills shelled green peas. A handful of pea shells. A few parsley stalks. A sprig of mint. 3 spring onions. 1 lump of sugar. 2 pts. second white stock. 1 lettuce. 1 gill of thin cream. Salt and pepper. Wash the shells well and cut them into pieces. Wash and shred the lettuce, and wash and slice thinly the onions. Put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the prepared vege- tables, the parsley, mint, sugar, and 2 gills of the green peas (1 gill of peas should be reserved and cooked separately to be used as a garnish for the soup). Boil gently until the peas are quite tender, adding more water or stock if the liquid reduces too much. Then rub through a hair sieve or tammy into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the cream, the whole green peas and seasoning, and bring to the boil again. A little chopped chervil may also be added if procurable. Serve with croutons of fried bread or cheese pastry cut in straws (see Recipe 1305). Note.—A few spinach leaves may be cooked in this soup to give colour. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, about 2 pints. 160. Hollandaise Soup (Potage Hollandaise) 1 qt. white stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. fiouB. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill of thin cream. Pepper and salt. I small turnip. 1 carrot. \ a cucumber. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley or tarragon. A pinch of sugar. A tea-cupful of green peas. Prepare the carrot and turnip, and peel the cucumber. Cut half a tea-cupful of small rounds out of each of them, using a vegetable cutter the size and shape of a pea. Cook these in separate saucepans of boiling water and salt until tender, but not overcooked. Drain when ready. Cook and drain the grean peas also. Melt the butter in a73 STOCKS AND SOUPS saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Pour in the stock, stir until boiling, and skim if necessary. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and strain in the yolks of eggs and cream mixed together, stirring constantly. Cook carefully until the yolks thicken, but do not allow the soup to boil again, or it will curdle. Add the chopped parsley or tarragon, a pinch of sugar and seasoning to taste. Put the prepared vege- tables into a hot soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over them. Serve with pulled bread or cheese pastry cut in fine straws. Time to cook, \ to f hour. Probable cost, 2 s. Quantity, 2 pints. 161. Lettuce Cream Soup (Potage Creme de Laitues) 2 or 3 lettuces. 2 oz. butter. | pt. bechamel sauce. 1J pt. white stock. 1 gill of thin cream. A little chervil or chopped parsley. Salt. Pull the lettuces to pieces and wash them well. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt, boil quickly for 5 minutes, and strain. Then rinse them with cold water, chop them roughly and put them in a saucepan with the butter. Season with salt, put the lid on the pan and cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, being careful the contents do not burn. Then add the sauce and simmer for 20 minutes longer. Now rub the con- tents of the saucepan through a hair sieve or tammy- cloth, return the puree thus obtained to a clean saucepan and moisten it with the white stock. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and add the cream and chervil last. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 162, Macaroni Cream Soup (Potage a la Royale) 2 pts. white stock. 2 oz. cooked macaroni. 1 gill cream. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of cayenne. Cook the macaroni without allowing it to become pulpy, and cut it in small pieces or rings. Heat the stock, put the macaroni into it and allow it to simmer at least 5 minutes. Beat the cream, yolks of eggs and cheese together, add them to the soup and make thoroughly hot without boiling. Add a pinch of cayenne, the chopped parsley and a little salt if necessary. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Time to cook, about 20 minutea. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 163. Mushroom Soup (Potage Creme de Champignons) 1 lb. fresh mushrooms. 1J pts. light stock. 1£ oz. butter. if oz. flour. \ pt. milk. 1 Spanish onion. 1 stick of celery. A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill cream. Wash the mushrooms and cut them in small pieces. _ Put them into a saucepan with the butter and onion and celery roughly chopped. Cook these for a few minutes over the fire and pour in the stock. Simmer 1 hour or longer until the mushrooms are soft, and then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the sieved soup to it. Add the flour broken smoothly with the milk, stir until boiling and simmer a few minutes longer. Season to taste and add the cream, parsley, and lemon juice just before serving. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 164. Parisian Cream Soup Make in the same way as Tapioca Cream Soup (Recipe 169), adding 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 165. Potato Soup & la Parmentier (Creme Parmentier) 1 lb. peeled potatoes. 1 qt. white stock. 2 or 3 leeks. 2 oz. butter. A little chervil. I pt. hot milk. 1 gill cream. Seasoning. Prepare the potatoes and leeks and cut them in thin slices. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and cook over the fire a few minutes. Pour in the white stock and cook until the potatoes are quite soft. Then rub as much as possible through a hair sieve or tammy into a basin. Return to the saucepan to reheat and add the hot milk, cream, and seasoning Sprinkle with a little chervil if obtainable, and add the following garnish: Garnish.—One gill asparagus points, cooked in boiling water and salt until tender, then strained. Half gill carrots, cut in the shape of a pea with a cutter for the purpose (see Recipe 125), cooked in boiling water and salt until tender, then strained. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 166. Rabbit Cream Soup 1 rabbit (small). 3 pts. cold water. A small piece of ham. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | pt. milk. Salt to taste. 2 onions. (Potage Cr£me de Lapin) A stick of celery. A few parsley stalks. 6 white peppercorns. 3 cloves. A blade of mace. 1 gill of thin cream. Wash and clean the rabbit well, let it lie in salt and water for half an hour, lift out, dry, and cut it in small joints. Cut the flesh in small pieces, and chop the bones. (If the rabbit is a large one, or only a small quantity of soup is required, some of the fillets from the back might be put aside for another dish.) Put the meat and bones into a sauce- pan with cold water to cover them, add a little salt, and bring quickly to the boil. Pour off this water and rinse the saucepan and rabbit until quite free from scum. Now pour 2J pints of cold water over the rabbit, or sufficient to well cover it, add the ham cut in small pieces, or a small ham bone, and bring this slowly to the boil. Skim if necessary and add the vegetables cut in small pieces, the bunch of herbs, and spices tied in muslin. Simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours until the goodness is all extracted from the rabbit. Then strain through a fine sieve into a basin. Put some of the meat into a mortar, pound it with a little of the liquid and rub it through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, melt in it the butter, add the flour and mix until smooth. Add the liquid, milk, and sieved meat and stir until boiling. Tammy or sieve again if wished very smooth and velvety. Boil for 10COOKERY EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 74 minutes and add the cream and more seasoning if necessary. Serve with croutons of fried bread, or a dish of cooked rice or macaroni may be handed separately. Notes.—A little curry powdered, moistened with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, may be added to this soup if liked. Some nice little pieces of rabbit may be lifted out after they have cooked about an hour, cut in strips and then put into the soup as a garnish. Time to cook, 4 hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 21 pints. 167. Cream of Rice Soup (Potage Creme de Riz) 1 qt. chicken or veal stock. 1 gill cream. 2 oz. creme de riz or flour of rice. 1 yolk of egg. A pinch of sugar. A pinch of ground cinnamon. 2 oz. butter. Salt to taste. Any thin white stock will do for this soup, or the water in which a fowl, rabbit, or piece of veal has been boiled. Skim all fat from it and bring it to the boil in a saucepan. Mix the creme de riz with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold stock or water, and when the stock is hot add this to it. Stir until boiling and cook from 10 to 15 minutes, adding the butter in small pieces. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and add the cream and yolk of egg mixed together. Add seasoning to taste, sugar and cinnamon, but do not boil again or the soup will curdle. Strain through a fine strainer into a hot soup tureen and serve with fried croutons of bread. Notes.—The yolk of egg may be omitted. Whole rice or ground rice may be used instead of creme de riz. In this case the soup would require longer cooking, and should be sieved before the cream and egg are added. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 168. Sorrel Soup (Potage Creme a l’Oseille) \ lb. picked sorrel. II pts. white stock. 3 gills milk, 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. creme de riz. 1 gill of thin cream. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 slice of bread and butter. Wash the sorrel carefully, cut it up roughly and put it into a saucepan with the butter. Stir over a gentle fire for 5 or 10 minutes, and add the creme de riz and a pinch of sugar. Mix well and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling and let the whole simmer gently for | hour. Rub through a sieve and return the soup to a clean saucepan. Bring to the boil, add the milk and seasoning and boil again. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and strain in the yolks of eggs and cream, stirring all the time. The soup must not boil after these are added. The bread and butter should be cut in small round pieces and browned in the oven. Put these croutes into the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Note.—A little tarragon and chervil cleaned and cut in fine shreds may be added to this soup. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 169. Tapioca Cream Soup (Creme de Tapioca) 2 pts. good white stock. 1J oz. crushed tapioca. 1 gill of thin cream. Pepper and salt. 2 yolks of eggs. Remove any grease from the top of the stock, put it into a saucepan, and bring to the boil over the fire. Then sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring well, and cook from 10 to 15 minutes until the tapioca turns quite clear. Season to taste. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream, draw the pan with the soup in it to the side of the fire and strain these in, stirring all the time. Reheat, but do not boil again, or the soup will curdle. Serve with croutons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 170. Tomato and Green Pea Soup 4 pt. shelled green peas. 3 or 4 tomatoes. \ pint water. 1 qt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 gill cooked green peas. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in slices and put them into a saucepan with the \ pint of green peas (rather old ones will do). Add the water, which, should well cover them, and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. Then rub as much as pos- sible through a sieve, keeping back the seeds and skins. Return this puree to a clean saucepan, add to it the cornflour mixed to a smooth paste with a little of the stock, and then the remainder of the stock. Bring to the boil, boil for a few minutes, and season to taste. Then add the cooked peas and the butter broken in small pieces. Do not boil again. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Time to cook, 1}: hours. Probable cost, 1,9. lOeZ. Quantity, 2 pints. 171. Veal Cream Soup with Vermicelli (Potage Creme au Vermicelle) 2 lbs. knuckle of veal. 2qts. water, ltea-sp.salt. Flavouring vegetables. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. vermicelli. 1 gill cream. 2 yolks of eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. Wipe the veal, cut it in small pieces and put it into a saucepan with the cold water and a good tea-spoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and add about 2 cupfuls of flavouring vege- tables cut in small pieces, and a small bunch of herbs. Let all simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, then strain and allow the stock to cool. Next day remove all fat from the top, put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the butter and vermicelli broken in small pieces and cook it slowly for J hour or until quite soft. Then draw the soup to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of egg and cream mixed together but do not boil again. Serve very hot with fried croutons of bread. Note.—The veal and vegetables left from making the stock should be put into the stock pot. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours first day, | hour second day. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2\ pints.STOCKS AND SOUPS 75 172. Velvet Soup (Potage Velours) | lb. red carrots. 2 oz. butter. 1| pts. white stock. 1 onion or leek. 1 dessert-sp. fine tapioca. Seasoning. 1 gill cream. Use the red part only of the carrots and cut it in thin slices. Put it into a saucepan with the onion or leek also sliced thinly, and half the butter. Cook slowly over the fire for a few minutes, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with \ pint of stock and simmer until the carrot is quite soft. Then rub through a hair sieve. Put the remainder of the stock into a clean sauce- pan and bring it to the boil, sprinkle in the tapioca and allow it to cook until it turns clear. Then add to it the carrot puree and cook the two together for a few minutes. Add the cream and the re- mainder of the butter broken in small pieces. The soup should not boil again after the butter is added. Serve with croiitons of pastry, or puffed rice (Recipe 1605). Note.—The cream may be omitted. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 1£ pints. 173, Viennese Soup (Soupe & la Venoise) 3 pts. white stock. 1 oz. barley meal. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 sticks white celery. 2 leeks. Seasoning. 1 gill of cream. 2 yolks of eggs. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the barley meal, and cook the two together for a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Moisten with 1 pint of the stock and stir until boiling. Then add the remainder of the stock and the celery and leek cut in fine shreds. Allow the soup to cook slowly for 1 hour, season to taste and add the yolks of eggs and cream just before serving (see p. 40). Serve with croutons of fried bread. Note.—Chicken stock is the best for making this soup. If the soup becomes too thick during the cooking, more stock must be added. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2J pints. 174. Watercress Cream Soup (Potage CrSme Cressoniere) 2 bunches watercress. 2 oz. butter. | lb. sieved potato. 1 qt. white stock. 1 gill cream. Seasoning. Pick and wash the cress carefully, then drain and chop it roughly, reserving a few good leaves to serve as a garnish for the soup. Put the chopped cress into a saucepan with the butter and allow it to cook for a few minutes over the fire, without browning. Then add the cooked and sieved potato and dilute gradually with the stock. Simmer all together from 15 to 20 minutes and then rub through a hair sieve or tammy. Return the soup to the saucepan to reheat, season to taste and add the cream. Garnish with a few leaves of watercress, which have been boiled in salted water for 5 minutes. Serve with croutons of cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—1 or 2 yolks of eggs may be added to the soup if wished. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 175. White Soup 1 qt. good white stock. I 1 oz. cornflour or potato 2 oz. butter. Salt. | flour. 1 gill cream. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan and stir in the cornflour until smooth. Add the stock gradu- ally and stir until boiling. Pour in the cream, bring to the boil again and simmer 10 minutes. Then strain or tammy and return to the saucepan to reheat. Season to taste and serve with croutons of fried bread, or of cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—A garnish may be added to the soup if wished, such as green peas, carrot cut in fancy shapes, asparagus points, egg balls, &c. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 176, Clear Fish Soup (Consomme Poissoniere) 1 qt. good fish stock. 6 oz. raw white fish. Fish quenelles. The fish stock used flavoured. Put it into 2 whites anfl shells of eggs. 1 glass of white wine, must be good and well a lined saucepan with the wine, the raw fish finely shred and the whites and shells of eggs. Whisk over the fire until a good froth rises, allow the soup to boil well up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it stand for 10 minutes. Strain through muslin or a soup cloth, see Consomme, Recipe 117. When all has passed through return the soup to the saucepan to reheat, season to taste and add a garnish of small fish quenelles, see Recipe 1300. If liked, half the quenelles may be coloured pink with a little lobster butter. Quantity, 2 pints. 177, Lobster Soup or Bisque (Bisque de Homard) 1 lobster. 3 pts. fish stock. 1£ oz. butter. 1J oz. flour. | carrot. J turnip. 1 onion. 1 stick celery. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Pepper, salt. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 glass white wine. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the vegetables, cut in small pieces, and fry them a few minutes. Sprinkle in the flour and fry a pale brown colour. Then add the stock and stir until boiling. Meantime have the lobster broken in pieces, remove the green part from the throat, throwing it away, cut the meat from the big claws into neat pieces, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Put the shell and the rest of the lobster into a mortar and pound well. Add this to the soup with the bunch of herbs and boil all together for one hour. Rub through a fine sieve, rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it. Let it boil up and skim well. Add the cream, pieces of lobster, wine, and other seasonings; make all very hot and serve with toast. Notes.—If the fish stock is well flavoured some of the above vegetables may be omitted. The wine and cream may also be omitted and a little milk added. If a hen lobster is used and there is spawn, pound this in a mortar with a little butter, rub it through a hair sieve and add it to the soup at the last to give colour. A few fish quenelles (see p. 311) are sometimes served in this soup. Time to cook, 1 \ hours. Quantity, 2 pints.76 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 178. Oyster Soup (Potage aux Huitres) 2 doz. fresh oysters or 3 doz. tinned oysters. 2 pts. white or fish stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A pinch of cayenne. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 gill of cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. White pepper and salt. Put the oysters into a small saucepan with their own liquor, bring them almost to the boil, then strain, saving the liquor. Beard the oysters (that is, remove the piece like a fringe that encircles them), cut them in two, and put them aside for serving in the soup. Put the beards into a saucepan with the liquor and the stock, and let them simmer for half an hour, to extract all the flavour from them. If the stock is not previously well flavoured, small pieces of the different flavouring vegetables should also be cooked in it. Strain through a fine hair sieve or piece of muslin, and rinse out the saucepan ready for use. First melt in it the butter being careful it does not brown, add to it the flour, and mix together until quite smooth. Pour on the stock, and stir constantly over the fire until boiling. Skim if necessary. Season to taste with a little white pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin with the cream, draw the pan with the soup in it to the side of the fire, and strain them into it, stirring all the time. Reheat, but do not boil again. Add a squeeze of lemon juice. Put the oysters into the soxlp tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Note.—The cream may be omitted if considered too rich. Time to cook, 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 179. Shrimp Soup (Bisque de Crevettes) 1 pt. boiled shrimps. 2 pts. white or fish stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A pinch of cayenne. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 gill cream. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Wash the shrimps and peel them. Put the shells into a saucepan with the stock, and simmer them slowly for 15 minutes to extract the flavour. Strain through muslin and throw the shells away. Melt the butter in the pan, being careful it does not brown, add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Pour on the strained stock, stir over the fire until boding and skim if necessary. Season to taste, add the picked shrimps and simmer 5 minutes longer. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, strain in the yolks of egg and cream mixed together, and stir over the fire a minute or two, being careful the soup does not boil again. Add a squeeze of lemon juice just before serving. Note.—This soup may be made plainer by omit- ting the egg and cream and using rather more butter and flour for thickening. A little milk, too, may be used instead of some of the stock to make the soup a white colour. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints.FISH Perhaps there is nothing so difficult to cook well as fish, its delicate flavour is so easily lost, and its light, creamy flakiness so quickly destroyed. Many an otherwise successful cook has failed to acquire the art of cooking it properly. In most cases this failure may bo ascribed to ignorance of, or neglect to follow the simple and elementary rules for the preparation, and various methods of cooking, this important and delicious article of diet. Patience, care, and attention to detail are all required in its preparation. Full directions in regard to choosing, cleaning, and the various methods of preparing and cooking the different kinds of-fish are given here. PART I VARIOUS PRELIMINARIES ON CHOOSING FISH General Hints.—Fish to be good ought to be in season and very fresh. Moderate-sized fish are usually best, especially those which are thick and plump in proportion to their size. Small fish are inclined to be tasteless and very large ones coarse in texture. The quality of fish is very much influenced by the kind of food on which they have been living. They are supposed also to be at their best just before spawning, but during spawning they are poor in quality. As a general rule fish cannot be too fresh, the oily kinds of fish and freshwater fish especially should be cooked as soon as possible after being taken from the water. There are several signs by which the freshness of fish can be judged—the fish should be firm and stifi, the gills red, the eyes bright and not sunken, and there should be no unpleasant smell. A flat fish should never be bought without look- ing at both sides, and especially the grey side, as this betrays any want of freshness more quickly than the white. A plaice, for instance, can always be judged by its spots ; when fresh they are bright red, and after it has been kept some time they take a brownish hue. In choosing cut fish, such as cod, halibut, salmon, &c., the flesh should have a firm appearance with a close grain; if it looks fibrous and watery it is not good. Never choose fish that is bruised or has the skin broken, as it will not keep well. For special points as to the choosing of fish see under the various kinds. Frozen Fish.—Fish that is frozen by being kept on ice should be thawed by letting it lie in cold water before it is used. Do not allow it to remain in the water longer than is necessary. GENERAL RULES FOR CLEANING FISH The thorough cleansing of fish is essential to its wholesomeness. Although in towns fish is usually bought ready cleaned by the fishmonger, it is always as well to know how it ought to be done, as sometimes in country districts, and very often at the seaside, the knowledge is necessary. First empty the fish. Some fish require to be cut open before being emptied, others have the insides drawn out by the gills. Flat fish, such as plaice, flounders, soles, and the like are emptied by making a small cut on the dark side of the fish across the round cavity, which lies close below the gills. The inside can then be easily withdrawn and the gills removed. Other fish, which swim with the back upwards, such as haddock, whiting, codling, &c., are cleaned by making a slit down the length of the abdomen, from the head about half- way to the tail. Again, there are some small and delicate fish which are not opened at all, but merely drawn through the gills (see Smelts and Red Mullet). When drawing the inside from the fish, be careful not to disfigure it, handle it as lightly as possible. If there is a roe in the fish, this may be replaced in the case of small fish and cooked with them, if they are being cooked whole, but the roe of large fish requires to be cooked separately, otherwise it would not be sufficiently done. The liver may also be replaced, if it is liked. The sounds, which consist of a white skinny substance lying close to the back bone, are sometimes left, but as a rule it is better to remove them. The sounds of a cod are generally served as a separate dish (see Recipe 192). When the inside has been removed wash the fish well in cold water, using a little salt if it is slimy. Be careful to remove any black skin lining the cavity of the fish, rubbing it off with salt if necessary. If this were left it would give a bitter taste to the fish. Also remove any blood from the back bone. If there are scales on the fish, they should be scraped ofi from tail to head with a small knife. Hold the knife slanting against the fish and scrape slowly to prevent the scales from flying about. If the scales are found very difficult to remove, as is sometimes the case, especially with freshwater fish, it is a good plan to plunge the fish into boiling water for a minute or two, until the scales turn dull. This will be found to loosen them con- siderably. If the fish is to be served whole, cut off the fins with a pair of scissors, cutting from the tail to theCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 78 head, and then trim the tail. Also remove the eyes. If the skin covering these is tough, cut through it first with a pair of scissors and then the eyes can easily be pulled out, or pushed out from the inside. As a rule, fish should not be allowed to soak too much in water, it is better to wash them at a tap of running water and just to rinse them under the water. Some freshwater fish are an exception to this rule, they have such a strong muddy flavour, that they require to be soaked for some time before they are cooked. TO SKIN AND FILLET FISH A Haddock and other Round Fish.—These are skinned from the head downwards. First wash the fish in cold water and make a cut through the skin on both sides and close to the fins. Also make a cut across the skin just below the head and commence at the flap part. Loosen the skin there, keeping down the flesh with the knife ; begin very carefully and then pull gradually downwards towards the tail. Turn and do the other side in the same way. The fingers may be dipped in a little salt to keep them from slipping, or the skin may be held with a cloth. To Fillet the Fish.—Remove the flesh cleanly from the bones on both sides. Commence at the open side of the fish and at the head end. Lay the flesh backwards, but do not separate it from the other side. Turn and do the other side in the same way, commencing at the tail end this time. A filleted haddock should be in one piece. A Sole and other Flat Fish.—These are skinned from the tail upwards. First wash the fish and cut off the fins. Lay it on a board with the tail end nearest you, and the dark side uppermost. Make a cut across the skin just above the tail, slip a knife under it and raise the skin slightly from the flesh. Then with the right thumb loosen the skin all the way up the right side. Loosen up the other side in the same way, this time using the thumb of the left hand. Then hold the tail of the fish firmly down on the board ; take hold of the loosened skin with a cloth, and pull it off quickly, drawing it upwards towards the head. The white skin may be removed in the same way, but this is frequently left on. If the skin adheres very closely, a knife must be used to help the process. To Fillet the Fish.—Make a cut straight down the middle of the back to the back bone. Then remove the flesh first from one side and then from the other. Two fillets are taken from each side. It will be found easiest to raise the first fillet from the left-hand side of the fish, working from the head towards the tail; and then to turn the fish round, and to raise the second fillet, working from the tail towards the head. Turn the fish right over, and do the other side in the same way. Note.—Filleting is really best learnt by watching a fishmonger or other competent person at work. FISH STOCK FROM TRIMMINGS One advantage in filleting fish at home is that stock can be made from the trimmings, and this stock used for cooking the fish, or for making a sauce to accompany it. There is no comparison between sauce made with good fish stock and that in which milk or water forms the liquid part,—the latter is entirely lacking in character. If time does not permit of the filleting being done at home, some fish trimmings should be ordered along with the fish if a sauce is required. Care must, however, be taken that these trimmings are perfectly fresh. To Make the Stock.—Wash the trimmings, dis- carding any black-looking skin, and break the bones in pieces. Put them into a lined saucepan with water or milk and water to cover them, and add a few parsley stalks, a small piece of onion, a few white peppercorns, and a little salt. Simmer by the side of the fire at least \ hour and then strain ready for use. White wine may be used instead of the milk. GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING FISH Boiling This method of cooking is best suited to large uncut fish or to thick pieces of fish, such as salmon, halibut, cod, ling, hake, turbot, &c. Boiling is not to be recommended for small fish, nor for thin slices of fish. Fish should never be skinned for boiling, and when whole the head should be left on, with the eyes taken out.FISH 79 All fish, with the exception of salt fish, should be ut into water that is very hot, but not bubbling ard, and salted in the proportion of 1 oz. salt to 1 gallon of water, and 2 table-sps. vinegar or lemon juice to the same quantity. The acid is added to make the flesh of the fish white and firm. If the fish about to be cooked is dry and tasteless, fish stock or court bouillon should be used instead of water, in fact it is always preferable to use one of these if they can be obtained. A simple court bouillon (quickly made stock) can be made by adding a bunch of herbs, a little cut-up carrot, onion and celery, and a few flavouring spices tied in muslin, to the water in which the fish is to be cooked. White wine is sometimes added instead of vinegar, od half white wine and half French vinegar may be used. What is known as court bouillon au bleu is made by substituting claret for the white wine. This is supposed to give the fish a bluish tinge. Again, there is the court bouillon a la Nantai.se, which is composed of equal quantities of milk and water. This gives fish a very soft and mellow flavour and is especially suited to fish that is being cooked for an invalid. A fish kettle is the best utensil to use for boiling fish, where there is a drainer, which enables the fish to be lifted out easily without being broken. It should be just large enough to hold the fish com- fortably. If a kettle too large for the fish has unavoidably to be used, the fish should be strapped on to the strainer with a piece of tape to prevent its being knocked about in the water. If no fish kettle is available a stewpan may be used. An old plate should be placed inside and the fish tied in a piece of butter muslin or cheese cloth. If the ends of the muslin are allowed to hang over the sides of the stewpan the fish can be easily raised out of the water without danger of breaking it. Always weigh the fish before boiling, so as to judge the time it will require to cook. From 8 to 10 minutes to the lb. and 8 to 10 minutes over is an average allowance, but this must be modified according to the shape and thickness of the fish. No hard and fast rule can be laid down; a thick cut of fish will take longer to cook than a thin flat piece of equal weight. Have sufficient water or court bouillon in the fish kettle to cover the fish by 2 inches and no more. If too much liquid is used the skin of the fish will in all probability be broken. Allow the liquid to boil up again after the .fish is put in and then draw the kettle to the side of the fire and allow the contents to simmer only, for the required time. If cooked too quickly, the outside will become cracked and broken before the inside is ready. All scum that rises must be carefully removed, if allowed to remain it would spoil the appearance of the fish entirely. The readiness of the fish must be tested before it is lifted from the water. The flesh ought to have lost its clear appearance and to have become white and opaque. The flesh should also come away from the bone easily, and a wooden skewer may be gently pushed in to try this. Fish should always be sufficiently cooked or it will be unwholesome, and at the same time not overcooked or it will be flavourless. As soon as the fish is ready, lift it out of the liquid in whioh it has been cooking and drain it well. If it cannot be served at once, keep it warm on the drainer placed across the fish kettle and covered over with a hot, clean cloth. Serve the fish on a dish with a drainer, and if liked a folded fish napkin or paper doyley under it. The custom of using a fish napkin is not altogether a desirable one unless the fish is very well drained previously, as it absorbs the moisture and is inclined to make the fish sodden. Garnish the fish with fresh parsley and cut lemon or any other suitable decoration and serve sauce separately. Boiled or steamed potatoes are usually served with boiled fish. Note.—For exceptions to the above rules see the various recipes for boiling special kinds of fish. Broiling or Grilling This is cooking fish on a grill, either in front of or over a nice clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. It is one of the best methods of cooking small fish, as the flavour is retained better than by any other way. Herring, mackerel, trout, had- dock, red mullet, &c., may all be cooked in this manner, also slices or steaks of the larger kinds of fish. They may be prepared in one of the following ways : 1. Wash and clean the fish, cutting off the heads and fins, and dry them lightly in a cloth. Then score the skin across diagonally on both sides to prevent it cracking during the process of cooking. Season the fish with pepper and salt, and brush it over with oil or melted butter, or allow it to soak for an hour in a mixture of oil and vinegar with a little chopped parsley and shallot : or 2. The fish may be split open, the bone removed and then lightly coated with flour or fine oatmeal. The latter is most suitable for herring, mackerel, or trout. A coating of egg and bread-crumbs may also be used if liked. Thoroughly heat the gridiron, grease it well, and lay the fish on it. Keep the fish rather near the fire while cooking or it will become flabby. Cook it from seven to ten minutes according to the thickness of the fish, and turn it once at least during the process. If a gas stove is used, place the fish on the grid tin and make the grill red hot before placing the fish under it. See also Grilling of Meat, p. 208. When finished it should be nicely browned on both sides and show the marks of the grill. Serve grilled fish at once with cut lemon and small pats of maitre d’hotel or any other savoury butter. If there are any roes belonging to the fish,- these may be cooked on a tin in the oven and used as a garnish. Some sharp sauce, such as tartare, cucumber, or tomato, may be served separately, and parsley or watercress used as a garnish. Grilling in Paper.—Fillets of fish, such as salmon, turbot, or sole, are sometimes wrapped in a heart- shaped piece of greased paper with a spoonful of any good sauce and grilled thus. They may also be soaked or marinaded in a mixture of oil, &c., as above, previous to being wrapped up. They should be served in the paper (en papillottes). See Recipe 290. Baking The simplest method of baking fish is to place it on a well-greased baking tin or fireproof dish80 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD with a little fat on buttei) round, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; to cover it with greased paper and cook in a moderate oven until ready. The fish may be served with or without sauce. See Recipe 269. Or, the fish may be stuSed with one of the various stuffings given on p. 307 and then cooked in the oven with some butter or dripping to baste it. Sauce may be served round the fish if wished. See Recipe 207. Or, again, the fish may be baked au gratin, that is, with a seasoning of chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shallot, or grated cheese, sprinkled with bread-crumbs with butter on the top. (See Sole au Gratin, Recipe 252.) A little white wine or sauce may be poured round the fish before it is put in the oven. As baking is a very dry method of cooking, some butter or other fat must always be put along with the fish. Steaming Fish may be cooked by steam instead of boiling it. It is a slower process, but the flavour of the fish is retained better than by boiling, especially in smaller pieces of fish. The fish is placed in a steamer which fits on to a saucepan and success depends upon keeping plenty of water boiling under it. Slices of fish, small skinned whiting, or fillets of fish can be cooked to perfection both as to flavour and substance by steaming, whereas boiling would render them woolly and tasteless. If it is only a small quantity of fish which requires cooking it may be steamed on a plate. Grease the plate with butter and lay the fish neatly on it. Season to taste and squeeze a little lemon juice over the top. Put a piece of well-greased paper on the top and cover with a second plate, or the saucepan lid. Place this on the top of a saucepan of boiling water and allow it to remain from twenty to thirty minutes, or until the fish is sufficiently cooked. The liquid on the plate should be served with the fish or made into a sauce with a little flour and butter, and then poured over the fish. Note.—This is an excellent way of serving fish for an invalid Frying This is one of the most popular ways of cooking fish, and small fish are perhaps more palatable pre- pared in this way than by any other method. Un- fortunately frying is badly understood in many households, and the productions called fried fish are not only greasy and unsightly, but unpalatable and indigestible as well. Fish properly fried should be of a pretty brown colour, dry and crisp, and as free from grease as if it had never been touched by fat. Even the paper on which it is served should show little or no sign of grease. All kinds of fish may be fried in one way or an- other. Small fish are better fried whole, larger ones should be filleted or cut in slices. Before fish is fried it must be made very dry, and the outside must be coated with some prepara- tion, which will prevent the fat entering. There are several different ways of coating the fish. The first and simplest method is to dip it into flour, seasoned with pepper and salt. The flour used should be fine and dry, and if at all lumpy should be sieved before using. Fine oatmeal is some- times used instead of flour. Another way is to dip the fish in milk after the first coating of flour and then in flour again. Then, again, the fish may be dipped in frying batter (see Recipe 1861) to coat the outside. This is only suitable for small pieces of fish, and it makes them look like a fritter. Perhaps the most satisfactory method of all is to egg and bread-crumb the fish, and this certainly has the best appearance when finished. Whichever method is adopted the fish itself must always be neatly trimmed, and then the coat- ing on the outside complete so that there is no opening left for the fat to enter. If flour, or flour and milk are used as a coating, this must be applied just before the fish is to be cooked, otherwise the flour becomes moist and the fish does not fry well. Batter also can only be used at the last minute. Egging and bread-crumbing may, on the other hand, be done sometime before the fish is to be fried, and even the night before if the fish is to be served for breakfast. There are two different methods of frying fish, wet frying and dry frying. The former is the most suitable for small fish or fillets of fish, the latter for larger fish or pieces of fish, which require a slower process of cooking. Wet Frying or French Frying.—This is cooking in a large quantity of fat sufficient to cover the fish. For full directions see p. 248. Do not put too many pieces of fish into the fat at one time, or the fat will be cooled down so much that it will soak into them. If a frying basket is used the pieces must not overlap each other. Let the fish fry a nice brown colour, then lift it out and drain on kitchen paper. If a frying basket is not used a perforated spoon or skimmer should be taken to lift out the fish, so that the fat is not wasted. Always allow the fat to reheat before a fresh lot of fish is put in, and try to make each lot the same shade of brown. Fried fish must be served very hot, and should be dished with a dish paper under it. Garnish with cut lemon and fresh or fried parsley, or small bunches of cress. Dry Frying or Sauteing.—This means frying in a saute or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. There should only be sufficient fat to cover the foot of the pan about -g of an inch. The fat mustFISH 81 be made smoking hot before the fish is placed in it, so that the outside is sealed up, and the juice and flavour retained. The fish must be prepared in the same way as for wet frying. Then place it in the hot fat and brown it first on one side and then on the other, turning it with a broad-bladed knife or fish slice. When cooked, lift out and drain on paper. Serve in the same way as above. Poaching This is one of the most delicate ways of cooking small fillets of fish. Take a very clean baking tin or shallow sauce- pan, grease it and lay in the fillets of fish, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Barely cover them with fish stock (see p. 78) or with fish stock and white wine mixed. Lay a piece of greased paper over and cook in the oven or on the top of the stove until the fish is ready. A few minutes will be sufficient. Lift the fish carefully, draining it well, and use the liquid to make a sauce for covering it. In this way the flavour of the fish is retained, and the most delicate kind of fish need not be overcooked. Stewing This is one of the most tasty ways of preparing fish, and especially small fish. The fish may either be filleted and rolled or cut in pieces, or, if small, it may be stewed whole. The liquid part of the stew should be fish stock made from the bones and trimmings of the fish, or a mixture of wine and stock, or milk and water may be used if a very delicate stew is wanted. The fish is simmered in enough liquid to cover it until cooked, then lifted carefully out and kept warm, while the liquid in which it has been cooked is thickened and seasoned to make a sauce. This is then strained over the fish. Fish should always be stewed in an enamelled or earthenware saucepan, and especially if wine is being used. By this means of cooking none of the goodness of the fish is lost. Price of Fish It is impossible to give the exact price of any kind of fish, so much tends to make it vary; all that can be done is to give a fair average. The following prices are taken from London Store lists: 'Name of Fish. Average Price. Bream 6(2. to 8(2. per lb. Brill 8(2. to Is. 6(2. Carp from Is. each. Cod . 4<2. to 10(2. per lb. Crab 4c2. to 8(2. small. Dory 6(2. to 9(2. per lb. Eels 6(2. to Is. per lb. Flounders . . . . . . 4(2. to 8(2. per lb. Grey mullet 8(2. to 10(2. per lb. Gurnet 6(2. to 8(2. per lb. Haddock 3(2. to Is. each. Hake 4(2. to 8(2. per lb. Halibut 8(2. to Is. 6(2. per lb. Herring \d. to 2d. each. Kippers and bloaters . . 1(2. to 2d. each. Ling . . . Lobster . . Mackerel . . Mussels . . . Oysters . . . Perch . . . Pike . . . Plaice . . . Prawns . . . Red mullet . Salmon . . . Scallops . . Sea-bream . Skate . . . Snrimps . . Smelts . . . Sole . . . Sole (lemon) Sprats . . . Trout . . . Turbot . . . Whitebait Whiting . . 4(2. to 8(2. per lb. from Is. each, from 3(2. each, from 4(2. per quart, from Is. per dozen. 6(2. to Is. each. 6(2. per lb. from 4(2. each. 1(2. to 3(2. each, from 10(2. per lb. Is. to 3s. per lb. 9(2. to 2s. per doz. 4(2. to 6(2. per lb. 4(2. to 6(2. per lb. from 4(2. per pt. 1(2. to 2d. each, from Is. 6(2. per lb. 10(2. to Is. per lb. 2d. per lb. Is. each. Is. per lb. from Is. per quart. 2d. to 6(2. each. Calendar of Fish in Season. See pp. 26-29. PART II SALTWATER FISH Bass (Bar) This is a fish of which there are several different varieties. It is to be found both in fresh and in salt water, and its flesh is very much esteemed. Besides the recipes given below the larger fish may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking salmon and the smaller ones like perch or trout. 180. Baked Bass 1 or 2 bass. Dripping or butter. Seasoning. Potatoes. Chopped parsley. Mustard sauce. Choose small or medium-sized bass, and wash and clean them carefully (see p. 77). Put a little butter Bass or good dripping inside the fish and season them with pepper and salt. Lay them on a greased baking tin and put some more fat or butter on the top. Bake in a good oven from 20 to 30 minutes according to the size of the fish, and baste now and again with the fat. A fish weighing 2 lbs. will re- quire 20 minutes and a larger one longer in pro- portion. Have ready some potatoes (a quantity suited to the size of the fish), cut in neat pieces ana , F82 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD parboiled, put these into the baking tin and cook them along with the fish for the last 10 or 12 minutes. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish, arrange the potatoes neatly round, and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. Serve mustard sauce (see Recipe 697) separately. 181. Stuffed Bass (Bar farci) 1 bass. Seasoning. i Bacon fat or butter. Oyster forcemeat. | Lemon juice. Take a bass weighing about 3 lbs., and wash and clean it carefully (see p. 77). Season it inside with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and then prepare some oyster forcemeat, according to Recipe 1275. Put this into the fish and sew it up. Lay it on a greased baking tin, squeeze over some more lemon juice, and put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top. Bake in a hot oven, basting occasionally with the bacon fat. When ready, re- move the fish carefully to a hot dish and draw out the trussing thread. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley, and serve egg, tomato, or any other suit- able sauce separately. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Brill (Barbue). A well-known fish of good quality and flavour, similar in appearance to the turbot, but the skin is smoother and of a pale yellowish brown colour Brill with reddish spots. When fresh the flesh has a yellowish tinge; if bluish in colour it is not good. Brill may be boiled like turbot and served with a good sauce, or it is very good filleted and served according to any of the directions given for filleted sole. 182. Fillets of Brill au Peeheur (Barbue au Pecheur) 2 lbs. brill. A little flour. Seasoning. 2 oz. butter. Chopped parsley. Garnish. 3 or 4 potatoes. \ lb. mushrooms. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. To Prepare the Garnish.—Parboil the potatoes and cut them in small square pieces. Prepare the mushrooms and cut them also in small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potatoes, and let them cook slowly with the lid on the pan until nearly ready. Then add the mushrooms, season to taste, and let the two cook together until ready. To Prepare the Fish.—Have the brill cut in slices, remove the bone and skin and cut the fish in neat pieces or fillets. Season these with pepper and salt and coat them lightly with flour. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a frying or saute pan, when quite hot put in the fish and fry i; a light brown on both sides, cooking it thoroughly. To Serve.—Arrange the pieces of fish on a hot dish, and put the potato and mushroom garnish in little heaps round the sides. Add a little lemon iuice to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it become brown, strain over the fish, and sprinkle with some very finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Cod (Cabillaud). This is one of our best known and most useful kinds of fish. It is generally moderate in price, and is obtainable all the year round, although it is best from October to May. A short, plump cod is best, with the head and tail small in proportion to the size of the body. Almost every part of the cod seems to be of use. The roe is generally sold separately, and it makes a very light and easily digested dish. The liver supplies us with the famous cod liver oil. The tongue, either fresh or salted, is considered quite a delicacy by epicures. The sounds are generally salted, and they make a nice appetiser. The flesh of the cod is also salted in large quan- tities, and is much used during Lent. Cod is a fish which lends itself to many different ways of cooking : the following recipes will serve as a guide to a few, and perhaps suggest many others. 183. Cod, To Boil or Steam A thick middle cut, or the head and shoulders, are the best parts of cod for boiling and steaming. The tail end is too insipid, and is best cut in slices and cooked some other way. It is almost im- Eossible to cook a cod whole, as the tail would ecome overcooked before the rest of the fish was ready. Wash and cleanse the fish thoroughly, rub it all over with salt and lemon juice, and, if time permits, let it lie an hour or two before cooking, as this will improve the flavour. Then boil or steam accord- ing to general directions given on pp. 78-80. When ready, drain well and serve on a hot dish, with a folded serviette or dish paper and a fish drainer under it. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, scraped horse- radish, capers, lobster coral, &c., are also suitable for garnishing. Serve parsley, anchovy, egg, oyster, or any other suitable sauce separately, also boiled potatoes if wished. Note.—A small piece of cod may be served with the sauce poured over it, and in this case as much as possible of the skin should be removed after cooking. Decorate with some hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, chopped parsley, picked shrimps, or lobster coral. Time to cook, 10 minutes to the lb. and 10 minutes over. Allow 6 to 8 oz. per person.FISH 83 184. Fillets of Cod with Parmesan (Cabillaud au Parmesan) 1J lbs. cod. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pint fish stock. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Cayenne pepper. Salt. 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and wash the trimmings in cold water. Put these latter into a saucepan with equal parts of milk and water to cover them, a bay-leaf, a few parsley stalks, and a small onion. Allow this to simmer by the side of the fire from 20 to 30 minutes, then strain this stock, and use half a pint to make the sauce. Meanwhile cut Fillets of Cod with Parmesan the fish into neat pieces, and lay them on a greased tin, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Cover with greased paper, and cook the fish in a moderate oven until quite tender. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and fish stock, and cook it well. Add to it the cream and most of the cheese and season to taste. Arrange the pieces of fish neatly on a hot dish, pouring any liquid from the tin into the sauce. Coat the fish with the sauce, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top. Wipe the edges of the dish, and brown in the oven or in front of the fire before serving. Notes.—A few fried or baked slices of tomato may be used as a garnish. The fish may be basted with white wine if desired. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 185. Cod’s Head, Stuffed 1 cod’s head. Stuffing. 1 glass white wine or fish stock. 2 table-sps. butter or oil. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. Take a cod’s head with part of the shoulders and wash and clean it carefully, removing the eyes and gills and any black skin lining the inside. Prepare some fish stuffing according to Recipe 1266, put it into the head, and sew it up. Now place the head on a well-greased baking dish or tin, pour over it the wine or stock, and add the butter or oil. Bake in a good oven, basting frequently with the liquid. When nearly ready, sprinkle the head with browned bread-crumbs and return to the oven for a few minutes longer. Then lift the head on to a hot dish, remove the thread with which it was sewn, and keep it warm whilst finishing the sauce. Add the brown sauce, anchovy essence and lemon juice to the liquid in the tin, bring to the boil, skim if necessary, and then strain round the head. Serve garnished with parsley. Time to cook, about f hour. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 186. Cod Steaks, To Fry (Tranches de Cabillaud Frites) Slices of cod. I Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Take as many slices of cod as required. These are best cut from the tail end of the fish, and should be about f in. in thickness. If cut from the open end of the fish where there is a flap, fold over the ends and fix them with a tiny wooden skewer or piece of match. Wash the fish lightly, scraping the skin with a knife, then dry with a cloth, and rub over with a half lemon. Mix a little flour, pepper, and salt on a plate, dip the pieces of fish into this, coating them lightly on both sides. This dries the fish thoroughly and makes it fry better. Then egg and bread-crumb the slices (see p. 249) and fry them in a saute or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. See Dry Frying, p. 80. When thoroughly cooked and nicely browned on both sides, drain them well on paper, remove the skewers if any have been used, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley or watercress and quarters of cut lemon. Tomato, shrimp, anchovy or any other suitable sauce may be served separately, also baked or boiled potatoes. Notes.—A little melted butter may be mixed with the egg if the fish is considered too dry. Cod steaks can be prepared in a simpler way by dipping them in milk after flouring them and then in flour again, instead of egging and bread-crumbing. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Allow 6 to 8 oz. per person. 187, Cod Steak & la Flamande (Tranche de Cabillaud & la Flamande) 1 slice of cod. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. 1 gill brown sauce. Choose a nice thick slice of cod and wash and dry it carefully. Well grease a baking tin with a little butter, and sprinkle the chopped onion over the bottom. Lay the fish on the top. Beat up the yolk of egg with the lemon juice and a little pepper and salt. Pour this on the top of the fish and lay on the remainder of the butter in small pieces. Bake in a good oven until the fish is cooked and nicely browned on the top. When ready, lift the fish on to a hot dish, pour the brown sauce into the baking tin, bring it to the boil and pour it round. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Other kinds of fish such as halibut, hake, ling, &c., may be prepared in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 188. Cod Steaks with Tomato Sauce (Tranches de Cabillaud au Sauce Tomate) 3 slices of cod. | pt. tomato sauce. A little butter. 1 hard-boiled egg. Seasoning. Slices from the tail end of cod are best for this dish, and they should not be cut too thick. Wipe them with a damp cloth and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a baking tin, lay the fish on it, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until cooked.84 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD When the fish is ready, lift it carefully with a fish slice on to a hot dish. Heat J pint well-made tomato sauce (Recipe 705) in a saucepan, add any liquid left on the baking tin to it, and strain over the fish, coating it veil. Decorate with hard- boiled egg, either cut in pieces, or the white chopped separately and the yolk rubbed through a sieve. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 189. Cod, Stuffed and Baked (Cabillaud Farci au Four) 14 to 2 lbs. cod. Stuffing. 2" oz. butter or drip- 1 table-sp. browned ping. bread-crumbs. A piece from the thick end of cod is best for this dish, where there is the flap to enclose the stuffing. If a piece nearer the tail is used, the bone must be removed in order to make an opening. Cleanse and dry the fish and make the stuffing according Stuffed and Baked Cod to directions given in Recipe 1266. Melt the butter or dripping in a deep baking tin, and place the fish on this. Then put in the stuffing, folding the flaps round it and fixing them in position with a skewer, or if it is a piece without the flap, fill up the hole in the centre with the stuffing. Brush the fish over with some of the melted fat, and sprinkle the browned bread-crumbs over the top. Bake in a moderate oven, basting the fish occasionally to prevent it becoming dry. When ready, lift it carefully with a fish slice on to a hot dish, and re- move the skewer and also the skin, if this can be done without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Parsley, anchovy, tomato, or any other suitable sauce may be poured round or served separately. Time to bake, \ to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 190. Cod’s Roe with Parsley Sauce (Laitance de Cabillaud a la Maitre d’Hotel) 1 small cod’s roe. 2 or 3 gills parsley sauce. Salt, vinegar. Wash the roe in cold water, but do not let it soak, then tie it up in a piece of muslin to prevent it breaking. Put it into a fish kettle of slowly boiling water, salted in the proportion of 1 desert- spoonful to 1 quart of water, and add a few drops of vinegar. If no fish kettle is available the roe may be put into an ordinary stewpan with a plate at the bottom. The water should just cover the roe. Simmer slowly from 4 to f- of an hour according to size and thickness. When ready, lift the roe out, let the water drain well from it, and cool slightly. Then remove the skin and cut the roe in slices. Arrange these neatly on a greased fireproof dish, and pour sufficient parsley sauce over to completely cover the roe. Place the dish in the oven for a few minutes until the contents are well heated, and serve in the same dish garnished with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Note.—Tomato, anchovy, oyster, shrimp, or any other suitable sauce may be used instead of parsley sauce. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 191. Cod’s Roe, Fried (Laitances de Cabillaud Frites) 1 cod’s roe. | A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. I Salt, pepper. Boil the roe according to directions given in Recipe 190, and let it become quite cold. Then cut it in slices about | inch thick, using a very sharp knife. Dip these in a little flour seasoned with pepper and salt, then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. A little tomato sauce may be served separ- ately, alsc thin brown bread and butter. Notes.—A simpler method of preparing the roe is to flour it only, and to fry in a small quantity of fat in a frying pan. The roe may be made neater by removing the skin and cutting the slices into shape with a cutter before egging and bread-crumb- ing them. The trimmings can be scalloped, or used up for a savoury. 192. Cod Sounds with Parsley Sauce (Nau de Morue Sauce Maitre d’Hotel) 1 lb. cod sounds. I 4 pt. parsley sauce. Milk and water. I Croutons fried bread. Cod sounds, which are the air or swimming bladders of the fish, are generally bought salted. They should be soaked for several hours before being used. Rinse them in fresh cold water and put them into a saucepan with milk and water to cover. Simmer slowly till tender, from £ to £ of an horn-. Then drain and cut the sounds in pieces about 2 inches square. Arrange these neatly on a fireproof dish, and cover completely with the sauce. Put in the oven a few minutes until thoroughly hot, garnish with some fried croutons of bread and serve at once. Notes.—Any other suitable sauce may be used instead of parsley sauce, such as egg, tomato, bechamel, piquante sauce, &c. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 193. Salt Cod, To Prepare and Boil (Morue Salee) Salt cod requires to be well soaked and very carefully boiled to make it really palatable. In this country it is served specially during Lent and on Good Friday in particular. Wash the fish and let it soak for 12 hours at least in lukewarm water, changing the water once or twice. When suffi- ciently fresh, put it into a saucepan with warm water, or preferably milk and water, to cover it, bring slowly to the boil, skim if necessary, and then simmer slowly about 1 hour. If cooked too quickly the fish will become tough and leathery. The milkFISH 85 will help to mellow it. When the fish is ready, lift it out and drain, remove the skin and large bones, and use as directed. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Allow 4 to 6 oz. per person. 194. Salt Cod with Egg Sauce (Morue Satee a la Sauce aux (Eufs) 1 lb. salt cod. J pt. egg sauce. Prepare and boil the cod according to directions given above, break it into neat pieces or flakes, and arrange it on a hot dish. Cover with a good egg sauce (Recipe 687), and decorate with sippets of toast and a little finely chopped parsley. Or, a little of the hard-boiled yolk of egg may be rubbed through a sieve over the top. Notes.—Boiled parsnips or boiled beetroots may be served separately or used as a garnish. Other sauces may be used in the same way, such as oyster, shrimp, tomato, onion, or parsley sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 195. Salt Cod with Parsnip Purde (Morue a la Puree de Panais) 1 lb. salt cod. 3 or 4 parsnips. Chopped parsley. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream or milk. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Wash and brush the parsnips, cut off the tops, and scrape them from the thick end downwards until all black is removed. Cut them in pieces, throw them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil them gently until tender, about 1 hour. Then drain and rub them through a fine wire or hair sieve. Reheat this puree in a saucepan with the butter, seasoning, and a little cream or milk. Prepare and cook the fish as directed in Recipe 193, remove from it all skin and bone, break it in small pieces and put it on a hot dish. Cover with the parsnip puree, and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. Note.—Boiled or baked potatoes may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 196. Salt Cod au Gratin (Morue au Gratin) 1 lb. salt cod. £ pt. white sauce. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. 3 table-sps. cheese. A little butter. grated Prepare and cook the cod as in Recipe 193, and break it in pieces. Put these on a greased fireproof dish and sprinkle half the cheese over. Cover with i pint good white sauce or bechamel sauce, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese and the bread- crumbs on the top. Place on a few small pieces of butter and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 197. Salt Cod a l’Americaine (Morue a 1’Ameri- caine) 1 lb. salt cod. Seasoning. 5 or 6 potatoes. 1 onion. 1 oz. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. ! pt. milk. 3 table- sps. grated cheese. Prepare and cook the cod as directed in Recipe 193, and break it in small pieces free from skin and bone. Cook and sieve the potatoes and chop the onion finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, and cook it for 5 minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the flour and mix it in smoothly with a wooden spoon, then pour in the milk and stir until boiling. Now stir in tbe prepared potatoes and fish with the yolks of the two eggs and seasoning to taste, and mix all thoroughly. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish, sprinkle the cheese on the top, and bake in a good oven until well browned. A dish of baked tomatoes may be served separately. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 198. Smoked Cod a la Creole 1 lb. smoked cod. 2 oz. butter or dripping. \ pt. tomato puree. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. ^ lb. rice. Salt. Pepper. First wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with boiling water and a little salt, and let it cook 10 minutes, then strain. In another saucepan melt the butter or dripping, put in the chopped onion, and let it cook by the side of the fire for a few minutes without browning. Then add the strained rice, the fish cut in small pieces, and J pint tinned or fresh tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve. Let all simmer slowly until the fish and rice are thoroughly cooked. Season with pepper, and salt if necessary. Serve hot. A few plainly boiled potatoes may be served separately. Note.—Any other smoked fish may be used instead of cod. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Conger Eel (Congre) This is a sea-fish of the same form as the fresh- water eel, but generally much larger. It some- times grows to a very large size. The flesh is somewhat coarse and oily, but, if carefully pre- pared and well cooked, it will make quite a good dish. When small the conger eel may be cooked in the same way as ordinary eels, allowing longer time, but if large cook like cod. It also makes very good soup. 199. Baked Conger Eel 3 lbs. conger eel. \ gill vinegar. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. Pepper and salt. (Congre Farci au Four) Stuffing, 2 or 3 anchovies. 2 oz. butter or dripping. A little flour. 1 pt. anchovy sauce. A middle cut from the conger eel is the best for stuffing. Wash and dry it well, then lay it in a dish with the vinegar, chopped onion, pepper and salt, and let it stand about one hour, turning the fish occasionally. Prepare a stuffing according to Recipe 1266, and add to it 2 or 3 anchovies, washed, boned, and cut in small pieces. Put this stuffing into the fish close to the bone, and bind it round with tape. Lay the fish on a well-greased baking tin, dredge it with flour, and place the remainder of the butter or dripping in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven, basting the fish occa- sionally. When ready, the flesh should leave the bone easily. Serve the fish on a hot dish, and re- move the tape. Have ready about \ pint anchovyCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 86 sauce (see Recipe 675), make it thoroughly hot and strain round. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Time to cook, 1 to li hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 200. Stewed Conger Eel (Ragout de Congre) 2 lbs. conger eel. 1 pt. stock. 1 or 2 table-sps. sherry. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Cut the eel in slices, season it with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice or vinegar, and let it lie for a short time. Put about 1 pint of well-flavoured stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. There should be sufficient stock to cover the fish, and if it is wanting in flavour a little sliced vege- table. and a small bunch of herbs should be added. When boiling lay in the fish, cover, and simmer very slowly until tender. Then lift out the fish, arrange the slices neatly on a hot dish, and keep them warm. In a small saucepan melt the butter and let it brown slightly, stir in the flour and cook it a minute or two, then draw the pan to one side and strain in the stock from the other saucepan. Stir until boiling, add the sherry and other seasoning to taste, skim well and strain over fish. Decorate with the hard- boiled eggs cut in small sections, or, if preferred, with small forcemeat balls. Time to cook, \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Flounder (Carrelet) The flounder is a flat fish resembling the plaice, but inferior in quality. In some parts of the country it goes under the name of fluke. It is brownish in colour, mottled with a darker brown, Flounder but its appearance varies somewhat according to the nature of the ground from which it is taken. It is light and easily digested, but must be eaten very fresh, the day it is caught if possible. Flounder may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking plaice or sole. Gurnet or Gurnard (Grondin) This is an excellent little fish and generally moderate in price. It is not attractive looking, a s it has a large head in proportion to the size of the body, but the flesh is white and firm and very pleasant in flavour. It is inclined to be dry, so a fair amount of fat must be used in its preparation. There are different kinds of gurnet, but the red is generally considered the best. Gurnet Besides the recipes given below, it may be cooked according to any of the methods recommended for haddock. 201. Gurnets with Potatoes 3 or 4 small gurnets. 3 or 4 potatoes. A few slices bacon fat. Pepper. Salt. A little flour. Lemon juice.' 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Clean and wash the fish, cutting off the heads and fins. Score them across two or three times on each side with a knife, season them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and let them lie half an hour. Meanwhile prepare the potatoes, parboil them about 10 minutes, and then cut them in quarters. Then take a baking dish or tin and lay in it a few slices of fat bacon. Coat the fish lightly with flour, lay them on the top and put a small piece of fat bacon on the top of each. Put the potatoes round the fish, cover all with greased paper, and bake in a good oven until both are ready. The pieces of potato should be turned over once during the cooking. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish, arrange the potatoes round them, and sprinkle with the chopped parsley. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 202. Fillets of Gurnet au Gratin (Filets de Grondin au Gratin) 3 or 4 gurnets. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. 6 or 8 small mushrooms. 1 gill brown sauce. Lemon juice. 2 table- sps. bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. grated cheese. Skin and fillet the fish (see p. 78), season the fillets with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Fold them in two, and arrange them neatly in a greased fireproof dish. If fresh mushrooms are used, pre- pare and trim them as directed in Recipe 513, and place a head on the top of each fillet of fish; if preserved mushrooms, simply drain them from their liquor, and if small use a larger number. Warm about a gill of brown sauce and pour it over the fish. Then sprinkle the top with the bread-crumbs and grated cheese mixed together. Lay the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderateFISH 87 oven until the fish is cooked and the surface nicely- browned. Serve hot, garnished with a little parsley. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Haddock (Aigrefln or Eglefln) This is one of our most useful fish, as it is obtain- able all the year round at a moderate price. The flesh is white and firm, with a delicate flavour, and is capable of treatment in a variety of ways. On each side of the body, just below the gills, there is a dark mark which superstition calls the finger and thumb mark of St. Peter. A medium-sized haddock is best, the flesh is inclined to be coarse when the fish grows to a large size. 203. Haddock, To Boil or Steam Clean the fish and truss it with a skewer in the shape of the letter S. Then cook it according to directions given for boiling or steaming fish (pp. 79-80). Or, it may be boiled in a mixture of milk and water, the liquid afterwards being used to make the sauce. This latter method is an ex- cellent one when cooking the fish for an invalid. When sufficiently cooked, drain the fish well, slide it on to a hot dish on which a doyley or dish paper has been placed, and remove the skewer. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon ; melted butter, or any suitable fish sauce should be served separately. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes for a large haddock. 204. Haddocks, To Fry (Egleflns Frits) Small haddocks. I A little milk. Flour. Lemon juice. | Pepper and salt. Haddocks, when small, may be fried whole. Wash and clean the fish, cutting off the heads, then skin and dry them thoroughly. Season them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and, if time permits, let them lie a short time before cooking. Then coat the fish lightly with flour, brush them over with milk, and coat again with flour. This must not be done until immediately before frying, otherwise the fish will become damp and sodden. Fry them in a small quantity of fat in a frying pan (see Dry Frying, p. 80), browning them first on one side and then on the other. The time will de- pend on the size and thickness of the fish. When ready, lift out with a broad-bladed knife or fish slice and drain for a few minutes on kitchen paper. Arrange the haddocks head to tail on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Serve tomato, mustard, beamaise, caper, or any other suitable sauce separately. Notes.—The haddocks may be egged and bread- crumbed instead of being coated with flour and milk. Any other small fish may be cooked in the same way. Time to fry, 7 to 10 minutes. Allow 1 fish per person. 205. Filleted and Fried Haddock (Filets d’Eglefln Frits) 1 filleted haddock. I 1 dessert-sp. flour. Lemon juice. Seasoning. | Bread-crumbs. 1 egg. Wipe the fish with a cloth, cut it across diagon- ally into neat-sized pieces, and rub them over with a little lemon juice. The advantage of cutting diagonally is that the fish will curl up in prettier Fish cut across diagonally forms when it is cooked. Mix the flour on a plate with a little pepper and salt. Dip the pieces of fish into this, coating them very thinly, and shaking all the loose flour off. Then egg and bread-crumb the pieces of fish (see p. 249), and as each piece is ready lay it on a plate or tin with a double piece of paper on it. Put a few pieces at a time into a frying basket and fry them in boiling fat (see p. 248) until a golden brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper. When all the fish is cooked, pile up the pieces very lightly on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Tomato or any suitable fish sauce may be served separately. Note.—Any other filleted fish may be prepared in the same way. Time to fry, 3 or 4 minutes each lot. 206. Haddock Fried in Batter (Friture d’Eglefin) 1 filleted haddock. I Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. I Frying batter. First make the frying batter according to direc- tions given in Recipe 1861, and allow it to stand some time before it is used, keeping out the white of egg, to be added at the last moment. Wipe the fish with a cloth, and cut it across diagonally into small pieces. Lay these on a plate and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Have ready on the fire a saucepan half full of boiling fat, and a tin with paper on it ready to drain the fish. Add the beaten white of egg to the batter, and dip the pieces of fish into it one at a time, coating them well. Lift them out with a skewer and drop them gently into the boiling fat. Do each piece in the same way. Let them fry a nice brown colour, then lift out with a perforated spoon, and drain on kitchen paper. Pile up lightly on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Any suitable fish sauce may be served separately. Note.—The pieces of fish may be marinaded before being dipped in the batter to give them more flavour. See Recipe 378. Time to fry, 5 or 6 minutes each lot.88 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 207. Stuffed and Baked Haddock (Eglefln Fare! au Four) (medium 2 oz. dripping or butter. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. 1 haddock sized). Fish stuffing. Wash and clean the haddock, scraping the skin well from the tail towards the head. Cut off the fins and tail and take out the eyes. Then dry in a cloth. Make some stuffing according to Recipe 1266, place it in tho opening of the fish, and sew up with a needle and strong thread. When doing this, make an under and over stitch as indicated in illustration, always inserting the needle in the under side of the fish, and leaving a loose piece of thread at each end. In this way the thread can easily be withdrawn without disfiguring the fish. Melt the dripping or butter in a deep baking tin or dish, and lay tho fish into this with the back uppermost and trussed with a skewer in the shape of the letter S. Brush it over with beaten egg or a little of the melted fat, and coat with browned bread- crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally to prevent the fish becoming dry. When ready, lift with a fish slice on to a hot dish, remove the skewer, and draw the thread carefully out. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and cut lemon, and serve with anchovy, tomato, or any other suitable sauce poured round or served separately. The sauce is entirely a matter of taste. Notes.—Small codling or gurnets may be cooked in the same way. Basting is particularly necessary with the drier kinds of fish. Time, 20 to 30 minutes to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. To Sew up Fish Stuffed and Baked Haddock 208. Stuffed Fillets of Haddock (Filets d’Aigrefin Farcis) 2 small filleted haddocks. Lemon juice. Salt, pepper. Browned bread-crumbs. Maitre d’hotel butter. Anchovy or parsley sauce. Stuffing. Wipe the fish with a clean cloth, and cut them in half lengthwise. Lay them out on a board with the side which the skin was taken off uppermost, and season each piece with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Prepare the stuffing as directed in Recipe 307, lay a little on each fillet, and roll them up, commencing at the thick end, and rolling towards the tail. Stand them up on a greased tin, cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake in a mode- rate oven about 15 minutes, or until the fish has Stuffing Fillets of Fish lost its clear appearance, and looks quite white. When ready, roll the pieces in some fine browned bread-crumbs, coating them well. Place them on a hot dish, pour some anchovy or parsley sauce round, and put a small pat of maitre d’h6tel butter on the top of each. Time, 15 to 20 minutes to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 209. Fillets of Haddock it 1’Italienne (Eglefin a l’ltalienne) 1 lb. filleted haddock. Pepper and salt. Lemon juice. 3 or 4 oz. spaghetti. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Sauce. 1 oz. butter or 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 onion. 1 breakfast cupful tinned tomatoes. 1 dessert- sp. chopped pickles. Pepper, salt, sugar. Wipe the fish, cut it in convenient-sized pieces, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice and, if time permits, let it lie 1 hour. Then put the pieces into a well-greased fireproof dish, pour the salad oil over, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until done. To Make the Sauce.—Heat the butter or oil in a saucepan, put in the onion and pickles, both finely chopped, and fry them a few minutes without browning. Sieve the tomatoes, and add the puree to the other ingredients, season to taste, and simmer all together for 20 minutes. Pour this sauce over the fish, and serve with boiled spaghetti sprinkled with grated cheese. Time to cook, \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Smoked Haddock or Finnan See under Breakfast Dishes, p. 387. Hake (Merlus) A Lrge fish somewhat resembling the cod in appearance, but with a hook-shaped fin on the back Hake of its head. The flesh is firm and rather solid, and should be eaten very fresh. Hake is a useful fish for made-up fish dishes, as the bones are so easily removed. It also goes under the name of rock salmon, and the French call it the sea-pike, onFISH 89 account of its great voracity. It is generally moderate in price. It may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking cod or hali- but, but is perhaps most satisfactory when baked or fried. ? 210. Hake Cutlets, Baked 1J lbs. hake. A little flour. I lb. bread-crumbs. i pt. fish stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. chopped shal- lot. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Cut the hake in small slices about 1 inch thick and remove all skin and bone. Wipe the pieces and coat them lightly with flour. Then grease a pie dish or fireproof dish, and mix together the bread- crumbs, shallot, and parsley with a little pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little of the bread-crumb mix- ture into the dish first, then lay in a few pieces of fish on the top, and more bread-crumbs, &c., and continue until all is in, making the last layer bread-crumbs. Add the lemon juice to the fish stock, and porn? it round. Lay the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, basting the fish occasionally with the liquid. Note.—Milk and water may be used instead of the fish stock. Time to bake, J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 per- sons. 211. Hake with 3 small slices of hake. \ pt. fish stock. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. Piccalilli Sauce 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. 2 table-sps. piccalilli. Trim and wipe the fish, making it as dry as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and when smoking hot put in the fish and fry the slices a minute or two on each side. Then lift them out. Put the chopped onion into the stewpan and fry it until lightly browned. Now add the rice flour and piccalilli, and mix them in until smooth. Pour in the fish stock, and stir until boiling. Then return the fish, cover the stewpan, and allow the contents to simmer slowly until the fish is quite tender. When ready, arrange the slices of fish neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with one or two sprigs of parsley. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 persons. Halibut (F16tan) A large flat fish, resembling the turbot in ap- pearance, but inferior in quality and flavour. It Halibut sometimes grows to an .enormous size. It is ob- tainable all the year round, but is best during the autumn and winter months. As the flesh is inclined to be woolly and tasteless, halibut must be care- fully cooked and served with a good sauce. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cod or turbot. 212. Halibut Baked with Vinegar 1| lbs. halibut. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper. Salt. 1 gill vinegar. 1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. Wash the halibut, dry it, and cut it into pieces about 2 inches square, and free from skin and bone. Put the flour, pepper, and salt on to a plate, mix them together, and dip each piece of fish into this, coating them well. Grease a pie-dish or fireproof dish with a little of the butter, and place the pieces of fish neatly into it. Pour over them the vinegar and water, and put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top. Wipe round the edges of the dish with a cloth, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is done. Garnish the dish with one or two sprigs of parsley, and serve either hot or cold. Note.—Other kinds of white fish, such as cod, ling, hake, &c., can be cooked in the same way. Time, J to § hour to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 213. Halibut with Tomatoes (F16tan aux Tomates) 1£ lbs. halibut. 3 or 4 fresh tomatoes. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper. Salt. Juice of J a lemon. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Wipe the halibut, and cut it into small neat pieces, free from skin and bone. Put the flour on to a plate, and coat each piece of fish lightly with it. Let the tomatoes soak in boiling water a minute or two, then lift them out, dry, and skin them. Put them on a plate and cut them in slices. Grease a fireproof dish with a little butter, lay in a few pieces of fish, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Over these put some of the sliced tomato, then more fish and seasoning, and so on until all is in, making the last layer tomato. Sprinkle the bread-crumbs over the top, and lay on the butter in small pieces. Bake in a moderate oven until the fish is thoroughly cooked and browned nicely on the top. When ready, remove from the oven, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. A little finely chopped onion or shallot may be added, if liked. Note.—Any other white fish may be prepared in the same way. Time, | to 1 hour to bake. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 214. Halibut with Cream Sauce (F16tan a la Creme) 1£ lbs. halibut. 1 oz. butter. Salt, white pepper. Lemon juice. Sauce. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 4 pt. seasoned milk or fish stock (see p. 78). 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Wash the fish, and cut it in slices about half an inch in thickness. Grease a baking tin with some of the butter, and lay the fish on it. Sprinkle withCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 90 pepper and salt, and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Put the remainder of the butter on the top, and cover with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, or until the fish is cooked. Then lift it with a fish slice or broad-bladed knife on to a hot dish, and keep it warm while the sauce is being made. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and seasoned milk. Strain into it the liquid left in the baking tin, add the cream, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Allow the sauce to boil for two or three minutes longer, then pour over the fish, coating it well. Garnish with a little finely chopped parsley and thin slices of lemon. Serve hot. Time, about 20 minutes to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 215. Halibut, Mayonnaise of (Fletan a la Mayonnaise) 2 lbs. halibut. \ pt. mayonnaise sauce. Salad to garnish. Boil or steam a nice middle cut of halibut, being careful not to overcook it, or it will lose its shape. Drain well and remove the skin. When quite cold, lift on to a clean dish and pour the mayonnaise sauce over it, coating it carefully. Arrange some pretty green salad round the sides, and decorate the top with finely chopped parsley and lobster coral, thinly sliced cucumber, sprigs of chervil, small pieces of tomato, or any other suitable decoration. Another Way.—The remains of cooked halibut can be very well utilised in this way. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and break it in flakes. Then shred finely some lettuce or other fresh green salad, and arrange a layer at the bottom of a (fish. Put a layer of fish on the top, cover with mayonnaise and continue thus with the different layers until all is used. The last layer should be the sauce, and the ingredients should be shaped in the form of a dome. Decorate prettily in the same way as above, putting a nice bunch of salad on the top, such as the heart of a young lettuce opened out. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Herring (Harengs) One of our most abundant fish, and generally exceedingly cheap. It is highly nutritious and rich in flavour, but, being of an oily nature, is not so easily digested as some of the white fish. When fresh the herring has a bright and silvery appear- ance, if red about the gills it has been dead some time. It ought to be well covered with scales and be plump in form. The herring is dried and cured in a variety of ways. We have the kipper, the bloater, the salt and the red herring. Almost every country has its own method of curing. 216. Herring, To Broil, 1 (Harengs Grilles) Herring. I Salad oil or melted Pepper and salt. | butter. Maltre d’hotel butter or mustard sauce. Choose herring with soft roes if possible. Cut the heads and fins off the fish, and clean without splitting them open. Scrape off the scales with a knife, and dry the fish in a cloth. Score the skin across diagonally with a knife three times on each side, brush the herring over with a little salad oil or melted butter, and season with pepper and salt. A little finely chopped parsley may also be sprinkled over them. Grease and heat a gridiron or hanging grill, and cook the fish on this, either over or in front of a nice clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. They will require from 7 to 10 minutes to cook, and must be turned once or twice. Serve on a very hot dish with a dish paper under them. Small pats of maitre d’hotel butter or mustard sauce (see Recipe 770) may be served separately. Time to cook, 7 to 10 minutes. Herring. A little flour. 217. Herring, To Broil, 2 | Pepper and salt. I Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare the fish in the same way as for Fried Herring (see below). Coat them lightly with flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Then egg and bread-crumb the herring, and cook and serve according to preceding recipe. 218. Herring, To Fry, 1 (Harengs Frits) Oatmeal. Dripping or clarified fat. Fresh herring. Pepper, salt. Lemon juice. Wash and scrape the herring, cutting off the fins, tail, and head. Split them open and remove the back bone and as many of the small bones as possible. Then score the skin across two or three times to prevent it shrinking up the fish in the cooking. Season the fish with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and, if time permits, let them lie one hour. Shortly before serving put some oatmeal on to a plate, and dip each fish into this, coating them well on both sides. Melt about 2 oz. dripping or clarified fat in a large frying pan. When it is smoking hot put in as many fish as the pan will hold, with the open side downwards. Brown on the one side, then turn with a fish slice and brown on the other. When ready, lift out and drain on kitchen paper. Keep these fish hot while frying the others. Add more fat to the pan when necessary, and see that it is always quite hot before the fish is put into it. Serve the herring on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them, and garnish with some nice sprigs of fresh parsley. Notes.—If the herring are very small they may be fried in deep fat (see p. 248). If there are roes, cook them with the herring, and use them as a garnish. Time, 7 to 10 minutes to fry. 219. Herring, To Fry, 2 (Harengs Frits) Herring. A little flour. Pepper and salt. Dripping or clarified fat. Parsley or fried onion to garnish. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, but do not split them open. Cut off the head, tail, and fins, scrape the skin well with a knife, and then dry the herring in a cloth. With a sharp knife make three scores through the skin on each side of the fish,but do not cut too deep. Mix some flour on a plate with pepper and salt, dip the fish into this, coating them well. Fry according to directions given above and serve very hot, garnishing with parsley or fried onion.91 FISH Fried Onion.—Skin the onions, and cut in very thin slices with a sharp knife. Melt a small piece of butter or dripping in a saucepan, and let it colour slightly. Put the sliced onion into this, and fry slowly for about 10 minutes until nicely browned. 220. Fillets of Herring, To Fry (Filets de Harengs Frits) 3 herring. Salt and pepper. Lemon juice. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mustard sauce. Frying fat. Slices of lemon to gar- nish. Remove the flesh from the herring, taking one long fillet from each side. Wipe these fillets with a cloth, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and let them fie overnight. Next day egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until brown and crisp. Drain well and serve on a dish paper garnished with slices of cut lemon. Time, about 10 minutes to fry. Sufficient for 3 persons. 221. Stuffed and Baked Herring, 1 (Harengs Farcis au Four) 223. Herring au Gratin (Harengs au Gratin) 3 or 4 herring. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 shallot. Grated lemon rind. 1 tea-sp. chopped par* sley. Pepper and salt. Melted butter. Prepare the fish in the same way as for Fried Herring, No. 1, and cut them in two pieces. Chop the shallot very finely, and mix it with the bread- crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Well grease a flat fireproof dish with melted butter and sprinkle over the foot about half the bread-crumb mixture. Lay the fish on the top and cover them with the rest of the bread-crumbs, &c. Pour a little more melted butter over, and bake in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes. The fish must be thoroughly cooked, and the bread-crumb surface nicely browned. If liked, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of thin tomato sauce may be poured round, or mustard sauce served separately in a sauce boat. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 224. Soused or Potted Herring 6 herring. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper and salt. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp* chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind A little milk. Butter or dripping. Prepare the fish as for Fried Herring (Recipe 218). If there are any hard roes put them on to a greased tin and bake them in the oven about 10 minutes. Dip each fish into the flour, coating it lightly, and score the skin across three times with a knife. To make the stuffing put the bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, parsley, and a little grated lemon rind into a basin, chop up the roes, add them to it, and moisten with milk. Spread a little of this stuffing on the open side of three of the herring, cover with the remaining three, keeping the skin side upper- most this time, and making a sandwich, as it were. Grease a baking tin with a little dripping, place the fish on this, and put some more dripping or butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until the fish is cooked. Serve on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley and a few slices of cut lemon. Note.—If the herring contain soft roes these may be placed whole between the two fish, if they are liked, but should not be mixed with the stuffing. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 222. Stuffed and Baked Herring, 2 Prepare the herring and make some stuffing as in last recipe. Lay a little of the stuffing on each herring, and roll them up, commencing at the thick end. Rub the fish over with a little dry flour and place them on a well-greased tin, fixing them to- gether with one or two skewers. Put a small piece of butter on the top of each and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, basting them occasion- ally. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Mustard sauce may be served separately. 3 or 4 herring. 1 table-sp. flour. Jtea-sp. powdered mace. 1 bay-leaf. Pepper, salt. 4 or 5 cloves. 12 peppercorns. Brown vinegar. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Wash and clean the herring, cutting off the head, tail and fins, and scraping the skin well with a knife. Dry them in a cloth, then split them open, and remove all the bones. Cut each herring in two lengthwise. Put the flour, pepper, salt, and mace on to a plate, and mix them well together. Dip each piece of herring into this, and roll them up from the thick end towards the tail. Pack them into a greased pie-dish or fireproof casserole, ar- ranging them in two layers if necessary. If there are any roes, dip them in the same seasoning and lay them along the sides. Then pour in equal quantities of brown vinegar and water, enough to half fill the dish. Put in the cloves, peppercorns, and mace, place the dripping or butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. Set aside to cool. Serve as many pieces of fish as will be required at one time on a clean dish, pour some of the liquid round, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—Herring done in this way will keep for several days, but more vinegar must be added if the fish becomes dry. A little thinly sliced onion may be cooked with the fish if liked. Potted herring are generally eaten cold, but they may be served hot if wished. Time to bake, about 1 hour. 225. Red Herring, To Cook Open and clean the fish carefully, pour boiling water over them, and let them soak for 5 minutes. Then dry them well, and fry or broil in the same way as kippers (Recipe 1687). If the herring are very salt it will be better to let them soak in cold water for a short time before pouring the boiling water over them.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 92 John Dory (Doret or Dorade) This is such an unsightly fish that it is seldom seen at the fishmonger’s in its natural form. It is of a golden yellowish colour, with an ugly head. It is, however, very delicate in flavour, and the John Dory flesh is firm and white, somewhat resembling the meat of the lobster. It is one of the best fish for boiling, and the smaller ones are very good baked. When cold the flesh of this fish is very good served in salad or with mayonnaise. It may also be cut into fillets and prepared according to any of the directions given for fillets of fish. Mackerel (Maquereau) One of the prettiest and most elegant fish we have. It comes to our shores in large quantities during the summer months. Mackerel is not good except when perfectly fresh and in season. It spoils more quickly than any other fish, beginning to ferment within a short time after its being caught, and becoming in some cases absolutely poisonous. Medium-sized mackerel are the best. They should be white and pearly looking underneath and the markings ought to be very bright and distinct. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked in any of the ways directed for herring. 227. Mackerel, To Bake Take as many mackerel as required, clean and wash them, cutting off the heads and fins. Wipe them dry, score the skin across several times, and season with pepper and salt equally distributed. Well grease a baking tin or dish, lay the mackerel on it, squeeze over a little lemon juice, place a slice of fat bacon or a small piece of dripping on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven, basting once or twice with the fat. When the fish are ready, remove them carefully to a hot dish, and decorate them with parsley or fennel. Serve mustard, fennel, or goosebery sauce separately. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. 226. Fillets of Dory & l’lndienne 1J lbs. John Dory. \ pt. curry sauce. I oz. butter. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Cut the fish in neat fillets free from skin and bone, and lay it in a greased baking dish. Season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and lay the butter in small pieces on the top. Cook the fish in a good oven from 10 to 12 minutes, then pour over the curry sauce and cook from 10 to 15 minutes longer. When ready, arrange the pieces of fish neatly on a hot dish, add the cream to the sauce, bring to the boil, and then strain over the fish. Garnish with neat slices of lemon and sections of hard-boiled egg if wished. Boiled rice may be served separately. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Kippers and Bloaters See under Breakfast Dishes, p. 380. Ling (Lingue) A very useful fish, not unlike the cod in appear- ance, but more slender in form. It is generally very inexpensive. The flesh is firm and white, but rather lacking in flavour : it requires a good sauce to make it palatable. It may be cooked according to any of the directions given for cooking cod, and is very good in a fish pie and other made-up fish dishes. The flesh of ling is often salted, it is then diffi- cult to distinguish from salted cod. The tongues and .sounds are considered very fine ; they are generally pickled and sold separately. The roe is also very good, and the liver supplies us with a certain amount of oil. 228. Mackerel, To Boil 3 mackerel. 1 onion. 1 carrot. A bunch of herbs. Cold water. \ tea-cupful vinegar. 12 white peppercorns. 1 bay-leaf. Salt. Clean and wash the mackerel, cutting oS the heads and fins. Prepare and slice thinly the carrot and onion, put them into a small fish kettle with the herbs and spices, and lay the fish on the top. Pour over sufficient cold water to just cover them, and add the vinegar and salt. Bring this quickly to the boil, and simmer slowly until the mackerel are ready. Then remove and drain the fish, slide them on to a hot dish with a dish paper on it, and garnish with parsley or fennel. Serve parsley, fennel, or other suitable sauce separately. Note.—Contrary to the general rule for boiling fish (see p. 78), mackerel is put on to cook in cold water. This is on account of the skin being so tender. Boiling water would break it at once and disfigure the fish. Time to boil, 15 to 20 minutes. 229. Mackerel, To Broil or Grill (Maquereaux Grilles) 2 mackerel. Marinade. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 shallot finely chopped. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Pepper and salt. Clean the fish, cutting off the heads and fins. Then split them in two and remove the bones. Put the ingredients for the marinade on a plate, and soak the pieces of mackerel in this for 1 hour, turning them occasionally. Place them on a well- greased broiler, cook about 10 minutes on the split side, and then 3 to 4 minutes on the skin side. See Broiling, p. 79. When the fish is cookedFISH 93 sufficiently lay it on a very hot dish, garnish with 'watercress or parsley and lemon, and serve maitre d’hotel butter, or any other savoury butter sepa- rately. 230. Another Way Prepare and cook the fish as directed for Broiled Herring. See Recipes 216, 217. 231. Mackerel, To Fry (Maquereaux Frits) Prepare and cook in the same way as Fried Herring. See Recipes 218, 219. 232. Potted Mackerel Prepare in the same way as Potted Herring, Recipe 224. 233. Mackerel, Stuffed and Baked (Maquereaux Farcis au Four) 4 or 5 button mush- rooms. A little grated lemon rind. 2 oz. butter. A little milk. Pepper. Salt. 2 medium-sized macke- rel. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly. Cut off the heads and fins, and scrape the skin well with a knife. Then dry the fish in a cloth, and they are ready for stuffing. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the chopped parsley, chopped pickles and mushrooms, grated lemon rind, pepper and salt. If there are any roes, cook them on a tin in the oven for 10 minutes, then chop them, and add them to the stuffing. Melt the butter and add half of it, with enough milk to moisten. Put this stuffing into the openings of the two fish, and sew them up with a needle and strong cotton. Place the fish on a greased fireproof dish, putting one head at one end of the dish, and one at the other. Pour the rest of the butter over the top of them, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When ready, remove from the oven, draw out the pieces of cotton carefully, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—A little tomato or piquante sauce may be poured round the dish when the fish is taken from the oven. Time to bake, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 234. Mackerel a la Meuniere (Maquereaux a la Meuniere) 2 mackerel. 2 oz. butter. A little flour. 1 lemon. Pepper and salt. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Clean and wash the mackerel, cutting off the heads and fins. Split them open, remove the bones carefully, and cut the fish into neat-sized pieces. Wipe these pieces with a dry cloth, season them with pepper and salt, and coat them lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan or earthenware casserole, when quite hot put in the fish and saute it until thoroughly cooked, without allowing it to become too brown. Then lift the fish on to a hot dish, add the juice of half a lemon to the butter in the pan, make it quite hot and strain over the fish. Sprinkle with parsley and garnish with the other half lemon, cut in thin slices. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 235. Soused Mackerel A few parsley stalks. A sprig of thyme. Brown vinegar. Salt. 3 mackerel. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 bay-leaf. 1 blade mace. 12 white peppercorns. Clean and wash the mackerel, cutting off the heads and fins. Lay them in a baking dish with the onion finely chopped, the spices, herbs, and salt. Cover with vinegar and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. Lift the fish carefully on to a long, deep dish, strain the vinegar over them, and serve cold. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Plaice (Plie) One of the commonest of our flat fish, and gene- rally very moderate in price. The upper side is of a greyish brown colour, with bright orange spots. When these spots turn dark in colour it is a sign that the fish is no longer fresh. The flesh of the plaice is somewhat tasteless and watery, but as a rule it is a favourite. Choose one with a thick plump body. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked according to any of the methods given for sole. 236. Plaice, To Stew 1 plaice. 1 gill milk. 1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 1 bay-leaf. 1 blade of mace. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scraping the skin well from the tail towards the head, and cutting off the fins and head. Then cut the plaice right through the bone into three or four pieces. Put the milk and water into a saucepan with the bay-leaf and blade of mace, warm these over the fire, and lay in the pieces of fish. There should be sufficient liquid to just cover the fish, so if the plaice is a large one, a larger proportion of milk and water may be necessary. Season the fish with white pepper and salt, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly about a quarter of an hour. When the fish comes away easily from the bone lift the pieces carefully on to a hot dish, arranging them in the form of the fish again. Remove the black skin, if this can be done without spoiling the appearance of the fish, and then keep hot over a pan of hot water. Remove the bay-leaf and mace from the liquid in the saucepan, add the bread-crumbs and butter, and stir over the fire until this boils and the sauce thickens. Sprinkle in the parsley at the last, and see that there is sufficient seasoning. Pour this sauce over the fish, garnish with sippets of toast and a few small sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 94 3 oe 4 persons. . broiled, and must on no account be boiled. 237. Stuffed and Baked Plaice (Plie Farcie au Four) 1 plaice size. Stuffing. of medium 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. 1 oz. dripping or butter. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scraping the skin well from tail to head. Cut off the fins and the head, and dry the fish in a cloth. Make the stuffing according to directions given under Recipe 1266. Make a slit down the centre of the fish on the black skin side, and right down to the bone. Slip in the knife close to the bone, and raise up the flesh on both sides, making pockets, so to speak. Put the stuffing into this, and pile it rather high in the centre. Melt the dripping or butter in a Yorkshire pudding tin, and lay the fish on to it. Brush over with the melted fat, and sprinkle with the browned bread-crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven from 20 to 30 minutes, basting occasionally to prevent the fish becoming dry. The fish will be ready when the skin begins to crack. Lift carefully on to a hot dish, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Tomato, anchovy, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately or poured round. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 238. Fillets of Plaice with Green Peas 2 filleted plaice. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. fish stock. J pt. good fish sauce. | pt. cooked green peas. 1 hard-boiled yolk. Fold the fillets neatly as directed in Recipe 253, place them on a greased baking tin with the butter and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls fish stock. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, cover with greased paper and cook in the oven from 10 to 15 minutes. When ready, dish the pieces of fish in a circle, one leaning against the other. Have ready a good fish sauce, made with stock from the bones (see p. 78), and strain the liquor from the baking tin into it. Pour this sauce over and round the fish, serve the cooked green peas in the centre, and garnish with a little yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. Mullet, Red (Rouget) This little fish is greatly esteemed : it is very elegant in form, and of a bright rose colour. It is Red Mullet called the woodcock of the sea ; the flesh is firm and white, and of a very good flavour. The fiver of the red mullet is considered a great delicacy, and is generally left in the fish. It is best baked or 239. Red Mullet, To Bake 1 or 2 red mullet. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Pepper. Salt. 1 or 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Choose one large or two small red mullets, clean and prepare them carefully and score the skin across on both sides. Grease a fireproof dish, sprinkle it with some of the parsley and bread- crumbs, and lay the fish on the top. Season with pepper, salt, and the lemon juice, and sprinkle with the rest of the parsley and bread-crumbs. Lay on the butter in small pieces, and bake the fish in a moderate oven until ready. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 240. Red Mullets, To Grill (Rougets Grilles) 3 red mullets. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 2 table-sps. salad oil or Pepper and salt. melted butter. Prepare the fish carefully, wipe them dry in a cloth, and score the skin across on both sides, at about one inch intervals. Mix the oil, lemon juice, and seasoning on a plate, and let the fish fie in this about half an hour, turning them occasionally. Then grill them according to directions given on p. 79, and when ready put them on a very hot dish. Serve with a pat of maitre d’h6tel butter on the top of each or with tartare or bearnaise sauce. Note.—Oiled straws are sometimes laid on the grill to prevent the fish from sticking, or the fish can be wrapped in a piece of well-oiled paper. The skin of this fish is so delicate, it is easily disfigured unless care is taken. Time to grill, 8 to 10 minutes. 241. Red Mullet au Gratin (Rougets au Gratin) 2 red mullet. 4 glass white wine. 1 tea-sp. ketchup. 1 tea-sp. anchovy sauce. 6 button mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 shallot. Grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. Salte. Ppper. Choose fairly large fish. Wash and cleanse them, handling them as lightly as possible. As a rule they are not drawn, but this is really a matter of taste. When the gills are removed the small in- testine part can be drawn away with them. The fiver, which is a delicacy, should, in any case, be left in the fish. Chop the shallot and mushrooms, and mix them with the parsley, a little grated lemon rind, pepper and salt. Grease a fireproof diah and sprinkle over it half of these chopped ingredients. Score the fish across once or twice with a knife, and lay them on the top, placing them head to tail, sprinkle the remainder of the chopped ingredients over, and cover with browned bread- crumbs. Mix the wine, ketchup, and anchovy sauce together, and pour them round the sides. Lay on the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is ready. Wipe the dish, and garnish with parsley before serving. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient forFISH 95 Salmon (Saumon) This is the most esteemed of all fish, and has been justly entitled the “ king of fish.” Although gener- ally caught in rivers it is both a salt and a fresh water fish, spending its winter in the sea and its summer in the river. The salmon is of such great commercial value that special laws have been passed to regulate the salmon fishing (see p. 29) and thus rotect the fish. It is illegal to sell fresh salmon uring the close season, although Dutch and other imported salmon may be had all the year round. When choosing salmon, select one with a small head and tail and broad shoulders. The scales should be bright and silvery. To be in perfection salmon should be cooked as soon as possible after it is caught, although it will keep, and be quite good for several days, if put in a very cool place. The more simply fresh salmon is cooked the better ; no other flavour must be permitted to predominate over the fine flavour of the fish itself. Melted butter, when well made, is the best sauce. This does not, however, apply to Dutch or preserved salmon, which is none the worse for being accompanied by a tasty sauce of some kind. Grilse is the name given to young salmon. 242. Salmon, To Boil (Saumon Bouilli) The best parts of salmon for boiling are the head and shoulders or a good middle cut. If not too large it is often boiled whole, but great care is then required in the cooking of it, as the tail end is very apt to become overdone and broken before the thicker parts are ready. Some people say that salmon should be cooked as soon as possible after it is taken from the water, while others declare that it should be kept for some days before being used. Certainly the salmon that is cooked within an hour or two of its being caught possesses a firmness of texture with a creamy curd between the flakes, that is never afterwards obtainable. Boil the salmon according to directions given for Boiling Fish (see p. 78). It must be thoroughly cooked, 10 minutes to the pound and 10 minutes over will be the average time required. The home- grown salmon should be boiled in water and salt only, but the imported salmon will sometimes taste better if it is cooked in a court bouillon, to which a little white wine has been added. No vinegar must be used as it is apt to destroy the colour. Then again the home-grown salmon should be very simply served with a sauce-boat full of the water in which it has been boiled, melted butter, or perhaps a hollandaise sauce, and an accompani- ment of boiled potatoes, dressed cucumber or fresh green peas. Imported salmon, which is sometimes lacking in flavour, may, on the other hand, be served with a more tasty sauce, such as shrimp, oyster, genevoise, hollandaise, &c. When served hot, the fish should be decorated with parsley and lemon, and the dish of salmon will take its name from the sauce which accompanies it. 243. Salmon, To Grill (Tranches de Saumon, Grilles) Slices of salmon. Salad oil or melted butter. Pepper, salt. Cut the salmon in slices about 1 inch in thick- ness, and wipe it with a soft cloth. Dip the slices in salad oil and season them with pepper and salt, or, if salad oil is not at hand, brush them over with melted butter. Make the grill thoroughly hot, grease it well, and cook the fish according to directions given on p. 79. From 12 to 15 minutes will be required for cooking, and the fish should be brushed over occasionally with more salad oil. When ready, transfer it to a hot dish and serve with cut lemon and red pepper. Note.—Grilled salmon may also be served with maitre d’hdtel or anchovy butter on the top of each slice, or the dish may be accompanied with any suitable sauce, such as tartare, horse-radish, bearnaise, &c., and take its name accordingly. 244. Salmon Steaks in Paper (Darnes de Saumon en Papillote) 3 slices of salmon. I 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. butter. I Salt and cayenne. Have the slices of salmon cut about 1 inch thick, and wipe them carefully with a clean cloth. Work together the butter, lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, and brush the slices of salmon over with this. Then put each slice in an oval-shaped piece of white paper, fold over and twist the edges together. Lay them on a greased baking tin and bake in a good oven. Serve very hot in the papers and serve hollandaise sauce separately. Time to bake, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 persons. Sea Bream (Breme de Mer) This is a fine-looking fish, and is caught during the summer and autumn months on the southern and western coasts of England. The flesh is, however, rather coarse in texture and wanting in flavour, and sea bream as a rule are not much esteemed; but if well cooked and tastily served they are by no means bad eating, and they are generally mode- rate in price. They may be stewed, broiled, stuffed, and baked, or filleted and cooked according to any of the directions given for fillets of sole or plaice. The scales of the fish are not generally removed. Skate (Raie) A somewhat ugly fish, not often seen on the fishmonger’s slab in its natural form. It is either Skate sold cut in pieces or crimped and rolled up with some of the liver inside. The flesh should be firm and creamy in appearance. It must always be96 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD well and serve on a folded serviette, garnished with 3 or 4 persons. skinned, and is better if steeped in cold water an hour or two before cooking. Skate is said to be very nutritious, but it must be eaten fresh and only when in season. It is generally very cheap, and is usually boiled and served with a good sauce. 245. Skate with Black Butter (Raie au Beurre Noir) 2 lbs. skate. Vinegar. | Black butter (see Re- Hot water. Salt. | cipe 676). Wash the skate thoroughly and cut it in two or three pieces. Put it into a saucepan or fish kettle with enough hot water to cover it, add salt and enough vinegar to make the water decidedly acid. Set the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the water boils, draw it to one side and simmer slowly until the fish is cooked. Then drain and remove the skin from both sides, and as much as possible of the bones. Place the pieces of skate on a dish and pour some black butter boiling hot over the top. Note.—The liver of the fish should, if possible, be used as a garnish to this dish. Wash it well, and boil from 8 to 10 minutes in boiling water to which a little salt and vinegar have been added, or cook it in some of the fish liquor. Time to boil, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 246. Crimped Skate & la Hollandaise (Raie a la Hollandaise) Although in towns skate can generally be bought ready crimped, the following directions may be useful to those who, in country districts, have to deal with the whole fish. First wash and brush the fish thoroughly, then lay it flat on the table and remove the skin from both sides. Now with a very sharp knife raise the fleshy part from the back bone on both sides of the fish, and then cut the flesh in long narrow Crimped Skate strips, from 1J to 2 inches wide. Let these pieces lie in cold water until they are quite firm and crisp. The water ought to be changed several times, and be as cold as possible. Then roll up each strip firmly, placing a piece of liver in the centre, and fasten the end with a small wooden skewer. Crimped skate may either be steamed or boiled (General Directions, p. 78). When ready, drain it parsley and cut lemon. Serve hollandaise sauce separately. Other sauces, such as caper, genoise, &c., may be served according to taste. Smelts (Eperlans) These are very small fish, but they are much esteemed for their delicate flavour. When fresh they have a silvery hue, and the smell of a cut cucumber. They should be eaten as soon as possible after they are taken from the water; they very soon become soft and flabby. To draw smelts make a small opening below the gills with a pair of scissors, and press out the in- testines by running the fingers along the length of the fish. Then remove the gills, handling the fish as lightly as possible and washing them quickly. 247. Smelts, Fried (Eperlans Frits) Smelts. I Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. I Seasoning. Prepare the fish as directed above, and after drying toss them lightly in flour. Then egg and bread-crumb them, or, dip them in milk and again flour them. Plunge them into boiling fat. and fry Tried Smelts them a pale brown colour. Drain and serve them piled high on a hot dish, garnished with parsley and cut lemon. Mayonnaise or tartare sauce may be served separately. Notes.—Sometimes the head and tail are pinned together with a little wooden skewer so as to form a ring, the skewer being removed after cooking. Fried smelts are frequently used as a garnish for other fish dishes. 248. Smelts an Gratin (Eperlans au Gratin) 1 doz. smelts. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 or 2 shallots. Salt. Pepper. 3 or 4 mushrooms. Bread-crumbs. Lemon juice. \ gill fish stock or white wine. Butter. Prepare the smelts as directed above, cutting off the heads and trimming the fins neatly. Chop the shallots and the mushrooms, and mix them with the parsley, pepper, and salt. Grease a fire- proof dish and sprinkle over it half the chopped ingredients. Lay in the fish, sprinkle the re- mainder of the mushrooms, &c., on the top, squeeze over a little lemon juice, and cover with fine bread- crumbs. Place some small pieces of butter on the top, pour the wine or fish stock round the sides, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient forFISH 97 Sole (Sole) This is a flat fish of excellent quality; in fact, next to the turbot, it is considered the finest of all white fish. The flesh of the sole is firm and delicate in flavour, and it lends itself to a variety of modes of cooking. It is best when eaten fresh, but in cold weather it will keep for a day or two without harm. There are two different kinds of sole, the real or black sole, which is long and narrow in shape, A. Lemon Sole B. Sole with a dark and roughish upper skin, and the lemon sole, which is rounder and more like the plaice in appearance, with a smoother and reddish brown upper skin. The lemon sole is decidedly inferior in quality to the real sole, and is, in consequence, cheaper. The sole is one of our most useful kinds of fish, as it lends itself to such a variety of treatment. 249. Soles, To Fry, 1 (Soles Frites) Small soles. | Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. When soles are small they may be fried whole. Wash and clean them thoroughly, removing the skin, then cut off the heads and fins, and dry well in a cloth. Put a little flour on a plate, and season it with pepper and salt. Dip the fish into this, coating them lightly. Then egg and bread-crumb (see p. 249), and fry in boiling fat (see Wet Fry- ing, p. 248) until nicely browned. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Larger fish must be fried in a small quantity of fat in a frying pan, as they will require a longer time to cook. 250. Soles, To Fry, 2 Prepare the soles in the same way as above, but instead of egging and bread-crumbing them dip them in flour, then in milk and in flour again. This must be done just before the fish is to be cooked, otherwise the flour becomes damp and the fish will be sodden. 251. Filleted and Fried Sole Prepare in the same way as Filleted and Fried Haddock (see Recipe 205). 252. Sole au Gratin (Sole au Gratin) 1 sole. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 6 button mushrooms. 1 shallot. £ oz. butter. Grated lemon rind. Lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. 1 glass white wine or stock. A nice plump, medium-sized sole is best for this. Clean it, remove the black skin, and cut off the head and fins. Take a fireproof dish large enough to hold the sole comfortably, and grease it with a little butter. Chop the shallot and mushrooms, mix them with the chopped parsley and a little grated lemon rind, and sprinkle half this mixture over the dish. Score the sole across on both sides, and lay it on the top with the white skin down- wards. Sprinkle the rest of the chopped ingredients on the top, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Cover with the bread-crumbs and put on the butter in small pieces. Pour the wine or stock round, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. The fish must be served on the dish on which it is cooked. A few button mushrooms or some parsley and cut lemon may be used as a garnish. Notes.—Almost any white wine may be used, such as Graves, Chablis, Sauterne, or Hock. If stock is used instead of wine a little glaze should be melted in it to give a richer flavour. Care must be taken not to use too much liquid, as the fish should only be moist, not sloppy. Any other flat fish may be cooked in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 253. Fillets of Sole with Cheese (Filets de Sole au Parmesan or a la Mornay) 1 sole. 2 or 3 oz. grated Par- mesan. Salt, cayenne. 1 oz. butter, § oz. flour. J pt. fish stock. A little lemon juice. To Prepare the Fish.—Skin and fillet the sole, and make some stock with the trimmings (see p. 78). Trim the fillets neatly, and lay them on a board with the side from which the skin was taken uppermost. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Double each fillet over lengthwise, place them on a greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. The fish is ready when it has lost its clear appearance and looks a creamy white. To Prepare the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add to it the flour, and mix to- gether with a wooden spoon until smooth ; pour in the fish stock (slightly cooled) and stir until boiling. Boil for 2 to 3 minutes to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste wfith salt, cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon juice. The sauce must be thick enough to coat the fish. Add most of the cheese to the sauce, but do not boil again. Any liquid left in the tin after cooking the fish should be strained into the sauce. To Dish the Fish.—Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, one leaning against the other, either in a G98 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD straight row or in a circle. Cover them with the sauce, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top, and brown quickly in the oven or under the gas grill. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 254. Fillets of Sole a la Creme (Filets de Sole a la Creme) Prepare in the same way as Fillets of Sole with Cheese, omitting the cheese and adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream to the sauce instead of some of the stock. The fish may be decorated with a little finely-chopped parsley, hard-boiled and sieved yolk of egg, or chopped truffle and lobster coral. 255. Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel Prepare and cook in the same way as Sole with Cheese, adding 1 table-spoonful very finely-chopped parsley instead of the cheese to the sauce. Deco- rate with fancy-shaped croutons of fried bread or pastry. 256. Sole with Shrimp Stuffing 1 lemon sole. 2 or 3 oz. picked shrimps. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 gill fish stock or white wine. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. A little butter. Choose a medium-sized sole, clean it carefully, and remove the dark skin. Then make an incision right down the centre of the fish to the back bone and on the skinned side. Slip the knife along close to the bone and raise the fillets slightly so as to make pockets for the stuffing. To Prepare the Stuffing.—Put the shrimps and bread-crumbs into a basin, add the chopped parsley and anchovy essence, and bind all together with the white sauce or some beaten egg. Season to taste, and put this stuffing into the fish, piling it rather high and smoothing it over the top. Now lay the fish on a greased baking dish, pour the stock or wine round, and sprinkle the browned crumbs over. Lay a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, serve the fish in the same dish, garnishing with parsley and cut lemon. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Sprats or Garvies (Esprots, Haranguets or Melettes) These are little fish resembling the herring in appearance only much smaller in size, being only from 4 to 5 inches in length. Like the herring they are oily in nature, but they have a good flavour and are usually very cheap. To be good they must be very fresh, they are then bright and silvery- looking. They should be cleaned carefully, and the insides drawn out through the gills without opening the fish. Fresh sprats can be grilled, fried, baked, or soused. _ They can also be bought smoked and dried and tied up in bundles. 257. Fried or Broiled Sprats Clean the sprats and draw them through the gills. Wipe them very dry and dip them in flour, coating them lightly. Then run a skewer through the heads of about a dozen at a time and fry them on the skewer in plenty of hot fat until they are nicely browned. Drain them well, draw out the skewer, and serve them very hot garnished with parsley and lemon. Thin slices of brown bread and butter should be served separately. For broiling prepare the sprats in the same way, grease the grill with suet and broil the sprats over or in front of a clear fire. Time to cook, 2 or 3 minutes. 258. Baked Sprats 1J doz. sprats. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 bay-leaf. 1 small blade of mace. 1 doz. black peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. A little salt. Grated nutmeg. Vinegar. 1 oz. butter. Prepare the sprats, cutting off the heads and tails, and lay them in a pie dish or fireproof dish with the seasonings. Cover them with good vinegar, or'with vinegaE and water, lay a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish are cooked. Serve cold. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. 259. Dried and Smoked Sprats, To Cook These should either be dipped in melted butter and toasted before the fire or under the grill of a gas stove ; or fried for a few minutes in butter. Serve very hot with cut lemon and thin brown bread and butter. Time to cook, 2 or 3 minutes. Sturgeon (Esturgeon) Like the salmon, the sturgeon lives partly in fresh and partly in salt water, it ascends the large rivers at spawning time. It is not a common fish in British waters, although it is caught in the Sturgeon Solway and further north. In summer it is brought into the London market from abroad, chiefly from Holland. Its flesh is very delicious, and closely resembles veal in taste and texture, in fact, it may be made into cutlets and fried, or a large piece may be roasted in exactly the same way as veal. The hard roe of the sturgeon furnishes the famous caviare, which is considered such a delicacy and is used so largely for hors-d’oeuvre. Both Russian and American caviare are sent into this country in large quantities. The sturgeon also provides us with isinglass, one of the purest forms of gelatine. This is prepared from the bladder of the fish.99 FISH 260. Fried Cutlets of Sturgeon 1| lbs. sturgeon. Lemon juice. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. Piquante sauce. Remove all skin and bone from the fish and cut it in small neat cutlets about £ an inch in thick- ness. Rub them over on both sides with a piece of cut lemon, and coat them lightly with flour. Then mix the parsley and a little pepper and salt with the beaten egg, and egg and bread-crumb the cutlets (see p. 249). Fry them in a small quantity of clarified fat in a frying pan in the same way as veal cutlets, and until a golden brown colour on both sides. Drain them and serve them garnished 'with parsley and cut lemon. Piquante, tomato, or any other suitable sauce should be served separately. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 261. Fillets of Sturgeon with Sauce 2 lbs. sturgeon. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Warm water. A bunch of herbs. Caper or tomato sauce. Cleanse the piece of sturgeon carefully, remove the skin and bone, and cut the flesh into small neat fillets. Rub these over on both sides with a cut lemon, season them with pepper and salt, and lay them on a greased tin or baking dish. Pour round the fish enough warm water to barely cover it (or white wine may be used if preferred), put in a small bunch of herbs, and cover all with greased paper. Now cook the fish in a moderate oven until tender, and meanwhile prepare § pint of caper, tomato, or any other suitable sauce. The sauce must be made fairly thick to allow for some thinning down afterwards. When the fish is ready, arrange the fillets neatly on a hot dish and keep them warm. Remove the bunch of herbs, and reduce the liquid in the tin or dish until only 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls are left. Strain this into the prepared sauce, and pour all over the fish. Decorate with cut lemon and new potatoes if liked. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 262. Stuffed and Roast Sturgeon 3 or 4 lbs. sturgeon. Veal forcemeat. 2 oz. butter or fat. 1 cupful stock. 1 glass sherry. .Lemon juice. juice. Stir over the fire until boiling, rubbing down any browning from the tin. Season and skim if necessary, and strain this gravy over the fish or serve it separately. Time to cook, 1 to 1£ hours. Turbot (Turbot) The best of all flat fish. The flesh is firm, rich, and of a creamy white colour; if it has become bluish in colour it should be rejected. It is ex- cellent in flavour, and very gelatinous. The thick part of the fins is particularly favoured by the Choose a piece from the tail end of the sturgeon. Wash it, skin it, and then carefully remove the back bone. Prepare some veal stuffing according to Recipe 1282, and put it in, in place of the bone, and keeping the fish as much its original shape as possible. Now rub it all over with lemon juice, and wrap it up in a piece of well-greased paper. Place it in a roasting tin with about 2 oz. butter or good dripping, and roast it in exactly the same way as a piece of meat (see p. 207), basting it fre- quently with the fat. When ready, place the fish on a hot dish, removing the paper, and keep it warm whilst making the gravy. Pour away the fat from the roasting tin, and put in a cupful of good stock, a glass of sherry, and a squeeze of lemon Turbot epicure. Turbot is usually boiled and served with a good sauce, its name varying with the sauce which accompanies it. Small turbots are called chicken turbots (Fr. turbotin); they may be cooked according to any of the recipes for cooking a sole. 263. Turbot, To Boil (Turbot Bouilli) The turbot grows to such a large size that a good slice or cut is usually sufficient for the ordinary household. Wash and clean the fish without cut- ting oS the fins, as these are considered a delicacy. Rub the turbot all over with lemon juice to keep the flesh firm and white, and score the black skin across two or three times to prevent it cracking. Then cook it in fish stock or court bouillon accord- ing to directions given for boiling fish on p. 78. The fish should be put into the fish kettle with the white skin uppermost. When ready, lift out, drain well, and serve on a folded serviette. Garnish with tufts of fresh parsley, cut lemon, and lobster coral, or with quarters or slices of hard-boiled egg, tarragon, and scraped horse-radish. Prawns also make an effective garnish. Serve boiled potatoes and a good sauce, such as Dutch, oyster, lobster, &c., separately. The fish will take its name on the menu according to the sauce which accompanies it. Note.—If only a small piece of turbot is being cooked, steaming is preferable to boiling. See To Steam Fish, p. 80. 264. Water Souehe 2 lbs. fish. Hpts. water. A few parsley roots. A blade of mace. 6 peppercorns. I tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Salt. Almost any kind of fish may be used for this ; plaice, flounder, perch, sole, eels, &c., are all suitable.100 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Have the fish well cleaned, trimmed, and cut in small neat pieces. Put the trimmings into a sauce- pan with the water, peppercorns, mace, parsley roots, and salt to taste. Simmer slowly for at least one hour, strain and return the liquid to the stew- pan. Put the pieces of fish into this liquor, and cook them slowly until tender. Lift them out on a hot dish, add the chopped parsley to the liquor in the pan, and pour it over the fish. Serve hot, and hand brown bread and butter separately. Note.—A little grated horse-radish is sometimes added to the fish liquor before putting in the fish. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Whitebait (Blanchailles) A very small fish of a silvery appearance, very highly esteemed. It is considered a great delicacy on account of its delicate flavour and tenderness. It is a special favourite with the Londoner, and is caught in large quantities near the mouth of the Thames. It is usually fried and served hot, al- though when cold it may be served with mayonnaise. 265. Whitebait, To Fry (Blanchailles Frites) 1 pt. whitebait. Flour. Salt. These fish must be perfectly fresh, and should be carefully looked over to free them from weeds or other undesirable matter. Wash and rinse them in icy cold water, handling them as lightly as possible, and leave them in a colander or basin with a lump of ice until they are wanted. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat or oil (see p. 248). Spread the fish on a clean cloth to drain. In another cloth put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls flour, place a few of the whitebait on the top and toss them in it Whitebait until evenly coated, and separate one from the other. Empty the bait without delay into a fry- ing basket, and shake well to let the loose flour fall out. Plunge it into the hot fat and fry about 2 minutes, shaking the basket gently all the time. The whitebait must not be coloured this first frying. Lift out the basket, allow the fat to drip from it, and turn the fish on to paper to drain. Proceed with more in the same way until all are finished. Then allow the fat to reheat, put back the fish into the basket (there may be as many as the fat will cover this time), and fry them a second time until brown and crisp, about 2 minutes. Drain on paper and season with fine salt. Serve at once on a hot fish d’oyley, and garnish with quarters of fresh lemon. Thin brown bread and butter should be handed separately. Notes.—In large establishments it will save time to have two saucepans of fat for frying whitebait, bo that it can be finished off at once The success of the dish depends on little and fight handling, quick flouring, and hot fat. When properly done the whitebait should be crisp, and each fish distinct and separate. Time, about 5 minutes to fry. Sufficient for 4 persons. 266. Whitebait, Devilled (Blanchailles a la Diable) Prepare in the same way as last recipe, sprinkling the whitebait with freshly ground black or red pepper before the second frying. 267. Imitation Whitebait 1 filleted sole (medium). A little flour. Seasoning. Cut the fish in narrow strips, resembling the shape of the whitebait, as much as possible. Season these, toss them lightly in flour, and then cook them in exactly the same manner as whitebait (Recipe 265). Serve piled up on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Whiting (Merlan) A well-known fish of very delicate flavour. The flesh is tender and very easy of digestion, and for this reason it is a great favourite for invalids. It is called “ the chicken of the sea.” Besides the recipes given below whiting may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking haddock. 268. Whiting, To Fry (Merlans Frits) Whiting. 1 Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. | Seasoning. Small whiting are generally served whole. Skin and clean them, but do not cut off the heads. Put a little flour (1 tea-spoonful for each whiting) on to a plate, and mix with it some pepper and salt. Dip each fish into this and coat them lightly. This dries the fish and makes it fry a better colour. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and press the Fried Whiting crumbs well on with a knife. Fix the tail through the eye or mouth, and fry them to a nice brown colour in hot fat. If the fish are very small they may be fried in deep fat, but if rather large a small quantity of fat in a frying pan will be better. Drain on kitchen paper, serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Maitre d’hotel butter, or any suitable fish sauce, may be served separately. Allow 1 whiting per person.101 FISH 269. Whiting, To Bake (Merlans Rotis) 4 whiting. 2 oz. butter, i Juice of i lemon. 1 table-sp. flour. | Pepper and salt. Skin the whiting, cut ofl the heads, and clean them thoroughly. Put the flour on to a plate, season it with pepper and salt, and dip the fish into it, coating each one lightly. Grease a fireproof or gratin dish with butter, and lay the fish on it. Strain the lemon juice over, and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 270. Fillets of Whiting with Mushrooms (Filets de Merlans aux Champignons) 4 whiting. Butter. Salad oil. Seasoning. A little flour. \ lb. fresh mushrooms. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. ltea-sp. chopped parsley 2 table-sps. Dread- crumbs. Skin and fillet the whiting, making eight pieces in all, and season them with pepper and salt. Wash, peel, and chop the mushrooms, and prepare the chopped onion. Now melt about 1 oz. of butter in a small saucepan, add to it the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes. Then put in the chopped mushrooms, season with pepper and salt, and cook from 8 to 10 minutes longer or until the chopped ingredients are tender. Add the parsley at the last. Coat the fillets of fish with a little flour and saute them in a mixture of butter and salad oil until cooked and lightly browned. Then put the mushroom mixture on a flat fire- proof dish, arrange the fish neatly on the top, sprinkle with the bread-crumbs and a little salad oil or melted butter, and brown quickly in the oven. Serve hot, garnished with a few sprigs of parsley and slices of fresh lemon. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 271. Whiting a la Rasse (Merian a la Russe) 2 or 3 whiting. A little carrot, onion, and parsley. Pepper and salt. 1 gill water. \ oz. butter. 1 glass white wine. Prepare a small onion and cut it in very thin slices. Slice also some red carrot very thinly, and stamp out some fancy shapes with a small vege- table cutter. Put this prepared carrot and onion into a small saucepan with the water, half the butter, and a little well-washed parsley, picked free from the stalks and left in small sprigs. Add a little salt, and cook these vegetables for a few minutes until they are tender. Meanwhile prepare the fish. Wash and clean the whiting without opening them, trim them neatly, and place them on a greased fireproof dish. Pour the white wine over and then the vegetables and liquid from the saucepan. Then place the fish in the oven, and cook them until tender. When ready, lift the fish on to the dish on which it is to be served, reduce the liquid in the baking dish, add the re- mainder of the butter at the last, but without boiling again, and pour all over the fish. Notes.—Sometimes a little sour cream is added at the last instead of the butter. Other kinds of fish may be cooked in the same way. PART III FRESHWATER FISH Barbel (Barbeau) This is a river fish which takes its name from the four barbels or fleshy appendages which, fringe its mouth. It is common to most rivers, and, as it burrows in the mud, it requires careful cleaning, and should be soaked in water for some time before using. It is poor in flavour, and requires a good sauce, or to be cooked with wine. A. Barbel B. Bream Bream (Breme) A freshwater fish not much esteemed. It is found in ponds and slow-running rivers. The flesh is dry and bony, without much taste, and a good buttery sauce is required to make it palatable. See also Sea Bream, p. 95. Carp (Carpe) A freshwater fish, which frequently grows to a very large size. A medium-sized one is best. The carp has the habit of burying itself in the mud, which sometimes gives it a disagreeable flavour— in fact the flavour will be influenced by the char- Carp acter of its habitat. It requires careful cleaning, and should be soaked for an hour or two in salt and water, and then washed in vinegar and waterCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 102 before being cooked. It requires a piquant sauce or some other tasty accompaniment to make it taste well. 272. Carp with Cream Sauce (Carpe a l’Allemande) 1 medium-sized carp. Pepper and salt. Lemon juice. | pt. sour cream. I tea-sp. meat extract. A little butter. Bread-crumbs. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. Clean the fish thoroughly, cutting off the head and fins. Place it in a well-greased baking dish or tin, season it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and let it stand for half an hour. Then brush the fish over with a little melted butter, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, and put some more butter on the top. Pour the cream round, and add the onion cut in quarters and the bay-leaf. Place the fish in a moderate oven, and bake until the flesh w ill come away easily from the bone, basting several times with the cream. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish, add the meat extract to the sauce, also a little water if it has become too thick, and strain over the fish. Garnish with fresh or fried parsley. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 273, Carp, To Stew (Carpe au Jus) 1 carp. 1 table-sp. flour. Salt. 2 or 3 gills white or fish stock. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 12 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 gill red wine. Juice of \ lemon. A pinch of cayenne. Choose a carp of medium size, prepare it care- fully, and divide it into four or five equal-sized pieces. Dip these into flour, seasoned with salt, coating the pieces rather thickly. Put the stock into a stewpan and add to it the onion, skinned and cut in thin slices, the spices tied in a piece of muslin, the bunch of herbs and red wine. Bring this to the boil over the fire, then lay in the fish and simmer slowly until it is tender. When ready, arrange the pieces of fish neatly on a hot dish, remove the herbs and spices from the liquid in the saucepan, add the lemon juice and more seasoning, if necessary, and pour this sauce over and round the fish. Garnish with croutons of toast or fried bread. Note.—A few button mushrooms, or some stoned raisins and blanched and shred almonds may, if liked, be added to this stew. Time to stew, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 274. Carp, Stuffed and Baked (Carpe Farcie au Four) 1 carp. Fish stuffing. Egg or milk. Bread-crumbs. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 onion. 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley. 1 tea-cupful water. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 tea-sp. Worcestersauce. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Choose a carp of medium size, and prepare and clean it, cutting off the head and fins. Make the stuffing as directed in Recipe 1266, put it into the opening of the fish, and sew up with a needle and cotton. Place the fish in a well-greased baking tin, brush it over with beaten egg or milk, and sprinkle it liberally with bread-crumbs. Then mix the anchovy and Worcester sauce with the water, pour them round the fish, and add the onion, finely chopped, a few sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt. Put the remainder of the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, basting several times with the liquid. When the fish is ready, lift it carefully with a fish slice on to a hot dish, add the flour, broken with a little cold water, to the liquid in the baking tin, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, cook a few minutes, and strain round the fish or serve separately in a sauce-boat. The fish itself may be garnished with sprigs of parsley and some cut lemon. , Note.—If the liquid in the tin has dried up in the cooking, a little more water must be added, or fish stock or white wine may be used. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Eels (Angullles) There are several different kinds of eels, and they are to be found both in fresh and salt water. They cannot be eaten too fresh, and should be soaked in salt and water some time before cooking. Eels are valuable on account of their nutritive pro- perties, and, as they are rich in themselves, they are best dressed very simply. They are obtainable all the year round, but are best during the autumn and winter months. To Shin an Ed.—First cut off the head. Then turn back the skin at the top, and draw it down- wards, turning it outside in as you would draw off a stocking. 275. Eels, To Fry (Angullles Frites) Eels. Salt. I A little flour. Egg. Lemon juice. J Bread-crumbs. Wash and if possible skin the eels (see above), and cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches long. If the pieces are thick, split them and remove the bones. Then sprinkle them with salt and a little lemon juice, and let them remain at least half an horn. Next wipe the fish dry with a clean cloth, and dip each piece in flour, coating them very lightly. Egg and bread-crumb the fish (see p. 249), and fry in deep fat to a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Tartare, caper, or some other piquante sauce should be served separately.FISH 103 276. Stewed Eels (Anguilles au Jus) 2 lbs. eels. 1 pt. white or fish stock. A bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. cream. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Wash the eels well, skin them and cut them into pieces about 2 inches long. Let them lie in strong salt and water for 1 hour or more. Mean- while put the heads, tails, and any trimmings from the eels into a saucepan with the stock, the bunch of herbs and onion stuck with cloves. Simmer about 1 hour, then strain and use this stock for making the sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan and let it brown slightly, then add the flour, and mis together until quite smooth. Pour in the strained stock, add the ketchup, and stir until boiling. Lift the pieces of eel out of the salted water, rinse them in fresh cold water, and put them into the saucepan with the sauce. Stew gently about 1 hour or until the eels are cooked, add the cream just before serving, and season to taste. Lift the pieces of eel on to a hot dish, strain the sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and garnish with sippets of toast. Note.—A glass of port or claret may be added to the sauce if liked. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 277. Eels In Jelly, 1 (Anguilles au GeleS) 24 lbs. eels, if pts. white jelly stock. 4 pt. wine vinegar. 2 or 3 cloves. 12 peppercorns. 1 onion. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. Juice of 1 lemon. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Salt. Cleanse and skin the fish, cutting off the heads and tails. Cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches in length, sprinkle these with salt, and let them re- main in a cool place at least 1 hour. Then scald the fish in boiling water a few minutes, drain, and rinse with cold water. Now put some good jelly stock into a saucepan with the spices, parsley, vinegar, and onion, cut in pieces, bring these to the boil, and lay in the fish. Put the lid on the pan, and allow all to simmer slowly until the fish is tender from 15 to 20 minutes. Then place the pieces of eel in a deep dish, large enough to hold the stock as well, and pack them in neatly. Allow the stock to cool, add to it the lemon juice, the egg shells, washed and crushed, the whites slightly beaten. Whisk over the fire until boiling, then draw the saucepan to one side and let it stand a few minutes. Strain the contents through a hair sieve or jelly cloth, pour over the fish, and stand until cold. Mayonnaise or tartare sauce may be served separately. 278. Eels in Jelly, 2 1J to 2 lbs. eels. Water. A little vinegar. Parsley. Seasoning. 1 small onion. 1 bay-leaf. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 2 or 3 anchovies. Salad. Gelatine. Clean and skin the eels as directed on p. 102. Cut them in medium-sized pieces and put them into a saucepan with warm water to cover them. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, add the bay-leaf and onion cut in pieces, and enough vinegar or lemon juice to make the water taste slightly sour. Simmer all slowly until the fish is tender, then lift it out, remove the bones, and cut the flesh in neat pieces. Now strain the liquid and return it to the saucepan, let it boil up and skim it until it looks quite dear. Add gelatine in the proportion of £ oz. to each J pt. of liquid and let it dissolve. Then strain again and put it to cool. Take a plain mould, rinse it out with cold water and leave it wet. Decorate it with some of the hard-boiled egg cut in slices and a few little sprigs of parsley. Then fill up the mould with the fish, remainder of the eggs, the anchovies cut in small pieces, and a little more parsley. Pour in the liquid jelly very slowly and enough to well cover the fish. Put the mould in a cool place, and when set, turn out and garnish with a little salad, or serve beetroot or cucumber separately. Grey Mullet (Mulet or Surmulet) This is quite a different fish from the red mullet and is inferior in quality. It is a favourite with some people, but care should be taken to know where it was caught, as it is not always particular Grey Mullet about its food. Like the mackerel, the grey mullet must be used very fresh. It may be cooked in the same way as haddock, but requires a good sauce to make it taste well. Perch (Perche) A freshwater fish of good quality. The flesh is firm and white, and has a pleasant flavour. It has a bright shiny appearance when fresh, and should be used at once. If found difficult to scale it should Perch be dipped in boiling water for a minute or two. It may be boiled, stewed, broiled like herring, or cut in fillets if large. It is also very good served cold with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. 279. Perch, To Broil or Fry Prepare and cook in the same way as Broiled or Fried Herring (see p. 90).104 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 280. Perch a la Maitre d’Hotel (Perche a la Maitre d’Hotel) 1 perch. Lemon juice. A little butter. I pt. maitre d’htedl Pepper and salt. sauce. Skin and fillet the fish, and wipe the pieces dry in a clean cloth. Then cut the fillets in pieces about 2 inches in length, and place them in a well-greased baking dish. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until done. When ready, drain the pieces of fish for a minute on kitchen paper and then arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Have ready \ pint maitre d’hotel sauce (see Recipe 700), pour any butter left in the baking dish into it, make thoroughly hot and pour over the fish. Serve with small croutons of fried bread. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 281, Perch, To Stew with Wine (Perche au Vin Blanc) 3 or 4 perch. White or fish stock. White wine. 2 bay-leaves. A few parsley stalks. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1J oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Salt, pepper. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scrape well to remove the scales, and cut off the fins. If the scales are very difficult to remove, plunge the fish in boiling water for a minute, and then scrape them. When ready, put the fish into a stewpan with equal quantities of stock and white wine to cover them. Add the bay-leaves, cloves, parsley stalks, and onion, thinly sliced. Season with pepper and salt, put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until the fish are tender, about 20 minutes. Then lift them carefully on to a hot dish, and strain the liquid into a basin. Put the butter into the stew- pan, and let it melt over the fire. Add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the strained liquor, add the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until boiling. The sauce must be of a consistency to coat the fish. If too thin, add a little more flour, broken with stock or water; if too thick, add more stock or wine. Pour this over the fish, and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Pike (Broehet) This fish also goes under the name of luce, jack, ged, pickerel and freshwater shark. The pike is Pike a river fish of a very voracious type. It has a long- shaped body with a pointed head and strong teeth. It sometimes grows to an immense size, and has been known to attain a great age. The flesh is dry but wholesome, and if served with a good sauce will make a very tasty dish. The roe should always be removed from this fish as it is not wholesome. 282. Pike, To Boil (Broehet Bouilli) Cook in the same way as Boiled Mackerel (Recipe 228) and serve hot with hollandaise, horse-radish, or mustard sauce, or cold with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. 283. Pike, To Grill (Broehet GrillA) Prepare and cook in the same way as Grilled Mackerel (Recipe 229), and serve with tartare sauce. 284. Pike a la Meuniere (Broehet a la Meuniere) Prepare and cook in the same way as Mackerel k la Meuniere (Recipe 234). 285. Pike, To Stew with Wine (Broehet au Vin Blanc) Prepare and cook in the same way as Stewed Perch. 286. Pike, Stuffed and Baked (Broehet Farei au Four) 1 small pike. A little flour. 1 egg. Bread-crumbs. 2 ozs. butter or dripping. Stuffing (Recipe 1266). Wash and clean the fish, cutting ofi the head and fins. If the scales are difficult to remove, dip the fish in boiling water for a minute or so before scraping it. Then prepare the stuffing, and sew it into the opening at the side. Score the skin across diagonally on both sides, and then dip the fish in flour. Melt the butter or dripping in a baking tin, and place the fish on it. Brush over with a little beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread- crumbs. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven from 30 to 40 minutes, basting fre- quently. Pike is a very dry fish, therefore the basting is very important. When ready, lift it on to a hot dish and pour tomato, brown, anchovy, or any other suitable sauce round. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Tench (Tanche) A freshwater fish which is found in ponds and pools and slow-running rivers. Like the carp it A. Tench B. Trout is fond of burying itself in the mud, and this often gives it a disagreeable muddy taste. The best105 FISH tench are those which are caught in fresh running water. They require very careful cleaning, and this should he done as soon as possible after the fish is caught. Soaking in acidulated water for some time before cooking will sometimes improve the flavour of the fish. When large enough tench should be filleted before cooking, as the bones are very troublesome. They may be stewed, broiled, or fried, or boiled in court bouillon (see p. 79), and served with a piquante sauce. Trout (Truite) There are different kinds of trout. The larger sea trout and the lake trout are treated in the same way as salmon. The little brown trout or moor trout is the king of freshwater fish, and is found in rivers and mountain streams all over Europe. It is much prized for its delicate and very delicious flavour. It is very pretty in ap- pearance, and is easily distinguished by its round red spots. To be in perfection trout should be cooked as soon as possible after it is caught. Like salmon there is a close season for trout, when it is not obtainable. with oil and vinegar. Serve black butter, maitre d’hbtel butter, or cucumber sauce separately 290. Trout in Paper (Truites en Papillote) 4 or 5 small trout. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. I table-sp. chopped mushrooms. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Choose small trout from £ to £ lb. in weight, and clean them carefully without opening. Then pre- pare a stuffing with the other ingredients. Put the butter into a basin and beat it to a cream, add the other ingredients, binding all together with the yolk of an egg. Pill the trout with this stuffing, and wrap each one in a piece of greased white paper. Place them on a greased baking tin, and bake in a good oven, turning the fish once during the cooking. Serve the fish on a hot dish without removing the paper, and garnish with parsley. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 287. Trout, Baked (Truite Rotie au Four) 2 river trout. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. A few bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. capers. Thoroughly clean the fish and lay them head to tail on a greased fireproof dish. Sprinkle them with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and the capers roughly chopped. Put a light coating of bread- crumbs on the top, and lay on the butter in small ieces. Cover with greased paper, and ake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Serve hot, garnished with thin slices of lemon. 288. Trout, To Fry (Truite Frite) Trout A little flour. Clean the fish, split them in half and re- move the bone. Then dry the pieces in a cloth, and coat lightly with flour, mixed with pepper and salt. Egg and bread- crumb, and fry in hot fat (see p. 248) until a nice brown colour. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Serve cucumber, mayonnaise, or any other suitable sauce separately. 289. Trout, To Grill (Truite Grille) Trout. I Salad oil or melted Lemon juice. | butter. Seasoning. Clean the trout and dry them well in a cloth. Split them open, remove the bone, and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Then brush over with salad oil or melted butter, and broil in front of or over a clear fire from 5 to 10 minutes, according to the size of the fish (see p. 79). If the fish are very small it will be better to leave the bones in ; simply score the skin across diagon- ally on both sides, season, and dip them in oil. Serve the trout very hot, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon, or with watercress, lightly sprinkled PART IV SHELLFISH Crawfish (Langouste) The crawfish is like the lobster in appearance, but without the large claws. It is much coarser in quality and darker in colour. It is more used Crawfish lobster abroad than in this country. It may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking lobster. Crayfish (Ecrevisse) This freshwater shellfish is like the lobster in appearance, only very much smaller. Its flavour is very delicate; it is one of the most delicate of shellfish. Crayfish are not plentiful in this country, but large quantities are imported alive from both France and Germany. They are generally sold boiled, when they are a bright, pink colour. They are used principally as a garnish for other dishes, and also for making soup. A nut-cracker may be used to crack the claws.106 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 291. To Boil Crayfish Plunge them into boiling fish stock and allow them to boil from 8 to 10 minutes. Crabs (Crabes) Crabs should be bought alive, and should be used as soon as possible after cooking. Choose one of medium size and heavy, the light ones are watery. Preference should be given to those that have a rough shell and large claws. The joints of the crab should be stiff, the shell a good red colour, and the eyes bright. The male crab is considered the best for table use, and is known by its large claws. 292. Crab, To Boil First kill the crab by running a skewer down between the eyes. Put a large saucepan or fish kettle over the fire with sufficient water to cover the crab, and add salt to make it as salt as sea water. When quite boiling, plunge in the crab, boil quickly the first few minutes and then more slowly until the crab is ready. From 20 to 40 minutes’ cooking will be required, according to size, and the water must be skimmed if necessary. The crab must not be overcooked or the flesh will become hard and thready. When ready, drain and serve as directed. Notes.—Anyone not accustomed to handling crabs should h'ft them when living with a pair of tongs, as the larger ones can give a nasty bite. Court bouillon (see p. 79) may be used instead of water for boiling the crab. Time to boil, 20 to 40 minutes. meat, getting rid of all the finer pieces of shell and finny parts, crack the claws and pick the meat from them also. Chop the meat finely, and put it into a saucepan with all the other ingredients except the browned bread-crumbs and butter. Season to taste, and make thoroughly hot over the fire, stirring all the time. Havo the shell weli scrubbed, dried and greased with a little butter, and fill it up with the hot mixture. Sprinkle the top with browned bread-crumbs, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in the oven or in front of the fire about 15 minutes. Serve on a dish paper, garnished with parsley, cut lemon, and some of the small claws of the crab. Note.—If liked 2 table-spoonfuls tomato puree may be used to moisten the mixture instead of the sauce. Time, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 294. Dressed 1 boiled crab (medium size). 2 table-sps. cream or salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. white vinegar or lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. made mustard. Crab, Cold, 1 1 tea-sp. tarragon or chilli vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. Cayenne, salt. Pick the meat from the crab as directed in last recipe, and chop it finely. Mix all the in- gredients together in a basin, and season rather highly with salt and cayenne. Wash and dry the shell, and fill it with the mixture. Garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress and cut lemon, or with chopped white of egg, sieved yolk of egg, and Dressed Crab 293. Dressed Crab, Hot 1 boiled crab (medium size) 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. cream or melted butter. 1 table-sp. vinegar or lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. A little grated lemon rind. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. A pinch of nutmeg. Cayenne and salt. A few browned bread- crumbs. A small piece of butter. To Extract the Meat.—Twist off the large and small'claws, and lay the crab on its back. Pull off the loose flaps or “ aprons ” and separate the upper shell from the lower one. Remove the gills or feathery parts from the sides, also called “ dead men’s fingers,” the stomach, which is like a little bag and lies near the head, and the little twist of intestines with the greenish substance. These are the only parts that are not good. Pick out all the chopped parslfey, arranged in a pattern. Lobster butter or green butter (Recipe 768) put through a forcing bag will also make a pretty decoration. Some of the small claws may be used for decorating. Notes.—1 or 2 table-spoonfuls mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of the oil and vinegar, or 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls white wine, such as Chablis or Sauterne, may be used instead of some of the vinegar. The mixture may be served in a fancy china dish instead of the crab shell. Sufficient for 4 persons. 295. Dressed Crab, Cold, 2 (Crabe Dress6) 1 large crab. 1 shallot. 1 gherkin. Chopped parsley. Chopped chervil. Salt, pepper. Made mustard. Hard-boiled egg. Cook the crab according to directions given in Recipe 292. Remove the meat from the claws, cutFISH 107 it in fine shreds or dice, and put it to one side. Now remove the creamy part from the centre of the crab, add to it the shallot, blanched and chopped, the gherkin, chopped finely, parsley and chervil. Season with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Mix well together, and last of all stir in the white meat from the crab. Well wash the shell of the crab, and put the above mixture into it. Decorate with hard-boiled egg and a few of the small claws. Serve on a folded serviette with a little fresh parsley. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 296. Curried Crab (Crabe au Kari) 1 gill curry sauce. 1 boiled crab (medium size). Boiled rice. Prepare the crab as in Recipe 293, but do not chop it too finely. The curry sauce must be fairly thick and well-seasoned (Recipe 685). Put it into a saucepan, and warm it over the fire. Add the prepared crab, and make it thoroughly hot in the sauce. Serve in a hot dish with a border of rice round, or the rice may be served separately, and the curry decorated with slices of hard-boiled egg and cut lemon. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 297. Crab Cutlets Make in the same way as Lobster Cutlets. Recipe 309. 298. Devilled Crab (Crabe & la Diable) 1 boiled crab (medium size). 1 gill white sauce. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs | tea-sp. made mustard. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. 1 tea-sp. Worcester sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped pickles. 1 tea-sp. chutney. Cayenne. Prepare the crab as in Recipe 293, and chop it finely. Warm the sauce, which should be rather thick, in a saucepan, and add all the other in- gredients to it. Season to taste, adding salt if necessary. Wash and dry the shell of the crab, brush it over with salad oil or melted butter, and fill up with the mixture. Sprinkle the top very lightly with biscuit crumbs, and place in the oven 7 or 8 minutes. Garnish with strips of red chilli and green pickle, and put some sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress round the dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 299. Crab with Mushrooms (Crabe aux Champignons) 1 boiled crab (medium size). 1 gill white sauce. 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 yolk of egg. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. A few browned bread- crumbs. Prepare the crab and shell as in Recipe 293. Put the white sauce into a small saucepan, and make it hot, add to it the meat of the crab, broken very small, the chopped mushroom and seasoning. Simmer slowly for 15 minutes, stirring frequently, then add the yolks of egg and cream. Grease the well-washed shell and sprinkle the inside with a few bread-crumbs. Fill it up with the mixture, sprinkle with more bread-crumbs, and put a small piece of butter on the top. Bake in a quick oven from 7 to 10 minutes, or until thoroughly hot. Serve garnished with cut lemon and sprigs of parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 300. Potted Crab 1 boiled crab. 2 to 3 oz. butter. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Cayenne pepper. Pick all the meat from the crab, and pound it in a mortar with the seasoning. Add some of the butter melted, pound again, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Pack the mixture into little pots, run some melted butter over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Cover again with melted butter if the former lot has soaked in, and set aside to cool, when it will be ready for use. The potted crab must be served in the jar, garnished with a little parsley. 301. Scalloped Crab (Crabe aux Coquilles) Make in the same way as Dressed Crab (Hot), serving the mixture in scallop shells instead of the crab shell. 302. Crab Souffles, Hot or Cold (Souffl6es de Crabe) Make in the same way as Fish Souffles (Recipe 360). Lobster (Homard) The lobster is considered more of a luxury than the crab, as it is much more expensive. The flesh is firmer in texture and more delicate in flavour. They are frequently bought alive, when they are a blue-black colour and do not become their well- known red colour until after cooking. A medium- sized lobster is best, and one that is heavy in pro- portion to its size. The hen lobster is valuable on account of the spawn, which gives such a beautiful red colour to sauces, &c., but for actual flavour the cock lobster is best and the flesh is firmer r it is more slender in form than the hen lobster. The lobster must be bought and used as fresh as possible. If bought alive the lobster should be strong and active in its movements. If ready cooked, the tail should be pressed tightly against the body, and should spring back sharply when pulled out straight with the fingers. Lobsters with white shell-like incrustations on the shell should be avoided, as this is generally an indication of age. The flesh of the lobster is very dry and is gene- rally served with an accompaniment of oil and vinegar, or with a sauce made with oil. To Kill a Lobster Lobsters should be killed before being cooked by running a skewer or sharp-pointed knife through the spinal cord at the joint between the body and tail shells. 303. Lobster, To Boil Have ready on the fire a deep saucepan of boiling water, with salt added to it in the proportion of 1 table-spoonful to I quart. Plunge in the lobster108 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD head-foremost, boil quickly a minute, and then simmer slowly until the lobster is ready. A lobster weighing 2 lbs. will require about 25 minutes’ boiling. If boiled too long the meat becomes hard and thready. Remove any scum that may rise on the water. Lift out the lobster when ready, drain well, and if the shell has to be used in the serving up, rub it over with a little butter or salad oil to give it a glossy appearance. The lobster should be used as soon as possible; if it has to be kept overnight, do not remove the meat from the shell until just about to serve it. Note.—Fish stock (see p. 78) may be used in- stead of water. 304. Lobster, Plainly Dressed Boil the lobster as directed above, and rub over the shell with a little salad oil or melted butter to give it a glossy appearance. When cold, remove the two large claws from the body and crack them well. Then separate the head part from the tail, and split the tail in half down the middle, removing any uneatable parts. See below. To serve, stand the head upright on a dish, and arrange the cracked claws and split tail round. Garnish with fresh parsley or salad, and serve accompanied with oil and vinegar. To Extract the Meat from a Lobster Allow the lobster to cool after boiling. Twist off the claws, crack the large claws, and pick out all the meat; the small claws are only used for garnishing. Split the body lengthwise from head to tail, using a strong knife and hammer if necessary. Remove the intestine, which looks like a small vein, running through the back of the tail, the stomach or lady, which lies near the head, and the spongy- looking fingers or gills. These three are the only parts which are not good. Take out all the meat from the body, also the greenish-looking liver, which can all be used. The coral, and spawn if there is any, are sometimes put aside for decorative purposes. The lobster meat can then be chopped or left in pieces according to the purpose for which it is to be used. 305. Lobster, Baked 1 lobster. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 2 table-sps. white bread- crumbs. (Homard au Gratin) 1 yolk of egg. Grated lemon rind. Asqueeze of lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 1 table-sp. browned crumbs. A little butter. Boil the lobster and cut the shell in half length- wise, leaving on the head. Remove all the meat (see above) and chop it in small pieces, being careful to keep back any pieces of shell. Put the chopped meat into a saucepan with the white sauce, parsley, and white bread-crumbs. Mix well and season to taste with pepper, salt, lemon rind and juice, and a little anchovy essence. Add the yolk of egg last of all and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Have the two parts of the shell washed and dried, grease them outside and inside with salad oil or melted butter, and fill up with the mixture. Sprinkle browned bread-crumbs over the top, lay on some small pieces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Serve Baked Lobster hot, garnished with parsley and small slices of lemon. Note.—This dish may be made with tinned lobster, a fireproof dish being used instead of the lobster shell. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 306. Broiled Lobster Kill the lobster (see p. 107) and cut it in halves lengthwise. Remove the intestines and place the pieces on a well-greased broiler, with the cut side uppermost. Cook over a clear fire about 10 minutes, then baste the flesh with a little melted butter, and turn the pieces over. Cook again about 10 minutes, when the lobster should be sufficiently cooked. Season with pepper and salt, crack the claws and arrange the pieces neatly on a very hot dish. Serve melted butter (Recipe 691) separately. Note.—Small or medium-sized lobsters are best for broiling. 307. Roast Lobster Prepare the lobster in the same way as for broiling, and place it on a roasting tin with tho flesh side uppermost. Cook it in a good oven from 20 to 30 minutes according to size, and baste it frequently with oil or melted butter. Season it with pepper and salt, crack the big claws before serving, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. 308. Lobster Cream, Hot (Creme de Homard) 1 small lobster. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 1 gill double cream. Pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 white of egg. Cardinal sauce. Pick all the meat from a boiled lobster (see above), and reserve the coral for the sauce. Chop the meat finely, being careful to remove any pieces of shell, and put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs and the butter. Heat the milk and pour it over the ingredients in the basin, cover with a plate, and soak for 10 minutes. Put the cream into another basin, and whip it with a wire whisk until stiff; and beat up the white of egg on a plate with a knife. Stir these two lightly into the other in- gredients, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle mould, cover with greased paper, and steam very gently until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour cardinal sauce (Recipe 712) round the base. Time to steam, about § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.FISH 109 309. Lobster Cutlets (Cotelettes de Homard) 1 medium-sized lobster. 1 oz. butter, oz. flour. 1 gill water or fish stock. Cayenne and salt. 1 table-sp. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. A little mustard. Lobster coral. \ oz. butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Remove all the flesh from a boiled lobster (see p. 108) and chop it very finely, carefully keeping back any little pieces of shell. Reserve the lobster coral, should there be any, wash it and dry it in a cool oven, then pound with the \ oz. of butter, and rub it through a sieve. This is called lobster butter, and it will give a pretty pink colour to the cutlet mixture. Now make a panada with the butter, flour, and fish stock or water, add to it the Lobster Cutlets chopped lobster, lobster butter, cream and season- ing, and mix well together. Spread out the mixture smoothly on a flat plate, and set it aside until cold. Then divide in ten equal portions, which form into cutlets, egg and bread-crumb and fry as directed for Eish Cutlets (Recipe 342). When ready, put a small claw or piece of the red feeler into the narrow end of each, to imitate the bone of the cutlet, and serve garnished with parsley. Note.—Tinned lobster may be used instead of fresh lobster if wished. Sufficient for 10 or 12 cutlets. 310. Lobster a I’Americaine (Homard a l’Americaine) 1 lobster (uncooked) 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot. Seasoning. £ glass brandy. 1 glass white wine. 2 table-sps. tomato puree. 1 tea-sp. meat glaze. 1 tea-sp. chopped par- sley and tarragon. Kill the lobster as directed on p. 107. Take a saute pan, put into it the butter and oil, and make them hot over the fire. Chop the lobster quickly into pieces, reserving the intestines and any liquid which may run from it. Chop also the large claws into two or three pieces. Throw all those pieces (with the shell) into the hot fat and cook them quickly over the fire until they turn red. Then add the shallot and brandy. Let the brandy catch fire and burn until it goes out. Now add the white wine, puree of tomatoes and seasoning, and cook all slowly about 20 minutes. When ready, lift out the pieces of lobster and arrange them neatly in a deep dish, standing up the pieces of head in the centre. Add the meat glaze to the sauce, along with the intestines and liquid, cook quickly for a few minutes, and add the chopped parsley and tarragon. Then draw the saucepan off the fire and add the remainder of the butter in small pieces. Do not boil again (this second piece of butter is added to bind the sauce). Pour the sauce over the lobster, and garnish with any pieces of feeler. Serve hot. Time to cook, | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 311. Lobster a la Newburg (Homard a la Newburg) 1 boiled lobster. 2 or 3 table-sps. sherry or Madeira. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Red pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill cream. 2 yolks of eggs. Croutons of bread. Take the meat from a boiled lobster (see p. 108) and break it into small pieces. Put it on a plate, season with the red pepper, salt, and nutmeg, pour the wine over and stand one hour if possible. Melt the butter in an earthenware casserole, put in the lobster meat, &c., and cook slowly for 6 or 8 minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and add them to the contents of the sauce- pan, stirring all the time. Allow the sauce to thicken without coming to the boil, and serve very hot, garnished with croutons of bread and a sprink- ling of lobster coral. Note.—A few shreds of truffle may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Mussels (Moules) Mussels are not so much eaten in England as abroad, but if they are taken from clean sea water and can be procured perfectly fresh, they make a very good dish. They are generally best at sea- side places. They are very inexpensive and full A. Oyster B. Scallop C. Mussel of flavour, and may even take the place of oysters in many dishes. Small mussels are the best, as they are the most delicate in flavour. They should not be too dark in colour; those of a deep orange colour are un- wholesome. They must be very carefully cleaned and prepared. 312. Mussels, To Prepare and Cook Well wash the mussels in several waters, scraping or scrubbing the shells until they are quite clean. The mussels ought to be lifted out of the water in order to leave the sand. Examine them to see that they are sound ; those that float on the surface of the water are not good. When thoroughly clean put the mussels into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and cover them with the lid.110 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Place them on the fire and boil until the mussels open, shaking the pan occasionally. As soon as the shells open the mussels will be sufficiently cooked. Then drain them, reserving the liquor. Cut away the “ beard,” the little black part like a weed, with a pair of scissors, and the mussels are ready for use. Note.—Sometimes an onion is cooked along with the mussels. If it turns black the mussels are not good. 313. Mussels a la Mariniere 2 to 3 doz. mussels. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 gill mussel liquor. 1 gill white wine or milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Pepper and salt. Prepare and cook the mussels as above. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion very finely chopped, and cook it slowly a few minutes. Stir in the flour and allow it to cook, then add the mussel liquor (see above) and white wine or milk, and stir until boiling. Allow this sauce to simmer slowly at least 5 minutes, add the parsley and seasoning and pour over the mussels. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 314. Mussels a la Poulette (Moules a la Poulette) Prepare in the same way as last recipe, adding 1 or 2 yolks of eggs to the sauce at the last. Oysters (Huitres) There are several different kinds of oysters; in this country the “ natives ” are highly esteemed, while in America the “ blue-points ” are much in favour. For cooking purposes the Portuguese and Dutch oysters may well be utilised. Oysters must only be eaten when in season, i.e. - from September to May. They must also be very fresh. When this is the case the shell is closed tightly. Good oysters are never so fine as when served raw, but there are also many ways of cooking them. The following recipes will no doubt suggest many others to the intelligent cook. 315. Oysters au Naturel (Huitres au Naturel) Fresh oysters. | Cut lemon. Seasonings. I Brown bread and butter. When oysters are served raw they must be very fresh. They should be kept in a very cool place, and well washed or scrubbed before using. Open them only a very short time before they are needed or the flavour will be spoilt. Hold them with the deep shell in the palm of the left hand, and break them on one side with a special oyster knife. Serve them in the deeper shell so as to retain as much of the liquid as possible. Allow six oysters for each person. Arrange them neatly on a plate, with the valve sides to the centre. Place a quarter of a cut lemon in the middle, and garnish with a little fresh parsley or small cress. In warm weather a little finely broken ice may be used for dishing them round, but oysters should never be allowed to freeze as it spoils them. Thin brown bread and butter and black and red pepper should be served separately, also vinegars if desired. 316. Roasted Oysters Wash and scrub the oysters. Place them on a baking tin, with the deeper shell downwards, and bake in a hot oven until the shells open. Remove the upper shells, being careful to save the liquor, and season each oyster with cayenne pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar. Put small pieces of butter on the top, and serve at once in the lower shells. Note.—By this method of cooking the flavour of the oyster is well retained. 317. Fried Oysters (Huitres Frites) 1 doz. fresh oysters. I Bread or biscuit crumbs. Pepper, salt. | 1 egg. A little milk. Drain the oysters and dip each one in very fine bread or biscuit crumbs, or in a little flour. Beat up an egg with a little milk, and season with pepper and salt. Dip the oysters in the egg and again in the crumbs. Press the coating of crumbs lightly on to the oysters and shape them neatly. Place a few at a time in the frying basket, and plunge into boiling fat. As soon as they are a golden brown colour lift them out and drain on kitchen paper. Proceed with the others in the same way. Serve them very hot, and as quickly as possible. Celery salad or horse-radish sauce may be handed sepa- rately. Note.—Sieved Indian meal may be used instead of the cracker or biscuit crumbs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 318. Scalloped Oysters (Huitres en Coquilles) 1 doz. oysters. 1 oz. butter. Pepper, salt. Bread-crumbs. Lemon juioe. Chopped parsley. Take 3 or 4 scallop or china shells and grease them well with a little butter. Put a layer of fine bread-crumbs at the bottom of each, then 2 or 3 oysters nicely seasoned with pepper, salt, parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice. Cover with more bread-crumbs and moisten with some of the oyster liquor. Put the butter in small pieces on the top, and brown quickly in a hot oven or under the grill. Garnish with small slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Note.—Tinned oysters may be used for this dish. Time- to bake, 5 to 10 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 319. Oyster Fritters, 1 (Beignets d’Huitres) Oysters. 1 Lemon juice. Frying batter. | Coralline pepper. Drain the oysters from their liquor, and make some frying batter according to Recipe 1861. Take the oysters one at a time on a dessert spoon, season them with lemon juice and a little coralline pepper, dip them into the frying batter, cover them well and then slip them into a saucepan of boiling fat. Fry to a golden brown colour, then drain and serve piled up on a hot dish and garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 320. Oyster Fritters, 2 (Angels on Horseback) Make in the same way as above, wrapping the oysters in a very thin slice of bacon before dipping them in the batter.FISH 111 a* W 321. Oysters & l’Amerlcaine (Huitres k 1’Americaine) 1J doz. oysters. 1 gill cream. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. white wine or Salt and cayenne, lemon juice. Put the butter into an earthenware casserole and allow it to melt over the fire. Add the oysters without their liquor, and season them with salt, cayenne, and the lemon juice or wine. Cook slowly for 5 or 6 minutes, then add the yolks of eggs and cream beaten together, and stir until almost boiling. If overcooked the sauce will curdle and the dish be spoilt. Serve at once with toast biscuits. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 322. Oyster Cutlets (Cotelettes d’Huitres) 2 doz. oysters (fresh or tinned). | oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J gill oyster liquor. 1 table-sp. cream. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. A pinch of powdered mace. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Put the oysters into a small pan with their own liquor, bring to the boil and strain. Then remove the gristle from the oysters, and break them into small pieces with a fork. Put the butter and half- gill of lobster liquor next into the pan, and, when boiling, add one ounce of flour, and mix with a spoon until smooth and the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the pan. Then add the oysters and cream, season well, and mix thoroughly. Turn the mixture on to a plate and allow it to cool and become firm. When cold and firm, divide this into eight or ten portions, and shape each one like a cutlet (see Pish Cutlets, Recipe 342), using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands and board. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until of a golden brown colour. Drain well on kitchen paper, and put a small piece of parsley stalk into the end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet. Dish the cutlets on a hot dish, arranging them in a circle, one leaning against the other, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Sufficient for 8 or 10 cutlets. 323. Oyster Souffles, Baked (Petits Souffles d’Huitres) 1 to If doz. oysters. 1 whiting. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 gill oyster liquor, milk, or fish stock. A squeeze of lemon juice. A pinch of nutmeg. Put the oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, bring to the boil and strain. Then remove the gristle and break them into small pieces with a silver fork. Scrape the flesh from the whiting, free it from all skin and bone, and pound well in a mortar. (There should be \ lb. of this raw fish.) Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the oyster liquor or other liquid, and bread-crumbs, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Add this panada to the whiting in the mortar, pound again for a few minutes, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Put the sieved mixture into a. basin, and add the oysters, yolks of eggs, seasoning, and cream. Mix well. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture with an iron spoon. Pour into small greased souffle cases, china or paper, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, garnish with small sprigs of parsley, and serve at once. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 8 or 9 souffles. Prawns These are small edible crustaceans closely re- sembling the shrimp, although in reality more like a tiny lobster in form. They may be distinguished from shrimps in the following manner. Put your finger on the long spike, something like a beak, which projects between the eyes ; if this is set with sharp little teeth like those of a saw, the animal is a prawn, but if the spike is perfectly smooth, it Crayfish, Prawn, and Shrimp is a shrimp. Prawns are found in shallow pools among the rocks when the tide has gone out. They are much less common than the shrimp, and consequently more expensive. When alive they have scarcely any colour, they are almost trans- parent, but when boiled they become a bright red colour like the lobster. They may be used as a garnish, or, when shelled, prepared in almost any of the ways directed for serving oysters or lobsters. Scallops (PStoncIes) A shellfish somewhat resembling the oyster, but much larger. They must only be used when in full season and when very fresh. The roe should be a bright orange colour and the flesh very white. Scallops are very delicate in flavour, but they must not be overcooked, as they very soon become tough. They are very good fried or stewed. 324. Scallops, To Fry (PStoncles Frits) 6 to 8 scallops. I Pepper and salt. 2 table-sps. salad oil. A little flour. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. I Egg and bread-crumbs. Wash the scallops thoroughly, cut away the beard and black part, and leave them on a cloth to drain. Put the salad oil and lemon juice on a plate, season with pepper and salt, and marinade the scallops in this for half an hour. Then drain and roll them lightly in flour, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in deep fat (see p. 248) to a delicate brown colour. Drain well and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Only a few scallops must be prepared at a time. They must on no account be allowed to become moist before frying. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 112 325. Scallops, To Stew (Petoncles a la Maltre d’Hotel) 8 scallops. I pt. maitre d’h6tel sauce. Wash and drain the scallops. Remove the beard and black part, and cut them in three or four pieces. Put the sauce into a double cooker, add the prepared scallops to it, and cook until tender. If no double cooker is available, put the oysters and sauce into a basin or jar and cook in a sauce- pan of hot water. When ready, serve in a deep dish and garnish with sippets of toast or fried bread. Time to cook, about 30 minutes Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 326. Scalloped Scallops (Petoncles en Coquilles) Scallops. Lemon juice. Salt, pepper. White bread-crumbs. Chopped parsley. Butter. 328. Scallops k la Fran^aise (Coquilles St. Jacques a la Fran^aise) 2 or 3 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning. 2 tab.-sps. bread-crumbs. 2 tab.-sps. grated cheese. A little butter. f doz. scallops. A few mushrooms. £ tea-cupful bread. J tea-cupful milk. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Put the scallops into a moderate oven in their shells, allow them to remain until the shells open; they will then be cooked. Remove them from the shells, wash and clean them, and cut them in dice. Cook a few mushrooms separately in a little butter and lemon juice, cut them in small pieces, and mix them with the scallops. Add to them about a tea-cupful of bread soaked in the milk, the white sauce, parsley, and seasoning. Mix lightly to gether. Put the mixture into greased scallop shells, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese; put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and brown in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 6 scallop shells. Choose perfectly fresh scallops, open and remove them from the shells. Cut off the beard and black part, and wash them thoroughly to free them from all sand and grit. Then scald them in their own liquid or in boiling water for 5 minutes, and drain. Wash and scrub the deeper shells and dry them. Grease them with butter and sprinkle a few bread- crumbs over. Lay two or three scallops, cut in several pieces, into each shell, and season with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a little chopped parsley. Cover with more bread-crumbs, and put some small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, and serve hot, garnished with cut lemon and a little parsley. Note.—Some good white sauce may be used to moisten the scallops if liked. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Allow 2 or 3 scallops per person. 327. Curried Scallops (Petoncles en Karl) 1 doz. scallops. J pt. fish stock. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. A squeeze of lemon juice Seasoning Wash the scallops and cook them slowly in \ pint of fish stock or milk and water for \ hour. Then strain, reserving the liquor. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped, and fry it a few minutes. Add the rice flour and curry powder, and mix them well in. Then pour in the liquid from the scallops, stir until boiling, and simmer from 10 to 15 minutes. If this sauce is too thick, thin it down with a little more fish stock or milk. When ready, add the scallops cut in pieces, and season to taste. Arrange neatly in a deep dish, and serve boiled rice (Recipe 1586) separ- ately. Note.—This dish may be cooked en casserole, and served in the same dish. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Shrimps (Crevettes) There are two different kinds of shrimp, the brown and the red. The red or rose-coloured shrimp is considered the best, and is the most expensive. As a rule shrimps are sold ready boiled. They can either be served plainly boiled or made up with various sauces. They are also much used for garnishing. 329. Shrimps, To Boil Have ready on the fire a saucepan of fast-boiling water, salted in the proportion of 1 tablespoonful of salt to 1 quart of water, or make it as salt as sea water. Plunge the shrimps into this, and boil them until they change colour. They must not be overcooked. If served plainly boiled, oil and vinegar or vinaigrette sauce should accompany them. 330. Shrimp Croquettes 1 cupful picked shrimps. Some scraps of pastry. 1 or 2 table-sps. fish sauce. Chop the shrimps, but not too finely, and bind them together with a little good fish sauce. An- chovy or shrimp sauce is very suitable; it must be very thick, and the mixture must not be made too moist. Roll out some scraps of unsweetened pastry very thinly, and cut it out in rounds between 3 and 4 inches in diameter. Place about a tea- spoonful of the shrimp mixture in the centre of each, wet round the edges of the pastry with a little cold water, and then gather them together, pulling them up to the centre of the croquette and then pinching them together. Fry the croquettes in hot fat, drain well, and serve garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 10 or 12 croquettes. 331. Potted Shrimps A pinch of mace. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. f pt. picked shrimps. 3 oz. fresh butter. Seasoning. A pinch of nutmeg. Put the picked shrimps into a small saucepan with most of the butter, heat gradually over theFISH 113 fire, allowing the shrimps to soak in the butter without coming to the boil. Then turn the con- tents of the saucepan into a mortar and pound well. Season very carefully with cayenne, salt if necessary, a pinch of ground nutmeg and mace, and 1 tea-spoonful anchovy essence. Rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve, pack into small pots, and, when cold, pour the rest of the butter melted over the top. 332. Shrimp Rolls (Croustades de Crevettes) | doz. small dinner rolls. Melted butter. Mixture for Filling. 1 cupful picked shrimps. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill fish stock or milk. 2 yolks of eggs. £ gill cream. Lemon juice. Cut the tops off the dinner rolls, and scoop out all the soft part from the inside. Brush the cases, inside and outside, and also the tops, with melted butter. Place them both in a moderate oven and bake them until they are brown and crisp. Mean- while prepare the mixture. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden Shrimp Rolls spoon until smooth. Add the fish stock or milk, stir until boiling, and cook 2 or 3 minutes. Then remove from the fire, add the shrimps, seasoning, and yolks of eggs beaten with the cream. Mix thoroughly and make quite hot over the fire without allowing the mixture to boil. Fill up the rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, and serve on a folded serviette garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 6 persons. 333. Shrimp Scallops (Coquilles de Crevettes) 3 doz. shrimps. 1 pt. fish stock. 1 glass white wine. 1 cupful bechamel sauce. 2 tab.-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Puree of potatoes. Cook the shrimps in fish stock, then strain them and remove the snells. Put the shells into a mortar and pound them with a little of the stock. Heat the bechamel sauce (Recipe 672) in a saucepan and add the pounded shells to it. Allow the sauce to boil for a few minutes, and then rub it through a tammy. Put the wine into another small sauce- pan and reduce it to half quantity over the fire. Then put in the shrimps and let them heat in the wine for a few minutes. Now add the sauce. Season to taste, and stir in the butter at the last. To Finish.—Take some natural or china scallop shells and put some of the above mixture into each. Then put some well-made potato puree (Recipe 549) into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe at the end of it, and force a border of the potato round each little dish. Sprinkle the grated cheese over, and brown in a quick oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 6 or 7 scallops. PART V FISH REDRESSED, ETC. 334. Fish Baked in Batter 1 lb. cooked fish. I Grated lemon rind. 1 dessert-sp. chopped Salt, pepper. parsley. | 1 oz. butter. Batter—J lb. flour. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. Salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, break it into flakes, and then weigh it. Put it into a greased pie dish, and season carefully with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and the chopped parsley. Melt the butter, pour it over the seasoned fish, and turn over and over until all is thoroughly mixed. To Make the Batter.—Sieve the flour into a basin, and with a wooden spoon make a well in the centre of it. Break one of the eggs into a cup or small basin; do not beat it, but if it is quite fresh, drop it into the centre of the flour. Mix some of the flour gradually into it with the wooden spoon, do the same with the second egg, and then add half the milk by degrees. Beat the batter well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air bubbles, then add the rest of the milk and mix it in. If time permits, let this batter stand some time; it will give the flour time to swell and make it lighter. Then pour it over the fish and wipe round the edges of the pie dish. Bake in a moderate oven until the batter is well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Serve as soon after it is taken from the oven as possible. Notes.—The dish may be made richer by adding a few oysters, shrimps, or slices of hard-boiled egg, and f tea-spoonful of finely-powdered herbs may be used instead of, or in addition to, the parsley. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 335. Fish Cakes, 1 (Boulettes de Poisson) | lb. cooked fish. | lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. ltea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. The remains of any cold cooked fish may be used for making fish cakes. A mixture of fish scraps is very good, such as smoked fish and fresh fish combined. Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh it. Chop it finely, being most careful to remove any small bones, which might be most dangerous if left in. Sieve the potatoes, or put them through a vegetable presser, and chop the parsley very finely. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, then add to it the fish, potatoes, parsley, yolk of egg, and seasonings, and mix well together over the fire. Turn out on to a pi ate, smooth over with a knife, and set aside to cool. When the mixtureCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 114 feels firm, divide it into ten or twelve small pieces. Flour the hands, take one piece at a time, and roll it into a ball, laying them as they are formed on a slightly floured board. Then with a knife, also floured, flatten them slightly, and shape them into neat round cakes. Egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249), and fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248) to a nice brown colour. Drain well. Fish Cakes and serve them neatly on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—If a little good fish sauce is available, the butter and yolk of egg may be omitted from the above list of ingredients and the sauce used in their place. A chopped hard-boiled egg may be added to the mixture if wished, and 1 or 2 sardines will help to give flavour. Sufficient for 10 or 12 cakes. 336, Fish Cakes, 2 Make in the same way as last recipe, using well- boiled and very dry rice instead of the potatoes. The rice should equal the fish in bulk and not in weight; \ lb. before cooking will be sufficient. 337. Baked Fish Cake (Pain de Poisson) Use the same mixture as for the smaller fish cakes (see above), but make it rather moist by adding more milk ora little fish sauce. Well grease a plain round soufflo tin, or even a basin, and coat the inside with browned bread-crumbs. Fill up with the fish-cake mixture, and shake the contents well down into the mould. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from | to j- hour, according to size. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and serve with or without sauce poured round. Time to bake, J to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 338. Fish Cream (Creme de Poisson) | lb. uncooked fish. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 gill of milk. 1 gill double cream. 2 whites of egg. A pinch of nutmeg. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Free the fish from skin and bone, weigh it and shred it down finely with a knife. Put it into a mortar, and pound it well. Rinse out a small saucepan with cold water, to prevent the mixture sticking to it. Put into it the butter and the milk, and bring them to the boil over the fire. Then add the bread-crumbs, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until the bread-crumbs swell and the mixture thickens. Add this mixture to the fish in the mortar, pound well together, and rub through a wire sieve, scraping the sieve under- neath. Put the mixture into a basin, and season to taste. Beat up the whites of egg with a knife on a plate until stiff, and whip the cream in a basin with a wire whisk until thick. Add both these to the fish mixture, and stir them in as lightly as possible with an iron spoon. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould. The mould must not be more than half filled. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top of it, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour anchovy, lobster, or any other sauce preferred round it. Note.—This may be steamed in a border mould, and the inside afterwards filled with green peas, shrimps, or oysters mixed with a little of the sauce, or the mixture may be steamed in small moulds, allowing one for each person. Time to steam, £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 339. Fish Curry, 1 (Poisson an Kari) 6 oz. cooked fish. i oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. rice flour. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 onion. 1 small apple. A pt. fish stock or milk. Asqueeze of lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. grated cocoanut. Salt. Boiled rice. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, break it into flakes, and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the onion cut in thin slices, and fry it for a few minutes. Add the apple, peeled and chopped, the cocoanut, curry powder, rice flour, and chutney, and mix with an iron spoon until smooth. Add the stock or milk, and stir until boiling, seasoning to taste with a little salt. Simmer about 20 minutes, until the apple and onion are quite cooked, put in the fish, and let it get thoroughly heated in the sauce. Add the lemon juice last. Serve on a hot dish with a border of rice round (or the rice may be served separately). Garnish with cut lemon and parsley or a few strips of red chillies. Notes.—One or two tomatoes peeled and seeded may be added. More or less curry powder, chutney, &c., may be used, according to taste. Time to cook, £ to § horn:. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 340. Fish Curry, 2 | lb. cooked fish. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. \ pt. milk or fish stock. Salt. £ lemon. Remove all skin and bone from the cooked fish, then weigh it and break it in pieces. Have the rice plainly boiled as for curry (see Recipe 1586) and very dry. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and mix them well together. Add the chutney, salt, curry powder, and milk or fish stock, and stir until boiling. Put in the prepared fish, rice, and eggs, and mix all very gently together. Make the mixture thoroughly hot, and serve gar- nished with thin slices of lemon.115 FISH 341. Fish Custard Puddings 6 oz. cooked fish. | pt. milk. 4 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 2 whites of eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A little coralline pepper. Pepper and salt. Grease very carefully about six dariole moulds or tiny basins, and decorate each one at the foot Dariole Moulds with a little finely-chopped parsley or coralline pepper. Free the fish from all skin and bone, and then weigh it. Chop it rather finely, and about half-fill the moulds. Make a custard with the eggs and milk. Beat up the eggs, yolks and whites, in a basin, and add the milk. Season with white pepper, salt, and anchovy essence. Strain and pour over the fish. Place the moulds in a tin with boiling water to reach half-way up the sides, cover with greased paper, and poach in the oven or on the top of the stove until the custards are set. Turn out and serve hot. Note.—These are excellent made with cold salmon. Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 342. Fish Cutlets \ lb. cooked fish. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Salt and pepper. Egg and bread-crumbs. Free the fish carefully from all skin and bone, then weigh and chop it finely with a knife. Do not put it through a mincing machine as this is apt to make it heavy. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth, then pour in the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture boils and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the fish, parsley, yolk of egg and seasonings, and mix well together. Turn the mix- ture out on to a plate, smooth over with a knife, and set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. Then divide the mixture into eight equal-sized portions, and place these on a slightly floured board. Form them into cutlets, the shape of a flattened pear, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the board and knife, and taking par- ticular care to have the surface smooth and free from cracks. Egg and bread-crumb them and fry to a nice brown colour in boiling fat. Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of parsley stalk or fine macaroni in the narrow end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet. Dish in a circle, one leaning against the other, on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and cut lemon. Notes.—Almost any kind of fish, as long as it is not too oily, may be used to make these cutlets, or two different kinds of fish, such as salmon and white fish or smoked and fresh fish together. A chopped hard-boiled egg may be added if wished. Made according to the above directions, the cutlets will be quite soft and creamy in the centre, as directly they are put into the boiling fat the inside part becomes soft again while the outside is made crisp and brown. Probable cost, l£d. each. Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 343. Devilled Fish (Poisson a la Diable) 6 oz. cooked fish. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. | tea-sp. curry powder. \ tea-sp. dry mustard. Cayenne pepper. A little butter. Browned bread-crumbs. A firm fish such as John Dory, halibut, cod or hake, &c., is best for this. Cut it into small neat pieces, and brush these over with a little melted butter. Chop the chutney finely and mix it on a plate with the other seasonings, pounding all to- gether with a knife. Spread a little of this hot mixture on each piece of fish, then place them on a baking tin, sprinkle them with fine bread-crumbs, and lay some small pieces of butter on the top. Place in the oven for a few minutes until thoroughly hot, and serve at once on a very hot dish. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 344. Fricassee of Fish (Fricassee de Poisson) l lb. fish, cooked uncooked. \ pt. fish stock. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 hard-boiled egg. A sq ueeze of lemon juice. White pepper and salt. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Any white fish may be used for this ; it must be cut in small pieces or broken in flakes and weighed free from skin and bone. If there are any trimmings they may be used for making the stock (see p. 78). Make a sauce with the butter, flour, fish stock and milk, and season it with pepper and salt. Put in Fricassee of Fish the fish and let it heat through, or if it is raw fish, allow it to simmer a few minutes until cooked. Add a squeeze of lemon juice and, if possible, a little cream. Serve garnished with the hard-boiled egg cut in pieces and a few thin slices of lemon. Or, fricassee may also be served inside a border of potato, garnished with a little finely chopped parsley. Time, 15 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.116 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 345. Cold Fish Fritters 6 oz. cooked fish. Pepper, salt. 1 table-sp. salad oil. Frying batter. | table-sp. vinegar. Break the fish into large flakes or small pieces, and lay them on a plate. Season them with the oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and let them lie half an hour. Meanwhile prepare some frying batter according to Recipe 1861. When ready, lift the fish out of its seasoning, dip the pieces into the batter, coating them well, and then fry them in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain well and serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Note.—If salmon or any other oily fish is used for the fritters the oil in the marinade or seasoning mixture should be omitted. 346. Gateau of Fish and Rice J lb. Carolina rice. £ pt. fish stock or milk. 2 eggs. J lb. fish (cooked). 1 oz. butter. Grated rind of J lemon. Pepper and salt, ltea-sp. chopped parsley A little coralline pepper. Wash the rice, and put it into a saucepan with the milk or stock. Allow it to cook slowly until quite soft, adding more liquid if necessary. Then add to it the fish chopped, the butter, pepper, salt. Gateau of Fish and Rice and grated lemon rind. Beat up the eggs and add them, mixing well. Then grease a plain mould or basin, and decorate it with chopped parsley and a little coralline pepper ; pour the mixture into this, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with or without sauce and garnish with parsley. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 347. Kedgeree | lb. cooked fish. > 1 raw yolk of egg. \ lb. Patna rice. 1 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- 2 oz. butter or dripping. ley. Pepper and salt. [ A pinch of nutmeg. Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh and chop it finely. Boil the rice as for curry (see Recipe 1586) and drain it well. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put in the fish and rice. Season -with pepper and salt, and add the raw yolk of egg. Mix well together, and make thoroughly hot. Pile in the centre of a hot dish, making a neat pyramid, and mark up the sides with a fork. Sprinkle the chopped parsley over and serve very hot. Notes.—Finnan haddock is very nice used in kedgeree. A little curry powder is sometimes added. A hard-boiled egg can also be used, the Kedgeree white chopped and mixed with the other in- gredients, and the yolk rubbed through a sieve on the top of the kedgeree after dishing. The raw yolk of egg may be omitted, but it tends to soften the kedgeree and is an improvement. Time to cook, J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 348. Fish Kromeskies f lb. cooked fish. 1 oz. "butter. 1 oz. flour. J gill milk or fish stock. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Thin slices of bacon. Frying batter. Chop the fish very finely, carefully removing any small bones. Put the stock or milk into a small pan with the butter, and bring to the boil over the fire. Add the flour, and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then put in the prepared fish, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. When firm, divide the mixture into eight portions, and form each into a cork-shaped piece, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands and board. Cut some very thin slices of fat bacon, and wrap a small piece round each fish roll. Make some frying batter, and have a pan of fat on the fire to heat. Dip the fish rolls, one at a time, into the batter, coating them well, then lift out and drop into boiling fat. Fry a golden brown colour, and drain on kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Sufficient for 8 to 10 kromeskies. 349. Mayonnaise of Fish See Recipe 215. 350. Fish Pie with Macaroni | lb. fish, cooked or uncooked. 3 oz. macaroni. £ pt. white sauce. Lemon juice. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. J oz. butter. Put the macaroni into a saucepan of hot water and boil until quite soft, drain, and chop it rather small. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and cut it into small pieces, or if cooked, break it117 FISH into flakes. Grease a pie dish, and put in half the fish, seasoning with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. Next put in half the macaroni and half the sauce, then the re- mainder of the fish, more seasoning, and the rest of the macaroni and sauce. Sprinkle the bread- crumbs over the top, and place the butter on in small pieces. Wipe round the edges of the pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes if the fish is cooked, or half an hour if uncooked fish is used. Brown the pie nicely on the top, and serve hot, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Notes.—A few oysters, picked shrimps, or hard- boiled egg, cut in slices, may be added to this pie, or a little grated cheese may be mixed with the white sauce or sprinkled over the top with the bread-crumbs. One or two skinned and sliced tomatoes also make a nice addition. Time to bake, 15 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 351. Fish Pie with Potatoes, 1 | lb. cooked fish. | lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. dripping or butter. Pepper and salt. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Grated lemon rind. A little milk. Chop the fish finely, carefully removing all bones and skin, and sieve the potatoes or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the fish and potatoes, and season with pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and a little grated lemon rind. A pinch of nutmeg or mace may also be added. Mix well together, and moisten with a little milk. Grease a pie dish and put the mixture into it. Smooth over the surface with a knife, keeping it well raised in the centre. Then mark it prettily with a knife or fork, and brush over with milk or beaten egg. Bake in the oven until nicely browned. Wipe the edges of the dish quite clean before serving, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—If there are any remains of fish sauce this may be used to moisten the mixture instead of some of the milk and butter. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 352. Fish Pie with Potatoes, 2 J lb. cooked fish. 1 gill white sauce. 1 hard-boiled egg. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. | lb. cooked potato. 1 oz. butter or dripping. A little milk. Break the fish into flakes, and put it into a greased pie dish. Sprinkle with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Then pour over it the white sauce, if there are any remains of fish sauce a fresh supply will not require to be made. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, have the potatoes sieved, and add them to it. Season with white pepper and salt, and moisten with a little milk. Pile this on the top of the fish in the pie dish, and smooth over with a knife. Mark up the sides with a fork or the point of a knife, and brush over with milk or beaten egg. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 353. Fish Pie with Rice J lb. cooked fish. | lb. whole rice. 1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated cheese. \ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. Wash the rice, put it in a saucepan with 1 gill of water, and simmer until the water is absorbed. Then pour in the milk and cook again until the rice is quite soft. Chop the fish finely, carefully removing all skin and bone, add it to the rice in the saucepan along with the butter, seasoning, and half the cheese. Mix well together and pour into a greased pie dish. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top, and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. Notes.—The cheese may be omitted if objected to. A whole beaten egg may be added to the mixture before it is poured into the pie dish. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. ' 354. Fish Pie a la Russe 1 lb. cooked fish. \ pt. white sauce. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 tea-cupfuls boiled rice. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. anchovy essence. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers. Salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and break it into flakes with two forks. Add the anchovy essence and chopped capers to the white sauce, and cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices. Boil the rice as for curry (Recipe 1586), and make it very dry. Then grease a pie dish or flreproof dish, and put in first a layer of fish, then some rice, moistening with a little ef the sauce, then a layer of the sliced egg, and repeat these layers until the dish is full, finishing with the sliced egg. Season with more salt if necessary, put the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 355. Steamed Fish Pudding 1 lb. cooked fish. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter, 1 gill milk. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Pepper and salt. Anchovy or parsley sauce. First grease a plain mould or basin, or several small moulds, with clarified butter, and sprinkle the chopped parsley over the inside. Free the fish from all skin and bone, and chop it finely. Put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and anchovy essence. Put the milk and butter into a small saucepan, bring them to the boil, and then pour over the ingredients in the basin. Let these soak for a few minutes, then add the egg well beaten. Mix together, and pour into the pre- pared mould or moulds. Cover over with greased paper and steam from 10 to 15 minutes if in small moulds, and for half an hour if done in one large mould. When ready, the mixture should be firm to the touch. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with anchovy or parsley sauce poured round (see Recipes for Sauces). Time to steam, 10 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 118 356. Fish Salad See Recipe 654. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 to 6 scallops. 357. Fish Quenelles | lb. uncooked fish. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 egg and 1 yolk. (Quenelles de Poisson) Lemon juice. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Wipe the fish, and weigh it free from skin and bone. Shred it down finely with a knife, and put it into a mortar. Add the bread-crumbs, butter, and seasonings, and pound all well together. Then add the egg and pound again. When well mixed, rub through a wire sieve on to a plate, remembering to scrape the sieve underneath. Shape the mixture into quenelles in 2 dessert spoons, and poach them Fish Quenelles over a slow fire from 10 to 15 minutes. See Recipe 1099. When ready, they should feel firm to the touch, and should have lost their raw ap- pearance. Lift them out with a perforated spoon and drain them for a few minutes on a clean cloth. Dish the quenelles in a circle, one leaning against another on a hot dish. Or, they may be raised on a puree of potatoes or cooked spinach. Coat them nicely with good white or hollandaise sauce, and garnish with a very light sprinkling of finely chopped parsley, lobster coral, or sieved yolk of egg. A Qttle of each may be used, varying the colour on each quenelle, but avoid overmuch decoration. Time to cook, | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 358. Scalloped Fish, Hot (Coquilles de Poisson) J lb. cooked fish. ] Bread-crumbs. | pt. white sauce. | A little butter. Take 4 or 5 natural or china scallop shells and grease them with a little butter. Coat the insides with some fine bread-crumbs, and lay in some pieces or flakes of nicely cooked fish, piling them rather high in the centre. Then take some good and well-seasoned white sauce and pour it over the fish, coating it well. Smooth over with a knife, sprinkle some more bread-crumbs on the top, lay on one or two small pieces of butter, and bake in the oven from 10 to 12 minutes. The scallops should be nicely browned on the top. Serve with a small slice of cut lemon and a sprig of parsley on the top of each. 'Rotes.—A little grated cheese may be mixed with the bread-crumbs if wished. A few picked shrimps os 1 or 2 oysters put into each scallop Bhell will improve the flavour. Sometimes a nice creamy potato puree (Recipe 552) is piled on the top of the fish instead of the sauce. 359. Fish Scallops, Cold (Coquilles de Poisson) 6 oz. cooked fish. 1 gherkin. 2 or 3 table-sps. mayon- Small cress. naise sauce. Take any remains of nicely cooked fish and break it into flakes or small pieces free from skin and bone. Add to it a little mayonnaise sauce, just enough to bind it together and season it. Arrange this seasoned fish in little china or natural scallop shells, piling it rather high in the centre, and pour a little thick mayonnaise sauce on the top of each, covering the fish entirely. Decorate with some small cress and small pieces of thinly-sliced gherkin, or any other decoration preferred. Note.—Tartare sauce may be used instead of mayonnaise. Sufficient for 4 or 5 scallops. 360. Fish Souffle (Souffle de Poisson) 6 oz. cooked white fish. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 2 yolks and 3 whites of eggs. Sauce—White, anchovy, or hollandaise. A pinch of nutmeg or mace. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, and scrape it down finely with a knife. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Then pour in the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture is thick and begins to draw away from the sides of the sauce- pan. Put this thick sauce or panada into a mortar with the fish, seasonings, and yolks of eggs. Pound well together, and rub through a fine wire sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly, but thoroughly, into the fish mixture with an iron spoon. Pour all into a well-greased mould or souffle tin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, lift the souffle from the pan and let it stand 2 minutes. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce round. Serve quickly, as it soon falls. Time to steam, about f hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 361. Fish Souffle, Baked 6 oz. cooked fish. 4 oz. cooked potato. 2 oz. butter. \ gill milk or cream. 2 eggs. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh it and chop it finely. Sieve the potato, which must be very dry and mealy. Put the butter and milk into a saucepan, and when boiling add the sieved potato. Beat with a wooden spoon until very light and creamy, then add the fish, yolks of eggs and seasoning, and beat again. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in at the last with an iron spoon. PourFISH 119 the mixture into a greased pie dish or souffle dish, and bake in a moderate oven about | hour. The souffle must be nicely browned and well risen. Serve at once, and in the dish in which it waa baked. Time, about | hour to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 362. Fish and Potato Souf&6s 1 cupful cooked fish. 2 or 3 table-sps. good white sauce. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked potato. 1 table-sp. milk or cream. 1 egg- A pinch of nutmeg. Grated Parmesan. Use any tender white fish and break it into flakes or small pieces free from skin and bone. Take 5 or 6 small souffle dishes, grease them, and put a little fish at the foot of each. Next pour in some good white sauce, such as bechamel or veloute, and enough to moisten the fish. Then sieve the potato, which must be very dry and mealy, and heat it in a saucepan with the butter and a table- spoonful of milk or cream. Beat well until per- fectly smooth, and season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Now stir in the yolk of egg, and lastly, and very lightly, the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fill up the souffle cases with this potato pur6e, sprinkle grated Parmesan over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until risen and nicely browned. Then serve at once. Note.—If preferred, this may be cooked in one large souffle dish. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 souffles. 363. Potato and Fish Timbale (Timbale de Poisson) \ lb. cooked potato. I yolk of egg. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. white bread- crumbs. £ lb. cooked fish. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Sieve the potatoes, add to them the butter melted, the yolk of egg, cheese, and seasonings. Mix well together, and if not sufficiently moist add a very little milk. Butter a basin or plain mould, and sprinkle it with the bread-crumbs. Line the bottom and sides with the potato mixture, keep- ing back a little for the top. Then remove all skin and bone from the fish, mix it with the white sauce, and add parsley and seasoning to taste. Hard-boiled egg cut in pieces, oysters, anchovy, or mushrooms may be added. The mixture must not be too moist. Put it into the prepared mould, and cover with the rest of the potato mixture. Make the top very smooth with a knife. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Place a hot dish on the top, invert the mould, and let it stand a few minutes. Then care- fully withdraw the mould. Serve plain or with some thin fish sauce poured round. Time to bake, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. PART VI SOME MORE ELABORATE FISH DISHES 364. Eels a la Poulette 2 lbs. eels. 1 or 2 onions. 2 bay-leaves. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. 1 gill vinegar. 1 gill white wine. 1 pt. cold water. (Anguilles a la Poulette) 1| oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Cleanse the eels, removing the skin if possible, and cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches in length. Put these into a saucepan of boiling water, boil 2 or 3 minutes, then strain through a colander and rinse the fish with cold water. Return the pieces of eel to the saucepan, add to them the vinegar, water, wine, bay-leaves, parsley, and onion cut in small pieces. Set the saucepan on the fire and bring the contents slowly to the boil, then draw to one side and simmer slowly until the fish is tender. When ready, lift the pieces out and keep them warm. Strain the liquid left in the saucepan, and use it for making the sauce. To Make the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, add the flour, and mix the two smoothly together with a wooden spoon. Then pour on the strained liquid—this should measure 3 gills, and any deficiency should be made up with fish or white stock—stir constantly until boiling and simmer 5 minutes. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream and add them slowly to the sauce, not letting it boil again. Add the lemon juice and more seasoning if necessary. Pour the sauce over the pieces of eel, masking them well, and garnish with a little chopped parsley, croutons of bread, or small potato balls. Time to stew, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 365. Timbale of Fish in Aspic (Timbale de Poisson en Aspic) 1 filleted sole or plaice. Aspic jelly. Chopped parsley. Hard-boiled yolk of egg. Coralline pepper. Chervil. Salad. Mixture. Trimmings of fish. Cooked prawns, shrimps, or lobster. 1 table-sp. mayonnaise sauce. 1 table-sp. thick cream. 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. Cook the filleted fish and press it very lightly between two plates until quite cold. Take a plain pint mould and line it very thinly with aspic jelly. Then cut the fish in small rounds with a cutter from 1 to H inches in diameter. Brush over one side of these rounds with liquid aspic, and decorate them prettily with chopped parsley, sieved yolk of egg, and coralline pepper. Allow the decoration to set and then arrange the pieces of fish on the bottom and sides of the mould, fixing them in posi- tion with liquid aspic. Small sprigs of chervil or rounds of thinly sliced tomato may be placed between the rounds of fish. When the mould is120 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD ready, prepare the mixture for filling it. Take the trimmings of the fish and break them up in small pieces, add to them some cooked prawns, shrimps, or lobster meat also broken small, and bind to- gether with the mayonnaise, cream, and aspic. When the mixture is beginning to set, pour it into the prepared mould, filling it almost full, and let it stand on ice 10 or 12 minutes. Then cover the top with more liquid aspic, and allow it to remain on the ice until quite firm. Turn out when wanted, and garnish round the sides with salad or chopped aspic jelly. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 366. Gurnets with Lemon 2 or 3 gurnets. Cold water. 1 table-sp. vinegar. 1 carrot. 2 onions. A bunch of herbs. Salt, pepper. Sauce (Grondins au Citron) Sauce. 2 eggs. 1 large lemon. 1 tea-cupful fish liquor. Salt, pepper. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly. Put into a saucepan the vegetables cut in slices, herbs, and vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Lay the fish on the top and pour in enough cold water to cover them. Put the lid on the pan, bring the contents to the boil, and then simmer slowly by the side of the fire. Remove the gurnets when they are ready, and allow the liquid in the saucepan to reduce rapidly. Take the flesh in neat pieces from the fish, freeing it from all skin and bone, and heap it up in the form of a pyramid on a dish that can be sent to table. Then keep it warm over a sauce- pan of hot water. To Make the Sauce.—Strain the liquid in the saucepan. Beat up the eggs in a basin with the strained juice of a lemon, add pepper and salt to taste and 1 tea-cupful of the fish liquor. Stand the basin in a saucepan of hot water, and stir or whisk over the fire until the sauce thickens like a custard. Pour this over the fish, masking it well. This dish may be served either hot or cold. If hot, it may be garnished with potato puree, put through a forcing bag, or simply with cut lemon and sprigs of parsley. If served cold, garnish with cut lemon and cucumber, or with pieces of ripe tomato and bunches of small cress. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 367. Fillets of Mackerel a la Venitienne (Filets de Maquereau a la Venitienne) 2 mackerel. 2 shallots. Seasoning. 1 glass white wine. A little butter. Sauce Venitienne. Fillet the mackerel and if large cut each fillet in two. Place them on a well-greased tin or fire- proof dish, and sprinkle with pepper, salt, and the shallots finely chopped. Pour the wine round, cover with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven. When ready, lift the fillets on to a clean cloth and remove the skin quickly. Then arrange them neatly on a dish and pour the sauce over. Boiled potatoes may be used as a garnish. Note.—Fillets of other kinds of fish may be prepared in the same way. When cooking white fish the liquid in the baking dish may be strained into the sauce, but not with mackerel, as the taste is too strong. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 368. Pike a la Bordelaise (Brochet a la Bordelaise) 1 pike. 1 oz. butter. 1 glass white vine. Seasoning. | pt. Bordelaise sauce. Small potato balls. Remove the fillets from a medium-sized pike, and cut them into small neat pieces. Melt the butter and dip the pieces of fish into it, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a baking dish. Pour the wine over and round, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is done. Then arrange the fillets on a hot dish, strain the liquid from the fish into 1 pint good Bordelaise sauce (Recipe 711) and pour all over the fish, masking it well. Garnish with small potato balls. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 369. Pike a la Pompadour (Brochet a la Pompadour) 1 pike. Egg and bread-crumbs. Fried parsley. Potato balls. Marinade. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. 1 table-sp. vinegar or lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. finely chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. finely chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Remove the fillets from a medium-sized pike, and cut them in convenient-sized pieces. Put all the ingredients for the marinade on a plate and soak the pieces of fish in them for an hour. This softens the fish and prevents it tasting so dry as it would otherwise do. Then egg and bread-crumb the fillets, and fry them in boiling fat (see p. 248). When a nice brown colour, drain them well and serve them piled up on a hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley in the centre, and small potato balls (Recipe 542) round. Serve tomato or tartare sauce separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 370. Red Mullet in Cases (Rougets en Caisses) 4 or 5 red mullets. 3 fresh mushrooms. 2 shallots. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tomato. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill white wine. \ gill fish stock. | oz. flour. Pepper and salt. Lemon juice. Clean the fish carefully, and wipe them dry in- a cloth. Put half the butter into a small saucepan, and when melted add to it the shallot finely chopped. Cook a minute or two without allowing it to brown, then add the tomato cut in small pieces, the mush- rooms also cut small, parsley and seasoning. Allow this to cook for five minutes. Put the flour into a small basin and mix it smoothly with the fish stock and wine, add this to the mixture in the saucepan, bring to the boil and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the remainder of the butter. Take some paper cases, large enough to hold one mullet each, and grease them well with salad oil. Put a121 FISH small spoonful of the mixture at the bottom of each, place a fish on the top, and then more of the mix- ture. Squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over the top. Arrange the cases on a tin, being careful to see that they stand perfectly flat, and bake in a good oven until the fish is cooked. Garnish with a little parsley or chervil, and serve immediately. Note.—Other mixtures may be used in place of the above, and the fish may be wrapped in a heart- shaped piece of paper if the cases are not obtainable. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 371. Red Mullet a la Parisienne (Rougets a la Parisienne) 3 or 4 small mullets. 1 small onion. Seasoning. 1 glass white wine. 2 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Lemon. Peel and slice the onion very thinly, and pull it apart into rings. Put these into a small saucepan with the wine, and cook 5 or 6 minutes over the fire. Meanwhile prepare the mullets. Empty them through the gills, trim and wash them. Place them in a fireproof dish and pour the hot wine and water over them. Cover with greased paper, and cook in the oven about 20 minutes without allowing the liquid to boil. When the fish are ready, arrange them neatly on an oval dish, lift out the rounds of onion from the liquid and reduce the latter until only 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls remain. Pour this round the fish and set aside until quite cold. Garnish.—Make a salad with the tomatoes, &c. Peel the tomatoes, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the liquid. Then cut the tomatoes in small dice, season with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, and mix with the oil and vinegar. Allow this to stand in a cool place for a short time. When the fish is quite cold, arrange a little of the tomato salad down the centre of each, with a few onion rings, graduating in size, on the top, and a tiny sprig of parsley or chervil in the centre of each ring. Garnish the sides of the dish with slices of lemon, and serve very cold. Time to cook, i hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 372. Red Mullet a la Marechale (Rougets a la Marechale) 3 red mullets. 2 table-sps. salad oil. Juice of J lemon. Pepper, salt. Bread-crumbs. ltable-sp. melted butter. 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. 1 or 2 truffles. Remove the fillets from the mullets, and let them lie for some little time in a marinade made of the oil, lemon juice, and seasoning. Then coat them with fine bread-crumbs, and lay them neatly in a well-greased fireproof dish. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season them, and sprinkle with the grated cheese. Garnish the fish with these, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Decorate with strips of truffle. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 373. Salmon Cream (Mousseline de Saumon) i lb. sieved salmon. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 4 pt. double cream. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. Coralline pepper. Salt. Take some uncooked salmon, free it from all skin and bone, rub it through a sieve and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix till smooth with a wooden spoon. Pour in the milk, and stir until the mixture forms one lump, and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Put this into a basin with the salmon, and mix thoroughly, adding the eggs by degrees. Season to taste, and at the last stir in £ pint of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, which has been prettily decorated with truffle and chopped parsley, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm .to the touch. Serve with cardinal or bechamel sauce. Note.—If preferred the cream may be steamed in small moulds. Time to steam, J to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 374. Slice of Salmon with Cucumber (Darne de Saumon aux Concombres) 1 slice of salmon (1£ lb.) 3 oz. butter. \ gill white wine. Cream. 1 cucumber. Seasoning. Wipe the salmon and season it with a little pepper and salt. Place it in a greased baking tin or saute pan with about 1 oz. butter, cover over and cook in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Peel the cucumber, cut it in slices about 1J inches in thickness, cut these across in quarters and remove the seeds. Put the pieces of cucumber into a small saucepan with another ounce of butter, season with pepper and salt, put on the lid and cook slowly until tender. When the salmon is cooked, drain it from the butter, place it on a hot dish, and garnish with the cucumber. Keep this warm whilst making the sauce. Add any butter left from the cucumber to that in which the salmon was cooked. Add also the white wine, and cook 5 minutes. Then pour in the cream, season to taste, and add another small piece of butter at the last. Strain or tammy the sauce and pour it round the salmon. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 375. Mayonnaise of Salmon (Mayonnaise de Saumon) A middle cut of salmon. Mayonnaise sauce. Aspic jelly. Decorations. Parsley, cucumber, truf- fle, lobster coral, &c. Cook a nice cut of salmon, remove the skin and let it become icy cold. Then wipe it with a dry soft cloth, trim it neatly and put it on a clean dish. Take some thick mayonnaise sauce (Recipe 753) and add liquid aspic jelly to it in the proportion of | gill to \ pint. When the sauce is in a setting condition pour it over the fish, coating it well, and then set aside until firm. When about to serve.122 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD garnish with some nice fresh salad or a border of chopped aspic round, and decorate the top with any of the above ingredients arranged in a pretty design. either in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Time, 10 to 12 minutes to cook. Sufficient for 7 persons. 376. Fillets of Sole with Egg Plant (Filets de Sole aux Aubergines) 2 soles. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 egg plants. A little flour. Lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. To Prepare the Egg Plants.—Cut the egg plants in halves lengthwise, sprinkle the cut surface with salt, and if time permits allow them to stand half an hour to get rid of some of the water. Strain oS the water that has run from them and cut the aubergines in dice. Toss these in flour and fry them in butter until sufficiently cooked. To Prepare the Fish.—Take four fillets from each sole (see p. 78), trim and flatten them slightly with a knife. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, fold each fillet in two and coat them lightly with flour. Place the fillets thus prepared on a well-greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven from 10 to 12 minutes, or until the fish is sufficiently cooked. To Serve.—Arrange the fillets neatly on an oval dish, one leaning against the other, and put the egg plant round. Sprinkle the surface with chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. Add the remainder of the butter to the tin in which the fish was cooked, heat it over the fire until it turns brown, then strain it boiling hot over the fish. Decorate round the edge of the dish with thin slices of lemon. Note.—Fillets of plaice may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 377. Fillets of Sole ft la Florentine 2 soles. | pt. cooked spinach. | pt. fish stock. Lemon juice. 3 gills good white sauce. Fillet the soles and make stock of the trimmings. Trim the fillets neatly, season them with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and double them with the side which the skin came off inside. Lay them on a greased tin, and pour round them enough fish stock, or white wine and fish • stock to half cover them. Place a piece of greased paper on the top, and cook in a moderate oven until the fish is ready. Arrange a bed of well-cooked spinach on an entree dish, and dish the filleta neatly on the top ; they may either be placed in two rows, one overlapping the other, or in a circle. Have ready some good white sauce, made with fish stock (see p. 674), add to it 2 table- spoonfuls of cheese, and pour this over the fish, coating it well. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and brown the surface lightly, 6 table-sps. grated J/ar- mesan. Pepper and salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 378. Fillets of Sole a l’Orly (Filets de Sole k l’Orly) 1 medium sole. Frying batter. Tomato sauce. Marinade. 1 shallot. Juice of | lemon. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. First make the batter according to Recipe 1861, and let it stand while the fish is being prepared. Fillet the sole and cut each fillet into two or three pieces according to size. . Mix the ingredients for the marinade on a plate, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Lay the pieces of fish into this, and let them steep, or marinate, for half an hour at least. Turn them occasionally to ensure their being properly flavoured. Then have ready a pan of boiling fat, dip each piece of fish into the frying batter, and fry to a golden brown colour. Drain well and pile up lightly on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve tomato sauce separately. Note.—It is the marinade and tomato sauce which constitute the “ orly,” and this must always be adhered to, but the fish may be egged and bread-crumbed instead of being dipped in batter. Any small fillets or even flakes of cooked fish may be prepared in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 379. Fillets of Sole with Prawns (Filets de Solo aux Ecrivisses) 2 soles. Whiting farce, i Prawn butter. 8 prawns. | Sauce au vin blanc. Cook the prawns in a a little fish stock or court bouillon, and shell them carefully. Make the whiting farce according to Recipe 79, and fillet the soles. Spread the eight fillets on a board with the side which the skin came off uppermost, flatten them slightly to break the fibre, and trim them neatly. Cover each fillet with a layer of farce, and then double them lengthwise. Insert the narrow end of each fillet in the shell of a prawn, and fill up the hollow in the head with more farce. Then place the fillets in a greased saute pan or baking tin, pour round them enough white wine or liquid in which the prawns were cooked to nearly cover them, cover with greased paper or with the bones of the fish, and poach in the oven for 12 minutes. Poach also the tails of the prawns for the last few minutes to make them thoroughly hot. Prawn, Butter.—Take the trimmings of shells from the tails of the prawns, and pound them in a mortar, add an equal quantity of butter, pound again, and rub through a hair sieve. Season to taste and add a few drops of colouring if too pale in colour. To Serve.—Arrange the fillets of sole on a hot oval dish, with the heads of the prawns resting on the edge of the dish, coat the fish itself (not the red shells) with sauce au vin blanc (see p. 123), decorate with the tails of the prawns and then prawn butter put through a forcing bag or paperFISH 123 cornet, encircling each fillet with a ribbon of the butter. Heat just a minute and serve at once. Note.—A few mushrooms and truffles may also be used as a garnish, and hollandaise or a good white sauce may be used instead of sauce au vin blanc. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 380. Sauce au Vin Blanc Liquid from the fish. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 oz. butter. Strain the liquid from the fish into a small saucepan, and let it boil quickly until reduced to about 1 table-spoonful. Then place the saucepan in another saucepan of cold water, add the yolks of eggs, and mix together with a wooden spoon or small whisk. Now add the butter gradually, a small piece at a time, and whisk steadily over the fire until all is in. The sauce will then be thick and creamy like a mayonnaise. 381. Sole & la Normande 1 large sole. 1 bay-leaf. 1 small onion. White wine or fish stock. Seasoning. Sauce & la Normande. 1 doz. mussels, 1 doz. oysters. A few shrimps or prawn3. 1 doz. mushrooms. Croutons of bread or pastry. Remove the black skin from the sole and score the white across in several places. Take a fire- proof dish, large enough to hold the fish, grease it well, a.nd lay on it the onion cut in thin rings and the bay-leaf. Place the fish on the top, season it with pepper and salt, and pour round enough wine or fish stock to nearly cover it. Cook in the oven until the fish is ready, basting it occasionally with the liquid. Then make some sauce it la Normande (Recipe 731), adding to it the liquid from the fish, add also the garnish of mussels, oysters, mush- rooms, and shrimps or prawns, and pour all over the fish. Decorate with some pretty croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—Fried smelts may also be used as a garnish. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 382. Sole h la Rouennaise 2 filleted soles. Salt, pepper. Lemon juice. 1 gill fish stock or white wine. Lobster cutlet mixture. \ pt. cardinal sauce. 1 truffle. Hard boiled white of Trim and season the fillets of sole, and spread them out on a board with the side which the skin came off uppermost. Flatten them slightly and put a little lobster cutlet mixture (see Recipe 309) in the centre of each. Double over and shape the pieces neatly. Place them on a greased baking- tin, pour the wine or fish stock round, cover with greased paper, and poach in a moderate oven until the fish is cooked. When ready, lift the fillets of fish on to a clean cloth to absorb the moisture, then arrange them neatly on a silver entree dish, one leaning against the other, and either in a circle or a straight row down the length of the dish. Reduce the liquid left in the baking tin, add to it the cardinal sauce (see Recipe 712), cook a minute or two and strain over the fish. Decorate with fancy-shaped pieces of truffle and a little chopped white of egg, or any other decoration, which will make a pretty contrast to the pink colour of the sauce. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 383. Soufflg with Fillets of Sole (Filets de Sole en Souffle) 2 small filleted sole. Seasoning. \ gill fish stock. | gill white wine. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. cream. 3 eggs. Trim the fillets of sole, season them with white pepper and salt, and double them lengthwise with the skin side inside. Place them on .a greased tin or dish with the fish stock and wine, and poach in the oven about 10 minutes. Then strain off the liquor, and keep the fish warm. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, and cook them together for a minute or two. Then add_ the liquor from the fish, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the pan. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs one at a time, and season to taste. Lastly stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Have ready a large china souffle dish well greased, pom? into it some of the souffle mixture, and arrange the pieces of sole in a circle on the top. Cover with the rest of the mixture, and bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. Serve at once. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 384. Fillets of Sole with Truffles (Filets de Sole aux Truffes) 2 filleted soles. 2 table-sps. bechamel sauce. 2 or 3 truffles. 1 table-sp. salad oil. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 8 artichoke bottoms. Potato noisettes. Bearnaise or tomato sauce. Flatten out the fillers of sole in order to make them as much as possible the same width at both ends, then cut them in three equal-sized pieces, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Next mask each piece of fish with a thin coating of bechamel or other good white sauce, and lay a few thin slice of truffle on the top. Place the three pieces of each fillet together, one on the top of the other, and press them gently, making them as regular in form as possible. Dip them in flour, coating them very lightly, and then egg and bread-crumb in the usual way. Melt about 2 oz. butter in a saute pan or oven tin, and when smoking hot put in the prepared fish and bake it in a good oven until nicely and evenly browned, basting occasionally with the butter. The Artichoke Bottoms.—The bottled or tinned ones are the simplest to use. Drain and dry them lightly in a cloth. Then cook them in a small quantity of butter for a few minutes, seasoning with pepper and salt.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 124 The Potato Noisettes and Bearnaise Sauce.— Recipes 562 and 708. To Serve.—Arrange the artichoke bottoms in a circle on a hot entree dish, and place a piece of fish on the top of each, with one end pointing towards the centre. Pile the potato noisettes in the centre, and serve the sauce separately. Note.—A few chopped truffles may be added to the sauce. Time, 20 minutes to cook the fish. Sufficient for 7 persons. 385. River Trout a la Riviere a la 3 or 4 trout. Whiting farce. 3 onions. 1 oz. butter. Paprika pepper. Salt. Hongroise (Truites de Hongroise) 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 glass white wine. 1 on 2 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A little stock. Choose small onions, peel and chop them finely, and cook them slowly in the butter without allow- ing them to brown. Make some whiting farce (see Recipe 79), and add 1 table-spoonful of this cooked onion to it and a little chopped parsley. Draw the fish without opening them, trim and wash them carefully. Wipe them in a clean cloth and stuff them with the farce, using a tea-spoon to press it well into the opening. If a number of fish are being stuffed this is more easily done with a forcing bag. Lay the stuffed fish in the sauce- pan with the remainder of the onion, season them with pepper and salt, add the tomatoes cut in pieces (or a little tomato puree may be used), and pour the white wine over. Cover the fish with greased paper, and cook them in the oven without letting them boil. They must only poach about a quarter of an hour. When ready, lift the fish on to a dish and keep them warm while the sauce is prepared. Sauce.—Reduce the wine, &c., left in the sauce- pan to about half the quantity, then add to it a iittle stock to make sufficient sauce. Bring to the boil, add 1 oz. butter, mixed with 1 dessert-spoonful of flodr, give the sauce again one boil up, then rub it through a sieve. Reheat, adding more seasoning if necessary. The sauce should be a pretty pink colour. Pour the sauce over the fish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 386. Trout a la Princesse (Truite a la Prlncesse) 1 small salmon trout. Garnish. 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. A little butter. Mayonnaise sauce. Spinach green. Shrimp or anchovy flavouring. I emon. Aspic or fish jelly. To Prepare the Trout.—Clean and prepare the trout, and cook it in a court bouillon (see p. 79). Allow it to cool in this, and then place it on the dish on which it is to be served. Then cut the upper part into convenient-sized pieces, so that it can easily be served. This must be done without destroying the appearance of the fish. First make a cut right down the centre to the back bone, then cut each side across into several pieces. Now slip the knife under the flesh so as to free it from the bone, and to make it possible to remove them without effort. Garnish.—Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and slice a small piece off each to make them stand steadily. Take out the yolks and rub them through a sieve, then divide this sieved mixture in two and put each portion into a small basin. To one portion add a little butter, and some shrimp or anchovy essence or paste to flavour. Mix well, season to taste and, if necessary, add a few drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour. To the other portion of sieved yolk add some green mayonnaise and, if necessary, a little spinach green to make the mixture a nice green colour. To Serve.—Place the little egg cups round the fish, alternating the colours green and pink. Put a row of thinly-sliced lemon down the centre of the fish where it is cut, and then decorate with any of the two egg mixtures which happens to be left. Garnish the edge of the dish with cut lemon, brush the fish over with melted aspic or fish jelly, and serve all very cold. Hand green mayonnaise (Recipe 754) separately. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 387. River Trout with Tomato Mousse (Truites de Riviere au Mousse de Tomates) 3 or 4 small trout. 1 glass white wine. 1 shallot. Seasoning. Aspic jelly. Wipe the trout carefully, draw them through the gills and cut off the fins. Place them in a greased baking dish, with the shallot finely chopped, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Pour a glass of white wine round, cover the fish with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a folded cloth, remove the skin from one side and let them cool. Tomato Mousse.—Make the puree with fresh or tinned tomatoes by rubbing them through a hair sieve. If fresh ones are used they must first be cooked for a short time with a little butter and seasoning. The puree ought to be fairly thick and of a good colour. Warm it slightly, add to it the aspic jelly and the gelatine dissolved in a little water. Season to taste, stir in the cream slightly whipped at the last, and stir occasionally until almost set. To Serve.—Arrange the tomato mousse on the dish on which the fish is to be served. Make a flat bed and smooth it over with a wet knife. Lay the fish on the top, and decorate them with leaves of tarragon, fancy-shaped pieces of white of egg, and the red part of tomato, or any other decoration pre- ferred. Brush over with aspic jelly, using it in a setting condition, and decorate round the dish with thin slices of lemon. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Tomato Mousse, h pt. puree of tomatoes. 3 table-sps. liquid aspic 3 table-sps. cream. 2 sheets gelatine. Seasoning.125 FISH 388. Fillets of Turbot a ITtalienne (Filets de Turbot a ITtalienne) 2 lbs. turbot. Seasoning. 1 gill red wine or fish stock. J pt. Italian sauce. Potato puree. Mushrooms or olives. Wash the turbot and cut it into neat little fillets, free from skin and bone. Lay these on a greased tin or fireproof dish, and season them with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Pour round the white wine or fish stock, cover with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven until the fish is ready. Then take up the fish and arrange it neatly on a hot entree dish. Have ready some good Italian sauce (see Recipe 724) rather thick, and add to it the liquid from the tin. Pour this over the fish, coating it well. Garnish with roses of potato puree put through a forcing bag, and turned olives or mushrooms. Serve as a hot fish entree for dinner or luncheon. Note.—Other sauces may be used instead of Italian sauce, such as Genoise, tomato, holland- aise, &c. Time to cook, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.VEGETABLES AND SALADS The cooking of vegetables is a branch of cookery which, as a rule, receives far too little attention, although, thanks to the rising popularity of vegetarianism, a little more efficiency in this department of the culinary art is now demanded. A French housewife would regard with scorn the way in which vegetables are so often seen on our tables; boiled in water (cuit A Veau), as often as not without sufficient salt, imperfectly drained, and served, or rather tumbled into a vegetable dish without any further attention. The potato, for instance, which is our most popular and most useful vegetable, appears in nine cases out of ten as the boiled potato. This is no doubt excellent in its way, especially when well boiled, but. Why so little variety, when perhaps there is no vegetable which lends itself more readily to different modes of treatment ? Then, again, the throwing away of cold cooked vegetables is one of the commonest forms of waste in our kitchens, and not only in the houses of the rich, but in those of the poor as well. That this is a mis- take, and that some of the most tasty vegetable dishes are made from re-cooked vegetables, and especially potatoes, the following recipes will show. GENERAL REMARKS ON THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES The cooking of vegetables is not difficult, but the simplicity of the operation must not be made an excuse for slovenly treatment. Their prepara- tion requires some patience; attention must be given to the instructions for cooking them, care must be taken in the seasoning, the making of the sauce, and also in the tasteful serving, so as to make a dish tasteful to tbe eye as well as to the appetite. With a little care and ingenuity an air of finish can be given to even the simplest cuisine, and a well-prepared vegetable, instead of forming a mere adjunct to a meat dish, can often be served as a separate course, thus saving a joint or avoiding the necessity for another meat dish. To have vegetables in perfection they should be cooked very soon after they are taken from the ground, and to secure a good colour and flavour when cooked, careful dressing and preparation beforehand are essential. Coarse or damaged leaves and decayed or dis- coloured parts must be removed from all vegetables before cooking. When freshly gathered, they should be washed just before cooking, but when bought in the shops it is often necessary to soak them in water for a short time, in order to restore some of their original freshness. Close green vegetables, such as cabbage, cauli- flower, Brussels sprouts, &c., will require soaking for a short time in vinegar and water to draw out any slugs or insects, but do not soak them longer than is necessary, and do not use salt in the water as it tends to harden the fibre. Earthy roots, such as potatoes, carrots, parsnips, etc., should be well scrubbed and thoroughly rinsed in cold water before peeling to prevent the insides becoming soiled. Then after peeling they should again be thrown into clean cold water, but not allowed to remain too long. Steaming is one of the most satisfactory ways of cooking vegetables, and this method should be adopted instead of boiling whenever possible. The old-fashioned method of boiling them in a quantity of water and then throwing it away has much to condemn it, as so many of the valuable properties are lost in the water. Some of the coarser green vegetables may be found too strong in flavour to cook by steaming, but this may be got rid of by plunging them in boiling water for a minute or two, rinsing them in cold water and then squeezing out the water. The cooking may then be proceeded with, either by steaming or any other method preferred. When vegetables are steamedor boiled they should be served with a good and suitable sauce or with a little melted butter. Some vegetables are very good if mixed with a little cream or milk. Stewing is another very good way of cooking vegetables, as by this means all their flavour is preserved. The earthenware casserole lends itself admirably to this mode of treatment, and various recipes are given to show how a vegetable may be both cooked and served up in this clean and useful fireproof cooking pot. When a more tasty manner of cooking is desired, braising or frying may be resorted to, or some vegetables lend themselves very well to being stufied and baked in the oven, or served au gratin. Iron saucepans should be avoided for all vegetable cookery, as they tend to destroy both the colour and the flavour. Enamelled or otherwise fined saucepans should be used for all rapid cooking and earthenware for slow cooking. Care should also be taken to remove all scum from vegetables while cooking. Many vegetables can be rendered more digestible by being made into a puree, as this breaks down or removes any hard fibre. See Puree of Potatoes, Puree of Artichokes, Puree of Turnips, &c. Serve vegetables as soon as possible after the cooking is completed, as many of them spoil if they have to be kept warm.VEGETABLES PART I FRESH VEGETABLES AND HOW TO COOK THEM ARTICHOKES There are three different kinds of artichokes, the globe, the Jerusalem, and the Japanese. The globe artichoke is green or purplish in colour and resembles a large thistle, or the cone of a pine in appearance. The base of the leaves and the bottom or “ fond ” are the parts that are edible. It is very delicate and pleasant in flavour, but oontains little nourishment. The Jerusalem artichoke (Fr. topinambmir) is quite a different vegetable, resembling the former somewhat in flavour only. It is the tuber root of a kind of sunflower and looks like a rough potato. It is a good winter vegetable and is always fairly oheap. It is a favourite vegetable for diabetics as it oontains no starch and very little sugar. The leaves of the plant are used as fodder for cattle. The Japanese artichoke (“ crosne ” or stachys tvberosa) somewhat resembles the Jerusalem arti- choke in appearance, only it is much smaller and lighter in colour. It is very delicate in flavour, and has only within recent years been introduced into this country. 389. Globe Artichokes, To Boil (Artichauts au Natural) Choose young fresh artichokes for boiling, the green ones are better than those with a purple tint. Cut the stem off even with the leaves, remove the hardest bottom leaves, and cut about an inch Globe Artichokes off those at the top, thus making an opening in the centre of the artichokes. Wash the artichokes thoroughly, and soak them in cold water with a few drops of vinegar in it for half an hour, to draw out any insects. Lift them out, rinse in fresh water and place them upside down in a colander or sieve to drain. Have ready on the fire a saucepan three parts full of boiling water, to which a little salt and the juice of a lemon have been added. Sometimes a little powdered charcoal is added to the water to improve the colour of the artichokes. Plunge the AND SALADS 127 artichokes into this points downwards, boil them quickly for 5 or 6 minutes, then cook more slowly until tender, or until the leaves can be detached easily when pulled. Drain well, remove the “ choke ” or the soft flowery part from the centre and serve them on a hot folded serviette. Hand melted butter or sauce hollandaise separately, or the artiohokes may be served cold with sauce vinaigrette. The dish will take its name from the sauce which accompanies it. Note.—It is usual to allow one artichoke to each person, but if large they may be cut in halves. Time to boil, \ to 1 hour. 390. Globe Artichokes, To Fry (Artichauts Frits) Cooked globe artichokes. Frying batter. Seasoning. Allow some cooked artichokes to become quite cold, then cut them in quarters or slices, carefully removing any of the “ choke.” Season the pieces with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, dip them into frying batter (see Recipe 1861) and fry in boiling fat until a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve piled up on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley. 391. Stuffed Artichokes (Artichauts Farcis) 6 globe artichokes. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 3 gills stock. Seasoning. Stuffing. 3 table-sps. of cooked chicken. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. cooked ham. 1 tea-sp. parsley. 3 or 4 mushrooms. 1 egg or 1 table-sp. white sauce. Prepare the artichokes as in Recipe 389, and boil them about | hour. Then drain and carefully re- move all the “ choke ” with a spoon. To Make the Stuffing.—Chop the chicken and ham finely and mix them in a basin with the mushrooms and parsley also finely chopped, season to taste and bind together with beaten egg, or a little good white sauce. Fill up the centres of the artichokes with this stuffing and tie them round with a piece of string or tape. Then dip them in salad oil so that every part is moistened and stand them on a baking tin. Pour the stock round and bake in a moderate oven for | hour, basting occasionally. When ready, lift the artichokes on to a hot dish and remove the string. Reduce the stock left in the baking tin, removing all grease from the top and adding more seasoning if necessary, and strain round the arti- chokes. Note.—The stuffing may be varied according to individual taste and materials at command. A thin tomato or brown sauce may be used instead of the stock, and a little white wine may be added. Time to cook, 1 hour in all. 392. Artichoke Bottoms, To "Prepare (Fonds d’Artichauts) Although these can be prepared from the fresh globe artichokes, those that are canned or bottled are more generally used. If the fresh artichokes are used, boil them accord- ing to directions given in Recipe 389, then remove all the leaves and choke, leaving only the soft round piece at the bottom. Trim these neatly and128 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD reheat them when required in a little hot milk or light stock. The camied artichoke bottoms should be rinsed and reheated in the same way. They may then be served with any suitable sauce such as poivrade, Italian, bechamel, Dutch, &c., and take their name accordingly. Or, they may be stuffed before being coated with sauce, or fried, as below. These make very simple and effective vegetable entrees. 393. Artichoke Bottoms, To Fry (Fonds d’Artichauts Frits) Use either tinned or fresh artichoke bottoms and prepare them as above. Dry them carefully in a soft cloth and season them with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Coat them lightly with fine flour, then egg and bread-crumb them, pressing the crumbs well on. Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain on kitchen paper and serve piled up on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley. If preferred the artichokes may be dipped in frying batter (see Recipe 1861) instead of being egged and bread-crumbed. 394. Artichoke Bottoms a la Florentine (Fonds d’Artichauts a la Florentine) 7 or 8 artichoke bottoms. 1 cupful cooked spinach. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp.- cream. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. grated Par- mesan. \ pt. cheese sauce. Prepare the artichoke bottoms as above and make them very hot. Take a cupful of well-cooked and sieved spinach (it must be as dry as possible), put it into a small saucepan with the cream, yolk of egg, and season- ing to taste, and make all very hot over the fire. Pile a little of the prepared spinach on the top of each artichoke bottom or fill them by means of a forcing bag and pipe. Mask them with hot cheese sauce (Recipe 682), sprinkle the grated cheese over and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 395. Puree of Artichokes (Puree d’Artichauts) 1 or 2 artichokes. I 1 or 2 table-sps. bechamel A little cream. | sauce. Seasoning. Trim the leaves off the artichokes and cook the bottoms in boiling water in which a little flour and lemon juice have been mixed. When tender, drain, remove the choke and rub the bottoms through a hair sieve. Put the puree thus obtained into a saucepan, add to it the white sauce and cream, regulating the quantity according to the purpose for which the pur6e is to be used. Season with white pepper and sauce, and use either as a garnish or served by itself as a vegetable. 396. Jerusalem Artichokes with Parsley Sauce (Topinambours a la Maitre d’Hotel) If lb. artichokes. \ pt. parsley sauce. To Prepare, the Artichokes.—First wash and brush the artichokes and throw them into clean cold water. Then peel them carefully with a small knife, making them as much one size as possible. As each one is done, throw it into a basin of clean cold water Jerusalem Artichokes to which a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice have been added to preserve the colour. Do not allow the water in which the artichokes are being peeled to become too dirty; change it if necessary. To Boil or Steam the Artichokes.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water, just sufficient to cover the artichokes, and add salt to it in the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonful to 1 quart of water. Drain the artichokes, throw them into this, and boil gently with the lid on the saucepan, until they can be pierced easily with a fork or skewer. They must not be overcooked or they will become heavy. If the artichokes are old, it will be better to put them on in tepid water instead of boiling. They may be boiled in milk, or milk and water instead of plain water, and this can afterwards be used fo making the sauce. Avoid using an iron saucepan, as it will discolour the artichokes. Instead of boiling as above, the artichokes may be steamed either in a steamer or double cooker. They will require a longer time to cook. To Serve the Artichokes.—When the artichokes are sufficiently cooked, drain them and put them in a well-heated vegetable dish. Make the sauce ready and very hot (Recipe 700) and pour it over them. Or, the artichokes may be allowed to cook for a few minutes in the sauce. They must be served as soon as possible, as they soon discolour. Other sauces, such as bechamel, Dutch, cream, &c., may be used in the same way, and the dish will take its name accordingly. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 397. Jerusalem Artichokes, To Fry (Topinambours Frits) 1 lb. artichokes. | Flour. Seasoning. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare and cook the artichokes as in last recipe, but drain them before they are quite ready. Allow them to lie for a little while in the folds of a cloth, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Then coat the artichokes lightly with flour129 VEGETABLES AND SALADS and egg and bread-crumb them. Put them in a frying basket and fry in boiling fat until a golden brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper to ab- sorb all the grease and serve them piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley. Any suitable sauce may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 398. Artichoke Chips Choose large artichokes for making chips, and wash and prepare them as directed in Recipe 396. Cut them in thin slices or shreds and let them lie for a short time in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice have been added. Then drain the chips and dry them thoroughly in the folds of a towel before cooking. When required, lace a few at a time in a frying basket and fry in oiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248) until brown and crisp. Drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle lightly with salt. 399. Jerusalem Artichokes, Saut6d (Topinambours Saut§s) 1 lb. artichokes. I Pepper, salt. 2 oz. butter. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare the artichokes as in Recipe 396, but do not cook them. Cut them in very thin slices, drain them and let them lie between the folds of a towel for a short time. Melt the butter in a saute or frying pan, put in the artichokes and keep tossing them over and over until they are nicely browned on both sides. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle the parsley over just before serving. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 400. Artichoke Cream (Creme d9 Topinambours) 1£ lb. Jerusalem arti- I 1 gill double cream. chokes. Seasoning. | 2 eggs. Tomato sauce. Prepare and cook the artichokes as in Recipe 396, drain them very dry and rub them through a hair sieve. Beat the eggs thoroughly, and whip the cream until thick, add them to the artichoke puree, mix very lightly and season to taste. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper and steam slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with tomato sauce poured round. Notes.—If preferred the mixture may be steamed in several small moulds. This cream may also be served cold or iced and garnished with cucumber, or tomato and lettuce. Time to steam, J to § hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 401. Artichoke Souffl6 (Souffle de Topinambours) 1 gill artichoke puree. I Grated lemon rind. 1 gill milk. 2 eggs. | Pepper. Salt. Take some cooked and well-drained artichokes, rub them through a sieve and measure 1 gill of the puree. If the remains of artichokes mixed with sauce are used, the milk, or some of the milk, must be omitted. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the milk and strain them into the artichoke puree. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once, and in the same dish. This is very good and delicate in flavour. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be cooked in several small moulds. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 402. Japanese Artichokes or Crosnes, To Bake (Crones Japonaises au Four) 1 lb. crosnes. I 1 table-sp. cream. 1 oz. butter. I Seasoning. Trim the ends of the crosnes, and wash and brush them well in cold water. Warm the butter in an earthenware saucepan, put in the crosnes, cover with the lid, and cook them in a moderate oven until tender, shaking the saucepan from time to time. The crosnes must not be overcooked, or the flavour will be spoilt. Add the cream and seasoning a few minutes before serving. Note.—A gill of good white sauce may be added at the last, or the crosnes may be served in small scallop shells with the sauce over and a little grated Parmesan on the top, then browned under the grill, or in the oven before serving. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 403. Japanese Crosnes, To Steam (Crones Japonaises au Beurre) 1 lb. crosnes. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 to 2 oz. butter. I 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Wash and prepare the crosnes as in the last recipe. Put them in a double cooker or steamer, and steam them until quite tender, but not overcooked. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, toss the crosnes in it and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle the parsley over and stir in the yolk of egg after removing the saucepan from the fire. Serve at once and very hot. Time to steam, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Asparagus (Asperges) Asparagus is a cultivated form of a wild sea- shore plant belonging to the lily family. It is a favourite vegetable on account of its delicious flavour, it is also wholesome and nutritious and possesses valuable diuretic properties. There are different kinds of asparagus on the market, the white, the violet, and the green. The white and the violet are sometimes forced to an enormous size and fetch a high price, but the green, which is more naturally grown, is cheaper and has often the most pronounced flavour. Care must be taken to choose the asparagus very fresh. If the heads droop and the cut ends of the stalks have a brown appearance, the vegetable is stale. If necessary it may be kept for a day or two by standing it with the stalks downwards in a jug of very cold water. The last shoots of the asparagus plant, which are XCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 130 very green and tender, are known under the name of sprue. They are cheaper than the more culti- Bunch of Asparagus rated asparagus, but have the same delicious flavour. 404. Asparagus, To Prepare and Cook (Asperges) To Prepare.—Cut the stalks all one length, and scrape the white part lightly with a knife from the tip downwards. Then wash in cold water, being very careful not to break the green points. Tie the asparagus in bundles with a piece of tape, keeping the heads all one way, and let these bundles lie in oold water for £ hour. Then drain. To Boil or Steam.—Choose a saucepan large enough to hold the asparagus lying flat, and if possible place a wire drainer at the foot of it. Pour in enough water to oover the asparagus and add salt and a little lemon juice. When boiling, put in the aspa- ragus and boil it gently until the green part is quite tender. Drain when ready. The asparagus may be steamed instead of boiled, or, what is better still, cooked in an asparagus cooker Asparagus Cooker which has an arrangement whereby the stalks only are in the water, while the points are cooked by steam. The time for cooking will depend on the size of the vegetable, from 20 to 30 minutes or longer. 405. Asparagus, To Serve Asparagus should be served on a folded serviette or in an asparagus dish and the sauce which accom- panies it served separately, and never on any account poured over the vegetable. It may be served hot with melted butter or hollandaise sauce, or cold with sauce vinaigrette or mayonnaise. Some epicures reverse this and serve it hot with an icy cold sauce, and cold with hot hollandaise. Hollandaise sauce to which the juice of an orange or a mandarin has been added is also a very delicious accompaniment. 406. Iced Asparagus This is a very pleasant way of serving asparagus in hot weather. After cooking arrange it neatly on an asparagus dish, sprinkle it with a few drops of tarragon vinegar and place it in the refrigerator, or on ice until wanted. Serve with good cream, also iced, or with iced mousseline or hollandaise sauce. See Recipes 723-730. 407. Asparagus Points with Cream (Asperges en Petits Pois a la Creme) Asparagus. 1 oz. butter. I 1 table-sp. cream. J tea-cupful water. I Pepper, salt. 1 yolk of egg. | A pinch of sugar. Very thin green asparagus or sprue is best for these. Cut the stalks in pieces about an inch long, using only the tender part. To 2 teacupfuls of points allow the above ingredients. Throw the pieces into a saucepan of boiling water; boil two or three minutes, and then drain. Melt the butter in a small stewpan or earthenware casserole, put in the asparagus points, with the water, pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar, and stew slowly with the lid on the pan for half an hour. Then add the yolk of egg and cream, mix well, and serve at once and very hot. Note.—If liked, a small lettuce finely shred may be cooked along with the asparagus points. 408. Asparagus au Gratin (Asperges au Gratin) Cooked asparagus. I Bread-crumbs. Butter. Grated Parmesan. I Seasoning. Take the remains of cooked asparagus and cut the tender part in small pieces about an inch in length. Grease some scallop shells with melted butter and sprinkle them with fine bread-crumbs. Put some asparagus into each, season with pepper, salt, and a slight squeeze of lemon juice. Sprinkle the top with more bread-crumbs mixed with a little grated Parmesan and pour over enough melted butter to moisten. Bake in a good oven until lightly browned. Note.—This may be prepared in one larger dish, the different ingredients being arranged in layers. A little good sauce may be used to moisten. Broad or Windsor Beans (Fdves) The seeds only of this bean are used, and to be good they must be fresh and young. They are be ire131 VEGETABLES AND SALADS very wholesome and nourishing for those who have a good healthy digestion, but broad beans should be avoided by the dyspeptic. Broad or Windsor Bean Unless very young the bean should be deprived of the skin which covers it, as this is very tough and indigestible. 409. Broad Beans with Butter (Ffives au Beurre) 1 pt. shelled beans. I Pepper, salt. 1 dessert- 1 to 2 oz. butter. | sp. chopped parsley. To Prepare.—Broad beans to be good must be young and freshly gathered. They should not be shelled until about to be cooked. After shelling, wash and drain them. If old, the skins should also be removed before cooking. To do this, put the beans into a basin with boiling water to cover them, stand for a few minutes, then drain, and remove the skins. To Boil.—Throw the beans into a saucepan of 6alted boiling water and let them boil gently until they are tender. The time will depend on their age and size. Any scum rising on the water must be removed. When ready, drain in a colander. To Serve.—Melt the butter in the saucepan, return the beans, season with pepper and salt, shake over the fire for a few minutes, sprinkle the parsley over and serve hot. Note.—If obtainable, a little chopped tarragon or chervil may also be sprinkled over the beans. Time to cook, 20 to 40 minutes. 410. Broad Beans in Potato Border \ pt. prepared beans. 1 small onion. A little stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 2 or 3 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. Seasoning. Potato border. Choose very young fresh beans, and shell and skin them as directed in last recipe. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add to it the onion finely chopped and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then put in the beans with enough vegetable or light meat stock to cover them, put on the lid and cook slowly until the beans are tender. More stock may be added if necessary, but by the time the beans are ready the liquid should be nearly all absorbed. Add the tomato sauce or puree at the last and season to taste. Have ready a border of potatoes arranged round the edge of a flat dish (see Recipe 543). Mark it prettily with the back of a fork, brush over with beaten egg and brown in the oven. Put the beans m the centre of this and sprinkle the chopped parsley over. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 411. Puree of Broad Beans 1 qt. shelled beans. | 1 or 2 table-sps. bacon fat. 1 cupful white sauce. J Seasoning. Prepare and cook the beans until quite tender, see Recipe 409. Drain them and rub them through a sieve. Return the sieved beans to the saucepan, add the white sauce and bacon fat or a little butter or good dripping and season to taste. Make all thoroughly hot and serve in a hot dish. This is a very good accompaniment to boiled pork or salt beef. French Beans (Haricots Verts) A variety of the kidney bean when gathered while still green and unripe is known as French bean. The younger they are the better, and both pod and seeds are eaten together. The scarlet runner resembles the French bean, but it grows to a larger size and is coarser. 412. French Beans a la Maitre d'Hotel (Haricots Verts a la Maitre d’Hotel) 1 lb. French beans. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. To Prepare the Beans.—Choose young fresh beans; if old they will be tough and stringy when cooked. Wash them well in cold water, then if the beans are very young cut off the heads and tails only and leave them whole. If older, remove the string which runs down the side as well, and cut the beans in thin strips lengthways or across in a slanting direction into lozenge-shaped pieces. Lay two or three beans together whilst doing this in order to expedite the process, and as they are cut throw them into a basin of cold water. To Cook the Beans.—Have ready on the fire a sauce- pan of boding water, salted in the proportion of one dessert-spoonful to one quart; drain the beans well and throw them into this. Boil quickly from 20 to 30 minutes with the lid off the saucepan, removing any scum as it rises. When the beans are ready they will sink to the bottom of the pan, and must be taken off the fire at once and drained well in a colander. Avoid using an iron saucepan, as it will blacken the vegetable. To Serve.—Melt the butter in the saucepan, return the beans to it, season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and sprinkle the parsley over. Toss the beana132 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD over the fire until they are thoroughly mixed with the butter and seasoning, but do not stir them with a spoon as it is apt to break them. Serve them as quickly as possible. Time to cook, 15 to 25 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 413. French Beans a la Poulette (Haricots Verts a la Poulette) 1 lb. French beans. 1} oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 yolk of egg. A squeeze of lemon juice. Prepare and cook the beans as in last recipe, but drain them before they are quite ready. Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the beans. Sprinkle in the flour and toss the beans over the file a few minutes. Then pour over the milk and simmer slowly until the beans are quite cooked. Just before serving add the yolk of egg beaten with a little water and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 persons. 414. Stewed French Beans (Haricots Verts en Sauce) 1 lb. French beans. I § oz. butter. £ pt. fight stock. | | oz. flour. Seasoning. Prepare the beans as in Recipe 412, either leaving them whole, or cutting them in pieces according to their age and size. Grease an enamelled or earthen- ware stewpan, lay in the beans and cover them with some fight stock, or broth, adding seasoning to taste. Cover the pan and allow the beans to stew slowly until tender, then drain, reserving the liquid. Melt the butter in the same saucepan. Mix in the flour, and then pour on the stock, strained from the beans. Stir until boiling and add more liquid if the sauce is too thick. Return the beans and make them thoroughly hot in the sauce, then serve in a vegetable dish, or in the casserole if suitable. Time to cook, | to f hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Beetroot (Betterave) There are different varieties of beetroot, but for table use the carrot-shaped root of a rich red colour is the kind most generally employed. Small young beetroots are best. When old they are apt to be tough and woody in fibre and arc not easily digested. Beetroots are very often sold ready cooked, those of a nice deep red colour should then be selected ; if to be cooked at home, care must be taken to choose them with a sound skin and then to see that this is not pierced nor damaged in any way before cook- ing. The pretty red colour is very easily spoilt if water is allowed to penetrate the skin when cooking. For this reason many people bake their beetroots instead of boiling them (see below). Beetroots can be served either hot or cold. The most popular way is cold with a simple dressing of vinegar or as a salad, and the vinegar helps to soften the fibre. They also form an agreeable vegetable if served hot, but are always improved by having a sharp sauce. The tops of the beetroot plant are sometimes served as a green vegetable. 415. Beetroots with Butter (Betteraves au Beurre) 3 small beetroots. 1 to 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. To Prepare and Cook the Beetroots.—Beetroots are very often bought ready-cooked, but if raw prepare and cook them in the following manner : Choose beetroots that are young and tender, the larger ones are apt to be stringy and difficult of digestion. Cut off the green tops and wash them very carefully in cold water. On no account must the skin be broken, or the juice will run out and the colour of the beetroots be spoiled. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water large enough to hold them without breaking, add salt in the pro- portion of 1 dessert-spoonful to 1 quart, and boil gently with the fid on the pan, until they feel tender when pressed with the finger. A beetroot must never be pierced with a fork. When ready, drain and put them on to a plate. To Serve.—Peel the beetroots quickly, cut them in quarters or slice them and lay them in a hot vegetable dish. Melt the butter, pour it over the beetroot and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Note.—If liked, a little chopped onion may be cooked in the butter before it is poured over the beetroot and a few drops of tarragon vinegar added. Time to boil, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 416. Baked Beetroot Instead of being boiled, beetroots may be baked in a slow oven, but they will require a longer time to cook. There is less likelihood of the skin break- ing when cooked in this way, but there is generally more waste. 417. Beetroots with Sauce Prepare beetroots as in last recipe, but instead of using butter pour over them some parsley, white, bechamel, or any other suitable sauce. A few drops of lemon juice or vinegar should be added to the sauce to give piquancy. 418. Stewed Beetroots 2 cupfuls cooked beet- root. 1 pt. hot water. 1 table-sp. cornflour. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Peel one or two cooked beetroots and cut them in dice.. Put them into a saucepan with about a pint of hot water or enough to cover them, season133 VEGETABLES AND SALADS •with pepper and salt and stew slowly for £ hour. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, add it to the contents of the saucepan along with the butter and stir until smooth and the cornflour cooked. Then serve in a hot dish and sprinkle the parsley over. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 419. Beetroot and Potatoes 1 or 2 cooked beetroots. 2 onions. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 1 table-sp. flour. £ pt. milk or vegetable stock. Pepper, salt. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A border of potatoes. Skin and scald the onions and slice them very thinly. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and a little pepper and salt and cook over the fire for 10 minutes, but without browning. Add the flour, mix it in and then pour on the milk or stock and stir until boiling. Then put in the beetroot cut in thin, neat pieces, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for 20 minutes. Add the sugar and vinegar just before serving. Arrange a potato border (see Recipe 543) on a hot dish, put the stewed beetroot in the centre and sprinkle the chopped parsley over. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 420. Beetroot (Cold Dressed) 2 boiled beetroots. Salt, i 1 doz. peppercorns. 1 gill brown vinegar. | 4 cloves. 1 blade of mace. Take two or more cooked beetroots, peel them and cut them in thin slices. Put these in a jar and sprinkle well with salt. Boil the vinegar with the other seasonings for about 10 minutes, then strain and when cold pour over the sliced beetroot. Set aside for several hours and use as required with cold meat. A little grated horse-radish is sometimes added. 421. Beetroot Tops These when young make a very nice dish of greens, and can be used in the same way as spinach. Broccoli (Brocoli) Brussels sprouts are best when young and small, not larger than a walnut, and compact and round Brussels Sprouts in form. They must be very fresh and should be chosen as much one size as possible. 422. Brussels Sprouts with Butter (Choux de Bruxelles au Beurre) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. Salt, pepper. 1 oz. butter. To Prepare the Sprouts.—First trim them neatly, removing any discoloured leaves and cutting off any unnecessary length of stalk. Make a slit across the stalk of each to allow them to cook more easily, then wash them carefully as they are very apt to harbour insects. Allow them to soak for half an hour in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have been added, then rinse and drain in a colander. To Cook the Sprouts.—Place them in a perforated steamer and steam over boiling water until they can be pierced easily with a fork. They should be tender and delicate without being overcooked. Or, they may be boiled and drained according to direc- tions given for cabbage. To Finish.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, toss the sprouts in it, sprinkling them with pepper and salt, and serve them very hot. Sometimes a little cream is added. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. This is very similar to the cauliflower, but it comes from a more hardy plant and is more easily cultivated. There are both white and purple specimens, and the heads are not generally so compact as those of the cauliflower. Broccoli is a valuable winter vegetable, and it comes into season just as the cauliflower is going out. It can be cooked in the same way as the cauliflower, to which it is very little inferior. Brussels Sprouts (Choux de Bruxelles) This vegetable is one of the best of the cabbage tribe and one of the most delicate of greens. It is much valued, and especially so as it is in season in winter when other green vegetables are scarce. 423. Brussels Sprouts with Sauce Prepare and cook the sprouts as above, put them in a hot vegetable dish and coat them with a good sauce, such as maitre d’hotel, white, or cream sauce 424. Brussels Sprouts, To Fry (Choux de Bruxelles Frits) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. I A little flour. Salt, pepper. [ Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare and cook the sprouts as in last recipe, but remove them from the steamer before they are quite ready. Dry them gently in the folds of a towel and coat them lightly with flour with which a little pepper and salt have been mixed. Then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249), and fry in boilingCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 134 fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain on paper and serve piled up on a hot dish and garnished with parsley, or use as a garnish for another dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 425. Brussels Sprouts with Rice (Choux de Bruxelles au Riz) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. I 1 tea-cupful of rice. 1 pt. stock. I Seasoning. Prepare the sprouts as directed in Recipe 422, throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, let them boil from 7 to 10 minutes and then drain. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the stock and cook for 10 minutes. Then add the sprouts and seasoning and simmer all together from 15 to 20 minutes until both rice and sprouts are tender. Serve in a hot vegetable dish. Time to cook, \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 426. Brussels Sprouts au Gratin (Choux de Bruxelles au Gratin) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill white sauce. 2 oz. grated cheese Seasoning. A potato border. Prepare and cook the Brussels sprouts as directed in Recipe 422, without making them too soft. Drain them well, then saute them in hot butter, seasoning with pepper and salt. Arrange a nice border of potatoes (see Recipe 543) on a greased fireproof dish and put the Brussels sprouts in the centre. Add most of the cheese to the white sauce, season well and make all thoroughly hot. Pour this sauce over the sprouts only, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over and place in the oven until well browned. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. The Cabbage (Le Chou) This is one of the most popular and most useful of vegetables, as it can be obtained all the year round and is generally very moderate in price. There are many varieties of the cabbage plant, the savoy, curly greens, red cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, kohl-rabi, and Brussels sprouts, which are all pro- duced by selection and cultivation from the wild Cabbage easy of digestion on account of its fibrous nature. When the strong taste is objected to, the cabbage should be scalded in boiling water for a few minutes, strained and rinsed in cold water before the actual cooking is commenced. 427. Cabbages with Butter (Choux au Beurre) 1 or 2 cabbages. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. To Prepare the Cabbages.—Trim them carefully, removing the outside leaves and any discoloured parts. Cut them in halves or quarters according to size and remove the hard piece of stalk from the inside. Then wash in plenty of cold water, soak for h hour in cold water, to which a few drops of vinegar have been added to draw out any slugs, and rinse again in fresh cold water. To Cook the Cabbages.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling salted water—1 dessert-spoonful salt to 1 quart of water is the proportion to allow— plunge the cabbage into this and boil quickly with the lid ofi the pan until the cabbage is tender. Be careful to remove any scum that may rise. When ready, drain well and press out as much of the water as possible. If the cabbage is very young it may bo steamed. Place the prepared cabbage in a steamer, sprinkle it with a little salt and steam until tender. To Finish.—Place the cabbage in a hot vegetable dish and score it across with a knife. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add a pinch of pepper and more salt if necessary and porn; over the hot cabbage. A little grated nutmeg or a squeeze of lemon juice may be sprinkled over the cabbage. Note.—If the strong flavour of a cabbage is ob- jected to, especially in a cabbage that is not young, it should be scalded before cooking. After it is prepared, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil quickly for 10 minutes. Then drain, rinse with cold water, press out the water, and proceed to cook as required. Time to boil, 20 to 40 minutes. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 428. Stewed Cabbage 2 cabbages. 1 oz. butter. I A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. flour. | § pt. milk. Pepper, salt. Prepare the cabbages as in last recipe, and steam or boil them until nearly tender. Then let them drain a few minutes and cut them in fine shreds. (This should measure two cupfuls.) Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the cabbage, and add the flour gradually, stirring all the time. Add the milk, stir until boiling and season to taste. Now stand the saucepan containing the cabbage in another sauce- pan of hot water, let it remain from 15 to 20 minutes and then serve very hot. Note.—A little cream would be an improvement to this dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. cabbage or colewort. To have a cabbage in per- fection it should be young and freshly cut; this is beyond comparison better than one that has lain packed up for any length of time. The cabbage is valuable on account of its mineral properties and its purifying action on the blood, but it is not always 429. Baked Cabbage 2 cupfuis cooked cabbage. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Icupfulmilk. Salt,pepper. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. A little butter. Take the remains of well-cooked cabbage and chop them finely, removing any hard portions. Put135 VEGETABLES AND SALADS the chopped cabbage into a saucepan with the butter, stir over the fire until hot. Sprinkle in the flour gradually and then add the milk. Season with pepper and salt and simmer by the side of the stove from 10 to 15 minutes. Grease a fireproof baking dish, turn the contents of the saucepan into it, sprinkle the bread-crumbs over the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 430. Cabbage au Gratin (Choux au Gratin) 2 cupfuls cooked cabbage. Seasoning 1 pt. white sauce. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. Cut the cabbage in fine shreds and season it with pepper and salt. Make ready \ pint white sauce and add to it the grated cheese. Now grease a fireproof dish and put into it a little cabbage and sauce alternately, until all is in. The last layer should be sauce. Coat the top -with bread-crumbs, place on a few small pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. Serve at once. Note.—The oven must not be too hot or the cheese will become ropy. This makes a good supper dish. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 431. Cabbage with Bacon 1 lb. cooked cabbage. 1 10 to 12 small rashers Seasoning. | of bacon. Cut 10 or 12 thin slices of bacon and fry them in a frying pan until sufficiently cooked. When ready, lift them on to a plate and keep them warm. Have the cabbage well drained and chopped, put it into the bacon fat, seasoning with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Grease a hot basin and press the cabbage into it. Then unmould in the centre of a hot dish and put the bacon round. Note.—Any other kind of greens may be used instead of cabbage. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 432. Cabbage with Chestnuts (Chou aux Marrons) 1 medium-sized cabbage. I 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 to 3 doz. chestnuts. ) 1 pt. milk. Seasoning. Prepare the cabbage as directed in Recipe 427, scald it in boiling water for 10 minutes, and then drain. Prepare the chestnuts, removing the outer and inner skin (Recipe 1625), put them into a sauce- pan and lay the cabbage on the top. Pour in the milk and stew very slowly by the side of the fire until both cabbage and nuts are quite tender. Then strain off the milk, put the cabbage into a hot dish and arrange the chestnuts round it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, pour on the strained milk and stir until boiling. Season to taste, cook 2 or 3 minutes and pour this sauce over the cabbage. Time to stew, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 433. Cabbage with Rice (Choux au Riz) 1 or 2 young cabbages. 1 tea-cupful rice. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 pt. vegetable or meat stock. 2table-sps.grated cheese. Wash and prepare the cabbages and cut them in small pieces. Then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil for 10 minutes and drain. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the stock and allow it to simmer 10 minutes. Then add the cabbage and seasoning, and continue to cook slowly until both cabbage and rice are tender. Stir occasionally and when ready the stock should have become absorbed. Add the butter and turn the mixture into a greased fireproof dish. Sprinkle the cheese on the top and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 434. Stuffed Cabbage (Chou Farci) 1 cabbage. 1 pt. stock. Stuffing. 4 table-sps. cooked meat. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 table-sp. melted butter or bacon fat. 1 egg. Choose a firm round cabbage of medium size. Wash it well, removing any discoloured leaves and the hard end of the stalk. Then put the cabbage into a basin, cover it with boiling water, put a plate on the top and allow it to stand from J to § hour to soften. Meanwhile prepare the stuffing. Chop the meat, onion, and parsley finely, mix them together, add the bread-crumbs and season to taste. Pour in the melted butter or fat and bind all into a stiffish paste with beaten egg. Pull the leaves of the cabbage apart, put a good spoonful of the stuffing in the centre and the remainder between the leaves. Then wrap the cabbage in a piece of well-greased paper, tie it with string and place it in a baking tin with the stock poured round. Bake in a good oven, basting every now and then with the stock. When ready, serve the cabbage on a hot dish, removing the paper and string, boil down the stock in the tin until there is just sufficient to serve as gravy, remove any grease from the top and pour it round. Notes.—An ordinary veal forcemeat, sausage meat or boiled chestnuts, may be used instead of the above stuffing. The cabbage may be stewed instead of baked. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 435. Colcannon 1 cupful cooked cabbage. 1 cupful cooked potatoes. 1 egg- 1 oz. butter or dripping. A few browned bread- crumbs. Chop the cabbage finely, removing any hard pieces of stalk. Mash or sieve the potatoes and mix them with the cabbage. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the cabbage and potato with seasoning to taste and mix well together. Then add the egg well beaten and stir it in thoroughly. Grease a plain mould or basin and coat the inside with browned bread-crumbs. Put in the cabbage mixture and bake in the oven until firm to the touch.136 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD When ready, turn out and serve the colcannon by itself, or as an accompaniment to meat. If pre- ferred the colcannon may be baked in a border mould and another kind of vegetable served in the centre. Notes.—Any other cooked greens may be used instead of the cabbage. Instead of being baked, the mixture may be made a little moister by adding some milk, and then simply piled up in a hot vegetable dish. The egg in this case may be omitted. Fried bacon or sausages may be served with colcannon. This mixture may also be made up in small cakes, egged and bread-crumbed and fried. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 436. Red Cabbage, To Stew 1 red cabbage. 1 pt. light stock or broth. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. vinegar. Salt, pepper. 2 oz bacon. A pinch of nutmeg. Trim the cabbage, removing any damaged leaves and the hard part of the stalk. Cut it in halves and shred it rather finely. Then wash the cabbage carefully, drain it, and scald in boiling water for a few minutes. Drain again and put the prepared cabbage into a stewpan with the stock or broth (there should be sufficient to cover it). Add the butter and flour mixed together, the vinegar, season- ing, and bacon cut in small pieces. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to simmer slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until quite tender. Serve very hot. Notes.—Red cabbages are not often used in this country except pickled, but they make quite a good vegetable and may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for the ordinary green cabbage. This is a good accompaniment to game or sausages. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 437. Red Cabbage with Apples 1 red cabbage. 1 onion. 2 or 3 apples. 2 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. Pepper. 1 gill cream or milk. Choose a nice fresh cabbage of medium size. Cut it in four and trim it carefully, removing the hard part of the stalk and any outside or dis- coloured leaves. Then wash it well and allow it to soak about one hour in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have been added. Now rinse in fresh water, drain well, and with a sharp knife cut the cabbage in shreds. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, plunge the shred cabbage into this, boil it quickly from 5 to 10 minutes and drain again. Peel the onion and chop it or cut it in thin slices. Peel and slice the apples, removing the cores. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the onion and allow it to cook a few minutes, but without browning. Then add the prepared cabbage and apples and season them with pepper and salt. Stew slowly by the side of the fire until the cabbage is tender, being careful to stir the contents of the saucepan occasionally. Add the cream or milk at the last, and cook a few minutes longer. Note.—This is a very good accompaniment to salt meat of different kinds, or it may be served with sausages. Time to cook, about | hour. Cardoon (Cardon) This is not a very common vegetable, although in some parts of the country it is easily obtainable in the autumn. The cardoon belongs to the same family as the artichoke, to which it is similar in taste, but not in appearance, as it is more like celery in form. The edible portion of the plant consists of the stems or ribs as they are called. These are bleached by being tied together and covered over Cardoon with matting, or banked up with earth in the same way as celery. This protection from the light whitens the stalks and makes them crisp and ready for use. Cardoons may be cooked according to any of the methods suggested for celery, only the stalks require a little more preparation. The prickles from the sides must first be removed, then they must be scalded for a few minutes in boiling water to which a few drops of vinegar, or lemon juice have been added. Then drain and peel off the fibrous skin. For further recipes see under Celery. 438. Stewed Cardoons (Cardons an Jus) Cardoons. Brown stock. Chopped parsley. Wash and trim the stalks, removing the prickles at the sides. Cut them in short lengths and throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water made slightly acid with vinegar or lemon juice. Boil quickly for 5 or 10 minutes, then drain and scrape or peel off the fibrous skin. Now return the pieces of cardoon to the saucepan, pour in enough good brown stock to cover them and stew slowly until tender. When ready, lift out the pieces and arrange them neatly in a hot vegetable dish and allow the stock to boil rapidly until reduced to a thin glaze. Pour this over the cardoons and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Carrots (Carottes) The carrot is one of the most useful and most nourishing of vegetables, although it is not one which is particularly easy of digestion. It is valuable both for flavouring purposes in soups and stews, and also for serving as a separate vegetable. It is more nourishing than the turnip,137 VEGETABLES AND SALADS is rich in both starch and sugar, and contains many valuable mineral salts. New carrots are the best for serving as a vege- table, but the older ones, if carefully cooked to soften their somewhat woody fibre, can be made into many palatable and tasty dishes. The red outside is the best part of the carrot, and this should not be wasted in the cleaning. Then mix the cornflour with the butter, add them to the carrots and stir until thoroughly mixed. Add a little pepper, cream, and parsley, cook a minute or two longer and serve. Note.—Stock may be used instead of water, and a little milk instead of the cream. A little chopped onion may be added. Time to stew, 1 to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 441. Carrot Croquettes 1 cupful cooked carrot. 1 oz. butter. 1J oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. Pepper. | tea-sp. sugar. Egg and bread-crumbs. Choose nice red carrots and do not cook them too soft. Then grate the desired quantity. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and then the milk. Cook, stirring all the time, tintil-the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Now add the grated carrot, yolk of egg, and season- ing, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. When firm, form into small pear-shaped croquettes, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking. Egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat until brown. Stick a small piece of parsley stalk in the end of each to represent the stalk of the pear (see p. 157), dish the croquettes neatly and garnish with parsley. These are a good accompaniment to salt meat. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 439. Carrots with Parsley Sauce 3 or 4 carrots. | Salt. Boiling water. | \ pt. parsley sauce. To Prepare the Carrots.—Wash and brush the carrots in cold water, cutting off the green top. Then take clean cold water, and scrape them lightly from the thick end downwards, until all black is removed. The best part of the carrot is on the outside, so do not remove more than is necessary. Keep them in cold water until wanted. To Boil the Carrots.—Cut the carrots in convenient sized pieces, throw them into boiling salted water and boil them quickly with the lid on the saucepan until tender. Tho time required will depend on the age and size of the vegetable. When ready, drain, reserving the liquor. Put the carrots into a hot vegetable dish and keep them warm. Make a sauce according to Recipe 700, using some of the liquor from the carrots and some milk. (The rest of the liquor may be put into the stock pot or added to soup.) Pour the sauce over the carrots, coating the pieces well, and serve at once. Note.—New carrots may be served in the same way, but they should be left whole. 440. Carrots, To Stew (Carottes a I’Allemande) 3 carrots. 1 oz. butter. 1 £ pts. boiling water. 1 table-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Salt, pepper. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Prepare the carrots as in last recipe. Cut them in convenient sized pieces or slices (there should be about 3 cupfuls) and put them into a lined sauce- pan with the water, sugar, and salt. Put the lid on the pan and let them simmer slowly until tender. 442. Carrot Moulds (Cassolettes de Carottes) 2 carrots. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. flour. Seasoning. Prepare the carrots as in Recipe 439, cut them in pieces and cook them in boiling water or stock until quite tender. Drain them as dry as possible and rub them through a wire sieve. This pur6e should measure 1 breakfast-cupful. Season it to taste, add the flour and egg well beaten, and mix well. Grease 4 or 5 dariol moulds, fill them with the puree, cover with greased paper and steam until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully and serve a3 a garnish for a meat dish or as a dish by themselves with white, or parsley sauce poured round. Note.—The mixture may be steamed in one large mould if preferred and a few green peas used as a garnish. Time to steam, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 443. Carrot and Rice Stew 2 large red carrots. 1 tea-cupful rice. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 1 onion. Salt, pepper. 1 pt. water. A bunch of herbs. Prepare the carrots (see Recipe 439) and cut them in thin slices. Peel and slice the onion thinly and well wash the rice. Melt about 2 oz. dripping, butter, or other fat in a stewpan, put in the carrots and onion as dry as possible and fry them a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Then add the water, seasonings, and rice; put the lid on the pan, and stew all together until the carrots are tender. Stir the contents of the saucepan occa- sionally to prevent them sticking, and add more water if necessary. Before serving, lift out the138 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD bunch of herbs, arrange the stew on a hot disn and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over. Time to stew, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 444. Carrots with Spaghetti 2 carrots. J lb. spaghetti. | 2 oz. butter or dripping. Boiling water. J Seasoning. Prepare the carrots as in Recipe 439, and cut them in fine shreds. Put them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them, add salt and simmer slowly for 1 hour. Wash the spaghetti, break it in pieces, put it into the saucepan with the carrots and cook both together for J horn) or until tender. Then drain thoroughly. Melt the butter in the saucepan, and let it become slightly brown, return the carrots and spaghetti and mix for a few minutes over the fire. Add seasoning to taste and serve very hot. Time to cook, about 1£ hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 445. Puree of Carrots (Puree de Carottes) 1 to 2 oz. butter. i 1 tea-sp. sugar. 3 carrots. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 1 table-sp. cream. Prepare the carrots as in Recipe 439, and cut them in small pieces. Then put them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them and a little salt and allow them to cook until quite tender. Drain ofi the water, which may be put into the stock pot, rub the carrots through a sieve and return them to the saucepan with the butter, sugar, and more salt if necessary. Cook a few minutes until the puree is perfectly smooth, and add the cream at the last. 450. New Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel (Carottes a la Maitre d’Hotel 1 or 2 bunches young carrots. | tea-sp. sugar. Salt, pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. Wash and scrape the carrots very lightly, cutting ofi the green tops. Put them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them, add a little salt and boil with the lid on the saucepan until tender. When ready, drain ofi every drop of water (this may be put into the stock pot), add the butter, lemon juice, and seasoning, and toss over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Serve very hot. Note.—Older carrots may be prepared in the same way, but they must be cut in pieces. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 451. New Carrots a la Flamande (Carottes a la Flamande) 1 or 2 bunches young carrots. 1 gill boiling water. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. salt. \ gill cream. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Wash and scrape the carrots very lightly, cutting ofi the green tops. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the proportion of one dessert- spoonful to one quart; boil 10 minutes, and strain. Then cut the carrots into thin slices, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, gill of water, sugar. and salt. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly until the carrots are tender. Add the yolk of egg and cream mixed together, and the chopped parsley. Stir carefully over the fire until thick, but do not boil. Serve very hot, garnished with croutons of bread or pastry (see p. 312). Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 452. New Carrots a la Menagere (Carottes & la Menagere 1 or 2 bunches young carrots. £ pt. stock. J gill white wine. A pinch of sugar. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. flour, loz. butter. Wash and scrape the carrots very lightly, cutting ofi the green tops. Cut them in small pieces or shoes and put them into a saucepan with the stock, wine, and bunch of herbs. Simmer slowly for j hour, then remove the herbs and add the butter and flour mixed together. Stir for a few minutes, season to taste, and serve sprinkled with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 453. Glazed Carrots (Carottes Glaeees) Choose young carrots if possible, but if not in season cut the large carrots in small rounds with a vegetable cutter or in some other fancy shape. When prepared, put the carrots into a shallow stew- pan with enough stock to cover them, a small piece of butter and a good pinch of sugar. Cook in the oven or by the side of the fire without covering the saucepan, so that by the time the eobking is finished, the liquid has evaporated and the carrots are coated with a thick gravy or glaze. These are often used as a garnish for meat dishes. Cauliflower (Choufleur) This Is one of the best of vegetables and a favourite with most people. It is another variety of the cabbage tribe, of which the edible part is the flower. It is very wholesome and delicate in flavour. although it cannot be said to contain much nourish- ment. It is more easily digested than any other kind of cabbage, and for this reason appears very often on an invalid dietary.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 139 When choosing a cauliflower select one with a close white head, as those that are green and yellow looking are inferior. It is a vegetable that may be cooked in a variety of ways, besides being very good in soup or cold en salade. and strain over the cauliflower. Sprinkle the rest of the bread-crumbs on the top, lay on the butter in small pieces and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 454. Steamed Cauliflower with White Sauce (Choufleur a la Sauce Blanche) I medium-sized cauliflower. J pt. white sauce. To Prepare the Cauliflower.—Select a fresh cauli- flower with a firm, close head. Trim ofl the thick part of the stalk and nearly all the leaves, leaving only a few of the smaller ones to protect the flower. Make a cut across the stalk in both directions with- out cutting through the flower, in order that it may cook more easily. Then wash the cauliflower in plenty of cold water, and let it lie for £ hour in fresh cold water, to which one tea-spoonful of vinegar has been added to draw out any insects. Rinse in fresh water and drain. To Cook the Cauliflower.—Put it into a steamer or double cooker and steam over plenty of hot water until it is tender but not broken. The time will depend on the age and size of the cauliflower. Or it may be boiled according to directions given for cooking cabbage, but the former is the better way. To Serve.—Make the sauce according to directions given in Recipe 671 and pour it into a hot vegetable dish, stand the cauliflower in the centre of it and serve very hot. A little chopped parsley may be sprinkled over, if liked. Unless the cauliflower is a bad colour, or has been broken in the cooking, the sauce should not be poured over it. Note.—Other sauces, such as hollandaise, be- chamel, veloute, &c., may be used if preferred; or the cauliflower may be served in a folded serviette and melted butter handed separately. Time to steam, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 455. Cauliflower au Gratin (Choufleur au Gratin) 1 gill water. Cayenne. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 cooked cauliflower. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. cream. Prepare and cook the cauliflower as above and press it into a dome shape in a fireproof dish. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix these two smoothly together with a wooden spoon. Then pour in the water, and stir until boiling. Add the cream seasoning, and rather more than half the cheese. Mix well, and pour this sauce over the cauliflower. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese over the top, and brown in a quick oven, or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 456. Baked Cauliflower, 1 (Choufleur au Four) 1 cooked cauliflower. I 1 egg. 1 gill milk. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. | Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Grease a fireproof dish and sprinkle in half the bread-crumbs. Break the cauliflower in small pieces and arrange them neatly in the dish. Beat up the egg in a cup or small basin with the milk, add a little salt, pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg, 457. Baked Cauliflower, 2 1 cauliflower. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. Salt, pepper. A little nutmeg. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. | pt. white sauce. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Cook the cauliflower and break it up in little pieces. Grease a fireproof baking dish and lay in it half the cauliflower, sprinkle over some of the cheese, chopped onion, and bread-crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Then put in the rest of the cauliflower and more bread-crumbs, cheese, &c. Have ready about 1 pint of good white sauce, add to it the yolks of eggs, and pour this over the contents of the dish. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and bake in a good oven until brown. 458. Cauliflower Cake (Pain de Choufleur) 2 cupfuls cooked cauli- flower. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 cupful milk or white stock. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. Seasoning. 2 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. Put the bread-crumbs and stock or milk into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until they boil and thicken. Add the butter and cauliflower broken in small pieces and mix well. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and seasoning to taste. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a plain mould or cake tin that has been greased and coated with browned bread-crumbs. Stand the mould on a baking tin with a little hot water round it, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve garnished with parsley or with tomato or hollandaise sauce poured round. Note.—If the cauliflower is mixed with sauce, less liquid must be used with the bread-crumbs. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 459. Cauliflower with Curry Sauce (Choufleur a l’lndienne) 1 cauliflower. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. \ pt. white sauce. 1 table-sp. cocoanut. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. Prepare and cook the cauliflower according to directions given in Recipe 454. Drain it and place it in a fireproof dish. Make l- pint good white sauce and add to it the curry powder and half the cheese. Pour this over the cauliflower, coating it well. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese mixed with the cocoanut on the top and brown quickly in a good oven. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.140 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 460. Cauliflower Fritters (Beignets de Choufleur) 1 cooked oauliflower. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. 1 chopped shallot. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Frying batter. First make the batter according to directions given in Recipe 1861, and let it stand. Take some cauli- flower that has not been overcooked and break it into neat-sized pieces. Mix the oil and vinegar on a deep plate with the chopped ingredients and a little seasoning. Put the pieces of cauliflower into this and let them stand for 1 hour, turning them occasionally. Then drain them lightly, dip them into the frying batter and fry in deep fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well on kitchen paper and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—Cauliflower fritters are frequently used as a garnish for other dishes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 461. Cauliflower a lTtalienne (Choufleur & lTtalienne) 1 cooked cauliflower. J pt. tomato sauce. 2 table-sp. chopped mush- rooms. 2table-sps. cooked tongue. 1 table-sp. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. Have ready \ pint tomato sauce or puree and break the cauliflower into small pieces. There should be a large breakfast-cupful. Grease a fire- proof dish and arrange in it the cauliflower and tomato sauce in layers, sprinkling them with the chopped mushrooms and tongue. When all is in, coat the top with the bread-crumbs and cheese mixed, lay on some small pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. Serve at once in the dish in which it was cooked. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 462. Cauliflower it la Polonaise (Choufleur a la Polonaise) 1 cauliflower. 2 table-sps. white bread- J hard-boiled egg. crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. 2 oz. butter. chopped parsley. Cook the cauliflower, but not too much, drain it well and press it gently in a cloth to make it a nice round shape. Then place it in the centre of a vegetable dish and sprinkle it with a mixture of chopped parsley, chopped white of egg, and sieved yolk. Keep it warm over hot water. Melt the butter in a saucepan and let it become slightly brown, put in the bread-crumbs and fry them slowly until a golden brown. This sauce must not be made too thick, the browned bread- crumbs ought to float in the butter. Pour it over the cauliflower and sprinkle with more of the chopped mixture. Note.—This is a good way of serving a cauliflower that is past its best. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 463. Cauliflower a la Villeroi (Choufleur a la Villeroi) 1 cooked cauliflower. Good white sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Take some cauliflower that is if anything a little undercooked and break it into sprays. Dip these into some rich white sauce (Sauce Villeroi, Recipe 746), lay them on a plate and put them in a cool place until set. Then toss these coated pieces of cauliflower in some very fine bread-crumbs, brush them over with beaten egg and toss again in bread- crumbs. Fry a light brown colour in deep fat, drain them well and serve piled up on a hot dish, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 464. Cauliflower SouffR, 1 cooked cauliflower. 2 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 (Souffffi de Choufleur) 1 \ gills milk. Seasoning. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. The remains of any cold cooked cauliflower will do for this dish. There should be a good breakfast- cupful. Break the cauliflower into small pieces, and peel the tomatoes and cut them in very thin slices. Arrange the cauliflower and tomato in layers in a greased pie dish or souffle dish, seasoning them with pepper and salt. A little finely chopped shallot may also be added if wished. Then make a souffffi mixture to pour over this. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then draw the pan to one side, and pour in the milk. Return to the fire, and stir until boiling. Boil 2 or 3 minutes, and re- move the pan from the fire. Add the yolks of the two eggs, season with salt and cayenne, and mix well. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth on a plate, and stir them lightly in with an iron spoon. Pour this mixture over the cauliflower, sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and lay on a few small pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Serve at once in the dish in which it has been cooked. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 465. Cauliflower Souffle, 2 2 eggs. White pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 cupful cooked cauli- flower. 1 cupful white sauce. 1 table-sp. grated cheese. The remains of cooked cauliflower and sauce may be used for this. Warm the sauce and add to it the grated cheese, yolks of eggs and necessary seasoning. Stir over the fire for a minute or two, but do not allow the contents of the saucepan to boil. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add the cauliflower broken in small pieces. Stir it lightly in and add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Celery (C61eri) This is one of the most useful of vegetables, and it can be eaten both raw and cooked. It is perhaps best when eaten raw, nice white stalks, crisp after the first touch of frost, eaten with bread and butter and cheese, or else shred and mixed with salad. Celery is also very good cooked in various ways, and is most valuable as a flavouring vegetable for soups and stews. The green tops and coarser141 VEGETABLES AND SALADS outside stalks may be used for cooking and flavoic- ing purposes, and the inside stalks for serving raw. When celery is well cultivated, the earth is banked up round the stalks until very little but the heads is seen. This blanches the stalks and gives them a sweeter and milder taste than they would have if the sun were to reach them. Celery has also distinct medicinal value, and is recommended to be eaten freely in cases of rheu- matism. It can be kept fresh for several days if the stalks are placed in a deep jug of cold water. When fresh celery cannot be obtained the seed of the plant is valuable for giving flavour. See also Celeriac, p. 142. 466. Celery, To Serve Raw Choose small heads of celery for serving raw, as they are usually the sweetest and the most tender. Remove the outside stalks, reserving these for flavouring and cooking purposes, and use the white crisp stalks in the centre. Separate these and wash and brush them well in cold water. If large, cut the stalks in halves lengthways, and curl the ends if wished (see below). If time permits, allow the pieces to lie in very cold water for J hour, then serve them in a celery glass three parts filled with cold water, or in a flat celery dish on a bed of cracked ice. 467. To Curl or Fringe Celery To curl the stalks of celery, take a small sharp knife and cut the tops in fine strips like a fringe, and to a depth of about 2 inches. Throw into cold water, and in a short time these little strips will curl over and give a decorative appearance to the stalks of celery. If the curled celery is required as a garnish for a salad or such like, cut a few firm pieces about 4 inches in length. Cut both ends down in narrow strips, leaving a,n inch or so in the centre as founda- tion. Let these lie in cold water for A hour or so until they curl up. These have a very light and pretty appearance. 468. Celery, To Stew (C61eri au Jus) 1 or 2 heads of celery. 1 pt. brown stock. 1 oz. butter. To Prepare the Celery.—Wash and brush the celery, dividing the stalks and removing any de- cayed and brown parts. Cut the stalks into short equal lengths and any pieces that are thick split in two. Tie with tape into bundles and blanch by throwing them into boiling water and allowing them to cook for 7 or 8 minutes. Then drain. To Stew.—Put the stock and butter into a stew- pan, bring to the boil and add the celery. Cook slowly with the lid on the pan until the celery is quite tender. Then lift it out on to a hot dish, remove the tape, and keep it warm. Boil down the stock in the pan until there is just about a tea- cupful, remove any grease from the top, and if it is not a good colour add a little glaze. Pour this over and round the celery and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley on the top. Note.—The outer stalks of celery will do very well for stewing if the inside part has been served cold or as a salad. Time to stew, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 469. Celery with Cream Sauce (CSleri a la Creme) 1 head of celery. 1 dessert-sp. flour. \ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Wash and brush the celery as in last recipe and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover it, boil from 5 to 10 minutes and pour the water off. Add the milk and stew the celery slowly until it is quite tender. Then strain, reserving the milk. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour andmix until smooth. Then pour in the milk in which the celery was cooked and stir until boiling. Return the celery to this sauce with the cream and seasoning, simmer for a few minutes and then serve hot. Garnish with sippets of dry toast. Time to cook, \ to f hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 470. Celery To Fry (CSleri Frit) Celery. I Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. | Seasoning. Wash and brush the celery, cutting it into pieces about 4 or 5 inches in length. Tie these in bundles, throw them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them, add a little salt, and let them boil slowly about 15 minutes, but without allowing the celery to become too soft. Drain it well and spread the pieces on a cloth to dry. (The water in which the celery was cooked should not be thrown away, but put into the stock pot or used in the making of soup.) Next dip the pieces of celery in a little flour, coating them lightly, and then egg and bread-crumb them. Fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248) until a golden brown colour and drain well on kitchen paper. Dish them up cross bars on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. Notes.—A little grated Parmesan may be mixed with the bread-crumbs if liked, or the celery may be soaked in a marinade of oil and vinegar (see Recipe 460) before being coated. Frying batter may also be used instead of the bread-crumbs.142 COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 471. Celery Souffle (Souffle de Celeri) | lb. white celery. | pt. milk. 1 bay-leaf. 1 shallot. A few parsley stalks. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. grated Par- mesan. Seasoning. 2 or 3 eggs. Prepare the celery carefully, using only the white part. Cut it in small pieces and put it into a sauce- pan with the milk, shallot, bay-leaf, and parsley, and simmer slowly until tender. Then strain off 1 gill of milk and rub the celery with the remainder of the liquid through a hair or fine wire sieve, keep- ing back the bay-leaf and parsley. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and cook it a minute or two, then add the gill of milk and stir until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Now add the celery puree, grated cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, and mix well. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—If preferred the mixture may be baked in small souffle dishes or paper cases. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Celeriac (Celeri Rave) This vegetable is only gradually coming into popularity in this country, although it is much used abroad. It is also called the turnip-rooted celery on account of its resemblance to a turnip, although it is very much rougher looking. It has the same flavour and is a variety of the ordinary celery Celeriac plant, only the root, which has become very much enlarged, is the edible part and not the stalks. Por cooking purposes celeriac is almost better than the stalk celery, as it has the same fine flavour and is less stringy. Besides the recipes given below it can be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking turnips. It is also very good cooked and served as a salad. 472. Celeriac or Celery Root with Egg Sauce (Celeri Rave a la Sauce aux CEufs) 1 or 2 celery roots. Boiling water. \ pt. egg sauce. To Prepare the Celeriac.—Wash and brush the celeriac, peel off the outside skin and any brown parts, cut it in small square pieces and let it soak in cold water for \ hour. To Cook.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover the celeriac, and add salt in the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonfui to the quart. Drain the celeriac and throw it in, and cook slowly until tender, then drain, reserving the water in which it was cooked. Make an egg- sauce (Recipe 687), using some of the water in which the vegetable is cooked as liquid, add the celeriac to it and make it thoroughly hot. Serve with some hard boiled and sieved yolk of egg sprinkled over it. Notes.—Other white sauces may be used in the same way, or the celeriac may be stewed in stock and served with brown or tomato sauce. It is also very good served au gratin (see Cauliflower au Gratin, Recipe 455), or scalloped (see Scalloped i Parsnips, Recipe 529). Celeriac is a very good accompaniment to duck or chicken. Time to cook, £ to 1 horn. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 473. Puree of Celeriac (Puree de Celeri Rave) 1 root celeriac. I 2 or 3 table-sps. white 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. | sauce. Prepare the celeriac as directed above, cut it in small pieces and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Then strain, drain the pieces of celeriac well and rub them through a sieve. Add this puree to 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, making the mixture more or less stiff accord- ing to the purpose for which it is required. Add the butter and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a small pinch of nutmeg. This puree may be served as an accompaniment to various meat dishes, or as a garnish for entrees. Chicory (Endive-Escarole) This is another form of endive called also the Batavian endive. The leaves are tied up and Chicory blanched in the same way as celery. It is a very wholesome \egetable, being particularly good for143 VEGETABLES AND SALADS the lives. It somewhat resembles sea-kale in taste and may be cooked in the same way. Cucumber (Concombre) Although cucumbers are usually served raw, they can also be cooked in a variety of ways. In fact, those who are afraid of its indigestibility in a raw state can often take it without danger when cooked. It then becomes a very light and succulent vegetable, with a delicate flavour like that of the vegetable marrow. A straight plump cucumber with a smooth skin should be chosen in preference to one that is thin and twisted in form. Choose one that is firm to the touch. Besides the recipes given below, cucumber may be cooked according to any of the directions given for cooking vegetable marrow. Small cucumbers when pickled are known as gherkins. 474. Cucumber, Steamed with Hollandaise Sauce (Concombre a la Hollandaise) 1 large or 2 small cucumbers. Hollandaise sauce. Peel the cucumber and cut it in neat pieces, scoop- ing out all the seeds. Place these pieces in a steamer or double cooker, sprinkle them with a little fine salt, and cook them over boiling water until they are quite clear and tender. Then arrange them neatly in a hot dish and cover them with hollan- daise sauce, made according to directions given in Recipe 723. Serve at once. Note.—Other sauces, such as parsley, bechamel, egg, &e., may be used in the same way and the dish would change its name accordingly. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 475. Cucumber, To Fry (Concombre Frit) 1 cucumber. 1 table-sp. lemon juice or vinegar. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Seasoning. Peel the cucumber and cut it into convenient sized pieces, scooping out all the seeds. Place the pieces of cucumber in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, and add the vinegar or lemon juice and a little salt. Boil 10 minutes, drain and rinse with cold water. Dry the pieces of cucumber very gently in a soft cloth, coat them lightly with flour, which has been seasoned with pepper and salt, and then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249). Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain on kitchen paper and pile up on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley. Serve with tomato or piquante sauce, or as an accompaniment to roast or grilled meat or fish. Note.—Frying batter may be used instead of egg and bread-crumbs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. they feel tender. Drain them well and cut them in dice. Then grease a fireproof gratin dish and arrange in it alternate layers of cucumber and grated cheese, seasoning to taste. The amount of salt will depend on the kind of cheese used. When all is in, moisten the contents of the dish with cream or a little thin white sauce, sprinkle with bread or biscuit crumbs and lay a few small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until well browned. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 477. Cucumber, To Stew (Concombre au Jus) 1 large cucumber. \ pt. brown stock. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Pare the cucumber, and cut it into pieces three inches in length. Halve these pieces lengthwise, and take out the seeds. Throw them into boiling water salted in the proportion of one dessert- spoonful to one quart. Boil 5 minutes, and drain. Melt the butter in a stewpan, let it turn slightly brown, and mix in the flour. Then add the stock and stir until boiling. Place the cucumber in this sauce, put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until tender. When ready, carefully dish the pieces in a hot vegetable dish, skim the sauce, and strain it over. Sprinkle with parsley and serve as hot as possible. Time to stew, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 478. Cucumber a la Poulette (Concombre a la Poulette) 1 large cucumber. Boiling water. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper, salt. 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. Peel the cucumber and cut it in three or four pieces according to size. Split the pieces and scoop out all the seeds with a small spoon. Have ready on the fire a small saucepan (an earthenware one is best), with just sufficient boiling water to cover the cucumber, and add a little salt. Throw the cucumber into this and let it simmer gently until quite clear and tender. Then drain, reserving the water, and keep the cucumber warm over hot water whilst making the sauce. Mix the butter and flour together in a saucepan, add by degrees I tea-cupful of the water in which the cucumber was cooked, stir until boiling and cook a few minutes, adding a little white pepper and more salt if neces- sary. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and add the yolk of egg, stirring it in quickly. Cook just a minute, but do not boil again or the sauce will curdle. Arrange the pieces of cucumber neatly in a hot dish, remove the sauce from the fire, add the lemon juice and strain it over. Serve at once. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 476. Cucumbers au Gratin 1 or 2 fresh cucumbers. Grated cheese. Cream. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. A little butter. Take one or two cucumbers according to size, peel them, and either boil or steam them until 479. Scalloped Cucumber : or 2 cucumbers. . Spanish onion. t pt. white sauce. Peel the cucumbers, cut them in quarters and ■emove the seeds. Then steam them over boiling 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. A little butter.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 144 water until tender and cut them in slices. Cook also the onions until tender a nd chop them rather finely. Grease a fireproof dish, put into it first a layer of well-seasoned white sauce, then a layer of cucumber and onion sprinkled with nuts, more sauce, and so on until all is in. Cover with bread-crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a good oven until brown. Note.—Grated cheese may be used instead of the nuts. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 480. Stuffed Cucumber, 1 (Concombre Farci) 1 cucumber. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked potato. 2 or 3 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk or cream. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A little butter. 1 gill stock or white wine. Choose a thick, short cucumber and one that is very firm. Peel it and scald it in boiling salted water for 10 minutes. Then rinse it in cold water, cut it in half lengthwise and remove all the seeds. Allow the cucumber to lie between the folds of a cloth whilst preparing the stuffing. Sieve the potatoes, put them in a basin, add.the ham finely chopped, grated cheese and seasoning. Mix well, and add the yolks of eggs and enough milk or cream to form a stiffish mixture. Place the pieces of cucumber on a long greased fireproof dish, fill up the hollows with the stuffing, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Pour the stock or wine round and bake in a moderate oven until the cucumber is cooked and the top nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 481. Stuffed Cucumber, 2 (Concombre Farci) 1 cucumber. 2 or 3 oz. cooked meat. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 yolk of egg. 2 oz. cooked rice. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Lemon juice. Salt, pepper, f pt. stock. Brown or tomato sauce. Choose a straight, plump cucumber of medium size, cut it in half lengthwise and scoop out the seeds. Sprinkle the inside with salt and turn it cut side down on a plate to drain. Meanwhile prepare the stuffing: Any nicely cooked meat may be used, and if a little ham or tongue can be mixed with it, so much the better. Mince the meat finely and put it into a basin with the rice, parsley, onion, and season- ing. Mix well together and bind with the yolk of an egg. Put this stuffing into the cucumber and then place the two halves together. Bind round with tape and place the cucumber in a baking dish or tin with the stock. Cover over and bake in a moderate oven until tender, basting occasionally with the stock. When ready, lift the cucumber on to a hot dish, remove the tape and pour tomato or brown sauce over. Or, a little glaze may be added to the stock in the baking dish, and this gravy poured round the cucumber instead of the sauce. 482. Stuffed Cucumber, 3 (Concombre Farci) Stuffing. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. cooked ham or tongue. A little stock. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. 1 cucumber. 1 or 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 5 or 6 croutons of bread. A little sauce. Choose a long straight cucumber, trim off the ends and cut it in pieces about 2 inches in length. Peel off the skin in narrow strips, leaving alternate strips of the peel and giving the pieces of cucumber a striped appearance. Then scald the pieces in boiling salted water for 5 minutes, rinse in cold water and drain. Scoop out the seeds from the centre without destroying the shape of the cucumber and stand the pieces on a greased baking tin. Then prepare the stuffing. Put the bread-crumbs, ham, parsley, and a little grated lemon rind into a basin, add sufficient stock to moisten and bind them together and season with ' pepper and salt. Fill up the pieces of cucumber with this stuffing, piling it rather high in the centre. Stuffed Cucumber A forcing bag and pipe may be taken for this if found easier, and any nice forcemeat be used in- stead of the above. Place a piece of greased paper over the prepared cucumber and bake in a moderate oven until tender. A few minutes before the pieces are ready, remove the paper, sprinkle the tops with bread-crumbs, baste them with a little butter and allow them to brown. To Serve.—Stand each piece of stuffed cucumber on a round crouton of fried bread and pour round a little thin brown or tomato sauce. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 483. Cassolettes of Cucumber and Green Peas (Cassolettes de Concombre aux Petits Pois) 1 large cucumber. Green pea puree. A little flour. Tomato sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Choose a large straight cucumber. Peel it and trim off the ends. Cut it into slices about If inch thick and stamp out the seedy centres with a small round cutter, being careful not to break the cucum- ber. Put these rings of cucumber into a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, add a little salt and a few drops of vinegar, and boil them gently for 10 minutes. Then drain, rinse in cold water and let them lie in the folds of a towel a short time to absorb the moisture. Now coat the pieces very lightly with seasoned flour, and egg and bread-crumb them, without filling up the hole in the centre. Fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour and drain on kitchen paper. Makesome green pea pur6e according to directions given in Recipe 499 and put it into a forcing bag withVEGETABLES AND SALADS 145 a rose pipe. Stand the rings of cucumber on a hot entree dish and fill up the centres with the puree, piling it rather high. Pour some tomato sauce round and serve very hot. Note.—A pur6e of celeriac, or of chestnuts may be used in place of the green pea puree. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Dandelions (Dents de Lion) The leaves of the dandelion when young may be used either as a salad or cooked. For a salad they must be very young, but for cooking purposes they may be used a little larger, although not when old, as the taste is then too bitter. The leaves should be gathered in the early morning, as they are sup- posed to be more tender when the sun is not on j them. Cooked in the same way as spinach, they form one of the most wholesome of green foods, and they are said to be particularly good for the liver. Dandelion roots are sometimes cooked in the j same way as salsify. 484. Dandelions with Cream (Dents de Lion a la Creme) 1 lb. dandelion leaves. | 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 oz. butter. [ 2 table-sps. cream. Choose young fresh dandelions. Cut away the roots and remove any withered or imperfect leaves. Wash the leaves well in plenty of cold water and then soak them for 1 hour in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have been added. Drain and rinse. Put the dandelions in a perforated steamer with a little salt and steam over plenty of boiling water until the leaves are quite soft and tender. When ready, press out all the moisture and chop them finely. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and when smoothly blended lay in the dandelions. Stir until thoroughly mixed, and just before serving add the cream. Turn out on a hot dish and garnish with sippets of toast or fleurons of pufl pastry (see Recipe 1306). Note.—If the dandelions are not quite young, it will be better to scald the leaves before putting them in the steamer, as this will remove some of the bitter taste. I Time to steam, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Egg Plant, Aubergine or Brinjal This is not yet well known in this country, although each year it is becoming more popular. Egg Plants : and is now imported in considerable quantities. ! There are different kinds of egg plants, the dark purple or almost black, the red, and the white. The purple is the most common, it is more like a cucumber than an egg in shape, and has a smooth and glossy skin. The white aubergine is exactly like an egg in shape and appearance, but it is not supposed, to have so much flavour as the red or pimple. The egg plant can be cooked in a variety of ways, and it makes a nice change from the vegetables in common use. 485. Egg Plant, To Bake Wipe or wash the egg plant and put it in a fire- proof dish or baking tin with a small quantity of water. Cover with greased paper or a saucepan lid and bake in a moderate oven until tender. They can then be cut open at table, mashed up with a little butter, pepper and salt. This is one of the best ways of cooking this vegetable, as the full flavour is retained. If preferred, the egg plant may be peeled after baking and then served in a vegetable dish with a good sauce poured over it. 486. Egg Plant with Cream Sauce (Aubergines a la Creme) 2 or 3 egg plants. I l pt. cream sauce. 2 oz. butter. I Seasoning. Peel the egg plants and cut them in thin slices. Sprinkle them with salt and let them lie half an hour. Then pour off the water which has exuded from them and wipe the pieces with a cloth. Put them into a lined or earthenware casserole with the butter, cover, and cook gently for J hour. Then add J pint of white sauce to which 2 table- spoonfuls of cream have been added and cook a few minutes longer. Season to taste and dish carefully so as not to break the slices. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 487. Curried Egg Plant (Aubergines en Kari) 2 or 3 egg plants. 1 table-sp. butter or salad oil. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 cupful light stock. Seasoning. Peel the egg plants and cut them in pieces. Put the butter or oil into a small stewpan and let it become quite hot, add the chopped onion and cook it rather slowly until it begins to take colour. Then add the curry powder mixed smoothly with the stock and stir until boiling. Now put in the prepared egg plant and season to taste. Cover the saucepan and let all simmer slowly until the con- tents are tender. Serve garnished with sliced lemon and boiled rice separately. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 488. Egg Plant or Aubergine, To Fry (Aubergine Frite) 1 egg plant. [ Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Peel the egg-plant and cut it in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Let these soak in strong K146 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD salt and water for two hours to remove the bitter- ness, drain and wipe them dry in a towel. Then dip the slices in flour, seasoned with pepper and salt, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry a nice brown colour in boiling fat, drain and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and serve tomato sauce or tomato ketchup separately. Note.—The slices of egg-plant may be dipped in frying batter instead of being egged and bread- crumbed, or simply floured and seasoned and fried in a little oil or butter. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 489. Egg Plant, Saut6 (Aubergines Saut6es aux Fines Herbes) 2 egg plants. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1| oz. butter. i tea-sp. powdered Salt. Pepper. herbs. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A squeeze of lemon juice Choose egg plants of medium size, peel them and cut them in small square pieces, removing the seeds. Then toss the pieces in flour and season them with white pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, and when quite hot put in the egg plant and saute it, or toss it in the butter, until cooked and lightly browned. Sprinkle with the parsley, herbs, and lemon juice, and serve in a hot dish with any remaining butter poured over it. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. individual taste. The meat may be omitted and chopped nuts used in its place. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Endive (Chicoree Frisee) There are diSerent kinds of endive, but the variety most commonly seen is that with a curly green leaf. It is used principally as a salad vegetable, although it is also excellent when cooked Endive and served much in the same way as spinach. It has a decidedly bitter taste, which prevents its being such a universal favourite as lettuce. See also Chicory, p. 142. 490. Egg Plants, Stuffed (Aubergines Farcies) 2 egg-plants. Seasoning. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped ham or tongue. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. chopped mushrooms. Grated lemon rind. Egg to bind. Wipe the egg plants, and cut them in halves lengthwise. Scoop out the seeds from the inside, sprmkle the halves well with fine salt and let them lie with the hollow side downwards for 1 hour. Meanwhile prepare the stuffing. Put all the chopped ingredients into a basin, season them nicely and bind all together with beaten egg. Drain and wipe the pieces of egg plant and fill Stuffed Egg Plant them up with the stuffing, piling it rather high. Spread a few crumbs on the surface and place the pieces on a greased baking dish. Cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until ready. Serve hot, with a dish paper tinder them. Note.—The stuffing may be varied to suit 491. Endive, To Stew (Chicoree au Jus) 2 or 3 heads of endive. 1 cupful stock. Seasoning. A small piece of butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A squeeze of lemon juic*. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash the endive carefully, separating the leaves and removing the stalks and any discoloured parts. Then scald them in boiling water slightly salted for 10 minutes. Drain and cut across in small pieces. Put the endive into a saucepan with the stock, sprinkle in the flour and stew slowly until quite tender. Add butter and seasoning and serve very hot. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 492. Endive with Cream Prepare in the same way as Dandelions with Cream (see Recipe 484). Flageolets See p. 171. Green Peas (Petits Pois) Green peas are extensively cultivated in this country and are a favourite vegetable. To be at their best they should be eaten young and while still quite unripe, and the shelling must not take place until just before cooking. Careful cooking is essential to retain the flavour and sweetness of the peas. When well prepared green peas are easily digested, but if they are to be given to an invalid it is often better to serve them in the form of a pur6e. Older peas are always better served in this form. Avoid using a tinned or iron saucepan for cooking peas, an earthenware or enamelled one is best.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 147 493. Green Peas with Butter (Petits Pois au Beurre) 1 pt. shelled peas. White pepper and salt. 1 to 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. A spray of mint. Shell the peas a very short time before they are to be cooked, otherwise they become hard. Wash them in cold water and drain well. Put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with just suffi- cient boiling water to cover them, add the mint, salt, and sugar, and simmer slowly with the lid off the saucepan until the peas are nearly tender and the water almost evaporated. Add the butter, sprinkle with pepper, and allow them to finish cooking, shaking the pan occasionally. Lift out the mint and serve the peas very hot. A little chopped parsley may be added. Notes.—Only young peas can be cooked in this way, when they are older more water must be used and strained off before adding the butter. One or two small onions may be cooked along with the peas and lifted out before serving. It is a good plan to make a broth of the pea-pods in which to cook the peas. Wash the pods, cut them in shreds, put them into a saucepan with warm water to cover, a sprig of mint, a small piece of onion and salt, boil for hour and strain. Use this broth instead of water for cooking the peas. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 494. Green Peas with Lettuces (Petits Pois aux Laitues) 1 pt. shelled peas. | White pepper and salt. 1 or 2 young lettuces. ' J tea-sp. sugar. 2 or 3 spring onions. I oz. butter. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. 1 | oz. flour. Prepare the peas as above and put them into a saucepan with the lettuce cut in shreds, the onions, seasoning and 1 oz. butter. Pom; on enough boil- ing water to barely cover the contents of the saucepan and cook slowly until the peas are tender. Then lift out the onions and parsley. Mix the flour smoothly with the | oz. of butter and add them to the peas, stir and cook for a few minutes and serve as hot as possible. Note.—The yolk of an egg beaten with a table- spoonful of cream may be added instead of the butter and flour, allowing them to cook for a minute or two without boiling. A little chopped parsley may also be added at the last. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 495. Green Peas, To Steam 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 pt. shelled peas. 1 oz. butter, i tea-sp. salt. A spray of mint. 2 table-sps. water. Shell the peas, wash them, put them in a jar vith a tight-fitting lid, adding to them the other ingredients. Cover the jar and place it in a sauce- pan with boiling water to come half-way up the sides. Put on the lid and let the water boil quickly until the peas are tender, adding more water if required. The time required for cooking will depend on the age of the peas. When they are ready, remove the spray of mint, turn the peas into a hot vegetable dish and serve them at once. This is a good way of cooking peas which are no longer young. Note.—1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or good white sauce may be added to the peas before removing them from the jar. A small onion and a few young lettuce-leaves may be cooked with the peas instead of the mint. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 496. Green Peas with Bacon .1 pt. shelled peas. 3 oz. bacon. Seasoning. Boil or steam the peas as directed above, omitting any butter and mint. Cut the bacon into dice and fry it in a frying pan until brown and crisp. When the peas are ready, add the bacon to them, stir it in quickly and serve at once. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 497. Green Peas with Carrots (Petits Pois aux Carottes) £ pt. shelled peas. | pt. young carrots. | pt. light stock or water. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Pepper, salt. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare the carrots, cut them in thin slices or shreds and then measure £ pint. Put them into a saucepan with the stock or water, butter and seasoning, and allow them to cook slowly for about 15 minutes. Then add the peas and cook again until both the carrots and peas are tender. Beat up the yolk of egg with the milk or cream, stir them in and cook a minute or two longer, but do not boil again. Add the chopped parsley at the last. Serve at once in a hot dish. Note.—If the vegetables become too dry whilst cooking, add more stock or water. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 498. Green Peas with Curried Rice I pt. shelled peas. Seasoning. A spray of mint. Curried rice. 1 or 2 oz. butter. First prepare the curried rice as in Recipe 1586, and while it is cooking boil the peas with a spray of mint. When tender, drain them well, and then return them to the saucepan with the butter Green Peas with Curried Rice and seasoning. Toss the peas over the fire for a few minutes, then serve them piled up on a hot dish with the curried rice arranged in a border round. Time to cook, \ to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 148 499. Green Pea Puree (Puree de Petits Pois) When the peas become too old for serving whole, they can very well be made into a puree. Boil them in salted water until tender, then drain and pass them through a sieve. Return them to the sauce- pan with a good piece of butter or some bacon fat, and enough hot milk or cream to moisten. Add seasoning and a very little sugar. This may either be served separately along with meat, or kept fairly thick and pressed through a forcing bag as a garnish for the centre of an entree, or as a fancy border. 500. Green Pea Balls | pt. cooked peas 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. £ tea-sp. powdered mint. White pepper. Salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. The peas must be dry and free from all sauce or gravy. Rub them through a sieve and season with pepper, salt, and the finely powdered mint. Now make a panada with the butter, flour, and milk—melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, then pour in the milk and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Add the green pea puree to this, and when thoroughly blended turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When set, form into small balls, using a little flour; egg and bread- crumb these, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley or sprigs of watercress. Note.—Dried green peas, if they are well cooked, may be used instead of fresh peas. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 501. Tinned Peas, To Prepare These are very valuable when the fresh vegetable is not to be had. Buy those of a good mark, and never warm them in their tin or bottle. Turn them into a strainer and pour boiling water over them in order to thoroughly rinse them. Then pat them into a saucepan or double cooker with a little butter, salt, sugar, and a sprig of mint. Make all thoroughly hot and serve as desired. They re- quire no cooking. Indian Corn or Maize (Mais) Indian corn in its fresh state is by no means common in this country, although of late years it has begun to come into our markets. It is a kind of grass or grain of which the edible portion is the ears. To be in perfection the cobs, which are the whole ears, must be young and fresh, with the grains full of a milky juice. The green Indian corn is a very nourishing food and a great favourite with the American. . Dried and ground we have maize in several different forms, such as hominy, cornflour, maiz- ena, &c. Pop-corn is the whole gra in heated until i-t bursts and then coated with sugar. Polenta too, which is such a favourite dish in Italy, is another preparation of maize. Indian Com 502. Indian Corn, To Cook Choose young fresh cobs, those that are short and plump are the best. First remove the husk or outer covering of leaves and strip off all the silky fibre which will be found underneath. Then select two or three of the best of the husks, cover the cobs with these and tie them round with string. Place the cobs in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, add enough sugar to slightly sweeten the water, and boil gently until the grains are tender, from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, drain at once, as overcooking destroys the flavour. Serve the corn very hot on a folded serviette, and serve melted or oiled butter, well seasoned with pepper and salt, separately. 503. Creamed Com 5 or 6 ears fresh com. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 tea-sp. salt. | tea-sp. white pepper. Remove the corn from the ears and put it into a double saucepan with the milk, butter, sugar, and seasoning. Cook it with hot water in the under pan until quite tender. Then add the flour broken with a little cold milk and cook again until the sauce thickens and the flour is thoroughly cooked. Add more salt if necessary. Serve very hot and hand dry toast or biscuits separately. Note.—If preferred, the corn may be boiled first as above and then added to a sufficient quantity of white sauce to moisten it. A little cream is always an improvement. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Hops (Houblon) The young tender shoots of hops make quite a good vegetable when they can be obtained fresh in the hop districts. They should be treated much in the same way as asparagus. Wash the shoots and scrape them lightly. Then tie them in neat bundles and boil in salted water, or stock until tender. Serve in the same way as asparagus, handing melted butter separately or any other sauce to taste.VEGETABLES Kale or Curly Greens This is a variety of the cabbage tribe, but instead of being round and compact in form, its leaves are long and open. There are different varieties of kale, but most of them have curly heads. It is easily cultivated and is much esteemed as a whole- some winter vegetable. It forms an important ingredient in Scotch kale or broth, and in some of the country districts of Scotland almost every cottager will have some of this vegetable growing in his little garden or back yard. Like all green vegetables, it must be used very fresh. It requires careful washing and all the harder pieces of stalk should be removed, it may then be cooked accord- ing to directions given for turnip tops (Recipe 597). Kohl-rabi (Chou-rave) This vegetable belongs to the cabbage tribe, and is the swollen stem of the plant. It is often called the turnip-rooted cabbage, from its similarity in appearance to the turnip. It is not well known in this country, but when it can be procured it makes a wholesome and nutritious vegetable. It Kohl-rabi AND SALADS 149 good served as a vegetable, and it is to be regretted that it does not appear oftener on our table. Leeks 504. Leeks, To Stew (Poireaux au Jus) 6 leeks. | Some light stock. A small piece of butter. | Seasoning. Trim off the roots, the green ends, and the outer covering of the leeks. Split them down the middle, wash thoroughly and let them lie in cold water with a little vinegar for half an hour. Then drain, cut in convenient sized pieces, and wash again in fresh cold water. Put the leeks into a lined or earthenware saucepan with enough stock to cover them, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until they are quite tender. Allow the stock to reduce until there is just sufficient to serve as gravy. Season with salt and pepper, and add a small piece of butter just before serving. Time to stew, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. is also very delicate in flavour and has a pleasant taste. Kohl-rabi may be cooked according to any of the directions given for cooking turnips. The green leaves, too, may be cooked in the same way as other greens, and are often used as a garnish to the root itself. When young it can also be eaten raw, and is very good in salad. Leeks (Poireaux) The leek belongs to the same tribe of vegetables as the onion, but the flavour is very much milder. The bulb instead of being round is very much elongated, and the leaves as well as the bulb are eaten. It is very often banked or earthed up in order to blanch the leaves, and cultivation has made a very thick and handsome plant. The leek is said to be one of the healthiest of vegetables and to be particularly beneficial in cases of cold and chest trouble ; it has also a salutary effect on the liver. It is excellent in soup, the old-fashioned ** cockie-leekie ” owing part of its name to the number of leeks it contains. It is also very 505. Leeks & la Creme (Poireaux h la Creme) 5 or 6 leeks. 1 dessert-sp. flour, i pt. milk. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Wash the leeks well in cold water, cutting off. the roots, most of the green part, and the outside skin. Then split them open lengthwise and cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches in length. Now wash the leeks thoroughly in plenty of cold water, and when quite free from all grit, drain in a colander. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of fast boiling water, slightly salted, throw the leeks into this, boil them about 10 minutes and drain again. Then put them into a stewpan with the milk, season with white pepper and salt, and cook slowly by the side of the fixe until tender. When ready, drain oS the milk and arrange the leeks neatly in a hot vegetable dish. Melt the butter in the stewpan, mix in the flour and then pour in the milk from the leeks. Stir until boiling, and cook 2 or 3 minutes, .adding more seasoning if necessary. Add the cream at the last, and pour this sauce over the leeks. Sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over and serve very hot.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 150 Note.—White stock may be used instead of milk, and the yolk of an egg instead of the cream. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Lettuces (Laitues) There are two different kinds of lettuce, the cabbage lettuce (Fr. laitue) and the Cos lettuce (Fr. romaine). The former has short round leaves, which spread out in the form of an open cabbage, and it is this kind which is most often sold in winter. The Cos lettuce, supposed to take its name from the island of Cos, is upright in form and Cos Lettuce Cabbage Lettuce the leaves are generally tied together to blanch them and make more heart. This kind is in season in summer. The lettuce is the best and most popular of salad vegetables, and it is generally eaten raw. It contains little nutriment, but it is wholesome and refreshing and valuable for its mineral salts. It is also slightly sedative in character, especially when it comes to the flowering stage. Lettuce cooked as a green vegetable is also exceedingly good, and when too old to use as a salad it can very well be utilised in this way. 506. Braised Lettuces, 1 (Laitues Braisees) 2 or 3 lettuces. 1 carrot. 1 onion. Salt, pepper. Grated nutmeg. Scraps of fat bacon. A little stock. A small bunch of herbs. Trim away any discoloured leaves from the lettuces and a small piece of the stalk, but not too much, as the leaves must be held together. Wash them in cold water, then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted and allow them to boil 5 or 6 minutes, or rather longer if the lettuces are no longer tender, in order to soften them a little. Then lift them out, plunge them into cold water and wash them again. Press out the water, cut the lettuces into two lengthwise and season the pieces with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Cut the carrot and turnip in thin slices and put them into a saucepan with a few scraps of fat bacon. Lay the lettuces on the top, folding in the ends of the leaves, and place the pan over the fire until the contents begin to brown. Then add a little good gravy or stock, rather fat, cover with greased paper and cook in the oven until the lettuces are tender. Note.—If used as a garnish the lettuces may be cut in smaller pieces. Time to cook, £ to | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 507. Braised Lettuces, 2 (Romaines Braisees) 2 or 3 Cos lettuces. i A small piece of butter. Stock. 1 yolk of egg. | Seasoning. Choose young and tender lettuces of medium size. Wash them carefully, cutting off the root and any withered or discoloured leaves. Tie each one round with a piece of string or tape and lay them when ready in a greased baking dish. Pour round enough stock to well cover the bottom of the dish, cover with a lid and cook in a moderate oven until the lettuces are tender. Then arrange them neatly on a hot dish, removing the tape or string. Add the yolk of egg and butter to the stock left in the baking dish and more seasoning if necessary. Cook this sauce a minute without letting it boil and pour it round the lettuces. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 508. Stewed Lettuces (Laitues au Jus) 1 or 2 lettuces. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill milk or stock. Salt. Pepper. Croutons of pastry or fried bread. Wash the lettuces carefully, drain them and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Allow them to boil for 5 minutes, then lift out and drain. Now chop or shred the lettuces and put them into a stewpan with a little butter or bacon fat and the milk or stock. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly by the side of the fire, stirring occasionally until the vegetable is tender. Then sprinkle in the flour, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and cook a few minutes longer. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last would be an improve- ment. Serve the lettuce on a hot dish and garnish with croutons of pastry or fried bread. Notes.—A little chopped onion may be cooked with the lettuce, if wished, and a little chopped mint may be added. Poached eggs or plovers’ eggs may be served on the top if a more sub- stantial dish is desired. Time to stew, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 509. Stuffed Lettuces (Laitues Farcies) 2 lettuces. A little stock. 1 table-sp. dripping or bacon fat. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. Stuffing. J lb. cooked meat. 1 egg. 2 oz. bread. Seasoning. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Choose nice fresh lettuces with a good heart. Remove any coarse leaves from the outside and the hard part of the stalk. Then wash them well and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water. Allow them to boil quickly about 10 minutes, then drain, rinse with cold water and dry in a cloth. To Prepare the Stuffing.—Chop the meat finely and mix it with the bread soaked in the milk. Season well with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg andVEGETABLES AND SALADS 151 the chopped parsley, and bind together with beaten egg. Divide the stuffing between the two lettuces, putting some into the centre of each, and tie them round with string or tape. Heat the dripping or bacon fat in a saucepan or fireproof dish, put in the lettuces, add the onion cut in thin slices, the bunch of herbs and a little stock. Cover with greased paper and a lid and cook the lettuces in a moderate oven or by the side of the fire until they are quite tender. When ready, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, removing the string. Reduce the liquid left from the cooking, or add a little more stock as necessary, and strain over the lettuces. Note.—Sausage meat or any other savoury stuffing may be used instead of the above. Time to cook, | to £ hour. Mushrooms (Champignons) The mushroom is not really a vegetable, but belongs to a family of plants called fungi. There are many different varieties of edible mushrooms, but great care should be taken in gathering them, as it requires some experience to distinguish them from the poisonous species. Field mush- rooms are very common in this country ; they are also largely cultivated, so that it is possible to obtain Mushrooms them all the year round. They must be used very fresh. A good mushroom is distinguished by its firm white stem, pink gills, fleshy top, and pleasant smell. When they are sodden and Dlack- looking they are no longer fit for food. Mush- rooms can be cooked and served in a variety of ways, but the more simply they are prepared the better, and it is always a mistake to add to them any powerful flavouring. They must never be overcooked, or they will harden. 510. Mushrooms, To Grill (Champignons grilles) Mushrooms. | Salad oil or melted butter. Pepper and salt. > Lemon juice. Choose large mushrooms of equal size. Peel them, and cut off the ends of the stalks. Wash in salted water, and dry thoroughly in a cloth. Slightly score the rounded side of the mushrooms and lay them on a deep plate. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt and pour some melted butter or salad oil over them. Let them lie for £ hour, basting them occasionally with the. oil or butter. Then lay them on a hot broiler, which has been brushed over with a little of the oil, and broil them over, or in front of a clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. The mushrooms should be turned once during the cooking. Serve them on small pieces of hot buttered toast and sprinkle a little lemon juice over each. Or, they may be served on a very hot dish without the toast with a small pat of maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 770) in the centre of each. Time to broil, about 10 minutes. 511. Mushrooms, To Bake (Champignons au Four) Mushrooms. | Seasoning. Butter. I Maitre d’hotel butter. Wash and peel the mushrooms, removing the stems, then dry them in a cloth. Place them in a greased baking dish with the hollow side upper- most and sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Lay some small pieces of butter on the top and bake in a moderate oven. Serve the mushrooms in the dish in which they were cooked and as hot as possible, and serve small pats of maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 770) separately. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. 512. Mushrooms au Gratin (Champignons au Gratin) £ lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 2 shallots. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. £ glass white wine. Pepper, salt. A little butter. Peel the mushrooms and cut off the stalks. Wash them quickly in salted water, and dry thoroughly in a cloth. Chop the shallots finely and mix them with the parsley, herbs, and half the bread-crumbs. Grease a flat fireproof dish with a little butter and sprinkle over it half of the chopped ingredients. Place the mushrooms on the top, the stalk side uppermost, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle the remainder of the chopped ingredients over and pour in the wine. Cover with the other half of the bread-crumbs, lay on some small pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven. Serve in the same dish, garnishing with a few sprigs of parsley. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 513. Scalloped Mushrooms £ lb. mushrooms. £ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill stock. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs A little butter. Remove the stalks from the mushrooms, peel them, wash them quickly in salted water, then dry them. Peel and wash the stalks, dry and chop them. Put the butter into a small saucepan and let it heat until it becomes brown, then add the flour and brown it also. Remove the pan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock ; return to the fire and stir until boiling. Add the chopped stalks of the mushrooms and reduce the sauce to one-half. Add parsley and seasoning. Turn this sauce into a shallow fireproof dish, and press the mushrooms into it with the hollow sides uppermost. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, lay small pieces of butter all over, and bake in a good oven for ten minutes. Serve in the same dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.152 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 514. Stewed Mushrooms £ lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. 1 gill stock. Lemon juice. (Champignons au Jus) 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 slice of toast. Peel the mushrooms, and cut ofl the ends of the stalks. Wash them quickly in cold water with a little salt in it, and then dry in a cloth. If small, they may be left whole ; but if large, cut in pieces, as it will make a neater dish. Put the prepared mushrooms in a small stewpan with the butter and sprinkle with water, salt, and a good squeeze of lemon juice. Put the lid on the pan, and stew very slowly for ten minutes. Add the stock very gradu- ally to the flour in a basin, mixing with a spoon until quite smooth; pour this in beside the mush- rooms, and stir until boiling. Stew ten or fifteen minutes longer, add the cream at the last, and serve very hot on a piece of toast, cut across in four pieces. Notes.—The cream may be omitted. A few white onions may be cooked separately and added to the stew. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 515. Stuffed Mushrooms (Champignons Farcis) 516. Ragout ,of Mushrooms (Ragoflt de Champignons) 6 or 8 fresh mushrooms. I Seasoning. Meat glaze. Butter. | | glass Madeira. Trim and wash the mushrooms, peel them and cut them in small thin slices, using also the best part of the stalks. Put the sliced mushroom into a small saucepan with a little butter, season with pepper and salt and saute for a few minutes over the fire. Then add the wine, and a piece of glaze the size of a small nut. Cook a few minutes longer and the ragout is ready. A little shred truffle may be added if liked. This is generally used as a garnish for entries and other made dishes. Nettles (Orties) A very wholesome vegetable can be made with nettles, and it is a pity they are not more used than they are. They are good for purifying the blood, and if nicely cooked are extremely pala- table. Only the young shoots of the nettles should be taken as the older ones are too strong in flavour. The hands should be protected with a strong pair of gloves when gathering them. The nettles will require very careful washing to free them from all earth and grit, and then they can be cooked in exactly the same way as spinach. 6 or 8 mushrooms. 6 or 8 rounds of toast. 1 chopped shallot. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. 1 table-sp. chopped ham or tongue. i oz. butter. 1 table-sp. stock or gravy. A little grated lemon rind. Salt, pepper. Peel the mushrooms and cut off the stalks. Wash them quickly in salted water and dry them lightly in a cloth. Trim them all one size, keeping these trimmings to add to the stuffing. Place the mushrooms, with the cup side uppermost, on a greased baking tin, and then make the stuffing. Chop the onion, mushroom trimmings, and ham all very finely. Melt the butter in a small pan, add to it the chopped ingredients, and cook for a few minutes. Then add the bread-crumbs, seasoning, and stock, and cook a few minutes longer. Put a little of this stuffing into each mushroom, cover Stuffed Mushrooms them over with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Put a dish paper on to a hot dish, arrange small rounds of hot buttered toast on this, and then stand a stuffed mushroom on the top of each. Garnish with parsley and a little coralline pepper. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Onions (Gignons) The onion belongs to the lily tribe, the bulb being the part which is edible. The leek, shallot, chives, and garlic all belong to the same family. Onions The onion has wonderful medicinal properties; it contains a pungent volatile oil which is rich in sulphur, besides other valuable minerals. Not only is it a valuable adjunct in cookery for flavour- ing purposes, but cooked and served by itself it is one of the healthiest vegetables we have, being both purifying to the blood and soothing to the nerves. When the strong taste of onions is objected to, this can often be remedied by scalding them first in boiling water to which a small piece of washing soda has been added ; and people who find them indigestible as a rule can generally take them if they have been treated in this way. The larger onions imported from Spain and Portugal are much milder in flavour than our own and are more suitable for serving as a vegetable.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 153 517. Boiled Onions with White Sauce (Oignons a la Creme) 2 or 3 Spanish onions. J pt. white sauce. First cut the root and top oS the onions, remove all the brown skin, and if very large cut them in halves. Then blanch them by putting them into a saucepan of cold water, bringing it to the boil, and throwing the water away. Rinse the onions, and put them into a saucepan of freshly boiling water, salted in the proportion of one dessert- spoonful to one quart, allow them to cook until they feel quite tender when pierced with a fork or skewer. The time will depend on the size of the onions. Then drain off every drop of water. If time permits it is better to return the onions to the saucepan after draining, and to dry them slowly by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Unless they are well drained the liquid which runs from them will dilute the sauce and make a watery mess at the foot of the vegetable dish. Arrange the onions in a hot vegetable dish, make the sauce boding hot and pour it over them, coating them well. Note.—Other sauces may be used instead of the white sauce, the dish changing its name accord- ingly. Time to boil, H to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 518. Stewed Onions (Oignons au Jus) 4 or 5 Bermuda onions. 3 gills brown stock, ltable-sp. tomato ketchup 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. Cut the root and top off the onions and remove all the brown skin. Put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a little salt, bring to the boil and boil quickly for 5 minutes. Then drain and rinse with cold water. Now put the onions into a stewpan with the stock and butter, add a little salt if necessary and stew slowly by the side of the fire until tender. Mix the corn- flour into a smooth paste with the tomato ketchup or other flavouring sauce, add it to the stock in the pan, stir it well in and cook a few minutes longer. Lift the onions on to a hot dish and pour the sauce over. Time to stew, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 519. Baked Onions, 1 (Oignons au Four) 3 or 4 Spanish onions. I 1 or 2 oz. butter or drip- | pt. milk. 1 ping. Salt, pepper. Choose small onions of equal size. Cut off the roots and tops and remove all the brown out- side skin. Throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil them for 10 minutes, and drain. Then place the onions in a deep fireproof dish, just large enough to hold them. Season them well with pepper and salt, heat the milk and pour it over. Add the dripping or butter broken in small pieces, cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven until tender, basting occasionally with the milk. Serve very hot. A little grated cheese may be added when nearly ready. Time to bake, 1 to 11 hours. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 520. Baked Onions, 2 (Oignons au Four) Take as many Bermuda onions as required, choosing them of equal size. Throw them without peeling into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and allow them to boil quickly for \ hour. Then drain and dry them. Now wrap each onion separately in a piece of well-greased paper, place them on a baiting dish or tin, and bake in a moderate oven until tender, which can be ascertained by piercing them with a skewer. A little water may be sprinkled over the paper from time to time to prevent it scorching. When ready, remove the papers and serve the onions in their skins, dishing them on a folded serviette or paper. Note.—These should be eaten with a little butter, pepper, and salt, the onion being scooped out from the skin with a small spoon. They make a very good supper dish. 521. Fried Onions (Oignons Frits) Onions. Salt, pepper. A little flour. Take as many onions as required, cut off the root and top and remove all the brown outside skin. Then put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add a little salt, bring to the boil, and boil five minutes. Drain the onions and allow them to cool. Then cut the onions in very thin slices, cutting across the root or top, so that they fall in rings. Separate these rings lightly and toss a few at a time in a piece of paper with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Put them in a frying basket, fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248), until brown and crisp, and drain on kitchen paper. Unless they are crisp and easily broken they have not been sufficiently cooked, or the fat has not been hot enough. When all are cooked, serve them piled up on a very hot dish as an accom- paniment to fried or broiled meat. 522. Onions au Gratin (Oignons au Gratin) 3 or 4 cooked onions. £ pt. white sauce. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 dessert-sp. browned bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. Break the onions in pieces, but do not chop them. Grate the cheese and have ready about \ pint well seasoned white sauce. Grease a fireproof dish and put into it first a layer of onion, then a layer of cheese, then some sauce and more onion, continuing thus until all are in. Sprinkle a few browned bread-crumbs over the ton, lay on a few small pieces of butter and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Serve in the same dish. Note.—A few peeled and sliced tomatoes mixed with the onions will make a nice addition to this dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 523. Stuffed Onions (Oignons Farcis) 3 or 4 Spanish onions. 2 table-sps. cooked meat. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 3 or 4 button mushrooms. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. brown or tomato sauce. 1 or 2 oz. butter or drip- ping. 1 gill brown stock. Choose small Spanish onions of equal size. Cut off the root and top and remove all the brownCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 154 skin. Put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil them for 10 minutes, then strain and throw them into cold water. When cool enough to handle, remove one or two of the outer coatings from the onions and scoop out the centres, making a hole large enough to receive about a table-spoonful of stuffing. Chop up these onion trimmings, put them into an earthenware casserole with the butter or dripping and gill of stock and make them hot over the fire. Then make the stuffing. Use Stuffed Onions chicken, tongue, ham, or any nicely cooked meat, and chop sufficient to make about 2 table-spoonfuls. Put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs, parsley, and a few button mushrooms finely chopped. Add enough brown or tomato sauce to bind all together and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Fill up the centres of the onions with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Place them when ready in the casserole with the minced onion, cover with greased paper, put on the lid and cook in the oven or by the side of the fire until the onions are quite tender. Serve them in the casserole, or on a hot dish with the minced onion and gravy round. Note.—If an entirely vegetarian dish is required use grated nuts instead of the meat, and vegetable instead of meat stock. This makes a very good supper or luncheon dish. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 524. Glazed Onions (Oignons Glacees) Small silver onions. I Brown stock. Salt. Salad oil. I Castor sugar. Skin the onions and wipe them very dry in a cloth. Put a little salad oil into a saute pan or shallow stewpan and make it hot over the fire. Put in the onions, sprinkle them with castor sugar and toss them over and over until they are well browned on all sides. Then pour off any superfluous oil and pour in sufficient brown stock to barely cover the onions. Add a little salt if necessary and allow the onions to cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven. When they are nearly ready, allow the stock to boil down quickly until it forms a glaze on the onions, turning them over gently until they are evenly coated. These may be served as a garnish for various meat dishes. 525. Puree of Onions (Puree Soubise) 2 or 3 Spanish onions. I 3 table-sps. bechamel 2 table-sps. cream. I sauce. Seasoning. Prepare the onions, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a little salt, bring to the boil, boil for 5 minutes, and drain. Then slice the onions thinly and put them into a saucepan with some thick bechamel or other good white sauce. Put the lid on the pan and let them stew by the side of the fire until quite soft. The onions must on no account be allowed to take colour. When ready, rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a clean saucepan, season to taste and add a little cream at the last. Note.—This is used as a garnish for certain entrees. It is also a good accompaniment for grilled steaks and chops. Parsnips (Panais) The parsnip resembles the carrot in appearance, although it is much lighter in colour. It has a distinct taste of its own, which is by no means liked by everyone, but it is a wholesome and nourishing vegetable and is fairly rich in both starch and sugar. Parsnips are not supposed to be in perfection until they have had a good touch of frost, and then they must be well cooked to make their somewhat woody fibre digestible. They are usually served as an accompaniment to salt fish or salt meat, but they are also good as a flavouring vegetable, in stews and in soups. Besides the recipes given below, parsnips can be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking carrots. 526. Parsnips, To Boil To Prepare the Parsnips.—Wash and scrape the parsnips from the thick end downwards until all the brown outside is removed. If old, it may be necessary to peel them thinly. Cut off the tops and throw them into cold water as they are pre- pared, to prevent discoloration. Then cut them in halves or quarters according to size. To Boil the Parsnips.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, throw in the prepared parsnips, bring to boiling-point and cook slowly until the roots are tender. Then drain. Or, if the parnsips are being served as a garnish for boiled meat, they may be boiled or steamed along with the meat. Time to cook, § to 1 hour. 527. Parsnips & la Maitre d’Hotel (Panais a la Maitre d’Hotel) 2 or 3 parsnips. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. Prepare and cook the parsnips as in last recipe, and drain them thoroughly. Melt the butter in the saucepan, return the parsnips to it, sprinkle them with the parsley, lemon juice, and seasoning, and toss all over the fire for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 528. Mashed Parsnips Prepare and cook some parsnips as in Recipe 526, or take the remains of cold cooked parsnips, mash them until free from lumps or put them through a vegetable presser. Reheat this puree in a sauce- pan, adding to it a little butter, or some milk or cream. Season with white pepper and salt, and make all thoroughly hot. Serve piled up neatly in a hot vegetable dish.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 155 Note.—A little tomato ketchup or grated cheese may be added to the mixture if liked, or some cooked turnips may be mixed with the parsnips. 529. Scalloped Parsnips (Panais au Gratin) 2 or 3 cooked parsnips. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. | pt. good white sauce. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. Seasoning. Cut the parsnips into small cubes or in thin slices. Grease a fireproof baking dish and put into it a layer of white sauce. Arrange on the top a layer of the prepared parsnips, sprinkling them with a little chopped onion, pepper and salt. Repeat these layers until the sauce and parsnips are used up, making the last layer sauce. Coat the surface with the bread-crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter on the top and brown in a quick oven. Note.—The onion may be omitted, and a little grated cheese or anchovy essence may be mixed with the sauce. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 530. Parsnip Balls (Croquettes de Panais) 1 breakfast-cupful cooked parsnips. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 yolk of egg. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Rub some cooked and dry parsnips through a sieve and measure one breakfast-cupful. Put this into a saucepan and add to it the grated cheese, 1 dessert-spoonful melted butter, and seasoning to taste. Drop in the yolk of egg and mix for a few minutes over the fire. Then turn the mixture on to a plate and put it aside to cool. When cold, form it into small balls, using a little flour to pre- vent them sticking to the hands. Then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249), and fry in boiling fat (see p. 248) until a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve piled high on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 531. Glazed or Browned Parsnips 2 OB 3 parsnips. 3 table-sps. brown sugar. 2 table-sps. water. Prepare and cook the parsnips as in Recipe 526, and drain them well. Put them into a fireproof baking dish with the flat side downwards. Mix two table-spoonfuls of the brown sugar with the water and pour them over the parsnips. Bake in a good oven for a few minutes, basting with the liquid, then sprinkle with the remainder of the sugar and return to the oven until well browned. Note.—This is a very good accompaniment to roast duck or wild duck. Potatoes (Pommes de Terre) There are many different varieties of potatoes, some are dry and mealy in character, while others are close and waxy. The character and flavour of the potatoes depend very much on the soil on which they are grown, and their goodness depends to a large extent on the way in which they are cooked. For boiling, steaming, and baking a mealy variety should be selected, while for serving as a salad and other special dishes a waxy kind is best, as the potatoes keep their form. Potatoes require humouring in cooking ; some will boil better than they steam, and others will steam quite success- fully and prove a failure if boiling is attempted. One or two trials will soon show which is the most successful mode of treatment. If the potatoes have to be boiled they are never so valuable as when cooked in their skins, as by peeling and boiling some of the most valuable properties are lost. A well-cooked mealy potato is a very whole- some form of food, and especially so when used along with meat or some other form of nitro- genous food. New potatoes are not so easily digested as the older ones. The starch obtained from potatoes is very largely used for the making of different farinaceous articles. 532. Potatoes, To Boil To Prepare the Potatoes.—First wash and brush the potatoes well in cold water to get rid of all the earth, and throw them into a basin of clean cold water, ready for peeling. With a potato knife peel them as thinly as possible, and with the point of the knife remove all the “ eyes “ or black specks, and keep the potatoes in water until they are wanted. They should not be left for long as soaking spoils their flavour and goodness. The potatoes must be of equal size for boiling; if some are larger than others, cut them in two or three pieces. Put them into a saucepan, just large enough to hold them, sprinkle with salt, and cover them with cold water. Potatoes should neither have too much room while boiling, nor too much water to toss them about. Put the lid on the pan, and bring them quickly to the boil, and then draw the pan to the side of the fire and allow the water just to simmer gently until the potatoes are ready. The time will vary from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the age and kind of potatoes used. Let them cook until they can be pierced pretty easily with a fork or skewer. Then pour off every drop of water, holding the lid against the top of the saucepan, to keep the potatoes from falling out. Cover the potatoes over with a piece 'of crumpled kitchen paper. Put the lid half on the pan, and let them stand by the side of the fire for from five to ten minutes longer, shaking the pan occasionally until the potatoes are quite dry and mealy. It is better not to boil the potatoes too soft to begin with ; they will finish cooking after- wards in their own steam. Note.—Some kinds of potatoes will cook better if put on in warm water instead of cold, one or two trials will soon show which is best. Time to cook, about | hour. 533. Potatoes, To Boil in the Skin (Pommes de Terre en Robe de Chambre) Choose good sound potatoes of equal size. Wash and brush them in cold water until perfectly clean, then put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them and salt in the proportion of one dessert-spoonful to a quart of water. Put the lid on the pan and bring the potatoes quickly to the boil, then simmer more slowly until they can be pierced fairly easily with a fork or skewer. They will require from 20 to 30 minutes. Now strainCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 156 off every drop of water, cover the potatoes with a folded cloth or piece of crumpled paper and let them stand by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Shake the pan occasionally until the potatoes are dry and mealy. Then take them up, peel them quickly and serve in a hot vegetable dish, or if preferred serve them in their jackets, placing them in a hot folded serviette. Note.—The potatoes must bo quite sound and free from decay to cook in this way, otherwise it is safer to peel them. Time to cook, about \ hour. 534. Potatoes, To Steam Steaming is one of the simplest and best ways of cooking potatoes. Prepare the potatoes as for boiling (Recipe 532), and cut them to an equal size. Put them into a steamer and sprinkle with salt. Place the steamer on the top of a saucepan of boiling water, and put on the nd. Keep the water in the saucepan underneath the potatoes quickly boiling all the time. The time for cooking will depend on the size and kind of potato. When they can be pierced easily with a skewer, cover them with a clean cloth, remove the steamer from the water and stand it in a warm place until the Potatoes are dry and mealy. Ten minutes should e sufficient. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. 535. Potatoes, To Bake Choose good sound potatoes of equal size. Large or medium sized ones are the best. Wash and brush them in cold water until the skins are per- fectly clean, then dry them. Prick the skins, place the potatoes on a tin in a moderate oven and bake them slowly until tender, which can be ascertained by pressing them gently between the finger 'and thumb. The oven must not be too hot, or the skins of the potatoes will become so hardened that they prevent evaporation and the insides will, in consequence, be damp and heavy. When the potatoes are ready, serve them on a hot folded serviette. Small pats of salt butter should be handed separately. Time to cook, 1 hour or longer. 536. Potatoes, To Roast Potatoes. Dripping. A little flour. Salt. Wash and peel the required number of potatoes as directed in Recipe 532. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them and add a little salt. Allow them to boil for 10 minutes, and then drain. Dredge the potatoes with a little fine flour and put them in a baking tin with some good melted dripping. Cook them in a moderate oven until they are nicely browned and cooked through. They should be turned over occasionally during the, cooking. Drain them from the dripping and sprinkle with a little fine salt before serving. Note.—If a joint of meat is being roasted the potatoes may be cooked in the same tin, putting them in the required time before the meat will be ready. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. 537. Mashed Potatoes l lb. cooked potatoes. | 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. 1 oz. butter or dripping. | White pepper and salt. The potatoes should be well cooked, dry and floury. If newly cooked and hot, add the butter or good beef dripping to them and mash them in the saucepan with a fork or potato masher until they are quite smooth and free from lumps. Then season to taste with white pepper and salt, and moisten with a little milk. If cold potatoes are being used up, it will be better to rub them through a sieve or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan with a little milk and add the sieved potatoes to them. Season to taste and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Put the mashed potatoes into a hot vegetable dish, piling them up in the form of a pyramid Mark prettily with the back of a fork, sprinkle, a very little chopped parsley on the top and serve at once. Or, put the mashed potatoes into a greased fireproof dish, smooth over and mark with the point of a knife. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg and bake in the oven until nicely browned. 538. Potato Snowflakes (Pommes de Terre & la Neige) This dish is made by putting freshly boiled or steamed potatoes through a vegetable presser or wire sieve, and letting them fall on to a hot vege- Vegetable Presser table dish. The potatoes must be very dry, white and mealy in order to look well. This is one of the lightest forms in which to serve potatoes. 539. Potatoes, To Fry (Pommes de Terre Frites) Wash and peel some medium-sized potatoes and cut them in small wedge-shaped pieces. They should be about the size and shape of the section of a small orange. Wipe them very dry in a towel. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of hot fat, and when it is just beginning to smoke it is ready for the potatoes. Put a few potatoes at a time into a frying basket and plunge them gently into the hot fat. They should be well covered with the fat or they will not cook properly. Allow them to cook until they are a golden brown colour, shaking them or turning them over once or twice, so that they are equally coloured on all sides. When ready, lift them out and allow the fat to drain from them. Turn the potatoes on to kitchen paper and sprinkle them lightly with fine salt.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 157 Toss them over, so that the salt mixes properly with them, and allow them to dry for a few minutes in a warm place. Serve as hot as possible. Note.—There are many different varieties of fried potatoes, the name altering according to the manner in which they are cut. Different cutters are also sold, which make the preparation a very simple one. The following are a few of the best known varieties of fried potatoes. Potato Chips.—Cut the potatoes into thin slices, then across into chips or strips. Make them very dry in a towel, then fry as above. When the strips are cut very finely they are known as Pommes AUumettes. Potato Ribbons.—Cut the potatoes in slices about $ inch in thickness. Then take one slice at a time and with a small sharp knife peel slowly round and round it, cutting the ribbons so thin that the knife can be seen through them, and making them as long as possible. Keep them lying on a cloth until it is time to cook them, the drier they are the more easily they will fry. Some of them may be tied into bows and knots. Fry as above to a golden brown colour. Saratoga Potatoes.—Wash and peel the potatoes and cut them across into very thin and even slices. A cutter is very often used for these. Fry them until brown and crisp. While frying they will require to be stirred about from time to time as the slices will be inclined to stick together. Potato Straws (Pommes Pailles).—Cut the potatoes into thin shreds, like a straw and as long as possible. Fry them a very pretty brown colour. These are very good served with roast game, or they are sometimes made up in the form of a nest and used for the serving of different entrees. Note.—Fried potatoes can be kept for some days if they are put in an air-tight box. They can then be warmed up as required. 540. New Potatoes, 1 lb. new potatoes. Boiling water. Salt. To Boil or Steam 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A spray of mint. 1 oz. butter. New potatoes should be cooked as soon as possible after they are taken from the ground. Wash them well and rub or scrape off the skins. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, a little salt and a spray of mint. Allow them to cook gently from 15 to 20 minutes, or until they are nearly tender. Then drain off every drop of water and lift out the mint. Shake the potatoes over the fire for a few minutes to dry them, then add the butter and let them cook a few minutes longer. Sprinkle the parsley over at the last and serve very hot. Time to cook, 20 to 25 minutes. 541. Potatoes with Bacon (Pommes de Terre au Lard) 4 or 5 potatoes. 2 oz. bacon. \ pt. stock. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Cut the bacon in small square pieces and fry it a few minutes in a stewpan. Prepare the potatoes and cut them in quarters or small pieces, add them to the bacon and season with pepper, salt if necessary, and a pinch of nutmeg. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook for a few minutes without browning. Then add the stock and simmer slowly until the potatoes are tender. Sprinkle in the parsley and serve very hot. Note.—A little chopped onion and some finely powdered herbs may be added if wished. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 542. Potato Balls (Croquettes de Pommes de Terre) £ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Salt, pepper. 1 yolk of egg. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, or press them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put the sieved potato into it. Season with white pepper and salt and add one yolk of egg, or half a whole egg well beaten (the other half may be used for egging and bread-crumbing). Mix all well together, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Then flour the hands slightly and roll the mixture into small Potato Croquettes in different shapes balls of equal size and free from cracks. Egg and bread-crumb these balls (see p. 249), and fry them until nicely browned in boiling fat (see p. 248). Do not put too many into the fat at one time, or they will cool down the fat so much that it will soak into them and cause them to burst. After frying, drain well on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Note.—This mixture may be made into different shapes, such as cutlets, cones, small rolls, &c, A158 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD little chopped parsley, chopped ham or tongue, or grated cheese may be added to the mixture. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 543. Potato Border £ lb. cooked potatoes. I 1 yolk of egg and 1 or 2 I oz. butter. A little salt. 1 table-sps. milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato sieved, and the other ingredients. Be careful not to make the mixture too moist, and work all together Hound Potato Border over the fire until it ceases to stick to the spoon. Then flour a board, turn the potato on to it, and roll into a straight even roll. Arrange it in a circle on a flat dish, flute or mark the outside by pressing the back of a fork or the handle of a Straight Potato Border knife against it, and use it for mounting quenelles, cutlets, and other entrees. If preferred, a straight band of potato may be arranged on the dish instead of the circle. Or again, the border may be placed near the rim of the dish, brushed over with beaten egg, browned in the oven and then the centre filled with a ragout, scalloped fish, curry, &c. 544. Potato Cases Choose rather large potatoes, wash and peel them. Cut them in half lengthwise and trim them so as to make them uniform in shape. Then remove all the centre part with a vegetable scoop, leaving a wall of potato about J inch in thickness. Throw these potato cups into boiling salted wateD and allow them to boil gently for 10 minutes. Then lift them out and drain them. These may now be filled with any nice savoury mixture or mince and baked in the oven for 20 or 30 minutes. Note.—The potato cases may be fried instead of boiled, but they will require very careful cooking to prevent their becoming hard. 545. Another Way Make some potato balls as directed in Recipe 157. After egging and bread-crumbing, flatten them slightly on a board with a knife and make an incision on the top of each with a small round cutter. Place the balls in a frying basket and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well. Then remove the little round pieces on the top, keeping them to serve as lids, and scoop out the insides very carefully with a small spoon. These cases may then be filled with any nice savoury mixture, meat, fish, or vegetable, and the covers replaced. 546. Potato Curry I lb. raw peeled potatoes. II oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. £ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Boiled rice. Cut the potatoes into small blocks, and slice the onion very thinly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and stir in the curry powder until smooth. Then add the potato and onion, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cook slowly for about 10 minutes. Add enough milk to almost cover the potatoes, about a half pint, and simmer slowly for 15 minutes, or until the pieces of potato are cooked, without being reduced to a mash. Add the cream and a squeeze of lemon, and serve hot with a border of boiled rice (Recipe 1586) round, or in a separate dish. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 547. Potatoes a la Duchesse (Pommes de Terre a la Duchesse) \ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt, pepper. Beaten egg. Sieve the potatoes. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan and add the potatoes to it with the yolk of egg, seasoning, and enough milk to bind all together. The mixture must not be made moist. Beat well together and turn out on a slightly floured board. Form the mixture into small round cakes, or roll it out and cut it in squares with a knife. Mark these across in a lattice pattern with the back of a knife or with a fluted rolling-pin, and place them on a greased baking tin. Then brush them over with a little beaten egg and bake them in the oven until nicely browned. Serve the little cakes piled up in a hot vegetable dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 548. Potato Fritters (Beignets de Pommes de Terre) \ lb. cooked potatoes. I A pinch of nutmeg, loz. butter. Pepper, salt. | 1 yolk and 2 whites of egg. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato, yolk of egg, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and mix them lightly into the potato mixture. Drop the mixture in pieces about the size of a walnut into boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 207), and fry until nicely browned. Lift out with a perforated spoon, place on kitchen paper and drain well. Dish on a dish paper or folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. $159 VEGETABLES AND SALADS 549. Potatoes au Gratin (Pommes de Terre au Grattn) 3 cupfuls cooked pota- toes. 1 to 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 cupful milk. 2 yolks of eggs. £ lb. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and heat them over the fire. Sieve the potatoes and add them with most of the cheese and the yolks of eggs. Mix well together and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Pour the mixture into a greased fireproof dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese, mixed with the bread- crumbs, on the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter and brown in the oven. Or, the mixture may be made very hot in the saucepan, then the surface browned in front of the fire or under the grill of a gas stove. Note.—The yolks of eggs may be omitted and dripping used instead of butter. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 550. Potatoes a la MaPre d’Hotel (Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hfitel) 4 or 5 cooked potatoes. 2table-sps. cream or white stock. 1 oz. butter. White pepper, salt. 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. ' Waxy potatoes are better for this method of cooking than those that are very mealy. Cut the potatoes into slices rather less than £ of an inch in thickness. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the parsley, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nut- meg, and mix in the lemon juice gradually. Then put in the sliced potatoes, cover the saucepan and toss the contents over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Add the cream or stock, heat through and serve at once. Note.—New potatoes may be treated in this way, and if small may be left whole, fficient for 2 or 3 persons. 551. Potatoes with Parsley Sauce 1 lb. small potatoes. £ pt. parsley sauce. Choose small potatoes, or cut larger ones in pieces. Steam or boil them, being careful they do not break in pieces. A waxy type of potato is really the best for the purpose. Make £ pint of parsley sauce (see Recipe 700) and add the potatoes to it. Turn them gently over and over and cook them a minute or two. Then serve in a hot vegetable dish. Note.—Other sauces may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 552. Potato Puree (Puree de Pommes de Terre) £ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. 3 or 4 table-sps. of hot milk. White pepper, salt. _ The potatoes used must be dry and mealy. Sieve them or put them through a vegetable presser. Heat the milk with the butter in a sauce- pan, add the sieved potato and beat them together until white and light, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. The puree should be of the consistency of thick cream. Cream or stock may be used instead of milk, or a little whipped cream may be stirred in lightly at the last. Finely chopped parsley may be added if liked. Serve the puree in a hot vegetable dish. 553. Potato Roses, Rings, &c. (Pommes de Terre a la Duchesse) Make the same mixture as for Potatoes k la Duchesse (see Recipe 547), but make it moister by adding more milk. Put this potato puree into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe on the end of it Potato Roses and Rings and force it out on a greased tin in roses, rings, or any other shape that is fancied. Brush them over very lightly with beaten egg, and brown in the oven. Then lift them carefully on to a hot dish with a dish paper on it and garnish with parsley. 554. Sauted Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Sautees) 4 or 5 cooked potatoes. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. ’ Salt, white pepper. The potatoes must be dry and not overcooked. Cut them in slices about £ inch in thickness. Melt the butter in a saute pan or frying pan, put in the slices of potato and toss them about until nicely browned on both sides. Sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley. Turn them into a hot vegetable dish and pour the browned butter over them. Note.—Bacon fat may be used instead of butter, and if a little fried bacon is served along with the potatoes, they will make a very good supper dish. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 555. A Potato Stew 6 or 8 potatoes. 1 large onion. 2 oz. butter or dripping. | pt. milk. 1 gill water. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Salt, pepper. A small bunch of herbs. 1 grated carrot. Choose potatoes of medium size, wash, peel, and cut them in quarters. Peel and slice the onion very thinly, and prepare and grate the carrot. Melt about 2 oz. of dripping, butter, or other fat in a stewpan, put in the potatoes and onion as dry as possible, and cook them a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Then add half the milk, the water, seasoning, and grated carrot. Mix together, put the lid on the saucepan and stew slowly until the vegetables are tender. When sufficiently cooked, lift out the potatoes and place them in a hot dish. Mix the flour smoothly with the remainder of the milk and add it to the re- maining contents of the saucepan, lifting out theCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 160 bunch of herbs. Stir until boiling, simmer for a few minutes and pour over the potatoes. Serve very hot. Time to cook, £ to § hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 556. Stewed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre au Jus) 4 or 5 potatoes. 2 oz. beef dripping. 1 large onion. J pt. stock. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare the potatoes and cut them in quarters or small pieces. Skin, scald, and slice the onion very thinly. Then melt the dripping in a stew- pan, put in the onion and potatoes and season with pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and cook the contents for a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Then pour in the stock and continue cooking until the potato is cooked, but not broken. Add the chopped parsley at the last and serve very hot. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 557. Baked Potato Souffl&s (Souffles de Pommes de Terre) 4 or 5 potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 3 table-sps. milk. 1 egg. Salt, pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. Parmesan cheese. Choose medium-sized and evenly-shaped potatoes. Wash and scrub them well and bake them in their skins according to directions given in Recipe 535. When ready, cut a piece ofi each with a sharp knife and scoop out all the inside, being careful not to damage the skins. Put the butter and milk into a saucepan and let them heat over the fire, sieve the potato and add it to them. Then season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nut- Baked Potato Souffles meg, and beat well until perfectly smooth. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the yolk of egg and lastly the white beaten to a stiff froth. Refill the potato skins with this mixture and sprinkle the tops with grated Par- mesan. Place the souffles on a baking tin and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and lightly browned. Dish them on a folded serviette or dish paper and serve at once. Notes.—A little grated cheese may also be added to the mixture. The mixture may be baked in a souffle dish instead of the potato skins, making one large soufflA Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons, 558. Stuffed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Farcies) 4 or 5 potatoes. 3 or 4 table-sps. cooked meat. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 2 table-sps.sauce or cream. Seasoning. A little butter. A few bread-crumbs. Choose potatoes of equal size and of a good shape. Scrub them clean and bake in a moder- ate oven until soft (see Recipe 535). Then cut a piece from the end of each and with a tea-spoon scoop out the insides without damaging the skins. Mash or sieve this pulp and put it into a basin. Add to it the meat finely chopped (it must be nice tasty meat such as beef and tongue, ham and chicken, &c.), the seasoning and parsley. Bind all together with some good sauce, cream, or beaten egg. Refill the skins with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs over and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Return the potatoes to the oven and bake them until thoroughly hot. Dish them on a folded serviette and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. Note.—Grated cheese or finely shred fish may be used instead of meat. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 559. Stuffed Potatoes au Gratin (Pommes de Terre Farcies Gratinees) ■ C potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. Pepper, salt. \ tea-cupful milk or cream. A pinch of nutmeg. A few bread-crumbs. Choose good sound potatoes of medium size and regular in shape. Wash and brush them and cook them in the oven (see Recipe 535). When ready, make a round hole on the side of each with the Eoint of a knife and scoop out all the centre without reaking the skin. Rub this pulp through a sieve, then put it into a saucepan with the butter, milk, or cream, and seasoning. Beat over the fire for several minutes until white and light-looking, then add most of the cheese grated very finely. Fill the potato skins with this mixture, piling it high in the centre. Arrange them on a baking tin, sprinkle them with the remainder of the cheese, mixed with a few bread-crumbs; place a small piece of butter on the top of each and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve the potatoes very hot on a dish paper or serviette. Note.—When the potatoes are very large they may be cut in two after baking. The quantity of milk or cream must be somewhat regulated accord- ing to the size of the potatoes, the mixture must not be made too moist. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 560. Pommes de Terre Soufflees This is another form of fried potatoes, but one which is somewhat difficult to prepare, and with which an English cook is not usually successful. Pommes de Terre Soufflees are, however, well worth the care and “trouble they entail. The potatoes are fried in such a way that they puff out and look like little golden balls or eggs hollow in the centre. Success depends to a large extent upon the kind of potato used and also upon the cutting. Choose white, waxy potatoes. Dutch potatoes are161 VEGETABLES AND SALADS considered the best for the purpose, and they must be perfectly sound. Wash and peel, trimming them to make them even in form, but do not throw them again into cold water. Then cut them lengthwise or with the grain of the potato into even slices about an eighth of an inch in thickness. This requires a little practice, because unless the slices are cut evenly they will not swell properly. Special cutters can be bought for the purpose. Pommes de Terre Soufflees Lay them as they are ready in the folds of a towel and wipe them dry. To Fry.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of hot fat, not quite boiling, put about a dozen slices of potato into this and fry them until they rise to the surface and are very slightly coloured. Lift them out as they are done with a skimmer, lay them on draining paper, and keep them warm in a cool oven. When all the potato slices have been fried once in this way, heat the fat until it is smoking hot. Throw the potatoes back into it, but only a few at a time, because they must have room to swell, and stir them very gently for a minute or two until they puff out and are a pretty brown colour. Drain again and sprinkle very lightly with salt. To serve, pile them up in a pyramid on a hot dish. Or, sometimes they are served in a nest of potato straws (see Recipe 539), and are known as Pommes de Terre au Nid. 561. Pommes de Terre Anna 1 to 1J lb. potatoes. 2 to 3 oz. butter. Seasoning. Take a round and shallow cake-tin, or a small frying-pan will do, grease it well with melted butter and let this butter set. One or two of the potatoes should be large ; peel them and cut them through the middle with a column-shaped cutter, rather more than an inch in diameter. Then slice these column-shaped pieces very thinly, thus making little rounds about the size of a halfpenny piece. Now line the greased tin with these thin rounds. Commence by putting a round in the centre at the bottom with a circle of pieces round it, one leaning against the other ; then another circle of pieces beyond that, reversing this time the direction in which the pieces are placed. Continue in this way until the bottom of the tin is covered, then line the sides in the same way, always arranging the pieces the one slightly on the top of the other. It is very important to have these slices of potato very thin, otherwise they will not adhere one to the other, and there is also danger of their not being sufficiently cooked. Now slice thinly the remaining potato, or enough to well fill the tin. This time it is not important to have complete rounds—in fact the cuttings from the columns may be utilised, but the potato must be sliced thinly and in sufficient quantity. “ Sautez ” these in a little butter, just to soften them a little, season well with pepper and salt, and fill up the lined tin, pressing the potato well down. Add the remainder of the butter to the saucepan in which the potatoes were sauteed and let it brown over the fire. Pour this over the potato and cook in the oven. If the oven heat is all from the top, it will be better to com- mence the cooking on the top of the stove, so as to brown the potatoes underneath. When cooked, place a plate on the top of the tin and pour off any superfluous butter. (This can be utilised in other ways.) Then unmouid the potato on to a hot dish. It should have the appearance of a nice brown cake. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 562. Pommes de Terre Noisettes Potatoes. Butter. Chopped parsley. Seasoning. Peel one or two large potatoes and cut from them as many small balls as possible, using a special vegetable cutter for the purpose. Throw them into boiling salted water, boil 2 or 3 minutes and drain. Then spread the little potato balls on a cloth and let them remain a few minutes to dry. Melt a small quantity of butter in a frying or saute pan, put in the potatoes and toss them about until they are lightly coloured and cooked through. Season them to taste, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley or fines herbes, and use as a garnish. 563. Pommes de Terre a la Parisienne Potatoes. Butter. Chopped parsley. Seasoning. Prepare and cook in the same way as Pommes de Terre Noisettes (see above), cutting the potatoes the size and shape of an olive with a special cutter and cooking them a minute or two longer in the boiling water. Pumpkin (Potiron) The pumpkin belongs to the same family as the vegetable marrow and melon, and sometimes grows to a great size. It is not so often seen in this country, although it begins to come into our markets. It is generally sold in pieces or by the pound. The pumpkin requires peeling, and all seeds and the pulpy tissue adhering to them should be removed. It may then be made into either sweet or savoury LCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 162 dishes (see Pumpkin Pie, Recipe 1523). It is also very good when made into soup (Recipe 69). When required as a vegetable it may be cooked according to any of the directions given for cooking vege- table marrow, but longer time for cooking must be allowed. It can also be made into a very tasty dish by mashing it. After cooking it should be well drained, then beaten up with a little butter, a Bmall quantity of cream or milk, and seasoning to taste. Grated cheese may be added if wished. The pumpkin very readily absorbs the flavour of anything with which it is cooked, hence when cooked with fruit, such as apples, it will resemble that fruit in taste. Young pumpkins should be chosen for cooking, except for soup-making, when the older ones can be utilised. Salsify (Salsifis) There are two different kinds of salsify, the white and the black. The white is the commoner of the two and the kind most often seen in this country; it is a much younger plant than the black species. It is like the parsnip in appearance Salsifis only much longer and thinner, and in taste it resembles asparagus. The black salsify or scorzonera is the finer of the two. Americans call it the oyster plant, as when cooked it has a distinct flavour of oyster. A very good mock oyster soup can be made from salsify, also mock oyster patties. Besides the recipes given below, salsify is very good fried (see Pried Celery, Recipe 470), or served au gratin (see Recipe 455). It may also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking parsnips. 564. Salsifis with White Sauce (Salsifis a la Sauce Blanche) 1 ib. salsifis. Boiling water. [ Lemon juice. 2 oz. dripping. Salt. I \ pt. white sauce. Choose the salsifis not too large and nice and firm. Wash it well in cold water, cutting about an inch off the end of the stalk and scraping the rest of it very lightly. Tie the pieces in bundles with tape and throw them into cold water to which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been added to prevent discoloration. Put into a lined sauce- pan enough boiling water to cover the salsifis and add the dripping, a little salt, and a good squeeze of lemon juice. Drain the salsifis and put it into this and simmer slowly until tender. When it is easily pierced with a fork or skewer it is ready. Lift it out, drain off every drop of water, and serve in a hot dish with the white sauce (see Recipe 673) poured over. Note.—Other sauces may be used, such as hollandaise, bechamel, veloute, &c. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 565. Scalloped Salsifis \ doz. roots salsifis. Bread-crumbs. 1 gill white sauce. Butter. Celery salt or a little fresh celery. Cook the salsifis according to directions given above, cut it in thin slices, and mix with it a littlo celery salt, or a small piece of fresh celery finely chopped. Grease about J doz. scallop shells and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs. Put in a layer Scalloped Salsifis of the prepared salsifis with a little white sauce over, then some more salsifis and more sauce. Sprinkle the tops with bread-crumbs and lay on one or two small pieces of butter. Bake in the oven until nicely browned on the top. Garnish each scallop with a sprig of parsley and a small slice of fresh lemon. Serve them hot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Scarlet Runners This is a variety of the kidney bean. It is not so fine in quality as the French bean, which belongs to the same family, but it is very much more moderate in price. Scarlet runners may be cooked in the same way as French beans (see p. 131), but longer time will be required, and as the pod is somewhat tough they are almost invariably sliced. Sea-kale (Chou de Mer ou Chou Marin) This is a very delicate vegetable and one which is easily digested. The taste is like that of as- paragus, or of a very young cauliflower. Dining cultivation sea-kale is earthed up in the same way as celery in order to whiten the sterna and leaf stalks. Besides the recipes given below, it may be cookedVEGETABLES according to any of the directions given for cook- ing celery. It is also very good served cold with whipped "cream or with vinaigrette or mayonnaise sauce. 566. Sea-kale with Cream Sauce (Chou de Mer a la Creme) 1 lb. sea-kale. I 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. | 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Trim ofl the thick end of the stalk, separate the stems and wash the sea-kale well in cold water. Examine it carefully for any slugs or grit. When clean, tie it in bundles with tape. Then put it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it, add a little salt, and cook gently until when tested with a skewer it feels tender. Drain at once, because if left to overcook it very readily toughens. Place the sea-kale in a hot vegetable dish, removing the tape, and keep it warm over hot water, whilst making the sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix it well in. Then add one tea-cupful of the water in which the sea-kale was boiled and stir until boiling. Add the cream and seasoning and cook a minute or two longer. Pour this sauce over the sea-kale and serve. Note.—Any other white sauce may be used in place of cream sauce. Time to cook, 20 to 25 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 567. Sea-kale a la Polonaise (Chou de Mer a la Polonaise) 1 lb. sea-kale. 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1| oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Prepare and cook the sea-kale as in last recipe. Drain it well and arrange it neatly in a long fireproof dish. Sprinkle the tender part of the vegetable with the sieved yolk of egg and parsley mixed, and heat in the oven a few minutes. Meanwhile heat the butter in a saucepan, seasoning it with pepper, and salt if necessary. WTien beginning to brown, stir in the bread-crumbs and cook a minute longer. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the lemon juice or a few drops of tarragon vinegar and pour this over the sea-kale. Serve very quickly. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Sorrel (Oseille) Sorrel is more used abroad than in this country; in Prance it is a general favourite and is largely used for cooking purposes. It resembles spinach AND SALADS 163 in appearance, but the leaf is rather smaller and the taste slightly bitter. Sorrel to be good must be young and fresh, and then if nicely cooked it forms a most wholesome vegetable and is an excellent accompaniment to veal, mutton, or game. It is also very good in soup. When the leaves begin to get a little older and stronger in taste, it is a good plan to mix them with some other tender green, such as spinach, lettuce, or endive; in fact, a mixture of spinach and sorrel is always good, as the sorrel supplies a sharpness which seems to be wanting in spinach. Besides the recipes given below, sorrel can be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking spinach, and like spinach it is very good served with eggs, either poached, scrambled, or hard-boiled. 568. Sorrel a la Creme (Oseil'e a la Creme) 1 tea-cupful water. A pinch of nutmeg. | tea-sp. castor sugar. Croutons of fried bread. 2 lbs. sorrel. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream or milk. Salt, pepper. Pick the sorrel carefully, removing all the coarse stalks and any discoloured leaves. Then wash it well, in several waters and put it into a large saucepan with about one tea-cupful of water or just enough to cover the foot of the saucepan. Put on the lid and cook the sorrel slowly, stirring it occasionally, until it is quite tender. Like spinach, sorrel will reduce very much in the cooking. When ready, press it dry and rub it through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the sorrel to it, and sprinkle in the flour. Mix well and add the milk or cream. Season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg and a little fine sugar. Serve very hot, decorating the dish with a few croutons of fried bread (see Recipe 1301). Note.—White sauce may be used instead of the milk or cream. If the bitter taste of sorrel is objected to, a little spinach or a lettuce may be cooked along with it. This is a very good accom- paniment to a dish of roast veal or mutton. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Spinach (Epinards) This is a very useful green vegetable with a pleasant and delicate flavour. It is lighter and more easily digested than some of the harder greens, such as cabbage, sprouts, &c., and for this reason it is a favourite with invalids and those suffering from a weak digestion. Spinach does not contain much nutriment, but it is cooling to the blood and laxative in character. It is also rich in nitre. It must be used fresh and young, as when old it develops a bitter taste, which is neither pleasant nor wholesome. The leaves re- quire very careful washing, to rid them of all earth and grit. 569. Spinach with Butter (Epinards au Beurre) 2 lbs. spinach. 1 to 2 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Croutons of fried bread. To Prepare and Cook the Spinach.—Look over the spinach carefully, removing any faded and dis-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 164 1 coloured leaves and also any weeds which may be mixed with it. Remove also the coarser stalks by doubling the leaves and pulling them off length- wise. Then wash the spinach thoroughly in seve- ral waters until quite free from grit. It must be remembered that spinach grows very near the ground and that it requires most careful washing to make it clean. Handle it as lightly as possible, and when clean lift it out of the water. Never drain the water off the spinach after washing, as this would mean leaving any remaining grit behind. Put the spinach into a large saucepan with just the water that hangs on the leaves, or if it is getting old about a tea-cupful of water, sprinkle it with a very little salt and put the lid on the pan. Cook until it is quite tender, stirring it frequently with a wooden spoon. When ready, drain well, pressing out all the water. Then rub the spinach through a wire sieve or chop it very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the pre- pared spinach, season with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Pile up the spinach in a neat pyramid on a hot dish. Dressed Spinach marking it up the sides with the back of a fork; and garnish round the base with triangular crou- tons of fried bread or toast symmetrically arranged, and if liked, some sections of hard-boiled egg cut in 6 or 8 pieces. Note.—The butter is a very important item in this dish, and if success is aimed at the quantity must not be stinted. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 570. Spinach with Cream (Epinards a la Creme) Prepare and cook the spinach as in last recipe, finishing it off with | tea-cupful of cream instead of the butter. One or two yolks of eggs may also be added if wished. 571. Spinach with Gravy (Epinards au Jus) Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569, finishing it off with 4 tea-cupful of good gravy instead of the butter. This is a very good accom- paniment to fried sausages or bacon. 572. Spinach for Garnishing 1 lb. spinach. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Pepper and salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. A pinch of nutmeg. Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569. When well drained, rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the spinach and sprinkle it with the flour. Stir over the fire for a few minutes until the flour is cooked. Then season to taste, and if too stiff add one table-spoon- ful cream. Note.—This is a somewhat stiffer preparation than Recipe 569, and is more suitable if intended to support an entree. It can also be put into a forcing bag with a fancy pipe and forced out as a garnish for various dishes. 573. Spinach Souffle (Souffle d’Epinards) 1 lb. spinach. 2 table-sps. cream or white sauce. Seasoning. 2 or 3 eggs. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs or grated nuts. Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569, and when well drained rub it through a wire sieve. Put the spinach puree into a basin, season it with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice and a tiny pinch of nutmeg, add the yolks of eggs and mix well. Then add about 2 table-spoonfuls of thick white sauce or whipped cream, and last of all stir in the whites of eggs beaten to very stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish, sprinkle the top with fine browned bread-crumbs or grated nuts, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once. Note.—A little grated cheese may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sweet Potato (Patate) This vegetable is cultivated in hot climates and only occasionally comes into our markets. It re- sembles the ordinary potato in appearance, except that it is rougher looking. It contains more sugar and less starch than our potato, and is less nourish- ing and digestible. The sweet potato requires very careful cooking, as it is apt to become moist and sticky. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked according to most of the directions given for the common potato. 574. Sweet Potatoes, To Boil Wash and brush the potatoes, being very careful not to break the skin. Throw them into a basin of clean cold water and let them lie for a short time. Then cook them in boiling water slightly salted until they can be pierced fairly easily with a skewer. There should only be sufficient water to cover the potatoes, and they must not be allowed to become too soft. When ready, drain, peel them quickly, and then dry them in the oven a few minutes to make them mealy. Serve very hot. 575. Sweet Potatoes, Broiled Sweet potatoes. Butter or dripping. Seasoning. Wash and peel the potatoes, but do not cook them. I Cut them in slices about \ inch in thickness and dip them in melted butter or good beef dripping. Season the pieces with pepper and salt and arrange them on a greased broiler or grill. Cook them under the grill of a gas stove or in front of a clear fire, turning them until nicely browned on both sides. Then serve very hot as an accompaniment to a grill or a roast of meat or game. Time to cook, about 10 minutes.165 VEGETABLES AND SALADS 576. Sweet Potatoes with Cream 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. 1 lb. cooked sweet pota- toes. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill thin cream. Melt the butter in an earthenware casserole, stir in the flour and mix well. Then add the cream and parsley and stir until boiling. Add the potatoes cut in slices and let all become thoroughly hot. Season to taste and serve in the casserole. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 577. Sweet Potato Pie 1 lb. cooked sweet pota- toes. | pint white sauce. 2 table-sps. crumbs. 1 oz. britter. browned Cut the potatoes in slices and arrange them in a freased pie-dish in layers with the white sauce. prinkle the crumbs over and place the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Tomatoes (Tomates) The tomato or love-apple is strictly speaking a fruit and not a vegetable, but as it appears on our tables in place of a vegetable, it is always classed as such. There are several different kinds of tomato plant, some producing a red and others better than in its raw state, either au naturel, accompanied with oil, or oil and vinegar, or sliced and served as a salad. The home-grown tomatoes are best for serving raw, and the small bright red ones have perhaps the finest taste. For cooking purposes there is perhaps no vegetable which will lend itself to such a variety of treatment as the tomato. Cooked by itself either by baking, broiling, frying, or stewing, &c., it forms an ex- cellent vegetable and a good accompaniment to most meat dishes. It is also valuable for flavouring purposes in soups, stews, and sauces, while many a tasty dish owes its savour to the addition of a small piece of tomato, or a table-spoonful of tomato puree. Unripe tomatoes make a very good pickle or chutney. 578. Baked Tomatoes, 1 (Tomates Roties) Tomatoes. Butter. Pepper and salt. Choose the tomatoes, as far as possible, of moderate and equal size. Wipe them first with a clean cloth, and remove the stalk and the hard part at the root of the stalk. Place them side by side on a buttered baking tin or fireproof dish and put a small piece of butter into the hole made by the removal of the stalk. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and bake in the oven until tender, from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve in a hot dish. Tomatoes a yellow fruit, the former being the more general of the two. It is only of late years that the tomato has become popular in this country, but now it is universally used and has become a favourite with the majority of people. _ It can be eaten either raw or cooked. If well ripened with plenty of sun, it is perhaps never 579. Baked Tomatoes, 2 (Tomates au Four) 4 large tomatoes. I 1 dessert-sp. flour. 2 oz. butter. | \ pt. milk. Salt, pepper. Choose large ripe tomatoes of equal size. Wipe them and remove the stalks. Cut them in halves sidewise and lay them skin side downwards on a greased baking tin. Divide the butter into six equal- sized pieces and put a portion on the top of each iece of tomato, sprinkle with pepper and salt and ake in a moderate oven until tender. Then lift five pieces of tomato very carefully on to a hot dish and keep them warm. Bruise down the remain- ing piece in the baking tin and stir in the flour. Then add the milk and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook 2 or 3 minutes longer, adding more seasoning if necessary, and strain over or round the tomatoes. Garnish with sippets of toast and serve as a luncheon or supper dish. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 580. Boiled Tomatoes Choose small firm tomatoes and rather under, than over ripe. Wipe them and remove the stalks without damaging the skin in any way. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted and let them boil slowly from 5 to 7 minutes. Then lift them out with a draining spoon, or a frying basket may be used for putting the tomatoes into and lifting them out of the water. After draining, place them in a hot vegetable dish and serve at once. A little plain or mattre d’Jiotel butter (see Recipe 770) should be handed separately, the tomatoes being eaten from the skins, like a boiled egg, with a little butter, pepper, and salt put inside.166 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 581. Fried Tomatoes, 1 (Tomates Frites) 4 or 5 tomatoes. A little flour. Salt, pepper. 1 egg. 1 tabld-sp. water. Bread-crumbs. Oil or dripping. Choose firm solid tomatoes and rather under than over ripe. Wipe them and remove the stalks. With a very sharp knife cut them in slices \ of an inch thick, lay them on a plate and season with pepper and salt. Beat up the egg on a plate with a table-spoonful of water and have ready some fine bread-crumbs on a piece of paper. Then dredge the slices of tomato with a little fine flour and coat them with egg and bread-crumbs (see p. 249). Prepare only a few at a time, as they soon become moist. Put a small quantity of dripping or oil into a frying pan and allow it to become smoking hot, lay in as many prepared slices of tomato as the pan will conveniently hold without crushing, and fry them first on one side and then on the other until nicely browned. Lift out when ready and drain on kitchen paper. When all are ready, serve them piled up on a hot dish garnished with parsley. These make a very good accompaniment to fried or boiled fish or meat Notes.—The tomato slices may be dipped into frying batter and cooked in deep fat if preferred. A little potted meat may be spread on the slices of tomato before they are coated. Time to fry, 7 minutes each lot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 582. Fried Tomatoes, 2 Choose very small tomatoes, wipe them and remove the stalks, but be very careful not to damage the skin in any way. Melt a little butter or good dripping in a frying pan, put in the tomatoes and turn them about gently until they are cooked. They must on no account be pierced. Lift them out when ready and serve as an accompaniment to roast or fried meat or as a garnish. These are also very good served with fried bacon, and should then be cooked in the bacon fat after the rashers are lifted out. Time to fry, 5 to 7 minutes. 583. Tomatoes au Gratin (Tomates au Gratin) 3 or 4 tomatoes. I 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. | 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. Put the tomatoes into a basin, cover them with boiling water and let them stand a minute or two. Then lift them out, dry them and remove the skins. Cut them in slices, keeping them on a plate, so as not to lose any of the juice, and season well with pepper and salt. Mix the bread-crumbs and grated cheese together and greaso a small pie dish or fireproof dish. Put first a layer of the tomatoes at the foot of the dish, then some of the bread-crumbs and cheese, more tomatoes and so on, arranging them in layers until all are used up. The last layer should be the bread-crumbs and cheese. Lay the butter in small pieces on the top and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—There are different ways of preparing this dish—the cheese may be omitted and simply the bread-crumbs used, or a few chopped mush- rooms, a finely chopped shallot, and a little parsley may be mixed with the tomatoes. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 584. Stewed Tomatoes (Tomates au Jus) \ lb. tomatoes. I 1 oz. butter. | tea-sp. sugar. | Salt, pepper. Wipe the tomatoes and remove the stalks. Place them for a minute in a basin of boiling water, then lift them out and peel them carefully with a sharp knife, commencing at the stalk end. Now cut the tomatoes in slices or quarters, removing the hard piece from the inside, and put them into an enamelled or earthenware saucepan. Season with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until tender. Add the butter and serve in a hot dish. Note.—A little finely chopped onion or shallot may be added if wished. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 585. Stuffed Tomatoes, 1 (Tomates Fareies) 1 table-sp. good sauce or gravy. J tea-sp. dried herbs. A few browned bread- crumbs. 5 round croutons of fried bread. 5 medium-sized tomatoes. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped ham or tongue. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 shallot. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. Wipe the tomatoes with a cloth, remove the stalk and cut a round piece neatly out of the top of each. With the end of a tea-spoon, scoop out the soft part from the inside, and put it into a basin. Be very careful whilst doing this not to break through the skin of the tomatoes, and do not make the sides too thin. Season the insides with pepper and salt and turn the tomatoes up- side down on a plate to drain. The soft part from the inside must be strained or rubbed through a sieve and kept for moistening the stuffing. The best meat to use for stuffing tomatoes is ham, tongue, or chicken, but any nicely cooked Stuffed Tomatoes meat will do. Melt the butter in a small sauce- pan, add to it the shallot very finely chopped, and cook it slowly over the fire for a few minutes. Then add to it the meat, white bread-crumbs, dried herbs finely powdered, and parsley. Mix well together, season to taste with pepper and salt, and bind with the strained liquid of the tomatoes and a little sauce or gravy if necessary. Cook over the fire to swell the crumbs, then fill up the tomatoes with this stuffing, piling it rather high in the centre. Do not pack them too tightly or they will burst in the cooking. Sprinkle a few browned bread-crumbs on the top of each and place them on a greased baking tin. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven until tender, but not broken. Have ready five round167 VEGETABLES AND SALADS croutons of fried bread, place them on a dish paper on a hot dish with a stuffed tomato on the top of each and garnish with parsley. A little brown or tomato sauce may be served separately. Note.—The above stuffing may be varied accord- ing to taste and the materials to hand. The meat may be omitted and a few chopped mushrooms or grated cheese added. Or, well cooked rice or macaroni, cut small and mixed with a little sauce or beaten egg and well seasoned, may be used. Or again, any nicely cooked vegetable, such as green peas, asparagus points, cauliflower, &c., if mixed with some tasty sauce and the yolk of an egg will make a very good filling. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 586. Stuffed Tomatoes, 2 Make a small hole in the stalk end of the tomatoes and press them gently to get rid of the liquid and seeds from the centre. Place them on a well- greased dish or tin. Season. Fill the centre with a little chopped mushroom and shallot cooked in butter and mixed with a few bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and seasoning. Pile the stuffing high in the centre, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and a few drops of oil or melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. 587. Tomatoes with Cream Sauce (Tomates a la Creme) y 3 or 4 firm tomatoes. Salt, pepper. A little butter. Croutons of bread. | gill cream. 1 gill milk. 1 table-sp. flour. Choose large firm tomatoes, wipe them and cut them in halves. Put them on a greased baking dish with the cut side uppermost, lay a small piece of butter on the top of each and season them with pepper and salt. Then bake the tomatoes in a moderate oven until they are soft without being broken. Place each half on a round crouton of fried bread and keep them warm. Add the flour to the liquid in the baking dish and mix it in smoothly, then pour in the milk and cream and stir until boiling. Simmer a few minutes and then strain this sauce round the tomatoes. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 588. Tomatoes with Curried Rice (Tomates au Kari) 6 tomatoes. Salad oil. Seasoning. 3 oz. rice. Some light stock. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 2 or 3 table-sps. brown gravy. Choose large firm tomatoes, wipe them, remove the stalks and cut them in halves transversely. Squeeze out the seeds and watery part from the centre, and arrange the pieces on a greased fire- proof dish. Season them with pepper and salt, sprinkle with a little salad oil, and cook in amoderate oven about ten minutes. Wash the rice and cook it in light stock until tender and without making it too moist. Season with the curry powder and a little salt if necessary. Fill the tomatoes with the curried rice, sprinkle them with some good brown gravy, pouring the remainder round, and return the dish to the oven for a few minutes. Serve the tomatoes on the dish on which they have been cooked. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 589. Tomatoes & la Franpaise (Tomates & la Franpaise) 6 small ripe tomatoes. 1 cupful white or becha- mel sauce. A few browned bread or biscuit crumbs. A little butter. Wipe the tomatoes, remove the stalks, and peel them according to directions given in Recipe 583. Grease J dozen small china or earthenware dishes and put a little sauce at the bottom of each. Place a tomato on the top with more sauce over and sprinkle a few crumbs on the top. Lay a small piece of butter on the top of each and bake in a moderate oven until the tomatoes feel tender when tested with a skewer. Serve the tomatoes in the dishes in which they are cooked as a separate course at dinner, or as a supper or luncheon dish. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 590. Tomatoes a la Portugaise (Tomates & la Portugaise) 6 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. Seasoning. 3 oz. rice. 1 cupful light stock. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. First prepare the rice mixture for filling the tomatoes. Wash the rice and dry it well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and fry it until lightly browned. Add the rice and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then pour in the stock, season to taste, cover the saucepan and cook in the oven until the rice is tender and the stock absorbed. Wipe the tomatoes, cut a slice off the stalk end of each and scoop out the soft inside. Fill up with the rich mixture, piling it high in the centre. Sprinkle with grated cheese, put a small piece of butter on the top of each tomato and cook in a moderate oven from 12 to 15 minutes. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 591. Tomato Souffle (Souffll do Tomates) 1 lb. tomatoes. 2 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. 107. potato or cornflour. A bunch of herbs. Seasoning. 1 gill milk. 1 onion. Wipe the tomatoes and cut them in slices. Put them into a saucepan with 1 oz. of butter, the onion thinly sliced, a small bunch of herbs and a little pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until the tomatoes are quite soft. The contents of the saucepan must be stirred occasionally to prevent them sticking. When ready, remove the herbs and rub the tomatoes through a fine wire sieve. Then melt the other ounce of butter in a saucepan, add the potato or cornflour and mix it in smoothly; pour in the tomato puree and stir until the mixture no longer sticks to the saucepan. Add the yolks of eggs one at a time and more seasoning if necessary, and mix all together. Lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stirring them in very lightly. Pour the mixture into a well-greasedCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 168 souffle dish and bake in & moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Truffles (Trufles) The truffle is a kind of fungus which grows in clusters at some distance below the surface of the ground, generally in the neighbourhood of trees, and in oak and chestnut forests in particular. Although truffles are to be found in England, they are not considered of much value; the best come from France and Italy, the French truffles from the districts of Perigueux and Carpentras being particularly famous. They are searched for with specially trained dogs or pigs, the perfume emitted by the truffles acting as a guide to the animals. There are several different kinds of truffle, the black, the white, and the red, but the black is the one best known and most valued in this country. They are only in perfec- tion when freshly gathered, and unfortunately the rich flavour and delicious perfume for which they are valued deteriorate considerably by importation, Truffles while those that are preserved in bottles have so little flavour that they are fit for little beyond merely decorative purposes. When fresh truffles are bought they must be well washed and brushed until quite free from all earth or sand and then peeled. The outer skin is of no value. They can then be trimmed to a uniform shape if necessary, but all pieces must be saved; if chopped they can be used for various pur- poses. Truffles are generally used for flavouring and garnishing different dishes, but they can also be served by themselves, only the price is so high (from 6s. to 10s. per pound) that they are quite a luxury and can only be indulged in by the very rich. One of the simplest ways of serving them is to wrap each truffle in buttered paper and to bake them in the oven—they will require about 1 hour; the papers should then be removed and the truffles wiped and served in a hot folded serviette. Or, they may be slowly stewed in champagne or other white wine with a careful flavouring of ham and herbs, then, when ready, lifted out of the liquid and served as above. Turnips (Navets) For cooking purposes there are two different kinds of turnip, the white turnip and the swede. The swede is not so sweet as the white turnip, and when old it becomes very hard and woody in fibre, but it is very useful for flavouring purposes. Perhaps the best turnip for serving as a vegetable is the French turnip, which is white and long in shape, but this is generally expensive and only obtainable in the big markets. As a food the turnip is not particularly valuable; it is composed largely of water, and contains very little nourishment, but it has an agreeable taste and pleasant flavour, and is by no means an expen- sive vegetable. Cut in pieces it is often boiled with meat and used as a garnish, it forms also a nice addition to many soups and stews. Served by itself the turnip is perhaps best mashed or made into a puree, unless young, when it can be boiled or steamed and served with egg, parsley, or any other suitable sauce. The green tops of the turnip can also be utilised, and if gathered young they make an excellent green vegetable. The very young leaves are sometimes served ra w as a salad. 592. Mashed Turnips Turnips. Butter. Seasoning. The .arger yellow turnip may be used for mashing. Wash and brush the required quantity in cold water. Then peel them as far as a yellow line, which lies a little way in from the skin: the out- side of the larger turnips is stringy, bitter, and indigestible. Cut the turnips in small pieces, care- fully removing any discoloured parts. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, add a little sugar, and allow them to boil gently until tender. When the pieces of turnip can be pierced easily with a skewer, drain off every drop of water in a colander, and then return them to the saucepan. Mash them with a fork until free from lumps and let them dry for a few minutes over the fire. Add a little butter or good beef dripping and season to taste with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a pinch of nutmeg. Serve piled up in a hot vegetable dish, marking up the sides with the back of a fork. Note.—A little cream added to the mashed turnip at the last will be found an improvement. Time to cook, | to 1 hour. 593. Turnips with Potatoes 2 tea-cupfuls cooked tur- nips. 2 tea-cupfuls cooked pota- toes. Seasoning. 1 to 2 oz. dripping or butter. 4 table-sps. hot milk. Fried croutons. Rub the potatoes and turnips through a wire sieve or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, add the sieved vegetables to it, and stir over the fire a few minutes, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Then add the hot milk and beat the mixture until light and white-looking. Arrange it neatly in a hot dish and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 594. White Turnips with Sauce (Navets & la Creme 6 or 8 white turnips. I 1 dessert-sp. chopped J pt. white sauce. | parsley. 1 tea-sp. sugar. First wash and brush the turnips, then put them into clean cold water and peel them, but not so thickly as the larger turnips. Cut them in quarters ot small pieces and put them in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them. Add the sugar, but no salt, as the latter tends to destroy the colour169 VEGETABLES AND SALADS of the turnips and to toughen their fibre. Cook very gently just below boiling-point until the pieces feel tender and look transparent. Then drain them in a colander. Make £ pt. good white sauce (see Recipe 671), adding if possible a little cream. Season it nicely and add the turnips. Stir them gently for a few minutes over the fire, add the parsley and serve at once in a hot dish. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 595. Turnip Puree (Puree de Navets) 1 lb. white turnips. | lb. cooked potatoes. Salt, pepper. 1 to 2 oz. butter. A little milk. A pinch of sugar. Wash and peel the turnips before weighing. Cut them in thin slices, put them into a greased saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover and cook slowly until tender. Then drain well and rub the turnips through a wire sieve. Return this puree to the saucepan with an equal quantity of sieved potatoes, which will help to bind the puree together. Add also a good piece of butter and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Stir over the fire a few minutes to dry the pureo and add a little milk at the last. This puree may be served either as a vegetable by itself, or as a garnish for another dish. 596. Glazed Turnips Young turnips. I Brown stock. Sugar. Butter. I Salt, pepper. Wash and peel the turnips and trim them to an equal size. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, boil for 10 minutes and drain. Choose a saucepan large enough to hold the turnips in a single layer and melt in it enough butter to cover the bottom. Put in the turnips, sprinkle them with sugar, and season with pepper and salt. Place the saucepan over the fire and stir the con- tents frequently until brown. Then pour in enough good brown stock to reach half-way up the turnips and cook them slowly until tender, basting fre- quently. When ready the stock should be reduced to a glaze. Use as a garnish. 597. Turnip Tops Turnip tops. Seasoning. Butter or dripping. Choose young fresh turnip tops and wash them well in cold water. Trim away any hard pieces of stalk and remove all faded and discoloured leaves. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, throw the turnip tops into this and boil them quickly with the lid otf the pan until they are tender, removing any scum as it rises. Then drain the greens, pressing out every drop of water, and chop them finely. Melt a small quan- tity of dripping or butter in the saucepan, return the greens to it and season them to taste with pepper and salt and, if liked, a pinch of nutmeg. Stir until thoroughly hot, then pile up on a hot dish and mark up the sides neatly with the back of a fork. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. 598. Turnip Tops with Poached Eggs 2 lbs. turnip tops. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Vegetable or meat stock. 1 gill white or onion sauce. 2 or 3 poached eggs. Wash and prepare the turnip tops as in last recipe, but drain them after only 10 minutes’ boiling. Press out all the water and chop or shred them finely. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the onion finely chopped and cook it for a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Add the greens with enough stock to cover them and allow them to stew until quite tender and the stock is all absorbed. Then add the sauce and stir until thoroughly hot, seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Serve the prepared turnip tops in a hot dish and garnish with poached eggs. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 599. Cassolettes of Vegetable (Cassolettes de Legumes) Make the same mixture as for Vegetable Croquettes, and use potato cases (Recipe 544) instead of pastry cases. 600. Vegetable Croquettes Beaten eggs. Bread-crumbs or vermi- celli. Cooked vegetables. Some good sauce. Seasoning. Scraps of pastry. Very tasty croquettes can be made with the remains of nicely cooked vegetables, such as celery, salsifys, mushrooms, cauliflower, green peas, French beans, asparagus points, &c., or a mixture of two or three kinds together. Cut the vegetables to be used into small pieces, bind them together with a little good sauce and season to taste. A little chopped parsley, finely powdered herbs, chopped pickles, grated cheese, &c., may be added according to the vegetable used. The mixture must not be too moist and should be quite cold before it is used. Then take some scraps of light pastry, roll them out as thinly as possible, and cut out rounds about 3 or 4 inches in diameter. Wet round the edges and put a little of the vegetable mixture in the centre. Double the pastry over so as to form a crescent shape and press the edges well together. Brush the croquettes over with beaten egg, toss them in fine bread-crumbs or crushed vermicelli and let them dry a short time. Then fry in hot fat to a golden brown colour, drain well and serve either as a garnish or as a dish by themselves. Note.—Any good vegetable puree with small pieces of vegetable added to it may also be used for these croquettes. 601. Vegetable Curry (Legumes en Kari) Cooked vegetables. I Boiled rice. Curry sauce. | Any nicely cooked vegetable may be used for a curry, such as turnip, carrot, cauliflower, French beans, peas, flageolets, potatoes, &c., or a mixture of vegetables if preferred. The vegetables, which should be well cooked, but not too soft and pulpy, should be cut in small neat pieces. Then prepare .some good curry sauce (see Recipe 685), put the170 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD cooked vegetables into it, and allow them to simmer a few minutes, until they are thoroughly heated and flavoured with the sauce. Serve on a hot dish with a border of rice round, or the rice may be served in a separate dish. Vegetable Marrow (Courge) The vegetable marrow belongs to the gourd family and there are several different kinds. To taste it in perfection it should be cooked while still quite small, not more than 5 or 6 inches in length. It can then be cooked whole, as the seeds have not begun to form. When cooking an older marrow which requires peeling and cutting, it is better to steam, bake, or braise it, as boiling in water will make it very tasteless. The vegetable marrow is very delicate in flavour and easily digested. about | inch in thickness, and with a small cutter stamp out the seeds and soft part from the centres, leaving rings of marrow. Put these rings on a plate, sprinkle them with salt and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Cover with another plate and let them stand at least one hour. Then drain off every drop of water, and lay the pieces of marrow between the folds of a towel to dry. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat. Coat a few pieces of marrow at a time with fine flour, put them into a frying basket and fry in the fat until they are brown and crisp. Drain on paper and pro- ceed with the remainder in the same way. When all are ready, serve them piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them and garnish with sliced lemon and a little parsley. Time to fry, 5 to 7 minutes each lot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 602. Vegetable Marrow with White Sauce (Courge & la Sauce Blanche) 1 small vegetable marrow. Salt. 4 pt. white sauce. Wash the marrow, cut it in quarters, remove the seeds, and peel it thinly. Cut it into neat- sized pieces and throw them into cold water until wanted. Then place the pieces in a steamer, sprinkle with salt, and cook them over boiling water until they feel tender and look transparent. Have ready some white sauce made according to directions given in Recipe 671, and nicely seasoned. Arrange the pieces of marrow neatly in a hot vegetable dish and pour the hot sauce over them. Note.—If preferred, the marrow may be cooked in milk and the milk afterwards used for making the sauce. Time to steam, \ to | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 603. Vegetable Marrow with Cheese (Courge au Fromage) 1 small marrow. 2 gills milk. 1 small onion. 1 gill water. 2 or 3 cloves. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. cornflour. Prepare the marrow as above and put the pieces into a lined saucepan. Pour over them the milk and water and add the onion stuck with the cloves. Cook the marrow slowly until it feels quite tender, then drain it and reserve the liquid for making the sauce. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the cornflour and mix the two smoothly together. Then Eour on the strained milk and water and stir until oiling. Allow this sauce to cook for 2 or 3 minutes and season it to taste with a little white pepper, salt, and made mustard. Add most of the cheese and mix it well in, but do not boil again. Arrange the pieces of marrow in a greased fireproof dish, pour the sauce over them and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top. Brown in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Time to cook, 20 or 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 604. Vegetable Marrow, Fried (Courge Frite) 1 small vegetable marrow. I Salt. Lemon juice. | A little flour. Choose a. young fresh marrow, wash and peel it, keeping it whole. Then cut it across in slices 605. Vegetable Marrow, Stewed (Courge au Jus) 1 vegetable marrow, i pt. white stock. 1 onion. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. Wash and peel the marrow, removing all the seeds and the soft part from the centre. Then cut it into small square pieces and throw them into cold wateB to which a few drops of vinegar have been added. Put the stock into a stewpan and bring it to the boil, add the onion finely chopped and allow it to cook about 10 minutes. Drain the marrow and add it to the stock with pepper and salt if necessary. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until the marrow is tender. Now strain off the liquid, put the marrow into a hot vegetable dish and keep it warm. Return the stock to the saucepan, add to it the cornflour broken with a little cold water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes, then stir in the yolk of egg and parsley, but do not boil again. Pour this sauce over the marrow and serve hot. Note.—The yolk of egg may be omitted. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 606. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 1 (Courge Farcie) 1 small vegetable marrow. 3 table-sps. minced meat. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. of chopped parsley. A little grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. sauce or beaten egg. Salt, pepper. \ pt. brown, tomato, or parsley sauce. Wash and peel the marrow, keeping it whole. Then cut a wedge out of it lengthwise and care- fully scoop out all the seeds and soft pulpy part with a tea-spoon. Now prepare the stuffing. Put into a basin the chopped meat, bread-crumbs, and parsley, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Mix well and then bind together with a spoonful of good sauce of any kind, or a little beaten egg. Put this stuffing into the marrow and fix in the wedge again. Wrap it up in well-greased paper and bind round with a piece of tape, or put it into a greased paper bag and fix it firmly so that it has no room to spread. Place the marrow on a well-greased baking tin, cover it with another tin and bake in a moderate oven until tender. Then remove it fromVEGETABLES AND SALADS 171 the oven, undo it carefully and place it on a hot dish. Pour over it some good sauce and serve at once. Note.—The above stuffing may be varied to suit individual taste; any savoury mixture may be used. Time to bake, J to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 607. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 2 1 small vegetable marrow. 3 table-sps. bread-cnimbs. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 hard-boiled egg. lyolkofegg. Salt,pepper. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 oz. sweet almonds. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash and peel the marrow. Cut it in two pieces from end to end and scoop out all the seeds and soft part from the centre. Put these pieces into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, allow them to boil for 2 or 3 minutes, and drain. Then prepare the stuffing. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, boil the milk, pour it over them and let them soak a few minutes. Blanch and chop the almonds, and chop the hard-boiled egg. Add these to the soaked bread-crumbs with the grated cheese and seasoning to taste. Mix well and add the yolk of egg to bind all together. Place the two pieces of marrow on a greased fire- proof dish with the hollow sides uppermost and nil them with this stuffing. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs or a little grated cheese on the top, cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven until tender. Serve hot in the same dish. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. imported to this country, but not in any large quan- tities. There are several different kinds of yams, but the white are generally regarded as the best. They can be cooked according to almost any of the directions given for cooking potatoes, and will bo found both nutritious and palatable. PART II DRIED AND PRESERVED VEGETABLES 609. Butter Beans with Apple Sauce £ lb. butter beans. 1 pt. boiling water. 1 small onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Pepper. Salt. Hot buttered toast. Apple sauce. Wash the beans and soak them overnight in cold water. Next day pour away the water and put the beans into a saucepan with the boiling water, a bunch of herbs, and a small onion. Allow them to cook slowly until tender, about 3 hours. Then strain, reserving the liquid. Now melt the butter in the saucepan, stir in the flour, pom on the liquid and stir until boiling. Return the beans, keeping back the bunch of herbs, season to taste, and simmer a few minutes. Serve the beans on neat pieces of hot buttered toast and hand apple sauce separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. Watercress (Cresson) Watercress is one of the most wholesome of ora salad plants and a favourite with most people. It is rich in mineral salts, cooling to the system and an aid to digestion. There are two different kinds, the brown or bronze coloured and the green ; the former is considered the finer of the two. It requires very careful washing and picking and must be used very fresh. Although generally served raw, watercress is very good when cooked, and when it can be had in abundance it makes a leasant change as a green vegetable. It can also e chopped and added to soup instead of parsley. 608. Stewed Watercress 1 lb. watercress. I 1 tea-sp. vinegar. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. | Sippets of toast. Wash and pick the watercress carefully. Scald it in boiling water for about 10 minutes, then drain and chop it finely. Put it into a saucepan with the butter and vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Stew slowly until tender and serve in a hot dish garnished with sippets of toast or crou- tons of fried bread. Note.—A little cream added to the mixture would be an improvement. Yams (Ignames) These are tubers resembling the potato or Jeru- salem artichoke, and they sometimes grow to a very large size. They grow in tropical climates and are also cultivated to some extent in France. They are Flageolets (Flageolets) These are the little green beans of French beans or kidney beans freed from their pods. They can be used both fresh and dried, but in this country they are more usually sold in a dried statp. They are more expensive than the white haricot beans, costing about 8d. per lb., but they make an excellent dish and help to give variety. 610. Flageolets au Beurre Wash some dried flageolets and let them soak in cold water overnight. Next day put them into a saucepan with fresh cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil and add an onion ard a small bunch of herbs. Sometimes a little bacon is added as well to give flavour. Allow the beans to cook until quite tender, adding more water if required, then drain and remove the onion, herbs, &c. Return the beans to the sauce- pan with a small piece of butter and toss them over the fire. Sprinkle them with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and serve them very hot. Note.—Fresh flageolets can be cooked in the same way as green peas, only longer time should be allowed and the mint must be omitted. Time to cook, from 2 to 3 hours. 611. Flageolets in Sauce Flageolets are also very good served in sauce. They must first be cooked until tender (see above) and then reheated, after draining, in any suitable sauce, such as parsley, egg, tomato, curry, &c.172 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 612. Flageolets au Gratin 2 tea-cupfuls cooked fla- geolets. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Seasoning. | pt. milk or water. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. Cook the flageolets as directed in Recipe 610, and drain off a ny remaining water; or use tffe remains of cold cooked flageolets. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and cook the two together for a minute or two. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the milk or water. Any water drained off the flageolets should be used and the quantity made up with milk. Stir until boiling, add the flageolets and seasoning and make all thoroughly hot. Then stir in half the cheese, but do not boil again. Pour the mixture into a well-greased fireproof dish, sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Note.—Haricot beans may be prepared in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. Haricot Beans (Haricots Blancs) These are the dried seeds of the kidney or French bean. The pods are allowed to fully ripen and then the seeds are dried. They form a very valuable food because they are cheap, nourishing, and easily cooked. They will keep for months in a cool dry place, and are useful to fall back upon when fresh vegetables are not obtainable. Haricot beans should always be soaked for several hours before cooking in order to soften them, and then they must be thoroughly cooked, or else they will be found difficult of digestion. They can be made more digestible by having the skins removed, but this is somewhat troublesome. There are both red and white haricot beans, and both kinds can be cooked in the same way. The white are the more common, and more popular than the red. 613. Haricot Beans, To Prepare and Cook Wash the haricot beans and let them soak in cold water overnight to soften them. Next day, throw away any beans that are floating on the top of the water and drain the others. Put them into a saucepan with fresh cold water to cover them, an onion stuck with 2 or 3 cloves, and if liked a bunch of herbs. If the water is very hard it is a good plan to add a little dripping or fat as well, as this helps to soften the beans. Or, greasy stock, such as the water in which a piece of mutton or bacon has been boiled, provided it is not too salt, may be used instead of plain water. Put the lid on the pan, bring the beans quickly to the boil and then allow them to simmer slowly until tender. The time will vary according to the age and size of the beans used, from 2 hours or longer. If the water boils away during the cook- ing, add more cold water. When ready, drain the beans, reserve the water in which they, were cooked, and remove the onion and bunch of herbs. The beans are now ready to be served in any way required. Some people remove the skins in order to make them more digestible, and this can be done by pinching the bean between the thumb and finger when the inside will slip out, but unless it is for some special dish this is somewhat trouble- some and is apt to break the beans. Notes.—The water that is drained off the beans should either be used for making a sauce or be put into the stock pot. A double saucepan is excellent for cooking haricot beans, only longer time will be required. Time to cook, about 2 hours. 614. Haricot Beans with Butter (Haricots Blancs au Beurre) J lb. haricot beans. | 1 dessert-sp. chopped pars- White pepper and salt. | ley. 1 oz. butter. Prepare and cook the beans until quite soft, as directed in last recipe. Drain them well, return them to the saucepan, and let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid partially off, to dry. Then add the butter, parsley, pepper, and salt. Shake the beans over the fire for a minute or two, and serve them hot. Do not stir with a spoon, as it is apt to break them. A squeeze of lemon juice is sometimes added. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3d. 615. Haricot Beans with Parsley Sauce (Haricots Blancs a la Maitre d’Hotel) \ lb. haricot beans. Jpt. parsley sauce. Prepare and cook the beans as directed above, drain them well and put them in a hot vegetable dish. Make the parsley sauce (see Recipe 700), using some of the water from the beans to supply the liquid, and pour it boiling hot over the beans. Note.—Other sauces, such as tomato, brown, egg, &c., may be used in the same way, and the dish would alter its name accordingly. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 616. Curried Haricot Beans 6 oz. haricot beans. | £ lb. rice. £ pt. cui ry sauce. | Parsley. Prepare and cook the beans as directed in Recipe 613, and drain them before they are quite soft. Make a good and thick curry sauce (see Recipe 685), add the beans to it, and let them continue cook- ing until tender. Then serve with a border of boiled rice round and garnish with small sprigs of parsley. Probable cost, 5cl. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 617. Haricot Beans, Mashed 1 large cupful cooked I 1 table-sp. butter or fat. haricots. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. | 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Any remains of cooked beans may be utilised for this, but they must be very tender. Heat the milk first with a table-spoonful of butter or fat, bacon fat or beef dripping is very good, put the beans into this and mash them with a fork or spoon until reduced to a pulp. If the mixture is too thick a little more milk must be added. Season to taste, pile up neatly in a vegetable dish and sprinkle the chopped parsley over the top. Note.—A smoother mixture may be made by rubbing the beans through a sieve. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons.173 VEGETABLES AND SALADS 618. Haricot Bean Pur6e (Puree de Haricots Blancs) J lb. cooked haricots. I 1 or 2 oz. butter or drip- | pt. milk. I ping. Seasoning. Prepare and cook the haricot beans as directed in Recipe 613. After draining return them to a saucepan with the milk and let them cook again until soft and broken. Rub as much as possible through a wire sieve, then reheat, adding the butter or dripping and seasoning to taste. More milk or a little cream may also be added if a softer puree is desired. Serve very hot in a vegetable dish or as a garnish for other dishes. Note.—Light stock may be used instead of the milk. 619. Haricot Bean Rissoles l lb. cooked haricot beans. A little flour. 1 oz. dripping or butter. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Bread-crumbs. Rub the beans through a wire sieve, and add to them the butter or dripping, seasoning, and enough beaten egg to bind all together. Allow the mixture to set, then form it into balls with the aid of a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb these, and fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve the rissoles hot garnished with parsley. 620. Haricot Bean Savoury 1 cupful cooked haricots. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Pepper and salt. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. Croutons of fried bread. Have the beans cooked until tender and the skins removed if possible. Heat the butter and cream in a saucepan, put in the beans, sprinkling them with the cheese, parsley, and seasoning. Toss oveB the fire until thoroughly hot, then add the yolk of egg beaten up with a table-spoonful of water, shake the contents of the saucepan a minute or two longer and then serve at once in a pretty china dish. Garnish with small croutons of fried bread. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 621. Haricot Bean Mould \ lb. cooked haricot beans. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. 1 egg. 1 gill tomato sauce. Rub some well-cooked haricot beans through a wire sieve and put them into a basin. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add the butter or dripping melted and the egg well beaten, and mix all together. Grease a plain tin or basin, coat it inside with the browned crumbs, pour in the haricot bean mixture and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Turn out and serve with tomato or any other suitable sauce poured round. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. Lima or Butter Beans Prepare and cook in the same way as haricot beans. They do not require such long soaking nor cooking. Lentils (Lentilles) These are more frequently served in the form of soup than in any other way, but they make an ex- cellent vegetable none the less, and it is only a pity that they are not more frequently served as such. The lentil is one of the most nourishing of foods and is more easily digested than either peas or beans. It is one of the best substitutes for butcher’s meat and figures largely in the diet of vegetarians. It should be eaten along with some starchy food, such as bread, potatoes, or rice, and fat in some form or other should always be supplied. A green vegetable or salad is a good accompaniment to a dish of lentils. The red or Egyptian lentil is the kind most usually sold, but we have also the purplish green or German lentil, which is excellent for stewing; it is better flavoured and a little more expensive than the former. Lentils always require very careful washing and picking, and if time permits they should be soaked for some time before cooking, although this is not so necessary as for peas and beans. 622. Stewed Lentils \ lb. lentils. 1 pt. cold water. 1 small onion. 2 or 3 cloves. A bunch of herbs. 1 table-sp. butter or fat. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Either the red or green lentils may be used. Wash them very carefully in several waters, and if time permits allow them to soak for several hours in cold water to cover them. Then pour off the water and put the lentils into a saucepan with 1 pint fresh cold water, a small onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of herbs. Cover the sauce- pan and allow the lentils to cook slowly until they are tender, from 1| to 2 hours. More water may require to be added from time to time, but no more than is necessary to cook them should be used, and by the time the lentils are ready this should all be absorbed. A very good way of cooking lentils i3 in a double saucepan or in a covered jar or saucepan in the oven, but longer time must be allowed. When the lentils are ready, remove the onion and herbs, mix in the butter or other fat, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Serve very hot garnished with sippets of toast, or with a border of rice or potatoes round. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3d. 623. Baked Lentils Cook and prepare the lentils as in last recipe, then put them in a buttered dish with a sprinkling of bread-crumbs or grated cheese on the top. Lay on a few small pieces of butter and bake in tho oven until nicely browned. 624. Curried Lentils 2 tea-cupfuls cooked lentils. 1 table-sp. butter or fat. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. curry powder-. 2 table-sps. chopped apple. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 2 table-sps. stock or gravy. Boiled rice. Cook the lentils as directed in Recipe 622, and drain off any remaining water. Melt the fat in aCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 174 email stewpan, put in the apple and onion rather finely chopped, and fry them slowly until a light brown colour. Then mix in the curry powder, using more or less according to taste and the strength of the ingredients. Add the lentils and season- ing and cook all together from 10 to 15 minutes, adding the stock to moisten if necessary. Serve with some nicely boiled rice, either as a border round the dish, or separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 625. Lentil Pudding Make in the same way as pease pudding (see Recipe 635), using lentils instead of split peas. It will not require quite so long to cook. 626. Lentil Pur6e 4 pt. lentils. 1 pt. cold water. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. (Pur6e de Lentilles) 1 or 2 oz. butter or drip- ping. Seasoning. A little milk or stock. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Wash the lentils in several waters, then put them in a basin with the pint of fresh cold water. Cover the basin with a plate and stand overnight. Next day turn the lentils with the water in which they were soaked into a saucepan, add the onion cut in pieces, and simmer slowly until quite soft and pulpy, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. Then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve and return the puree to a clean saucepan to reheat. Add the butter or dripping and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. If too thick, thin down to the desired consistency with milk or stock. Serve very hot and sprinkle the chopped parsley over. Note.—This is one of the most digestible ways of serving lentils. If time and labour have to be economised, mash the lentils in the saucepan instead of sieving. Time to cook, 14 to 2 hours. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 627. Lentils with Eggs au Gratin 2 cupfuls puree of lentils. | A little butter. 2 table- 3 or 4 eggs. | sps. bread-crumbs. Prepare the puree as in last recipe, keeping it rather thick. Put it into a greased fireproof dish and make 3 or 4 round hollows to receive the eggs. Break each egg separately into a tea-cup and slip it into the lentil puree. Sprinkle the bread- crumbs on the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven from 8 to 10 minutes. Serve in the same dish. Note.—Other vegetable purees, such as haricot beans, green peas, celeriac, potato, &c., can be used in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 628. Lentil and Potato Cakes 1 cupful cooked lentils. 1 cupful cooked potatoes. 1 table-sp. butter or fat. Pepper and salt. i tea-sp.powdered herbs. A squeeze of lemon juice. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. The remains of any cooked lentils will do for these, but they must be soft without being liquid. Melt a small piece of butter or other fat in a sauce- pan, put in the lentils and mash them well, then add the potatoes, which should be dry and mealy, the powdered herbs, and other seasoning. Mix all together until a smooth paste is formed, then spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When firm, form into small flat cakes, using a little flour, egg and bread-crumb these, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Tomato or brown sauce may be served separately. Note.—Cooked rice may be used instead of potatoes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 629. Potted Lentils i lb. lentils. | 2 oz. butter. Water. Pepper. Salt. A small bunch of herbs. | Lemon juice. The green or German lentils are the best to use for this. Wash them carefully and let them soak in cold water overnight. Strain and put the lentils into a saucepan with fresh cold water to cover them and bring them to the boil. Add a small bunch of herbs and simmer slowly or cook in the oven until the lentils are quite soft and pulpy, adding more water if required. When ready, drain off any remaining water (which may be put into the stock pot) and rub the lentils through a fine sieve. Melt and if necessary clarify the butter, add most of it to the lentil puree, with pepper, salt, and lemon juice to taste. Mix well, pack into pots and pour the remaining butter on the top. Notes.—The lentils must be drained very dry or the paste will be too soft. Potted lentils make excellent sandwiches, spread on either white or brown bread and butter ; and small cress or thinly- sliced cucumber is an excellent addition. Some- times a few brown bread-crumbs are added to the lentils before sieving. Probable cost, 3d. 630. Lentils with Rice 1 table-sp. butter or dripping. Seasoning. Fried croutons. 1 cupful cooked lentils. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and fry it a few minutes. Then add the lentils and heat them until soft and smooth, adding a little stock or gravy if too thick. Season to taste and stir in at the last a cupful of well-boiled rice. Serve very hot, garnished with fried croutons of bread. Fried or baked tomatoes, or a fresh green salad, is a good accompaniment to this dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 631. Lentil Souffl6 4 pt. lentil puree. I 1 table-sp. tomato puree. 2 or 3 eggs. I Seasoning. Make the lentil puree by rubbing some well- cooked lentils through a sieve. The puree must not be too thin, but should just drop easily from the spoon. Put it into a basin and stir in the yolks of eggs. Add a little tomato puree or sauce to flavour, and season with pepper and salt. Then beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in very lightly at the last. Pour theVEGETABLES AND SALADS 175 mixture into a greased souffle dish, not more than half filling it, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. Dried Peas We have dried peas in two forms, the whole green pea and the split pea, which has had the outer skin removed. They are both very valuable articles of food on account of their low price and the amount of nourishment they contain; but they must be well cooked to make them digestible, and previous soaking is a necessity. Dried green peas may be served as a vegetable instead of fresh green peas, what are called the marrow fat peas being the best to choose for this purpose; or a few of them may be put into a broth or stew that requires long cooking. They are also good made into a puree (see below), when they may be served as an accompaniment to meat and especially fat meat or salt meat; while the puree thinned down with milk or water makes an excellent soup. Split peas are more used for soup than for any other purpose, also for pease pudding, which is a favourite accompaniment to boiled pork ; they can also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking lentils. 632. Dried Green Peas, To Cook | pt. dried green peas. 1 onion. Salt, pepper. 3 or 4 cloves. A bunch of herbs. 2 table-sps. stock or cream. 1 oz. butter. £ tea-sp. sugar. The dried green peas make a very good winter vegetable when fresh peas are not obtainable. Soak them first from 12 to 18 hours in cold water, then drain and rinse them in fresh cold water. Put the peas into a saucepan, well cover them with cold water and bring them slowly to the boil. Add an onion stuck with 3 or 4 cloves and a small bunch of herbs, and continue the cooking until the peas are quite tender. More water must be added from time to time if the peas become too dry. Drain them when ready and remove the onion and herbs. Return the peas to the saucepan, mix in the butter and sugar, season to taste, and add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of good stock or cream to moisten. Serve at once in a hot vegetable dish. Note.—A little ham or bacon, cut in dice and fried until crisp, may be added to the peas at the last and this will make a good supper dish. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 633. Dried Green Pea Pur6e Prepare and cook some dried green peas as in last recipe. After draining, rub the peas through a wire sieve, using some of the water in which they were cooked to moisten them. Return the puree to the saucepan, add a piece of butter or some good beef dripping and season to taste. If the puree is too thick, thin it down with a little hot milk or stock. Serve in a hot vegetable dish. Note.—This makes a very good accompaniment to salt meat. 634. Green Peas and Spaghetti 2 tea-cupfuls green pea puree. Seasoning. 2 tea-cupfuls cooked spaghetti. 1 table-sp. butter. 3 table-sps. grated cheese 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Make the green pea puree (see last recipe) and keep it hot. Boil the spaghetti until tender, and drain it well. Then melt the butter in a sauce- pan, put in the spaghetti, cheese, and seasoning, and make all thoroughly hot. To serve, arrange the green pea puree in a border round a dish, pile the spaghetti in the centre and sprinkle the parsley over. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 635. Pease Pudding l lb. split peas. I Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. | A pinch of sugar. Wash the peas well, removing any discoloured ones, and soak them overnight in cold water. Tie them loosely in a cloth, leaving room for them to swell, and put them into a saucepan with a good pinch of salt and enough boiling water to cover them. Boil quickly from 2 to 2\ hours, or until the peas are quite soft. Keep them well covered with water all the time. When ready, take them up and drain. Turn the peas out of the cloth, and rub them through a wire sieve or colander. Add the butter, egg well beaten, pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Beat all well together for a few minutes until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, then tie up tightly in a floured cloth. Boil the pudding for another half hour, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve as an accompaniment to salt beef or pork. Or, if preferred, the second boiling may be dis- pensed with, and the mixture simply piled up on a hot dish. The egg in this case may be omitted. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4d. PART III SALADS INTRODUCTORY THE INGREDIENTS OF A SALAD The variety of ingredients that can be used for salads is so numerous that we need never be with- out one all the year round. Almost all vegetables can be utilised for this purpose, some in their raw, and others in a cooked state. Among the principal vegetables which may be used raw, may be men- tioned : the lettuce, endive, mustard and cress, watercress, cucumber, tomato, radishes, spring onions, celery, &c., whilst the following may be quoted as being amongst the most suitable of those requiring previous cooking: beetroot, cauli- flower, French beans, green peas, asparagus, carrot, turnip, potato, Spanish onion, haricot beans, &c. Besides vegetables, poultry and game of any kind, ham, tongue, or, in fact, any tender, well- flavoured meat cut in small pieces may be used.176 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Fish too, and shellfish, such as salmon, halibut, sole, cod, lobster, oysters, &c., are very delicious utilised in this way, while eggs, nuts, and even fruit help to give variety. THE PREPARATION OF SALAD VEGETABLES When cooked vegetables are used for a salad they should be firm and never pulpy, so that they retain their form or can be cut in pieces. All green vegetables should be young and crisp, and should be carefully washed in cold water to free them from dust and insects. The main thing to observe in the washing of green vegetables, such as lettuce, endive, cress, &c., is to handle them very lightly; if too much touched their crispness is destroyed. It is also important to have the vegetables well dried after washing; if any water is left on them the dressing will not adhere, but will run to the bottom of the dish and both salad and dressing will be poor. Green salad vegetables should be shaken in a sieve or wire basket first and then tossed lightly in a cloth. To prepare lettuce for a salad cut oS the root and remove any coarse and discoloured outside leaves, and trim away any decayed parts from the inside ones. Separate the rest of the leaves one from the other, and throw them into a basin of fresh cold water. Wash lightly in this, and then take a second clean cold water, and wash again. If rather limp, let the lettuce soak for half an hour or so in cold water, but do not do this if it can be avoided, then shake as dry as possible in a sieve or wire basket, and toss lightly in a towel. The larger leaves of the lettuce may be cut across in fine shreds with a knife, and the smaller ones used as a garnish. Many people object to use a knife and prefer to tear the leaves in pieces with the fingers, but if a sharp knife is used, and it is quickly and lightly done, it really does no harm, and the lettuce looks much better. Endive may be pre- pared in the same way as lettuce. Mustard and cress should be washed in several waters until all the black, seeds and grit are removed. If rather limp, soak for half an hour in cold water, then shake well on a sieve, and spread on a cloth to dry. Watercress, from the nature of its growth, requires most careful cleansing, or it may prove most harmful. Remove all fibres and decayed leaves from the stalks. Then wash carefully in several waters, and shake it dry. To prepare radishes, wash them well in cold water, rubbing off all black with the fingers. If large, they may be scrubbed with a brush and the tops cut off. Dry in a towel. These may be served whole or cut in thin slices. Cut the roots off Spring onions, part of the green tops and the outside skin. Then wash well, allowing the water to run between the leaves. Dry in a cloth and serve whole or cut in thin slices. To prepare other vegetables for a salad see under the special headings. Basket for draining Salad THE DRESSING AND SERVING OF SALADS A salad should be served as cold as possible, and, as a rule, the dressing should not be mixed with it until shortly before it is to be eaten. A special spoon and fork made of bone, horn, wood, glass, or ivory, should be used for mixing in the dressing, as silver or other metal is apt to promote verdigris. The dressing itself may be made sometime before- hand, especially one that is made with yolks of eSS3’ as this will take no harm by standing, but it must be kept in a cool place or on ice until wanted. Although exact quantities have been given for the various salad dressings (see p. 192), diver- sity of taste must always be considered. There are two typical salad dressings, i.e. vinaigrette sauce or French dressing, made of oil and vinegar with seasonings, and mayonnaise sauce. The former is the simpler of the two, and the one most frequently used on the Continent. Mayon- naise is, as a rule, more appreciated by English people. A French dressing is always better for a salad that is to be served along with another dish such as a roast, and always for a light green salad, for which a cream or egg dressing would be too heavy ; but for meat, fish, lobster, and the heavier salads a mayonnaise or other egg dressing is gener- ally used, as these are, as a rule, served as a separate course and not as an accompaniment to another dish. Never use any but the best oil for salad dress- ings, and if not using it frequently, buy it in small bottles, as it soon becomes rancid. Keep it also in a cool, dark place. Cream may always be sub- stituted for oil, and even sour cream will make an excellent dressing. The quality and flavour of the vinegar is also a matter of great importance in salad-making, and one which is not sufficiently attended to. The French wine vinegars are the best when they are obtainable. The variety of ways in which a salad may be garnished is endless, and although special garnishes have been suggested in the following recipes, these can always be altered to suit individual taste and according to the ingredients at hand. Above all things avoid over-decoration, and do not give the salad the appearance of having been much handled. A salad may either be served in a salad bowl, a glass dish, or in one of the various fancy china dishes now on the market. It is also very customary to serve individual salads in small scallop-shaped dishes, allowing one for each person. 636. Apple and Celery Salad (Salade de Pommes et de C61eri) 2 or 3 apples. 1 head celery. 1 or 2 gherkins. Salad dressing. Coralline pepper. A little lettuce. Use the white inner portion of the celery. Wash it, cut it in fine shreds, and let it lie in cold water for at least hour. Then drain and dry it well in a cloth. Choose sharp, juicy apples. Peel, core, and with a silver knife cut them in very thin slices. Put the celery and apple into a basin, pour over enough salad dressing (Recipe 748) to moisten them and mix together very lightly. Line177 VEGETABLES AND SALADS a salad dish with some nice crisp leaves of lettuce, arrange the salad on the top, sprinkle with a little coralline pepper and garnish with the gherkins either chopped or cut in shreds. A few chopped nuts may be mixed with this salad if liked. Serve before the apple has time to discolour. This makes a very good accompaniment to roast pork or goose. 637, Banana Salad (Salade de Bananes) 3 or 4 bananas. j Salad dressing. Seasoning. Lettuce. I ltable-sp. chopped nuts. Choose firm ripe bananas and slit them open from end to end, keeping the skin in one piece. Take out the fruit and cut it in thin slices with a silver knife. Mix if with some salad dressing (see Recipe 749) and season with pepper, salt, and a few chopped or ground nuts. Fill the banana skins with this mixture, leaving them half open, then arrange some nice crisp lettuce leaves on a salad dish, place the filled bananas on the top and garnish with a little cress or, if obtainable, a few nasturtium flowers. 638. Beef Salad (Salad de Boeuf) 6 oz. cold beef. 2 or 3 cooked potatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 2 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Salad dressing. No. 748. Mustard and cress. The meat used must be tender and juicy. Re- move from it all skin and sinew and cut it into thin shreds, allowing just a small proportion of fat. Cut the potatoes also in shreds or small cubes and mix them with the meat. Season with pepper, salt, the chopped parsley and pickles. Peel the tomatoes and cut them in thin slices, arrange them neatly at the bottom of the salad dish, season with pepper and salt and pile the meat mixture on the top. Decorate with a little mustard and cress and pour the dressing slowly over all. Allow the salad to stand in a cool place for a short time before serving. Note.—This salad may be varied very much according to individual taste and the materials at command. Any nice salad vegetable may be mixed with the meat, beetroot or cucumber may be used instead of the tomato and mayonnaise sauce instead of the above dressing. This makes a good Sunday supper dish. 639. Beetroot Salad (Salade de Betterave) Cooked beetroot. I Salad dressing. No. 748. Lettuce. | Small cress. Peel the beetroot and cut it in thin slices or in dice. Arrange it in a salad dish with a few crisp pieces of lettuce and pour the dressing over. Decorate with little bunches of small cress. If the flavour of onion is liked, 1 or 2 chopped chives or a chopped shallot may be added, or the salad dish may be rubbed over with a clove of garlic. A few slices or small sections of hard-boiled egg may also be added if wished. Note.—A salad made of equal quantities of beet- root and cooked potatoes is also very good. It makes a good winter salad. 640. Beetroot and Orange Salad 1 beetroot (cooked). 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 2 sweet oranges. Onion flavouring. 2 table-sps. salad oil. Choose a medium-sized beetroot, peel it and cut it in thin slices. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, cut them in thin slices and take out the pips. Now take a salad dish and rub it over with a cut piece of onion, or if liked, a clove or garlic, and arrange in it very neatly the prepared beetroot and orange. Pour over the oil and lemon juice and let the salad stand a short time before serving. This salad is uncommon and very good. 641, Carrot Salad (Salade de Carottes) Cooked carrots. | Salad dressing. No. 749. Watercress. | Chopped parsley. Choose nice red carrots, which have been well cooked without being pulpy. Cut them in fine shreds or small cubes, season them with pepper and salt and set aside until very cold. Then mix them lightly with a little salad dressing. Carefully pick and wash some fresh watercress, shake it very dry and arrange it in a circle on a salad dish. Put the carrots in the centre, baste with a little more of the dressing and decorate with chopped parsley and, if liked, a little hard-boiled and chopped white of egg. Note.—When young carrots are in season a very good salad can be made by mixing them with some fresh green peas, asparagus points, or French beans finely shred. In fact, any cooked vegetable which will make a pretty contrast in colour may be used along with the carrots. Lettuce may be used instead of the watercress. 642. Cauliflower Salad (Salade de Choufleur) 1 cooked cauliflower. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Salad dressing, No. 748. Lettuce or cress. 1 hard-boiled egg. When cauliflower is used for a salad it should be pretty and white. It is better to have it cooked either by steaming, or by boiling it in equal quan- tities of milk and water. It must on no account be overcooked or it will become an ugly pinkish'colour. Drain it well and allow it to become quite cold. Then break it apart in small flowerettes, removing the green leaves and most of the stalk. Put the cauliflower into a basin, pour a little dressing over it, season with pepper and salt and mix all very lightly. Arrange a little lettuce or other green salad in a salad dish and pile the cauliflower on the top. Decorate with small sections of hard- boiled egg and little bunches of small cress. Pour over all a little more of the dressing and sprinkle the parsley on the top. 643. Celery Salad (Salade de Celeri) 1 head of celery. Parsley or small cress. Salad dressing. No. 750. Remove the outside stalks from the celery, reserving these for flavouring stocks and soups, and use the white part only for making the salad. The smaller heads of celery are usually the most MCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 178 tender. Separate the stalks and wash and brush them well in cold water. If time permits let these lie for half an hour in cold water, then lift out and dry them well in a cloth. Then with a sharp knife cut the celery across in fine shreds and also shred the white of egg left from the salad dressing. Mix these two lightly together, pile them up in a salad dish, and pour the dressing over. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and garnish with little bunches of small cress and the small green tops of the lettuce. Curled celery may also be used as a garnish (Recipe 467). Allow the salad to stand about | hour before serving. Note.—A little ketchup or Worcester sauce is sometimes added to the salad dressing for a celery salad. 644, Celery and Walnut Salad (Salade de Celeri et Noix) 1 head of celery. [ Mayonnaise sauce, i lb. shelled walnuts. | A little cream. Use the white part only of the celery, wash it, cut it in fine shreds, and then dry it in a clean towel. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, rub off as much of the brown skin as possible, and cut them in small pieces. Mix the celery and walnuts together with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls thick mayonnaise sauce and a little whipped cream. Add more seasoning if neoessary. Pile the mixture in the centre of a salad dish, and decorate with shred or curled celery (see Re- cipe 467) and a few halves of walnuts. This salad is very good served with poultry or game. 645, Chicken Salad Some cooked chicken. 1 lettuce. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. Some small cress. A few radishes. Mayonnnaise sauce. Cut the chicken in dice, removing the skin. Wash the lettuce and celery. Dry well and cut them in shreds. Mix these with the chicken, half the cress, and a little mayonnaise. Pile high on a salad dish, and pour some more mayonnaise oveD the top. Garnish with the small leaves of lettuce, radishes, and the remainder of the cress. Note.—Endive may also be used as a garnish, and cucumber used instead of celery. A hard- boiled egg cut in pieces may be added. 646, Chicken and Lettuce Salad (Salade de Volaille) Cooked chicken. Lettuce. Mayonnaise sauce. Small piece of cucumber and beetroot. White of egg. Take the breast, or the most tender part of a cooked chicken, and cut it in fine shreds free from skin. Cut a small piece of beetroot and cucumber in thin slices, season them with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of oil and vinegar, and let them lie from 15 to 20 minutes. Cut the white part of a nice fresh lettuce in shreds and have ready a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce. Now take a salad dish and arrange the beetroot and cucumber in circles next the outer rim. Pile the chicken and, lettuce in layers in the centre, moistening each layer with a little mayonnaise sauce and making all into a dome shape. Cover the whole with more mayonnaise, decorate the sides with rings of hard- boiled white of egg and place the heart of the lettuce on the top. 647, Crab Salad (Salade de Crabe) 1 boiled crab. 1 or 2 tomatoes. Small cress. Lettuce. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Mayonnaise sauce. Pick all the meat from the crab and shred it finely, carefully removing all pieces of shell. Put it into a basin, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add to the crab some small cress and some tomato skinned and cut in small pieces. Moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce and mix lightly together. Arrange a few crisp leaves of lettuce in a salad dish, pile the crab mixture in the centre and pour a little more mayon- naise over the top. Decorate with small cress and pieces of tomato. 648. Crab and Tomato Salad 1 crab. Anchovy fillets. I 5 or 6 small tomatoes. Mayonnaise sauce. I Small cress. Lettuce. Choose nice red tomatoes of equal size, firm and ripe. Scald them for a minute and remove the skins. Then cut a small piece off the top of each and with a small tea-spoon scoop out the soft and seedy inside. Season with pepper and salt and turn the tomatoes upside down to drain. Mean- while chop the meat from a crab and mix it with a little mayonnaise sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, decorate the tops with small cress and fine strips of filleted anchovies. Place them on nice curly lettuce leaves and serve. 649. Cucumber Salad (Salade de Concombres) Cucumber. I 2 or 3 spring onions. White pepper, salt. I Salad dressing, No. 748. Choose a fresh, green, and firm cucumber. Peel and slice it as thin as a piece of notepaper. When doing this always commence at the thick end and slice towards the stalk; otherwise the cucumber is inclined to have a very bitter taste. Lay these slices on a plate with the onions washed and thinly sliced, and sprinkle them rather liberally with salt. Cover with another plate, stand for half an hour, and then pour off all the water that has exuded from them. This tends to make the salad more digestible. Then arrange the slices neatly in a salad dish and pour the dressing over. Note.—When served as an accompaniment to salmon the oil and onion should be omitted and vinegar only used with the seasoning. 650. Dandelion Salad (Salade de Dent de Lion) Dandelions. Salad dressing, No. 748. Select young fresh dandelion leaves, pick them carefully and remove any pieces of stalk. Wash them in plenty of cold water and let them lie in fresh cold water for \ hour. Then shake them dry in a salad basket, or dry them lightly in a cloth. Put the leaves in a salad bowl and mix them withVEGETABLES AND SALADS 179 the salad dressing just before serving. A few nasturtium flowers make a pretty decoration when obtainable. 651, Egg Salad (Salade aux CEufs) 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 lettuce. 1 beetroot. Mayonnaise sauce. 1 dessert-sp. chopped capers. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Cut the eggs in slices or sections. Wash and shred the lettuce and cut the beetroot in thin slices. Arrange these ingredients in a salad bowl in layers, sprinkling them with a little of the Egg Salad lettuce leaves, pile the fish in the centre and pour some sauce or dressing slowly over. Place the heart of the lettuce on the top, garnish round the sides with carefully selected lettuce leaves and some thinly-sliced cucumber or tomato. Note.—Hard-boiled egg, fillets of anchovy, shrimps, beetroot, &c., may all be used as a garnish or mixed with the fish. 655. French Bean Salad (Salade de Haricots Verts) Cooked French beans. I 1 or 2 chopped chives. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. | Salad dressing. No. 748. If the beans are very young and tender they may be left whole; if not, cut them in fine shreds. Mix them with the parsley and chives, arrange them in a salad bowl and pour the dressing over just before serving. Garnish with a little lettuce, endive, or nasturtium leaves. 656. Game Salad (Salade de Gibier) Make in the same way as chicken salad, using tartare sauce (Recipe 759) instead of mayonnaise. parsley and capers and pouring over some mayon- naise sauce. Place some slices or sections of egg round the base and serve very cold. Vinaigrette sauce may be used instead of the mayonnaise, and other salad vegetables may be added. 652. Egg and Green Pea Salad 4 or 5 eggs. 1 cupful cooked green peas. Seasoning. Mayonnaise sauce. Lettuce leaves. Small cress or radish. Poach the eggs, allowing one for each person, trim off any ragged edges and allow them to become quite cold. Add to the peas enough mayonnaise sauce to bind them together and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Then to serve the salad: take a nice curly lettuce leaf for each egg, and arrange them on a salad dish with an egg in the centre of each. Put a few green peas on the top of the eggs with a little more mayonnaise over, garnish with small cress or pieces of radish, and serve as cold as possible. 653, Egg Plant Salad (Aubergines en Salad) Take one or two cooked egg plants or aubergines, peel them and cut them in small dice or shreds. Put these into a salad bowl, season with salt and pour over, in equal quantities, enough salad oil and lemon juice to moisten the egg plant. Mix well, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley or chervil, and garnish round the dish with mustard and cress or watercress. 654. Fish Salad (Salade de Poisson) | lb. cooked fish, salmon, halibut, sole, cod, &c. Mayonnaise sauce, or Salad dressing. No. 749. 1 lettuce or endive. 1 tomato or cucumber. 1 dessert-sp. capers. Lemon juice. Break the fish into neat flakes, free from skin and bone, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, lemon juice and the capers slightly chopped. It must be very cold. Line a salad dish with some crisp 657. Haricot Bean Salad (Salade de Haricots Blancs) Cooked haricot beans. I Hard-boiled egg. Chopped parsley. | Salad dressing. No. 748. Have the beans well cooked, but not broken. Dry them well and mix them lightly with the parsley. Arrange neatly on a salad dish, and pour the dressing over them. Garnish with some tiny sprigs of parsley and sections of hard-boiled egg- Notes.—If liked, a little very finely chopped onion may be added, or the dish may be rubbed over with a piece of raw onion or garlic previous to putting in the beans. Tomato, celery, or potato combined with the haricot beans make a very good salad. 658. Lettuce Salad (Salade a la Romaine) Choose young fresh lettuces and use the tender leaves only. Wash and prepare the lettuce as directed on p. 176, break it in small pieces and shake it very dry in a cloth or salad basket. Some authorities say that the lettuce should never be washed; when taken from one’s own garden and grown in clean surroundings this may be very well, but when bought, it is a very questionable habit. Put the prepared lettuce into a salad bowl and add to it a little chopped parsley, tarragon, and chives, or a few spring onions, or the salad bowl may be rubbed with a clove of garlic. At the moment of serving, mix the salad with some French dressing (Recipe 748). It will require a lot of mixing to blend it thoroughly with the leaves. The salad may then be garnished with a few radishes, or a few nasturtium flowers when in season will make a pretty decoration. 659, Lobster Salad (Salade de Homard) Cooked lobster. Mayonnaise sauce. See No. 753. Cucumber or radish. 1 or 2 lettuces. Hard-boiled egg. Pick all the meat from the lobster, and reserve the coral, the long feelers and the tips of the claw180 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD meat. Wash the coral, dry it in a slow oven, Eound and sieve it and then use it for garnishing. ut the remainder of the lobster meat into small pieces and season it with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Then take a salad dish, line it with a few crisp lettuce leaves, and pile up the lobster in the centre, arranging it in layers with the mayonnaise sauce, and masking the top with a thick layer of the sauce. Sprinkle over a little of the lobster coral, place the heart of the lettuce and a few of the lobster feelers in the centre, and decorate round the sides with some crisp lettuce leaves, some thinly sliced cucumber or radishes, and the pieces of claw meat. Notes.—The decoration for a salad of this kind is very much a matter of taste and may be more or less elaborate according to individual taste. Hard-boiled egg, prepared tomatoes, celery, fillets of anchovies, capers, pickled gherkins, watercress, &c., may either be mixed with the lobster or used as a garnish. Individual salads may be made if preferred, by serving small portions of the lobster and mayonnaise on a nice crisp lettuce leaf and decorating with a little lobster coral and small cress or cucumber. 660, Mixed Salad For this take as great a variety of salad vegetables as you can get, according to the season of the year, and a suitable proportion of each. Such vegetables as finely shred lettuce and en- dive, spring onions thinly sliced, tomatoes peeled and cut in pieces, sliced beetroot, sliced cucumber, shred celery, mustard and cress, radishes, small pieces of cooked carrot and turnip, &c. &c., are suitable. Mix lightly with any of the salad dress- ings, and garnish according to taste. 661. Orange Salad 2 sweet oranges. A little chopped tarra- 1 table-sp. salad oil. gon and chervil. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. Peel the oranges and remove all the white pith. Then divide them in natural sections and take out the seeds. Put the pieces in a salad bowl and mix them with a little chopped tarragon and chervil if obtainable. Now add the oil and vinegar (tarragon or white wine vinegar is best), and mix all lightly together. 662. Orange and Date Salad 2 sweet oranges. J lb. dates. 3 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Salt. 1 lettuce. 1 table-sp. chopped wal- nuts. Soak the dates in boiling water for a few minutes, then drain them and wipe them dry. When cold, remove the stones and cut the dates in slices. Take the finest salad oil and pour 3 table-spoonfuls or less over the dates, sprinkle them with a little salt, then add the lemon juice and mix together. Peel the oranges and remove all the white pith; then cut them in small and very thin slices and take out the seeds. Mix the oranges with the dates and arrange neatly on small lettuce leaves, sprink- ling the chopped nuts over. 663. Oyster Salad (Salade de Huitres) Oysters. Lettuce. Cayenne pepper, salt. A little small cress. Mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Shoes of lemon. Scald the oysters in their own liquor until the edges begin to curl, then drain them (reserving the liquor) and let them become very cold. If large, cut each oyster in two or three pieces with a silver knife and season them with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon juice. When required arrange small portions of oysters on crisp lettuce leaves, coat them with the sauce and serve them on small china dishes, decorating with thin slices of lemon and little bunches of small cress. Note.—This may be served on one larger dish, if preferred. 664. Prawn Salad (Salade d’Ecrevisses) Make in the same way as Lobster Salad (Recipe 659), using shelled prawns instead of lobster ~ De- corate the dish with curly leaves of lettuce and sliced radishes, and stand two or three unshelled prawns on the top. 665. Potato and Beetroot Salad (Salade de Pommes de Terre et Betterave) 4 or 5 cooked potatoes. 1 cooked beetroot. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. chopped shal- lot. Salad dressing, No. 748 or 749. Potatoes for a salad should be waxy, not mealy; new potatoes, or Dutch or German potatoes are the best. When cold, remove the skins and cut them in thin slices. Also peel and slice the beet- root. If a dainty-looking salad is wanted the slices should be cut with a round cutter to make them181 VEGETABLES AND SALADS even in shape. Arrange the slices of beetroot and potato neatly in a salad dish, sprinkling them with the parsley and shallot. Pour the dressing slowly over and keep in a cool place for £ hour before serving. Note.—A little lettuce, endive, or hard-boiled egg may be used as a garnish, and chopped capers or pickled gherkins sprinkled over. Potatoes also make a very good salad by themselves, or tomatoes peeled and cut in slices may be used instead of the beetroot. 666. Salmon Salad (Salade de Saumon) Take the remains of cooked salmon, remove from them all skin and bone and break up the fish into flakes. Pile it up in a salad dish in the form of a pyramid, and coat it with mayonnaise sauce or with salad dressing (Recipe 749). Allow this to stand in a cool place for | hour at least, then decorate round the base with some small curly lettuce leaves and sections of hard-boiled egg, and stand the heart of the lettuce on the top. Finely sliced radish, tomato, or cress may also De used for gar- nishing. 667. Tomato Salad (Salade de Tomates) 3 or 4 tomatoes. | 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. | Salad dressing. No. 748. First peel the tomatoes. To do this either soak them in a basin of very hot water for two or three minutes, or put them in a wire basket and plunge them into boiling water for a minute. The latter method is better, it does not soften the tomatoes so much. Remove the skins very carefully with a small knife, and allow the tomatoes to become quite cold before cutting them up. Then slice them rather thinly, and if large, cut the slices in two. Place these slices very neatly on a salad dish, sprinkling them with chopped parsley and shallot. Pour the dressing over. Notes.—Mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of the plain salad dressing, and the shallot may be omitted. Very small tomatoes may be skinned and served whole, placing them on lettuce leaves and pouring a little mayonnaise or tartare sauce over. 668. Tomato and Celery Salad (Salade de Tomates et de Celeri) Tomatoes. Celery. | Small cress or chervil. Mayonnaise sauce. | Lettuce. Select nice round tomatoes of equal size. Wipe them, scoop out from the stalk end all the seedy centre and turn them upside down to drain. Take some white pieces of celery, wash and dry them well and then shred them very finely. Mix them with some mayonnaise sauce and fill up the insides of tomatoes with this. Pile the mixture rather high in the centre, put a little bunch of small cress or a sprig of chervil on the top, and serve each tomato on a nice crisp lettuce leaf or on chopped aspic jelly. Note.—Different mixtures may be put inside the tomatoes instead of the celery,—such as small pieces of cauliflower, green peas, French beans, salsifys, or a mixture of vegetables. 669. Turkey Salad Cooked turkey. Celery. I Mayonnaise sauce. 1 or 2 hard boiled eggs, j Lettuce. Cut the remains of cold cooked turkey into small neat pieces and mix it with about half the amount of crisp celery finely shred. Add also a few slices of hard-boiled egg and mix lightly with a little mayonnaise sauce. Put this mixture into a salad Turkey Salad dish, arranging it in a dome-shaped mound. Smooth it over with a knife and coat with some more mayonnaise sauce. Sprinkle with chopped parsley or cress and garnish round with leaves of lettuce, or with curled celery and watercress.SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET Sauce-making is one of the most interesting and certainly one of the most important branches of cookery. Almost all dishes are improved by a well-made sauce, while with others the sauce is the very making of them. Two or three really good sauces of contrasting colours and flavours will go a long way towards ensuring the success of a dinner, and, when well prepared, they will cause even what would otherwise be considered plain fare to be eaten with enjoyment and relish. Very full directions in regard to the successful making of sauces, together with a number of useful recipes, are given in this section. GENERAL REMARKS ON SAUCES Most sauces are easily made if the directions given are closely followed and the different in- gredients carefully weighed and measured. The seasoning and flavouring is, in some cases, difficult, and it is almost impossible to lay down hard and fast rules as regards this. While each sauce should have its own distinctive flavour', over which nothing should predominate, the likes and dislikes of those who are to partake of it must be considered, and the minor flavourings must be blended in such a way as will produce an agreeable whole. This proper blending of flavours is the highest art in cookery, and one which can only be acquired with care and experience. A sauce is a somewhat more complicated pre- paration than a gravy. A gravy is, as a rule, just the simple juice of the meat to which a little water or stock is sometimes added to increase the quantity, as in the case of roast meat. This gravy is some- times slightly thickened (see p. 208), but it should always remain simple in character and flavour. The thickening of a sauce may be made of flour and butter, yolks of eggs and cream, butter and cream, or some farinaceous product such as arrow- root, cornflour, potato flour, &c. The basis of most sauces is butter and flour cooked together, which makes a thickening. This thickening is fre- quently called a “ roux.” If for a white sauce, the flour and butter are not coloured ; if for a brown, the butter is first allowed to take colour, then the flour is added and cooked until brown also. To this thickening is added the liquid and seasoning- suitable to the dish with which the sauce has to be served. After the liquid is poured on the sauce must be stirred constantly until boiling, or it will be lumpy. Sauces frequently have a raw taste, owing to the flour in them not being properly cooked. No sauce is ready as soon as it thickens; it must boil at least five minutes. The thickness of the sauce can be regulated, ac- cording to the purpose for which it is to be used, by adding more or less liquid. When it is required for coating a piece of meat, fish, &c., it should be made thick enough to coat the back of the spoon with which it is stirred. When it is required for pouring round a dish it should be made thin in order to flow smoothly without being lumpy. "When wine is used allow the sauce to boil 182 for two or three minutes after it has been added, in order to blend the flavour. If cream is added, let it also boil in the sauce for a minute or two. Before adding yolks of eggs to a sauce, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, then put them in, and do not let the sauce boil again. When lemon juice has to be added to any sauce containing milk or cream add it last of all, and do not boil again. Strain all sauces before using, except those which have a chopped ingredient served in them, such as caper, parsley, egg sauce, &c. A pointed strainer is the best to use for this, as it will be more easy to direct the flow of the liquid. Many of the best sauces are rubbed through a hair sieve or wrung through a tammy-cloth (see below) in order to give them a smooth and glossy appearance. TO KEEP SAUCES WARM When a sauce has to stand some time before being used, stand the small saucepan containing it Bain-marie in a larger one with hot water, or bain-marie, and cover the sauce with a lid to prevent a skin forming.SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 183 With very thick sauces a spoonful of liquid, water, stock, on milk, may be run over the top. TO TAMMY A SAUCE The material used for tammy-cloths is a special kind of fine but very strong woollen muslin. Rather more than a yard should be allowed for each cloth. The tammy-cloth should always be wet with boiling water before using it, as this will prevent the sauce or other liquid spurting out un- necessarily. It requires two people to do the work easily. The tammy-cloth must be spread over a basin, and the sauce poured well into the middle of it; gather the edges of the cloth at the two ends Wringing Sauce through Tammy together, and then twist tightly in opposite direc- tions until all the sauce has been wrung through. If a thick mixture is being tammied it must be rubbed through with two long wooden spoons. The spoons must be held obliquely, with their backs upwards. To make the mixture go through, work the spoons briskly to and fro, keeping accurate time, so that their points do not clash in the middle. Tammying produces a peculiarly smooth sauce, which is never obtained by ordinary straining. Care must be taken to keep the cloths perfectly clean. They should be put to soak directly after use, and then well rinsed out, scalded, and dried. gives a better flavour than the ordinary plain milk. Put as much milk, or milk and water, as is re- quired into a lined saucepan, with a small piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, a bay-leaf, one or two cloves, and a few parsley stalks. Let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well seasoned, then strain and cool before using. FOUNDATION SAUCES Brown sauce and white sauce may be called the two principal foundation sauces, and by the addition to one or other of these of some special ingredient, wine, essence, herbs, acid, condiment, &c., many other sauces take their distinctive name. A thorough knowledge of how to make these two sauces is therefore the beginning of all sauce- making. 670. Brown Sauce (Sauce Espagnole) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pt. brown stock. 1 small onion. A small piece of carrot and turnip. 1 stick of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. A bouquet garni. 3 or 4 cloves. A blade of mace. 12 black peppercorns. Salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan and let it brown. Add the onion, cut in thin slices, and stir con- stantly until it is brown also. Then add the flour, and stir a minute or two longer. Upon the thorough browning of these three ingredients, without allowing them to burn, depends, to a large extent, the good colour of the sauce. When this is accomplished draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for a few minutes, and remove all scum with an iron spoon. Have the other vegetables prepared and cut small, and add them next with the bouquet garni, or bunch of herbs, and the seasonings. If celery seed is used, tie it in a piece of muslin. Simmer the sauce slowly for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally, and skimming when necessary. Strain through a fine strainer or tammy-cloth, and reheat before using. Notes.—If the stock used is already well- flavoured, some of the vegetables and seasonings may be omitted. A few chopped mushrooms or mushroom trimmings, a little chopped ham, and a sliced tomato may be added, also a little wine if wished. This sauce forms the foundation for a number of other brown sauces. 671. A Simple White Sauce (Sauce Blanche) | oz. butter. i White pepper. Salt. | oz. flour. | pt. milk. J A squeeze of lemon juice. PART I SIMPLE HOT AND FOUNDATION SAUCES SEASONED MILK FOR SAUCES This is frequently required in the making of sauces, especially for white sauce, t» which it Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without dis- colouring, then draw the pan to the side and pour in the milk. Return to the fire, and keep stirring constantly until boiling. Boil for two or three minutes so as to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Re- move the pan from the fire before adding the lemon juice.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 184 Notes.—The sauce will be very much improved by having an extra piece of butter stirred in at the last, when the saucepan has been removed from the fire. This will give it a smooth and creamy taste not to be obtained in any other way. Cornflour is sometimes used instead of the ordinary flour. More or less milk may be added according to the thickness of the sauce required. A plainer sauce can be made by using half milk and half water. 672. A Richer White Sauce (Sauce Bechamel) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 3 gills seasoned milk. 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Cook for a minute or two over the fire, but do not brown, then draw the saucepan to one side, and add the seasoned milk (see above) all at once. Return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Add the cream, pepper, and salt, and cook for a minute or two longer. Remove the saucepan from the fire before adding the lemon juice, and strain or tammy before using. Note.—If considered too rich the cream may be omitted. sieve. Add this paste to the sauce just before serving and mix it well in. 676. Black Butter (Beurre Noir) 2 oz. fresh butter. i 1 dessert-sp. chopped 11 table-sp. vinegar. parsley. I Pepper and salt. Cut the butter into small pieces, put it into a very clean saucepan, and heat it over the fire until a golden brown, but on no account let it blacken. Then let it cool. This is important, because if the butter were added too hot to the vinegar it would be liable to boil over and be wasted. Put the vinegar into another saucepan and reduce it to half the quan- tity, strain the brown butter into it, add parsley and seasoning, and reheat without boiling. Sometimes a few chopped capers are added to this butter, especially when it is served with skate. If salt butter is used it must first be clarified. 677. Brain Sauce Make in the same way as Parsley Sauce (Re- cipe 700), adding the cooked brains of a sheep or calf, finely chopped, to it. It is served with sheep or calf’s head. 673. White Sauce made with Stock (Sauce Veloutd) 1 oz. butter, § oz. flour. 2 pt. chicken or veal stock. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and cook these two well together without letting them brown. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock. Return again to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Boil slowly at least 10 minutes, skim if necessary, add a squeeze of lemon juice, season to taste, and strain or tammy before using. Note.—This sauce forms the foundation of a number of the best white sauces, which take their distinctive names from the different ingredients added. It can be used by itself, but in that case will be improved by the addition of a little cream, or the yolk of an egg mixed with a small quantity of milk. 674. White Sauce for Fish Make as directed in last recipe, using fish stock, or fish stock and milk instead of the plain milk. 675. Anchovy Sauce (Sauce d’Anehois) l pt. white sauce. 1 dessert-sp. anchovy essence. Make the sauce as directed in Recipe 673, using fish stock, or equal quantities of fish stock and milk for the liquid. Season to taste and add the anchovy essence. Note.—Preserved anchovies may be used instead of the anchovy essence. Two or three will be re- quired for the above quantity of sauce. Lift them out of the oil in which they are preserved, dip them for a minute into warm water, and then scrape off the silver skin. Put them in a mortar with a small piece of butter, and rub through a wire or hair 673. Bread Sauce (Sauce au Pain) | pt. milk. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. \ small onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 oz. butter or 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water and put into it the milk and the piece of onion stuck with cloves. Set this by the side of the fire and simmer very gently until the milk is well flavoured. Then remove the onion and cloves and add the bread-crumbs, which should be made fine by being rubbed through a wire sieve. Stir over the fire and cook slowly until the bread-crumbs swell and thicken the sauce. Add the butter or cream, and season to taste with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. This sauce is served dc rigueur, with roast fowl and roast game. 679. Caper Sauce, White (Sauce aux CSpres) |- oz. butter. f oz. flour. | pt. meat liquor or fish stock. 1 table-sp. capers. 1 table-sp. vinegar. White pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Cook a minute or two, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the liquid. Return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Add the capers, cut in halves or roughly chopped, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Boil two or three minutes longer and add the vinegar last, using the caper vinegar if it can be spared. Notes.—If this sauce is being served with boiled mutton or other boiled meat, make it with the water in which the meat has been cooked, but if it is to be served with fish, make it with fish stock, or the water in which fish has been boiled. The sauce may be made richer by adding 1 or 2 table-SAUCES SAYOURY AND SWEET 185 spoonfuls of cream, 1 or 2 yolks of egg, or an extra piece of butter after the saucepan is removed from the fire. 680. Caper Sauce (Brown) | pt. brown sauce. 1 table-sp. caper vinegar. 1 table-sp. capers. Add the vinegar to the brown sauce (Recipe 670) and boil for 10 minutes, skimming if necessary. rnhen add the capers, halved or roughly chopped. Note.—Capers are the unripe fruit of the caper plant, which are preserved by pickling them in vinegar. They are generally sold in bottles and should be of a greyish green colour. The unripe fruit of the garden nasturtium is sometimes used as a substitute. 681. Celery Sauce (Sauce au CSIeri) | oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 small head of celery. 3 gills white stock or milk. White pepper and salt. 2 table-sps. cream. Wash the celery, cut it in shreds, and put it into a small saucepan with cold water to cover. Bring this to the boil and drain oS the water. Pour in the stock or milk, stew the celery until quite tender, and rub as much as possible through a hair sieve. Then melt 1 oz. of butter in the saucepan, add the flour and mix it in smoothly. Pour in the celery puree and stir constantly until boiling. Add the cream and seasoning, and the remainder of the butter when the sauce is taken from the fire. The cream may be omitted and more milk used if the sauce should be too thick. This sauce is frequently served with boiled poultry or mutton, or a fricassee of white meat. 682. Cheese Sauce (Sauce Mornay) 1 pt. good white sauce. 1 oz. butter or 2 table- 2 table-sps. grated sps. cream. Parmesan. Make the sauce quite hot in a small saucepan, mix in the cheese gradually without allowing it to boil, and add the butter, broken in small pieces, or the cream just before serving. Note.—The cream or extra butter may be omitted if considered too rich. 683. Chestnut Sauce, White (Sauce aux Marrons) \ lb. chestnuts. 3 gills white stock. Rind of | lemon. 1 bay-leaf. 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Remove the brown outside skin from the chest- nuts, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil for a few minutes, then drain and peel off the inside skin. Put them back into the saucepan with the stock, bay-leaf, and thinly peeled rind of half lemon, and simmer siowly for one hour cr longer until the chestnuts are quite soft and pulpyi Rub them and the stock through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and return again to the saucepan. Add the cream, season to taste, and stir until boiling. Serve very hot. Note.—Half a gill of milk may be used instead of the cream, but it should be mixed with 1 tea- spoonful cornflour, and allowed to cook longer in the sauce. This sauce is good served with boiled or roast poultry. 684. Chestnut Sauce, Brown (Sauce aux Marrons) 1 lb. chestnuts. I 1 gill brown sauce. 3 gills brown stock. j 1 lump of sugar. Cook the chestnuts as in last recipe. Rub the brown sauce through the sieve with the chest- nuts and stock, add the sugar, and stir all over the fire until boiling. A little wine may be added if wished. 685. Curry Sauce (Sauce Kari) 1 oz. butter or drip- , Ping; „ | oz. rice flour. 3 gills of meat or fish stock. 1 onion. 1 lump of sugar. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 small apple. Pepper and salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Peel and chop the apple, and skin and slice the onion very thinly. Melt the butter or dripping in a small stewpan, put in the apple and onion, and fry them for a few minutes. Next add the curry powder, rice flour, and chutney, and mix well to- gether with an iron spoon. Add the stock, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and let the sauce simmer for half an hour, or until the apple and onion are quite soft. If a smooth sauce is wanted, rub through a sieve before using, and return to the saucepan to reheat. Add the lemon juice and sugar just before serving, and a table-spoonful of cream would be a great im- provement. Notes.—A stalk of rhubarb, on a few green gooseberries, may be used instead of the apple. The amount of curry powder may be increased or diminished according to individual taste. 686. Devil Sauce 1 gill good brown sauce. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. (Sauce a la Diable) 1 tea-sp. made mustard. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chutney or J tea-sp. curry powder. A pinch of cayenne. Add all the above ingredients to the brown sauce. Simmer a few minutes over the fire and strain before using. A little red-currant jelly and 1 table-spoonful of sherry or Marsala may also be added. 687. Egg Sauce (Sauce aux (Eufs) \ pt. white sauce. 1 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 J oz. butter. If this sauce is to be served with boiled fish the foundation sauce should be made with some of the liquid in which the fish has been cooked, otherwise use white stock or milk. Make the sauce quite hot, add to it a squeeze of lemon juice and seasoning to taste. Chop up the hard-boiled egg and put it in also, and make all thoroughly hot. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the J oz. of butter just before serving. Sometimes the yolks of eggs are sieved and the whites cut in fine shreds or chopped, and this makes a better-looking sauce, although it is a little more trouble to make. Some of the sieved yolk of egg may be used for decorating whatever the sauce is poured over.186 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 688. Fennel Sauce (Sauce Fenouil) Make in the same way as Parsley Sauce (see Recipe 700), adding 1 table-spoonful chopped fennel instead of the parsley. Wash the fennel, pick it from the stalks, and cook it in boiling water until tender. Then drain it well and chop finely. 689. Horse-Radish Sauce, Hot (Sauce au Raifort) 1 stick horse-radish. 1| gills good white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. vinegar or lemon juice. Seasoning. Heat the white sauce in a small saucepan. Prepare the horse-radish as in Recipe 752, add it to the sauce, simmer at least 20 minutes, then sieve and reheat. Beat up the yolk of egg with the cream (sour cream can be used), add them to the sauce, and stir over the fire without boiling. Season to taste and add the lemon juice or vinegar when the sauce is removed from the fire. Note.—The yolk may be omitted if considered too rich. 693. Mushroom Sauce, Brown (Sauce aux Champignons) 6 oz. fresh button j 1 oz. butter, mushrooms. ! J pt. brown sauce. Peel and stalk the mushrooms and cut them in quarters. Put them into a small saucepan with the butter and lemon juice, and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Then pour off any butter that has not been absorbed, and add the brown sauce. Simmer about 15 minutes longer and serve with any brown meat dish. 694. Another Way Prepare and cook the mushrooms in butter as above, pour on J pint of brown stock, and simmer slowly for half an hour. Then mix 1 dessert- spoonful cornflour with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, add this thickening to the mushrooms, &c., and stir it well in. Cook a few minutes longer and serve. Note.—Brown mushroom sauce can also be made from tinned mushrooms. Follow the direc- tions given below, using brown sauce instead of white. 690. Liver Sauce \ pt. white sauce. Chicken or turkey liver. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley, Salt, pepper. Make the sauce with white stock or boilings from the fowl or turkey. Cook the liver and then chop it or rub it through a sieve. Add the liver to the sauce with the parsley, season rather highly, and cook a few minutes. Add the lemon juice just before serving. 691. Melted Butter (Beurre Fondu) 2 oz. fresh butter. White pepper and salt. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Put the butter into a very clean saucepan and stir it over a slow fire until melted. It should not lose its creamy appearance. Add the lemon juice and seasoning, and pour into a hot sauce-boat. More or less lemon juice may be used according to individual taste. Serve with some vegetables such as asparagus, globe artichokes, &c., also with boiled fish. 692. English Melted Butter Sauce (Sauce au Beurre) 2 oz. butter. [ £ oz. flour. | pt. water. j White pepper and salt. Dissolve 1 oz. butter in a small saucepan, and work the flour into it, cooking them together for a minute or two. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and pour in the water. Return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Boil all together for 10 or 12 minutes, season to taste, add a squeeze of lemon juice if liked, and, just before serving, add the remainder of the butter broken in small pieces. Strain before using. Note.—If this sauce is to be served with fish, the water in which the fish has been cooked should be used instead of plain water. If a plainer sauce is wished, omit the second piece of butter, using just 1 oz. 695. Mushroom Sauce, White J pt. good white sauce. | 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 gill tinned mushrooms. | 1 table-sp. cream. Take J pint thick white sauce. Bechamel or Veloute Sauce (Recipe 672 or 673) is best, and make it very hot. Add the mushrooms, cut in halves or quarters, a little of the mushroom liquor, cream and lemon juice. Make all very hot, but do not cook long or the mushrooms will harden. Some- times a little white wine is added. Serve with white meat or fish entrees; if with the latter, the white sauce should be made with fish stock. 696. Mussel Sauce 2 doz. mussels. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. About }■ pt. fish stock or milk. 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Prepare and cook the mussels as directed on p. 109, and carefully preserve the liquor. Make up this liquor to \ pint with fish stock or water. Then make a sauce in the ordinary way (see White Sauce, Recipe 671), using the butter, flour, and J pint of liquid, and cook it thoroughly. Add the mussels, cream, and seasoning, make all very hot over the fire, but do not boil again. When mush- rooms can be procured fresh and good they make an excellent sauce, and a cheap substitute for oyster sauce for serving with boiled fish. The cream may be omitted. 697. Mustard Sauce (Sauce Moutarde) 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. dry mustard. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. chilli or 2 tea- sps. white vinegar. 1 gill water or fish stock. Melt the butter in a small saucepan without dis- colouring it, add the flour and mustard, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Pour in the water or fish stock, stir until boiling, and cookSAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 187 3 minutes. Add the vinegar and salt, and serve hot. A spoonful of cream may be added. Serve with grilled fish. 698. Another Way Make in the same way as Hollandaise Sauce (Recipe 723), adding 1 tea-spoonful made mustard to 1 gill of sauce. 699. Onion Sauce 2 or 3 onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. (Sauce aux Oignons) | pt. pot liquor or milk. Pepper, salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Boil the onions until they are tender, drain them well, and chop them finely. If the sauce is to be served with boiled meat, lift out some of the water in which the meat is cooking, allow it to cool, and use this for making the sauce. Make the sauce in the same way as White Sauce (Recipe 671), using the butter, flour, and meat liquor, and cook it thoroughly. Add the onions and seasoning, simmer a few minutes, and serve. The sauce can be made better by having an extra piece of butter, or a table-spoonful of cream added at the last. See also Sauce Soubise (Recipe 742). 700. Parsley Sauce (Sauce Maitre d’Hotel) 1 oz. butter. \ oz. flour. | pt. milk or 1 gill of milk and 1 gill water or pot liquor. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Cook for a minute or two over the fire, but do not discolour, then draw the pan to one side and pour in the liquid. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the parsley, pepper, and salt, and boil two or three minutes longer. Squeeze in the lemon juice just before serving. Notes.—If the sauce is to be served with fish, use some of the liquid in which the fish is cooked. A better sauce can be made by using Bechamel or Veloute Sauce (Recipe 672 or 673) as a foundation. A little cream or an extra piece of butter can always be added. 702. Sauce Robert £ pt. brown sauce. 1 small onion. 1 glass white wine or 2 table-sps. vinegar. £ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. made tard. A pinch of sugar. mus- Chop the onion and saute it in the butter a few minutes, add the mustard, sugar, and wine or vinegar and boil until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. Then add the brown sauce (Recipe 670), and simmer 10 minutes longer. Skim well and strain before using. One or two red pimento cut in pieces may be added after strain- ing. Serve with pork, goose, cutlets, or steak. 703. Roe Sauce 2 table-sps. cooked roe. Salt, pepper. I tea-sp. made mustard. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. | pt. white or brown sauce. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. Either boiled or fried roes may be used for this ; the former are better if the sauce is white, and the latter for a brown sauce. Remove all skin from the roe, season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard and vinegar. Then rub all through a wire sieve, and add the puree to £ pint of either white or brown sauce, which has been made with fish stock. Add a little anchovy or shrimp es- sence, and serve this sauce with the fish from which the roe has been taken. Note.—Either soft or hard roes may be used. 704. Shrimp Sauce (Sauce aux Crevettes) oz. butter. § oz. flour. | pt. fish stock. 1 gill picked shrimps. A squeeze of lemon juice. White pepper, salt. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, and mix in the flour smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without browning, then draw the pan to the side and pour in the stock or milk. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Break the shrimps into small pieces with a fork, and add them with white pepper and salt to taste. Add the lemon juice just before serving. Note.—A better sauce can be made by adding a little shrimp butter (Recipe 771) and 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. A plainer sauce may be made by simply adding a little bottled shrimp essence to a white fish sauce. 701. Sauce Piquante \ pt. brown sauce. | gill vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot 1 table-sp. chopped capers. 1 table-sp. chopped gherkin. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Put the vinegar, shallot, capers, and gherkin into a saucepan, and simmer over the fire until the shallot is cooked and the vinegar is reduced to hah the quantity. Pour in the brown sauce, and bring to the boil. Add more seasoning if necessary, and the parsley just before serving. Serve with boiled mutton, veal, calf’s head, or any meat that is wanting in taste. 705. Tomato Sauce § oz. butter. | oz. rice flour. 5 or 6 tomatoes. 1 oz. lean ham. £ pt. stock. Pepper and salt. (Sauce aux Tomates) A small piece of carrot, celery, turnip, onion. A sprig of thyme, mar- joram, and parsley. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 lump of sugar. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put into it the ham and vegetables cut in small pieces, and fry them for a few minutes. Wipe the tomatoes, and cut them in slices on a plate. Add them next to the saucepan with the rice flour, and mix well. Pour in the stock, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and simmer slowly for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally. If188 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the sauce becomes too thick, add more stock. Strain through a fine strainer, hair sieve, or tammy ; reheat, and add a squeeze of lemon juice and a lump of sugar. Notes.—Tinned tomatoes may be used instead of fresh, and these will not require slicing. If the stock is well flavoured, the vegetables may be omitted. PART II MORE ELABORATE HOT SAUCES 710. Sauce Bigarade (Orange Sauce) \ pt. brown or espagno-le | 1 bitter orange, sauce. Make the sauce according to directions given in Recipe 670, using if possible stock made from the bones of a duck. Strain or tammy the sauce, and put it into a small saucepan. Cut the peel from the orange very thinly, removing only the yellow part. Cut this peel into very fine shreds, put them into cold water, and bring them to the boil. Then strain and add them to the sauce. Simmer for 15 minutes, and strain in the juice of the orange. 706. Sauce Allemande \ pt. veloute sauce. | oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. Put the veloute sauce (Recipe 673) into a sauce- pan and let it boil until reduced one fourth. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and add the yolks of eggs and butter. Stir briskly, and cook for a minute or two over a slow fire. The sauce must not boil again or it will curdle. Strain through a fine strainer or tammy before using. A little cream is sometimes added. 707. Sauce Aurore J pt. veloute sauce. 3 medium-sized toma- toes. 1 gill white wine. | gill white stock. 1 table-sp. chopped ham. 1 table-sp. chopped tongue. Slice the tomatoes, put them into a small sauce- pan with the wine and stock, reduce them to a pulp and rub through a hair sieve. Add this tomato puree to J pint veloute (Recipe 673) or any other good white sauce, sprinkle in the chopped ham and tongue (cooked), and make all hot over-the fire. 708. Sauce B6arnaise 4 yolks of eggs. \ lb. butter. | gill white wine vine- gar. 1 shallot. 1 dessert-sp. chopped tarragon. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 Cayenne, salt. Put the vinegar into a small saucepan with the shallot finely chopped and the stalks of the tarra- gon roughly chopped. Boil until reduced to about half the quantity, strain and return to the saucepan. Put the butter into another saucepan and let it melt without boiling. Then add the yolks of eggs and a few drops of the butter to the vinegar, and mix quickly with a wire whisk. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and add the rest of the butter by degrees, mixing all the time with the whisk and using the same care as when making mayon- naise. In fact this sauce is sometimes called “ hot mayonnaise,” and it should resemble it very much in appearance and thickness. When all the butter is incorporated, add the lemon juice, cayenne, and salt. This sauce is very good served with broiled or fried fish. It must be made only a short time before serving. 709. Sauce Bechamel See Recipe 672. 711. Sauce Bordelaise \ pt. brown sauce. 1 glass Bordeaux. 1 shallot. 1 bay-leaf. 1 clove of garlic. I oz. beef marrow. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy essence. A squeeze of lemon juice. Chop the shallot and garlic, put them into a small saucepan with the wine and bay-leaf, and simmer over the fire until reduced to half the quantity. Add the brown sauce (Recipe 670), and simmer again for a quarter of an horn, carefully removing any scum that rises. Then strain or tammy the sauce, and return it to the saucepan. Cut the marrow into small round pieces, throw it into boiling salted water, cook 5 minutes; then strain and add it to the sauce with the chopped parsley, anchovy essence, lemon juice, and more seasoning if necessary. 712. Sauce Cardinal I pt. white fish sauce. I 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Lobster butter, | A squeeze of lemon juice. Put the fish sauce (see Recipe 674) into a sauce- pan and bring it to the boil. Add to it enough lobster butter (see Recipe 769) to make it a pretty pink colour, and a little cream, and boil for 2 or 3 minutes. Squeeze in the lemon juice last, and strain or tammy before using. Note.—The cream may be omitted if considered too rich. 713. Sauce Chaudfroid (Blanche), 1 1 oz. butter. About 2 oz. flour. i pt. white jelly stock. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and cook these two together for a few minutes. Add the stock, stir until boiling, and then simmer slowly for i hour, carefully removing all grease that rises to the top, otherwise the sauce will be dull and cloudy looking. Put the yolks of eggs and cream into another saucepan, and mix them together with a small whisk. Pour the sauce gradually on to them and stir quickly over a good’ fire, bring the sauce to the boil, remove it at once from the fire and strain it through a tammy- cloth. Then allow the sauce to cool, stirring it occasionally in order to prevent a skin from forming. Note.—This sauce is used for coating joints or pieces of meat used for cold entrees, and care mustSAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 189 be taken to get it of the right consistency. If made too thin the meat will show through, and if too thick it will have a lumpy appearance. 714. Sauce Chaudfroid (Blanche), 2 I pt. bechamel or vel- oute sauce. Recipes 672-3. A little cream. 2 or 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. The sauce used for a chaudfroid must be of a fairly thick consistency, and should contain enough cream to make it very white in colour. Warm the sauce and add to it the liquid aspic, strain or tammy before using. If no aspic jelly is available dissolve 2 sheets of gelatine in a little chicken or other white stock, and strain it into the sauce. 715. Sauce Chaudfroid (Brune) & pt. good brown sauce. 1 table-sp. sherry or port. 2 or 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. 1 oz. meat glaze. Dissolve the glaze in the brown sauce (Recipe 670) in order to make it a good rich colour. Add the aspic and wine, and strain or tammy before using. 716. Sauce a la Creme, 1 | pt. cream. I 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 Salt and pepper. Put the cream into an enamelled saucepan, and warm it gently over the fire without allowing it to boil. Then remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of eggs and butter, season to taste, and beat all together for a minute. This sauce is delicious served with boiled fish or vegetables, but unless cream and eggs are plentiful it is too ex- pensive for ordinary use. 717. Sauce a la Creme, 2 Make in the same way as Bechamel Sauce (Recipe 672), adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls good cream. 718. Cucumber Sauce, Hot (Sauce aux Concombres) pt. bechamel 1 cucumber. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. spinach. cooked or veloute sauce. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Peel the cucumber, and cut it in thin slices. Put it into a saucepan with the butter and spinach, and stew it slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve and return to a clean saucepan. Add the bechamel (Recipe 672) or other good white sauce, and mix thoroughly. Season to taste, and stir in the cream last of all. A little green colouring may be used instead of the cooked spinach, but it is not so good. 719. Sauce Demi-glace (Half-Glaze Sauce) i pt. Espagnole sauce. I 1 glass sherry or i oz. meat glaze. | Madeira wine. Reduce the Espagnole sauce (see Recipe 670), allowing it to boil 15 minutes. Dissolve in it the glaze, and add the wine at the last. 720. Sauce Espagnole See Brown Sauce (Recipe 670). 721. Sauce Genevoise | pt. brown sauce. 1 oz. butter. 1 glass sherry or Mar- sala. A bouquet garni. 1 table-sp. onion. 1 dessert-sp. butter. chopped anchovy This is a rich fish sauce, and the brown founda- tion sauce should be made with fish stock. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and bunch of herbs, and fry them a few minutes. Then add the brown sauce and red wine, and simmer all slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, skimming when necessary. Tammy or sieve the sauce, and reheat, adding the anchovy butter (Recipe 760). 722. Sauce GSnoise | pt. brown sauce. 1 small onion. 1 shallot. A small bouquet garni. | oz. butter. | tea-sp. anchovy essence. | glass port or Bur- gundy. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and shallot finely chopped and the bunch of herbs, and fry for a few minutes. Add the wine and simmer slowly until the onion is cooked. Then add the sauce (Recipe 670) and simmer a few minutes longer. Strain through a tammy-cloth or very fine strainer, reheat, add the anchovy essence and more seasoning if necessary. If to be used with fish, the brown sauce should be made with fish stock. 723. Sauce Hollandaise 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. vinegar. 2 table-sps. water. 2 yolks of eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt and pepper. A pinch of cayenne. Put the water, vinegar, and yolks of eggs into a saucepan, place the pan in another saucepan of hot water, and stir over the fire constantly until the sauce thickens. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the butter in small pieces, letting each piece melt before another is added. The sauce must not boil, or it will curdle. Add the lemon juice, and season to taste. Tarragon may be used instead of plain vinegar, and is preferred by many. If the sauce is to be served with fish, make it with some of the water in which the fish is boiled. 724. Sauce Italienne | pt. brown sauce. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 2 shallots. A sprig of thyme. | doz. preserved mush- rooms. 1 bay-leaf. | glass white wine. Chop the shallots very finely and put them into a small saucepan with the oil. Cook for a few minutes over the fire, but do not colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms finely chopped, thyme, bay- leaf, and brown sauce (Recipe 670). Simmer slowly at least 15 minutes, skimming when necessary. Remove the herbs before serving. Note.—A little finely-chopped ham may be added if liked.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 190 725. Lobster Sauce (Sauce au Homard) | pt. cardinal sauce. 2 or 3 table-sps. lobster meat. Cut the lobster meat into small pieces, being careful to remove any small pieces of shell. Add it to the cardinal sauce (see Recipe 712). Simmer a few minutes and serve. Note.—Tinned lobster may very well be used for making this sauce. 726. Sauce Madere Make in the same way as Sauce Demi-glace, adding a glass of Madeira. 727. Sauce Maltre d’Hotel Make in the same way as Parsley Sauce. See Recipe 700. 728. Sauce Matelote This is a brown sauce made with fish stock to which some Burgundy or claret and anchovy butter are added. 729. Sauce Mornay Same as Cheese Sauce (Recipe 682). 730. Sauce Mousseline (Savoury) Make in the same way as Sauce Hollandaise (see Recipe 723), adding at the last 2 table-spoonfuls whipped cream. shape. Cook them for 10 minutes in the sherry, add the brown sauce (Recipe 670), and cook 20 minutes longer. Serve with brown entrees of poultry and meat. 734, \ pt. white stock. 3 table-sps. chopped celery. Grated rind 1 orange. Orange Sauce Juice of 2 oranges. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. cream. A small piece of butter. Put the white stock, celery, and grated orange rind into a saucepan, and if procurable add 3 or 4 leaves of sweet basil. Bring to the boil, simmer slowly for 15 minutes and then strain. Return to the saucepan and add the strained juice of the oranges. Bring to the boil again, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and add the yolks of egg and cream. Make thoroughly hot, but do not boil again, and stir in a small piece of butter just before serving. This sauce is excellent served with roast poultry or game. 735. Oyster Sauce (Sauce aux Huitres) 1 doz. oysters. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. About i pt. fish stock or milk. 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. 731. Sauce Normande 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 3 gills white stock. Lemon juice. Liquor from fish. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. This sauce is usually served with sole, or other fish, cooked d la Normande. Make a sauce with the flour, stock, and half the butter, and cook it well. Add the liquor from the fish (Recipe 381) and simmer 12 to 15 minutes longer, skimming when necessary. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs, then the re- mainder of the butter in small pieces. Add the lemon juice last of all, and strain or tammy before using. 732. Nut Sauce (Savoury) 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. 1 oz. butter. \ oz. flour. | pt. stock. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp. cream. Seasoning. A mixture of nuts may be used for this, such as almonds, cashews, and walnuts. Blanch them and chop them finely or put them through a nut-mill. Melt J oz. of butter in a small saucepan and brown the nuts in this. Then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them with a little of the stock. Now make a sauce with the remainder of the butter, flour, and stock, add to it the nut paste, season to taste, and simmer all together a few minutes. Then just before serving remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg and cream. Note.—Use game stock if the sauce is to be served with roast game. 733. Sauce aux Olives \ pt. brown sauce. 1 1 glass sherry. 1 doz. olives or more. I Wash the olives, stone them, and try to keep them whole, so that they may resume their original Open the oysters, remove the beards, and care- fully preserve the liquor. Make up the oyster liquor to half a pint with milk or fish stock, and put it into a saucepan with the beards of the oysters. Simmer these over the fire for a few minutes to extract the flavour, and then strain through a very fine strainer or piece of muslin. Make a sauce in the ordinary way with the butter, flour, and this liquor, and cook it well. Add the oysters, whole or broken in pieces, the cream and seasoning. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Serve with boiled or steamed fish, or with boiled or roasted poultry or game. Note.—Tinned oysters may be used, but a larger number will be required. 736. Sauce Perigueux 2 or 3 large truffles. 1 gill tomato sauce. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 glass Madeira. Anchovy essence. Seasoning. Shred the truffles or chop them very finely. Put them into a small lined saucepan with the wine and simmer slowly until the wine is reduced to half the quantity. Then add the two sauces and cook a few minutes longer, skimming if necessary. Season to taste and add a few drops of anchovy essence. 737. Sauce Poivrade 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. lean ham. 1 pt. game stock. J gill vinegar. J gill sherry or red wine. A small piece carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 tomato. 2 or 3 mushrooms. A bouquet garni. 1 tea-sp. anchovy essence. 1 blade of mace. A few peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, allowing it to brown slightly. Add the vegetables and ham cut191 SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET in small pieces, also the herbs and spices, and fry all for a few minutes. Pour in the sherry and vinegar, and boil until they are reduced to half the quantity. Then stir in the flour, mix until smooth, and add the stock. Stir well until boiling. Season to taste, and simmer gently for one hour, skimming when necessary. Add the anchovy essence, and strain the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer before serving. 738. Sauce Poulette Make in the same wav as Sauce Allemande (Recipe 706), adding a little chopped parsley. 739. Sauce Ravigote (Hot) i pt. bechamel or veloizte sauce. 1 tea-sp. parsley. 1 tea-sp. tarragon. 1 tea-sp. chervil. 1 shallot. 2 table-sps. tarragon vinegar. 2 table-sps. white wine. Chop the shallot finely and put it into a sauce- pan with the wine and vinegar. Allow these to boil until reduced to half the quantity. Add the sauce and the herbs finely chopped, bring to the boil and simmer 5 minutes. Serve with fish, dressed vegetables, cutlets, &c. 740. Sauce Reforme | pt. poivrade sauce. 1 table-sp. red-currant or goosebery jelly. Garnish. Strips of gherkin, truffle, tongue, mush- room, and white of egg- Put the poivrade sauce into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the jelly and Julienne strips (see p. 65) or shreds of the above ingredi- ents. Or, if preferred, the garnish may be used to ornament the dish with which the sauce is used, as in Cutlets it la Reforme. 741. Sauce Rouennaise I pt. good brown sauce. 1 shallot. | oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley | gill red wine. 1 or 2 chicken livers. Seasoning. Chop the shallot and cook it a few minutes in the butter until slightly brown. Then pour in the wine and reduce to half quantity. Next add the brown sauce (Recipe 670) and the parsley, and cook for a few minutes. Clean the chicken livers and rub them through a fine sieve. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of this raw puree to the sauce and heat thoroughly, but without letting the sauce boil again. 742. Sauce Soubise J pt. bechamel sauce. 1 2 table-sps. cream. 3 or 4 onions. | Seasoning. Skin the onions, put them into a saucepan with boiling water and a little salt, and boil quickly for one hour, or until tender. Then drain well, chop them finely, and rub them through a hair sieve. Put this onion puree into a saucepan with the bechamel sauce, and bring to the boil. Season to taste with white pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne and a pinch of castor sugar. Add the cream, or an extra ounce of butter. The sauce used must be fairly thick to allow for thinning down by the onion puree. 743. Sauce Supreme 2 oz. fresh butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. chicken stock. 1 gill cream. Trimmings of white mushrooms. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt half the butter in a small saucepan and mix in the flour thoroughly, being most careful it does not brown. Draw the pan to one side and pour in the stock. Then stir constantly until boiling, add the mushroom trimmings, and simmer from 10 to 15 minutes. Strain or tammy, reheat and add the cream and lemon juice. Remove the saucepan from the fire and work in the remainder of the butter, adding it in small pieces. This sauce should be very white and very delicate in flavour. 744. Sauce Veloute See Recipe 673. 745. Sauce VSnitienne* 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A little spinach. 1 tea-cupful water. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. 2 shallots. 1 tea-sp. chopped tar- ragon and-chervil. 1 glass white wine. 3 or 4 crushed pepper- corns. Take a handful of picked and washed spinach, scald it for a minute in boiling water, strain, rinse with cold water, and press as dry as possible. Then rub the spinach through a sieve and use the puree to give colour to the sauce. In a small saucepan put the shallots finely chopped with the tarragon and chervil, add the white wine and crushed peppercorns, and reduce over the fire. In another saucepan melt a small piece of the butter, mix in the flour, draw the saucepan to one side and add the water and yolk of egg. Season to taste and stir quickly over the fire until boiling. Then add the rest of the butter in small pieces, and last of all the mixture from the other saucepan, and the pur6e of spinach. 746. Sauce Villeroi (for Coating Meat, &c.) 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. | pt. chicken or veal stock. 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. \ gill cream. A pinch of nutmeg. Put the butter into a saucepan and let it melt. Add the flour and cook for a minute or two without letting it brown. Dilute with the stock and stir constantly until the sauce is very thick and well cooked. Season to taste and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire. Add the yolks of eggs beaten with the cream, but do not boil again. Use as directed. Note.—A little chopped parsley, mushroom, or truffle may be added if wished. 747. Sauce au Via Blanc See under Fish (Recipe 380).192 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD PART III stirring all the time, and then pour in the vinegar. A little tarragon vinegar may be added. Cream may be substituted for the oil. COLD SAUCES AND SAVOURY BUTTERS SALAD DRESSINGS 748. 1. French Dressing (Sauce Vinaigrette) 2 table-sps. salad oil. I White pepper. Salt. 1 table-sp. vinegar. I £ tea-sp. made mustard. This dressing is frequently made at table in or over the salad bowl. If it is prepared beforehand it should not be poured over the salad until the time of serving. Mix the salt, pepper, and mustard together,.and add the oil gradually. When these are well blended and the salt dissolved, add the vinegar. A pinch of cayenne and a little sugar may be added. Sometimes a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar is put in, and by some people more oil is preferred. Note.—'When the mixing is done at table, a thin oil and vinegar bottle is useful. 749. 2. Salad Dressing 2 hard-boiled yolks. J tea-sp. made mustard. White pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. A pinch of sugar. 3 table-sps. salad oil or cream. 2 table-sps. vinegar. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. Rub the hard-boiled yolks through a sieve, and put them into a basin with the seasoning. Mix well together, and add the oil gradually, stirring all the time. Then add the vinegar, a little at a time, and mix well. The sauce should be of the consistency of cream. Note.—If the dressing is to be used for fish or lobster salad, a tea-spoonful of anchovy or shrimp essence is an improvement. The hard-boiled whites of eggs may be shred and used as a garnish for the salad. 750. 3. Potato Dressing 2 table-sps. boiled and sieved potatoes. 3 table-sps. salad oil. White pepper and salt. Put the potato into a and mix well together. 1 table-sp. vinegar. J tea-sp. made mustard. A pinch of sugar. basin with the seasoning, Add the oil gradually. 751.] Cucumber Sauce, Cold (Sauce aux Concombres) 1 cucumber. 1 tea-sp. grated onion. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. thick cream. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. Peel the cucumber and let it soak in cold water for half an hour. Then grate it and allow the pulp to drain thoroughly on a sieve. When well drained, mix the pulp in a basin with the grated onion, seasoning, and tarragon vinegar. Whip the cream and stir it in very lightly at the last. Serve with broiled or cold fish, or cold mutton. 752. Horse-radish Sauce, Cold (Sauce au Raifort) 1 stick of horse-radish. 1 table-sp. vinegar. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. J tea-sp. made mustard. 1 gill cream or 2 table- sps. milk and 1 table- sp. bread-crumbs. Wash and scrape the horse-radish, and allow it to he in cold water for a short time. Then grate down as much’as possible on a grater. Put it into a basin, and mix in the seasonings very thoroughly. Whip the cream slightly and add it last, mixing it in lightly. Keep the sauce in a very cool place until it is required. Sour cream can very well ba used instead of fresh cream, or if neither is available use a little milk mixed with very fine bread-crumbs. Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar. 753. Sauce Mayonnaise 2 yolks of eggs. About 1 gill salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. white vine- gar. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. J tea-sp. made mustard. | tea-sp. salt. A pinch of sugar. A pinch of cayenne. Take a basin large enough to hold 1| pints (the size of the basin is important), and twist round the bottom of it a cloth wrung out of very cold water to keep it steady and cool while mixing the sauce. Divide the yolks very carefully from the whites of the egg, and put them into the basin with the pepper, salt, mustard, and sugar. (The sugar may be omitted if not liked.) Mix these well togetherSAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 193 with a wooden spoon or small wire whisk. Cut a small wedge from the cork of the salad oil bottle, large enough to allow the oil to come out, drop by drop, when it is held up. Keep stirring the yolks all the time with the right hand, and dropping in the oil from the bottle with the left, until the sauce is so thick that it is stirred with difficulty. One gill is about the usual quantity required for two yolks, but there is no necessity to measure it. Next add the vinegars gradually, and mix well. N-otes.—If this sauce is not kept cool, or the oil mixed in too quickly, it will curdle. It cannot be made in a hurry. If it should curdle, the fault may be remedied by putting a fresh yolk into another basin and adding the sauce very slowly to it, stirring all the time. A whiter sauce can be made by using lemon juice instead of vinegar. More or less vinegar may be added to the sauce according to taste, and according to the purpose for which it is to be used. When used for dressing a salad, it should be thinned down considerably with vinegars. If used for coating joints of meat, a little liquid aspic is usually added to make it stiffen. If this sauce has to be kept for several hours before using, cover the basin containing it with a cloth wrung out of very cold water. This will prevent a skin forming on the top. If bottled and kept in a cool dark place, it will keep good for a week or longer. Be particular to use good oil. When the taste of the oil is not liked, two table-spoonfuls of thick whipped cream may be stirred into the sauce at the last, which will tone down the taste. Or cream may be used instead of the oil. When mayonnaise sauce is required often and in large quantities a special mayonnaise mixer should Mayonnaise Mixer be bought, which will considerably lessen the labour of making it, besides saving time. The mixer is a basin with a funnel at the side through which the oil falls drop by drop, and a dash wheel which is kept moving round and round by means of a handle. 754. Green Mayonnaise Take a handful of parsley, watercress, and chervil, mixed in equal quantities, wash and pick them carefully. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, boil 6 or 7 minutes, then drain and press as dry as possible. Put the greens into a mortar, pound them well and rub through a fine sieve. Add this green puree to a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce to make it a pretty apple-green colour. If not perfectly smooth, wring the sauce through a tammy-cloth. 755. Red Mayonnaise Wash and dry some lobster coral, pound it in a mortar, and rub it through a hair sieve. Add this to some mayonnaise sauce to make it a pretty pink colour. 756. Mint Sauce (Sauce Menthe) 2 table-sps. chopped mint. 1 table-sp. brown sugar. 2 table-sps. boiling water. 1 gill brown vinegar. Put the sugar into a basin or sauce-boat, pour over it the boiling water and stand until dissolved. Wash the mint, which should be young and fresh, pick it from the stalks, dry, and chop it finely. Mix all the ingredients together and stand two or three hours before serving. Serve with roast lamb. 757. Sauce Ravigote (Cold) Salad dressing. 1 tea-sp. each chopped parsley, gherkin, capers, chervil, and tarragon. Make the salad dressing according to Recipe 749, and add to it the above ingredients all finely chopped. A little finely chopped chives or shallot may also be added if liked. 758. Sauce Rgmoulade | pt. mayonnaise sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. chopped tar- ragon. 1 tea-sp. chopped chervil 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kins. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. \ tea-sp. made mus- tard. A pinch of cayenne. Make the mayonnaise sauce, add to it all the above ingredients and mix well. Serve with cold fish or as a salad dressing. 759. Sauce Tartare \ pt. mayonnaise sauce. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley I tea-sp.chopped capers. 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kin. 1 tea-sp. each chopped tarragon and cher- vil. A pinch of sugar. Put the mayonnaise sauce into a basin and add to it all the other ingredients. Keep in a cool place until required. If the flavour of garlic is liked, rub round the basin with a small piece before putting in the sauce. SAVOURY BUTTERS These butters will be found useful in the making of many little tasty savouries and hors d'oeuvres. They are also very good for sandwiches and for serving with grills. 760. Anchovy Butter (Beurre d’Anchois) 4 or 5 preserved an- I 2 oz. butter, chovies. I Seasoning. Wash the anchovies in warm water, dry them and scrape off the skin. Pound them in a mortar with the butter, season to taste and rub through a hair sieve. Keep the butter in a cool place or on ice until wanted. Sometimes the yolk of a hard-boiled egg is added to the above ingredients. Anchovy essence may be used instead of the pre- N194 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD served anchovies, but it is not so good. A few drops of carmine may be added if wished. 761. Chutney Butter 2 oz. butter. Lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. mango 1 tea-sp. mustard, chutney. Chop the chutney, then pound it in a mortar with the butter. Add the mustard, a good squeeze of lemon juice, and other seasoning to taste. When - well blended, rub through a sieve and put in a cool place or on ice until wanted. the other ingredients and rub through a hair sieve. Spread on a plate and put in a cold place to set. Cut in fancy shapes or roll in balls, and serve with grilled steak. 768. Lobster Coral Butter Lobster coral. Butter. Seasoning. Remove the coral from a cooked lobster, wash it and dry it in a cool oven without allowing it to change colour. Then pound in a mortar with double its weight in butter, season to taste and rub through a hair sieve. 762. Devil Eutter (Beurre a la Diable) 2 oz. butter. A little curry paste. \ tea-sp. chutney. Coralline or cayenne pepper. Squeeze of lemon juice. Pound all the ingredients together, season to taste and rub through a hair sieve. This is very good served with grilled cutlets, kidneys, or steak. 763. Devil Paste 2 tea-sps. Fr. mustard. 1 tea-sp. Eng. mustard. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 oz. butter. | tea-sp. curry powder. Cayenne. Salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Chop the chutney finely and then work all the ingredients together on a plate until a smooth paste is formed. Use for spreading on fish, game, poultry, kidneys, &c., when a devil is wanted. 764. Golden or Egg Butter 2 hard-boiled yolks. | Squeeze of lemon juice. 2 oz. butter. | Salt, pepper. Pound all together, season to taste and rub through a hair sieve. Used very often for stuffing eggs and different savouries. 765. Green Butter (Beurre Ravigote) 2 oz. butter. Parsley. Chervil. Tarragon. Chives. tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Seasoning. Take equal quantities of the above herbs, about 1 oz. in all, wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with cold water, and just bring them to the boil. Drain and dry in a cloth, then pound in a mortar and work in the butter and seasoning. Rub through a hair sieve and add a little green colouring if necessary. A little cress may also be used. 766. Ham Butter (Beurre au Jambon) 2 oz. cooked ham. | 1 table-sp. cream or 1 2 oz. butter. Cayenne. | hard-boiled yolk. Chop the ham very finely or put it through the mincing machine. Pound it in a mortar with the other ingredients and rub it through a hair sieve. Used for various hors d’oeuvres and savouries. 767. Horse-radish Butter 1 stick horse-radish. I 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. 2 or 3 oz. butter. I Cayenne. Lemon juice. Clean and scrape the horse-radish and grate the white part of the stick. Pound in a mortar with 769. Lobster Spawn Butter Lobster spawn. Butter. Seasoning. Sometimes lobster spawn can be bought without buying the whole lobster. If taken from a live lobster, cook it in salted water until a bright red colour. Then drain and dry it thoroughly. Pound in a mortar with a double proportion of butter, season to taste, and rub through a hair sieve. 770. Maitre d’Hotel Butter 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Put all the ingredients on to a plate, and with a knife work them well together, to form a neat pat. Stand the plate slightly on end, that the lemon juice may run out of the butter again, and set in a cool place or on ice until wanted. The parsley should be very green and very finely chopped to make this butter look well. 771. Shrimp Butter 2 to 3 oz. butter. 1 gill picked shrimps or shrimp remains. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Cayenne, salt. Lemon juice. Pound all together in a mortar, season to taste, and rub through a hair sieve. Prawn or Crayfish butter may be made in the same way. 772. Watercress Butter (Beurre de Cresson) Watercress. i Pepper, salt. Fresh butter. | Lemon juice. Wash some watercress very carefully, pick it from the stalks, and chop it finely. Then dry it in a cloth, and pound it in a mortar with as much fresh butter as it will take, or about 2 oz. butter to 1 good table-spoonful chopped watercress. When well pounded, season to taste, and spread on a plate to cool. Cut in fancy shapes, or use as required for small savouries. PART IV SWEET SAUCES 773. Apple Sauce (Sauce aux Pommes) \ lb. sharp green apples. 1 table-sp. brown sugar. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. | gill water. Wipe the apples with a damp cloth, peel, core, and slice them thinly with a silver knife, throwingSAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 195 the pieces into a basin of cold water. When all are sliced, drain the apple and put it in a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and nutmeg. Stew slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Add the butter and mash until smooth, or rub through a hair sieve. Make thoroughly hot before serving. Sometimes a little cream is added at the last. Notes.—Apple sauce is frequently a bad colour owing to the apples being cut with a steel knife; and the sauce stirred with a metal spoon, or an iron saucepan being used. The above directions must be carefully followed to ensure success. This sauce is used as an accompaniment to roast pork, roast duck, goose, or young pig. 774. Apricot Sauce (Sauce aux Abricots) 1 gill apricot puree. 1 gill water. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot or cornflour. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. sherry or 1 tea-sp. maraschino. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Make the puree from tinned apricots by rubbing four or five pieces through a hair sieve and making up the quantity with the syrup. Put this puree into a small lined saucepan, add to it the arrow- root broken with the cold water, and stir over the fire until it boils and thickens. Add the sugar, flavouring, and enough carmine to make it a pretty pink colour. Cook two or three minutes longer, and serve. Note.—Apricot jam may be used instead of tinned fruit, but a little water must be used to thin it down while sieving. The wine or liqueur may be omitted, and any other flavouring added to taste. 775. Arrowroot Sauce | pt. water. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. arrowroot. 1 oz. butter. Lemon juice. Put most of the water into a small lined saucepan and heat it over the fire. Mix the arrowroot with the remainder of the water, and when quite smooth add it to the rest. Stir over the fire until boiling, and cook at least 10 minutes. Add the sugar, lemon juice, and butter at the last. Any other flavouring may be used, or a little wine or fruit syrup may be added. This sauce may be coloured with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. 776. Banana Sauce (Sauce aux Bananes) 2 or 3 ripe bananas. 1 orange. 1 breakfast-cupful water Yellow colouring. 2 table-sps. sugar. Peel the bananas and rub them through a sieve. Put the water, sugar, and thinly peeled rind of the orange into a saucepan, and allow them to simmer for 10 minutes. Add the banana pulp, the juice of the orange, and a little yellow colouring. Simmer a few minutes longer and strain before using. Serve hot or cold. 777. Brandy Butter or Guards’ Sauce Make in the same way as Hard Sauce (Recipe 803), using brandy instead of sherry. 778. Brandy Sauce, 1 (Sauce au Cognac) 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour, i 1| gills of water. 1 oz. sugar. | | glass brandy. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon .until smooth. Draw the pan to one side, and pour in the water; then return to the fire and stir con- stantly until boiling. Add the brandy and sugar, and boil a few minutes longer. 779. Brandy Sauce, 2 (Sauce au Cognac) 2 yolks of eggs. I f glass of brandy. | gill cream, f gill water. I 1 oz. sugar. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a saucepan of slowly simmering water. Whisk the contents with a fork or small wire whisk from 6 to 8 minutes, until thick and frothy, when the sauce will be ready. Do not boil, or it will curdle. 780. Caramel Sauce (Sauce au Caramel) 2 table-sps. castor sugar. I \ pt. custard sauce. 2 table-sps. water. | Vanilla. Put the castor sugar into a saucepan, stir it until melted, and let it take a nice brown colour. Then add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of water, mix until smooth, and pour this caramel into J pint custard sauce. Flavour with vanilla. 781. Cherry Sauce (Sauce aux Cerises) 1 oz. glac6 cherries. 2 oz. loaf suga*. 1 gill water. Juice of | lemon. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 1 tea-sp. brandy. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan with the strained juice of £ lemon. Bring them to the boil and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Then add the cherries cut in small neat pieces, a little carmine or cochineal to make the sauce a cherry colour, and the brandy. Cook a minute or two longer, then turn into a basin to cool. Serve cold. 782. Chocolate Sauce, 1 (Sauce au Chocolat) 1 gill milk. 1 oz. chocolate. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 4 or 5 drops of vanilla essence. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water and put into it the milk and chocolate, either grated or shred down finely with a knife. Simmer until quite dissolved. Mix the yolk of egg and sugar together in a basin, and pour the chocolate gradually on to them. Return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until almost boiling. Remove at once, and add the flavouring. Notes.—A plainer sauce can be made by omitting the yolk of egg and adding 1 tea-spoonful corn- flour, broken with a little cold water. This must be cooked thoroughly in the sauce. A tea-spoonful brandy or liqueur may be added to the sauce if wished. 783. Chocolate Sauce, 2 (Sauce au Chocolat) 2 oz. chocolate. | pt. water. 1J oz. castor sugar. Grate or shred the chocolate, put it into a sauce- pan with half the water and the sugar, and stir 1 dessert-sp. flourof rice. 1 tea-sp. rum. Vanilla essence.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 196 over the fire until dissolved and perfectly smooth. Add the flour of rice broken with the remainder of the water and stir again until boiling. Simmer a few minutes, add the rum and vanilla, and if too thick, thin down with more water. Strain before using. 784. Claret Sauce (Sauce au Vln Rouge) 1 gill water. 1 in. cinnamon stick. Rind £ lemon. 2 cloves. 1 gill claret. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 table-sp. sugar. Put the water, cinnamon, cloves, and thinly peeled lemon rind into a saucepan, and simmer slowly over the fire for 10 minutes to extract the flavour. Add the arrowroot, broken with a little cold water, and cook a few minutes longer, stirring all the time. Add the claret with sugar to taste, colour with 2 or 3 drops of carmine, and strain before using. 785. Cocoanut Sauce, 1 1 tea-cupful grated 1 tea-cupful sugar, cocoanut. | tea-cupful water. 2 whites of egg. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and boil them until they form a small thread when drawn between the fingers, or the syrup registers 215° P. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and pour the syrup gradually on to them. Add the grated cocoanut at the last. Serve very cold. 786. Cocoanut Sauce, 2 Make in the same way as Hard Sauce (Recipe 803), adding to it the whipped whites of 2 eggs and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls desiccated cocoanut finely chopped. 787. Coffee Sauce, 1 (Sauce au Cafe) 1 gill black coffee. I 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill milk. I 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Heat the coffee and milk in a saucepan, and pour it slowly on to the creamed yolks, stirring all the time. Return to the saucepan and stir until the sauce begins to thicken in the same way as a custard sauce, being careful it does not boil. Strain and serve hot or cold. 788. Coffee Sauce, 2 (Sauce au Cafe) 1 gill strong black coffee. J glass brandy. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. water. Heat the coffee in a Saucepan, add to it the arrowroot, mixed to a smooth paste with the cold water, and boil a few minutes. Add the sugar and brandy. Make thoroughly hot and serve. 789. Cornflour Sauce \ pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 heaped tea-sp. corn- Rind of £ lemon, flour. Break the cornflour smoothly with a little of the milk. Put the remainder of the milk into a sauce- pan with the thinly peeled rind of J lemon, and let it heat by the side of the fire until well flavoured. Then strain this flavoured milk on to the corn- flour, mix and return all to the saucepan. Stir until boiling, cook 4 or 5 minutes, and add sugar to taste. Notes.—The lemon may be omitted and any other flavouring added according to taste. The sauce may be made richer by adding a table- spoonful of cream or a small piece of butter just before serving. 790. Cranberry Sauce (Sauce aux Canneberges) 1 lb. cranberries. I 1 tea-cupful water. J lb. brown sugar. j Pick and wash the cranberries and put them into an earthenware or enamelled saucepan. Bruise them well with the back of a fork, then add the water and stew slowly until reduced to a pulp. Press the whole through a sieve, add the sugar and reheat. A little port wine may be added. Sometimes 1 or 2 apples are used along with the cranberries. It may also be served without sieving. Serve with mutton, poultry, or game. 791. Cream Sauce, 1 2 oz. butter. 1 1 gill double cream. 2 oz. castor sugar. J Vanilla. Beat the butter in a basin until creamy, add the | sugar, finely sifted, and beat again -until soft and I light. Then add the cream gradually and flavour 1 with vanilla, or any other flavouring preferred, a Now stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, I and whisk lightly until smooth and frothy. Be J most careful that the sauce does not boil or it < will curdle. 792. Cream Sauce, 2 1 cupful sour cream. I Vanilla essence. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Grated nutmeg. 2 table-sps. sherry. I Mix the wine and sugar with the cream, flavour- | ing with some vanilla essence. Put the sauce in ] a very cold place or on ice until required and ] serve it as cold as possible with a very little nut- 1 meg grated on the top. 793. A Simple Custard Sauce, 1 \ pt. milk. [ 1 egg. Sugar. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. I Flavouring. Put most of the milk into a saucepan and heat a it slowly over the fire. Mix the cornflour to a .1 smooth paste with the remainder of the milk, and | add it to the rest. Stir until boiling, and simmer slowly 5 to 10 minutes in order to thoroughly cook the cornflour. Then remove the saucepan • to the side of the fire, and allow the contents to cool slightly. Beat up the egg, strain it into the sauce, and reheat until the egg thickens, but do not boil again. Sweeten and flavour to taste. 794. Custard Sauce, 2 (Creme Cuite) 2 yolks of eggs. I 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 white of egg. A few drops of flavour- £ pt. of milk. I ing. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water put the milk into it, and let it heat over the fireSAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 197 Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin with the sugar, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. Then pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time, and mix thor- oughly. Return all to the saucepan and stir very carefully over the fire until the sauce thickens. On no account must it be allowed to boil, or it will curdle. Have ready at hand a clean basin and a strainer. As soon as the sauce shows signs of thickening, and it is almost boiling, remove the pan from the fire, continue stirring for a second or two, then strain into the basin. Add flavouring to taste. To keep the sauce warm, stand the basin containing it in a saucepan of hot, not boiling, water. Notes.—It is difficult to prescribe fixed quanti- ties for a custard sauce as so much depends on individual taste, some people liking it quite thick like cream, and others a sauce liquid enough to pour round the pudding. The above proportions will make a sauce of a medium consistency. A thicker sauce can be made by adding more yolks of eggs. The flavouring, too, may be varied ac- cording to taste ; vanilla is perhaps the favourite. If the vanilla-pod is used, and this is always the best, it should be allowed to infuse in the milk before the eggs are added. A bay-leaf can be used in the same way, and this will give the sauce an almond flavour. This custard forms the basis of a great many cold sweets and puddings, and also of ice creams. 795, Foam Sauce 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill boiling water. 2 oz. fresh butter. i gill sherry. 2 oz. sugar. Beat the butter to a cream in a basin and add the sugar finely sifted; they must be made very light and white. Add one white of egg and beat well with a small whisk, then add the second white and beat again. Just before serving stir in the boiling water and sherry, then stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whisk until frothy. Serve at once. 796. Cold Fruit Sauce A very delicious fruit sauce may be made by preparing first some hard sauce (Recipe 803), and then adding to it about 2 table-spoonfuls of fruit pur4e, or a soft fresh fruit such as strawberries, raspberries, or peaches may be cut in small pieces and added to the hard sauce. Quite a variety of nice sauces can be made in this way. 797. Fruit Sauce for Game 1 lb. red plums or damsons. I lb. sugar. 1 inch cinnamon stick. 2 cloves. 2 table-sps. red-currant jelly. 1 glass port wine. 1^ oz. butter. Choose ripe plums and wash or wipe them care- fully. Put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with the sugar, cloves, and cinnamon, but without any water, and stew them slowly until reduced to a pulp. Then rub the fruit through a fine sieve and return the puree to a clean saucepan. Add the red-currant jelly and port wine, bring to the boil and simmer a few minutes. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and add the butter in small pieces. Do not boil again after the butter is added. This sauce may be used either hot or cold. 798. Fruit Pur6e Sauce Almost any fruit puree may be used as a sauce. The puree is made by rubbing tinned fruit, fresh fruit, or stewed fruit through a fine sieve. If very thick the puree should be thinned down to a proper consistency with water, fruit juice, or syrup, or a little fight wine. Sugar must be added to taste and a little colouring if necessary. This kind of sauce can be served either hot or cold. If hot, a little arrowroot, 1 tea-spoonful to £ pint, may be broken with cold water and boiled in the sauce to give it a thicker consistency, especially if the sauce is to be used for coating purposes. 799. Fruit Syrup Sauce i pt. fruit syrup. I Flavouring. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. | Colouring. The syrup from any tinned fruit wall make a very good sauce if it is thickened with arrowroot, or even cornflour or potato flour in the above proportion, and flavouring, &c., added. Take a heaped tea-spoonful of arrowroot and mix it smoothly with a little of the syrup. Put it into a small saucepan with the remainder of the syrup, and stir over the fire until- boiling. Add sugar if necessary, and flavour to taste with essence, lemon or orange juice, or -wine. A little colouring may also be added, according to the kind of syrup used. Serve hot or cold. 800. German Sauce 2 yolks of eggs. I 1 wine-glassful sherry. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a saucepan of slowly simmering water. Whisk the contents with a fork or small wire whisk Making German Sauce until thick and frothy, and serve at once. Do not boil, or they will curdle. Note.—A little cream may be added to the above ingredients if wished.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 198 801. Ginger Sauce (Sauce au Gingembre) 1 gill custard sauce. I gill ginger syrup. 1 or 2 table-sps. pre- Sugar, served ginger. Make a custard sauce according to Recipe 794, and add to it some syrup taken from a jar of pre- served ginger. If this syrup is very thick a little boiling water may be added to it. Add also 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of the ginger cut in small pieces, and sugar to taste. Note.—Instead of using preserved ginger, the custard sauce may be flavoured with ground ginger and mixed with a little white wine. 802. Gooseberry Sauce (Sauce aux Groseilles) 1 pt. green gooseberries. 1 gill water. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. Top and tail the gooseberries and wash them in cold water. Put them into a stewpan with the water, and simmer slowly for half an hour, or until the gooseberries are quite soft. Then rub through a fine sieve. Return the pulp to a clean saucepan, add the butter, sugar, and seasoning, and reheat. Serve with fried or boiled mackerel. Note.—Rhubarb Sauce may be made in the same way. 803. Hard Sauce J tea-sp. vanilla. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. 2 oz. fresh butter. I lb. castor or icing sugar. Beat the butter in a basin until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar, add it gradually to the butter, and beat again until very white and frothy. Success will depend on good beating. Flavour with the brandy and vanilla or any other flavouring pre- ferred. Set the sauce in a very cool place or on ice to harden, and serve lightly sprinkled with grated nutmeg. Notes.—This sauce should be served piled up in a little fancy glass or china dish. Sometimes the stiffly whipped white of an egg is stirred into the mixture. 804. Jam Sauce (Sauce au Confiture) 2 table-sps. red jam. 1 gill of water. 1 oz. loaf sugar. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Put the water, sugar, and jam into a small lined saucepan, and let them boil quickly for a few minutes, skimming if necessary. Add the lemon juice and two or three drops of carmine. Strain before using. Notes.—Raspberry or strawberry jam is to be preferred for making this sauce. A little wine may be added. 805. Kirsch Sauce (Sauce au Kirsch) 1 tea-sp. cornflour or 2 table-sps. kirsch. arrowroot. Sugar to taste. 1 tea-cupful water. Mix the cornflour or arrowroot with the water, and boil them together a few minutes. Add the sugar and kirsch and serve as required. 806. Lemon Sauce, 1 (Sauce Citron) £ oz. arrowroot. 1 oz. sugar. Rind and juice of £ 11 gills water. lemon. \ oz. butter. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth and grate oS half the rind on to the top of the sugar. Grate very lightly, being most particular not to take any of the white, as it is bitter. Work the lemon rind and sugar together until they are well blended. Bre^k the arrowroot with a little of the water, then add the rest of the water, and pour into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling, add the lemon sugar, and the lemon juice strained, and cook for a few minutes. Break the butter in small pieces, and put it in just before serving. 807. Lemon Sauce, 2 Make according to directions given for Orange Sauce (Recipe 813), substituting lemon for orange. 808. Sauce au Liqueur, 1 (Sweet Sauce with Liqueur) I oz. butter. J oz. flour. 1 oz. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 1 gill of milk. A few drops of vanilla. 1 table-sp. red curagao. \ oz. preserved cherries. | oz. pistachio nuts. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth. Then draw the pan aside and pour in the milk. Stir well over the fire until boiling. Add the sugar, yolk of egg, and vanilla, mix again, and add lastly the curagao, and the pistachios and cherries both chopped. Note.—Any other liqueur preferred may be used instead of the curagao. 809. Sauce au Liqueur, 2 \ lb. sugar. I \ wine-glass liqueur. 3 yolks. Hot water. | 1 gill whipped cream. Put the water and sugar into a small saucepan and boil them to the thread or to 215° F. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin and pour the syrup of sugar water gradually on to them, whisking all the time. Continue to whisk until cold and then add the cream and liqueur. Note.—This may be served with any plain ice pudding or mousse, or with a hot pudding. 810. Marmalade Sauce 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Sugar. 2 table-sps. marmalade. £ pt. water. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. Put the marmalade and most of the water into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Break the arrowroot with the remainder of the water, add them to the other ingredients, and stir until boil- ing. Cook a few minutes, sweeten to taste, and add the lemon juice. The arrowroot may be omitted if a thinner sauce is preferred. Some- times a little wine or liqueur is added. 811. Sauce Mousseline (Sweet) 4 table-sps. cream. 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. H oz. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. maraschino, sherry, or fruit syrup. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a stewpan of slowly simmering water.SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 199 Beat the contents with a fork or small whisk until they are thick and creamy, but do not allow them to boil. Serve at once. Note.—This sauce may be coloured with carmine if wished. 817. Whipped Raspberry Sauce (Sauce aux Framboises) 2 table-sps. raspberry 2 yolks of eggs. syrup. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 2 table-sps. water. 812. Nut Sauce (Sweet) Make in the same way as Hard Sauce, adding to it 2 table-spoonfuls finely chopped or ground nuts and 1 or 2 stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 813. Orange Sauce, 1 (Sauce a 1’Orange) | pt. water. 1 large orange. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. 4 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. sugar. Grate the rind off the orange and rub it into the sugar. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, add the water and stir until boiling. Then add the sugar and strained juice of the orange, and cook 2 or 3 minutes. Now remove the sauce- pan from the fire, and when the sauce is off the boil stir in the yolks of eggs quickly, and pour at once into a hot sauce-boat or tureen. Note.—A little sherry or brandy may be added if wished. 814. Orange Sauce, 2 (Cheaper) Make according to directions given for Lemon Sauce, substituting orange for lemon. 815. Peach Sauce (Sauce aux Peches) Tinnedpeaches(6pieces) 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 4 pt. water. 1 dessert-sp. arrowroot. A few drops of carmine. Mix the arrowroot with the water, put them into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Sieve the peaches and add them to the arrowroot with sugar to taste, and just sufficient carmine to make the sauce a peachy colour. Simmer slowly until smooth, strain, and use hot or cold. Note.—A little wine or liqueur may be added if liked. Peach sauce can also be made in the same way as Apricot Sauce (Recipe 774), or as Cold Fruit Sauce (Recipe 796). 816. Pine-apple Sauce (Sauce a 1’Ananas) 1 gill pine-apple syrup. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 gill water. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. A few drops of carmine. Pieces of pine-apple. Strain 1 gill of the syrup from a tin of pine-apple into a saucepan and add to it the water, sugar, and lemon juice. Boil all together for 5 or 10 minutes, and skim if necessary. Add some pine-apple cut in tiny dice, and colour the sauce a pale pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. A little wine may be added if wished. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a saucepan of slowly simmering water. Beat the contents with a fork or small wire whisk until thick and frothy, and serve at once. Notes.—Any other fruit syrup may be used in the same way. Raspberry sauce can also be made according to directions given for strawberry sauce by substituting raspberries for strawberries. 818. Strawberry Sauce (Sauce aux Fralses) 2 oz. fresh butter. J lb. fresh strawberries. 4 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 1 white of egg. Make this sauce according to directions given for Hard Sauce (see Recipe 803), and add the straw- berries mashed to a pulp. Note.—Strawberry sauce can also be made ac- cording to directions given for Raspberry Sauce or for Jam Sauce. 819. Syrup or Treacle Sauce 2 table-sps. syrup or I 1 table-sp. lemon juice, treacle. | 1 gill water. Put the syrup and water into a saucepan, and strain in the lemon juice. Bring to the boil, boil for 10 minutes, and strain. A little ginger or other spice may be added if wished. 820. Vanilla Sauce (Sauce au Vanille) Make either a custard sauce or a sweet white sauce, and flavour it with vanilla. 821. Sweet White Sauce (Sauce a l’Anglaise) 1 oz. butter. j 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 4 oz. flour. 4 pt. milk. | Flavouring. Make in the same way as White Sauce (Recipe 671), adding sugar instead of pepper and salt. Flavour to taste with a little essence or spice. The sauce may be made richer by adding an extra piece of butter or a table-spoonful of cream at the last. 822. Wine Sauce (Sauce au Vin) \ oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. I 1J gills water. 1 oz. sugar. | | gill sherry. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and pour in the water. Then return the pan to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the wine and sugar, and boil two or three minutes longer. Note.—See also German Sauce.SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES The term meat is, commonly speaking, applied only to beef, mutton, lamb, and veal, and it is in this sense that it is dealt with in the following pages ; game and poultry, including rabbits and venison, being treated in a separate chapter. The proper cooking of meat is all-important in bringing out its nutritive qualities. Nothing perhaps is more injurious to the digestion than meat that is badly cooked, and nothing is more wasteful either. Good cooking will make almost any meat tender, while bad cooking can render the best of meat tough and uneatable. Different pieces of meat require somewhat different methods of treatment in order to bring about the best results, but the object aimed at must always be, to retain the juice and to make the meat itself tender and well flavoured at the same time. The following directions in regard to the choice, preparation, and cooking of this important article of diet have been given as clearly and concisely as possible, and it is hoped that the housewife who follows them carefully will find it difficult to go astray in this extensive branch of the culinary art. PART I CHOICE, PREPARATION, AND COOKING OF MEAT HINTS ON CHOOSING MEAT General Hints.—It is very important to buy meat from a good butcher, and one who can be thoroughly trusted. It may not be convenient to call per- sonally at the shop each time meat is required, but it is a good plan to do so occasionally, and to select carefully the joint or cut that is wanted. Always insist upon getting the piece suited to your needs, and the butcher will very soon get into the way of serving you properly. There are certain signs by which the quality of the meat can generally be judged. The texture should be firm and moderately elastic, and, when pressed, should not leave the imprint of the finger. If the flesh is flabby and moist and has an un- pleasant odour, it is not good. The lean part should be finely grained, and the fat, which should not be in any undue proportion, should be free from kernels, brown spots, and streaks of blood. The meat of animals that have died a natural death or by accident should be avoided. Good meat does not waste much in cooking, and when left on a dish the juice should not exude from it in any quantity. Besides these general points to be remembered, each special kind of meat has its individual charac- teristics by which it can be judged. Beef.—The best beef is taken from an ox about two years old. It is of a nice red colour, almost a cherry red, and the lean has a marbled appearance, being slightly intergrained with fat. The fat is a pale yellow colour, not mottled, and the suet hard and dry. It is fine and smooth in texture, with rather an open grain. There should be little or no gristle between the fat and the lean, as this generally indicates that it is the flesh of an old animal. Beef of a dark colour with very yellow fat should be avoided. Beef is more nourishing and strengthening than mutton, but not so easy of digestion. Ox beef is better than cow beef, and generally fetches a higher price. Bull beef is very coarse, and is never sold by a good butcher. Beef should be well hung before it is used, to make it tender; the time it should hang will depend upon the weather, and it should never be allowed to become high. Mutton.—The best mutton is plump and small- boned. The quality depends very much upon where the animal has been reared. Those fed on the mountains or on the downs are generally con- sidered the best, whilo the flesh of those fed on the salt marshes near the sea-coast is peculiarly delicate in flavour. This latter is the pre-sale of the French. Age also has a good deal to do with the quality of the mutton. From four to six years old is the best age for killing; a farmer, however, can rarely afford to keep his sheep so long, and they are gener- ally killed between two and three years of age. The lean of mutton is not so red in colour as beef, but has a darker and browner hue. In fact, when mutton has been well hung the cut surface acquires almost a dark purple colour. The flesh should be firm, close in texture, and not inter- grained with fat like beef. The fat should be hard and very white and waxy. Mutton, like beef, should be well hung. Lamb is paler in colour than mutton, and the fat is pearly white. When fresh, the veins in the neck end of the fore-quarter have a bluish tinge, and when stale these develop a greenish hue. In the hind-quarter the kidneys should be examined ; if they are flabby, with an unpleasant smell, the meat is stale. A piece of the caul, a thin transparent- looking membrane, should be sent with each joint of lamb to wrap round it and protect it when cooking. A lamb of four or five months old is considered the best.SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 201 The New Zealand or Canterbury lamb is much cheaper than the home grown, but as far as taste is concerned it is more like mutton, as it seems to lose its characteristic flavour during the process of freezing. The flesh of lamb is tenderer than that of mutton, but it is more watery and not so nutritious. Lamb cannot be hung for very long. Pork.—Pork requires very careful choosing, as it is more subject to disease than perhaps any other animal food, and unless one is sure of its source it is safer to leave it alone. The flesh should be of a pinky white colour, smooth, finely grained, and firm to the touch. The skin must not be too thick. The fat should be pearly white with no black specks or kernels. Small pork is the best. It is much more difficult to digest than either beef or mutton, as it contains such a large proportion of fat. Fresh pork should not be bought in summer. Veal is the flesh of the calf. It should be very pale in colour, firm, and finely grained. When the flesh has a bluish tinge it should be rejected. The fat should be white, and if that which surrounds the kidney is hard and without smell the meat is in good condition. Veal is not so nutritious as beef, and it is also more difficult of digestion, although this is often owing to bad cooking. If cooked slowly and thoroughly it is one of our most useful meats, and will furnish quite a variety of tasty and delicate dishes. Like all other young meats, veal should not be hung very long, as it taints very quickly and becomes quite unwhole- some. The best veal is that of a calf from two to four months old. Ham.—Choose a short thick leg with a moderate amount of fat. The rind should be rather thin and the bone fine. The quality may be tested by running a pointed knife or skewer in close to the bone ; when withdrawn it should not be greasy nor have an unpleasant smell, but, on the contrary, be clean and have a good flavour. Hams vary in price according to the manner of curing and special reputation. In England the Yorkshire and Cum- berland hams are generally considered the finest and still command a good price, although some of the southern counties produce hams by no means inferior. In Scotland, the Dumfries and Galloway hams rank among the best, and Irish hams from Belfast are much prized. Canadian and Danish hams are also in the market in large quantities, and although the flavour is not considered so delicate as that of the home-cured variety, their moderate price recommends them to those who have to study economy. Bacon.—Bacon must be fresh and free from any unpleasant smell. The rind should be smooth and thm, the fat firm and of a pinkish white colour, while the lean should adhere closely to the bone and be of a nice red colour. -There should be as little gristle as possible. The following diagram will give a general idea of the way in which a side of bacon is usually cut in England; there will of course be sub-divisions to make smaller pieces. What is known as “ streaky ” bacon and the flank are considered the finest, but, being much in demand, they fetch a high price. The back and loin are also prime pieces, while the fore-end and gammon, although not so fine in texture, do excellently for boiled bacon. Side of Bacon 1. Collar. 2. Back. 3. Loin. 4. Corner. 5. Gammon. 6. Flank. 7. Streaky. S. Fore-end. Suet.—This must be very fresh and of good quality. The solid fat which surrounds the kidney, either beef or mutton, is considered the best. Beef suet should be cream-coloured or pale yellow, and mutton suet very white and waxy. Both should be very firm and dry. Beef suet is considered richer than mutton suet, while veal suet is par- ticularly delicate. Internal Meats.—All inside meats such as tripe, liver, kidneys, sweetbreads, &c„ must be bought very fresh and used at once. Venison.—See p. 297. Frozen Meat.—Large quantities of meat are now imported from abroad in a frozen condition and sold in this country at a considerably lower prico than that of home production. New Zealand, Australia, the United States, S. America, and Canada all send us in supplies. The prejudice against this kind of meat has to a large extent disappeared, and it is certainly an immense boon to those who cannot afford the high prices asked for our home-fed meat. Needless to say, this foreign meat does not equal British meat as far as quality and flavour are concerned; the process of freezing apparently takes away from its goodness, J>ut with careful thawing and good cooking, it compares very favourably with the more expensive joints, and in many cases it requires an experienced palate to detect the difference. Mutton and lamb seem to suffer less than beef from the process of freezing. That known as Canterbury lamb is the best. When ordering frozen meat it must be remembered that it will not keep in warm weather without a refrigerator. It must also be remembered that the meat will shrink considerably in cooking. DIFFERENT JOINTS OF MEAT AND THEIR USES The cutting up of meat varies somewhat accord- ing to the locality, and also according to the special demands of the people with whom the butchers have to deal. The following diagrams will give an idea of how the different animals are cut up by English and Scotch butchers, and may also be of assistance to the housewife in knowing what piece to order for the special purpose she has in view.202 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD BEEF Diagram showing mode of cutting up Beef in England 10. Fore Ribs. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Aitchbone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse Buttock. 6. Veiny parts. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9. Shin. 11. Middle Ribs. 12. Chuck Ribs. 13. Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek. Diagram showing mode of cutting up Beef in Scotland 1. Buttock or Rump. 2. Heuk bone. 3. Sirloin. 4. Spare ribs and ribs. 5 and 6. Large and small runners. 7. Round. 8. Thick Flank. 9. Thin Flank. 10. Small Round. 11. Hough or Shin or Leg. 12. Nine holes. 13. Brisket. 14. Shoulder. 15. Neck and Cheek. 16. Clod or Sticking Piece. The Sirloin.—This is the best part for roasting, but it is somewhat expensive. It is usually divided into three pieces varying in weight accord- ing to the size of the animal. The middle cut is considered the best, as it has the largest amount of undercut. The piece next the ribs has very little undercut, and the one next the rump is a joint difficult to carve, as it has a piece of bone on one side. The sirloins from both sides of the animal, not cut asunder, form what is called the baron of beef, corresponding to the saddle in mutton. This is a joint rarely seen nowadays, but was famous at banquets in the days of our ancestors. The Fillet or undercut of the sirloin is the most tender part for entrees or fillets of beef. Ribs.—The cuts from the ribs are also good for roasting, those nearest the sirloin being the best. Various sizes of joints can be cut according to special requirements. It is more economical to have the bone removed and used for soup and the meat itself rolled. One or two ribs treated in this way make a neat little roast for a small family. When a large cut of the ribs is ordered and roasted whole, it is better to have the thin end cut off and used for a separate dish, otherwise it becomes overcooked before the thicker part is ready. The piece of ribs next the shoulder is better stewed or braised than roasted. The Rump.—This is divided into three parts— the middle, the silver-side, and the chump end. The middle is an excellent piece of fleshy meat for any purpose. Some of the best steaks are cut from this part; it is also a first-rate cut for pies, for rolled beef, or for a tender stew. The chump end is also good for stewing. Buttock or Round.—This is another very fleshy piece of meat with little bone. It is one of the best pieces for braising or boiling, and is often salted. It can also be roasted, but, although economical, it is not so fine in flavour as the ribs or sirloin. The Top-side and the Silver-side are both cut from the round. Aitch Bone, or Edge Bone.—This is a cheap piece of meat, but as it contains a large proportion of bone and wastes very much in cooking, it is not really economical. It is an awkwardly shaped joint and very difficult to carve. It is generally boiled and sometimes salted. Brisket.—This is also sold at a low price, and is used principally for boiling or stewing. It is rather fat, but is excellent when salted and boiled and then served cold. Flank.—The thick flank is one of the most economical parts to buy, as it contains no bone and very little fat. Suitable for braising, stewing, and boiling. The thin flank contains much more fat, and is best salted, boiled, and eaten cold. The Clod and Sticking Piece are both somewhat coarse and only suitable for soup or cheap stews. Shin or Hough.—This is also coarse-grained and very gelatinous. It is excellent for stock and soup. The top part will also make an economical stew if slowly and carefully cooked. Midriff.—A thin fleshy piece which runs across the middle of the animal. It is rich in flavour., and is very good for stews or beef-steak pudding. Cheek.—Only suitable for stews and for making soup. As it contains so much bone it is not really economical. Cow Heel is very gelatinous, and is used princi- pally for making jelly, or, along with meat, as a foundation for soups. It can also be carefully boiled or stewed and then eaten with a good and piquant sauce. Tail.—This is somewhat expensive. It is used for making soups, and can also be stewed or braised. Heart.—This is rather coarse and very indiges- tible, but it can be made palatable by being stuffed and very carefully roasted or braised. Tongue is usually salted and then boiled and served cold, or served hot with a good sauce, or cut in slices for an entree. Tripe.—The inner lining of the stomach. It is usually sold partially cooked, although in Scot*203 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES land it requires more preparation and many hours’ boiling. It is very tender and easily digested, and for this reason is frequently ordered for invalids. There are several diilerent kinds of tripe popularly known as “ honeycomb,” “ blanket,” “ double ” or “ book ” (because it is like the leaves of a book), and “ reed,” the dark-coloured portion. Liver.—This is a cheap piece, and is nutritious for those who can digest it. It requires careful cooking. Kidneys.—Used for making soup. Can also be stewed, although rather indigestible. Sweetbread.—In the ox this part is coarse, and can only be made palatable by careful cooking. VEAL Veal, which is the flesh of the calf, is cut up into the following different joints : (mock turtle soup) and the feet for making soup and jelly (calf’s foot jelly). Sweetbread.—This is considered a great delicacy, and is generally expensive. It is much used for entrees, and is a favourite dish for invalids. The throat sweetbread, which is the thymus gland of the calf, is considered inferior in quality to the heart sweetbread or pancreas. Kidney.—Generally sold along with a piece of the loin and roasted. Can also be used separately in the same way as sheep’s kidneys. Brains.—A very delicate morsel for entrees. Liver and Heart.—Can be used in the same way as sheep’s liver and heart. MUTTON The following diagrams will give an idea of the different joints into which mutton is cut; 1. Loin. 2. Chump end of Loin. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind knuckle. 5. Fore knuckle. 6. Neck (best end) 7. Shoulder. 8. Blade bone. 9. Breast. 10. F’lank. 11. Head. 1. Leg. 2. Loin. 3. Chump end of the Loin. 4. Neck (best end). 5. Scrag. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. 8. Head. 9. Shank. 10. Trotter. The Fillet.—One of the finest pieces, very fleshy, with little or no bone. Can be used for any pur- pose. The best cutlets are cut from this part. It is high priced, but not over-expensive, as there is practically no waste. The Breast.—If boned, stuffed, and rolled this part makes a nice little joint for roasting. It can also be braised or stewed. Entrees are also pre- pared from this piece. The Loin.—One of the best pieces for roasting, also for chops. The Neck.—A good joint for braising or stewing. Can also be roasted. The best end may be cut into chops. The scrag-end is more suitable for broth. Knuckle.—This is a favourite part for soup or broth, and is much used in the making of white stock. The fore-knuckle is more tender than the hind-knuckle, and is often stewed or boiled and served with a good sauce. Head and Feet are sometimes served together as a hash, but, being rather insipid in flavour, they require a good sauce. They can also be used for pies, when some ham should be added, and for different entries. The head is also used for soup Diagram showing mode of cutting up a Sheep in Scotland 1. Leg or Gigot. | 4. Breast. 2. Loin. 5. Neck. 3. Back Ribs. I 6. Head. The Leg.—This is one of the most economical cuts for boiling or roasting, as it is lean with aCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 204 small amount of bone in proportion to its size. When it is too large a joint for a small family, it is sometimes a good plan to have it cut in two pieces and to roast one piece and boil or stew the other. When a piece of the loin is cut along with the leg it is called the Haunch. The Loin.—This is generally divided into two parts, the best end and the chump end, or even subdivided into separate cutlets or chops. The loin makes one of the finest and most delicate roasts, but it is not economical owing to the large proportion of fat and bone. If ordering for a roast it must be well jointed by the butcher, or it will be found difficult to carve, or sometimes the chine bone, which runs down the centre of the back, is sawn nearly off and then removed altogether after cooking. The double loin from both sides of the animal is called the Saddle. It is con- sidered a very fine joint, but too large for the ordinary household. The Neck.—The best end of the neck is also used for cutlets. It is an excellent piece for broiling and braising, as it is tender and delicate in flavour. The scrag-end, which lies nearer the head, is a cheap piece of an awkward shape and contains a good deal of bone. It is only suitable for broth or plain stews, as it is impossible to cut it in neat pieces. The Shoulder.—This is another good joint for roasting, and some people prefer it to the leg. It is perhaps more delicate in flavour, but is inclined to be fat. It can also be braised or boiled. The Breast.—Is a cheap piece of mutton with much fat and skin. If boned, stuffed, and rolled it makes quite a nice little roast. It is also very suitable for Irish stew where the potatoes absorb some of the fat. The Head and Trotters are generally sold at a low price, but they make excellent broth. They can also be served as a dish by themselves with a good sauce, or made into a pie and served, cold. The Pluck.—This consists of the heart, liver, and lungs, which are often sold together. In Scotland they form the foundation of haggis. The lungs, or lights, are very inferior, and by themselves are seldom used, except perhaps as cats’ meat. The heart is sometimes sold by itself, and is very good stuffed and roasted. The liver can also be bought separately, and is generally fried or stewed along with a little bacon. Kidneys.—These are very dainty morsels, and are a favourite breakfast delicacy. They are generally broiled or stewed, and are also used along with beef in pies and stews. The loin roast often contains one of the kidneys. LAMB When lamb is large it is usually cut up and used in the same way as mutton, but when small it is cut in quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the neck, shoulder, and breast, and the hind-quarter of the leg and the loin. If the hind-quarter makes too large a joint the upper part may be cut into chops and served as one dish, while the lower portion will make a nice little roast, or may be steamed and served with a good sauce. Or, a larger-sized piece may be cut off the top and made into a stew or braised. The fore-quarter may be divided in the same way, the breast piece being stewed or braised and the shoulder roasted. The chops from the neck may also be cut off separately, and either broiled or fried, or used for hotch-potch. Lamb’s Head can be used in the same way as sheep’s head, and is more delicate in flavour. Lamb’s Fry, consisting of the liver, sweetbread, and heart, is generally cut in shoes and fried. The sweetbreads alone are considered a great delicacy and are much used for entries. PORK Diagram showing different cuts of Pork. 1. Spare Rib. | 4. Fore-loin. 2. Hand. J 5. Loin. 3. Spring or Belly. I 6. Leg. The usual joints of fresh pork are the following : The Loin is generally scored and roasted. Pork chops are also cut from this part. Leg.—Another piece for roasting. The skin should always be scored by the butcher, or it would be impossible to carve the joint. It is sometimes salted and then boiled. The Hand and Spring or Belly.—These parts are rather fat, and are usually salted. They are best boiled and served cold. Head.—Usually salted. Can be made into brawn, or boiled and served cold. Feet (Pettitoes) can be cooked in various ways. Usually boiled or stewed. The Tongue should be pickled and then served in the same way as sheep’s tongue. Harslet, Haslet, or Fry.—Consisting of the heart, lights, liver, sweetbread, &c., of the pig, are gener- ally cut in slices and fried. PRICE OF MEAT Note.—The following are average London Store prices for home-fed meat. Colonial or foreign meat is Id. to 2d. per lb. cheaper. Beef Aitch bone . Per lb. 7 d. to 7id. Sirloin . . . Per lb. Is. to Is. Id. Brisket . . 7id. to Sd. Steak . . . lid. to Is. 3d Fillet . . . 'is. 3d. Shin.... 7d. to 8d. Flank, thick . 9d. to lOd. Top side . . lOd to lUd. „ thin . Gravy beef . 6 Id. Ox heart . . 2s. 6d. each 8 d. ,, kidney Is. Ribs.... 10d. to Is. Id. ,, tail . . Is. 6d. tols9d. Rump . . . Is. each Silver-side lOd. Suet.... Sd.SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 205 Mutton Breast'. . . Chops . . . ,, trimmed Haunch . . Per lb. 4jd. Is. Is. 2d. 10)d. 10id. to lid. 105d. to Is. Id. Neck, best end ,, scragend Saddle . . . Shoulder . . Suet . . . Kidneys . . Per lb. 10jd. to Is. fid. to 8d. 10£d. to Hid. Sid. to 9d. 5d. 4d. each Lamb The price of lamb varies very much according to the season; the hind-quarter may cost from Is. per lb. and upwards, and the fore-quarter from lid. per lb. and upwards. Veal Breast . Cutlet . Fillet . Knuckle Per lb. 9d. Is. 3d. Is. 2d. Od. to 8d. Leg . . . Loin. . . Neck . . Shoulder . Per lb. Is. lOd. to Is. lOd. to Is. 8 id. Pork Leg (fresh) Loin „ Salted pork Pork chops Per lb. 9d. to lOci. Pig’s fry . . 9d. to lid. Pig’s head 8d. to 9d. Sucking pig . Is. Id. Per lb. 6d. id. 6s. to 10s. each SOME PRELIMINARIES Preparation of Meat for Cooking All meat should be carefully wiped with a damp cloth before cooking, as one never knows where it may have been lying nor what hands have touched it. Some people go the length of washing the meat, but this is apt to spoil the flavour, especially in the small cut portions. If, however, there is any sign of taint about the meat, it should be washed in vinegar and water, or in a weak solution of Condy’s fluid and water, and then wiped dry. This will help to restore the meat to its original freshness. Meat must also be carefully trimmed before cooking, all discoloured pieces being removed, and the skin also in some cases. It is also sometimes more economical to cut away all superfluous fat before cooking, as this can be rendered down and utilised more profitably in this way. To Thaw Meat Frozen meat must always be thawed before cooking. The simplest way to do this is to allow the meat to stand in a warm kitchen for several hours before using it. Some cooks soak it in warm water; but this plan is not to be recommended, as it is apt to draw some of the goodness out of the meat, and also to make it flabby and sodden. Frozen meat must be cooked at once after thawing, otherwise it will not keep. Boning This operation is not really difficult; a little practice is all that is required. The boning of a joint of meat is of course much easier than the boning of a fowl or other bird, but even this latter can be accomplished without much trouble by anyone who is skilful with their fingers. There are several advantages to be gained by boning a joint. To begin with, the bones themselves can be much more profitably used for making soup or stock; then a neater-looking joint is generally obtained, and one that is more easily carved; and again, if some savoury stuffing is put in to take the place of the bone, it makes a nice change from the ordinary plain joint. The best way to learn boning is to watch it being done by a butcher or some skilled person, but even without this the art can soon be acquired. Some knowledge of the shape and position of the bones is essential, but it is only necessary to bone a joint once to learn this. It is a good plan to begin with something small, even a mutton chop. In fact, a boned chop is by no means to be despised. When the bone is removed the meat can be shaped into a very neat round, and, fixed with a tiny skewer, it will look quite a tasty morsel. Ribs of beef is another very easy joint to bone. Use a short pointed knife for boning, and one that bends easily. When a joint has to be boned, the bones should not be jointed nor broken, and they must be removed in a way that will disfigure the meat as little as possible. Keep the knife pressing against the bone all the time, cutting the flesh away from it gradually, and being careful that the knife does not slip and make cuts in the skin. Aim at bringing away the bone as bare as possible by following any irregularities with the knife. When a joint is reached, crack it, cut the sinews, and draw that piece of bone out. With some joints, such as the ribs of beef or a loin of mutton, the leaving of a little flesh between the bones is unavoidable, but this can be removed afterwards and either used up along with any other scraps for a mince or stew, or put inside and rolled up with the larger joint of meat. Besides the bones, any part that is uneatable, such as gristle or super- fluous fat, should be removed from the meat. In some cases, such as a breast of veal or ribs of beef, the meat is flattened out and then rolled, with sometimes a savoury stuffing put inside; in others, such as a shoulder or leg of mutton, the joint is kept in its original shape, the cavity left by the removal of the bone being filled with stuffing. The meat is then bound round with tape, or sewed up with a needle and fine string, to keep it in shape. The bones when they are removed can be used for making stock, which will serve to make a good gravy for the meat, or they can be used for making soup. (For the boning of special joints see under separate headings.) Larding Running strips of fat bacon through meat by means of a special needle is what is known as larding. It is generally done on a dry piece of meat, such as veal, fillet of beef, liver, hare, venison, the breast of game and poultry, &c. By this means fat is introduced into an otherwise lean piece of meat, and the appearance of the article is improved at the same time. The needle used is called a larding needle (Fr. lardoire). It consists of a tube of fine metal, pointed at one end like a needle, and slit at the other end in several divisions instead of having an eye. The strip of bacon is put into the slit end, and the portions of metal pressing against it while it206 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD is being drawn through the meat hold it in place. These needles can be bought in different sizes, and the size must be regulated according to the purpose Larding Needle and Lardoons for which it is to be used, a small piece of meat requiring a much smaller needle than a large joint. Great care must be taken of these needles to keep them clean and free from dust. They are very easily bent and broken. They should be well wiped after use (not necessarily washed), and kept wrapped up in a piece of flannel or chamois leather. The bacon used must be very firm and free from lean. It can be bought specially for the purpose, cured without saltpetre, which has the power of reddening the meat with which it is used: but this is not necessary; any good fat bacon will do. Cut the bacon in slices and then across in strips. These strips are called lardoons. Be careful when cutting them to avoid any line running across the bacon, which would cause the lardoons to break when they were being drawn through the meat. The size of the lardoons will of course vary. They must be cut very evenly, square at the ends, and of a size to fit the needle. They are usually about 2 inches in length. Keep them in a very cool place, or on ice until they are wanted. If a small piece of meat is to be larded, place it on a folded piece of paper and hold it in the left hand ; a larger piece can be held steadily on a board. Place a lardoon in the needle, put the point in across the grain of the meat, taking a stitch of about J inch, and draw it through, leaving an equal length of lardoon at each end. The stitch must only be made deep enough to cause the ends of the bacon to stand up. Continue putting in more strips of bacon in even rows across the meat until the surface to be larded is entirely covered. The stitches should be at least £ inch apart, and those in rows 2 and 4 should come between those in 1 and 3, and so on. When finished, cut the ends of the lardoons evenly with a pair of scissors. Larding is more practised in Prance than it is in this country. Strips of tongue, gherkin, truffle, or anchovy are sometimes used instead of bacon. Barding This serves the same purpose as larding in pro- viding fat to a dry piece of meat, only it is a much simpler method. It is generally used to protect the breasts of poultry and game and prevent them Barding becoming dry when roasting. Cut some fat bacon, cooked or uncooked, in thin slices, slit it several times to prevent it curling up during the cooking, and lay or tie it over the breast with a piece of string. To Marinate The process of marinating is not so much practised in this country as abroad, the reason perhaps being, that on the Continent inferior meat has so often to be used, that juice and flavour must be imparted to it from external sources. To marinate a piece of meat or fish is to soak it in a mixture of oil and vinegar, with various seasonings, for some time before cooking it. This mixture of oil and vinegar in which the meat is soaked is called a “ marinade,” and the ingredients of which it is composed can be varied at pleasure and according to the kind of meat under treatment. Two table-spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar are very usual proportions, but some people prefer more vinegar; then some thinly-sliced onion or shallot, a little lemon rind, savoury herbs, thinly-sliced carrot, and seasoning are generaly added as well. In some cases wine will take the place of some of the vinegar, either white or red wine being used. Port wine and red- currant jelly, for instance, are sometimes added to a marinade, to impart the flavour of game to meat that is to be used for a tasty hash. There is no occasion to make the marinade in large quan- tities ; there should be just sufficient to cover the bottom of a dish on which the meat can be soaked. Lay the meat in it, and let it remain for an hour at least before cooking, turning and basting it frequently. Then drain it, and use as directed without washing. The marinade is frequently strained and added to the sauce which is to accom- pany the meat, or it may be kept for use again. In some cases the marinade is made boiling hot and then poured over the meat. This is a quicker method. The advantages to be gained by marinating meat are: 1. The flavour of the meat is improved by absorption of the marinade. 2. The meat is made more tender, as the vinegar or wine acts on the fibres and softens them.SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 207 3. The meat is kept soft and juicy by the action of the oil. 4. The marinade acts as a preservative, and a iece of meat soaked in this way can often e prevented from turning bad. different methods of cooking meat Baking or Roasting This is one of the most popular ways of cooking meat, in fact it might be called our national method. At the same time it is perhaps one of the most expensive methods, as there is always considerable waste owing to shrinkage of the meat, and it is only successful if the best cuts are used. A tough or inferior part of meat should never be roasted, but either braised or stewed. Roasting, properly speaking, is cooking in front of an open fire, but owing to the limited accom- modation and the construction of the stoves in modern houses this method of cooking has become a thing of the past, and baking or roasting in the oven has taken its place. Meat to be roasted should be carefully trimmed, removing from it any gristle and superfluous fat, then weighed and well wiped with a damp cloth. Washing should be avoided unless really necessary. If frozen meat is being used, the joint should be allowed to thaw slowly in a warm kitchen for several hours before it is cooked. The tin used Double Roasting Tin for roasting should, if possible, be a double one, the under one being large enough to hold a little water, which will keep the air of the oven moist and prevent the fat in the upper portion from becoming too hot and acquiring a burnt taste. The meat should be placed on a small stand or trivet in the baking tin to prevent it soaking in the dripping and becoming sodden. The tin should be large enough to hold the meat comfortably without projecting over the edges. The first point in baking or roasting is to expose the meat to a high temperature for 10 minutes or longer, in order to brown the outside and form a coating, as it were, to prevent the escape of the juice. Then the heat may be reduced, and the cooking continued until the joint is sufficiently roasted. If the heat of the oven can be gauged by a thermometer, the temperature should be 310° F. when the meat is first put in, and subse- quently reduced to between 260° and 300°. During the process of cooking the meat must be basted with dripping or other fat at intervals of 10 or 15 minutes to prevent its becoming dried up. If the meat is not sufficiently fat in itself, a little butter, dripping, or other fat should be put into the roasting tin. The spoon used for basting should be a long one, and it ought to be laid on a plate when not in use to prevent the drops of grease soiling the stove. Unless the meat is kept moist with fat during the roasting, the process will not be a success. For this reason game, poultry, and meats that are wanting in fat are very often larded (see p. 206), or barde—that is, covered with slices of fat bacon. Poultry and small joints should be covered with greased paper when they are first put into the oven to prevent them becoming brown too quickly. This covering can be removed a short time before the meat is taken from the oven to allow for browning. It is very important that the oven should be clean and well ventilated, otherwise the operation of roasting will cause a most unpleasant smell. The ventilator must be kept open all the time. It is impossible to lay down any exact rule regarding the time for roasting meat, as the form and thickness of the joint must always be taken into consideration as well as its weight. A long thin piece of meat would naturally take a shorter time to cook than a thick solid piece of equal weight. The approximate time for cooking beef and mutton is 15 minutes to the pound and 15 minutes over, and for pork, lamb, and veal 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over; but common sense and experience wall be found to be the best guides. Beef and mutton may be left rather underdone if fancy dictates, but white meats are unwholesome unless thoroughly cooked. If the joint is large and thick it should be turned at least once during the process of cooking. Sprinkle the meat with pepper and salt when it is nearly ready, as salt sprinkled on before the meat is brown will draw out the juice and toughen the fibre. When the meat is ready, lift it on to a hot dish and keep it warm while the gravy is being made. Roasting in a Pan Small joints of meat and birds can be roasted in an iron stewpan, and this is sometimes a more convenient method than having to heat an oven for the purpose. First melt a small quantity of dripping or other fat in the stewpan and make it very hot. Then put in the meat, baste it well, and put on the fid. Stand the saucepan where the contents wdll continue to cook at a good even temperature, and baste frequently, the same as in other roasting. The meat should be turned once or twice during the process, and when sufficiently cooked, served in the same way as above. Gravy for Roast Meat Clear Gravy.—For all simple roasts a clear unthickened gravy is the best. Pour away the fat from the roasting-pan and reserve it for future use. Add a small quantity of boiling water to the pan, and with an iron spoon rub down any glaze or meat juice which adheres to the sides. Boil two or three minutes, add salt to taste, and remove any grease from the surface with kitchen paper. Strain a little of the gravy round the joint, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. It is awkward for the carver if the dish is made too full.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 208 If a larger quantity of gravy is required, a little stock may be necessary, but any with a strong pronounced flavour of vegetables should be avoided. The pure juice of the meat is always the best gravy. Colouring matter should never be used. Thickened Gravy.—Sometimes a thickened gravy is required. For roast game, poultry, rabbit, veal, &c., it is generally preferred. Pom away most of the fat from the roasting-pan, leaving only about 1 dessert-spoonful. Add to this 1 dessert-spoonful of fine flour or cornflour, and mix it in over the fire until smooth and brown. Now draw the pan to the side of the fire and pour in £ pint of water or stock, and stir again over the fire until boiling. Simmer a few minutes and skim well. Season to taste and according to the kind of meat with which it is to be served, and strain before using. Boiling Although this is one of the simplest methods of cooking meat, it is one which not infrequently meets with failure. Instead of a tender joint full of juice, a piece of meat both tough and tasteless will be served up. Boiling is better suited to large joints than to small, in fact nothing under 3 or 4 lbs. should be attempted. Lean' meat, too, is better than that which is fat. Fresh Meat.—Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and trim it carefully. Then bind or tie it into shape, if necessary, with a piece of string or tape. Weigh it and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water to cover it. Allow the water to boil rapidly for 5 minutes to form a casing on the outside of the meat, and thus keep in the juices. Now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and allow the meat to simmer only until sufficiently cooked. It may sound paradoxical, but boiled meat should never boil after the first 5 minutes; there should be just a gentle bubbling on the surface of the water. The temperature of the water should never rise over 180° or 200° F.; in fact for mutton it may be kept a little lower. Salt in the proportion of 1 table-spoonful to a gallon of water should be added, and any scum that rises on the surface should be carefully re- moved. Suitable vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, and parsnips should be boiled along with the meat. The meat should be kept covered with water all the time it is cooking. Stock may be used instead of water ; in fact, the stock pot can often be utilised in this way, as long as the meat is not salted. The time for boiling will vary from 20 to 30 minutes to the pound and 20 to 30 minutes over, according to the-kind and shape of the meat. It must be borne in mind that boiled meat should never be underdone, and it is better to err on the safe side and give it too much time than to under- cook it. The usual gravy for boiled joints is some of the liquor in which they are cooked. A tasty sauce can also be served separately, such as caper sauce or onion sauce with boiled mutton, bechamel sauce with boiled lamb, horse-radish sauce or tomato sauce with boiled beef, &c. The remainder of the liquor in which the meat has been cooked should be reserved for making soup, or go towards enriching the stock pot. Salt Meat.—This should be put into cold or tepid water to begin with, in order to soften it and draw out some of the salt, then brought slowly to the boil, boiled for a few minutes only, and the cook- ing continued slowly, as with fresh meat. If very salt or highly smoked, it should be soaked in cold water for some time before cooking it. The liquor in which salt meat has been cooked, provided it is not too salt, can be used for making pea, lentil, or potato soup, but it should not be put in the stock pot. Steaming Both meat and poultry may be cooked in the vapour arising trom boiling water. It is one of the slowest methods of cooking, but if sufficient time can be allowed the meat can be made beautifully tender. It is par- ticularly well suited to small pieces of meat, which would be spoilt by boiling, and also when cooking for invalids. The meat to be cooked should be placed in a patent steamer, or in a perforated one, placed over a pan of boil- ing water. There must be plenty of steam or the process will not be a success. Small pieces of meat may be steamed in a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, or even on a plate placed on the top of a saucepan of water (see illustration, p. 80). More time should be allowed for steaming than for boiling. As meat cooked by this method will be very- tasteless in itself, a good sauce will be necessary to serve with it. Broiling or Grilling This is cooking on a hot grill or gridiron either over or in front of a hot fire. When a gas stove is used it is done under the griller. The process, which is really roasting on a small scale, can only be applied to small thin pieces of meat which will cook quickly, such as chops, steak, kidneys, joints of game and poultry, &c. Grilling is one of the quickest methods of cooking. The meat chosen should always be of the best quality, otherwise it will be tough and uneatable. It is impossible to obtain that red juicy appearance so essential to a good steak or chop with inferior meat. The state of the fire is the next important point for consideration. A dull slow fire is of no use ; it must consist of glowing red embers, without any smoke or flame. A handful of salt sprinkled over it sometimes helps to disperse any smoke. Place the gridiron, which must be very clean, over the fire and allow it to become hot, then grease it well with a piece of fat or suet held on the end of a fork or with any other suitable fat. The gridiron should be placed or held in a slanting Hutchings' Patent Cooker209 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES position and from 3 to 6 inches above the coals, according to the intensity of the heat. Brush the meat over with salad oil or melted butter. Lay it on the gridiron, and let one side cook while you count ten, at about the same rate as the ticking of a clock. Then turn and cook the same length of time on the other side, repeating the process until the meat is sufficiently cooked. Regular turning is very important, as it means slower cooking and prevents the surface from being browned. The turn- ing should be done with a pair of steak tongs, or, failing that, with a spoon ancl knife, or by sticking a fork into the fat of the meat. The meat itself must never be pierced, as that would allow some of the juice to escape. The time for grilling must be re- gulated by the thickness, rather than by the weight of the meat, and ex- perience alone can teach when a chop or steak is done to a nicety. Touch is the best guide. If, when pressed with the back of a fork, the meat feels spongy and very elastic, it is still in a raw state; if, on the other hand, it is hard and without resistance, it is overcooked. The aim must be to hit the happy medium, and serve the meat well browned on both sides, before that puffed appearance has disappeared and all the steam of the juices has escaped through the crust. Broiling can also be done in a hanging gridiron fixed in front of a clear fire. This is generally Steak Tonga Hanging Grill double, the meat to be cooked being put between the two sides, and the grill itself is turned in this case. When a gas stove is used the grilling is done underneath the light instead of on the top (see p- 21). A little water put in the dripping tin will prevent the fat catching fire. Frying Frying is one of the quickest methods of cooking meat, but it is only suited to small and tender cuts. Cheap and tough meat should never be cooked by this process. There are two different methods of frying : 1. Dry Frying or, properly speaking, sauteing, is cooking in a shallow pan or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. The fat. must be made quite hot, and then the meat placed in it and cooked on both sides. Chops and steaks may be cooked in this way, although they are not so digestible as when grilled. Slices of liver, sheep’s kidneys, and sausages may also be cooked by this method. 2. Deep Frying, or Frying Proper.—This method is best suited to made-up dishes of meat, such as fritters, rissoles, croquettes, &c. The articles to be fried are generally protected with a coating of batter or egg and bread-crumbs before they are submerged in boiling fat. (For full directions for this kind of frying see p. 248.) Stewing Stewing means long slow cooking in a small quantity of liquid, in a covered vessel and at a low temperature. It is one of the most economical ways of cooking : firstly, because there is nothing lost, any juice that is drawn from the meat is served in the gravy ; secondly, because the coarser and cheaper pieces of meat may be used, as the long slow cooking makes them tender ; and, thirdly, very little fuel is required, and very little attention when once the stew has been set agoing. A stew is generally a mixture of meat and vegetables, and success depends very much upon the careful seasoning and blending of flavours. In some cases the meat is lightly fried or seared before it is stewed; this prevents the escape of some of the juices and gives colour to the stew. In others, the meat is simply put on in the liquid in which it is to be cooked. This liquid may either be thin, such as water or stock, or a thickened sauce or gravy. A thin liquid is always to be preferred for tough meat, as it penetrates and softens the fibre better. If the meat is very tough, a little vinegar is sometimes used to make it more tender. A stew may be cooked either in a stewpan or in a jar, and either on the top of the stove or in the oven. A double saucepan is also very useful for this mode of cooking, or the saucepan containing it may be placed in a larger one containing hot water. The lid should be removed as seldom as possible, and it should fit the saucepan or jar tightly, so as to avoid waste through evaporation. The time for stewdng wall depend on the kind of meat used and the size of the pieces. When sufficiently cooked the fibre of the meat should be soft and loose, and the chief point to remember i# that the process must not be hurried. Examples of different kinds of stews will be found in the following recipes. Stewing in Earthenware This method of cooking is becoming very popular, and the simple clay casseroles, which can now bo bought in so many different shapes and sizes, are 0COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 210 admirably adapted to the purpose. They have much to recommend them from the point of view of cleanliness; they are easily cleaned and there is no danger of rust. They are also economical so far as fuel is concerned, their heat-retaining power being so great that they will simmer for hours over a gentle heat without burning the food. They are not expensive to buy, and if proper care is taken of them they will last a long time. Food cooked in them is usually served in the pot, hence the term “ En Casserole,” and therein lies part of the novelty. A folded serviette may, if liked, be pinned round the outside, but as some of the pots are so quaint and ornamental, this would rather spoil the effect. There are different kinds of ware for cooking urposes now on the market; besides the all rown clay-pot there is the brown and green fireproof ware with white or yellow linings and the all white fireproof china. Braising This is a method of cooking largely employed in France. It is a sort of combination of roasting and stewing, and is particularly well suited to small joints. Like stewing, it is very economical and very savoury. It is one of the best ways of cooking meat that is dry and lacking in flavour, and also for meat that is inferior in quality. A proper braising pan is supplied with a sunk lid, in which hot charcoal can be placed in order to supply a top heat, but an ordinary stewpan can be made to answer the purpose quite well. The stewpan chosen should be fairly deep, just large enough to leave a space of about 2 inches round the piece of meat being cooked, and the lid must fit it closely. First place a little butter, dripping, or fat bacon at the bottom of the stewpan and allow it to melt. Then put in a layer of vegetables cut in dice— carrot, turnip, onion, and celery in equal propor- tions. A little tomato and leek may be added as well, if available. The bed of vegetables should be from 1J to 2 inches in depth, according to the size of the stewpan. Season with pepper and salt and a small bunch of herbs. On the top of this place the meat, prepared as directed in recipes, put the lid on the pan, and cook over the fire about i hour, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the contents sticking. Next pour in enough stock or water to cover the vegetables and just touch the meat, and cover the whole with a piece of well- greased paper. Sometimes a little wine is added as well. Put the lid again on the pan, and cook very slowly until the meat is tender. The cooking may either be done on the top of the stove or in the oven. If the former, the meat when ready should be placed for a short time in the oven to brown the top (it is generally glazed as well); if cooked in the oven this is not so necessary, as a top heat is supplied all the time. Neither is it necessary when a proper braising pan is used. During the cooking the meat should be basted occasionally with the stock, and if this becomes too much reduced, more should be added. The time for cooking will depend on the kind and size of meat under treatment. The meat may either be served with a good sauce, or with the stock in which it was cooked, strained round as a gravy. A suitable garnish is gener- ally prepared separately, but when vegetables are scarce and economy has to be considered, those from the braising pan may be served along with the meat. These latter are, in any case, always a valuable addition to the stock pot. Meat cooked in this way will be found to be juicy and full of flavour. Plenty of time must be allowed, and slow cooking is essential. To Glaze Meat Have the glaze prepared as directed on p. 40 and in a melted condition, but not too hot; or, if cold glaze or bought glaze is used, put it into a jar with a very little water or stock, and stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water until the glaze is melted. It will then be ready for use. Use a small paint-brush or egg-brush, and paint the meat all over with it in even, straight strokes. If one coating is not sufficient, allow the first one to cool, and brush the meat over again until it has a rich brown and shiny surface. Meanwhile keep the glaze in a melted state by putting the pan or jar con- taining it in a saucepan half full of hot water. Do not waste any glaze that is left, but pour it carefully into a clean jar ready for future use, and rinse the brush and saucepan with boiling water, > which pour into the stock pot. Glaze can also be bought by the ounce, but its flavour is not generally so good as that which is prepared at home. It costs about 2d. per ounce, and this quantity will be sufficient to glaze an ox tongue or a fair-sized piece of meat. APPROXIMATE TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING OR ROASTING MEAT Kind of Meat. Weight. How Cooked. Time. Beef Salt beef Mutton, leg of . . . „ shoulder. . Lamb, quarter of . . Pork ...... „ salted .... Veal Ox tongue, salted . . „ ,, smoked . Sucking pig .... lb. 5 9 5 5 9 6 4 Small Large 4 4 3 5 about 4 lb. Small Boasted Boiled Roasted Boiled Boasted Boiled Boasted Boiled Roasted hrs. 11 to 1J 21 „ 3 2J „ 3 If „ 2 2i „ 2J 3 hrs. If to D 1 „ H D „ 1| 1| ,, 2 2 „ 2| 11 „ H 2 „ 2f 2 „ 2J 3 „ 4 2 „ 2fSIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 211 PART II BEEF 823. Boiled Beef, Unsalted (Bceuf Bouilli) 5 or 6 lbs. brisket. 2 or 3 carrots. 3 or 4 small onions. 3 or 4 small turnips. 1 head celery. 3 leeks. A bunch of herbs 4 cloves. 12 black peppercorns. A blade of mace. Salt. Hot water. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and tie it into a neat shape with tape. Put it into a large saucepan with hot water to cover it, and bring it to the boil. Add a dessert-spoonful of salt and skim carefully. Allow the meat to simmer slowly for 1J hours, removing all scum that rises. Then add the vegetables, prepared and cut in convenient-sized pieces, the bunch of herbs and spices tied in muslin, and continue to cook slowly until the meat is tender. This may be served either hot or cold. To Serve Hot.—Lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the tape, and, if possible, fix it together with a silver skewer. Arrange the vegetables neatly round, and serve some of the liquid separately in a sauce boat. To Serve Gold.—Lift the meat out of the saucepan and remove the bones. Tie it neatly together, and press it between two large dishes, or boards, with a weight on the top, until cold. Reduce some of the liquid in which the meat was cooked, and add to it a small piece of glaze; then unbind the meat and brush it over with this, giving it two or three coat- ings if necessary. (See To Glaze Meat, p. 210.) Serve garnished with fresh parsley or watercress, and a few pieces of red tomato. Note.—When the meat is served cold, the vege- tables may either be served separately as a hot vegetable, or cut in smaller pieces and used for soup. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. 824. Salt Beef with Dumplings Choose a nice piece of salt beef from the aitch bone, round, or brisket, &c. Wash it, and if it is likely to be too salt, soak it overnight, or for a few hours, in cold water. Then trim it neatly and bind it firmly with tape to prevent it having a ragged appearance when cooked. Weigh it and put it into a saucepan with cold or tepid water to cover it. If the joint is a large one use cold water, but if small, tepid water will be better. Bring the meat fairly quickly to the boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, or reduce the heat, and carefully remove all scum that has risen. Now allow the meat to simmer slowly until it is quite tender, skimming when necessary. The time for cooking will vary from 20 to 30 minutes to the pound, and from 20 to 30 minutes over, according to the size and shape of the meat. It is usual to serve vegetables with this dish, as well as the dumplings. Prepare some nice pieces of carrot, turnip, and parsnip if in season, cutting them in convenient-sized pieces and regulating the quantity according to the size of the joint. Cook these along with the meat, putting them in after the first scum has been removed; or, if the meat is a very large piece, rather later, just allowing sufficient time to cook the vegetables thoroughly without reducing them to a pulpy state. Small suet dumplings (see below) are also a favourite accompaniment to this dish; or a pease pudding, if preferred, may be served separately. To Serve.—Lift the meat on to a hot dish and remove the tape. A silver skewer may be put in to keep it together. Garnish with the vegetables and dumplings placed alternately round the dish. Strain a little of the liquor round, and serve an extra supply in a sauce boat. A dish of green vegetables should be served separately. 825. Dumplings to Serve with Meat 6 oz. flour. 2 oz. suet. I £ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 tea-sp. salt. I A little milk or water. Chop the suet very finely, and mix it lightly with the flour, salt, and baking powder. Bind all to- gether with water or milk, and knead lightly. The dough must be soft without being sticky. Make it up into small balls, using a little dry flour to prevent the dough sticking to the hands. Cook them for 15 to 20 minutes along with the meat with which they are to be served. The water must be kept simmering all the time they are in it, or the dumplings will be heavy. Note.—The dry ingredients should not be moist- ened until it is time to cook the dumplings. 826. Roast Beef (Boeuf Rotl, Rosblf) To Choose the Joint.—The sirloin and the ribs are two of the finest joints for roasting. The round and the aitch bone can also be cooked in this way, but to be successful the meat requires to be well hung and of good quality. The sirloin with a good undercut is the joint par excellence for a large or moderate-sized family. If the cut is a very large one, it is a good plan to cut a piece off the thin end and either stew or cook it in some other way, as if roasted with the rest of the joint, it is apt to become overcooked before the other part is ready. The ribs also make a very good joint, and these are often better if boned and rolled before roasting. This makes a neater and a more economical joint, as the bones with all their goodness can be used for soup. It is perhaps the best joint for a very small family, as one or two ribs can be bought, and when boned and rolled they will make quite a compact little joint. When a large and cheaper joint is wanted, a piece from the round or the aitch bone should be asked for. Very careful basting and cooking will be necessary to make those parts tender and successful. To Prepare the Meat.—Wipe it well with a damp cloth and scrape the skin with a knife. Examine it carefully to see that there are no tainted or dis- coloured parts, and trim it where necessary. Make the joint as tidy-looking as possible, using, if required, wooden skewers to fix it into shape. Then weigh it. To Roast.—Follow the general directions given on p. 207. To Serve.—When the meat is ready, lift it on to a hot dish and remove any skewers or string that may have been holding it together during the cook- ing, and which may be replaced, if liked, with aCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 212 silver skewer. Make tire gravy (see p. 207), strain a little of it round the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. Garnish the meat with some shredded horse-radish and some small sprays of parsley. A little horse-radish sauce (Recipe 752) may also be served separately. Yorkshire pudding and roasted or mashed potatoes are the usual accompaniments. 827. Pot Roast (Boeuf au Jus) 3 or 4 lbs. round or top- 1 breakfast-cupful stock side of beef. or water. Salt. Pepper. Wipe and trim the meat, and if necessary bind it into a neat shape with a piece of tape. Take a stewpan large enough to hold the meat, and grease it with a piece of suet, or fat from the meat. Lay in the meat, and brown it quickly on all sides. Pour in the stock or water, season with pepper and salt, and put the lid on the pan. Now cook slowly until the meat is tender, basting frequently with the stock. Tf necessary a little more stock may be added, but on no account must a large quantity of liquid be used, or the character of the dish will be quite altered. Success will depend upon slow and steady cooking. Serve the meat garnished with horse-radish and, if liked, a few baked or fried potatoes, or baked tomatoes. Tomato or brown sauce may be served separately. This meat is very good served cold. Note.—A few small onions may, if liked, be cooked along with the meat. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. 828. Stewed Beef with Dumplings 2 lbs. stewing beef. 2 oz. beef dripping. 2 oz. flour. 1 onion. 1 pt. stock. 2 bay-leaves. Salt. Pepper. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. Dumplings. J lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. § tea-sp. salt. About 1 tea-cupful milk. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and cut it into pieces about 1 inch square, removing the skin and any superfluous fat. Toss these pieces in half the flour, coating them well. Melt the dripping in a stewpan; when smoking hot put in the prepared Stewed Beef with Dumplings meat, and keep turning it over and over until browned on all sides. Then remove the meat, and add the onion finely chopped, or cut in thin slices ; brown that also, and stir in the remainder of the flour. Add the stock, and stir until boiling. Skim if necessary, return the meat, and add seasoning to taste. Allow the stew to simmer slowly until the meat is quite tender. About 20 minutes before the stew is ready, prepare the dumplings. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and mix into a smooth paste with the milk. Drop small pieces of this dough into the stew with a tea-spoon, put the lid on the pan, and allow the dumplings to cook for 15 minutes. Serve the meat in the centre of a hot dish with the dumplings round, and strain the gravy over. Note.—A little tomato juice may be used along with the stock, and more vegetables added if desired. Time to stew, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. Cd. 829. Beef Stewed in Lettuce 1 lb. stewing steak. 1 large lettuce. Seasoning. Choose a long lettuce, wash it carefully and drain it well. It must not be left too wet. Wipe the meat, and trim it if required. Then take a strong stewpan and grease it with a little butter or dripping. Line it with about two layers of the lettuce leaves, and lay the piece of meat in the middle. Season with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little finely chopped onion. Cover with more lettuce leaves, and put the lid on the pan. Now cook slowly by the side of the fire from 1J to 2 hours, when the meat ought to be perfectly tender and the lettuce reduced to a brown glaze. Time to cook, H to 2 hours. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 830. Braised Beef 3 lbs. round of beef. £ cupful each of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. 2 oz. good dripping, lpt. stock. A little flour. Trimmings of ham or bacon. A small bunch of herbs. 12 peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. A small blade of mace. Choose a nice thick slice from the round of beef, trim it, and tie it into shape with a piece of tape. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in small neat pieces. Then put the dripping and some trim- mings of ham or bacon into a stewpan, and when melted put in half the vegetables. Coat the meat lightly with flour, lay it on the top, with any bones or scraps round the sides, and cover with the remainder of the vegetables. Cook on the top of the stove or in the oven until the contents have taken colour, then add the stock, herbs, spices tied in muslin, and, if liked, a glass of white wine. Cook slowly until the meat is thoroughly tender, basting it occasionally with the stock. Success depends on slow cooking, and more stock should be added if necessary. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the tape, and keep it warm while the gravy is being prepared. If the liquid in the saucepan has reduced very much, add a little stock or water and strain into another saucepan. Boil for a few minutes, remove any grease from the top, pour some of this gravy round the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. The vegetables with which the meat was cooked may be used as a garnish, or some fancy-shaped pieces may be cooked separately. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 33, to 3s. 6d.213 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 831. Beef & la Mode, 1 (Boeuf a la Mode) 3 to 4 lbs. fillet, top-side, or rump of beef. | tea-sp. each ground cloves, ginger, cinna- mon, allspice, and pepper. Juice of | lemon. Salt. Larding bacon. 1 oz. dripping. 11 pts. stock on water. 2 onions. 1 large carrot. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 glass claret. Beef & la mode is very similar to braised beef, only it 13 generally larded and sometimes spiced as well. Wipe and dry the meat, trim it carefully and lay it on a deep dish. Mix the ground spices together and rub them into the meat. Sprinkle over the strained juice of £ a lemon or 2 table- spoonfuls vinegar and stand overnight. Next day lard the best side of the meat (see p. 205) and tie it up neatly with a piece of tape. Melt the drip- ping in a large stewpan, put in the meat and brown it on all sides. This will take about 20 minutes. When ready, lift it out, add the carrot and onions cut in slices, and brown them also. Add the stock and herbs, and when hot put back the meat. Cover with greased paper and the saucepan lid, and cook slowly in the oven or on the top of the stove until the meat is tender, basting now and again with the stock. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, placing the larded side uppermost, and keep it warm whilst preparing the sauce. Melt the butter in a small stewpan and allow it to brown, add the flour and brown that also, then strain in 1 pint of stock from the meat (the quantity must be made up with water if there is not sufficient) and stir until boiling. Add seasoning to taste and a glass of claret at the last. Strain some of the sauce round the meat and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. Garnish the meat with glazed carrots or onions (Recipes 453 and 524) or with any other cooked vegetable in season. Note.—This meat is also very good cold, and being spiced it will keep for several- days if kept in a cool place. It should be served with salad or with chopped aspic jelly. 832. Beef & la Mode, 2 (Boeuf & la Mode) 3 to 4 lbs. top-side of beef. Larding bacon. 2 oz. dripping. 1 glass Madeira. 1 glass white wine. Stock or water. 1 calf’s foot. 2 or 3 doz. small white onions. 2 or 3 carrots. A bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. flour. Choose a nice fleshy piece of beef from the top- side or rump, lard it with thickish lardoons of fat bacon (see Larding, p. 205) and tie it into a neat shape with string. Melt the dripping in a large stewpan, and when smoking hot put in the meat and brown it on all sides. Then pour in the glass of Madeira and set it alight. When this has burned out, add the white wine, the calf’s foot, which has been blanched and cut in pieces, and enough stock or water to half cover the meat. Season with pepper and salt, and the bunch of herbs ; put a tight-fitting lid on the pan and bring the contents to simmering point over the fire. Meanwhile prepare the vegetables—peel the onions and cut the carrots into small neat pieces. Add these to the stew and cook all together until the meat is tender. The cooking should be done in the oven if possible, or if not convenient, on the top of the stove at simmering point only. If young vegetables are used, they should not be added until the meat has cooked for some time, especially if it is a large piece of meat. The time should be regulated so as to have both meat and vegetables ready at the same time. The meat may be turned once during the cooking, but other- wise the saucepan must be kept as tightly covered as possible. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the string that binds it together, and either cut it in slices or leave it whole. Re- move the bones from the calf’s foot and arrange the pieces at each side of the beef. Put the carrot and onions in a heap at each end. Mix the flour with a little stock or water, add it to the gravy in the saucepan, stir until boiling, and carefully remove all grease. Strain this gravy over and round the meat. 833. Beef “ en Casserole ** l.|- lbs. round of beef. 1 cupful small white onions. 1 cupful carrot. 1 cupful turnip. | cupful celery. 3 gills stock. A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. Wipe the meat and cut it in small square pieces. Heat an iron frying pan or stewpan and grease it with a piece of the fat. Then put in the meat and brown it quickly on all sides, turning it over and over with an iron spoon. Prepare the vege- table, cut the carrot and turnip in dice or shreds, shred the celery and leave the little onions whole. If small onions cannot be obtained use the ordinary ones cut in pieces, and if fresh Celery is not in season, use tea-spoonful celery seed. Put a layer of the prepared vegetables in a fireproof casserole, lay the browned meat on the top, and then the remainder of the vegetables. Season with pepper and salt and pour in about 3 gills of hot stock. Cover with greased paper, put on the lid, and cook in a good oven until the meat is quite tender. Remove the herbs and serve the stew in the dish in which it is cooked. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons Probable cost. Is. 8d. 834. Stewed Shin of Beef 2 lbs. shin of beef. Small quantity of carrot. turnip, and onion. A small bunch of herbs. 2 table-sps. stock or water. 2 table-sps. brown vine- gar. Salt. Pepper. This makes a very economical and tasty stew. The upper part of the shin should be chosen. Wipe it and cut it in small pieces away from the bone, removing the fat and skin. Put the meat and bone into a strong jar and season them well with pepper and salt. Add a large cupful of the vege- tables cut in small pieces and a small bunch of herbs. Pour the stock and vinegar over, cover the jar and cook in a moderate oven or steam, as is most convenient. When tender, serve neatly on a hot dish, removing the bone and bunch of herbs. Notes.—This stew may be cooked in a saucepan instead of the jar, but care must be taken to cook it very slowly, or the meat will be tough. AnyCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 214 pieces of rather coarse meat may be cooked in the same way, the vinegar helps to soften the fibre. Shin of beef may also be cooked according to any of the other recipes given for stewed beef, but it should never be browned, and longer time must always be allowed. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 835. Curried Beef 1£ lbs. lean beef. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 1 onion. 1 table-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. \ pt. gravyor thin brown sauce. Juice of \ lemon. Salt. 1 table-sp. chopped pickles. Boiled rice. Wipe the meat and cut it in small neat pieces. Peel and slice the onion thinly. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the sliced onion and cook it over the fire a few minutes. Then put in the meat and fry all together for a few minutes longer, or until the meat has lost its red colour. Now add the curry powder, chutney, salt, and pickles, and cook five minutes longer. Then add the brown gravy, put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook very slowly until the meat is tender. Strain in the lemon juice at the last and serve with plainly boiled rice (see Recipe 1586). Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 836. Dry Beef Curry 1 lb. tender steak. 1| oz. butter. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 1 tea - sp. chopped pickles. 2 table-sps. chopped apple. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 tea-sp.red-currant jelly A pinch of salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped apple and onion and the curry powder and cook them for a few minutes over the fire without dis- colouring. Then add the steak cut in very small pieces, the chopped pickles, chutney, and red- currant jelly. Mix well, put the lid on the sauce- pan and cook over a slow fire until the meat feels tender. The curry must be stirred from time to time and the lemon juice and salt added a short time before serving. Serve with plainly boiled rice. Note.—This curry may be cooked and served in an earthenware saucepan. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 837. Giriash of Beef or Veal 1 lb. beef or veal. 1 onion. 1 oz. dripping. 1 gill stock or water. 1 glass claret or Madeira. 1 table-sp. flour. 2 or 3 potatoes. Seasoning. Choose tender meat. Wipe it and cut it in small pieces about an inch square, removing all skin and superfluous fat. Cut a medium-sized onion in thin slices and separate it' so that it falls in rings. Heat the dripping in a stewpan, put in the sliced onion and cook it until a pale brown colour. Then add the meat, cover the saucepan. and continue the cooking until the meat has lost its red colour. Now sprinkle in the flour, season with pepper and salt, and mix well. Moisten with the stock or water and the wine, and again cover the saucepan. Cook slowly by the side of the fire until the meat is tender, from 1J to 2 horns, stirring occasionally and adding a little more liquid if necessary. The gulash should not be made too moist. About J hour before it is ready, add the potatoes cut in small cubes, and cook them until soft, but not broken. Sometimes a little sour cream is added at the last. Serve very hot. Time to cook, 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 838. Beef with Rice and Tomatoes (Boeuf a l’ltalienne) 1£ pts. light stock or broth. 1 tea-cupful of rice. 2 tomatoes. Salt. Pepper^ 1 lb. stewing beef. 2 small onions. 2 table-sps. salad oil or butter. 1 dessert - sp. chopped pickles. Wipe and trim the meat and cut it in small square pieces. Chop the onions and peel and cut the tomatoes in small pieces. Put the oil or butter into a saucepan, when hot put in the chopped onion and cook for a few minutes over the fire. Add the meat, season with pepper, salt, and the chopped pickles, and continue the cooking for about 20 minutes, stirring frequently. Wash the rice and blanch it by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bringing it to the boil and straining. Add it to the meat with the stock and tomatoes and simmer all together until the meat is tender, being careful to stir the contents of the saucepan now and again. Serve very hot. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours in all. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. Gd. 839. Beef as Mock Hare 1 lb. stewing beef. 2 oz. bacon. 1 oz. flour. J pt. stock. A bunch of herbs. Rind and juice of \ lemon. 1 dessert-sp. red-currant i glass port wine. 1 onion stuck with 4 cloves. 1 dessert-sp. chopped capers or pickles. Forcemeat balls. Salt. Pepper. Wipe the meat, cut it in neat pieces about an inch square, and toss these in flour with a little pepper and salt. Cut the bacon in dice, put it into a stewpan and fry it for a few minutes. Then add the meat and stir it over the fire until nicely browned. Pour in the stock, and add the bunch of herbs, grated lemon rind, and onion stuck with cloves. Now put the lid on the pan and stew all very slowly until the meat is tender. A few minutes before serving, add the wine, lemon juice, red-currant jelly, and chopped pickles or capers. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with small forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288). Notes.—Shin of beef may be used for this, but it will require a longer time to cook. The stew may be cooked in the oven instead of oil the top of the stove, or turned into a jar after the meat is ,215. SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES browned and steamed, when it will require less attention. Time to stew, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 10& 840. Stuffed Roll of Beef 1J lbs. tender steak. Seasoning. Veal stuffing. A little flour. 1 table-sp. dripping or bacon fat. 3 gills stock. A glass sherry. Choose a nice tender piece of steak and have it cut in one slice, and rather less than half an inch in thickness. Wipe the meat, removing the skin and any superfluous fat. Lay it on a board and beat it out slightly with a cutlet bat or rolling- pin. Then trim it, season well with pepper and salt, and lay any good trimmings in the centre, or over the thinner pieces of the meat. Prepare some veal stuffing according to Recipe 1281, lay it in the centre of the meat, roll up and bind round with tape. Now coat this roll with flour in order to make it very dry. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a stewpan, when smoking hot put in the meat and turn it over and over until brown on all sides. Then pour in about 3 gills of good stock, or enough to about half cover the meat. Put the lid on the pan and stew very slowly until the meat is tender. The meat should be turned over once or twice during the cooking. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the thread or tape, and keep it warm. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour with the sherry, add it to the gravy in the saucepan, and stir until boiling. If too thick, a little more stock or water must be added. Skim well, add more seasoning if necessary, and strain over the meat. A garnish of green peas or small baked tomatoes will improve the appearance of the dish. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 2d. 841. Beef Olives (Roulades de Boeuf) 1 \ lbs. beef (cut thin). 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 oz. flour. | pt. stock. I dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Seasoning. Sausage meat or veal forcemeat. Border of potatoes. Grated horse-radish. Parsley. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, remove the skin, and cut it into small oblong-shaped pieces, suitable for rolling up, and as much one size and shape as possible. Beat them out slightly with a cutlet bat or rolling-pin. Any nice pieces of meat that are too small or too ragged to make into rolls may be cut up and laid on the top of the other pieces, also some small pieces of hard fat. Spread out all the strips of meat on a board, put a little sausage meat or veal forcemeat (see p. 309) on the centre of each and roll them up. Tie round with a piece of coarse thread or fine string and coat them with the flour. Melt the dripping or butter in a stewpan, when smoking hot put in the rolls of meat and keep turning them over and over with a spoon until they are browned on all sides. Lift them on to a plate as they are ready, and Beef Olives garnished with Horse-radish when all are done pour away the fat from the pan and add the stock. Add also the seasonings, bring to the boil and skim well. Return the rolls of meat, put on the lid, and simmer very slowly until the meat feels quite tender. To Serve.—Lift the beef olives on to a hot plate and remove the strings. Arrange a border of potatoes (Recipe 543) on a hot dish and place the olives in a circle or row on the top of this. Strain the sauce round and garnish with a little grated horse-radish and tiny sprigs of parsley. Notes.—The centre of the potato border may be filled with green peas or a macedoine of vegetables if liked. A border of spinach or chestnut puree may be used instead of the potato. Or the beef olives may be dished simply without the vegetable border, straining the gravy over and round and sprinkling them with a little finely-chopped parsley. If any stuffing is left over it may be made into small balls, which can be baked in the oven and used as a garnish to the beef olives. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Another Way Prepare as directed for Veal Olives (Recipe 238). 842. Scotch Collops 1 lb. lean juicy beef. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 oz. beef dripping, butter, or bacon fat. 1 onion. 1- pt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Sippets of toast. Have the meat minced with a small proportion of fat. Melt the 1 oz. of fat in a stewpan, and when hot put in the onion finely chopped and the meat. Pound well with a wooden spoon until nicely browned. Add the stock and seasoning and simmer slowly for § hour. Add the bread-crumbs about 10 minutes before serving, so as to ab- sorb the grease. Garnish with small sippets of toast. Note.—A few small baked tomatoes make a pretty garnish to this dish. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. id.216 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 843. Grilled Steak & la Maitre d! Hotel lbs. rump or fillet steak. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. Seasoning. Maitre d’lidtel butter. The steak must be cut from a well-hung, juicy piece of meat. The best are from the rump or fillet, or from the tender part of the round. The steak should be cut from 1J to 1| inches in thick- ness. Wipe it with a damp cloth, and cut off all skin and superfluous fat. Beat the meat slightly with a cutlet bat, and then make it as shapely as possible. If small round steaks are required, it is best to use the fillet cut in slices. Brush over both sides of the meat with a little salad oil or melted butter, place it on a well-heated gridiron, and cook according to directions given for broiling (see p. 208). The time will vary according to the thickness of the meat, and also to whether it is liked underdone or well cooked. Serve at once on a very hot dish, and put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top. The heat of the meat should melt the butter, and the parsley should look fresh and green. A little carefully picked watercress or scraped horse-radish may be used as a garnish, or a few small baked tomatoes may be put round the dish. Fried potatoes should be served separately. Time to grill, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 844. Grilled Steak with Tomato Sauce Cook the steak as in last recipe, put it on a hot dish, and pour \ pint hot tomato sauce over. Serve with mashed potatoes or potato balls or cakes. 845. Fried Steak 1 \ lbs. tender steak. Seasoning. Butter or gravy. This method of cooking is often more convenient than grilling, although it is not to be recommended when the latter can be managed. The steak should be cut not less than f inch in thickness. Trim and wipe it, and if too thick beat it out with a rolling- pin or cutlet bat. Heat an iron frying pan, and grease it with a piece of suet or fat from the meat. It is a mistake to use a large quantity of fat, as it only tends to make the meat heavy and indigestible. Put the steak into the hot pan; when brown on one side, turn and brown on the other, and then keep turning almost constantly until sufficiently cooked. When ready, place the steak on a very hot dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and put a pat of butter on the top. Or, make a gravy by pouring 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of stock into the pan, stir over the fire, working in all the browning from the meat, season to taste, and strain round the meat. Fried steak can also be served in any of the ways directed for broiled steak. Time to fry, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 846. Beef Steak in Batter 1 lb. tender steak. Salt. Pepper. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 2 oz. flour. \ pt. water. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Make a smooth batter with the flour, water and eggs, beating it well, and if possible let it stand an hour before using it. Wipe and trim the steak and beat it out. Place it in a greased fireproof dish, and season it with pepper, salt, the powdered herbs, and chopped onion. Then pour the batter over and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a good oven until the batter is well risen and browned, and the steak sufficiently cooked. Serve in the same dish and as quickly as possible. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 847. Beef Steak with Bananas 1J lbs. tender steak. I A little flour. 2 or 3 bananas. | Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Either grill or fry the steak according to above directions. Peel the bananas and cut them in halves. Roll them lightly in flour, and then fry in butter until a pretty brown colour on all sides. Beef Steak with Bauanas Care must be taken that they do not break. Serve the steak on a hot dish, pour round a little gravy if wished, and garnish with the bananas. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 848. Beet steak with Mushrooms 1| lbs. tender steak. I lb. fresh mushrooms. H oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 cup of stock. Prepare the mushrooms (see Recipe 513) and cut them in quarters. Put them into a small saucepan with half the butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Cover with the saucepan lid, and cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes. Then mix the flour gradually with the stock, add them to the mushrooms, and stir until boiling. Cook 2 or 3 minutes longer, and add the remainder of the butter at the last. Either grill or fry the steak according to above directions. Serve it on a hot dish, and pour the mushrooms round. Note.—Both mushrooms and steak should, if possible, be ready at the same time. If either has to wait, it should be the mushrooms. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 849. Beef Steak with Onions \\ lbs. tender steak. I Butter or beef dripping. 2 or 3 onions. I Seasoning. Skin the onions, cut them in very thin slices, and then separate them into natural rings. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, add a little salt, and allow them to cook from 15 to 20 minutes. Then drain off every drop of water, and dry the onions in the saucepan for a few minutes. Add a small quantity of good beef dripping or butter, sprinkle with pepper and more salt if necessary, and stir over the fire until a golden brown. Either grill or fry the steak, put it on a hot dish, and serve the onions round.217 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES Note.—If preferred the onions may be simply fried in the frying pan before the steak, and then kept warm while the meat is being cooked. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 850. Beef Steak with Oysters 1 £ lbs. steak. 1 doz. tinned oysters. A small piece of butter. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Salt. Cayenne. 1 yolk of egg. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. To Prepare the Oysters.—Drain them from their liquor, and put them into a saucepan with the lemon juice, a small piece of butter, and a seasoning of cayenne and salt. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes until the oysters begin to curl up, then add the yolk of egg beaten up with the cream. Make thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. If necessary keep the mixture warm over hot water. Grill or fry the steak according to directions given under Recipe 843 or 845. Serve it on a hot dish, and place the oysters round. Note.—Endeavour to have both steak and oysters ready about the same time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 851. Porterhouse Steak (Entrecote) This is a large and specially cut steak. Ask the butcher to cut a slice of beef, not less than 1J inch in thickness, from a good sirloin with an undercut. The piece should look like a big chop. Flatten it slightly with a cutlet bat, and trim neatly. Then brush it over on both sides with melted butter or salad oil, season with freshly ground pepper, and if time permits let the steak lie from § to 1 hour. Then grill over a clear fire (see Grilling), allowing from 15 to 20 minutes, according to whether the steak is liked well or under done. When ready, lift on to a very hot dish, sprinkle with salt, and serve with a pat of maitre d’hotel, or any other savoury butter on the top. Grilled tomatoes or mushrooms may be used as a garnish, and fried potatoes and horse-radish sauce may be served separately. 852. Steamed Steak and Kidney 1 lb. beef steak. 1 or 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. water. Salt. Pepper, ltea-sp. chopped parsley Wipe the steak, trim it, and cut it in four equal- sized pieces. Skin the kidney and cut it in quarters, removing the fat from the centre. Then coat both meat and kidney with flour, and season them with pepper and salt. Put the chopped onion at the bottom of a basin, and lay the steak and kidney on the top. Pour in the water, cover the basin with a plate or saucer, and steam steadily until the steak feels tender. Serve the steak on a hot dish with the kidney on the top, pour the gravy and onion round, and sprinkle with the chopped parsley. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 853. Russian- Steaks 4 lb. tender steak. | lb. fillet of veal. 1 shallot. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. (Biftecks & la Russe) Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Tomato sauce. Any raw trimmings of beef or veal may be used for these. Remove all skin from the meat, cut it in pieces, and pass it twice through the mincing machine. Then put it into a basin, and add the shallot, parsley, and seasoning. Moisten with the yolk of egg, and mix well. Spread the mixture on a plate, and allow it to set for half an hour. Then divide it into eight or ten equal-sized pieces. Form each piece into a round flattish cake, using flour to prevent the mixture from sticking to the board, and egg and bread-crumb them. Then flatten the steaks with a knife and re-shape them. Melt the fat in a frying-pan, when smoking hot put in the steaks, and fry them first on one side and then on the other until nicely browned. Drain them well, and serve in a circle on a hot dish. Pour tomato sauce round ; or, a little sour cream may be added to the fat left in the pan, seasoned to taste, brought to the boil, and used as a sauce. Note.—These steaks may, if liked, be dished on a border of potatoes, and green peas used as a garnish. Time to cook, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 854. Minced Steaks, Grilled 1 lb. beef steak. Salt. Pepper. Wipe the meat, remove all skin and sinew, and put it twice through the mincing machine. Season the meat with pepper and salt, and form it into about six round flat cakes of equal thickness. They should not be more than about \ inch thick. Place them on a well-greased grill, and cook them according to general directions given for grilling (see p. 208). The time will depend upon whether the meat is liked well or under done, but they will require rather longer than a piece of ordinary steak of the same thickness. Serve the steaks on a hot dish, put a little maitre d’hotel or plain • butter on the top, and serve with fried potatoes or potato puree. Note.—A little finely chopped or grated onion may, if liked, be mixed with the beef, or some nuts blanched and chopped. 855. Baked Steak with Bacon A p ch of nutmeg. 1 tea-cupful biscuit crumbs. J lb. bacon. 1 lb. beef steak. 1 dessert - sp. grated onion. Salt. Pepper. Choose tender and juicy steak, wipe it, cut it in pieces, removing all skin, but reserving the fat, and put it through the mincing machine. The crumbs should be made from toast or other dry light biscuits. Add them to the minced meat along with the minced onion and seasoning. Mix thoroughly, and then spread out on a greased fire- proof dish not more than an inch in thickness. Lay the bacon cut in very thin slices on the top.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 218 and bake in a good oven until well browned. The beef should remain rather underdone. Serve in the same dish. Baked tomatoes or green peas would' be a good accompaniment. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 856. Beef Balls with Curry 1 lb. lean beef. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. 1 egg. Salt. Pepper. A little flour. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. 1 gill stock. 1 gill tomato puree or sauce. Boiled rice. Wipe and trim the meat, and pass it once or twice through the mincing machine. Put it into a basin, add the bread-crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, a pinch of ground nutmeg, and a pinch of mace. Mix well, and bind all together with beaten egg. Form into small balls, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion finely chopped, and fry it a few minutes. Now put in the beef balls, and toss them over the fire until browned on all sides. Sprinkle in the rice flour and curry powder, mix and add the stock and tomato puree. Stir for a few minutes and then simmer slowly until the meat is cooked. When ready, arrange the balls in the centre of a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and put a border of rice round. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 857. Beef Cannelon 1 lb. lean beef. £ lb. ham or bacon. 1 cupful cooked pota- toes. £ tea-sp.powdered herbs. Grated lemon rind. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 1 egg. Salt. Pepper. £Jcupful stock or gravy. 1 oz. butter. Brown or tomato sauce. Wipe and trim the meat, and remove all rind and rust from the bacon. Cut both in small pieces, and put them twice through the mincing machine. Then put them into a basin, add the potatoes finely chopped, and season with the powdered herbs, grated lemon rind, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix well together, and bind with the egg slightly beaten. Form into a neat roll, and wrap in a piece of well-greased paper. Place the prepared roll on a baking tin with the butter and stock, and bake in a good oven, basting now and again with the liquid. When ready, lift the cannelon on to a hot dish, remove the paper, and pour a little brown or tomato sauce over and round. Or, a little light gravy may be made by adding some stock to the baking tin and boiling it for a few minutes over the fire. Garnish the roll with green peas or baked tomatoes, or serve it plain, sprinkled with a little parsley. This makes a good luncheon dish. Time to bake, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 858. Beef Loaf (Gateau do Boeuf) 2 lbs. lean juicy beef. 6 oz. bread-crumbs. £ lb. fat bacon. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 2 eggs. 1 cupful stock. Wipe the meat, cut it in small pieces, removing all skin and gristle, and put it twice through the mincing machine. Chop the onion, bacon, and parsley separately, and add them to the meat along with the bread-crumbs and seasonings. Knead well together with the hands, add the eggs well beaten, and mix again. Now grease a plain mould, press the meat mixture into it so that it takes the shape, and turn it out carefully on to a greased baking tin. Pour round the hot stock and bake in a good oven, basting frequently with the stock. When ready, set aside until cold, glaze if wished, and serve cut in thin slices. Tomato, potato, or other salad may be served separately, or vinaigrette or horse-radish sauce. Note.—Other meats may be used in the same way, or a mixture of meats. Time to bake, 1 hour. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. 859. Galantine of Beef (Galantine de Boeuf) £- lb. lean beef. 6 oz. fat bacon. £ lb. pork sausage meat. 1 breakfast-cupful bread-crumbs. 2 eggs. A little stock. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. chopped pickles. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Salt. Pepper. Some meat glaze. Wipe the meat, remove all the skin and sinew and put it once or twice through the mincing machine with the bacon, which has been freed from rind and rust. Put the minced meat into a basin, and add to it the sausage meat, bread- crumbs, parsley, onion, and pickles. Season with pepper, salt, mixed spice and ketchup, and mix well together. Then moisten with the eggs slightly beaten and a little stock or gravy. Form into a roll, and tie into a pudding-cloth like a roly-poly. Boil this in the stock pot until the meat is thoroughly cooked. Lift out and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then remove the cloth and brush the roll over with liquid glaze (see To Glaze, p. 210). Serve cold, garnished with parsley or salad. This makes a very good cold luncheon or supper dish. Notes.—This roll may also be made with cold roast beef. A few chopped mushrooms or pieces of hard-boiled egg may be added. It may be decorated with a little creamed butter put through a forcing bag and with chopped aspic jelly. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost, 2 s. 2d. 860. Beef and Veal Mould 1 lb. lean beef. 1 lb. fleshy veal. £ lb. fat bacon. 4 oz. stale bread. 1 onion. 1 or 2 eggs. Salt. Pepper. £ tea-sp. grated nutmeg. A pinch of powdered mace. £ pt. stock. £ tea-sp. made mustard. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. Trim and cut up the two kinds of meat and bacon and put them twice through the mincing machine.219 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES Soak the bread in cold water until it is quite soft, then squeeze it as dry as possible. Put it into a basin and beat it with a fork until quite free from lumps. Add the minced meat, the onion finely chopped or grated, parsley and seasoning. Mix all together and add the stock. Beat the eggs, add them to the other ingredients, and mix again. Carefully grease a plain mould and coat the inside with browned bread-crumbs. Pack the mixture into it, cover with greased paper and steam until the meat is thoroughly cooked. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and pour brown, tomato, mushroom, brown caper, or any other stat- able sauce round. Spinach and potato balls would be nice accompaniments. Note.—This mould is very good served cold with salad. Time to steam, 2£ to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 3s. General Directions for Pickling Meat Meat used for pickling must be sound, fresh, and of very good quality. Before being put into the pickle it must be carefully trimmed, and any discoloured parts, kernels, or traces of blood re- moved, as these, if left, would tend to spoil the whole joint. Almost any kind of meat may be pickled, but pork and beef are the two most gener- ally treated in this manner Either bay-salt or common salt may be used for pickling. The former is considered less harsh than the common kind, but a mixture of the two is very frequently employed. Saltpetre is usually added to the salting mixture to give colour, but this must be used with discretion, as it is apt to harden the meat. Brown sugar is also added to mellow and soften the mixture, and sometimes special spices as well, although these latter are not necessary in the ordinary and simple pickling. There are two different methods of pickling, the dry method and the wet method. The former is supposed to give a better flavour, but it requires more attention, as the meat must be turned and rubbed with the pickle every day. The meat should also be well rubbed with common salt and allowed to stand for at least twelve hours before the pickling proper is commenced. In the wet method the meat is simply put into the pickle and allowed to remain the required time. It must either be completely immersed or turned every day, and must be kept well covered. ■ Pickling is best when done in cool weather. If it is only done on a small scale a large earthenware basin or crock will serve the purpose, but it should have a cover or board to fit it closely. If much pickling is done a wooden trough is better, as it is lighter for handling. Whatever the receptacle, care must be taken to keep it scrupulously clean; it ought to be well scalded and dried in the open air after use. 861. Pickle for Meat, 1 (Wet) 1J lbs. bay salt or com- 1 oz. saltpetre. mon salt. 1 gallon water. 6 to 8 oz. brown sugar. Put all the ingredients into a large clean sauce- pan, bring them to the boil and boil from 15 to 20 minutes, skimming carefully. Strain and use when cold. 862. Pickle for Meat, 2 (Dry) A lb. bay salt. | lb. common salt. | lb. brown sugar. 1 oz. saltpetre. \ oz. black pepper. 1 tea-sp. allspice. Pound the bay salt, mix all the ingredients together and use as directed. This pickle will keep for several weeks and can be boiled up and used for more than one lot of meat if wanted ; but as salt is so cheap, this is scarcely worth while. 863. To Pickle Beef (Dry Method) 5 or 6 lbs. beef. Pickle for meat. Almost any fleshy piece of beef may be salted, but a piece from the round or flank is generally used. The meat must be very fresh, and it is usually boned. Wipe it and trim it carefully, removing any kernels or discoloured parts; then rub the meat well with common salt and let it stand at least 12 hours. Wipe off this salt and Eut the meat into a pickling jar or earthenware asin and sprinkle over it a pickling mixture made according to last recipe. Bub this well into the beef and then cover closely. Bepeat this rubbing every day for 1C or 14 days, turning the meat each time. The mixture will become liquid, but the rubbing must be continued all the same. When the meat is sufficiently salted, lift it out, wash or wipe off the pickle and tie it into shape. Cook according to directions given in Becipe 824. Any quantity of beef may be pickled in this way, but if a larger piece is required the quantity of pickle must also be increased, always keeping to the same proportions. 864. To Pickle Beef (Wet Method) 5 or 6 lbs. fleshy beef. Pickle for meat. Choose and prepare the meat as in last recipe. Have ready prepared some pickle for meat as directed in Becipe 861, pour it into a salting trough or strong earthenware basin and put the meat into it. Allow it to remain 10 days. The meat should be completely covered with the pickle or else it will require turning every day. 865. Spiced Beef 7 or 8 lbs. brisket of beef. 1 lb. common salt. 2 oz. saltpetre. 1J oz. salprunelle. f lb. Demerara sugar. | tea-cupful of treacle. | tea-sp. cloves. \ tea-sp. black pepper- corns. 3 shallots. 4 bay-leaves. | tea-sp. powdered thyme. A little glaze. Pound together in a mortar the salprunelle, cloves, peppercorns, shallots, thyme, and bay- leaves. Mix all the pickle ingredients together in a large crock or basin, and warm slightly in the oven. Wipe the meat, and remove any discoloured part. Put it into the pickle, and rub it all over. Bub and turn the meat every day for a week, or until spiced sufficiently. Then lift out the meat, wash it, and put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover. Simmer slowly, allowing half an hour to each pound of meat, and skim when necessary. A few pieces of flavouring vegetables may be added. Lift out the meat when tender.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 220 4 persons. Probable cost, la. to Is. 2d. pan and brown it in the oven a few minutes. remove the bone, and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then trim Spiced Beef neatly, and brush over with a little melted glaze. Serve cold. 866. Ox Cheek, Stewed (Tete de Bcsuf en Ragout) | ox cheek. Vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Seasoning. Cold water or stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Bone the ox cheek, if this has not already been done by the butcher, wash it well, and let it soak for several hours in cold water. Then wash in warm water and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Put the pieces of cheek and the bones into a sauee- Ean, cover them with cold water or stock, and ring to the boil. Then skim and add vegetables for flavouring, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt. Stew slowly until the pieces of cheek are quite tender, keeping them just covered with the liquid all the time. When ready, strain, reserving the liquid. Melt the butter in the saucepan and let it brown, add the flour, and mix it in, allowing it to brown also ; then pour in 1 pint of the liquid, and stir until boiling. Add more seasoning if necessary, and return the pieces of cheek to re- heat. Serve neatly, and garnish the dish with nicely cooked spinach, or with some of the vege- tables cut in fancy shapes. Notes.—A little wine may be added to the sauce If liked, also the juice of half a lemon. The bones and remains of vegetables must be kept for making soup or stock. A cow-heel is sometimes stewed along with the cheek. Time to stew, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 867. Ox Cheek, Stuffed and Braised (Tete de Boeuf Farci) 1 ox cheek. for braising. Veal stuffing. Tomatoes to garnish. Stock and vegetables Bone and wash the head as directed in last recipe, but keep the flesh in one piece. When thoroughly clean, dry the meat and spread it out on a board. Season it well with pepper and salt, and spread it with veal stuffing (Recipe 1281). Roll up, and bind securely with tape or string. Then braise according to General Directions for Braising (see p. 210). The meat must be kept well basted with the stock during the time of cooking; and must not be allowed to become too dry. When ready, lift the meat out of the braising Strain the stock, and boil it down until it is almost a glaze. Place the meat on a hot dish, remove the tape or string, pour the glaze over, and garnish with small baked tomatoes or any other vegetable preferred. Time to braise, 4 to 5 hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. 868. Potted Head J ox cheek. 1 ox foot. Water. Salt. Pepjiet. Wash and cleanse the cheek thoroughly, using several waters. Also wash and scrape the foot and cut it in pieces. Put both into a large basin, cover them with warm water, add a handful of salt, and soak for 2 or 3 hours. Then rinse and put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and bring very slowly to the boil. Skim carefully, and simmer from 2J to 3 hours, or until the meat is tender. Now strain, and cut all the meat from the cheek and foot. Return the bones to the saucepan with the liquid, adding more water if there is not enough to cover them. Allow these to cook for 2 hours longer, then strain and cool. Next day remove all the fat from the top of the stock, which should now be a jelly, and put it into a saucepan. Trim and chop the meat and add it to it. Add pepper and more salt if necessary, simmer about t hour, and then pour into wetted moulds. 869. Cow Hee! with Parsley Sauce 1 cow heel. Cold water. 2 onions. A small bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper 1 slice of toast. Wash and scrape the heel and cut it in four pieces, removing the fat from between the hoof pieces. Put these into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil and pour the water away, rinsing the saucepan and the heel until rid of all scum. Now put the cow heel on again with cold water to cover it, and bring it to the boil. Skim if necessary, add the onions and bunch of herbs, put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly until tender. If the water boils away, more must be added. When ready, drain, reserving the liquid. Now prepare the sauce. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour, and mix it well in, cooking it for a minute or two. Pour in \ pint of the liquid from the cow heel and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the parsley, and a little milk if the sauce is too thick. Remove the flesh from the bones and cut it in small pieces, warm these in the sauce, and then serve neatly, garnishing the dish with sippets of toast. Notes.—Tomato, piquant, or caper sauce may be used instead of parsley. As a rule a cow heel is sent from the butcher’s ready prepared, but if not, it must be scalded and the hairs scraped off before blanching. The bones should be put in the stock pot. Cow heel may also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for Calf’s Feet, allowing a longer time to cook. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 3 or221 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 870. Beef Heart, Stewed 1 beef heart. 2 oz. bacon fat. 1 pt. stock or water. A bunch of herbs. I Salt. Pepper. 2 onions. 1 carrot. | 1 table-sp. cornflour. Wash and prepare the heart as in following recipe, dry it well, and season with pepper and salt. Heat the bacon fat in a large stewpan until it turns brown, put in the heart, and keep turning it frequently until it is a nice brown colour on all sides. Then add half the stock or water, the vege- tables cut in small pieces, and the bunch of herbs. Put the lid on the pan, and allow the heart to cook slowly until tender. The heart should be turned occasionally, and more stock or water added if necessary. When ready, lift the heart on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the remainder of the stock, and add it to the gravy in the pan. Stir until boiling, skim well, and add more seasoning if necessary. About a pint of sauce should be made altogether, so if the liquid has reduced considerably during the cooking, add more to make up this amount. Strain some of the sauce over the heart, and serve the rest in a sauce boat. Mashed potatoes and baked tomatoes, or macaroni with tomatoes, are good accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 871. Beef Heart, Stuffed and Roasted (Cceur de Boeuf Fare!) 1 beef heart. f pt. stock. Veal stuffing. Red-currant jelly. 1 tea-cupful dripping. Cut the flaps or lobes off the heart and remove all cartilage or pieces of gristle near the base. Then wash the heart thoroughly in several cold waters, allow it to lie in cold salted water for at least £ hour and wash again. Cut away the membrane which divides the two cavities and see that the inside is quite free from blood. Then dry it, fill it with veal stuffing (Recipe 1281), and tie a strong piece of greased paper over the stuffing to keep it in. Melt a good tea-cupful of dripping in a roasting tin and roast the heart in the usual way, keeping it well basted. When nearly ready, remove the paper and brown the end that was covered. Place the heart on a hot dish and make a gravy with the stock as for an ordinary roast. Serve with red- currant jelly. Note.—Sausage meat may be used instead of veal stuffing. Time to roast, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 872. Stewed Ox Kidney 1 ox kidney. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 2 table-sps. flour. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Salt. Pepper. 3 gills stock. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. Boiled rice. Wash the kidney and scald it for 2 or 3 minutes in boiling water. Then- dry it and cut it in thin slices, removing the fat. Put the flour on a plate and mix it with the spice, pepper, and salt. Roll the pieces of kidney in this, coating them well. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, when smoking hot put in the pieces of kidney and the chopped onions, and turn them over and over with a spoon until well browned on all sides. Add the stock and ketchup and stir until boiling. Then skim if necessary, cover the saucepan and stew very slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the kidney is tender. If allowed to cook quickly it will be hard and tough. When ready, remove any grease from the top of the gravy, add more seasoning if necessary, and serve on a hot dish with a border of rice round. Notes.—A little bacon, a few chopped mush- rooms or 1 or 2 tomatoes cut in pieces may be added if wished. A little wine may be added to the gravy, and a border of potatoes or macaroni may be used instead of the boiled rice. Time to stew, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 873, Ox Palates and how to Prepare them Ox palates make a very light and wholesome dish, and they deserve to be better known than they are. They are very inexpensive, but they re- quire a certain amount of care in the preparation. When once cooked they may be served with differ- ent sauces and in various other ways. To Prepare them.—Dissolve a handful of salt in a large basinful of lukewarm water. Soak the palates in this for several hours, drawing them through the fingers occasionally to free them from any slimy substance, then drain them and wash thoroughly in cold water. Next put the palates into a stewpan with cold water to cover them, and heat slowly over the fire. Before the water boils, lift out the palates and scrape ofl the hard skin which covers the roof part. Then cook them in well-flavoured stock until they are tender, or braise them as directed. 874. Ox Palates, Fried (Palais de Boeuf, Frits) 2 ox palates. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. Frying batter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Piquante or tomato sauce. Prepare and cook the palates as directed above, and press them until cold. Then cut them in neat pieces and soak them for i hour in the oil and lemon juice, with the shallot finely chopped and pepper and salt added. Drain them from this marinade, dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861) and fry in boiling fat until golden brown. Serve piled upon a hot dish and sprinkled lightly with finely-chopped parlsey. Serve piquante, tomato, or other suitable sauce separately. 875. Another Way After pressing cut the palates in small round pieces with a cutter. Coat them on one side with any nice potted meat or meat farce, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry in boiling fat a nice brown colour, and drain well. Serve with small pieces of cooked tomato as a garnish.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 222 876. Curried Ox Palates (Palais de Bceuf en Karl) 3 ox palates. 3 onions. 1 apple. 1 tomato. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. salt. I pint brown stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. 1 lump of sugar. 1 dessert-sp. ground rice 1 table-sp. ketchup. Boiled rice. Prepare and cook the palates as in Recipe 873, and press them until cold. Then cut them in pieces about 1 £ inches square. Slice the onion, apple, and tomato, and put them into a stewpan with the butter. Put the lid on the pan, and steam the contents slowly until they are tender without allow- ing them to take colour. Mix the curry powder smoothly with the stock, and add this to the stew- pan with the salt, lemon juice, brandy, and sugar. When boiling, put in the pieces of palate and simmer gently for half an hour. Then take out the palates and strain the sauce. Return the sauce to the stewpan, and add the ground rice mixed smoothly with the ketchup. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, then return the palates, and cook for a few minutes longer. One table-spoonful of cream would be an improved addition. Serve the palates on a hot dish with a border of boiled rice round. 877. Ox Palates with Parsley Sauce (Palais de Bceuf a la Maitre d’Hotel) 2 or 3 ox palates, ljoz. butter, loz. flour. Salt. Pepper. | pt. stock. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. A squeeze of lemon juice. Prepare and cook the palates in stock as directed in Recipe 873, and when quite tender cut them in convenient-sized pieces. Slake a sauce with half the butter, the flour, and \ pint of the stock in which the palates were cooked. (If this has reduced too much, make up the quantity with water or milk.) Add the palates to the sauce and simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Then put in the remainder of the butter, broken in small pieces, the parsley and lemon juice. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and serve garnished with fried croutons or small pieces of toast. Stewed macaroni or tomatoes is a nice accompaniment to this dish. 878. Stewed Ox Tail (Queue de Boeuf en Ragout) 1 ox tail. 1 pt. brown stock. A piece of carrot and turnip. 1 onion. A small bunch of herbs. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. fat bacon or clari- fied dripping. Salt. Pepper. Juice of \ lemon. Garnish. Fancy shapes of carrot and turnip. Wash the tail, cut it at the joints in 2-inch lengths and trim away all superfluous fat. Put the pieces into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add a little salt and bring to the boil. Boil for ten minutes, then strain and rinse the pieces of tail. Dry them well and coat them with the flour. Melt the bacon fat or dripping in a stewpan ; when smoking hot put in the tail, and fry it a nice brown colour on all sides. Add some small pieces of vegetables for flavouring, the bunch of herbs, stock and seasoning. Cover the saucepan and cook slowly at the side of the fire or in the oven, skimming if necessary. When the tail is tender, lift the pieces on to a hot dish ; skim the sauce, add the lemon juice and strain through a fine strainer over and round the tail. Garnish with fancy shapes of carrot and turnip which have been cooked separately and serve very hot. Potato balls or potatoes ft la duchesse would be a nice accompaniment. Note.—A glass of sherry or claret may be added to this stew if liked, and a small piece of beef or ox kidney may be cut up and stewed along with the ox tail. Instead of carrot and turnip, green peas, French beans, sprigs of cauliflower, &c., may be used as a garnish. Time to stew, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 879. Fried Ox Tail with Tartare Sauce (Queue de Boeuf k la Tartare) 1 cooked ox tail. A little flour. 1 egg. 1 table-sp. salad oil. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. Tartare sauce. Prepare and blanch an ox tail as in last recipe, cutting it in short lengths. Then cook it in stock until tender, drain, and allow the pieces to cool. Or, the remains of an ox tail which has been used for soup may be employed for the purpose. Dry the pieces well and coat them lightly with flour. Mix the salad oil and seasoning with an egg on a plate, and egg and bread-crumb the pieces of tail. Then fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain well and serve them on a hot dish garnished with parsley. Serve tartare sauce (Recipe 759) separately. 880. Ox Tongue, To Pickle Choose a nice fresh tongue with a smooth skin and prepare it carefully. Wash and scrape it thoroughly until all the slimy substance is removed, then rinse in fresh cold water and dry. Trim away some of the root, gristle, and superfluous fat, and rub the tongue well with common salt, being particular to go over every part. Now set it aside and let it drain for several hours, or overnight. Prepare some pickle as directed in Recipe 861, and when cool strain it over the tongue. The tongue must be completely covered with the liquid (see General Directions for Pickling, p. 219). Allow it to soak for at least a week; from 10 to 12 days will be better if the tongue is liked well salted. 881. Ox Tongue, To Cook (Langue de Bceuf) When choosing an ox tongue, select one with a smooth skin, as a very rough skin is a sign of age. A tongue fresh from the pickle need not be soaked unless it has been very much salted, then an hour or two in cold water will be sufficient. A tongue that has been smoked for some time may require at least 12 hours’ soaking, and the water should be changed once or twice during this time. After soaking, wash the tongue well, trim it neatly at the root, and skewer it into shape. Put a tongue fresh from pickle into lukewarm water, a smokedSIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 223 tongue into cold water. Bring it slowly to the boil and skim well. Then add a bunch of herbs, and, if liked, a few pieces of vegetable for flavour- ing. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and allow the tongue to simmer very slowly until tender. The time required will depend upon the size of the tongue and also upon whether it has been smoked or not. A small unsmoked tongue will take from 2 to 2\ hours and a large one an hour or so longer. A small smoked tongue will require at least 3 hours and a large one from 4 to 5 hours. The cooking must be carried on very slowly, and the water skimmed whenever necessary. When the tongue is tender, take it up, plunge it into cold water, so that the skin will come away more easily, and skin it carefully. Ox Tongue, To Serve Hot If the tongue is to be eaten hot, cover it with greased paper after skinning and reheat it in the oven for a few minutes. Then brush it over with liquid glaze, or sprinkle it with browned bread- crumbs. Place it on a hot dish and garnish with thin slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley; or, if preferred, with small bunches of any cooked vege- table that is in season. A good sauce may be poured round it or served separately. Ox Tongue, To Serve Cold If the tongue is to be eaten cold, after skimming truss it into shape on a board by fastening it down at root and tip with fine skewers. When cold, take it up, trim some of the fat from the root and glaze it (see p. 210). Fix a paper frill round the Ox Tongue root and garnish with sprigs of fresh green parsley. Or, the tongue may be made more decorative by piping it with some fresh butter put through a forcing bag. Aspio jelly may be used as a garnish. 882. Ox Tongue in Jelly (Langue de Bcsuf a la Gel6e) Take a cooked ox tongue and while still hot skin and trim it carefully. Roll it into a round shape and pack it tightly into a round cake tin or special mould. Then fill up with some melted meat jelly and allow the whole to set. When quite cold, turn out in a nice round shape and garnish with parsley or watercress. 883. Braised Ox Tongue (Langue de Bceuf Braisee) 1 fresh ox tongue. Flavouring vegetables. 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. A little flour. A small bunch of herbs. Juice of 1 lemon. Wash the tongue thoroughly, first in warm and then in cold water, until all the slimy substanco is removed from it. Then put it into a saucepan with hot water to cover it and a little salt, and let it simmer slowly for two hours, skimming when necessary. Now lift the tongue out of the water, skin it, trim it neatly and skewer it into a round shape, fastening the tip round the thick part. Then melt the dripping or fat in a stewpan large enough to hold the tongue. Put into it about 2 cupfuls of flavouring vegetables (carrot, turnip, onion, and celery) cut in small pieces, fry them until they become lightly brown, and lift them out on a plate. Coat the tongue with flour on all sides, put it into the fat left in the pan, and brown it, also, turning it over and over. Now return the vegetables, pour round about 2 pints of the liquid in which the tongue was boiled, add a bunch of herbs, and put the lid on the pan. Cook the tongue in the oven, if possible, if not, on the side of the stove. When it has cooked about 1J hours turn it over, strain the lemon juice on the top and then cook from £ to f hour longer, and by this time it ought to be tender. Lift it out, put it on a hot dish and keep it warm. Strain the gravy and boil it quickly until there is just sufficient to pour round and over the tongue. A little thickening may be added if wished. A sharp sauce such as tartare, horse-radish, piquante, or tomato may be served separately, and a puree of vegetables would be a good accompaniment. 884. Tripe, How to Prepare Tripe, which is the inner lining of the stomach of the ox or cow, is one of the most easily digested of animal foods. If carefully prepared it is both light and nourishing, and for this reason is fre- quently ordered to people with weak digestion. There are different kinds of tripe, such as the blanket, honeycomb, reed, book, and monk’s hood, according to the part of the animal from which it is taken. The blanket and honeycomb are the kinds usually preferred. ■When bought in England tripe is generally pre- pared by the butcher, and has had several hours’ cooking before it is offered for sale. When this is the case the following will be sufficient preparation. Wash it well, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil and strain. Then cover the tripe again with cold water or half milk and half water, and allow it to simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours. By this time it should be sufficiently tender to be made up in various ways (see below). When ready, it ought to be soft enough to pull easily in pieces with the fingers. If not to be used at once, cover it with the liquid in which it wa3 cooked and set it aside in a cool place. In Scotland, however, tripe is bought in a much rougher condition, and it requires very careful washing and many hours’ cooking before it is ready for use. The following is the method of treating it when bought in this condition. Buy the tripe the day before it is to be used. First wash it well in tepid water, scrape it with a knife if necessary, and rinse it thoroughly. Then put it into a sauce- Ean with cold water to cover it, bring it to the oil, and pour this water away. Repeat this process of washing and blanching until the tripe has lost its unpleasant smell. When quite clean, return it to the saucepan with fresh cold water.224 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD bring to the boil and simmer slowly from 6 to 10 hours or until tender. The tripe must be kept covered with water, more being added if necessary. When sufficiently cooked, put it into a basin, cover it rvith the Liquid in which it was cooked, and set it aside until next day, when it can be made up in any way that is wished. Note.—The liquid in which tripe is cooked should never be thrown away, as it contains a considerable amount of nourishment. 885. Tripe with Onions (Tripes a 1’Anglaise) 1 lb. prepared tripe. 2 Spanish onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. I pt. tripe liquor. 1 gill milk. SMt. Pepper. Sippets of toast. Prepare the tripe as directed above, cooking along with it for the last 2 hours, the Spanish onions, peeled, scalded, and cut in quarters. When both tripe and onions are quite tender, cut the tripe in small neat pieces and chop the onions. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and when well mixed strain in 4 pint of liquor from the tripe. Stir until boiling, season to taste with pepper and salt, add the milk and tripe, and simmer all together for about 15 minutes. Serve in a hot dish and garnish with sippets of toast or small potato balls. Note.—The addition of 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream will be found an improvement to this dish, or the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little lemon juice stirred in at the last. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 886. Baked Tripe 1 lb. cooked tripe. 2 or 3 slices bread and butter. Seasoning. 1 egg. J pt. milk or tripe liquor. A little butter. The tripe must be well cooked and tender (see Recipe 884). Cut it into small pieces and season with white pepper and salt. Cut the bread and butter in finger-shaped pieces, removing the crust. Then grease a pie dish and place in it a layer of tripe and a layer of bread and butter alternately until all is in, making the topmost layer bread and butter. Beat up the egg and add to it the milk or tripe liquor, and strain this over the tripe and bread. Wipe round the edges of the dish, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until the liquid is set and the top nicely browned. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 887. Fried Tripe (Tripes Frites) 1 lb. cooked tripe. Salt. Pepper. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. Juice of | lemon. A little flour. Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs. The tripe used for frying must first be carefully prepared and cooked until it is quite tender. The blanket and honeycomb tripe are the best to use. Cut it into strips from 3 to 4 inches long and about 2 inches wide. Then mix on a soup plate the oil. chopped onion, and strained juice of \ a lemon. Put the pieces of tripe into this and season them with pepper and salt. Allow the pieces to mari- nate for one hour at least, turning them over occasionally so that they become thoroughly seasoned with the different ingredients. When re- quired, lift out the pieces of tripe and drain them on paper, or wipe them with a towel. Now coat them lightly with sifted flour and then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249). Fry the tripe in boiling fat until prettily browned, drain again on paper and serve piled up on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley. Maitre d’hotel or other savoury butter and potato chips or ribbons should be served separately. Note.—The tripe may be dipped into frying batter (Recipe 1861) instead of being egged and bread-crumbed. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 888. Curried Tripe 1 lb. prepared tripe. 3 table - sps. minced onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. flour. \ pt. white stock. 1 gill milk. Seasoning. Boiled rice. Cut the tripe, previously cooked until tender, into small neat pieces. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, put in the minced onion, and cook it slowly over the fire until it is beginning to turn brown. Add the curry powder and flour and mix all together with an iron spoon. Then pour in the stock and milk, stir until boiling, and season to taste. Put the tripe into this sauce and allow it to simmer by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes. Then serve very hot with some nicely boiled rice. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 889. Tripe with Oysters (Tripes aux Huitres) 1 lb. tripe. 1 oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. flour. 2 doz. tinned oysters. 1| gills milk. 1 gill oyster liquor. Salt. Pepper. Cook th e tripe until thoroughly tender, as directed in Recipe 884, and cut it in strips or small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, cover the saucepan and let the onion cook by the side of the fire until soft, but not brown. When ready, add the flour and mix until, smooth, then add the milk and 1 gill of strained oyster liquor and stir until boiling. Now put in the tripe, season with pepper and salt, and simmer for a few minutes. Lastly, add the oysters, either whole or cut in halves. Serve in a deep dish and garnish. with small sippets of toast. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 890. Tripe with Tomatoes (Tripes a lTtalienne) I \ lbs. prepared tripe. II oz. butter. 1 cupful tomato sauce. 2 table - sps. grated cheese. \ lb. fresh mushrooms. Stock. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. Seasoning. Cut the prepared tripe into narrow strips or small square pieces. Put it into a stewpan withSIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 225 ;he mushrooms, carefully washed, peeled, and cut jq slices. Add half the butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and cook for about 10 minutes. Pour in enough light stock to cover the tripe and mushrooms, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until both are tender Add the tomato sauce, or a mpful of tomato puree made from tinned tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve, and cook a few minutes longer. Arrange the stew neatly in a fireproof fish, sprinkle the bread-crumbs and cheese over ihe top, lay on the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and brown in the oven or under the prill of a gas stove. Note.—A little finely-chopped onion may be looked along with the tripe and mushrooms, if iked. Time to stew, \ to £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. PART III MUTTON AND LAMB 891. Boiled Mutton Mutton. Boiling water. I Caper, parsley, or onion Salt. Vegetables. | sauce. A leg, shoulder, or a piece of the neck are the jest pieces of mutton for boiling, as they are not ;oo fat. The joint should not be too small, or it vill be flavourless when cooked. Trim it care- ully, remove any superfluous fat, and joint it if lecessary. Then wipe the meat with a damp doth and weigh it. Boil it according to General Directions for Boiling (see p. 208), cooking a small quantity of nicely prepared vegetables along with it. Vhen the meat is quite tender, lift it on to a lot dish, mask it with one of the above sauces nade with some of the liquor in which the meat vas cooked, and garnish with the vegetables. Note.—The dish and plates on which mutton is lerved must always be very hot, as the fat is very lisagreeable when half cold. 892. Steamed Mutton When a small piece of mutton has to be cooked, iteaming is better than boiling, as none of the [uice of the meat is lost. Wipe and trim the meat sarefully and then weigh it. A piece of meat veighing from 1 to 2 lbs. is best. Put it into a louble saucepan or steamer, season with pepper md salt, and if liked add a small quantity of favouring vegetables. Steam until tender, aflow- ng about 1 hour per lb. of meat. If no steamer is ivailable, put the meat and seasonings into a basin, lover with a plate and stand in a saucepan with mo ugh boiling water to reach half-way up the sides. Serve in the same way as Boiled Mutton, using the iquid which has run from the meat to help with ihe sauce. 893. Roast Mutton The best joints for roasting are the leg (gigot in Scotland), loin, or shoulder. The saddle and haunch are also good, but these are large joints, xnd smaller roasts are more in favour nowadays. Mutton should be well hung before roasting, to make it tender. If a leg is selected, beat it well with a rolling-pin before putting it down to cook, as this will help to soften the fibres of the meat. Then wipe the meat carefully, trim it, and remove any superfluous fat. If a piece of the loin is selected, have it jointed between the bones to render the carving easier. Weigh the meat and then roast it according to general directions given on p. 207. As a rule mutton is liked well done, in any case it must not be served raw. A clear gravy (see p. 207) should be made to serve with it, and the meat must be served very hot. Red-currant, rowan, or cranberry jelly should be served separ- ately, and almost any vegetable in season may accompany it. If a leg of mutton is found too large a joint for a small family, it is a good plan to have it cut in two pieces, when half only need be roasted and the other piece boiled, braised, or cooked in some other way. 894. Loin of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted 2 to 3 lbs. loin of mutton. I Seasoning. Veal stuffing. | Gravy. Remove the bones carefully from the loin. Then beat the meat and trim it neatly. Lay any good trimmings in the centre of the piece and season well with pepper and salt. Prepare some veal stuffing as directed in Recipe 1281, place it in the meat where the bone was removed. Roll up into a neat joint and secure firmly with tape or with a trussing needle and string. Now roast in the usual way (see p. 207), remove the string or tape before serving, and pour a clear gravy round. A green vegetable or tomatoes, and baked or mashed potatoes would be good accompaniments. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2 s. 6d. 895. Stuffed and Roast Shoulder of Mutton A shoulder of mutton. I Seasoning. Veal stuffing. I Gravy. As this is a somewhat troublesome joint to carve, it is always better if it can be boned before it is sent to table. When thus treated, and filled with a nice stuffing, it makes a very tasty dish. Some- times the butcher will remove the bones if requested, but if not, it is not a difficult thing to do. Lay the joint on a board with the skin side downwards, feel where the bones lie and cut down to them with a sharp-pointed knife. Remove them as cleanly as possible from the flesh, being careful not to pierce the skin on the other side, as this would disfigure the joint. Use the bones for making soup or stock. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and season it well with pepper and salt. Put the stuffing, which must not be too moist, inside, fold the flesh over it and sew up or bind with tape. Then weigh the joint and roast according to General Directions (see p. 207). When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the binding thread or tape, serve with a little clear gravy poured round, and more in a sauce boat. A silver skewer may be used to keep it in shape. Red-currant or cranberry jelly should be served separately, and baked or grilled tomatoes make a good accompaniment. Note.—Bread, sausage, oyster, or celery stuffing may be used instead of the above. PCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 226 896. Leg of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted 1 leg of mutton. Sausage stuffing. Gravy. The choice of the mutton is very important, be- cause to be good it must be very tender. A leg ought to be round and plump in form, and it must be well hung. The stuffing is entirely a matter of taste. If not to be stuffed, trim the joint carefully, removing all superfluous fat and any discoloured parts. Cut off part of the shank if too long, and wipe the meat with a damp cloth. To bone a leg of mutton, do not cut it open, but commence at the ends of the bones and work the flesh gradually back from them, until they can be disjointed and drawn out. Fill the cavity with sausage stuffing (Recipe 1279) and fasten up the two ends securely to prevent it coming out. Now weigh the joint and roast and serve it according to directions given on p. 207. A green vegetable would be a suitable accompaniment to this joint. Note.—Veal, chestnut, or celery stuffing may be used instead of the above. 897. Roast Saddle of Mutton First remove the skin and trim away all super- fluous fat, but leave the kidneys in their place. Now turn the flaps, or the thin sides of the meat underneath the joint, and bind round with two or three lengths of tape or string. Curl the tail over the back and fix it in position with string, or with a small skewer. Then roast and serve the saddle as directed for Roast Mutton (Recipe 893), keeping it well basted. Watercress is frequently used as a garnish. Notes.—The bones in a saddle of mutton are never jointed, as the carving is done the length way of the joint. Sometimes the flap part is cut off before cooking and used for a separate dish, such as epigrams of mutton, Irish stew, &c. 898. Roast Lamb The fore-quarter, hind-quarter, saddle, loin, od shoulder are the favourite joints for roasting. The fore-quarter is considered the most delicate part, but the hind-quarter the most economical. Lamb does not require to be hung in the same way as mutton, and it must not on any account be allowed to become high. Prepare the meat carefully and joint it where necessary. Roast it according to general directions given on p. 207. As some parts of the joint may be very thin, these should be covered with two or three folds of paper, and the basting must be frequent to prevent their being dried up. Lamb must always be well cooked, as otherwise it is unwholesome, and it should be served with good clear gravy and mint sauce. Young spring vegetables, such as new potatoes, green peas, or asparagus, are the usual accompani- ments to roast lamb, but many other vegetables and also salads are appropriate. Lamb is also very good served cold with a salad. When the fore-quarter is served it is usual to raise the shoulder from the ribs and put this latter aside for serving cold. A great deal of frozen lamb is now sold, and perhaps of all meats it is the most successfully treated in this way. It is of course much cheaper than the home-grown, and can be obtained all the year round. After careful thawing (see p. 205) it may be treated in the same way as fresh lamb. 899. Braised Breast of Mutton 3 lbs. breast of mutton. Veal stuffing. Stock. Flavouring vegetables. A small piece of glaze. Seasoning. First remove the skin and some of the fat from the mutton, then bone it. Spread the meat out on a board and flatten it with a cutlet bat or rolling- pin. Trim again if necessary, wipe it with a damp cloth on both sides and season with pepper and salt. Then prepare some veal stuffing (Recipe 1281), lay it in the centre of the mutton, roll up and sew together with a needle and fine string. Place a bed of mixed vegetables—carrot, turnip, onion, and celery—at the bottom of a large stewpan, barely cover it with stock and bring to the boil. Lay the meat on the top of this, cover with greased paper, and put a tight-fitting lid on the pan. Cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the meat is tender, turning the roll once during this time. To Serve Hot.—Lift the meat on to a hot dish and draw out the string. Strain the liquid from the vegetables and serve them round the dish. Re- turn the liquid to the saucepan, add to it a small piece of glaze, and when melted pour this gravy over the meat. Serve red-currant jelly separately. To Serve Cold.—Lift the meat out of the saucepan and press it between two boards, with a weight on the top, until cold. Then draw out the string, trim the ends and brush over the top and sides of the meat with liquid glaze (see p. 210). Serve garnished with parsley or a little salad. Note.—This may be roasted instead of braised. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. 900. Haricot Mutton A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup, or 1 tea-sp.Worcestersauce 1J to 2 lbs. mutton. 2 onions. Carrot and turnip. 1 oz. flour. Jpt. stock or water. Wipe the meat and cut it in neat pieces, remov- ing all skin and superfluous fat. A piece of mutton from the neck, breast, or shoulder may be used, although the best haricot is made with neatly trimmed cutlets. Melt some of the fat from the meat in a stewpan, and when quite hot put in the pieces of meat and brown them on all sides. Then remove the meat, and pour off some of the fat,227 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES leaving only about 1 table-spoonful. Put the flour into this and brown it well without allowing it to burn. Pour in the stock or water and stir until boiling. Add pepper, salt, and ketchup or Wor- cester sauce, and skim if necessary. Now return the browned meat with the onions cut in slices, the carrot and turnip in dice, and the bunch of herbs. Put the lid on the saucepan and stew the contents slowly until the meat and vegetables are tender. To serve, arrange the pieces of meat neatly in the middle of a hot dish, remove all grease from the top of the sauce, strain it over, and place the vegetables round the sides. Note.—A more artistic method of serving haricot mutton is to cut out some fancy shapes of carrot and turnip, to cook them separately and use them as a garnish. The trimmings may be cooked with the stew to give flavour and strained out before serving. Time to stew, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. to 2s. 901. Mutton “ en Casserole ’* 1 to 1 \ lbs. mutton. 1 cupful vegetables. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. J pt. light stock. Cut a good slice from a well-hung leg of mutton, wipe it and trim off the skin and any superfluous fat. Grease the bottom of an earthenware casserole and put in a bed of vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, cut in small pieces. Lay the meat on the top, sprinkle with parsley, pepper and salt, and pour the stock over. Put on the lid and bake in a good oven until the meat is quite tender. Baste the meat occasionally with the stock, and if necessary add more during the cooking. Serve in the casserole or on a hot dish, the meat in the centre, with the vegetables and gravy round. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. 902. Irish Stew (Ragofit & l’lrlandaise) 2 lbs. neck or breast of mutton. 3 lbs. potatoes. 1 to l| lbs. onions. Warm water. Salt. Pepper. Chopped parsley. Wipe the meat and cut it in neat pieces, remov- ing all skin and superfluous fat. There is no occa- sion to remove all the fat from the meat, as the potatoes will absorb a certain amount. Put the meat into a stewpan, season it well with pepper and salt and cover it -with warm water. Bring to boiling point and carefully remove all scum. Pre- pare the potatoes and onions, slice the onions thinly, and cut half the potatoes in slices and the other half in halves or quarters, according to size. If the strong flavour of the onion is feared, they should be scalded before being added to the stew (see p. 152). When the meat is quite free from scum put in the sliced onion and potato, with more pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly from 1 to 1J hours or until the meat is tender. Half an hour before the stew is ready put in the Eieces of potato, as these should only be cooked, ut not broken. Shake the saucepan occasionally while the stew is cooking, but remove the lid as seldom as possible. If the liquid dries up, a little more water may be added, but do not make the stew watery. When ready, arrange it neatly on a hot dish with the pieces of potato round, and sprinkle with some finely-chopped parsley. Note.—Other vegetables may be added if de- sired, and a dessert-spoonful of ketchup or Wor- cester sauce poured in at the last is considered by some an improvement. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 903. Mutton Stew with Tomatoes 2 or 3 tomatoes. 2 pts. water or meat boilings. 1 cupful parboiled rice. 2 lbs. lean mutton. 1J oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. The meat must be as free from fat as possible, wipe it with a damp cloth, cut it in pieces about 1£ inches square, and season them with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Now add the meat and stir and cook about \ hour. Pour in the water or meat boilings and add the tomatoes, wiped and cut in small pieces. Put the lid on the saucepan and stew slowly about 1 hour. Then add the rice and cook about \ hour longer. Arrange the stew neatly on a hot dish and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. Note.—If there are any bones with the mutton, cook them with the stew and lift them out before serving. Time to cook, 1J hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 904. Mutton with Turnips (Navarin de Mouton) 1J to 2 lbs. mutton. 1 oz. flour. | pt. stock or hot water. 1 onion. Salt. Pepper. A small bunch of herbs. 2 lbs. turnips. A little butter. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A piece of shoulder or neck of mutton may be used for this dish, but it should not be too fat. Wipe it and cut it in neat pieces, removing the skin and any superfluous fat. Then brown the pieces of meat in a stewpan, using either some of the trimmings of fat or a little butter. Sprinkle the flour over and brown that also. Now pour in the stock or hot water, stir until boding, and skim if necessary. Add pepper and salt, the onion chopped, or a clove of garlic, and bunch of herbs. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for 1 hour. Meanwhile prepare the turnips and cut them in large dice or small thickish slices. Fry them in another stewpan or frying pan with a little butter, and sprinkle them lightly with sugar. When a golden brown colour lift them out, add them to the meat, and cook all together for \ an hour longer. Serve the pieces of meat neatly on a hot dish, remove all grease from the sauce, strain it over, and garnish with the turnips. Note.—A small piece of glaze may be added to the sauce if it is not a very good colour. Time to stew, 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 228 905. Blanquette of Mutton Prepare in the same way as Blanquette de Veau (Recipe 945), using a breast of mutton instead of the veal. 906. Hot Pot 11 lbs. mutton. 1 lb. potatoes. 3 onions. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter or dripping. £ pt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. This dish should be cooked and served in an earthenware pot sold for the purpose. Trim the meat and cut it into small pieces, removing all superfluous fat, which can be saved for clarifying. Split the kidneys, remove the skin and the hard part from the centre and cut them in small pieces, slice the onions thinly and scald them in boiling water a few minutes. Peel the potatoes, cut a few of them in halves or quarters, and slice the re- mainder rather thickly. Arrange the ingredients in layers in the hot-pot dish, seasoning each with a little pepper and salt. The last layer should be the pieces of potato. Pour in the stock and put the butter or dripping in small pieces on the top. Cover with a lid, or twist a strong piece of greased paper over the top, and cook in a moderate oven. About half an hour before serving, remove the cover and allow the top to become a nice brown colour. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and serve in the dish. Notes.—Beef or veal may be used instead of the mutton, or a mixture of meats makes a very good hot pot. A few mushrooms or oysters may be added if liked, also a red chilli cut in fine shreds. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 907. Spring Stew 2 lbs. neck of lamb. 1 doz. young carrots. | doz. young turnips. 4 doz. spring onions. £ doz. new potatoes. 1 Cos lettuce. 1 cupful green peas. Warm water. Salt. Cut the lamb into chops, wipe and trim them neatly. Put them into a stewpan or earthenware casserole with warm water to cover them and a little salt. Bring to the boil and skim well. Pre- pare the vegetables. Cut the lettuce and onions in shreds, and cut the potatoes, turnips, and carrots in about equal-sized pieces. When all scum has been removed from the meat, put into the saucepan the lettuce, onion, carrot and turnip, and add a little more salt. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for | hour. Then add the new potatoes and green peas and stew about J hour longer. To serve, place the meat jn the centre of a hot dish, with the vegetables ana gravy round. Time to stew, 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 908. Ragout of Lamb with Green Peas (Ragoflt d’Agneau aux Petits Pois) 2 lbs. breast or neck of lamb. 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 pt. shelled peas. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Some light stock. A sprig of mint. A small bunch of herbs. Cut the meat in small neat pieces and sprinkle it with the flour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the meat and brown it slightly. Add pepper, salt, enough light stock or meat boilings to cover the meat, and the bunch of herbs. Bring to the boil, skim if necessary, and stew slowly for £ an hour. Then add the peas, mint, and sugar, and continue the cooking for an hour longer, or until the meat is tender. Lift out the mint and herbs before serving. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last will very much improve the ragout. Note.—Veal or mutton may be cooked in the same way. A little finely-chopped onion may be added to the ragout if liked. Time to stew, about 14 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 909. Grilled Chops For grilling, chops should be cut at least 1 inch in thickness, and they should be taken from a well- hung piece of mutton. Remove from them all skin and superfluous fat and trim them neatly. Then flatten them slightly with a cutlet bat or heavy spoon, and brush them over with melted butter or salad oil. Grill according to General Directions (see p. 208), and season them with pepper and salt. The time required for cooking will de- pend on the thickness of the meat and also upon individual taste. A well-cooked chop should be nicely browned on the outside and red and juicy within. When ready, place the chops on a very hot dish and serve them with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top of each. A little watercress may be used as a garnish. Fried or saute potatoes or some grilled or baked tomatoes are good accompaniments, or the chops may be served on a puree of potatoes, chestnuts, onions, &c. Time to grill, from 8 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. 910. Fried Chops To taste well these must be cooked in such a way that they retain all their juices and are not saturated with fat. Prepare the chops as for grill- ing, but without brushing them over with oil or butter. Melt a small quantity of good butter or dripping in a clean frying pan—1 oz. will be suffi- cient for 5 or 6 chops—and let it become smoking hot. If not made hot enough it will draw the juice out of the meat; at the same time care must be taken that it does not burn. Lay the chops into this—they must not overlap each other—and when brown on one side, turn them without piercing the meat and brown on the other. Turn occasionally until the chops are sufficiently cooked. When the meat is puffy and offers a slight resistance to the touch it is done. Drain the chops and serve them as directed in last recipe, or a gravy may be made in the pan and poured round, or, if preferred, a229 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES good sauce, suchastomato, mushroom, brown caper, &c., may be served separately. Time to fry, 8 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. 911. Savoury Chops 3 mutton chops. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. I pt. stock. 1 table-sp. rice. Seasoning. Wipe the chops with a damp cloth and trim off most of the fat. Melt some of this fat in a frying pan and fry the chops in it for two or three minutes, browning them on both sides. Cut the carrot and turnip into small pieces—there should be about 1 tea-cupful of each—and put them at the bottom of a stewpan with the chopped onion, and rice well washed. Pour in the stock, season with pepper and salt, and bring to the boil. Then put in the chops, cover, and cook slowly until meat and vegetables are tender. Serve the vegetables on a hot dish with the chops on the top, and garnish with sippets of toast. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4d. 912. Mutton Cutlets (Cotelettes de Mouton) 1J lbs. best end of the neck of mutton. Salt. Pepper. White bread-crumbs. 1 egg. 2 or 3 oz. clarified fat. A potato border. Brown, tomato, or piquante sauce. To Trim the Cutlets.—For mutton cutlets the meat should be very small, and the butcher should be instructed to saw off the chine bone, as when this is done, the cutlets can be easily divided without the aid of a saw or chopper. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, then cut it with a very sharp knife, allowing a bone to each cutlet. (This quantity should make about five.) Beat them out with a cutlet bat or rolling-pin. Trim off the fat, leaving only a narrow rim, and scrape one inch of the bone at the end quite clean, to allow of a cutlet frill being put on afterwards. Scrape also the bone on the inner side, and if too long and unsightly, chop a piece off each, but make all the cutlets as nearly as possible the same shape and size. Season them with pepper and salt, brush over with well-beaten egg, and coat with finely-made bread- crumbs. Put the cutlets on a board and re-shape them with a clean dry knife, and remove all crumbs from the inside bone. Then lay them on a dish or tin with a double paper under them, and they are ready for cooking. To Cook the Cutlets.—Melt about 2 oz. of clarified fat in a frying pan, and allow it to become smoking hot over the fire. Then lay in the cutlets, and fry them rather slowly, first on one side and then on the other, until they are nicely browned. Drain them well on the kitchen paper before dishing. To Serve the Cutlets.—Arrange a border of potatoes (Recipe 543) on a hot dish and arrange the cutlets on the top of this, one leaning against the other, and with all the bones to the inside. The ends of the bones may be garnished with small cutlet frills. Pour brown, tomato, piquante, or any other suit- able sauce round. Notes.—The cutlets may be dished in a straight row down the centre of the dish instead of in a circle. Spinach may be used instead of potato, or the cutlets may be dished without either. Green peas, mushrooms, small baked tomatoes, or a macedoine of vegetables may be put in the centre as a garnish. Time to fry, 8 to 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Cutlet Bat 913. Grilled Cutlets with Cucumber (Cotelettes Grillees aux Concombres Farcis) 4 or 5 mutton cutlets. Butter. Salt. Pepper, Bread-crumbs. Stuffed cucumber. Watercress. Trim the cutlets neatly and flatten them slightly. Brush them over on both sides with melted butter and season with pepper and salt. Then coat them with fine bread-crumbs, pressing them on with a knife. Grill the cutlets (see p. 208), put a cutlet frill on the bones and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Garnish with an equal number of pieces of stuffed cucumber (see Recipe 482) and small bunches of watercress arranged alternately round the dish. Note.—Another garnish may be used if preferred. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 914. Masked Cutlets Mutton cutlets. Green peas. Mashed potatoes. Tomato sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets neatly (see Recipe 912) and either fry or grill them for 5 minutes in order to partially cook them. Have ready some well-pre- pared mashed potato (Recipe 537) and pile a little on the round part of each cutlet, smoothing it over with a knife. Then egg and bread-crumb theCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 230 cutlets and fry them in boiling fat until a golden brown. Drain well and put a paper frill on each bone. Dish them neatly, garnishing with nicely- cooked green peas. A little tomato, brown, or other suitable sauce may be served separately. 915. Lamb Cutlets, Grilled 7 or 8 lamb cutlets. Mashed potatoes. Salad oil or melted 1 gill good gravy. butter. Trim the cutlets neatly, shortening the bones if necessary, and brush them over on both sides with salad oil or melted butter. Grill them accord- ing to directions given on p. 208, turning them three or four times. They must be well cooked. When ready, put a paper frill on each bone, serve the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes (see Recipe 543), and pour some good clear gravy round. A dish of green peas may be served separately. 916. Lamb Cutlets in Paper (Cotelettes d’Agneau en Papilottes) 6 lamb cutlets. 12 small shoes cooked ham. 1 shallot. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert - sp. chopped mushrooms. Lemon rind. Seasoning. A little oil or butter. Trim the cutlets neatly, shortening the bones if necessary. Cut twelve thin round slices of cooked ham, just large enough to fit over the round part of the cutlets. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, put in the shallot finely chopped and cook it a few minutes, add the mushrooms and parsley and season -with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind, mix well and let this cool. Cut out six heart-shaped pieces of strong white paper large enough to hold the cutlets, and grease them with a little oil or butter. Place a slice of ham on one half of each piece of paper, with a little of the chopped mixture on the top. Then lay in a cutlet with more mixture and another round of ham over that. Fold over the paper and twist the edges well together. When all the cutlets are thus prepared, place them on a greased baking tin and cook in a good oven. Serve them in the papers on a hot dish. If liked, a little good sauce may be served separately. Note.—Mutton cutlets may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, about £ hour. 917. Mutton Roll 1 lb. lean mutton. 6 oz. lean bacon. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. Rind of | lemon. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 table - sp. chopped pickles. 2 eggs. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. Trim the meat and bacon, cut them in pieces, and pass them once or twice through the mincing machine. Put this minced meat into a basin and add to it the chopped parsley, onion and pickles, the lemon rind grated, the herbs finely powdered, mixed spice, bread-crumbs and pepper and salt to taste. Mix well for a few minutes, then beat up the two eggs and ad enough to bind the mixtr and a little stock may be into a roll, wrap it in a double sheet of greased paper and roast it in a good oven, basting occa- sionally. When nearly ready, remove the paper, sprinkle the roll with bread-crumbs and return it to the oven to brown and finish cooking. When ready, lift the roll on to a hot dish and serve with a simple gravy or wdth tomato or piquante sauce poured round. Time to roast, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 on 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 918. Sheep’s Brains Cook according to any of the directions given for cooking calf’s brains. 919. Lamb’s Fry (Foie et Fressure d’Agneau) Lamb’s fry. | Lemon juice. Pareley. | 1 onion. 2 oz. butter. Wash and dry the fry, then cut the liver in slices and the heart and lungs in small pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion finely chopped, and fry it a light brown colour. Then put in the heart and lungs and stir them over the fire for 7 or 8 minutes. Add the liver and seasoning and cook for 10 minutes longer or until all is well browned. Sprinkle wdth parsley, add the lemon juice, and serve very hot. This dish is suitable to serve en casserole. Mashed potatoes or a potato puree would be a good accompaniment. u mem graouauy, using re together. Or, one egg used. Form the mixture 920. Lamb’s Head, Dressed 1 lamb’s head. Boiling water. Salt. A bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Rolls of bacon. | lemon. Split the head in two and remove the brains and the tongue. Wash and scrape the head well, being careful to remove the gelatinous substance from the nostrils and nasal passages. Let it lie in cold salted water for | hour, rinse again in fresh water and then put it wdth the tongue into a sauce- pan with boiling water to cover it and a little salt. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add the bunch of herbs and onion stuck wdth cloves, and simmer very slowly until the meat will slip away quite easily from the bones. To Prepare the Sauce.—Wash the brains and soak them in cold salted water for 20 minutes, then tie them in muslin and cook them along with the head for 10 minutes. Lift them up, drain them and chop them. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, and enough liquid from the head to make it of the right consistency. (It should be rather thick.) Add to it the chopped brains, parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. To Serve.—Lift the head from the liquid in which it was cooked, remove all meat from the bones, cut it in neat pieces, skin the tongue and cut it in slices. Then re-heat the meat in the sauce. Ar- range it neatly on a hot dish and garnish with rolls of bacon and slices of lemon. Time to cook, about 1J hours. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons.SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 231 921. Sheep’s Head and Trotters Prepare and cook in the same way as Lamb’s Head. The trotters are washed and scraped and cooked along with the head. In Scotland the head is very often singed to give it more flavour; in this case it will require careful scraping and soaking before it is cooked. 922. Sheep’s Head au Gratin herbs. A little butter or chip- ping. Juice of | lemon. Salt. Pepper. Tomato or brown sauce. I sheep’s head. 3 table - sps. bread- crumbs. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. | tea - sp. powdered Prepare and cook the head as in Recipe 920, or use the head from which broth has been made. Remove the bones carefully, destroying the form of the head as little as possible. Lay the head on a well-greased tin and season it with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Mix the parsley, herbs, and bread-crumbs together, sprinkle them over the head, lay some small pieces of butter or drip- ping on the top, and bake till brown in a good oven. When ready, lift on to a hot dish and serve garnished with slices of lemon and, if liked, some little rolls of bacon. Brown, tomato, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. 923. Sheep’s Heart, Roasted in the Pan 1 sheep’s heart. Veal stuffing. 2 oz. dripping. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 cupful stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Thoroughly wash the heart in several cold waters, cutting away the pipes and flaps. Then allow it to lie in cold salted water for £ hour. After this, dry it well, fill the cavities with veal stuffing (Recipe 1281), and tie a strong piece of greased paper over the stuffing to keep it in place, or the opening may be sewn up. Melt the dripping in an iron stewpan, put in the heart and baste it well. Then cover the saucepan and allow it to roast by the side of the stove, basting occasionally. When ready, lift the heart on to a hot dish and remove the paper. Pour away most of the fat from the pan, sprinkle in the flour and stir until brown. Then add the stock, stir until boiling, and skim well. Season to taste, adding the lemon juice at the last. Strain this sauce round the heart and serve with red-currant jelly. Notes.—Sheep’s hearts may also be cooked ac- cording to the recipes given for Beef Heart or Calf’s Heart, but they will require a shorter time. Sage and onion stuffing may be used instead of veal stuffing. Time to roast, f hour. Sufficient for 2 persons. 924. Grilled Sheep’s Kidneys (Rognons de Mouton Grilles) A few bread-crumbs. 6 sheep’s kidneys. 2 table - sps. melted butter or salad oil. Salt. Pepper. Croutons of fried bread. The kidneys must be very fresh. Take off the thin skin which covers them and split them open without separating the two parts. Remove the white tube or duct and cut away the fat from the middle. Hold the kidneys open and pierce them from one side to the other with small wooden or silver skewers. Brush them over with salad oil or melted butter, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with a few bread-crumbs. Then place them on a hot broiler with the cut side next the fire and broil (see p. 208) until sufficiently cooked, turning them frequently. When ready, place them on a hot dish with croutons of fried bread under them, and remove the skewers, if they are wooden ones. The hollows in the centre of the kidneys may be filled with small pats of maitre d’Hotel butter or small rolls of bacon may be served along with them. Devil sauce or tartare sauce may be served separately. Time to broil, about 8 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. 925. Devilled Kidneys, 1 3 or 4 kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. Cayenne. Salt. 1 tea-sp. chutney. A squeeze of lemon juice. J tea-sp. made mustard. 1 gill stock. 2 yolks of eggs. A few bread-crumbs. Split the kidneys and cut them in small pieces, removing the white centre and the skin. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the onion very finely chopped and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then add the kidney with the seasoning ; mix well over the fire and pour in the stock and wine. Cover and stew over a moderate fire until the kidney is sufficiently cooked. When ready, draw the pan to one side and stir in the yolks of eggs. Sill small scallop shells with this mixture, sprinkle with fine bread- crumbs, and pour over a little melted butter. Place the scallops in a baking tin and brown them quickly in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. 4 Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 scallops. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 926. Devilled Kidneys, 2 Prepare some sheep’s kidneys as for grilling (Recipe 924). Dip them into melted butter and season rather highly with black pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Then grill and serve very hot on round croutons of fried bread with a pat of devil paste (Recipe 763) in the centre of each kidney.232 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 927. Curry of Kidneys (Rognons de Mouton en Kari) 4 or 5 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 small onion. 1 small apple. | pt. stock. A little chutney. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. Boiled rice. Split and skin the kidneys and remove the hard tat from the centre. Melt the butter in a small stewpan or earthenware casserole, put in the kidneys and cook them for a few minutes. Skin and slice the onion very thinly, peel and chop the apple and put these two into the stewpan with the kidney. Fry for a few minutes, then add the rice flour, curry powder, chutney, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Mix well and pour in the stock. Allow the kidneys to stew slowly in this sauce until they are quite tender. Add the cream at the last and serve with boiled rice. Note.—Veal kidney may be used instead of sheep’s, but it will take rather a longer time to cook. Time to cook, \ to £- hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. 928. Sheep’s Kidneys, Sautes (Rognons de Mouton Sautes) 3 or 4 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. -J tea-sp. flour. 1 gill stock. 2 table-sps. sherry. Seasoning. 1 shallot. Lemon juice. Split the kidneys, remove the skin and fatty part from the centre, and cut them in slices. Melt the butter in a small stewpan and put in the shallot finely chopped, or 1 tea-spoonful of chopped onion, and fry it slightly. Then add the kidney, season with pepper and salt and toss over the fire about 5 minutes. Mix in the flour and add the sherry, stock, and lemon juice. Cook a few minutes longer and serve at once, garnished with small croutons of fried bread. Notes.—The wine may be omitted and a few chopped mushrooms may be added. For other recipes for cooking kidneys, see under Calf’s and Ox Kidney. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. 929. Sheep’s Liver and Bacon 1 lb. sheep’s liver. 4 to 6 oz. sliced bacon. Alittle flour. Seasoning. 1 cupful stock or water. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Wash the liver in salt and •water, then drain and dry it in a towel. Now cut it in slices about J inch in thickness and season the pieces with a little pepper and salt. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Heat a frying pan slightly, fry the pieces of bacon until clear and crisp, and keep them warm whilst cooking the liver. Coat the slices of liver quickly with flour and fry them in the fat left from the bacon. The flouring must not be done until the last minute, or the coating on the liver will become damp and sodden. Fry the liver first on one side and then on the other until both are crisp and brown. A little extra fat must be added if necessary. Then, before removing it from the pan, cut one piece with a knife to see that it is sufficiently cooked in the centre. When ready, arrange the pieces neatly on a hot dish and place the bacon on the top. Then leave about 1 tea- spoonful of melted fat in the pan, add to it 1 tea- spoonful of flour and mix it in until quite smooth. Pour on the stock or water and stir until boiling. Skim well, season to taste, and strain this sauce round the dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Id. to 9d. 930. Gateau of Liver (Gateau de Foie) | lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. 1| oz. butter. l| oz. fat bacon. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. \ tea-sp. ground ginger. | tea-sp. ground nutmeg. 3 eggs. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 glass sherry or Mar- sala. Cut the bacon in small pieces and melt it in a saucepan with the butter. Wash and dry the liver, cut it in small pieces and put it into the melted fat along with the chopped onion. Season with pepper, salt, the ginger and nutmeg, and fry all together for a few minutes, or until the liver has lost its raw appearance and the onion has become slightly browned. Then turn the contents of the sauce- pan on to a plate to cool. When just lukewarm, pound the mixture in a mortar, adding the brown sauce (which should be cold and rather thick) by degrees. When the whole is reduced to a paste, rub it through a sieve. Put this puree into a basin, add the wine, lemon juice, and yolks of eggs. Mix well and taste if sufficiently seasoned. Lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stirring them in lightly. Pour the mixture into a well- greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam au bain marie until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with piquante or Madeira sauce poured round. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 931. Lamb’s Sweetbreads, Fried (Ris d’Agneau Frit) 1 lb. lamb’s sweetbreads. A little flour. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Rolls of bacon. Lemon. Gravy. First wash the sweetbreads thoroughly, then let them soak in cold water for an hour or so and wash again. Now place them in a lined stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil, skim if necessary, and then simmer slowly from 10 to 15 minutes. At the end of this time lift the sweetbreads out and press them between two dishes until cold. Then toss them in flour seasoned with pepper and salt, and egg and bread- crumb them neatly. Fry them in hot fat to a golden brown colour, and serve garnished with cut lemon or rolls of bacon. A little good gravy or sauce may be served separately.SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 233 932. Savoury Liver and Bacon £ lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. A little flour. Veal stuffing. 4 to 6 oz. bacon. £ pt. stock or gravy. 1 table-sp. ketchup. Mashed potatoes. . Wash the liver, dry it and cut it in slices about $ inch in thickness. Coat these lightly with flour and lay them on a greased baking tin. Then take some veal stuffing (Recipe 1281) and spread a little on the top of each slice of liver. Cover with a thin slice of bacon, pour the gravy or stock round, and cover with a piece of greased paper. Then bake in a good oven until the liver is thoroughly cooked. Have ready prepared some nicely mashed potato, pile this neatly in the centre of a dish, and arrange the slices of liver and bacon round. Then mix about 1 tea-spoonful of flour with the ketchup, add this to the gravy in the pan and stir until boiling. If too thick, add a little more stock or water. Skim well, season to taste, and pour this sauce round the dish. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 933. Sheep’s Tongues with Spaghetti 4 sheep’s tongues. Stock. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. 1 table-sp. sherry. £ lb. spaghetti. Sheep’s tongues may be bought either uncooked or partially boiled. If uncooked, soak them in salt and water for two or three horns, and then rinse them. Put them into a stewpan with enough well-flavoured stock to cover them, and simmer slowly about two hours or until tender. If partially cooked, the tongues will not require soaking, and from \ to f of an hour will be sufficient to cook them. When ready, take them up, remove the skin, trim the roots, and cut each tongue in three lengthwise. Then make a sauce with the butter, flour, and stock. Put the butter into a small sauce- Ean and heat it undl it turns brown. Add the our and brown that also, then pour in about £ pint of the stock in which the tongues were stewed, and stir until boiling. Reheat the slices of tongue in the sauce, adding the sherry and seasoning to taste. Serve very hot with a border of well-cooked spag- hetti round. Notes.—A border of potatoes or spinach may be used instead of the spaghetti. A few chopped capers may be added to the sauce. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 934. Sheep’s Tongues, Fried Prepare and cook the tongues as in last recipe. Then cut them in halves lengthwise and remove all the. skin and gristle. Now season the pieces with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and roll them lightly in flour. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Dish them on a bed of spinach or pur6e of potatoes, and pour a little gravy or thin sauce round. 935. Sheep’s Tongues, Larded and Braised (Langues de Mouton Braisees) 4 sheep’s tongues. Larding bacon. A bed of vegetables. Brown stock. Tomato sauce. Fleurons of pastry or croutons of fried bread Slices of lemon. Choose fresh uncooked sheep’s tongues, and soak them in salt and water for 2 hours. Rinse them, put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and bring slowly to the boil. Then peel the skin off the tongues, and trim the roots. Lard the tongues evenly with fine strips of fat bacon (see Larding, p. 205) and place them on the top of a bed of vegetables in a stewpan. Pour in enough stock to cover the vegetables, add a little salt, and lay a piece of greased paper over. Put the lid on the pan, and cook slowly from 2 to 3 hours, or until the tongues are tender. From time to time baste them with the stock, and add more stock if necessary. When the tongues are ready, lift them from the pan, place them on a tin, and put them in a hot oven for a few minutes, just long enough to brown the lardoons of bacon. Serve them on a hot dish, pour tomato sauce round, and garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry and thin shoes of lemon. Notes.—Brown, piquante, or any other suitable sauce may be used instead of the tomato. Spinach or some other green vegetable is a good accompani- ment to this dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 936. Sheep’s Trotters, Stowed 1 set of skinned trotters. Stock. 1 onion. 2 cloves. Seasoning. A bunch of herbs. I dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Sippets of toast. Wash the trotters, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring to the boil, and throw the water away. Rinse the trotters again in cold water, then put them into a sauce- pan with enough stock or meat boilings to cover them. Add the onion with the two cloves stuck into it, the bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the meat will slip away easily from the bones. Then strain. Bone the trotters and cut the meat in several pieces. Return 1 tea-cupful of the stock to the saucepan, add to it the flour, broken smoothly with the milk, and stir until boiling. Add parsley and more seasoning if necessary. Put the pieces of meat into this sauce and allow them to reheat, then serve garnished with neat sippets of toast. Note.—Other sauces may be used instead of the above, such as tomato, piquante, caper, &c., the trotters being simply warmed in the sauce after cooking and boning. Time to cook,2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 2 persons. 937. Sheep’s Trotters, Baked with Tomatoes 1 set of trotters. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 or 3 table-sps. stock. Seasoning. 1 or 2 tomatoes. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little butter. Prepare and cook the trotters as in last recipe. When tender, remove the meat from the bones andCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 234 cut it in small pieces. Then grease a pie dish or fireproof dish and put a layer of meat at the bottom of it. Place a few thin slices of tomato on the top and season with pepper and salt. Next put a layer of bread-crumbs, then more meat, and so on until all is in. The last layer should be bread- crumbs. Pour in the stock, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until well browned. Note.—Sheep’s trotters can also be cooked ac- cording to any of the recipes given for Calves’ Peet. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 938. Scotch Haggis The liver, heart, and tongue of a sheep. A sheep’s paunch. 1 to 2 lbs. onions. I lb. oatmeal. | lb. suet. Salt. Pepper. Some stock or gravy. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. Thoroughly cleanse the paunch, washing it first in cold water, then plunge it into hot water and scrape it on both sides. Cut it so as to form two or three small bags in which to cook the haggis, sewing up any holes and openings with a needle and strong cotton. Allow the bags to remain in cold water until wanted. To Make the Mixture.—Take the heart, liver, and if possible the tongue of a sheep, wash them well in salt and water, and then boil them slowly for If hours. Meanwhile, chop the suet, scald and chop the onions, and toast or bake the oat- meal until a golden brown. When the meat is ready, drain and dry it, and mince it finely, re- moving any parts that are uneatable. Mix the minced meat with the other ingredients, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little spice. Moisten with stock or some of the liquor in which the meat was cooked. Then drain and dry the bags, fill them three-parts full with the mixture, and sew them up. Prick the skins here and there with a needle, plunge the haggis into a saucepan of boiling water with a plate at the foot, and allow them to boil slowly at least 2 hours, pricking them occasionally to prevent them bursting. After cooking, a haggis wall keep for several days, being re-boiled for a short time when wanted. It must be served very hot on a folded serviette. A small hole is cut in the skin, and the mince taken out with a spoon. It is often served as an entree. No sauce or gravy is required. Note.—The liver, heart, and tongue of a lamb will make a more delicate haggis than those of the sheep. PART IV VEAL 939. Loin of Veal, Roasted 4 to 5 lbs. loin of veal. Some slices of fat bacon or a little lard. 1 cupful boiling water. f table-sp. cornflour. I cupful stock. Seasoning. Wipe the meat, trim it neatly, and if necessary bind it round with a piece of tape. Mix 1 table- spoonful of salt and 1 tea-spoonful of pepper together and rub them into the meat. Then place the meat on a roasting tin and cover the top of it with thin slices of fat bacon, or with a coating of lard. Roast in a hot oven for 10 minutes, then baste and pour the boiling water into the tin. Continue the roasting, basting frequently until the meat is ready (see Rules for Roasting, p. 207). When sufficiently cooked, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove any binding tape, and keep the meat warm. Pour away the fat from the roasting tin, add the cornflour, and mix it into the browning. Add the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste, and strain some of it round the meat and the rest into a sauce boat. A few rolls of bacon should be put round as a garnish. Mashed potatoes and spinach d, la creme are nice accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 2 to 1\ hours. Sufficient for 7 or S persons. Probable cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. 940. Breast of Veal, Stuffed and Roasted 3 to 4 lbs. breast of veal. I Rolls of bacon. Veal stuffing. | Tomato or brown sauce. Remove all the bones from the veal. (These must be kept for making stock or soup.) Then wdpe the meat with a damp cloth, trim it care- fully, and season it with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Prepare some veal stuffing as directed in Recipe 1281, adding to it a little cooked ham finely chopped. Lay the meat on a board with the skin side underneath, and spread the stuffing over it. Roll up and sew it up securely with a needle and fine string. Then flour the meat and roast it carefully, basting well (see Roasting, p. 207). When ready, lift the roll on to a hot dish, remove the string, and pour thin tomato or brown sauce round. Garnish with rolls of bacon or with small baked tomatoes. Note.—This joint may be braised instead of roasted. Time to roast, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. 941. Steamed Veal with Cauliflower 2 lbs. fleshy veal. 1 or 2 sticks celery. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. Pepper and salt. 1 gill milk. | pt. stock from veal. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Lemon juice. 1 cauliflower. Wipe and trim the veal and tie it with tape into a neat shape. Put it into a steamer or double boiler with the celery cut in small pieces, tb,e onion stuck with cloves, pepper and salt. Add also l tea-cupful water and steam the veal steadily until tender. Then make a sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and cook it a minute or two, stirring all the time. Now draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, pour in the milk and a \ pint of the stock from veal, and stir again over the fire until boiling. Cook the sauce for 5 minutes, then take it from the fire and stir in quickly 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, add also a squeeze of lemon juice and seasoning to taste. Serve the veal in the centre of a hot dish, removing the binding string or tape, pour the sauce over and garnish with sprigs of cooked cauliflower. Small rolls of bacon may also be used as a garnish. Time to steam, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d.235 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 8 persons. Probable cost, 4s. fleshy part will do, provided for this dish, but any 942. Stewed Veal with Potatoes (Ragofit de Veau & l’Americaine) 2 lbs. fleshy veal. Hot water. white 7 or 8 potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. A bunch of herbs. ! doz. small onions. Salt. Pepper. I lb. ham. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and put it into a stewpan with hot water to cover it. Bring to the boil and skim well. Prepare the onions and add them with the ham cut in small pieces, pepper and salt. Cover and simmer slowly for 1|: hours. Then add the potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, and the butter and flour mixed smoothly together on a plate. Continue to cook slowly until the potatoes are ready, and add the chopped parsley at the last. Arrange neatly on a hot dish and serve very hot. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. 943. Stewed Knuckle of Veal with Rice 2 to 3 lbs. knuckle of veal. ! lb. rice. 2 onions. 1 small head celery. Hot water. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea -sp. chopped parsley Wipe the meat and put it into a saucepan with hot water to cover it. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add the onions and celery prepared and cut in small pieces, season with pepper and salt, and stew slowly for 1 hour. Then add the rice, well washed, and cook for 1 hour longer. When ready, serve the meat on a hot dish with the vege- tables and rice round, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. lOd. to 2s. 6d. it is not too fat, and not too dry. There is no occasion to buy such an expensive part as the fillet. If the breast is chosen, it is a good plan to ask the butcher to crack the bones before sending it home. Wipe the meat and cut it in convenient- sized pieces, and if wished very white, soak it for an hour in boiling water, then drain and dry. A blanquette is supposed to be very white, and to obtain this effect some cooks soak the meat for several hours, but this is bound to be at the expense of the taste. Melt the butter, or any good white fat, in an earthenware or lined saucepan, put in the pieces of meat and let them cook for a few minutes without browning. Then remove the meat, mix the flour with the fat in the pan, and cook it a minute or two, but always without brown- ing. Now add the warm water by degrees and stir until boiling. Season with white pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a bouquet garni. Return the meat, cover the saucepan, and cook slowly for 1 hour. Then add a few small white onions, or some Spanish onion cut in very thin slices, and continue the cooking an hour longer, or until the veal is quite tender. Just before serving, add the yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Mix them together in a small basin, add to them by degrees a little of the sauce from the veal, then turn them into the saucepan and stir quickly. Taste the sauce to see that it is well seasoned, but do not allow it to boil again. Serve the pieces of meat on a hot dish, piling them rather high in the centre, arrange the onions round, mask all with the sauce, and garnish with some neatly-shaped croutons of fried bread or fleurons of pastry. Notes.—A few button mushrooms may be added to the above if wished, and the sauce can be made richer by the addition of a little cream. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 944. Browned Knuckle of Veal 3 lbs. knuckle of veal. 1 yolk of egg. Bread-crumbs. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pt. veal broth. Juice of £ lemon. Rolls of bacon Cook a knuckle of veal as in last recipe, omitting the rice. When tender lift it out and remove as much of the bone as possible. Fold into a neat shape and fix with a skewer. Then brush over with the yolk of an egg, season with pepper and salt, and coat with fine bread-crumbs. Now place the joint of veal in a good oven until it is nicely browned. Meanwhile make a sauce with the butter, flour, and a pint of the liquid in which the veal was cooked. Season to taste, add the lemon juice, and strain into a sauce boat. Serve the veal on a hot dish and garnish it with rolls of bacon and cut lemon. 945. Blanquette of 2 lbs. fleshy veal. 2 oz. butter or fat. 1 oz. flour. 3 gills warm water. White pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. The breast of veal Veal (Blanquette de Veau) A bouquet garni. A few white onions. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Croutons of fried bread or pastry, is a very good piece to take 946. Fricandeau of Veal 3 lbs. cushion or fillet of Flavouring vegetables. veal. Some good stock. Larding bacon. Select a nice thick cut of veal and as compact in shape as possible. Wipe it well and trim it neatly. Then turn it with the best side upper- most, lard it rather thickly on the upper surface, and tie it into a neat oval shape. Prepare a bed of vegetables in a stewpan as for braising (see p. 210), barely cover them with good stock, and lay the meat on the top. Cover with greased paper, put a tight-fitting lid on the pan and braise slowly until the meat is tender, basting it now and again with the stock. When ready, lift the meat on to a baking tin, and place it in a good oven for a few minutes to brown the lardoons and the surface of the meat. Strain the gravy in the sauce- pan into a smaller pan, and boil it down until re- duced to a glaze. Place the meat on a hot dish and pour the glaze over and round. The dish may be garnished with a few baked tomatoes. Serve spinach, sorrel, or some other green vegetable separately. Note.—A glass of white wine may be added to the braising pan if wished. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 7 or236 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 947. Veal Hot Pot with Dumplings 1 lb. fleshy veal. 2 or 3 oz. fat bacon. Hot water. A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. 6 oz. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1\ tea-sp. baking powder. Milk or water. Salt. Wipe the veal and cut it in small pieces free from skin and bone ; cut the bacon also in small pieces and put them both into a saucepan with hot water to cover them. Season with pepper, salt if necessary, and the bunch of herbs. A little sliced onion may also be added if liked. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly on the stove, or in the oven, until the veal is tender, about 1 hour. When nearly ready, prepare the dumplings. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then mix very lightly with water or milk into a softish dough. Turn the veal into a hot-pot dish and put the dough, shaped in spoonfuls, on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until the dumplings have risen and are well cooked, about \ hour. Then serve at once in the same dish. Time to cook, about 11 hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 948. Loin of Veal with Macaroni (Longue de Veau a la Milanaise) 21 lbs. loin of veal. 2 oz. good dripping. 1 onion. 1 carrot. A bunch of herbs. 1 gill stock. 1 glass white wine. Seasoning. Garnish.—Macaroni a la Milanaise. Bone the meat carefully (see p. 205), trim and wipe it with a damp cloth, and tie it up neatly. Brown it in a saucepan with a little good dripping, then add the carrot and onion cut in small pieces and brown them also. Add the stock, wine (this may be omitted), bunch of herbs, and seasoning, cover and cook in the oven until the meat is tender. There should only be enough stock to prevent the meat becoming dry, and the meat must be basted with it every now and then. While the meat is cooking, prepare some macaroni a la Milanaise (Recipe 1C 18). To Serve.—Place the veal neatly on one side of a dish, cutting the number of slices which are likely to be required, and arrange the macaroni on the other side. Remove all fat from the top of the gravy and strain it over the meat. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 10d. 94-9. Curry of Veal 1 lb. fleshy veal. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 2 table - sps. chopped apple. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert-sp. flour of rice. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 gill cocoanut or al- mond milk. 1 gill light stock. Salt. 1 lump sugar. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wipe the veal and cut it in small pieces free from skin and bone. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to brown. Then put in the meat, curry powder, rice flour, apple, and chutney, and cook a few minutes longer, stirring carefully. Now add the cocoanut or almond milk (see Index), stock and salt, mix together, cover and cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the meat is tender. Add the cream, lemon juice, and sugar just before serving. Serve with a dish of plainly boiled rice. Note.—For curry made with cooked veal see Recipe 1019. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 950. Ragout of Veal 1| lbs. fleshy veal. 2 or 3 oz. fat bacon. 1 onion. 1 or 2 sticks celery. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill sour cream. 1 pt. stock. Fried croutons. Wipe the veal and cut it in small neat pieces free from skin and bone. Cut the bacon in small thin pieces, put it in an earthenware casserole and cook it until smoking hot. Then put in the onion cut in very thin rings and cook it a minute or two, but without browning. Next add the prepared veal, the celery cut in fine shreds, bunch of herbs, and the seasoning, pour the stock over, put on a Earthenware Casserole lid and cook the ragout in the oven or by the side of the fire. When the veal is tender, lift out the herbs, add the cream, make thoroughly hot, and then serve in the casserole garnished with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Potato balls and a puree of spinach would be good accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost,- 2s. 951. Veal Chops, Sautfis 4 or 5 veal chops. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill light stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Juice of \ lemon. Seasoning. Beat the chops with a cutlet bat or rolling-pin to make them tender, then wipe them and trim them neatly. Scrape the bones and shorten them if long and unsightly. Now melt the butter in a frying or saute pan, and when hot lay in the veal chops and keep turning them every minute or two until they are thoroughly cooked, or until they feel firm under pressure. When ready, arrange them neatly on a hot dish and keep them warm. Add the flour to the fat left in the pan and mix it in smoothly, then add the stock and lemon juice and stir until boiling. Skim if necessary, season to taste, and add the chopped parsley at the last. Pour this sauce over and round the chops. Baked tomatoes or spinach would make a goodSIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 237 accompaniment to this dish. Rolls of bacon may be used as a garnish. Time to cook. 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 952. Veal and Ham Cutlets (Cotelettes de Veau) | lb. fillet of veal. | lb. sliced bacon. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert - sp. melted butter or salad oil. Grated lemon rind and juice. 1 egg. Bread-crumbs. A border of potatoes or spinach. Brown or tomato sauce. Slices of lemon. The veal should be cut in slices about \ inch in thickness. Wipe it with a damp cloth, and beat it slightly with a wetted cutlet-bat or rolling-pin, trim it into nice oval-shaped pieces, free from skin and bone, or cut it with an oval or round cutter. Squeeze a very little lemon juice over each piece of meat. Beat up the egg on a plate, and add to it, pepper, salt, the chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, and melted butter or salad oil. (This last is added to soften the veal.) Brush over each of the cutlets with this, and then bread-crumb them. Press the bread-crumbs well on with a knife, re- shape the cutlets neatly, and lay them on a tin or dish with double paper under them ready for frying. Have the bacon cut in thin slices, remove all rind and rust from it, and roll it up into neat little rolls. Place these on a skewer, and cook them on a tin in the oven for about 10 minutes while the cutlets are being fried. To Cook the Cutlets.—Melt about 2 oz. of fat in a frying pan, and make it smoking hot. Place the cutlets carefully into this, and fry them rather slowly, first on one side and then on the other, until they are nicely browned. They will take from 10 to 12 minutes to cook. Lift them out on to the paper again, and let them drain for a minute or two. To Serve the Cutlets.—Make ready a border of spinach or potatoes (see Recipe 543) on a hot dish, and dish the cutlets along the top, one leaning against the other. Pour some brown or tomato sauce (see Sauces) round, and place the rolls of bacon in the centre or round the sides. Cut one or two thin shoes of lemon, quarter these slices, and place a piece of lemon between each cutlet. Note.—The cutlets may be served without the border of potatoes or spinach, and green peas or any other suitable vegetable used as a garnish. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, about 2s. 953. Minced Veal Steaks 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 lb. veal. 3 oz. ham or bacon. 2 oz. chopped suet. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. Grated rind of £ lemon. Wipe the veal and weigh a pound free from skin and bone. Cut both veal and ham in small pieces and put them through the mincing machine. Mix with the minced meat the chopped parsley, suet, 2 table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs and seasonings, and bind all together with a little beaten egg. Then form into flat cakes, either oval or round, using a little flour if necessary. Egg and bread- crumb them, and fry a golden brown in a little hot butter in a frying pan. They must be well cooked. Drain and serve either plain or with tomato or brown sauce. Garnish with small pieces of cut lemon. Spinach, sorrel, stewed lettuces, &c., are good accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 954. Galantine of Veal (Galantine de Veau) 3 or 4 lbs. breast of veal. 1 lb. pork sausage meat. Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. ’ 6 oz. ham or tongue. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Cold water. Flavouring vegetables. A little glaze. Prepare the meat, bone it as directed on p. 205, and spread it on a board with the skin side underneath. Season the sausage meat rather highly and spread it on the top. Cut the hard- boiled eggs in long sections and the ham or tongue in strips, and place these in rows on the top of the sausage meat. Sprinkle the parsley over. Two or three truffles and a few shred pistachio nuts may also be put in. Roll and sew up the meat, then tie it in a cloth very firmly and in the shape of a bolster. Put the bones from the veal into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, a little salt and a few pieces of flavouring vegetable. Bring this to the boil and skim if necessary. Put in the roll of veal and let it simmer slowly until tender. When done, lift it out, and if, owing to the shrinking of the meat, the cloth looks loose and wrinkled, take it ofl and re-roll it. Press the galantine between two tins or dishes with a weight on the top and let it remain until it is quite cold. Then remove the cloth and trim the ends. Brush over the surface with a little melted glaze, applying two coatings if necessary (see p. 210). Serve garnished with parsley, some nice salad, or chopped aspic jelly. Time to cook, 2\ to 3 hours. Probable cost, 4s. 955. Veal and Ham Mould 1 lb. fleshy veal. 6 oz. fat bacon. 1 gill jelly stock. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Grated rind of | lemon. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. Take a plain tin mould and decorate the bottom of it with slices of hard-boiled egg and a little chopped parsley. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth, remove all skin and bone, weigh it and cut it into small pieces. Remove all skin and gristle from the bacon, and cut it into narrow strips. Mix the veal and bacon together on a plate with the remainder of the eggs cut in small pieces, and the seasonings. Pack this mixture loosely into the prepared mould, filling it to within an inch from the top. Melt the stock and strain it over. Should the stock used not be sufficiently stiff, dissolve a little gelatine in it first, and if no stock is available, boil the bones from the veal for about \ an hour, ■with a little water and small pieces of flavouring vegetables, then strain. Fill up the mould with the stock, cover over with greased paper, and bake238 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD in a slow oven until cooked. When ready, the veal should feel quite tender when it is tested with a skewer. If necessary, fill up the mould with a little more stock, and set aside to cool. When Veal and Ham Mould wanted, turn out on a dish and garnish with parsley or some fresh salad. Note.—Rabbit may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10d. 956. Veal Olives (Paupiettes de Veau) If lbs. fillet of veal. A little butter. 4 pt. stock. Farce. 3 oz. cooked meat. 1 tea - sp. chopped onion or shallot. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 4 oz. butter. Pepper Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 yolk of egg. Cut the veal in strips about 3 inches wide and 4 or 5 inches in length. Beat them out with a heavy spoon or cutlet bat, in order to break the fibres of the meat, and make them tender. Put a little of the farce or stuffing given below on each strip of meat and roll them up. Tie them round with strong cotton, and place them in a shallow stewpan in which has been melted a little butter. Turn the veal olives over and over until they are nicely browned on all sides, then put on the lid and cook slowly by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Now add the stock, or half wine and half stock may be used, and continue the cooking until the meat is quite tender. Then lift out the little rolls of meat, remove the strings, arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour the liquid, which should be well reduced and freed from all grease, over them. Sprinkle with parsley and serve either hot or cold. If hot, a few rolls of bacon may be used as a garnish, and a puree of potatoes or spinach served separately. If cold, serve with celery or green salad. To Make the Farce.—Almost any kind of cooked meat may be used for this—veal, chicken, beef, or game—along with a little ham. Mutton is not so good, as the flavour is too pronounced. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it for a few minutes. When lightly browned, add the parsley, the meat finely chopped, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. A few chopped mushrooms may also be added if at hand. Bind all together with the yolk of egg and flour, or with a spoonful of any good sauce. Turn the mixture on to a plate and let it cool. Notes.—Sometimes the veal olives are wrapped in a thin slice of bacon before they are tied up, and when cooked served on a fried crouton of bread of a suitable shape and size. They have then the appearance of a small bird without a head, and on a French menu would appear as Oiseaux sans Tete. If preferred, a thickened sauce may be served with the veal olives. It should be added to the gravy in the pan, boiled for a few minutes, and then strained. This of course would only be suitable if the dish is being served hot. Time to cook, 14 to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 957. Mock Sweetbreads | lb. lean veal. 2 oz. suet or bacon fat. 4 cup bread-crumbs. | cup milk or cream. 1 egg- Pepper and salt. Rind of | lemon. A pinch of nutmeg. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-cupful light stock. Chop the veal and fat finely and mix them to- gether. Heat the milk or cream, add to it the | cupful of bread-crumbs, and let them stand by the side of the fire until well soaked. Then add them to the minced meat, season with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and the grated rind of | lemon. Bind with a beaten egg and mix well together. Now divide the mixture into eight or nine equal- sized pieces, form them into balls, using a little flour and egg, and bread-crumb them. Melt the 1 oz. of butter in a small baking tin when smoking hot, put in the mock sweetbreads and brown them on all sides (or they may be plunged into a sauce- pan of deep fat to brown), then pour round tho light stock, cover over and cook in the oven, bast- ing now and again with the stock. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with rolls of bacon or thin slices of lemon. A little sauce, white, brown, or tomato, should be served separately. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 10d. 95S. Calf’s Brains, To Prepare Calf’s brains to be good must be very fresh, and in whatever manner they are to be served, they must first be blanched and prepared thus : First wash the brains in cold water with a little salt, removing the loose skin and any clots of blood, then allow them to soak in fresh cold water for an hour at least, changing the water once or twice during this time. When thoroughly cleansed, put the brains into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, add salt, a small bunch of herbs, and enough vinegar or lemon juice to make the water distinctly acid. Bring to the boil, skim if necessary, boil slowly from 10 to 12 minutes and then strain. Drain the brains on a hair sieve or in the folds of a clean cloth, and they will be ready to use in various ways. 959. Call’s Brains with Black Butter, 1 (Cervelles de Veau au Beurre Noir) 2 calves’ brains. 1| oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 1 dessert-sp. capers. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Salt. Pepper. Prepare the brains as in last recipe, and either cut them in pieces or leave them whole. Melt theSIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 239 butter in a lined frying pan, put in the brains, and saute them a few minutes. Then arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Allow the butter to brown, add to it the parsley, capers, and vinegar with a little pepper and salt, pour this over the brains and serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 960. Calf’s Brains with Black Butter, 2 (Cer- velles de Veau au Beurre Noir) Prepare and cook the brains as directed in Recipe 958, and while still hot cut them in pieces and arrange them neatly on a dish. Put a piece of fresh butter the size of a hen’s egg into a frying pan with a pinch of pepper and salt. Heat it over the fire until it turns brown, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and add J table-spoonful of good vinegar. Pour this over the brains, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 961. Fried Brains (Cervelles Frites) Grated lemon rind. Egg. Bread-crumbs. Tomato sauce. 2 calves’ brains. A little flour. Salt. Pepper. Prepare the brains as in Recipe 958, dry them well, and let them become quite cold. Then cut them in rather thick slices and season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Now coat them lightly with fine flour, dip them in beaten egg and then in bread-crumbs. Handle them lightly, and make the pieces as smooth as possible. When all are ready, fry them in deep fat or in a small quantity of hot butter until they are a pretty brown colour. Drain and serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. Tomato, tartare, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Notes.—If liked, a little grated Parmesan may be mixed with the bread-crumbs. The pieces of brain may be dipped in frying batter (see Recipe 1861) instead of in egg and bread-crumbs. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 962. Scalloped Calf’s Brains (Cervelles de en Coquilles) Calf’s brains. 1 gill white sauce. A few button mush* rooms. 1 table-sp. cream. White pepper. Salt. Grated lemon rind. A few bread-crumbs. A little butter. Prepare the brains as in Recipe 958, and when cool cut them in small pieces. Heat the sauce in a small saucepan and put the brains into it. Chop and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs. Put some of the brain mixture in each and cover with more bread-crumbs. Lay small pieces of butter on the top and brown quickly in the oven. 963. Calf’s Brains au Gratin (Cervelles de Veau au Gratin) Prepare in the same way as scalloped calf’s brains (Recipe 962), cooking the mixture in one fireproof dish instead of the scallop shells. A little grated cheese should be added to the mixture and also sprinkled over the top with the bread- crumbs. 964. Calf’s Feet with Tomato Sauce (Pieds de Veau aux Tomates) 2 calf’s feet. [ 1 pt. tomato sauce. 2 pts. light stock. 1 Crofitons fried bread. Wash and scrape the feet. Put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring to boiling point, and throw the water away. Wash the feet again and rinse out the saucepan. Return the feet to the saucepan with enough white stock to cover them, and cook slowly, until they are quite tender and the gelatinous part will slip away easily from the bones. If no stock is available use water and add vegetables to flavour. A little white wine may also be added. When the feet are ready lift them out, bone them, and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then cut them into small neat pieces. Heat the tomato sauce, put the pieces of feet into it, and simmer for 20 minutes. Serve in a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread, some green peas, or fancy vegetables. Note.—Other sauces may be used in place of the tomato. Time to cook the feet, about 4 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 965. Calf’s Feet, Fried (Pieds de Veau Frits) 2 cooked calf’s feet. Beaten egg. Salt. Pepper. Bread-crumbs* Lemon juice. Prepare and cook the feet as in last recipe, and press them until cold. Then cut them in neat- sized pieces and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Now egg and bread- crumb these pieces and fry them to a delicate brown colour in boiling fat. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley and thin slices of lemon. Mayonnaise, tartare, tomato, devil, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 966. Calf’s Head with Brain Sauce (TSte de Veau a l’Anglaise) f calf’s head (blanched). Lemon juice. Cold water. A bunch of herbs. Flavouring vegetables. Salt. | pt. brain sauce. Scalloped Calf’s Brains the mushrooms and add them with the cream. Season to taste with white pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Grease 4 or 5 scallop shells To Prepare and GooTc the Head.—Remove the brains from the head and keep them for making the sauce. Thoroughly clean the head, paying particular attention to the nostril and ear, and let it lie in cold water for an hour or two. Then drain,COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 240 dry it, and rub it over with a cut lemon to whiten it. Now wrap the head in a piece of muslin and bind it with tape so that it does not lose its form. Put it into a saucepan large enough to hold it comfortably, cover it with cold water, bring slowly to the boil and skim well. When the scum has ceased to rise,add a small quantity of carrot, turnip, and onion cut in rough pieces, a little salt, and a bunch of herbs. Cover the saucepan and simmer slowly and steadily until the head is sufficiently cooked. The time will vary according to the size of the head. The flesh must not be allowed to become too soft, or it will fall to pieces and be want- ing in taste. If the liquid should boil away, add more water, as the head must always be covered. When ready, drain and bone it. Then cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Fringe the ear with a Eair of scissors and turn it backwards, giving it a ornlike appearance. Skin the tongue and cut it in slices. To Serve the Head,—Prepare the brain sauce (Recipe 677) and put the pieces of head into it to reheat. Then serve them neatly on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. Garnish with the slices of tongue and small rolls of bacon or croutons of fried bread. Notes.—Other sauces may be used in thesameway instead of the brain sauce,such as poulette.ravigote, tomato, &c., and the dish will take its name accord- ingly ; or the flesh of the head may be served cold, garnished with parsley, and vinaigrette sauce handed separately. Some people prefer to bone the head before cooking; this is just a matter of judgment. The liquid in which the head is cooked should bo kept for making soup. Time to cook, 2 to 3 horns. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Cost uncertain. 967. Calf’s Heart, Stewed, 1 I calf’s heart. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. dripping or butter. & pt. stock. Juice of | lemon. Seasoning Veal forcemeat. Chopped parsley. Thoroughly cleanse the heart, cutting away all the pipes, and if time permits allow it to soak in cold water for 1 hour. Then rinse and dry. Pre- pare some veal forcemeat as directed in Recipe 1281, fill up the cavities in the heart with this, and sew up the openings with a needle and thread. Now roll the heart in a little of the flour in order to make it very dry Melt the dripping or butter in a stew- pan; when smoking hot, put in the heart, turn it over and over until nicely browned on all sides, and then remove it to a plate. Add the remainder of the flour to the fat in the pan, and stir it over the fire until brown and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, skim if necessary, and season to taste. Return the heart to this sauce, cover closely, and stew very slowly until tender. The heart ought to be turned over occasionally while it is cooking, and if the sauce reduces too much add a little more stock. When ready, remove the heart to a hot dish and take out the stitches. Skim any grease off the sauce, add the lemon juice, and strain over the heart. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and serve. Note.—The dish may bo garnished with rolls of bacon or with potato balls. Time to stew, 2 to 3 horns. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 968. Calves’ Hearts, Stewed, 2 2 calves’ hearts. U oz. butter, if oz. flour. Boiling water. Salt. Pepper. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Boiled rice. Sprigs of parsley. Wash the hearts well in cold water, cut them in pieces about an inch square, and wash again. Then put them into a saucepan "with boiling water to cover them, skim when necessary, and simmer slowly until tender with the lid on the pan. Strain when ready and reserve the liquor. Now melt the butter in the saucepan and mix the flour into it, pour in the liquor, which should measure 1 pint, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and return the pieces of heart. Cook a few minutes longer, and just before serving stir in the ’yolks of eggs and parsley off the fire. The sauce must not boil after the yolks of eggs have been added. Serve the stew neatly with a border of boiled rice round, and decorate with small sprigs of parsley. Time to cook, 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 969. Calf’s Heart, Roasted Prepare and stuff the heart as in Recipe 967, and wap it up in a piece of greased paper. Roast it in the oven from 1J to 2 hours, keeping it well basted with dripping. When ready, carefully remove all the paper and place the heart on a hot dish. Pour away most of the dripping from the Calf’s Heart, Boasted roasting tin, add a tea-spoonful of flour to what remains and mix it well in. Then pour on a cupful of stock or gravy and stir over the fire until boiling. Skim well, season to taste, and pour this sauce over the heart. Garnish the dish with rolls of bacon or forcemeat balls and serve very hot. 970. Stewed Veal Kidneys (Rognons de Veau Sautes) 2 veal kidneys. 2 oz. butter or beef dripping. 1 onion. 1 oz. flour. Salt. Pepper. 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 cupful stock or gravy. Juice of h lemon. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. Croutons of fried bread or pastry. Remove the skin from the kidneys and split them in two. Take out the white nerve from the centre, cut each half into thin slices and toss them in the flour. Melt the fat in a small stewpan, add241 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES the onion finely chopped, and cook it for a few minutes until lightly coloured. Then put in the kidney, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and stir briskly over the fire until the pieces are all equally coloured. Add the stock and sherry, or other light wine, and stir until boiling. Cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, and add the lemon juice and parsley at the last. Serve the stew neatly in a hot dish and garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—A few mushrooms, sliced and cooked with the kidney, will be an improvement. Time to cook, about J hour in all. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 971. Calf’s Liver, Broiled (Foie de Veau, Grill6) Wash the liver and allow it to lie in salt and water for | hour. Then dry it well and cut it in thin slices. Brush the pieces over with melted butter or salad oil, season with pepper and salt, and broil 4 or 5 minutes on each side (see Broiling, p. 208). Serve very hot with maitre d’hdtel butter, or with a few slices of broiled or fried bacon. Potato chips or ribbons may be served separately. 972. Calf’s Liver Saute (Foie de Veau Saut6) 1 lb. calf’s liver. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 gill stock or gravy. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill tinned mush- rooms. 1 tea-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 table-sp. sherry. Pepper. Salt. Wash the liver well in several waters, drain and dry it in a cloth. Then cut in slices J inch in thick- ness, and coat these very lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a frying or saute pan. When quite hot, put in the fiver, and fry it gently until well browned and thoroughly cooked. Then lift the pieces on to a plate and pour away all fat from the pan. Pour in the stock or gravy, add the mush- rooms cut in halves, the wine and seasonings, and stir for a few minutes. Then return the fiver and cook it for 5 minutes in the sauce. Dish neatly with the,gravy poured over and round, and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. Note.—The mushrooms may be omitted, and a little finely chopped onion added if liked. Time to cook, J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 973. Calf’s Liver a la Hongroise (Foie de Veau a la Hongroise) | lb. calf’s liver. A little flour. 2 oz. butter. Salt. Paprika pepper. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 gill cream. Potato balls. Wash the fiver and let it fie in cold water for £ hour. Then cut it in slices rather less than a \ inch in thickness, dry the pieces well in a cloth, season with salt and paprika, and coat them lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a frying pan; when hot, put in the fiver and fry it carefully until brown on both sides. Then lift out the pieces, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, one leaning against the other, and keep them hot. Add the chopped onion to the butter in the pan, and cook it about 5 minutes. Moisten with the cream, season to taste, cook a minute or two longer, and pour this sauce over the fiver. Garnish with small potato balls or with plainly boiled potatoes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 974. 1 lb. calf’s fiver. Bacon fat. A little flour. Calf’s Liver, Roasted Seasoning. \ pt. stock. 4 or 5 small tomatoes. Wash the liver, let it lie in cold salted water for | hour, and then dry it well. Now wrap the liver in a piece of paper that has been dipped in bacon fat, and place it in a roasting tin with more bacon fat. Roast in a moderate oven, basting frequently. A short time before it is ready remove the paper, dredge the fiver with flour, season with pepper and salt, and return it to the oven to brown and finish cooking. When the fiver is ready, lift it on to a hot dish, pour away the fat from the tin, add the stock, and make a gravy. Strain this round the fiver and garnish with baked tomatoes. Serve a pur6e of potatoes or mashed potatoes separately. Time to roast, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 975. Calf’s Liver, Larded 1J lbs. calf’s fiver. I 1 dessert-sp. browned Larding bacon. flour. 1 pt. brown stock. | Seasoning. 1 glass claret Prepare the fiver as in last recipe, and then lard the bestside of it rathertbickly (see Larding, p.205). Now tie or skewer it into a neat shape, place it in a well-greased roasting tin, and pour the stock boiling hot over it. Cover the tin and cook the fiver in the oven, basting it occasionally. A short time before it is ready, remove the cover and let the lardoons become nicely browned. Then lift the fiver on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Mix the browned flour .smoothly with the claret, add them to the liquid left in the baking tin, and stir over the fire until boiling. Season to taste and strain round the fiver. Small rolls of bacon or baked tomatoes may be used as a garnish. Note.—A gill of tomato juice may be used instead of the claret. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 976. Poor Man’s Goose 1 lb. calf’s or sheep’s fiver. \ lb. bacon. 6 or 8 potatoes. 1 cupful stock or water. 1 table-sp. flour. 2 large onions. 2 tea-sps. powdered sage Pepper and salt. A little dripping. Wash the fiver, dry it, cut it in slices about J inch in thickness, and dip the pieces in flour. Prepare the onions and potatoes, and cut them both in thin slices. Cut the bacon in small pieces and powder the sage. Then grease a pie-dish and put in the diflerent ingredients in layers, seasoning with pepper, sale, and sage. Make the last layer a good covering of potatoes. Pour in the stock or water, and put some dripping in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until thoroughly cooked. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 242 SWEETBREADS AND HOW TO PREPARE THEM Sweetbreads are considered the most delicate part of the calf, and are great favourites for entries. They are exceedingly light and easily digested, and much less stimulating than other meat. For these reasons they are frequently ordered for invalids. There are two different kinds, called popularly the heart and the throat sweetbreads. The former is the more appreciated of the two ; it is broad and flat in shape and white and firm in texture. It is generally chosen for larding or for any other method where the sweetbread is to be served whole. The throat sweetbread is much longer in shape and often Heart and Throat Sweetbreads very membranous, not so light in colour as the other, but very good for dishes where it can be broken in pieces. Sweetbreads, to be good, must be properly pre- pared, and this is not difficult, only it requires some care. To begin with they must be very fresh, and they must be prepared in the following manner as soon as they come from the butcher’s. On no account must they be put aside until this has been done. First wash the sweetbreads and soak them in cold water for an hour or two, changing the water once or twice. Then put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add a few drops of lemon juice, bring very slowly to boiling point, and boil 5 minutes. Throw the sweetbreads again into cold water, and with the fingers remove all veins, fat, and membranous parts, that will come away easily without destroying the shape. They can now be either pressed until cold, or used at once as directed. If pressed, put them between two plates with a light weight on the top. Do not crush them. 977. Fried Sweetbreads (Ris de Veau Frit) 1 sweetbread. Bread-crumbs. Beaten egg. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. salad oil. Prepare and blanch the sweetbread as directed above, then put it into a stewpan with enough light stock to cover it, and simmer gently for | hour. When nearly tender, lift it up and press between two plates until cold. Then cut it in neat pieces or slices, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind or juice. Add the salad oil to the beaten egg, and egg and bread- crumb the sweetbread. Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour and drain well. Serve gar- nished with cut lemon and parsley. Tomato, piquante, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Notes.—A more elaborate way of preparing this dish is to coat the pieces of sweetbread before bread-crumbing them with some tasty potted meat, or to coat them with some stiff bechamel or espagnol sauce. The sweetbread may be dished on a puree of spinach, potato, or chestnut. Frying batter may be used in place of the bread crumbs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 978. Sweetbread “ en Casserole ” (Ris de Veau en Casserole) 1 pr. calf’s sweetbreads. White stock. A small bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Prepare the sweetbreads as directed above, and after pressing, cut or break them in neat pieces. Put them into an earthenware casserole with white stock to cover them, an onion cut in pieces, and a small bunch of herbs. Cover with the lid and simmer slowly until the sweetbreads are tender. Then lift them out, and make a sauce with the butter, cornflour, and strained stock. Return the sweetbread without the herbs and onion,and simmer a few minutes longer. Season to taste and add the cream at the last. Serve in the casserole. Time to cook, £ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. PART V PORK AND HAM 979. Pork, To Pickle Pork for pickling must be freshly killed. Almost any part may be pickled, but the cuts most usually chosen are the hand or shoulder and the belly or spring, as these are too fat to be cooked and eaten fresh. A pickled leg of pork is also very good. Cut the pork in convenient-sized joints, wipe it well, and be careful to remove all kernels and pipes. Then rub well with coarse salt, let it stand over- night, and drain off the brine. Next day put the meat into a large basin or pickling-trough and cover it with pickle made as directed in Recipe 861. Place a. board or weight on the top to prevent the pork floating, and allow it to remain trom 10 to 14 days, according to the degree of saltness desired and the size and thickness of the cut. Pork may also be pickled according to the dry method (Recipe 863). Pickled pork is considered more wholesome and more digestible than fresh pork. See also General Directions for Pickling. 980. Boiled Salt Pork and Pease Pudding Choose a nice piece of pickled or salted pork, wash it and put it into a saucepan with tepid water to cover it. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well,SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 243 aud then simmer very slowly until tender, allow- ing 25 minutes to the pound and 25 minutes over. (See also General Directions for Boiling Meat.) If liked a few neat pieces of carrot and parsnip may be cooked along with the pork. When ready, place the meat on a hot dish, strain some of the liquid round, and garnish with the vegetables. Serve pease pudding (Recipe 635), a dish of broad beans, or some well-cooked greens separately. Boiled salt pork is also very good served cold. Note.—The remainder of the liquid should be reserved for making pea or lentil soup. 981. Pork, Roasted Choose a piece of pork with a thin rind and score the rind across at intervals of \ inch with a very sharp knife. If this were not done, it would be impossible to cut through the skin when the joint was cooked. If the butcher is asked, he will do this scoring before sending the joint home. Wipe the meat, brush it over with a little salad oil, and then roast it according to general directions for roasting (see p. 207). When nearly ready, turn the meat with the rind downwards and roast 10 to 15 minutes to brown the under side, then turn again and roast a few minutes longer. Serve with either clear or thickened gravy, and apple or gooseberry sauce, green vegetables and simply cooked potatoes. Savoury batter and baked sage and onion stuffing are also good accompaniments. Stewed prunes or plums may be served instead of apple sauce. Note.—If preferred, one of the bones may be removed from the pork, the sage and onion stuffing inserted, well secured, and roasted with the meat, but as a rule it is a more satisfactory method to cook the stuffing separately, as it is less rich. 982. Pork Cutlets (Cotelettes de Pore) 5 or 6 pork cutlets. I 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. | Fried apples. The cutlets should be taken from the loin or the best end of the neck and must not be more than J an inch in thickness. Trim them neatly, remov- ing most of the fat, and try to make them of uni- form shape. Season with pepper and salt and coat lightly with flour. Melt some of the fat trimmings in a frying pan and fry the cutlets in this. Turn them several times, and be careful to cook them thoroughly, or they will be most unwholesome. Serve them on a very hot dish and garnish with fried apples. Fried Apples.—Cut some rather acid apples in quarters, removing the core, but not the skin. Then fry the pieces in butter until tender, but not broken. Notes.—Apple sauce may be served instead of the fried apples, and the cutlets may be sprinkled with a little finely powdered sage. They may also be egged and bread-crumbed, although this makes them somewhat heavy. Pork cutlets may also be broiled. They should be dipped in a little butter, or some of their own fat melted, before being put on the broiler. Mashed or plainly boiled potatoes should be served separately. Time to fry, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd. per lb. 983. Sucking Pig, Roasted 1 sucking pig. Chestnut or sausage meat stuffing. A little salad oil. Brown gravy. Horse-radish. Apple sauce or jelly. A little pig for roasting should not be more than three or four weeks old. It ought to be cooked when freshly killed. Have it well washed and dried, and season the inside with pepper and salt. Pre- pare some chestnut or sausage meat stuffing (see Recipes 1279), parboil and chop the liver and add it to it. Put this stuffing into the pig and sew it up. Then place the little pig on a roasting tin, bend the hind feet forward and the fore feet back- wards, and fix them with two skewers close to the body. Now brush over the body with salad oil or melted butter, and tie several folds of well-greased paper over the back. Roast in a good oven, basting frequently. A short time before it is ready remove the paper to allow the back to brown. The skin should be brown and crisp, but without blisters. When ready, remove the trussing thread and skewers, cut the pig right through the middle from head to tail, and then cut off the two pieces of head. Serve the body back to back on a hot dish and place a half head at each end. Garnish with the horse-radish and a little parsley. Mix some good gravy in the roasting-tin (see p. 207) and serve it separately along with apple sauce or apple jelly. Note.—Veal or sage and onion stuffing may be used instead of the above. Time to roast, 2 to 2| hours. Probable cost, 6s. to 10s. 984. Pork Stew 1 i to 2 lbs. pork. 1 lb. potatoes. Boiling water. Forcemeat balls. I or 2 onions. Chopped parsley. Any part of fresh pork will do for this, but it must not be too fat. Wipe and trim the meat carefully, and cut it in pieces about 1 inch square. Place the pieces in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and cover with boiling water. Simmer a few minutes and skim if necessary. Then add the onions prepared and cut in thin slices ; put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for 1 hour until the meat is nearly tender. Now add the potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, r.nd stew \ hour longer. A few savoury forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288) may also be added a few minutes before serving, and the chopped parsley at the last. Serve with the potatoes and balls round the dish and the meat in the centre*COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 244 Notes.1—One or two pig’s feet may be cooked in the stew. They must be carefully washed and the bones cracked in three or four places. Salt pork may be used instead of fresh, but the meat must then be put on in cold water instead of hot, and then poured off when it comes to the boil, and fresh water added. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 985. Pork and Apple Pie 2 lbs. fresh lean pork. 2 lbs. potatoes. 2 onions. 2 large apples. 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. Salt. Pepper. 1 cupful stock. 1 oz. dripping. Wipe the pork and cut it in small pieces, remov- ing all skin and boner, and any superfluous fat. Season the meat with pepper, salt, and powdered sage, and mix well together. Scald the onions and cut them in thin slices, and slice also the apples and potatoes. Grease a pie-dish and put in the different ingredients in layers, making the topmost layer a thick one of sliced potatoes. Pour the stock over and lay on the dripping in small pieces. Stand the pie in a baking-tin with a little water round it, cover it with a tin or dish and bake in a good oven. About 4 hour before it is ready remove the cover and allow the pie to brown. Time to bake, 24 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 986. Pig’s Feet with Tomato Sauce Boiling water. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill tomato puree. Croutons of fried bread. 4 pig’s feet. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. _ Salt. Pepper. Wash and scrape the feet thoroughly, then split them lengthwise and put them in a baking tin with the split side downwards. Sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and the chopped onion, and pour in enough boiling water to cover them. Cover the tin and cook the feet in the oven until tender, basting them occasionally with the water and adding more if necessary. When ready, lift the feet on to a hot dish and keep them warm while the sauce is made. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, and then pour in 1 gill of liquid from the feet and 1 gill of tomato puree. Stir until boiling, season to taste, and cook a fewminutes. Strain this sauce over the feet, and garnish the dish with small croutons of fried bread or little sippets of toast. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 987. Stuffed Pig’s Feet 4 pig’s feet. 4 pt. water. 1 gill vinegar. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. (Pieds de Pore Farcis) 4 lb. pork sausage meat. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little butter and lard. Wash and scrape the feet thoroughly, split them in two and let them lie in salt and water for 1 hour. Then rinse them well and tie them together with tape. Put the water and vinegar into a saucepan and place them over the fire. 'When hot, put in the feet and bring to the boil. Skim well and add the onion, bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the feet are tender. When ready, lift them out, cool slightly, and remove the tape. Take out the bones and lay the fleshy part of the feet on a board. Season with pepper and salt, spread a little of the sausage meat over each, and shape again like the original feet. Coat them lightly with flour and then egg and bread-crumb. Fry in a frying pan in lard and butter mixed, and serve plain or with tomato, piquante, or Robert sauce. 988. Pig’s Feet, Broiled Cook the feet as in last recipe. When tender, remove the bones and dry the feet. Dip them in a little melted butter and roll them in bread-crumbs. Then broil over a clear fire or under the grill of a gas-stove. Serve with fried apples (Recipe 982) or with apple or gooseberry sauce. 989. Pig’s Fry or Harslet, Fried Pig’s fry. A little flour. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. dripping. 1 or 2 onions. 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. 4 pt. stock or gravy. The fry consists of the liver, heart, lungs, and sweetbread of the pig. Wash the fry carefully in several waters, then put it into a saucepan with warm water to cover it. Bring to the boil and simmer slowly for 15 minutes, skimming when necessary. Meanwhile skin and chop the onions rather finely, put them into a small saucepan with the stock, powdered sage, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let them cook until soft. When the fry has simmered the required time drain it, rinse in fresh cold water, and dry in a cloth. Now cut it in slices and coat the pieces lightly with flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Melt the dripping in a frying pan ; when smoking hot put in the prepared fry and cook it until well browned on all sides. Then lift it on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Pour the onions with their gravy into the frying pan, allow all to boil for 5 minutes, scraping down any browning from the pan. Then pour round the fry and serve very hot. 990. Pig’s Fry, Stewed 1 lb. pig’s fry. 1 or 2 slices of bacon. 1 carrot. 1 or 2 onions. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. red-currant jelly- 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 4 pt. warm water. 1 table-sp. flour. Wash and trim the fry, then dry it and cut it in small neat pieces, using both the fat and lean. Trim the bacon and cut it in small pieces also. Then heat a frying pan, put in the prepared meat, and stir over the fire until well browned. Now turn all into a jar or fireproof casserole and add the vegetables, cut in small pieces, and other in- gredients. Cover closely and cook in the oven from 14 to 2 hours. Or, if more convenient, the jar containing the fry, &c., may be stood in a saucepan of boiling water and cooked on the top of the stove. When nearly ready, mix the flour with a little water, add it to the stew and cook about 15 jninutes longer,245 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 991. Faggots 1 lb. pig’s liver. 1 lb. onions. G oz. fat bacon. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. 1 lb. soaked bread. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. mixed herbs. Pig’s caul. Salt. Pepper. First soak some bread in cold water, and when thoroughly softened, squeeze it dry, measure the necessary quantity and beat it up with a fork until free from lumps. Wash and dry the liver, and trim all rind and rust from the bacon. Peel the onions, and cut them up roughly. Then put the liver, bacon, and onions through the mincing machine together; add them to the soaked bread with the herbs finely powdered, the parsley finely chopped, mixed spice, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix thoroughly. Prepare and wash the caul as directed in Recipe 1257, and cut it in pieces about 4 inches square. Put some of the above mixture in the centre of each and wrap each up like a parcel. Place these on a baking tin with the join downwards and bake them in a hot oven at least | hour. 1 lb. pig’s fry. 2 lbs. potatoes. 2 onions. 1 apple. 992. Mock Goose 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. Pepper. Salt. Boiling water. A little flour. Parboil the potatoes and cut them in slices. Wash the fry carefully in several waters, then dry and cut it in small pieces. Coat these lightly with flour and season them with pepper and salt. Choose two medium-sized onions, skin and chop them rather finely, also peel and chop the apple, and mix apple, onion, and powdered sage together. Now grease a pie-dish and put in the different ingredi- ents in layers, adding more pepper and salt where necessary and making the last layer potatoes. Pour over a large cupful of boiling water and cover with a piece of well-greased paper. Bake the mock goose in a moderate oven until all is well cooked. A short time before serving remove the paper in order to let the potatoes brown. Serve very hot. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 993. Pig’s Head, To Pickle and Boil 1 pig’s head. 1 lb. common salt. 1J oz. saltpetre. To Prepare, and Piclcle the Head.—Take a freshly killed pig’s head and scald it in boiling water a few minutes, then scrape the skin well to get rid of the hairs. Now split the head open and remove the eyes, brains, and snout. Cleanse all thoroughly, washing the head in several waters and scraping out the nostrils with a knife. Next soak the head and tongue in strong salt and water overnight, rinse again in fresh water and drain. Mix together the common salt and saltpetre, rub the mixture into every part of the head, and let it lie for 5 or 6 days, turning and basting it every day. Then drain and wash again. To Cook and Serve the Head.—Put the head and tongue into a large saucepan and cover it with warm water. Bring them to the boil and skim well. Now simmer slowly until the head is tender, skim- ming when necessary. When sufficiently cooked, arrange the head neatly on a hot dish and garnish with the tongue skinned and cut in slices. Pease pudding, a green vegetable, or haricot beans may be served separately. Time to cook, about 3 hours. | pig’s head (salted). 2 onions. 4 cloves. 1 doz. peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. sprig of parsley, thyme, andmarjoram. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. Cold water. 994. Brawn A Wash the head thoroughly in tepid water and remove all gristle and soft parts from the nostrils. Rinse well in cold water. Then put the head into a saucepan with cold water to cover it (about 2 quarts) and bring slowly to the boil. Skim care- fully, and add the vegetables cut in pieces and the herbs and spices tied in muslin. Simmer all slowly until the flesh will leave the bones easily, skimming when necessary. When ready, strain the liquid into a basin and put the head on a dish. Next day cut the tongue and meat from the head into small pieces, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Skim all fat carefully off the stock and return it to the saucepan with the bones from the head. Boil quickly until reduced to about half the quantity and then strain over the meat. Taste if sufficiently seasoned, stand until slightly cooled, and then pour into wetted moulds. Set aside until quite cold and firm, and, when wanted, turn out on a dish and garnish with some sprigs of parsley. Notes.—If liked, the moulds may first be decorated with some slices of hard-boiled egg. The pig’s feet may be cooked along with the head, or a piece of lean salted pork, if the head by itself is considered too fat. Time to cook, about 3 hours. 995. Pig’s Head, Collared Take a salted pig’s head, wash it well in cold water, and put it with the tongue into a large sauce- pan with cold water to cover it. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and then simmer slowly for 2 hours. If liked, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of herbs, and a few pieces of carrot and turnip may be cooked with the head to give flavour. When the head and tongue have cooked the re- quired time, lift them out and let them cool slightly. Skin the tongue and cut it in slices. Bone the head and spread out the two halves on a board. Season with pepper, salt (if necessary), grated lemon rind, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay the slices of tongue on the top of one of the pieces of head, and place the second piece on the top with any scraps inside. Try to make this sandwich of equal thickness by placing the thick part of one cheek over the thin part of the other. Wben all is tidily arranged, tie it up firmly in a cloth like a little roly-poly, and cook again in the same saucepan for another 2 hours, then press the roll between two dishes or boards until cold. Remove the cloth and cut in slices as required. 996. Pig’s Kidneys, Broiled Prepare and cook in the same way as sheep’s kidneys (Recipe 924), allowing rather longer time. The kidneys may be sprinkled with a little powdered sage.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 246 997. Pigs* Tongues, To Cook (Langues de Pore) Prepare and cook in the same way as sheep’s tongues (see Recipes 933 to 935). 998. Pork Sausages, To Make (Saucisses) 1 lb. lean pork. 4 lb. fat pork. I lb. white bread- crumbs. 4 tea-sp. powdered sage. Salt. Pepper. J tea-sp. grated nutmeg. | tea-sp. powdered mace. Sausage skins. To Prepare the Skins.—As a rule sausage skins can be bought ready prepared from the butcher, in which case they will only require thorough wash- ing and drying before being ready for use. If the skins have to be cleaned at home, wash them first in salt and water, then scrape them with the back of a knife and wash them again. After this preliminary washing, allow the skins to soak for several days in salt and water, and then wash and scrape them again. Finally rinse them in fresh water, and let the water from the tap run through them until they smell quite sweet and fresh. Dry and they are ready for use. To Make the Mixture.—Remove all skin and gristle from the meat, cut it in pieces, and put it through a very clean mincing machine. Add to it the bread-crumbs, sage, and spice, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Mix the ingredients well together with the hand and then fill the skins. To Fill the Skins.—The easiest way to do this is to tie one end of the skin on to a mincer that has a filler spout, and to put the finished mixture through the machine, filling the skin gradually. Do not fill the skin too full or it will burst, and at regular intervals give it a twist so as to divide off the sausages. If the mincing machine is not suitable for this arrangement, the skins must be filled with a small spoon and the mixture worked down with the fingers. Note.—The mixture for filling may be varied very much to suit individual taste. Veal is very often used along with the pork, and finely minced suet sometimes takes the place of some of the fat of the pork. The spices can also be varied, and mixed herbs finely powdered, and grated lemon rind may be added if desired. 999. Sausages, To Broil Make the grill of a gas stove red hot. Prick the sausages and place them in the grid tin. Cook them under the grill until brown and crisp on one side, then turn them over and cook them on the other. They will require from 10 to 15- minutes, and must be thoroughly cooked. Sausages are nice and crisp prepared in this way, and not so greasy as when fried. They may also be broiled in a hanging grill in front "of the fire. 1000. Sausages, Fried or Baked Sausages. Dripping. Toasted bread. Prick the sausages with a fork and put them into a frying pan with a little melted dripping. The dripping must not be made too hot before the sausages are put in or the sausages will burst. Keep turning the sausages over and over, and allow them to cook slowly until brown and crisp on all sides. Pork sausages especially require thorough cooking, or they will not be wholesome. Have ready some neat fingers of toast or fried bread, lay them on a hot dish, and place a sausage on the top of each. Brown sauce or gravy may be served separately in a sauce boat. Sausages may also be baked. Prick them well and place them side by side on a greased tin. Cook in a moderate oven until brown and crisp, turning them occasionally. Serve in the same way. Fried bacon may be served along with the sausages. Note.—Sometimes the sausages are parboiled for 5 minutes before frying ; this makes them less rich, but at the same time not quite so tasty. 1001. Sausages with Potatoes, 1 Cook the sausages as above and serve them round a mound of mashed potatoes. The potatoes should not be too dry, a little milk or hot dripping should be added to them. 1002, Smothered Sausages 1 lb. sausages. 2 cupfuls mashed pota^ toes. Seasoning. Milk or gravy. 2 table - sps. crumbs. bread Blanch the sausages by putting them into a saucepan with cold water and bringing them quickly to the boil. Then drain them, remove the skins, and cut them in two or four pieces, according to size. Place these in a greased pie-dish or fire- proof dish and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Now take about 2 cupfuls of nicely mashed potatoes (see Recipe 537), seasoned and moistened with a little milk or gravy, and spread on the top of the sausages. Brush over with milk or egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1003. Sausages, Egged and Bread-crumb 1 lb. sausages. Some brown gravy. Beaten egg. A potato border. Bread-crumbs. Prick the sausages and lay them in a saucepan with hot water to cover them. Bring this gently to the boil and simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Then drain and remove the skins carefully from the sausages. Cut them in two or four pieces, accord- ing to size, and egg and bread-crumb them. Then fry them in boiling fat (see p. 248) until of a golden brown colour, lift out and drain on kitchen paper Serve them on a potato border (Recipe 543), and serve gravy round, or separately in a sauce boat. Or, the potato mixture may be formed into flat, oblong-shaped cakes, as many as there are sausages browned in the oven, and then a sausage placed on the top of each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4cl. 1004. Sausages with Cabbage 1 lb. sausages. i 1 medium-sized or 2 Seasoning. | small cabbages. Prepare the cabbage, removing any hard stalk and discoloured parts, and cut it across in fine shreds. Wash and drain well. Put it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it and a little247 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES salt, boil 10 minutes and strain. Then return the oabbage to the saucepan, again cover it with boiling water or stock, and allow it to cook until it is tender and the liquid has almost evaporated. Prick the sausages and fry a few minutes just to brown them on all sides. Then add them to the cabbage with seasoning to taste, and cook both together about £ hour. Serve very hot, the cabbage in the centre of the dish and the sausages round. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1 d. 1005. Toad in a Hole £ lb. sausages. Salt. Pepper. Batter. Scald the sausages and remove the skins. Then split them lengthways and cut across, making four pieces. Grease a small Yorkshire pudding tin, lay in the pieces of sausage and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Make the batter as directed in Recipe 1861, allowing it to stand for £ hour if pos- sible ; pour it over the sausages and bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. Then cut in pieces and serve at once on a hot dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. Bacon, To Cook See under Breakfast Dishes, 1006. Boiled Ham (Jambon Bouilli) Ham. | Glaze or browned bread- Water. | crumbs. First soak the ham in lukewarm water for several hours. If it is very dry and highly smoked or salted, from twelve to twenty-four hours will be necessary, and the water ought to be changed once or twice during this time. Then scrape the ham, removing all rust and any discoloured parts, and weigh it. Put it into a saucepan with suffi- cient lukewarm water to cover it (if the ham is very salt, cold water will be better), bring to the boil, and skim well. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the stove and simmer slowly until the ham is cooked. Allow from 25 to 30 minutes to the pound, according to the kind and thickness of the ham. It is ready when the skin will peel off easily. A bunch of sweet herbs and 1 or 2 bay-leaves may be boiled with the ham, and some- times a pint of ale or cider is added to give a mellow flavour. If the ham is to be served cold let it cool in the water in which it was cooked, then take it up, remove the rind, and trim the fat neatly with a knife. Brush it all over with liquid glaze or strew thickly with browned bread-crumbs. If the latter are used it will be better to put the ham in the oven for a few minutes in order to melt the surface slightly and make the crumbs adhere. Fasten a paper frill round the knuckle of the ham and serve it garnished with parsley. If the ham is to be served hot for luncheon or dinner, lift it from the water as soon as it is cooked, remove the skin and trim it. Then brush it over with liquid glaze, or coat it with bread raspings and place it in the oven for a few minutes to become brown and crisp. While the ham is in the oven it may be basted with a little sherry or marsala. Spinach, Brussels sprouts, greens, or green peas, &c., may be served separately with hot boiled ham. 1007. Baked Ham Prepare the ham and soak it as for boiling. Then saw oS the knuckle bone, and if the ham is large boil it for 1 hour according to directions given in last recipe. Meanwhile prepare a plain aste made with flour and water. About 1J lbs. our will be required for a medium-sized ham, and roll it out on a pastry board. Drain the ham well from the water, dry it, and wrap it up in the paste, covering it well. Then place it on a roasting tin with three or four table-spoonfuls of dripping and bake in a moderate oven, basting frequently. The time will depend on the size and thickness of the ham; about 3 horns should be allowed for a medium-sized ham, or about 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over. When ready remove the crust and skin, and finish and serve the ham as directed for boiled ham. If served hot, a good wine sauce may be served separately. Note.—If only a half ham is being baked the preliminary boiling may be dispensed with. 1008. Ham a la Maddre (Jambon a la Madere) Boil a small ham of 5 or 6 lbs. or a piece of ham as directed in Recipe 1006. While still hot, remove the skin and surplus fat and place it on a tin or fireproof dish. Pour 2 or 3 glasses of Madeira over the ham and sprinkle it well with flour. Place it in a good oven and allow it to bake J hour or until nicely browned, basting it frequently with the wine. Finished in this way the ham will have a delicious flavour. Note.—Champagne is sometimes used instead of Madeira. 1009. Lard, To Prepare This is prepared from the inside fat of a pig, which goes under the name of flead, flare, or leaf. Care must be taken to obtain this fat very fresh, as it soon becomes tainted. Skin it carefully, removing any discoloured parts or traces of blood. Then cut it in small pieces and put it in a strong jar without any water. Stand the jar in a sauce- pan of boiling water and keep it boiling over the fire. As the fat melts strain it carefully off until the fibrous parts of the flead are left fairly dry. When ready, pour it into bladders or jars and keep it airtight. If exposed to the air for any length of time it will become rancid. The residue can be chopped and used in the making of pea or lentil soup. Note.—A double saucepan may be used for melt- ing down the fat.248 COLD MEAT REDRESSED This branch of cookery is by no means to be despised, as some of our daintiest and most tasty dishes are made from the remains of cooked meat. The reason that made-up dishes are so often looked upon with distrust is that the process of re-heating is carelessly carried out, and the meat is thereby rendered tough and tasteless. It certainly requires a little trouble to re-heat meat nicely, but it is trouble that is well repaid. For serving up little dishes of this kind it would be well worth while to invest in some of the dainty little dishes now on the market, such as fireproof gratin dishes, scallop shells, earthenware casseroles, which can be sent to table, or some prettily shaped moulds, as these will all help to give an air of refine- ment and finish to a rechauffe. The following recipes should give one a fair idea of the variety of ways in which scraps of meat, however small, can be utilised, and a little ingenuity on the part of the cook will soon devise others, or at least variations of the same. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR RE-HEATING MEAT To begin with, the meat must be carefully pre- pared, first cut from the bone and then trimmed in order to free it from all skin, gristle, burnt pieces, or in fact any parts that arc not eatable. The amount of fat that may be left depends very much on the kind of meat and the manner in which it is to be treated. The meat should either be cut in thin slices, in tiny cubes or dice, or minced by putting it through the mincing machine. Then some good sauce or stock will nearly always be required in the re-heating, and, if this is not already at hand, the bones and trimmings should be utilised for the purpose. The bones should be broken small and put with the trimmings into a saucepan with cold water to cover them. Seasoning and small pieces of flavouring vegetable should then be added and the whole allowed to simmer by the side of the fire until all the flavour is extracted. Then strain and use the liquor thus obtained for making a gravy or sauce for the meat. As a rule it will be found an improvement to use a little ham, tongue, or other salted meat along with fresh meat, as it will help to give flavour; 2 oz. salted to \ lb. fresh meat being a very good proportion. The seasoning to be added will de- pend very much on the kind of meat used. For white meats a little white or light-coloured sauce is always suitable, also cream, lemon, white wine, yolks of eggs, &c. For the darker meats and game a more tasty sauce may be used, such as piquante, tomato, or brown, and a little rfed wine and red currant or other sharp jelly may be added where suitable. One very important point to remember in the re-heating of meat is that it must not be allowed to over-cook, as this will only make it woolly and tasteless. This applies specially to meat that is re-heated in a sauce of any kind, as for instance a hash. The sauce should be made and thoroughly cooked to begin with, then the meat, properly prepared, put into it and simply allowed to heat through. The best way to do this is au bain marie, that is, by placing the saucepan containing the meat and sauce in a larger saucepan with hot water round it. By this means the heating process can be carried on without any danger of the meat boiling in the sauce. To Fry In Boiling Fat (Wet Frying) As this method of cooking is so much employed in cold meat cookery, it may be as well to insert it here. French or wet frying means cooking in a large quantity of fat, sufficient to cover the article to be fried. Clarified fat, oil, or lard may be used for the purpose, but butter must never be taken, as it is apt to burn. Clarified beef fat is about the best medium to use, and it is much less expensive than oil. The quantity of fat required will depend on the number and size of the articles to be fried, there must always be sufficient to well cover them. It should be put into a plain iron stewpan, neither tinned nor enamelled, as the great heat of the fat would destroy both these linings. Success in this mode of frying will depend on getting the fat to the right degree of heat. It should be perfectly still. If there are bubbles, they show that the fat contains water, which must pass off by evaporation, before the right degree of heat can be attained. A blue smoky vapour should also be seen rising from the pan; or, the heat may be tested by putting in a small crust of bread; if this frizzles freely, the fat is ready for use. It is always better to let the fat heat slowly, and the saucepan containing it should on no account be placed over an open fire, as many a bad accident has occurred by so doing. As soon as the fat is ready, it should be used at once, or else drawn to the side of the fire to prevent its burning and causing an unpleasant smell. Do not put too many articles into the pan at one time, or they will cool the fat too much; and always bring the fat to boiling point again before putting in a second lot.249 COLD MEAT REDRESSED If the fat is not made sufficiently hot it will soak into the articles being fried and make them greasy and sodden instead of dry and crisp. Let them fry a nice brown colour, then lift them out with a perforated spoon or drainer, letting the fat drip well from them. Or, what is better still, use a frying basket, which will fit inside the saucepan, Frying Basket or, a special fryer, which has a special arrangement whereby the wire drainer can be suspended above the fat to permit of draining. When well drained, turn the articles on to a double fold of kitchen paper, and if the process has been well carried out, no particle of grease will remain. Serve all fried articles with a dish paper or d’oyley under them. This method of frying is suitable for any kind of food which requires only a short time to cook, such as fritters, rissoles, croquettes, small fish, fillets of fish, &c. As a rule the articles being fried are protected by a coating of egg and bread- crumbs, thin pastry, or batter. Food which re- quires a long time to cook must never be treated in this way. The fat should not be left on the fire when finished with, as it will quickly get overheated and burn. It should be drawn to one side and allowed to cool a little, then strained through a piece of muslin into a tin basin in order to keep back any bread-crumbs or other sediment, which would spoil its clearness. It may then be put aside for future use. If care is taken of the fat in this way, it will keep good for many weeks, and it will not be found an extravagance, as but little is consumed each time. When it does become dirty and discoloured, it may be clarified. If a large quantity of frying is done in a house- hold, it might be as well to keep a special lot of fat for fish frying, but otherwise it is scarcely worth while, because if the fat is properly heated and used, no flavour from the articles fried should be imparted to it. A word of warning might be given here about the danger of fat boiling over and catching fire, which has been the cause of many a bad burning accident. This is generally caused by too much being put into the fat at one time, or by the sudden introduction of too much moisture. If such an accident should occur, extinguish the burning fat on the grate with ashes and never on any account attempt to use water. If the fat in the pan itself catches fire it can generally be put out by smother- ing it with a saucepan lid. The greatest danger arises from putting the pan of fat over an open fire, and, as stated above, this must never be done. To Egg and Bread-Crumb The bread-crumbs for this purpose should be fine and dry. White bread-crumbs will look the best, but those that are made from scraps of bread browned in the oven are the most economical. From 1 to 2 breakfast-cupfuls will be required, according to the number of articles to be coated, and for convenience’ sake have them on a good- sized piece of white paper. The egg should be broken on to a plate, yolk and white together, and beaten with a fork until it ceases to be stringy. When eggs are expensive, and one is not sufficient, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk or water may be added instead of a second egg. Put the articles to be egged one at a time into the egg, and coat them all over with it, using a small brush for the purpose. See that every part is well covered, or they will have a patchy appearance when fried. Do the brushing over quickly, otherwise the egg soaks into the articles and makes them soft. When well coated, drop the egged article on to the top of the bread-crumbs, lifting it with a knife. Cover it with the crumbs, by taking hold of the sides of the paper and tossing the crumbs over it, then press the crumbs well on with the hands, and shake the loose ones off. Now lay the article on a board, and with a flat knife, press the crumbs on again and make it as tidy and shapely as possible. Then place on a plate or tin with double paper on it ready for draining, and if time permits allow the things thus prepared to stand a little while to dry and harden before frying. 1010. Hash J lb. cooked meat. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 3 gills stock. Seasoning. 1 onion. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Sippets of toast. 2 tomatoes. Trim the meat carefully, removing all skin, gristle, burnt pieces, and superfluous fat, and then weigh it. Slice it rather thinly and cut it in pieces of a convenient size. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, and when smoking hot, put in the onion thinly sliced. Fry it a few minutes, allowing it to brown, but on no account to blacken. Next add the flour and brown that also. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling and skim if necessary. Season to taste and lay in the meat. Put the lid on the saucepan and allow the meat to heat in the sauce for 15 minutes. Care must be taken that it does not boil, or it will toughen, and the hash will be spoilt. This is most important. To serve, arrange the pieces of meat neatly on a hot dish and strain the sauce over. Garnish with sippets of toast and the tomatoes cut in quarters and cooked in the oven. Notes.—The stock used must be good and well seasoned, or the hash will not be a success. If none is available put the bones and trimmings of the meat into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and when boiling add small pieces of vegetable to flavour. Simmer slowly for 1 hour and strain. The hash may be improved by the addition of a few250 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD mushrooms cut in pieces, a little tomato purde, or, if mutton is being used, a few chopped pickles. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1011. Cold Meat Mince J lb. cooked meat. | oz. butter. | oz. flour. 1 cupful good stock. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Seasoning. A border of potatoes. Trim the meat carefully, removing all skin, gristle, and discoloured parts. Chop it with a knife or put it through the mincer. Brown the butter in a small stewpan, put in the flour and brown that also. Then pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the meat, and allow it to heat slowly by the side of the fire for 15 minutes. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a dish and brown it in the oven (see Recipe 543). When ready, dish the mince neatly in the centre and serve hot. Notes.—A little finely chopped onion may be added to the mince if liked. Any good brown sauce may be used for moistening the meat, or if white meat, such as veal, rabbit, or chicken, is being used, a white sauce is to be preferred, and a little chopped ham would then be an improvement. A border of rice, macaroni, or spaghetti may be used instead of the potato, and poached eggs are sometimes served on the top of the mince. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 1012. Shepherd’s Pie J lb. cooked meat. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. i pt. stock. 1 onion. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Seasoning. Mashed potatoes. A little milk or beaten egg- Prepare the meat and make a brown sauce as directed for hash (Recipe 1010). Lay the pieces of meat at the bottom of a greased pie dish and pour the sauce over. Then prepare some mashed potatoes (see Recipe 537) and pile them on the top. Smooth over with a knife, and mark neatly with the back of a fork, or the point of a knife. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg and bake in a good oven for at least \ an hour. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1013. Cottage Pie Prepare some cold meat mince as directed above, and put it into a greased pie dish. Pile mashed potato on the top, smooth over neatly with a knife, and then mark with the back of a fork or the point of a knife. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until brown and hot through. 1014. Cold Meat in Batter i lb. cooked meat. Batter as in Recipe 334 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. J tea - sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Trim the meat, mince it very finely, and season it with the powdered herbs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Grease a Yorkshire pudding tin rather thickly and spread this meat mixture at the bottom. Make the batter carefully, and allow it to stand for \ hour at least. Then strain it over the meat, mix lightly and bake in a good oven, until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, cut in convenient-sized pieces and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Time to bake, about \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1015. Cold Meat Cannelon | lb. cooked meat. | lb. ham or tongue. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 or 2 table-sp. sauce or gravy. A little flour. Brown or tomato sauce. Trim the cold meat and ham or tongue, cut them in pieces and put them through a mincing machine. Put the minced meat into a basin, add to it the bread-crumbs, parsley, and pickles. Season to taste and mix well together. Then bind with a beaten egg and a little stock or gravy, if necessary. Form into a roll, using a little flour, and wrap in Cold Meat Cannelon a piece of greased paper. Bake in a good oven. When ready, remove the paper and serve the roll on a hot dish with tomato, brown, or any other suitable sauce poured over it. Boiled rice or stewed macaroni may be used as a garnish. Time to bake, | to £ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1016. Casserole of Meat 1J lbs. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Seasoning. 1 egg. Cold meat mince. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. To Make the Casserole.—Sieve the potatoes and put them into a saucepan in which the butter or dripping has been melted. Season with pepper and salt, add most of the egg well beaten, and mix together. Now take a plain cake tin (1| pint size), grease it carefully, and coat the inside with fine browned bread-crumbs. Then put in the potato mixture and work it carefully up the sides of the tin, leaving a hollow in the centre. The potato lining must be at least J inch thick and must be well pressed against the tin. When finished, brush the potato over with the remains of the egg and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. To Prepare the Mince.—Make some nice savoury mince with the remains of cooked meat, as directed in Recipe 1011, being careful not to have it too liquid.. To Serve.—Turn the casserole of potatoes out of the tin and place it, hollow side uppermost, onCOLD MEAT REDRESSED 251 a hot dish. Serve the mince in the centre and heat for a minute or two in a hot oven. The meat may be garnished with a few small rolls of bacon or some grilled mushrooms. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1017. Cassolettes of Cold Meat Potato cases. Cold meat mince. Make some potato cases, as directed in Recipe 544, and fill them with some nice savoury mince. Put the little lids on the top and place them in the oven a minute or two. Serve very hot with a sprig of parsley on each. 1019. Curry of Cold Meat 4 lb. cooked meat. I Lemon. | pt. curry sauce. | Boiled rice. Cut the meat in small dice, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Make some good curry sauce, as directed in Recipe 685, put the prepared meat into it and allow it to re-heat and become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce, but do not boil. The best way of doing this re-heating is in a double saucepan, or au bain-marie. Serve in a deep dish and garnish with sliced lemon. Serve a dish of boiled rice separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1018. Cold Meat Croquettes i lb. cold cooked meat. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion, ltea-sp.chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 table-sp. brown or tomato sauce. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Some scraps of pastry. Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs or vermi celli. First Prepare the Mixture.—Trim the meat care- fully and put it through a mincing machine, or chop it finely. Put the minced meat into a small basin. Cold Meat Croquettes add to it the parsley, onion, and seasoning, and bind all together with brown, tomato, or any other good sauce. The mixture must not be made too soft. To Make the Croquettes.—Roll out some scraps of pastry very thinly. The thinness of the pastry is most important, as if left too tnick it will not be cooked sufficiently, and the croquettes will be most unwholesome. Stamp the pastry into rounds, 3 to 4 inches in diameter, and with a small brush wet round the edges with a little water or beaten egg. Put a small portion of the meat mixture in the centre of each and double over, pressing the edges well together. If wished larger, put one round on the top of the other with some of the meat mixture between. Other shapes, instead of rounds, may be used, if preferred. Next egg and bread- crumb the croquettes, or, instead of bread-crumbs, use crushed vermicelli, fry a nice brown colour, and not too quickly, in boiling fat, and drain on kitchen paper. Pile them on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper under them, and serve hot. Note.—The croquettes may be baked instead of fried, and the seasoning may be altered according to the kind of meat used, and also to suit individual taste. Sufficient for 7 or 8 croquettes. 1020. Darioles of Cold Meat 6 oz. cooked meat. 3 oz. cooked potatoes. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. A small piece of butter. 1 egg. Seasoning. A little stock or gravy. Browned bread-crumbs. 1 gill brown or tomato sauce. Grease half a dozen dariole moulds or small basins and coat the sides with fine browned bread-crumbs. Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and add to it the meat finely chopped, the potato sieved, and chopped parsley. Season to taste and moisten with a little stock or gravy and the egg slightly beaten. Fill the prepared moulds with this mix- ture, sprinkle a few more browned crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Turn out the darioles on a hot dish and pour some brown or tomato sauce round. Notes.—Any kind of meat may be used for these, and a little ham or tongue, used along with other meat, is always advisable. The mixture must not be made too moist or the darioles will not keep their shape. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 darioles. 1021. Cold Meat Dormers 1 cupful cooked meat. 1 cupful cooked rice. 2 table-sps.chopped Suet 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley J tea - sp. powdered herbs. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. Butter or dripping. Sauce or gravy. The rice must be well cooked and as dry as possible. Mix it with the meat, finely chopped, and add the chopped parsley, suet, and powdered herbs. Season to taste, and bind together with Cold Meat Dormers the yolk of egg, and a little stock or sauce, if neces- sary. Form the mixture into small sausage- shaped pieces, using a little dry flour, and then egg and bread-crumb them. Fry the dormers in252 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD a frying pan with a small quantity of dripping or butter, and cook them thoroughly on account of the suet. Drain well and serve with some good sauce or gravy. A little cooked spaghetti or maca- roni may be put in the centre of the dish and the dormers arranged round it. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 dormers. 1022. Cold Meat Fritters, 1 (Beignets de Viande) £ lb. cooked meat, lb. flour. 1 gill tepid water. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. Seasoning. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. £ tea - sp. powdered herbs. 1 egg. Sieve the flour into a basin, add to it gradually the tepid water and yolk of egg, and beat well until a smooth batter is formed. Mince the meat very finely and add it to the batter with the salad oil or melted butter, and season with pepper, salt, the powdered herbs and parsley, and other season- ing, according to the kind of meat used. Allow this to stand for some time, and when ready to use it, stir in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Drop small spoonfuls of the mixture into boiling fat (see p. 248) and fry a golden brown colour. Lift out, drain, and serve piled up with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve tomato or piquante sauce separ- ately. These fritters must not be allowed to stand, as they become heavy. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 1023. Cold Meat Fritters, 2 (Beignets de Viande) 4 to 6 oz. cooked meat. 1 tea - sp. chopped 1 table-sp. salad oil. onion. 1 table-sp. ketchup or A pinch of mace. Worcester sauce. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. chopped Frying batter. parsley. Use very tender beef or mutton for these. Cut the meat into thin neat slices and trim away all skin and gristle. Lay the slices on a plate, pour over them the salad oil and ketchup or Worcester sauce, and sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, chopped onion, and a little ground mace or nutmeg. Allow the meat to lie in this marinade at least £ an hour, turning the slices occasionally. Then dip them, one or two at a time, into frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain and serve at once garnished with fried parsley. Tomato, piquante, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—Other meat fritters may be made in the same way, and the flavouring altered according to the kind of meat used. Lemon juice or white wine should be used instead of ketchup for white meats. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1024. Gateau of Cold Meat £ lb. cooked meat. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 dessert - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. Grated lemon rind. Sauce or gravy. 1 or 2 eggs. A few browned bread- crumbs. Seasoning. Trim the meat and mince it very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then add the meat, bread- crumbs, and seasoning, and mix all together. Moisten with the egg well beaten and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls good sauce or gravy. Take a plain mould or basin, just large enough to hold the mixture, grease it well and coat it with fine browned bread- crumbs. Fill up with the meat mixture and cover the top with greased paper. Cook in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Then turn out care- fully on a hot dish with a dish paper under it, garnish with parsley, and serve some good sauce or gravy separately. Notes.—This gateau may be steamed instead of baked; the mould might then be garnished with hard-boiled egg cut in slices instead of lining with crumbs. One cupful of cooked and sieved potato may be used instead of the bread-crumbs. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1025. Cold Meat au Gratin Cold meat mince. 3 table - sps. grated 3 table - sp. bread- cheese. crumbs. A little butter. Prepare some cold meat mince, as directed in Recipe 1011, and mix the bread-crumbs and grated cheese together. Grease a deepish fireproof dish, and sprinkle in some of the bread-crumbs and cheese. Then put in some of the meat, and repeat these layers until all is in, making the top- most layer bread-crumbs and cheese. Put a few small pieces of butter on the top and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1026. Cold Beef with Haricot Beans 1 cupful chopped to- mato. 1 cupful stock or gravy. Seasoning. Horse-radish. £ lb. cooked beef. 1 large cupful cooked haricot beans. 3 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. dripping or butter. Prepare the meat by trimming it and cutting it in small pieces. Have ready also a large cupful of well-cooked haricot beans. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Add the tomato and gravy and simmer until the onion is quite tender. Then put in the beans and meat and season to taste. Heat slowly, and when the beans and meat are well saturated with the sauce, serve very hot, decorating the dish with a little finely shred horse-radish. Note.—Any other kind of meat may be used instead of beef. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1027. Cold Meat with Stewed Lettuce £ pt. white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. Croutons fried bread. 2 or 3 lettuces. 1 or 2 oz. butter. £ lb. cold meat. Seasoning. Wash and trim the lettuces, scald them in boil- ing water for 2 or 3 minutes, and drain them well. Then shred or chop them, put then into a stewpanCOLD MEAT REDRESSED 253 with 1 or 2 oz. butter and allow them to cook until the moisture is evaporated. Now add the white sauce and cook again until the lettuce is quite tender. Add the meat chopped or cut in fine shreds, the cream and seasoning. Let all heat slowly, but do not boil again. Serve garnished with croutons of fried bread. Note.—Endive may be used instead of lettuce. This dish may be cooked and served in an earthen- ware casserole. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1028. Cold Meat with Spanish Onions 4 Spanish onions (medium). | lb. cold meat. | pt. brown or white sauce. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 2 table - sp. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Prepare the onions and slice them thinly so that they fall in rings. Put them into a saucepan of fast boiling water with a little salt. Boil them rapidly from 15 to 20 minutes and drain. Then put them into a saucepan with the | pint of sauce and let them simmer until tender. Add the meat cut in fine shreds or chopped, the grated cheese and seasoning. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Pour the mixture into a fireproof dish, sprinkle the bread-crumbs over, put a few small pieces of butter on the top and brown in the oven. 1029. Pilau of Cold Beef 1 lb. cold roast beef. 2 table • sps. chopped onions. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. Pepper. 2 table-sps. whole rice. 3 tomatoes. Stock or meat boilings. Trim the meat, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat, then cut it in small fine shreds. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it for 5 minutes with- out allowing it to brown. Then add the prepared meat, pepper and salt, and cook again for a few minutes, stirring now and again. Meanwhile, wash the rice and put it into another small saucepan with cold water to cover it, and bring to the boil. Allow the rice to boil for 5 minutes, then strain it and rinse with fresh cold water. Add this rice to the meat, &c., in the other saucepan along with two of the tomatoes wiped and cut in small pieces. Pour in enough hot stock or meat boilings to cover all the ingredients, put on the lid and simmer slowly about 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Then arrange the pilau neatly on a hot dish and garnish with remaining tomato, cut in 6 or 8 pieces and cooked a few minutes in the oven. Time to cook, about 1J hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1030. Cold Meat in Sauce This is a very simple way of warming up meat, especially meat that is rather underdone. Cut some tender meat in slices and trim them neatly. Then take some good sauce, such as brown, piquante, mushroom, tomato, soubise, Robert, &e., according to taste and the kind of meat used. Put into a saucepan sufficient sauce to cover the meat to be re-heated, lay in the slices and let them soak or marinade in it for | hour. Then warm gently au bain-marie (see p. 248). When thoroughly hot, serve neatly and garnish with croutons of fried bread, baked tomatoes, grilled mushrooms, rolls of bacon, green peas, or any other suitable garnish. 1031. Meat Scallops (Coquilles de Viande au Gratln) | lb. cooked meat. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 table-sp. sherry. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. 1 table - sp. grated cheese. Seasoning. A little butter. Trim the meat carefully and cut it in tiny dice. Put it into a saucepan with the above proportion of brown sauce, season rather highly, add the sherry, and heat slowly over the fire. Grease six or seven china or scallop shells and sprinkle them with some of the bread-crumbs and cheese mixed. Fill them with the meat mixture, piling it rather higher in the centre than at the sides. Cover with more bread-crumbs and cheese and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Place the scallops in a hot oven until they are nicely browned, and serve them garnished with parsley and a small slice of lemon. Note.—A little cooked and chopped macaroni may be mixed with the meat, and the wine may be omitted. 1032. Cold Meat Shape £ lb. cooked meat. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 hard-boiled egg. \ pt. light stock. \ oz. sheet gelatine. Seasoning. The meat used for this must be very tender, as it will have no further cooking. A mixture of meats, such as veal and ham, mutton and tongue, &c., is best. Trim away all skin, gristle, and super- fluous fat, and cut the meat in small neat pieces. Chop the parsley very finely, and cut the hard- boiled egg in slices. Then rinse out a mould with cold water and decorate the bottom with some of the egg and parsley. Place in very lightly a ‘little of the meat with seasoning, more egg and parsley, and so on until all is in. Do not press the ingredients down. Dissolve the gelatine in the stock, and strain it over the meat. Set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. When wanted, turn out and garnish with parsley or salad. 1033. Cold Meat Souffle 1 breakfast - cupful cooked meat. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill stock. 1 gill tomato puree. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 2 or 3 eggs. Use a mixture of ham or tongue with fresh meat if possible. Trim the meat and chop it very finely, or put it through the mincing machine. Make the tomato puree by rubbing some fresh or tinned tomatoes through a fine sieve. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour and cook it a minute or two. Add the stock and tomato pur6e and stir until boiling. Sprinkle in the meat, season to taste and according to the kind of meat used, and cook all together a few minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add theCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 254 yolks of eggs, one at a time, beating them well in. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish or pie dish, leaving room for it to rise and bake in a good oven until well- risen and firm to the touch. Time to cook, 20 or 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1034. Meat Surprises J lb. cooked meat. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 gill stock. Seasoning. 1 yolk of egg. Chopped parsley- 4 or 5 fresh eggs. Put the bread-crumbs into a small saucepan with the stock and simmer them over the fire a few minutes until they swell and absorb the stock. Then add the meat, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix well together and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Grease very care- fully four or five dariole moulds or tea-cups and sprinkle a little chopped parsley at the bottom of each. Now line them with the meat mixture, leaving a hollow in the centre. Into each of these hollows drop a new-laid egg, keeping back a little of the white, if the egg seems too large. Place the moulds in a deepish tin, cover them with greased paper, and pour some boiling water round. Cook in the oven until the eggs are set, then turn out carefully and pour a little brown sauce or good gravy round. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1035. Dresden Patties 6 bread cases. j Bread-crumbs. Milk or beaten egg. I Cold meat mince. To Make the Bread Gases.—Cut some rather stale bread into slices about 3 inches thick. Stamp this out into rounds 2 or 2\ inches in diameter, then, with a smaller cutter, mark the centre about three parts of the way through. Keep a little lid for the top, and scoop out the soft centre. Brush over these cases and the lids with a little milk or beaten egg, and then bread-crumb them with bread- crumbs made out of the scraps. Fry them in Dresden Patties boiling fat until a nice brown colour, and then drain them well, placing the hollow side downwards, that the fat may run out. To Finish and Serve.—Prepare the same meat mixture as for cold meat mince (Recipe 1011) and make it thoroughly hot. Fill the bread cases with this mixture, piling it rather high, and put a little round of fried bread on the top to make it look like a lid. Or, decorate with chopped hard- boiled egg and parsley. Serve very hot. Kromeskies Kromeskies are made of a rich mince of chicken, game, fish, &c., formed into small cork-shaped rolls, wrapped in thin bacon, pig’s caul, or a thin pancake, then dipped in batter and fried in boiling fat. Sauce may be served separately if desired. Below is given an example of how they are made, but any of the mixtures used for cutlets of cold meat, or croquettes of cold meat, may be used. It is a tasty method of utilising remains of nicely cooked meat, &c., and a favourite entree is the result. 1036. Kromeskies of Cold Meat 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill stock. 4 to 6 oz. cooked meat. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutrqeg. Some fat bacon. Frying batter. Any nicely cooked meat may be used, but it is better to have a mixture of salt and fresh meat, such as veal and ham, beef and tongue, chicken and ham, &c. Mince the meat finely and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stock, and stir over the fire until the mix- ture forms a smooth paste, and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Now add the meat and season to taste. The seasoning will depend some- what upon the kind of meat used. A few chopped mushrooms or oysters may be added. Mix well and turn on to a plate to cool. Then form the mixture into small cork-shaped pieces, using a little dry flour to help with the shaping. Now wrap each piece in a very thin slice of fat bacon, then dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861) and fry them in boiling fat until a golden brown colour and dry and crisp. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley. Note.—Great care must be taken to cut the bacon very thin or it will not be sufficiently cooked. 1037. Meat and Potato Cones £ lb. cooked meat. | lb. cooked potato. 2 table - sps. melted butter or dripping. A pinch of nutmeg. Grated lemon rind. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. A little sauce or gravy. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Trim the meat and put it once or twice through the mincing machine, or chop it very finely. Sieve the potato and put it into a basin with the meat Meat and Potato Cones and parsley. Add the melted butter or dripping, and season with salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, and a little grated lemon rind. Bind all together with sauce or gravy, or some beaten egg. Form the mixture into cone shapes, using a little flour,COLD MEAT REDRESSED 255 Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry until brown in boiling fat. Sufficient for 8 or 10 cakes. 1038. Meat and Rice Cakes Make in the same way as last recipe, using well- cooked rice instead of the sieved potato, and shaping the mixture into round flat cakes. The remains of curry are very good for these cakes, but care must be taken that neither the rice nor the meat is too soft. 1039. Meat Cakes with Poached Eggs Seasoning. A little milk or gravy. Poached eggs. £ lb. corned or spiced beef. J lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. good dripping. Remove any gristle or discoloured pieces from the meat and chop it finely. Mash the potatoes or put them through a sieve. Then melt the drip- ping in a saucepan and mix in first the potatoes and then the meat. Season to taste with pepper and salt if necessary, and if very dry add some milk or gravy. Form this mixture into round flat cakes, using a little flour to shape them. Lay them on a greased baking tin, score them across with the back of a knife, and brush over with a little milk. Bake the cakes in a good oven until nicely browned, then serve them very hot with a neatly poached egg on the top of each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 cakes. 1040. Meat and Macaroni Pie 1 lb. cooked meat. | lb. macaroni. 1 cupful good sauce. 2 or 3 tomatoes. Seasoning. 2 table - sps. bread crumbs. A little butter. Boil the macaroni in salted water, or in light stock, until quite tender, then drain and cut it in small pieces. Mince the meat finely and moisten it with a large cupful of good brown or any other suitable sauce. Peel the tomatoes (see Recipe 583) and cut them in thin slices. Then grease a pie- dish large enough to hold the different ingredients and put them in in layers, seasoning wdth pepper and salt. Cover the top with a good layer of bread-crumbs and lay on small pieces of butter, here and there. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well cooked. Serve hot garnished with a little parsley. Time to bake, \ to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1041. Meat and Macaroni Timbale 2 eggs. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill milk or stock. Tomato or brown sauce. I lb. macaroni (large 1 lb. cooked meat. 2 oz. bread-crumbs, ltea-sp. chopped parsley Break the macaroni into short lengths, anc throw it into a saucepan with plenty of hot watei and a little salt. Boil gently from 15 to 20 minutes but do not make the macaroni too soft. Drair the water from it, and cut it in short pieces aboui i inch long. Grease a plain mould or basin (pini size), and commence at the bottom, putting ir pieces of macaroni to stand on end and quite clos< to each other. A skewer is most convenient for lifting the pieces and putting them in the mould. Continue until the mould is lined throughout wdth macaroni. Then prepare the mixture for filling. Mince the meat finely and put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs and seasoning. Add the stock or milk and the eggs well beaten. Mix together and Meat and Macaroni Timbale fill in the prepared mould. Cover with greased paper and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Then turn out and pour tomato or brown sauce round. Note.—A quicker way of lining the mould is to use the small pipe macaroni or spaghetti and to cook it without breaking it. Wind this round and round the greased mould, keeping it in place Small Macaroni and Meat Timbales as you go along with some of the meat mixture. Small moulds may be used instead of one large one. A little ham or tongue should always be mixed with other meat, if possible. A few chopped mushrooms may be added. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1042. Meat and Rice Mould | lb. cooked meat. 2 ta.ble-sps. chopped onion 3 oz. rice. 1 oz. butter or dripping. £ pt. stock. First wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, and bring to the boil. Strain and rinse the rice with fresh cold water. This is to prevent the rice tasting so very gluey, as it would otherwise do. Return the rice to the saucepan with the butter or dripping, chopped onion and stock, and simmer slowly until soft. More stock may be added if necessary, but when finished the rice mixture must not be too liquid. Add to it the meat finely chopped. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and, lastly, stir in the eggs well beaten. Grease a plain mould or basin, just large enough to hold the mixture; sprinkle the chopped parsley inside, or, if preferred, line the inside with browned bread-crumbs and then fill up. Steam the mould in the oven or over the 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 or 2 eggs.256 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD fire until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with some good gravy or tomato sauce poured round. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1043. Mince with Scrambled Egg l lb. cooked meat. 1 tea-cupful stock or gravy. 1 table - sp. tomato ketchup. 1 table - sp. bread - crumbs. 1 dessert - sp. chopped pickles. Seasoning. 2 or 3 scrambled eggs. Fried croutons of bread. Any nicely cooked meat may be used, or a mixture of two different kinds of meat together. Trim the meat carefully and put it through the mincing machine. Then put it into a saucepan with the stock or gravy and the bread-crumbs, and make all thoroughly hot. Season to taste with pepper, salt, chopped pickles, and tomato ketchup, or any other savoury sauce. Keep this warm without boiling, whilst preparing the eggs. Scramble the eggs as directed in Recipe 1325, adding to them the necessary ingredients. Serve the mince in a hot dish, pile the eggs in the centre, and garnish with a few pretty croutons of fried bread. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1044. Potted Meat 6 oz. cooked meat. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Almost any kind of meat can be potted, and two different kinds of meat used together are always tastier than one, as, for instance, veal and ham, chicken and tongue, game and ham, fresh beef and spiced beef, mutton and tongue, &c. A little ham or other salted meat should, when possible, be used along with fresh meat in the proportion of one part salted to three parts fresh. Trim the meat first, removing from it all skin, gristle, and sinew, then mince it finely, or put it twice through the mincing machine. Put the minced meat into a mortar and season it rather highly, according to the kind of meat used, and also to suit individual taste. A great deal depends upon judicious seasoning, and one flavour must not predominate over another. Melt the butter and add it gradu- ally, keeping back enough to pour over the top of the potted meat when it is finished. Pound well in the mortar, and then rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Pack it into one or two small pots and run the remainder of the butter over the top. This makes a nice breakfast relish, and is also useful for making sandwiches. Note.—If some good ham or beef fat is minced along with the meat the proportion of butter may be reduced, but, unless there is a sufficiency of fat of some kind, the potted meat will not be a success. 1045. Rissoles l lb. cold cooked meat. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill of stock. 1 tea - sp. chopped onion. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Remove all skin and gristle from the meat, chop jt finely, or put it through the mincing machine, and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion, and cook for a few minutes over the fire. Then add the flour and stir until slightly browned. Pour in the stock and continue stirring until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Add the meat and seasonings and mix well together. Turn the mixture on to a plate, smooth it over with a knife, and set aside to cool. When cold, it will be firm and easy to shape. Portion it out into about twelve equal-sized pieces. Take the pieces one at a time and shape them on a board with the aid of a little flour. They may be made into any shape that fancy Rissoles dictates, such as cutlet shapes, balls, small rolls, round cakes, or cone shapes. The dish will look neater if only one or two shapes are used. Use as little flour as possible in the shaping, just sufficient to keep the mixture from sticking to the board. Then egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat until they are a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve hot with a dish paper or d’oyley under them. Note.—Any kind of meat may be used for making rissoles, or a mixture of meats if convenient. A little ham or tongue used along with fresh meat is always an improvement. Sufficient for 12 rissoles. 1046. Savoury Meat Rolls | doz. small dinner rolls. I 6 rolls of bacon. Cold meat mince. Choose the small, high-shaped dinner rolls. Take a thin slice off the top of each and scoop out as much of the inside as possible. Then fry them in boiling fat a minute or two and turn them upside down on paper to drain. Prepare some nice savoury mince as directed in Recipe 1011, well-seasoned and moistened with good sauce. Make this very hot and fill up the roll cases with it. Put a little roll of bacon on the top of each and heat in the oven a minute or two. Serve with a dish paper under them. Note.—A grilled mushroom may take the place of the roll of bacon. 1047. South African Bobo tee | lb. cooked meat. 1 slice bread. 1 gill milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 6 sweet almonds. 1 table - sp. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Any kind of cooked meat may be used. Remove from it all skin and gristle, and chop it finely or put it through a mincing machine. Take a medium- sized slice of bread without crust, and soak it in257 COLD MEAT REDRESSED about 1 gill of hot milk. When quite soft, beat it up with a fork until free from lumps. Mix in the curry powder, and then the meat, the almonds chopped or shred, and the egg well beaten. Season with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if liked, a tea-spoonful of sugar. Stir all together for a few minutes and then pour into a greased fireproof dish. Sprinkle the top with bread- crumbs, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. 1048. Bubble and Squeak A little butter or drip- ping. A few drops of vinegar. Cooked beef. Cooked cabbage or greens. Seasoning. Remains of either roast or boiled beef may be used for this dish, and it may be either fresh or salted. If fresh it is better rather underdone. Cut the beef into thin neat slices, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Then take some cooked cabbage, Brussels sprouts, or other cooked greens, chop them on a board, removing any hard pieces of stalk, and season well with pepper, salt, and a good pinch of nutmeg. When both these are ready, melt a little dripping in a frying-pan and fry the slices of meat lightly on both sides. Be careful not to make them too dry, and keep turning them constantly. Then keep them warm and fry the greens in the same fat. Make them thoroughly hot, and sprinkle them with a few drops of vinegar, unless this is objected to. To serve, arrange the greens neatly on a hot dish and place the slices of meat round, or on the top. Note.—A few cooked and chopped potatoes may be mixed with the greens if liked. 1049. Salt Beef Pudding 6 oz. cooked salt beef. 2 oz. macaroni. 2 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Browned bread-crumbs. Trim and mince the beef finely, then weigh it. Cook and drain the macaroni, cut it in small pieces, and mix it with the meat. Add the butter, melted, the grated cheese (Parmesan is best), and yolks of eggs, mix well, and season to taste with pepper, a little made mustard, and salt if necessary. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a plain mould that has been well greased and coated with browned bread-crumbs. Cover with greased paper and steam until firm to the touch. Then turn out carefully on to a hot dish and serve with mush- room, or any other suitable sauce, poured round. Note.—Tongue or ham may be used instead of the salt beef. Time to steam, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1050. Fricassee of Calf’s Feet (Pieds de Veau en Fricassee) 1 set of cooked calf’s parsley. feet. 3 gills white sauce. 1 dessert - sp. chopped 2 or 3 oz. ham or tongue. Seasoning. Croutons of fried bread. Take the cooked feet after they have been used for making jelly or white stock and remove all the gelatinous flesh from the bones. Cut this in small neat pieces, and cut up also 2 or 3 oz. of cooked ham or tongue. Then prepare some good white sauce made with seasoned milk (see p. 183) or with white stock and milk. Put the meat into it and let it warm through slowly by the side of the fire. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and add the parsley very finely chopped. A few chopped capers or a little green pickle may also be added, if liked. When ready, serve the fricassee neatly on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—This may be cooked and served in a fire- proof casserole. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1051. Cassolettes of Chicken (Cassolettes de Volaille) Same mixture as for I patties. chicken and ham | Butter cases. Prepare seven or eight butter cases as directed on p. 493, and also some nicely-seasoned chicken patty mixture (Recipe 1507). Fill the cases with the mixture, put on the little lids, and garnish with sprigs of parsley or chervil. Serve them in a hot entree dish with a dish-paper under them. 1052. Chicken and Ham Croquettes (Croquettes de Volaille) 3 oz. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham. 1 or 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. Pepper. Salt. Scraps of pastry. 1 egg. Bread - crumbs or crushed vermicelli. To Prepare the Mixture.—Remove all skin and gristle from the chicken, then weigh it and chop it finely with the ham. Add to the minced meat 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, enough to bind the mixture together without making it too moist. Season nicely with white pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and the chopped parsley. A few button mushrooms finely chopped and a little chopped truffle may also be added if desired, some grated cheese or any flavouring that will make a nice tasty mixture. Mix all thoroughly. To Finish the Croquettes.—Proceed as for cold meat croquettes (Recipe 1018). Note.—Cooked game, rabbit, or sweetbread may all be used in the same way. Sufficient for 8 to 10 croquettes. 1053. Chicken and Ham Cutlets 6 oz. cooked chicken. 1 gill light stock. 2 oz. cooked ham or 2 yolks of eggs. tongue. Grated lemon rind. 1 table - sp. chopped A squeeze of lemon mushrooms. juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped A pinch of mace. parsley. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. A little flour. 1 oz. flour. Egg and bread-crumbs To Make the Mixture.—Chop the chicken and ham finely, removing all skin and pieces of sinew. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the stock, and stir constantly until the RCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 258 mixture thickens and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the meat, parsley, mushrooms, and seasonings, and mix well. Then drop in the yolks of eggs and mix again. Turn the mixture on to a plate, smooth it over with a knife, and set aside to cool. To Shape the Cutlets.—When the mixture is cold and set, divide it into seven or eight equal-sized pieces. Take one piece at a time, put it on a slightly floured board, and form it with a knife, also dipped in flour, into a cutlet shape. Use as little flour as possible in the shaping, just sufficient to keep it from sticking to board and knife. Next egg and bread-crumb the cutlets and re-shape them with a dry knife, making them as smooth and neat as possible. If time permits allow them to stand a short time in order to dry before cooking. Then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain well, insert a small piece of spaghetti or fine macaroni in the end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet, and dish them in a circle, one leaning against the other. Garnish with parsley. 1054. Cold Chicken Fritters Cooked chicken. I Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. | Rolls of bacon. Cut the remains of cooked chicken into neat and convenient-sized pieces. Brush them over with beaten egg that has been seasoned with pepper and salt, and then toss them in fine bread-crumbs. Now fry the prepared pieces in plenty of boiling fat until a golden brown colour, and drain on kitchen paper. Serve the fritters piled up on a hot dish, and garnish with little rolls of bacon. Note.—The chicken may be made more tasty, by marinading it first in a mixture of oil and vinegar, &c. 1055. Ham Mince with Poached Eggs l lb. cooked ham. 1 cupful white sauce. J tea-sp. made mus- tard. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. tomato ketchup. Hot buttered toast. 4 or 5 poached eggs. Trim and mince the ham finely and heat it in the white sauce. Season with the mustard, pepper, and tomato ketchup, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Have ready 4 or 5 rounds of hot buttered toast, put some of the mince on the top of each, and keep them warm. Poach the eggs and lay them on the top of the mince. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Cooked tongue or a mixture of meats may be used in the same way. 1056. Ham and Potato Hash J lb. cooked ham. | lb. cooked potatoes. | oz. butter. \ oz. flour. 1 gill milk or stock. \ tea-sp. made mustard. Pepper. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Mince the ham finely, removing all skin and gristle, and using a small proportion of fat along with the lean. Chop also the potatoes, and mix them with the ham. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and cook the onion in it for 5 minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the flour and mustard, and cook a minute or two longer. Then add the milk or stock, and stir until boiling. Now put in the ham and potatoes, season with pepper, and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Arrange the hash neatly on a hot dish and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1057. Lamb Reehaufite £ lb. cold roast lamb. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 tea-cupful white stock. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 table-sp. sherry. Salt. Cayenne. Green peas. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the stock, pour them into a lined saucepan or earthenware casserole and stir until boiling. Add the cream, jelly, wine, and seasoning, and simmer for a few minutes. Have the lamb cut in thin slices and neatly trimmed. Lay the pieces into the sauce and allow them to heat thoroughly. Serve garnished with some cooked green peas. 1058. Ox Tongue in Brown Sauce Cooked ox-tongue. I Hard-boiled egg. Brown sauce. | Pickles or capers. Cut some cooked ox tongue in slices, trimming the pieces neatly. Prepare some good brown sauce (Recipe 670), and when strained re-heat it in a small saucepan. Lay the slices of tongue into this and allow them to become thorouglily hot without boiling. Then arrange them neatly on a hot dish, one piece overlapping the other, and strain the sauce over. Garnish with slices of hard- boiled egg and some green pickle cut in slices, or a few capers. Notes.—Spinach is a good accompaniment to this dish, and if liked this may be moulded, then turned out on the centre of a dish and the tongue placed round it. Other sauces, such as piquante, tomato, bearnaise, Italian, &c., may be used instead of brown sauce. 1059. Fried Tongue with Caper Sauce Cooked tongue. I Egg and bread-crumbs. Lemon juice. Seasoning. | Caper sauce. Cut some cooked tongue in neat slices. Season them with pepper, salt (if necessary), and a little lemon juice, and let them lie for \ an hour or so. Then egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Dish up neatly, gar- nishing with cut lemon and parsley. Serve caper or any other suitable sauce separately. 1060. Cold Rabbit and Spaghetti 6 oz. cooked rabbit. 2 or 3 oz. cooked ham. | pt. white sauce. Grated lemon rind. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. I lb. spaghetti. A few bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Chop the rabbit and ham finely, removing all skin and gristle. Cook the spaghetti in boiling water with a little salt until quite soft, then drain, and cut it in small pieces. Make a sauce with 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, and £ pint of milk or white stock, and season with white pepper and salt.COLD MEAT REDRESSED 25§ Mix the minced meat in a basin with the sauce, adding the nutmeg, parsley, a little grated lemon rind, and, if necessary, more seasoning. Then grease a pie-dish or fireproof dish, and put into it alternate layers of the meat mixture and spaghetti. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, put the butter on in small pieces, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Other kinds of white meat may be used in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1061. Sausages with Carrots 4 or 5 cooked sausages. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 cupful brown sauce or gravy. Lemon juice. 2 or 3 cooked carrots. A little butter. Seasoning. Remove the skins from some cold cooked sausages, and cut them in three or four pieces ac- cording to size. Egg and bread-crumb these pieces, and fry them a nice brown colour in boiling fat. Now take 2 or 3 cooked carrots and mince them rather finely, but do not mash them. Re-heat them in a saucepan with a little butter, or 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls cream, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Arrange this carrot mixture in the centre of a hot dish, with the pieces of sausage leaning against it in a circle, pour the gravy or some thin brown sauce round, and make all thoroughly hot in the oven. Note.—Pickled pork cut in small pieces or cooked tongue may be used instead of sausage. 1062. Veal Cake (Gateau de Veau) £ lb. cooked veal. 4 to 6 oz. sausage meat. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 Egg. 1 gill stock or gravy. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. Brown or tomato sauce. Prepare and mince the veal finely and remove the skins from the sausage meat. Put both into a basin with the bread-crumbs and seasoning and mix well. Moisten with a beaten egg and stock or gravy and mix again. Grease carefully a plain mould or strong basin and coat the inside with the browned bread-crumbs, fill up with the mixture, and cover with greased paper. Then bake in a good oven until well cooked and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with brown or tomato sauce poured round. Fried potatoes would make a nice accompaniment to this dish. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1063. Creamed Veal £ lb. cooked veal. 1 oz. butter. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. flour. £ pt. white stock. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. £ lemon. 1 hard-boiled egg. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the flour and cook it a minute or two, then pour in the stock and stir until boil- ing. Season with white pepper and salt, put in the bunch of herbs, and let this sauce simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Then strain it into another saucepan, and add the veal finely minced. Heat thoroughly without letting it boil, and add the, cream and a squeeze of lemon juice at the last. Serve the mince in a hot dish, and garnish with small pieces of hard-boiled egg and cut lemon. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1064. Fricasse6 of Cooked Veal | lb. cold cooked veal. £ pt. veloute sauce. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Juice of £ lemon. 2 yolks of eggs. Rolls of bacon. Croutons of pastry or fried bread. Cut the remains of cooked veal into small neat pieces, free from skin and gristle. Warm the veloute sauce (see Recipe 673), and put the meat into it. Season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Let all warm for a short time without boiling, then just before serving stir in the yolks of eggs mixed with the strained lemon juice and the finely chopped parsley. Serve in a hot entree dish, and garnish with small rolls of bacon and a few pretty croutons. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1065. Scrambled Veal and Tomatoes £ lb. cooked veal. 2 eggs. ♦ 1 cupful tomato puree. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. 1 or 2 slices of toast. Remove all skin and gristle from the veal, then weigh it and chop it finely or put it through the mincing machine. Either fresh or tinned tomatoes may be used; rub them through a wire or hair sieve in order to get a puree. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan, add the puree, meat, eggs slightly beaten, pepper, and salt. Mix quickly over the fire until thoroughly hot and thick. Serve on neat pieces of toast or fried bread, and garnish with small sprigs of parsley. 1066. Creamed Veal with Spinach Seasoning. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. A little butter. £ lb. cooked veal. 1 large cupful cooked spinach. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cupful white sauce. Trim the veal and cut it in fine shreds, or, if very scrappy, put it through the mincing machine. Take the remains of some cooked spinach well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Have ready also a cupful of thick white sauce, and 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Now grease a pie- dish or fireproof dish, and put the different ingredi- ents into it in layers—first, some of the veal with a little of the spinach over, then a few slices of egg, and some sauce over that. Repeat these layers until all is in, making the last layer sauce. Sprinkle the top with browned bread-crumbs, place a few pieces of butter here and there, and place in a moderate oven until thoroughly hot, and nicely browned on the top. Note.—Other green vegetables may be used instead of the spinach, such as cabbage, Brussels sprouts, or cauliflower, finely chopped.SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES Fillet of Beef The fillet proper is the under cut of the sirloin of beef, and is the most tender and most esteemed part of the animal. When a large piece of fillet is served whole it is usually larded, and braised or roasted. It may then be served as the piece de releve at a dinner, or be cut in slices after cooking and served as an entree. Many different garnishes may be served with a fillet of beef, and the accompanying sauce varied according to taste. It is a more common practice, however, to serve fillet of beef in small trimmed pieces, when it forms a very favourite entree. These little fillets are known under different names, depending chiefly on their shape and thickness, such as medallions de bceuf, filets mignons, tournedos, &c., but directions for cooking one may be taken as applicable to all. They are generally grilled or sauted. A thick steak from the fillet furnishes what is known as the Chateaubriand. Fillets of beef may be served in ways innumerable, variety being supplied in the sauce and garnish, and the dish taking its name accordingly. 1067. Filet de Bceuf a la Dauphine 2 to 2\ lbs. fillet of beef. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. flour. 2 or 3 table-sps. butter or dripping. Madeira sauce. Potato croquettes. Wipe the meat and trim it carefully, removing all fat and tendonous parts. Lard the best side of it with lardoons of bacon about 2 inches in length, arranging them in close and even rows the whole length of the meat. Season with pepper and bind or skewer into a neat shape. Now roll the larded fillet in flour and roast it in a good oven, keeping it well basted with butter or dripping, and covered with paper until a short Fillet of Beef Larded time before serving. A coating of glaze at the last will also help to improve the colour. When the meat is ready, lift it on to a hot dish and undo the fastening. Pour away all fat from the roasting tin, pour into it the Madeira sauce and bring it to the boil, rubbing down any browning from the sides of the tin. Serve the meat either whole or cut in slices, strain the sauce round, and garnish with potato croquettes. Time to roast, about 1J hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1068. Filet de Bceuf a la Provencale 2 lbs. fillet of beef. Larding bacon. 1 oz. butter or fat. Flavouring vegetables. Stock. 1 tea-sp. potato flour. 2 glasses Marsala or Madeira. Baked tomatoes. Baked or broiled mush- rooms. Prepare and lard the fillet of beef as above, tie it into shape and then braise it. Melt a small piece of butter or good fat in a stewpan, lay in a few pieces of fat bacon—the trimmings from the larding bacon will serve the purpose—and then, on the top, some onion, carrot, and celery cut in thin slices, and a bunch of herbs. Moisten with about one gill of stock, and heat over the fire. Now place the prepared fillet on the top of the vegetables, season with pepper and salt, and leave with the lid off until the meat and vegetables begin to take colour, be:ng careful they do not burn. Then add the wine and enough stock to cover the vegetables, lay a piece of greased paper over the meat, put on the lid and cook by the side of the fire or in the oven until tender, basting occasionally. When ready, lift the meat on to a baking dish or tin, brush it over with liquid glaze and place it in the oven for a few minutes to crisp the lardoons. Strain the liquid, remove the grease, return it to the saucepan and thicken with the potato flour, adding a little more stock and seasoning if neces- sary. Serve the meat on a hot dish, either whole or cut in slices, strain the sauce round, and garnish with small baked tomatoes, and grilled or baked mushrooms. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1069. Filet de Bceuf a la Richelieu 1 table-sp. tomato puree A small bunch of herbs. Garnish. Braised lettuces. Stuffed tomatoes. Stuffed mushrooms. 2 lbs. fillet or beef. Larding bacon. 2 oz. beef dripping. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 2 glasses white wine. 1 gill brown sauce. Lard and prepare the meat as in last recipe, binding it into a neat and compact shape. Melt the dripping in a stewpan, and when hot put in the meat and brown it on all sides. Then add the wine and allow this to reduce to half the quantity. Add the brown sauce, which ought to be very thin, the tomato puree or sauce, and bunch of herbs. Cover with the saucepan lid and cook in a moderateSOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES • 261 oven, basting the meat occasionally with the liquid. Do not overcook the meat, it ought to be slightly red in the centre when cut. When ready, lift it on to a hot dish, remove the fastening, and either leave it whole, or cut the number of slices required. Garnish round with small pieces of braised lettuce, stuffed mushrooms and small stuffed tomatoes; a few sauted potatoes may be put at the two ends if wished. Strain the sauce, remove any grease, and pour it round the dish. Time to cook, 1J to 11 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. 1070. Fillets of Beef with Horse-Radish (Tournedos de Bceuf au Raifort) 1 lb. fillet of beef. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Garnish and Sauce. | oa. butter. 4 oz. flour. I gill white stock. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. 2 sticks horse-radish. A squeeze of lemon juice. 5 or 6 mushrooms. Sauce demi-glace. To Prepare the Meat.—Wipe the meat, remove from it all fibres and muscles, and cut it into neat round pieces f inch in thickness and from 2£ to 3 inches in diameter. Season them with pepper and salt and, a few minutes before serving, cook them quickly in butter. Prom 7 to 8 minutes will be sufficient time to allow, as they should be red in the centre when cut. To Prepare the Garnish.—Shred a little of the horse-radish very finely, and grate the remainder. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and stock. Add the grated horse-radish, and allow it to cook slowly for 10 minutes. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of eggs and lemon juice and any other seasoning required. Choose 5 or 6 mushrooms of equal size, allowing one for each fillet of beef; trim them and either grill or cook them in the oven. Pile a little of the horse-radish mixture in the centre of each, and place a little shredded horse-radish on the top. Prepare also some sauce demi-glace according to Recipe 719. (Both sauce and garnish should be thought of before cooking the meat.) To Serve.—Arrange the fillets in a neat circle on a dish ; they may be placed on a crouton if wished, stand a mushroom on the top of each, and pour sauce demi-glace round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1071. Tournedos de Bceuf a la Parisienne 1 lb. fillet of beef. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Garnish and Sauce. 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms Green peas.v 4 or 5 croutons of bread. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 gill bearnaise sauce. _ Prepare and cook the fillets as above. Use tinned or bottled artichoke bottoms, allowing one for each fillet. Drain and rinse them, and then heat them for a few minutes in butter, season- ing to taste. Fill them with some nicely cooked green peas or asparagus points, piling these dome- shaped in the centre. Have ready also a crouton of bread for each fillet and bearnaise sauce made according to Recipe 708. To Serve.—Place each tournedos or fillet on a crouton of bread, and arrange them alternately on a dish with the artichoke bottoms. Mask the meat with a little of the sauce, and sprinkle it lightly with chopped parsley. Pour the remainder of the sauce round. Note.—Potato noisettes (Recipe 562) may be served in the centre. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1072. Tournedos de Bceuf a la Portugaise 4 or 5 small fillets. 1 oz. butter. Garnish and Sauce. 4 or 5 stuffed toma toes. Croutons of bread. 1 glass white wine. 1 gill tomato sauce. Seasoning. Chopped parsley. Prepare and cook the fillets as in Recipe 1070. Prepare also a small stuffed tomato for each (Recipe 586), and a nicely fried crouton of bread. Place each fillet on a crouton of bread and arrange them neatly on a hot dish with a tomato on the top of each. Keep this warm over hot water whilst preparing the sauce. Add the wine to the saucepan in which the fillets were cooked, and let it reduce, rubbing down any juice from the meat into it. Then pour in the tomato sauce, which must not be very thick, cook for a few minutes, and strain round the dish. Sprinkle with a little parsley and serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1073. Filets de Bceuf a la Du Barry 4 or 5 fillets of beef. Seasoning. Oil or melted butter. A potato border. 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms Cooked cauliflower. Sauce Mornay. Grated Parmesan. Prepare the fillets as in Recipe 1070, making them about § inch in thickness and three inches in diameter. Dip these fillets in salad oil or melted butter, and season them with pepper and salt. Heat the gridiron or grill, place the steaks upon it, and grill them 4 or 5 minutes on each side. When sufficiently cooked, arrange them neatly on a border of potato (see Recipe 543), place the follow- ing garnish round, and serve all very hot. To Prepare the Garnish.—Use tinned or bottled artichoke bottoms, rinse and dry them and fill them with small sprigs of cooked cauliflower, piled high. Coat them with thick sauce Mornay, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and place in a quick oven until brown. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1074. Filets de Bceuf a la Maryland Grill 4 or 5 fillets of beef as in last recipe, and serve them on small round croutons of fried bread. Place a roll of grilled bacon on the top of each, and garnish with quarters of bananas which have been egged and bread-crumbed and fried. Serve green com a la creme (Recipe 503) separately. 1075. Filets de Bceuf au Vert-Pre Grill fillets of beef as in Recipe 1073. When sufficiently cooked, arrange them neatly on a hot dish with a small pat of maitre d’hotel or anchovy butter on the top of each. Garnish with fine potato straws and small bunches of seasoned watercress. Note.—Pommes de terre souffles may be used instead of potato straws.262 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1076. Beel Creams (Cremes de Boeuf) | lb. lean beef. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill brown stock. Seasoning. 1 egg. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 1 tea-sp.choppedparsley 1 dessert-sp. chopped mushrooms. Puree of potato or chestnut. Tomato sauce. Green peas. To Prepare the Cream.—Remove all skin and fat from the meat, and pass it through the mincing machine. Put the stock and butter into a small saucepan, bring them to the boil and sprinkle in the flour. Then mix until perfectly smooth, and cook thoroughly. Put this panada into a mortar with the meat, egg, and seasoning to taste. Pound well, and rub all through a wire sieve. Add the cream, parsley, and mushrooms. Mix lightly and fill up six or seven dariole moulds, which have been Beef Creams well greased. Place these in a shallow saucepan or tin, with a double fold of paper under them. Pour in enough boiling water to come half-way up the sides of the moulds, and cover with greased paper. Steam slowly until the creams feel firm to the touch. Lift them out and allow them to stand a minute or two. Then unmould them carefully, and arrange them in a hot entree dish. Decorate them with some potato or chestnut puree put through a forcing bag, and serve with green peas in the centre and tomato sauce round. Time to steam, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. 1077. Mutton Cutlets with Asparagus (Cotelettes de Mouton aux Pointes d’Asperges) 4 or 5 mutton cutlets. Potato puree. Asparagus points. Butter. Clear gravy. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Sherry or Madeira, To Cook the Cutlets.—Prepare and trim the cutlets as directed in Recipe 912. A few minutes before serving, dip them in salad oil or in melted butter. Have ready a hot gridiron or grill, grease it with suet or mutton fat, and lay on the cutlets. Cook them over a clear hot fire or under the grill light of a gas stove, turning them frequently. From 8 to 10 minutes should be sufficient to cook them, and when ready they should be a dainty browm colour outside, showing the darker brown marks of the grill, and red and juicy inside. Garnish and Sauce.—Have ready some white and creamy puree of potato, well seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt. Also some asparagus points, made hot in butter or a little light sauce, and seasoned to taste. And for sauce, some clear gravy to which a little lemon juice and a few drops of sherry have been added, To Serve.—Put the potato puree into a forcing pipe with a large rose pipe at the end of it. Force out a circle on a hot dish, arrange the cutlets with a paper frill on each on the top, fill the centre with asparagus points, and pour the gravy round. Note.—If well cooked, this is one of the most tasty ways of serving cutlets. The puree on which they are served and the garnishing vegetable may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1078. Cotelettes de 4 or 5 mutton cutlets. 1 oz. butter. Vegetables and stock for braising. Mouton aux Marrons Puree of chestnuts. Lemon. Glaze. Sauce demi-glace or Italienne. Trim the cutlets neatly (see Recipe 912) and then braise them thus : melt the butter in a stew- pan and put into it some carrot, turnip, and onion thinly sliced, also a small bunch of herbs and any trimmings of bacon. Lay the cutlets on the top of these, with the bones towards the centre, cover with greased paper, and cook about 10 minutes until the vegetables begin to brown. Then pour in enough good brown stock to nearly cover the Cdtelettes de Mouton aux Marrons vegetables, put the lid on the pan and cook slowly in the oven or at the side of the fire from | to § hour. When ready, lift out the cutlets and brush them over with a good coating of liquid glaze, put paper frills on the bones, and garnish with a very thin slice of lemon. Put some chestnut puree (Recipe 1628) into a forcing bag with a large pipe, and force it out down the centre of a dish, arrange the cutlets on the top of this, one leaning against the other, and pour some sauce demi-glace or Italienne round, or serve it separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1079. Cdtelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise Prepare and cook 5 or 6 mutton cutlets as directed in Recipe 912, mixing a little grated Parmesan with the bread-crumbs used. Prepare also some macaroni £ila Milanaise (Recipe 1618), pile it up in the centre of a hot dish and arrange the cutlets neatly against it, putting a cutlet frill on the bone of each. Then pour some tomato or Madeira sauce round, or serve it separately. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1080. Cdtelettes d’Agneau a la Soubise 4 or 5 lamb cutlets. Puree Soubise. 2 or 3 onions. 1 table-sp. rice. 4 table-sps. stock. Seasoning. A little butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Sauce Madere. A few mushrooms. To Make the Puree.—Cut the onions in small pieces, put them into a saucepan with boiling water,SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 263 and simmer until half cooked. Then allow the water to boil away and add the rice and stock. Season with pepper and salt, cover, and cook in the oven about f hour, until both rice and onions are soft. Then sieve and allow the puree to cool. To Prepare the Cutlets.—Have them neatly trimmed, and cook them for a minute in butter on the one side only, and leave them to cool. Then coat the cooked side with the onion puree, and egg and bread-crumb the cutlets on both sides. Place them on a tin, sprinkle with a little butter, and cook 5 or 6 minutes in the oven until they are nicely browned. To Serve.—Arrange the cutlets neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce, to which a few mushrooms have been added, round. Note.—Small fillets of veal (escalopes de veau) may be prepared and cooked in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. a weight on the top until cold. Now trim the cutlets neatly, making them as much one size and shape as possible. Coat one side with potted foie gras, or any other farce preferred, being careful to keep them all lying one way, so that they will dish up neatly. Smooth over the layer of potted meat with a wetted knife, and place the cutlets on a v, ire draining stand. Have ready some thick mayonnaise sauce to which has been added either a little liquid aspic, or one or two sheets of dissolved gelatine. When this is beginning to set, coat the cutlets with it, covering them well. Decorate each with tiny rounds of red radish (to look like little berries) and one or two leaves of chervil. Then, if the cutlets are wished very glossy, run a little liquid aspic over the top of them. Place them on ice or in a very cold larder until wanted, then dish them up neatly on some pretty green salad. 1081. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Russe, Cold Mutton cutlets. Potted meat. Glaze. Mayonnaise sauce. Macedoine of vege- tables. Aspic jelly. Have the required number of cutlets cut from the best end of the neck of mutton, trim them only slightly, then either braise them or saut6 them in butter until sufficiently cooked. Press them until cold, and finish the trimming. Now coat them on one side with some nicely flavoured potted meat, smoothing it over with a wetted knife. Lay the cutlets on a draining tray and brush them over with liquid glaze, giving them Mutton Cutlets & la Xusse two or three coatings until sufficiently covered. Decorate them with a ring of white of egg, with a small round of truffle or red radish in the centre, or any other garnish preferred. When set, put a paper frill on the bone of each. Mix some mace- doine of vegetables with mayonnaise sauce, and arrange it neatly on a dish; place the cutlets on the top and garnish with chopped aspic jelly or a little green salad if preferred. 1082. Lamb Cutlets a la Mayonnaise (Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Mayonnaise) Lamb cutlets. Potted foie gras. Mayonnaise sauce. Aspic jelly. Radishes. Chervil. Green salad. Take the required number of lamb cutlets, braise them, or saute them in butter until sufficiently cooked, then press them between two plates with Epigrams of Mutton These are small round, oval, or cutlet-shaped pieces cut from the breast of mutton or lamb, that has been braised, boned, and pressed until cold. They are usually egged and bread-crumbed, or glazed and served with a good sauce and suitable garnish. They are sometimes dished up alternately with small trimmed cutlets. 1083. fipigrammes de Moutons aux Champignons 1-| lbs. breast otjnutton. Vegetables and stock for braising. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mushroom sauce. Potato puree. First prepare a bed of vegetables at the bottom of a stewpan (see Braising, p. 210). Pour in enough good stock to cover these vegetables, and warm all over the fire. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, lay it on the top of the vegetables, cover with greased paper, and put the lid on the pan. Let the meat cook for an hour or longer, until it is quite tender, basting it occasionally with the stock. When ready, lift it out, remove the bones, and press between two plates with a weight on the top until cold. Then cut the meat into neat round or oval pieces, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry them in boiling fat until they are nicely browned, and drain well. Arrange the epigrams neatly on a border of potato puree put through a forcing bag, and pour some good mushroom sauce round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1084. fipigrammes de Mouton a la SoubDe 1J to 2 lbs. breast of mutton. Glaze. Soubise puree Green peas or French beans. Brown gravy. Cook and press the mutton as directed in last recipe. When cold, cut it in heart-shaped pieces with a cutter, then cut these pieces in two so that they resemble a cutlet in shape, and insert a small piece of bone into the narrow end of each. Reduce the stock in which the mutton was cooked until it forms a glaze. Place the pieces of meat on a tin or dish, and heat them in the oven, brushing them over once or twice with the glaze. Serve them on a bed of thick soubise puree or sauce (Recipe 1080), putting a small paper frill on each bone. A few French beans or green peas may beCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 264 used as a garnish, and some good brown gravy should be served separately. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1085. ISpigrammes de Mouton a la Villeroi 14 lbs. breast of mutton. Allemande sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Spinach. Half-glaze sauce. 1 or 2 tomatoes. Cook and press the meat as directed in Recipe 1083. When cold, cut it in small round or oval- shaped pieces. Coat them on one side with some very thick villeroi sauce (Recipe 746), and put them in a cool place until set. Then egg and bread- crumb the epigrams, and fry them in a mixture of butter and lard until a delicate brown colour. Serve them on a border of nicely-cooked spinach alternately with small sections of cooked tomato, and serve half-glaze sauce (Recipe 719) round. Note.—A few small cutlets may be cooked and served along with the epigrams if wished. Lamb may be prepared in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Noisettes, Fillets or Scallops of Mutton These are neatly trimmed round or oval-shaped pieces, cut from the fleshy part of the loin or fillet of mutton. They may be cooked in the same way as cutlets, but are not generally egged and bread- crumbed. Like cutlets and fillets of beef, they can be served with a large variety of sauces and garnishes. 1086. Noisettes de Mouton aux Olives 4 doz. mutton cutlets. Salad oil or melted butter Seasoning. 6 round croutons. Carrot balls. Sauce aux olives. To Prepare the Noisettes.—Choose cutlets from the best end of the neck, bone them and trim them into little round fillets, folding round the long piece of fat and fastening it with a tiny skewer or match. Brush the fillets over with salad oil or melted butter. Season them with pepper and salt, and grill them in the usual way, allowing from 7 to 8 minutes. Sauce and Garnish.—Have ready some sauce aux olives (Recipe 733), and for garnishing some nicely- cooked carrot balls, or any other garnish which will make a pretty contrast in colour. To Serve.—Dish each little fillet of mutton on a round crouton of fried bread, pour the sauce over and round, and then garnish. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1087. Filets de Mouton & la Tyrolienne 1| lbs. best end neck of mutton. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped mushrooms. Salt. Pepper. 1 glass sherry or white wine. Egg and bread-crumbs. A potato border. Sauce Madere. Green peas. Garnish—Fresh mushrooms. To Prepare the Fillets.—This is a slightly different method from that described in last recipe. Buy the mutton in one piece and bone it. Cut it in slices about 4 inch thick, and trim these neatly to a round shape. Put the chopped parsley and onion on to a plate with the wine, pepper, salt, and a little chopped mushroom, made from the trimmings of the mushrooms used as a garnish. Lay the fillets of mutton in th s, and let them marinade for from \ to 1 hour, turning them occa- sionally. Then drain off the wine, which must be added to the sauce, dry the fillets of mutton and, a few minutes before serving, fry them in a small quantity of butter in a frying pan. (They may be egged and bread-crumbed be ore frying if wished.) They will require from 7 to 10 minutes. To Prepare the Garnish.—Prepare 6 or 8 mush- rooms, and trim them to an equal size. Place them on a greased tin, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, cover them with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 12 nrnutes. Have ready some nicely cooked green peas, and fill up the mushrooms with them. To Serve.—Arrange a potato border (see Recipe 543) on a hot entree dish, place the fillets of mutton, when they are cooked, along the top of this, pour Madeira sauce (Recipe 726) round and garnish with the mushrooms. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1088. Lamb’s Sweetbread in Cases (Rls d’Agneau en Caisses) 6 to 8 oz. cooked sweet- bread. 2 table-sps. chopped ham or tongue. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. chopped mushrooms. Seasoning. White chaudfroid sauce. Aspic jelly. 1 truffle. Salad. Break the sweetbread into small pieces and add to it the chopped ham, mushrooms, parsley, and a little grated lemon rind. Mix well together and season to taste with cayenne pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Moisten with one or two table- spoonfuls of white chaudfroid sauce (Recipe 713), and set the mixture in a cool place for half an hour or so. Then take some small paper cases (cutlet- shaped ones are best), and put a spoonful of the Lamb’s Sweetbread in Cases mixture into each, smooth over and put some more of the sauce in a lukewarm condition on the top. Cool again, decorate with truffle or other garnish to taste, and coat lightly with aspic jelly. When quite set, stick a little skewer cutlet frill into the narrow end of each and arrange the cases neatlySOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 265 on an entree dish with some pretty green salad in the centre. Note.—If the fancy shaped pieces of truffle are cut first, the trimmings may be chopped and added to the mixture. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1089. Moussaka a la Turque 4 aubergines or egg plants. J lb. cooked mutton. 1 onion. I oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little stock or gravy. 1 table-sp. tomato puree 2 or 3 eggs. Seasoning. Tomato sauce. First Prepare the Aubergines.—Trim off the stalks and the hard part from the ends, and split them in two lengthwise. Then, with a small pointed knife, ease the centre part away from the skin to the depth of about half an inch, and score the inside across several times. Now sprinkle the aubergines with salt and, if time permits, let them stand half an hour to allow the water to exude. Wipe them dry and fry them in boiling fat, until the insides are cooked. Then drain them, remove all the inside part and chop it finely, and reserve the skins. To Make the Mixture.—Take some well-cooked and nicely-flavoured mutton, trim it, pass it through a mincing machine, and then weigh it. Put it into a basin and add to it the onion finely minced and cooked for a few minutes in butter, the chopped parsley, the inside part of the auber- gines and seasoning to taste. Mix well and moisten with the eggs well beaten, the tomato puree or sauce, and a little stock or gravy. To Finish.—Take a plain mould and line it entirely with the skins from the aubergines, putting the dark side next the mould. No butter is re- quired, as the skins are already greasy. Fill up with the mixture and cover over with any super- fluous length of skin. Cover with greased paper, and cook in the oven with a little water round the mould until the mixture is thoroughly cooked about 35 minutes. When ready, turn out and serve with thin tomato sauce poured round. Serve plainly boiled rice separately. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1090. Cutlets of Veal with Spinach (Cdtes de Veau aux Epinards) 4 or 5 veal cutlets. A little butter. Seasoning. A crouton of bread. Cooked spinach. Sauce Madere or Borde- laise. Choose the cutlets from the best end of the neck, with a bone in each, and trim them in the same way as directed for Mutton Cutlets (see p. 229). Season them with pepper and salt, and dip them in salad oil or melted butter. Then broil or grill them until thoroughly cooked, and place a paper frill on the bone of each. Have ready some nicely cooked spinach, and pile it up on a round crouton of fried bread in the centre of a dish. Place the veal cutlets round, and serve Sauce Madere or Bordelaise separately. Notes.—The cutlets may be egged and bread- crumbed and fried, if preferred. A small quantity of finely chopped lemon rind and powdered herbs should be mixed with the bread-crumbs. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Cutlets of Veal with Spinach Escalopes and Grenadins of Veal These are small fleshy pieces of veal cut from the fillet or cushion. They may be made either round or oval in shape. An escalope is usually cut rather thin, then egged and bread-crumbed and grilled or sauted in butter. A grenadin is cut thicker than an escalope, and is generally larded and braised. Both may be served with a variety of sauces and garnishes. 1091. Escalopes de Veau aux Champignons 1 lb. fillet of veal. Egg and bread-climbs. Chopped ham. Lemon rind. Seasoning. Croutons of bread. Savoury butter. Ragout of mushrooms. Sauce demi-glacc. To Prepare the Veal.—Slice the veal and beat it out with a wet cutlet bat to § inch in thickness. Cut small round cutlets or escalopes from this, from to 3 inches in diameter. Season these with pepper and salt, brush them over with beaten egg and toss in fine bread-crumbs, with which a little finely chopped ham and grated lemon rind have been mixed. Re-shape the escalopes, making them as smooth and neat as possible. Fry them in butter until a golden brown colour on both sides, and thoroughly cooked. Drain on kitchen paper until free from grease. Sauce and Garnish.—Prepare as many fried croutons of bread as there are escalopes, and coat them with some anchovy, shrimp, or other savoury butter. Have ready also a ragout of mushrooms (Recipe 516) or some nicely-grilled mushrooms and some sauce demi-glace. To Serve.—Place the escalopes on the top of the croutons of bread, and decorate them with some of the same savoury butter put through a little paper cornet. Arrange these in a circle on a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre and pour the sauce round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1092. Escalopes de Veau a la Talleyrand 1 lb. fillet of veal. 6 or 8 button mush- rooms. 2 shallots. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill white sauce. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat round pieces, as much one size and shape as 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. A squeeze of lemon juice A potato border. Croutons of pastry or fried bread.‘266 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD possible. Melt the butter in a frying or saute pan, put in the meat, and cook it slowly from 10 to 15 minutes, but do not let it brown. Chop the mush- rooms and shallots, and-add them to the veal with the white sauce. Cook for a few minutes longer. Saute Pau and lastly add the yolks of eggs, parsley, and lemon juice, stirring all the time until the sauce is thick. Dish in a circle on a border of potatoes, pour the sauce over and round, and garnish with croutons of pastry or fried bread. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1093. Medaillons 1 lb. fillet of veal. White stock. 1 glass white wine. Some potted meat. de Veau & la Princesse Mayonnaise sauce. Small cress. Radishes and lettuce. Aspic jelly. Wipe the veal and cut it into neat round pieces about 21 inches in diameter and \ inch thick. Lay these pieces in a stewpan or saute pan, season them with pepper and salt, and pour in the wine and enough white stock to cover them. Cover with greased paper and then the saucepan lid, and stew the meat slowly until t is tender, from 15 to 20 minutes. Then lift out the meat and press the pieces between two dishes until cold. Take any nicely seasoned potted meat, and coat one side of Medaillons de Veau a la Princesse the fillets of veal with it, smoothing them over with a wetted knife. Then coat them with mayonnaise sauce to which a little liquid aspic has been added. Allow this to set, and decorate each piece with tiny rounds cut out of the red part of a radish to imitate berries and leaves of small cress or chervil. A little liquid aspic may be run over the fillets to set the decoration and give them a more glossy appear- ance. When the fillets are quite cold and set, arrange them on a bed of shred lettuce and garnish with a little chopped aspic and thin shoes of radish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1094. Grenadins de Veau a la Provengale 5 or 6 grenadins of veal. Larding bacon. Vegetables and stock for braising. A. little glaze. 5 or 6 rounds of cooked ham. A tittle butter. Puree of spinach. \ pt. sauce provengale. Cut the grenadins from the fillet of veal, making them 4 inch in thickness and 24 inches in diameter. Lard them with bacon, making the lardoons about 14 inches in length (see Larding, p. 205). Some- times the lardoons are passed right through from side to side. Then braise the grenadins from £ to 1 hour, or until they are tender. Lift them out of the stewpan when ready, brush them over with liquid Grenadin of Veal Larded glaze, and place in the oven a few minutes to make the lardoons crisp. Cut the same number of rounds of lean cooked ham, and warm them in a little hot butter. To Serve.—Arrange a puree of spinach on a hot dish, arrange the grenadins and slices of ham alternately along the top, and pour sauce proven9ale round. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1095. Larded Veal a la Nivernaise (Noix de Veau a la Nivernaise) 2 to 3 lbs. fillet of veal. Larding bacon. 14 oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 carrot. A little stock. A small bunch of herbs. Garnish. Glazed carrots. Green peas. Choose a nice piece of veal, trim it if necessary, and lard it with fine lardoons of bacon. Tie it together with string, making it as neat in shape as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan or earthen- ware casserole, put in the meat and brown it lightly on all sides, then add the carrot and onion cut in thin slices and brown them also. Pour in the stock, just enough to moisten the meat, season with pepper and salt, and add the bunch of herbs. Put a tight-fitting lid on the saucepan, and cook in a moderate oven until the meat is tender. Mean- while prepare a garnish of glazed carrots (see Recipe 453) and some cooked green peas. When the meat is ready, lift it on to a baking dish and strain the gravy over it. Then place it in the oven for a few minutes until it becomes brown, basting it with the gravy. To serve, place the meat on an oval dish, removing the string, cut it in slices, or leave it whole as desired, and arrange the garnish in alternate bunches round. Remove all fat from the gravy, and pour it round or serve it separately. If the meat is cut the gravy must on no account be poured over it. 1096. Veal Cream f lb. fillet of veal. 2 oz. raw ham. 1 gill double cream. 3 gills good white sauce. (Creme de Veau) 2 eggs. White pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Grated rind of 4 a lemon. Vegetable to garnish. Wipe the veal, cut it in small pieces and put it twice through the mincing machine with the ham. Put this minced meat into a mortar, add to it theSOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 267 eggs, seasoning, and 1 gill of good white sauce, either bechamel, veloute, or a nice creamy sauce would do. Pound all these ingredients together, and rub them through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, then whip the cream lightly and mix it in. Pour the mixture into a well-greased border mould, making it not more than three- quarters full. Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly until the cream feels firm to the touch. When ready, remove the cream from the steamer, and allow it to stand a few minutes. Then turn out carefully on to a hot entree dish, pour the remaining £ pint of white sauce over, and garnish the centre with green peas, asparagus points, or a macedoine of vegetables. Notes.—This cream may be made richer by omitting the eggs and the gill of sauce, and using a larger proportion of cream, but this will be found more difficult to steam and turn out. If preferred, it may be steamed in several small moulds instead of one large. Time to steam, about f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1097. Creme de Veau en Aspic Tomato jelly. 6 oz. cooked veal. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 gill bechamel sauce. 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. 1 gill thick cream. Salad. Mayonnaise sauce. Prepare some tomato jelly according to Recipe 1310 and line with it 6 or 7 cutlet, or other small entree moulds. To Make the Mixture.—Chop the veal and ham very finely or put them through the mincing machine, and pound them in a mortar with the bechamel sauce. Add to them the liquid aspic, and seasoning if necessary. Whip the cream and stir it lightly into the mixture, and when it is beginning to set, fill up the prepared moulds. Run a little more tomato jelly over the top and set aside until cold. To Serve.—Arrange a little fresh green salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce in the centre of a dish. Turn out the creams and place them round, and garnish with the heart of a lettuce in the centre. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1098. Mousselines de Veau a la St. Honors 6 oz. fillet of veal. Seasoning. \ white of egg. About 3 or 4 table-sps. double cream. Garnish. Button mushrooms. 1 or 2 table-sps. sauce. 1 or 2 truffles. Sauce. 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. \ pt. white stock. 1 table-sp. tomato puree Cut the veal in small pieces, pound it in a mortar with the white of egg, season with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and then rub it through a wire sieve. Put the puree into a small saucepan, stand it over ice and add the cream, about 1 tea-spoonful at a time, beating the mixture well with a wooden spoon. If preferred, less cream may be used and some beaten white of egg stirred into the mixture at the last. Grease 6 or 7 small moulds, three- quarters fill them with the mixture and poach them in a saute pan until firm to the touch. Sauce.—Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and stock, and flavour it with a little puree of tomato. The sauce ought to be clear and not too thick Garnish.—Take 1£ to 2 dozen small preserved mushrooms and heat them in a small quantity of sauce, seasoning to taste. Prepare also a few fine shreds of truffle, keeping them separate. To Serve.—Turn out the little moulds and arrange them neatly in an entree dish, and strain the sauce over. Arrange the mushrooms in the centre and put a little of the shred truffle on the top of each cream. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1099. Quenelles of Veal (Quenelles de Veau) | lb. fillet of veal. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 1 gill white stock or seasoned milk. 1 white and 2 yolks of egg- Salt and pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. Grated lemon rind. For Serving.—A border of potato or spinach, | pint bechamel or veloute sauce, green peas or macedoine of vegetables. To Make the Quenelle Meat.—Weigh the meat free from skin and bone, wipe it with a damp cloth, cut it in small pieces, and put it twice through a mincing machine Make a panada with the butter, flour, and stock. Put the butter and stock into a small saucepan, and when it boils, add the flour. Stir over the fire until thick enough to roll into a ball. Thed*let it remain for a few minutes longer to finish cooking, keeping it turned about to prevent burning. Add this panada to the meat in the mortar, and pound well, adding by degrees the eggs and seasoning. When all is perfectly mixed, rub through a wire sieve on to a plate, remembering to scrape the sieve underneath. To Shape and Cook the Quenelles.—You will re- quire two dessert spoons, a knife, and a small basin or jug of warm water. Take up a spoonful of the mixture in a wetted spoon, and with a knife or spatula, also wet, smooth the mixture over the top. Make the quenelle as much the shape of an egg as possible, high in the centre and pointed at the Shaping Quenelles two ends. With the second wet spoon, scoop the quenelle neatly out, and place it in a greased frying or saute pan. Shape all the mixture in the same way, and arrange the quenelles a little distance apart in the pan. Wet the spoons and knife each time before using, and try to make the quenelles all one size and shape. Pour round them very gently enough boiling water to half cover them.268 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Place over them a piece of greased paper cut to the size and shape of the pan, and poach them over a slow fire. The water must only be allowed to simmer very gently. When ready, the quenelles should be firm to the touch, and should have lost their raw appearance. Lift them out with a draining spoon on to a hair sieve or clean cloth, and drain for a few seconds. Small quenelle- shaped moulds are now sold, which do away with the trouble of shaping in spoons. These little moulds must be very carefully greased, nearly filled with the mixture and then given a good tap Veal Quenelles on the table to make the quenelle meat sink well to the foot. Cover with greased paper, and poach as above. To Serve the Quenelles.—Arrange a border of potato or spinach on a hot entree dish, and place the quenc'les along the top of this, one leaning against the other. Coat them over with bechamel or veloute sauce, and garnish with green peas, asparagus points, or any other suitable garnish. Notes.—Quenelles are sometimes egged and bread-crumbed ; for this they must be allowed to cool after cooking. They may also be stuffed with a fine mince of truffles, or mushrooms with ham. This should be done in the moulds. Time to poach, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1100. Quenelles de Veau a la Florentine Veal quenelles. Egg and bread-crumbs. Grated Parmesan. Cooked spinach. Tomato sauce. Fleurons of pastry. Make some veal quenelles as directed above. They may be either oval or round in shape, or they may be steamed in small moulds. After cooking, let them drain and cool on a sieve, or folded cloth. Then egg and bread-crumb the quenelles, mixing a little grated Parmesan or other fine cheese with the bread-crumbs used. Make them as smooth and even in shape as possible, and fry in boiling fat to a gold n brown colour. Drain well and dish up on a bo der, or against a mound, of cooked spinach. Pour tomato sauce round, and garnish between the quenelles with fleurons of puff pastry. 1101. Quenelles de Quenelle mixture. Ragout of mushrooms. Chopped truffle. Veau & la Supreme Coralline pepper. 4 or 5 fried croutons. Sauce supreme. Prepare some quenelle mixture as in Recipe 1099, and season it nicely. Prepare also a fine ragout of mushrooms (Recipe 516). Then grease 4 or 5 small quenelle or patty tins, and line them with the quenelle mixture; fill up with the ragout of mushrooms, and cover with more of the quenelle mixture, raising this rather high in the centre, and smoothing it over with a knife. Sprinkle with finely chopped truffle and coralline pepper, and press these gently in. Poach these until firm to the touch, or from 10 to 12 minutes. Then turn them out carefully, and dish them on a round crouton of fried bread (the crouton may be hollowed out and some of the mushroom mixture put in the centre) with the decorated side uppermost and pour sauce supreme round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1102. Calf’s Brains a 1’Aurore (Cervelles de Veau k l’Aurore) Calf’s brains. 1 gill white sauce. 1 gill tomato sauce or puree. 2 hard-boiled eggs. A little butter. Croutons of pastry. Prepare the brains as in Recipe 958, and allow them to cool. Cut them in slices and lay the pieces in rows overlapping each other, in a greased fire- proof dish. Mix the white sauce with the tomato sauce, or a thick puree of tomatoes, season rather highly with pepper and salt, and add the whites of the eggs finely chopped and the lemon juice. Pour this sauce over the brains and rub the yolks through a sieve on the top. Sprinkle with a little melted butter and place in a moderate oven until brown and hot through. Garnish with fancy- shaped croutons of pastry. Note.—This may also be cooked and served in small ramakin cases. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1103. Cervelles de Veau a la Nigoise 2 calves’ brains. Flour. Butter. 3 or 4 tomatoes. Seasoning. Parsley or tarragon. Olives or mushrooms. Prepare and cook the brains as in Recipe 958, and allow them to cool. Then cut them in pieces, coat them lightly with flour, and fry them in hot butter until nicely browned. Peel the tomatoes and cut them in pieces, removing the seeds and watery part from the inside. Put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and some chopped tarragon or parsley. Season well with pepper and salt, and cook until reduced to a soft puree. To Finish.—Arrange the puree of tomatoes on a hot dish, place the brains on the top and garnish with olives or mushrooms. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1104. Cervelles de 2 sets of calves’ brains, ljoz.butter. \ oz.flour. 1-1 gills white stock. 2 yolks of eggs. Prepare the brains as cold cut them in shoes, butter, flour, and stock, let them heat through, eggs beaten up with t minute or two longer, l Veau a la Poulette 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Seasoning. 6 croutons fried bread. 6 mushrooms. in Recipe 958, and when Make a sauce with the put the brains into it and Then add the yolks of he lemon juice. Cook a >ut be careful not to boil* SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 269 again. Serve on very neat croutons of fried bread with a grilled mushroom on the top of each. Note.—Other sauces, such as mushroom, piquante, Venitienne, &c., may be used in the same way, the brains being simply reheated in the sauce. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. over and cook in a moderate oven about \ hour. Then lift them on to a hot dish and pour Rouen- naise sauce (Recipe 741) round. Notes.—Pig’s feet may be prepared in the same way. Tomato, piquante, or a plain brown sauce may be used instead of the above. 1105. Pate de Cervelles de Veau Calf’s brains. | Brown sauce. Farce au gratin. I Puff pastry. Prepare the calf’s brains as directed in Recipe 958, cook them in light stock, drain and let them cool. Then cut them in pieces and coat each piece with some farce au gratin (Recipe 1271). Take some puff pastry, roll it out thinly, and cut out two rounds about the size of a soup plate, making one slightly larger than the other. Lay the smaller round on a wetted baking tin, arrange the prepared pieces of brain in the centre, wet round the edges of the paste and lay the larger round on the top. Press the edges together, then roll them towards the centre two or three times, forming a sort of hem round the pate. Make a hole in the top with the point of a knife, brush the pate over with beaten egg, score across lightly with the knife, and bake it in a. good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and nicely browned. When ready, pour in a little hot sauce through the hole in the top to prevent the pate tasting dry. Serve hot. Notes.—If liked, a few cooked and chopped mush- rooms may be sprinkled over the brains before covering them with the pastry. Sheep’s brains may be used in the same way, but a larger number will be required. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. 1106. Calf’s Feet & la Rouennaise (Pieds de Veau & la Rouennaise) 2 cooked calf’s feet. \ lb. sausage meat. 1 glass sherry or 1 stock. 1 small onion. gill ltea-sp. chopped parsley Seasoning. Pig’s caul. A little dripping. Bread-crumbs. Rouennaise sauce. Calves’ feet that have been used for making stock or jelly may be utilised for this dish. Reheat them in the wine or stock and carefully remove all bone. Add to the sausage meat, a small onion finely chopped, the chopped parsley, and more seasoning if necessary. If wine has been used for reheating the feet, add this also, and mix fall well together. Take a piece of pig’s caul, which has been well washed and if possible soaked in water, dry it and spread it out on a board. Then take a spoonful of the sausage meat and arrange it on the caul in an oval shape; lay half a foot on the top, and cover over with a little more sausage meat. Now wrap this up in the caul, cutting off the amount necessary. The caul must not overlap too much; use just enough to make a neat packet, as it were, and then roll into an oval shape. Pro- ceed with the rest of the feet and sausage meat in the same way. When the four packets are made, brush them over with a little melted fat and coat them with bread-crumbs. (Egg must not be used for this purpose, as it forms too hard a coating on the outside and prevents some of the rich fat escaping during the cooking.) Place the stuffed feet on a baking tin, sprinkle a little melted fat 1107. Calf’s Head en Tortue (Tete de Veau en Tortue) This is a somewhat complicated dish, but one which is much esteemed when nicely prepared. It consists of cooked calf’s head, cut in pieces, and served in a good brown sauce with a more or less elaborate garnish. To Cook the Head.—Clean and blanch the head as directed in Recipe 144, insert a piece of carrot in the ears to keep them a good shape, and rub all over with cut lemon to whiten the flesh. Then tie the head in muslin, put it into a large saucepan with fresh cold water to cover it and bring to the boil. Skim well, add a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and a few pieces of carrot. Simmer slowly at least 2 hours, or until the head is tender. The flesh ought to remain slightly firm, if overcooked it falls to pieces and has no taste. When ready, drain and remove the muslin. Then bone the head and cut the flesh in neat pieces. Calf s Bar fringed Keep the ears intact, fringe them with a pair of scissors, and turn them back as in illustration. The Sauce.—Make a good brown sauce, sufficient to well cover the head, add to it a glass of sherry or Madeira and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree. Strain or tammy before using. Garnish.—Small fresh mushrooms, cooked in butter, with lemon juice, a very little water, and seasoning to taste—olives, turned and blanched— gherkins, shaped like olives—quenelles, either small or decorated—fried eggs—croutons of fried bread— tongue, cut in small pieces. To Serve.—Heat the pieces of head thoroughly in the sauce, then arrange them neatly in the centre of a hot dish, placing the ears on the top. Heat the garnish in the remainder of the sauce (except any croutons of fried bread) and pour all over the head, arranging the garnish to taste. Note.—Some of the ingredients in the garnish may be omitted, if a simpler dish is wanted. 1108. Rognons de Mouton a la Turque 4 or 5 sheep’s kidneys. 1J oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 glass sherry or Madeira. 1 gill stock. Seasoning. Rice pilaff. Prepare a pilaff of rice according to Recipe 1594, and when required press it into a round cake tin that has been well greased. Make it thoroughlyCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 270 hot in the oven and then turn out on the dish on which the kidneys have to be served. Skin the kidneys, cut them in halves and remove the hard fat from the centre. Season them with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and then saute them in the butter until sufficiently cooked. When ready, lift them out and keep them warm. Pour the wine into the saucepan in which the kidneys were cooked, and allow it to reduce to half the quantity. Moisten with the stock mixed with the flour, stir until boiling, and add any juice which has run from the kidneys. To Serve.—Arrange the kidneys in a circle on the top of the rice and strain the sauce over and round. 1109. Cassolettes of Kidney (Cassolettes de Rognons) 3 sheep’s kidneys. 5 or 6 mushrooms. 1 shallot. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill brown sauce. \ glass sherry. Seasoning. 5 or 6 potato cases. To Prepare the Mixture.—Halve the kidneys, remove the skin and hard fat from the centre, and cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the shallot finely chopped, and cook it a few minutes. Trim the mushrooms and cut them in pieces, add them to the butter and shallot along with the kidney, and cook a few minutes longer. Then pour in the brown sauce and sherry and simmer slowly for J hour. Add a squeeze of lemon juice and more seasoning if necessary. To Finish.—Prepare about half a dozen small potato cases (see Recipe 544), fill them with the kidney mixture, and put the lids on the top. Serve on a hot entree dish with a dish paper under them and garnish with parsley. Note.—Batter or pastry cases may be used instead of those made of potato. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1110. Ox Palates a 1’Espagnole (Palais de Bceuf a l’Espagnole) 2 or 3 ox palates. I Green peas or asparagus \ pt. Espagnole sauce. | points. A border of potatoes. I Prepare the palates as directed in Recipe 873, and stew them in stock until tender. Press them between two plates until cold, and then stamp them in rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. Make these hot in the Espagnole sauce (Recipe 670), and then arrange them round a border of mashed potato. Pour the sauce over and round, and fill the centre with nicely cooked green peas or as- paragus points. Note.—The palates may be served in the same way with any other suitable'sauce, tomato, piquante, Italian, &c., an appropriate vegetable being used as a garnish. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. lilt 3 ox palates. Stock, 1 glass sherry. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Coralline pepper. Palais de Boeuf a ITtalienne J lb. macaroni. 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 2 oz. butter. Cayenne and salt. Prepare the palates as directed in Recipe 873, and stew them in stock until tender. Press them between two plates until cold and then cut the best part of them in slices about 2 inches long and \ inch wide. Put these pieces into a small stewpan with about 1 gill of the stock in which the palates were cooked and the glass of sherry. Simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Meanwhile cook the maca- roni and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Re- heat it in a saucepan with the butter and cheese, and season rather highly with cayenne pepper and salt. Pile this in the centre of a hot entree dish, and arrange the pieces of ox palate round. Sprinkle lightly with some very finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper, and serve the gravy in which the palates were simmered separately in a sauce boat. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1112. Braised Sweetbread with Green Peas (Ris de Veau aux Petits Pois) 1 large sweetbread. Flavouring vegetables. £ pt. stock. A bunch of herbs. Trimmings of bacon. A crouton of bread. Tomato sauce. Green pea puree. Prepare and blanch the sweetbread as directed on p. 242, and press it between two plates until cold. Place a few trimmings of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, then cut up a small quantity of carrot, turnip, and onion, and lay them on the top. Nearly cover these with good stock, add seasoning and a small bunch of herbs, and bring all to the boil. Wrap the sweetbread in greased paper, and lay it on the top of the vegetables; cover with a tight-fitting lid, and cook by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until tender. Baste occasionally with the stock, adding more if neces- sary. Meanwhile cut a crouton of bread large enough to hold the sweetbread, fry it until lightly browned and lay it on a hot dish. When the sweetbread is tender, lay it on the top and brush it over with liquid glaze, made from the stock, strained and very much reduced. Put some green pea puree (Recipe 499) into a forcing bag with a rose pipe and force it out prettily on the sides of the sweetbread in order to cover the crouton of bread. Then pour tomato or any other suitable sauce round. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1113. Larded Sweetbread with Mushrooms (Ris de Veau aux Champignons) braising. A crouton of bread. \ pt. mushroom sauce. 1 large heart sweet- bread. Larding bacon. Vegetables and stock for Prepare and blanch the sweetbread as directed on p. 242, and press it between two plates until cold. Then lard it on the best side with thin strips of larding bacon. The larding needle used must not be too thick, and four or five rows of lardoons will be sufficient (see Larding, p. 205). Then braise the sweetbread (as in last recipe). Meanwhile prepare some good mushroom sauce and keep it warm. When the sweetbread is tender, remove it from the saucepan in which it was braised, place it on a tin, and put it in the oven just long enough to brown the lardoons of bacon. Reduce the stock in which the sweetbread was cooked until it is a thick glaze, and brush this over the sweetbread.271 SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES ham or tongue in dice, and the egg in quartered Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. To Serve.—Place an oval-shaped crouton of fried bread on a hot dish, lay the sweetbread on the top and pour the sauce round. Note.—Other sauces, such as brown, caper, beamaise, Madeira, piquante, &c., may be used instead of mushroom sauce, and the dish will change its name accordingly. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1114. Ris de Veau a la Comtesse 1 pr. sweetbreads. 2 or 3 gills white stock. 3 or 4 spring onions. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. 1 gill cream. 1 cupful asparagus points. A croustade of bread. Veal quenelles. Prepare the sweetbreads as directed on p. 242, trim them carefully, and break them into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with white stock or milk and stock to cover them, add the onions, which have been thinly sliced and scalded, and stew slowly until the sweetbreads are tender. Then add the cornflour, broken with a little milk or white stock, and stir until the mixture thickens. Add the asparagus points (cooked), also the cream, make all thoroughly hot and season to taste. Prepare and cook 6 or 7 veal quenelles, decorating them with fancy-shaped pieces of truffle (Recipe 1099), and have ready also an oval- shaped crouton of fried bread. To Serve.—Arrange the sweetbread neatly on the top of the crouton, pour the sauce, &c., over, and garnish with the decorated quenelles of veal. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1115. Chaudfroid of Sweetbreads (Ris de Veau en Chaudfroid) 2 sweetbreads. Foie gras or potted meat. White chaudfroid sauce. Aspic jelly. 2 or 3 red tomatoes. Salad. Decorations. Prepare and cook the sweetbreads according to directions given on p. 242, and press them be- tween two plates with a weight on the top until cold. Then cut them in slices the size of a five- shilling piece. Coat each of these on one side with a little foie gras or any nicely seasoned potted meat, and smooth the surface over very evenly with a wet knife. Cover with white chaudfroid sauce (Recipe 714), and decorate tastefully with fancy shapes of truffle or tongue and a little finely chopped parsley or small cress. When set, pour over each round a little melted aspic, and keep them in a cool place until firm. Serve these medallions of sweetbread -with a round of bright red tomato under each, and garnish with chopped aspic and a few curly leaves of lettuce, on which has been sprinkled a little salad dressing. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1116. Ris de Veau & la Mayonnaise oz. cooked sweet- bread. oz. cooked ham or tongue. 1 hard-boiled egg. Mayonnaise sauce. Olives. Anchovy butter. Chervil or parsley. Break the sweetbread into small pieces, cut the slices. Stone and chop a few olives and mix all lightly together. Then take 6 or 7 china or silver shells (or small paper cases may be used), put a spoonful of good mayonnaise sauce into each, fill up with the mixture, and cover with more mayon- naise. Place an olive stuffed with anchovy butter on the top of each and decorate with small sprigs of chervil or parsley. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1117. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Epinards 1 pr. sweetbreads. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. A little butter. Rounds of ham or tongue. 1 pt. cooked spinach. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill white wine. £ pt. stock. Prepare the sweetbreads as directed on p. 242, and press them until cold. Then cut each one in four or five neat round pieces, season with pepper and salt and dip them in flour. Melt a small quantity of butter in a saute or frying pan, and cook the sweetbread in this until well browned on both sides. (If preferred, the sweetbread may be egged and bread-crumbed before being fried.) When sufficiently cooked, drain them on paper and keep them warm. Cut an equal number of rounds of ham or tongue as there are pieces of sweetbread, and warm them a Tew minutes in the same butter. To Make the Sauce.—Add the white wine to the pan in which the sweetbreads were cooked, and let it reduce. Then mix in the dessert-spoonful of flour, and add the stock. Stir until boiling, add more seasoning if necessary, and if liked a small piece of butter at the last. To Serve.—Pile some nicely cooked spinach in the centre of a hot dish and arrange the slices of tongue and sweetbread alternately round. Strain the sauce through a very fine strainer or tammy and pour it round the dish. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. , 1118. Kromeskies of Sweetbread (Cromesquis de Ris de Veau) 6 oz. cooked sweet- bread. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 or 2 truffles. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill stock. Caul. Frying batter. Cut the sweetbread, ham, and truffles into small thin pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and then the stock. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sweetbread, ham, and truffle, also the chopped parsley and seasoning to taste. Wrash some caul, dry it, and then flatten it out on a board. Cut it in pieces about 4 inches square, put a little of the sweetbread mixture in the centre of each and fold up like a small parcel. Allow these to stand in a cool place until they are wanted, then dip them into frying batter, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well and serve piled up on a dish paper and garnished with fried parsley.272 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1119. M6daillons de Ris de Veau a la Graziella 1 calf’s sweetbread. A little flour. 1 to 2 oz. butter. Potato cups. 2 or 3 table-sps. soubise sauce. 2 or 3 tomatoes. A little gravy or stock. Chopped parsley. To Prepare the Sweetbread.—Blanch and trim the sweetbread as directed on p. 242, then cut it in neat shoes or escalopes. Lay these between the folds of a cloth, put a tin or dish on the top, and press them with a light weight until cold. Then coat them with flour and saute them in hot butter until brown on both sides and well cooked. Potato Cups.—Peel 2 or 3 large potatoes and cut slices from them about \ inch in thickness and corresponding in number to the pieces of sweet- bread. Scoop out the centre from these rounds so as to form a cup, and trim them round with a knife. Place the little cups in a saute or frying pah in one single layer, cover them with cold water and add a little salt. Bring to the boil over the fire, simmer for 2 or 3 minutes, and pour off the water. Then put a small piece of butter into each cup, sprinkle ' with pepper and salt, and finish the cooking in the oven. To Prepare the Tomatoes.—Wipe them, remove the stalks and cut them in halves or quarters according to size. Squeeze out the seeds and watery part from the centre, and lay the pieces on a greased tin. Put a few small pieces of butter on the top, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and bake a few minutes in a hot oven or cook under the grill of a gas stove. Soubise Sauce.—See Recipe 742. Gravy.—Pour away the butter from the saucepan in which the sweetbread was cooked, pour in a little good gravy or stock and bring to the boil, rubbing down the browning from the pan. Add a small piece of glaze if necessary, and season with pepper and salt. Stir in a small piece of butter at the last, but do not boil again. To Serve.—Arrange the potato cups on a hot dish, and fill them with soubise sauce. Place a piece of sweetbread on the top of each and over the sweetbread a piece of tomato. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and strain the gravy over and round. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1120. Timbale of Sweetbreads (Timbale de Ris Pastry. About 1 gill white sauce. 1 or 2 cooked sweet- breads. de Veau) 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. ham or tongue. A few mushrooms. Seasonings. Make some pastry according to Recipe 1445, and let it lie for some time. Meanwhile prepare the mixture for filling the timbale. Cut one or two cooked sweetbreads into small pieces, removing all fat and skin. Mix with them a few cooked mush- rooms cut in shreds, and a small piece of cooked ham or tongue, also cut in shreds. A little truffle may be added if wished. Have ready a little good white sauce to which the yolk of an egg has been added, moisten the sweetbread mixture with this, but on no account must it be made too moist or it will burst through the pastry and spoil the timbale. A little extra sauce can always be served separately if desired. Allow the mixture to become quite cold before using it. To Make the Timbale.—Take a plain timbale or souffle mould and grease it with a little butter. Roll out the pastry very thinly, and cut out a num- ber of small rounds the size of a two-shilling piece. Line the mould with these, arranging them symme- trically over the bottom and round the sides of the mould, until the inside is entirely covered, and brush over with white of egg. Then roll out the pastry again, thinner than for an ordinary timbale lining, as the mould already has a thin covering, shape it to fit the mould as directed in Recipe 1492, and line the mould neatly, allowing the pastry to project slightly above the edges at the top. Fill up with the sweetbread mixture, wet round the edges of the pastry, and fix on a plain round of pastry to cover. Bake in a good oven. When ready, turn out, and if not sufficiently browned, brush over with a little yolk of egg, and return to the oven for a few minutes. Note.—Brown sauce may be used instead of white, and other kinds of meat according to taste. Time to bake, 35 to 40 minutes. 1121. Timbale de Ris de Veau d la Monte Carlo Farce. £ lb. veal. Panada. Seasoning. 2 eggs. Butter. 1 table-sp. double cream. 1 cooked sweetbread. Cooked mushrooms. 1 truffle. White or brown sauce. Make the farce according to directions given for Quenelle Meat (see p. 267), and test a small piece in boiling water to see that the consistency is right. Take a plain mould, grease it well and line it with this farce, dipping the fingers into a little white of egg, and pressing the farce well against the mould. Reserve a little of the farce to cover the top of the mould. Cut the sweetbread into smal pieces, and mix it with some mushrooms also cut in small pieces, and a little truffle, also some cock’s combs if wished. Moisten with a very little sauce, and season to taste. Allow the mixture to become quite cold, fill up the lined mould and cover with farce. Stand the mould in a saucepan with cold water to come half-way up the sides, bring it almost to boiling point over the fire, then cook in the oven until the timbale feels firm to the touch and is thoroughly cooked. Let the mould stand about 10 minutes after removing it from the oven, then turn out and serve with white or brown sauce poured round. Sauce.—If brown sauce is used, flavour it with a little Madeira wine; if white, add to it 1 or 2 yolks of eggs and a little cream. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1122. Darioles of Ham & la Mireille (Petits Pains de Jambon a la Mireille) A little pastry. \ lb. lean cooked ham. 1 oz. butter. 3 table-sps. white sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. Paprika pepper. 1 or 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 1 or 2 tomatoes. £ oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 doz. olives. Brown or tomato sauce. Take a little pastry, not too rich, and roll it out very thinly. Cut out rounds with a cutter, andSOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 273 line about a dozen small tartlet tins. Prick them at the bottom, line with paper, and fill up with rice. Bake them in the oven until nicely browned, and then remove the filling. Ham Mixture.—Trim the ham, put it through the mincing machine, and then weigh it. Pound it well in a mortar with a little butter and season with Paprika pepper. Add the yolks of eggs, and white sauce, which should be rather thick and not hot. Pound again, add the cream and then rub all through a wire sieve. Grease about a dozen small dariole moulds, three parts fill them with the mixture, cover with greased paper, and poach them in the oven. The water round them must not be allowed to boil. Meanwhile, peel one or two tomatoes, squeeze out the soft inside and cut them in small pieces. Cook these in a little butter, seasoning with pepper and salt, and add a little stock or sauce if necessary. Also stone the olives and heat them in a little boiling stock. To Serve.—Put a little of the tomato mixture into each pastry case, and turn out one of the ham darioles on the top. Place an olive on the top of each and mask with a very little sauce. Either brown or tomato sauce may be used, but it should be thin and clear. Use very little, as the pastry must not be made soft; an extra supply may be served separately if wished. Note.—The above mixture may be steamed in one large mould and served without the pastry cases. It will be better then to add 2 whole eggs. Sufficient for 10 to 12 persons. 1123, Parfait de Foie Gras 1 cupful foie gras. 1 to 2 oz. fresh butter. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. whipped cream. A few drops of carmine. 3 or 4 truffles. 1 table-sp. brandy or white wine. Aspic jelly. Either fresh or preserved foie gras may be used for making a parfait. If fresh it must be cooked. This is a very good way of using up the remains of foie gras. Remove all grease from the outside, and put it into a mortar with a good piece of softened, but not melted, fresh butter. Pound together and then rub through a hair sieve. Season this puree well and according to taste, and if preserved foie gras has been used, add a few drops of pink colouring. Add the cream, not too much, and mix lightly together. Then take a mould, one in imitation of a foie gras is best, but any simple mould will do, three parts fill it with the mixture, and make a hollow in the centre. Put into this hollow 3 or 4 truffles cut in shreds and soaked in a little brandy. Cover with more of the mixture, set the mould on ice, and let it remain until firm. Then turn out, decorate the top with slices of truffle, inserting them in small slits made in the sides of the parfait with a knife. Then brush over the top with aspic jelly in a setting condition, and put some chopped aspic round the base. 1124. Beignets de Foie Gras a l’Orlie Foie gras. Seasoning. I Coralline pepper. Prying batter. I Tomato sauce. Prepare some frying batter as in Recipe 1861, allowing it to stand 2 hours if possible, and stirring in the beaten whites of eggs at the last. Cut some nice slices of foie gras, season them with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, dip each one into the batter, cover well, then slip into a saucepan of boiling fat. Fry until crisp and of a golden brown colour, drain on paper, then dish up on a folded serviette, and sprinkle lightly with coralline pepper. Serve well- made tomato sauce separately. 1125. J*etits Pains de Foie Gras 1 pt. aspic jelly. 1 small tin or pot of foie gras. 1 gill velout6 or su- preme sauce. Pepper and salt. 1 yolk of egg. 1 large truffle. 1 hard-boiled egg. Some cooked tongue. Salad. Line 6 to 8 small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly, and decorate them at the bottom with a round or fancy shape of truffle, with a ring of chopped white of egg and a ring of chopped tongue round. Set the decoration with some liquid jelly. Garnish the sides alternately with fancy shapes of truffle, tongue, and white of egg, setting all with more aspic. To Prepare the Foie Gras.—Remove first the lard from the top and take out any truffle. Pound the foie gras in a mortar with the yolk of egg, sauce, and seasoning. Mix well and rub through a sieve. Then work in the remainder of the aspic jelly, and add the truffle chopped. Fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set, and keep them on ice until wanted. Turn out and serve cold, garnished with salad or chopped jelly. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.POULTRY, RABBITS AND GAME Poultry and game form an important part of our menu. It ia highly essential, therefore, that the art of cooking them to perfection should be thoroughly mastered. This chapter deals with every branch of the subject. A special feature is to be found in the complete instructions given in regard to the drawing, trussing, and general preparation of birds for the table. PART I POULTRY ON CHOOSING POULTRY All poultry when young should have smooth and pliable legs, with the scales overlapping very slightly. The spur on the leg of the male bird must be short and not prominent, and the feet should be soft and rather moist. If the spur is large and the legs hard and dry, the bird is no longer young. The flesh should be smooth and without long hairs. When choosing a bird that has not been plucked, one should see that the plumage is smooth and downy with soft young feathers under the wing and on the breast. If freshly killed, the eyes will be clear and not sunken ; there will be no discoloration of the flesh and the vent will be hard and close. Fowls.—The comb should be smooth and of a bright red colour. For roasting choose a fowl with black or yellow legs, as they are supposed to be more juicy and to possess a better flavour. For boiling, choose one with white legs, as the flesh will likely be whiter. A fowl for roasting, frying, or grilling should be young and tender, but for boiling, braising, or stewing an older one may be taken, as old birds are generally cheaper, and long slow cook- ing makes them tender. A bird is considered a chicken until it is nine months old, then a pullet until a year old or a little over. A capon (male) and a poularde (female) are birds which undergo special treatment when they are young to prevent them generating. In con- sequence they grow to a large size and are much finer and better in flavour than the ordinary fowl. Ducks.—Young birds have yellow feet and bills, as they become older these become darker and redder. The wild duck is an exception, as it has small reddish feet even when young. The under bill should be soft and pliable and easily broken when bent. The legs should be smooth, and the webbing of the feet soft and easily torn. The breast should be plump, but not over-fattened. The flavour of the duck depends very much upon how it has been fed. Sometimes they are fed on celery for a short time before killing, as this is sup- posed to give a very delicious flavour to the flesh. Geese.—The legs should be yellow and pliable, and the webbing of the feet easily torn. The bill should also be yellow and pliable and with few bristles, and the under bill easily broken when bent. The breast should be plump, but without too much fat, and the skin smooth. A goose should always be eaten young. When over a year old, it is not good for table use. Turkeys.—A good turkey will be recognised by the whiteness of its skin and flesh and its smooth black legs. The wattles should be a bright red, the breast broad and plump, with the end of the bone tender. Beware of those with long hairs and flesh of a violet hue. A moderate-sized bird should be chosen. A hen is preferable for boiling on account of the whiteness of the flesh, but the cock is usually chosen for roasting. If freshly killed, a turkey should be kept for at least three or four days before cooking, or it will neither be white nor tender. It should be hung- up to bleed. Norfolk turkeys are considered particularly fine. Pigeons.—A dark-coloured one is thought to have the highest flavour, and a light-coloured one the most delicate. The legs should be of a pinkish colour; when they are large and deeply coloured the bird is old. The breast should be fat and plump. The tame pigeon is smaller than the wild species and is better for cooking. Tame pigeons should be cooked at once, as they soon lose their flavour, but wood pigeons may be hung for a few days. A squab is a young pigeon. TO KILL A FOWL Dislocation of the neck, if properly done, is un- doubtedly the most humane method of killing a275 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME fowl The system of “ wringing the neck ” is not to be recommended, an easier and more certain mode being to hold the bird by the legs and give it a very sharp blow at the back of the neck with a small but heavy stick. For the average poultry hand, who does not understand correct dislocation, perhaps the best way of all to bring about a merci- ful and instantaneous death is to pierce the brain with a knife. The bird must be hung up by the legs, the mouth opened, and the blade of a pen- knife thrust firmly through the back part of the roof of the mouth. An incision should be made in the neck, and the bird left hanging for a short time until the blood has drained out, if great whiteness of flesh is desired; but bleeding is not absolutely necessary. The best time to kill is the first thing in the morning before the early meal, as the intestines will then be free of food. A fast of not less than three hours is* absolutely necessary, or the birds will not keep well, and the flesh wifi lack firmness. PREPARATION OF POULTRY FOR TABLE The method of drawing and trussing poultry for roasting and boiling is not easily learnt from a book, a practical lesson on the subject would be of much greater value. In towns where birds are bought from a poulterer, they are usually sent home ready prepared for cooking, in fact, if it is preferred that they be delivered undrawn, the order must bo given accordingly. In country districts, however, this is not always the case, or where poultry (and sometimes living poultry) is sold in a market, or again when one has one’s own poultry-yard. Under such conditions the housewife will find herself very much at a loss if she has no knowledge of this important branch of the culinary art. To those, who must of necessity do the work at home, the following hints may be found helpfuL To Pluck and Singe Poultry If the plucking can be done while the bird Is still warm the feathers will come out more easily. Place the bird on a large sheet of newspaper and be careful not to do the plucking in a draught, or the feathers will fly about. Begin with the wings and legs, leaving the breast to the last, as the skin there is thinner and may easily be injured in appearance. Stiip the feathers off from the tail towards the head, giving them a backward pull, or if the flesh is very tender begin the opposite way. Use a small knife to remove the feathers from the wings, continue the plucking until every trace of feathers and stumps of feathers has been removed, and remember that singeing is not meant to remedy careless plucking. _ It is always better to pluck poultry dry. Some- times it is recommended to dip the bird in boiling water before commencing, but although this may simplify the process, it is not so good for the bird as it softens the flesh and makes it liable to tear; besides, scalded poultry spoils very quickly. Scald- ing should only be resorted to when one is in a hurry and the bird has to be cooked immediately. The points of the wings may sometimes bo dipped in boiling water without danger, when the feathers are found difficult to remove. After plucking there will always be some hairs left in the case of an old bird, and down on one that is young. These must always be singed off. Do this with a lighted taper, a well-twisted piece of paper, or over the jet of a gas stove. Go care- fully all over the bird, unfolding the wings so that they may be properly singed. Be careful while doing this not to blacken the skin. To Draw a Fowl Have in readiness a plate, pair of scissors, some scraps of paper, a basin of warm water, and a board to place the fowl on. Then turn the fowl on its breast, with the head lying towards you on the board. With a pair of scissors make a slit down the skin of the neck about 3 or 4 inches long. With a piece of paper take hold of the inside neck, draw it out and away from the skin, and with a sharp knife cut it off close to the body so that there is no stump left, and throw it into the basin of water. Cut off the head and some of the skin of the neck, leaving on 3 or 4 inches. Draw out the windpipe, and loosen the crop from the skin of the neck. (The crop is the bag of skin which lies close to the neck. It is- the digestive canal of the fowl, and continues right down into the gizzard, which is the bag of little stones found inside. These stones the fowl picks up and swallows, and they serve the purpose of teeth, helping to grind down the food.) Then turn the fowl on its back, still with the neck end towards you. Insert the first finger inside, and loosen all the inside, but draw nothing out at this end. Be careful not to break the gall bag, which lies in the liver, because if this were done the gall would give a bitter taste to the whole fowl; but keep the finger going.round as close to the bones as possible, and just breaking the little ligaments that attach the internal organs to the carcase. When all seems loose, turn to the other end of the fowl, and make a slit across the skin between the tail and the vent. Insert the first finger again, and loosen everything the same as at the other end, being careful not to make the hole too large. Then grasp the gizzard and draw everything out. Examine the inside of the bird by holding it up to the light and see that no part of the internal organs has been left. The heart and the lungs, a soft pinky-looking substance which lies close to the ribs, must not be forgotten. Remove any soft fat that may be left in the inside, especially at the vent and near the neck, and also cut away the oil bag which lies at the back of the rump or “ par- eon’s nose.” (This contains the oil with which the fowl oils its feathers, it frequently becomes rancid, and if left would give the fowl a bad taste.) Wipe the fowl with a damp cloth, first outside and then inside. If not clean with this, the water from the pipe may be quickly run through it, but on no account must the bird be put to soak in water, in fact the less it is wet the better. Keep the gizzard, cutting it open and removing the bag of stones from the inside, and the liver if it is good, removing the gall bag and any green parts from it. Wash these with the neck, remove any fat skinCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 276 from them, and let them soak in salt and water for some time, after which they can be used for making stock for gravy, or to help to enrich the stock pot. The liver is sometimes required in the dressing of the fowl. The fowl is now ready for putting into shape or trussing. To Truss a Fowl for Roasting.—The legs for roasting should be cut off just a little above the feet and the sinews drawn out. This is especially necessary in the case of an old fowl, where the sinews, if left in, would tend to make the flesh tough. Cut carefully through the skin of the leg first, bend back the foot so as to expose the sinews and crack the bone. Now give the foot a twist and a pull, and the sinews will generally come away. If not, take a skewer and loosen them one by one, giving the skewer a twist and pulling them out. Or, if very tough, the foot of the fowl may be jammed in a drawer and a good pull given to the drumstick. If properly done, seven ligaments in all should come away. Now scald the piece of leg, that is left on the fowl, in boiling water and peel off the outside skin. If the fowl is to be stuffed, or anything to flavour it put inside, this should now be done. The custom of putting the gizzard in one wing, and the liver in the other, is now somewhat out of date. To truss the fowl—place it on its breast, pull the piece of skin from the neck over the back, and cross the ends of the wings over this. Turn over, push the rump through the slit in the skin at the vent end and thus close up the opening. Then take hold of the legs and push them well back towards the wings, and downwards, to give the fowl a nice plump appearance. Now take a trussing needle and fine string, pass the needle through one wing, one leg, right through the body, and catch the leg and wing at the other side, and draw it through. Turn the fowl over, with needle and string catch the points of the two wings and the skin of the neck, and tie the two ends of the string together. Leave both ends at least J yard in length, and draw off the needle. Bring the ends of string down, and tie them round the rump of the fowl. Then tie down the two legs into position, bringing them close together, and making the shanks stand up. Fasten the string off in a loop knot, so that it can easily be undone. Dust the fowl over with a little flour and it is ready for roasting. To Truss a Fowl for Bolling.—Draw and prepare the fowl as directed above, then cut off the legs at the knee joint. To do this, cut the skin round the leg at that part, crack the joint, and pull the shank off, bringing the sinews with it. Put the first finger through the hole made for drawing the fowl, loosen all the outside skin from the flesh of the thighs, and press the leg joints inside. They should be quite out of sight with the loosened skin drawn over them. Push the rump also inside and draw the skin over, so as to close the opening. Then truss in the same way as for a roast fowl, except that, instead of tying the string round the rump, twist it twice round the narrow end of the fowl and then tie it very tightly, to prevent the legs slipping upwards and breaking through the skin. To Cut a Fowl in Joints First cut off the wings, taking a slice off the breast with them and separating them at the joint. Then remove the legs, cut them in two at the joint and chop off the ends of the bones. Now separate the breast, bone and all, from the back of the fowl. Cut the breast in two lengthwise, right through the bone and in two again, if large. Then chop the back through in two or three pieces. The number of joints depends very much on the size of the fowl, but ten pieces at least should be procured—two wings, four pieces from the legs, two from the breast and two from the back.POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 277 To Bone a Fowl Choose the fowl untrussed, as it will then be firmer and easier to work on. First singe it, and pick out any ends of feathers. Remove the legs at the knee joint, at the same time withdrawing the sinews. Cut off the neck close to the body, leaving a flap of skin to turn over, the same as in ordinary trussing. Then lay the fowl on a board, with the back uppermost, and make a cut through the skin right down the middle of the back. With the point of the boning knife, work down one side, raising the flesh as cleanly from the bones as possible, and being careful not to break through the skin. Disjoint both the legs and wings from the body, and continue removing the flesh from the carcase until the centre of the breast bone is reached. Then proceed with the other side of the bird in the saihe way, and lift the carcase out. Now bone the legs. Take hold of the first bone where it was disjointed from the body, and scrape the flesh off it until the next joint is reached. Crack the joint, and remove the first part of the bone. Remove the flesh from the other part of the bone in the same way, turning the leg outside in. Bone the second leg, and then remove as much of the wing bone as possible, cutting off the lower joint entirely. Now spread out the fowl on the table, and remove any pieces of sinew or gristle, also trim off any discoloured parts at the neck or tail. To stuff and make a galantine of a boned fowl, see Recipe 1141. (_ 1126. Roast Fowl It is not at present the fashion to stuff a fowl for roasting, it is usually served very simply. However, it stuffing is liked, there is no reason why it should not be put in. Either veal, oyster, or chestnut stuffing (see Stuffings, p. 307), or well- seasoned sausage meat may be used. This should be put in at the neck end. Loosen the skin as much as possible from the breast, put a layer of the stuffing over the flesh of the breast and then as much as the loose skin of the neck will contain. Fold the skin over and put in one or two stitches with a needle and cotton. If a still larger amount of stuffing is wanted, put some inside the body as well. When no stuffing is used, a few shelled chestnuts, when in season, may be put inside, or some people like the flavour of an onion or a little celery placed in the body. After any preliminary preparation, truss the fowl as directed above. The roasting may be done either in front of the fire or in the oven. In either case the breast of the fowl should have one or two slices of fat bacon tied over it, to impart flavour to the flesh and render it less dry Make one or two slits in the bacon to prevent it curling up. Then cover the bird with greased paper and roast, according to general directions for roasting given on p. 207. Keep it well basted with butter, dripping, or bacon fat—this is most important. The time will depend on the age and size of the bird—a chicken will take § hour, an older bird from 1 to 1J hours. Test it by feeling the flesh of the leg, if it gives way to pressure it is ready. A short time before the fowl is to be taken from the oven, remove the paper and bacon, dredge the breast with flour, baste well, and brown quickly. To Serve.—When the fowl is ready, lift it on to a hot dish, remove the trussing string and pour away any grease that may run out of it. Garnish with watercress seasoned with lemon juice and salt. A nice gravy should always be served with the fowl. Pour away the fat from the tin in which it was roasted and add one cupful of stock or water. Stir over the fire until boiling, rubbing down any browning from the tin. Season nicely and serve in a sauce boat. If preferred the gravy may be poured round the dish, and a garnish of rolls of bacon used instead of the watercress. Bread sauce may also be served with the fowl. The best accompaniment to roast poultry is a well-made salad, although many people still prefer hot vegetables. Note.—Instead of the above sauce, chestnut or musliroom sauce may be served. 1127. Boiled Fowl Prepare the fowl and truss it for boiling as directed above, then rub it over with cut lemon and wrap it in a piece of greased kitohen paper to keep it a good colour. * Have ready on the fire a saucepan of freshly boiling water, or, better still, some white stock or meat boilings. Put the fowl into this with a little salt, and allow it to simmer slowly until tender. Unless slowly cooked the flesh will become hard and tasteless. The time will depend on the age and size of the fowl, from 1£ to 3 or 4 hours. When sufficiently cooked, lift it out on to a hot dish, and remove the paper and string from it. Mask it with parsley, oyster, bechamel, egg, or celery sauce, and garnish with little rolls of bacon (see Recipe 1646) or hard-boiled egg. There should be sufficient sauce to coat the fowl and to cover the flat part of the dish. A piece of boiled ham or bacon may be served separately. Note.—If water is used for boiling, a few pieces of flavouring vegetable, especially celery, should be added to it. 1128. Steamed Fowl Prepare the fowl as for boiling. Put it into a double saucepan or steamer, and cook it until tender. Allow rather a longer time than for boiling, and finish off in the same way. 1129. Braised Chicken with Tomatoes 1 tender chicken. 2 table-sps. butter or fat. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 lb. tomatoes. \ pt. stock. | glass sherry. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Prepare and truss the chicken as for roasting (see p. 276). Melt half the butter or fat in a sauce- pan, when smoking hot put in the chicken, and brown it on all sides. Melt the rest of the fat in a frying pan, and when hot put in the tomatoes, peeled and cut in small pieces, and the cnion finely chopped. Fry these slowly about ten minutes, and then add them to the browned chicken. Season with pepper and salt, and pour in the stock. NowCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 278 cover the saucepan closely and cook the contents in the oven, or by the side of the fire, until the chicken is quite tender. The time will depend very much upon the size and age of the bird. If necessary a little extra stock may be added during the cooking, but the tomatoes should not be made too liquid. When ready, lift the chicken on to a hot dish, and remove the trussing thread or string. Skim any superfluous grease off the tomatoes, add the sherry and parsley, taste if sufficiently seasoned, and pour round the chicken without straining. Or, the chicken may be garnished with watercress, and the tomato served separately. Celery or French beans would be a good accompaniment to this dish. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1130. Spring Chicken, Broiled Only a very young and tender chicken can be cooked in this way. After drawing and singeing, split it open through the back and remove the inside. Flatten and trim it, wipe it well with a damp cloth and then dry it. Cut off the feet and points of the wings, season with pepper, salt, and Chicken prepared for Broiling a little lemon juice, and skewer it open. Then brush over on both sides with melted butter or salad oil and sprinkle with fine browned bread- crumbs. Grill over a clear fire from 25 to 30 minutes, turning the bird occasionally and sprinkling with a little more melted butter. Serve very hot, garnished with watercress and cut lemon. Serve with potato chips, and, if liked, tomato or tartare sauce. 1131. Chicken en Casserole (Poulet en Casserole) 1 chicken. f doz. white onions. 1 cupful carrot and turnip. 1 or 2 sticks of celery, f pt. stock. 2 bay-leaves. Salt. Pepper. Clean and wash the chicken, and truss it for boiling. Put it into a fireproof pot with a lid, and add the onions peeled, a cupful of carrot and turnip cut in fancy shapes or in dice, the celery cut in shreds and the bay-leaves. Heat the stock, pour it over the top and put on the lid. Cook in a moderate oven until the chicken is quite tender, basting occasionally with the stock. When ready, season with pepper and salt, untruss the bird and cut it in joints. Serve in the pot. This is one of the tastiest ways of cooking a chicken. Chicken en Casserole Notes.—A few mushrooms cut in pieces or some pieces of tomato may be added if wished. Pigeons and other birds may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, from If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1132. Curried Chicken (Poulet en Kari) A small chicken. 1 Spanish onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. curry paste. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. A little flour. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Stock. Lemon juice. Boiled rice. Cut the chicken into neat joints, removing as much of the skin as possible. If no stock is avail- able, break up the bones and trimmings, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and some vegetable flavourings, and allow them to simmer until the goodness is extracted. Then strain. Skin and scald the onion, and cut it in thin slices. Then fry it in the butter until a light brown colour. Coat the pieces of chicken with a little flour and add them to the onions with the sugar, salt, chutney, and the curry powder and curry paste mixed smoothly with a very little stock. Cook ten minutes over a moderate fire, turning the mixture occasionally and adding a little more butter if necessary. Then pour in enough stock to barely cover the contents of the saucepan, put on the lid and simmer slowly until the chicken is tender. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and if possible, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. When ready, arrange the pieces of chicken neatly on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Serve boiled rice separately, or rice timbales (Recipe 1604) round the dish. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1133. Fricassee of Chicken (Fricassee de Volaille) 1 chicken. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. Boiling water. 2 or 3 white onions. Salt. White pepper. A small bunch of herbs. 2 or 3 table-sps. bottled mushrooms. 2 yolks of eggs. LemOn juice. Croutons of fried bread. Parsley. Clean and wash the chicken and cut it in 8 or 10 neat pieces. If wished very white, put the pieces in boiling water for 5 minutes, then plunge them into cold water and allow them to remainPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 279 5 minutes. Although this improves the colour of the fricassee, it cannot be said toimprove the flavour. When the pieces of chicken are ready, put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, and add pepper, salt, the bunch of herbs, and white onions. A little white wine may also be added if wished. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the chicken is tender, skimming when necessary, then strain and reserve the stock. Now melt the butter in the saucepan and mix in the flour without allowing them to take colour. Pour in the liquid from the chicken and stir until boiling. If the sauce is too thick, thin it down with a little water or milk. Add the mushrooms cut in small pieces, and cook slowly for 15 minutes. Then re- move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Return the pieces of chicken to reheat, but do not boil again. Serve neatly, garnishing the dish with small croutons of bread or pastry, and tiny sprigs of parsley. Notes.—Small forcemeat balls, or little baked tomatoes, are also nice as a garnish. A little cream may be added to the above sauce if wished, or a plainer fricassde may be made by omitting the yolks of eggs and mushrooms. Stewed rice or macaroni, or mashed potatoes, are good accompani- ments to this dish. A fricassee is very good cooked in an earthenware pot and served en casserole. Time to cook, about li hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. them quickly from 12 to 15 minutes and then lift them out with a draining spoon. Time to stew fowl, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1136. Stewed Fowl with Onions (Poulet a la Lyonnaise) 1 fowL 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 pt. boiling water. 2 tea-sps. Bo vril or Liebig 1£ doz. small white onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Prepare and truss the fowl as for boiling (see p. 276). Melt 2 oz. butter or dripping in a deep stewpan, and, when very hot, put in the fowl, which should be quite dry. Turn it over and over until well browned on all sides, then add the water mixed with the Bovril or Liebig. Put on the lid and place the saucepan in a moderate oven until the fowl is quite tender. Meanwhile prepare the onions and brown them quickly in a little hot butter. Sprinkle them with sugar and drain. About half an hour before the fowl’is ready add the onions and allow the two to finish cooking together. When ready, serve the fowl on a hot dish, removing all trussing threads, and arrange the onions round. Reduce the gravy if necessary, strain and serve it separately. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1134. Stewed Fowl with Dumplings 1 small fowl. Cold water. 1 onion. 2 or 3 sticks celery. 1 bay-leaf. 1 or 2 sprigs parsley, oz. butter. 1£ oz. flour. \ pt. milk. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Dumplings. See below. Cut the fowl in small neat joints as directed on p. 276. Wash these carefully, place them in a stewpan with cold water to cover them, and bring them slowly to the boil. Skim well, add 1 tea- spoonful salt, the celery, and onion cut in small pieces, bay-leaf, and sprigs of parsley. Put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer all slowly until the fowl is tender. Then lift out the joints and strain J pint of the broth to make the sauce. To Make the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the flour and mix it in smoothly. Then pour on the milk and £ pint of broth and stir until boiling. Add the chopped parsley and more seasoning if necessary. Put in the pieces of fowl, allow them to thoroughly reheat in the sauce, and then serve on a hot dish with the dumplings round. 1135. Dumplings for Stewed Fowl | lb. flour. 1 oz. butter, I £ tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. | A little milk. Pass the flour, baking powder, and salt through a very fine sieve into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make into a dough with a little milk. Turn this on to a floured board, roll out, and cut into small rounds. Drop these into the liquid left in the saucepan in which the fowl was cooked, adding some boiling water if there is not sufficient broth to cook the dumplings. Cook 1137. Chicken a la Cardinal (Poulet a la Cardinal) 1 chicken. Some white stock. 1 gill button mushrooms. I pint tomato sauce. 1 doz. cherry tomatoes. Pepper and salt. Cut the chicken into neat joints, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover it. Simmer gently from 1 to 11 hours until the chicken is quite tender. Add the tomato sauce (see Re- cipe 705), which must be very thick, and cook a few minutes longer. Then lift out the pieces of chicken, and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Reduce the sauce, if necessary, until it is thick enough to coat the pieces of chicken, and then strain it over the joints. Garnish the dish with small cherry tomatoes, which have been cooked in the oven but not broken, and button mushrooms sauted in a little butter. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1138. Chicken a la Hongroise (Poulet a la Hongroise) 1 tender fowl or chicken. 2 oz. butter. 6 oz. rice. 3 gills light stock. 2 onions. A bunch of herbs. 2 or 3 tablc-sps. tomato puree. Salt. Pepper. Cut the chicken into small neat joints as directed on p. 276. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of cliicken, and turn them over and over until brown on all sides. Then lift them out, and put into the same saucepan the rice well washed and dry. Stir until the rice begins to turn yellow, then add the stock, seasoning, the onions cut in very thin slices or chopped, the hunch of herbs and the puree of tomatoes, made by rubbing 2 or 3 tomatoes through a fine sieve. When the riceCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 280 begins to cook, return the pieces of chicken, cover the saucepan, and cook in the oven or by the side of the fire until the flesh of the chicken is quite tender. A little stock should be added from time to time if necessary, to prevent the rice adhering to the saucepan. When ready, the stock should be entirely absorbed. Serve neatly in a deep dish and very hot. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. braise gently until tender, basting occasionally with the stock (see Braising, p. 210). When ready, remove the rolls of chicken and cut them in slices about f inch thick (use a very sharp knife for this), and brush them over with a little liquid glaze. Dish them in the form of a crown on a puree of spinach, and pour tomato or Italian sauce round. Time to braise, 1£ hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1139. Chicken a la Marengo (Poulet a la Marengo) 1 tender fowl. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Stock. 10 or 12 button mush- rooms. 1 glass sherryor Marsala. Salt. Pepper. 2 shallots. 3 table-sps. puree of tomatoes. A bouquet garni. A pinch of cayenne. A squeeze of lemon juice 2 hard-boiled eggs. Croutons of fried bread or fleurons of pastry. Cut the fowl into neat joints, removing as mugh of the skin as possible. Warm the butter and oil in a stewpan, place in the pieces of fowl, and season with pepper and salt. Colour the pieces slightly, sprinkling them with the flour and shallots finely chopped. Then add the wine, puree of tomatoes, bouquet garni, mushrooms cut in small pieces, and sufficient light stock or water to cover. Cover the saucepan and stew gently in the oven, or at the side of the stove, until the fowl is tender. When ready, arrange the joints neatly on a hot dish, remove all grease from the sauce, add to it a squeeze of lemon juice, a pinch of cayenne, and more seasoning if necessary, and strain it over. Garnish with the mushrooms in the centre of the dish, and sections of hard-boiled egg and croutons or fleurons round the sides. Poached eggs may be used as a garnish if preferred. Note.—Veal or rabbit may be prepared in the same way. Time to stew, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1140. Chicken Legs with Spinach (Cuisses de Volaille aux Epinards) Salt. Pepper. Cayenne and nutmeg. 4 chicken legs, f lb. fillet of veal. 3 oz. fat bacon. 2 table-sps. chopped tongue. 6 or 8 button mush- rooms. 2 or 3 truffles. 2 yolks of eggs. Vegetables and stock for braising. A little glaze. A puree of spinach. Tomato or Italian sauce. Slit the legs of the chicken down one side and carefully remove the bones. Then prepare the farce. Pass the veal and bacon twice through a mincing machine, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Add to this sieved meat the chopped tongue, the mushrooms and truffles slightly chopped, and yolks of eggs. Mix all to- gether, and season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg. Stuff the chicken legs with this, sew them up neatly, and wrap them in buttered paper. Prepare a bed of vegetables in a stewpan, cover with stock, and heat over the fire. Place the chicken legs on the top of this, put the stewpan in the oven, and 1141. Galantine of Fowl (Galantine de Volaille) 1 fowl (untrussed). 1 lb. sausage meat. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 3 oz. ham or tongue. A few pistachio nuts. 1 or 2 truffles. Rind of f lemon. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A piece of glaze. Aspic jelly or salad. A large and older bird may be used for making a galantine, as long slow cooking will make it tender. Choose it untrussed, and singe and pick it carefully. Then bone it as directed on p. 277. When the boning is finished, spread out the fowl on a board with the skin side downwards, and arrange the flesh so as to have it of an equal thickness all over, and as oblong in shape as possible. Sprinkle it with pepper, salt, and spread over half the sausage meat, which has been seasoned rather highly with pepper, salt, cayenne, a little nutmeg and grated lemon rind. Cut the hard-boiled eggs, bacon, and tongue into strips, and lay these across the fowl in White Galantine of Fowl alternate rows. A few pistachios and truffles may also be put in if wished, or a little chopped parsley may be sprinkled over. Cover with the remainder of the sausage meat and then roll up the fowl and sew the join neatly with a needle and strong thread, keeping it well in shape. Now wrap the galantine In a cloth, like a roly-poly pudding, being careful that the hems of the cloth do not come on the breast of the fowl, where they would make a mark. Tie it securely at both ends, and put a safety-pin or a stitch or two in the middle. Remove the inside from the carcase, and wash the bones and trimmings. Put these into a large saucepan, with enough stock or water to cover them, and some pieces of vegetable, unless the stock is already well flavoured. Let this boil up, skim and put in the fowl, and cook slowly from If to 2 or 3 hours, according to the age of the fowl. When done, lift it out, and if, owing to the shrinking of the meat, the cloth looks wrinkled, take it off and re-roll it, and put to press till cold between two dishes with a 3 or 4 lb. weight on the top. When cold, take the galantine out of the cloth and trim the ends. Brush over the surface with a little melted glaze, applying two coatings if necessary (see p. 210). Serve garnished with aspic jelly or some nice green salad.POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 281 Note.—If preferred, the galantine may be coated with white chaudfroid sauce (Recipe 714) instead of the glaze, and decorated with truffle cut in fancy shapes. 1142. Chaudfroid of Chicken, 1 (Chaudfroid do Volaille) Cooked chicken. I Aspic jelly. Chaudfroid sauce. | Salad,&c.,fordecoration Cut the chicken into neat joints, removing as much of the skin as possible. Place the joints on a draining tray, or on a dish turned upside down, and coat them all carefully with white chaudfroid sauce (see Recipe 714). Give them two coatings of the sauce if necessary. Then decorate the joints lightly and tastefully. For this may be used small fancy shapes of tongue, ham, or truffle, tiny sprigs of chervil, leaves of tarragon, fancy shapes of the red part of radishes or tomato, &c. The decoration must on no account be overloaded; the more delicately it is done, the prettier the effect will be. After decora- ting, run a little aspic jelly over each joint, so as to give them a glossy appearance, then let them set. To Serve.—The decorated joints may either be arranged round a high crouton of bread placed In the centre of a dish, or on some nicely dressed salad. Put a border of chopped aspic round, and decorate with tufts of green salad or some cut cucumber (see p. 313). 1143. Chaudfroid of Chicken, 2 (Chaudfroid de Volaille) Take a cooked fowl, leave it whole, and let it be very cold. Remove from it as much of the skin as possible. Place it on a large dish or on a draining tray and mask it entirely with chaudfroid sauce. To look well, the masking should all be done with one pouring over of the sauce. It is important, therefore, to have a sufficiency of sauce to begin with and then to have it of the right consistency and heat. If too hot, it will run off the fowl, and if too cold it will have a lumpy appearance. A little practice and experience will soon teach tins. When the sauce is set, remove the fowl to a clean dish and run a little liquid aspic over the top to give a gloss. Garnish the fowl according to taste. The more simply this is done the better. A variety of different colours and materials will only give it a trumpery appearance,and perhaps there isnothing prettierthan some fancy-shaped pieces of aspic, or chopped aspic and a few sprigs of fresh green parsley or chervil. 1144. Mayonnaise of Chicken (Mayonnaise de Volaille) Prepare in the same way as Chaudfroid of Chicken, using mayonnaise sauce instead of chaudfroid sauce. 1145. Cold Fowl a la St. Honors (Poularde a la St. HonorS) 1 cooked fowl. Filling. £ lb. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. tomato puree or sauce. 3 or 4 table-sps. double cream. Paprika pepper. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Decorations. Meat or aspic jelly. Carrot,truffle, and white of egg cut in fancy shapes. To Prepare the Fowl.—Either roast the fowl, or, better still, cook it as directed in Recipe 1131. It ought to be a nice brown colour all over and very tender. When cold, ease the legs away from the body without quite separating them, and carefully remove the flesh from the breast in one long piece on each side. Then with a pair of scissors cut away the upper part of the carcase bone, leaving the fowl quite hollow in the centre, and ready for the filling. Lay the fillets from the breast on a board, with the skin side uppermost, and, with a sharp knife, cut them in slices lengthwise without quite separating the pieces. To Make the Filling.—Trim the ham, removing all gristle and skin, and chop it finely or put it through the mincing machine. Then pound it well in a mortar with the tomato puree or sauce, seasoning with Paprika pepper. Add the cream by degrees until the mixture is of a nice creamy consistency, but not too soft. If necessary, add a few drops of carmine to make the mixture a pretty pink colour. To Finish.—Fill up the hollow in the fowl with this, giving it again the form of the whole bird. Lay on the breast pieces at each side, separating the slices a little so as to show some of the white. Decorate the top where the filling shows with fancy- shaped pieces of cooked carrot, truffle, and white of egg, or any other garnish preferred, covering the filling entirely. Brush over with meat or aspic jelly in a slightly liquid condition, and, when §et, serve the fowl with chopped jelly round. This is suitable for a cold luncheon dish. 1146. Chicken Cream (Creme de Volaille) Make in the same way as Veal Cream (Recipe 1096), using the white part of a chicken in place of the veal. 1147. Mousse de Volaille | lb. chicken flesh. 1 tea-cupful thick be- chamel sauce. 3 yolks of eggs. \ pt. cream, Seasoning. Decoration. Green peas, carrot, and turnip. Sauce supreme. Shred the flesh from the chicken finely with a knife, removing all nerves and pieces of skin. Pound it well in a mortar, adding the bechamel sauce (cold). Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and when well pounded add the yolks of egg and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream unwhipped. Mix well and rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Then whip the remainder of the cream and mix it gradually with the meat puree, but, before all is in, test the mixture by steaming a small quantity in a little mould. Keep back some of the cream if it is likely to make the mousse too soft. Grease a plain souffle mould and decorate it with green peas and cooked carrot and turnip cut in fancy shapes, covering the mould entirely with the decoration. Pour in the mixture, which should nearly fill it, place it in a saucepan with cold water to come half-way up the sides and bring it to simmering point over the fire. Then place them in the oven, and allow the water to simmer slowly until the mousse is well risen and feels firm to the touch. When ready, allow it to stand a few minutes before turning it out. Serve with sauce supreme poured round. Notes.—Veal may be used instead of chicken. Some of the cream may be omitted and whipped282 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD white of egg used instead. The decoration of the mould may be varied according to taste. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1148. Mousselines de Volatile 6 oz. chicken flesh. 1 egg. Seasoning. 1 gill cream. 1 truffle. 1 gherkin. Sauce demi-glace. Either cooked or uncooked chicken may be used for this, but the latter is to be preferred. Weigh it free from skin and bone, cut it in pieces, and pass it through a mincing machine. Put the mince into a mortar, add the yolk of egg, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg and a few drops of lemon juice. Pound well, add by degrees the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and rub all through a fine wire sieve. Now whip the cream until thick, and mix it in gradually and lightly to the chicken puree. Have ready about £ dozen small timbale moulds, greased and decorated with fancy-shaped pieces of gherkin and truffle; three-quarters fill them with the mixture, shaking it down that it may take the form of the moulds. Then poach the mous- selines carefully until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with sauce demi-glace round. Note.—Mousseline or supreme sauce may be used if preferred. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1149. Quenelles of Chicken or Rabbit (Quenelles de Volaille ou de Lapin) Make in the same way as Veal Quenelles (Recipe 1099), substituting the white meat from a chicken, or the flesh of a rabbit for the veal. 1150. Chicken Souffle 6 oz. cooked chicken. 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue. 1 oz. butter. A little gratedlemonrind (Souffld de Volaille) 3 eggs. A pinch of mace or nut' meg. Salt. Pepper. 1 gill good white sauce. Mince the chicken and ham together and then pound them well in a mortar with the butter and white sauce. This latter must be thick or the mixture will be too moist. Any remains of sauce will do, and if too thin a few bread-crumbs may be added. Season the mixture nicely, work in the yolks of eggs, and then rub all through a wire sieve. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased china souffle dish, not filling it more than two-thirds full, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve the souffle at once in the dish in which it was baked. Sauce may be served separately if wished, but is not necessary. Notes.—Small individual dishes may be used instead of the large one. Other kinds of meat may be used instead of the chicken. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1151. Chicken Livers & la Madere (Foies de Volaille a la Madere) 5 or 6 chicken livers. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill good stock. 1 glass Madeira. Salt. Pepper. Croutons of bread or pastry. Cut the gall and any green parts from the livers, then wash them carefully and dry in a cloth. Now cut them in pieces, and coat them lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a frying or saute pan, when hot put in the prepared livers, and turn them about constantly until brown and cooked. Then add the stock, wine, and seasoning, and simmer slowly for a few minutes longer. Serve very hot, garnished with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—A few mushrooms or stoned olives may be added to the livers if wished. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1152. Pilaff of Chicken Livers (Pilaff de Foie de Volaille) £ lb. chicken livers. U oz. butter. 1 gill brown sauce. Seasoning. Pilafi of Rice (see Recipe 1594). Wash the livers and allow them to soak in cold water a few minutes. Strain and dry them in a cloth. Then cut them in several pieces according to size. Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in the pieces of liver and fry them over a good fire for a few minutes. Strain off the butter, which may be added to the rice, and add the brown sauce to the liver. Season to taste. Have ready prepared a pilaff of rice, press it into a well-greased border mould and allow it to take the form. Turn out on a hot dish, put the cooked livers in the centre and pour some brown sauce round. 1153. Roast Duck (Canard Roti) 1 duck. Salt. 3 or 4 apples. | doz. French plums. Butter or dripping 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 cupful stock. Watercress. To Prepare and Stuff the Duck.—Singe and draw the duck, making a slit lengthwise above the vent, to facilitate the pulling out of the inside. Then wash the bird quickly in warm water and dry it in a cloth. Cut off the feet and wings at the first joint and season the bird with salt inside and out- side. It may now either be trussed and simply roasted, or filled with stuffing, as preferred. One of the simplest stuffings for a duck is made of apples and French plums. Choose apples that soften easily in cooking. Take 3 or 4 according to size, peel them, cut them in small sections and remove the cores. Add to these about \ dozen French plums, which have been soaked and stoned. Put this mixture into the body of the duck and sew up the opening. Then truss in the same way as a fowl (see p. 276), except that the wings are not crossed over the back. To Roast.—Keep the breast of the bird well covered with greased paper while roasting. Baste frequently with good butter or dripping and follow General Directions (see p. 207). A short time before taking the duck from the oven, remove the paper, dredge the breast with flour and leave it inPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 283 the oven until nicely browned. When ready, lift on to a hot dish, remove all trussing threads and strings, and keep it hot whilst making the gravy. The Gravy.—Pour away most of the fat from the roasting tin, leaving only about 1 tea-spoonful. Add the cornflour to this and mix it in. Then pour in the stock, which may be made from the giblets of the duck, and stir until boiling. Cook 2 or 3 minutes, season to taste, skim and strain. A squeeze of orange or lemon juice may be added at the last, also the cooked liver of the duck grated or finely minced. A clear unthickened gravy may be served if preferred. Garnish the duck with a little watercress and serve the sauce separately in a sauce boat. Green peas and potato chips or ribbons are good accompaniments. Notes.—Other stuffings may be used instead of the above, such as sage and onion, or walnut, or plain mashed potatoes nicely seasoned (see Stuff- ings, p. 30T). Or, the duck may be served simply roasted, which is always the most wholesome way. In this case some acid accompaniment should be handed with it, such as apple, tomato, or cranberry sauce, red-currant or guava jelly, walnut pickles, &c. Time to roast, 45 to 50 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1154. Roast Ducklings These may be prepared and cooked in the same ways as ducks. It is not usual to stuff them. Serve with brown gravy, apple jelly, and a salad or green peas. Time to roast, 30 to 35 minutes. 1155. Braised Duck with Olives 1 duck. Some fat bacon. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Seasoning. 3 gills brown stock or sauce. French olives. £ gill white wine. Croutons of bread. Prepare and truss the duck as for roasting. Cover the bottom of a stewpan or braising pan with thin slices of fat bacon, and lay some sliced carrot, turnip,* and onion on the top. Add a small bunch of herbs and make these thoroughly hot. Then put in the duck, season with pepper and salt, and fry or bake until both vegetables and duck are brown. Now pour off any liquid fat and add the stock or thin brown sauce. Cover the saucepan and cook in a fairly hot oven or on the top of the stove until the bird is tender, basting occasionally. When ready, lift out the duck, cut it in joints and arrange neatly on a hot dish. Strain the gravy, reduce it if neces- sary, then skim and strain over the duck. Garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry and a few olives, which have been stoned and made thoroughly hot in the white wine. Notes.—The duck may be served whole if pre- ferred. Other garnishes may be used instead of the olives. 1156. Duck with Turnips (Canard aux Navets) 1 tender duck. 7 or 8 young turnips. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. flour. 1£ pts. stock. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. Prepare and truss the duck as for roasting. Dust with flour and season inside and outside with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a deep stew- pan, put in the duck and turn it over and over until it is nicely browned on all sides. Then re- move the duck and put into the same saucepan the young turnips, which have been prepared and trimmed in neat pieces. Sprinkle them with castor sugar, cook them until lightly coloured, and then lift them on to a plate. Now add the flour to the fat left in the stewpan, mix until smooth and pour in the stock. Bring this to the boil, skim, add the bunch of herbs and onion cut in pieces and season to taste. Return the duck, cover and cook slowly from £ to £ hour, then add the turnips and continue the cooking about | hour longer until the duck and turnips are tender. The duck should be turned occasionally during the cooking, but care must be taken not to break the turnips. When ready, lift the duck on to a hot dish, remove any trussing strings, and then arrange the turnips round. Reduce the sauce if necessary, remove all grease, and strain over and round the duck. Time to cook, hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1157. Duck with Celery 1 young duck. 1 cupful shred celery. Salt. Pepper. 2 or 3 bay-leaves. 2 cupfuls veal or chicken stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 table-sp. red currant jelly. Croutons of fried bread or pastry. Cut the duck in neat joints, wash the pieces quickly and dry them in a cloth. Then put them in a baking tin and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Prepare some tender celery and cut it in fine shreds, put this over the duck and add the bay-leaves. Heat half the stock and pour it over and round. Then cover the tin and bake in a good oven until the duck is tender, basting occasionally with the stock and turning the joints over when half cooked. When ready, the stock should have dried up. Ar- range the pieces of duck with the celery neatly on a hot dish and keep them warm whilst making the sauce. Put the butter and flour into the tin in which the duck was cooked, and mix them well over the fire. Then pour in the remainder of the stock, and stir until boiling. Add the ketchup, red-currant jelly, and more seasoning if necessary. Skim well and strain over the duck. Garnish with, croutons of fried bread or pastry, and serve red- currant, guava, or any other acid jelly separately. Note.—A little wine or orange juice may be added to the sauce, also a few chopped mush- rooms if desired. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1158, 1 duck. 1 lb. veaL £ lb. bacon. Pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. 1 egg. Pflte o! Duck (Pate de Canard) 2 table-sps. biscuit crumbs. 1 glass sherry. 1 lemon. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. Choose a young and tender duck, bone it as carefully as possible, and cut the flesh in small neat, pieces. Wipe the veal and cut it up roughly, re-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 284 moving the skin. Reserve £ lb. of the bacon cut in thin slices, and cut up the remaining £ lb. Now put the veal, \ lb. of bacon, and any odd trimmings of duck through the mincing machine, and put all through a second time if necessary to make a fine farce. Add the biscuit crumbs (unsweetened) to the farce, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten with the egg well beaten and the glass of wine. Mix thoroughly. Take a fire- proof dish with a fid (terrine), and line it with the sliced bacon. Put in next a layer of the farce, then some pieces of duck, more farce, and so on until the dish is full. Cover with sliced bacon, then a layer of thin rings of onion, thin slices of lemon and the bay-leaf. Put on the fid and seal the join with a paste made of flour and water. Bake in a good oven until the pieces of duck feel quite tender, when they are tested by running a skewer through the hole in the fid of the terrine. This pate must not be served until quite cold, when slices can be cut as required. Time to cook, H to 2 hours. 1159. Salmi of Duck 1 young duck. Cold water. Seasoning. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 glass sherry or Madeira. Juice of'l orange. Croutons of fried bread. Prepare and wash the duck. Remove the legs, wings, and breast, trim and cut these in neat pieces, and put them to one side. Chop up the back and put it with the giblets, prepared and washed, into a saucepan. Add a little salt, cover with cold water and bring to the boil. Then skim well, add the onion cut in pieces and the bunch of herbs and simmer all together for 1 hour. Then strain and remove any grease from the top. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of duck, cover and cook slowly for 20 minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally to turn the contents over and prevent their sticking. In another saucepan melt the remainder of the butter, and let it brown slightly, stir in the flour and brown that also. Then add about three gills of the strained stock and stir until boiling. Skim carefully, add the wine and orange juice, season to taste and strain this sauce over the duck. Continue the cooking about 20 minutes longer or until the duck is quite tender. Serve very hot, garnished with croutons of fried bread. Time to cook, about § hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1160. Roast Goose (Oie Rotie) Proceed as directed for Roast Duck (Recipe 1153) regarding the preparation and trussing, taking care to remove all soft fat from the inside. A goose may be stuffed with sage and onion, apple, potato, or chestnut stuffing (see Stuffings, p. 307), put into the body of the bird, although in reality it is much more wholesome roasted quite simply and unstuffed, with appropriate accompaniments. A goose does not require very frequent basting, as the flesh is so fat in itself. Any goose fat should be carefully preserved, as it is most valuable for cook- ing purposes. The time will depend on the size of the bird. Serve with good brown gravy or with tomato sauce, also apple, gooseberry, or cranberry sauce, or a compote of fruit. Time to roast, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 8 or more persons. 1161. Gosling or Green Goose, To Roast (Oison Roti) Prepare a gosling in the same way as a duck. Before trussing, season the inside with pepper and salt and put in a good piece of butter to keep the flesh moist. It is not usual to stuff so young a bird. Roast in the usual way and serve garnished with watercress. Brown gravy should be served separately. Time to roast, § to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1162. Stewed Giblets 2 sets goose giblets. 1 pt. stock or water. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 small carrot. 1 oz. butter. £ oz. flour. Seasoning. Sippets of toast. Wash and prepare the giblets as directed in Recipe 9, and cut them in small pieces. Put them into a saucepan with stock or water to cover them (about 1 pint), the onion and carrot cut in pieces, and a small bunch of herbs. Put the fid on the pan and simmer slowly until the giblets are tender. Then skim and strain. Melt the butter in the stewpan and let it become slightly browned, mix in the flour and brown that also. Now pour in the stock from the giblets and stir until boiling. Return the giblets and simmer all together for a few minutes, then serve garnished with sippets of toast or with a border of rice or macaroni. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1163. Goose, Braised with Chestnuts 1 young goose. 2 oz. butter or bacon fat. 1 carrot. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 gill white wine. Seasoning. Brown stock. 2 or 3 doz. chestnuts. Prepare and truss the goose, dusting it over with flour. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the goose and keep turning it over and over until brown on all sides. Add the carrot and onion cut in thin shoes, the bunch of herbs, wine and seasoning. Cook for a few minutes with the lid off the saucepan until the wine is well reduced, then add enough stock to about half cover the goose. Put a tight-fitting lid on the pan and cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven, until the goose is tender. Baste the bird occasionally with the stock, adding more if necessary, but the amount of liquid should be kept rather low. The time required for cooking will depend on the size and age of the goose. When ready, serve the goose on a hot dish with some of the gravy poured round and the chestnuts as a garnish. To Make the Sauce.—Strain the liquid into a smaller saucepan and boil it down until a rich brown colour, adding a small piece of glaze or a little more stock if necessary. Skim carefully, and when ready pour some round the goose and serve the rest in a sauce boat.POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 285 To Prepare the Chestnuts.—First roast them as directed in Recipe 1625, and when nearly tender remove the shells and under skin. Then put the chestnuts into a saucepan with brown stock to cover them, a tea-spoonful of sugar and a little salt. Allow them to cook until the stock is re- duced and the chestnuts are nicely glazed. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1164. Cassoulet a la Toulousalne £ pt. haricot beans. 2 onions. £ lb. ham. I lb. smoked sausage. 1 gill tomato puree. Remains of cooked goose. Some goose fat. Salt and pepper. A few bread-crumbs. Soak and cook the haricot beans as directed in Recipe 613. Chop the onions, put them into a saucepan with a little of the fat from the goose, and cook them over the fire until they become slightly brown. Add to them the puree of tomatoes or some tomato sauce, then the haricot beans along with some of the water in which they were cooked. Season well with pepper and salt, and simmer for a few minutes over the fire. Put the piece of ham or lean bacon into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil and simmer a few minutes. Then remove it from the water and cut it in small pieces. Cut the sausage also in slices but leave it raw. Cut some remains of goose into neat joints. Now take a fireproof terrine and put into it half the haricot bean mix- ture. On the top of this arrange the pieces of goose, ham, and sausage, and pour the remainder of the haricot beans over. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs on the top, and then a little melted fat. Bake in a moderate oven and serve in the terrine. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. cool place. A few joints may be taken from the jar as required, the remainder being carefully covered with the grease. The joints of goose are generally reheated in a little bouillon with vege- tables, or used as in last recipe. Guinea-fowl (Pintade) The guinea-fowl is a domestic bird and lives in the barnyard with other poultry. Its plumage is dark grey with white spots and the flesh is darker in colour than the ordinary fowl. It really belongs to the pheasant family, and somewhat resembles Guinea-fowl that bird in taste, only the flesh is inclined to be dry. Guinea-fowl is very often served in place of game when the latter is out of season. It may be cooked according to almost any of the recipes given for fowl or pheasant. 1166. Roast Guinea-fowl (Pintade Rotie) Follow directions given for Roast Fowl (Recipe 1126). As the flesh is inclined to be dry, the breast is very often larded; it must in any case be well covered with bacon, and the basting must be well attended to. Oyster or celery sauce may be served separately. Time to roast, f to 1 hour. 1165. Preserved Goose (Confit d’Oies) Fat Geese. This is made in countries where geese are fattened up for foie gras. It is an excellent method of preserving the geese for winter use. Clean and empty the birds and take from them all the soft fat. Melt the grease slowly over the fire and then strain It into a large saucepan. Cut the geese into four or six pieces according tosize, and prick well through the skin, to allow the fat from the flesh to escape in the cooking. Put the pieces of goose into the melted fat in the saucepan, and allow them to cook slowly by the side of the fire until tender. The fat must not be allowed to become too hot, as the meat should poach only and not fry. When ready, lift out the pieces, spread them out on a dish and let them cool. When cold, put them into a large terrine or jar. Strain the grease carefully through a piece of muslin, leaving the meat juice at the foot of the saucepan, as this would prevent the fat from keeping. When the fat has cooled a little, but is still in a liquid condition, pour it over the pieces of goose, covering them entirely. There must be a good coating of fat on the top of the meat, to prevent the air entering Place the terrine or jar in a cool place and when the fat is firm, cover it with muslin. The confit d’oie will keep all winter if it is carefully prepared and stored in a 1167. Fricassee of Guinea-fowl (Fricassee de Pintade) 1 guinea-fowl. £ lb. fat bacon. 2 table-sps. flour. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 pt. water or stock. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. A squeeze of lemon juice 1 dessert-sp. red-Gurrant jelly. Forcemeat balls. Cut the guinea-fowl in smallneat joinis(see p.276), removing as much of the skin as possible and any unnecessary bone. Put 2 small table-spoonfuls of flour on to a plate, add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and mix together. Dip the pieces of guinea-fowl into this and coat them well. Then cut the bacon in small thin strips, put it into a hot frying pan, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to become too brown. Now lift it out, draining it from the gravy, and place it in a stewpan. Put the guinea-fowl, a few pieces at a time, into the hot bacon fat and fry them until brown on all sides. Then place them beside the pieces of bacon in the stewpan. Put any remain- ing flour into the frying pan, stir it until brown, pour in the stock or water, and continue to stir until boiling, rubbing down all browning from the sides of the pan. Strain the sauce over the guinea- fowl, &c., add the onion, red-currant jelly and lemon juice, put the lid on the pan and stew slowlyCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 286 until the bird Is tender. About J hour before it is ready, add small forcemeat balls made according to Recipe 1288. Serve neatly, placing the balls round the dish. Or, the fricassee may be cooked and served in an earthenware casserole. An orange or celery salad would be a good accompani- ment. Note.—The forcemeat balls may be omitted and the dish garnished with fried croutons of bread. The grated rind and juice of an orange may be added instead of the lemon juice. Time to cook, 1 to hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1168. Roast Pigeon (Pigeon Roti) A pigeon should be plucked and drawn as soon as killed. Do this in the same way as directed for a fowl (see p. 275). Only a very young and tender pigeon should be roasted, in fact as a rule they are better braised or stewed. Wash the pigeon or wipe it well, scald and skin the legs and feet and cut off the toes at the first joint. Put a small piece of butter inside, and season with pepper and salt. A pigeon is trussed in very much the same way as a fowl for roasting, only the legs are crossed. Make a small slit in the skin of one of them, just above the foot, and pass the other through it. Turn the ends of the pinions over the back and press the thighs close to the sides of the body. Now take a needle and fine string, pass it through the pinion and leg on one side, then through the body and the leg and pinion on the other side. Pass back again at a very short distance from where the first string comes out, and tie the two ends together at the other side. Tie a piece of fat bacon over the breast, or the breast may be larded. Roast in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes, keeping it well basted with butter. Serve garnished with watercress or chip potatoes and a thickened gravy made in the roasting tin (see p. 208) separately. Bread sauce may also be served if wished, and a green salad is a good accompaniment. Note.—If liked, the pigeon may be stuffed before roasting. For Recipe for forcemeat see p. 308, and a little port wine may be added to the gravy. Time to roast, 20 to 30 minutes. 1169. Boiled or Steamed Pigeon This is not a very usual way of cooking a pigeon, but it makes a nice change when the birds are plentiful, and when served with a good sauce, a boiled or steamed pigeon makes a very tasty dish. Prepare the pigeon in the same way as you would a fowl or chicken for boiling, rub it all over with cut lemon, wrap it in greased paper and boil as directed for Boiled Fowl (Recipe 1127). It is always better if the pigeon can be boiled in stock instead of water. The time required will depend on the age of the bird and also upon the kind, some of the wild pigeons being much tougher than a Bordeaux pigeon. As a rule f to 1 hour will be sufficient. When ready, serve on a hot dish, removing the trussing string, and mask with celery, parsley, soubise, or any other sauce preferred. The dish may be garnished with little rolls of bacon. If the pigeon is steamed instead of boiled, longer time must be allowed for cooking it. 1170. Grilled Pigeons with Orange Sauce (Pigeons Grilles, Sauce a l’Orange) 2 pigeons. Butter. I Pepper. Salt. White bread-crumbs. ] Watercress. Lemon. Prepare the pigeons as directed in Recipe 1168, and split them open without separating the two halves. Flatten them slightly with a cutlet bat, brush them over with melted butter, and season with pepper and salt. Then place them on a tin and cook in a good oven for 10 minutes. When lightly browned, take them out, coat them with bread-crumbs and sprinkle with a little more butter. Finish cooking them on the grill, turning them from side to side until nicely browned. Serve the pigeons on a hot dish, garnished with watercress and half slices of lemon. Serve orange or tartare sauce separately. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1171. Stewed Pigeons with Macaroni 2 pigeons. 1 oz. dripping or butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. pt. brown stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 3 or 4 oz. macaroni. Clean the pigeons and cut each one in four pieces. Season them with pepper and salt and coat them with the flour. Melt the batter or drip- ping in a stewpan, put in the joints of pigeon with the chopped onion and cook over the fire or in the oven until well browned. Then add the stock and a little wine if wished, and allow the contents of the saucepan to simmer slowly until the pigeons are tender. About 20 minutes before they are ready, add the macaroni, parboiled and cut in small pieces, and cook this with the pigeons for the remainder of the time. Add more seasoning if necessary and serve very hot, sprinkling the chopped parsley over Note.—-Spaghetti may be used instead of mac- aroni. Time to cook, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1172. Potted Pigeons 3 pigeons. A little bacon fat. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 oz. flour. Salt. Pepper. 3 gills stock. A small bunch of herbs. | 6 bread croutons. Singe and draw the pigeons, and wipe them inside and out with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and truss them into shape with a needle and string. Then place them on a roasting tin, rub the breasts with bacon fat and brown them quickly in the oven. Meanwhile prepare a sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion finely chopped and fry it a fight brown. Mix in the flour, pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Add pepper, salt, and any other seasoning desired. Now put the browned pigeons into this sauce, cover with a fid, and cook very slowly at the side of the fire or in the oven until the birds are tender. When ready, remove the pigeons, take out the trussing string, and cut them in halves. Serve each half on a crouton of fried bread, skim the sauce and strain it over. A dish of macaroni or rice would be a good accompaniment to this dish.POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 287 Note.—This is one of the best ways of cooking wild pigeons, which are always inclined to be tough. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1173. Pigeons with Green Peas (Pigeonneaux aux Petits Pois) 2 young pigeons. 1 £ oz. butter. 8 to 10 small white onions. J lb. bacon. 1 dessert-sp. flour. | pt. light stock. A bunch of herbs. £ pt. fresh green peas. Seasoning. Prepare and truss the pigeons as for roasting (Recipe 1168). Melt the butter in a saucepan, when smoking hot put in the pigeons and turn them over and over until well browned on all sides. Then lift them out and put into the butter, the onions peeled, and the bacon cut in small pieces. Cook these over the fire for a few minutes, sprinkle with the flour and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling and skim well. Return the pigeons to this sauce along with the green peas and bunch of herbs. Season to taste, cover the saucepan and let all simmer slowly until the pigeons are tender. When ready, serve the pigeons in the centre of a hot dish, with the green peas and onions round. Time to stew, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1174. Pigeons with Rice (Pigeons au Ris) 3 pigeons. Boiling water. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. \ lb. rice. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Singe, clean, and draw the pigeons, and truss them as for roasting with a needle and string. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them and a little salt. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add a small quantity of vegetables, carrot, onion and celery, cut in small pieces, and a small bunch of herbs, and simmer slowly until the pigeons are tender. Then wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it, boil 5 minutes, strain and rinse with cold water. Return the rice to the saucepan, add to it ab^ut 1-| pint strained liquor from the pigeons, and cook the rice in this until it is tender, but not broken. Add to it the butter, broken in small pieces, and season well with pepper and salt. . Pile the rice in the centre of a hot dish, cut the pigeons in halves and arrange them round. Note.—If liked, the rice may be mixed with a few green peas, tomato cut in small pieces, or a little ham. lime to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1175. Braised Pigeons with Spaghetti 3 small pigeons. 2 oz. ham or bacon. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Stock. 4 to 6 oz. spaghetti. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Singe, draw, and clean the pigeons, and truss them as for roasting with a needle and string. Then take a stewpan large enough to hold them and arrange in it a bed of vegetables, carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, cut in small pieces. Add to these the ham or bacon cut In small pieces, the bunch of herbs and enough stock to cover. Bring this to the boil and lay the pigeons on the top. Cover with greased paper and braise on the top of the stove or in the oven until the pigeons are nearly tender. Then remove them, cut them in halves and place them on a greased baking tin. Strain the stock in the stewpan, remove the grease and pour it over the pigeons. Then set the tin in a moderate oven and continue the cooking, basting frequently, until the pigeons are brown and the liquid reduced to a glaze. Have ready some nicely cooked spaghetti (see Recipe 1619), and add to it the butter. Arrange the pieces of pigeon neatly on a hot dish and put the spaghetti round. Time to braise, 1 to H hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1176. Stuffed Pigeons with Mushrooms 2 pigeons. Forcemeat. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. flour. \ pt. stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Seasoning. 1 cupful shred mush- rooms. First prepare some forcemeat according to directions given in Recipe 1276. Then bone the pigeons. Lay the birds on a board with the back uppermost and cut through the skin right down the centre of the back. Then with a small pointed knife cut the flesh carefully from the carcase, being careful not to make holes in the skin. Disjoint the legs and wings and remove the carcase bone, but leave the legs and wings unboned. Spread the pigeons out on the board, season them with pepper and salt, and put some forcemeat into the centre of each. Fold the flesh over, and sew up into their original shape, truss as for roasting and dust with dry flour. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a stewpan, and when smoking hot put in the pigeons and brown them well on all sides. Then lift them on to a plate. Add the chopped onion to the fat in the pan, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Add the flour and brown that also; then pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Now return the pigeons, cover the saucepan, and cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the birds are tender, turning them over once or twice during the cooking. When the pigeons are ready, lift them out, remove the trussing strings and keep them warm. Skim the sauce left in the pan, add the lemon juice, more seasoning if neces- sary, and then the mushrooms. Simmer a few minutes longer and pour round the pigeons. If fiesh mushrooms are used, time must be allowed for them to cook. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient fcr 5 or 6 persons. 1177. Pigeon Cutlets a la Duchesse (Cotelettes de Pigeon a la Duchesse) 3 pigeons. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. f lb. sausage meat or other meat farce. 1 pig’s caul. I white of egg. A little meat glaze. Potato or spinach border. Sauce piquante. Prepare the pigeon cutlets as in next recipe, cooking them for a short time in butter and press-288 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD ing them between two dishes until nearly cold. Then trim them neatly and coat them on one side with nicely seasoned sausage meat or some meat farce. Make the cutlets look as round and plump as possible. Wash the caul in salt and water and dry it before using. Cut thin convenient-sized pieces, and wrap each pigeon cutlet in a piece of caul. Place them on a greased tin, brush them over with slightly beaten white of egg, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Then brush them over with a little meat glaze. Prepare a border of spinach or potato on a hot entree dish, stand the pigeon cutlets along the top and pour the sauce round. Note.—The sauce and garnish may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1178. Pigeon Cutlets a la Milanaise (Cotelettes de Pigeon a la Milanaise) 3 pigeons. 2 oz. butter. Pepper. Salt. Egg and bread-crumbs. Macaroni a la Milanaise. (Recipe 1618.) Tomato sauce. The pigeons used must be young and tender. Singe and draw them, then cut them in halves and wash and dry the pieces. Then bone them, cutting off the wings, but leaving on the legs and drawing them through the skin to give the pieces the form of a cutlet. Melt the butter in a saute or frying pan, put in the joints of pigeon and cook them slowly for 3 or 4 minutes on each side. Then lift them out, season with pepper and salt, lay them between two dishes with a weight on the top and set them aside to cool. Shortly before they are required, trim them neatly, and egg and bread- crumb them. Fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Have ready prepared some mac- aroni a la Milanaise and pile it in the centre of a hot dish. Stand the pigeon cutlets against it and pour the tomato sauce round. Note.—These cutlets may be varied by changing the sauce and changing the garnish. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1179. Cutlets of Pigeon a la Villeroi (Cotelettes de Pigeon a la Villeroi) 3 pigeons. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Villeroi sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Green peas. Brown sauce. Prepare the pigeon cutlets as in last recipe, cooking them a short time in butter and pressing Cutlets of Pigeon a la Villeroi them until nearly cold. Then trim them neatly and coat them on one side with Villeroi sauce (Recipe 746). Use the sauce in a setting condition, not too hot. Stand the cutlets in a cool place until the sauce is cold and firm, then egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat. Dish them on croutons of fried bread, pour brown sauce round, and garnish with green peas. Note.—The garnish and the sauce may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1180. Roast Turkey (Dinde Roti) 1 turkey. Chestnut stuffing. Gravy. Bread sauce. Rolls of bacon or saus- ages. Choose the turkey carefully, a young hen bird is generally considered the best for roasting. There are many different ways of serving roast turkey, but perhaps it is never better than when simply roasted, or with a few prepared chestnuts put inside and served with a good sauce and a nice fresh salad. Many, however, prefer something more elaborate, and would not consider the dish au rigueur unless one if not two kinds of stuff- ing were used in its preparation. The following is one of the most popular ways of serving the bird. Singe and draw the bird in the same way as a fowl, and wash it quickly in cold water. Reserve the giblets and use them for making stock or giblet soup. Now make some chestnut stuffing (Recipe 1265), and put it into the crop of the bird. If a large quantity of stuffing is liked, some may be put into the body as well. Or, some- times veal stuffing is put in the crop, and chestnut stuffing in the body. Sew the stuffing in and truss the turkey for roasting (see p. 276). Cover it well with greased paper and roast in a good oven until sufficiently cooked. It must be kept well basted, bacon fat being used if possible, and the paper should be removed a short time before serving, to allow the breast to become nicely browned. The time for cooking will depend on the age and size of the bird; as a general rule 15 minutes to the lb. should be allowed and 15 minutes over. A medium-sized bird will require about 2 hours. When the turkey is ready, lift it on to a large hot dish and remove from it all trussing threads and strings. Prepare some good brown gravy in the roasting tin, strain a little round the dish and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. Garnish the dish with small fried sausages, or with rolls of bacon. Bread sauce may also be served separately. Notes.—Other stuffings may be used instead of chestnut, such as sausage meat, veal stuffing, &c. Instead of brown gravy, oyster, mushroom, chest- nut, or celery sauce may be used. Cranberry sauce, too, is sometimes served. To Serve Cold If the turkey is to be served cold, brush it over with liquid glaze after roasting. A little aspic jelly and fresh salad may be used for decorating it. 1181. Roiled Turkey (Dinde Bouilli) A small turkey may very well be boiled, and it makes a nice change from the invariable roast turkey. Follow the directions given for Boiled Fowl (Recipe 1127). The bird may be stuffed orPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 289 not as preferred. It should be well rubbed over with lemon juice and wrapped in greased paper, and a few prepared vegetables and especially celery should be added to the water or stock in which it is cooked. The time will depend very much on the size and kind of bird used. At least 2 hours should be allowed for one of small size, or from 15 minutes to the lb. and 15 minutes over. Serve with celery, egg, parsley, oyster, or bechamel sauce, and garnish with cut lemon and rolls of bacon, or small egged and bread-crumbed sausages. Boiled ham or tongue usually accompanies boiled turkey. 1182. Braised Turkey (Dinde Brais6) This is a very tasty way of cooking a turkey and especially suitable for one that is inclined to be tough. Prepare and truss the bud in exactly the same way as for roasting (Recipe 1180), stuffing it or not as preferred. The breast should either be larded or covered with slices of slitted bacon. Braise it according to< General Directions for Brais- ing (see p. 210), adding to the braising ingredients a good glass of sherry or Marsala, and the strained juice of a small lemon. The cooking should be done in the oven if possible, and the bird must be turned once or twice during the process. The time required will depend on the age and size of the bird, from 3 to 4 or 5 hours, but success in braising depends on the long and slow cooking. When ready, lift the turkey from the braising pot, place it on a roasting tin, remove the shoes of bacon from the breast, and brown it in the oven, basting it once or twice with some of the stock. Strain the rest of the stock, remove any grease from the top and serve as gravy. Serve with the same accompaniments as roast turkey. 1183. Galantine of Turkey 1 turkey (medium size). 1J lbs. veal. 1 lb. fresh pork. \ lb. fat bacon. \ lb. bread-crumbs. Seasoning. Grated lemon rind. 1 glass sherry. | lb. cooked tongue. 4 hard-boiled eggs. A few truffles. 3 oz. pistachio nuts. Bone the turkey in the same way as directed for boning a fowl (p. 277). Spread it out on a board with the skin side downwards and make it as much as possible of an even thickness, by cutting slices from the breast and laying them over the thin parts of the bird. Season with a mixture of pepper, salt, and a little spice evenly distributed. Make a stuffing with the above ingredients. Cut the veal, pork, and fat bacon into pieces and then put them once or twice through the mincing machine. Mix the bread-crumbs with this and season well with pepper, salt, cayenne, the grated rind of 1 lemon and a little mixed spice. Moisten with the sherry and mix well together until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Spread this forcemeat evenly over the boned turkey and then lay over it in rows lengthwise, the cooked tongue cut in strips, the hard-boiled eggs cut in sections, and the truffles and pistachio nuts sliced. Then draw the two sides of the back together and sew up as neatly as possible. Tie up carefully in a cloth, fastening it securely at both ends and also in the middle with a piece of tape, or a safety-pin. Now cook this in the same way as a galantine of fowl, and if possible in stock made with the carcase of the turkey. It will require from 3 to 4 hours to cook, according to size. W hen ready, re-roll the galantine and press it between two boards with a weight on the top until cold. Then remove the cloth, wipe all grease from the turkey, and brush it over with glaze. It may require one or two coatings to give it a nice brown surface. When the glaze is dry, brush over again with liquid meat jelly or aspic to give it a nice glossy appearance. Serve on a clean dish garnished with fancy-shaped pieces of aspic or meat jelly, and some sprigs of fresh green parsley or a little salad. Notes.—If preferred, the galantine may be coated with a white chaudfroid sauce instead of the brown glaze. Sometimes a whole cooked tongue is put inside a galantine of turkey. This should be small, well cooked, skinned and neatly trimmed. It should be placed with the point towards the tail of the bird. In this case, less of the forcemeat would be required. 1184. Curried Turkey 1 lb. cold turkey. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 table-sp. rice flour. \ pt. stock. 1 gill milk or cream. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Cut the remains of cooked turkey into fine, neatly trimmed shreds free from skin and bone, then weigh out 1 lb. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes until a golden brown colour. Add the curry powder, rice flour, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Moisten with } pint stock made from the bones and trimmings of the turkey, and stir until boiling. Put the fid on the pan and simmer a few minutes until the onion is thoroughly cooked. Then put in the turkey meat and add the milk or cream. Heat slowly for 10 or 15 minutes and add the lemon juice just before serving. Serve gar- nished with rolls of bacon and hand boiled rice separately. Note.—The curry may be made hotter if wished, and a little chutney may be added. This may be cooked and served in an earthenware casserole. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1185. Turkey Legs, Devilled, 1 (Dinde a la Diable) Drumsticks of a turkey. | Salt. Black pepper. Oil or butter Mustard. | Cayenne. Score the drumsticks two or three times to the bone, dip them in oil or melted butter, and sprinkle pretty thickly with mustard or curry powder, black pepper, cayenne, and salt. Grease the gridiron and make it hot, and broil the drumsticks over a clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove, from 7 to 10 minutes. During the process baste the pieces lightly with oil or melted butter, and turn them frequently. Serve them with or without devil sauce (Recipe 686). Note.—If the devil is wished very fiery, mix a little mustard with Worcester sauce and a few drops of tabasco (essence of chillies), season with TCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 290 the pepper and salt, and spread this paste over the drumsticks before grilling them. 1186. Turkey Legs, Devilled, 2 (Dinde a la Diable) J tea-sp. curry powder. 1 oz. butter. A few browned bread- crumbs. 2 turkey legs. 1 tea-sp. English mustard £ tea-sp. French mustard Cayenne pepper. Salt. Chop off the ends of the bones and trim the legs neatly. Then score them several times both along and across and fairly deeply, and dip them into melted butter or salad oil. Mix the two lands of mustard together with the curry powder, cayenne pepper, and salt. Spread this mixture over the legs, pressing it into the cuts, and let them stand a short time before cooking. W hen ready, sprinkle with fine browned bread-crumbs and broil over a good fire until nicely browned, basting them now ind again with a little more melted butter. Serve very hot. A piquante sauce may be served separ- ately if desired. Note.—The devil mixture may be made more or less hot according to taste. The French mus- tard may be omitted and a little chutney used instead of the curry powder. Time to grill, 7 or 8 minutes. put them into a saucepan along with any scraps and gravy ; cover with cold water and bring slowly to the boil. Put in a bunch of herbs, a carrot cut in pieces and an onion stuck with cloves, and boil at least 1 hour. Then strain and remove all greaso from the top of the stock. Now melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it until hghtly browned. Stir in the flour and brown that also. Then add by degrees 1 pint of the turkey stock, season with pepper and salt and stir until boiling. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly for 10 minutes or until the onion is cooked. Skim if necessary, put in the turkey meat, add the wine and heat all slowly without boiling. When the meat is hot through and thoroughly saturated with the 'sauce, the ragout is ready. Serve garnished with small forcemeat balls (Recipe 1290), or with rolls of bacon. PART II RABBITS, HARES, AND VENISON TO CHOOSE HARES AND RABBITS 1187. Jellied Turkey 1 lb. cold turkey meat. 1 qrt. turkey stock. 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill French vinegar. 2 oz. gelatine. Seasoning A few pistachio nuts. Take the remains of some cold turkey and re- move all the flesh from the bones. Trim away any skin and gristle from the meat and mince it very finely, or put it through the mincing machine. Then weigh 1 lb. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan along with any trimmings and skin. Cover these with cold water, and when they come to the boil add some flavouring vege- tables, and simmer all together at least 1 hour. Then strain, and if necessary reduce to 1 quart. Add to this quart of stock, 2 oz. gelatine cut in pieces, the vinegar, and whites of eggs slightly beaten. Whisk over the fire until boiling and then strain like jelly. Now take two-thirds of this strained stock and put it into a clean saucepan with the minced turkey meat; simmer the two together for a few minutes, add some shred pis- tachio nuts, pour into a wet mould and set aside until cold. Cool also the remainder of the jelly stock which was not used with the meat. When required, unmould the jellied turkey, chop the reserved jelly, and put it round. Serve with salad. Note.—The pistachio nuts may be omitted, and small sections of hard-boiled egg may be added. 1188. Turkey Ragout Cold turkey. A bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 2 or 3 cloves. Cold water. oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. flour. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. sherry or Marsala. Forcemeat balls. Take the remains of some cold cooked turkey, cut the flesh into small neat pieces free from skin and bone and weigh about 1 lb. Chop up the bones and When hares and rabbits are young the claws arc smooth, sharp, and pointed, the cleft in the jaws is narrow, the teeth small and white, and the ears soft and easily torn. The small nut under the paw should also be well developed. As the animal ages, the claws become rounded and rough, the cleft in the jaw deepens the front teeth become long and yellow, the ears tough and dry, and the little nut under the paw disappears. Rabbits, like poultry, should be used fresh. Choose one that is plump and short-necked, and with the flesh stiff and fresh, and without discoloration. Wild rabbits are generally preferred to tame ones, as they are considered to have a better flavour. The flesh of the tame rabbit is, however, whiter and more delicate. When a hare is required for roasting, choose a leveret, a young hare under a year old, as it will be more tender. An older animal is better for making soup or for jugged hare. For the keeping of hares and rabbits see under Larder (p. 31). To Paunch and Skin a Rabbit A rabbit should be paunched as soon as killed. Make a slit underneath and carefully remove the stomach and all the intestines, which must all be thrown away. Be particular to remove the piece of intestine which lies close to the tail and also any discoloured part. The rabbit should then be well wiped inside and hung up, if it is not required at once. To remove the skin : First chop off the ears, and the legs at the first joint. Then begin loosening the skin at the sides of the opening and draw it away from the flesh towards the hind- legs. Turn the skin of the legs inside out and pull it right off. Now draw the skin off the body and towards the shoulders, and skin the fore-legs in the same way. Remove the skin from the head very carefully, using the point of a sharp knife, and take out the eyes.291 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME To Clean a Rabbit After the rabbit is paunched and skinned, it must be well washed and cleaned before it is ready for cooking. First remove the kidneys and draw away all the fat that surrounds them. Then break the thin skin (diaphragm) which separates the chest from the lower part of the body and draw out the heart and lungs from the inside. The liver, heart, and kidneys are the only inside parts that should be kept. The gall must always be carefully removed from the liver. Wash the rabbit well in salt and water, and if possible let it soak at least hour in tepid water with a little salt in it. Then lift out, dry and use as directed. Note.—If the strong flavour of the rabbit is ob- jected to, it should be blanched before cooking. To Skin and Paunch a Hare A hare should not be paunched until it is about to be used. Skin the hare first, in the same way as directed for skinning a rabbit, only in this case the tail and ears should be left on. The ears are the most difficult parts to skin, and a little care is required not to tear nor injure them in any way. Sometimes a slit is made in one of the hind-legs just above the foot, and the hare is hung on to a hook while the skinning is being done. Paunch in the same way as a rabbit, only be careful to save the blood, as this is required for some dishes, such as jugged hare and hare soup. Save also the liver, heart, and kidneys, and remove the gall from the liver. Wash the hare quickly in tepid water, dry in a cloth, and it is then ready for cooking. Many authorities object to this washing of the hare and direct that it should be wiped only with a cloth, in order not to lose any of the flavour, but a quick washing without soaking seems a more wholesome method. To Cut a Rabbit in Joints First cut off the four legs by the joints. Leave the fore-legs whole, but cut the hind-legs in two or three pieces, chopping through the bone with a chopping knife. Then cut the body across in five or six pieces, chopping the breast piece in two in order to make it flatter. Trim the pieces neatly, re- moving from them all the flap or loose skin, which along with the neck may be put into the stock pot, or used in the making of any gravy. Split the head in two, and this may be served with the rabbit, if liked ; it is considered a delicacy by some people. The liver, heart, and kidneys may also be served. To Bone a Rabbit It is not often that a rabbit has to be boned, but when a galantine has to be made it is necessary to do so. Clean and prepare the rabbit as directed above, then cut off the head and the two fore-legs and lay the rabbit on a board with the open side upper- most. Commence the boning at the neck end by cutting through the thin layer of flesh which covers the breast bone. Press the knife close to the bone and raise the flesh from it on both sides. Then cut away the flesh from the long back-bone, being careful not to cut through the flesh on the back of the rabbit if possible Disjoint the hind-legs from the body and draw the back bone out. Now cut through the flesh of the legs and remove the bones as cleanly as possible. Remove also all the flesh from the fore-legs which were cut off. When every piece of bone has been removed, spread the rabbit on the board and cut away all sinews and any other parts that are uneatable. It will have rather a ragged appearance, but so long as there is a good straight piece of flesh from the back it is all that is required. Lay the fleshy part from the legs on the back of the rabbit, and make all as oblong in shape as possible. Season with pepper and salt, then stuff and roll up as directed in Recipe 1202. 1189. Boiled Rabbit with Onion Sauce 1 rabbit. Hot water. 4 or 5 onions. Salt. Pepper. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1£ oz. flour. 1 cupful milk. Rolls of bacon. Clean the rabbit as directed above and then truss it for boiling. To do this, make a slit in the hind- legs at the thigh joint and draw them forward. Then turn the fore-legs back to meet them, keeping Babbit Trussed for Boiling the point off the hind-legs to the outside. Now turn the head round to one side and to the point where the two legs join. Take a trussing needle and string, pass the needle through the head, through the points of the two legs, the body andCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 292 tance of basting, as the flesh of a rabbit is inclined 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. the two legs at the other side. Then bring it back nearly at the same place and tie the two ends in a bow knot. Put the rabbit into a saucepan with hot water to cover it, add a little salt and bring to the boil. Skim well and add the onions, peeled, scalded, and cut in halves or quarters. Let all simmer slowly until the rabbit and onions are tender. When ready, lift out the rabbit and keep it warm. Strain the liquid from the onions and chop them on a board. Then make a sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix the two together smoothly. Pour in 2 cupfuls of the liquid and stir until boiling. Add the onions, seasonings, and milk, and cook all together a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the rabbit, it should be thick enough to mask it, and garnish with the liver cut in pieces and small rolls of bacon (see Recipe 1646). Notes.—The milk may be omitted and the sauce made entirely with the liquid in which the rabbit was cooked. Parsley sauce may be made instead of onion sauce. If the strong flavour of the rabbit is objected to, blanch it first before putting it on to boil. A piece of pickled pork is sometimes cooked along with the rabbit, and helps to make a nice dish. If preferred, the rabbit may be cut in joints instead of being left whole. Time to boil, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. 1190. Stuffed and Roast Rabbit (Lapin Roti) 1 rabbit. I Pat bacon. Veal forcemeat. Butter or dripping. A little flour. | Gravy. Bread sauce. Wash and clean the rabbit as directed above. Prepare some veal forcemeat (Recipe 1281), and add to it the fiver, heart, and kidney of the rabbit, parboiled and chopped. Now dry the rabbit, season it with the forcemeat and sew it up. Rub it all over with flour and truss it into shape in the following manner. To Truss.—Bend the liind-legs forwards, cutting the sinew at the thigh to enable them to lie closely along the body, and bend the fore-legs backwards in the same way. Fix them in position with two skewers or with a trussing needle and string. Now rake the head and support it in a natural position, by passing a skewer through the mouth and fixing it down on the back between the shoulders. To Roast.—Tie a few slices of fat bacon over the back of the rabbit, cover it with greased paper, and it is ready for roasting. This must be done according to general directions given on p. 207, and too great stress cannot be laid on the impor- to be very dry. A short time before taking it from the oven, remove the paper and slices of bacon to allow the back of the rabbit to brown. To Serve.—When ready, lift it on to a hot dish, and draw out the skewers and the thread used in sewing it up. Serve with a little clear or thickened gravy (see p. 208) poured round, and the remainder in a sauce boat. Garnish with rolls of bacon and if liked a few forcemeat balls made from some of the forcemeat. Bread sauce, and red- currant or any other acid jelly, may be served separately. Time to roast, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 10d. 1191. Stewed Rabbit with Brown Sauce 1 rabbit. 2 or 3 oz. bacon. 1 oz. flour. 2 onions. 1 pt. stock. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Clean and wash the rabbit as directed on p. 291. Drain and dry it and cut it in neat joints. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a stewpan, cook it over the fire until the fat is transparent, then remove it to a plate. Coat the joints of rabbit with the flour and fry them in the fat left by the bacon until they are brown on all sides, adding a little more fat if necessary. Add also the onions cut in thin slices and brown them also. When ready, return the bacon, pour in the stock and add seasoning to taste. Put the fid on the pan, and stew very slowly until the rabbit is quite tender. Remove any grease before serving and dish very neatly on a hot dish. A little finely chopped parsley may be sprinkled over, or some pieces of baked tomato or small forcemeat balls would make a suitable garnish. Note.—A few mushrooms or a little tomato puree may be added to the sauce to give flavour. Time to stew, H to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10c£. 1192. Stewed Rabbit with Pork 1 rabbit, § lb. salt pork. Warm water. 2 or 3 onions. A small bunch of herbs. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. Choose a small rabbit, wash it carefully and let it fie in salt and water for J hour. Then rinse it and cut it in small neat joints. Wipe the pork and cut it in small pieces also. If it is very salt, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil slowly and pour the water away. Skin the onions and cut them in slices, scalding them first if the strong flavour is objected to. Now put the rabbit, pork, and onions into a stewpan, cover them with warm water and bring to the boil. Skim if necessary and add the bunch of herbs. Put the fid on the pan and simmer all slowly until the rabbit is tender. Then lift out the herbs and add the flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Stir until thoroughly mixed, add seasoning to taste and at the last the chopped parsley. Dish up neatly and serve very hot. Time to cook, to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or293 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 1193. Rabbit with Rice (Lapin au Riz) 1 tender rabbit. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 cupful rice. 1 cupful tomato puree. 1 pt. light stock. Seasoning. Rolls of bacon. Wash and clean the rabbit (see p. 291) and cut it in neat joints, or if preferred cut the flesh in small pieces away from the bones. Melt the drip- ping or butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and the rice well washed and dried, and cook them a few minutes without browning. Then put in the rabbit and cook a few minutes longer, stir- ring constantly. Add the stock and the tomato puree (made by rubbing fresh or tinned tomato through a fine sieve). Season to taste, cover closely, and simmer slowly in the oven or on the side of the stove, until the rice and rabbit are tender and nearly dry. The Saucepan should be shaken occasionally to prevent the contents stick- ing. When ready, serve neatly and garnish with small rolls of bacon. Note.—This dish may be cooked and served in an earthenware casserole. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s. 1194. Fried or Grilled Rabbit 1 rabbit. 1 pt. stock. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Butter. Tartare sauce. Clean the rabbit, cut it in joints and blanch the pieces. Then put them into a saucepan with enough stock to cover them and any necessary seasoning, and stew them slowly until almost tender. Drain and dry the pieces, allow them to cool and coat them with a little flour. Now egg and bread- crumb them, and either fry them in a small quantity of butter in a frying pan until they are well browned on all sides, or dip the pieces in melted butter (after egging and bread-crumbing), and grill them over a good fire. Dish neatly and serve tartare sauce (Recipe 759) separately. Note.—The remains of cold cooked rabbit may be used up in this way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10 d. 1195. Curried Rabbit (Lapereau Saut6 & l’lndienne) 1 young rabbit. 2 oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. Salt. Pepper. 1 bay-leaf. A sprig of parsley and thyme. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 3 gills light stock. Boiled rice. Remove all the flesh from the rabbit and cut it in small neat pieces. If the strong flavour is ob- jected to, blanch these before cooking. Dry the pieces well and season them with pepper and salt. Then melt the butter in a saucepan and, when smoking hot, put in the rabbit and brown the pieces lightly on all sides. Add the minced onion and celery cleaned and cut in shreds. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly for 20 minutes. Now mix in the flour and curry powder, add the parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and moisten with the stock. Cover again and cook slowly for J hour longer, and in the oven if possible. When the rabbit is tender, lift out the pieces on to a hot dish and keep them warm. Sieve the sauce, re-heat it and pour it over the rabbit. Serve boiled rice (Recipe 1586) separately. Note.—More condiments and spices may be added to the sauce if wished, and cocoanut milk (see Index) may be used instead of the stock. The rabbit may be cut in joints if liked, but it is always preferable to have a curry without bones, to enable its being eaten with a fork and spoon. Time to cook, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 1196. Fricassee of Rabbit (Garenne Saut6 en Gibelotte) 1 wild rabbit. 1 £ doz. white onions. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 gill stock. 1 glass red wine. A few potatoes. Prepare the rabbit as directed on p. 291, and cut it in small neat joints. Cut the fat bacon in strips and peel some small white onions. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon and onions and cook them a few minutes over the fire until they are lightly browned. Then lift them out, put in the joints of rabbit and fry them for a few minutes in the same fat. Sprinkle in the flour and brown that also. When ready, add the wine and 1 gill or rather more of stock, so that the rabbit is nearly covered. Add seasoning to taste, and the onions and bacon. Put the lid on the pan and cook the fricassee in the oven or on the top of the fire until the rabbit is tender. About 15 minutes before serving, add about 15 pieces of potato which have been trimmed neatly in the shape of new potatoes and parboiled. Or, new potatoes may be used when in season. Cook all together for the last £ hour. Time to stew, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 1197. Rabbit with Mushrooms, 1 (Lapin aux Champignons) 1 young rabbit. 2 oz. butter. 6 to 8 oz. fresh mush- omon. 1 cupful thin cream. A bunch of herbs. Pepper. Salt. rooms. 2 table - sps. chopped Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the mushrooms carefully prepared (see Recipe 513), and stir them over the fire until brown. Then lift them out and heat the remainder of the butter in the saucepan. Now put in the rabbit cut in small and neat pieces, brown it slightly and add the onion, pepper, and salt. Put the lid on the pan and cook from 10 to 15 minutes. Moisten with the cream slightly warmed, add the bunch of herbs and cook again for \ hour or until the rabbit is tender. About 10 minutes before the rabbit is ready, return the mushrooms to the saucepan and let all simmer together for the remainder of the time. Arrange the rabbit and mushrooms on a hot dish, strain the sauce and pour it over. Time to cook, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. lOrf.294 COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 1198. Rabbit with Mushrooms, 2 (Lapin Saute aux Champignons) 1 tender rabbit. 1 doz. mushrooms. 1 small onion. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Stock or water. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Wash the rabbit carefully, dry it and cut in small neat joints. Peel the mushrooms, wash them and cut them in small pieces. Slice the onion very thinly, chop the parsley, and cut the bacon in small pieces. Now put the butter and bacon into a stewpan and cook them together until the fat is well drawn out of the latter. Then put in the mushrooms, onion and parsley, and when these have cooked a few minutes add the joints of rabbit. Season with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and pour in the stock or water. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly in the oven or by the side of the fire until the rabbit is tender. When ready, lift out the rabbit on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Mix the flour smoothly with a little stock or water and add it to the liquid in the saucepan. Stir until boiling and skim well. Then draw the saucepan to one side and add the yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Pour this sauce over the rabbit and garnish with croutons of toast or fried bread. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1199. Fillets of Rabbit with Chestnut Puree (Filets de Lapereau aux Marrons) 1 young rabbit. Marinade. 2 table-sps. salad oil. | gill good vinegar. 1 small carrot. 1 small onion. 1 bay-leaf. A sprig of thyme. 3 or 4 peppercorns. Pepper. Salt. A little butter. 1 glass red wine. 2 or 3 table-sps. brown sauce. Puree of chestnuts. Choose a young and tender rabbit, remove the flesh from the back and cut it into small neat pieces. (The rest of the rabbit is not required for this dish.) Flatten the fillets slightly with a knife and put them in a deep dish. Sprinkle them with the oil and add the carrot and onion cut in small pieces, the peppercorns, bay-leaf, and thyme. Heat the vinegar and pour it boiling hot over the fillets of rabbit, cover and set aside until cold. Prepare a puree of chestnuts (Recipe 1628), adding to it a pinch of sugar, a little stock, and a small piece of butter. A few minutes before serving, lift the pieces of rabbit out of the marinade, dry them in a cloth and sprinkle them lightly with salt. Melt a little butter in a frying or saute pan and fry the pieces of rabbit in this until they are nicely browned and sufficiently cooked. Then pile the puree of chestnuts in a hot dish and arrange the fillets of rabbit round. Pour the following sauce over and round the fillets. Sauce.—Pour the wine into the saucepan in which the rabbit was cooked, also a little of the liquid from the marinade. Reduce this to about half the quantity, then add the brown sauce. Skim if necessary and strain through a fine strainer. Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1200. Fillets of Rabbit & la Carnot (Filets de Lapin it la Carnot) 1 rabbit. Cold water. 2 or 3 onions. A bunch of herbs. 2 or 3 cloves. \ doz. peppercorns. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. i pt. liquor from rabbit. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. Juice of | lemon. J gill cream. 2 or 3 chillies. Cut the four legs from the rabbit, and reserve these for some other dish. Remove the fillets from the back, and cut them into 6 or 8 neat pieces. Then break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with a little salt, and enough cold water to cover them. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add the onions cut in slices, the cloves, peppercorns, and bunch of herbs. Place the fillets of rabbit on the top, cover with greased paper, and stew slowly for 1 \ hours, or until the meat is tender. Then lift out the fillets and strain the liquor into a basin. To Make the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the flour, and mix until smooth. Then pour in \ pint liquor from the rabbit, and stir until boiling. Add the cheese, pepper, salt and cream. Cook for 10 or 15 minutes, and rub through a tammy or hair sieve. Return the sauce to the pan, add the pieces of rabbit, the chillies chopped, and the lemon juice strained. Make all thoroughly hot, then serve the pieces of rabbit in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish with prettily shaped croutons of fried bread dipped in a little melted glaze or white of egg, and sprinkled with coralline pepper. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 1201. Rabbit Cream (Creme de Lapin) Make in the same way as Veal Cream (Recipe 1096), using rabbit flesh in place of the veal. 1202. Galantine of Rabbit 1 rabbit. | lb. sausage meat. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Rind of £ lemon. Seasoning. A little glaze. Bone the rabbit as directed on p. 291. Spread it out on a board and trim and arrange it so that it forms a neat oblong, putting all the scraps in the middle. Then season with pepper and salt. Cut the bacon in strips free from rind and rust, and the hard-boiled eggs in 6 or 8 pieces. Add the chopped parsley and the grated rind of £ a lemon to the sausage meat, also a little more season- ing if necessary, and mix well together. Spread the sausage meat over the rabbit, arrange the hard-boiled egg and bacon on the top and roll up. Wrap and tie up firmly in a pudding cloth like a roly-poly, and simmer slowly in the stock pot, or in stock made with the bones of the rabbit and some flavouring vegetables, until tender. 'When the galantine is ready, lift it out and re-roll it, tightening the cloth, then press it between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Now remove the cloth and glaze the galantine nicelyPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME <195 Time to roast, to 2 hours. Probable cost, 4s. Notes.—The mould may be decorated with pieces (see p. 210). Trim ofl the ends and serve garnished with parsley or watercress. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 1203. Gateau ol Rabbit (Gflteau de Lapin) I tea-sp. chopped thyme. Grated rind of I lemon. Seasoning. £ oz gelatine. 1 tender rabbit. 1 pt. water. J lb. sausage meat. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. Wash the rabbit carefully and then dry it. Cut the flesh into small neat pieces, removing it all from the bones. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with the water and _a little salt. Allow these to simmer slowly for 1 hour at least and until the liquid is reduced to about half the original quantity. Then strain, dissolve in it the gelatine cut in pieces, and use as stock for the gateau. Cook the rabbit liver in the stock for a few minutes, then chop it finely and mix with it the parsley, thyme, and grated lemon rind. Hard boil the eggs and cut them in slices. When all is pre- pared, take a plain mould, large enough to hold all the ingredients, and commence by arranging a few pieces of hard-boiled egg at the foot. Then put in some rabbit, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle some of the liver, &c., over: then a layer of sausage meat, more egg, and so on until all is in. Do not pack the mould too tightly, but fill up with as much stock from the bones as it will hold. Tie a piece of strong paper over the top and bake in a moderate oven at least one hour, or until the rabbit feels tender when tested with a skewer. Leave until cold, then turn out when wanted and garnish with parsley and pieces of tomato, or with some green salad. Note.—See also Recipe 1213. Probable cost, 2s. 1204. Rabbit Mould 1 small rabbit. J lb. pickled pork. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. 1 pt. light stock. \ oz. gelatine. Seasoning Choose a young and tender rabbit, wash it well and cut it up in pieces. Wash also the pork and put it and the rabbit into a saucepan with the stock. (There should be sufficient stock to cover the meat.) Bring slowly to the boil and skim if necessary. Then add a cupful of carrot, turnip, and onion cut in small pieces and a bunch of herbs. Simmer all slowly until the pork and rabbit are tender, then strain, reserving the liquid. Remove the meat from the rabbit and cut it and the pork in small pieces. Allow the stock to cool, remove all grease from it and reduce it if necessary to | pint, or if, on the contrary, the quantity is short, add more stock or water to make up this amount. Dissolve the gelatine in this J pint of stock and season to taste. Mix the rabbit and pork together and put them into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. (The mould should not be more than three-quarters filled.) Strain in the stock and gelatine and set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. When wanted, turn out and serve garnished with fresh parsley and a few pieces of nice red tomato. of hard-boiled egg before putting in the rabbit, &c. If the pork is very salt, blanch it before using, by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bringing it to the boil slowly and pouring the water away. Probable cost, 2s. 1205. Rabbit Quenelles Make in the same way as Veal Quenelles (Recipe 1099), using some of the best flesh from an un- cooked rabbit instead of the veal. Serve them with tomato, bechamel, or veloute sauce, and any suit- able garnish. 1206. Rabbit Souffle (Souffle de Lapin) Make according to directions given for Chicken Souffle (Recipe 1150), using rabbit instead of chicken. Note Rabbit may also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking hare. 1207. Stuffed and Roast Hare (Lievre Roti) 1 hare. Seasoning. A little flour. A few slices of fat bacon. £ pt. milk, and fat for basting. Gravy. Hare forcemeat. 1 glass port wine. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 lemon. Choose a young hare, skin and paunch it as directed on p. 291, and then wipe it carefully. Then stuff it with hare forcemeat (Recipe 1269) and sew it up. Now truss it in the same way as directed for Roast Rabbit (Recipe 1190), curling up the tail and fastening it on to the back with a little skewer. Tie some slices of fat bacon over the top, cover with greased paper, especially the head, and roast in a good oven. Baste the hare with the milk and a little dripping to begin with, to mellow the flesh, and, when this has dried up, continue the basting with more dripping or butter. The basting from first to last is very important, to prevent the outside skin becoming hard. When nea rly ready,remove the paper and bacon, and dredge the back of the hare with flour. Continue the roasting until the flesh is brown and crisp. Serve on a hot dish, carefully removing all skewers and trussing threads. Make some thickened gravy in the roasting tin (see p. 208), adding to it the port wine and red-currant jelly. Strain some of it round the hare and serve the rest separately in a sauce boat. Garnish the dish with rolls of bacon and cut lemon, or a little finely shred horse-radish. Bread sauce may also be served separately if desired, and red-currant or any other acid jelly. Notes.—Sometimes the hare is marinaded before being stuffed, in order to moisten and flavour the flesh. Make the marinade according to Recipe 1199, and let the hare soak in it for several hours, turning it every now and then. The back of the hare may be larded before being roasted, or the inside may be lined with thin slices of fat bacon before putting in the stuffing. If port wine is objected to in the sauce, the juice of an orange may be added. Sour cream is sometimes used for basting a hare, it gives it a very mellow flavour.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 296 1208. Leveret, Roasted A leveret is a hare in its first year. It is cooked in the same way as a roast hare, only it is not necessary to stuff it. It will require from 40 to 60 minutes to cook, and should be eerved with a good brown gravy and red-currant jelly. 1209. Saddle of Hare, Roasted (Rable de Lidvre, Rot!) When a hare is very large it is sometimes a good plan to remove the head, shoulders, and legs, to use these parts for soup or for jugging, and to make a roast of the saddle, or “ rable,” that is left. Prepare and stuff this in the same way’as for roast- ing, securing the stuffing well at the two ends. The flesh of the back may either be larded or have slices of fat bacon tied over it. Roast as above, being very particular about the basting. Serve with liver sauce, onion sauce, or simply the brown gravy and the usual accompaniments of roast hare. Forcemeat balls may be used as a garnish. This makes a neat little roast, and is much more attrac- tive-looking than a whole hare. Note.—This saddle of hare is also very good braised instead of roasted. Time to roast, 40 to 50 minutes. 1210. Jugged Hare, 1 (Civet de Lievre) 1 hare (medium sized). 2 onions. 6 cloves. | lb. fat bacon. A bunch of herbs. J lemon. 1 inch stick cinnamon. Stock or water. 2 oz. flour. 2 glasses port wine. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. Salt. Pepper. Forcemeat balls (see below). Skin and paunch the hare as directed on p. 291, and reserve the blood. Cut it in small neat joints, not larger than the size of an egg, and wipe the pieces with a cloth ; or, if preferred, they may be washed and well dried. Then coat them with some of the flour. Cut the bacon in dice, put it into a saucepan, and fry it a few minutes. Now put in the hare, the onions with the cloves stuck into them, the herbs, cinnamon, and lemon rind tied in muslin. Put the lid on the saucepan and cook slowly for 20 minutes, shaking the pan occa- sionally. Mix the remainder of the flour with a little stock, and add it to the saucepan with enough stock or water to cover the hare. Add also the juice of the \ lemon and 1 glass of port wine. Stir over the fire until the liquid reaches boiling point, and then turn the contents of the saucepan into a strong jar. Cover the jar closely and cook in a moderate oven until the hare is tender. It is safer to place the jar in a shallow tin, and to keep a little boiling water round it; or it may be steamed in a saucepan over the fire. The time will depend very much upon the age of the hare used. A few minutes before serving, remove the herbs, lemon rind and cinnamon, and add the other glass of port wine, the red-currant jelly, and strained blood. (This last may be omitted if it is objected to.) Cook a short time longer, but be careful the sauce does not boil after the blood is added, or it will curdle. Season to taste, and the hare is ready for serving. It may either be arranged neatly on a hot dish with the sauce poured over and gar- nished with forcemeat balls, or served in the pot in which it is cooked, if this is sufficiently orna- mental, with a serviette folded round it and the forcemeat balls added. Red-currant jelly may be served separately. Forcemeat Balls.—Make some forcemeat for hare according to Recipe 1269 (half the quantity will be sufficient), and form it into small balls, using a little flour. Fry these in boiling fat until brown, or bake them on a tin in the oven with a small quan- tity of dripping. Or, if preferred, the balls may be egged and bread-crumbed and then fried. Note.—1 lb. lean beef cut in inch square pieces may be used along with the hare if a larger dish is wanted. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. 1211. Jugged Hare, 2 (Civet de LISvre Chasseur) \ a hare. 4 to 6 oz. fat bacon. 1 to 1J doz. small white onions. 2 table-sps. flour. 2 oz. good dripping or butter. Seasoning. 1 or 2 glasses Burgundy. A few fresh mushrooms. Paunch the hare, reserving the blood, which is a very necessary ingredient of a “ civet.” Unless a very large dish is required, use only the inferior parts of the hare, and cut them in small pieces by chopping through the bones. Peel the onions and cut the bacon into small thick strips. (If the bacon is very salt, the pieces should be blanched before use.) Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the onions and bacon and saut6 them over the fire until lightly browned. Then lift them out, put in the pieces of hare, and brown them in the same fat. When coloured on all sides, sprinkle with the flour and brown that also. Now add the wine and enough water to cover, season with pepper, and salt if necessary : a little tomato may also be added if liked ; put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the hare is almost tender. When ready, lift out the pieces of hare, onions, and bacon into a basin and strain the sauce over them. Return all to the saucepan, add a few mushrooms cut in small pieces, and continue the simmering until both the hare and the mushrooms are suffi- ciently cooked. Then add the blood. Mix it first with a little of the sauce, strain it in beside the hare, mix well, and just give it one boil up. If overboiled it will curdle. Time to cook, from 3 to 4 hours. 1212. Hashed Hare Remains of cooked hare. 1 pt. stock or water. A small piece of ham. 1 onion. A small bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. | oz. butter. J oz. flour. Sippets of toast. Remove the bones from the hare and cut the flesh into neat slices, put these on a plate, season them with pepper and salt, and set them aside. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan along with any trimmings, the water or stock, ham, and seasoning, Allow all this to simmer slowly for 1 hour, then strain. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix until smooth, and then pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, and skim if necessary. Then put in the pieces of flesh and let them simmer slowly in the sauce aboutPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 297 £ hour. Add more seasoning if necessary, and serve garnished with sippets of toast or small forcemeat balls. Serve red-currant jelly separately. Note.—A little red-currant jelly and port wine may be added to the sauce if wished. 1213. GSteau of Hare or Rabbit £ lb. cooked rabbit or hare. 2 oz. fat bacon. £ lb. bread-crumbs. 1 gill stock. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 dessert-sp. red-currant jeUy. Seasoning. Brown sauce Put the bread-crumbs into a saucepan with the stock, and cook them, a few minutes over the file until the bread-crumbs swell and thicken the mix- ture. Take some remains of cooked hare or rabbit, remove the bones carefully, and then weigh £ lb. Put this meat once or twice through the mincer along with the bacon, and then pound it well in a mortar with the soaked bread-crumbs. Season to taste, add the yolks of eggs and red-currant jelly and pound again. Then, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mix- ture into a well-greased mould and steam until it feels firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with a good brown sauce poured round. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. To Goolc the Terrine.—Place it in a deepish tin with a little cold water round it, and bring this to the boil over the fire. Then place it in the oven and cook until the meat is ready. The water round the terrine should be kept boiling all the time; if it boils away, more boiling water must be added— not cold, as it would crack the pot; for the same reason it must not be allowed to become dry. The meat may be tested by running in a needle through the hole in the top, or if, on removing the cover, the fat on the top looks quite clear and the meat moves about easily without adhering to the bottom and sides, it is sufficiently cooked. When ready, put a small piece of wood (cut to fit inside the pot) on the top, with a light weight over it, and press until cold. Notes.—A terrine like this will keep good for two or three months in cold weather, as long as the fat on the top is left intact. Other kinds of game may be used instead of hare. Time to cook, 2 to 2£ hours. 1215. Timbale of Hare (Timbale de Lievre) f lb. cooked hare. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ gill stock. 1 egg. Brown sauce. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. chopped ham. 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. 1 yolk of egg. Madeira sauce. 1214. Terrine of Hare (Terrine de Lievre) I lb. hare meat. 1 lb. fine sausage meat. Slices of fat bacon. Salt. Pepper. A little butter. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 glass white wine or 2 table-sps. brandy. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little thyme. Any remains of uncooked hare may be used to make a “terrine.” Remove all bones, trim the flesh and cut it in small pieces, and then weigh it. Heat the butter in a saucepan, put in the meat and cook it a minute or two to harden the outside; it must not brown. Then put the pieces on a plate and season them well with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, a little chopped thyme and parsley, and the wine or brandy. If time permits, allow this mixture to stand for an hour or two to marinate. The sausage meat used must be very fine and smooth ; if not sufficiently so when bought, it should be put through the mincer and well pounded. Sometimes it is sieved as well. Add to it the liquid from the meat and, if there is any, the blood from the hare, or the liver pounded and sieved. This latter is to give the farce the taste and darkish colour of the game. Mix these in- gredients well into the farce, then add the meat and mix again. Now line a terrine, the bottom and sides, with thin slices of fat bacon, then put in the mixture, which should fill it and form a mound on the top as well, so as to fill the lid, which is generally rounded. Cover the top with more fat bacon and put on the lid. Seal round the join of lid and pot with a paste made of flour and water, so as to keep in all the flavour of the meat while it is cooking. Be most particular to see that the little hole in the top of the lid is left open, otherwise the terrine would burst in the cooking; if there happens to be no hole in the lid, leave a small piece of the join unsealed. Weigh the hare free from skin and bone, cut about £ lb. of it in tiny dice and put the remainder once or twice through a mincing machine. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and stock, add it to the minced hare, and pound all together in a mortar. Season with pepper, salt, and a little ground mace and nutmeg. Moisten with the egg and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and pound again. Then rub all through a wire sieve. Mix the hare that was cut in dice with the chopped ham and mushroom. Season and moisten with the yolk of an egg and a little brown sauce. Then well grease a timbale mould and line it carefully with the sieved mixture. Put the chopped mixture in the centre and cover with the sieved mixture. Cover the mould with greased paper and steam steadily until firm to the touch. AVhen ready, turn out and serve with Sauoe Madere or a good brown sauce strained over and round. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 oe 5 persons. VENISON This is the flesh of deer. There are three different kinds to be had in this country, that of the red deer, roe deer, and fallow deer. The flesh of the fallow deer is considered the best, and the buck is superior in quality to the doe. Buck venison is in season from June to the end of September, while from October to the end of December is the season for the doe. The flesh of venison should be dark and finely grained, and the fat firm, clear, and white. It should be well hung before using, in order to acquire a game flavour (see p. 31). The age can be judged by the hoof ; in the young animal the cleft is small and smooth, while in the older one it has become much deeper and more298 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD rugged. Deer should be from 4 to 5 years old to be in first-rate condition. The finest joint for roasting is the haunch. The loin and neck are also good roasting pieces. Leg of Deer 1. Old . 2. Young The shoulder and breast are better stewed or made into a ragout. Chops are usually cut from the loin or neck, and steaks from the leg. 1216. Roast Haunch of Venison (Quartier ou Cuissot de Chevreuil Roti) The haunch is considered the finest piece of venison for roasting, and a plentiful supply of firm white fat is an indication of good quality. Before roasting, saw off the knuckle bone and .wipe the meat over with a damp cloth, or wash it quickly without allowing it to lie in water. Then dry it well with a clean cloth. Brush it over with melted fat or dripping, and wrap it in a sheet of well-greased paper. Now cover this again with a paste made of flour and water. If the haunch is a large one, about 3 lbs. of flour will be required. Make this into a stiffish paste with cold water, and roll out \ inch of thickness. Wrap the meat in this, and again cover it with a sheet of greased paper. Fasten it on with string, or use small clips, and the venison is ready for roasting. These preliminaries are necessary in order to preserve the fat from burning before the lean of the meat is ready. The fat is considered a great delicacy. Roast the venison according to General Directions for Roasting (see p. 207),and keep it well basted. A haunch will require from 4 to 5 hours to roast; it should be rather underdone. About 20 minutes before it is ready, remove the covering of paper and paste, dredge the meat with flour, and return it to the oven to brown, basting it with butter. Serve very hot. This is very important, because if the fat of the venison is not eaten absolutely hot it is spoilt. A good brown gravy or sauce flavoured with red wine, and red- currant, gooseberry, or cranberry jelly should be served separately. A puree of chestnuts (see Recipe 1628) and a salad are very suitable accom- paniments. 1217. Saddle of Venison a l’Allemande (Selle de Chevreuil a 1’Allemande A saddle of venison. Larding bacon. Salt. 2 oz. butter. 2 cupfuls sour cream. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A little water. Take a small saddle of well-hung venison weigh- ing about 6 lbs. ; remove the skin, wipe it well with a damp cloth, and then dry it. Lard it with long, thin strips of larding bacon, making at least four rows the length of the saddle (see Larding, p. 205). Now season the meat with salt, and tie it in a neat shape with three lengths of tape put round the saddle. Then roast the venison in a good oven, basting it with the butter. As soon as it is brown, pour the sour cream into the roasting tin and use it for basting with for the rest of the time. When ready, place the joint on a very hot dish, remove the tapes, and keep it hot. Remove any grease from the top of the gravy, add to it the flour, broken with a little cold water, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Thin down the sauce to a proper consistency with boiling water, and cook it a few minutes longer. Strain a little of the sauce over the meat, and serve the rest separately in a sauce boat. A green salad and a compote of fruit should accompany this dish. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. 1218. Cold Venison with Aspic Take a small leg of venison, wipe it carefully and then lard it rather thickly (see p. 205). Cover it with thickly greased paper and then roast it, allowing 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over. Baste the joint frequently with dripping while it is cooking, and do not allow it to become dry. When ready, remove the meat from the oven and allow it to cool slowly. Then carve as much as is likely to be required in thin slices, and put these back in place without spoiling the appear- ance of the joint. Now give the venison a good coating of glaze and allow this to set. Then place the joint on a clean dish and decorate with aspic jelly, either chopped or cut in fancy-shaped croutons (Recipe 1309). Picked and seasoned watercress and small leaves of lettuce may also be used to garnish. Fruit sauce (Recipe 797), or a tasty salad, would be good accompaniments. Note.—A small loin of venison might be prepared in the same way. 1219. Venison Steaks, Broiled Choose the steaks from the leg if possible, and have them cut from £ to 1 inch in thickness. Trim them neatly, and make them a convenient size for serving. If there is any doubt as to the veni- son being tender, soak the steaks in a little salad oil and lemon juice for an hour or so before cook- ing, and then drain. In any case, coat them on both sides with salad oil, and then do not cook them until the last minute, as a venison steak is utterly spoilt if it has to be kept hot, the meat becoming tough and almost uneatable. Broil them in the usual way (see p. 208), turning them often, and allow rather longer than for a beef-steak. When ready, lift on to a very hot dish, season with pepper and salt, and put a good pat of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top of each, or a pat of butter mixed with red or black currant jelly. Cover and send to table at once. Fried potatoes should be served separately. 1220. Venison Steaks in the Pan Have the steaks cut as in last recipe. When required, heat a small quantity of butter in a saute or frying pan, put in the steaks, and turn them once or twice until sufficiently cooked. When ready, pour 1- glass sherry over them, seasonPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 299 with pepper and salt, turn the meat once more, and then serve on a hot dish with the liquid from the pan poured round. Red-currant or quince jelly should be served separately, and potato balls and celery salad would be good accompaniments. 1221. Venison Stew 2 lbs. venison. 3 oz. bacon fat or dripping 2 table-sps. flour. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. Rind of lemon. 2 table-sps. vinegar. 1 pt. hot stock or water. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. Croutons of pastry. Any scraps of venison may be used for stewing, as long as they are good and free from taint. Wipe them carefully, and cut in small pieces about 1 inch square, removing all skin and gristle. Then toss them in the flour, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a stewpan; when smoking hot put in the meat and chopped onion, and turn them over and over with a spoon until well browned. Next add the stock or water and vinegar, and stir until well mixed. Put the lid on the pan and cook the stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the venison feels tender. Then add the red- currant jelly, the grated rind of 1 lemon, and more seasoning if necessary. Cook a few minutes longer, and serve garnished with croutons of pastry. Stewed celery, a green vegetable or salad would be a good accompaniment. Time to cook, 2 to 2\ hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1223. Noisettes of Venison h la Diana (Noisettes de Chevreuil a la Diana) 6 or 7 noisettes of venison A marinade. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 6 or 7 croutons fried bread. 2 table-sps. sour cream. Pur6e of chestnuts. 1 or 2 truffles. Cut six or seven neat round cutlets or noisettes of venison, cover them with a hot marinade (see Recipe 1199), and let them stand 3 or 4 hours. Then remove the meat from the marinade and dry the pieces in a cloth. Heat the oil in a saute or frying pan, and saute the meat in it until sufficiently cooked. Place each piece of meat on a round crouton of fried bread and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Put some puree of chestnuts (Recipe 1628) into a forcing bag, force it out in the centre, and pour the following sauce over : Sauce Smitane.—Pour away the oil from the pan in which the meat was cooked, pour into it a little of the marinade, and rub down into it any of the juice left from the meat. Reduce well, then add the sour cream and mix together. Note.—Small noisettes of mutton may be served in the same way. They must not be overcooked, but left red in the middle. Sufficient for 6 persons. 1224. Reindeer Tongues Cook in the same way as Ox Tongues (Recipe 222), only they will require longer soaking. Success depends entirely on the soaking and long slow cooking. 1222. Venison en Casserole (Chevreuil en Casserole) 1£ lbs. venison. £ lb. bacon. 1£ oz. flour. 3 gills water, ltable-sp.choppedonion 1 dessert-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Seasoning. Forcemeat balls. Choose a nice fleshy piece of venison, wipe it and trim it carefully, and cut it in pieces about an inch square. Trim all rind and rust from the bacon, and cut it in thin strips. Place these in a hot frying pan and fry them gently a few minutes, without allowing them to become too brown and crisp. When ready, place the pieces of bacon in an earthenware casserole, leaving the liquid fat in the frying pan. Now coat the pieces of venison with the flour and fry them in the bacon fat until a rich brown colour. 'When ready, put them in the casserole beside the pieces of bacon. Then pour the water into the frying pan and stir until boiling, rubbing into it all the browning from the sides and bottom of the pan. Skim if necessary, and strain over the venison. Add the onion, red-currant jelly, lemon juice, and seasoning to taste. Put the lid on the casserole and stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the meat is tender. About 15 minutes before serving add some small forcemeat balls, made according to Recipe 1288. Serve in the casserole. Mashed potatoes and spinach would be good accompaniments. Note.—Wine may be added if wished, and less water used. Time to cook, 2 to 2£ hours. Sufficient for 4 or C persons. PART III GAME BIRDS Hints on Choosing Game.—It is rather more difficult to choose game than it is to choose poultry, as the birds are usually sold unplucked, but still some of the same signs will hold good. The young birds are known by their smooth and pliable legs and short rounded spurs. The feet should be supple and moist, and easily broken. The feathers also help to indicate the age of the bird; when young there are soft and downy ones under the wing and on the'breast. The plumage of the young bird is even and soft, the long feathers of the wings are pointed, while in the older bird these become round, and the colours are usually brighter. The condition of the bird can be judged by turn- ing back the feathers of the breast and seeing if it feels plump and hard ; it should also weigh heavily for its size. For the Hanging and Keeping of Game.—(See under The Larder, p. 31.) Hints on Cooking Game.—Pluck the birds very carefully, as the flesh will be tender, especially if they have been well hung. All game should be drawn, with a few exceptions. Never wash the birds unless the flesh is tainted, but simply wipe them outside and inside with a damp cloth. As a rule, the simpler the method of cooking game the better. Well-roasted game is always superior to anything more complicated. It is only whenCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 300 the birds are inferior in quality or very plentiful that other methods of cooking are resorted to. A fine trussing needle and fine string should be used for trussing purposes instead of skewers, which are apt to make holes and cause the juice to escape. As the flesh of most kinds of game is inclined to be dry, the breast of the bird should either be larded or have slices of fat bacon tied over it before roasting. This bacon should be slit in several places to prevent it curling up in the cooking (see Barding, p. 206). Then, a short time before taking the bird from the oven, remove the bacon, dredge the breast with flour, baste it, and let it take a nice brown colour. The basting must be very carefully attended to, butter or bacon fat being used. The Gravy should be made in the same way as for an ordinary roast (see p. 207), good game stock being used. This may be made from the giblets of the birds. The gravy must always be served separately and not round the dish. Garnish and Accompaniments.—Nicely seasoned watercress is a favourite garnish, or well made potato chips or straws, or grilled mushrooms. Fried bread-crumbs should always be served separately as well as the gravy. Bread sauce is also liked by some, but is not an absolute necessity. Some birds have a special sauce suitable to them- selves. A green salad is also a very favourite accompani- ment. 1225. Fried Bread-crumbs for Game Take some stale white bread and rub it through a sieve in order to make fine bread-crumbs. About a cupful will generally be sufficient. Melt a small quantity of clarified or fresh butter (about 1 oz.) in a frying pan, put in the crumbs and stir them gently over the fire until lightly browned, dry and crisp. They should absorb all the fat. Drain on paper, and serve on a small dish with a lace- edged paper under them. Note.—The crumbs may be baked on a tin in the oven with the butter, instead of being browned in a frying pan over the fire. 1226. Roast Blackcock (Coq de Bruyere Roti) Follow directions given for Roast Grouse (Recipe 1228). They will require from f to 1 hour to cook. Unless the blackcock are very young they are better stewed, braised, or made into a salmi, as they are inclined to be very dry. Time to roast, § to 1 hour. 1227. Capercailzie, To Cook (Capercalzie) This bird is usually imported during the winter months. It is moderate in price as a rule, but has rather a strong flavour, which is not liked by everyone. A young bird should always be chosen. They may be roasted and served in the same way as grouse, when basting with milk will help to mellow the flavour. Celery or chestnut sauce is a good accompaniment. Capercailzie are also good boiled or stewed (see Recipes for Boiled or Stewed Fowl). Time to roast, about 1 hour. 1228. Roast Grouse (Grouse R6tl) Pluck the bird very carefully, draw it, and wipe it both inside and out with a damp cloth, but do not wash it. Then take a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, work it up with a little pepper and salt and a squeeze of lemon juice, and put this inside the body along with the liver. Now truss in the same way as a roast fowl (p. 276), using a fine trussing needle and string, as large holes would allow the juice to escape. Tie a slice of fat baconover the breast,and roast in front of a clear fire or in a good oven. Baste frequently with butter or bacon fat, as the flesh of the grouse is inclined to be dry. Remove the slice of bacon fat a few minutes before serving, dredge the breast with flour and roast again until nicely browned. The time required for roasting will depend very much I Grouse I on the age and size of the bird, a young and tender bird will be sufficiently cooked in 25 to 30 minutes, while an older one will require f hour. When ready, remove the grouse on to a hot dish and remove the trussing thread or string. Serve separately a good brown gravy made in the roast- ing tin (see p. 207), and fried bread-crumbs (see above). The method of garnishing and choice of accompaniments is very much a matter of taste and of fashion. Formerly it was the custom to serve the bird on a slice of toast, but now this is usually dispensed with. A garnish of watercress is in favour at present, and grilled mushrooms are always suitable. Bread sauce is liked by some, but is not absolutely necessary, while a well-made nut sauce, or a fruit sauce, has been fashionable of late. Time to roast, £ to § hour. 1229. Broiled or Spatchcock Grouse Only very young and tender birds can be prepared in this way. Split them through the back without separating the halves, wipe the pieces carefully with a damp cloth and skewer them open. Season with pepper and salt and, if liked, a little finely-chopped parsley and shallot. Brush over on both sides with salad oil or melted butter and let them lie a short time, if possible, to let the fat soak in. Grease a gridiron and make it very hot. Place the birds on it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them occasionally and brushing them over with more oil or butter. The time will depend very much on the size and thickness of the grouse. When ready, serve the birds on a very hot dish with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on the top of each. Garnish with chip potatoes or grilled mushrooms.POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 301 Mushroom sauce is sometimes served separately. This is a very good way of preparing grouse for breakfast, when little rolls of bacon or mushrooms should accompany them. Grilling or broiling is a very good way of using up birds from which the breast fillets have been removed to make some entree. Time to broil, about 20 minutes. 1230. Grouse a 1’Alsacienne A brace of grouse. Farce au gratin. Slices of fat bacon. A little butter. A little cream. 1 glass Madeira. Foie gras. Brown chaudfroid sauce. Meat or aspic jelly. Prepare some farce au gratin (see Recipe 1271) and stuff the grouse with it. Truss them for roast- ing, tying a piece of fat bacon over the breast. Then brown the birds in a saucepan with a little butter, pour in the Madeira, and cook them in the oven until tender, about 30 minutes. When ready, lift them out and allow them to become cold. Then cut the birds in three, lengthwise, and cut two slices of cooked or preserved foie gras for each. Put the pieces of bird together with a piece of foie gras between each, sticking them together with a little foie gras that has been rubbed through a sieve and mixed with some butter or cream. Give the birds as much their original shape as possible, then coat them with brown chaudfroid sauce (see Recipe 715), using the sauce in a setting condition. Set aside for a short time, then decorate according to taste, and brush them over with a little jelly. Serve them on a croute of fried bread with a little chopped jelly round. Note.—Partridges or other game may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1231. Roast Ortolans (Ortolans Rotis) Follow directions given for Roast Quails (Recipe 1244). From 15 to 20 minutes will be required to cook them. 1232. Roast Partridge (Perdreau Roti) Prepare and serve in the same way as Roast Grouse (Recipe 1228). Time required, about f hour. Partridge 1233. Broiled Partridges (Perdreaux Grilles) 2 or more young par- tridges. Chopped parsley. Chopped mushrooms. Chopped shallot. Pepper and salt. Butter. Browned bread-crumbs. Potato chips. Some good gravy. Pick and clean the partridges, cutting them in halves. Leave on the legs, but cut off the toes. Press the legs well back towards the wings, and make the joint as much in the shape of a cutlet as possible. Mix together some chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shallot with pepper and salt, sprinkle the pieces of partridge with this mixture, and baste them with warm butter. Then sprinkle them with brown bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire, basting occasionally with warm butter. Serve very hot, garnished with potato chips. Serve good gravy or some thin brown sauce separately. Time to broil, 20 to 25 minutes. 1234. Partridge with Cabbage (Perdrix aux Choux) 1 partridge. 1 oz. dripping. 1 or 2 cabbages. 3 or 4 oz. ham or lean bacon. 1 or 2 small smoked sausages. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 or 2 cloves. A small bunch of herbs. A little stock. Trim the cabbage, cut it in pieces, and wash it well. Use one or two according to size. Plunge the pieces into boiling salted water and let them boil 10 or 12 minutes. Then strain and press out the water. Blanch also the ham or bacon for a few minutes to remove some of the salt. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the partridge trussed as for roasting, and brown it on all sides. Then lift it out and put into the saucepan half the cabbage, with the carrot cut in pieces, the onion stuck with the cloves, and a small bunch of herbs. Lay the partridge, bam, and sausage on the top and the remainder of the cabbage on the top of that. Sprinkle with a little pepper, moisten with a small quantity of stock, and cover well. Cook slowly, in the oven if possible, or at simmering point over the fire, until all is tender. To Serve.—Remove the partridge, ham, and sausage from the saucepan. Cut the partridge into neat joints, and slice the ham and sausage. Re- move the carrot, onion, and bunch of herbs from the cabbage and cut it across with a knife. Arrange it neatly on a hot dish, place the partridge on the top and the ham and sausage round. Note.—A partridge over a year old, as long as it is not too tough, is best for this dish, otherwise if it is very young and'tender it has to be lifted out before the other ingredients are cooked, and the dish has not the same flavour. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1235. Partridges a la Valencienne (Perdreaux a la Valencienne) brace of partridges, f oz. of butter, glass white wine. 1 table-sp. tomato sauce or puree. f pt. brown sauce. Risotto. Shreds of truffle or mushrooms. Prepare the partridges carefully and truss them as for roasting. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the partridges and brown them on all sides. Then pour away the butter and add the wine, brown sauce, and tomato puree. Put the lid on the pan and cook the birds in the oven or by the side of the stove until tender. Meanwhile prepare302 COOKERY EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the risotto (see Recipe 1596), and when the par- tridges are ready, arrange it in an oval-shaped mound on a hot dish. Remove the trussing strings from the partridges, cut each one in four pieces, and place them on the top. Strain the sauce, remove all grease from the top, add a garnish of shred truffles, or cooked and shred mushrooms, and pour it over the partridges. Note.—A duckling, grouse, or pigeons may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, 40 to 50 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1236. Chartreuse of Partridge (Chartreuse de Perdrix aux Choux) Prepare a partridge with cabbage as directed in last recipe, using plenty of cabbage. Take a plain mould, 1.) to 2 pints in size, grease it well with butter and line it completely with carrot and turnip cut in fancy shapes, and small pieces of French beans, which have been cooked separately in boiling salted water. After decorating the mould allow it to stand until the butter has hardened and the decoration firmly adhered. When the partridge, &c., is cooked pour it into a colander and allow it to drain a few minutes. Lift out the bird and cut it in small joints. Remove the ham, sausage, &c., from the cabbage ; cut the cabbage across with a knife, and about half fill the mould with it. Make a hollow in the centre, lay in the pieces of partridge, and cover with more cabbage. Lay a folded cloth on the top and press gently to absorb superfluous moisture. Place the mould in a good oven for a few minutes until the contents are thoroughly hot, then turn out carefully. Cut the sausage and ham in pieces and place them round the sides. A little sauce or gravy may be served separately if wished. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1237. Roast Pheasant (Falsan Roti) Next to grouse a pheasant is perhaps the most popular of all game birds. It ought to be hung for some days before cooking, or it will have no dis- tinct flavour. In dry cold weather 10 days or a fortnight will not be too long, while longer still should be allowed if the game is liked high. A pheasant should always be well cooked. When plucking the bird, reserve the best of the tail Roast Pheasant the body of th9 bird. This will improve the flavour- and make the flesh more juicy. Or, instead of this, insert a piece of butter well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Now truss in the same way as directed for Roast Fowl (see p. 276). Lard the breast, or tie over it some slices of fat bacon. Roast in front of a clear fire or in a good oven, basting frequently with butter or bacon fat. The time will depend on the age and size of the bird; from 40 to 50 minutes is usually sufficient. A short time before it is ready, remove the shoes of bacon from the breast, dredge it with flour, baste again, and return to the oven to brown. When ready, lift the pheasant on to a hot dish, remove any skewers or trussing threads, put the tail feathers in place, and garnish with seasoned watercress or potato chips or straws. Serve good brown gravy and fried crumbs separately. Bread sauce may also be served if wished. Note.—It used to be the custom to leave the head and neck on the pheasant, but this is not done nowadays. Time to roast, 40 to 50 minutes. 1238. Boiled Pheasant Prepare and cook in the same way as Boiled Fowl (Recipe 1127), and serve with celery or any other suitable sauce poured over it. Garnish with rolls of bacon and cut lemon. 1239. Pheasant Cream (Mousse de Faisan) 6 oz. pheasant. 2 oz. ham. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill cream. 1 gill white sauce. Grated lemon rind. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sherry Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A few green peas. Tomato sauce. Take 6 oz. of the white meat of a pheasant, mince it with the ham, and then pound well in a mortar with the white sauce, eggs, and butter. When well pounded, rub this mixture through a fine wire sieve and put it into a basin. Add the sherry and seasoning, and then the cream whipped stiffly. Mix lightly. Grease a plain mould with some clarified butter, decorate it with cooked green peas, or some finely-chopped parsley and truffles cut in fancy shapes; pour in the pheasant mixture and cover with greased paper. Steam slowly and steadily until firm to the touch, and then allow it to stand for a few minutes after it is removed from the pan. Turn out carefully on to an entree dish, and pour tomato or any other suitable sauce round. Note.—Rabbit, or other kinds of game, may be used in place of pheasant, and the mixture may be cooked in several small moulds instead of one large one. Time to steam, § to J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. feathers to use as a garnish. Draw and singe, cut off the toes, and scald and skin the feet. Then wipe the pheasant inside and outside with a damp cloth. Now take about J lb. lean, juicy beef, cut it in pieces, season with pepper and salt, and put it into 1240. Pintails, To Cook These are a species of wild duck with a long, pointed tail. They can be cooked in the same way as wild duck, and must be carefully basted, as the flesh is inclined to be dry. A sharp sauce shouldPOULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 303 be served separately, and an orange salad is a good accompaniment. Time to roast, 20 to 30 minutes. on the pan, and cook in the oven or by the side of the stove until the game is tender. To Serve.—Cut the birds in halves and serve them on the top of the rice. Time to cook, 1 to 1£ hours. 1243. Ptarmigan, To Cook The ptarmigan is the smallest of the grouse tribe; its plumage is speckled grey or brown in summer, but turns almost white in winter, hence it is also called the white grouse. It inhabits high mountainous regions, and large numbers are im- ported from Norway and Russia. When young the flesh of the ptarmigan is quite delicate in flavour, but in the older birds it has acquired a bitter flavour, which is disliked by many people. They should be well hung, and can then be cooked in the same way as grouse. They will require from 30 to 35 minutes to roast. A little acid jelly, such as cranberry or guava, is a good accompaniment. 1241. Roast Plovers (Pluviers Rotis) Prepare and cook in the same way as Grouse (see Recipe 1228). Sometimes these birds are left undrawn, in any case the liver should be left inside. They will require about 20 minutes to roast and, like all game, must be well basted. Serve them on croutons of bread fried in the basting butter, and garnish with watercress and thinly sliced lemon. A little Burgundy or port should be added to the gravy. Time to roast, 15 to 20 minutes. 1242. Plovers with Rice (Pluviers en Pilaff) 3 plovers. 3 oz. rice. 2 oz. butter. A little saffron. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. U gills light stock. 2 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. Prepare and truss the birds as for roasting. Heat the butter in a stewpan, put in the plovers, and brown them slowly on all sides. Then lift them out, put in the chopped onion, and allow it to take a light brown colour. Add the rice, washed and blanched, the tomato puree, stock, and season- ings. Bring to the boil, cook a few minutes, and then return the plovers. Put a tight-fitting lid 1244. Roast Quails (Cailles R6ties) Pluck the birds and remove the head and neck. Draw them from the neck end, leaving the trail or not as preferred. Truss them with a needle and fine string in the same way as a pigeon, and tie a piece of fat bacon and a vine-leaf over the breast of each. Then roast in front of the fire if possible, basting almost constantly with butter. They will require from 12 to 15 minutes. The Quail and Snipe livers may be cut in small pieces, cooked in a little butter, then pounded with pepper and salt and a little good gravy and spread on croutons of bread or small neat pieces of toast. Make these quite hot and serve the birds on the top. The trussing thread must be removed, but not the bacon and vine-leaf. Garnish with a small quantity of water- cress and serve with fried bread-crumbs and a simple gravy separately. Time to roast, 12 to 15 minutes. 1245. Broiled Quails (Cailles Grilled) Pluck, singe, and draw the birds. Split them through the back bone and lay them flat without separating the halves. Wipe them carefully and season with salt and pepper. Wrap them in thickly buttered white paper and broil about 5 minutes on each side. Prepare a crouton of fried bread for each bird and as described for Roast Quails, and when the quails are ready place them on the top, removing the paper. Garnish with small sprigs of watercress, and serve bread sauce separately. Time to broil, 10 to 12 minutes.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 304 1246. Quails in Cases (Cailles en Caisses) 5 or 6 quails. Liver farce. Truffles. Brown chaudfroid sauce. Aspic jelly. Prepare some liver farce or mock foie gras as directed in Recipe 1271. Then bone the quails and stuff them with the farce, putting a truffle or part of a truffle in the centre of each. Sew them up, making them as neat a shape as possible. Then braise the birds, or poach them in well-flavoured stock until tender. When ready, lift them out, allow them to cool, and remove the trussing threads. Now coat the quails with brown chaud- froid sauce (see Recipe 715), and, when set, place them in little paper or china cases and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. 1247. Ruffs and Reeves These little birds belong to the snipe family, and should be cooked in the same way. The ruff is the male and the reeve the female bird. 1248. Teal and Widgeon (Sarcelles Roties) Follow the directions given for Wild Duck. A widgeon will take from 20 to 25 minutes to roast, and a teal rather longer. 1249. Roast Snipe (BScassines Roties) This little bird is very much esteemed ; it is generally kept until rather high, although some people prefer to use it fresh. Allow one snipe for each person. Pluck them very carefully, as the skin is particularly tender. Do not empty them, only remove the gizzard. The head, too, is kept on. Skin it, remove the eyes and use the long beak for trussing the bird instead of a skewer. Press the legs and wings together, then draw the head round and run the beak through where the legs and wings cross. Brush the snipe over with melted butter, and tie a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast of each. Now roast them in front of the fire or in the oven, basting them well with butter. The time vail depend upon how they are liked, well done or with the flesh red—from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, serve them on oblong croutons of fried bread, which may be spread with liver farce (cooked chicken, liver and bacon, minced and rubbed through a sieve) or foie gras. Garnish with watercress and small pieces of fresh lemon. Make a good gravy in the roasting tin and serve it separately. Time to roast, 15 to 20 minutes. 1250. Roast Wild Duck (Canard Sauvage R6ti) Prepare and truss in the same way as an ordinary duck, only the feet are generally left on and twisted backwards close to the sides. Roast from 15 to 20 minutes, basting it well. Sometimes a glass of port wine is poured over the duck during the cook- ing. Wild duck is usually left rather underdone. Serve garnished with seasoned watercress and quarters of cut lemon. A good brown sauce flavoured with orange juice, or bigarade sauce (see Recipe 710) should be handed separately. An orange salad is also a favourite accompaniment. Port wine may also be added to the sauce. Time to roast, 20 to 25 minutes. 1251. Wild Duck a la Bigarade (Canard Sauvage a la Bigarade) Prepare and truss the duck as for roasting, and then braise it until tender (see Braising, p. 210). When ready, lift it out, cut it in neat joints, and arrange these on a crouton of fried bread. Mask with bigarade sauce (Recipe 710) and garnish with small sections of orange and glace cherries, heated over hot water. 1252. Roast Woodcock (Becasse Rotie) Follow directions given for Roast Snipe (Recipe 1249). From 20 to 25 minutes will be required to cook them. They must not be overcooked. 1253. Compote of Game 2 plovers or partridges. 1 oz. butter. 2 tomatoes. 1 doz. preserved mush- rooms. 1| gills brown sauce. 1 glass Marsala or sherry. A bunch of herbs. 6 or 8 glace cherries. Fleurons of pastry. Partially roast the birds, and when cool cut them in neat joints, removing the larger bones and as much of the skin as possible. Put the joints into a fireproof terrine or casserole with the mushrooms and cherries sliced or cut in small pieces, and leave these until the sauce is prepared. Melt the butter in another saucepan, put in the wine, and tomatoes cut in pieces, and reduce over the fire. Then add any bones and trimmings from the game, the brown sauce, bunch of herbs and necessary seasoning. Cover and cook about 1 hour. When well flavoured, strain through a fine strainer over the joints of game, &c., and add a small piece of glaze if the sauce is not a good colour. Simmer all together for | hour longer and serve in the terrine garnished with fleurons of pastry. Note.—A few small quenelles and stoned olives may be added to the compote if wished.305 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 1254. Creplnettes of Game (Crepinettes de Gibier) 4 oz. cooked game. 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue. I oz. butter. 6 button mushrooms. 1 shallot. 2 tab.-sp. thick sauce (white or brown). 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Seasoning. A little flour. 1 pig’s caul. A little glaze. Tomato or piquante sauce. First chop finely the game, ham, and mushrooms. Melt the J oz. of butter in a saucepan, add the shallot finely chopped, and fry it a few minutes. Then add the game, ham, and mushrooms and enough thick sauce to bind them all together. Mix well and make thoroughly hot. Then add the chopped parsley and yolk of egg and season to taste with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix again and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When set, form it into small cork-shaped pieces, using a little flour to prevent its sticking to the board and knife. Wash the caul in salt and water, dry it, and cut in pieces about 3 inches square. Wrap the little rolls of meat in these and flatten them slightly. Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg to seal up the joins and bake them in the oven about 10 minutes until well browned, brushing them over with a little liquid glaze. Or, if preferred, the crepinettes may be coated with crumbs and fried in a little butter. Serve them on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with fried parsley, or on a bed of spinach or potato. Tomato or piquante sauce should be served separately. Note.—For caul, see Recipe 1257. 1255. Fricassee of Game pur6e. 1 glass sherry or port. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. 1 pheasant or 2 par- tridges. J lb. ham or bacon. 3 gills stock. 1 gill tomato sauce or Old birds or those that are not very tender may be used for making a fricassee. Cut them in small neat joints, removing most of the skin. Cut the bacon in small pieces and fry it a few minutes in a stewpan. Then lift it out, leaving the liquid. Now put the joints of game into this liquid fat and keep turning them over until brown on all sides. Return the bacon, add the wine and let it reduce one half. Pour in the stock and tomato puree, cover the saucepan, and stew slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the bird or birds are tender. When ready, lift out the joints of game, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Mix the flour smoothly with a little water or stock, add it to the gravy in the stewpan, and stir until boiling. Then skim carefully, season to taste, and strain over the pieces of game. Garnish with chest- nut or potato balls or any other garnish preferred. Time to cook, 2 to hours. 1256. Game Hot Pot Joints of game. 4 to 6 oz. streaky bacon. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 shallot. I doz. potatoes. Seasoning. 1 gill good stock. A little butter. as possible. Cut the bacon in small thin slices, slice the kidneys, removing the skin, peel and chop the shallot, and slice the potatoes rather thinly. Then take a fireproof hot-pot dish, or pie dish, grease it well and fill it with layers of the different ingredients, adding seasoning to taste. The last layer should be slices of potato neatly arranged so as to cover what is below. Pour in the stock, melt the butter and run it over the top. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven from li to 2 hours, or until the game is tender. Re- move the paper and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley before serving. Note.—If no stock is at hand, the bones and trimmings of the game should be put into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a few small pieces of flavouring vegetables, boiled for a short time and then strained. 1257. Kromeskis of Game (Cromesquis au Chasseur) 1 or 2 tab.-sps. brown sauce. A little grated lemon 6 oz. cooked game. 2 oz. cooked ham. A few button mush- rooms. 1 truffle. 1 tea.-sp. chopped parsley. rind. A little flour. Bacon. Frying batter. Chop the game and ham very finely, and add to them the chopped parsley and the mushrooms and truffle also chopped. Bind together with some thick and very good brown sauce and season nicely. Allow the mixture to set, and then form it into small cork- shaped rolls with the aid of a little flour. Wrap these in very thin slices of bacon (unless the bacon is very thin it will not be sufficiently cooked), dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1862), coating them well, and fry them a nice brown colour in boiling fat. Do not put too many into the fat at one time, and do not cook them too quickly. When ready, drain on kitchen paper, and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley. Notes.—Instead of fat bacon, pig’s caul may be used—a thin, netted-looking membrane, which can be bought from the butcher, and will keep good for some days in salt and water. When wanted, this should be well rinsed and cut in proper-sized pieces with a pair of scissors. The mushrooms and truffles may be omitted. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1258. Salmi of Game (Salmis de Gibier) Remains of cooked game 2 or 3 shallots. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. stock or gravy. A bouquet garni. Rind of 1 orange. Lemon juice. Seasoning. 1 glass red or white wine. 1 slice of toast. Croutons of fried bread. Take 1 or 2 birds and cut them in neat pieces, removing the carcase bone and as much of the skin Remains of any cooked birds may be used for a salmi, or two different kinds of birds may be used together. Cut the game into neat pieces, removing as much of the skin as possible. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour and stir them over the fire until they become a nice brown. Pour in the stock and stir again until boiling. Then add the shallots, the trimmings and any bones of game, bouquet garni, and thinly peeled rind of 1 orange. Simmer this for at least | hour, and strain through a fine strainer. Return the sauce to the stewpan, add a little lemon juice, pepper and salt to taste, UCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 306 and a glass of red or white wine—white wine is the best to use for partridge or pheasant, and red for other kinds of game. Bring the sauce to the boil and lay in the pieces of game. Cover with the lid, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire or in a bain-marie for at least 15 minutes, to allow the game to heat through and become thoroughly satu- rated with the sauce. It must on no account boil. To Serve.—Make a nice piece of toast and cut it in three or four pieces free from crust. Lay these on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of game neatly on the top and pour the sauce over. Garnish with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread or pastry, and thin slices of lemon. Notes.—A more economical salmi may be made by mixing a little roast mutton or veal along with the game. Some truffle and mushroom may be added if wished, and small sections of Seville orange are sometimes used as a garnish. 1259. Salmi o! Partridge (Salmis de Perdreau) 1 partridge. Sauce. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 chopped shallot. Croutons of bread. A small bunch of herbs. £ glass white wine. J glass red wine. 1 tea-cupful brown sauce. Trimmings of game. To Prepare the Game.—Remains of cooked game may be used for the salmi, but it is better when freshly roasted, as it should be underdone. Cut the bird in about eight neat pieces, removing as much of the skin as possible and some of the carcase bones. Put the joints into a small saucepan with a little light stock, and keep them warm without allowing them to boil. Put all the trimmings into a mortar and pound them until reduced to a puree. To Make the Sauce.—Heat the oil in a small saucepan, add the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes until beginning to brown, add the shallot and brown the two together. Then add the bunch of herbs and two kinds of wine, and boil until reduced to about 1 table-spoonful. Add the brown sauce and simmer about hour. Then re- move the saucepan from the fire, add the puree made from the trimmings of the game, mix it in, and give the sauce one boil up. Then strain, pressing the sauce well through the strainer. Return the sauce to the saucepan, put in the joints of partridge, and allow them to remain just long enough to become thoroughly saturated with the sauce. The sauce must not boil after the game puree is added. To Serve.—Prepare an oval-shaped crouton of fried bread and arrange the joints of game neatly on the top. Coat them with the sauce, and garnish with some prettily shaped croutons of fried bread. Note.—Other kinds of game may be prepared in the same way. 1260. Salmi of Game & la Chasseur Prepare in the same way as above, adding some small cooked mushrooms to the sauce. 1261. Game Scallops C oz. cooked game. White bread-crumbs. 1 or 2 oz. cooked ham. A little butter. 1 gill brown sauce. Chop the game and ham finely or put them through a mincing machine. Have ready some good brown sauce flavoured with wine and a little red-currant jelly. Then take 5 or 6 scallop shells, grease them well with butter, and coat them with fine white bread-crumbs. Put in next some of the minced meat and cover and moisten with sauce. Sprinkle the top with more bread-crumbs, or bread- crumbs and grated cheese mixed, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve garnished with a sprig of parsley and a small piece of sliced lemon. 1282. Little Game Souffles (Petits Souffles de Gibier) 3 oz. cooked ham. 1 oz. cooked game. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill game stock. 2 eggs. Seasoning. A few fresh mushrooms. Chop the game and ham finely or put them through a mincing machine. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour and then the game stock. Stir over the fire until a smooth paste is formed, and the mixture or panada draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the minced meat, and season carefully with cayenne, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if liked, a little red-currant or cranberry jelly. Mix well and then beat in the yolks of eggs one at a time. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly at the last. Grease some small china or paper souffle cases, three-quarters fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once with a grilled or baked mushroom on the top of each. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 souffles. Approximate Time Required for Cooking Game and Poultry Chicken . Fowl Duck Duckling Goose Gosling . Guinea-fowl . Pigeon . Rabbit . Turkey (large) „ (small) Black game . Capercailzie . Grouse . Hare Leveret . Ortolan . Partridge Pheasant Pintail . Plover . Ptarmigan Quail Ruffs and reeves Snipe Teal Wheatear Widgeon Wild duck Woodcock How Cooked. . Roasted . Boiled . Roasted Boiied Roasted Boiled Roasted Boiied Roasted Time Required. J to 1 hr. It to 2 hrs. 1 to 1J hr. 45 to 50 mins. 30 to 40 mins. 1£ to 2 hrs. 3 to 1 hr. | to 1 hr. 20 to 25 mins. | to 1 hr. 1 to li hr. 24 to 3 hrs. 1 j to 11 hr. 2 to 4 hrs. f to 1 hr. | to 1 hr. 4 to | hr. 1J to 2 hrs. | to 1 hr. 15 to 20 mins. 25 to 35 mins, i to 1 hr. 1 i to 2 hrs. 20 to 30 mins. 15 to 20 mins. 30 to 35 mins. 12 to 15 mins. 10 to 15 mins. 15 to 20 mins. 20 to 30 mins. 10 to 12 mins. 15 to 20 mins. 20 to 25 mins. 20 to 25 mins.FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES PART I FORCEMEATS AND STUFFINGS 1263. Apple Stuffing 5 or 6 apples. A little water. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. \ lb. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 egg- Peel and quarter the apples (greenings are best), removing the core. Put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with the butter and enough water to moisten the bottom of the saucepan. Cook slowly until the apples are tender, but not broken. Add the sugar and nutmeg, allow the fruit to cool, then stir in the bread-crumbs and the egg well beaten. This stuffing is used princi- pally for pork or goose. 1264. Celery Stuffing Make in the same way as Potato Stuffing (Re- cipe 1277), adding a good cupful of finely chopped celery to the other ingredients. 1265. Chestnut Stuffing 1 lb. chestnuts. 2 oz. butter. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. Seasoning. | lb. sausage meat. Milk or stock. or a little shrimp essence or paste. About 1 tea- spoonful of finely chopped onion may also be added. 1267. Forcemeat or Stuffing for Fish, 2 £ lb. uncooked fish. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 table-sp. cream. Grated lemon rind. I egg. 1 table-sp. melted butter. Pepper. Salt. Chop the fish very finely, mix it with the bread- crumbs, and add pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind to taste. Add the melted butter and the egg and cream beaten together. Mix well and allow the forcemeat to stand a short time before using. 1268. Fish Quenelle Meat or Farce \ lb. whiting or other white fish. Panada. 1 oz. butter. 1| oz. flour. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 1 egg. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. Weigh the fish free from skin and bone and scrape it down finely with a knife. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and milk or fish stock (see p. 78). Allow it to cool, then pound in a mortar with the fish. Season to taste, add the egg, and pound again. Then rub all through a fine wire sieve and the farce is ready for use. Sometimes the farce is coloured pink with a little lobster spawn or coral. Shell the chestnuts (see Recipe 1625), and put them into a saucepan with milk or stock to cover them. Allow them to simmer slowly until tender, and the liquid is absorbed. Then rub the chestnuts through a sieve, or mash them until smooth. Add the butter and bread-crumbs, mix with the sausage meat and season to taste. Note.—The sausage meat may be omitted and an egg, or the yolk of an egg, added to bind the stuffing. 1266. Forcemeat or Stuffing for Fish, 1 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated rind £ lemon. I tea-sp. powdered herbs 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 table-sp. chopped suet or melted butter. Salt. Pepper. Egg or milk to bind. Put the bread-crumbs and various seasonings into a basin, add the suet or melted butter, and bind all together with some beaten egg or a little milk. The seasoning may be varied to suit indi- vidual taste and according to the materials at command. The herbs may be omitted, and a few chopped shrimps or oysters added, or the stuffing may be flavoured with 1 or 2 chopped anchovies, 1269. Forcemeat for Hare 6 to 8 oz. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. suet. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. mixed herbs. 307 1 tea-sp. chopped shal- lot. The liver, heart, and kidneys of hare. Seasoning. 1 or 2 eggs. Parboil the liver, heart, and kidneys in a little stock, then drain and chop them finely. Put this mince into a basin, add the suet finely chopped and the other dry ingredients. Mix all together and season with pepper, salt, and a good pinch of nut- meg. Then bind together with beaten egg, or with egg and milk or stock mixed. This quantity is sufficient for a good-sized hare. Note.—A little cooked ham or bacon finely chopped may be added to the stuffing. Melted butter may be used instead of suet. 1270. Liver Farce 1 lb. calf’s liver. 2 table-sps. chopped \ lb. stale bread. onion. Pepper. Salt. 2 oz. butter. Nutmeg. 1 egg. Choose stale bread without any crust, break it in pieces and soak in cold water until soft. ThenCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 308 squeeze out all the water in a towel. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without browning. Add the soaked bread, cook again until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan, then turn it on to a plate to cool. Wash and trim the liver, cut it in pieces and put it through the mincing machine. Mix the liver and bread panada together, season well with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg,and bind all together with beaten egg. 1271. Liver Farce au Gratin (Imitation Foie Gras) 4 oz. calf’s or sheep’s liver. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1 shallot. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley A little brown sauce. 1 table-sp. sherry. Wash and dry the liver and cut it in very thin slices, removing all skin. Chop the bacon and fry it for a few minutes in a small saucepan. Add the liver and cook it just long enough to colour the outside. Then add the shallot finely chopped, the parsley and seasoning. Cook a minute longer, turn the mixture into a mortar and pound it well, adding a little brown sauce if too dry, and accord- ing to the purpose for which the farce is to be used. When well pounded, rub through a sieve and then use as required. 1272, \ lb. mushrooms. \ lb. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Use fresh mushrooms. Mushroom Stuffing 1 egg. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of mace. Wash and dry them, and chop them up with their trimmings. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, put in the mushrooms, and cook them over a moderate heat for 6 or 7 minutes. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, add the mushrooms to them, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace. Mix together and bind with beaten egg. This makes a very good stuffing for small birds. 1273. Mushroom or D’Uxelle Stuffing 2 oz. mushrooms. 1 oz. parsley and chervil. 1 dessert-sp. chopped shallot or chives. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg- Seasoning. 1 or 2 oz. bread-crumbs. Chop the parsley, chervil, and mushrooms. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot and cOok it a few minutes over a moderate heat. Add the other chopped ingredients and cook a few minutes longer. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add a beaten egg, seasoning to taste, and enough bread-crumbs to make the stuffing of the right consistency. This is used principally for stuffing small birds. The livers of the birds, if good, may be cooked, chopped, and added to the stuffing. 1274. Nut Stuffing l lb. pine kernels. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1£ oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 1 dessert-sp. chopped 1 egg. onion. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and put in the nuts finely chopped and the chopped onion. Fry until lightly browned and then turn the con- tents of the saucepan into a mortar. Pound until smooth, add the cream and egg well beaten, and then the 2 oz. bread-crumbs, or enough to make the stuffing of the right consistency. Season to taste and use for stuffing game, poultry, and certain vegetables. 1275. Oyster Stuffing 1 dozen oysters. \ lb. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Lemon rind. 1 egg- 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley A pinch of mace. Pepper. Salt. Beard the oysters, put the beards into a small saucepan with any liquor, bring them to the boil, and simmer a few minutes to extract the flavour. Then strain and reserve the liquor. Put the bread- crumbs into a basin, add the butter slightly melted, then the oysters broken in small pieces and the seasonings. Mix all together and add enough beaten egg and oyster liquor to make the stuffing of a softish consistency. This may be used for stuffing either fish or poultry. Note.—Shrimp stuffing can be made in the same way. 2 or 3 pigeon livers. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1276. Forcemeat for Pigeon 1 tea-sp.chopped shallot Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 yolk of egg. Parboil the livers and chop them finely. Mix them with the bacon, also chopped, the shallot and bread-crumbs. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and bind together with the yolk of egg and a little stock or milk if necessary. 1277. Potato Stuffing Pepper. Salt. 1 egg or 2 table-Bps. cream. 1 lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 Spanish onion. The potatoes should be dry and mealy. Mash them up with a fork or rub them through a sieve. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and cook it 5 or 10 minutes. Then add it to the potato, season well and add the egg well beaten, or the cream. Mix all together. The egg or cream may be omitted if a plainer stuffing is wished. Sometimes a little powdered sage or other herb is added. 1278. 2 large Spanish onions. I lb. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. 1 oz. butter. Sage and Onion Stuffing Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of castor sugar. Peel the onions and cut them in thick slices. Put them into a saucepan, sprinkle them well with salt and cover with hot water. Bring to the boil, cook 5 minutes and strain off this water. Cover again with hot water and boil slowly for i hour, or until the onions are half cooked. Then drain, press the onions as dry as possible and chop them finely. Put them into a basin with the bread-crumbs and add the sage finely powdered, seasoning, and the butter melted. Mix together and use as directed,309 FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES Note.—This stuffing is used principally for roast goose, roast duck, and roast pork. If fresh sage is used, the leaves must be boiled a few minutes, then dried and chopped finely. 1279. Sausage Stuffing \ lb. sausage meat. | lb. stale bread. A little hot milk or water. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 egg- Soak the bread in the milk or water until soft, and then squeeze it as dry as possible. Melt the butter or dripping in a small saucepan, put in the chopped onion and cook it 5 or 10 minutes without browning. Then mix all the ingredients together, binding with the egg well beaten. The onion and butter may be omitted. 1280, 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. Tomato Stuffing 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 egg and 1 yolk. Salt. Pepper. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and cook it a few minutes without browning. Remove the skins from the tomatoes and cut them in small pieces. Add them to the butter and onion in the saucepan, cook all together for 10 minutes, then allow the mixture to cool. Mix in the bread-crumbs with the whole egg and yolk beaten together. Season with pepper and salt and the stuffing is ready to use. 1281. Veal or Herb Forcemeat, 1 1 lb. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped suet. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated rind | lemon. 1 or 2 oz. chopped ham. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Egg or milk. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, add the suet very finely chopped, the chopped parsley and ham, grated lemon rind and herbs very finely powdered. Mix well together, season with pepper and salt, and bind with a little beaten egg or milk. The ham is sometimes omitted, and 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter may be used instead of the suet. 1282. Veal Forcemeat. 2 \ lb. lean veal. 2 oz. fat bacon. 2 oz. stale bread. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. £ tea-sp. powdered thyme. 1 tea-sp. chopped par- sley. Seasoning. 1 egg- Put the bread, which must be free from crust, into a basin, cover it with cold water and let it soak until soft. Then squeeze out all the water in a cloth. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the onion and cook it a few minutes without browning. Put in the soaked bread, and cook a few minutes longer until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. When ready, turn it into a basin to cool. Wipe and trim the veal, cut it in pieces and put it through a mincing machine along with the bacon. Add the chopped meat to the bread panada, season with pepper, salt, thyme, and parsley, and moisten with beaten egg. A little grated lemon rind may be added if wished. This forcemeat may be used for stuffing poultry and other birds, &c., also for making forcemeat balls. 1283. Walnut Stuffing Make in the same way as Potato Stuffing (Re- cipe 1277), omitting the onion and adding 4 to 6 oz. shelled walnuts finely chopped. This stuffing is very good in ducks and rabbits. 1284. Whiting Farce (Farce Mousseline) J lb. whiting. | Seasoning. | white of egg. | 2 tab.-sps. double cream This is a very fine and delicate farce, suitable for fish entries. Weigh the flesh of the whiting free from skin and bone. Put it into a mortar and pound it well with the white of egg and seasoning to taste of pepper, salt, and a pinch of spice. Then rub this through a fine sieve and put it into a small saucepan or basin. Stand the saucepan in a tin with a little broken ice round it and mix the puree well with a wooden spoon, adding the cream, slightly beaten, by degrees. Not more than a tea-spoonful of cream must be added at a time, and the mixture must be well beaten to make it light. Before using the farce it will be as well to test a small piece in boiling water or stock. If after 2 or 3 minutes’ cooking it is of a nice con- sistency, the farce may be used as it is, but if too hard, add more cream, or if too soft, a little more white of egg. PART II BALLS, DUMPLINGS, AND QUEN- ELLES FOR GARNISH 1285. Bread Dumplings 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of sugar. Pepper. Salt. Put the butter into a basin and beat it to a cream. Add the egg and seasoning and then the bread- crumbs by degrees. Stir well together and then set the mixture aside in a cool place for an hour at least. Form it into small balls the size of a marble and boil in soup for 10 minutes. 1286. Cheese Balls or Quenelles for Soup \ tea-cupful bread- | Salt. Pepper. crumbs. Beaten egg. 1 oz. grated cheese. I Use rather soft cheese for these. Mix it with the bread-crumbs, season with pepper and salt and bind all together with a little beaten egg. Then form into very small balls, using a little flour, dip them into beaten egg and drop into boiling stock or water. Cook about 3 minutes, lift them out with a draining spoon and they are ready for serving in soup. Note.—These may be made quenelle-shaped if preferred.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 310 1287. Egg Balls 3 hard-boiled yolks. I Salt. Cayenne. Raw yolk of egg. | A little flour. Pound the hard-boiled yolks in a mortar with seasoning and enough raw yolk to form a smooth paste. Put the mixture on a floured board, and divide it into small portions. Roll these into balls with a little flour and poach them very carefully for 3 or 4 minutes in salted water. Lift out with a draining spoon and serve in soup, or as a garnish for fish, &c. These balls may also be fried a golden brown, in which case it would be better to give them an extra coating of white of egg and flour before putting them in the fat. Notes.—Sometimes the whole hard-boiled egg is used for making these balls. The mixture should then be sieved in order to make it perfectly smooth. A little grated Parmesan cheese may be added. 3 table-sps. crumbs. 1 table-sp.chopped suet. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley £ tea-sp. mixed herbs. A little grated lemon rind. Pepper. Salt. Enough egg to bind. A little flour. 1288. Forcemeat Balls, 1 bread- Chop the suet very finely and put it in a basin with the bread-crumbs, and parsley finely chopped. Add the herbs finely powdered, grated lemon rind, pepper and salt, and mix all together with the tips of the fingers. Beat up one egg, or one yolk of egg with a little milk, and add enough of this to bind all together. Form into small balls with a little flour, and poach them in boiling salted water for 10 minutes, or they may be dipped in beaten egg, and baked or fried in butter until a golden brown. Note.—A piece of butter the size of a walnut may be used instead of the suet—it will require to be rubbed into the bread-crumbs. 4 table-sps. cooked meat 4 table-sps. breadcrumbs \ tea-sp. mixed herbs. 1 tea-sp. choppcdparsley dessert-sp. melted butter. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. A little flour 1289. Forcemeat Balls, 2 1 Chop the meat very finely, and mix it with the other dry ingredients, seasoning to taste. Add the melted butter, and bind all together with the yolk of an egg. Form into small balls, using a little flour to make them dry. Throw them into a little boiling water or stock, and boil them slowly for 10 minutes. Drain and serve in soup or as directed.- If preferred, the balls may be fried in a little butter. 1290. Forcemeat Balls, 3 | lb. sausage meat. [ 1 yolk of egg. 2 oz. bread. | Seasoning. A little flour. Soak the bread in cold water, squeeze it dry, and add it to the sausage meat. Add more seasoning if necessary and bind all together with yolk of egg. Form the mixture into small balls the size of a marble, coating them with flour. Throw them into boiling stock or salted water, boil for 10 minutes and drain. Or. if preferred, fry them until brown in a little butter or dripping. 1291. Liver Balls for Soup 3 oz. chicken fivers. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 table-sp. butter. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Wash and dry the fivers. Cut them in pieces, and fry them a few minutes in the butter. Then pound them in a mortar with the parsley, yolk of egg, and seasoning to taste. When smooth, rub the mixture through a wire sieve, and allow it to cool. Form into small balls, using a little flour, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat until brown. Drain the balls well and put them into the soup at the moment of serving. 1292. Marrow Balls 3 table-sps. breadcrumbs 1 table-sp. chopped marrow. 1 small egg. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Chop the marrow very finely and mix it with the bread-crumbs. Season to taste and bind all to- gether with yolk of egg. Form the mixture into small balls the size of a marble, using a little flour, and dip them in slightly beaten wliite of egg. Throw them into a little boiling water slightly salted, and boil them a few minutes until they begin to .float. Then lift them out with a per- forated spoon, allowing the water to drain from them, and serve in soup. 1293. Potato Dumplings or Quenelles for Soup 2 or 3 large cooked i Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 tea-sp. flour. potatoes. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. The potatoes must be dry and mealy; they should either be baked or boiled in their jackets. Remove the skins and rub them through a sieve. Cream the little piece of butter, add to it the yolks of eggs, and then the potatoes, flour and seasoning. Mix well together and set aside until firm. Form the mixture into small dumplings and cook them 5 minutes in boiling stock or broth. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be made into small quenelles, shaping it with two tea- spoons (see Recipe 1099). 1294. Sausage Meat Balls \ lb. sausage meat. A cupful soaked bread. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of mace. Beaten egg. A little flour. Soak a small quantity of stale bread in cold water, then squeeze it as dry as possible in a cloth and take the required quantity. Beat this with a fork until free from lumps, add the sausage meat and seasoning, mix well together and bind with beaten egg. Turn the mixture on to a floured board and divide it in pieces the size of a marble. Roll these into small balls with the help of a little flour, then dust some dry flour over them and shake it oS again. When all are ready, cook them in boiling soup or water for 10 or 12 minutes. 1295. Sponge Dumplings 1 gill milk. I 1 tea-sp. parsley. 1 oz. butter. 4 oz. flour. I Seasoning. 2 eggs. Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Add the flour finely sifted,311 FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES and stir over the fire until smooth and the mixture draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove it from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, seasoning, and parsley, and beat for a few minutes. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Drop small tea-spoonfuls of this mixture into boiling salted water and cook 7 or 8 minutes. When the dumplings are ready, lift them out of the water with a perforated spoon, letting them drain well; place them in a hot soup tureen and pour hot soup over them. 1296. Rice Balls for Soup 3 oz. rice. 1 tea-cupful cold water. 1 tea-cupful milk. Salt. Pepper. I oz. butter. 1 egg. A little flour. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the milk and water, and cook it until quite soft and thick. Season with pepper and salt, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and beat all together with a fork. Then add the egg slightly beaten, and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When set and firm, form into small balls the size of a marble, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands. Cook the balls about 10 minutes in boiling stock or salted water, drain them well, put them in the soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over them. 1297. Suet Dumplings for Soup I lb. flour. I Salt. Pepper, oz. suet. I A little water. Chop the suet very finely and mix it with the flour and seasoning. Moisten with cold water, being careful not to make the paste too wet. Form into small balls the size of a walnut, using a little flour. Drop them into boiling water or stock and boil slowly 10 minutes. Drain, put them in the soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over. 1298. Chicken or Veal Quenelles for Garnish Make the quenelle meat according to directions given in Recipe 1099. Then one of the following methods can be adopted for shaping the quenelles : (1) shape the quenelle meat in small tea-spoons or egg-spoons like ordinary quenelles and poach them in boiling water about 10 minutes. (2) Put the quenelle meat into a forcing bag with..a small pipe I inch in diameter and force out the mixture in little heaps, or egg-shaped pieces, on to the bottom of a greased saute or frying pan. Pour boiling water gently round, and let these poach or cook slowly until they are set, about 10 minutes. Lift them up with a perforated spoon and carefully drain them on a clean cloth. A paper cornet may be used instead of the forcing bag and pipe. Make a paper cornet, put in a little of the quenelle meat, and then cut off the pointed end, sufficient to form a hole about J inch in diameter. (3) Put the quenelle meat into a forcing bag with a pipe J inch in diameter and force out long-shaped pieces, and when these are cooked and drained, cut them in slices. When the quenelles are made by one of the above methods and well drained, use as required, and if for soup put them into a hot tureen and pour the soup boiling hot over them. 1299. Decorated Quenelles These are sometimes used as a garnish for meat or fish. Well grease the bowl of 3 or 4 dessert- spoons according to the number of quenelles re- quired, and decorate them with small fancy-shaped pieces of truffle, or the red part of cooked ham or tongue. Fill the spoons with quenelle meat, round it on the top with a wetted knife. Then dip the spoons with the quenelles in them into slowly simmering salted water, and after a minute or two the spoons can be removed, leaving the garnish adhering to the quenelles. Continue poaching the quenelles until sufficiently cooked. Quenelle-shaped moulds may of course be used instead of the spoons, the above method is only necessary when these are not at hand. 1300. Fish or Game Quenelles for Garnish Make in the same way as above, using fish or game quenelle meat. PART III VARIOUS GARNISHES 1301. Croutons of Bread for Soup These are served with all thick soups. Use bread not less than one day old; it should be light, but rather close in texture and free from any large holes. Cut slices oS the bread about £ inch in thickness, take off the crust, cut the slices in strips £ inch wide, then cut these across into even squares. Or, the bread may be cut in small rounds or fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter. About one small slice of bread should be allowed for each person, or less if for a number. If the bread is soft, let the croutons dry for a short time on the rack above the fire or in a cool oven. These croutons may either be fried in boiling fat or in clarified butter in a frying pan, or soaked in stock and browned on a greased tin in the oven. Drain well on kitchen paper before serving. They should be crisp, dry, of an amber colour and hot.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 312 They may, if liked, be sprinkled with a little grated Parmesan or other dry cheese, or, if to be served with pea or lentil soup, with a little finely powdered mint. 1301a. Croutons for Garnish Prepare some bread as above and cut it in slices not more than £ inch in thickness. Then cut the Crofttons for Garnishing slices in crescents, triangles, heart or cutlet shapes, according to the purpose for which they are re- quired. Fry as directed for croutons for soup and drain well. These are useful for decorating dishes of mince, hash, ragouts, fricassees, &c., and various entries. 1302. Bread Croute or Socle This is a large piece of fried bread, which is not meant to be eaten, but is used to raise or support various entries and meat dishes, to give them a handsomer appearance, and to allow of better garnishing. The crumb of stale bread should be used, cut it to the desired shape, round, oval, or conical, &c., immerse it in hot fat and fry to a golden brown colour. This can be made to adhere to the dish with a little white of egg. Note.—For other croutes see under Savouries. 1303. Baked Bread for Soup A square loaf not less than a day old is best for this. Cut off the crust of as much as will be re- quired, but not too deep. Then take a very sharp knife and cut the bread in slices as thin as possible. They should be so thin that the knife can be seen through them. Place these shoes on a clean baking tin and dry them in a slow oven until they curl up and become a pale yellow colour. Send them to table in a bread basket or on a plate with a dish paper under them. 1304. Pulled Bread This may be either bought ready or prepared in the following way : take the inside crumb from a French roll, pull it with the fingers (it must never be cut) into small pieces, and brown these in a slow oven until of a nice amber colour. 1305. Pastry Croutons for Soup Roll out some scraps of puff or other good pastry very thinly and cut it in shreds from 1 to 1£ inches in length and either bake or fry these until lightly browned. Drain carefully and serve hot and crisp. The pastry may be flavoured with grated cheese if desired, or cheese pastry (Recipe 2255) may be used. 1306. Fleurons of Pastry Roll out any scraps of light pastry to about \ inch in thickness, and cut out small shapes with a fluted or fancy cutter. Place these on a baking sheet, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven for about 10 minutes. These are used as a garnish for various entries, ragouts, mince, &c. 1307. Aspic Jelly (Aspic) 1 \ pt. veal or calf’s foot stock or 1J pt. water. 1 gill sherry, Marsala, or Chablis. About 1 gill assorted vinegars. 2 oz. or less sheet gela- tine. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 onion. A piece of carrot and turnip. 1 stick celery or 1 tea-sp. celery seed. 1 tea-sp. salt. A sprig of thyme. A sprig of marjoram. A few parsley stalks. 2 or 3 bay-leaves. 1 blade of mace. The whites and shells of 2 eggs. 20 white peppercorns. 4 cloves. Take a clean lined saucepan and rinse it out with hot water. Put into it the stock or water (which should be quite free from grease) and the gelatine cut in small pieces. If the stock is a jelly, less gelatine may be used, the quantity will depend somewhat upon what the aspic is to be used for—a stiffer jelly being required in some cases than others. This is a matter of judgment. Add the vegetables, prepared and cut in pieces, the herbs tied together with fine string or thread, and the smaller seasonings tied in a piece of muslin. Add also the sherry, whites of eggs, and the shells washed and crushed. To measure the vinegars, take half a gill brown malt vinegar, nearly half a gill of tarragon vinegar, and make up the remainder with Chili vinegar. Or, less brown vinegar may be used and some spiced vinegar added. The amount of vinegar used is very much a matter of taste, a very usual fault is to add too much. Add the vinegars to the'other ingredients, with the salt, lemon rindFORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES 313 peeled oS very thinly, and the juice strained. Whisk all together over the fire until a good froth rises and the jelly is almost boiling. Allow it to boil up as high as it will without boiling over, then draw the saucepan gently to one side of the fire, where the jelly will keep warm without simmering, and cover it with a lid or plate. Allow it to stand for 10 minutes, and then strain, according to directions given in Recipe 1928. Note.—Aspic jelly is very much used in the decorating of cold dishes, and for the making of cold entrees. 1308. To Chop Aspic The aspic used for chopping should be rather stiff and very clear. Put the quantity required on to a sheet of white paper that has been sprinkled with cold water, and with a long knife, that has been dipped in cold water, chop it until it is the size required. This should be done in a cool place. Chopped aspic is used to decorate various cold dishes; it may either be placed in small quantities on the top of the meat, or placed in a circle round the dish. Small entrees too, are sometimes de- corated with chopped aspic squeezed through a forcing bag. 1309. Aspic Croutons Pour some stiffish aspic into a wetted shallow tin or dish, not more than 1 inch in depth, and set it aside to cool. When firm, turn out on a sheet of paper that has been sprinkled with water, and cut out into crescents, circles, triangles, lozenge shapes, &c., with a knife or cutters that have been dipped in water. These form a very useful garnish for various cold dishes. 1310. Tomato Jelly 1 lb. ripe tomatoes. 1 pt. hot water. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 glass sherry. 12 peppercorns. A small bunch of herbs. 1 cupful mixed vege- tables. 1 lemon. 1 tea-sp. salt. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 1 white and shell of egg. Put the water and gelatine into a jelly pan, and allow them to soak whilst preparing the other ingredients. Wipe the tomatoes and cut them in rough pieces, prepare a few small pieces of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, and add all these to the gelatine and water. Add also the thinly peeled rind and strained juice of the lemon, the wine and other ingredients. Finish and clear in the same way as aspic jelly (see above). Rings of cucumber are also pretty as a garnish. Cut some cucumber in slices about | inch in thick- ness. With a round cutter cut off the outer green skin, and then with a much smaller cutter stamp out the seedy part from the centre. Cook these rings in boiling salted water until they are tender without being broken, then drain and use as a garnish either for hot or cold dishes. The centres of the rings may be filled with a tiny piece of tomato, radish or truffle. 1312. Egg Garnish Separate the yolk from the white. Rub the yolk through a wire sieve, lift it as lightly as possible and use it for sprinkling over fish, boiled fowl, and various savoury dishes. The hard-boiled white may be either chopped or cut in fancy- shaped pieces. If a large number of the latter are required, it is better to steam 2 or 3 whites of eggs separately in a small cup or mould, then to turn them out, and cut in slices and fancy shapes as desired. 1313. Grated Horse-radish Wash and scrape a root of horse-radish until all the brown outside part is removed, and if possible let it lie in cold water for an hour. Then with a very sharp knife scrape it down in very fine shreds, from the root end downwards. This is used for decorating both meat and fish, and especially roast meat. It should be laid on very lightly in little bunches. 1314. Cheap Glaze for Meat | pt. stock or water. | oz. French sheet gelatine. 1 tea-sp. meat extract. Dissolve the gelatine in the stock or water, then add the meat extract, and boil until reduced to about half the quantity, stirring frequently. Season if necessary, strain, and allow it to be- come almost cold before using. 1311. Cucumber Garnish Choose a firm, straight cucumber, cut a block from 2 to 2£ inches in length, and with a sharp knife score the skin down in narrow strips, but not too deeply. Then remove every alternate strip of peel, giving the piece of cucumber a dark and fight green striped appearance. Now cut it in half lengthwise and slice each piece as thinly as possible. Arrange these pieces in scallop form round a dish by pinching them slightly together. This is one of the prettiest forms of decoration for a cold dish, and especially so when the scallops of cucumber are stuck into a border of aspic. 1315. Lobster Coral Remove the coral from a lobster and wash it carefully. Place it on a piece of paper, and dry in a slow oven without allowing it to lose its colour. Then rub it through a hair sieve, and use this pretty red powder for decorating fish and little savoury dishes. 1316. Macedoine of Vegetables for Garnish Cut a carrot and turnip into J inch dice, or with small vegetable cutters cut them into fancy shapes or balls. The red part only of the carrot should be used.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 314 Mix them in about equal proportions with green peas, flageolet beans, French beans cut in \ inch lengths, and small pieces of cauliflower. The vege- tables should be cooked separately, and well drained before being put together. When prepared, heat them with a little butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. The vegetables must be mixed very lightly so as not to break them. A little bechamel sauce may be used instead of butter for moistening, or if to be served cold, mix with a little mayonnaise sauce. Sometimes the vegetables instead of being mixed together are placed in separate heaps around the meat, and they then give a good effect of colour. Note.—Macedoine of vegetables may be bought ready prepared in tins or in bottles. 1317. Profiteroles Choux pastry. I Grated Parmesan. Chicken forcemeat. I Seasoning. Make half the quantity of choux pastry as given in Recipe 1450. It must be unsweetened and nicely seasoned with white pepper and salt. Sometimes a little grated Parmesan is added. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe of about J inch in diameter. Hold the bag perpendicularly and squirt out small pieces on a greased and floured tin. The pieces should not be larger than a small walnut and must be placed a little distance apart. Let them stand for 10 minutes, then with a small brush coat them over with beaten egg, or with yolk of egg and water. Bake in a moderate oven until a golden brown and quite dry. Prepare a nice chicken or other savoury mince and add to it a little grated Parmesan. Slit the profiteroles open at one side and fill them with the mince. Return them to the oven for a few minutes. Serve with soup or as directed. 1318. Rice Socle A rice socle is used for mounting a cold entree and to give it a raised appearance. It is not meant to be eaten. Take the quantity of rice required, wash it well, put it into a saucepan, well cover it with cold water and cook it until perfectly soft. The water must be absorbed and the rice form a thick paste. Then pound it in a mortar, form it into the shape desired, and allow it to cool. The moulding may either be done with the hands, or the rice may be pressed into a mould. If the socle is required for a hot entree, it should be brushed over with beaten egg and browned in the oven. Note For garnishes for sweet dishes, see under Puddings and Cakes. Various vegetable garnishes are also given in the section on vegetables.315 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS The egg is one of our most useful foods; not only does it contain nourishment in a concentrated and easily-digested form, but it is esteemed and liked by most people. Eggs to be good must be perfectly fresh, in fact unless they are so they are not worth using. They are most easily digested when raw, simply cooked they can generally be taken without difficulty, but when hard-boiled they should be shunned by those who have a weak digestion. The egg is also valuable because it lends itself so readily to different modes of treatment, and the only thing to be deplored is that there is such a lack of variety in egg dishes as they appear on our tables. There is scarcely anything in the way of scraps that cannot be utilised in some little egg dish, the remains of fish, meat, game, poultry, and even vegetables and sauces can all be requisitioned, and will only help to make the dish more tasty and appetising. It is to be hoped that the following recipes will give one a fair idea of how the simple poached egg, boiled egg, scrambled egg, &c., can be varied, and that personal ingenuity will invent many other tempting and savoury dishes. A few fireproof china dishes and little egg cocottes will assist materially in presenting these egg dishes in a dainty form. PART I EGG DISHES SIMPLE METHODS OF COOKING EGGS 1319. Boiled Eggs (CEufs a la Coque) Choose the freshest eggs possible. A fresh egg should feel heavy, and when held to a bright light should show no dark specks. Soft-boiled eggs should have the white part set and creamy, but not hard. There are several methods of boiling eggs. 1. Slip the eggs gently, one by one, and with a spoon, into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them. If only half the egg is immersed in the water, it will not cook equally. Keep the water slowly boiling all the time, and allow three minutes for an egg with a creamy white, or half to one minute more if to be set pretty firm. This depends upon individual taste. 2. Place the eggs in boiling water as above. Put the lid on the pan, and when the water reboils, place the pan by the side of the fire where the water will cease to boil, but at the same time keep its heat. Stand for ten minutes, and then lift out the eggs. The white will be found to have set without being tough, and the yolk will be creamy. 3. Place the eggs in cold water over the fire, and remove them as soon as the water boils. Notes.—Soft-boiled eggs can be reheated by standing them for three or four minutes in hot (not boiling) water, as when once cooked and lifted from the fire no amount of subsequent re- cooking will harden them. If an egg is cracked, rub it over with a cut lemon the moment before it is put in the water, or cover the crack with a piece of gummed paper. The paper will come off, but not before the white of egg is sufficiently coagulated to prevent its escaping into the water. 1320. Hard-Boiled Eggs (CEufs Durs) Put the required number of eggs into a sauce- pan of boiling water, lowering them in carefully with a spoon to avoid breaking the shells. Allow the water to come to the boil again, and then boil the eggs exactly ten minutes. Then lift them out and plunge them at once into plenty of cold water, so that they may shell more easily. To shell them, tap the egg all round with the back of a knife, and the shell can easily be removed without damaging the white. Notes.—Eggs for hard boiling should not be put on in cold water, because the yolk would be inclined to fall to one side, which would spoil the appear- ance of the egg for many purposes. Do not roll the egg on the table to break the shell, as this is apt to loosen the yolk from the white, and do not overcook the eggs or the yolk will have a circle of green round it, which will give it the appearance of being old. Eor different ways of serving hard- boiled eggs, see p. 320. 1321. Poached Eggs (CEufs Poehes) Half fill a shallow saucepan with water and put it on the fire to boil. Add vinegar or lemon juice in the proportion of one tea-spoonful to one pint of water, and a good pinch of salt. When the water is gently simmering, break one egg into a cup, and from this slip it gently into the pan. Gather the white lightly together with a spoon, and pour some of the acidulated water over it. Repeat this with each egg, and let them cook for three minutes, or until the white is nicely set, without being hard. Lift each one out separately with a small fish slice or perforated spoon, and trim off any ragged edges of white, letting the egg drain over the pan. Place them on rounds of hot buttered toast, and arrange them symmetrically on a dish garnished with parsley, or serve them in any other way desired.316 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Notes.—An egg poacher or small muffin rings placed in the pan will help to keep the eggs a Egg Poacher better shape. The acid added to the water helps to harden the white of egg and to keep it a good colour. For variations of the poached egg, see p. 321. Note.—If the eggs are required for a garnish, keep back some of the white, in order to have them smaller in size. 1324. Fried Eggs, 2 (CEufs Frits) Each egg must be cooked separately. Take a small, deep frying pan and put into it a good table-spoonful of butter, lard, or salad oil. When quite hot, break an egg into a tea-cup and slip it into the hot fat. Tilt the pan slightly so that the fat surrounds the egg, and with a spoon fold the white over the yolk. About two minutes will be sufficient to cook it. When ready, lift out carefully with a small fish slice, allowing the fat to drain from it, and place it on a hot dish. Pro- ceed with more eggs in the same way until a sufficient number is cooked, adding more fat to the pan as required. These eggs are flatter in form than No. 1. Note.—For different ways of serving fried eggs see p. 324. 1322. Eggs sur le Plat (CEufs sur le Plat) 3 eggs. I oz. butter. Salt and pepper. Lightly butter a flat fireproof dish, and break the eggs into it without breaking the yolks. Season with pepper and salt, and put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top. Set the dish in a good oven, and let it remain until the whites become set, but by no means hard. They will require Eggs sur le Plat about five minutes. Serve hot in the dish in which they were cooked. Small individual dishes may be used if wished. Notes.—A little cream may be poured over the eggs before putting them in the oven. A top heat is necessary to cook the eggs successfully. They can be done very well under the grill of a gas stove. For variations of Eggs sur le Plat see p. 323. 1323. Fried Eggs, 1 (CEufs Frits) Eggs. Salt. Pepper. Salad oil. Take a small frying pan and pour into it some pure salad oil, or sufficient to float an egg. As only one egg can be fried at a time, it is useless to take a large pan, which would only necessitate a larger quantity of oil. Heat the oil over the fire until it begins to smoke, then draw the pan slightly to the side of the fire. Break one egg at a time into a saucer, season it with pepper and salt, and glide it quickly into the hot oil. Now with a spoon dipped in the oil, roll the white quickly over the yolk to give the egg a round shape, and brown it nicely on all sides. It will be sufficiently cooked in less than a minute. Lift out with a perforated spoon, drain and proceed with the other eggs in the same way. The operation should be per- formed as quickly as possible, so that the first egg is not cold before the last one is ready. 1325. Scrambled or Buttered Eggs (CEufs BrouilKs) 4 eggs. 4 table-sps. milk or stock. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 slices hot buttered toast or croutons of fried bread. Although this is a simple dish it requires much care—as much care as an omelet. The aim must be to produce a soft creamy mixture nicely seasoned, and not a tough leathery mass served on spongy toast, as so often appears on our tables. First prepare the toast, cut it into neat fingers, and arrange the pieces on a hot dish. Then melt the butter in an enamelled or earthenware saucepan, add the eggs slightly beaten, and the milk or stock. Season carefully with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Now stir the contents of the saucepan very steadily over a moderate fire until the eggs begin to set, and the mixture is of a nice creamy consistency. An extra piece of butter stirred in at this stage will be found an improvement. When ready, remove the pan from the fire at once and pour the mixture neatly over the prepared toast. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and send to table at once. Buttered eggs must on no account be allowed to stand. If preferred they may be dished on a hot dish without the toast, and garnished with croutons of fried bread. Note.—Cream or a thin white sauce may be used in place of the milk or stock. For variations of scrambled eggs see p. 325. Probable cost, 8d. DISHES WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS I. Hot 1326. Curried Eggs 4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. rice flour. Salt. Pepper. Melt the butter in a onion very thinly sliced I tea-sp. chutney. 1 gill stock. 2 table-sps. cream or cocoanut milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. Boiled rice. saucepan, and add the Cook slowly for a few317 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS minutes until the onion begins to take colour. Then add the curry powder, rice flour, chutney, pepper, and salt, and cook a few minutes longer. Pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Allow this sauce to cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, then add two of the eggs cut in small pieces, the Curried Eggs cream or cocoanut milk (see Index), and a squeeze of lemon juice. When quite hot, put this mixture in the centre of a dish, and put a border of boiled rice round. Then cut the other two eggs in six pieces lengthwise, cut a small piece from the end of each, and stand them round the dish between the curry and the rice. Probable cost, Is. 1327. Fricassee of Eggs (Fricassee d’CEufs) 4 hard-boiled eggs, i pt. white sauce. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Rolls of bacon. Croutons of fried bread. Remove the shells from the hard-boiled eggs and cut them in slices, not too thin. Prepare \ pint of good white sauce, put the eggs into it, and let them heat through. Season to taste, and then dish neatly. Sprinkle the chopped parsley over, and garnish with small rolls of bacon (Recipe 1646) and croutons of fried bread. Notes.—The bacon may be omitted. Other sauces may be used in place of the white sauce. Eggs are very good fricasseed in brown sauce with the addition of a few chopped mushrooms, or in tomato sauce with a border of potatoes round them. Probable cost, 10d. 1328. Golden Eggs 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. | pt. white sauce. 5 or 6 pieces hot but- tered toast. A little potted meat. Seasoning. Prepare | pint of good white sauce, keeping it rather thick. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halve s and separate the yolks from the whites. Chop the whites, add them to the sauce, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Spread the hot buttered toast with any nice potted meat, and arrange it neatly on a dish. Pour the sauce with the whites of eggs over, rub the yolks through a wire sieve, and sprinkle them thickly over the top. Put the dish in the oven to make all thoroughly hot, and then serve. Probable cost, la. 1329. Eggs a la Momay, with Cheese (CEufs a la Mornay) 4 hard-boiled eggs, i pt. bechamel or white sauce. Seasoning. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. A little butter. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and arrange them neatly in a fireproof dish. Prepare J pint of very good white sauce, season it rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard, and add to it half the cheese. Pour this sauce over the eggs, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese oven the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and brown in a quick oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Probable cost, lOd. 1330. Egg and Potato Pie 4 hard-boiled eggs. J lb. cooked potato. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-cupful white sauce. Sieve the potatoes and heat them in a saucepan with the butter, parsley, and a little milk. Season to taste, and mix until perfectly smooth and light. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and have ready one tea-cupful of good white sauce. Grease a pie dish and put into it a layer of the prepared potato. Next put in the eggs and pour the sauce over. Allow this to stand a short time, and then put the remainder of the potato on the top. Smooth over and mark neatly with the point of a knife. Brush over with a little egg or milk, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Note.—A little grated cheese may be mixed with the potato if liked. Probable cost, lOd. 1331. Eggs a la Tripe (CEufs a la Tripe) \ doz. eggs. 2 medium-sized onions. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1J gills stock. Salt. Pepper. A little made mus- tard. 1 glass white wine. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. Bread-crumbs or grated cheese. Skin and scald the onions and cut them in thin slices. Melt the butter in a saucepan. When hot, put in the onions, and let them cook slowly until they become brown, but not burnt. Then add the flour, let it cook for a few minutes, and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a little made mustard. Add also one glass of wine and one tea-spoonful vinegar, and simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and pile them up on a fireproof dish. Pour the onion sauce over them, sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs or grated cheese, lay a few small pieces of butter on the top, and brown quickly in the oven. Note.—The wine may be omitted. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1332. Eggs with Spaghetti | lb. spaghetti. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. Seasoning. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 gill white sauce. Cook the spaghetti in boiling water until tender, drain it well, and toss it in the butter. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Cut the hard-boiled egg in’ slices, and prepare a gill of good white sauce. Then grease a fireproof dish, and arrange the spaghetti and eggs in it in layers. Sprinkle over half the grated cheese, pour the sauceCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 318 on the top, and then the remainder of the cheese. Lay on a few small pieces of butter, and brown in a quick oven. Probable cost, 10d. 1333, Eggs with Vegetable Marrow 4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 small vegetable mar- row. 1 onion. | pt. white sauce. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. A pinch of mace. Choose a young fresh marrow, and cook it in boil- ing water along with the onion until tender. Then drain and arrange it in a hot dish with the eggs cut in quarters or slices. Make a white sauce (Recipe 671), using half milk, and half water in which the marrow was cooked. Season it with white pepper, salt, a pinch of ground mace and the chopped parsley. When thoroughly cooked, remove it from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg. Pour this sauce over the marrow and eggs, and serve very hot. Probable cost, Is. 1334. Eggs a la Clifton 4 hard-boiled eggs. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. 1 gill brown sauce. Salt. Pepper. Cut the eggs across in two pieces so that they stand like little pyramids. Coat them lightly with flour seasoned with pepper and salt, and then egg and bread-crumb them. Flatten the crumbs on so as to keep the form of the eggs, and then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Arrange them neatly on a hot dish with the pointed ends up, and pour the brown sauce tidily round. Probable cost, 10a!. 1335. Egg Croquettes 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. white sauce. ltea-sp. chopped parsley A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. Some scraps of pastry. Chop the eggs, and add to them enough white, or other suitable sauce, to bind them together. Season with pepper, salt, parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice. A few chopped mushrooms may be added if available, or a little grated cheese. Use this mixture for making the croquettes, and follow- ing the directions given for Cold Meat Croquettes {Recipe 1018). Probable cost, 6d. 1336. Egg Cutlets 3 hard-boiled eggs. | oz. butter. | oz. flour. £ gill milk. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. J tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. 6 or 8 button mush- rooms. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. Seasoning. Shell the eggs and chop them rather finely, melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth. Then draw the saucepan to one side, add the milk, and cook again over the fire, stirring all the time until smooth and thick. Add now the chopped eggs, the mushrooms finely chopped, the bread-crumbs, and seasoning. Mix well together, and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When firm to the touch, divide the mixture into eight or ten equal-sized pieces, and form these into cutlet shapes with the aid of a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of parsley stalk in the end of each. Dish in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—The same mixture may be made up in other shapes if preferred. The mushrooms may be omitted. Probable cost, 9d. 1337. Egg 5 or 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 table-sp. white sauce. 3 oz. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham or tongue. Dormers 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and remove the yolks. Rub the yolks through a wire sieve into a basin, and add to them the chicken and ham finely minced ; season with the pa sley, pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind, and bind all together with white sauce. Fill the eggs with this mixture, and place two halves to- gether again. Roll them in a little flour, and egg and bread-crumb carefully. Fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour, and serve hot, garnished with a little parsley or watercress. Note.—Other kinds of meat or fish may be used instead of chicken. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1338. Egg Patties Prepare the same mixture as for Egg Croquettes, using a nice tasty sauce to bind the eggs together, and seasoning the mixture according to taste. Prepare some small patty cases (p. 352), fill them with the egg mixture, garnish with small sprigs of parsley, and serve hot or cold. 1339. Curried 3 hard-boiled eggs. 3 table - sps. bread- crumbs or boiled rice. 2 table-sps. curry sauce. 1 raw yolk of egg. Egg Rissoles A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Chop the hard-boiled eggs rather finely and mix them with the rice or bread-crumbs, curry sauce, and raw yolk. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread the mixture on a plate, and allow it to stand for some time, or even overnight, before it is made up. Form it into small balls or any other shape, using a little flour; then egg and bread-crumb the rissoles and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Serve them very hot, garnished rsjTth parsley and a little cut lemon. Probable cost, 9d. 1340. Scotch Eggs, 1 4 hard-boiled eggs. Egg and bread-crumbs, i lb. pork sausage meat. Tomato or brown sauce. A little flour. Remove the shells from the eggs and roll them in a little flour, keeping them whole. Season theEGG DISHES AND OMELETS 319 sausage meat with a little more pepper and salt, and divide it in four equal portions. Wrap one portion round each egg, keeping the shape of the egg as much as possible, and using a little flour to prevent it sticking to the hands. Then coat the eggs-with beaten egg and fine white bread-crumbs, Eressing^the-ewughs well on. Fry them slowly in oiling fat until a golden brown colour. Unless the Scotch Eggs coating of sausage meat is thin and the eggs are fried slowly the pork will not be sufficiently cooked. When ready, cut the eggs in halves crosswise, and cut a small piece oS the ends to make them stand. Stand each half on a round crohton of bread, place them on a hot dish, and pour brown or tomato sauce round. Garnish with small sprigs of parsley. Probable cost, Is. 1341. Scotch Eggs, 2 3 hard-boiled eggs. Seasoning. 4 to 6 oz. sausage meat. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and spread the flat side with sausage meat, season- ing with pepper and salt, and dusting them lightly with a little flour. Then egg and bread-crumb the eggs, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Drain well, and dish on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Serve hot, with or without gravy. Probable cost, 9d. 1342. Stuffed Eggs with Cheese ((Eufs Farcls au Fromage) 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. white sauce or cream. Salt. Pepper. - A pinch of nutmeg. A few browned bread- crumbs. 1 table-sp. melted butter 1 doz. round croutes of fried bread. Shell the eggs and cut them in halves cross- wise. Slice off a little piece from the rounded end of each to enable them to stand, then take out the yolks and pass them through a wire sieve. Put the sieved yolks into a basin, and add to them the butter melted, cream or sauce, the grated cheese, and seasonings. Mix well, and fill the hollow of each half-egg with this mixture. Arrange it in a manner to imitate the yolk, and sprinkle them lightly with browned bread-crumbs. Place each half-egg on a small round croute of fried bread, sprinkle a little melted butter over each. and place them in the oven long enough to heat through. If preferred, a little sauce may be poured on the dish in which the eggs are served. Note.—There are many variations of this dish, as any nice savoury ingredient may be used instead of the cheese, such as chopped tongue, game, truffles, mushrooms, &c., or a tasty paste such as anchovy, shrimp, bloater, &c. The follow- ing recipes will give an idea of what can be done. Probable cost. Is. 1343. Stuffed Eggs with Game (CEufs Farcis au Gibier) Proceed as in last recipe, using 2 table-spoonfuls grated or chopped cooked game instead of the grated cheese, and good brown sauce instead of the white sauce. Pour a little strong stock od melted glaze round the dish after removing it from the oven. 1344. Stuffed Eggs with Nuts Proceed as in Recipe 1342, using 2 table-spoonfuls grated or chopped nuts instead of the grated cheese. Sprinkle the eggs with grated nuts instead of bread-crumbs, and place them on a bed of pur6e of spinach or potato instead of crofitons of bread. 1345. Stuffed Eggs with Salmon (CEufs Farcls au Saumon) Proceed as in Recipe 1342, using 2 table-spoonfuls cooked salmon finely chopped instead of the grated cheese. Pour a little good fish sauce into the dish before placing in the stuffed eggs, and omit the croutons. 1346. Stuffed Eggs, Fried Stuff the eggs according to any of the above recipes, and roll them in a very little flour to dry them. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. 1347. Stuffed Eggs with Artichokes (CEufs Farcis aux Artichauts) 1 doz. eggs. 8 artichoke bottoms. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. \ pt. white sauce. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. Hard-boil the eggs and leave them in cold water until they are wanted. Then shell them, and with a small round cutter cut away a small piece of the white from the side of each, just large enough to allow the yolk to pass. Pound the yolks in a mortar with half the butter and two of the artichoke bottoms. Seasoning to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. A little chopped truffle may now be added if wished. Now fill the eggs with this mixture, rounding it smoothly on the top. Saute the remaining artichoke bottoms in a small quantity of butter, and place them on a fireproof dish. Place an egg on the top of each, being careful that it lies steadily, cutting away a piece of the arti- choke or egg, if necessary. Sprinkle the eggs with a little grated cheese, and mask them with some thick white or bechamel sauce. Sprinkle more cheese and a few bread-crumbs on the top, lay on320 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD a few small pieces of butter, and brown in the oven or under the grill. Note.—If liked, a ragoilt of mushrooms may be served in the centre (Recipe 516). Preserved arti- choke bottoms can be used for this. If they are large, six will be sufficient. Trim them a little smaller with a round cutter, and use the trimmings to mix with the yolks of eggs. Probable cost, 2s. 1348. Eggs a l’Aurore (CEufs a l’Aurore) 4 hard-boiled eggs. J pt. white or bechamel sauce. A little butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Salt. Pepper. 4 table - sps. grated cheese. 2 table - sps. tomato sauce. pinch of nutmeg. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and spread them on the cut side with some of the potato mixture. Make them as much as possible the size and shape of the original egg- Then brush the pieces over with beaten egg and toss them in fine white bread-crumbs with which a little parsley has been mixed. When all are ready, fry them in boiling fat (see p. 248) to a pretty brown colour. Dish the eggs on a border of cooked spinach, and pour tomato or any other suitable sauce round. Probable cost, Is. DISHES WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS II. Cold Shell the eggs and cut them in halves crosswise. Remove the yolks, and cut a small piece off the whites to make them stand like little cups. Put three of the yolks into a basin with the trimmings of white, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the chopped parsley, and a good spoonful of the white sauce. Season with pepper and salt, and work all together with a wooden spoon until smooth and thoroughly blended. Fill the little white cups with this mixture, pile it high in the centre, and smooth over like a dome. Now add half the grated cheese to the remainder of the white sauce (this sauce should be of a good thick consistency), put the mixture at the foot of a fireproof dish, and stand the prepared eggs in it. Sprinkle with the remainder of the cheese and a little melted butter, and brown quickly in a hot oven. When ready, sprinkle with the remaining yolk of egg, put through a sieve, and make a band round the dish with a little hot tomato sauce. Probable cost, Is. 1349. Eggs a la FermISre 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. 2 onions (Spanish). 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. I pt. milk. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Skin and scald the onions, then dry them and slice them very thinly. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, put in the sliced onion, and fry it for a few minutes, but without browning. Now mix the flour with a little milk, and add it to the onion with the rest of the milk, pepper, and salt. Stir until boiling, and then simmer slowly until the onion is tender, stirring frequently. The mixture should be soft and thick. Turn it on to a hot dish, sprinkle with the chopped parsley, and serve the hard- boiled eggs very hot, and cut in quarters on the top. Note.—A little cream and less milk may be used if liked. Probable cost, 8d. 1350. Eggs 4 hard-boiled eggs. | lb. cooked potatoes. 1 egg. 2 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. la Parmentier 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Egg and bread-crumbs,. Cooked spinach. Tomato sauce. Sieve the potatoes and beat them up with the egg and cheese, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a 1351. Sardine Eggs 4 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. butter. 2 or 3 drops vinegar. Cayenne pepper. 1 dessert-sp. sardine paste. Salad. Small biscuits. Cut the eggs in halves across, remove the yolks, and cut a small piece off the white so that the pieces stand like little cups. Put the yolks into a mortar or strong basin with the butter, sardine paste, and seasoning, pound well, and then rub through a sieve. Spread the biscuits with some of the mixture, and fill up the egg-cups with the remainder, piling it high in the centre. Serve very cold, and garnish with cress or other small salad. Tinned sardines 'with the bone and skin removed may be used instead of the sardine paste. Notes.—This dish wall look better if the mixture is put into a forcing bag and forced into the eggs, a little being used to garnish round the sides of the biscuits. There are many varieties of this dish, as any savoury paste may be used instead of sardine flavouring. The decoration may also be varied— small pieces of pickle, ham, beetroot, or truffle cut in fancy shapes will help to give a little colour, while chopped aspic or a little fresh green salad instead of the little biscuits may serve as a bed upon which to dish the eggs. Probable cost, 10d. 1352. Anchovy Eggs (CEufs Farcis aux Anchois) Prepare in the same way as Sardine Eggs, using 1 tea-spoonful anchovy paste and a little anchovy essence instead of the sardine paste; or fillets of anchovy may be used instead of the anchovy paste. 1353. Cheese Eggs (CEufs au Fromage) Prepare in the same way as Sardine Eggs, adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls grated Parmesan instead of the sardine paste. A little made mustard should also be used to season.EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 321 1354. Curried Eggs, Cold (<Euis Froids & l’lndienne) 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 2 tea-sps. curry powder. Seasoning. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. A few drops vine- gar. Nasturtium flowers. Capers. Cut the eggs in halves across, and cut a small piece off the end of each to enable them to stand. Remove the yolks and rub them through a sieve. Then put them into a basin with the butter, using about half as much butter as there are yolks of eggs, and season with pepper, salt, and about a tea-spoonful of curry powder. Beat the mixture until perfectly smooth, then put it into a forcing bag and force some out into each little egg-cup, piling it rather high. Put one or two capers on the top of each, or sprinkle lightly with parsley. Have the rice boiled as for curry, cold and very dry. Mix into it with a fork a sprinkling of curry powder, pepper, and salt if necessary. Then add the oil, and lastly a few drops of vinegar. Pile up the rice in the centre of a dish, and arrange the eggs round. Garnish with a few small nasturtium flowers or with sections of red tomato. Probable cost, Is. 1355. Ham Eggs (CEufs Farcis au Jambon) Prepare in the same way as Sardine Eggs (Recipe 1351), using 2 oz. lean cooked ham finely chopped instead of the sardine paste. 1356. Eggs in Aspic, 1 (CEufs en Aspic) 3 hard-boiled eggs. I Salad. Aspic jelly. | Mayonnaise sauce. Take half a dozen small dariole moulds and line them at the bottom with liquid aspic, decorating with a little chopped parsley or a few leaves of tarragon or chervil. When this is set, place half a hard- boiled egg on the top with the cut side down. Cover with more liquid aspic, and put aside to stiffen. When required, turn the eggs out of the moulds, and serve them on a pretty dish garnished with salad. Serve mayonnaise sauce separately. 1357. Eggs in Aspic, 2 (CEufs en Aspic) 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. I Decoration. Aspic jelly. Salad. | Mayonnaise sauce. Take a border mould about a pint size and rinse it out with cold water. Then pour into it a little liquid aspic jelly and allow it to set. Now decorate the top of the mould prettily with pieces of beetroot cut in fancy shapes, finely chopped parsley, pieces of tongue or tomato, sprigs of chervil, or any other decoration according to fancy. Set this decoration with a little more aspic jelly, and then place round the hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. A few small pieces of tomato, green salad, or cucumber may be put between the pieces of egg if wished. Fill up the mould with aspic jelly, and place in a cool place or on ice until firm. When required, unmould, fill up the centre with green salad or a macedoine of vegetables with mayonnaise, and place some small fresh leaves of lettuce round the sides. Ncte.—Tomato or meat jelly may be used instead of the aspic. 1358. Egg and Shrimp Mayonnaise 4 hard-boiled eggs. [ Mayonnaise sauce. 1 cupful picked shrimps. | Salad. Remove the shells from the hard-boiled egg, cut the whites in shreds, and chop the yolks rather finely. Cut the shrimps in small pieces, and mix them with the yolks of eggs. Pile these two in the centre of a dish and cover them with mayon- naise sauce. Put the shred whites in a border round, and garnish with a little green salad. VARIATIONS OF THE POACHED EGG The simple poached egg may be varied in many different ways: (1) By having some savoury butter, such as maitre d’hotel, shrimp, anchovy, &c., put on the top of it before sending it to table. (2) By spreading the croute or toast on which it is served with some savoury paste or mince. (3) By pouring a sauce over or round the egg. (4) By serving the egg on a puree of some kind. The following recipes will no doubt suggest many other tasty combinations. 1359. Poached Eggs with Cheese (CEufs PochSs au Fromage) 4 or 5 eggs. 1 gill white sauce. 3 tab.-sps. grated cheese 3 tab.-sps. bread-crumbs Pepper and salt. A little butter. Butter a flat dish, and sprinkle it with half the bread-crumbs and cheese. Poach the eggs, and place them on the top. Then pour over the sauce, and put the rest of the cheese and bread-crumbs on the top. Lay on a few small pieces of butter, and place in a hot oven to melt the cheese and lightly brown the top. Probable cost, 9d. 1360. Poached Eggs with Curry Sauce (CEufs Poch6s a l’lndienne) Poach the required number of eggs, and serve them on round croutons of bread. Pour over them a good curry sauce (Recipe 685), and serve very hot. 1361. Egg Fritters (CEufs en Beignets) Poached eggs. Frying batter. Poach the eggs as directed in Recipe 1321, and place them in cold water. When quite cold, lift them out, drain them on a clean cloth, and season with pepper and salt. Then dip the eggs in frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain, and serve them piled up on a hot dish, garnished with parsley. 1362. Poached Eggs with Lentils Prepare some puree of lentils as directed in Recipe 625, and put it in a hot dish. Poach the Poached Eggs with Lentils required number of eggs, and arrange them neatly on the top. x322 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1383. Poached Eggs a la Maitre d’Hotel (CEufs a la Maitre d’Hotel) 6 eggs. I 6 pieces of hob buttered Maitre d’hotel butter. | toast. Arrange the eggs, nicely poached, on the top of the pieces of toast. Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter about the size of a shilling on the top of each egg, and send them to table while the butter is just melting. (For Maitre d’H6tel Butter, see Recipe 770.) Probable cost, 10d. 1364. Poached Eggs with 4 eggs. 4 rounds hot buttered toast. | lb. cooked chicken or veal. 2 oz. cooked ham or Mince ((Eufs a la Reine) tongue. 2 table-sps. sauce OB gravy. Seasoning. Chopped parsley. Mince the meat and ham or tongue very finely, and heat it in a small saucepan with the sauce to moisten it. Season to taste, and spread this neatly on the rounds of hot buttered toast. Place a poached egg on the top of each, and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. Serve at once and very hot. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 1365. Poached Eggs with Mushrooms 4 eggs. | toast. 4 rounds hot buttered | 4 mushrooms. Choose mushrooms of a good size, wash, peel them, and remove the stalks. Put them on a greased tin or fireproof dish, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and put a greased paper on the top. Then cook them in a moderate oven about 10 minutes. Meanwhile poach the eggs, and when ready place each one on a round of hot buttered toast and place a mushroom on the top. Note.—Another way to make this dish is to prepare a ragout of mushroom as directed in Recipe 516, to serve a little of this on each round of toast, and to place a poached egg on the top. Probable cost, lOd. with pepper and salt, and mix well, adding a little milk if necessary to bind all together. Turn this potato paste on to a slightly floured board, and divide it into five or six pieces, according to the number of eggs. Shape each piece into a round flat cake, slightly hollow in the centre, brush over with beaten egg, and brown them on a tin in the oven. Meanwhile poach the eggs, and trim them neatly. Arrange the potato cakes on a hot dish, place a poached egg on the top of each, pour the gravy over, and return to the oven for a few minutes. Sprinkle the parsley over before serving. Notes.—Soft-boiled (oeufs mollets) may be used instead of poached eggs, and a little grated cheese may be sprinkled over the surface. Probable cost, Is. 1368. Poached Eggs with Rice, 1 (CEufs Poch6s au Riz) 3 or 4 eggs. I lb. rice. 1 onion. £ pt. stock. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Tomato sauce. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the onion finely chopped, and cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and pour off the water. Then pour in the stock, and stew slowly until the rice is quite soft and tender and the stock all absorbed. Add the butter, and season to taste. Arrange the rice neatly in a long-shaped bed on a hot dish, poach the number of eggs required, and place them on the top. Pour a little tomato sauce round, and serve very hot. Note.—Instead of the sauce a little tomato pur6e may be added to the rice, and the dish decorated with finely chopped parsley. Probable cost, lOd. 1369. Poached Eggs with Rice, 2 (CEufs Pochls au Riz) 4 or 5 eggs. 1 cupful rice. | pt. white sauce. Seasoning. 1 dessert - sp. anchov y essence. 2 or 3 filleted anchovies. Chopped parsley. 1366. Poached Eggs with Potatoes, 1 Poch6s k la Duchesse) 2 table-sp. (CEufs 4 eggs. 4 or 5 cooked potatoes Seasoning. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. melted butter Poach the eggs, place them on a hot dish, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Have ready 4 or 5 well-cooked and mealy potatoes, and rub these through a vrire sieve, or put them through a vegetable presser on the top of the eggs. Sprinkle the grated cheese and the melted butter over the top, and brown quickly in a hot oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Probable cost, 7d. 1367. Poached Eggs with Potatoes, 2 Poch6s k la Duchesse) Seasoning. (CEufs 5 or 6 eggs. 1 lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. good 2 or 3 table-sps. gravy, ltea-sp. chopped parsley Sieve the potatoes, and reheat them in a saucepan with the butter and yolk of egg. Season to taste Boil the rice as for curry (see Recipe 1586), and when well dried make it into a mound on a dish which can be sent to table, and keep it warm. Prepare \ pint of good white sauce, flavour it well with anchovy essence, pepper, and salt, and make it very hot. Poach the eggs, arrange them neatly on the top of the rice, and pour the sauce over. Decorate with small pieces of filleted anchovy and a little finely chopped parsley. Probable cost. Is. 1370. Poached Eggs with Shrimps (CEufs Poeh6s aux Crevettes) 6 eggs. 6 rounds of hot buttered toast. 1 cupful white sauce. Fresh or potted shrimps. Pepper and salt. Heat the sauce in a small saucepan, and add enough potted or shelled fresh shrimps to thicken the sauce well. Poach the eggs, and lay them on six rounds or squares of hot buttered toast. Season the sauce with pepper and salt, and pour it oveD the eggs. Serve very hot. Probable cost, Is. 2d.323 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 1371. Poached Eggs with Spinach ((Eufs Poch6s aux Epinards) Prepare and cook the spinach according to Recipe 569, and arrange it in a hot dish. Poach the number of eggs required, make little hollows in the spinach, and slip the eggs neatly in. Garnish with croutons of fried bread. 1372. Poached Eggs a l’Americaine ((Eufs Poches A l’Americaine) 4 or 5 eggs. | lb. bacon. 1 gill tomato sauce. Poach the eggs and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Pour the tomato sauce round, and garnish with the bacon cut in thin slices and broiled. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 1373. Eggs a l’Egyptienne ((Eufs Froids & l’Egyptienne) Poached eggs. I Cooked ham. Mayonnaise sauce. | Cucumber. Poach the required number of eggs, drain them, allow them to become cold, and trim them neatly ; or it is better to cook the eggs in a poacher, in order to keep them a good shape. Take the same number of china or natural scallop shells, and put Scallop Shell a layer of thinly-sliced cucumber at the foot of each. Over this sprinkle a little finely-chopped ham, and then lay a poached egg on the top. Mask the eggs with thick mayonnaise sauce, gar- nish round with a border of cucumber, and put a little more of the ham in the centre. meat or aspic jelly chopped, and some in a liquid condition. Take four or five small china dishes (cocottes), according to the number of the eggs. Put at the bottom of each a little chopped jelly, and then an egg on the top. Mask the eggs with a spoonful of the sauce, put the puree of foie gras into a forcing bag with a small pipe, and force a little round the edge of each, without covering the centre. Decorate the centre with two or three pieces of pistachio nut or leaves of tarragon, pour over a little liquid jelly, and put the eggs in a cool place to set. Serve cold. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1376. Eggs k la Pi6montaise (CEufs a la Piemontaise) 4 or 5 eggs. Rice k la Piemontaise. Prepare some rice a la Piemontaise as directed in Recipe 1597, and make of it a neat bed on a hot dish. Poach the eggs and place them on the top. Serve very hot. Tomato sauce may be poured round. Probable cost, Is. 1377. Poached Eggs a la Virginia (CEufs a la Virginia) 6 eggs. 6 potato cakes. 2 oz. picked shrimps. 1 gill white sauce. 2 table - sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. Prepare the potato cakes as directed in Recipe 547, making them oval in shape and hollow in the centre. Brush them over with yolk of egg, and brown them in the oven. Make some good white sauce, and rather thick. Add sufficient to the shrimps to bind them together, and season with a squeeze of lemon juice, pepper, and salt if necessary. Put a spoonful of this shrimp mixture into the hollow in each potato cake. Place a nicely poached egg on the top of each, and' mask with a little sauce. Sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown quickly in the oven. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1374. Eggs a la Florentine (CEufs a la Florentine) 5 eggs. Spinach puree. £ pt. cheese sauce. Prepare some spinach puree according to Recipe 569, and put a bed of it on a hot entree dish. Poach the eggs, and arrange them neatly on the top. Mask with cheese sauce (Sauce Mo may. Recipe 682), sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown quickly in the oven or under the gas grill. Probable cost. Is. VARIATIONS OF EGGS SUR LE PLAT This dish can be varied in many ways by simply sprinkling some savoury mixture over the dish before breaking in the eggs, such as finely chopped herbs, chives, mushrooms, ham, tongue, &c., or by using a little good gravy, sauce, or cream along with the eggs. The following recipes will give some ideas as to how to make this simple dish a more tasty one. 1375. Poached Eggs & la Jeannette (CEufs Poch6s A la Jeannette) , 4 or 5 poached eggs. 2 table-sps. preserved foie gras. | oz. butter. 2 table-sps. rich white sauce. Some meat jelly. Poach the eggs carefully, put them into cold water, and when cold dry them in a cloth and trim them neatly. Rub the foie gras through a sieve, and mix it with a little softened butter. Have ready a little good white sauce, well seasoned and mixed with yolk of egg or cream ; also a little good 1378. Eggs in Bread Sauce 4 eggs. I 2 table-sps.grated cheese h pt. bread sauce. I Salt. Pepper. Make the bread sauce according tc Recipe 678, and pour it hot into a fireproof dish. Slip into it the four eggs without breaking them, sprinkle cheese over the top, and bake in the oven about 10 minutes. Allow time to cook the eggs and to brown the cheese. Note.—'The cheese may be omitted and browned bread-crumbs used in its place. Probable cost, 8d.324 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1379. Eggs sur le Plat with Cheese Grease a fireproof dish, and sprinkle it with finely grated cheese. Break the required number of eggs into it, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle some more cheese on the top, pour over a little melted butter, and cook as in last recipe. Note.—A little cream may be added. 1380. Eggs sur le Plat with Kidneys (CEufs sur le Plat aux Rognons) 6 eggs. I Butter. 3 sheep’s kidneys. | Salt. Pepper. Split the kidneys in halves lengthwise, removing the skin and the fat from centre. Dip them in melted butter, season with pepper and salt, and broil them, or saute them in butter until sufficiently cooked. Meanwhile prepare and cook the eggs as in Recipe 1322, and when ready place the cooked kidneys between the eggs. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Note.—A little sour cream may be used instead of the fresh cream or milk. Probable cost,"*9d. 1385. Swiss Eggs 4 eggs. White pepper. Salt. 3 table - sps. grated cheese. (<Eufs a la Suisse) 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill double cream. J oz. butter. Grease a fireproof dish and break the four eggs into it, being careful not to break them. Season them with pepper and salt. Mix the cheese and parsley together, and sprinkle half of them over the eggs. Whip the cream slightly, season it with a little pepper and salt, and arrange it on the top. Sprinkle the remainder of the parsley and cheese over, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and cook in a good oven until the eggs are set and the top lightly browned. Probable cost, 10(2. 1381. Eggs sur le Plat with Mushrooms Grease a fireproof dish, and sprinkle the bottom of it with some mushrooms, which have been chopped and cooked in butter. Pour in a little good stock or gravy, and break the required number of eggs on the top, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little melted butter over, and cook in the oven until set. 1382. Eggs sur le Plat with Shrimps Take 2 table-spoonfuls picked shrimps, chop them rather small, and mix them with 1 gill white sauce. Pour this mixture into a well-greased fire- proof dish, and break four eggs carefully into it. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, lay a few small pieces of butter on the top, and cook in the oven until set. Probable cost, 8d. 1383. Birds’ Nests Fresh eggs. Seasoning. Butter. These should be prepared in individual fireproof dishes of a round flat shape. Allow one egg for each dish, and grease the dishes with a little butter. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and season lightly with pepper and salt. Arrange this neatly in the dishes, and drop the yolk of an egg into a hollow made in the centre of each. Place small pieces of butter on the top, and stand the dishes on a tin with a little boiling water round them. Then bake in the oven about 5 minutes. 1384. 4 or 5 eggs. 4 or 5 rings of bread. A little butter. Eggs in Sunshine, or Ox Eyes Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk or cream. Cut as many rings as there are eggs from thin slices of white bread, and fry these in hot butter or fat until a golden brown colour. Place them in a greased fireproof dish, and slip a fresh egg into the centre of each. This should be done carefully from a cup. Season them with white pepper and salt, and pour the milk or cream over. Cover the dish with a plate or saucepan lid, and place it in the oven until the eggs are set, about 10 minutes. 1386. Eggs sur le Plat with Tomatoes Grease a fireproof dish, and pour into it 1 gill of tomato sauce or puree. Break four eggs on the top of this, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley and melted butter over the top, and cook in the oven until set. Probable cost. Id. 1387. Eggs sur le Plat with Tongue Grease a fireproof dish, and sprinkle at the foot some grated or finely chopped tongue. Moisten this with a little good stock or gravy. Break the required number of eggs on the top, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little melted butter over, and cook in the oven until set. VARIATIONS OF THE FRIED EGG Fried eggs may be varied by serving them with different sauces or with different purees of meat or vegetables. They are also frequently used as a garnish to other dishes. 1388. Fried Eggs with Black Butter (CEufs au Beurre Noir) Fry the required number of eggs according to directions gi^en in Recipe 1324, and place them as they are ready on a very hot round dish. Then prepare some black butter (Recipe 676), and pour it over them. 1389. Fried Eggs with Endive (CEufs & la Chicoree) 6 fried eggs. 2 table-sps. cream. 2 or 3 heads endive. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. Trim and wash the endive, and cook it in boiling salted water from 20 to 25 minutes. Then strain, rinse with cold water, and press it dry in a clean cloth. Chop it finely, and if time permits rub it through a wire sieve. Put this pur6e of endive into a saucepan and mix it with the butter, cream, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve it in a hot dish with the fried eggs on the top. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d.325 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 1390. Fried Eggs with Tomato Sauce 4 eggs. £ pt. tomato sauce. Make the sauce boiling hot, and pour it into a round and deepish dish. Keep it hot over the saucepan of boiling water. Then fry the eggs (see Recipe 1324), and as they are ready lay them in the sauce. Serve all very hot. Probable cost, 8d. VARIATIONS OF SCRAMBLED EGG Scrambled eggs may be varied by mixing with them any other ingredient desired. A tea-spoonful of finely chopped parsley, or a quarter of a teaspoon- ful finely powdered mixed herbs, gives a good flavour and makes a simple change. A more savoury dish can be made by spreading anchovy or bloater paste on the toast before putting on the eggs. Or, with the addition of a little minced chicken, veal, ham, or sweetbread, a good luncheon dish is made. The following recipes will illustrate how this can be done, and give ideas for other savoury com- binations. 1391. Scrambled Eggs with Anchovies ((Eufs Brouilles aux Anchois) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, adding 1 dessert- spoonful anchovy essence to the egg mixture. Garnish the dish with fine strips of preserved anchovy which have been warmed on a dish over hot water. 1392. Scrambled Eggs with Cheese (CEufs BrouillSs au Fromage) Prepare in the same way as Recipe 1325, adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls grated cheese and a little made mustard to the mixture. 1393. Scrambled Eggs with Green Peas (CEufs Brouill6s aux Petits Pois) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, adding 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls cooked green peas to the egg mixture before it begins to thicken. The dish may be garnished with slices of baked tomato. Asparagus points may be used instead of peas. 1394. Scrambled Eggs with Ham (CEufs Brouilles au Jambon) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, frying two or three ounces of chopped ham (cooked or uncooked) in the butter before pouring in the beaten eggs, &c. Serve on croutons of fried bread, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Tongue can be used in the same way. 1395. Scrambled Eggs with Kidney (CEufs Brouilles aux Rognons) 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato puree. Seasoning. 2 or 3 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. good stock or Madeira. First prepare the kidneys. Skin them and cut them in dice, removing the core in the centre. Season them well with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and saute them in the butter. Add the wine or stock, and allow them to simmer a few minutes. Scramble the eggs in the usual way, adding to them the tomato puree. Arrange them neatly on a hot dish, make a hollow in the centre, and put in the kidneys. Probable cost, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. 1396. Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms (CEufs Brouilles aux Champignons) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, chopping a few pre- served mushrooms and cooking them several minutes in the butter before pouring in the beaten eggs, &c. The dish may be garnished with a few rolls of bacon. 1397. Scrambled Eggs with Spinach (CEufs Brouilles aux Epinards) Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569; and shape it in a circle on a hot dish. Serve nicely scrambled eggs in the centre. If liked the scrambled eggs may be mixed with a little tomato pur6e. 1398. Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 1 (CEufs Brouilles aux Tomates) 2 or 3 tomatoes. i Pepper. Salt. J oz. butter. | Scrambled eggs. Peel the tomatoes, and cut them in thin slices. Grease a flat fireproof dish, and put the tomatoes into it, seasoning with pepper and salt. Put the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in the oven for 10 minutes. Scramble some eggs, spread them over the tomatoes, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve very hot. Probable cost, lOd. 1399. Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 2 (CEufs Brouilles aux Tomates) 2 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 oz. ham (chopped). 2 eggs. 1 or 2 slices of toast. Parsley. Pepper and salt. Put the tomatoes into boiling water for a minute, lift them out, dry and peel them ; then cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small sauce- pan, add the tomatoes, onion, and ham, cook for about 10 minutes, and season to taste. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the eggs well beaten. Stir again over the fire until the mixture becomes thick, but on no account must itfbe hard. Cut the toast into neat fingers or fancy-shaped pieces, put a little of the mixture on each, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 7d. MISCELLANEOUS EGG DISHES 1400. Eggs en Cocottes (CEufs en Cocottes) Eggs. Seasoning. A little cream or white A little butter, sauce. Butter as many email fireproof dishes as you wish, allowing one for each person. Put a tea- spoonful of cream or white sauce into each and then break in an egg, being careful not to damage the yolk. Season with pepper and salt, and, if326 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD liked, a pinch of nutmeg, and put a little more cream or sauce on the top. Stand the dishes in a tin with enough hot water to come halfway up the sides, and cook in the oven from 5 to 7 minutes, or until the eggs are set. Serve at once with strips Fireproof Cocottes salt, and place them in a tin or saucepan with a little warm water round them. Place this over the fife until the water begins to boil, then cook in the oven until the eggs are set. jSauce.—Thin down the remainder of the sauce if necessary, and colour it green with some very fine spinach puree. (If a small quantity of tarragon and chervil can be mixed with the spinach, it will give the sauce a better flavour.) Season to taste, and add a small piece of butter at the last. To Serve.—Turn out the little spinach moulds on a hot dish, unmould the eggs and place one on the top of each, then pour the sauoe over, coating the eggs well. Probable cost, Is. 3d. of toast or toast biscuits. Eggs en cocottes must not be cooked until the last minute, as they would spoil with standing. Note.—This dish may be varied by putting a little chopped ham, tongue, mushroom, &c., at the bottom of the dish ; or grated cheese may be sprinkled both above and below the egg. 1401. Moulded Eggs 5 eggs. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 5 rounds hot buttered toast. Take five ramekin cases or dariole moulds and grease them carefully with clarified butter. Chop the ham finely, mix it with the chopped parsley, and coat the moulds with this mixture. Then break a fresh egg carefully into each, and season with pepper and salt. Pour about a tea-spoonful of cream over each, and put a small piece of butter on the top. Place the moulds in a tin with hot water to reach halfway up the sides, and poach in the oven until set. Have ready five neat rounds of hot buttered toast, turn the eggs out on the top of these, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. A little tomato sauce may be poured round. Notes.—Lightly browned bread-crumbs may be used instead of the ham and parsley. The toast may be spread with a little savoury paste or butter. Probable cost, Is. 1402. Eggs a la Tzarina (OEufs a la Tzarina) 6 eggs. 1 lb. spinach. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. \ pt. white or bechamel sauce. Seasoning. \ oz. butter. Prepare and cook the spinach as directed in Recipe 529, press it as dry as possible, and rub it through a fine sieve. Reserve about 1 table- spoonful of this puree for the sauce, and put the remainder into a saucepan with the butter. Cook for a minute or two over the fire to dry up any surplus moisture, mix in I or 2 table-spoonfuls of thick white or bechamel sauce, and bring to the boil. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, and season to taste. Grease half a dozen tartlet tins, fill them with the spinach mixture, and poach carefully until firm to the touch. The Eggs.—Grease six dariole moulds, break an egg carefully into each, season with pepper and 1403. CEufs Mollets (Soft-boiled Eggs) These are similar to poached eggs, only they are cooked in their shells. The eggs must be very fresh. Place them in boiling water, and let them boil steadily for 5 minutes. Then lift them out, and let them lie in cold water for 10 minutes. Remove the shells very carefully, and if the eggs are not required at once put them back in the cold water. If to be served hot, reheat them in hot and slightly salted water, or in hot stock or milk. These may be served according to any of the directions given for poached eggs. 1404. (Eufs Mollets & 1'Allemande 6 eggs. 6 croutes of bread i Allemande sauce. Melted butter. | Cooked spinach. Cook and shell the eggs as directed above, and keep them warm in hot water slightly salted. Prepare six oval croutons of bread, J-inch thick and a little longer than the length of the egg, and hollow them out in the centre. Dip them in melted butter, and brown them in the oven. Have ready also some allemande sauce (Recipe 706) and some well-cooked spinach. To Serve.—Place the eggs on the bread croutes, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pile the spinach in the centre, and pour the sauce over the eggs and round the dish. Note.—This dish admits of many variations by using different sauces and different vegetable purges. A nice savoury mince may also be put in the croute before placing on the egg. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1405. (Eufs Mollets & la Diable 6 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill brown stock. 1 dessert-sp. Worcester sauce. 2 table - sps. tomato puree. 1 dessert - sp. chopped chutney. 1 table-sp. ketchup. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. Cook and shell the eggs as directed above, reheat them, place them on a hot dish, and strain over them the following sauce. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and blend the flour with it. Pour in the stock, and stir until boiling. Add the seasonings, regulating them according to taste. Allow the sauce to simmer for 10 minutes and it will be ready. Notes.—The eggs may, if liked, be placed OO327 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS slightly hollowed-out croutes of fried bread. Poached, fried, or hard-boiled eggs may be devilled in the same way. Probable cost. Is. 1406. Surprise Eggs (CEufs en Surprise) 4 or 5 eggs. PuS pastry. Egg and bread-crumbs. Soft-boil the eggs and lay them in cold water. Then remove the shells very carefully, and sprinkle the eggs with pepper and salt. Roll out some scraps of puff pastry very thinly, and cut out as many oblong-shaped pieces as there are eggs. Wrap up each egg in a piece of pastry, sealing the joins with a little beaten egg. Cut off any super- fluous pastry with a pair of scissors, and do not make it too thick in any one part, or it will not cook sufficiently. Now brush the eggs over with beaten egg, and toss them in fine bread-crumbs or finely-crushed vermicelli. Fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain well, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—The round of pastry may be lightly coated with some savoury paste, such as shrimp or sardine, before wrapping up the egg in it. Probable cost, lOd. 1409. Plovers’ Eggs, to Cook and Serve These are looked upon as a great delicacy, and as a ride fetch a high price. They are very rich in flavour, and the white ha3 a decided bluish tinge, which gives the egg a very dainty and pretty appearance. Plovers’ eggs are usually hard-boiled and served either hot or cold, the latter from preference. They will require about 10 minutes to cook, and should then be placed in cold water until required. There are different ways of serving these eggs, but the simplest methods are the best. Cold they are often served in their shells in a little moss-lined basket, or shelled and used as a garnish for a simple green salad. Or another simple mode is to place each egg on a small oval-shaped piece of brown or white bread and butter and to garnish it round with a little savoury butter, such as maitre d’hotel, shrimp, ham butter, &c. (see p. 193), forcing this out through a small paper cornet, and then to serve them garnished very lightly with mustard and cress or watercress. It is not so usual to serve plovers’ eggs hot, but they may be, if preferred, by reheating them in any good sauce and serving them with the sauce poured over them or en casserole. 1407. Eggs in Tomatoes, 1 ((Eufs & la Mazarine) 6 tomatoes. 6 eggs. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. A few bread-crumbs. Choose firm round tomatoes of a medium size. Wipe them, cut a slice off the stalk end of each, and scoop out the soft inside. Mix the parsley and onion together with a little pepper and salt, and sprinkle a little of the mixture inside each tomato. Then break a small fresh egg into the centre of each. (If the eggs are large, a little of the white should be kept back.) Cover the surface of the eggs with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven 10 to 15 minutes, basting once or twice with the butter. Serve the tomatoes on the dish in which they were cooked. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1408. Eggs in Tomatoes, 2 (CEufs a la Mazarine) 5 eggs. 6 tomatoes. 5 croutons of fried bread. Boil the eggs soft and remove the shells (see Recipe 1403). Reheat them in hot water slightly salted. Cut five croutons of bread, a suitable size on which to stand the tomatoes, and fry them in butter to a nice brown colour. Choose the tomatoes firm and ripe and of a medium size. Cut a small piece out of the stalk end of each, and remove the seeds and watery centre with a small tea-spoon. Then place them on a greased tin, season them well with pepper and salt, and cook them in a good oven for 10 minutes. (Unless the oven is hot, the tomatoes will soften and fall into a puree.) When ready, place each one on a crouton, arrange them on a hot dish, and stand the eggs inside. Probable cost. Is. 1410. Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic (CEufs de Pluviers en Aspic) Plovers’eggs. Aspic jelly. Decoration. Salad. Boil the eggs hard as directed above, and lay them in cold water until required. Then take as many dariole moulds as there are eggs, and of an appropriate size to hold one egg. Rinse them out with cold water, and pour a little aspic jelly into each, just sufficient to cover the bottom. Allow this to set, and then place in some decora- tion, such as a fancy-shaped piece of truffle, tongue, or beetroot, tiny rounds of red radish, or a sprig of chervil, something that will make a pretty contrast to the bluish white colour of the egg. Set this decoration with a little more jelly, then place a whole plover’s egg in the centre of each dariole, and fill up with more liquid aspic. Place the moulds in a cool place or on ice until set, then turn them out on a silver dish, and serve garnished with some pretty green salad. Notes.—Tomato jelly (Recipe 1310) may be used instead of aspic, or half the moulds may be made in one colour and half in the other, thus giving a pretty variety. The eggs may be set in a border mould if preferred, and clear chicken or other meat jelly may be used if aspic jelly is objected to. PART II OMELETS GENERAL REMARKS Although an omelet is considered by many to be one of the most difficult of egg dishes to make properly, and successful ones are more frequently met with on the Continent than in this country.328 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD there is no reason why they should not be made, and made well, by any intelligent cook who follows carefully the directions given for their manufacture. Two or three trials may be neces- sary, but ultimate success is sure to be the result of genuine effort to produce the right thing. Omelets are a most useful class of dish : they are nourishing and quickly made, and they are the means also of using up a number of savoury odds and ends, such as the remains of ham, tongue, or other meats, fish, shellfish, nuts, vegetables, cheese, &c., these either entering into the com- position of the omelet itself or being made into a kind of filling or stuffing. There are many different kinds of omelets, but the rules for making them are pretty much the same throughout, the variation being supplied by the different savoury ingredients which are added to the eggs, or used as a filling. One of the first essentials of successful omelet- making is a good pan. This must be perfectly Omelet Pan clean and smooth, and should, if possible, be kept for this special purpose. The best omelet pans are made of copper, steel, or aluminium, but failing one of these, which are all somewhat expensive, an ordinary tinned iron frying pan may be used, pro- vided it is kept scrupulously clean. Enamelled frying pans do not answer well for omelet-making, as the egg mixture is very much inclined to stick to them. The size of the pan must also be con- sidered; unless it is proportioned to the number of eggs generally used, the omelet will either be unmanageably thick or too thin. Then, again, an omelet pan should never be washed, or at least as seldom as possible, but rubbed clean after use with kitchen paper and then a dry cloth. If any egg adheres to the pan, this may be rubbed off with a little dry salt. When occasion requires the thorough washing of the pan, or in the case of a new pan being used for the first time, a little butter or fat should be put into the pan and made smoking hot over the fire, then poured away and the pan well rubbed out with paper. A pliant palette knife is also very necessary for omelet-making. Have everything in readiness before beginning to mix and cook the omelet, as it will not improve if it has to be kept hot, while the dish is heated or the garnishing found. A gas stove is better to cook it by than an ordinary kitchen fire, unless the latter is very hot and the heat regular. Follow the directions for making very carefully, and serve the omelet immediately it is cooked, as the most successful one will spoil and become tough if it has to be kept hot. Better let an omelet be waited for than have it ready beforehand. 1411. Plain Omelet, 1 3 eggs. A little butter. 1 table-sp. warm water. (Omelet au Natural) Salt. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Read the above introductory notes before making an omelet for the first time. Then put a small piece of butter into the omelet pan, and allow it to melt on the stove whilst preparing the eggs. It must not brown. Break the eggs into a basin; add pepper, salt, parsley, and 1 table- spoonful warm water. Beat them just enough to break them, and at the last moment, or they will become watery. The rule is twelve beats. Just at the last add two small pieces of butter the size of a filbert. Draw the pan with the butter over the fire, and as soon as it begins to fizzle pour in the eggs, &c. With a fork break the cooked sur- face in several places quickly, so that the eggs from the top may run"to the bottom and cook, or loosen the omelet from the sides of the pan, letting the uncooked part run under. This must be done in the beginning, so as not to make the surface uneven. When the egg is cooked, but yet quite soft on the top, tilt the pan on one side, slip a palette knife under one half of the omelet, and carefully roll the egg to the centre. Let it cook a moment to set any egg that has run out. Then slide it gently on to a hot dish, doubling it over. It takes some practice to give the omelet its right bolster-like shape, to have it soft and creamy inside with a smooth golden yellow surface, but success can soon be acquired. Garnish the omelet with a little parsley, cover it over, and serve at once. Notes.—More eggs may be used if a larger omelet is required, but six should be the limit. The water is added to lighten the eggs. A little cream is sometimes used in its place, but it is not quite so good. Milk must never be used, as it would make the omelet heavy, and flour must on no account enter into its composition. 1412. Plain Omelet, 2 (Omelet au Nature!) 3 eggs. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 oz. butter. | Pepper and salt. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Put the yolks into a medium-sized basin and the whites on to a plate. Add to the yolks the parsley, pepper, and salt, and work these well together with Plain Omelet a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Beat up the whites of the eggs with a broad-bladed knife until so stiff that you could turn the plate upside down without the whites falling off. Re- move the wooden spoon from the basin, and with329 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS an iron one stir the whites lightly into the other mixture. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and pour the mixture into it, scraping out the basin as quickly as possible. Stir the mixture round with an iron spoon until it begins to set, stirring mostly on the surface, and not scraping the bottom of the pan. Then hold it a little longer over the fire until the omelet is nicely browned on the under side. Slip a knife under it, and double over first from one side and then from the other towards the centre. Then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. The inside of the omelet should be soft and creamy. 1413. Savoury Omelet (Omelette aux Fines Herbes) A plain omelet, made as in last recipes, may be flavoured in various ways, but one of the simplest is by the addition of a small quantity of herbs, finely minced or powdered, such as minced tarragon, chervil, thyme, marjoram, &c., or a mixture of the same. A very little minced chives or shallot may also be used, but this is a matter of taste, or the basin in which the eggs are beaten may be rubbed round with a clove of garlic. a silver knife. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, put in the bananas, season them with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and cook them gently for 3 or 4 minutes. Meanwhile make a plain omelet (Recipe 1412), and when beginning to set put the bananas in the centre. Fold over and turn on to a hot dish. 1419. Brain Omelet Make in the same way as Sweetbread Omelet (Recipe 1436), using cooked brains instead of sweetbread. 1420. Cheese Omelet (Omelette au Fromage) 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 table - sp. grated Parmesan or Gruyere. A little made mustard. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), adding the grated cheese and mustard to the yolks of eggs. A little grated cheese may also be sprinkled over the omelet when finished, and browned for a few seconds under the grill of a gas stove. 1414. Anchovy Omelet (Omelette aux Anchois) Make an omelet in the same way as directed for Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), incorporating with the eggs two filleted anchovies cut in very small pieces and \ tea-spoonful anchovy essence. Cook and serve in the same way, and when ready garnish with fillets of anchovy cut in long narrow strips and made hot over boiling water. 1415. Asparagus Omelet (Omelette aux Pointes d’Asperges) Take some cooked asparagus and cut the tender part into pieces about 1 inch in length (asparagus points). Then proceed to make a plain omelet as directed in Recipe 1412, adding to the eggs before cooking some of thg_ asparagus points. Then cook and serve the omelet in the usual way, garnish- ing with little bunches of the asparagus points which have been heated in some light sauce or gravy. 1416. Omelet with Bacon, 1 (Omelette au Lard) 3 eggs. | oz. butter. 2 oz. bacon. Seasoning. Cut the bacon in dice. (If it is very salt, it is better to blanch it and dry it before doing this.) Melt the butter in the omelet pan, put in the bacon, and fry it until nicely browned. Then make an omelet -with the eggs (see Recipe 1412), adding seasoning to taste (salt will scarcely be necessary), and mix in the pieces of bacon during the cooking. 1417. Omelet with Bacon, 2 (Omelette au Lard) Make a plain or savoury omelet, and garnish it when dished with thin slices of grilled or fried bacon. 1418. Banana Omelet 2 bananas. | oz. butter. | A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. | A plain omelet. Choose the bananas not too ripe, peel them, and cut them in slices about § inch in thickness with 1421. Omelet with Chicken (Omelette & la Reine) 2 or 3 table-sps. cooked chicken. 1 table-sp. cooked ham or tongue. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Grated lemon rind. Lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. A plain or savoury omelet. Some good gravy. First prepare the mixture for filling the omelet. Mince the chicken and ham finely and heat them in a small saucepan along with the white sauce. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. Make a plain or savoury omelet, and put the chicken mixture in the centre before folding it over. Serve with a little good gravy or some thin tomato sauce poured round. 1422. Omelet with Chicken Livers (Omelette a la Turque) 3 chicken livers. 1 gill brown sauce. \ oz. butter. Seasoning. A plain or omelet. savoury Wash the livers, being careful to remove the gall and any discoloured parts, dry them, and cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small sauce- pan, put in the liver, and saute it until it has lost its raw appearance. Then add the sauce and seasoning to taste, and simmer all together about 10 minutes. Make an omelet as directed in Recipe 1411 or 1412, and before folding it over put a spoonful of the liver in the middle. Serve on a hot dish, put the remainder of the liver in little heaps at the ends, and pour the sauce round. Note.—A little tomato puree added to the sauce would be an improvement. 1423. Curry Omelet (Omelette a l’lndienne) 1 gill curry sauce. 1 cupful boiled rice. A plain omelet. 1 dessert - sp. curry paste. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. Make a plain omelet according to Recipe 1412, adding the curry paste and the chutney (finely330 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD chopped) to the yolks of eggs. Serve the omelet on a bed of boiled rice, and pour curry sauoe round. 1424. Fish Omelet (Omelette au Poisson) 2 oz. cooked fish. 2 eggs. 1 tea - sp. chopped Pepper and salt, parsley. 1 oz. butter. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), adding the fish, finely chopped, and the chopped parsley to the yolks of eggs. 1425. Ham Omelet (Omelette au Jambon) 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley 2 eggs. A little made mustard. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of pepper. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), adding the ham finely chopped to the yolks of eggs. 1426. Kidney Omelet (Omelette aUx Rognons) 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot \ oz. butter. Pepper. Salt. A plain omelet. Split the kidneys, and remove the skin and hard fat from the centre. Cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter, and when hot add the chopped onion, and fry a little. Then add the kidney and seasonings, put the lid on the pan, and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Make a plain omelet, and before folding put the kidney mixture in the centre. This omelet may be served with a little brown sauce or gravy poured round it. Make the Omelet according to directions given in Recipe 1412, using the above ingredients. When it is set in the pan, put the lobster mixture in the centre and iold the omelet over it, first from one side and then from the other, making the edges overlap in the middle. Slip carefully on to a very hot dish with a dish paper on it, and serve the omelet as quickly as possible. Note.—Tinned lobster may be used. 1429. Mushroom Omelet (Omelette aux Champignons) l lb. fresh mushrooms. 1 shallot. 1 tea - sp. parsley. chopped Salt. Pepper. | oz. butter. A plain or savoury omelet. Remove the skins and stalks from the mush- rooms, and let them lie in salt and water for 5 minutes. Then dry them thoroughly and cut them small. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and put in the mushrooms, shallot finely chopped, parsley, pepper, and salt. Cook these together about 5 minutes. Make a plain omelet according to Recipe 1412, and before folding it over place the mushroom mixture on one half. 1430. Nut Omelet 3 eggs. £ lb. shelled Brazil nuts. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1411), adding the nuts finely grated to the eggs. When the omelet is cooked, sprinkle a few ground nuts over the top and brown slightly. 1427. Lentil Omelet 1431. Oyster Omelet (Omelette aux Huitres) 2 table-sps. lentils. 1 gill stock. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. \ tea-sp. curry powder. 2 oz. butter. 3 or 4 eggs. Seasoning. Wash the lentils, and if time permits allow them to soak for an hour or two in cold water. Then put them into a small saucepan with the stock and onion, and stew them slowly until soft and reduced to a thick puree. Add half the butter, season with the curry powder, pepper, and salt, and beat the mixture until quite smooth. Make an omelet with the eggs and the remainder of the butter, and put the lentil puree in the centre of it before folding it over. Note.—The remains of stewed lentils may be used for this. 1428. Lobster Omelet (Omelette au Homard) Omelet. 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. ltea-sp. chopped parsley Salt. Pepper. Mixture. 3 oz. cooked lobster. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning to taste. First Prepare the Mixture.—Break the cooked lobster into small pieces, removing all shell. Heat it thoroughly in a small saucepan with the white sauce, seasoning rather highly with salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Keep this warm whilst preparing the omelet. 1 doz. oysters. | oz. butter. \ oz. flour. | gill oyster liquor. A little cream. Seasoning. A plain omelet. Scald the oysters in their own liquor, then strain. Remove the gristle from them, and, if liked, the beards as well. Then break each one in about four pieces with a fork. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and oyster liquor, add the oysters to it with a little cream and seasoning, make the mixture very hot, but do not boil again. Prepare the omelet according to Recipe 1412, and put the above mixture in the centre of it before folding over. Serve very hot. 1432. Omelet with Potatoes (Omelette a la Parmentier) A plain or savoury 2 or 3 potatoes, omelet. Recipe 1411 A little butter, or 1412. Peel two or three potatoes and cut them in dice, making about 1 breakfast-cupful in all. Put these into a saucepan of cold water, bring them to the boil, and drain well. Then fry the potato dice in a little butter until they are cooked and lightly browned, season them with pepper and salt, and keep them warm. Make a plain or a savoury omelet, and fold the prepared potatoes in the centre of it.33r EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 1433. Rice Omelet 1 cupful cooked rice. i Seasoning. 1 cupful milk. 1 oz. butter. 3 eggs. I Curry sauce. Heat the cooked rice in the milk until it is soft and creamy without being too liquid. Add the eggs well beaten, and season to taste with pepper and salt. A little grated Parmesan may also be added if liked. Heat the butter in an omelet pan, turn in the rice mixture, and bake in the oven until firm to the touch and lightly browned. Then slip the omelet on to a hot dish. Serve with curry sauce poured round. 1434. Sardine Omelet (Omelette aux Sardines) 2 sardines. i 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. £ tea-sp. shrimp essence. | Pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the sardines, bone them, and pound the flesh in a mortar with a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence. Then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Now proceed as in Recipe 1412, adding the sardine paste to the yolks of eggs. Note.—Sardine paste, which can be bought in tins, may be used for this instead of whole sardines. 1435. Shrimp Omelette (Omelette aux Crevettes) 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp anchovy es- sence Pepper and salt. Mixture. £ cupful picked shrimps. £ cupful white sauce. Seasoning. First prepare the mixture. Put the shrimps into a small saucepan with the sauce, season to taste, and make thoroughly hot over the fire. Make a plain omelet with the other ingredients according to Recipe 1412, and adding the anchovy essence to the yolks of eggs. Before folding it over put the shrimp mixture in the centre. 1436. Sweetbread Omelet (Omelette au Rls de Veau) Take some cooked sweetbread, break it in small pieces, and reheat in some good creamy sauce, such as bechamel or supreme. Make a plain omelet (Recipe 1412) with four or five eggs, and put some of the sweetbread in the centre before folding it over. Serve on a hot dish with the remainder of the sweetbread as a garnish. 1437. Tomato Omelet (Omelette aux Tomates) 2 tomatoes. £oz. butter. 1 tea - sp. chopped shallot. Salt. Pepper. A plain omelet. Recipe 1412. Skin the tomatoes and cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot, and cook for a few minutes. Then add the tomato and seasoning, and simmer for about ten minutes. Make a plain omelet with a little parsley in it; when set, put some of the tomato mixture in the centre before folding over. Serve with the rest of the tomato round the dish. 1438. Omelet with Vegetables (Omelette a la Jardiniere) Take the remains of nicely cooked vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, cauliflower, green peas, French beans, asparagus, leeks, &c., cut them in small pieces, and warm them in a little good sauce. Then make either a plain or a savoury omelet, and before folding it over put 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of the vegetable mixture in the centre. Any re- maining vegetable may be used to garnish the dish. See p, 431. Sweet OmeletsPASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES The making of pastry requires a certain amount of practice, and failure at first must not discourage the beginner. It is often only after repeated attempts that success can bo attained. A start should be made with the plainer kinds of pastry, and especially those in which the fat is well mixed with the flour before the rolling begins, such as Suet Crust and Short Crust. When these have been thoroughly mastered, the more difficult kinds may be attempted. This chapter includes a representative selection of recipes for both sweet and savoury dishes of pastry, pies, tarts, patties, tartlets, fancy pastries, &c. The hints and directions in the recipes should be carefully attended to. MATERIALS REQUIRED Butter or Fat.—There are several different kinds of fat which can be used for pastry making, such as butter, lard, dripping, clarified fat, margarine, and various kinds of vegetable fat now on the market. Butter is the best to use for all the finer kinds of pastry, but it must be carefully chosen and free from taint of any kind. Fresh butter is the best for puff pastry. When the butter is soft it should be put into very cold water or on ice for a short time before using, and then all moisture squeezed out in a clean dry cloth. When a more economical pastry is wanted, good dripping, lard, or margarine may be used, or a mixture of butter and lard is very good. Inferior butter should never be taken, as it would quite spoil the taste of the pastry. If dripping is used it should be carefully clarified and all trace of brown gravy removed from it. A good dripping crust is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry for children. Vege- tarians, who do not allow themselves butter, employ some form of vegetable fat or nut butter for making their pastry. Suet is used principally for making boiled pastry, the fat taken from the kidney being the best, and beef suet is generally preferred to mutton. Flour.—Good household flour will serve the purpose for all ordinary pastries, but for the finer kinds, such as puff pastry, choux pastry, &c., Vienna or Hungarian flour should be used. It must be very dry, and if by any chance it has become damp, dry it in a warm place and then let it cool before using it. The flour should also be sieved for pastry, as this not only ensures its being free from lumps, but makes it lighter. Baking Powder.—This is only required in the plainer kinds of pastry, where the supply of butter or fat is limited. It helps to give lightness. When it is used the pastry should be baked as soon as possible after the moisture is added, as the powder soon loses its effect. The Liquid.■—Water is usually the only liquid required for mixing the pastry. It must be as cold as possible, and in hot weather a piece of ice, when obtainable, should be added to it. The exact amount of water to use is not always given in the recipes, as so much depends on the consistency of the fat u:-td, and also upon whether the flour is a 332 very dry kind or not. It will generally be found that the finer the flour the more water it will re- quire. In the richer kinds of pastry a beaten egg or the yolk of an egg is used along with a little water. ON MIXING AND ROLLING See that all utensils used, such as board, basin, rolling-pin, &c., are particularly clean and cool. The board should be smooth and perfectly flat. It is always better if a board can be kept for pastry-making only. A marble or slate slab i3 always to be preferred to a wooden board, as it is so cool and level. The rolling should also be smooth and not too heavy. A round glass bottle filled with cold water will make quite a good rolling-pin when no other is at hand. Clean hands are also imperative. If the hands are inclined to be warm, wash them some little time before beginning the pastry in very warm water. Those who have very warm hands should mix the pastry as much as possible with a knife. Make the pastry in as cool a place as possible; the colder it is kept during the making, the lighter it will be. In hot weather it should be put away in a cold place for some little time before it is used. The mixing with the water must be done as quickly and lightly as possible. Some cooks do this on the board or slab by making a well of the flour and pouring the water into the centre, but it requires a good deal of experience to do this well and prevent the water from running over the sides; mixing in the basin is always the easier method. When turning the pastry out on the board try to leave the basin as clean as possible, cleaning it out, as it were, with the lump of paste. Never rub little pieces off the fingers on to the pastry, as, when cooked, these would form hard lumps; but clean the hands back into the basin with a little dry flour. Roll the pastry lightly and try to press equally with both hands. When rolling the flaky kinds of pastry, roll always from you, taking short quick strokes, and lifting the rolling-pin between the strokes. Never allow pastry to stick to the board, but lift it occasionally on the rolling-pin and dust some flour underneath. If anything has stuck to thePASTRY AND board, scrape it off carefully with, a knife before beginning again. Always sprinkle flour over the board and pastry through a flour sifter, as it makes it finer and lighter. If the rolling-pin sticks to the pastry, dust a little flour over it, and brush it off again lightly with a small brush kept for the purpose. Avoid as much as possible rolling dry flour into the pastry, as it will give it a white and pasty appearance. HINTS ON BAKING PASTRY However Well the pastry is made, it will not be a success unless the baking is carefully attended to. The heating of the oven should be thoroughly understood, as the hottest part in one oven may be the ooolest part in another. An oven with a bottom heat is always best for puff pastry, as this will throw it up before the browning begins to harden the outside. A hot oven is required, but not a fierce one. If not hot enough, the butter will melt and run out of the pastry before the starch grains in the flour have time to burst and absorb it. On the other hand, if too hot, the pastry will burn before it has risen properly. The heat of the oven may be tested with a thermometer or by putting into it a small piece of the pastry. If this piece of pastry browns fairly quickly, the oven may be considered hot enough. For puff pastry the ther- mometer should register about 340° Fahr. to begin with, and when the pastry is well risen the heat may be reduced to about 325°. For meat pies about 300° Fahr. will be hot enough, and for the plainer kinds of pastry the temperature may be still a little lower. Pastry should never be baked in an. oven in which meat is being roasted, or with any other dish that generates steam, as the moist heat would be apt to destroy the crispness of the pastry. It is not always possible to manage this, but for the lighter kinds of pastry it is absolutely essential. The oven door should be opened and closed as gently as possible, and not oftener than is necessary. If the pastry is inclined to become too brown before it is sufficiently cooked, cover it over with a double sheet of paper that has been slightly sprinkled with water. If the pastry is not to be used at once when taken from the oven, allow it to cool slowly in the warm kitchen. When light pastry is transported at once to a cold larder it is very apt to become heavy. TO GLAZE PASTRY Pastry is generally glazed before being put into the oven, except when it has to be baked for a long time, when it is better to leave the glazing until later on. When a rich deep colour is wanted on a meat pie, brush the pastry over with yolk of egg mixed with a very little water. For a lighter brown use the egg (yolk and white together), or egg and milk, or milk alone, may be used for the plainer kinds of pastry. Sweet pastry is generally glazed with slightly beaten white of egg and sugar, or with milk or water and sugar. PASTKY DISHES 333 PART I DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTRY 1439. Short Crust £ lb. flour. | lb. butter. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. A squeeze juice. Cold water. of lemon Rub the flour and sugar through a wire sieve into a clean dry basin. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if fresh butter is being used, a pinch of salt also. Put in the butter, cover it well over with the flour, and break it in pieces. Then rub to- gether lightly with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until as fine as bread-crumbs. While rubbing, keep lifting the flour well up in the basin, so that air may mix with it, and the butter is not made too soft. Then make a well in the centre of these dry ingredients, and add cold water very gradually with the left hand whilst mixing with the right. Mix with the hand or with a knife. Use very little water in the mixing of this paste, or it will be tough instead of short. Flour the pastry board slightly, lay the dough on it, and work lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Then flour a rolling-pin, press down the pastry first, then with sharp quick strokes roll it out to the thickness required. This pastry only requires to be rolled out once. Roll it on the one side only, and be careful it does not stick to the board. Lift it gently at the sides from time to time and dust a little flour under and over as required. Use no more flour than is necessary for this purpose, as too much will make the pastry hard. Notes.—This is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry. The butter is so well mixed with the flour, that the latter is better cooked than in some of the more flaky pastries. The pastry may be made richer by using rather more butter, 5 or 6 oz. to | lb. flour, and the yolk of egg beaten up with a little water for mixing. This is sometimes called Biscuit Crust. For a plainer pastry, see below. Suitable for covering fruit pies, tarts, tartlets, puffs, and many fancy sweets. Probable cost, 5d. 1440. Plain Short Crust, or Dripping Crust A pinch of salt. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Cold water. i lb. flour. 3 or 4 oz. lard or dripping. Make in the same way as above. A little castor sugar should be added if the pastry is to be used for a sweet dish. Note.—Margarine may be used instead of the dripping or lard. Probable cost, 3\d. 1441. Suet Crust or Pastry \ lb. flour. £ lb. suet. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Cold water. Weigh the flour carefully, add the salt and baking powder to it, and rub these through a wire sieve into a clean dry basin. Remove the skin from the suet, shred it very finely with a sharp knife, and then weigh it. Put it on to a chopping board, and834 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Sprinkle it with some of the flour already weighed out. Then chop it very finely, using enough flour to prevent it sticking to the board and knife. The finer it is chopped, the better the pastry will be. When ready, mix it thoroughly with the flour in the basin, rubbing all the ingredients lightly together with the tips of the fingers. Then make a well in the centre of these dry ingredients, and add cold water very gradually with the left hand while you mix with the right. Mix with the hand or with a knife. Form into a smooth soft dough, and turn out on to a floured board, leaving the basin quite clean. Work lightly with the hands until free from cracks, then flour a rolling-pin and roll out to the thickness required. Roll on the one side only, and be careful the pastry does not stick to the board or roller. Lift it gently at the sides from time to time to make sure of this, and dust a little flour under and over as required. Use no more flour than is necessary for this purpose, as too much will make the pastry hard. Note.—Buttermilk or sweet milk may be used instead of water for mixing. Half the quantity of flour may be omitted, and £ lb. bread-crumbs used in its place. A larger proportion of suet may be used if the pastry is wished richer. Suitable for fruit and meat puddings, roly-poly pudding, dumplings, &c. Probable cost, 5d. 1442. Whole Meal Suet Pastry Make in the same way as last recipe, using half whole-meal and half flour. This pastry is particu- larly wholesome for children. 1443. Rough-puff Pastry £ lb. flour. A squeeze of lemon 1 lb. butter. juice. A pinch of salt. Cold water. Weigh the butter, and let it lie in a basin of cold water for some time before using it. Iced water is best if it can be procured. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the lemon juice to it. Then dry the butter in the corner of a clean dry cloth slightly floured. Squeeze out as much of the water as possible, but be careful not to heat the butter with the hands. Put the butter into the basin, cover it well over with the flour, and then break it into pieces the size of a hazel nut. Have some very cold water in a jug ready for mixing with, and make a well in the centre of the flour and butter. Mix very lightly with the right hand or with a knife, pouring the water in gradually with the left until you have added sufficient to bind all together. Flour the baking board and turn the dough out on to it. Flour the rolling-pin and roll the dough out very carefully into a strip about | of a yard in length and from 6 to 7 inches wide. Lift occasionally while rolling, and dust some flour underneath the pastry to prevent it from sticking to the board. Roll the pastry on the one side only, do not turn it over, and roll in short quick strokes always from you. When rolled to the required length, fold it in three, and press down with the rolling-pin. Turn the pastry half round, bringing the joins to the right-hand side, and roll again in the same way as before. Fold again in three, half turn and roll again, repeating this until the pastry has had three rolls and three folds. The fourth time of rolling out, roll to the size and shape required for use. Note.—If the pastry becomes very soft while rolling, it should be laid away in a cool place before completing the process. It is improved by being kept for a few hours before using. In cold weather it will keep for several days if wrapped in a piece of greased paper. This pastry may be made more economically by using half lard and half butter, or margarine in place of the butter. A better pastry may be made by using 6 oz. of butter instead of 4 oz. to £ lb. flour. An egg well beaten may be used for mixing with, along with a little water. Suitable for covering meat pies, plain patties, sausage rolls, and various dishes of fish or meat. Probable cost, 6d. 1444. Raised Pie Crust, 1 § lb. flour. I About 1 gill milk or 2 oz. lard. [ water. £ tea-sp. salt. Put the lard and water or milk into a small sauce- pan, bring them to the boil, but do not let them reduce in quantity. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin and make a well in the centre of them. Pour in the hot liquid, mixing first with a spoon or knife, as it is rather hot, then taking the hand and mixing quickly until all is formed into one lump. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Use warm and as directed. See Recipe 1472. Note.—Sometimes suet is used instead of lard. It must be minced very finely and melted slowly in a saucepan. Then the milk or water poured on to it, brought to the boil, and strained into the middle of the flour. Suitable for raised pies of all kinds. Probable cost, 2£d. 1445. Raised Pie Crust, 2 £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. lard or oil. 1 yolk of egg. £ tea-sp. salt. Water. Sieve the flour and salt, and rub in the butter and fat in the same way as for Short Crust. Butter alone should not be used,as it would make the pastry too soft. Bind together with the yolk of egg and a very little water, keeping the pastry as dry as possible. Knead well, wrap it in a wet cloth or muslin, and let it rest £ hour. Then use as required. Suitable for raised pies made in moulds and timbales. Probable cost, 5d.335 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 1446. Flaky Pastry 10 oz. flour. 7 oz. butter I A squeeze of lemon juice A pinch of salt. | Cold water. Weigh the butter, and let it lie for some time in cold water before using it. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the lemon juice. Lift the butter out of the water, and squeeze it dry in a clean floured cloth. Divide it into four equal pieces. Take one of these pieces and rub it into the flour with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until quite free from lumps. Then add sufficient cold water to form all into one lump. Mix with the hand as lightly as possible, and turn out on to a floured board. Knead lightly until free from cracks, and then roll out into a long narrow strip, rather less than £ inch in thickness. Take one of the remaining portions of butter, and with the point of a knife put it on in small pieces and in even rows all over the pastry, leaving an inch margin without butter round the edges. (If the butter is hard it should be worked on a plate with a knife before commencing.) Now flour the surface lightly, and fold the paste exactly in three. Turn the pastry half round, bringing the joins to the right-hand side. Press down the folds sharply with the rolling-pin, so as to enclose some air. Roll out the pastry again into a long narrow strip, and proceed as before until the two remaining portions of butter have thus been used. If the butter be- comes soft during the rolling, lay the pastry aside for a short time, before completing the process. The last time roll out the pastry to the desired thickness, and if it requires widening, turn it across the board and roll across. Never roll in a slanting direction, or the lightness of the pastry will suffer. This pastry is not quite so rich as puff pastry. It may be kept for several days in cold weather if wrapped in greased paper or in a damp cloth. Note.—Sometimes a beaten white of egg is used along with the water for mixing. Suitable for covering pies and tarts, tartlets, sausage rolls, and various fancy dishes. Probable cost, 9d. 1447. Puff Pastry (Feuilletage) £ lb. flour. | lb. butter (fresh). A pinch of salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Cold water. Weigh the butter, and let it lie in a basin of cold water for some timo before using it. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the lemon juice to them. Lift the butter out of the cold water and dry it lightly in a floured cloth. Take a quarter of the butter, and rub it into the flour with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until there are no lumps left. Then mix with cold water into a stiffish dough. Turn this on to a floured board and work it well with the hands until it will no longer stick to the fingers, and forms a perfectly smooth dough. Then roll it rather thinly into a square or round shape. The butter to be used should be as nearly as possible of the same consis tency as the paste. Form it into a neat flat cake, and place it in the centre of the paste (see above). Fold it up rather loosely, and flatten the folds with a rolling-pin. Then roll out the pastry into a long narrow strip, being careful that the butter does not break through. Fold it exactly in three, press down the folds, and lay the pastry aside in a cool place for a quarter of an hour at least. This is called giving the pastry one “turn,” and seven of these is the number usually required for puff pastry. The next time the pastry is rolled, place it with the joins at your right-hand side, and the open ends towards you. Give it two “ turns ” this time, and again set it aside in a cool place for at least 15 minutes. Repeat this until the pastry has had seven rolls in all, one roll or turn the first time, and after that, two each time with an interval between. The object of this cooling between the rolls is to keep the butter and flour in distinct and separate layers, in which it is the function of the rotling-pin and folding to arrange them, and on which the lightness of the pastry depends. When rolling, keep the pressure of the two hands as equal as possible. If the pastry becomes rounded, it shows that there is more pressure being borne on the rounded side than the other. After it has received its last roll, it is better to be laid aside for336 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD some time before using it, then roll to the thickness required. This pastry will keep for several days in cold weather, if wrapped in a piece of well-greased paper. Note.—If salt butter has to be used, wash it first by kneading it in very cold water. Suitable for vol-au-vent, patties, mince pies, and various fancy dishes. Probable cost, lOd. 1448. Potato Pastry \ lb. of cooked pota- toes. £ lb. flour. 2 or 3 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. A little milk. Sieve the potatoes. They must be dry and mealy; it is impossible to make potato pastry with waxy potatoes. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the butter or dripping until free from lumps. Then add the potatoes and salt, and mix together. Add enough milk to bind all together, or the yolk of an egg with a little milk may be used. Do not make the pastry too moist, and when it is formed into one lump turn it out on a floured board, and roll out at once, flouring the rolling-pin well. TTse as required. This pastry should be used at once, it will not keep. Note.—Potato pastry may also be made sweet by using less salt and adding about 1 table-spoonful of castor sugar. Probable cost, 3d. 1449. 3 oz. cornflour. J lb. butter. £ lb. flour. A squeeze of lemon juice Make in the same way as Short Crust, binding the dry ingredients together with the yolk of an egg mixed with a little milk or water. Suitable for lining dishes or tart rings and various sweet dishes. Probable cost, 7d. Cornflour Pastry 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. J tea-sp. baking powder. 1 yolk of egg. A little milk or water. 1450. Choux Pastry (Pate a Choux) \ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill of water' 1 oz. sugar. 3 or 4 eggs. A pinch of salt. A few drops of vanilla or other flavouring. Sieve the flour, which should be of the finest quality, and put it in a cool part of the oven to dry. Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a small stewpan, and bring them to the boil, but do not let them reduce in quantity. Draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and add the flour. Stir these well together over the fire with a wooden spoon until the paste is compact and dry, and does not adhere to the saucepan nor spoon. This is called a “ panada.” It should not be overcooked, or it will become oily. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the eggs, one at a time, beating each one in very thoroughly. Keep the paste at a medium thickness, not too soft, yet not too stiff, and only using the fourth egg if necessary. If the paste is too stiff, it will not rise properly ; and if too soft, it will spread and lose its shape. Add a few drops of flavouring, and, if time permits, cool before using. Suitable for eclaires, cream buns, and various fancy gateaux and fritters. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. castor sugar 1451. Cream Pastry Some cream (about 1 gill). A pinch of salt. Make according to the directions given for Short Crust (see Recipe 1439), using the cream to mix with instead of water. Suitable for fancy cakes or gateaux. Probable cost, 7d. PART II MEAT AND SAVOURY DISHES WITH PASTRY MEAT PIES Almost any kind of meat may be used for a pie— beef, mutton, veal, rabbit, poultry, or game. They may either be used separately, or two or three different kinds may be put together. Then all sorts of things may be put in to fill up the corners and to give flavour, such as hard-boiled eggs, mush- rooms, oysters, chopped onions, sliced potatoes, different kinds of forcemeat, sausage meat, &c., according to individual taste and fancy. Solid meat should be cut in small pieces, or in thin slices and rolled up, game and poultry into neat little joints and the large bones removed. It must then be carefully seasoned according to the kind of meat used. Pies that are to be served cold may always be more highly seasoned than those which are served hot. A little grated lemon rind is always an improvement when white meat is being used. Chopped onions must always be added with caution, and not at all if objected to. Sometimes it will be found sufficient to rub the pie dish with a piece of onion before commencing to pack it. The meat should be packed rather loosely in the pie dish, and piled high in the centre like a dome. An egg cup or pie funnel is sometimes put in the centre. A little liquid, water, stock, or gravy, Pie Funnel should then be poured in. If any bones and trim- mings have been taken from the meat, these may be made into a little stock while the pie is cooking, and then used for filling up the pie before serving. It is very important that a pie should have good gravy. When it is to be served cold this gravy should be a jelly, and a little gelatine should be dissolved in the stock if necessary. Whenever possible, good and tender meat should be used for making a pie; but if a tough and coarser kind has unavoidably to be employed, it should be partially cooked before the crust is put on. This337 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES cooking must be done in such a way as to lose none of the flavour of the meat. The best plan is to cover the pie dish, when it is filled with the meat, with another dish or close-fitting lid, and to place it in a moderate oven for 1 hour or longer. Or, the prepared meat may be put into a closed jar and steamed for an hour or so. In all cases the contents of a meat pie must be quite cold before the covering of paste is put on. To Cover and Bake a Meat Pie For a plain pie, to be eaten hot, dripping crust does very well; but for a superior pie, either rough puff or flaky pastry is more suitable. The quantity made with £ lb. of flour will be about the requisite amount for the following recipes. Roll out the pastry into an oblong shape and about I inch in thickness. From this cut a strip about l\ inches in width, or rather wider than the rim of the pie dish. Then wet the rim of the dish with cold water and lay this neatly on. Where a join is made, wet one of the edges to make them stick. Do not overlap the pieces, or one part of the edge will be thicker than the other. Wet this strip of pastry with cold water and lay on the larger piece of pastry to cover the top of the pie. Press this piece of pastry well on, easing it in slightly and. not dragging it over the dish. With a sharp knife cut off the larger pieces of pastry hanging round the dish, then hold the dish up in the left hand and with the right trim neatly round the edges. When trimming take short quick strokes, always cuttingawayfromyou,andincliningthe knife in such a way that the edges of the crust will have a considerable outward slope. Then flour the first finger of the left hand and keep pressing the back of it down on the rim of the pastry, while with the back-of a floured knife you tap the edges smartly all round, making them look like the leaves of a book. To scallop them, draw the back of the knife sharply across them at intervals of about £ inch, drawing the knife upwards and inwards, while with the thumb of the left hand you keep pressing the pastry just in front of the knife down- wards and outwards. Make a hole in the centre of the pie with a knife and brush over with beaten egg, omitting the outer edge. Roll out the trimmings of the pastry and cut out leaves for decorating. To Make Leaves.—This may be done with fancy cutters, or in the following simple way. Cut the pastry into strips about 1 £ inch wide. Then divide these obliquely into diamond-shaped pieces. Mark each with the back of a knife to imitate the veins of a leaf. From seven to nine of these leaves will be required for a centre ornament, and they should radiate from the hole in the centre of the pie towards Meat Pie ready for Oven the edge of the dish. The pie may be further deco- rated by having one or two roses, or a tassel, put in the centre, but care must always be taken not to fill up the hole. To Make a Rose.—Take a small piece of pastry about the size of a nutmeg and work into it as much dry flour as it will take up. Then roll it out as thin as a sheet of paper and cut a square. Fold in four so as to make a smaller square, and then lay this over the point of the first finger, folding down the edges all round. Cut a cross in the centre of the V338 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD pastry, remove it from the finger, squeeze the edges together, and open out the petals. To Make a Tassel.—Roll out a small piece of pastry in a strip, about 1J inches in width. Cut this strip across like a fringe to about one half its width and then roll up. When the pie is decorated, brush it over with a little beaten egg or with egg and milk, and it will be ready for baking. To Bake and Serve the Pie.—Place the pie on a baking tin or Yorkshire pudding tin, and put it in a hot oven the first half hour, or until the crust is risen and set, and beginning to brown. Then move it to a cooler part, 60 that the meat may cook more slowly. As soon as the crust is dark enough it should be covered with a double piece of paper until the pie is cooked. The meat may be tested by running in a skewer through the hole in the top. As soon as the pie is done, remove it from the oven. Heat some good stock or gravy and pour it in through a filler, or out of a small cream jug. Wipe the dish v ith a wet cloth and garnish with parsley before serving. 1452. Beefsteak and Kidney Pie (Pfit6 de Bifteck et Rognons) Time to bake, 1 £ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 1 lb. beef (cut thin). 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 1 table-sp. flour. £ tea-sp. Jamaica pepper. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 4 table-sps. stock or water. Flaky, rough-pufi, or dripping pastry. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and trim away all skin and any superfluous fat. Cut it into narrow strips suitable for rolling up. Split the kidneys, remove the skin and inside fat, and cut them into small pieces. Mix the flour, salt, pepper, and Jamaica pepper together on a plate. (The usual proportions of seasoning to allow are one tea- spoonful salt and quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper to each pound of meat, but this must vary accord- ing to taste. The flour is used to thicken the gravy, and this may be omitted in a pie that is to be served cold.) Dip the pieces of meat and kidney into this mixture, coating them on all sides. Roll up the strips of steak with some of the kidney and a small piece of fat inside each. Place these rolls loosely in a pie dish, heaping them rather high in the middle of the dish to support the crust, and sprinkling them with the chopped parsley. Remove the shell from the hard-boiled egg, and cut it into six or eight pieces. Arrange these pieces round the meat, pour in the ketchup and half the stock or' water. Then cover the pie with rough puff or any other suitable pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. Notes.—A little chopped mushroom or an oyster may be rolled up inside the meat instead of the kidney, and some chopped shallot or onion may be added if wished. A few potatoes, partly cooked and thinly sliced, may be mixed with the meat, and will help to fill up the dish, when a large quantity of meat is not desired. Good rump steak should be used for making pies, as an inferior part is very likely to be tough. If steak not of the tenderest must of necessity be used, it should be partially cooked before putting on the crust covering. See p. 336. 1453. Calf’s Head Pie (Pate de T§te de Veau) \ calf’s head (cooked). 6 oz. bacon. 1 calf’s tongue (cooked). 2 hard-boiled eggs. The brains. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. I tea-sp. powdered herbs. A pinch of nutmeg. Stock. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Cut the half calf’s head in small pieces, removing all skin, bones, and gristle. Skin the tongue and cut it in thin slices, and cut the bacon in small strips free from rind and rust. Mix these different meats together and season them well with pepper and salt. Pack them lightly into a pie dish, ar- ranging the pieces so that there will be room for jelly stock between. Then make some brain balls. Chop the brains, add to them the bread-crumbs and parsley, and season with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well and form into little balls. If too dry, moisten with a little yolk of egg. Arrarge these balls and the hard-boiled egg on the top of the pie, and pour in two or three table-spoonfuls of stock. The mixture should be piled high in the centre of the dish and away from the sides. Cover with rough- puff or flaky pastry as directed on p. 337, and bake in a good oven. When cooked, pour in more stock by means of a funnel placed in the hole in the top. This pie may be served either hot or cold. Note.—One or two calf’s feet, if well cooked, may be cut in small pieces and mixed with the other meat in the pie. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Cost uncertain. 1454. Chicken and Ham Pie, Cold (Paid Froid de Volaille) 1 tender chicken. 2 hard boiled eggs. 3 oz. ham or bacon. A pinch of ground mace. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Some jelly stock. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Cut the chicken into neat pieces free from bone and with as little skin as possible. Season it with pepper, salt, and parsley, add the ham cut in small pieces, and mix well together. Take a pie dish just large enough to hold the meat, rinse it out with cold water and leave it wet. Then decorate the bottom with sections of hard-boiled egg and chopped parsley. Fill up with the chicken and ham, &c., and press the meat well down, making it level with the top of the dish. Pour in half a gill of white stock, or just enough to moisten the meat. Cover the pie according to directions given on p. 337, but put on no decorations. Bake in the oven until the chicken feels tender when it is tested with a skewer. When ready, remove the pie from the oven and pour in as much stock (that will jelly when cold) as the pie will hold. If the stock is not stiff enough a little gelatine must first be dissolved in it. Then set the pie away until it is quite cold.339 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES To Serve.—Remove the pastry from the top and place it upside down on a clean dish, and turn tho meat part carefully out on the top of this. Tf it is inclined to stick, dip the dish into hot water for a moment, and then loosen round the edges. Garnish round the sides of the pie with some nice salad and serve cold. Note.—This makes a nice supper or luncheon dish. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. 1455. Chicken and Ham Pie, Hot (Pat6 Chaud de Volaille) 1 tender chicken. 3 or 4 oz. ham or bacon. 2 hard-boiled eggs. | lemon. Salt, pepper. A little grated nutmeg. Forcemeat balls. Stock. Rough-pufl or flaky pastry. Prepare the chicken and ham as in last recipe, seasoning them with the grated rind and juice of 4 lemon, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Then make some small balls with Veal Forcemeat (see Recipe 1288), and arrange the meat in a pie dish, mixing the balls with it. Put the hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces on the top, pour in a little stock, and then cover the pie according to directions given on p. 337. Time to bake, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. 1456. Cold Meat Pie Very good pies can be made from the remains of cold cooked meat. The meat may either be cut in small thin slices or minced. A mixture of meats may be used, and a little pickled or salted meat, such as bacon, ham, tongue, &c., used along with fresh meat, will always help to give flavour. Seasoning should be added according to the kind of meat used. Then the meat should be moistened with some very good gravy or sauce. Remains of brown, tomato, curry sauce, &e., can all be utilised for this purpose, and will only help to make the pie more savoury. When using white meat, such as veal, rabbit, or chicken, a good white sauce, parsley sauce, caper sauce, &c., can be used. Then again, if there is not sufficient meat to fill the pie-dish required, some cooked vegetable, rice, or macaroni may be added. Cooked potatoes, carrot, turnip, celery, Jerusalem artichokes, &c., are all suitable for the purpose, also well-cooked haricot beans, cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, or boiled rice. With these two latter a little more sauce or gravy should be used, or otherwise the pie would be inclined to be dry. Hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces, sliced tomatoes, or a few mushrooms would also add to the goodness of the dish. Almost any kind of unsweetened pastry may be used for covering a pie of this kind. It should be rolled rather thinner than for a pie made of un- cooked meat, as the cooking will not be such a lengthy process. This kind of pie should be served very hot, and garnished with a little fresh parsley. 1457. Duck Pie 1 duck. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 2 table-sps. dripping or bacon fat. (P&t6 de Canard) 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. Salt, pepper. 3 or 4 parboiled potatoes Rough-pufl pastry. Cut the duck in small neat joints, keeping back any trimmings and skin to make some gravy. Wash the trimmings and put them into a sauce- pan with cold water to cover, a small onion, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Allow these to simmer slowly while the pie is cooking, and then strain ready for use. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a frying pan, when smoking hot put in the pieces of duck and fry them a nice brown colour. Then lift them out, draining them well from the fat. Now brown the chopped onion in the fat, and drain that also. Mix the onion with the duck along with the powdered sage and a liberal sprink- ling of pepper and salt. Cut tho parboiled potatoes in slices, and arrange the duck and the potatoes in layers in a pie dish, piling them high in the centre. Pour in a little water and cover the pie with rough- puff or any other suitable pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. Bake in a good oven, being careful to keep the hole in the top well open. When ready, fill up with some of the gravy from the trimmings and serve hot garnished with parsley. Note.—A little sage and onion stuffing (Recipe 1278) may, if liked, be mixed with the joints of duck. The other onion and sage will not then be required. Time to bake, 14 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3s. to 3s. 6d. 1458. Giblet Pie 2 or 3 sets giblets. 1 lb. beef steak. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 shallot. Pepper, salt. A pinch of mace. (P&tS aux Abatis) A pinch of nutmeg. J pt. stock. 2 or 3 oz. bacon. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. To Prepare the Giblets.—The giblets comprise the gizzard, liver, heart, head, neck, feet, and the pinions of the wings of a bird. Goose giblets are perhaps the best for making a pie, but those of a fowl, duck, turkey, &c., can all be used. Cut the gall-bag and any green parts carefully from the liver. Cut lightly through the whitest part of the gizzard, and remove the bag of stones from the inside, then pull off all fat and loose pieces of skin. Scald the feet and skin them, removing the claws, scald the head also, removing the eyes, beak, and all feathers, and then split the skull in two. Wash all the parts carefully, using a little salt in the water to get rid of the blood. When thoroughly clean, cut them in pieces and put them in a stew- pan with the stock. (There should be enough to cover them.) Allow them to cook slowly from f to 1 hour, according to the kind of giblets used. If the stock is not well-flavoured, or if water has to be used, a few small pieces of flavouring vegetables and a bunch of herbs should be added. When sufficiently cooked, strain the giblets and reserve the stock to make gravy for the pie. Cut the beef in small tbin strips, dip these in flour seasoned with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of mace, then roll them up with a little chopped shallot inside. Place these little rolls at340 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the bottom of a pie dish, and then lay in the giblets, seasoning them with more pepper and salt. Lay the bacon, cut in small pieces, on the top and pour in a little of the stock. Cover the pie with a good crust as directed on p. 337, and bake steadily until the meat is thoroughly cooked. When ready, pour in a little more stock through the hole in the top, decorate with parsley and serve hot. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 1459. Grouse Pie (PStS de Grouse) A brace of grouse. \ lb. beef steak. 1 oz. butter. J lb. fat bacon. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Chopped parsley and chopped shallot. Seasoning. Some game stock. Flaky or puff pastry. Prepare the grouse carefully and cut them in neat joints, removing the head and neck, the feet, and the ends of the wings. Cut the beef in small thin pieces and fry them a few minutes in the 1 oz. of butter. Then take a pie dish and place at the foot of it half the bacon cut in small pieces, then put in the beef, and season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and shallot. Arrange the joints of game on the top of this and put some more of the seasoning, &c., over. Cut up the hard- boiled eggs and place them on the top and then cover with the remainder of the bacon. Pour in some good game stock, cover with flaky or puff pastry as directed on p. 337, and bake in a good oven. When the pie is cooked put the feet, well scalded and skinned, and if possible brushed over with a little glaze, in the hole in the top. Note.—Other game may be used in the same way. The addition of a few mushrooms would be an improvement to the pie. Sometimes the joints of game are fried brown in a little fat before being put into the pie dish. A little wine may be added to the gravy if wished. Time to cook, 1 £ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 1460. Meat and Potato Pie (Tinned Meat) 1 lb. tinned meat. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 1 cupful cooked haricot beans. Seasoning. Potato pastry. Any kind of tinned meat may be used, beef, mutton, rabbit, &c. Mince it, or cut it in small pieces, removing any superfluous fat, but keeping the sauce or jelly with which it is preserved. If the tomatoes are fresh, wipe them and cut them in thin slices, but if tinned, break them or mash them up with a spoon. The haricot beans must be well cooked, and if these are not cared for, cooked rice, or cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, may be used in their place. Then make some potato pastry (Re- cipe 1448), roll it out about | an inch in thickness and line a greased pie dish with it. Fill up with the meat, beans, and tomato, seasoning to taste. If the meat should be very dry, a little stock or gravy may also be added. Cover the pie with more potato pastry and make a hole in the centre. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1461. Mutton Pie (Pate de Mouton) 1J lbs. mutton. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 shallot. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 4 or 5 parboiled potatoes 1 or 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. A little stock or water. Dripping crust or rough- puff pastry. Choose a piece of mutton without much bone or fat, wipe it and cut it in small pieces. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys and cut them in thin slices. Toss the meat and kidney in the flour and then sprinkle them with the chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shallot. Season with pepper and salt, and mix with the potatoes cut in slices. Put the mixture into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre, and pour in a little stock or water. Cover the pie with pastry according to directions given on p. 337, and bake in a good oven until sufficiently cooked. Note.—The mushrooms and shallot may be omitted and a little chopped onion added. A few slices of fresh tomato will give a nice flavour. Mutton by itself is rather greasy for a pie; the potatoes are put in to absorb some of this grease. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1462. Pigeon Pie (Pat6 de Pigeons) 2 or 3 pigeons. 1 lb. rump steak. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. butter or dripping. Seasoning. £ lb. ham or bacon. 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A little stock. Flaky pastry. Clean and prepare the pigeons, removing the head and neck, and cut them in quarters right through the bones. Chop off the feet and reserve some of them for decorating the pie. Wipe the steak and cut it in small pieces, toss these pieces in flour and then brown them in hot butter or dripping in a frying pan. Lift out when ready, and put this browned meat at the foot of a pie dish that is large enough to hold all the ingredients and season with pepper and salt. Arrange the pieces of pigeon and the ham or bacon cut in small pieces on the top, sprinkling them with the chopped parsley and more pepper and salt. Pile the pieces of pigeon rather high in the centre of the dish and arrange the hard- boiled egg, cut in pieces, round. Pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of stock or water, and cover the pie with flaky or any other good crust, as directed on p. 337. Bake in a good oven. When the pie is ready, fill it up with a little more stock by means of a filler placed in the hole in the top. Stick 3 or 4 of the feet, which have been scalded, and dipped in a little glaze if possible, in the hole in the top, garnish with a little parsley, and serve hot or cold. Note.—Veal may be used in the pie instead of beef. The pigeons chosen must be as tender as possible. They are sometimes fried brown in a little fat before being put into the pie dish.. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.341 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 1465. Veal and Ham Pie (Patd de Veau et de Janbon) 1463. Rabbit Pie 1 rabbit. 4 to 6 oz. ham or bacon. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. dripping or butter. (PSt6 de Lapin) Grated lemon rind. Hard-boiled egg. Salt, pepper. A little stock. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. 1 lb. fillet of veal. 4 to 6 oz. ham. 1 hard-boiled egg. Salt, pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A little grated lemon rind. 1 gill stock. Lemon juice. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Choose a young and tender rabbit. Wash it, and let it lie in salt and water for | hour. If the strong flavour is objected to, it may be blanched as well. Then dry it and cut it in small neat joints (see p. 291). Coat these joints with flour and fry them a few minutes in hot butter or dripping. Put the joints of rabbit, thus prepared, on to a plate, add to them the bacon cut in thin strips, and season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and the grated rind of \ lemon. Mix all together, and then put the mixture into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre. Pour in a little stock, and arrange the hard-boiled egg, cut in 6 or 8 pieces, round the sides. Cover the pie with dripping crust, rough- puff or flaky pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and the meat feels tender, being very particular to keep the hole in the top open all the time. Rabbit pie may be served either hot or cold; if it is to be eaten cold, fill it up when cooked with stock that will jelly when cold. Note.—Salt pork cut in small pieces may be used instead of bacon, and a little onion may be added. A better pie may be made by boning the rabbit and cutting the flesh in small neat pieces, the bones being used for stock. A little force- meat (Recipe 1281) may also be added to the pie, either in the form of balls or in a layer in the middle of the pie. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1464. Sheep’s Head Pie 1 sheep’s head. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Stock. Dripping crust. Clean and cook the head as directed in Recipe 920. Then take the meat from the bones and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Season the meat well with pepper, salt, grated lemon rind, a little nut- meg, and the chopped parsley. Mix all together lightly, and then put the mixture into a pie dish, piling it high in the centre. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in sections, arrange them round the meat, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the liquid in which the head was cooked. Cover the pie with good dripping crust (Recipe 1440), or, if preferred, rough- puff pastry, and bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and well cooked. Fill up the pie with more stock and serve garnished with parsley. Note.—A little bacon cut in small pieces may be mixed with the head if liked. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth and cut it in small neat pieces, free from skin and bone. Re- move the rind and rust from the ham, and cut it also in small pieces. Season the meat with pepper, salt, grated lemon rind, a very little lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Mix well and moisten with a little cold water. Pack the meat loosely into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre, and arrange the egg, cut in small pieces, in a circle on the top. Then cover and bake according to direc- tions given on p. 337. When ready, pour in the stock through the hole in the top, and serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. to 2s. Qd. 1466. Venison Pie (P£t6 de Chevreuil) 2 lbs. venison. 2 table-sps. flour. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. Salt, pepper. Liver farce. 1 glass red wine. Stock. Some good pastry. Any well-hung piece of venison may be taken for this; a piece from the neck, breast, or shoulder will do very well. Wipe it well, trim it free from all skin, and cut it in small pieces. Mix the flour with the spice, pepper, and salt, and toss the pieces of venison in the mixture. Prepare some liver farce as in Recipe 1271, and pack the venison and farce in a pie dish in layers. Pile the meat rather high in the centre of the pie dish, and put a smooth layer of farce over all. Pour in a glass of red wine and as much stock as the dish will hold. Cover well with greased paper or with another dish and bake in a moderate oven for 1 \ hours. Then allow the contents of the dish to become quite cold before covering with some good pastry, as directed on p. 337. Bake again for 1J hours, and fill up the pie with some good stock. This pie is best served cold. Note.—The liver farce may be omitted, but some thin slices of bacon fat, or hard mutton fat, should be mixed with the venison, otherwise it would be too dry. Time to bake, 3 hours in all. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Cost uncertain. MEAT PUDDINGS These are made by lining a greased basin with suet crust and filling it with a meat mixture of some kind. A covering of the crust is then put on the top and the pudding is boiled or steamed. Success in making a meat pudding will depend very much upon its being allowed proper time to cook. If it is required for an early dinner it must be put on to boil or steam quite early in the morn- ing, or it will not be satisfactory. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that the ingredients required are in the house the night before, or the pudding342 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD may be made one day and then thoroughly reheated the following day. The pastry lining the basin should not be too thick, as it is apt to become sodden and indigestible. For this reason, and especially for a large pudding, the bottom of the basin is frequently left unlined and the sides only covered. Almost any kind of meat may be used for filling, or a mixture of meats. Examples of two or three different kinds are given in the following recipes, but almost any of the fillings given for a meat pie may be used for a meat pudding. It is not necessary to make a hole in the top of a meat pudding- as is the case with a pie, as the pastry itself is porous and allows the steam to escape. The only exception to this would be if the pudding were baked, when a small hole should be pierced and kept open in the top, but this is not a usual mode of cooking a meat pudding, and one scarcely to be recommended, as baked suet crust is not so light as that which is boiled or steamed. Small meat puddings may be turned out of their basins and have a little hot gravy poured round them. Large puddings are usually served in the basin with a heated and folded serviette tied or pinned round them. A small jug of hot gravy or boiling water should always be served separately. 1467. Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding 1 lb. beef (cut thin). 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. 3 table-sps. stock or water. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. Suet pastry. Prepare the meat according to directions given for Beef Steak and Kidney Pie (Recipe 1452). Take a 1J pint basin and grease it well with clarified butter or a little dripping. Then make some suet crust as in Recipe 1441, and roll it out to about \ inch in thickness. Line the basin with this, pressing it well in so as to take the form. Be careful, also, to get it smooth and of an equal thickness all over. Trim off round the edges and roll out these scraps into a round to form a cover. Fill up with the prepared meat, and pour in the ketchup and stock. The contents should be piled rather high in the middle as they shrink in cooking. Double down the edge of the pastry which lines the basin over the meat, and wet it with cold water. Place the round piece on the top and press the edges well together. Cover with a scalded and floured pudding cloth. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of fast-boiling water and boil quickly until thoroughly cooked. More boiling water must be added as required, and the pudding must never be allowed to go off the boil. When ready, lift out and let it stand for a minute or two. Then remove the cloth and wipe the basin. Heat a table napkin, fold it neatly and pin it round the basin, and serve the pudding thus, in the basin in which it was cooked. A small jug of boiling water or nice gravy should always be sent to the table with a meat pudding, as it will require filling up when the crust is cut. Note.—The pudding may be steamed instead ef boiled, but longer time for cooking must be allowed. Skirt steak may be used instead of ordinary steak ; it is cheaper and makes a very good and tasty pudding. The pieces of skirt should be dipped in boiling water for a minute or two to enable the skin to be peeled off them. Then cut them in small pieces and season as above. A few parboiled and sliced potatoes are sometimes mixed with the meat. Chopped mushrooms or onions may also be used for flavouring. Time to boil, 2\ to 3 hours. Time to steam, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1468. Kidney and Liver Pudding l lb. ox kidney. | lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. i lb. bacon. 1 table-sp. flour. Salt, pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. A little stock. Suet crust. Wash the kidney and liver well, dry them in a cloth, and cut them in small pieces, carefully re- moving all fat from the kidney. Cut the bacon also in small pieces, cook it a few minutes in a hot frying pan, and then lift it on to a plate. Mix the flour, spices, pepper, and salt together and coat the pieces of kidney and liver with this. Now fry them in the fat left from the bacon, adding a little dripping if there is not sufficient. When nicely browned, mix the meat with the bacon and let all cool. Meanwhile prepare some suet crust (Recipe 1441). Line a greased basin, large enough to hold the meat with this, fill up with the meat, add a little stock or water, and cover with a round of crust. (For fuller directions see previous recipe.) Cover the pudding with greased paper and steam steadily until thoroughly cooked. To serve, either turn the pudding out of the basin and pour a little hot gravy round, or serve in the basin with a folded serviette pinned round. Time to cook, at least 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1469. Mutton Pudding 1J lbs. lean mutton. 3 sheep’s kidneys. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 4 or 5 potatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. Suet crust. Any piece of lean mutton may be used for this, but a piece from the leg is best. Cut it in small pieces, removing the skin and most of the fat. Skin also the kidneys and cut them in pieces, re- moving the core from the centre. Mix the mutton and kidneys together and season them with the chopped onion, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Peel and parboil the potatoes and cut them in thin slices. Now line a greased pudding basin with suet crust, and follow directions given for Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding, filling with the meat and potatoes in layers and moistening with a little good stock. Steam or boil until thoroughly cooked, then turn out and serve with a little more stock or gravy poured round. Or, if preferred, the pudding may be served in the basin. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 1470. Partridge Pudding 2 partridges. Seasoning. £- lb. beef steak. Gravy. | lb. bacon. Suet crust. Draw and clean the partridges, and cut them up in small joints, removing the larger bonesPASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 343 and as much of the skin as possible. Wipe the pieces well and wash the liver and heart, which may be used in the pudding. Cut the beef in small pieces and the bacon in strips. Put the bacon into a etewpan and when it is thoroughly hot put in the partridge and beef. Season with pepper, salt, and a little spice. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook by the side of the fire or in the oven until brown. The saucepan should be shaken occasionally to prevent the contents sticking. When ready, turn all on to a plate and set aside until cold. Then line a basin with suet crust, fill up with the above mixture, pour in a little stock or water, and finish as directed for Beef Steak Pudding (Recipe 1467). Steam or boil until thoroughly cooked. During this time the bones and trimmings of the game should be made into a little gravy to serve with the pudding. Note.—Any other small birds may be used in the same way, and veal may take the place of the beef. Time to cook, at least 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. 1471. Veal and Kidney Pudding 1 lb. lean veal. 1 veal kidney. J lb. sausage meat. 3 oz. bacon. 2 table-sps. flour. Seasonings. 3 table-sps. stock or water. Suet crust. Cut the veal and kidney in small pieces, and roll them in the flour, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Cut the bacon in small thin strips, free from rind and rust, and roll the sausage meat into small balls, using a little flour. Now proceed as for Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding (Recipe 1467), lining a basin with suet crust, and filling it up with the above meat mixture. Pour in the stock or water before putting on the cover. Boil or steam until thoroughly cooked. Note.—Small forcemeat balls may be used instead of those made of sausage meat. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. Cd. RAISED PIES Raised pies can be made in two different ways ; they can either be raised by hand or shaped and baked in a special mould for the purpose. When raised by hand a hot water crust, such as is given in Recipe 1444, is usually taken. While the paste is still warm it can easily be formed into the desired shape, then as it cools it hardens and will retain its form. When the pie is formed in a mould, a plain crust, generally mixed with egg, is taken (Recipe 1445). A mixture of butter and lard is, as a rule, used for this, as butter alone is apt to make too soft a crust. A raised pie mould usually opens at the side (see illustration), to enable the pie to be easily dislodged from it. Small pies can either be raised by hand or shaped in tin rings or rims. Examples of the various ways of making these pies are given below. The meat filling may, of course, be varied ; in fact almost any of the fillings given for an ordinary meat pie may be used for a raised pie. Raised pies are generally served cold, and to look and cut well they should be rather solid in texture. This is why they should be filled up with Raised Pie Mould jelly stock, which, when set, will fill up all the spaces. For the same reason a good farce or sausage meat is frequently used in the packing of a raised pie. 1472. Raised Veal and Ham Pie (P&td de Veau) | lb. fillet of veal. 2 oz. ham. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Salt, pepper. Grated lemon rind and juice. Some jelly stock. Raised pie-crust. First prepare the meat according to directions given in Recipe 1465, and leave it ready on a plate. Make the quantity of raised pie crust as given in Recipe 1444, turn it out as hot as possible on a floured board, and knead it lightly until free from cracks. To Shape the Pie.—Cut off about a quarter of the quantity for the lid and decorations of the pie, wrap it up in paper, and keep it warm over steam. Roll out the other piece into a strip 4 inches wide and rather thin. Keep it very even at the edges, and of an equal thickness all over. Wet along one side and one end with a little cold water or beaten egg. Bring the two ends together so as to form a ring, and make them overlap, pressing them well together. Then gather one of the sides together so as to form a bottom for the pie. Stand it up and make it into a good shape with the hands. Fill up with the meat mixture, pressing it down344 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tightly into it. Make it level at the top, with just a small rim of pastry standing above it all the way round. Then take the piece of pastry that has been kept warm, roll it out rather thinly, and cut out a round large enough to cover the top of the pie. Wet round the edge of this round with cold water, lay it on the top of the pie, and press the two edges well together. Trim them neatly with a pair of scissors, leaving a ridge half an inch high standing straight up round the pie. Snip this round with a pair of scissors, making the cuts \ inch apart, and then double one piece in and one out alternately. Brush the pie all over, top and sides, with beaten egg, and make a small hole in the top with a skewer or the point of a knife. Roll out any trimmings of pastry that are left, and cut out email leaves and strips of pastry and decorate the Eie with them. Brush the decorations also with eaten egg, and place the pie on a greased tin. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is set and brown, and the meat feels tender when tested with a skewer. When the pie is ready, lift it from the oven, and fill it up with stock that will jelly when cold. If the stock used is not stiff enough, dissolve a sheet of gelatine in it. Pour in the stock through a filler placed in the hole at the top of the pie. Raised pies are usually served cold. Notes.—The pie may, if liked, be lined with pork sausage meat before putting in the veal, &c. When making a larger pie, tie a stiff band of white paper round the outside of the paste, and bake until nearly ready with this, then remove the paper and allow the pie to brown. Time to bake, 1 £ to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. 1473. Raised Pork Pie (Patd de Pore) f lb. fresh pork. \ tea-sp. powdered sage. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. Pepper and salt. A little stock. Raised pie crust. Recipe First prepare the meat. Wipe it well with a damp cloth, and weigh it free from skin and bone. Cut it in small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, and finely powdered sage and chopped onion, mixing all well together. Then make the raised pie crust and shape and finish off the pie as directed for Raised Veal and Ham (see above). The meat should be moistened with a little water or stock after it is put into the crust, and some warm jelly stock should be poured in through the hole in the top after the pie is cooked. If the stock is not stiff enough, dissolve a sheet of gelatine in it before using. Serve cold. Time to cook, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1474. Small Mutton Pies | lb. lean mutton. | Gravy. Seasoning. | Raised pie crust. Any scraps or trimmings of mutton may be used for making little pies, but they must not be too fat. Cut them in small pieces, removing all skin, bone, and gristle. Season with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg or mace, and just moisten with water or gravy. For six pies make double the quantity of raised pie crust given in Recipe 1444, and mix it up as hot as possible. Put aside about one-third of the paste to keep warm, and divide the rest into six equal-sized pieces. Form each of these pieces into a smooth ball, and then form them into little cases. This may either be done with the thumbs and fingers or round a tumbler. Fill them with the meat, and then raise up the sides again with the hands. Roll out the paste, which has been kept warm, and cut out rounds to make covers for the pies. Wet round the edges, lay them over the pies with the wetted side down, and press the two edges of paste firmly together. Trim round with a pair of scissors, make a small hole in the top of the pies, and brush them over with a little milk or egg. Bake in a good oven. When the pies are ready to be served they should be filled up with a little hot gravy. Time to bake, about £ hour. Probable cost, 2d. each. 1475. Raised Game 2 partridges or grouse. J lb. veal. £ lb. ham. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 or 3 slices cooked tongue. 1 or 2 chopped shallots. Pie (Patd de Gibier) Salt, pepper. A little grated nutmeg. 2 tea-sps. chopped parsley. 1 gill jelly stock. Raised pie crust. A little glaze. Almost any uncooked game may be used for making a pie, or a mixture of game is very good. Pick and clean the birds, and cut them in neat joints. If large, the carcass bones should be re- moved and used for making stock. Chop up the livers and hearts, fry them for a few minutes in butter, and then mix them with the pieces of game. Now prepare a forcemeat; cut the veal and ham in pieces, and put them once or twice through a mincing machine, add the bread-crumbs to the mince, and season well with pepper, salt, the grated rind of f lemon, and a little nutmeg. Make some raised pie crust as directed in Recipe 1445, and roll Raised Game Pie it out about one-third of an inch in thickness. Grease a raised pie mould and line it with the paste, pressing it carefully into the shape of the mould. Put a layer of the forcemeat all over the pastry, and fill up the centre with the pieces of game and tongue cut in strips, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley and shallot. Cover with another layer of the forcemeat and then put on a lid of pastry. Trim the edges neatly, make a hole in the top, and decorate with some leaves of pastry. Brush over with beaten egg, and tie a band of greased paper round the outside of the mould and standing about 3 inches above345 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES the top of the pie, so as to protect it whilst cooking. Bake in a moderate oven until the game feels tender when it is tested with a skewer. Allow the Eie with a little stock that will jelly when cold, rush over the sides with liquid glaze, and serve cold, garnished with parsley. The feet of the birds may, if liked, be scalded and glazed and stuck in the hole at the top of the pie. Notes.—Ordinary sausage meat may be used instead of the above forcemeat. A few pickled walnuts, chopped mushrooms, or truffles may be added to the pie if wished. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. 1476. Raised Hare Pie (PStd de Lievre) 1 lb. hare. J lb. sausage meat. Forcemeat balls. Some bacon fat. Seasoning. 1 glass port. 1 table-sp. red currant jelly. Jelly stock. Raised pie crust. For a small pie, part of a hare only will be re- quired ; the rest may be made into soup or used in some other way. Remove the bones, cut the flesh in small pieces and then weigh it. Melt a little bacon fat or good dripping in a frying pan, brown the pieces of hare in this, then lift them out, draining oS the fat. Add the red currant jelly and port wine with the sausage meat, and mix them well together. Make some raised pie crust, (Recipe 1445), and line a greased mould with it. Then pack it with the hare and sausage meat in layers, seasoning highly with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and mixing in a few forcemeat balls. Cover with the crust, finishing off as directed in previous recipe. Time to cook, about 3 hours. 1477. Raised Salmon Pie (Pat6 de Saumon) 1 lb. salmon. J lb. whiting farce. A little butter. Button mushrooms. 1 or 2 truffles. Seasoning. Raised pie crust. First prepare the whiting farce as directed in Re- cipe 1284, making it rather moist with the addition of a little cream. Then cut the salmon in pieces about 2 inches square, fry them in butter a few minutes and let them drain and cool. Now line a greased pie mould with raised pie crust (Recipe 1445) rolled out rather thinly. Put a coat- ing of the farce all over the inside, fill up the centre with the salmon, sprinkle the pieces with some chopped button mushrooms and some slices of truffle. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Put another coating of the farce over the top and smooth it with a wetted knife. Cover the pie with more of the pastry, wetting the edges to make the two pieces stick together. Trim neatly, make a hole in the top of the pie, and decorate with some fancy-shaped pieces of pastry. Brush over with beaten egg to glaze the pastry, and bake in a good oven. When suffi- ciently cooked, remove the pie from the oven and let it stand a few minutes. Then take it out of the mould, and fill up with a little thin fish sauce, poured, by means of a funnel, through the hole in the top. Serve on a dish paper garnished with parsley and sliced lemon. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1478. MISCELLANEOUS PIES AND PASTIES Eel Pie, Cold (Pate aux Anguilles) 1J lbs. eels. | pt. good meat stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. \ tea-sp. mixed herbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped shallot. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 1 hard-boiled egg. Pepper and salt. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Clean and skin the eels, cutting off the heads and tails, and cut them in pieces about 2 inches in length. Put all the trimmings into a saucepan with the | pint of stock, let them simmer for i hour, strain and skim. Sprinkle over the pieces of eel the chopped parsley, chopped shallot, finely powdered herbs, pepper and salt, and mix all together. Pack the fish into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre. Add the ketchup, lemon juice, and a little of the stock. Cut the hard- boiled egg in small pieces, and arrange it neatly round the top. Then cover the pie with pastry according to directions given on p. 337, and bake in a good oven. When ready, remove from the oven and pour in the rest of the stock by means of a funnel placed in the hole in the top. Serve cold, when the stock should be a nice jelly. Note.—A little wine may be added to the stock if liked. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1479. Eel Pie, Hot (PSte d’Anguilles) 2 lbs. eels. Seasoning. Veal forcemeat, cipe 1281. Re- | pt. good white sauce. 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Skin and bone the eels, cut them in small pieces, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Make some veal forcemeat and put a layer of it at the foot of a pie dish. Arrange the pieces of eel on the top, and pour over them 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of good white or bechamel sauce. Put another layer of forcemeat on the top, and arrange the egg cut in small pieces round. Cover the pie with pastry according to directions given on p. 337, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. When ready, remove the pie from the oven, and pour in a little more sauce by means of a funnel placed in the hole in the top. Serve hot. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be made in the same way. 1480. Fish and Oyster Pie 1 lb. cooked fish. 1 doz. fresh oysters or half a tin of oysters. 1 gill fish stock or oyster liquor. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 cupful of bread- crumbs. Rough-puff pastry. Any nice white fish can be used for making this pie. Break it into flakes or small pieces, and beCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 346 most careful to remove all bones and any skin. Scald the oysters in their own liquor and strain them, reserving the liquor. Now make a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, and oyster liquor, season it with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and cook it well. Add to it the oysters, which have been broken in three or four pieces with a fork. Take a pie dish that will just hold the fish and sauce, &c. Put into it first some of the fish, then a little sauce, and then some bread-crumbs, and repeat these layers until the dish is full. The contents of the dish should, if possible, be piled rather high in the centre, and the last layer should be bread-crumbs. Allow this to become quite cold, then cover with a thin covering of rough-puff pastry as directed on p. 337, and bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Uncooked fish may be used in the same way, but the pie will require a longer time to cook. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1481. Fish Tart (Flan de Poisson) | lb. cooked fish. I 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley 1 cupful fish sauce. | Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. i Raised pie-crust. First make the pastry as directed in Recipe 1445, and roll it out rather thin. Take a tart ring 6 or 7 inches in diameter, grease it and place it on a greased baking tin. Now line it with the pastry, making it as smooth as possible inside. Prick the pastry well at the foot, trim round the edges with a pair of scissors, leaving about £ inch of pastry above the edge of the tin and all the way round. Next line the tin with kitchen paper and fill it with rice or haricot beans to prevent the pastry rising during the baking. Cook in a good oven. To Make the Mixture.—Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and heat it in some good fish sauce. Chop the hard-boiled eggs, reserving one of the yolks for decoration. Add them to the fish, with the chopped parsley, and season to taste. To Finish.—When the pastry is cooked, remove the paper, &c., and slip off the ring. Return the pastry case to the oven for a few minutes to dry the inside and outer edge. Then fill up with the fish mixture, and decorate with the yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and a little chopped parsley. Time to bake, about | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1482. Russian Fish Pie (PatS de Poisson h la Russe) | lb. white fish. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 hard-boiled egg. White pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. white sauce. A little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. A pinch of cayenne. Rough-puff pastry. The fish for this pie may either be cooked or uncooked according to the kind used. Cod, halibut, or turbot would require to be cooked first, but such fish as haddock, sole, or whiting may be used raw. Break or cut the fish into small neat pieces and put them on a plate. Season with pepper, salt, cayenne, grated lemon rind, and lemon juice. Add the white sauce and hard-boiled egg cut in small pieces, and mix all carefully together. Make the proportion of pastry with £ lb. of flour (see Recipe 1443), and roll it out square and about £ of an inch in thickness. Trim the edges with a sharp knife, reserving the scraps for decorating the pie. Put the fish mixture in the centre of the square, v/et the corners of the pastry with cold water or beaten egg and fold them upwards, making them meet and overlap slightly in the centre like a handkerchief sachet. Press the joins well together and brush the pie over with beaten egg. Decorate the top with some leaves cut out of the scraps of pastry that were trimmed off. Brush over the leaves also with beaten egg and lift the pie very carefully on to a greased baking tin. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and of a brown colour. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Notes.—Cooked salmon may be used for this pie. Sometimes a little cooked rice is mixed with the fish. A few oysters or picked shrimps may be added. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 1483. Maltese Pie \ pt. curd. 4 lb. tomatoes. 3 onions. 1 table-sp. gravy. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Short crust or rough- puff pastry. Heat the butter or dripping in a frying pan and put in the onions peeled and chopped. Cook them a few minutes and add the tomatoes, which have been wiped and cut in small pieces. Cook both together 5 or 10 minutes longer, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Then add the gravy and curd, bring almost to boiling point, and then pour the mixture on to a plate to cool. Rojl out some unsweetened short crust or plain rough-puff pastry rather thinly, and cut out two rounds the size of a dinner plate. Greaseand line a plate with oneof these rounds, prick it at the foot and put in the mixture. Wet the edges of the pastry with cold water, and put the other round of pastry on the top. _ Press the two together and mark round the rim with the back of a knife. Flute round the edges, make a 6mall hole in the top of the pie, and brush it over with a little beaten egg. Then bake in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and well browned. Serve hot. Note.—The curd may either be bought ready, or made according to directions in Recipe 1577. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10d. to Is.PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 347 1484. Cold Meat Pasty | lb. cooked meat. I Dripping crust or rough- 1 gill brown sauce. j pufi pastry. To Prepare the Meat.—Trim the meat and mince it finely, using if possible a mixture of a little ham or tongue along with some fresh meat. Moisten the meat with a little brown or other good and well-flavoured sauce, and see that it is nicely seasoned. The mixture must be cold and not too liquid. To Make the Pasty.—Make some dripping crust, rough-puff, or other plain pastry, roll it out and cut out two rounds the size of a dinner plate and about J inch in thickness. Grease a tin or strong ware dinner plate, line it with one of the pieces of pastry, and prick the pastry at the foot" with a fork. Put in the meat mixture and wet the edge of the pastry with cold water. Cover with the other round of pastry and press the edges well together. Mark round prettily with the back of a knife and flute the edges. Then make a hole in the centre and brush over with beaten egg. The pastry may be* further decorated with a few leaves or twists of pastry. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is well browned and thoroughly cooked. Serve hot and cut across in triangular- shaped pieces. Time to bake, J to § hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1485. Veal and Ham Pasty £ lb. cooked veal. 3 or 4 oz. cooked ham or bacon. | pt. white sauce. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated nutmeg. Seasoning. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Cut the veal and ham in small pieces, or, if they are very scrappy, put them through the mincing machine. Have ready about \ pint of good white sauce of a fairly thick consistency, mix the prepared meat with this and season with grated lemon rind, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices and allow these and the meat mixture to be quite cold before using them. Now make and finish the pasty as directed in previous recipe. Time to bake, § to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s. 1486. Veal and Rice Pie £ lb. cooked veal. 1 cupful cooked rice. 1 cupful white sauce. 3 table-sps. grated cheese Seasoning. Raised pie-crust. A few browned bread- crumbs. Trim the veal and mince it very finely. Mix it in a basin with the rice, which has been well cooked, in stock if possible, without being too moist. Add the grated cheese and seasoning, and moisten with about a cupful of good white sauce. Make a raised pie-crust as directed in Recipe 1445, and roll it out thinly. Grease a plain mould or basin (1J pint size), coat it with fine browned bread-crumbs, and then line it with the crust. Trim round the edges with a pair of scissors, allowing the crust to project about £ inch. Fill up with the veal and rice mix- ture and cover with a round of pastry, wetting the two edges before pressing them together. The mould should be well filled, but flat on the top. ’ Make a small hole with a skewer in the middle, and bake in a good oven. When thoroughly cooked, turn out carefully and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under it. Garnish with parsley, and serve tomato or any brown sauce separately. Time to bake, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1487. Rabbit PSt4 (Pat6 de Lapin) 1 large rabbit, f lb. fleshy veal. | lb. bacon. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Seasoning. Marinade. 2 glasses white wine. 2 table-sps. wine vinegar. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 carrot. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. Pastry. 1£ lbs. flour. J lb. butter. | lb. lard. 1 egg- 1 dessert-sp. salt. Cold water. Jelly Stock. 1 calf’s foot. 1 lb. shin of beef. Bones from rabbit. Flavouring vegetables. This pate is somewhat troublesome to make, but it is excellent for eating cold, and well repays the trouble. It must be commenced at least two days before it is required. To Prepare the Meat for Filling the Pate.—First remove all the flesh from the bones of the rabbit, and cut it in small pieces. Put this meat into a pie dish or deep dish with the bacon and veal cut in small pieces, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Pour over the wine, oil, and vinegar, add the bunch of herbs and the carrot and onion cut in thin slices, cover and stand overnight. To Make the Jelly Stock.—Wash and break up the bones of the rabbit, put them into a saucepan with the shin of beef cut in small pieces and a blanched calf’s foot or | an ox foot. Cover well with cold water, add a tea-spoonful of salt and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim, add small pieces of vegetable to flavour, and allow the stock to simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours. Skim when necessary, in order to keep the liquid very clear, and strain through muslin when sufficiently cooked. This should be a jelly when cold. To Make the Patty.—Make the pastry according to directions given for Raised Pie Crust (Recipe 1445), and roll it out to J of an inch in thickness. Then take a long-shaped tin, 3 to 4 inches in depth, grease it and line it with the pastry, reserving enough to cover the top. Remove the meat from the marinade and put it into the lined tin, place the eggs in a line down the middle. One or two truffles may also be added if wished, or a little chopped gherkin. Cover the meat with another piece of pastry, sealing the two edges of pastry well together. Brush over with beaten egg, make two or three small holes in the top, and decorate with some fancy-shaped pieces of pastry. To Cook and Finish.—Bake the pate in a moderate oven for 2 hours, then allow it to remain in a cool oven for 1 hour longer, or until the meat feels quite tender when tested with a skewer. Allow it to cool, then fill up with jellyCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 348 Btock slightly melted, poured in by means of a filler placed in one of the holes on the top. Set aside until next day, then turn out of the tin, and serve cold, cut in slices and garnished with parsley or cress. 1488. Cold Meat Roly-poly \ lb. cooked meat. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. § tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 1 or 2 table-sps. sauce or gravy. Suet crust. Use well-flavoured meat end mix with it, if possible, a little cooked ham or tongue to give it a good flavour. Mince the meat finely, add to it the finely chopped onion, parsley, and powdered herbs. Mix well, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with the ketchup and a little tasty sauce or gravy. Do not make the mixture too liquid. Now make a roly-poly according to directions given in Recipe 1790, using the above meat mixture instead of jam, and either boil or bake. Serve brown sauce or gravy separately. Time to boil, 3 hours. Time to bake, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. 1489. Roman Pie 6 oz. cooked meat. 3 oz. cooked macaroni. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 gill white sauce or cream. 1 parboiled onion. 1 tea-sp. made mustard. Salt, pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. crushed ver- micelli. 1 gill brown or tomato sauce. Some plain pastry. To Prepare the Mixture.—White meat, such as rabbit, chicken, or veal is the best to use for this kind of pie, and a small proportion of ham or tongue may be mixed with it. Remove from it all skin, bone, and gristle, and chop it finely or put it through the mincing machine. Put the minced meat into a basin and add to it the macaroni cut in small pieces, the onion finely chopped, and the grated cheese. Season rather highly with pepper, salt, and mustard, and moisten with the white sauce or cream. To Make the Pie.—Take a plain mould or basin (to hold 1 pint or a little over) and grease it care- fully with butter of dripping. Put in the crushed vermicelli and coat the sides of the basin with it. Then fine the basin with some plain pastry rolled out thinly. Fill up with the meat mixture and cover with a round of pastry, wetting the two edges and pressing them together. Make a small hole in the top of the pie, and place it on a baking sheet. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is browned and well cooked. When ready, remove the pie from the oven, allow it to stand a few minutes, and turn out carefully on a hot dish. Heat some brown or tomato sauce and pour it round. Note.—-Bread-crumbs may be used instead of vermicelli, and the onion may be omitted. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1490. Sea Pie 1 lb. stewing beef. | 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 1 large carrot. Salt, pepper. 2 onions. Warm water. | Suet crust. Wipe and trim the meat, removing any skin and sinew, and cut it into small neat pieces. Prepare the carrot and onions and cut them both in very thin slices. (The onion may first be scalded if liked.) Take rather a shallow stewpan and lay into it first a layer of the vegetables, then the meat and the remainder of the vegetables on the top. Season well with pepper and salt, cover with warm water or meat boilings, and add the ketchup. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for \ hour. Meanwhile prepare the suet pastry, using the quantities given in Recipe 1441, and roll it out in a round the size of the saucepan lid. Lay this on the top of the meat and continue the stewing until the meat is quite tender, and the vegetables and pastry well cooked. Care must be taken that the ingredients underneath the pastry do not become too dry. The crust should be loosened from the sides of the saucepan occasion- ally, and more liquid added if necessary. When sufficiently cooked, cut the pastry across into about eight pieces. Lift out the meat and vegetables and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Place the pastry in a round on the top and garnish with a few of the pieces of carrot. Time to cook, 2 to 2\ hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 1491. Cheese Tart 1 oz. butter. 1J oz. flour. 1 gill milk. £ lb. grated cheese. (Fleur de Fromage) Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Some plain pastry. First prepare the tart or case of pastry. Take a plain or fluted ring about 7 inches in diameter and about 1 inch in depth. Grease it and lay it on a baking tin with a piece of greased paper below it. Now roll out some rather plain pastry to about \ inch in thickness, and line the tin within the ring with this. Press it well into the sides of the ring so as to form a neat case. Trim round the edges with a pair of scissors, allowing the pastry to stand a little way above the tin. Mark or flute round the edges and prick the pastry at the foot to prevent it rising in the baking. Now line the case with a piece of greased paper and fill it up with haricot beans or rice. Bake in a good moderate oven until the pastry is crisp and of a light, brown colour. Meanwhile prepare the mixture. Make a panada or thick sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, and cook it thoroughly. Add the grated cheese, cream, and egg well beaten, season to taste and mix thoroughly. Remove the paper and beans from the case, and lift off the ring ; fill up with the cheese mixture and bake again until the mixture is nicely browned and feels firm to the touch. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1492. Timbale a la Milanaise Raised pie crust. Re- | Macaroni & la Milan- cipe 1445. I aise. Recipe 1618. To Make the Timbale.—Grease a plain souffle tin from 1 to 1J pint in size. Roll out the raisedPASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 349 pie crust rather thickly and in a round shape. Flour the surface well and double it in two. Then draw the edges together so as to form a sort of pocket shape that will fit in easily to the form of the mould. Roll slightly to smooth out any creases, but be careful that the two sides do not stick together. Slip this into the mould and press it well against the sides so as to take the form. Trim round, leaving about | inch of pastry pro- jecting above the edges. Mark round these edges with the back of a knife or a pair of pincers ; line the mould with soft paper, fill it with rice and bake in a good oven. When the pastry is set and firm, empty out the rice and paper and return to the oven to brown and cook the inside. Turn out when ready and fill with macaroni & la Milanaise. Serve hot. Note.—Other mixtures may be used for filling the timbale, such as macaroni and cheese, risotto, a fricassee of fish or chicken, &c. 1493. Vegetable Pie, 1 1 cupful each of— carrot, turnip, celery, onion, cooked haricot beans and tomatoes. 2 oz. butter or fat. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. fine tapioca. 1 pt. vegetable stock or water. Pastry. Melt the butter or fat in a stewpan, and when hot, put in the carrot, turnip, onion, and celery all cut in slices and well dried. Fry them until lightly browned, then add the beans and tomato cut in small pieces. Season with pepper and salt and cover with vegetable stock or water. When boiling, sprinkle in the tapioca, stir for a few minutes, then put on the lid and stew slowly for 1 hour or until the vegetables are tender. Empty the contents of the saucepaD into a pie dish just large enough to hold them, and when quite cold cover with suitable pastry as directed for a Meat Pie (on p. 337). Bake until the pastry is thoroughly cooked, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—The vegetables may be varied according to what is in season and available. The greater variety the better. 1494. Vegetable Pie, 2 2 cupfuls cooked mac- aroni. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked celery. 1 cooked cauliflower. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 tea-cupful brown sauce or gravy. Potato pastry. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and fry it a golden brown. Then pour in the sauce or gravy, simmer a few minutes, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Have the macaroni cut in small pieces and mix it with the grated cheese. Cut the celery and cauliflower also in small pieces, and peel and slice the tomatoes. Now take a greased pie dish and arrange in it the different ingredients in layers, pouring the sauce with the onions over all. Allow the contents of the dish to become cold, and then cover with potato pastry or any other plain pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. 1495. Vol-au-vent A vol-au-Vont is one of the most recherche dishes of French cuisine, and one which the English cook is somewhat afraid of attempting. However, if once the making of puff pastry has been thoroughly mastered, the making of the pastry case itself should not present much difficulty. In fact, this can very often be bought ready made from the pastrycook’s, although, of course, this will make it more expensive. The filling is the most importaht part of the vol-au-vent. The foundation of this is a rich sauce of some kind, either white or brown, with a variety of differentgarnishes,such as small quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, cockscombs, small pieces of sweetbread, chicken, brains, &c., or if it is a fish vol-au-vent, quenelles of fish, small fillets of fish, pieces of lobster, oyster, mussels, &c. The garnish must always be prepared and cooked beforehand and then made thoroughly hot in the sauce before being put into the pastry case. The filling may be made more or less elaborate according to fancy, but the small quenelles are a very favourite in- gredient in allFrench vol-au-vent ; cookedmacaroni, too, cut in small pieces, is often mixed with the other ingredients. A vol-au-vent can also be made sweet by filling it with a good compote or puree of fruit and whipped cream. This is delicious. To Make a Vol-au-vent Case.—The very lightest form of puff pastry must be used for this, and it should only have had six turns (Recipe 1447). Roll out the pastry very evenly to about £ inch in thickness, and let it rest for a few minutes before cutting, to allow for shrinking. Then take an oval or round cutter the size required, and lay it on the top of the pastry, keeping it quite £ inch from the edge in order to have a perfectly even piece of paste. Then cut round with a sharp-pointed knife, holding the knife slanting outwards from the cutter so as to make the lower edge of the pastry slightly wider in circumference than the upper. Now remove the cutter, and place the cut piece of pastry on a wetted baking tin with the under side uppermost. During the baking the upper part of the vol-au-vent will shrink in width and become the same size as that which rests on the tin. Now brush over the top of the vol-au- vent with beaten egg, and with a knife or cutter mark a smaller round on the top, which can be removed afterwards to form the lid. Score the top across lightly with the knife, and pierce the pastry through to the tin two or three times. Then bake in a good oven about 40 minutes. When a nice colour and well risen, remove the vol-au-vent from the oven, lift off the little lid of pastry, or the inner circle, and with a fork scoop out all the soft paste from the centre, being careful not to break the edges. The case should not be filled until just before serving. Note.—For a very high vol-au-vent it is usual to cut two pieces of pastry the same size, stamping out the middle of one of them completely. When both are baked, lay one on the top of the other while hot, using a Uttle beaten egg to make them stick.350 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Puff pastry. Cooked sweetbread. Cooked call’s tongue. Cooked calf’s or sheep’s brains. 1496. Vol-au-vent a la Supreme Smallpoached quenelles. Some button mush* rooms. Good brown or white sauce. Cut the sweetbread and tongue in slices and the brains into pieces. Take about an equal quantity of each, also of small quenelles (Recipe 1298), add some button mushrooms cut in halves, season to taste, moisten with some very good sauce, and Vol-au-vent make all thoroughly hot in a small saucepan. Make a vol-au-vent case according to directions given above, and fill it with this garnish. Note.—Stoned olives, artichoke bottoms cooked and cut in small pieces, prawns, and crayfish may be added to the mixture. 1497. Vol-au-vent of Fish (Vol-au-vent de Poisson) Sauce. 1£ oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill liquor from mussels. \ gill liquor from mush- rooms. 1 gill white wine. 1 gill cream. Fish stock. Seasoning. Puff pastry (£- lb.). Mixture. 1 doz. small fish quenelles. 4 to 6 oz. cooked fish. 2 to 3 oz. cooked lobster. 1£ doz. cooked mussels. 6 button mushrooms. 2 or 3 truffles. Make a vol-au-vent case with puff pastry made of | lb. butter and f lb. flour according to directions given above. Fill it with the mixture given below, and serve either hot or cold. If the vol- au-vent is served cold, it may be garnished with a little chopped aspic jelly. Mixture for Filling.—Make some very small fish quenelles (Recipe 1300), shaping them in small tea- spoons or egg-spoons. Cook them and drain them on a cloth. Break the lobster in small pieces, also some nicely cooked fish, such as sole, turbot, brill, or salmon. Cook the mussels, removing the shells and the beards, and cut the mush- rooms and truffles in small pieces. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan with enough of the following sauce to cover them, and make thoroughly hot in a bain-marie. Sauce.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix together for two or three minutes. Add the mussel and mushroom liquor, the cream, and about 1 gill of fish stock. Stir over the fire until boiling, add the wine, seasoning to taste, and. if necessary, some more stock, but the sauce should be kept fairly thick. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. PATTIES AND SMALL SAVOURY PASTRIES 1498. Cold Meat Puffs 6 to 8 oz. cooked meat. 2 or 3 table-sps. good sauce. Seasoning. Rough-puff pastry or dripping crust. To Prepare the Meat.—Remove all skin and gristle from the meat and cut it in small pieces, or, if it is very scrappy, mince it. One or two different kinds of meat can be used together, such as veal and ham, beef and tongue, mutton and kidney, &e., and the puffs w'ill be all the more tasty. When the meat is prepared, moisten and bind it together with some good tasty sauce, such as brown, tomato, parsley, egg, curry, &c., and add more seasoning if necessary. To Make the Puffs.—Roll out some pastry rather thinly, and stamp it out into rounds -with a plain or fluted cutter 4 or 5 inches in diameter. Wet the edges of these rounds with cold water or beaten egg, and put some of the mixture in the centre of each. Double over, and press the edges well to- gether. Mark round the edges with the back of a fork or the end of a tea-spoon, and place the puff on a greased baking tin. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, or until the pastry is set and of a brown colour. When ready, remove them carefully from the tin, and serve hot, garnished with parsley or bunches of watercress. Any suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—Potato pastry may also be used fer these puffs. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 7 puffs. 1499. Cornish Pasties | lb. cooked meat. 2 or 3 cooked potatoes. 1 cooked onion. Pepper, salt. 2 table-sps. stock or gravy. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. Dripping crust. Any cooked meat may be used for these. Cut it in small pieces, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Chop the potato and onion, but not too small, and mix it with the meat. Season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and moisten with stock or gravy. Make some dripping crust (see Recipe 1440), and roll it out rather thinly. Stamp it out in rounds the size of a saucer, wet round the edges with cold water, and put a good spoonful of the meat mixture in the centre of each. Then raise up the edges of the pastry, press them together and flute them with the fingers. Place the pasties on a greased tin, brush them over with a little milk, and bake in a good oven until well cooked and nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 7 pasties. 1500. Chicken and Ham Rolls Same mixture as for Rough-puff or flaky chicken and ham pastry, croquettes. Make the mixture according to Recipe 1052, and turn it on to a plate to cool. Then form it into351 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES small cork-shaped pieces, using a little flour to assist with the shaping. Roll out some pastry into a long strip 5 inches wide, and then cut it across into small oblong-shaped pieces 3 inches wide. Wet along both sides and one end of these pieces with cold water or beaten egg, and lay a portion of the chicken mixture in the centre of each. Double over first the dry end of the pastry, then the wetted one, making one well overlap the other. Mark two or three times across the top with the back of a knife, then press down the ends and mark them also. Place the rolls as they are ready on a greased baking tin, and brush them over with beaten egg. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is cooked and nicely browned. Serve hot, and garnish with parsley. Note.—If liked, the rolls may be sprinkled with some crushed vermicelli before being put in the oven. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. 1501. Chicken Roulettes Same mixture as for chicken and ham croquettes. A little cream. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Beaten egg. Roulette tins are tube-shaped, from 4 to 5 inches long and I inch in diameter. Grease the outside of five or six of these and cover them with pastry. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and then cut it into oblong-shaped pieces the length of the tins and wade enough to fold round them and overlap \ inch. Lay the tins on these pieces, brush one edge of the pastry with beaten egg, and fold it round the tin, pressing the edges well together. Place the roulettes on a greased baking tin with the joins downwards, brush over wdth beaten egg, and bake in a good oven from 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are nicely browned. When ready, remove them from the oven and slip the tins out of the pastry. Make the mixture according to Recipe 1052, thinning it down wdth a little cream. Make it quite hot and put it into a forcing bag, wdth a pipe about J inch in diameter at the end of it. Force the mixture into the rolls, and reheat in the oven for two or three minutes. Serve with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. 1502. Game Puffs Some cooked game. Puff pastry. Rich brown gravy. White of egg. Red currant jelly. Take the remains of any nicely cooked game and cut them into fine shreds or shavings. Moisten with a little rich gravy or any good sauce that has been served with the game, and mix in a little red-currant jelly. Roll out some puff pastry rather thinly and cut in rounds 4 or 5 inches in diameter. Put some of the prepared game in the centre of each, and finish off in the same way as Meat Puffs (Recipe 1498). Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. 1503. Potato Pasties 1 cupful cooked meat. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. sauce or Potato pastry, gravy. Trim the meat and either chop it or cut it in small pieces. Then make some potato pastry as directed in Recipe 1448, and roll it out rather thinly. Cut out 10' or 12 rounds, and with these line 5 or 6 patty tins. Fill up the tins with the meat, add a little sauce or gravy to moisten, and season to taste. Moisten round the edges of the pastry, lining the tins, and lay the remaining rounds of pastry on the top. Press them well together, and mark round the edges. Then make a small hole in the top, and brush over with a little milk or beaten egg. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned, then remove the pasties carefully from the tins, and serve them very hot, garnished with a little parsley. Note.—Remains of cooked fish wdth a little fish sauce may be used instead of the meat mixture. 1504. Sausage Rolls i lb. sausage meat. Rough-puff pastry. A little flour. Beaten egg. Seasoning. If sausages are used, the skin must first be re- moved from them. Put the sausage meat on to a plate and, if necessary, add a little more seasoning, working it in with a knife. Then divide it into six or eight pieces, and with a little flour roll each portion into a cork-shaped piece. Roll out the quantity of pastry given in Recipe 1443 into a long strip about 5 inches wide and £ of an inch in thickness. Keep the pastry even at tbe edges. Cut it across into oblong-shaped pieces. Wet along both sides and one end of these pieces with cold water or beaten egg, and lay a roll of sausage meat in the centre of each. Double over first the dry end of the pastry, then the wetted one, making one end well overlap the other. Mark two or three times across the top with the back of a knife, then press down the ends and mark them also. Place the rolls as they are ready on a greased baking tin, and brush them over with beaten egg. Bake in a good oven until they are nicely browned and well cooked. Serve hot or cold, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—If liked, the sausage meat may be wrapped in a very thin slice of bacon before putting it inside the pastry. If these are used for break- fast, they should be baked the day before, and reheated or served cold in the morning. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 rolls. Probable cost, lOd. 1505. Cheese Tartlets (Croustades de Fromage) 2 table-sps. good white sauce. 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 1 or 2 eggs. Seasoning. Short crust. Take a small quantity of unsweetened short crust and roll it out very thinly. Cut it in rounds and line six or seven small greased patty tins. Prick them at the foot, and then three parts fill them with the following mixture: put the white sauce352 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD into a small saucepan and make it quite hot. Mix in the grated cheese and yolks of egg, and season rather highly with cayenne pepper and salt if necessary. Beat up the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in lightly at the last. Bake the tartlets in a good moderate oven until brown and crisp. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. PATTIES Patties can be made in different ways. Small patty tins may be lined with pastry, filled with a nice savoury mixture, and then a covering of pastry put on the top, as in Recipe 1506. Or, the pastry case may be made first and the filling put in afterwards. The following are directions for making these patty cases : To Make Patty Cases First Method.—Take | lb. of puff pastry that has had seven rolls, and roll it out to £ inch in thickness. Let it rest for fully 5 minutes before cutting, to allow for shrinking, or the patties will be oval instead of round in shape. Then take a cutter 21 inches or rather more in diameter, and stamp out as many rounds as possible from the pastry. Do not cut too near to the edge of the pastry, as it is usually of rather uneven thickness there. Dip the cutters in hot water before cutting out the pastry, and cut quickly and evenly, being careful not to press the edges together unnecessarily. Mark the middle of these rounds to about half their depth with a cutter 1 \ inches in diameter, a border being thus left outside the centre cut of about 1 inch in width. The pastry should be icy cold when cut, or it will not rise well. Lay the rounds on a baking tin, keeping them as much to the middle of this as possible, a precaution which also promotes their rising evenly. Brush over the tops with beaten egg, being careful not to touch the edges, as the egg would harden the pastry and prevent it rising. Bake in a hot oven for 20 minutes, or until the pastry is well risen and nicely browned. If on taking the patties out of the oven one side is found to be higher than the other, press the tops gently into place at once before they have time to stiffen, using if necessary a little beaten egg on a brush to make them stick. When the patties are ready, lift off the inner circle of pastry and remove the uncooked paste from the interior to make room for the filling. If lids are wanted for the cases, roll out the remainder of the pastry to about J inch in thickness and stamp out rounds for covers with the smaller of the two cutters used for the patties. Bake these on a separate tin, as they will take a shorter time to cook. About 10 minutes should be sufficient. Second Method.—Use either rough-puff or flaky pastry, rolling it out to rather more than £ inch in thickness. Let it rest for a few minutes to allow for shrinking, and cut into rounds with a plain or fluted cutter 2} inches in diameter. From half of these rounds cut a hole in the centre 11- inches in diameter. Moisten the edges of the whole rounds with egg or water, and lay the rings on the top. Place the patties on a baking tin, and prick the centres with a fork and put in a small round piece of stale bread to prevent them rising. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven for 20 minutes. On another tin put the small rounds cut from the centre of the rings, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake about 10 minutes. These will serve as covers. When the patties are ready, fill up the hollows in the centre with any mixture, and put on the lids. Pastry cases, made in the above way, may also be used for sweet tartlets, but the pastry should then be rolled rather thinner, and a fluted cutter should be used. Small patties are also known by the name of Bouchees —they can be served either as an entree, or, if very small, as a savoury. Filling lor Patties A great variety of mixtures may be made for filling patties. A good sauce, with or without cream, generally forms the foundation of these mixtures, a garnish being added according to the kind of patty desired. Small tasty pieces of meat, game, fish, and even vegetables can all be utilised for the purpose, while the addition of a few mushrooms, oysters, truffles, &c., will make the mixture all the more tasty. The following recipes will give a good idea of what can be done in this way. When the pastry cases are made beforehand the mixture must always be thoroughly cooked and made very hot before it is put into them. Then after filling, the patties should be returned to the oven for a few minutes, so that there may be no chance of their being served lukewarm. 1506. Beef Patties ! lb. tender steak. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Salt, pepper. A little flour. Mushroom ketchup. Rough-puff pastry. Wipe the meat, trim it carefully, and cut it in tiny dice. Toss these in a little flour and season with pepper, salt, parsley, and a sprinkling of mushroom ketchup. Grease about half a dozen patty tins and roll out the rough-puff pastry (see Recipe 1443) to about \ of an inch in thickness. Cut out two rounds of pastry for each tin, making them a size larger than the top of the tins. Keep the best rounds of pastry for covering, and line the tins with the others. Fill them up with the meat, piling it rather high in the centre. Wet round the edge of the pastry lining the tins, lay on the covers, and press the two edges well together. Ornament the edges of the patties to taste, make a small holePASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 353 in the top with a skewer, and brush them over with beaten egg. Place them on a baking tin and bake in a good oven, until the pastry is well cooked and browned, and the meat feels tender when tested with a skewer. Note.—A little finely chopped onion or a few chopped mushrooms may be added if liked. Other kinds of meat with suitable flavourings may be used in the same way. Time to bake, J to f hour. Probable cost, Is. 1507. Chicken and Ham Patties (BouehGes de Voiaille) Lemon rind. A pinch of ground mace. White pepper, salt. Pastry cases. | lb. cooked chicken. 2 oz. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 tea-sp. parsley. To Make the Mixture.—Weigh the chicken and ham free from skin and bone, and cut them in small pieces or chop them finely. Put them into a small saucepan with the white sauce, and heat over the fire. Add the chopped parsley and season to taste with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind and a pinch of ground mace or nutmeg. Thin Chicken and Ham Patties down to a proper consistency with the cream, and make thoroughly hot before using. To Make the Patties.—Make the pastry cases according to directions given on p. 352, first or second method, and when baked, fill them with the mixture. Put on the lids of pastry, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Note.—Tongue may be used instead of ham. Some chopped mushroom or truffle may be added to the mixture. such as chopped onion, mushrooms, pickles, tomato, lemon rind, or spices. To Make the Patties.—Make some dripping crust according to directions given in Recipe 1440, and grease six or eight patty tins. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and cut out double the number of rounds there are of tins. Line the tins neatly with the pastry, pricking it well at the foot, and fill up with the meat mixture. Then wet round the edge of the pastry lining the tins and press the other rounds on the top. Trim and mark round the edges neatly, and make a little hole in the top with a skewer. Brush over with milk or beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—A better pastry may be used for these if wished. Time to bake, 4 hour. Sufficient for 6 to 8 patties. 1509. Fish Patties 1 cupful cooked fish. I Seasoning, 2 or 3 table-sps. sauce. | Pastry. Almost any kind of fish may be used for these or a mixture of two kinds together. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and break it up in small flakes. Moisten it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls good fistr sauce, such as parsley, anchovy, or egg sauce, and add more seasoning if necessary. Then make some patties with this mixture and any nice pastry, and according to directions given above. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is brown and thoroughly cooked. Note.—The addition of a few oysters, shrimps, or mussels would be an improvement to these patties. 1510. Ham Patties Pastry cases. 2 table-sps. cooked rice or macaroni. Mixture Chopped parsley. 0 oz. cooked ham. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. brown sauce 1 hard-boiled egg. Choose the ham with a fair amount of fat, and chop it finely. Chop also the hard-boiled egg. Heat the brown sauce and add to it the ham, egg, about a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little cooked rice or cooked macaroni cut in small pieces. Season with pepper, mustard, and salt if necessary. Make all thoroughly hot, and use this mixture for filling pastry cases. Note.—Instead of the rice or macaroni, some cooked celery or cooked mushrooms may be mixed with the ham. 1508. Cold Meat Patties 4 lb. cooked meat. 2 oz. ham or tongue. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. ketchup or Worcester sauce. A little stock. Dripping crust. To Prepare the Meat.—Trim the meat free from all akin, gristle, and superfluous fat, and cut it into tiny dice. Prepare the ham or tongue in the same way and mix it with the meat. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the chopped parsley, and moisten with the ketchup or Worcester sauce and a little stock or gravy. Other flavouring may be added according to taste and the kind of meat used, 1511. Lobster Patties (BouchSes de Homard) Make in the same way as Oyster Patties, using 1 tea-cupful of chopped lobster meat instead of the oysters, and fish stock or milk instead of the oyster liquor. A little anchovy essence and a few chopped mushrooms may be added. 1512. Mushroom Patties (Bouchees de Champignons) 4 lb. mushrooms. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Small patty cases, 2 table-sps. brown sauce Prepare the mushrooms, wash them, and cut them in dice. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, zCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 354 put in the mushrooms with a good squeeze of lemon juice and a little pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly about 10 minutes. Then add the brown sauce, which should be of a thick consistency and well flavoured, and cook about 10 minutes longer, or until the mushrooms are tender. Use this mixture for filling small pastry cases, and serve as a vegetable entree or savoury. Sufficient for 7 or 8 patties. 1513. Oyster Patties (BouchSes aux Huitres) 1| doz. fresh oysters. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. & gill oyster liquor. Cayenne pepper. of lemon Salt. A squeeze juice. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. Puff pastry. Make and bake some patty cases with puff pastry as directed on p. 352. About 6 or 7 will be required for the above mixture. To Make the Mixture.—First scald the oysters in their own liquor, then drain them, reserving the liquor, and cut them in three or four pieces with a silver knife. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour and allow it to cook for a minute or two. Pour in the milk and oyster liquor care- fully strained, and stir until boiling. (If there is not sufficient oyster liquor, the quantity must be made up with fish stock or milk.) Allow this sauce to cook for a few minutes, then add the cream and oysters, and seasoning to taste. Make all thoroughly hot and stir in the remainder of the butter, broken in small pieces, at the last. The mixture ought to be of a nice creamy consistency. To Finish.—Warm the patty cases and fill them with the mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Put on the little lids of pastry, and garnish each with a sprig of parsley. Or the lids may be left oS and the mixture sprinkled with a little lobster coral. Serve them on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Notes.—One or two yolks of eggs may be added to the mixture instead of the cream. If tinned oysters are used a larger number should be allowed, because they are, as a rule, smaller. Sufficient for 6 or 7 patties. 1514. Sardine Patties (BouehSes de Sardines) 4 or 5 small sardines. 2 table-sps. good white sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Grated lemon rind. of lemon A squeeze juice. A pinch of cayenne. I tea-sp. shrimp anchovy essence. Small patty cases. Make 7 or 8 very small patty cases as directed on p. 352, and keep them hot. To Prepare the Mixture.—Skin and bone the sardines and cut them in little strips or dice. Heat about 2 table-spoonfuls of very good white sauce in a saucepan, add to it a little grated lemon rind and juice, cayenne, chopped parsley and the shrimp or anchovy essence. Make all thoroughly hot and then heat the pieces of sardine in the mixture. If too thick, a little cream may be added. 1515. Shrimp Patties (Bouehees de Crevettes) Make in the same way as Oyster Patties, using small pieces of shrimps instead of the oysters, and fish stock or milk instead of the oyster liquor. 1516. Sweetbread Patties (Bouch6es de Ris de Veau) 3 oz. cooked sweetbread 1 oz. cooked ham or tongue. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Lemon rind and juice. A pinch of nutmeg. 2 table-sps. cream. Pepper, salt. Rough-puff or puS pastry. To Make the Mixture.—Cut the sweetbread in small pieces or break it up with a fork, and chop the ham or tongue finely. Heat about 2 table- spoonfuls of any good white sauce in a small sauce- pan, and add the prepared meat to it. Season to taste with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice, and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well, pour in the cream and make the mixture thoroughly hot before using. • To Make the Patties.—Finish in the same way as Chicken and Ham Patties. Note.—The addition of a few mushrooms or one or two truffles would be an improvement to the mixture. 1517. Veal and Ham Patties Make in the same way as Chicken and Ham Patties, substituting cold cooked veal for the chicken, or as Beef Patties, using uncooked veal and ham instead of the beef. 1518. Vegetable Patties Prepare a vegetable mixture in the same way as for Vegetable Croquettes (Recipe 600), only make it rather moister with a nice creamy sauce. Heat this mixture gently in a small saucepan over the fire. Prepare also some small patty cases, and have them nicely baked and warm. Fill them with the vegetable mixture, piling it rather high in the centre, put on the little lids of pastry, and garnish with small sprigs of parsley. PART III SWEET DISHES WITH PASTRY FRUIT PIES AND TARTS To Prepare the Fruit Almost any kind of fruit may be used for a fruit tart, or a mixture of fruit if preferred. All fruit must be carefully prepared. Apples—peeled, cored, and cut in thin slices. Rhubarb—washed, peeled (unless very young), and cut in small pieces. Plums—washed and stoned if possible. Gooseberries—topped and tailed and well washed. Currants and other Berries—freed from stalks and washed. A combination of fruits is often preferable to one kind alone, especially if the kind used is either lacking in flavour or too acid. The following combinations are recommended : cranberries and apples, damsons and bananas or apples, black- berries and apples, raspberries and red currants, gooseberries and black currants, black currants and rhubarb, cherries and rhubarb, &c. Then in summer, when fruit is in full season, a mixture of several kinds together makes a delicious tart.355 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES A little water or fruit juice is usually added unless the fruit is of a very juicy nature. Bottled and Tinned Fruits will be found very useful for making tarts when fresh fruit is un- obtainable, or too expensive. If preserved in a syrup extra sugar may not then be necessary, and too much of the liquid must not be used. The question of additional flavouring is very much a matter of taste. A little grated orange or lemon rind may be mixed with advantage with many fruits, whilst a little ground spice or a few cloves is a favourite addition to a tart made of apples. A warning should, however, be given to some cooks against an overdose of cloves—3 or 4 in a medium-sized tart is quite sufficient. The fruit must be packed into a pie dish in layers with sugar, the amount of the latter being regulated according to the acidity of the fruit and individual taste. The last layer should be fruit, as sugar directly below the crust is apt to discolour it. Pile the fruit high in the centre and away from the sides of the dish. Sometimes an egg-cup or small funnel is put in the centre of the pie dish to retain the juice. To Cover the Tart Short crust is perhaps the most suitable kind of pastry to use for a fruit tart, but one of the more flaky kinds may be taken if preferred. The quantity of short crust given in Recipe 1439 will be sufficient to cover a tart for 4 or 5 persons. Roll out the pastry rather thinly and wet round the edges of the pie dish with cold water. Cut a strip of pastry an inch wide, and lay it round the dish. Press it well on, and where there is a join, wet one of the edges with cold water and press the two together. Then wet round again with cold water, and lay on a piece of pastry large enough to cover the top. Ease this on slightly, and press the two edges well together. With a sharp knife cut off the larger pieces of pastry hanging round the dish, then hold up the dish in the left hand, and with the right trim neatly round the edges. When cutting, take sharp quick strokes, cutting always from you, and slanting the knife out- wards from the dish to avoid cutting the pastry too close. Then with the back of the knife mark round the edges of the pastry. Make the marks quite close together, and as neat as possible. Next flute round the edges by drawing the knife quickly upwards and towards vou, and being careful to make the flutes an equal distance apart. It is not usual to put any further decoration on a fruit tart. Brush the pie over with beaten white of egg or a little cold water, and dredge well with sugar. This is to glaze it, and should be done just before the pie is put in the oven. Then with a skewer make four small holes at the sides of the pie, to allow the steam to escape while cooking. To Bake and Serve the Tart For a tart covered with short crust a moder- ate oven is best; but if the pastry is of a flaky nature the oven should be hot to begin with until the pastry is well risen, and then cooled down to a moder te temperature to allow' the fruit to cook more slowly. The fruit may be tested by running a skewer into one of the holes in the tart and feeling if it is soft. If the tart shows signs of becoming too brown before the fruit is sufficiently cooked, cover it with a piece of kitchen paper slightly sprinkled with water. The time to bake will depend upon the kind of fruit used and also upon the thickness of the crust. About one hour is usually sufficient for a medium- sized tart. When ready, lift it out of the oven and wipe the dish with a damp cloth. Sprinkle the tart with castor sugar, and serve either hot or cold. A jug of cream or custard served along with the tart is always an improvement. The following are a few examples of fruit tarts, while others, made with a different variety of fruit, should not present any difficulty. 1519. Apple Pie or Tart (Tarte aux Pommes) 5 or 6 apples. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 table-sps. moist sugar. Short crust. £ tea-cupful water. Wipe and peel the apples, cut them in quarters and remove the cores. Then slice them thinly and pack them into a pie dish in alternate layers with a little sugar and grated lemon rind. Pile the fruit high in the centre of the dish, shaping it like a dome, and let the last layer be apples. Pour in the water and cover with short crust or any other suitable pastry, and as directed above. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1520, 6 bananas. 3 oranges. 3 table-sps. moist sugar. Banana and Orange Tart 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. Pastry. Peel the bananas and cut them in slices with a silver knife in order to preserve the colour. Peel the oranges and remove as much of the white pith as possible. Then cut them in slices and take out the stones. Also cut the slices in halves if they seem rather large. Arrange the two kinds of fruit in layers in a pie dish, sprinkling them with the nuts and sugar. Then cover with pastry and bake as directed above. Note.—This makes a delicious and somewhat uncommon kind of tart; the acid of the oranges supplies what is wanting in the bananas. The nuts may be omitted. Time to bake, f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 1521. Banana and Rhubarb Tart This is another very nice combination of fruit. The bananas should be cut in slices and the rhubarb in short lengths. They should be packed tightly in the pie dish and piled high in the centre, as the rhubarb will fall considerably in the baking. Sugar should be added to taste and enough cold water to moisten the fruit. If liked, a little ground ginger may be mixed with the water. Cover and bake the tart as directed above. 1522. Blackberry and Apple Tart 1 lb. blackberries. 2 table-sps. water. | lb. apples. Pastry. 3 table-sps. moist sugar. Blackberries, to be good, must be freshly gathered. Pick them carefully and wash them ifCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 356 necessary. As they are somewhat insipid in taste, a more acid fruit, such as apples or rhubarb, should be cooked along with them. Peel and slice the apples thinly and pack them into a pie dish with the blackberries and sugar. The last layer should be apples. Pour in the water, cover with short crust or any other suitable pastry, following directions as given above. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1523. Pumpkin Pie \ pt. pumpkin puree. | pt. milk. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Sugar and spice to taste. Short crust. To make the puree, take a good slice of pumpkin, peel it and remove the seeds and pulpy part from the inside. Cut the pumpkin in slices, and cook it in boiling salted water until tender (about 20 minutes). Then drain thoroughly, and rub the pumpkin through a sieve, or mash it with a fork until reduced to a smooth puree. Now add to this puree the eggs well beaten, milk and lemon juice, also sugar and spice to taste. Mix well together. Have ready a dish or large plate lined with short crust or other pastry (see Open Tart), pour this mixture into it and bake in a good oven until the pastry is cooked and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot or cold. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be poured into a pie dish and then covered with the pastry. Time to bake, \ to £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1524. Pumpkin and Apple Pie Pumpkin. Apples. 1 Spice. Water. Sugar. I Pastry. Prepare some ripe pumpkin in the same way as above and cut it in thin slices. Peel and slice thinly the same quantity of sour and juicy apples. Put the pumpkin and apple into a pie dish with sugar to taste and a small quantity of mixed spice, or if preferred a little grated lemon rind. Pile the mixture rather high in the centre of the pie dish and pour in just a very little water. Now cover the pie with short crust or other pastry as directed on p. 355, brush it over with white of egg or water, dredge with castor sugar and bake in a good oven until the pastry is well browned and cooked, and the apple and pumpkin soft. Serve hot with some good cream. Note.—This is a very good combination, as the tart flavour of the apples brings out the flavour of the pumpkin. 1525. Rhubarb and Fig Tart 2 lbs. rhubarb. 4 lb. figs. [ 4 tea-sp. ground ginger. 1 cupful sugar. " I Pastry. Soak the figs for a short time in hot water, then cut them in small pieces, removing the stalks and any discoloured parts. Wash the rhubarb well, peel it if necessary, and cut it in short lengths. Arrange the two kinds of fruit in a pie dish, sprinkling them with the sugar and ginger. Pile the fruit high in the centre of the dish and press it well together, as it sinks so much in cooking. Then cover with pastry and bake in the usual way (see above). Note.—Dates may be used instead of figs ; they must be stoned and cut in pieces. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1526. Mixed Fruit Tart (Summer) Take equal quantities of strawberries, raspberries, and red currants, and pick them all carefully. Mix them together and then arrange them in a pie dish, adding white moist or castor sugar to taste. Cover with pastry and bake as directed on p. 355. Other kinds of fruit may also be used, according to what is in season, the greater variety the better. 1527. Mixed Fruit Tart (Winter)- 1 lb. cranberries. I £ lb. sugar. 4 or 5 apples. 1 4 pt. water. 4 lb. prunes. | Short crust. Wash the prunes, and if time permits soak them for some time, in the half pint of water. Pick and wash the cranberries, and peel and slice the apples thinly. Put the three kinds of fruit into a lined stewpan with the water and stew them slowly fox- half an hour. Then add the sugar and stew for half an hour longer, breaking down the cranberries with the back of a wooden spoon. Pour the fruit into a pie dish just large enough to hold it, remove the stones from the prunes and let the mixture cool. Then cover with short crust and bake as directed above. Time to bake, 4 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Fruit Puddings See under Hot Puddings, p. 402. VARIOUS TARTS AND FLANS 1528. Open Jam Tart Pastry. Jam. Almost any kind of pastry may be used for this. Short crust or puff pastry is perhaps the best. An open tart may be made in two different ways— (1) The pastry case made and baked and the jam put into it afterwards; or (2) The jam baked with the pastry. (1) Roll out the pastry rather thinly. Wet a flat dish or tin with cold water and leave it wet. Lay the pastry over this, press well into the shape of the dish, and trim round the edges with a knife. Roll out the trimmings of pastry, and cut a band long enough and wide enough to cover the rim of the dish. Wet the edges of the pastry lining the dish, lay this band round, make the two ends meet exactly and not overlap, and wet the join with cold water. Now mark round the rim with the back of a knife or snip it with a pair of scissors, and flute round the edges with a knife. Prick the pastry lining the bottom of the tart with a fork, lay over it a piece of slightly greased paper, and put in some crusts of bread, or a few haricot beans, to prevent its rising and losing shape in the baking. Bake the tart in a good oven until well cooked andPASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 357 nicely browned, then remove the bread or beans and, if necessary, return to the oven to dry and make crisp the bottom pastry. A few leaves or fancy shapes may be cut out of the trimmings of pastry and baked on a tin separately. These will be found useful for decoration. This pastry case will keep quite well for several days. Put before it is used it may require to be warmed through in the oven to restore its original crispness. When wanted, cover the bottom of the pastry with some nice jam, and decorate it with some leaves or fancy- shaped pieces of pastry. If wanted warm, return all to the oven for a few minutes. (2) Line the dish in the same way as above, trim round the edges, and prick the pastry lining the bottom of the dish with a fork. Then, before laying the band of pastry round the edges, put in the jam, being careful to keep it off the rim. Roll out the trimmings of pastry, and cut off some narrow strips about J inch wide. Twist these and lay them across the tart in a trelliswork pattern. Wet the edges with cold water, and lay a broader band of pastry round, decorating it as above. Bake as before. boiling water, let them boil 3 or 4 minutes, then strain. Put the gooseberries into a basin and add to them, while hot, the flour mixed smoothly with the butter, the sugar and wine. Add a very little spinach green to restore the colour, mix all lightly and stand until cold. Roll out some short crust (Recipe 1439) rather thinly and line a flat greased dish. Prick the pastry with a fork, and put in the prepared gooseberries. Cut some narrow strips of the pastry and lay them across the tart in a lattice-work pattern. Then wet the edges of the dish and put a band of pastry round. Mark or decorate this prettily, brush the pastry over with a little white of egg or water and sugar, and bake in a good oven. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. 1531. Ground Rice Tart 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. ground rice. 1 egg. A little milk. Vanilla. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. jam. Pastry. 1529. Apple Tart with Meringue (Tarte aux Pommos Meringu6e) Short Crust. Apple Mixture. 1 lb. butter. 1 lb. apples (weighed 6 oz. flour. after peeling). 2 oz. cornflour. The rind of I lemon. 1 oz. sugar. J lb. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 2 or 3 table-sps. water. A squeeze of lemon 2 yolks of eggs. juice. Meringue. Cold water. 3 whites of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. First make the short crust with the ingredients given above, and according to directions given in Recipe 1439. Then make with them an open tart (see above) and bake it in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and crisp. Meanwhile prepare the apple mixture. To Make the Mixture.—Peel the apples, and then weigh them. Slice them thinly, and put them into a stewpan with the sugar, lemon rind, and a very little water. Allow them to stew slowly until quite soft and pulpy, and rub them through a hair or wire sieve. Add to them the two yolks of .eggs, and put the mixture into the pastry case. Meringue.—Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, sieve the sugar and add it to them ; pile this roughly on the top of the apple pulp and dredge a little sugar over. Return the tart to a slow oven to dry, and brown the meringue. About 15 minutes will be required. This tart may be served hot or cold. Time to bake, about 1 hour in all. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1530. Open Gooseberry Tart (Tarte aux Groseilles) 1 lb. tender gooseberries 1 oz. butter. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. Green colouring. 1 glass white wine. Short crust. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Top and tail the gooseberries, and wash them thoroughly. Throw them into a saucepan of Make an open tart with some short crust or other suitable pastry as directed above, but do not bake it. To Prepare the Mixture.—Cream the butter in a basin until soft and light. Add the sugar and egg, and beat again for a few minutes. Sprinkle in the ground rice, and add enough milk to make the mixture of a consistency that will drop easily from the spoon. Add a few drops of vanilla or any other flavouring preferred, and stir in the baking powder, free from lumps, at the last. Now spread the pastry with some nice jam, and put this mixture on the top. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is brown and crisp, and the mixture firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot or cold. Note.—The pastry lining the dish should be thin, or it will be inclined to be sodden. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1532. Lemon Tart (Tarte au Citron) Short crust or flaky pastry. 1 gill water. 1 oz. cornflour. 2 lemons. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 3 oz. sugar. Line a flat dish with pastry as directed for Open Tart, 1 (Recipe 1528), decorate the edges, and bake in the oven until brown and crisp. To Make the Mixture.—Break the cornflour smoothly with the water, put it into a saucepan with the grated rind and the strained juice of the two lemons, and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook for 10 minutes and remove the saucepan from the fire. When slightly cool, stir in 2 oz. of sugar and the yolks of eggs. Spread this mixture over the pastry when it is baked. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt, add to them the remainder of the sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the lemon mixture. Dredge with sugar and return the tart to the oven until brown and crisp. Time to bake, about | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 358 1533. Orange Tart Rough-puff or puff pastry. 2 large oranges. (Tarte a 1’Orange) 2 or 3 eggs. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. biscuit crumbs. Make an open tart with pastry as directed in Recipe 1528, and prick the pastry lining the dish. To Make the Mixture.—Wipe the oranges, grate off the rind, and rub it into the sugar. Then cream the butter and sugar together, add to them the yolks of eggs and then the biscuit crumbs and strained juice of the oranges. Lastly, stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and pour the mixture into the lined dish. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and crisp, and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1534. Sago and Raspberry Tart (Tarte a la Servienne) 1536. Syrup or Treacle Tart 2 table-sps. syrup or treacle. 2 table-sps. oatmeal or bread-crumbs. Plain short crust. Flavouring. Put the syrup or treacle into a basin and thicken it with the bread-crumbs or oatmeal. Flavour with a little lemon or orange juice, or, if preferred, a little ground ginger or spice. Then make an open tart as directed in Recipe 1528 (2), and use the above mixture instead of jam. Open Tart or Flan This is another kind of open tart, perhaps more often seen in French and American cuisine than in our English kitchens, but still it is very easily made, and forms a nice change to our ordinary fruit pie or tart. The pastry is shaped inside a ring or circle of tin placed on a greased baking tin. Short or puff pastry. 3 table-sps. sago. A little water. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. sugar. Vanilla flavouring. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sps. raspberry syrup. Meringue. 2 whites of eggs. 2 oz. sugar. Vanilla. Put the sago into a basin with enough cold water to cover it, and let it soak overnight. Then drain off any water, put the sago into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer it very slowly until quite clear and thoroughly cooked. Meanwhile line a shallow tin with puff pastry or short crust (see Open Tart, 1) and bake it in the oven. When the sago is cooked, add the raspberry syrup to it, the sugar flavouring, and yolks of eggs. Mix well, but do not boil again. Pour this mixture into the pastry case, and then prepare the meringue. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and flavour with a little vanilla. Pile this rockily on the top of the tart, dredge with sugar, and place in a moderately cool oven until the meringue is a golden brown colour. Take out, leave till cold, and serve. Time to bake, § hour in all. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1535. Open Strawberry Tart (Tarte aux Fraises) Short crust. 1 lb. strawberries. 2 oz. castor sugar. Juice of \ lemon. 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. Make an open tart with short crust as directed in Recipe 1528, but do not bake it. Pick the strawberries and arrange them closely on the lined dish. Sprinkle with sugar and squeeze the lemon juice over. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and crisp. Then beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to them 2 table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the strawberries. Dredge with sugar and return the tart to a cooler oven to dry and slightly brown the meringue. Serve either hot or cold. A jug of cream served with the tart will be an improvement. Note.—A little brandy or liqueur maybe sprinkled over the strawberries before cooking. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Rings for Open Tart This circle may be either plain or fluted; it is usually about 1 inch in depth, and can be had in various sizes according to the kind of tart required. In this way greater depth is obtained than in our ordinary open tart made in a flat dish. A good compote of fruit, a puree of fruit with cream, small pieces of uncooked fruit, a custard, or some other sweet mixture may be used for filling the pastry case. A flan may either be baked first and then filled, or the filling may be baked along with the pastry. This will depend on the kind of mix- ture used. The following are directions for making the flan. To Make the Flan.—Short crust, dripping crust, or cornflour pastry are the best to use for this. It should not be made too rich, or the tart will be inclined to break on being lifted. Take a tart ring, either plain or fluted, and according to the size you wish the flan to be. Grease it inside and place it on a baking tin with a piece of greased paper below it. Then roll out the pastry to rather less than J inch in thickness, and line the tin within the tart ring with it. Press the pastry well on to the ring and at the bottom, where the ring touches the tin, in order to make a neat case. Trim off round the edges with a pair of scissors, leaving about £ inch of pastry above the top of the ring. Mark this round with the back of a knife or with a pair of pincers to give it a finished appearance. Now prick the pastry at the bottom of the case, and it is ready for filling. Or, if the case has to be baked before the filling is put into it, line it with greased paper, and fill it up with raw rice or haricot beans in order to keep the shape. Then, when baked, remove this padding and return the pastry to the oven for a few minutes to thoroughly dry the inside. The following recipes will illustrate the various kinds of fillings which can be put into flans:359 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 1537. Flan of Apples (Flan de Pommes) 5 or 6 apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 of 3 oz. sugar. Rind of | lemon. 1 table-sp. cake or biscuit crumbs. Short crust or cornflour pastry. First prepare the apple mixture for filling the flan. Reserve one good apple to use afterwards, and peel and slice the remainder very thinly. Put them into a saucepan with the butter, sugar, and grated lemon rind, and cook them over the fire until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Then turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Make a flan or open tart with short crust or cornflour pastry as directed above. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter for the above amount of mixture, and the mixture is put 0 Apple Flan into it before it is baked. Prick the pastry, sprinkle in the cake-crumbs, and fill three parts full with the apple pulp or marmalade. Now take the uncooked apple, peel it, cut it in quarters, remove the core and slice the pieces evenly and rather thinly. Arrange these slices in a circle round and round the top of the tart, placing them one leaning on the other and covering the apple marmalade entirely. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and well cooked. 'When ready, remove the tart from the oven and allow it to stand a few minutes, then remove the ring, and serve the tart on a plate with a dish paper under it. Note.—Small apple tartlets may be prepared in the same way as the above. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10(7. to Is. 1538. Flan of Apricots (Flan d’Abricots) Tinned apricots. Short crust or cornflour Sugar. 2 or 3 whites of eggs. pastry. Cherries and angelica. Make a flan with pastry as directed on p. 358, and bake it before the filling is put in. When ready, fill the case with tinned apricots which have been well drained from their syrup and dredge them with castor sugar. Whip up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and mix into them 3 table-spoonfuls of finely sifted sugar. Pile this meringue on the top of the apricots, decorate with small pieces of cherry and angelica, dredge with sugar and place the tart in a very moderate oven until the meringue is dry and lightly browned. This may be served hot or cold. Note.—To make a flan of fresh apricots, see Flan of Greengages. 1539. Cocoanut Tart or Flan 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2 eggs. \ pt. milk. 1 table-sp. cornflour. A few drops vanilla. 1 table-sp. sugar. 2 table-sps. jam. A flan or open tart of pastry. Make a flan or open tart of short crust as directed in on p. 358, and bake it before filling. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter. Put the yolks of the two eggs into a basin with the sugar, and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Heat the milk (except 2 table-spoonfuls) and pour it slowly on to the yolks of eggs, stirring all the time. Return this to the saucepan, and add the cornflour broken with the remainder of the cold milk. Stir until well thickened, and then remove from the fire. Add the cocoanut, vanilla essence, and the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the jam at the bottom of the pastry case and the mixture on the top. Return to the oven for a few minutes, until nicely browned on the top. Sprinkle with sugar, remove the ring and serve the tart either hot or cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10(7. 1540. A Custard Tart or Flan (Flan a la Creme) 1 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. cornflour or potato flour. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg. Flavouring. Short crust or corn- flour pastry. First prepare the custard for filling the flan. Put the milk (except 2 table-spoonfuls) into a saucepan and heat it over the fire. Mix the corn- flour smoothly with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and add it to the hot milk. Stir over the fire until boiling and then cook a few minutes. Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin with the sugar, and work them well together with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Then pour the milk and cornflour slowly on to them, stirring all the time. Flavour with lemon, almond, vanilla, or any other flavouring preferred, and then stir the custard occa- sionally until cold. Make a flan or pastry case 6 or 7 inches in diameter (see p. 358), prick it well at the bottom, but do not bake it. Fill up with the above custard and then bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and the custard lightly browned. When ready, remove the tart ring, sprinkle the flan with sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10(7. 1541. Flan of Greengages A flan or open tart of pastry. 1| lbs. greengages. I lb. sugar. 1 table-sp. liqueur. wine or Wipe the greengages, cut them in halves and remove the stones. Put them on to a dish, sprinkle with sugar, pour over the wine or liqueur, and let them stand while the pastry case is being prepared. A little fruit juice may be used360 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD instead of the wine if preferred. Make a flan or pastry case 6 or 7 inches in diameter, as directed on p. 358, prick it well at the bottom, but do not bake it. Fill it with the greengages, arranging the pieces neatly in circles and one leaning against another. Pour any liquid there may be left on the dish over them, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a good moderate oven, until both pastry and fruit are thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle with, sugar and remove the tart ring before serving. Note.—Apricots and other plums can be used in the same way. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. trimmed and well drained from their syrup. Arrange them in a circle on the top of the custard, leaving an open space in the middle. Then take a puree of chestnuts, sweetened and flavoured and mixed with a little whipped cream (Recipe 1628), put it into a forcing bag with a large fancy pipe at the end of it and force it out in the centre of the pears in the form of a dome. Decorate with glace cherries and lozenge-shaped pieces of angelica, and serve cold. Note.—Apples, apricots, or peaches may be used instead of the pears. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1542. Flan of Peaches (Flan de Peehes) Tinned peaches. 2 eggs. Juice of £ lemon. 1 gill peach syrup. Castor sugar. 2 table-sps. cake-crumbs Short crust. Prepare and bake a flan of pastry as directed on p. 358. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter. Take 4 or 5 pieces of tinned peach and cut them in small pieces. Strain one gill of the syrup into a saucepan, add the juice of half a lemon and a little sugar, bring to the boil and simmer for ten minutes. Then remove the sauce- pan from the fire, add the two yolks of egg, one at a time, and cook carefully until they thicken the syrup without boiling. Turn this custard into a basin and let it cool. When the pastry case is ready, sprinkle in the crumbs, put in the pieces of peach and cover with the custard. Then make a meringue with the two whites of egg and little sugar, and pile it roughly on the top. Dredge with a little more sugar and bake in a fairly cool oven, until the meringue hardens and becomes a golden brown. Remove the ring from the tart and serve it either hot or cold. Note.—Other tinned fruits may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1544. Flan of Raspberries with Cream (Flan de Framboises a la Chantilly) An open tart or flan. 1 lb. raspberries. 2 table-sps. cake or macaroon crumbs. Sugar. 2 table-sps. red-currant or gooseberry jelly. 1J gills double cream Vanilla flavouring. Angelica. Make a flan or open tart as directed on p. 358, bake it and allow it to cool. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter. Pick the raspberries, put aside a few of the best for decoration, and sprinkle the remainder with finely sifted sugar and, if liked, a table-spoonful of liqueur. Let them stand in a cool place for § hour. Sprinkle the bottom of the flan with macaroon or cake crumbs, arrange the raspberries on the top, and coat them over with the jelly. Whip the cream, add a little sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Put this cream into a forcing bag and force it out on the top of the tart, covering the fruit entirely. Garnish with raspberries and a little angelica cut in lozenge- shaped pieces. Note.—A strawberry tart can be made in the same way. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10 d. 1543. Pear and Chestnut Tart or Flan (Flan de Poires aux Marrons) Open tart or flan of pastry. 1 cupful thick custard. 6 pears stewed in syrup. Puree of chestnuts with cream. Cherries and angelica. First make a flan or open case of pastry 6 or 7 inches in diameter and as directed on p. 358. Bake it, and allow it to cool. Then spread at the bottom some thick custard sweetened and flavoured. Have the pears cut in halves, neatly 1545. Strawberry Flan with Meringue (Tarte de Fraises Meringuee) 1 lb. strawberries. 2 or 3 table-sps. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. powdered cin- namon. 2 whites of egg. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. A flan or open tart of pastry. Make and bake a flan of pastry 6 or 7 inches in diameter as directed on p. 358. Meanwhile pick and wash the strawberries and let them be- come quite dry. When the pastry case is ready, fill it with the strawberries, arranging them neatly and as close together as possible. Sprinkle them with sugar and a little powdered cinnamon. Now beat up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, add to them a little castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla, and spread this over the tart so as to completely cover the strawberries. Sprinkle with more sugar and return to the oven until the meringue is crisp and lightly browned. Servo on a round dish with a lace-edged paper under it. A jug of cream may be handed separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d.PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 361 1546. Almond Tart (Gateau d’Amandes) PuS pastry. 2 oz. ground almonds. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. Rum or other flavouring Take about half the quantity of puS pastry given in Recipe 1447, and roll it into two rounds for the top and bottom of the gateau. For the bottom any scraps of the pastry may be used, and the round should be made rather thin. For the top take a good piece of pastry that has only had six rolls and make the round about £ inch in thickness. To Make the Tart.—Pound the almonds in a mortar with the butter, yolks of eggs, and sugar, and flavour with about 1 tea-spoonful rum, or any other flavouring preferred. Wet round the edge of the bottom piece of pastry, spread it with the almond mixture and put the other piece of pastry on the top. Press the edges together, lay a plate or saucepan lid on the top and trim round neatly. Mark the edges with the back of the knife, then mark the top also, making curved lines coming from the centre and without pressing heavily with the knife. Brush the gateau over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven. When ready, dredge with sugar and return to the oven for a minute or two to glaze. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1547. German Tart Pastry. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. potato flour. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. castor sugar. | tea-sp. mixed spice. Squeeze of lemon juice. Some cold -water. Mixture. 3 apples. 3 oz. prunes. 2 oz. sugar. Rind of h lemon grated. A little cold water. 1 table-sp. sponge-cake crumbs. First prepare the mixture—peel, core, and slice the apples, and wash the prunes in lukewarm water. Put these into a lined saucepan with the sugar, lemon rind, and a very little cold water. Stew slowly until the apples are quite soft. Then re- move the prunes, take out the stones, cut them in pieces, and return them to the apples. Allow the mixture to cool before using. Make the pastry according to directions given for Short Crust, and divide it into two equal pieces. Wet a dinner plate with cold water and leave it wet. Roll out one of the pieces rather thinly, and line the plate -with it. Sprinkle the sponge-cake crumbs over the foot, and then spread on the mixture. Roll out the other piece of pastry into a round shape for a cover. Wet round the edge of the pastry lining the dish with cold water; lay the other piece of pastry on, and press the edges well together. Trim round with a knife or pair of scissors, and then mark neatly round the edges. Roll out any trimmings of pastry, and cut out some leaves to decorate the top. Make a small hole to let the steam escape, and brush the tart over with a little water or slightly beaten white of egg. Dredge well with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and thoroughly cooked. Serve on the dish on which it is baked. It may be used either hot or cold, and may, if wished, be coated with glace icing. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10<f. 1548. Swiss Apple Tart Pastry. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. J tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 yolk of egg. 4 or 5 apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. Rind of J lemon. \ penny sponge cake. 1 gill double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Make the pastry according to directions given for Short Crust (Recipe 1439), and roll it out rather thinly. Grease a tart ring 7 or 8 inches in dia- meter, and place it on a greased baking tin. Line this with the pastry, and double the pastry a little way over the rim of the ring at the top, to prevent its slipping down when baking. Prick the bottom of the tart with a fork, line it with greased paper, and half fill with dried haricot beans or crusts of bread. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and thoroughly cooked. Then remove the beans and paper, but allow the pastry to cool before taking off the ring. Peel, core, and slice the apples very thinly. Put them into a lined saucepan with the sugar, butter, the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon, and a very little cold water. Stew carefully until the apples are reduced to a pulp, then rub them through a hair sieve into a basin and let them cool. Place the tart on a round plate or glass dish with a dish paper under it, sprinkle at the foot the sponge cake made into crumbs, and fill it with the apple pulp. Put the cream into a basin, and whisk it with a wire whisk until thick. Sweeten it with castor sugar, and add a few drops of any flavouring that is liked. Pile this on the top of the tart, and decorate with small pieces of preserved fruit, or chopped pistachio nuts. Time to bake, about f hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Another Method Make half as much pastry again as in last recipe, and line the ring with it in the same way. Sprinkle the sponge-cake crumbs at the bottom. Have the apple pulp prepared, and fill up the tart with it. Then roll out the remainder of the pastry the size and shape to cover the top. Wet round the edge of this with cold water and place it on, pressing the two edges well together. Trim neatly with a pair of scissors and make a small hole on the top with a skewer. Bake in a moderate oven about one hour, then allow the tart to cool. Carefully remove the ring and coat the top of the tart with some glace icing (see p. 589), and sprinkle it with pink sugar or chopped pistachio nuts. Place it on a dish with a dish paper under it, and encircle it with a paper frill. 1549. Fruit Vol-au-vent The pastry case for this should be made and baked according to directions given on p. 349. Then there are different methods of filling it with fruit. (1) Take a nice puree or marmalade of fruit, such as a puree of apples, gooseberries, rhubarb, apri- cots, &c., fill the pastry case with this, and pile some whipped and flavoured cream on the top. The puree of fruit should be made fairly thick to pre-362 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD vent its soaking into the pastry and making it sodden. It must be sweetened and flavoured to taste, a little wine or liqueur being added if wished. It is always an improvement, too, if a little thick cream or custard is mixed with the fruit puree, as it softens it and makes it lighter. The cream on the top is entirely a matter of taste, but of course it adds very much to the goodness of the dish. The vol-au-vent may be finished off by simply putting the little lid of pastry over the filling, and then dredging the whole thing with fine sugar. If whipped cream is used, it will look more decorative if it is put into a forcing bag with a large rose-pipe at the end of it, and then forced out on the top of the vol-au-vent. Small pieces of fresh or pre- served fruit or some chopped pistachio nuts may then be used for decorating. If a hot fruit vol-au- vent is wanted, some meringue mixture should be piled, or forced out of a bag, on the top of the fruit puree and then the vol-au-vent put in a moderately cool oven until the meringue is crisp and lightly browned. (2) A nice fruit compote may be used for filling the vol-au-vent case. The fruit should be cooked in a good syrup, flavoured with a little wine or liqueur (see Fruit Compotes). Care must be taken to put very little of the syrup into the vol-au-vent case, as it would make the pastry sodden. Put in as much of the fruit as possible and even pile it high in the centre; then pour over just a very little of the syrup. A little whipped and flavoured cream may be put on the top if wished. The remainder of the syrup and more of the fruit may be served separately. (3) Some of the softer fruits, such as straw- berries, raspberries, ripe peaches cut in pieces, &c., may be used raw for filling a vol-au-vent case. They must be carefully prepared, well sprinkled with sugar and a little wine or liqueur if wished, and then mixed lightly with some stiffly whipped creams. Made vjith strawberries, this filling is delicious. Note.—Do not fill the vol-au-vent until shortly before serving, or the pastry will become sodden. TARTLETS AND SMALL SWEET PASTRIES To Make Tartlet Cases Almost any kind of pastry may be used for making tartlet cases, but short crust and puff pastry are perhaps the two best kinds to choose. Small scraps of pastry, if they are well rolled out, can also be used up foD this purpose. First grease the required number of patty tins or quenelle-shaped moulds and place them on a baking sheet ready for use. Roll out the pastry very thinly and cut it in rounds with a fluted cutter. The rounds of pastry should be made rather larger than the diameter of the tins, to allow of some being taken up in the depth and also for shrinkage. Press the pastry well into the moulds in order to get the exact shape, and prick it at the bottom to prevent its rising up in the baking. If the tartlets are to be filled before baking, put the mixture or jam in now, and they will be ready for the oven. If the tartlets are to be baked before filling, line them with a little piece of white paper and fill up with rice or small haricot beans to pre- vent the pastry losing its shape during the baking. Both haricot beans and rice used in this way will serve over and over again for the same purpose. When the tartlets are all ready,-' bake them until nicely browned and well cooked. Then remove the dummy filling, and if the pastry underneath seems rather soft and uncooked, return them to the oven for a few minutes to dry. Fill with jam or other mixture when required. These tartlet cases will keep good for some time, if they are stored in an air-tight tin box lined with paper. They should just be warmed in the oven before using. In families where there are often unexpected visitors, it is a good plan to keep some of these little cases in reserve, as they will always make a nice sweet in an emergency. 1550. Almond Pastry (Patisserie d’Amandes) Macaroon crumbs. or ratafia Puff pastry. Almond paste. Apricot jam. Roll out some puff pastry very thinly, and stamp it out into heart-shaped pieces. Spread one half of these pieces with apricot jam and then with soft almond paste (Recipe 2852). Brush over the other half with slightly beaten white of egg, and double over so as to form a cutlet shape. Press the edges well together. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well cooked. Roll up small pieces of almond paste to represent the bone of the cutlet, and bake these also in the oven for five or ten minutes. Wlien the pastry is ready, remove it from the oven, brush over with more white of egg, and toss in ratafia or macaroon crumbs. Stick the small piece of almond paste into the end of each, and serve either hot or cold. Note.—Any other shape may be used for this pastry, or it may be simply cut in fingers. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. 1551. Apple Balls Grated rind £ lemon. Short crust. 6 apples. \\ oz. moist sugar. 1 oz. butter. Roll out some short crust rather thinly, and cut out six rounds about six inches in diameter with a cutter or saucepan lid. Wet round the edge of these rounds with cold water, and place an apple peeled and cored whole in the centre of each (fig. 1). Put the butter, sugar, and grated lemon rind on to a plate, and mix them together with a knife. Fill up the holes in the apples with this mixture. Draw up the edges of the pastry so that they meet on the top of the apple (fig. 2), and roll the apple in the hands toPASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 363 make it a good shape. Place the apple balls as they are ready on a wetted baking tin with the join downwards, brush them over with water or slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge with sugar (fig. 3). Bake in a moderate oven. When ready, the apples should be soft, and the pastry nicely browned. Serve hot or cold on a dish with a dish paper on it, and dredge again with sugar. Note.—Ground cloves, ginger, or cinnamon may be used for flavouring the butter and sugar instead of lemon rind. Suet crust, or in fact any scraps of pastry may be used instead of the short crust. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. to prevent the paste rising. Cut the apricots in small pieces and stew them for a short time in some of their syrup. Then drain and mix them with the apricot jam, a few drops of vanilla, and, if liked, a little liqueur. Allow this fruit mixture to cool and put a little into each of the lined tins. Whip up the white of egg to a stiff froth, spread a little smoothly over each tartlet, and dredge well with icing sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Note.—Other kinds of fruit may be used in the same way. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost, Id. each. 1552. Apple Puffs 2 or 3 apples. Grated lemon rind. 2 table-sps. sugar. A small piece of butter. A little water. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Peel and slice the apples thinly, put them into a lined saucepan with a little grated lemon rind and a small piece of butter, and stew them until reduced to a pulp, using a little water if necessary only. When ready, add the sugar and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. It should be quite thick and like a marmalade. Then make some puffs with rough-puff or any other light pastry as directed in Recipe 1571, using the apple marmalade instead of the jam. Brush them over with white of egg, dredge with sugar and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. 1553. Apple Tartlets (Tartelettes aux Pommes) 1 lb. apples. I 1 lemon. 2 eggs. 2 oz. butter. J lb. sugar. I Tartlet cases. Pare, core, and slice the apples and cook them in a lined saucepan with the butter, sugar, and grated rind of the lemon. The pulp should be perfectly smooth and thick, and, if necessary, must be rubbed through a sieve. When ready, allow it to cool slightly and add the strained juice of the lemon, and the two eggs. Stir over the fire again until the eggs are cooked and the mixture thickens, then turn into a basin to cool. Fill up cooked tartlet cases (see p. 362) with this mixture, and serve them either hot or cold. Or, if liked, a meringue may be made with 2 whites of eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little piled on the top of each tartlet. They must then be dredged with sugar and put in a cool oven for a time, long enough to set the meringue and make it a light brown colour. They may be decorated with small pieces of preserved fruit. Note.—Any other kind of fruit pulp may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost. Id. each. 1554. Apricot Tartlets Short crust. 6 or 8 tinned apricots. 1 table-sp. apricot jam. (Tartelettes d’Abricots) 1 white of egg. A little icing sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Line from 10 to 12 small tartlet tins with some short crust rolled out very thinly, and prick them 1555. Banana Puffs Small bananas. Cake or biscuit crumbs. Lemon juice. Pastry. Raspberry jam. Choose small bananas, or, if large, cut them in two or three pieces. Peel them and sprinkle them witn a little lemon juice. Spread them with rasp- berry, or any other good flavoured jam, and roll them in cake or biscuit crumbs. Ratafia or macaroon crumbs are really the best to use. Take some good pastry, roll it out rather thinly and stamp it out in oval-shaped pieces, a little longer than the bananas. Lay a banana in the centre of each, brush round the edges with a little white of egg or water, fold over and press the edges to- gether. Mark or ornament according to taste, brush the puffs over with a little white of egg, and dredge them well with sugar. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Serve hot or cold. If liked, the puffs may be decorated with a little thin glace icing. Note.—Lemon juice may be used instead of the jam. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost. Id. to 1 \d. each. 1556. Banbury Puffs Mixture. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1J oz. flour. 1 oz. candied peel. Grated rind § lemon. 3 oz. currants. A pinch of cinnamon. A pinch of allspice. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessert-sp. brandy or 1 table-sp. sherry. Puff or flaky pastry. To Prepare the Mixture.—Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat them together to a cream. Add the grated lemon rind and spice, and then the yolk of egg and flour. Clean the currants and shred the peel very finely, add them to the other mixture and moisten with the brandy or wine. Allow this mixture to stand a short time before using it. To Make the Puffs.—Roll out some puff or flaky pastry to rather less than inch in thickness, and cut it in pieces about 6 inches square. Wet round the edges with slightly beaten white of egg, and put a good tea-spoonful of the mixture in the centre of each. Fold over two sides of the pastry, making them overlap in the centre. Pinch the two ends together and draw out like a little bolster. Turn over, making two or three slits in the puffs with the point of a knife, brush them over with white of egg, dredge with sugar and bake in a good oven until364 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD they are nicely browned and the pastry thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle again with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 pufis. Probable cost, 2d. each. 1557. Cherry or Plum Tartlets (Tartelettes de Cerises) 1 lb. cherries or small plums. J lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. Juice of | lemon. 1 tea-sp. cornflour or potato flour. 2 or 3 drops carmine. A little butter. Short crust. Line about a dozen tartlet tins with short crust or other pastry, and bake them to a golden brown colour. Put the sugar, water, and lemon juice into a small saucepan, and let them boil a few minutes. Then put in the fruit carefully picked and wiped, and allow it to stew slowly until tender. When ready, strain the fruit, return the liquid to the saucepan, and add to it the cornflour or potato Cherry Tartlets flour mixed with a little cold water. Stir until boiling, add the butter and enough carmine to make the syrup a pretty pink colour, and then reduce if necessary. Pill up the tartlets with the fruits, and when the syrup has cooled pour it over them. Serve hot or cold. Note.—It will be an improvement if the fruit can be stoned, and a little brandy or liqueur may be added to the syrup. Sufficient for 1 dozen tartlets. Probable cost, Id. each. 1558. Chestnut Tartlets (Petltes Tartes aux Marrons) i gill milk or cream. A little jam. Whipped cream. 1 egg—its weight in butter, castor sugar, and chestnut flour. Grated rind £ lemon. Line about a dozen patty tins with pastry, and bake them lightly in a quick oven. Mean- while prepare the following mixture: Take the weight of a large egg in butter, sugar, and chest- nut flour (Groult’s preparation, sold in £ lb. packets). Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the sugar, chestnut flour, and milk or cream, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes. Then add the egg well beaten and a little grated lemon rind, and cook a few minutes longer. Place a small spoonful of jam into each patty case, and fill up with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Take out, leave till cold, and serve either with or without a little whipped cream on the top of each. Time to bake, about £ hour in all. Probable cost, Id. to lid. each. 1559. Chocolate Tartlets (Petites Tartes au Chocolat) 2 yolks of eggs. Castor sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Pastry. Make about a dozen tartlet cases, but do not bake them. Melt the chocolate in a small quantity of the milk until it is perfectly smooth, then add the remainder of the milk with the biscuit crumbs and let them simmer for about ten minutes over the fire. Remove the pan from the fire, and add sugar to taste, flavouring, and yolks of eggs. Mix well, and fill the lined tins with this mixture. Lay some narrow strips of pastry in a trelliswork pattern over the top, wetting one edge of pastry wherever a join is made. Bake in a good oven until the mixture feels firm to the touch and the pastry is thoroughly cooked. Then brush the tartlets over with slightly beaten white of egg, and sprinkle them with sugar. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for from 12 to 15 cheese cakes. Probable cost, lOd. 3 macaroon biscuits. 2 table-sps. grated chocolate. I nt. milk. 1560. Cornucopias with Cream Some scraps of pastry. I Sugar. Double cream. | Flavouring. Decorations. " Roll out some scraps of pastry rather thinly, and cut it into strips 1 inch wide. Grease the out- Cornet Mould side of some cornucopia or cornet-shaped moulds and twist the strips of pastry round them. Let the twists overlap each other slightly, and wet Cornucopias with Cream the joins with cold water, or white of egg, to make the pieces stick together. Place them on a greased baking tin, and bake in a good oven until the pastry iPASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 365 is nicely browned. When slightly cooled, care- fully remove the mould, and let the pastry become quite cold on a sieve or wire draining stand. Whip up some double cream until quite thick, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of any flavouring that is liked. Put the cream into a forcing bag, and fill the cornucopias with it. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve on a fancy dish paper. Notes.—These may be decorated more fancifully with some pink royal icing put through a forcing bag with small pipe. Or some of the cream may be coloured pink, and used alternately with the white. A little jam may be put into the cases before the cream. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 1 \d. to 2d. each. 1561. Custard Tartlets \ pt. milk. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg- 1 dessert-sp. sugar Flavouring. Short crust. Make ten or twelve tartlet cases with short crust (see p. 362), and bake them until the pastry is set, but not brown. Meanwhile prepare the custard. Put the milk into a saucepan to heat. Beat up the eggs in a basin with the sugar and flavouring and pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time, then strain. Re- move the dummies from the pastry cases, fill them up with the custard and return them to the oven until the custard is set and the pastry nicely browned. These tartlets may be served either hot or cold. Note.—A few ratafia or macaroon biscuit crumbs may be put into the cases before filling them up with the custard. Time to bake, about | hour in all. Probable cost, |d. each. 1562. Cream Rolls Make in the same way as cornucopias with cream (Recipe 1560), using small roll-shaped tins instead of the cornet moulds. 1563. Fanchonettes PuS pastry. 3 yolks of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 1 tea-sp. vanilla essence. 1| gills milk. Meringue. 3 whites of eggs. Sugar and lemon juice. Make from ten to twelve tartlet cases with puff pastry and bake them to a golden brown colour. To prepare the mixture, put the sugar, yolks of eggs, milk, and vanilla into a small saucepan, and stir them very carefully over the fire until of the consistency of thick cream. When the pastry cases are ready, fill them with this mixture, place them on a tray, and allow them to cool gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a little sugar and a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread this on the fanchonettes, piling it rather high, dust lightly with sugar, and return them to a cool oven for a few minutes, heave till quite cold, and then decorate with some brightly coloured jelly. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. 1564. Fancy Pastries for Dessert or Tea (Petits FeuilletSs) A very pretty sweet can be made with puff pastry, rolled out, cut in different shapes, baked in the oven, and then decorated. The following are a few of the ways in which it can be made up, and various other shapes and forms can be invented according to fancy. (1) Roll the pastry about an eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it in pieces about three inches square. Fold over the four corners to the centre of each square, wetting the joins with a little cold water or white of egg to make them stick. Then cover the joins with a small round of pastry and bake. (2) Roll the pastry J inch in thickness and cut it in strips an inch wide and 3 or 4 inches long. Stand the strips on their side on the baking tin, giving them a twist in the middle and bake. They will spread out in width instead of in height in the baking, and are very light and crisp when baked. (3) Twist two strips of pastry together and bake them as before. (4) Cut some thin pastry into strips like ribbons and arrange them on the baking sheet in the form of a bow. Bake as before. (5) Or, the pastry may be cut in rings, stars, or various fancy shapes with cutters. To Decorate the above Pastry.—When the pastry is well baked and nicely brown, lift it from the oven and let it cool on a sieve or wire stand. Then either spread it with jam, or decorate with dots of jam or jelly in different colours, and sprinkle with desiccated cocoanut, or chopped almonds and chopped pistachio nuts. Instead of the jam a little royal icing may be forced out on the pastry through a forcing bag with a small fancy pipe at the end. Avoid using too much icing; the design should be as light looking as possible, and it may be in two colours. Allumettes Glacees.—Roll out some puff pastry very thinly into a strip from 4 to 5 inches in width. Take a little royal icing and mix with it a small quantity of ground almonds and a pinch of flour. Spread this thinly over the pastry and then cut in finger-shaped pieces, using a wetted knife. Sprinkle with sugaB and bake in a moderate oven. Petits Amours.—Cut small rounds about 2 inches in diameter from thinly-rolled puff pastry and lay them on a wetted baking sheet. Then cut the same number of slightly smaller rounds and stamp the centre out of them so as to form little rings. Wet the rounds of pastry with white of egg, and lay the rings on the top. Prick the centre of the pastry and then bake. When cold, fill the hollows in the centre with a little bright-coloured jelly. 1565. Nut Pastries (1) Roll out some puff or flaky pastry to \ inch in thickness, and cut it in pieces about 4 inches long by 1 inch wide. Lay these on a baking sheet and cook them in a good oven until brown and crisp. Then lift them out, and when cool brush them over with slightly beaten white of egg and sprinkle with chopped nuts. Return to the oven for two or three minutes to dry and brown the coating. (2) Roll out some puff or flaky pastry to ratherCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 366 less than J inch in thickness, and cut it in strips about 4 inches in length by 2 inches wide. Mix some jelly or marmalade with sufficient chopped nuts to make a stiffish paste, spread this on the pastry and roll up like little Swiss rolls. Place the rolls on a baking sheet with the joins downwards, brush them over with white of egg, dredge them with sugar, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. 1566. Small Fruit Pies (Petites Tartes aux Fruits) Fruit. I Flavouring. Sugar. | Short crust. Almost any fruit that is in season may be used for these. It must be carefully prepared. Small fruits, such as currants, gooseberries, cranberries, &c., may be used whole, apples, rhubarb, and such like cut in very small pieces, and all stone fruit must have the stones removed, and if large cut in pieces. A mixture of fruits may also be used, and sugar must be added according to indivi- dual taste and the acidity of the fruit. A little flavour may also be added if wished, such as grated orange or lemon rind, powdered cinnamon, ginger, or nutmeg, or a clove. Roll out the quantity of short crust, given in Recipe 1439, to an eighth of an inch in thickness. Cut out from ten to twelve rounds with a fluted pastry cutter, and put them to one side. Roll out the pastry again, and cut out more rounds, repeating this until you have other ten or twelve rounds. Grease some small patty tins, and line them with the rounds of pastry that were last cut out, as these are never quite so good as the first cuttings from the pastry. Fill up with fruit and sugar, wet round the edge of the pastry lining the tins with cold water, and put the best rounds on the top. Press the two edges of pastry well together, and make a small hole with a skewer on the top of each tartlet. Brush them over with water or white of egg, dredge with sugar, and bake in a good moderate oven. They should be a nice brown colour, and the pastry must be well cooked. Should they become too brown before the pastry is cooked, cover with paper. When ready, sprinkle again with sugar, and remove from the tins. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost. Id. each. Short crust. 1 egg- 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. flour. 1567. Ginger Tartlets 1 oz. rice-flour. \ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 dessert-sp. ginger syrup. 2 oz. preserved ginger. Make some tartlet cases with short crust, but do not bake them (see p. 362). To Malce the Mixture.—Cream the butter in a basin, add the yolk of egg, sugar, and ginger syrup, then both kinds of flour, sieved. Mix well, and lastly add the ginger cut in small pieces, the baking powder, and white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Half fill the lined tins with this mixture, and bake them in a good oven. When ready, they should feel firm to the touch and be nicely browned. Dredge them with sugar, and remove them from the tins. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost, lOd. 1568. Grape Tartlets (Petites Tartes aux Raisins) \ lb. small green grapes. | lb. sugar. 1 gill water. 1 glass white wine. I tea-sp. arrowroot. A few drops of carmine. Some pastry. Make about a dozen tartlet cases with short crust or other pastry and bake them to a delicate brown colour. Put the sugar, wine, and water into a small saucepan, and boil them to a syrup. Thicken with the arrowroot broken with a little cold water. Pick the stalks from the grapes, and wash or wipe them carefully. Put them into the syrup, and let them simmer very slowly by the side of the fire until soft. Colour very slightly with a few drops of carmine. Empty the fruit and syrup into a basin, and when cold fill up the tartlet cases. A little whipped and flavoured cream may be piled on the top if wished. Sufficient for 12 tartlets. Probable cost, \d. each. 1569. Greengage Tartlets | lb. greengages. ] J tea-sp. cornflour. | lb. sugar. 1 gill water. I Short crust. Make from 10 to 12 tartlet cases as directed on p. 362, and bake them in the oven. Remove the rice or beans that have been used to keep them in shape, and fill them with the fruit prepared in the following manner. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and let them boil together for a few minutes. Wipe the greengages, peel them if possible, cut them in halves, and remove the stones. Then cook them in the syrup of sugar and water until tender, but not broken. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a table-spoonful of cold water, add it to the syrup and boil until it turns clear. Put a few of the greengages into each patty case, and pour some of the syrup over them. Serve cold with a little cream. Note.—Other fruits may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost, 1 d. each. 1570. Ground Rice Tartlets 1 dessert-sp. ground rice. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 egg- h tea-sp. vanilla essence. 1 table-sp. currants. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. wine or brandy. Short crust or other pastry. Line at least a dozen tartlet tins with pastry, but do not bake them. To Make the Mixture.—Mix the ground rice smoothly with the milk, and put them into a small lined saucepan with the butter. Stir over the fire until boiling, and simmer slowly for 5 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the sugar, flavouring, wine or brandy, the currants picked and cleaned, and the egg well beaten. Mix all together, cool slightly, and fill up the tartlet cases. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and the mixture nicely browned. Note.—The currants may be omitted and a little367 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES jam put at the bottom of the tartlets before pouring in the rice mixture. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, \d. each. 1571. Jam Puffs or Turnovers Pastry. [ White of egg. Jam. | Castor sugar. Almost, any pastry may be used for these, or scraps of the same. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and with a round cutter 4 or 5 inches in diameter stamp out rounds. Wet half-way round the edges of these with a little cold water, and put a small portion of jam in the centre of each. Double over and press the edges well together, and mark round with the end of a small tea-spoon. Place the puffs on a greased or wetted baking tin, brush them over with some beaten white of egg or water, and dredge with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and nicely browned. When ready, dredge again with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Notes.—These may be made triangular in shape by cutting the pastry in squares instead of rounds and doubling the pieces over from corner to corner, or round by putting one small round on the top of another with the jam between. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, |d. to Id. each. 1572. Lemon Curd for Cheese Cakes J lb. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 lemons. 2 finger biscuits or 2 table - sps. sponge- cake crumbs. 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. Sieve the sugar on to a plate, grate the lemon rind on the top of it, and work the two together with the knife until of a uniform yellow colour. Then put this sugar into a saucepan with the butter and eggs slightly beaten, and the finger biscuits made into crumbs. Stir all gently over a slow fire until the mixture thickens and becomes like honey. Then pour into jars, and cover tightly with parch- ment paper. If stored in a cool place, this will keep for some time. Note.—This mixture is used instead of jam for tartlets or an open tart. Probable cost, lOd. 1573, Lemon Cheese Cakes, 1 Lemon curd. Pastry. Line some patty tins with pastry and bake them in the oven. When cooked, fill them with lemon curd and return them to the oven to warm through, or they may be served cold. Probable cost, \d. to Id. each according to size and the kind of pastry used. Grate the rind off the lemon on to the top of the sugar, and mix the two together until of a uniform yellow colour. Add this lemon sugar to the butter, and mix it well in. Then add the eggs and flour by degrees, and beat until the mixture looks light and full of air-bubbles. Stir in the baking powder at the last. Put a spoonful of this mixture into each lined patty tin, and bake them in a good moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. When ready, turn the cheese cakes out of the tins, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. 1575. Lemon Cones \ lb. castor sugar. I 3 whites of eggs. 2 lemons. | Short crust. Roll out some short crust to about an eighth of an inch in thickness and cut out rounds about 3 inches in diameter. Lay these on a greased baking sheet and prick them with a fork. Then grate the rind off the lemons and rub it into the sugar. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and add to them the lemon sugar. Pile this lemon meringue mixture on the top of the rounds of pastry in the form of a pyramid, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and the meringue lightly browned. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 to 15 cones. Probable cost, lOd. 1576. Macaroon Cheese Cakes 6 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. sweet almonds (ground). 3 to 4 whites of eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice or 1 tea-sp. orange flower water. Jam. Pastry. Line about a dozen patty tins with pastry, but do not bake them (see p. 362). Then prepare the mixture for filling. Sieve the sugar into a basin, and add the ground almonds to it, with a good squeeze of lemon, or the orange flower water. Then add three to four whites of eggs, according to size, and beat them with a wooden spoon or spatula. The mixture must be Macaroon Cheese Cakes 1574. Lemon Cheese Cakes, 2 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar.' 1 lemon. \ tea-sp. baking powder. Short crust. Line about a dozen small patty tins with short crust, but do not bake them. Then make the mixture. Put the butter into a warm basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft creamy consistency. of a nice creamy consistency. Put a little jam at the foot of each pastry case and fill up with tne almond mixture. Lay two thin strips of pastry across the top, and dredge the tartlets with sugar, which will give them a cracked appearance when baked. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Time to bake, about J hour. Probable cost, 1 d. each.388 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1577. Maids of Honour 1 pt. milk. , y 1 dessert-sp. rennet./ 2 yolks of eggs. \ gill clotted cream. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of cinnamon. Grated rind of J lemon. A pinch of nutmeg. 2 oz. currants. \ glass of brandy. Puff or flaky pastry. Warm the milk slightly, add to it the rennet, and let it stand until a curd has formed. Put it in a coarse cloth on a sieve, and drain for twelve hours. Next day press the curd lightly with the cloth, and then put it in a basin. Add to it the yolks of eggs, sugar, cream, currants well cleaned, brandy, and flavourings, and mix all together. Line some patty pans with some good pastry rolled out rather thinly, and fill them with the above mixture. Bake them in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked, and sprinkle with sugar. Note.—The currants may be replaced by a few blanched and chopped almonds. In some parts of the country the curd can be bought ready made. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 tartlets. Probable cost. Id. each. 1578. Marigold Tartlets Puff or flaky pastry. i Sweet almonds. Apricot jam. | Angelica. Roll out some puff or flaky pastry rather thinly, and stamp it iD rounds with a fluted cutter about 2\ inches in diameter. Place these rounds on a baking tin, prick them with a fork, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked and a pale brown colour. When ready, lift them on to a sieve and let them cool. To finish, put a small tea-spoonful of apricot jam on the centre of each round of pastry. Stick thin shreds of blanched almonds round this to imitate the petals of a mari- gold, and then garnish with a few small leaves of angelica. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, \d. each. 1579. Mince Pies Puff pastry. Mincemeat (see below). Roll out puff pastry to one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and stamp out rounds with a cutter three to four inches in diameter. Fold up the Mince Pies especially for the top of the pies.) Wet round the edge of half the number of rounds with a little cold water, and put a good tea-spoonfxd of mincemeat in the centre of each. Cover with the other rounds of pastry, and press the two edges well together. Make a small hole with a skewer on the top of each pie, brush them over with slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge them with sugar. Place the pies on a wetted baking sheet, and bake in a good oven until the pastry is well risen and nicely browned. When ready, sprinkle again with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 3d. each. 1580. Mincemeat £ lb. suet. | lb. Valencia raisins. | lb. sultana raisins. | lb. currants. | lb. figs. | lb. apples. 1 lb. sugar. 2 table-sps. marmalade. 3 oz. citron peel. 3 oz. lemon peel. 3 oz. orange peel. 6 oz. sweet almonds. 1 dessert - sp. mixed spices. Rind and juice of 2 lemons. 2 glasses of brandy. 1 glass of rum. First prepare the fruit, and as each article is ready put it into a large crock or basin. Pick and clean the currants and sultanas. Stone the raisins, peel and core the apples, and chop these two together with a long sharp knife. Shred the peel finely, and blanch and chop the almonds. Remove the stalks from the figs, wash them in very hot water, and then dry and cut them in small pieces. Add the spice to the fruit, also the suet finely chopped, and the lemon rind grated, and mix thoroughly with the hands. Then add the marmalade, lemon juice, rum and brandy, and mix again. Cover and stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Then mix once more, and pack into pots or jars. Tie a piece of parchment over the top of the pots to make them perfectly air-tight, and keep the mincemeat in a cool place. Do not use for several weeks. Note.—This mincemeat wall keep quite good for a year at least. If it should become rather dry, more wine or spirit may be added. 1581. Orange Hearts Roll out some puff pastry to J inch in thickness and cut it out in small heart-shaped pieces. Lay these on a baking sheet, prick them with a fork and bake them in a good oven until brown and crisp. Then lift them out, and when cool split the pastry open and spread with orange marmalade. Now coat the top of the hearts with a little orange icing without quite covering the pastry, and decorate with thin pieces of orange peel. 1582. Orange Slices (Patisserie d’Orange) 1 orange. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. cornflour. 1£ gills of milk. 2 yolks of'eggs. Puff or flaky pastry. scraps of pastry and roll them out again, cutting out more rounds as before. (The first rounds that are cut out are always the best, so keep them more To make the mixture, add the milk gradually to the cornflour, mixing until smooth. Turn this into a small saucepan, and stir over the fire until369 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES boiling. Grate the rind from the orange and rub it into the sugar. Add this orange sugar to the cornflour with the strained juice and yolks of eggs. Cook the mixture for a minute or two longer over the fire, and then turn it into a basin to cool. Roll out some puff pastry into an oblong-shaped piece and rather thin. Spread one half of it with the above orange mixture, wet round the edges and fold the other piece of pastry over, pressing the two edges well together. Brush over the surface with slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge well with sugar. With a sharp knife cut the pastry into finger-shaped pieces, and place them carefully on a wetted baking tin. Bake in a good oven, and sprinkle again with sugar while still hot. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 to 10 slices. Probable cost, Id. each. 1584. Potato Cheese Cakes 3 oz. castor sugar. Rind and juice of 1 orange. Rind and juice of i lemon. 3 oz. cooked and sieved potato. 2 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 white of egg. Short crust. Grate the rind from one orange and half a lemon, and rub it well into the sugar. Then cream the butter in a basin, add the potato sugar and yolks of eggs, then the orange and lemon juice, and lastly the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Line some patty tins with pastry, three-quarters fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well risen. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 to 15 cheese cakes. Probable cost, 9d. or lOd. 1583. Orange Tartlets (Petites Tartes d’Orange) Short crust. 1 large orange. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz, castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. 3 yolks of eggs. Line six or eight patty pans with short crust, and bake them in a quick oven until the pastry is just set. Meanwhile prepare the mixture for filling them. Grate the rind from the orange and reserve it. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the sugar, the strained juice of the orange, yolks of eggs, and brandy. Mix well for a few minutes, add the orange rind, and stir four or five minutes longer. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture and bake in a moderate oven until set. Take out, leave till cold, then serve either with or without a little whipped cream on the top. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. to ljd. each. 1585. Strawberry, Raspberry, or Red Currant Tartlets (Tartelettes de Fruits) \ pt. fruit. A little liqueur or any fruit syrup. | lb. sugar. 1 doz. tartlet cases. J gill water. Choose nice ripe fruit, pick it, and put it into a basin. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them to a syrup, but do not let them colour. Add a little liqueur, or some fruit syrup or essence to flavour. Pour this syrup over the fruit, and stand in a warm place for half hour. Then lift out the fruit carefully, place it in ready cooked tartlet cases, and pour one or two tea- spoonfuls of the syrup over. Serve either hot or cold. A spoonful of whipped cream may be put on the top of each just before serving. Note.—Nice ripe cherries may be used in the same way, but they must be stoned. Probable cost. Is.RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES Rice and macaroni are two of our most useful articles of food, and although, thanks to the spread of vege- tarian cookery in this country, they are gaining in popularity, they might still be used to a greater extent, and especially by those who avoid meat in any quantity. Special attention has been paid to them in this section, and that rice can be served in other ways than as a mere adjunct to curry, and macaroni in other forms than the well-known macaroni and cheese, the following pages will show. Many simple and savoury ways of cooking both macaroni and rice are here explained. Within recent years nuts have entered largely into the field of cookery, and in modern vegetarian cookery in particular they play an important part. They can be utilised in the making of many tasty dishes, which require only to be tasted to be appreciated, and the recipes here given will no doubt be suggestive of many others. PART I RICE DISHES the rack above the fire, or on a plate in a moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly with a fork every now and then, to keep the grains separate. RICE There are many different kinds of rice ; those that are best known being the Carolina, Patna, Java, and Rangoon. Patna rice, which is large and pointed in shape, is the best kind for curry, as it is white in colour and retains its form when cooked. Carolina rice is one of the finest and most expensive varieties, and is the best for puddings and shapes. Cooked with milk it is very rich and creamy. Un- polished rice is now considered the best and most hygienic kind to buy, as the process of polishing deprives rice of many of its nutritive properties. Paddy, which is rice with the husk left on, is the most nourishing kind of all. We also get ground rice in different forms, such as ground rice, flour of rice or cream of rice, flaked rice, &c. Rice is one of the most valuable of our starchy foods, and one which is very easily digested. It is also cheap and easily prepared, and lends itself readily to variety in treatment. It is best when eaten along with other food, such as meat, fish, cheese, beans, eggs, &c. 1587. Rice with Cheese 3 oz. rice. 1 gill water, i 3 to 4 oz. grated cheese. 3 gills milk. | 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Wash the rice and put it into a saucepan with the water. Bring to the boil and simmer until this water is absorbed. Then add the milk and butter, and cook again until the rice is quite soft and tender, stirring occasionally. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, add most of the cheese, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Now put the rice mixture into a fireproof dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and brown in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Note.—A beaten egg may be added to the mix- ture if wished. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 1588. Rice with Chestnuts \ lb. rice. I Seasoning. | lb. shelled chestnuts. | 1 oz. butter. Stock. 1586. Rice, To Boil for Curries Patna rice is the best to use for curries. It is a long, slender grain, pointed at the ends. Well wash it in several waters until the last water that is poured off looks quite clean. Have ready on the fire a saucepan, three parts full of freshly boiling water, add salt to it in the proportion of one dessert- spoonful to a quart, and throw the rice into this. Boil quickly with the lid off, stirring it frequently with a fork to prevent its sticking to the pan, and also that it may get well tossed about with the water. Cook from 12 to 15 minutes, or until the grains will rub down easily, when one is tested between the finger and thumb. Then strain through a sieve or strainer, run some boiling water over the rice to separate the grains, and dry it, either by putting it back into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or by leaving it on the sieve, which may be placed on Remove the shell and inner brown skin from the chestnuts (Recipe 1625). Wash the rice, put it into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, and strain. Return the rice to the stew- pan, add the butter and chestnuts, and pour in enough stock to cover. Season to taste with pepper and salt, bring to the boil, and then stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until both rice and chestnuts are tender and the stock absorbed. Time to cook, § hour. Probable cost, 10d. 1589. Curried Rice 1 cupful Patna rice. 1 onion. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. curry powder 1 pt. light stock. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of sugar. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Peel the onion and cut it in thin slices or chop it. Melt the butter (or beef dripping may be used) inRICE, MACARONI, a saucepan, put in the prepared onion, and cook it a few minutes, but without allowing it to brown. Then add the rice, well washed and drained, and the curry powder, and stir these ingredients over the fire until the butter is absorbed. Add the stock, sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Now cook by the side of the fire until the rice is tender, stirring occasionally. Add the lemon juice at the last, and use as required. This makes a very good accom- paniment to various meat and vegetable dishes. Time to cook, \ to § hour. Probable cost, 8d. 1590. Devilled Rice J lb. rice. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. Salt. Black pepper. A pinch of cayenne. Boil the rice as for curry and drain it well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely minced, and cook it over the fire until a light brown colour. Then put in the rice, sprinkle it with the curry powder and other seasonings, and stir all together over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Serve very hot by itself, or as an accom- paniment to grilled meats of any kind. Probable cost, 4d. 6 oz. rice. 3 hard-boiled eggs. h pt. white sauce. 3 tab. -sps. chopped celery 1591. Rice and Egg Pie Seasoning. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Boil the rice dry as for curry and cut the hard- boiled eggs in slices. Chop a little crisp celery and prepare the white sauce (Recipe 671). Then take a greased pie dish, or fireproof dish, and put into it the different ingredients in layers, keeping the bread-crumbs for the top. Cover the pie with these, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly hot and nicely browned. Serve garnished with a few sprigs of parsley. Note.—If celery is not in season, some chopped nuts, chopped mushrooms, ham, or grated cheese may be used in its place. Probable cost, 9d. 1592. Neapolitan Rice (Riz a la Napolitaine) £ lb. Patna rice. I 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 tomatoes. I 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper Boil the rice as for curry and make it very dry. Slice the tomatoes and rub them through a sieve (tinned tomatoes may be used for this) and grate the cheese. Melt the butter in a saucepan and put in the rice, mix well, season with pepper and salt, and add sufficient tomato puree to moisten the rice without making it too liquid. Add the cheese, which should not be too strong in flavour, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 4d. 1593. Rice and Nuts | lb. rice. | lb. mixed nuts. 2 or 3 table-sps. tomato sauce. Salt. Pepper. A few bread-crumbs. A little butter. Cook the rice as for curry and drain it well. Chop the nuts, but not too finely. Then take a AND NUT DISHES 371 fireproof baking dish, grease it, and arrange in it the nuts and rice in alternate layers. Have ready some well-seasoned tomato sauce, and pour it over the top to entirely cover the rice, &c. Sprinkle some fine bread-crumbs over, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 1594. Rice Pilaff or Pilau 6 oz. rice. 1J oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 pt. light stock. A pinch of saffron. Seasoning. 2 doz. stoned raisins. 1 doz. shred almonds. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and cook it a minute or two. Add the rice well washed, but quite dry, and stir with a spoon until it is well coated with the butter, but not brown. Add the stock, saffron, almonds, raisins, and seasoning, cover the saucepan and cook in a moderate oven about £ an hour. When the rice is tender without being broken, add the re- mainder of the butter broken in small pieces, and mix all lightly with a fork. This may be served by itself or as an accompaniment to some meat dishes. Hard-boiled eggs or broiled mushrooms may be used as a garnish. Probable cost, 8d. £ lb. rice. 1 gill picked shrimps. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1595. Rice with Shrimps 1 tea-sp. chutney. Stock. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. grated cheese 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Wash the rice in several waters, and put it into a stewpan with the shrimps, curry powder, and chutney. Mix well and pour in enough stock to cover the ingredients. Season to taste and bring to the boil. Then cover and stew slowly until the rice is cooked and the stock all absorbed. Add the cheese (if liked), pile up on a hct dish, and sprinkle the parsley over. A few extra shrimps warmed in butter may be used as a garnish. Time to cook, f hour. Probable cost, 10d. 1596. Risotto 6 oz. rice. 1 onion. 2 oz. butter. A pinch of saffron. 1 pt. stock. 2 oz. grated cheese. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and fry it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Wash and dry the rice, add it to the onion and butter, and cook it a few minutes, being very careful it does not burn. Then stir in a very little powdered saffron and add the stock. Simmer all slowly until the rice is tender and the stock nearly absorbed. The mix- ture must be stirred occasionally to prevent its sticking. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and, a minute or two before serving, stir in the grated cheese and the remainder of the butter. Serve very hot. Note.—A few chopped mushrooms may be added to the rice if wished. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, lOd.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 372 1597. Risotto with Tomatoes (Risotto it la Pldmontaise) 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-cupful rice. 3 tea-cupfuls stock. 3 table-sps. grated cheese 3 table-sps. puree of tomato. Seasoning. A small bunch of herbs. Put the chopped onion into a- saucepan with the butter and cook it for a few minutes without allow- ing it to brown. Add the rice and cook a minute or two longer ; this will slightly harden the rice on the outside and prevent it from breaking, without interfering with its swelling. Add stock, tomato pur6e, bunch of herbs, and seasoning, cover with greased paper or the saucepan lid, and cook in the oven. Stir with a fork, and add the grated cheese at the last. Remove the bunch of herbs before serving. A pinch of saffron may be added. Time to cook, about 25 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1598. Savoury Baked Rice 3 oz. rice. 1 gill of water. \ pt. of milk. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. A little made mustard. 1 table-sp. browed bread-crumbs. Wash the rice, and put it into a saucepan with the water and butter; bring it to the boil, and cook for 10 minutes. Then add the milk and seasonings, and simmer slowly until the rice is quite soft, and has absorbed all the milk. Stir occasionally to prevent the mixture burning. When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and add one or two eggs well beaten, and nearly all the cheese. Mix thoroughly, and taste if well seasoned. Mix the remainder of the cheese with the bread-crumbs, coat the inside of a well-greased mould or basin with them, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Note.—A little brow or tomato sauce may be poured round. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, 6d. 1599. Savoury Rice Croquettes | lb. rice. | pt. light stock. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. cream or white sauce. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and allow it to boil 5 minutes. Then drain and rinse with cold water. Return the rice to the saucepan, add the stock and butter, and simmer slowly until the rice is quite tender and the stock absorbed. The rice must be stirred occasionally to prevent its sticking to the saucepan. When ready, add the cheese and white sauce or cream, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Spread the mixture on a flat plate, and set it aside to cool. When cold and firm, divide it into small equal-sized pieces, and make these into rolls with the help of a little flour. Then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249) and fry in boiling fat to a nice brow colour. Drain and serve piled up on a hot dish. Note.—Milk may be used instead of stock, and chopped ham or tongue instead of cheese. Sufficient for 10 to 12 croquettes. Probable cost. Id. 1600. Border of Rice \ lb. rice. 1 pt. white stock. 1 egg- \ oz. butter. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash the rice well in several waters and then put it into a saucepan with the white stock, or, if no stock is available, use milk and water. Add the butter and seasoning, and simmer slowly until the rice is soft and has absorbed all the liquid. Stir occasionally to prevent the rice sticking to the pan. When ready, remove the pan from the fire and add the egg well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well- Border Moulds greased border mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Then lift it from the pan, allow it to stand a few minutes, and turn out on a hot dish. The centre can be filled with a ragout of meat or vegetables, and sauce may be poured round. 1601. Rice Croustades Make the same rice mixture as in last recipe, cooking the rice in the stock until thick and pulpy. Add the beaten egg, and cook again for a minute or two, stirring all the time. Then spread the mixture on a greased plate and let it cool. When firm to the touch, divide it into pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, and roll these into balls, using a little flour. Now egg and bread-crumb these balls, and flatten them slightly to make them stand. Make an incision on the top of each with a small round cutter in order to form a lid, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, remove the little lids, and hollow out the centre with a tea-spoon. These rice croustades or cases may be filled with any savoury mince or ragout, when they will make a nice entree or luncheon dish A little grated cheese may be added to the rice mixture if wished. Croustades of semolina could be made in the same way. 1602. Border of Rice with Green Peas Cooked green peas. I A rice border. Brown or tomato sauce. I Make a rice border as directed above, and have ready a large cupful of cooked green peas, or tinned peas may be used. Make the peas thor- oughly hot in enough brown or tomato sauce to moisten them, turn out the rice border, and serve the peas in the centre and round.373 RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 1603. Croustades ol Rice with Cheese 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. $ oz. butter. 2 tab'e-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. Rice croustades. Make 6 or 7 rice croustades as directed in Recipe 1601, and, when they are cooked and ready, prepare the egg mixture for filling them. Beat the eggs until light and frothy, adding to them the milk or cream. Melt the butter in a small saucepan or frying pan, pour in the eggs, and stir quickly until they are just beginning to thicken, then add the cheese and seasoning, and cook a minute longer, until of a thick creamy consistency. Fill the rice cases with this mixture, put on the covers, and servo very hot garnished with a little parsley. 1604. Rice Timbales \ lb. rice. I Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 pt. milk or broth. | 2 yolks of eggs. Wash the rice, put it into a double cooker with the milk or broth, the butter and seasoning. Cook until the rice is perfectly soft and all the liquid absorbed. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolks of eggs. Have ready some small greased timbale or dariole moulds, fill them with the rice mixture, place them in a tin with hot water to reach half-way up, and bake them in the oven about 12 minutes, or until firm to the touch. Then unmould and serve the timbales by them- selves, or as a garnish for meat dishes. Note.—The mixture may be made more savoury by adding to it a little curry powder, grated ham or tongue, or a little tomato sauce. Sufficient for 7 or 8 timbales. 1605. Puffed Rice This can be bought ready prepared in packets, and is very good served with soup instead of toast or croutons. It can also be eaten with jam or syrup and a little cream or milk. The required quantity of puffed rice should be put on a tin and made thoroughly crisp in the oven. It requires no further cooking. Serve it hot. PART II MACARONI DISHES MACARONI AND OTHER ITALIAN PASTES Macaroni and the other forms of Italian paste are all made from a special variety of wheat flour formed into a paste with boiling water and then worked up by machinery into various shapes and forms. Its origin is Italian, but it is now made in almost every country in Europe, although our supplies come chiefly from Italy and France, and the finest macaroni is still the Neapolitan. There are many different forms of macaroni, as for instance, the long straight pipes in various sizes, a small pipe sometimes twisted into little coils; a, still finer make known as spaghetti, which is very light and easily digested; and vermicelli, often looking like little twisted threads, Then there are also flat ribbons going under different names, and many small fancy varieties, such as stars, crosses. Macaroni (Fancy Shapes) discs, rings, letters, and other designs, the pates d’ltalie or pastincs so much used for garnishing soup. The mode of treatment is practically the same for all, some requiring longer to cook than others. Macaroni should only be cooked until tender, but not soft and pulpy. Care must be taken to choose macaroni of good quality, the inferior makes are not economical and not satisfactory. The best macaroni has a trans- lucent appearance and is of a light yellowish colour. It is rough and firm in texture, and swells to about double its original size when boiled. It will keep well when stored. The inferior makes are either of a dull greyish colour or they are coloured up with saffron to give them a yellow appearance. They do not swell much in boiling, and become mouldy if kept for any length of time. As a food macaroni is very valuable on account of its high nutritive value, wholesomeness, and cheap- ness, and it is to be regretted that it is not more used in this country than it is at present. Speaking about macaroni and rice. Sir Henry Thompson, in his book Food and Feeding, says : “ It is to be lamented that so little use is made in our country of the Italian pastes, especially of macaroni in all its forms, and that rice, largely used as it is, is not so well cooked, and therefore not so highly appreciated among the upper and middle classes as it deserves to be. The mention of maca- roni conveys to nineteen out of twenty Englishmen, as it does also to our cooks, the idea of an indiges- tible mess, containing much toasted cheese and butter, well peppered and over-baked, which, is sometimes served at the end of dinner as a savoury to complete the repast. In this form it ought rarely if ever to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment containing much nutritious matter, when made from selected growths of wheat contain- ing more gluten than the average grain used for bread. Most people, especially in summer, will find it a good substitute for the tough fibres of meat, particularly at lunch or midday meals, when their employments demand continuous atten- tion during the whole of a long afternoon. If properly cooked, it sustains the power without taxing too much the digestion, or rendering the individual heavy, sleepy, and incompetent after- wards.” Macaroni can be used for various purposes, i.e. as a garnish for soup, as an accompaniment to meat or fish, as a sweet pudding or savoury, and374 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD in a more elaborate form as an entree. It is per- haps most popular prepared with cheese, and it is this dish which supplies to a large extent the bread and meat of the Italian peasant. There are, however, many other ways of serving macaroni in its diSerent forms, and it is to bo hoped that the following recipes will suggest still more. For those who cannot digest the larger forms, the finer kinds, such as spaghetti, vermicelli, and the various pastines should be tried; these are exceedingly light and digestible, and may be given with safety even to young children and invalids. 1606. Macaroni, to Boil Although this is a very simple process, it requires a certain amount of care. Wipe the macaroni with a clean dry cloth, but never on any account wash or soak it. Have ready on the fire a saucepan with plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Break up the macaroni if necessary and throw it into this. Cook quickly with the fid off the pan, stirring from time to time to prevent the macaroni sticking, and never allowing the water to go off the boil. The time required will depend on the kind of macaroni used, and also somewhat upon individual taste, some preferring it better done than others. For most tastes it is sufficiently cooked when it can be pinched easily between the fingers, and on no account must it be allowed to remain in the water until it becomes soft and pappy. Drain the maca- roni in a colander or sieve, and shake out as much of the water as possible. It is then ready to serve in many different ways. 1607. Macaroni, Plainly Served \ lb. macaroni. | 1 gill milk. 2 oz. butter. | Seasoning. Boil the macaroni as directed above, then turn it into a very hot vegetable dish and season it with white pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk to it and bring to the boil. Pour this over the macaroni and mix lightly with two forks. Serve as an accompaniment to meat. Note.—The substitution of 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream for some of the milk would be amimprove- ment. Time to boil, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 1608. Macaroni with White Sauce (Macaroni a la Creme) £ lb. macaroni. Seasoning. £ pt. white sauce. Boil the macaroni until tender (see above), drain it, and cut it in pieces about 1 inch in length. Make £ pint of good white sauce (Recipe 671), add the macaroni to it, and season to taste. Cook for a few minutes by the side of the fire and serve as an accompaniment to meat. This makes a very good dish for a children’s dinner. The addition of I or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream will improve the dish. Note.—If preferred, some grated cheese may be added to the sauce, and the dish finished off with a coating of cheese on the top, as in Macaroni au Gratin. It may then be served as a luncheon or supper dish. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 1609. Macaroni and Cheese (Macaroni au Gratin) \ lb. macaroni. 2 oz. butter. £ lb. grated cheese. A little made mustard. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs Boil the macaroni as directed in Recipe 1606, and drain it well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix into it a little made mustard, add the macaroni and most of the cheese, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Toss all together over the fire until thoroughly mixed, and then turn the mixture into a greased fireproof dish. Mix the bread-crumbs with the remainder of the cheese and sprinkle them over the top. Pour over a little melted butter, or lay some on in small pieces, and brown in the oven or under the gas grill. Serve very hot. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. 1610. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes 2 oz. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or stock. 1 yolk of egg. A little made mustard. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Boil the macaroni as in Recipe 1606, drain it, and let it dry for a short time. Then chop it finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix together until smooth. Then pour in the milk, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the macaroni, grated cheese, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix all together, and turn out on a plate. Smooth the mixture over with a wetted knife, and set aside to cool. Then divide it into 8 or 10 equal-sized pieces, and form each portion into a cutlet shape, using a little flour to prevent the mixture from sticking to the board. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown. Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of uncooked macaroni into the end of each to imitate the bone. Dish in a circle on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—Finely-chopped ham and a little parsley may be used in place of the cheese if preferred. Tomato sauce may be served separately. Probable cost, 7d. 1611. Macaroni au Gratin | lb. macaroni. 1 pt. white stock. 1 onion. 2 cloves. Seasoning. A small bunch of herbs. 4 to 6 oz. grated Gruyere cheese. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Put the stock into a stewpan with the onion stuck with cloves, and a small bunch of herbs. Bring to the boil and throw in the macaroni broken in small pieces. Cook until the macaroni is tender and the stock absorbed, adding more stock or a little water if necessary. When ready, remove the onion and herbs, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Then grease a fireproof dish, and put into it a layer of macaroni and a layer of grated cheese alternately,RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 375 until all are used up. The last layer should be cheese. Cover with the bread-crumbs, put some small pieces of butter here and there on the top, and place in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly hot through. Serve with fingers of dry toast or small slices of brown bread and butter. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 1612. Macaroni with Green Peas 1 lb. macaroni. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 large cupful green peas £ tea-sp. ground ginger. A sprig of mint. A little butter. 4oz. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onions. 1 dessert-sp. flour. £ pt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. tomato ketchup or 1 fresh tomato. Seasoning. 1614. Macaroni a l’ltalienne (Macaroni & l’ltalienne) 6 oz. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. chopped pickles £ pt. tomato sauce or puree. 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. 3 oz. grated cheese. £ tea-sp. sugar. Salt. Pepper. Break the macaroni in small pieces, boil it as directed in Recipe 1606, and drain well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion, and cook for a few minutes without browning. Add the tomato sauce or a puree from tinned tomatoes, also the chopped mushrooms and pickles, and seasoning to taste. Simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Grease a fireproof dish, put into it first a layer of the macaroni and sprinkle it with cheese; then some of the sauce, more macaroni and cheese, and so on until all are in. The last layer should be sauce with a little cheese sprinkled on the top. Brown in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove and serve very hot. Note.—The cheese may be omitted if preferred Probable cost, 9d. 1615. 2 oz. macaroni. 6 oz. cooked ham. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 eggs. Seasoning. Macaroni and Ham Cake 2 table-sps. melted butter. A few browned bread- crumbs. Cook the macaroni as directed in Recipe 1606, and cut it in short lengths. Then mix it in a sauce- pan with the grated cheese and butter, and season with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Heat slowly until the cheese is melted and the mixture is thoroughly hot. Cook the peas in boiling salted water with a sprig of mint, drain them, and then toss them in a saucepan with a small piece of butter, the ground ginger, pepper, and salt. Arrange the macaroni in a circle on a hot dish and pile the green peas in the centre. Probable cost, Id. to 9c?. 1613. Stewed Macaroni (Macaroni au Jns) Cook the macaroni in salted water until tender, drain it, and cut it in small pieces or chop it roughly. Add to it the ham finely chopped, grated cheese, and melted butter. Mix all together, seasoning with pepper and a little made mustard. Now stir in the yolks of the eggs thoroughly, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiS froth. Have ready a plain mould greased and coated with brown bread- crumbs, pour the mixture into this (it should about three-parts fill the mould) cover with greased paper, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with mushroom, tomato, or any other suitable sauce. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost, Is. 1646. Macaroni and Ham Pie 6 oz. macaroni. 3 oz. cooked ham. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 cupful milk. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Cook the macaroni for 10 minutes in boiling salted water, then drain and cut it in pieces about an inch in length. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion, and cook it for a few minutes without browning. Add the flour and mix it in smoothly, then pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and tomato ketchup, or a fresh tomato cut in pieces and rubbed through a sieve. The flavouring may be varied to suit individual taste. Put the macaroni into this sauce and let it stew very slowly by the side of the fire until it is quite tender. Serve in a hot dish, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over. Time to stew, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 8d. Cook the macaroni as directed in Recipe 1606, drain it, and cut it in small pieces. Chop the ham and grate the required amount of cheese. Now arrange these ingredients in a greased pie dish in layers, reserving a little cheese for the top. Beat up one or two eggs, add the milk and a little white pepper, and strain this over the pie. Sprinkle with the cheese, lay the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about £ hour. Probable cost, 10c?. 1617. Macaroni and Walnut Scallops tomato sauce. Salt. Pepper. A few bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. 2 oz. macaroni. 3 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 2 table-sps. brown or Cook the macaroni and cut it into £ inch lengths Roast the walnuts for a few minutes and chop them moderately fine. Mix these two together with the sauce, parsley, and seasoning. Then grease out a few scallop shells and sprinkle them with bread- crumbs. Fill them with the mixture, sprinkle with more bread-crumbs, and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned on the top. Probable cost, Qd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 scallops. 1618. Macaroni & la Milanaise 6 oz. fine macaroni or spaghetti. 1 lb. fresh mushrooms. 2 oz. cooked ham. 2 oz. cooked tongue. Seasoning. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato puree or sauce. 1 or 2 truffles. 1 glass white wine or stock. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 3 oz. grated cheese. Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water or stock until tender, drain it well, and cut in short lengths.376 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Wash and peel the mushrooms and cut them in fine shreds. Put them into a saucepan with half the butter and cook them a few minutes over the fire, then add the ham, tongue, and truffle all cut in shreds, moisten with the stock or wine and simmer a few minutes longer. Now add the macaroni with the tomato puree or sauce, season if necessary, and cook again until nearly dry. When ready, add the remainder of the butter mixed with the flour, and this will bind the mixture together. Stir with a fork until cooked, and add the cheese last of all and oS the fire. The mixture must on no account boil after the cheese has been added. Serve in a hot dish, or use as a garnish to meat. 1619. Stewed Spaghetti \ lb. spaghetti. 1 oz. butter. 3 gills veal or chicken Pepper. Salt. broth. Break the spaghetti in pieces and put it into a saucepan with the broth or any good light stock. Allow it to simmer slowly until soft, and until the liquid is nearly all absorbed. Then add the butter, and season to taste. Serve in a hot vegetable dish as an accompaniment to roast or boiled meat. Notes.—The sieved pulp of one or two tomatoes may be added for a variety. Or, if a little grated cheese is added and poached eggs served on the top it will make a very good luncheon or supper dish. Time to stew, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 1620. Spaghetti with Bacon i lb. spaghetti. I 1 dessert -sp. parsley. | lb. bacon. \ pt. stock. | Pepper. Break the spaghetti in pieces, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil it quickly for 10 minutes. Then strain off the water, add the stock, and simmer slowly until the spaghetti is tender and all the stock absorbed. Cut the bacon in thin strips and cook it a few minutes in a frying pan. Add it to the cooked spaghetti, along with 1 dessert-spoonful chopped parsley and a seasoning of pepper. Serve very hot. Probable cost, 8d. 1621. Spaghetti & l’ltalienne 3 oz. spaghetti. 1 gill tomato sauce. Warm water. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. Break the spaghetti in pieces and put it into a saucepan with warm water to cover it, and the butter. Simmer slowly until quite tender, adding more water if necessary. When sufficiently cooked and the water is nearly all absorbed, add the tomato sauce and season to taste. Cook a few minutes longer, adding the grated cheese at the last. Pour the mixture into a hot dish and garnish with small pieces of toast or croutons of fried bread. Probable cost, 6d. 1622. Spaghetti Rarebit 3 oz. spaghetti. | lb. Cheddar cheese. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. Break the spaghetti in small pieces, cook it in boiling water until tender, and strain. Beat up \ tea-cupful milk or cream. Seasoning. the yolks of eggs with the milk or cream, and grate or shred the cheese. Then put into a fined or earthenware saucepan the butter, cheese, and spag- hetti, and heat them carefully over the fire. Add the liquid, season to taste, and stir again until the mixture is thoroughly hot and the cheese melted. Care must be taken that it does not boil. Serve very hot with sippets of dry toast. Note.—Macaroni may be used instead of spaghetti. Probable cost, 8d. 1623. Noodles or Nouilles | lb. flour. I - A pinch of salt. 1 yolk of egg. | A little milk or water. These are made of nouille paste, a home-made form of macaroni. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, add the yolk slightly beaten and enough milk or water to make a stiff paste. It should be kept rather firm. Knead it well on a baking board until it no longer sticks to the hands, wrap it up in a floured cloth and let it fie at least \ an hour. Then roll out the paste very thinly on a floured board and cut in strips about 1 \ inches wide. Place three or four strips one on the top of the other, and cut them across in shreds. Shake these apart, place them on a floured tin or board, and let them dry. If not required at once, these can be stored in an air-tight box. To cook the nouilles, throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water and boil about 10 minutes, then drain. These can either be used as a garnish for soup or in place of macaroni in many other dishes. PART III NUT DISHES NUTS AND THEIR VALUE Nuts of various kinds are now becoming quite a popular food. Societies are springing up everywhere recommending the use of vegetable foods, and of nuts and fruit in particular ; not only as an adjunct to our dessert course, but as an important part of our diet. Nuts are among the most nourishing of our vege- table foods, along with potatoes they are said to have been the principal diet of the monks in many of the old monasteries, while there is no doubt they played a very important part in the food of primi- tive man. To those who-adopt an entirely vegetarian diet nuts are almost indispensable ; containing as they do a large amount of proteid matter, which is valuable for building up the tissues and enriching the blood, they form a good substitute for meat, besides being able to supply the necessary milk and oil. Then again, they are not only nutritious and palatable, but are easy of digestion if carefully prepared and thoroughly masticated. The food value of nuts is often under-estimated by English people, and they are declared to be indigestible, but this is largely owing to their being served as dessert when the appetite has already been satisfied. A highly nutritious food of this kind, added to an already substantial meal, is quiteRICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 377 likely to prove too much for a not overstrong digestion, although two or three carefully blanched and dried almonds, eaten at the end of a meal, will sometimes aid digestion. Another reason for the indigestibility of nuts lies in their being rapidly eaten and insufficiently masti- cated. For this reason vegetarians very often grind them; in fact for those who go in for nut cookery to any extent a nut-mill will be found invaluable. The price of this little machine is from Is. 6d. upwards, and if the nuts are first slightly roasted and then ground, they are more likely to have a good flavour than those bought in the ground form. There is quite a variety of nuts now on the market, both shelled and unshelled, such as almonds. 1. Sapucaia Nut. 2. Walnut. 8. Brazil Nut. 4. Peccan. 5. Almond. 6. Barcelona. 7. Chestnut. Barcelona, Brazil and Cashew nuts, chestnuts, cocoanuts, hazel nuts or filberts, pea nuts, peccans, pine nuts or pignolias, pistachios, sapucaia nuts. I 3 1. Filbert. j 8. Pea Nuts. 2. Pine Nuts or Pignolias. I 4. Cashew Nuts. walnuts, &c. All these may be eaten in their natural state, besides being suitable for cooking, with the exception of the chestnut, which, owing to the large amount of starch it contains, must always ba cooked. There are also various nut foods to be had from the different nut-food specialists, along with special recipes for their use, and several kinds of nut butter, which form very good frying media. 1624. Chestnuts, To Boil (Marrons) Wash the chestnuts, make a slit with a knife in the shell of each and throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil them quickly from 20 to 30 minutes, or until they are quite tender, and then drain. They may now be served very simply as they are, in a folded serviette with pats of butter handed separately, when they wall form a nice relish for a family supper party. If, however, they are to be served as a vegetable, remove the outside shell and brown inner skin, season them lightly with pepper and salt, and toss them in a little butter over the fire. Serve them very hot. Note.—Chestnuts make a very good substitute for potatoes, and are a nice change. 1625. Chestnuts in Brown Sauce (Marrons a 1’EspagnoIe) 1J lbs. chestnuts. J pt. brown sauce. To Prepare the Chestnuts.—First remove the outer shell and the inner brown skin from the chestnuts. There are different ways of doing this : (1) Wash the chestnuts, make a small slit in the rounded side of each with the point of a knife, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil, and boil 2 or 3 minutes. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep them warm without boiling. Take a few at a time from the water and with the point of a knife remove the two skins. An old saucepan should be used for this, as the chestnuts cause discoloration. (2) Make a slit in the side of the chestnuts to prevent their bursting, and put them on a tin in the oven for 8 or 10 minutes. Then take out a few at a time and remove the skins with the point of a knife. Care must be taken that the chestnuts do not brown, especially for certain dishes; so, if the oven is very hot, put a little water in the tin to avoid this. The skins can be removed most easily when the chestnuts are very hot; it is better, therefore, when a large quantity is required, to prepare only a few of them at a time. Have ready | pint brown sauce, put the prepared chestnuts into this and let them stew until tender. Note.—Other sauces may be used in the same way. Time to stew, | hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1626. Chestnuts with Parsley Sauce 1 lb. chestnuts. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. Pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare and boil the chestnuts as directed above, and remove from them the outer and inner skins. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts, sprinkle them with the flour, and cook a few minutes without allowing the contents to brown. Then add the milk and seasonings, and stir until smooth. Cook for a few minutes, then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the378 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD yolk of egg and parsley. Serve at once in a hot dish. Probable cost, 6d. 1627. Chestnut Croquettes (Croquettes de Marrons) Take some cooked chestnuts, shell and peel them and rub them through a sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan, season with pepper and salt, add a small piece of butter, and moisten with enough milk or stock to make a thickish paste. Beat well until perfectly smooth, and turn on to a plate to cool. Then divide the paste into small pieces the size of a chestnut, and form them with a little flour into the shape of the nut. Now egg and bread- crumb them and fry in boiling fat. These cro- quettes can also be made with the prepared chest- nut meal, now sold in packets. Moisten the meal with enough milk or stock to make it of the proper consistency, and cook it for a few minutes over the fire, seasoning with pepper and salt and adding a small piece of butter at the last. Then cool and proceed as above. 1628. Purge of Chestnuts (Purge de Marrons) 1J lbs. chestnuts. i 1 pt. light stock. 1 oz. butter. | Seasoning. Prepare the chestnuts as in Recipe 1625, remov- ing the outer and inner skins. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and stock and let them stew slowly until they are quite tender. Then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve and return the purge to the saucepan to re-heat, adding season- ing to taste. The addition of a little cream is an improvement. Note.—This may be served as an accompaniment to roast meat or as a garnish for entrees. then put them through the nut-mill, or chop them finely. Melt 1 oz. butter or other fat in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes without browning. Add the bread-crumbs, grated cheese (reserving 1 table-spoonful) the grated rind and strained juice of £ lemon, pepper and salt. Mix together and then moisten with the egg well beaten and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk. Put the mixture into a well-greased baking dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot, garnished with a little parsley. Note.—The egg may be omitted and a little tomato puree used instead of the milk. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 1631. Potato and Nut Roll 2 cupfuls cooked pota- toes. £ cupful chopped nuts. | cupful chopped celery. Salt. Pepper. 1 egg or a little milk. Melted butter. Mash or sieve the potatoes and add to them £ cupful of chopped walnuts, peccans, or other nuts. Prepare also £ cupful of the white part of celery finely chopped, and mix it with the potatoes and nuts. Season with pepper and salt and bind all together with beaten egg or a little milk. Form into a roll and place this on a greased tin. Pour over a little melted butter, and bake in a good oven until brown, basting occasionally with the butter. When ready, lift carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with brown or tomato sauce poured round. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 1632. Nut and Potato Rissoles 1629. Savoury Chestnut Cake 1 lb. chestnuts. 2 or 3 table-sps. white sauce. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. £ tea-sp. powdered herbs 1 egg. Salt. Pepper. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. A little butter. Either bake or boil the chestnuts, remove the outer and inner skins and rub them through a sieve. Then add to the sieved chestnut the chopped parsley and onion, herbs and seasoning. Mix to- gether and moisten with an egg well beaten and some good white sauce. Grease a plain mould or basin and coat it with fine brown bread-crumbs. Fill up with the chestnut mixture and cover with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and serve with tomato or any other suitable sauce poured round. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, lOd. 1630. Nut and £ lb. nuts. £ lb. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 egg. 1 oz. butter or fat. Cheese Pudding 1 table-sp. chopped onion. £ lemon. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. Walnuts or a mixture of nuts is the best to use for this. Toast them a few minutes in the oven, 2 tea-cupfuls cooked potatoes. 1 tea-cupful mixed nuts. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp. white or tomato sauce. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Roast the nuts slightly and put them through the mill, or chop them finely. Sieve the potatoes and mix nuts and potatoes together. Add the yolk of egg and seasoning to taste, and bind all together with a little tomato or white sauce. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it stand for a short time in a cool place. Then form into small balls with the help of a little flour, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Probable cost. Id. or 8d. 1633. Nut Souffld £ cupful bread-crumbs. 1 cupful mixed nuts. 1 cupful milk. 2 eggs. A little celery. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper. Salt. Put the bread-crumbs and milk into a saucepan, and cook them over the fire until perfectly smooth. Then remove the pan from the fire and add the nuts, a small piece of celery finely chopped, the parsley and seasoning. Mix well, and stir in the yolks of eggs. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish, sprinkle theRICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 379 top with ground nuts, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve as quickly as possible. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 1634. Nut Butter 1635. Walnut Roast 4 table-sps. ground wal- nuts. 4 table-sps. cooked un- polished rice. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 2 eggs. A pinch of mace. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Almost any kind of nut may be used for this, such as almond, Brazil, pea nuts, or pine nuts, but Brazil nuts are perhaps the best. Remove all shell and brown skin from the nuts, and if they are at all damp, dry them in a very moderate oven. Then grind them in a nut-mill and pound to a smooth paste with a pestle and mortar. If wished sweet, a little honey may be added. Pack the butter into jars and use in place of ordinary butter. The rice must be well cooked and dry. Add to it the bread-crumbs and walnuts, season to taste, and moisten with the eggs well beaten. The mix- ture should be firm, but not too dry. Pack it into a well-greased mould or basin, cover and steam steadily at least one hour. When ready, turn out and serve with white, tomato, or any other suitable sauce. Probable cost, lOd.380 BREAKFAST DISHES In this country breakfast is one of the most necessary meals of the day, and yet it is the one which, as often as not, receives the least care and attention as regards its menu and service. One hears the constant complaint of lack of variety at this meal, and it is quite true that in many houses it is a most monotonous and uninteresting repast. This may often be due to the early hour at which breakfast has to be served, it has to be prepared in a hurry and the necessary cooking scrambled through at the last minute, but it is also due to lack of thought and resourcefulness on the part of the cook or housekeeper. It is never necessary to provide elaborate and complicated dishes, these would be out of place on the breakfast table; what are wanted are one or two simple dishes, well cooked and nicely served, always remembering that what pleases the eye generally pleases the palate as well. This chapter includes a representative selection of recipes suitable for breakfast dishes. It does not include them all, however, and many others of a simple and inexpensive character will be found in other sections of the book, including those dealing with the cooking of eggs and fish. GENERAL REMARKS When selecting dishes for breakfast it must always be borne in mind that the amount of time that can be devoted to actual cooking at an early hour is necessarily limited. Such dishes as can either be prepared the day before, or take little time to get ready in the morning, must therefore be chosen. In fact if one wants to have nice little dishes in the morning, a certain amount of pre- paration must always be done beforehand, but with a little forethought the morning cooking can generally be well advanced. The number of dishes that should be served at breakfast will naturally depend on the style of the house and the needs of the family. The usual allowance is one or two hot dishes, or one hot and one cold. A cold dish of some kind is always acceptable in summer, and this is not difficult to provide. Of course there are some people who do not care for variety in their principal dish, they prefer bacon, or ham and eggs, every day. _ Bacon, unfortunately, has become such an expensive item that it makes the weekly bills mount up if given too often. Some cereal, such as porridge, is usually served at the commencement of breakfast, and it should be quite easy to provide a little variety in this course as well. Hominy, semolina, grape nuts, shredded wheat biscuit, bread and milk, milk toast, &c., might all form a pleasing change, and especially in hot weather when the ordinary oat- meal porridge is found rather heating. Variety can also be introduced in the kind of bread provided. White bread, the various makes of brown bread, white or brown toast, scones, rolls, oatcakes, &c., are all acceptable according to in- dividual taste. Fruit too, either stewed or raw, is a pleasant addition to the meal; it is particularly acceptable to those who go in for a vegetarian diet, and might advantageously be used to relieve the monotony of this, the first meal of the day. An attempt should always be made to serve the hot dish at breakfast as hot as possible; bacon, for instance, and eggs in their various forms are spoilt, if they have to be taken in a lukewarm condition. This is not always easy, especially if breakfast is a prolonged meal, as it is in many houses. In these circumstances a hot-water dish would be The “ Heatorboil ” found a great boon, or a little table heater, which is warmed either by a spirit lamp or by electricity. By this means not only dishes and plates can be kept warm, but some of the heaters can be utilised for boiling a kettle or doing a little simple cooking as well. 1636. Dry Toast, To Make The bread used for toast should not be less than a day old, and a tin loaf is best for the purpose. Cut slices about a third of an inch in thickness, in order that it may be toasted to the centre. When cut too thick, a soft damp piece remains in the middle of the slice, and this untoasted part is less digestible than plain bread. Put the bread on a toasting fork and hold it a little distance from a clear, bright fire. Let it slowly dry and become a. nice uniform brown colour, without being at all black. Then turn, and toast the second side in the same way. Trim off the crusts, cut the toast in convenient-sized pieces, and stand it on end or in a toast rack to cool. Toast must never be made a long time before it is required nor laid flat on a plate or table, or it will become tough and heavy. If very crisp toast is wanted, the bread may be381 BREAKFAST DISHES warmed in the oven, or on the rack above the fire before being toasted. Brown bread may be toasted in the same way, and is preferred by some people. Although toast requires some care to make pro- perly, badly made toast is simply the result of want of attention. For toasting on a gas stove, see p. 21. 1637. Hot Buttered Toast Toast the bread rather more quickly than for dry toast, as it should not be so crisp. As each slice is ready, trim off the crusts and spread liberally with butter that has been slightly warmed, but not oiled. Cut in convenient-sized pieces and keep hot in a covered dish over a bowl of hot water. Proceed with more slices in the same way and serve them piled one on the top of the other and as hot as possible. Be particular to use very good butter. 1638. Oatmeal Porridge (Scotch Method) £ lb. oatmeal. 1£ pts. water. Salt. Put the water into a clean saucepan and bring it to the boil. When boiling, sprinkle in the oat- meal, stirring all the time with a porridge stick or “ spurtle.” Continue to stir until the porridge is perfectly smooth and beginning to thicken. Then add salt to taste and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire where the contents will simmer slowly. Allow the porridge to cook at least three quarters of an hour, until the oatmeal is soft and swollen. The time will depend somewhat on the kind of oatmeal used, whether it is fine, medium, or coarse. The medium or coarse is generally preferred, and care must be taken to buy it as fresh as possible and to keep it in a dry place, as it soon becomes musty. The porridge must be stirred occasionally during the cooking, and if it becomes too thick more water must be added. When wanted, pour boiling hot into porridge plates or platters and serve with cream or milk. Note.—The saucepan in which the porridge has been cooked should at once be filled with cold water, as this will facilitate the cleaning later on. It should, if possible, be kept for porridge making only. Other Methods Put the oatmeal and water into a basin, cover with a plate, and stand overnight. Next morning turn them into a saucepan, stir over the fire until boiling and add salt to taste. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and allow the porridge to simmer slowly for at least £ hour, stirring occasion- ally to prevent its sticking to the saucepan. Or, the meal with the water may be soaked in a double cooker overnight, and if water is put in the outer saucepan, it will only require to be put on the fire or gas in the morning. Cooked in this way the porridge may require longer time, but it will need little attention beyond an occasional stir and seeing that the water underneath boils all the time, and does not reduce too much. There will be no fear of the porridge burning. There are also different preparations of rolled or crushed oats, which may be used for making por- ridge ; they form a little variety to the ordinary oatmeal, and take perhaps a shorter time to cook. Double Cooker Note.—Brown sugar or syrup may be served with the porridge if liked. 1639. Wheaten Meal Porridge Make in the same way as oatmeal porridge. This forms a nice variety and is less heating to the blood than oatmeal porridge. 1640. Bread and Milk Cut some stale white bread in dice, removing the crust if desired. Half fill a small bowl with this and fill up with boiling milk. Cover the bowl and stand the bread and milk in a warm place for 5 or 10 minutes. Serve with brown sugar to taste. Note.—Breakfast biscuits or rusks may be used in place of the bread. 1641. Milk Toast Toast the required amount of stale bread until brown and crisp. Then butter it, cut it in fingers, and arrange it in a hot plate or porridge dish. Have ready some scalded milk, season it with salt, pour over the toast, and serve very hot. This makes a nice change from porridge and is good for children. 1642. Shredded Wheat Biscuit Place a shredded wheat biscuit in a hot oven and allow it to become crisp without burning. Then put it in a soup plate and pour over a cupful of hot milk. Let it stand a minute or two and serve with salt or sugar to taste. Or, dip the biscuit quickly in cold milk, drain it, put it in a covered dish, and heat thoroughly in the oven. Then serve with cold milk or cream, and sugar or salt to taste. Note.—Stewed fruit, honey, syrup, or marmalade may be served with the biscuit if wished. 1643. Hominy Porridge 2 oz. hominy. I Salt or sugar to taste. 1 pt. boiling water. | A small piece of butter. Wash the hominy, then pour over it the boiling water, cover the basin and let it stand all night. Next morning turn all into a saucepan, bring to the boil and simmer at least half an hour, stirring frequently, as it is apt to burn. Or, a better plan is to cook the hominy in a double saucepan, allowing one hour. More water must be added if necessary, or half milk and half water may be used. Add salt or sugar to taste, and just before serving stir382 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD in a small piece of butter. Serve with milk on cream, and if liked, brown sugar. Notes.—Hominy is a preparation of maize or Indian corn ; it is very nourishing and makes a less heating porridge than the ordinary oatmeal. If any hominy porridge is left over, it may be made into hominy cakes or fritters, and fried. 1644. Fried Hominy Take any remains of cold hominy porridge and cut them in slices about 1 inch in thickness. Flour them well on both sides. Make some butter or clarified fat very hot in a frying pan, put in a few slices of hominy at a time and fry them, until nicely browned on both sides. Drain well on paper and serve very hot. Fried hominy may either be served as a separate course or as an accompaniment to fried bacon, kidneys, or fish, &c. The slices may be egged and bread-crumbed if preferred. 1645. Bacon, To Boil or Steam Choose for this a nice piece from the back of the pig, with the fat and the lean pretty equally divided. Soak it for an hour before cooking, and then boil and serve according to directions given for Boiled Ham (Recipe 1006). This is also verygood steamed, longer time for cooking will then be required. a piece of lean, and cook in a moderate oven about 10 minutes. Rolls of Bacon.—These are used as a garnish for many dishes. Cut small thin slices of bacon, free from rind and rust. Roll them up and put several Rolls of Bacon on a skewer. Cook them either on the roasting tin in the oven, or toast them before the fire. Remove the skewer after cooking and the bacon will remain curled. 1646. Rashers of Bacon, To Prepare and Cook Choose a piece from the back or the streaky part of bacon for these. Remove the rind from the required amount, and cut the bacon in thin even slices with a very sharp knife. Then remove the rust and any little pieces of gristle or bone. If the bacon is required for breakfast it is a good plan to have the rashers cut and prepared the night before ; or, if preferred, the thin slicing can be done at the shop when the bacon is bought. These rashers of bacon may be fried, toasted, or baked. To Fry Bacon.—Place the slices in a hot frying pan, and cook until the fat is transparent, turning the rashers once or twice. They must not be cooked too quickly, or the fat will become scorched and wasted before the lean is sufficiently cooked. The amount of cooking is a matter of taste, some people liking their bacon crisp and dry, and others only very lightly browned. Serve the bacon on a very hot dish with a little of the liquid fat round. A few neatly trimmed pieces of bread may be fried until brown in the bacon fat and served with the bacon, or eggs nicely fried or poached may be laid on the top of it. Note.—Any bacon fat that is left should be saved, as it is excellent for cooking purposes. Toasted Bacon.—Prepare the slices of bacon as above, and toast them in a Dutch oven, or on a toaster or toasting fork in front of the fire, putting a plate underneath to catch the fat. If a gas stove is used the toasting may be done under the griller. The fat of the bacon when cooked should look transparent and crisp. The flavour of toasted bacon is superior to that of fried or baked bacon. To Bake Bacon.—Prepare the rashers of bacon as above, melt a very small quantity of fat in an oven tin and when quite hot, but not scorching, lay in the slices of bacon. Arrange them so that they overlap each other, a piece of fat resting on 1647. Bacon with Bananas 4 rashers of bacon. ■ Seasoning. 2 bananas. | A little flour. Peel the bananas and cut them in two lengthwise. Season the pieces with white pepper and salt and roll them lightly in flour. Now fry the rashers of bacon and when ready keep them warm on a very hot dish. Then put the pieces of banana into the bacon fat and fry them also until nicely browned. Place a piece of banana on each piece of bacon and serve all very hot. Note.—The pieces of banana will look better if they are egged and bread-crumbed, although this is not necessary. 1648. Bacon and Mushrooms \ lb. bacon. | lb. fresh mushrooms. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Peel the mushrooms and remove the stalks (which should be reserved for flavouring the stock pot or sauces). Wash them in several waters, and then dry them in a cloth. Place them on a buttered baking tin, and sprinkle with the chopped shallot, parsley, pepper and salt. Cover all with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Fry the bacon according to Recipe 1646. Arrange the mushrooms and bacon neatly on a hot dish, and serve very hot. 1649. Bacon and Tomatoes \ lb. bacon. | lb. tomatoes. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little butter. Pepper. Salt. Choose nice ripe tomatoes. Skin them and remove the stalks. Cut them in slices, and place them in a buttered baking tin. Sprinkle with the383 BREAKFAST DISHES seasonings, and cover with buttered paper. Bake 10 minutes in a moderate oven. Fry the bacon carefully until crisp. Serve the tomatoes on the centre of a hot dish, and place the slices of bacon round, or arrange the two alternately on the dish, according to taste. Note.—If preferred, the tomatoes may be fried quickly in the bacon fat. 1650. Egg and Bacon Rolls, 1 Boiled eggs. Bacon. Boil the number of eggs required, without making them too hard. Then shell them and lay them in boiling water, if not required at once. Have ready a nice thin rasher of bacon for each egg, trimmed free from rind and rust. Dry the eggs carefully and wrap a piece of bacon round each, leaving the white ends of the eggs showing. Fix the bacon in position with a tiny skewer or piece of match. Heat a frying pan, lay in the covered eggs, and keep turning them over and over until the bacon is sufficiently cooked. Serve at once and very hot. 1651. Egg and Bacon Rolls, 2 5 or 6 thin slices of bacon. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Grated lemon rind. Salt. Pepper. 1 yolk of egg. A little milk. Chop the hard-boiled egg and mix it in a basin with the bread-crumbs, parsley, a little grated lemon rind, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix well and then bind together with the raw yolk of an egg and a little milk, making a stuffing as it were. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon and spread out the slices on a board. Put some of the stuffing on each, and roll them up into tidy little rolls. Fasten these with a skewer, put them on a baking tin, and bake them in a moderate oven about 10 minutes. Serve the rolls on a very hot dish, or if liked on croutons of fried bread. Note.—Other savoury mixtures may be put inside the bacon in place of the egg stuffing. 1652. Bath Chap (Pig’s Cheek) A pig’s cheek can be bought simply pickled, or dried and cured as well, when it is known as a Bath Chap. If the latter, it will require several hours’ soaking before it can be cooked; if the former, washing alone may be sufficient, unless it is very salt. To cook the cheek, put it into a saucepan with warm water to cover it, bring to the boil and • then simmer slowly until tender. When ready, lift it out, remove the skin, and cover the cheek with fine browned bread-crumbs in the same way as a ham. This may be served hot with a dish of nicely cooked greens, but it is almost better cold as a breakfast dish. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. 1653. Ham and Eggs Cut the required number of slices of ham, being careful to make them of equal thickness. Trim off all rind and rust, and, if the ham is very salt, allow the slices to lie in boiling water, closely covered. from 10 to 12 minutes. Then lift them out and dry them in a cloth. Heat a frying pan over the fire, and, if the ham is lean, melt in it a small piece of butter. When hot, lay in the shoes of ham, and cook them quickly first on one side and then on the other. When sufficiently cooked, place them on a hot dish and keep warm over hot water. Break an egg at a time into a smaU tea-cup, slip it into the fat left in the pan, and let it remain until the white is set, ladling a little fat over it occasionahy. Then take it up with a small fish slice, ahow any fat to drain from it, trim if necessary and lay on the top of the ham. Prepare as many eggs as required in the same way and serve all as hot as possible—a hot-water dish is the best for the purpose. 1654. Ham and Eggs with Rice 4 poached eggs. 1 lb. rice. 2 or 3 tab.-sps. bacon fat 4 slices of ham. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Boil the rice in the same way as for curry and make it very dry. Then melt the bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the rice, season to taste and make it thoroughly hot. Fry four good shoes of ham and poach the eggs. Now arrange the rice neatly in a hot dish, lay the ham and eggs on the top and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 1655. Devilled Ham Slices of raw ham. I Browned bread-crumbs. Devil paste. | Parsley or watercress. Make the devil paste according to directions given in recipe 763. Cut the required number of slices of ham, making them rather less than J inch in thickness. Make two or three slits in each to prevent their curling up in the cooking, and spread them on one side with the devil paste. Sprinkle a few browned bread-crumbs over, and place the pieces on a greased baking tin. Cook them in a quick oven from 8 to 10 minutes, and then arrange them on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. Serve as quickly as possible. Note.—The ham may be grilled if preferred. 1656. Ham Toast 3 oz. lean cooked ham. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A pinch of cayenne. A little made mustard. 2 slices of toast. A little parsley. Remove all skin and gristle from the ham, and chop it finely. Put it into a saucepan with the butter and seasonings, and add the two eggs well beaten. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken, but is by no means hard, then serve it on neat pieces of hot buttered toast. Garnish with small sprigs of parsley, or sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 1657. Potted Beef 1 lb. juicy beef. I lb. butter. Salt. Pepper. Mixed spice. J tea-sp. made mustard. 2 or 3 anchovies. Cayenne. 1 bay-leaf. Wipe the beef and cut it in very small pieces, removing the skin, but leaving any hard good fat. Put it into a stewing jar with rather more than half the butter, pepper, salt, a good pinch of384 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD cayenne and the bay-leaf. Cover the jar closely, place it in a saucepan with water to reach half-way up th# sides, and allow the contents to steam until the beef is quite tender. Then turn the beef and butter into a mortar, remove the bay-leaf, add the anchovies, and pound well until reduced to a paste. Season to taste with the mustard, a little spice, and more pepper and salt if necessary. When smooth, rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve and then pack in little pots. Melt the remainder of the butter and run it over the top to keep out the air. This will keep for several days in cold weather. It makes a very good breakfast dish, or can be used for sandwiches. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6cl. 1658. Potted Beef (Scotch) 3 lbs. hough or shin of beef. 1 cow heel. A bunch of herbs. 20 black peppercorns. A blade of mace. 4 cloves. 4 allspice. Salt. 4 or 5 qts. cold water. Choose an upper and fleshy piece of shin of beef. Wipe it well with a damp cloth and cut it in small pieces. Saw or break up the bones. Cut the cow heel in four or five pieces, and wash and scrape it well. Put all this meat and bones into a large saucepan with 4 or 5 qts. of cold water, or enough to well cover them. Add about a table-spoonful of salt, allow the contents to soak off the fire for one hour, and then bring slowly to the boil. Add the bunch of herbs and the spices tied in muslin, and continue to simmer slowly until the meat is reduced almost to rags, and the fleshy part slips away quite easily from the bones of the cow heel. Then strain through a sieve into a large basin and stand overnight. Next day, remove all skin and gristle from the beef, and chop it and the meat from the cow heel finely, or put them through a mincing machine. Remove all fat from the top of the stock (see p. 40). Underneath, the stock should be a good jelly. If too stiff, add more water, but if, on the contrary, it is rather liquid, turn it into a saucepan and allow it to reduce. Add the minced meat to the stock, heat them over the fire, and then simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Add more pepper and salt, if necessary, and pour into moulds that have been rinsed out with cold water and left wet. Stand till cold, and turn out when wanted. Serve garnished with parsley. This potted meat makes an excellent breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish, and in cold weather it will keep for several days. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 1659. Bloaters, To Cook Take off the heads and trim the fish neatly with a pair of scissors. Then split them open and re- move the roe and back bone with the fingers. Wipe the fish on both sides. Place them with the open side down on a hot and greased gridiron, and broil on both sides (see Broiling, p. 208). They will take from 5 to 7 minutes to cook. Serve on a hot dish with the skin side downwards and place a little plain or maitre d’hotel butter on the top. If preferred, the bloaters may be cooked in pairs with the two open sides together ; or scored across on both sides and cooked without boning. They may also be baked with a little butter in the oven, or fried with a small quantity of fat in a frying pan instead of grilling. Any roes should be cooked separately and used as a garnish. 1660. Potted Bloater Cooked bloater. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper. Butter. A pinch of mace. Carefully remove all the skin and bone from some cooked bloater, and pound it until smooth, adding, by degrees, enough melted butter to make a soft paste. Season with pepper, salt (if neces- sary), and a small pinch of nutmeg and mace. If wished very smooth, rub the mixture through a fine sieve. Pack the paste into a pot or jar, and if it has to be kept for any length of time, run some melted butter over the top. This is very good spread on hot buttered toast for breakfast, and is also useful for making savouries and small sand- wiches. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be potted in the same way, regulating the seasoning and the amount of butter according to the kind of fish used. 1661. Brains on Toast 2 tab.-sps. cooked brains 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. tomato ket- chup. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice 1 table-sp. butter. Hot buttered toast. Break up the brains with a fork, then beat the eggs and mix both lightly together. Season with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice and the tomato ketchup. Heat the butter in a small frying pan, pom’ in the brain and egg mixture, and cook it for a minute or two, stirring all the time. Then dish it neatly on small fingers or rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with chopped parsley or coralline pepper, reheat in the oven for a minute or two, and serve as hot as possible. 1662. Breakfast Pat6 1 lb. fat bacon. | lb. calf’s liver. 1 tea-sp. minced parsley. 1 tea-sp. minced shallot. A little butter. Pepper. Salt. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Some joints of rabbit, game, or fowl. Soak the calf’s liver in cold water for half an hour to draw the blood from it. Then dry it well. Cut the liver and bacon in dice, and fry these until cooked, adding a little butter if necessary. Sprinkle with the seasonings, and cook slowly, stirring very frequently. Then drain off the fat, and pound the rest in a mortar to a smooth paste. Have ready any small joints of rabbit, game, or fowl, and fry them for a few minutes in the fat which was drained from the liver, &c., adding more butter if necessary. Then spread some of the farce at the foot of a greased pie dish or fireproof dish; on this put a layer of the joints, sprinkling them with a little salt and pepper; then more farce, and repeat this until all is used up. The last layer should be one of farce. Smooth over the surface with a spoon dipped in boiling water, cover with greased paper, stand the dish in a tin with boiling water to come half-way up the sides, and cook in the oven for one and a half hours. When ready, run a little liquid butter or lard over the top, and serve cold.BREAKFAST DISHES 385 1663. Devilled Chicken Take any remains of cooked chicken, cut them in neat joints, and if possible remove the skin. Score the fleshy parts across to the bone and brush the pieces over with salad oil or melted butter. Then sprinkle them with curry powder, cayenne, and salt mixed together, and broil them (see p. 208) until nicely browned. Serve very hot, garnished with a little parsley or watercress. Note.—Mustard and chutney may be used in- stead of the curry and cayenne, or the joints of chicken may simply be spread with devil butter (Recipe 762). 1664. Chicken and Ham Kedgeree 1 cupful cooked rice. 1 cupful cooked chicken. 2 table-sps. minced ham. \ oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. Seasoning. 1 hard-boiled egg. Have the rice cooked as for curry and dry it well. Mince the chicken, removing from it all skin and pieces of sinew. Now melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a stewpan, put in the minced ham (uncooked if possible), and cook it a few minutes. Then add the chicken and rice, moisten with the tomato sauce or puree, season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and mix all together lightly with a fork. When thoroughly hot, serve piled up neatly on a hot dish, and garnish with the hard-boiled egg cut in 6 or 8 pieces. 1665. Kentucky Cod 1 lb. fresh cod. ] } lb. bacon. Oatmeal. 1 egg. ] Pepper. Salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish and cut it in pieces about 2 inches square. Season with pepper and salt, and then brush the pieces over with beaten egg and toss them in oatmeal. Pry the bacon and keep it hot, and then fry the fish in the bacon fat. Add more fat to the pan, if necessary, before putting in the fish, and fry the pieces a nice brown colour. Drain the fish when ready, pile it up on a hot dish, and serve garnished with the bacon. 1666. Cod’s Roe with Bacon Cut some cooked cod’s roe in slices about J inch in thickness, and coat them very lightly with flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry some small slices of bacon, and before they are too much cooked, lift them out and keep them warm. Now fry the slices of roe in the bacon fat, adding a little butter if necessary. Brown them nicely on both sides, then dish them neatly with the pieces of bacon round. 1667. Scalloped Cod Roe Cooked cod’s roe. I Butter. Bread-crumbs. | Seasoning. Grease some scallop shells rather liberally with butter and sprinkle them with a good coating of bread-crumbs. Then fill them with some cooked cod’s roe broken in small pieces, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind and cover with more bread-crumbs. Lay two or three small pieces of butter on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and thoroughly hot. Serve garnished with parsley and a small piece of cut lemon. Note.—A little white sauce mixed with the roe will be an improvement. 1668. Salt Cod Balls (Croquettes de Morue) | lb. cooked salt cod. £ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 table-sp. melted butter 1 egg. Pepper. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare and cook the fish as directed in Re- cipe 193, drain well and let it cool. Then pick it to pieces with two forks and shred it finely, remov- ing all skin and bone. Tnis is preferable to chop- ping with a knife, which would be inclined to make it heavy. Mix the prepared fish in a basin with the potatoes (sieved), season with pepper and if liked a little anchovy essence, and bind together with the melted butter and beaten egg. Form into balls, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands. Make the surface as smooth and free from cracks as possible. Then egg and bread-crumb the balls and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley. Caper or tomato sauce may be served separately. Note.—The above mixture may be made into round flat cakes instead of balls, and a nicely poached and well-drained egg placed on the top of each. 1669. Smoked Cod and Bacon 1 lb. smoked cod. £ lb. bacon. Soak the cod a few minutes, or longer if it is salt, in hot water, then dry it, remove any skin and cut it in pieces. Trim the bacon and cut it in con- venient-sized pieces. Then fry it and keep it warm over hot water. Now fry the pieces of cod in the bacon fat, adding a little butter if necessary. Cook it well on both sides and then dish it neatly with the pieces of bacon round. Notes.—This makes a very nice combination. Smoked haddock or ling may be prepared in the same way. 1670. Smoked Cod with Tomatoes 1 lb. smoked cod. 2 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. 1 oz. butter. Pepper. 1 cupful boiled rice. Wipe the fish and put it in a deep baking dish with boiling water to nearly cover it, and cook it in the oven, or on the top of the stove, from 10 to 12 minutes. Then remove any bones and break the flesh in flakes or small pieces. Peel and slice the tomatoes and have the parsley finely chopped. Have ready also one cupful of rice boiled as for curry. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the tomatoes and cook them a minute or two. Then add the fish, parsley, and seasoning, and mix lightly until all is thoroughly hot. Arrange the rice in a border on a hot dish and put the fish, &c., in the centre. Serve very hot. 1671. Curry Toast 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Coralline pepper. Hot buttered toast. 1 cupful cold curry. 2 eggs. Seasoning. Take the remains of any cold curried meat, lift out the meat from the sauce and chop it finely. 2 BCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 386 Put this into a small saucepan with the yolks of the eggs and the sauce belonging to the dish. Add more seasoning if necessary, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, but not boiling. Place some hot buttered toast, cut in fingers, on a hot dish and arrange the curry mixture neatly on the top. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to them the chopped parsley and a little coralline pepper and spread them on the top of the curry. Put the dish in the oven to become thoroughly hot and to brown the egg, then serve at once. Note.—A curry of fish or vegetables may be used up in the same way. 1672. Fish Knots 1 filleted sole or plaice I A little flour. Seasoning, (medium). I Egg and bread-crumbs. Cut the fillets of fish in two lengthwise. Wipe the pieces with a clean dry cloth, season them with white pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, and then coat them lightly with flour. Twist the pieces round and knot the ends. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 1673. Fish Sausages 6 oz. cooked fish. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 yolk of egg. | tea-sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Egg and bread-crumbs. Smoked fish, or herring or mackerel are the best to use for these. Chop the fish finely, removing all skin and bone, add to it the bread-crumbs, mixed herbs very finely powdered or chopped, the yolk of egg, and seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix all together, and shape into small sausage-shaped pieces, using a little flour. Then egg and bread- crumb them and re-shape if necessary. Ery the little sausages in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 1674. Fish Toast J lb. cooked fish. White pepper and salt. J oz. butter. 2 slices of hot buttered toast. 1 gill fish sauce. A little chopped parsley. Coralline pepper. A little lemon juice. Any nice white fish or smoked haddock will do for this dish. Flake it very small, carefully remov- ing all skin and bone, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the fish and sauce, and make thoroughly hot over the fire. Cut the toast into neat fingers, spread the mixture on the top of it, and decorate with finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Notes.—This dish may be varied by using curry sauce or tomato pulp for moistening the fish instead of the white sauce ; or the toast may be spread with anchovy or shrimp paste before putting on the fish mixture, &c. 1 dessert-sp. sherry or Marsala. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. A little butter. 1675. Minced Game in Scallops 3 or 4 oz. cooked game. 1 gill stock. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. red currant jelly. Take the remains of any cooked game, remove all skin and bone, and chop them finely, or put them through the mincing machine. Mix the flour smoothly with the stock (game stock is best), turn both into a saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling. Then add the game, red-currant jelly, wine and seasoning to taste, and simmer all together for a few minutes. Grease about \ dozen scallop shells and line them with a coating of bread-crumbs. Fill them with the mince and put another coating of bread-crumbs on the top. Lay on two or three small pieces of butter, and brown quickly in the oven, or under the grill of the gas stove. Serve very hot, with a small sprig of parsley on each. 1676. Baked Haddock or Whiting 2 whiting or small had- docks. 3 tab.-sps. bread-crumbs A little butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. i tea-sp. powdered herbs. A few slices of bacon. Clean the fish, cut off the heads and remove the skin. Lay them in a greased fireproof dish and sprinkle them with the bread-crumbs, which have been mixed with the parsley, herbs, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay some small slices of bacon round the dish, and cover all with a piece of greased paper, or put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes, and serve hot in the same dish. Notes.—The bacon may be omitted, but it is generally considered an improvement. Other kinds of fish may be cooked in the same way. 1677. Haddock en Casserole 3 or 4 haddocks. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of mace. Rind of \ lemon. 3 table-sps. milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. A squeeze of lemon juice Choose small haddocks, skin them and cut off the heads. Mix the flour, pepper, salt, and mace on a plate, and dip the fish into this, coating them on both sides. Now grease a fireproof dish with some of the butter, lay in the fish, pour the milk round, and add the thinly peeled rind of \ a lemon. Place the remainder of the butter in small pieces on the top, cover and cook in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, sprinkle with chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve in the same dish. Note.—Whiting or gurnet may be prepared in the same way. 1678. Rizzard Haddock The fish must be very fresh. Clean it, skin it, and cut off the head. If it is large, it should be split and the bone removed. Then rub it over with salt, both inside and outside, and hang it outside or in a current of air for at least 12 hours. Next day, wipe it carefully, brush it over with oilBREAKFAST DISHES 387 or dissolved butter, dredge it with flour, and broil as directed on p. 208. Serve very hot with a pat of butter on the top. A little watercress may be used as a garnish. 1679. Smoked Haddock, 1 Aberdeen haddocks are considered the best. Remove the fins and cut the fish in convenient- sized pieces. If very salt, steep it in hot water for a few minutes. Then place the fish on a well- greased baking dish, sprinkle it with pepper, cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Serve the fish very hot and in the dish in which it was cooked. 1680. Smoked Haddock, 2 Trim the fish and cut off the fins. Put it into a frying pan with warm water to cover it, bring it to the boil, and simmer slowly from 10 to 12 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Then lift it out, drain, and place it on a hot dish. Put a good piece of butter on the top and stand the dish in the oven or in front of the fire until the butter is melted. Garnish with watercress. This method of cooking is particularly suitable for larger fish and also for fillets of smoked cod or ling. 1681. Smoked or Finnan Haddock Stewed in Milk 1 smoked haddock. I \ oz. flour. Pepper. & pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. | Sippets of toast. Take a smoked haddock weighing about 1 lb., dip it into boiling water for a minute or two, then remove the skin and all fins. Cut the fish in neat- sized pieces, put them into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer slowly until the fish is quite tender. Then lift out the pieces of fish, and keep them hot on a dish. Work the butter and flour together on a plate with a knife, and when thor- oughly blended, add them to the milk in the pan. Stir over the fire, and cook a few minutes. Add a pinch of pepper, and strain this sauce over the fish. Garnish with sippets of toast, and serve hot. egg, and sieve the potatoes. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put in the potatoes, fish, and hard-boiled egg. Add the raw yolk of egg, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Mix all to- gether over the fire, and if too dry, add a little milk. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and then form into balls. Flour the hands slightly to prevent the mixture from sticking, and try to make the balls of equal size. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve garnished with parsley. 1684. Smoked Haddock Fritters 6 to 8 oz. cooked smoked haddock. \ tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Frying batter. Make the frying batter according to directions given in Recipe 1861, mixing the curry powder with the dry flour. If possible, allow this to stand for J hour. Remove all skin and bone from the fish and break it into flakes with a fork, add this to the batter along with the parsley and a good pinch of pepper. Have ready a saucepan of boiling fat, and drop spoonfuls of the mixture into it. Allow them to cook rather slowly until a golden brown colour on all sides. Drain well and serve piled up with a paper under them. Garnish with parsley and some thinly-sliced lemon. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be used in the same way. 1685. Filleted and Fried Herring Fresh herring. | Salt. Lemon juice. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Take the number of herring required, clean them, trim them, and bone them. Then cut them in halves lengthwise, lay the pieces or fillets on a flat dish, sprinkle them with lemon juice and salt and let them lie overnight. Next morning wipe the fillets dry and egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249). Now fry them until crisp and brown in boiling fat, drain well and serve neatly garnished with parsley and thin slices of lemon. 1682. Smoked Haddock with Egg Sauce 1 smoked haddock. \ pt. egg sauce. | tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. | tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Take a medium-sized smoked or finnan haddock, and cook it according to directions given in Recipe 1680. When ready, remove the flesh quickly from the bones, break it in flakes and arrange it neatly on a hot dish (a deep china dish will be best). Have ready some good egg sauce (see Recipe 687), add to it the anchovy essence and, when boiling hot, pour it over the fish. Sprinkle the parsley lightly over, and serve very hot. 1683. Smoked Haddock Balls 6 oz. cooked smoked haddock. 6 oz. cooked or sieved potatoes. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 hard-boiled egg. Chop the fish finely, being most careful to remove all skin and small bones. Chop also the hard-boiled 1 yolk of egg. A little milk. Pepper. Salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1686. Herring Balls 4 lb. cooked herring. lb. cooked potato. 1 or 2 table-sps. sour cream or milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kin. Pepper. Salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Carefully remove all skin and bone from the herring, then weigh it, and chop it finely. Sieve the potatoes and add them to the fish. Season with parsley, the chopped gherkin or other pickle, pepper and salt. Mix well and bind all together with a little sour cream or milk. Form into small balls, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them and serve with a few pieces of cut lemon. 1687. Kippered Herring The best way to cook these is by broiling or grill- ing. Dip the kippers for a minute in hot water, or if they are very much smoked and salted, they388 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD may be allowed to lie for \ hour in the water. Then dry the fish well and rub them over with a little melted butter or good dripping. Cook them quickly on a hanging grill in front of a good fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. They will require from 7 to 10 minutes, according to size. A little cold butter may be spread on the top of the kippers when serving. Or, the kippers may be fried instead of broiled, or cooked in a paper bag (see Paper-bag Cookery), or placed on a greased tin, covered with greased paper, and cooked in the oven. Note.—Kippered mackerel may be cooked in the same way, allowing rather longer time. 1688. Fried Kidneys and Bacon 3 sheep’s kidneys. £ tea-cupful stock. 6 slices of bacon. Seasoning. £ tea-sp. flour. Cut half a dozen neat slices of bacon, fry them until sufficiently cooked, and keep them warm over hot water. Have the kidneys split in two, and the skin and fat removed. Fry them in the fat left from the bacon, adding a little more if necessary. They will only require about 5 minutes on each side, as they should not be overcooked. When ready, place a piece of kidney on the top of each piece of bacon. Pour away most of the fat from the pan, and stir in the flour. Then add the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste, skim if necessary, and strain round the dish. 1689. Kidney Toast, 1 2 or 3 sheep’s kidneys. A small piece of butter. £ tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot. 2 table-sps. stock. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. Remove the skin and fat from the kidneys and chop them rather finely. Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot and cook it 2 or 3 minutes without browning. Add the kidney and stir it over the fire until cooked, or for 4 or 5 minutes. Then sprinkle in the flour, season to taste, and moisten with about 2 table-spoonfuls good stock or gravy. Cook a minute or two longer, arrange the mixture neatly on a slice of hot buttered toast cut in pieces, sprinkle lightly with finely chopped parsley and serve very hot. Note.—The flour may be omitted and the yolk of an egg stirred into the mixture just before serv- ing. The shallot may be left out if objected to. for curry. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the curry powder and then the meat, rice, and hard- boiled egg. Mix all lightly with a fork, adding seasoning to taste. A little chopped pickle may also be added if liked. When thoroughly hot, pile the mixture on a hot dish and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. 1692. Liver Balls 1 lb. cooked liver. 2 oz. suet. 1 small onion. 1 egg. A little flour. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. Grate or chop the liver very finely, add to it the suet and onion also chopped, and season with pepper and salt. Beat up the egg and use enough of it to bind the liver, &c., together. Mix well and then form into small balls, using a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb these and then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Note.—About 2 table-spoonfuls melted bacon fat may be used instead of the suet. 1693. Roes on Toast \ doz. soft roes. 6 fingers of toast. A little butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Egg and bread-crumbs. Salt. Coralline pepper, £ lemon. Either bloater or fresh herring roes may be used. Wipe them carefully with a soft cloth, coat them lightly with flour, and if fresh, season with salt. Mix the parsley with some finely made bread- crumbs, and egg and bread-crumb the roes. Heat a small quantity of butter in a frying pan, and fry the roes gently in it until a pretty brown colour. Have ready \ dozen finger-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast and lay a roe on each. Sprinkle them with a little coralline pepper, and serve hot, garnished with small slices of lemon. 4 lb. cooked salmon. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1694. Salmon Cutlel 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Alittle grated lemon rind A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper. Salt. Egg and bread-crumbs. Make in the same way as Fish Cutlets (see Recipe 342). Tinned salmon may be used if wished. Sufficient for 8 or 9 cutlets. 1690. Kidney Toast, 2 Prepare and cook the kidneys in the same way as for Kidneys Sautes (Recipe 928). When ready, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and stir in a well-beaten egg. Mix well, but do not boil, and serve on neat fingers of hot buttered toast. 1691. Meat Kedgeree J- lb. cooked meat. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 oz. butter, i tea-sp. curry powder. 1 hard-boiled egg. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Trim the meat and chop it finely, chop also the hard-boiled egg, and have the rice boiled dry as 1695. Potted Salmon Pepper. Salt. A pinch of powdered mace. A pinch of cayenne. 6 oz. cooked salmon. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. anchovy < shrimp essence. \ tea-sp. vinegar. Free the salmon from all skin and bone, and then weigh it. Put it into a mortar with most of the butter melted, and season to taste and rather highly. Pound well until smooth, and then rub through a sieve. Pack this smoothly into a small pot or jar, and run the rest of the butter over the top, which will preserve the mixture and pre- vent it from becoming dry. This makes delightfulBREAKFAST DISHES 389 sandwiches, to whioh the addition of a little thinly sliced cucumber or small cress would be an im- provement. Note.—Other fish, such as cod, halibut, brill, or mackerel, may be used in the same way. 1696. Boiled Sausages with Curried Rice Pork or beef sausages. I Curry powder. Patna rice. | Seasoning. Prick the sausages, lay them in a saucepan with hot water to cover them, bring them to the boil, and then simmer slowly from 20 to 25 minutes. Meanwhile boil some Patna rice, the same as for Curry (see Recipe 1586), and when drained and well dried mix into it a little curry powder and add pepper and salt to taste. Arrange a neat bed of this on a hot dish, drain the sausages and lay them on the top. Notes.—A little tomato puree may be mixed with the rice instead of the curry powder. Sausages cooked in this way are lighter than when fried. 1697. Glazed Sausage Roll 1 lb. pork sausage meat. 1 lb. beef sausage meat. J lb. ham or tongue. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Truffles and pistachio nuts. A little glaze. Seasoning. Mix the two kinds of sausage meat together, and add more seasoning if necessary. Spread this out on a floured cloth in an oblong shape. Cut the hard-boiled eggs and ham or tongue in strips, and lay them in alternate rows across the sausage meat. Lay on also, if liked, a few pistachios and truffles cut in strips. Roll up and tie firmly at the two ends, and put one or two pins at the join to keep the roll well in shape. Simmer this slowly in a stock pot until sufficiently cooked, then lift out and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then remove the cloth, and brush over with a little melted glaze (see p. 210). Serve cold, garnished with parsley, watercress, or other green salad. Time to cook, 3 hours. Probable cost, 3s. Note.—The truffles and pistachio nuts may be omitted. 1698. Sheep’s Tongues, Devilled 1 or 2 cooked sheep’s tongues. Melted butter. Salt. Pepper. Cayenne. Made mustard. Lemon juice. Browned bread-crumbs. Watercress. Remove the skin from the tongues, cut them in slices about \ inch in thickness. Trim these neatly, removing all gristle and any parts that are uneat- able. Spread the slices on a flat plate, season them with pepper, cayenne, salt (if necessary), and a sprinkling of lemon juice. Allow these to lie for | hour, then dip each slice into melted butter with which a little made mustard has been mixed. Now coat them with fine browned bread-crumbs, lay them on a greased tin and make them thoroughly hot in a moderate oven. Serve in a circle with water cress, seasoned with lemon juice, pepper and salt, in the centre. 1699. Baked Sprats Fresh sprats. Vinegar. Water. Bay-leaf. Onion. Salt. Pepper. A little butter. Clean and dry the sprats and cut off the heads. Grease a pie dish or fireproof dish, lay in the fish, season with pepper and salt, and place on the top a few thin slices of onion and a bay-leaf. Now cover the fish with equal parts of water and brown vinegar, lay some pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about | hour. Serve cold, garnished with parsley. 1700. Savoury Meat Toast | lb. cold cooked meat. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Pepper. Salt. A little grated lemon rind. $ gill brown or tomato sauce. Hot buttered toast. Mince the meat very finely, removing all skin and gristle. Put it into a saucepan with all the other ingredients, seasoning to taste, and make the mixture thoroughly hot over the fire. Cut some toast into very neat pieces, butter it while hot, and pile some of the mixture on each piece. Garnish with a little finely chopped parsley, or with small sections of hard-boiled egg. Notes.—Any kind of meat may be used for the above, but a mixture of meats is best, such as beef and ham, chicken and ham, mutton and tongue, &c. Other flavourings may be added as desired, such as mushrooms, capers, chopped gherkins, pickled walnuts, &c., or curry sauce may be used instead of brown or tomato. 1701. Whiting Cakes 2 or 3 whiting, 2 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. lemoii juice. 1 table-sp. oil. Egg and bread-crumbs. Cooked green peas. Tomato sauce. Remove the flesh from 2 or 3 small whiting, and weigh it free from skin and bone. To each \ lb. of flesh allow butter and lemon juice in the above proportion. Chop the whiting flesh finely or pound it in a mortar, add the butter slightly melted, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. A little anchovy or shrimp essence may also be added if liked. Mix until thoroughly blended, then turn the paste on to a plate and put it in a cool place to set. When firm to the touch, form the mixture into small round cakes, using a little flour if neces- sary. Dip them into beaten egg, with which a table-spoonful of salad oil has been mixed, and then in fine bread-crumbs. Fry the cakes in a small quantity of hot butter or clarified fat until well browned on both sides. Drain well, and serve neatly on a hot dish, garnishing with some pretty fresh parsley. 1702. Tongue Toast 6 oz. cooked tongue. 1 yolk of egg. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 tea -sp. choppedparsley Pepper. 2 slices toast. A little butter. Remove all skin and gristle from the tongue, and chop it finely, or put it through a mincing machine. Put it into a lined saucepan with the yolk of egg and cream, season with pepper, and heat gently over the fire without allowing the mixture to boil. Have ready some neat pieces of hot buttered toast, put some of the tongue mixture on the top of each, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. Note.—Some well-flavoured sauce may be used instead of the cream.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS No luncheon or dinner is complete without a pudding of some kind. Puddings, therefore, form an indis- pensable part of the daily menu. Unfortunately the art of cooking the various kinds of hot sweets is apt to he neglected. The same kind of pudding will he sent up to the table day after day without any attempt at achieving a note of variety. This is a pity, because the puddings that can be made at little cost are many and varied. All kinds of puddings and hot sweets are dealt with in this section, which has been divided up as follows for easy reference : Part I dealing with Milk Puddings ; Part II, Boiled and Steamed Puddings; Part III, Baked Puddings; Part IV, Fritters and Fried Puddings ; Part V, Hot Souffles and Omelets. PART I SIMPLE MILK PUDDINGS GENERAL REMARKS Milk pudding is the name given to a pudding made of some farinaceous substance, such as rice, semolina, tapioca, &c., cooked in milk. The proportion of farinaceous substance to allow will vary somewhat according to its kind, but it is usually from 1 to 1J oz. to a pint of milk. All grains should be washed before being used, as one never knows what handling they have had ; and the larger kinds, such as barley, tapioca, and sago will cook better if they can be soaked in a little cold water before being cooked in milk. Care must be taken to cook all the farinaceous or starchy foods thoroughly, as, unless the grains are well burst, they may prove most unwholesome. Fresh milk, skim milk, or condensed milk may be used for making these puddings. If skim milk is employed, a little extra butter or some finely- shred suet should be added to replace the fat which has been removed in the cream. Swiss milk and other forms of condensed milk are also very good for making milk puddings. They should be well diluted with tepid water, and if a sweetened brand is used the sugar given in the recipe should either be omitted, or regulated accordingly. Milk puddings may be made either with or with- out eggs. Eggs should not be added until the grain itself is well cooked, otherwise a heat which is sufficient to cook the latter would curdle the eggs. From one to two eggs to a pint of milk are the usual proportions. The pudding is always lighter when the white of egg is separated from the yolk, and beaten up to a stiff froth. This introduces air into the pudding and causes it to rise. A strong enamelled, aluminium, or earthenware saucepan is to be preferred for making a milk pudding. Thin enamelled saucepans should be avoided, as it is almost impossible to keep the contents from burning. A double saucepan is invaluable when the mixture requires long cooking and little attention can be given to it, or, if an ordinary saucepan is being used, it is a good plan 390 to place an asbestos mat underneath it, or to raise it slightly above the hot plate on a small trivet. Before putting milk into a saucepan, always rinse it out with cold water or grease the bottom of it, as this will help to prevent the milky substance sticking to it and burning. The flavouring of milk puddings is very much a matter of taste; the simplest flavourings are always the best, such as grated lemon or orange rind, grated nutmeg, ground cinnamon or other spice. When lemon or orange rind is used, it should be grated off very thinly, and none of the white taken. It is a good plan to rub it into the sugar used in the pudding, as this helps to draw out the flavour. Stick cinnamon, vanilla pod, and bay-leaves may also be used if they are infused first in the warm milk and then lifted out before the farinaceous substance is added. Over flavour- ing must be avoided, and variety must be studied as much as possible. Some cooks continually use nutmeg, and their milk puddings never appear without a good sprinkling of this spice over the surface, while others seem to have no ideas beyond thick strips of lemon peel. The various essences, such as vanilla, raspberry, strawberry, ratafia, &c., are also useful for flavouring, but they must be used with caution and the quantity must not be overdone. The amount of sugar used in the puddings is entirely a matter of taste, and must be regulated accordingly. A pinch of salt is an improvement to all puddings; this is frequently used in the beat- ing up of the white of egg. A Baked Milk Pudding.—If a milk pudding has to be baked in the oven without any previous cooking in a saucepan, the oven must be a very slow one, otherwise the milk will boil over and burn, before the grain has had time to swell and thicken it. Several hours in a slow oven are much better than a shorter time in a hot one. If, on the other hand, the farinaceous substance has been cooked in a saucepan, and the pudding is merely put into the oven to cook the eggs and brown the top, a fairly hot oven is best. When baking a custard pudding, it is a good plan to place the pie dish containing it in a tin with a little water round it, as this will avoid the danger of its boiling and curdling. The same method should be employedPUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 391 for other puddings when the heat of the oven is very strong from below. A baked milk pudding should never be the un- sightly looking object so often seen on our dinner tables. This is often owing to the mixture being put into a burnt-looking pie dish to begin with, or its boiling over in the oven and burning on the edge of the dish. In the first case the pie dish should be scrubbed clean with a little salt or Brooke’s soap before the mixture is put into it, and then, if the mixture should burn on the edges in the oven, it should be carefully scraped off with a knife, and the dish wiped with a cloth before it is sent to table. Then the dish may be further covered by having a pie-dish frill put round it. Buked Milk Pudding and the pudding itself should be lightly sprinkled with a little castor sugar. A Steamed Mills Padding.—Most of the milk puddings made with eggs may be steamed instead of baked. The most suitable are : rice, semolina, tapioca, sago, custard, and bread and butter. For steaming, use rather less milk, keeping the mixture somewhat thicker, as steaming is a moist heat and doesmot dry up the mixture like baking. An extra eggmay sometimes be necessaryto bind the mixture. The basin or mould used for steaming must be greased out very thoroughly with clarified butter, which must be allowed to harden on the basin; or, while it is still soft, the basin or mould may be coated with brown sugar or with fine biscuit crumbs. Any carelessness in the preparation of the mould will cause the pudding to stick. Steam milk puddings very slowly, or the eggs will curdle, and allow them to stand for a minute or two before turning them out. 1703. Barley Pudding (without Eggs) 2 oz. pearl barley. A little water. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. Sugar to taste. A little flavouring. A pinch of salt. First wash and blanch the barley, that is, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring this to the boil, strain and rinse the barley. This blanching makes the barley a better colour. Then put it into a basin, cover it with cold water and let it stand overnight. Next day put it into a well-greased pie dish with the milk, sugar, and flavouring to taste, and the butter broken in small pieces. Bake in a slow oven until the barley is thoroughly cooked, stirring up the barley once or twice towards the beginning of the cooking. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. Probable cost, 4d. 1704. Barley Pudding (with Eggs) 2 oz. pearl barley. 1 gill water. 1 pt. milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. Grated lemon rind. A pinch of salt. A small piece of butter. Wash and blanch the barley as directed above, and, if time permits, allow it to soak overnight in the gill of cold water. Then put it into a saucepan with the milk and a small piece of butter and allow it to simmer slowly until it is quite soft. Stir frequently, and add more milk or water if the mixture becomes too thick. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the yolks of one or two eggs. Whip up the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—If a double saucepan is used for cooking the barley, it will require a longer time. Time to cook, £ to 1 hour. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. 1705. Ground Barley Pudding Make in the same way as Cornflour Pudding (Recipe 1710), using ground barley instead of corn- flour. * 1706. Barley Custard Pudding 1 lb. pearl barley. 2 pts. water. 2 table-sps. Demerara sugar. 1 oz. butter. f tea-sp. mixed spice. 2 eggs. £ pt. milk. Wash the barley and, if time permits, allow it to soak for 2 or 3 hours in some of the water. Then put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the water, and allow it to simmer over the fire until quite soft and thick. Add the butter, sugar, and spice, and pour this mixture into a well-greased pie dish. Beat up the eggs with the milk, add sugar to taste, and strain this custard over the barley. Stand the pudding in a Yorkshire pudding tin with a little water round it, and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set and lightly browned. A little cream served with the pudding will be a great improvement. Time to cook barley, If to 2 hours. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1707. Bread and Butter Pudding (Baked) 2 or 3 slices bread and butter. 1 pt. milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. A little flavouring. Remove the crust from the bread and butter and cut it in small pieces. Lay these pieces in a greased pie dish, making the dish just about half full. Beat up the egg in a basin, and add to it a little flavouring, the sugar and the milk. Mix well together and strain over the bread in the pie dish. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and allow the pudding to stand until the bread is thoroughly saturated. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve.. 392 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Note.—A few cleaned currants or sultanas may be mixed with the bread and butter if wished, or the bread may be spread with a little marmalade as well as the butter. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1708. Bread and Butter Pudding (Steamed) See Cabinet Pudding (Recipe 1746). Steamed Bread-crumb Pudding l lb. bread-crumbs. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. Grated lemon rind. 2 eggs. Put the bread-crumbs and butter into a basin and pour the milk, boiling hot, over them. Add the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the yolks of the eggs. Soak a few minutes, and lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pudding basin, and steam very slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with jam or custard sauce. Notes.—This pudding may be baked instead of steamed, but less bread-crumbs will be required, or sponge-cake, or biscuit crumbs may be used instead of the bread-crumbs. Time to steam, £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1709. Bun Pudding Make in the same way as Rusk Pudding (Recipe 1724), using stale bun cut in slices instead of the rusks. The number of buns will depend upon their size, but the pie dish should not be more than half filled with the slices, as room must be allowed for them to swell. 1710. Cornflour or Arrowroot Pudding 1 or 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. A little flavouring. 14 oz. cornflour arrowroot. 14 pts. milk. A pinch of salt. Put most of the milk into a saucepan that has been rinsed out with water and allow it to heat. Mix the cornflour or arrowroot to a smooth paste with the remainder of the milk and add it to what is heating in the pan. Stir constantly until the mixture boils and thickens, and allow it to simmer at least 5 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and when the contents have cooled a little stir in the sugar, flavouring, and yolk or yolks of egg. Lastly, stir in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Pom? all into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and well risen. Lift out, sprinkle with sugar, and serve as quickly as possible. Notes.—-Skim milk may be used instead of fresh milk. A small piece of butter added to the mixture would be an improvement. Time, about \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. or 7d. Cornflour Custard Flavouring. 2 yolks of eggs. 1711. 1 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. cornflour. 1 table-sp. sugar. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little of the milk, and put the remainder into a saucepan to heat. When hot, pour it on to the cornflour, stirring all the time, and return all to the saucepan. Stir until boiling and simmer slowly for ten minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and when the mixture is off the boil stir in the yolks of eggs, sugar, and flavouring. Serve either warm or cold, in a glass or china dish. If liked, a little jam or stewed fruit may be put at the foot of the dish and the custard poured over it, or either of these may be served separately. Note.—Arrowroot or potato flour may be used instead of the cornflour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1712. Baked Custard Pudding 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 1 pt. milk. A pinch of salt. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Flavouring to taste. Beat the eggs in a basin with the sugar, salt, and a little flavouring. Heat the milk without allow- ing it to boil and pom? it slowly on to the eggs, &c., stirring all the time. Strain the mixture into a greased pie dish and wipe carefully round the edges. Place the pudding on a tin with a little cold water round it, and cook in a moderate oven until the custard sets and becomes a pretty brown colour. The water in the tin will prevent the custard be- coming too hot and curdling. Sprinkle with a little fine sugar before serving. Notes.—A plainer pudding may be made by using two eggs only, and a richer one by adding two or three extra yolks of eggs. A more substantial pudding may be made by placing a rice biscuit, or a few broken macaroon or ratafia biscuits, in the pie dish before pouring in the custard. If the pudding is wished more decorative, line the pie dish with pastry (see p. 409) before pouring in the custard. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1713. Steamed Custard Pudding See Caramel Custard Pudding (Recipe 1749). The caramel may be omitted if a simpler pudding is required, and the basin carefully greased before putting in the custard. 1714. Macaroni Pudding (without Eggs) 3 oz. macaroni. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flora. 1 table-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. Flavouring. 2 table-sps. ratafia crumbs. Weigh the macaroni, break it into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan of boiling salted water. Allow it to cook until quite tender, then drain. Meanwhile melt the butter in a saucepan, add to it the flour and mix until smooth. Pour on the milk and stir constantly until boiling. Add the maca- roni to this sauce with the sugar and flavouring, and simmer all together from ten to fifteen minutes. Then pour the mixture into a dish which can be sent to table, sprinkle the ratafia crumbs over the top, and serve hot. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 393 1715. Macaroni Pudding (with Eggs) 3 oz. macaroni. 1 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. 1 or 2 eggs. Flavouring. Weigh the macaroni, break it into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan of boiling water. Allow it to cook for ten minutes, then pour off the water. Add the milk to the macaroni and simmer slowly until quite tender, keeping it well stirred during the cooking. The time will depend upon the kind of macaroni used. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, add the sugar and flavouring, and lastly the eggs well beaten and strained. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a moderate oven until delicately browned. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 1716. Rice Pudding (without Eggs) A pinch of salt. Nutmeg or other flavouring. 1| pts. milk. l| table-sps. rice. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. chopped suet Wash the riqe and put it into a well-greased pie dish, with the sugar, salt, and a little grated nutmeg or other flavouring. Pour in the milk and sprinkle the suet, very finely shred or chopped, over the top. Bake the pudding in a slow oven until the rice is quite soft. The slower it is cooked, the softer and creamier it will be. Serve with milk or cream and sugar. Note,—Skim milk may be used, but a little more suet or butter should then be added. Or, the pudding may be made with condensed milk, in which case the sugar should be omitted. Other grains may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, id. 1717. Rice Pudding (with Eggs) 2 table-sps. rice. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 tea-cupful water. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1J pts. milk. Grated lemon rind. A pinch of salt. 1 Wash the rice, put it into a lined saucepan with the water, and boil until the water is absorbed. Then add the milk, salt, and a little grated lemon rind or other flavouring. Simmer slowly by the side of the fire until the rice is thoroughly cooked, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, and when slightly cooled, stir in the sugar and yolks of eggs. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pie dish, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with milk or cream. Note.—A little butter may be added to the above mixture if wished. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6c?. 1718. Steamed Rice and Milk 2 table-sps. rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. A bay-leaf or small piece of cinnamon stick. Wash the rice and put it into a clean jar with the other ingredients. Cover the jar with a lid or greased paper, and place it in a saucepan with boil- ing water to come half-way up the sides. Allow it to steam until the rice is quite soft, stirring it once or twice with a wooden spoon. Remove the flavouring and serve with stewed fruit, or with milk or cream and sugar. Notes.—This plan is a very convenient one, as the rice requires little or no attention ; there is no fear of its burning and it is kept clean. A double saucepan may be used instead of the jar. Other grains, such as tapioca, sago, and semolina may be cooked in the same way. If fruit is being stewed to serve with it, it may be put into another jar and steamed in the same saucepan. Time, at least 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 5d. 1719. Steamed Rice Pudding See Rice Caramel Pudding (Recipe 1752). The caramel may be omitted and the mould or basin simply greased. 1720. Rice and Apple Pudding Take equal quantities of well-stewed or steamed rice and nicely cooked apples. Grease a small pie dish or fireproof dish, put the stewed apple at the foot of it, and the rice on the top. Sprinkle over some rough sugar or some cake crumbs, and place on some small pieces of butter. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned and hot through. Any other fruit, or even some good jam, may be used instead of apples. 1721. Rice and Chocolate Pudding 2 table-sps. rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. chocolate. 2 table-sps. water. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. Steam the rice with the sugar, milk, and salt until it is quite soft, and according to directions given in Recipe 1718. Grate or shred the chocolate and dissolve it in the water until quite smooth. Then add it to the rice along with a few drops of vanilla, and mix it well in. Serve either hot or cold. A little cream or custard sauce served with it will be an improvement. Time to cook, at least 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 1722. Swedish Rice £ lb. rice. | pt. milk. 4 apples. 2 inches cinnamon stick. 2 table-sps. sugar. Rind of 1 lemon. \ lb. raisins. 1 glass sherry. Wash the rice and put it into a lined saucepan with enough cold water to cover. Bring this to the boil; boil a minute or two, and then pour off the water. Now add the milk, cinnamon stick, lemon rind, and apples thinly sliced. Cook all slowly until apples and rice are tender, then add the sugar, wine, and the raisins carefully stoned and roughly chopped. Cook a few minutes longer, remove the lemon rind and cinnamon and serve hot or cold, and with or without cream or milk.394 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1723. Ground Rice Pudding Make in the same way as Semolina Pudding (see below). 1724. Rusk Pudding 4 or 5 rusks. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. J tea-cupful sultanas. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 eggs. Grated nutmeg. Butter the rusks, and clean and pick the sultanas. Grease a pie dish and lay the rusks in it, sprinkling them with the sugar and sultanas. Beat up one or two eggs, add the milk, and strain over the rusks, &c. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, wipe round the edges of the dish, and stand for half an hour. Then place the pudding in a baking tin with a little water round it, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Note.—The sultanas may be omitted and currants or 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls marmalade or jam used in their place. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Qd. 1725. Sago Pudding (without Eggs) If, table-sps. sago. | Grated rind \ lemon. 1 pt. milk. A pinch of spice. 1 oz. butter. | 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. Wash the sago and put it at the bottom of a greased pie dish. Sprinkle it with the sugar, grated lemon rind, and a good pinch of spice, and put in the butter broken in small pieces. Pour the milk over, wipe the rim of the pie dish, and bake the pudding in a slow oven. The sago should be stirred up once or twice towards the beginning of the baking. Note.—If large sago is used it is a good plan to soak it for an hour or two before making the pudding. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. until brown and set. When ready, sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—To make a little variety, some stewed fruit, such as apples, may be put at the bottom of the pie dish before pouring in the semolina. Time, £ hour in all. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1728. Steamed Semolina Pudding Make in the same way as Caramel Semolina Pudding (Recipe 1753). The caramel may be omitted if a simpler pudding is wanted and the basin well greased before pouring in the mixture. 1729. Tapioca Pudding 2 table-sps. tapioca. 1 pt. milk. \ pt. water. A pinch of salt. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. Put the tapioca into a basin with the water. Cover it over, and if time permits let it soak one hour. Then rinse out a lined saucepan with cold water, and turn the tapioca into it. Add the milk, bring slow]}7 to the boil over the fire, and then simmer until the tapioca turns quite clear, stirring occa- sionally. The time required will vary according to the kind of tapioca used. If it becomes too thick whilst cooking, add a little more milk. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring. Lastly, add the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and set. Sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—Fine tapioca may be cooked in the same way as semolina, and soaking will not be necessary. Time to cook, J to 1 hour after soaking. Suffi- cient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 1730. Another Way (without Eggs) Soak the tapioca as above, then proceed accord- ing to directions given for Rice Pudding without Eggs (Recipe 1716). 1726. Sago Pudding (with Eggs) Make according to directions given for Tapioca Pudding. 1727. Semolina Pudding (Baked) 2 oz. semolina. 1J pts. milk. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. sugar. A little flavouring. 1 or 2 eggs. Put the milk into a lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water and heat it over the fire without bringing it to the boil. Put the semo- lina into a piece of paper, and sprinkle it slowly into the hot milk with one hand whilst stirring with a spoon with the other. Then simmer slowly until the semolina swells and thickens the milk. Add sugar and a little flavouring. Remove the sauce- pan from the fire and, when the contents have cooled a little, stir in the yolks of eggs, and lastly the whites, which have been beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven 1731. Vermicelli Pudding Make in the same way as Macaroni Pudding (see Recipe 1714), omitting the preliminary boiling in water. The vermicelli should be slightly crushed, but not broken too small. PART II BOILED AND STEAMED PUDDINGS SOME PRELIMINARIES To Chop Suet.—When suet is used in a pudding, it should be hard and dry. Any suet, if good, can be used, although beef suet is generally pre- ferred. Mutton suet, however, makes the lightest puddings, while veal suet is the most delicate. Remove all skin and fibre from it, put it on a chop- ping board and shred it finely with a knife. Dust it over generously with flour (taken from the quantity required for the pudding), and then chopPUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 395 it finely with a knife. A long pointed knife is best. Hold down the point of the knife on the board with it will be. How to Prepare the Mould or Basin.—A pudding which is to be steamed or boiled must be put into a well-greased mould or basin. To prepare the mould or basin, first see that it is perfectly dry. If there is any doubt about this, stand it in a warm lace for a while. Then to grease it, use fresh utter, clarified butter, clarified fat, or salad oil. Salt butter is not so good, as it might cause the pudding to stick. A little of the fat should be put into the mould or basin, melted in a warm place, and then run round the sides, or painted on with a brush. A piece of white paper to cover the pudding should be greased at the same time. Besides greasing, pudding moulds are sometimes coated with fine browned bread-crumbs, biscuit-crumbs, or brown sugar ; or they may be prettily decorated with raisins, candied peel, almonds, or preserved fruits, according to the kind of pudding that is being made. Then again, a coating of caramel sometimes takes the place of the greasing (see p. 399). The mould should be prepared before the pudding is mixed. Bor light puddings a plain mould is best, as it will be easier to turn out, but for the more solid kinds, with flour and suet, some- thing more fanciful may be taken. How to Steam a Pudding.—As a rule the mould should not be more than three-quarters full, or even less, if the mixture is of a very light and spongy nature, as room must be allowed for the mixture to rise. (1) Cover the top of the mould with a piece of greased paper, twisting it on so that it does not fall down the sides, place it in a saucepan with just sufficient hot water to reach half-way up the mould, put a tight-fitting lid on the pan, and keep the water at simmering point until the pudding is cooked. If the water boils down, more must be added. Any pudding of the nature of a custard must be very slowly and carefully steamed, as extreme heat would curdle the eggs and make the pudding watery. With the lighter kinds of puddings it is a good plan to put a saucer or old plate at the foot of the saucepan, so as to raise the pudding mould a little above the heat of the stove. (2) Instead of the ordinary saucepan a steamer may be used; care must be taken to keep plenty of water boiling underneath the pudding all the time. (3) Or, the mould containing the pudding may be placed in a deep tin or saucepan with boiling water round it and then cooked in the oven instead of the top of the stove. This is sometimes a more convenient method, as it saves a saucepan on the top of the stove ; it is also a very successful method if care is taken that the water does not boil away. How to Boil a Pudding.—A pudding mixture may either be boiled in a basin covered with a cloth, or in a cloth only. If a basin is used, the mixture should fill it, or it should be filled up with a round of bread, which is afterwards removed, to prevent the water soaking into the pudding and making it soft. Tie over it firmly a cloth that has been wrung out of boiling water and sprinkled with Cloth Tied on Basin. flour. Tie the string under the rim of the basin and in a loop knot so that it can easily be undone. Then bring up the four corners of the cloth, and tie them on the top of the pudding, or fasten them together with a safety-pin. If no basin is used, prepare a pudding cloth in the same way, spread it over a basin in order to shape it, put the pudding mixture in the centre, draw all the sides of the cloth together, leaving more or less room for the mixture to swell, according to the nature of the materials, and tie firmly with string. Plunge the pudding into a large saucepan of boiling water—there must be sufficient water to completely cover it—and keep it boiling steadily the required time. A kettle of boiling water should be kept at hand to fill up the saucepan when necessary. How to Turn out a Pudding.—Lift it from the saucepan and allow it to stand for a minute or two. If too great haste is used, the first steam escaping from the pudding will be apt to crack it. Remove396 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the cloth oB paper from the top, then take hold of the basin or mould with a cloth, and shake it gently to ascertain that the pudding is coming away quite freely from the sides, then reverse it on a hot dish and remove the mould carefully. Wien the pudding is boiled in a cloth, lift it on to a colander or sieve, and let it drain a minute or two. Then untie the string, draw the cloth away from the sides of the pudding, reverse it on a hot dish and draw the cloth carefully away. For care of pudding cloths, see p. 14. 1732. Albert Pudding 3 eggs. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. castor sugar. £ lemon rind. 3 oz. butter. 1 or 2 oz. Valencia raisins. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. milk. Split and stone the raisins, and dry them for a few minutes on a plate in the oven. Then grease a plain mould or basin, and decorate it with the prepared raisins, putting the cut side next the mould. To Make the Mixture.—Peel the rind very thinly off half a lemon, chop it finely, put it into a basin with the butter, and beat well with a wooden spoon until reduced to a soft creamy consistency. Then sieve the sugar on the top, and beat again for a few minutes. Sieve the flour, and add one egg and a little flour alternately, until all are mixed in. Add the milk and the baking powder last of all. Pour the mixture into the prepared mould, cover with greased paper and steam until nicely risen and firm to the touch. Turn out when ready and serve with jam, custard, or chocolate sauce. Time to steam, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. without sauce. 1733. Amber Pudding 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 4 oz. minced apple. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 4 oz. chopped suet. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. golden syrup. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of salt. Grated lemon rind. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the syrup slightly warm, and the two eggs well beaten, and mix together, adding a little milk if necessary. The mixture should be just moist enough to drop easily from the spoon. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam quickly until thoroughly cooked. Turn out when ready and serve with lemon, orange, or syrup sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. without sauce. 1734. Apple Doughdy £ doz. apples, i lb. sugar. Water. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. f lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. About \ pt. milk. Peel and slice the apples, put them into a stew- pan with the sugar and enough water to cover them, bring them to the boil, and cook until nearly tender. Meanwhile sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add enough milk to form a dough. Roll out on a floured board to an inch in thickness and cut out in small round cakes. Lay these on the top of the hot apples, cover the saucepan and simmer slowly until all is cooked. Serve the apples in the centre of a dish and the dumplings round. Note.—Other fruits or a mixture of fruits may be used in the same way as the apples. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1735. Apple and Rice Dumpling £ lb. rice. 3 or 4 apples. Well wash the rice and throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, to which a little salt has been added, allow it to boil quickly for £ hour, then drain oS every drop of water. Meanwhile peel, core, and quarter the apples. Then take a clean scalded pudding cloth and spread the rice in the centre of it. Heap the apples on the top of this and gather up the cloth, arranging it so that the apples are covered with the rice. Tie the pudding rather tightly and plunge it into a sauce- pan of fast-boiling water with a plate or saucer at the foot of it. Boil quickly the required time, then turn out and serve plain with Demerara sugar, or with some nice fruit sauce or syrup sauce. Time to boil, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. 1736. Steamed Apricot Pudding 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. Rind and juice of £ lemon. 2 eggs. A pinch of cinnamon. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 4 or 5 pieces tinned apricot. Cream the butter in a basin, add the sugar, and then the flour and eggs by degrees. Then beat well until light and frothy. Drain the pieces of apricot and cut them in small pieces, add them to the mixture with the cinnamon, lemon rind, and juice, and last of all the baking powder. Mix well and pour into a greased mould. Cover with greased paper, and steam steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. AVben ready, turn out and strain the following sauce over and round : Sauce A pt. apricot puree. Rind and juice £ lemon. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. 1| gills cold water. 1 oz. cornflour. Flavouring. A little apricot yellow. Make the apricot puree by rubbing some of the tinned apricots through a sieve, using_ some of the syrup along with the fruit. Put this into a sauce- pan and allow it to heat over the fire. Add the cornflour mixed with the cold water and stir until boiling. Then put in the sugar, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice, and, if wished, 1 table- spoonful maraschino or other liqueur to flavour. Colour with a small quantity of apricot yellow (this may be omitted if not at hand), simmer slowly for a few minutes and use as directed. Time to steam, 1£ hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d.397 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 1737. Banana Pudding, 1 1 pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. cake-crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 4 or 5 bananas. The juice of \ lemon. 1 table-sp. sugar. £ glass sherry or rum. Peel the bananas, removing all pith and string, and slice them lengthwise with a silver knife. Put them on to a plate, sprinkle them with the sugar, lemon juice, and wine, and let them soak for half an hour, turning the pieces occasionally. Meanwhile, make a custard. Beat up the yolks and whites of eggs in a basin with one dessert- spoonful of sugar and a few drops of vanilla or any other flavouring. Heat the milk almost to boiling point, and pour it on to the eggs, &c., stirring all the time. Then strain the custard into another basin, add the cake-crumbs, and allow it to cool. Grease a plain tin mould or basin, and arrange the bananas in it crosswise ; pour the custard mixture slowly over them, and cover with greased paper. Place this pudding in a steamer and steam very slowly, until it feels firm to the touch. Or, it may be cooked in a saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides of the mould, but in this case a double fold of paper should be placed below the mould, to prevent the top of the pudding cook- ing too quickly and becoming tough. This pudding may be served either hot or cold, and a jam or custard sauce, to which any liquid left from the bananas should be added, may be poured round it. Time to cook, at least 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1738. Banana Pudding, 2 2 or 3 bananas. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. 2 eggs. Grated rind J lemon. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Peel the bananas and cut them in thin slices with a silver knife. Put the butter and sugar into a basin with the grated lemon rind and cream them together. Add the eggs and flour by degrees and beat well. Then pour in the milk and add the bananas and lemon juice. .Mix very lightly so as not to break the bananas more than is necessary, and stir in the baking powder at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased basin, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with lemon or orange sauce poured round. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 4 lb. flour. | lb. suet. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1739. Baroness Pudding J lb. raisins. £ tea-sp. salt. A little milk. greased paper and steam steadily the required time. Serve with ginger or marmalade sauce. Time to steam, about 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1740. Batter Pudding \ lb. flour. | 2 eggs. | pt. milk. 1 A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the two eggs without beating them, mix the flour gradually into these and add the milk by degrees in the same way as for pancake batter. Beat well until the batter is full of air bubbles, then cover it over and let it stand one hour. Take a basin just large enough to hold the batter, grease it very carefully, and pour the batter into it. Tie a scalded and floured cloth over the top, plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and boil quickly until ready. Serve with fruit syrup or any nice sweet sauce, or hand melted butter and sugar separately. Note.—This pudding may be steamed or baked instead of boiled. Time to boil, II hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1741. Batter and Fruit Pudding | lb. flour. | Fruit. 2 eggs. | pt. milk. I A pinch of salt. Make the batter as in last recipe, beating it well and allowing it to stand. Grease a plain mould or basin and half fill it with fruit. Apples, cherries, raspberries, or strawberries are about the best fruits to use. Apples would require to be peeled, cored, and sliced, cherries stoned, and raspberries or strawberries carefully picked. Fill up with the prepared batter, cover with greased paper, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out when ready and serve with cream or any suit- able sweet sauce. Note.—This pudding may be baked in a greased pie dish instead of being steamed. Time to steam, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1742. Black Cap Puddings Batter. 1 oz. currants. Make the batter according to directions given for Batter Pudding (see above) and let it stand. Grease five or six dariole moulds or very small cups, and sprinkle a few cleaned currants at the foot of each. Half fill the moulds with the batter, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily until firm and well risen. When ready, turn them out on a hot dish, and the currants will form a black cap on the top. Serve with orange or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4d. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, add the sugar, the suet finely chopped, and the raisins, stoned and cut in halves. Mix these dry ingredients well together, make a well in the centre, and pour in gradually enough milk to make a softish dough, about 1 gill. Pour the mixture into a basin that has been well greased and deco- rated with a few stoned raisins, and cover with 1743. Bread and Fruit Pudding Stale bread. Hot milk. I Fresh fruit. A little butter. I Sugar. Half fill a basin with stale bread broken in small pieces, cover with boiling milk and stand overnight. Next day squeeze out the bread, straining off all superfluous milk. Beat un the bread pulp with a398 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD persons. Probable cost. Is. persons. Probable cost, Id. fork and add a little melted butter to it. Now prepare some fresh fruit, such as apples, plums, rhubarb, currants, &c.,cuttingit in pieces if large, and removing any stones if necessary. Then well grease a pudding basin, and put into it the bread pulp and fruit in layers, beginning and ending with the bread, and sprinkling each layer of fruit with sugar. The basin should be nearly full. Cover it with greased paper and steam from 2 to 4 hours, according to size. Turn out when ready and serve with Deme- rara sugar. 1744. 3 tea-cupfuls bread. 1 tea-cupful sugar. 1 tea-cupful chopped suet. \ tea-cupful currants. | tea-cupful raisins. 1 tea-cupful flour. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. A little milk. Scrap Bread Pudding (Steamed) soaked Any scraps of bread may be used for this. Put them into a basin, cover them with cold water, and soak them until quite soft. They should be soaked all night if time permits. Then strain off the water, and squeeze the bread as dry as possible. Measure it, put it into a basin, and beat it with a fork until quite free from lumps. Prepare the fruit, chop the suet, and add them to the bread with the other dry ingredients. Mix well together and moisten with a beaten egg and a little milk. Put the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam until firm to the touch and thoroughly cooked. Serve plain or with custard or white sauce. Notes.—This mixture may be baked instead of steamed. It should be put into a greased York- shire pudding tin and, when cooked, cut in pieces, placed on a hot dish and sprinkled with sugar. Figs and candied peel may be used instead of raisins. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1746. Cabinet Pudding (Plain) Bread and butter. 1 oz. sugar. £ pt. milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 2 oz. Valencia raisins. Flavouring. For the above ingredients choose a basin or plain mould that will hold a pint or a little over, and grease it very carefully with clarified butter. Stone the raisins, cut them in halves, put them on a plate in the oven for 2 or 3 minutes to dry ; then use them for decorating the mould. Cut some bread, rather less than half an inch in thickness, remove the crusts and butter it. Then cut it in small pieces and lay it in the mould very loosely. Add the sugar and any remaining raisins. The Cabinet Pudding mould must not be more than half full in order to allow room for the bread to swell. Beat up the eggs in another basin, add the milk and flavouring to them, and then strain over the bread. Cover the pudding with a piece of greased paper, and let it stand for half an hour, so as to soak the bread thoroughly. Then steam very slowly until firm to the touch. Let the pudding stand for a minute or two after removing it from the saucepan, to allow some of the steam to escape; then turn it out carefully on to a hot dish. Serve with custard or jam sauce. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1745. Brown J lb. brown bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. A little grated lemon rind. 2 oz. brown sugar. Bread Pudding 1 gill milk. 2 oz. glace cherries. 2 oz. candied peel. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. Take some rather stale brown bread and rub it through a sieve to make the crumbs. Weigh out the required quantity and put them into a basin with the butter, sugar, and grated lemon rind. Heat the milk almost to boiling point, pour it over the ingredients in the basin, and soak for 10 minutes. Meanwhile prepare the fruit : cut the cherries in small pieces, and shred and chop the peel. Add these to the mixture with the yolks of eggs and baking powder, and, lastly, stir in the white of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and the baking powder. Pour the mixture into a mould that has been well greased and decorated with a few pieces of cherry. Cover with greased paper and steam slowly until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with lemon, jam, or wine sauce. Time to steam, § to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 1747. Cabinet Pudding (Richer) 3 or 4 sponge cakes. A few ratafias or 1 or 2 macaroons. 3 gills milk. 2 or 3 eggs. 1| oz. cherries. 4 oz. angelica. Flavouring. Make in the same way as the Plain Cabinet Pudding given above, using the better ingredients and decorating the mould with some of the cherries and angelica. A little wine or liqueur may be used for flavouring. Serve with wine, German or mousseline sauce. Note.—Cabinet puddings may be varied very much according to the material at hand. Any remains of light white cake, and small pieces of fancy biscuits may be utilised in this way, also small pieces of preserved fruits, almonds, raisins, &c. The pudding may be made more or less rich by regulating the number of eggs, and sometimes a little cream is used along with the milk. The flavouring, too, can always be varied to suit in- dividual taste. The mould must never be more than half filled with the solid materials before straining in the custard, or the pudding will not be light. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5399 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 1748. Canary Pudding 2 eggs—their weight Grated lemon rind. in butter, flour, and h tea-sp. baking powder. castor sugar. To Make the Mixture.—Put the butter into a slightly warm basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top, add the rind of one large lemon grated, and mix them well in. Then add one egg with half the flour (sieved) and beat well, then the other egg with the remainder of the flour and beat again. When the mixture looks light and full of air- bubbles, add the baking powder free from lumps. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pudding mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready and pour round it a good custard sauce flavoured with lemon. The pudding should look as yellow as possible. Note.—The above mixture may be made up in a variety of ways by adding different flavourings and altering the form of mould. It may be baked as well as steamed. See also Cup, Chocolate, Ginger, Raspberry, Russian, and West Riding Puddings. Time to steam, 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. without sauce. 1749. Caramel Custard (Creme Renversfie a la Vanille) Caramel. 3 oz. loaf sugar. $ gill cold water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Custard. 2 yolks and 2 whole eggs. \ pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Vanilla flavouring. _ A pinch of salt. Put the ingredients for the caramel into a small saucepan, and let them cook until they are a light coffee colour. Watch the caramel carefully, as it is apt to burn. When ready, pour it into a plain dry souffle mould, which has straight sides and a flat top, and turn the mould round and round until the caramel coats it uniformly. It is a good plan to warm the mould first. Allow this to become cold whilst making the custard. Put the eggs into a basin with the sugar, flavouring, and a pinch of salt, and mix them to a cream with a wooden spoon. Heat the milk, and pour it slowly on to the egg mixture, stirring all the time. Strain the custard into the prepared mould and cover with greased paper. Steam very slowly until the custard feels firm in the centre ; or bake in a moderate oven with some warm water round the mould. Stand a few minutes before turning out and serve hot or cold. The pudding will have a glaze of caramel over the top, and some will run round the sides and serve as a sauce. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1750. Chocolate Caramel Custard (Creme RenversGe au Chocolat) Make in the same way as Caramel Custard (see above), adding 2 oz. of melted chocolate to the milk. 1751. Coffee Caramel Custard (Cr£me Renvers6e au Moka) Make in the same way as Caramel Custard, flavouring the milk with essence of coffee, or using some black coffee along with the milk to make the custard. 1752. Caramel Rice Pudding 2 oz. Carolina rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. Flavouring. Sugar to taste. Caramel. 2 to 3 oz. loaf sugar. 2 table-sps. water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wash the rice in several waters. Put it into a double saucepan with the milk and butter, and cook it until all the milk is absorbed and the rice itself is quite soft. Beat the eggs and add them to the rice with sugar and flavouring to taste. Make the caramel and line a plain pint mould with it as in Recipe 1749. When cold and set, pour in the rice mixture, cover with greased paper and steam slowly until the eggs are set and the pudding feels firm to the touch. Turn out carefully, allow- ing the caramel to run round the pudding as a sauce. Note.—This pudding is also very good served cold. Time, 1£ to 2 hours in all. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 0>d. or Id. 1753. Caramel Semolina Pudding 2 oz. semolina. Caramel. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. Same as above. Sugar and flavouring to taste. Rinse out a small saucepan with cold water, and put into it the semolina and the milk. Stir these over the fire until boiling, then simmer from 10 to 15 minutes until the semolina is quite cooked and the mixture thick. A little butter may be added if liked. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the sugar, flavouring to taste, and the two eggs well beaten. Mix well. Make the caramel as in Recipe 1749, and run it over the sides of a 1| pint mould or basin. When cool, fill up with the semolina mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Stand a few minutes before turning out, and serve either hot or cold. Note.—This pudding may be varied by adding a little cocoanut, preserved ginger, or other fruit to the semolina when it is cooked. The pudding may be baked instead of steamed. Time, about 1 hour in all. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Qd. or 7d. 1754. Carrot Pudding | lb. bread-crumbs. 6 oz. suet. \ lb. stoned raisins. I lb. currants. | lb. carrots. 3 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. Grated nutmeg. A little milk. First boil the carrots until tender, then drain them and mash them to a pulp. Add to them all the dry ingredients carefully prepared, then moisten with the eggs well beaten and a little milk.400 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin and boil for 3 hours. Or, if preferred, the mixture may be baked, when it will only require about 14 hours. A custard, ginger, or any suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—This makes a very nice light pudding, and if a glassful of sherry is added to the mixture, it will make a good substitute for Xmas plum pudding. It will keep for a month at least after boiling. Probable cost. Is. 1755. Castle or Cup Puddings 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. 4 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. Make the mixture according to directions given for Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), adding flavour- ing to taste. Have ready greased seven or eight small cups or dariole moulds, half fill them with Castle Puddings the mixture and steam or bake the puddings until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn them out when ready and serve with jam sauce poured round. The moulds may, if liked, be decorated with a few small pieces of cherry. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1756. Chelsea Pudding J lb. flour. J lb. suet. | lb. bread-crumbs. £ lb. raisins. A pinch of salt. J lb. currants. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 tea-cupful treacle. 1 cupful milk. Chop the suet finely and mix it in a basin with the bread-crumbs, flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix well together with the tips of the fingers, and add the currants and raisins carefully prepared. Make a well in the centre, add the treacle slightly warmed, and then the milk by degrees. Beat all together and then pour into a well-greased mould. Cover with greased paper and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with sauce. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1757. Cherry Pudding, l 4 lb. flour. J lb. suet. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 4 pt. milk. | lb. fresh cherries. A few bread-crumbs. Sieve the flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder into a basin, add the suet finely chopped, then the eggs well beaten and the milk by degrees. Beat the mixture well, and, lastly, add the cherries, which have been stalked and stoned, and carefully wiped. Pour the mixture into a basin that has been well greased and sprinkled with bread-crumbs, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Serve with wine sauce. Time to steam, 24 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10c?. 1758. Cherry Pudding, 2 4 lb. fresh cherries. 24 oz. brown bread- crumbs. Grated rind of 4 lemon. 14 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk or cream. 2 eggs. 1 oz. loaf sugar. The juice of 4 lemon. | gill of water. Put the bread-crumbs, sugar, and grated lemon rind into a basin. Wash, pick, and stone the cherries, and add three-quarters of them to the bread-crumbs, &c. Boil the milk or cream, and pour it over the crumbs and fruit. Add the yolks of eggs, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, cover with buttered paper, and steam slowly and steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. Make a sauce with the remainder of the cherries, water, lemon juice, and loaf sugar. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, and boil gently from ten to fifteen minutes. Add two or three drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour. Turn the pudding carefully on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1759. Chestnut and Custard Pudding 24 chestnuts. 1 gill water. Rind of 4 lemon. 4 pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 2 oz. sugar. Caramel. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 4 gill water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wash the chestnuts and make a slit in the shell of each with a knife. Put them into a saucepan of hot water, and boil them for 10 minutes. Then drain them, and peel off both the shell and the inner skin. Put the chestnuts thus prepared into a saucepan with the water, lemon rind, and sugar, and stew them until soft and nearly dry. Then rub them through a wire sieve. Make the caramel according to directions in Recipe 1749, and line a plain mould with it. Make a custard with the eggs, sugar, and milk. Beat up the yolks and whites of eggs in a basin with the sugar. Heat the milk almost to boiling point, and pour it over them, stirring all the time ; then strain, and allow it to cool. Add the chestnut puree to the custard, and fill up the mould which has been lined with the caramel. Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly until firm to the touch. Serve with wine or mousseline sauce. Time to steam, 14 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1760. Chocolate Pudding, 1 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 5 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk. 2 eggs. A few drops of vanilla. A pinch of cinnamon. Cut the chocolate in small pieces and dissolve it slowly in the milk, or if chocolate powder is used. ■9401 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS cook it in the milk a few minutes. Cream the l butter in a basin and sieve the sugar on the top of it. Add the yolks of eggs and a few of the bread- crumbs and mix well; then the dissolved chocolate, vanilla, and the rest of the crumbs, and mix again. Chocolate Pudding Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until the pudding is well risen and feels firm to the touch. Serve with chocolate, custard, or wine sauce. Notes.—If unsweetened chocolate is used, half the quantity will be sufficient, and more sugar may be added. The above mixture may be steamed in small dariole moulds if preferred. They will then require from 15 to 20 minutes to cook. The moulds may be decorated with shred almonds or small pieces of angelica before pouring in the mixture. Time to steam, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1761. Chocolate Pudding, 2 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. Vanilla flavouring. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. water. Grate or shred down the chocolate and dissolve it in a small saucepan with the water. It must bo stirred until perfectly smooth, and then allowed to cool. Make the mixture according to directions given for Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), adding the chocolate to the creamed butter and sugar. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready, and serve with custard or chocolate sauce. Notes.—If preferred the mixture may be steamed in small dariole moulds ; it will then take a shorter time to cook. The mould may be decorated with a few pieces of cherry and angelica before pouring in the mixture. Time to steam, 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1762. Cocoanuf Pudding 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. cake-crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. cocoanut. 2 gills milk. 2 eggs. A few drops of vanilla. Put the cocoanut into a small saucepan with the milk, and cook it slowly over the fire from 10 to. 15 minutes. Put the butter into a basin and beat it until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top of it, and mix the two well together. Then add the yolks of eggs, crumbs, cocoanut, and flavouring, and mix again. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with wine, custard, lemon or orange sauce. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1763. Coffee Pudding 5 oz. bread. 1 gill strong black coffee. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. 2 oz. almonds. A few drops of vanilla. Grease a plain pudding mould or basin, and decorate it with a few of the almonds blanched and shred. Weigh the bread free from crust, break it in pieces and put it into a basin with the butter. Make the coffee boiling hot, pour it over them and soak until the bread is quite soft. Then beat it up withafork, adding thesugar, flavouring, yolks of eggs and remainder of the almonds. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well- greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Serve with custard sauce made with equal quantities of coffee and milk. Note.—Broken sponge cakes may be used instead of the bread, and a table-spoonful of cream added to the mixture will improve it. Time to steam, 1 to If hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1764. Currant Dumplings \ lb. flour. 2 to 3 oz, suet. 3 oz. currants. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. £ tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour and add to it the suet finely chopped, salt and baking powder. Clean the currants and mix them with the other ingredients. Moisten into a dough with the milk, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Form into small balls with the hands, using a little flour to prevent the dough sticking. Drop these into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil quickly until well cooked. Lift out with a draining spoon, and serve the dumplings very hot. A sweet sauce may be served separately. Time to boil, 20 to 25 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1765. Dampf Nudeln | lb. flour. 1 table-sp. sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. | oz. butter. 3 yolks. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 table-sp. currants. 1 table-sp. raisins. J pt. milk. J oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the \ oz. of butter until free from 2 CCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 402 ' 39 lumps. Add the currants and raisins carefully prepared. Beat up the yolks of eggs with 2 table- spoonfuls of milk, and hind the dry ingredients to- gether with this, making a softish dough. Heat the second lot of milk, butter, and sugar in a saucepan, put in the dough mixture in spoonfuls, cover the saucepan, and cook slowly until the dampf nudeln are ready. They should be tested with a skewer, which should come out clean. Serve very hot, sprinkled with sugar. Custard or whipped cream may be handed separately. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1766. Date Pudding J lb. dates. 2 oz. sugar. 3 oz. suet. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 ofc. flour. 1 egg. | tea-sp. mixed spice. £ tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. treacle. Stone the dates and cut them in small pieces. Remove all skin from the suet, shred it finely and then weigh it. Chop it finely with a knife, sprink- ling it with the flour to prevent its sticking to the board. Then mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg well beaten, the treacle slightly warmed, and enough milk to make all of a softish consistency. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with lemon or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1767. Delaware Pudding Suet crust. 1 or 2 apples. 1 oz. currants. 1 oz. candied peel. i lemon. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 2 oz. Demerara sugar. First prepare the mixture. Peel, core, and chop the apples finely. Clean the currants and shred the peel. Mix all these together in a basin with the spice. Put the sugar and butter on to a plate, grate the lemon rind over, and work them well together with a knife. Then add them to the other ingredients in the basin, strain the lemon juice over, and mix again. Grease a If pt. basin and make some suet crust according to directions given on p. 333. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and cut it out in rounds to fit the basin with a cutter or saucepan lid. Put first a round of pastry into the basin, then a spoonful of the mixture, another round of pastry, and so on until the basin is full. Make the last layer pastry, covering well over. Cover the basin with a scalded and floured cloth, and tie it firmly on. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil quickly the required time. When ready, turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with or without sauce. Note.—This pudding may be steamed instead of boiled, but longer time must be allowed to cook it. Time to boil, at least 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8c?. 1768. Dough Dumplings Take any bread dough left over from baking, and divide it in pieces the size of a small egg. Drop these into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, and allow them to boil quickly for \ an hour, or until the dough is thoroughly cooked. Lift them out with a draining spoon, and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Serve with syrup or jam. $ lb. figs. 6 oz. suet. £ lb. bread-crumbs, | lb. flour. | lb. sugar. 1769. Fig Pudding, 1 1 or 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. A pinch of salt. \ tea-sp. baking powder. £ pt. milk. Soak the figs in boiling water for ten minutes, then dry them and cut them in small pieces, removing the stalks. Sieve the flour into a basin, add the suet finely chopped, the sugar, bread- crumbs, spices, baking powder, and salt, and mix all lightly together with the fingers. Then add the figs, mix again, and make a well in the centre. Beat the eggs in another basin, and pour them into the centre of the dry ingredients. Add also the milk, and stir well together. Pour the mixture into a greased mould or basin, cover with a lid or piece of greased paper, and steam steadily until well cooked. Serve with custard, white, or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10c?. 1770. Fig Pudding, 2 \ lb. figs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. flour. 2 eggs. Grated rind 1 lemon. 2 oz. chopped almonds. A pinch of salt. A pinch of nutmeg. £ tea-sp. cinnamon. | tea-sp. baking powder. 1 glass sherry. Prepare the figs as in last recipe and cut them in small pieces. Cream the butter and sugar until of a light creamy consistency, and then add the eggs and flour by degrees. Beat again for a few minutes and add the other ingredients. If not sufficiently moist, add a little milk or another egg, cr the sherry may be omitted and milk only used. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with custard or sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4c?. 1771. A Boiled or Steamed Fruit Pudding Suet crust. Fruit. Sugar. Flavouring. Almost any kind of fruit may be used for this pudding, or a mixture of fruits if preferred. For the preparation of the fruit, see under Fruit Tart, p. 354. Make the suet crust according to direc- tions given on p. 333, and roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Grease a basin and line it with the pastry. Press the pastry well on to the sides of the basin, and try to keep it of a uniform thickness. Cut off the trimmings, and roll them out in a round shape, large enough to cover the pudding. Fill up the basin with the fruit, sugar, and flavouring, pressing them well403 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS down, as the fruit sinks considerably when cooking. Wet the edge of the pastry which lines the basin, put on the cover, and press the two edges well together. Dip the centre of a pudding cloth in boiling water, and dredge it with flour. Tie this over the top of the pudding, and plunge it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water. Boil quickly until thoroughly cooked. More boiling water must be added as required. When ready, turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once. Note.—This pudding may be steamed or baked instead of boiled. Time to boil, at least 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1772. Preserved Ginger Pudding 2 eggs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. rice flour. | lb. preserved ginger. 1 table - sp. ginger syrup. | tea-sp. baking powder. J tea-sp. ground ginger. Cream the butter and add the sugar to it. Then add the eggs and the two flours by degrees, and beat well for a few minutes. Cut the ginger into small pieces, and mix it in lightly at the last with the baking powder, ginger syrup, and ground ginger. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until ready. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with custard, German, or chocolate sauce. Note.—The mixture may be steamed in small moulds if preferred. From 15 to 20 minutes will then be sufficient to cook them. Time to steam, 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1773. Gingerbread Pudding | lb. flour. | lb. suet. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. | tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 1 egg- 1 tea-cupful treacle. 1 tea-cupful milk. Chop the suet finely (see p. 395), and mix it in a basin with all the other dry ingredients. Make a well in the centre, put in the treacle and the egg well beaten, and mix in the dry ingredients gradu- ally, adding the milk by degrees. Beat for a minute and pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin. Cover with greased paper and steam steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with custard or ginger sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1774. Glenloch Pudding 2 table-sps. small tapi- oca or sago. 1 cupful water. 1 cupful milk. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 cupful suet. 2 eggs. 1 cupful flour. 2 table-sps. sugar. Flavouring. A few raisins. Put the tapioca or sago into a saucepan with the water and allow it to soak. Then cook it until quite clear, adding the milk. Meanwhile mix in a basin the bread-crumbs, suet finely chopped, flour and sugar. When the sago or tapioca is cooked and thick, add it to this mixture along with the eggs well beaten. Mix well and add flavouring to taste. Pour all into a mould or basin that has been greased, floured, and decorated with a few raisins, and steam steadily until thoroughly cooked. Turn out and serve with jam or wine sauce. Time to steam, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1775. Golden Pudding, 1 Make in the same way as marmalade pudding (Recipe 1780), substituting golden syrup for the marmalade. Serve with golden syrup sauce. 1776. Another Way, 2 | lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. 2 table-sps. golden syrup. First grease a basin or plain mould, pour in the syrup and run it round the sides. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and add the sugar. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten and then the milk, mix thoroughly and pour into the prepared basin. Cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Time to steam, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1777. Imperial Pudding | lb. prunes. Jib. honey Juice of i lemon. Brown sugar. Suet crust. 6 oz. flour. 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 6 oz. suet. 1 tea-sp. salt. Cold water. Well grease a plain mould or basin, and coat the inside with coarse brown sugar. Then wash the prunes, and let them soak in boiling water for half an hour. Meanwhile make the suet crust according to directions given on p. 333, and roll it out rather thinly. Cut a round from this, and lay it at the bottom of the basin. Put a layer of prunes, stoned, on the top and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Then place over another round of pastry with some honey on the top, more pastry, more prunes, and so on until the basin is full. The last layer should be of the pastry. Cover with a scalded and floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil at least three hours. Serve with lemon or orange sauce. Note.—Dates may be used instead of prunes, and syrup or any nice jam instead of the honey. Time to boil, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1778. Jam Layer Pudding Short crust or suet pastry. Jam. Grease a plain mould or basin, and line it with the pastry rolled out thinly. Put a spoonful of jam at the bottom and a round of pastry on the top. Then continue putting in the jam and pastry in layers until the mould or basin is full. The last layer should be pastry. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam steadily from two to three hours according to size. Turn out and serve hot. Notes.—This pudding is also very good baked, it will then require a shorter time to cook. Several404 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD different kinds of jam may be used in the making of it, but they should be without stones. Syrup, too, may be used instead of the jam, but it should be thickened first with a few bread-crumbs or a little oatmeal, and nicely flavoured with a little lemon or ginger. 1779. Lemon Pudding \ lb. bread-crumbs. | lb. chopped suet. 2 oz. flour. 3 oz. castor sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. rice flour. J tea-sp. baking powder. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 egg. A little milk. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and grate the rind off it on to the top of the sugar. Work the sugar and lemon rind together with a broad-bladed knife until they are thoroughly blended. Then mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the lemon juice strained, the egg well beaten, and enough milk to make all of a softish consistency. Pour the mixture into a greased mould or basin, cover with a lid or with greased paper, and steam steadily. Turn out when ready and serve plain or with custard or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, fid. 1780. Marmalade Pudding J lb. each of flour, bread crumbs, and chopped suet. 2 oz. moist sugar. 1 or 2 eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. mar- malade. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Milk if necessary. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin and make a well in the centre. Put in the mar- malade and the eggs well beaten, and mix all together, using a little milk if necessary to bind ; this will depend upon the amount of marmalade and eggs used. The mixture should be made moist enough to drop easily from the spoon, but at the same time not too liquid. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with lemon or marmalade sauce. Time to steam, 2J to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1781. Orange Pudding Make in the same way as Lemon Pudding (see above), using the grated rind of two and the juice of one orange instead of the lemon rind and juice. Serve with orange sauce. 1782. Prune Pudding, 1 1 cupful each of flour, bread-crumbs, sugar, suet, milk, and puree of prunes. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 4 tea-sp. salt. 1 egg- Custard sauce. Prepare the pur6e of prunes by rubbing some well-cooked prunes through a fine wire sieve, using enough of their juice to make the purde the thick- ness of marmalade. Then mix all the dry in- gredients together in a basin and make a well in the centre. Pour in the egg well beaten, the prune puree, and a little of the milk. Mix from the centre outwards, drawing in the dry ingredients gradually, and only using the rest of the milk if necessary. The mixture should not be made too moist. Pour it into a well-greased basin, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready, and serve with custard or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. | lb. prunes. 2 oz. sugar. \ pt. water. 3 eggs. £ lb. ratafia or maca- roon crumbs. 1783. Prune Pudding, 2 1| oz. sweet almonds. £ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. port or claret. A few drops of carmine. Wash the prunes, and allow them to soak for one hour in the’ half pint of water. Then turn them into a saucepan with the water, and add the sugar. Simmer until quite soft, then strain (re- serving the liquor), and remove the stones from the prunes. Grease a plain mould very carefully, and coat the sides with macaroon or ratafia crumbs. Arrange a layer of the cooked prunes at the bottom of the mould, sprinkle with some of the almonds blanched and chopped, and then put in a layer of crumbs, then more prunes, &c.; and repeat this until all the crumbs and prunes are used. Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and strain this custard into the mould. (The mould should not be more than three-quarters full.) Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly until firm to the touch. Reheat the liquid from the prunes, reduc- ing it a little if necessary, and add to it the wine and a few drops of carmine. Turn the pudding carefully out, and pour this sauce round. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1784. Plum Duff 1 lb. flour. | lb. suet. | tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the suet finely chopped, the raisins cleaned, stoned, and roughly chopped, and the other dry ingredients. Mix together and make a well in the centre. Add enough milk or water to form a dough, and knead lightly with the hands. Turn out on a floured board, form into a roll, and tie up in a scalded and floured pudding cloth like a roly-poly. Plunge into a saucepan of boiling water with a plate at the bottom, and boil quickly the required time. When ready, turn out on a very hot dish and serve with a sweet sauce or brown sugar. Time to boil, 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1785. Raspberry Pudding 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. J tea-sp. baking powder. mine. Make the mixture according to directions given for Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748). When well 4 to 6 oz. Valencia raisins. A little milk or water. 2 table-sps. raspberry jam. A few drops of car-PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 405 n beaten and light, add the jam and a few drops of carmine. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with custard sauce, or jam sauce made with raspberry jam. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be cooked in small moulds, from 20 to 30 minutes will then be sufficient for the steaming. Or, the pudding may be baked instead of steamed, the mould in this case being greased, and coated with browned bread or biscuit crumbs before pouring in the mixture. Time to steam, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1786. Red Cap Puddings Make in the same way as Black Cap Puddings (Recipe 1742), using small pieces of glace cherries instead of the currants. 1787. Pudding a la Reine (Creme a la Reine) 1 pt. milk. Vanilla. £ lb. biscuit or cake crumbs. 2 eggs. £ tin apricots. Glace cherries. 1 tab.-sp. kirsch or rum. Heat the milk, flavouring it with a small piece of vanilla, or a few drops of essence. Add £ lb. of any scraps of white cake or sponge biscuits, and let them soak in the milk until quite soft. Then rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Cream the eggs and sugar together in a basin and add the puree to them, mixing well. Grease a plain round tin, line the bottom with a round of paper, grease this as well, sprinkle with sugar, and then pour in the mixture. Place the pudding in a larger tin with warm water round it, bring it almost to the Pudding a la Pveine boil over the fire, then place it in the oven and allowit to cook until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully on the centre of a flat dish. Heat the apricots in their own syrup and place them in a circle round the pudding with the hollow side uppermost, place also one half on the top of the pudding and put a cherry in the centre of each. Keep the pudding warm whilst preparing the sauce. Use about 1 tea-cupful of the apricot syrup, add to it a little kirsch or rum and 1 table-spoonful of pulp or puree from the fruit. Boil all together and strain over and round the pudding. The sauce should not be too thick. Note.—Apples, peaches, or pears may be used instead of apricots, cutting them in pieces accord- ing to their size. Time to steam, £ to | hour. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1788. Rice and Raisin Pudding £ lb. rice. 2 or 3 oz. sultanas. Wash the rice and clean and pick the sultanas. Tie them together in a scalded pudding cloth, leaving room for the rice to swell. Plunge into a saucepan of fast boiling water, slightly salted, and boil quickly, keeping the pudding well covered with water. When ready, turn out and serve on a very hot dish. Serve jam or syrup sauce separately. Time to boil, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1789. Casserole of Rice with Stewed Fruit £ lb. Carolina rice. 1 gill of water. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. Rind of £ lemon. 2 oz. sugar. Stewed cherries or prunes. Wash the rice well in several waters, and then put it into a lined saucepan with one gill of fresh cold water. Bring to the boil, and cook for two or •three minutes. Then add the milk, and the rind of half a lemon peeled off very thinly. Simmer slowly until the rice is quite soft and has absorbed all the milk. Stir occasionally, whilst it is cooking, to prevent its sticking to the pan. When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar Casserole of Rice with Stewed Fruit and the two eggs well beaten. Mix well, and remove the lemon rind. Pour the mixture into a greased border mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Then lift the pudding from the pan, and allow it to stand for a few minutes. Turn out very carefully on to a hot dish, and fill the centre with stewed cherries, prunes, or any other suitable fruit, pouring some of the syrup from the fruit round the base. Time to stew, £ hour. Time to steam, £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1790. Roly-poly Suet pastry. 3 or 4 table-sps. jam or other mixture. Make some suet crust according to directions given on p. 333, and roll it out into an oblong shape about £ inch»in thickness. Keep it as even at the edges as possible, and do not let it stick to the board. Wet round the edges of the pastry with cold water, and then spread with jam. Keep the jam about an inch from the edge all round. Roll up in the form of a bolster, sealing the edges well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, and dredge it with flour, or grease it well with a little melted fat. Wrap up the pudding in this, leaving room for it to swell, and tie firmly at both406 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD ends. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of fast- boiling water, with a plate at the bottom, and boil at least two hours. When ready, lift out and let it stand for a minute or two. Then undo the cloth carefully, and turn out the pudding on to a hot dish. Wipe any water off the dish, and serve hot. Notes.—If the jam is very liquid, a few bread- crumbs or a little oatmeal should be mixed with it. Syrup, marmalade, mincemeat, or raw sugar may be used instead of jam. Time to boil, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1791. Little Russian Puddings 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 or 3 drops of vanilla. 2 or 3 drops of essence of lemon. 1 dessert-sp.grated choc- olate. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Make the mixture according to directions given under Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), and divide it into three equal portions. To one portion add the chocolate, to another a few drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour, and two or three drops of essence of almonds to flavour, and leave the third portion its natural colour, flavouring with vanilla. Have about nine small moulds or darioles well greased, and put into them alternate spoonfuls of the diflerent mixtures. Fill them rather irregu- larly, and then shake the mixture down. They should not be more than three-quarters full. Put them into a saucepan with a double fold of paper at the bottom, pour in enough hot water to come half- way up the sides, and cover with greased paper. Put the lid on the pan, and steam the puddings slowly until they are well risen. Turn them out when ready, and serve with custard, wine, or chocolate sauce. Note.—If preferred the mixture may be steamed in one large mould; it will then require II hours to cook. Time to steam, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10<L 1792. Six Cup Pudding 1 tea-cupful flour. 1 tea-cupful sugar. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 tea-cupful chopped suet. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-cupful jam. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. A pinch of salt. Chop the suet finely, and put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs, flour, sugar, and salt. Mix these dry ingredients together, make a well in the centre, and put in the jam. Heat the milk slightly in a small saucepan, add the soda, free from lumps, and mix quickly. Pour this while still frothy on to the top of the jam, and mix all together. Put the mixture into a greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper and steam steadily until thoroughly cooked. Serve with arrowroot or white sauce. Note.—A cupful of currants and sultanas mixed may be used instead of the jam. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1793. Snowdon Pudding 4 oz. suet. 4 oz. ground rice or small sago. 4 oz. bread-crumbs. 4 oz. brown sugar. A little milk. 2 table-sps. marmalade. A pinch of salt. A few raisins. 1 egg- Cut the raisins in halves, stone them, and dry them for a few minutes on a plate in the oven. Then grease a mould or basin, and decorate it with the prepared raisins. To Make the Pudding.—First chop the suet finely, and put it into a basin with the bread- crumbs, ground rice, sugar, and salt. Mix these dry ingredients together, and then make a well in the centre. Add the marmalade, the egg well beaten, and enough milk to moisten. Mix well, and pour into the prepared mould. Cover with greased paper, and steam until thoroughly cooked. Serve with custard, orange or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1794, 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 egg‘n 3 oz. flour. First grease a basin bottom. Then cream Sponge Pudding 2 table-sps. jam. \ tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. and put the jam at the the butter and sugar in another basin, and add to them the egg and half the flour. Beat well and add the milk with the remainder of the flour. The mixture should be of the consistency of a thick batter that will just drop from the spoon. Beat again and finally add the salt and baking powder. Put the mixture into the prepared basin, cover with greased paper and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve quickly. Note.—The jam may be omitted and any sweet sauce served with the pudding. Flavour- ing may be added to taste, or the basin may be lined with caramel (see Recipe 1749) before pouring in the mixture, or coated with brown sugar. Time to cook, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. Probable cost, 4d. I lb. flour. \ lb. bread-crumbs. \ lb. suet. \ tea-sp. salt 1795. Suet Pudding 1 tea-sp. baking powder. About 1 cupful milk or water. Chop the suet very finely (see p. 395), and mix it in a basin with the other dry ingredients. Then make a well in the centre, and pour in enough milk or water to make a softish dough. Mix quickly and lightly, and put the mixture at once into a well-greased basin. Cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready, and serve with syrup or jam sauce. Notes.—Buttermilk may be used instead of sweet milk. The bread-crumbs may be omitted and £ lb. flour used, but the pudding will not be quite so light. A few currants, raisins, sultanas, or chopped nuts may be added to the mixture if wished, or 2 table-spoonfuls of jam or syrup may be put into the basin before putting in the mixture. Time to steam, 21 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 4d.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 407 5 persons. Probable cost, 10i. the fat until free from lumps. Add the sugar, the 1796. Sultana Pudding \ lb. flour. | lb. bread-crumbs. | lb. suet. 4 to 6 oz. sultanas. £ tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Sieve the flour into a clean dry basin. Shred and chop the suet finely, using a little of the flour to prevent it from sticking to the board and knife. Clean and pick the sultanas, and mix all the dry ingredients together. Then moisten with the egg well beaten and sufficient milk to make a stiffish dough. Roll out the mixture into the shape of a bolster, and tie it up like a roly-poly in a scalded and floured cloth. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water with a plate at the foot, and boil quickly for several hours. Turn out, and serve plain or with white, jam, or marmalade sauce. Notes.—Buttermilk may be used instead of sweet milk for binding the mixture. This pudding may also be steamed in a basin. Time to boil, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. \ lb. flour. 6 oz. suet. | tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 1797. Treacle Sponge | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. | cup of milk. | cup of treacle. 1 egg. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour, salt, and spices into a basin, and add to them the suet finely chopped. Mix all lightly together with the fingers until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Add the treacle slightly warmed and the egg well beaten. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and add the soda to it. Then mix all together for a few minutes and pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, leaving room for the pudding to rise. Cover with greased paper, and steam until the pudding is well risen and feels firm to the touch. Turn out carefully and serve with custard or white sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. \ lb. flour. I lb. suet. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1798. Syrup Pudding 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 table-sps. syrup. 1 egg. 1 tea-cupful milk. Sieve the flour, ginger, and soda, and add to them the suet, very finely chopped. Mix these dry in- gredients together and make a well in the centre. Put in the syrup and then the egg and milk, beaten together. Beat all together, pour into a well- greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam until thoroughly cooked. When ready, turn out and serve with syrup sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1799. Vegetarian Plum Pudding | lb. flour. J lb. vegetable fat. I lb. brown sugar. I lb. cooked potatoes, i lb. cooked carrots. J lb. currants. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and rub in 6 oz. raisins. 2 oz. candied peel. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. golden syrup. carrot, and potato sieved and the fruit carefully prepared. Mix all together, add the syrup and a little milk if necessary, and put the mixture into a well-greased basin. Cover with greased paper and steam quickly. Time to steam, 4 to 5 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, 10d. to Is. 1800. Vegetarian Suet Pudding 6 oz. whole-meal flour. I 3 oz. butter, lb. tapioca. | | tea-sp. salt. Pirst wash the tapioca, cover it with cold water and let it soak overnight. Next day, drain off any remaining water and add to the tapioca, the butter melted, the whole-meal flour, and salt. Mix well together and put the mixture into a greased mould or basin. Cover and steam at least 2 hours. When ready, turn out and serve with golden syrup. 1801. Viennoise Pudding | lb. bread cut in dice. 4 or 5 lumps sugar. 1 table-sp. water. Squeeze of lemon juice. \ pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 oz. sultanas. 1 oz. candied peel. 1 oz. sweet almonds. 2 eggs. 1 glass sherry. Grated lemon rind. Use rather stale bread free from crust, cut it in dice, and put it in a basin. Put the loaf sugar into a small strong saucepan with the water and lemon juice and boil them together until a rich brown colour. Add the milk and stir over the fire for a few minutes until thoroughly mixed. Then strain over the bread. Beat the eggs and add them with the wine. Add the rest of the ingredients, the sultanas cleaned, candied peel shred, and almonds blanched and shred. Mix lightly, pour into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and stand half an hour. Then steam slowly and steadily until firm to the touch. Serve with wine or German sauce. Time to steam, to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1802. Walnut Pudding 1 lb. shelled walnuts. 3 eggs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. rice flour. 2 table-sps. milk. A few drops of vanilla. 1 dessert-sp. grated chocolate. \ tea-sp. baking powder. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, and then chop them finely, or pound them in a mortar. Cream the butter in a basin, add the sugar and the walnuts, and then the eggs and flour by degrees. Beat the mixture well between each egg that is added. Melt the chocolate in the milk, and add it with the baking powder and flavouring. Grease a pudding mould, and de- corate it nicely with a few pieces of angelica and glace cherries. Pom) the mixture into it, and steam slowly with a greased paper on the top. Turn out and serve with custard or chocolate sauce. Time to steam, \\ hours. Sufficient for 4 or408 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1803. Welcome Guest Pudding J- lb. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. suet. 1A- oz. candied peel. l| oz. sweet almonds. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. Rind | lemon. Lemon sauce. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, pour the milk boiling hot over them, and soak for a few minutes. Now add the suet finely chopped, the almonds blanched and chopped, the lemon rind grated, candied peel cut in small pieces, yolks of eggs, and sugar. Mix all together and lastly stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pudding mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with lemon, custard, or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost. Id. of brandy round the base, and set a light to it just before putting it on the table. The dish must Plum Pudding 1804. Winchester Puddings 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. suet. 4 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. currants. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. raisins. 4 oz. sugar. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. About 1 tea-cupful of milk. Chop the suet very finely, using a little of the flour. Clean the currants, and stone and chop the raisins. Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, except the soda. Warm the milk in a small pan, add the soda to it, and stir quickly. Moisten the mixture with this, and half fill small greased cups or dariole moulds. Steam steadily, covered with greased paper. Turn out when ready, and serve with orange or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1805. Xmas Plum Pudding, 1 2 lbs. Valencia raisins. 2 lbs. currants. 2 lbs. sultanas. 21 lbs. sugar. 2 lbs. suet. 1 lb. flour. | lb. apples. 11 lbs. bread-crumbs. § lb. mixed peel. \ lb. sweet almonds. 2 bitter almonds. 1 table-sp. mixed spice. \ tea-sp. salt. Rind and juice of 3 lemons. 1 glass of brandy. 1 glass of rum. 12 eggs. Milk if necessary. First prepare the fruit. Stone the raisins and chop them slightly. Pick and clean the currants and sultanas. Shred the peel, and blanch and chop the almonds. Peel and chop the apples, and grate the rind very thinly from the lemons. Put all the fruit into a large basin or crock, add the other dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Then beat the eggs, and add them with the wine, lemon juice, and enough milk to bind all together. Mix again with a long spoon, cover the mixture, and let it stand for twenty-four hours before cooldng. Then fill up moulds or basins with the mixture, tie over them a scalded and floured cloth, and boil from six to eight hours according to size. Keep the puddings in a cool place for several weeks before using them, and reboil for several hours as required. Before serving the pudding, pour a wine-glassful be hot and perfectly dry, or the brandy will not burn ■well. Notes.—A little grated orange rind and juice may be added to the above mixture. Remains of cold plum pudding are very good cut in slices and fried. 1806. Xmas Plum Pudding, 2 | lb. flour. I lb. bread-crumbs. 1 lb. beef suet. 1 lb. brown sugar. § lb. sultanas. \ lb. raisins. | lb. candied peel. 1 tea-cupful marmalade, f lb. currants. | lb. sweet almonds. Grated rind of 2 lemons. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. salt. 6 large eggs. 1 glass stout. J tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Prepare and mix all the dry ingredients (except the carbonate of soda) as in last recipe. Make a well in the centre, put in the marmalade and the eggs well beaten, and stir some, of the dry mixture gradually into them. Then heat the stout in a small saucepan, add the soda to it, and while still frothy pour it into the centre of the other in- gredients. Mix all together and beat for a few minutes. Pack into greased moulds and finish as above. From seven to eight hours’ boiling must be allowed for a pudding of medium size. PART III BAKED PUDDINGS INTRODUCTORY Before beginning to mix the pudding, pay atten- tion to the oven and see that it will be at the right degree of heat when required. All puddings of the nature of a custard require a very moderately heated oven, and should be placed in a baking tin with a little water round them to prevent the eggs curdling. Puddings containing suet, or other ingredients requiring thorough cooking, should also be put in a good moderate oven.409 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS Light puddings such as batter and those with beaten whites of eggs will require a hotter oven to make them rise. Puddings with pastry will also require a hot oven to begin with, until the crust is set and be- ginning to brown. A pudding that has to be baked should always be made a little moister than one for boiling or steaming, as the heat of the oven will tend to dry it up. If the baking is done in a pie dish, see that the rim of the dish is clean and free from grease before putting it in the oven; otherwise it will have a burnt and unsightly-looking appearance If the pie dish is an old one the rim may be covered with pastry before putting in the pudding mixturo (see below), this will make a more decorative- iooking pudding. On removing a baked pudding from the oven, wipe the dish carefully before sending it to table, then place it on another dish with a doily or dish paper under it. A pie-dish collar or paper frill may also be put round it if wished, and most baked puddings are improved by having a little sugar sprinkled over them. To Line and Decorate a Pie Dish with Pastry Many a simple pudding can be made into quite a dainty-looking sweet, if the pie dish in which it is to be baked is first lined with pastry. First wet the pie dish with cold water and leave it wet, as this will prevent the pastry from sticking too firmly to it. Then roll out some scraps of pastry very thinly. The pastry used should not be too rich, and if a piece of puff or flaky crust has to be taken, a little dry flour should be worked into it before it is rolled out. Cut a band of this pastry, 3 or 4 inches in depth, and lay it round the sides of the dish and over the rim. It ought to be brought slightly over the outer edge of the dish to prevent its shrinking away in the baking. Press the pastry well on to the dish, join neatly without over- lapping, and wet the join with a little cold water or white of egg. The bottom of the dish should never be lined with pastry, as it would only become sodden if a soft mixture were poured on the top of it. Next wet round the rim of pastry, and decorate this with small pieces of pastry cut out with a fancy cutter. Plain rounds the size of a shilling may be cut out and then pinched together in the form of a shell. If these are placed close together along the edge, it will give a very pretty effect. Or small stars of pastry may be cut out, laid flat on the rim, and then pressed down in the centre with the end of a pastry brush or wooden skewer. A quicker method of decorating the rim is simply to lay on an extra strip of pastry and mark it with the back of a knife in the same way as for an open tart. As a rule the mixture is poured into the pie dish and all is baked together, unless the mixture requires little cooking, when the pastry may be baked for a short time first. In this case it is better to put in a few crusts or other dummies to keep the pastry in shape, 1807. Baked Almond Pudding (Pouding aux Amandes) £ pt. milk. | breakfast-cupful bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 oz. butter. A little pastry. Line a 1^-pint pie dish with pastry, decorating it prettily round the edges (see above). Then prepare the mixture. Put the bread-crumbs, butter, and sugar into a basin and pour the milk boiling hot over them. Allow these to soak for a few minutes and then add the chopped almonds, flavouring, and yolks of eggs. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into the prepared pie dish, sprinkle a few shred almonds on the top, and bake in a good oven until the pudding is nicely browned and the pastry cooked. Note.—A little jam may be put at the bottom of the dish, and a meringue on the top of the pudding if wished. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1808. Apple Amber Pudding 1| lbs. apples. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. 1 lemon. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. A little pastry. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Vanilla. Peel and slice the apples and put them into a saucepan with the butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind of 1 lemon. Allow them to stew slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, or rub it through a sieve, and then add the yolks of the eggs. Line a pie dish with some good short crust or other pastry (see above), and pour into it the apple mixture. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is cooked and Apple Amber Pudding the apple mixture set. Then beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to them 1 table-spoonful of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, and return to a cool oven to set and become delicately browned. Note.—Other fruits made into a puree may be used instead of apples. If a very juicy kind is chosen, a few bread-crumbs or cake-crumbs must be added to thicken it. Time to bake, | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d.410 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1809. Baked Apples in Batter Batter. 2 or 3 juicy apples. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. A little butter. Make the batter as directed in Recipe 1889, and allow it to stand an hour if possible. Grease a Yorkshire pudding tin, and lay the apples thinly sliced at the bottom of it. Sprinkle them with the sugar and ground cinnamon, or grated lemon rind if preferred, and pour the batter over. Lay small pieces of butter here and there on the top, and bake in a good oven until well browned and nicely risen. Cut in pieces and serve quickly, sprinkled with sugar. Note.—Other kinds of fruit may be used in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. 1810. Bread and Apple Pudding 3 or 4 slices bread and butter. 1 lb. apples. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 cup syrup. | cup water. 2 table-sps. Demerara sugar. Grease a pie dish or deep baking dish-and line it neatly with slices of bread and butter. Pill the dish with apples, which have been peeled, cored, and thinly sliced, and sprinkle them with the ground cinnamon. Mix the syrup and water together, pom1 them over the apples and sprinkle the sugar over. Put another layer of bread and butter on the top, cover the dish and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, turn out the pudding carefully, sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve hot with a jug of cream. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1811. Apple Charlotte (Charlotte aux Pommes) Bread. Clarified butter. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. H lbs. apples. Flavouring. Water. 2 yolks of eggs. Take a plain lj-pint tin souffle mould or high cake tin, grease it carefully with clarified butter, and dust it out with castor sugar. Cut some strips of stale bread about 1 inch wide and the height of the tin in length. Dip these in clarified butter and line the sides of the tin with them, arranging them closely together and brushing over the joins with a little beaten egg. Cover the bottom of the tin with a round piece of bread dipped in butter, and a second round should also be pre- pared ready for the top. Choose good soft apples, which will cook easily. Stew them with the sugar and very little water, and reduce them to a thick pulp. Flavour with a little lemon, nutmeg, or cinnamon, according to taste, add the yolks of eggs, and fill up the mould. Lay the round of bread dipped in butter on the top, and bake in a good oven. When ready, turn out carefully and sprinkle with sugar. A little cream and castor sugar may be served separately. Time to bake, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, la. 1812. Baked Apple Custards 1 cupful apple pulp. 1 cupful milk. Sugar to taste. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A few drops of carmine. Prepare the apple pulp by rubbing some nicely stewed or baked apples through a sieve. The pulp must be of a good thick consistency. Mix it with the milk, the butter melted, and sugar to taste. Then add two yolks and one white of egg beaten together, and three or four drops of carmine to make all a pinkish colour. Pour the mixture into small greased fireproof dishes, and bake in a mode- rate oven until set. Then whip up the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth and pile a little on the top of each custard. Dredge with sugar and return to the oven for a few minutes to become lightly browned. These may be served hot or cold. Note.—Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 small custards. Probable cost, 6d. 1813. Apples a la Florentine (Pommes a la Florentine) 4 or 5 apples. A little butter. Sugar. 2 table-sps. marmalade. | pt. white sauce. 2 yolks and 1 white of egg. Vanilla. 2 macaroon biscuits. Choose good sound apples of medium size. Peel them, cut them in four or six pieces, and remove the core. Place the pieces in a well-buttered pie dish, sprinkle with sugar and place a few small pieces of butter on the top. Cover the dish and cook the apples in the oven 10 to 12 minutes. Then take a fireproof dish that can be sent to table, grease it, put the marmalade at the bottom, and arrange the pieces of apple on the top. Have ready about \ pint good white sauce, sweeten it to taste, and flavour with vanilla or any other flavouri ng preferred. Then remove the sauce- pan from the ffie, and stir in quickly the two yolks and the one white of egg. Pour this sauce over the apples, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Then sprinkle with the macaroon biscuits made into crumbs, and a little more sugar. Brown quickly under the grill of the gas stove or in a very hot oven. Serve hot in the same dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1814. Apples a la Madame (Pommes a la Madame) 4 or 5 apples. 2 eggs. 1 gill of milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. macaroon-crumbs. 2 oz. butter. Peel the apples, cut them in thin slices, and stamp out the cores with a small cutter. Butter a pie dish or fireproof dish, and lay the apples in it in layers, with the macaroon-crumbs and sugar. Pour, over all, the remainder of the butter melted, and bake in a hot oven until the apples are tender. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and a little sugar, and pour this custard over the apples. Return to the oven until a golden colour, and serve hot, sprinkled with sugar. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons, Probable cost, 9d.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 411 potato flour, and return all to the saucepan. Stir 5 persons. Proba ble cost, 6d. 1815. little \ lb. apples. 1 oz. butter. Rind of | lemon. £ cupful bread-crumbs. Apple Puddings 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. milk. 2 small eggs. Brown bread-crumbs. Peel and slice the apples thinly, then weigh them. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and grated lemon rind and stew them slowly until reduced to a smooth pulp, adding a little water if necessary. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, add the bread-crumbs, sugar, milk, and yolks of eggs, mix well and, at the last, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Half fill small moulds that have been greased and lined with browned bread-crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out and serve with lemon sauce. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1816. Apple Sago Pudding 1 cup sago. 4 cups water. 1 cup sugar. 1 lb. apples. Wash the sago, put it into a basin with the water and soak all night. Next day add to it the sugar and the apples, peeled, cored, and finely chopped. Mix well and pour all into a greased pie dish. Bake in a moderate oven and serve either hot or cold. Cream or custard sauce should be served separately. Note.—Tapioca may be used instead of apples. Time to bake, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1817. Apples and Semolina au Gratin (Pommes Gratinees a la Semoule) 4 large apples stewed in syrup. 3 cupfuls of milk. 2 table-sps. semolina. Sugar. 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. Vanilla. 3 macaroon biscuits. A little butter. Peel the apples, cut them in quarters, and cook them in syrup according to directions given in Recipe 2083, then drain them well. Put the semo- lina into a saucepan with the milk and cook it until soft; sweeten it to taste, and flavour with vanilla or any other flavouring preferred. Then stir in the yolks of eggs without letting the mixture boil again. Grease a fireproof dish or pie dish, and arrange the semolina smoothly at the bottom. Place the apples on the top, in a circle or according to fancy. Crush the macaroons to crumbs and sprinkle them on the top. Put a few pieces of butter here and there, and bake in a moderate oven until thoroughly hot throughout. Serve in the same dish. Apricot or orange sauce may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1818. Baked Apricot Pudding | tin apricots. 2 oz. potato flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill apricot syrup. 3 gills milk. 2 eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. Strain the apricots from their syrup and cut them in small pieces. Mix the potato flour smoothly with a little of the milk, and put the remainder into a saucepan to heat. Pour the hot milk over the until boiling, add the pieces of apricot, the apricot syrup, butter, and sugar. Mix all together and cook a few minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mixture into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1819. Croutes of Apricot Fresh apricots. Bread. Butter. Sugar. Wipe some fresh apricots, cut them in halves and remove the stones. Have ready some round or oval-shaped croutes of white bread, cut rather more than £ inch in thickness. Spread them with butter and arrange them on a greased fireproof dish. Place one or two pieces of apricot on the top of each with the cut side uppermost, lay on a few small pieces of butter, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until the fruit is cooked and the bread nicely browned. When ready, sprinkle again with sugar and serve hot with cream. Note.—Peaches and large plums may be pre- pared in the same way. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. 1820. Aunt Elizabeth s Pudding 1 large cupful stale bread. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Grated rind \ lemon. 2 yolks. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A few glace cherries. Break the bread in small pieces and put it into a greased pie dish, heat the milk to boiling point and pour it over it. Allow this to soak for half an hour, then stir in the yolks of eggs, grated lemon rind, and dessert-spoonful of sugar beaten together. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Now remove the pudding from the oven and spread the jam on the top. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir in the castor sugar and pile it over the jam. Decorate with a few small pieces of cherry, dredge with sugar, and return to the oven to dry and slightly brown the meringue. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1821. Bird’s Nest Pudding 3 oz. tapioca. 5 or 6 small apples. 1J pts. cold water. Flavouring. Sugar to taste. Soak the tapioca in the water for at least one hour, then turn it into a saucepan, and cook it until it turns quite clear, stirring occasionally. Add sugar and flavouring to taste; a little spice, or grated orange or lemon rind and juice may be used. Pare and core the apples, keeping them whole, and place them in a greased pie dish. Pour the tapioca over them, wipe the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are soft, but not broken. Sprinkle with sugar and serve milk or cream separately. Note.—Sago may be used instead of tapioca. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 orCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 412 1822. Biakemore Pudding Mixture. 3 table-sps. sponge cake crumbs. 2 table-sps. raspberry jam. 1 orange. Pastry. 3 oz. cornflour. 4 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 yolk. A little milk. First make the mixture. Put the jam into a small basin and add to it the grated rind and the strained juice of the orange. Then thicken with sponge cake or any white cake crumbs. To make the pastry, sieve the flour, cornflour, and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps, in the same way as for short crust (see p. 333). Then bind together with the yolk of egg and a little milk or water. Knead lightly until free from cracks, turn out on a floured board, and roll out rather thinly. Then grease a tin plate, or dish that will stand the heat of the oven, cut the pastry in two pieces, and line the dish with half of it. Trim round the edges and spread the jam mixture over the centre. Wet the rim of pastry with cold water and cover with the other piece of pastry. Press the edges well together and their trim again. Make one or two small holes on the top, mark round the rim with the back of a knife, and orna- ment the top with a few leaves made out of the scraps. Brush the pudding over with a little water or white of egg, dredge it with sugar, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, l hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 9d. 1823. Bread and 3 gills of milk. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 1 lb. cherries. Cherry Pudding A little grated lemon rind. 3 oz. sugar. 1 cupful of water. Juice of \ lemon. Wash and pick the cherries. Put them into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and lemon juice, and stew them until quite tender. In another saucepan put the milk, the butter, and the bread- crumbs, and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook gently for a few minutes until the bread-crumbs swell, and then remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and a little grated lemon rind, mix well, and lastly add the whites of eggs beaten to a stifl froth. Mix these in very lightly, breaking them down as little as possible. Put the stewed cherries into a greased pie dish, and pour the bread-crumb mixture over them. Bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is set and nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Time to bake, about J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10d. 1824. Bread-crumb and Marmalade Pudding 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 tea-cupfuls hot milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 or 3 table-sps. mar< malade. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with half the sugar, melt the butter in the milk, pour them over, and allow the mixture to soak a few minutes. Then add the yolks of eggs and mix them well in. Grease a pie dish and put a layer of marmalade at the bottom of it. Then put in half the bread-crumb mixture, more marmalade, and the remainder of the bread- crumb mixture on the top. Wipe round the edges of the dish and bake the pudding in a moderate oven until it feels firm to the touch. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stifl froth, add to them the other table-spoonful of sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the pudding. Return it to a cool oven to dry and brown the meringue. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1825. Bread and Chocolate Pudding 2 tea-cupfuls bread- crumbs. 4 tea-cupfuls milk. 2 to 3 oz. chocolate. 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 eggs. Vanilla. A pinch of salt. Grate or shred the chocolate, put it into a small saucepan with about two table-spoonfuls of milk or water, and let it dissolve slowly by the side of the fire. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, heat th6 milk, pour it over them and let them soak for half an hour. Then beat them up with a fork, adding the sugar, chocolate, salt, and a few drops of vanilla. Now stir in the yolks of the two eggs and lastly the whites beaten to a stifl froth. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, sprinkle the top with a few shred almonds and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1826. Brown Betty 6 oz. browned bread- crumbs. 1| lbs. apples. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. golden syrup. \ tea-sp. cinnamon. 1 gill of water. Peel, core, and slice the apples thinly, and put a layer of them into a pie dish. Sprinkle some of the bread-crumbs over this, and lay on a few small pieces of butter. Then put in more apples, and repeat these alternate layers until all the apples and bread-crumbs are used up. The last layer should be bread-crumbs. Mix the syrup, water, and cinnamon together, and pour them over the top. Sprinkle with sugar, and put some more butter on the top. Place the pudding in a tin containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are soft. Serve with cream or milk. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1827. Carrot Pudding (Baked) 3 oz. bread-crumbs. [ 1 gill milk. 2 eggs. 1 oz. castor sugar. 2 carrots (medium). 1 oz. butter. | 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. Put the bread-crumbs, butter, and sugar into a basin, boil the milk and pour it over them. Allow these to soak, and meanwhile clean and grate the carrots (uncooked). Add them to the other mixture with the ginger and yolks of eggs, and, lastly, stir in the whites beaten to a stifl froth.413 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS Poud the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with custard or ginger sauce. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1828. Baked Chocolate Pudding 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 table-sps. grated chocolate. A pinch of salt. \ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. 2 eggs. Some scraps of pastry, i doz. sweet almonds. Take a pie dish, about a 1^-pint size, and line the sides and border with pastry as directed on p. 409. Then prepare the mixture. Put the bread-crumbs and half the sugar into a basin with a pinch of salt and a few drops of vanilla. Grate or shred the chocolate and dissolve it in a small saucepan with tho milk. When quite smooth, pour it over the bread-crumbs, &c., and allow the mixture to soak a few minutes. Then add the yolks of eggs, pour the mixture into the prepared pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is browned and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to them the remainder of the sugar finely sifted, and pile this meringue on the top of the chocolate mixture. Blanch and split the almonds, stick them here and there into the beaten white, and return the pudding to a very moderate oven until the meringue is dry and lightly browned. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1829. Baked Cocoanut Pudding Make the same mixture as for Steamed Cocoanut Pudding (Recipe 1762), but keep back the whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into a pie dish that has been lined and decorated with pastry, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, fold into them 1 or 2 spoonfuls of castor sugar, pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, and return to a cool oven until a pretty light brown colour. 1830. Coffee Meringue Pudding 1 oz. butter. | oz. cornflour. 3 gills coffee and milk. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. apricot jam. Sugar. Cut the sponge cakes in slices and lay them at the bottom of a greased pie dish with the apricot jam. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, mix in the cornflour, and then pour on the milk and coffee. Stir until boiling, and add sugar to taste. Now remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolks of the two eggs. Pour this sauce over the sponge cakes, and let all stand a few minutes. Meanwhile beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add sifted sugar to them to make a meringue. Pile this on the top of the pudding, and bake in rather a cool oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. Notes.—The coffee used must be strong, in order to give a good flavour to the pudding. Scraps of plain white cake or macaroons may be used instead of the sponge cake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1831. College Puddings Jib. bread-crumbs. lb. flour. 3 oz. suet. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 oz. brown sugar. \ tea-sp. mixed spice. | tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. 1 gill hot milk. 3 table-sps. currants. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin and make a well in the centre. Add the egg and the hot milk gradually, and beat all together for a few minutes. Half fill small greased moulds with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with custard, orange, or German sauce. Time to bake, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1832. Empress Pudding (Pouding a 1’Imperatrice) I lb Carolina rice. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Grated rind of £ lemon. 2 or 3 table-sps. of jam. A little pastry. Wash the rice in several waters, and put it into a saucepan with fresh cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and add the milk and butter. Simmer slowly until the rice is quite tender and has absorbed the milk. Then add the grated lemon rind, sugar, and eggs well beaten. Mix well. Line a pie dish with pastry according to directions given on p. 409. Put the jam at the bottom of the dish, and pour the rice- mixture on the top. Bake in a moderate oven, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1833. French Pancakes or Saucer Puddings (Crepes a la Frangaise) 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. flour. \ pt. milk. A little flavouring. Some jam. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft creamy consistency. Beat the eggs until frothy, and stir them in with the sugar and salt. Mix "well. Add half the flour and half the milk, then the other half, beating well between each. Then flavour to taste with a little grated lemon or orange rind, or a few drops of essence of vanilla. Have ready four or five old saucers or some large patty tins well greased, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Turn one of these puddings out on a hot dish, cover it with jam heated until almost liquid, lay another pudding on the top, then more jam, and so on until all are used. Sift sugar over the top, and serve at once. Or, if the pancakes are suffi- ciently thin, they may be turned out on a sheet ofCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 414 sugared paper, and folded over like an omelet with a little hot jam in the centre. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1834. Baked Fruit Puddings Make in the same way as Boiled Fruit Puddings (Recipe 1771), using either suet pastry or short crust and fruit, acording to season. The basin or mould containing the pudding should be covered with greased paper. Make a hole on the top, through both paper and pastry, place the pudding on a baking tin and bako in a good moderate oven. The time for baking will depend partly upon the kind of fruit used, and also upon the thickness of the pastry. It will take rather a shorter time to bake than to boil. From If to 2 hours will generally be found sufficient for a pudding of If pints. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and sprinkle with sugar. To give the pudding a caramelled appearance when turned out, the mould may be coated with brown sugar after greasing. 1835. A Grateful Pudding f lb. flour. £ lb. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-cupful currants. 1 tea-cupful sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. Pour the milk hot over the bread-crumbs, and let them soak whilst preparing the other ingredients. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Add the yolks of eggs and flour by degrees, then the fruit carefully cleaned and prepared, the soaked bread-crumbs, and ground ginger. Mix all together and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a steady oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with jam sauce (Recipe 804). Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 1836. General Satisfaction Pudding Short crust, f pt. custard. 2 sponge cakes. 1 glass sherry. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 or 3 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. Cherries and angelica. Line a pie dish with pastry, put in dummies and bake in a moderate oven (see p. 409). While it is cooking make f pint custard (Recipe 794); split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and soak them in the sherry. When the pastry is cooked, remove the dummies, and place the soaked sponge cakes at the bottom of the dish. Pour the custard over, and soak for a few minutes. Mean- while, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in the castor sugar sieved. Pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate prettily with small pieces of cherry and lozenge- shaped pieces of angelica, sprinkle with sugar, and put the pudding in a slow oven until the meringue is crisp and lightly browned. Serve hot or cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 1?. 2d. to Is. 4d. 1837. Indian Pudding 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 eggs. Short crust. 2 sponge cakes. 1 oz. butter. 4 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. sugar. Line a small pie dish with short crust as directed on p. 409. Break the sponge cakes into a basin, boil the milk and pour it over them. Add the sugar, butter, and ginger, and allow all to soak a few minutes. Then stir in the eggs well beaten, and pour the mixture into the prepared dish. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and lightly browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot with ginger sauce (Recipe 801). Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1838. Baked Jam Pudding 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. suet. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Grated lemon rind. 1 egg. 1 tea-cupful milk. 2 table-sps. jam. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and add the suet finely chopped and the grated rind of one lemon. Mix together, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg well beaten and mix again, adding the milk by degrees. Grease a pie dish or mould and put the jam at the bottom. Pour the mixture on the top, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out on a dish and serve hot. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1839. Baked Lemon 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 lemon. 2 eggs. Pudding (Pouding au Citron) 2 oz. bread or cake crumbs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Some scraps of pastry. Line a pie dish with pastry according to direc- tions given on p. 409, or, if a simpler pudding is wanted, this may be omitted. To Make the Mixture.—Grate the rind off the lemon and rub it into the sugar. Cream the butter in a basin and add the lemon sugar to it. Add one egg and half the crumbs and beat well, then the second egg and the remainder of the crumbs. Strain in the lemon juice, add the baking powder free from lumps, and mix again. Put this mixture into the prepared pie dish, put a few leaves or fancy-shaped pieces of pastry on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Notes.—If liked, a little jam may be put at the bottom of the dish before pouring in the mixture. If preferred, the pudding may be made on a flat dish instead of a pie dish. Time to bake, £ to £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1840, 3 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. jam. 3 table-sps. wane fruit syrup. Marlborough Pudding 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar, or 2 eggs. A few drops vanilla. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, cut them in pieces, and lay them in a greased415 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS pie dish. Pour over them the wine or fruit syrup and let them soak. Meanwhile cream the butter and sugar in a basin, add the yolks of eggs one at a time, then the flavouring, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour this mixture over the sponge cakes and bake in a moderate oven until set and lightly browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Note.—If liked, the pie dish may be lined with pastry. Time to bake, about f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1841. Marmalade Pudding (Baked) £ lb. flour. | lb. rice flour. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder 2 table-sps. marmalade. A little milk. 1 egg. A pinch of salt. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten, the marmalade and enough milk to make a softish paste. Pour the mixture into greased dariole moulds, not filling them more than three-quarters full, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out, and serve with lemon, marmalade, or custard sauce (see Sauces). Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1842. Marrow Pudding 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 pt. milk. 4 oz. beef marrow. 2 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of cinnamon. 1 oz. currants. 1 oz. stoned raisins. A little pastry. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, boil the milk and pour it over them. Cover the basin with a plate, and allow this to stand for half an hour. Meanwhile edge a pie dish with pastry according to directions given on p. 409, and decorate it neatly. When the bread-crumbs are thoroughly soaked, add to them the marrow finely shred, the sugar, fruit, spice, and yolks of eggs, mix all to- gether, and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour this mixture into the pre- Eared pie dish, and bake in a good oven until nicely rowned and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Note.—Cherries or candied peel and almonds may be used instead of the currants and raisins. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1843. Mimosa Puddings 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 eggs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. citron peel, i tea-sp. orange-flower water. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until soft and creamy. Sieve the sugar and mix it well in. Then add the eggs one at a time with some of the bread-crumbs, and beat well between each. Beat all together, and add the flavouring. Grease some small tins or moulds, and sprinkle at the bottom of each some finely-chopped citron peel. Half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve with custard sauce or wine sauce. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1844. Baked Orange Pudding 2 oz cake-crumbs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 1 gill milk. 2 oranges. A little pastry. Line a medium-sized pie dish with pastry (see p. 409), and then prepare the mixture. Wipe the oranges with a damp cloth, and grate off the rind on the top of the sugar. Work the rind into the sugar with a broad-bladed knife until they are of a uniform yellow colour. Then put this into a basin, and add the cake-crumbs sieved and the butter broken in pieces. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and pour it over the crumbs, &c. Stir until the butter is melted, add the yolks of eggs, the strained juice of oranges, and lastly the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix lightly, and pour all into the prepared dish. Bake in a moderate oven until set and of a light brown colour. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1845. Pine-apple and Cornflour Meringue 1 pt. milk. 2 table-sps. cornflour. Tinned pine-apple. A small piece of butter. 2 or 3 eggs. Castor sugar. A pinch of salt. Put the milk into a lined saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a pinch of salt, and heat it over the fire. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the syrup from the pine- apple. Add it to the hot milk, stir until boiling, and simmer for five minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs, sugar to taste, and a few drops of vanilla. Cut some tinned pine-apple in small pieces and lay it in a greased pudding dish. Pour the cornflour mixture over, and bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to them a good table-spoonful of castor sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the pudding. Return to a cool oven to set and become delicately browned, and serve hot or cold. A fruit sauce or cream may be handed separately. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Time to cook meringue, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 10<2. 1846. Baked Plum Pudding | lb. flour. 3 oz. su.et. 3 oz. currants. 3 oz. raisins. 1 oz. candied peel. 3 oz. sugar. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Prepare the fruit carefully, and mix it in a basin with all the other dry ingredients. Make a well in the centre, pour in the egg well beaten, and mix from the centre outwards, adding enough milk to bind all together. The mixture must not be made too moist, but it should drop easily from the spoon. Put it into a well-greased baking tin416 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. When ready, cut the pudding in neat pieces, arrange them on a dish and sprinkle with sugar. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1847. Potato Pudding J lb. sieved potatoes. 1 gill milk. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 eggs. 1 lemon. | tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 2 table-sps. black cur- rant or raspberry jam. Put the sieved potato, sugar, salt, and grated lemon rind into a basin, boil the milk and butter, pour it over them and mix well together. Then stir in the yolks of the eggs and the strained juice of half the lemon. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in very lightly at the last along with the baking powder. Put the jam into a greased pie dish, pour the mixture on the top of it, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—The pie dish may be lined with pastry (see p. 409) before pouring in the mixture, if a more decorative-looking pudding is wanted. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1848. Queen of Puddings 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 1 breakfast-cupful bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 oz. butter. A little flavouring. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 or 3 glace cherries. Put the bread-crumbs, butter, and ha lf the sugar into a basin, and add a little grated lemon rind or other flavouring. Bring the milk nearly to the boil in a small saucepan, pour it over the ingredients in the basin and let all soak for a few minutes. Then add the yolks of eggs, put the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a moderate oven until set. Remove the pudding from the oven and spread the top with jam. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stifl froth, fold in the remainder of the sugar, and pile on the top of the jam. Decorate with the cherries cut in small pieces, dredge with sugar, and return to the oven until crisp and lightly browned. Note.—If liked, the pie dish may be lined with pastry before putting in the pudding mixture (see p. 409). Time to bake, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1849. Baked Rice and Apple Pudding 1J pts. milk. 3 oz. whole rice. 2 table-sps. sugar Rind of 1 lemon. 1 lb. apples. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. water. 2 table-sps. sugar. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil and pour off the water. Now add the milk and allow the rice to simmer slowly until quite soft and thick. Add the sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon, and then let the mixture cool. Peel and slice the apples, and stew them with the butter and the grated rind of half a lemon until they are soft and like a marmalade. Sweeten with two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Grease a plain pudding mould or basin, and coat it with brown sugar. Line it with the rice mixture, then fill it up with the apple marmalade and the remainder of the rice in alter- nate layers. Bake in a good oven until the sides are well browned, then turn out and serve with apricot, lemon, or any other suitable sauce. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, l.s. 1850. Rice and Orange-marmalade Pudding \ lb. rice. | pt. water. 1 quart milk. 4 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 3 eggs. 2 table-sps. marmalade. A pinch of salt. Wash the rice in several waters until quite clean, and then put it into a lined saucepan with half a pint fresh cold water. Bring to the boil, and pour the water off. Add the milk and butter, and simmer slowly until the rice is quite soft and thick. Stir well from time to time, or cook in a double saucepan. When ready, add the yolks of eggs and half the sugar. Pour the mixture into a .greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Then spread the top of the pudding rather thickly with mar- malade. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and beat them up to a stifl froth. Sieve the re- mainder of the sugar over them, and pile this meringue over the marmalade. Return th e pudding to a moderate oven until the meringue is nicely browned and set, and sprinkle with sugar before serving. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10cf. 1851. Baked Roly-poly Make in the same way as Boiled Roly-poly (Recipe 1790). When ready, place it on a greased tin with the join downwards. Brush over with a little water, and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven from 1 to 1J hours, or until thoroughly cooked and nicely browned, Serve on a hot dish, with a dish paper under it, and sprinkle with sugar. 1852. St. Clare Pudding 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. \ pt. milk. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. 2 table-sps. macaroon or cake crumbs. 2 table-sps. jam. Some pastry. Line a lj-pint pie dish with pastry as directed on p. 409, then prepare the mixture. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix it in smoothly. Pour in the milk, stir until boiling, and cook four or five minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add one table- spoonful sugar, a pinch of salt, a little flavouring, and the yolks of eggs. Beat well together. Put the jam into the prepared pie dish, and sprinkle the crumbs on the top. Pour over the mixture from the saucepan, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and set. Then make a meringue with the whites of eggs and sugar, pile it on the top of the pudding and return to a cool oven until delicately browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 417 Note.—The pastry may be omitted. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1853. Baked Sponge Pudding l lb. flour. 3 oz. butter or mar- garine. 3 oz. sugar. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the fat until free from lumps. Sieve the sugar and baking powder on the top, and mix them in thoroughly. Then make a well in the centre, pour in the egg well beaten, with the milk and flavouring. Mix all together, put the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a moderate oven until well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Serve with jam or fruit sauce. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1854. Baked Sultana Pudding \ lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 3 oz. butter or lard. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. 1 egg. 3 oz. sultanas. 1 tea-cupful milk. A little candied peel. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter or lard until free from lumps. Pick and clean the sultanas and add them with the sugar, a little finely-shred candied peel, and flavouring to taste. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten and then the milk gradu- ally. Mix well'together, put the mixture into a greased Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, cut in square pieces, sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 ur 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1855. Swiss Apple Pudding 11 lbs. apples. | pt. water. 3 or 4 oz. sugar. Grated rind and juice of | lemon. 3 or 4 slices bread and butter. Stew the apples with the water, sugar, lemon rind and juice until they are quite soft and pulpy. Remove the crust from the bread and butter, and cut it in strips. Then grease a pie dish, or fireproof dish, and put the stewed apples and bread and butter into it in layers. The last layer should be bread with the buttered side uppermost. Sprinkle a little granulated sugar over the top, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. Custard sauce or cream may be served separately. Note.—Brown or white bread-crumbs may be used instead of the bread and butter. In that case, a little finely-chopped suet should be mixed with the bread-crumbs, and some pieces of butter put on the top of the pudding before baking. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1856. Another Way Rind and juice of J lemon. Browned crumbs. 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. chopped suet. 4 or 5 apples. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. Take a plain mould or pie dish, grease it well, and line it with browned bread-crumbs. Put the bread-crumbs, suet, and sugar into a basin, add the apples, peeled, cored, and roughly chopped, flavour with grated lemon rind and juice, and mix well together. If the apples are not juicy, a little water or milk may also be added. Fill up the prepared mould or dish with this mixture, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with custard sauce or cream. Note.—The pudding may be made richer by adding one or two beaten eggs to the mixture. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1857. Sylvan Pudding £ lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 3 oz. butter. 1 egg. 3 oz. sugar. A little milk. A pinch of salt. 2 table-sps. jam. Sieve the flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre and add the egg and enough milk to make a thick batter. Beat well for a few minutes. Put the jam into a greased pie dish, pour the batter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and well risen. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Note.—Stewed fruit may be used instead of jam, and the mixture may be steamed instead of baked. Time to bake, J to £ hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1858. Walnut Pudding £ lb. bread-crumbs. £ lb. shelled walnuts. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. A little grated lemon rind. 1 pt. milk. Put the bread-crumbs and sugar into a basin with a little grated lemon rind. Heat the milk, and pour it over them. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, then pound them in a mortar or chop them finely. Add them to the bread-crumbs, &c., with the yolks of eggs, and mix well. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and well risen. Notes.—The pie dish may be lined with pastry before putting in the mixture (see p. 409). A little strawberry or any nice jam may be put into the dish first. Time to bake, i hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1859. West Riding Pudding \ tea-sp. baking powder. A little flavouring. 2 table-sps. jam. Some scraps of pastry, dish and line it with 2 eggs. The weight of the eggs in butter, flour, and castor sugar. Take a lj-pint pie some scraps of pastry (see p. 409). Make the mix-418 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tare according to directions given under Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), flavouring it to taste. Put the jam at the bottom of the lined pie dish, and the mixture on the top. Bake in a good oven until the mixture is quite set and well risen, and the pastry a nice brown colour. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Time to bake, about 1 hour. SufiScient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1860. Yorkshire Pudding Batter. 2 or 3 table-sps. beef dripping. Make the batter according to directions given in Recipe 1889, and let it stand at least half an hour. Put the dripping (hot dripping from the roast is best) into a Yorkshire pudding tin, make it quite hot in the oven and run it over the tin. Then pour in the batter and bake in a quick oven until brown and crisp. Cut the pudding in six or eight pieces and serve with roast beef. Time to bake, about \ hour. SufiScient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. PART IV FRITTERS AND FRIED PUDDINGS GENERAL REMARKS The ordinary sweet fritter is composed of a light batter enclosing fruit, or some sweet mixture. When fruit is used it is previously sprinkled with sugar and a little flavouring if liked, and sometimes it is soaked in wine, brandy, or liqueur as well. Small slices of stale cake, which have been soaked in wine or a flavoured syrup, remains of cold puddings of different kinds cut into small pieces, can also be utilised for fritter-making, and many a dainty little dessert can in this way be produced from the veriest scraps. The ingredient used may either be coated only with the batter, or it may be chopped, and mixed with the batter itself. The batter used must be smooth and light, and thick enough to coat the article to be fried without running ofif. At the same time it must not be too thick and stodgy. There are several ways of making this batter, and it is always well to make it some little time before it is required,' as it becomes lighter with standing. Other fritters are made of a dough-like mixture to which some sweet ingredient or fruit is added, others again are made of a soft cream-like mixture covered with a coating of egg and bread-crumbs. Besides these there are a number of miscellaneous fritters, but the following recipes will give one a good idea of what can be done in this way. The frying of the fritters is a very important matter. To begin with, the fat must not be less than 2 or 3 inches in depth (see Deep Frying, p. 248), an ordinary frying pan is not deep enough. Then the fat must be boiling before being used. If there is any doubt as to this, test it by dropping in a small piece of the fritter batter or dough ; if sufficiently hot, this will rise to the surface imme- diately and frizzle briskly. The fat must be hot enough to make the fritters pufi out and become crisp and light; if it has not reached a proper temperature, it will sink into the batter, and the fritters will be heavy and indigestible. Do not put too many fritters into the fat at one time, firstly, in order not to cool the fat too much, and, secondly, because the fritters must have room to swell. Then allow the fat to become quite hot again be- tween each relay of fritters. Do not turn the fritters too quickly, it is better to let one side brown before turning to the other, they will puff out better in this way. When both sides are nicely browned, lift them out with a skimmer or per- forated spoon, letting the fat drip well from them. Drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle with sugar. Sometimes this sugar is flavoured with vanilla, cinnamon, lemon, orange, &c. Serve the fritters quickly, piling them up on a hot dish with a dessert paper under them. A sauce is sometimes served separately. Note.—It is very important to strain the fat after using it for frying fritters, to get rid of the small particles of batter. 1861. Batter for Frying, 1 (Pate it Frire) i lb. flour. 1 gill tepid water. 2 or 3 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the water by degrees, and beat well with a wooden spoon to make a smooth paste free from lumps. Then add the oil or butter, and beat again for a few minutes. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly at the last. Notes.—This batter may be used for all kinds of fritters. Sugar should not be added, as it is apt to make it heavy. It is better if allowed to stand for some time before using, and before the whites of eggs are added. A little rum or liqueur may be added if desired. The batter should be very thick, and of the consistency to coat completely the article it is intended to cover. 1862. Batter for Frying, 2 (P&te a Frire) 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table-sp. brandy. \ lb. flour. A pinch of salt, li gills of light beer. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the other ingredients by degrees, and mix well until perfectly smooth. If too thick, add a little tepid water. Cover the basin, and let the batter stand in a very cool place at least six hours before using. 1863. Batter for Frying, 3 (P&te A Frire) 2 eggs. | \ lb. flour. J pt. milk. I A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and make a well in the centre. Add the eggs and then the milk by degrees, beating the batter well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air-bubbles. It should be of a stiff consistency. Let it stand for some little time before using.419 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 1864. Batter for Frying, 4 (Pate a Frire) 2 oz. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 white of egg. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 2 table-sps. cream. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and make a well in the centre. Put in the yolks of eggs and cream, mix the flour gradually into them and beat until smooth and light. Add the oil, allow the batter to stand for a short time, and lastly stir in the white of egg beaten to a stifl froth. 1865. Almond Fritters 2 oz flour. % pt. milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 oz. ground almonds. (Beignets aux Amandes) 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Egg and bread-crumbs. Add the milk gradually to the flour, and then stir them over the fire until boiling. Add the butter, ground almonds, sugar, salt, and yolks of eggs, and cook for a few minutes longer. Then spread the mixture on a plate, and allow it to become quite cold. When firm, divide into small equal-sized pieces, and roll these upon a floured board into the shape of a cork. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry to a nice colour in boiling fat. Drain well, and roll in powdered sugar. A little grated chocolate may be mixed with the sugar. Serve these piled up on a hot dish. Allow l hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1866. American Fritters or Doughnuts 2 eggs. 4 table-sps. melted butter. 4 to 6 oz. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. salt. |pt. milk. | tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flour to make a soft dough. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the eggs, and beat these two well together with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Then add the butter melted, the cinnamon, salt, baking powder, and milk. Sieve in by degrees enough flour to make a soft light dough, and knead very gently for a few minutes. Flour the baking-board and rolling-pin and roll the dough out one inch thick. Cut it into Doughnuts small circles or rings or strips, and twist them. Or the paste may be rolled out thinner, small rounds cut out, and two put together with a small spoonful of jam between. Wet round the edge of one piece of pastry, and press the two edges well together. Fry these fritters in boiling fat until they puff out to double their original size. Allow them to cook rather slowly, and fry a golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper, and roll them in powdered sugar while still warm. Allow 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 9d. * 1867. Apple Fritters, 1 (Beignets aux Pommes) Frying batter 1 or 2. I Sugar. 2 or 3 apples. | Flavouring. Choose firm ripe apples ; rennets are best. Peel three or four, and cut them in slices an eighth of an inch in thickness. Then with a small round cutter stamp out the cores. Put the apple rings on a plate, and sprinkle them with sugar and grated orange or lemon rind, or if liked, a few drops of rum or brandy. Let them stand for a few minutes, then dip a round of apple in batter (see above). Apple Fritters Coat it well, lift it out with a skewer, and drop it into a saucepan of boiling fat. Repeat this with the other rounds of apple, but do not put more than six or seven pieces into the fat at one time, as they swell considerably in the cooking. Turn them over while in the fat, and let them fry a nice brown colour. Lift them out with a skewer or perforated spoon, and dry on sugared paper in a moderate oven until all are fried. Then serve them on a folded serviette or dish paper, the slices over- lapping. Allow 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1868. Apple Fritters, 2 (Beignets aux Pommes) Frying batter No. 3. 1 Sugar. 4 apples. I Lemon or orange juice. Make the batter according to directions given above. Peel, core, and chop the apples. Sprinkle them with sugar and a little lemon or orange juice. Let them stand a few minutes, and then mix them with the batter. Take up a spoon- ful of the mixture at a time, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Do not make the fritters too large, or they will not cook well in the centre, and test the first one before lifting the others from the fat. Sprinkle them with sugar and serve very hot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1869. Apple Fritters, 3 6 oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 14 table-sps. sugar. (Beignets aux Pommes) 2 small eggs. I oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. 1 cupful chopped apples. Put the butter and sugar into a basin and beat them together to a cream. Add the yolks of the eggs, then the sifted flour and milk by degrees.420 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Beat well, add the baking powder and salt, the apples finely chopped, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stili froth. Form the mixture into small portions about the size of a walnut, drop them into boiling fat, and fry to a golden brown colour. Drain and dredge well with sugar. Serve plain or with wine or lemon sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1870. Apple Fritters without Batter 3 medium-sized apples. I 1 glass wine or brandy. Castor sugar. | A little flour. Grated lemon rind. 1 Choose good sound apples of medium size, peel them, cut them in four or six pieces, and remove the core, trimming the pieces neatly. Lay these pieces on a plate, sprinkle them with sugar and a little grated lemon rind, and pour over the wine or brandy. Let them stand one hour, turning them over now and again, in order that all the pieces may be well soaked and flavoured with the wine. Brandy, rum, wine, or liqueur may be used according to taste. Care must be taken not to break the pieces of apple when turning them. When ready, drain, and then toss them in finely sifted flour. Fry in boiling fat in the same way as other fritters until of a golden brown colour, and well cooked. Drain well and sprinkle with sugar. Serve very hot. Note.—Tinned peaches or apricots may be pre- pared in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. 1871. 6 or 7 apples. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. sugar, i tea-sp. cinnamon. Apple Rissoles 1 egg. Cake-crumbs. Apricot jam. Whipped cream. Pink sugar. Choose rather small apples of equal size, peel and core them and steam them until nearly tender, but not broken. Then allow them to cool. Sieve the flour, sugar, and cinnamon on to a piece of paper, and roll the apples in this mixture. Then brush them over with beaten egg and toss them in fine cake-crumbs. Fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour and drain well. Arrange the apples neatly on a hot dish, fill the centres with apricot jam, pile a little whipped cream on the top of each, and sprinkle with pink sugar. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1872. Apricots a la Colbert (Abricots a la Colbert) i tin apricots. 1 beaten egg. 1 oupful cooked rice. Egg or cake-crumbs. A little rice flour. Choose firm halves of apricots, and drain them well from their syrup on the top of a sieve. Then take some rice that has been well cooked in milk and is adhesive, and form it into small balls with a little rice flour. Put two half apricots together, with a hall of rice between, and roll again in rice flour to dry the outside. Then brush over with beaten egg, toss in bread or cake crumbs, and fry in boiling fat until a pretty brown colour. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1873. Apricot Fritters with Cream (Beignets d’Abricots & la Crdme) 1 doz. ripe apricots. [ 1 cupful custard cream. Sugar. ! Frying batter. A little liqueur. j Choose fresh ripe apricots, wipe them, cut them in halves and take out the stones. Lay the pieces on a dish, sprinkle them well with sugar and a little kirsch or other liqueur, and let them remain at least 4 hour. Then drain the apricots and place them on a dish or board with the cut side upper- most. Take some thick and cold custard sauce, flavour it with vanilla or the same liqueur, and sweeten to taste. Put some of this into half the number of apricot pieces, place the remaining halves on the top, and press them lightly together. A short time before the sweet is required, dip the stuffed apricots into Frying Batter Nos. 1 or 4 (pp.)418-19), and fry them in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain well and sprinkle with plain or vanilla sugar. Serve on a hot dish with a lace- edged paper under them. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1874. Banana Croquettes (Croquettes de Bananes) 4 to 6 bananas. 2 oranges. 2 oz. sugar. 1 egg. Biscuit-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. cornflour or arrowroot. Peel the bananas and cut them in two or four according to size. Put them into a basin, and sprinkle them with the sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Strain over the juice from the two oranges, cover the basin and allow the bananas to soak 1 hour. Then lift out the pieces, and drain them on a sieve for a minute or two. Now brush them over with beaten egg, toss in biscuit or cake crumbs, and fry in boiling fat until a golden brown colour. Drain and dredge with fine sugar. Serve the following sauce separately. Sauce.—Strain the juice in which the bananas were soaked into a saucepan, add the cornflour or arrowroot mixed with a little water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Allow the sauce to cook 2 or 3 minutes before serving. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 1875. Banana Fritters (Beignets aux Bananes) 3 or 4 bananas. I Frying batter. Castor sugar. I Wine or lemon juice. Peel the bananas, cut them in two lengthwise and then once across, making four pieces in all. Lay these pieces on a plate, sweeten and flavour, and let them lie for a few minutes. Finish off in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1876. Beignets Souffles 5 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. castor sugar. 3 eggs. £ pt. water. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. Make the mixture in the same way as directed for Choux Pastry (Recipe 1450), and turn it on to plate to cool. It will be all the better if this can rest for an hour before being used. To fry thePUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 421 souffles? have ready a large saucepan of hot fat; a good supply of fat is necessary, as the pastry swells in the cooking. Drop small spoonfuls of the mix- ture into the fat and fry them to an amber colour. Put in only a few pieces at a time, as they will increase to about three times their original size. When well made a beignet souffle should be well puffed out with a hollow in the centre, with just a little of the yellow paste adhering to the outer crust, which is crisp and dry. It is better to test the first one on removing it from the fat. When ready, drain the souffles on kitchen paper, dredge them with sugar, and pile them up on a hot dish. They should be served very hot or else cold. A good sweet sauce may be served separately. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and forced out in small pieces into the fat, cutting the pieces off with a knife when about an inch in length. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1877. Bread Fritters (Pain Perdu) 4 or 5 slices of bread. | 2 oz. butter. | pt. milk. [ Castor sugar. 1 egg. | Some jam. Cut the bread from a tin loaf and half an inch in thickness. Remove the crusts and cut each slice in two. Place the bread in a dish and pour the milk and beaten egg over. Allow it to soak until soft, but not pappy. Melt the butter in a frying pan, and fry the prepared bread in it, cooking it until a golden brown colour on both sides. Then drain on kitchen paper, and dredge well with sugar. Keep the fritters hot until all are fried. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, allowing one to over- lap the other slightly, and put a small tea-spoonful of jam on each. Note.—This dish may be varied by putting some nicely stewed fruit in the centre of the dish instead of jam. Then different flavourings may be added to the milk used to soak the bread, or a little honey or syrup may be heated and poured over the fritters at the last. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1878. Bread-crumb Fritters 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 gills milk. 2 eggs. & oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of salt. I tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Put the bread-crumbs and butter into a basin. Heat the milk and pour it over them, allowing them to soak for ten minutes. Add the yolks of eggs, salt, and seasoning, and mix well. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly at the last, along with the carbonate of soda. Fry small portions at a time in a saucepan of boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain and dust over with castor sugar. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1879. Cherry Fritters (Beignets aux Cerises) 1 lb. fresh cherries. Powdered sugar. Angelica. Frying batter. A little kirsch or wine. Stone the cherries, and put five or six at a time on to thin strips of angelica. (If the angelica is hard to cut, it ought to be soaked for a short time in hot water.) Sprinkle with sugar and a few drops of kirsch or other liqueur or wine. Steep for a few minutes, then finish in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOtf. 1880. Crofites au Rhum Some plain cake or I 1 gill water. fancy bread. 2 or 3 table-sps. rum. Butter. | 1 table-sp. sultanas. I lb. loaf sugar. j 1 table-sp. currants. To Prepare the Grodtes.—Take some plain cake, such as sponge cake or Madeira cake, or light fancy bread, such as tea cake or brioche, and cut it in convenient-sized slices of about half an inch in thickness. Melt some butter in a frying pan; when smoking hot, put in the slices of cake, and brown them nicely on both sides. Drain a minute or two to absorb the grease. The Syrup.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them together until they form a syrup. Add the rum and currants and sultanas veil cleaned. Boil together a few minutes, and use as directed. To Finish.—Arrange the croutes neatly on a hot dish, pour the syrup over boiling hot, soak a minute or two and serve. 1881. Currant Fritters J lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. sugar. A little milk. 2 oz. currants. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Rind of J lemon. 2 eggs. Sieve the flour and baking powder on to a sheet of paper. Put the butter and sugar into a basin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Add the yolks of eggs, and then the flour and milk by degrees. Next add the currants carefully pre- pared and the grated rind of half a lemon or any other flavouring preferred, and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Form the mixture into small portions about the size of a walnut, drop them into boiling fat, and fry until a pretty brown colour and thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle well with sugar, and serve piled up on a lace-edged paper. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1882. Custard Fritters (Creme Frite) 2 table-sps. flour. £ pt. milk. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 yolks and 1 white of egg- Flavouring. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mix the flour smoothly w ith the milk, and stir them over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Then re- move to the side of the fire, and stir in the salt, sugar, eggs, and flavouring. Mix well and cook two or three minutes longer. Spread the custard on a greased dish, about | inch in thickness, and set it aside. When cold, cut in rounds or other shapes, egg and bread-crumb the pieces, and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain well and dredge v'ith sugar. Serve piled up with a dish paper under them.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 422 Note.—Cake or biscuit crumbs may be used instead of bread-crumbs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1883. Date Croquettes 1| doz. dates. 2 tab.-sps. thick custard 2 macaroon biscuits. 2 table-sps. preserved fruits. 1 gill water. 2 oz. sugar. Vanilla. Some puff pastry. Beaten egg. Cake or biscuit crumbs. First make a syrup with the sugar and water, and flavour it with vanilla. Wash or wipe the dates, put them into this syrup, and allow them to poach by the side of the fire about ten minutes. Then drain them and remove the stones by slitting them on one side only. Now prepare a stuffing for the centre of the dates. Rub the macaroon biscuits through a sieve and put the crumbs into a basin. Add some preserved fruits cut in tiny pieces, bind together with thick custard, and flavour to taste. Put a small quantity of this stuffing into each date, bringing them back to their original form. Take some scraps of puff or other good pastry, roll them out very thinly, and stamp out 18 rounds about 3 inches in diameter with a fluted cutter. Put a date in the centre of each round of pastry, wet round the edges with a little white of egg and double the pastry over, pressing the two sides well together. Then brush them over with beaten egg and toss them in fine cake or biscuit crumbs. Fry these croquettes in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour, then drain and sprinkle with fine sugar. Serve them piled up oh a lace-edged paper. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1884. Fancy Fritters (Beignets Friands) Brioche dough. Chopped nuts. Preserved fruits. Some thick custard. A little wine or liqueur. Mixture for Centres.—Take a mixture of pre- served fruits, cut them in very small pieces and allow them to soak in wine for 1 hour at least. Add a few chopped nuts and bind together with a little thick custard. Make this mixture very cold before using. Make the brioche dough according to Recipe 2662. Half the quantity will be sufficient, or any remains may be used. Divide the dough and roll it out in two oblong-shaped pieces of equal size and about J of an inch in thickness. With the back of a knife score one of these pieces across in squares about 3 inches in size. On each of these squares place a portion of the fruit mixture about the size of a pigeon’s egg, and wet them round with a brush dipped in water or white of egg. Cover with the other piece of dough, and press well round each little mound. Now cut out the squares with a very sharp knife ; arrange them on a tin covered with a floured cloth, and set them to rise in a warm place. When well risen, fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Sprinkle well with sugar and serve piled up in a pyramid. A fruit sauce may be served separately. 1885. Fig Fritters Stewed figs. Frying batter (Recipe 1863). Drain the figs from the syrup in which they were cooked, and let them stand for a short time to dry. Then dip them in the frying batter, one at a time, cover them well, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and sprinkle with vanilla sugar or with plain castor sugar. Strain the syrup, heat it in a small saucepan, adding a little wine if -wished, and serve it as a sauce. 1886. French Plum Fritters French plums. Castor sugar. Almond paste. Ground cinnamon. Frying batter. Use good dessert French plums that do not require cooking. Stone them, and in place of the stone insert a small piece of almond paste, or a blanched almond. Have ready some frying batter made according to directions given in Recipe 1864. Dip the plums into this, one at a time, coat them well, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and sprinkle with castor sugar with which a small quantity of powdered cinnamon has been mixed. Serve piled up lightly with a dish paper under them. Note.—Greengages and other kinds of fresh plums may be made into the flitters in the same way. They must be perfectly ripe, without being soft. 1887. Orange Fritters, 1 (Beignets d’Oranges) 2 or 3 oranges. Castor sugar. Frying batter. Remove the peel and white skin from the oranges. Divide them in six or eight pieces, but in a natural way, so that each piece retains its juice. Put them on a dish, and sprinkle with fine sugar ; leave them for quarter of an hour, then drain. Dip each piece of orange in frying batter, coating it well, and drop it into boiling fat. Leave them until they have taken a nice brown colour, drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle with sugar. Keep them warm in the oven until all are finished. Dish neatly on a dish paper, and sprinkle a little orange sugar over. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1888. Orange Fritters, 2 (Beignets d’Oranges) 2 eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 table-sps. flour. 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. 1 or 2 oranges. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin with the sugar, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until they are of a creamy colour. Add the lemon juice, and sift in the flour gradually. The batter must be rather stiff and must be well beaten. Add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth last of all. Peel the oranges, removing all the white pith, cut them in slices, and take out the pips. Dip them in the above batter, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain, sprinkle with sugar, and serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Qd. J lb. flour. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 1889. Pancakes (Crepes) A little lard for frying. Castor sugar. Lemon or orange juice. There are several kinds of batter for making pancakes. The above is one of the simplest.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 423 Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Drop in the two yolks of eggs, and with a wooden spoon mix a little of the flour gradually into them. Then add about half the milk very gradually, mixing in the flour by degrees from the sides of the basin. Keep the batter thick enough to allow of all lumps being rubbed smooth, then beat well until it is full of air-bubbles. Add the rest of the milk, and, if possible, allow the batter to stand for an hour at least before using it. Just at the last, stir in quickly and lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Melt some lard in a saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the fire to keep warm. Put a little into a small frying or omelet pan, and make it smoking hot. Then pour quickly into the centre of the pan half a gill or so oi batter. If the fat is hot enough the Pancakes batter will run all over the pan at once, whereas if it has not quite reached the required heat, the pan may have to be tilted a little to get the batter to cover it properly. Allow it to rest for a minute or two until set and nicely browned on the under side, then slip a broad-bladed knife round the edges, and either toss the pancake over or turn it with the knife. Brown on the other side, then slip the pancake on to sugared paper, strew sugar over it, sprinkle with lemon or orange juice, and roll up. Keep this pancake hot on a plate placed over hot water until the rest are cooked. Each pancake will require a little fresh fat added to the pan. Serve them very hot, and as quickly as possible, and send cut lemon or orange to table with them. Notes.—For pancakes, choose a perfectly clean frying or omelet pan. If it is a new one, or one which has been out of use for some time, it ought to be seasoned, or the first pancake will be sure to stick. To do this, put some lard into the pan, and heat it until it begins to turn brown ; then pour it away, and wipe the pan well with a soft cloth or with pieces of paper. Then add fresh lard to fry the pancake. A little salt heated in the pan is also a good thing for cleaning it. The pancakes may be made richer by adding more eggs to the batter, and keeping back some of the milk, or one ounce of butter melted may be added. They may be varied by spreading them with some nice jam before rolling them up, and sprinkling them with sugar, either plain or flavoured. Or they may be sprinkled with vanilla chocolate powder, one pancake put flab on the top of the other, leaving the last one plain, and served with cream. Instead of milk, half beer and half tepid water may be used for mixing the batter, and a little rum or liqueur may be added. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1890. Apple Pancakes 2 apples. 2 or 3 eggs. I 2 table-sps. flour. 2 table-sps. sugar. | Juice of i lemon. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Peel the apples and either grate or chop them finely. Add them to the yolks and sugar, along with the flour and lemon juice. Mix together and stir in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs at the last. Make small pancakes with tins mixture as directed above, and serve them one on the top of the other well dredged with sugar. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1891. Meringued Pancakes with Apples (Pannequets Meringues aux Pommes) Pancake batter. 1 oz. sugar. Flavouring. 2 or 3 apples. 2 whites of eggs. 1 oz. butter. \ lb. sugar. Vanilla. Make the pancake batter according to Recipe 1889, and let it stand a short time. Meanwhile make a marmalade with the apples. Peel and slice them, put them into a saucepan with the butter and cook them until tender, adding a little water if necessary. This will depend on the kind of apple used. When ready, add the sugar. Flavouring may be added according to taste. Then make some small pan- cakes and lay them out flat on a board. Put a spoonful of the apple marmalade in the centre of each, roll them up, and then double up the ends, making an oblong-shaped parcel, as it were. Place these on a baking tin with the folds underneath. Then make a meringue with the whites of eggs and sugar, flavouring it with a little vanilla. Put it into a forcing bag with a fancy pipe at the end, and force it out on the top of the pan- cakes so as to cover them entirely. Brown in the oven and serve hot. Sufficient for 10 or 12 pancakes. Probable cost, Is. 1892. Pancake Fritters 1 egg. 1 oz. flour. I A pinch of salt. 2 table-sps. milk. | Sugar and lemon. Mix the flour smoothly with the egg, and beat well until full of air bubbles. Then thin down with milk, and add a good pinch of salt. Allow the batter to stand some time before using it. Then drop it by dessert-spoonfuls into a pan of hot fat and fry until brovra and crisp. The fritters will puff out and become quite hollow. Drain them well, sprinkle liberally with sugar, and serve with cut lemon. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 1893. Peach or Apricot Fritters (Beignets aux Peches ou aux Abricots) Peaches or apricots. Macaroon or biscuit crumbs. Castor sugar. Cut the fruit in halves the stones. Sprinkle the Liqueur or other flav- ouring. Frying batter. or quarters, and remove pieces with sugar and a424 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD few drops of maraschino, and roll them in maca- roon or other biscuit crumbs before dipping them in the batter. Finish in the same manner as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Note.—Tinned fruit does very well for these, if it is drained before rolling it in the crumbs. 1894. Pear Fritters (Beignets aux Poires) 2 or 3 ripe pears. Frying batter (Re- Castor sugar. cipe 1861). A little wine or liqueur. Choose good ripe pears, peel them and cut them in quarters. Take out the pips and core, and soak the pieces of pear for 20 minutes in a little wine or liqueur or in lemon or orange juice and some castor sugar. Finish in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1895. Prune Fritters Stewed prunes. I Sugar and grated Frying batter. [ chocolate. Sweet almonds. | Remove the stones from some stewed prunes and drain them well from their syrup. Insert a blanched almond in place of the stone, then dip the prunes in frying batter, and fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain them and sprinkle with sugar and chocolate mixed. Serve hot with a dish paper under them. 1896. Rice Croquettes (Croquettes de Riz) 3 oz. Carolina rice. 1 gill of cold water. 1 pt. milk. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. Rind of 1 lemon. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 whole egg. Bread-crumbs. A little flour. Wash the rice well in several waters, and then put it into a lined saucepan with the gill of fresh cold water. Bring this to the boil over the fire, cook for 5 minutes, and pour the water off. Then add the milk, butter, and grated lemon rind, and stew the rice slowly until quite soft and thick. From 1 to % hour will be necessary for this process. Bice Croquettes When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar. Then turn the mixture on to a plate, smooth it over with a wetted knife, and set it aside to cool. When cold, divide it into 10 or 12 equal-sized pieces, place them on a board sprinkled with a little flour, and shape each one neatly either into balls, round flat cakes, cork or pear shapes. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and re-shape so as to take away the rough appearance. Fry these croquettes in a saucepan of boiling fat until a golden brown colour, then drain them on paper and dredge with sugar. Serve them piled on a hot dish, with a dish-paper under them, and apricot or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—Any other flavouring may be used instead of the grated lemon rind, or a little grated chocolate or cocoanut may be added to the rice mixture. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1897. Croquettes of Rice with Fruit (Croquettes de Riz aux Fruits) Prepare the same mixture as for rice croquettes, adding to it about 2 oz. preserved fruits finely chopped. Allow the mixture to cool, then form it into small pear-shaped pieces with a little flour. Brush these over with slightly beaten white of egg with which a little salad oil has been mixed, and coat them with chopped almonds instead of bread-crumbs. Fry the croquettes in boiling fat and put a small piece of angelica in the narrow end of each to imitate the stalk of the pear. Serve hot with apricot sauce (Recipe 774) separately. Note.—Semolina may be used instead of rice. 1898. Rice and Chocolate Croquettes Prepare a rice mixture as directed in Recipe 1896, flavour it with vanilla, and add 2 or 3 table-spoon- fuls of finely-grated chocolate. Mix well and spread the mixture on a buttered dish or tin to cool. Then shape it in small round cakes or any other form preferred, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. 1899. Rusk Fritters Grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A little butter. ; tops and bottoms ” for | doz. rusks. 1 or 2 eggs. | pt. milk. Choose the rusks called these, and lay them flat on a large dish. Beat up the egg with the sugar and grated rind of \ lemon, add the milk, and strain over the rusks. Allow them to soak until all this custard is absorbed. Make some butter hot in a frying pan, place the rusks one at a time into it, lifting them very carefully with a palette knife or fish shoe. Fry them a pretty brown colour on both sides, drain when ready, and sprinkle with sugar. When all are ready, arrange the fritters neatly on a lace-edged paper, and serve with jam or stewed fruit. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1900. Semolina Croquettes (Croquettes de Semoule) | pt. milk. 3 oz. semolina. 11 oz. sugar. 1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 2 oz. currants. Flavouring. J oz. butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Put the semolina, milk, and butter into a sauce- pan, and stir them over the fire until thick. Then cook from 8 to 10 minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the eggs, sugar, flavouring, and currants picked and cleaned. Mix well, and spread this mixture to the thickness of \ an inch on a wetted dish or tin, and allow it to cool. When425 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS cold, cut out iu small shapes with a cutter, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Note.—The currants may be omitted, or pre- served cherries or ginger cut in small pieces may be used in their place. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1901. Sponge-Cake Fritters 2 or 3 Id. sponge cakes. A little jam. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk or wine. Frying batter. Castor sugar. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, make a sandwich, and cut them in small square pieces. Sprinkle the pieces with the milk or wine and let them soak a short time without allowing them to become too moist. Prepare some frying batter as directed in Recipe 1863, dip the sponge cake pieces into it, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, sprinkle with sugar, and serve piled up on a lace-edged paper. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1902. Walnut Fritters Make in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1869), using 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped walnuts instead of the apples. PART V SOUFFLES AND SWEET OMELETS To steam a souffle place the mould containing it in a steamer, or in a saucepan with boiling water to come half-way up the sides. In the latter case it is safer to place a plate or saucer at the bottom of the saucepan, in order to raise the mould above the heat of the stove. Cook the souffle slowly and steadily the required time. If steamed too quickly it will rise rapidly without becoming firm, and will be apt to fall again when turned out. A steamed souffle is ready when it feels firm to the touch. Steamed souffles are always turned out of the moulds in which they are cooked, and a suitable sauce is poured round, never over them. A baked souffle must be cooked in a moderate and steady oven until it is well risen and firm to the touch. It is never turned out, but is served in the dish in which it is cooked. A suitable sauce may be served separately. The success of a souffle depends largely upon the thorough beating of the whites of eggs, steady cooking and quick serving. A Steamed Souffld The following are the usual proportions, and the general directions, for making a steamed souffle; by the addition of different flavourings the various souffles take their names. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or other liquid. A pinch of salt. 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. 1 oz. sugar. Flavouring. Before beginning to make the souffle, prepare the tin and put on the saucepan with water, or the steamer in which it is to be cooked. REMARKS ON SOUFFLES This is a class of puddings known only by its French name, which is so generally understood that it has become an anglicised word. A souffle is a pudding which is made very light by having stiffly beaten whites of egg, or sometimes whipped cream, added to it; and of which the basis is a cooked batter with raw yolks of eggs and some distinctive flavouring, or other ingredient which requires little cooking, added to it. The preparation of a souffle is exceedingly simple if exact measures are taken, and if the directions given for making it are carefully followed. The only difficulty is in serving it soon enough, as it falls so quickly when taken from the heat. Have everything ready before beginning to make the souffle. If it is a steamed one, prepare the tin (see below) and put on the saucepan with the water in which it is to be cooked. If, on the other hand, it is a baked souffle, see that the oven is at the right heat for cooking, and grease the tin or dish to be used. The whites of eggs for all souffles must be beaten up very stiffly in a basin with a wire whisk, and folded rather than mixed in to the other ingredients, care being taken not to break them down by too much mixing. As the mixture rises considerably when cooking, the mould should not be more than half filled. In a steamed souffle the band of paper forms a protection to prevent the mixture falling over the sides; in a baked souffle this is not so necessary, as the mixture hardens as it rises. To Prepare a Souffle Tin.—A souffle tin is a plain round one with high sides. A lj-pint size will hold the above quantities comfortably. First grease the mould very carefully and thickly with clarified butter. Then cut a double band of paper wide enough to stand 3 or 4 inches above the top of the tin, and to reach down to the middle of it, and long enough to fold round it and overlap a little way. Grease this band, and tie it round the outside of the tin, putting the single edges to the top and the double fold below. This forms a protection to prevent the mixture falling over the sides of the tin when it rises. Also grease a round or square of paper to cover the top. To Make the Mixture.—Melt the butter in a small426 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD lined stewpan, add the flour and mix the two smoothly together with a wooden spoon, allowing them to cook for a few minutes without browning. Then add the milk or other liquid, and stir over the fire until thoroughly cooked. When readv. the mixture will look smooth, and will draw away readily from the bottom and sides of the stewpan. This is called the “ panada.” Remove the sauce- pan from the fire, and add the sugar and flavouring. Then add the yolks one at a time, beating the mixture well between each. Put the whites of the eggs into a large basin or beating bowl, add a pinch of salt to them, and with a wire whisk beat them up to a very stiff froth. Remove the wooden spoon from the mixture in the saucepan, and with an iron one stir the beaten whites lightly but thoroughly in. The heavier mixture must be turned over and over the fighter one until both are blended. To Cook and Serve the Souffle.—Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, cover with the square or round of greased paper, and steam slowly and steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. If cooked too quickly the souffle will rise rapidly without becoming firm, and will then sink in the middle when it is turned out, and look like a crushed hat. Turn out carefully on to a very hot dish, and serve at once with sauce poured round or served separately. Another way of steaming a souffle is to cook it au bain-marie in the oven. Stand the tin containing it in another tin or saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides. Bring this to the boil over the fire, and then continue the cooking in the oven until the souffle is set and well risen. The band of paper is not required in this case. A Baked Souffle Almost any of the mixtures given for steamed souffles may be baked, but it is generally better to use a smaller proportion of flour or binding substance, as the heat of the oven is so much drier than that of steam. Por example, in the above list of quantities given for a steamed souffle, | oz. flour instead of 1 oz. would be sufficient to use if the souffle were to be baked. A baked souffle should be cooked in a dish or tin that can be sent to table, and it must be well Souffle Dish in Frame greased before the mixture is poured into it. A fireproof china or earthenware souffle dish is perhaps the best to use. If an ordinary souffle tin is used, a hot and folded serviette should be pinned round it before it is sent to table, or it is sometimes slipped inside a silver frame. Small souffles are baked in little china or paper souffle cases. The mixture should not more than three-quarters fill the mould or dish, and it should be scored across two or three times on the top to divide the mixture before putting it in the oven, otherwise the first Little Paper Souffle Cases stroke of the spoon when serving it would lift off all the surface skin. Place the souffle in a good moderate oven, and then bake it steadily until it is well risen and feels firm to the touch. The door of the oven must not be opened oftener than necessary, and then closed very gently, as any draught of cold air might cause the souffle to fall. Serve the souffle as quickly as possible. Omelets For notes on omelets see p. 327. 1903. Apple Souffle, Steamed (Souffle aux Pommes) 2 large apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. I V gills milk. 4 eggs. Vanilla. Custard sauce. First Prepare the Apples.—Peel them, cut them in dice and put them into a flat stewpan with the 1 oz. of butter. Let the butter melt and mix with the apples over the fire, then place the stewpan in the oven and cook the apples until nearly tender, but not broken. Meanwhile melt the 2 oz. of butter in another saucepan, and mix the flour with it. Pour in the milk, and stir and cook until the mixture draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of eggs, sugar, and vanilla, and mix them well in. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last along with the apples. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle mould, and steam it steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, remove it from the saucepan, allow it to stand a few minutes, then turn out and serve with a good custard sauce poured round. Time to cook, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1904. Apple Souffle, Baked (SoufflS aux Pommes; 3 large apples. 2 eggs. | | oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. I Grated rind of \ lemon. Bake the apples in the oven until they are thoroughly cooked. Then scoop out all the soft inside and rub this pulp through a hair sieve. Put the sugar, lemon rind and yolks of eggs into a medium-sized basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency;427 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS then add the apple pulp, and mix all together. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased china souffle dish or pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, sprinkle with sugar and serve as quickly as possible. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1905. Apricot Soufflg, Steamed (Souffle aux Abricots) 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill apricot puree. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 or 3 drops of carmine or cochineal. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. A squeeze lemon juice. First prepare the puree by rubbing some tinned apricots through a hair sieve. Use some of the syrup from the tin along with the apricots so as not to have the pur6e too thick. Fresh apricots may be used in place of the tinned, but these would require to be stewed first with a little water and sugar. In making the souffle, proceed exactly according to directions given for a Steamed Souffle (see p. 425), using the gill of apricot puree as the gill of liquid. Before mixing in the whites, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and just enough carmine or cochineal to make the mixture a peachy colour. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly and steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out carefully, and serve at once with apricot, custard, or wine sauce poured round it. Note.—Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. Time to steam, J to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1906. Apricot Souffle (Baked), 1 (Souffle aux Abricots) 4 whites of eggs. 5 or 6 tinned apricots. Vanilla or other flavour- ing. A pinch of salt. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Then add the rice flour and the salt, and mix again. Add the apricot syrup by degrees, stirring all the time, and turn the mixture into a saucepan. Cook over a gentle fire, stirring all the time, until almost boiling ; then remove at once, and stir until slightly cooled. Add the apricots, cut in small pieces, and the flavouring. (A little liqueur, maraschino, or noyeau is an improvement.) Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in at the last. Arrange the mixture on a flat fireproof dish in the form of a dome. Mark the sides with the back of a fork, and bake in a slow oven. Serve on a dish with a folded and warmed serviette under it. Some apricot sauce may be served separately. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. oz. castor sugar. | oz. rice flour. 1 gill syrup from apricots. 3 yolks of eggs. 1907. Apricot Souffle (Baked), 2 (SoufflG aux Abricots) 1| gills apricot puree. i A little water. 3 oz. sugar. I 4 whites of eggs. Take some very ripe fresh apricots, wipe and halve them, take out the stones and rub through a fine sieve sufficient to make the required quan- tity of puree. Put the sugar into a saucepan with enough water to moisten it and boil it to the crack, or to 300° F. Add to it the fruit puree and mix well, flavouring with a little liqueur if desired. Beat the whites of eggs in a basin to a very stiff froth, and pour the apricot mixture slowly on to them, stirring all the time. Grease and sugar a fireproof souffle dish and half fill it with the mix- ture. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—Other fruit souffles may be made in the same way. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1908. Banana SoufflO (Souffl6 aux Bananes) \ doz. bananas. 3 eggs. Sugar. 1 lemon. Choose ripe bananas. Peel them and rub them through a sieve with a silver spoon. Add to the pulp the grated rind and juice of one lemon, sugar to taste, and the yolks of the three eggs. Mix well, and lastly stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—Orange juice or a glass of wine may be used instead of the lemon flavouring. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1909. Chestnut Souffl6 (SoufflS aux Matrons) 2 doz. chestnuts. \ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. cream. A few drops of vanilla. 3 oz. sugar. 4 whites of eggs. Wash the chestnuts, make a slit in each and boil them in water about 10 minutes. Then remove the shell and inner skin. Put them into a saucepan with the milk and cook them slowly until quite soft. Sieve them with the milk in which they have been cooked and stir the puree until quite smooth. Add sugar, flavouring, and the cream lightly whipped. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish, dredge it with sugar, mark across with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and well risen. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10d. 1910. Chocolate Souffle, Steamed (Souffle au Chocolat) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. sugar. 2 oz. chocolate. Grate or shred the 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Vanilla flavouring, chocolate, dissolve it in the milk until quite smooth, and strain into aCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 428 cup or basiu. Then make and cook the souffle according to general directions given for a Steamed Souffle on p. 425, using the chocolate and milk as the gill of liquid. Serve with chocolate, custard, or any other suitable sauce. Notes.—This souffle may be baked instead of steamed. If unsweetened chocolate is used, take rather less of it and add a little more sugar. Time to steam, .V to £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 1911. Chocolate Soufflg, Baked (Souffl6 au Chocolat) 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 1 gill of milk. h oz. potato flour. 1 table-sp. cream. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. A few drops of vanilla. 2 oz. castor sugar. Break the chocolate into small pieces, and put it into an enamelled saucepan with half the milk. Cook gently over the fire, 6tirring from time to time, until the chocolate is melted and quite free from lumps. Put the sugar, yolks of eggs and vanilla into a basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until they are of a creamy con- sistency. Add the rest of the milk to this, then the chocolate by degrees. Return all to the sauce- pan, and cook together over the fire until almost boiling. Then remove from the fire, add the cream, and stir occasionally for a few minutes. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them by degrees with the other mixture, stirring them in as lightly as possible. Pour into a greased souffle dish, and cook in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Should the souffle become too brown, put a piece of paper on the top. Sprinkle with a little sugar just before serving, and send to table directly. Time to bake, 16 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1913. Ginger Soufflt (Steamed) l oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ gill milk. | gill ginger syrup. 1 oz. sugar. 2 or 3 oz. preserved ginger. 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Make and cook according to directions given for a Steamed Souffle on p. 425, using the milk and syrup from the preserved ginger as the gill of liquid, and adding the ginger cut in small pieces to the panada. Serve with ginger or -wine sauce. Time to steam, £ to £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1914. Little Ginger Souffles (Baked) 1 oz. butter. h oz. cornflour. | gill milk. i gill ginger syrup. 1 oz. sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 whites of eggs. 2 oz. preserved ginger. Melt the butter in an enamelled saucepan, add the milk and cornflour, and stir over the fire until thick and smooth. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the sugar, ginger syrup, and ginger cut in tiny pieces. Mix well, and add the yolks one at a time, beating well between each. Baked Ginger Souffles 1912. Coffee Souffle with Caramel (Souffld au Cafe) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J gill strong black coffee. J gill cream. 1 oz. sugar. 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs- I A pinch of salt. Caramel. 3 oz. loaf sugar. | gill water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Put the ingredients for the caramel into a small strong saucepan or sugar boiler, and cook them until of a golden brown colour. Pour this into an ungreased souffle tin, take hold of the tin with a cloth, and run the caramel round the sides, coating them well. Cool for a few minutes, and tie a band of greased paper round the outside of the tin. To Make the Mixture.—Proceed according to directions given for a Steamed Souffle on p. 425, and steam very carefully in the prepared mould. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and serve immediately. The caramel will run round the souffle and serve as a sauce. Note.—If preferred, the caramel may be omitted and the souffle served with a coffee sauce. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. Lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mixing them in as lightly as possible. Grease some small china or paper souffle dishes, three-quarter fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until they are a nice brown colour and well risen. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve immediately. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1915. Ground Rice Souffle (Souffld au Riz) 1 pt. milk. 1£ oz. ground rice. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. sugar. \\ oz. butter. 3 eggs. Vanilla. Mix the ground rice with a little of the milk, and put the rest into a saucepan to heat. When hot, but not boiling, add the ground rice, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the sugar and butter, and cook for about 10 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolks of eggs, flavour with vanilla or any other flavouring preferred, and lastly stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. Serve directly, sprinkled with powdered sugar.PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 429 Note.—Semolina may be used instead of ground rice. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1916. Lemon Souffle (Souffle au Citron) 1 oz. butter. ' A squeeze of lemon 1 oz. flour. juice. 1 oz. castor sugar. j 3 yolks of eggs. Grated rind of 1 lemon. j 4 whites of eggs. 1 gill of milk. I A pinch of salt. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and grate the rind very thinly off it on to the top of the sugar. Rub the sugar and lemon rind together with the tips of the fingers until the sugar looks quite yellow. Then proceed to make and cook the souffle according to directions given for Steamed Souffle on p. 425, using the lemon sugar and a little lemon juice to sweeten and flavour. When sufficiently cooked, turn out care- fully on to a hot dish, and serve with custard, lemon, or wine sauce poured round it. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1917. Liqueur Souffl6 1 oz. butter. I 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. 14 oz. flour. j 1 glass liqueur. 3 eggs. 1 gill milk. 1 A pinch of salt. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and milk as directed for Steamed Souffle on p. 425. When thoroughly cooked, remove the saucepan from the fire, beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, and then add the sugar, salt, and liqueur. Finally stir in as lightly as possible the whites of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. Three parts fill a greased souffl6 mould with the mixture and cook it in the oven in a tin of hot water, until well risen and firm to the touch. When sufficiently cooked, re- move the souffle from the oven, allow it to stand a minute or two, and then turn it out. Serve with custard sauce flavoured with the same liqueur as is used in the mixture. Note.—The souffle will take its name from the kind of liqueur used, i.e. souffl6 au curaijao, souffle au noyeau, &c. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1918. Little Orange Souffles 3 large oranges. I 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 oz. potato flour or 2 eggs. cornflour. I 1| oz. butter. Wipe one of the oranges, grate the rind off it, and rub it into the sugar. Then cut the oranges in halves, scoop out all the pulp, and rub it through a fine sieve. Mix the potato flour or cornflour smoothly -with this orange pulp, and then put both into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling and cook for 2 or 3 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs, and mix well together. Whip iip the whites very stiffly and stir them in very lightly at the last. Bake the mixture in small greased souffle dishes until wfell risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once. Notes.—If preferred, the mixture may be baked in one large souffle, or sometimes it is baked in the orange skins. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 souffles. Probable cost, 8d. 1919. Orange Souffi6 (Souffle a l’Orange) Make in the same way as Lemon Souffle, substi- tuting the grated rind of one orange and half the juice in place of lemon rind and juice. Serve with orange sauce. 1920. Peach Souffl6 (Souffle aux Peehes) Make in the same way as Apricot Souffle, sub- stituting 1 gill of peach puree for the apricot pur4e. Serve with peach or wine sauce. 1921. Pine-apple Souffle (Souffle & 1’Ananas) 3 oz. tinned pine-apple. I gill of syrup from tin. 4 gill of milk. A few drops of carmine. Flavouring. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix well together with a wooden spoon. Add the pineapple syrup and milk, and stir again over the fire until the mixture thickens and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the pan from the fire and add the sugar, yolks, flavouring to taste, and the pine-apple cut in tiny dice. Colour slightly pink with a few drops of carmine. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin (p. 425), and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with pine- apple sauce poured round it. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1922. Prune Souffle (Souffle aux Pruneaux) I lb. prunes. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 1 gill water. 2 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Juice of £ lemon. A few drops of vanilla. Wash the prunes and let them soak in the water for one hour. Then turn them into a saucepan with the water, and add the sugar and lemon juice. Stew them slowly until quite tender. When the prunes are soft, strain them and reserve the liquid. Stone the prunes, and cut each in four pieces. Return the liquid to the saucepan, and reduce it to form a sauce. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Add the prunes and vanilla flavouring. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Pour all into a greased souffle dish and bake in a moderate oven. Serve it as soon as it is taken from the oven. Strain the liquid from the prunes into a sauce boat, and serve it separately as a sauce. If liked, a few chopped almonds or the kernels from the prunes may be added to the souffle. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d.430 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1923. Rice Souffle (Souffle au Riz) 2 oz. Carolina rice. | A pinch of salt. 2 oz. butter. i i pt. milk. 3 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. I Flavouring. Well wash the rice, put it into a double saucepan with the milk, butter, sugar, and salt, and cook it until quite soft. Remove from the fire and beat it up with a small whisk, adding flavouring to taste and the yolks of eggs. Whisk the whites to a very stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When sufficiently cooked, turn out and serve with custard, jam, or fruit sauce. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1924. Rice Souffle with Pine-apple (Souffle au Riz) 2 oz. ground rice. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 1 to 2 oz. sugar. 1 cupful tinned pine- apple. Pine-apple sauce. Heat the milk with the butter in a saucepan. Sprinkle in the ground rice, and stir with a wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth and thick. Then simmer for a few minutes until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and add about a cupful of pine-apple cut in small pieces. Add also the two yolks of eggs, and sugar to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish, allow- ing room for it to rise, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. Serve at once with pine-apple sauce separately. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1925. Semolina SoufflG (Souffl6 au Semonle) 2 oz. semolina. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Flavouring. Rinse out a small stewpan with cold water, and put the semolina and milk into it. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and then allow the semolina to simmer slowly for about 10 minutes until it is well cooked. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar and any flavouring that is liked. Drop in the yolks one at a time, beating thoroughly between each. Put the whites of the eggs in a large basin, and, with a wire whisk, beat them up to a very stiff froth. With a metal spoon stir these lightly, but thoroughly, into the semolina mixture, and then pour all into a prepared souffle tin (see p. 425). Cover with greased paper, and steam slowly and steadily until the souffle is well risen and feels firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on a hot dish, and serve with jam, custard, or any other suitable sauce poured round it. Note.—Ground rice may be used instead of semolina. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1926. Tapioca or Sago Souffl6 (Souf!16 au Tapioca ou Sagou) 2 oz. small tapioca or sago. 2 oz. butter. J pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. Ratafia or cake crumbs. Wash the tapioca or sago, put it into a saucepan (a double one is best) with the butter and milk, and cook it thoroughly until quite clear. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and, when the contents have cooled a little, stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring to taste. Beat up the whites stiffly, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle mould (see p. 425) that has been greased and coated all over the inside with fine ratafia or slightly browned cake crumbs. Steam the souffle very slowly until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve with jam, apricot, chocolate, or any other sauce preferred. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1927. Vanilla SoufflS (SoufflO a la Vanllle) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Vanilla flavouring. Make this souffle according to directions given for a steamed souffle on p. 425, flavouring the Vanilla Souffle mixture with vanilla. Serve with jam, custard, German, or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, £ to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to Id. 1928. Violet SoufflG (Soufflfi aux Violettes) 1 table-sp. cream. \ oz. crystallised violets. 1| oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. & oz.potato flour. 3 eggs. Put the milk, butter, and potato flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, cream, yolks of eggs, and violets crushed to small pieces, and mix all well together. Two or three drops of essence of violets may also be added if a stronger flavour is wished. Whip the whites stiffly and stir them in lightly at the last. Bake the mixture in small greased souffle cases, and bake in a moderate oven. Just before removing the souffles from the oven sprinkle themPUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 431 with fine sugar, put a whole violet on the top of each and brown very slightly. Serve at once. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1929. Sweet Omelet (Omelette Soufltee) 3 eggs. I Grated rind of | lemon. 1| oz. sugar. I A little jam. Put the yolks into a basin with the sugar and grated lemon rind or other flavouring, and mix well with a wooden spoon until of a pale creamy con- sistency. Whip the whites, with a pinch of salt added to them, to a very stiff froth, and fold them very lightly into the yolks. Do not stir more than is necessary. Pour the mixture into a well-greased omelet pan, and put in k brisk oven from 7 to 10 minutes, until of a pale brown colour. When firm to the touch, turn the omelet out of the pan on to sugared paper, put a table-spoonful of warm jam in the centre, and fold over. Lift the omelet on to a hot dish with a dish paper, and serve at once. Notes.—A little stewed fruit may be used instead of jam, or the omelet may be served plain. If there is any danger of the omelet sticking to the pan, the bottom of the pan may be lined first with a round of greased paper. Time to bake, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 1930. Another Way Prepare a mixture in the same way as above. Turn part of it on to a flat greased dish, and with a knife shape it into a round with a depression in the middle. Put the rest of the mixture into a forcing bag with a large pipe at the end, and press it out in lines or rounds over the mound. Sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well risen. Serve at once on the dish on which it is baked. Note.—A little jam may be put in the centre before using the bag and pipe. 1931. Omelette Souffle with Apricots (Omelette Souffl6e FourrSe aux Abricots) 4 eggs. 2 table-sps. fine sugar. 2 table-sps. cream. A pinch of salt. A little butter. Pieces of apricot. Icing sugar. 1 or 2 table-sps. kirsch. Cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar in a basin. Add the cream and then the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put this mixture into an omelet pan with a little butter, and stir it over the fire until it begins to set. While still rather soft, place some slices of cooked or tinned apricots over one half of it; fold over and dredge the upper surface well with icing sugar. Brown under the gas grill or in a hot oven to make the icing sugar look like caramel. If the browning is done in the oven, place the omelet pan on a cold tin or brick to prevent the omelet burning under- neath. When ready, slip the omelet on to a very hot dish, sprinkle it with a little kirsch and serve very hot. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 per- sons. Probable cost. Is. 1932. Chocolate Omelet (Omelette au Choeolat) 1J to 2 oz. chocolate. 3 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. cream. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. Cut the chocolate in small pieces, and dissolve it in a stewpan with the milk. It must be per- fectly smooth and free from lumps. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and allow the chocolate to cool a little. Put it into a basin with the yolks of eggs, cream, sugar, and vanilla, and mix thoroughly for a few minutes. Lastly stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Have the butter melted in an omelet or frying pan, and pour the chocolate mixture into it. Stir with a spoon for a minute or two, then allow the omelet to set over a moderate fire until brown on the under side. When ready, roll it up and sprinkle with sugar. Serve at once on a hot dish, with or without choco- late sauce poured round it. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1933. Rum Omelet (Omelette au Rhum) Make in the same way as Omelet Souffle, omitting the jam and flavouring the yolks of eggs with a Bum Omelet little rum. When ready to send to table, pour over the omelet a few spoonfuls of heated rum and light it. The rum used must be very good or it will not burn.432 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS Under this heading will be found directions for making various cold puddings and sweets, some of them simplo and inexpensive, suitable for everyday use, and others more elaborate and decorative for littlo supper or dinner parties. Cold desserts are particularly useful as they can be made some hours, or even a day, before they are wanted, and give no trouble at the time of serving dinner. In hot weather too, or at the end of a substantial repast, they are generally more acceptable than the hot pudding. It has become the custom with many housewives to draw on the supplies of the caterer for the cold sweets and jellies required for even the homeliest of parties. This seems a pity in view of the fact that they can be so easily prepared at home, and that home-made dishes taste better, and can be made to look as dainty as, if not daintier than those which are bought ready for the table. It is to be hoped that the following collection of recipes will tempt readers to rely a little more upon their own initiative in this respect. GENERAL REMARKS When making a jelly, cream, or any other cold mixture that has to be turned out of a mould, try to get it of a consistency that will just stand and no more. A stiS mixture, although more easily unmoulded, is never pleasant to eat. When gelatine is used for stiffening purposes, it ought to be of the best quality and have no un- pleasant taste of glue. French sheet gelatine is perhaps the easiest kind to use, as it requires no previous soaking. It should be very transparent and break easily like a piece of thin glass. Gelatine is most easily dissolved in water or other clear liquid, if milk is used it must not be allowed to boil, or it will curdle. The usual proportion to allow is -J to 1 oz. gelatine to 1 pint of liquid, but the quantity will vary somewhat according to the kind of gelatine used and certain other considerations. In warm weather, for instance, rather more gela- tine should be used than in cold. The jelly for a large mould should always be made stiffer than for a small one, and especially if it is to be set with fruit. A cream or custard mixture requires a smaller proportion than a jelly, as it is already slightly stiff. A little experience and one or two trials of the gelatine will very soon teach the proper quantity to use. The great secret in making jelly that looks bright is to take pains with the clearing of it. The sauce- pan used ought to have a clear or enamelled lining, and all utensils used must be perfectly free from grease. A cloth is generally sufficient for clearing purposes, and is to be preferred to the old-fashioned flannel bag. The temperature at which jelly is moulded ought to be such that while still perfectly liquid it is not sensibly warm. If poured into the mould hot, it is apt to become cloudy, and there is likely to be difficulty in turning it out. A cream or custard mixture should be stirred occasionally until it is beginning to set, and then moulded. If poured into the mould too liquid, the gelatine will be inclined to fall to the bottom, and form a clear top on the mould. When putting a jelly or cream aside to cool, see that the mould stands perfectly even, in order that the jelly may stand straight and firm when unmoulded. As a rule, a jelly is ornamental in itself, provided it is bright and is served in an equally bright crystal or silver dish ; but 'with different flavours, colours, and combinations, a great variety of more fanciful-looking sweets may be obtained. Orna- mentation, however, requires care and taste ; un- less the decoration is nicely done, the dish will have a slovenly appearance, corresponding very much to tawdry finery in dress. Jellies are improved by having custard, cream, or a puree of fruit served •with them. This should be served separately. To Prepare the Moulds The best moulds for jellies are those which are made of copper and tinned inside. It will be better if they can be kept for jellies only and not used for greasy puddings. Earthenware moulds are also good and are easily kept in order, but they are not so easy to turn out and the shapes are not so pretty. The moulds should have been well washed with very hot water to make them perfectly free from grease and then rinsed in cold water, or left filled with cold water up to the time of using. For most jellies and cold puddings the moulds are left wet. Some cooks oil the mould before putting in a cream or blanc-mange—this gives it a more glossy appearance. Almond oil or very pure salad oil is the best to use; it must be perfectly free from taste. Paint it on the mould with a brush, then turn the mould upside down, and allow any super- fluous oil to drain out before using. To Decorate a Mould with Jelly This is often done before pouring in a creamy or non-transparent mixture—it makes a pretty finish, and the mould will turn out more easily than if it had a creamy top. Prepare the mould and pour into it a little clear liquid jelly. Allow this to set and then place on the top any suitable deco-COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 433 ration in keeping with the cream or mixture that is afterwards to be poured in. The following are all suitable—small pieces of cherry, angelica, or other preserved fruits, chopped or shred almonds or pistachio nuts, cocoanut, a little gold or silver leaf, small pieces of fresh fruit, &c. Or, the jelly itself may be coloured in order to contrast prettily with the other mixture—as, for instance, a pink top on the top of a white cream or blanc-mange, or a pale green top on a yellow cream. When the decoration is arranged, pour in very carefully a little more liquid jelly, just sufficient to keep it in position and then set again. One or two spoon- fuls may again be added if wished, but it is better not to make the top too heavy. To Line a Mould with Jelly This is a little more difficult than simply de- corating the top, but it is often required for more elaborate sweets. There are two different ways of lining a mould with jelly. (1) Take a clean mould and place it on broken ice. Pour into it sufficient liquid jelly to cover the bottom, about | of an inch. Allow this to set and decorate it if wished. Then coat the sides by turn- ing the mould slowly round on the ice and coating just a small piece at a time with the liquid jelly. Try to make the coating as even as possible. Some more decoration may be arranged up the sides as well. (2) Take either a double mould (one with an inner lining), or two moulds of the same shape, one smaller than the other. A tumbler will sometimes serve to fit into a plain round mould. Take the larger mould first and line the bottom of it with some jelly, decorating it if wished. When this is set, place the smaller mould evenly in the centre of the larger one and fill it with broken ice or cold water. Fill up the space between with more liquid jelly and let it set. Then remove the inner mould by tipping out the ice or water and warming the inside of it with a cloth wrung out of hot water. Ease it away from the jelly and withdraw it slowly. The larger lined mould is then ready for filling up with any mixture required. To Unmould a Jelly or Cream Take a basin of hot water, hotter than the hand can comfortably bear, and dip the mould quickly into it, allowing the water to cover it for a second (if a china mould is used, a little longer immersion in the water will be necessary). Then wipe the moisture off the mould with a cloth, and loosen the contents away from the sides with the tips of the fingers. Shake the jelly until it seems quite loose in the mould, place the dish on which it is to be served on the top, and reverse both together. Give another slight shake, and draw the mould slowly off. To Chop Jelly The jelly used should be very clear and rather stiff. Turn it on to a sheet of wetted paper, and then with a sharp, clean knife, chop it quickly and as lightly as possible. The amount of chopping is a matter of taste; if done roughly the jelly will have a golden appearance, and when made very fine will look more silvery. This chopped jelly may either be put in a border round any cold sweet, or it may be put into a forcing bag and pipe and used as a garnish in various ways. PART I INEXPENSIVE COLD SWEETS 1934. 1 doz. apples. A lb. sugar. | pt. water. Rind of 1 lemon. Apple Hedgehog 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. 2 doz. sweet almonds. Choose apples of medium size. Peel them and core six of them, leaving them whole. Put | lb. of loaf or granulated sugar into a saucepan with the water and grated rind of one lemon. Bring this to the boil and put in the whole apples. Allow them to cook slowly until they are tender, but not broken. Then lift them out, draining them from the syrup. Now slice down the other six apples and cook them in the same syrup until reduced to a thick pulp. Arrange the" whole apples in a pyramid on a dish, putting the apple pulp between them and making a smooth mound. Then whip up the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and mix the castor sugar very lightly into them. Spread this meringue over the surface of the apples, cover- ing them entirely, and sprinkle with more castor or icing sugar. Blanch and split the almonds and stick them here and there over the top. Then place in a moderate oven until lightly browned. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1935. Apple Whip | pt. apple pulp. I 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 2 whites of eggs. Have some nice juicy apples stewed to a thick pulp, sweetened and flavoured with lemon. Beat it up until perfectly smooth or rub it through a sieve. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff Apple Whips froth, add them to the apple puree and whisk both together until light and frothy. Stir in 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of whipped cream at the last and serve in a glass dish or in custard glasses. A few biscuits should be served separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1936. Banana 3 or 4 ripe bananas. 2 table-sps. raspberry or strawberry jam. 1J oz. small sago. First put the milk and and heat them over the d Sago Pudding 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 1 tea-cupful custard, butter into a saucepan fire. Then sprinkle in 2 ECOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 434 the sago and allow it to simmer until quite clear and thoroughly cooked. Add sugar to taste and a few drops of vanilla and allow this to cool. Peel and slice the bananas, and put half of them in a glass dish with half the jam on the top. Pour on half the sago, then the remainder of the sliced banana and jam with the rest of the sago on the top. Pour the custard over all and set in a cool place until wanted. The dish may be decorated with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, or with a sprinkling of cocoanut and pink sugar. Note.—Any other milk pudding mixture may be used instead of the sago and the Savouring may be altered according to taste. Cream may be used instead of custard. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10d. 1 pt. milk. f oz. gelatine. 2 bay-leaves. 1937. Blanc-mange 2 or 3 oz. sugar. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. Put the milk into a lined saucepan with the bay- leaves and let it infuse by the side of the fire until flavoured. Then lift out the bay-leaves and add the gelatine cut in pieces. Care must be taken to use a very fine gelatine, otherwise it will taste, or isinglass may be used instead of gelatine. Stir until melted,but be careful the milk does not boil. Sweeten to taste, add the flavouring essence, and strain into a basin. Then stir the mixture occasionally until it is beginning to set, when it may be poured into an oiled or wetted mould. When cold and set, turn out and serve with cream, custard, or stewed fruit. Notes.—The blanc-mange may be made richer by using partly cream and partly milk; and the mould may be decorated first with a little red jelly. The flavouring, too, may be altered according to taste, as for instance, vanilla pod or pounded sweet almonds used instead of the bay-leaf. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. or Gd. 1938. Bramble or Blackberry Mould I lb. blackberries. I 3 or 4 oz. sugar. 1| pts. water. | Cornflour or sago. 3 or 4 drops carmine. | Lemon juice. Pick the blackberries carefully, discarding any that are not quite sound, and wash them if necessary. Put them into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar,and letthem simmerover the fire until reduced to a pulp. Then strain through a fine sieve, pressing out all the juice from the fruit, but being careful to leave the seeds behind. Measure the juice and allow II oz. of cornflour to the pint. Return the juice to a clean saucepan, add the cornflour previously mixed to a smooth paste with a little water or fruit juice, and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer a few minutes until the cornflour is well cooked, add a squeeze of lemon juice, more sugar if necessary, and a little carmine if the colour requires it. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1939. Gateau of Chestnuts (Gateau de Chataignes) 1 lb. chestnuts. 4 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. Flavouring. Browned bread-crumbs. Cream or custard sauce. Remove the two skins from the chestnuts, put them into a saucepan with the milk and stew until tender. Then sieve them or put them through a vegetable presser. The pur6e thus obtained should be of the consistency of thick cream; if too thick, it must be thinned down with more milk. Add to it the yolks of eggs and sugar and flavour to taste with vanilla, orange-flower water, or a little rum. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Half fill a mould, that has been greased and coated with browned bread-crumbs or cake-crumbs, with the mixture, place it in a deep tin with boiling water round it, and cook in the oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out when cold and serve with custard sauce, or slightly whipped cream poured over. Note.—The mould may be coated with caramel instead of bread-crumbs (see Recipe 1912), and this will then serve as a sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, l(kf. to Is. 1940. Pyramid of Chestnuts (Pyramide de Marrons) £ lb. peeled chestnuts. i Caramel. \ pt. milk. 6 oz. sugar. 2 oz. sugar. j Juice of | lemon. Flavouring. | Custard sauce. Remove the two skins from the chestnuts, put them into a saucepan with the milk and simmer by the side of the fire until they are soft and the milk absorbed. Add the sugar towards the end of the cooking. When ready, rub the chestnuts through a wire sieve and flavour the puree with vanilla or any other flavouring preferred. The puree should be of a nice thick consistency. Arrange it in a pyramid in the centre of a dessert dish, making the sides very smooth with the blade of a knife, and set aside until quite cold. Make a caramel with the sugar and lemon juice, rather brown in colour, and pour it slowly over the pyramid, commencing at the top, so that it hardens by degrees on reaching the base. Pour round some custard sauce, flavoured with vanilla. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1941. Chocolate and Orange Custard 1J pts. milk. | 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 table-sps. cornflour. 2 eggs. Vanilla essence. 2 oz. chocolate. I 2 or 3 oranges. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan and bring it to the boil, add the cornflour mixed smoothly with 1 gill of milk, and stir and cook well about 10 minutes. Grate or shred the chocolate, and dis- solve it in a small saucepan with the remainder of the milk. Add this to the cornflour and mix until smooth. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, sugar, and vanilla, and let the mixture cool. Remove the skin and all white pith from the oranges. Slice them thinly, re- moving the seeds, and lay them in a glass dish. Pour the chocolate mixture over. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add a little sugar and pile on the top of the custard. Place the dish on ice or in a very cool place, and serve as cold as possible. Note.—Other fruits may be used instead of the oranges. If tinned fruit is employed, some of the syrup should be mixed with the chocolate custard. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 435 1942. Chocolate Mould, 1 (Moule au Chocolat) 2 oz. chocolate. 3 gills of milk. 2 yolks of eggs. £ oz. gelatine. 1 or 2 oz. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Break the chocolate in small pieces and put it into a lined saucepan with 1 gill of milk. Dissolve slowly over the fire, and cook until smooth. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the remainder of the milk, the gelatine, sugar, and yolks of eggs. Stir again over the fire until almost boiling and until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin, add a few drops of vanilla, and cool slightly. Then pour into a wet mould and set aside until firm. Turn out when wanted, and serve plain or with whipped cream. Note.—This pudding may be made less rich by omitting the yolks of eggs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1943. Another Way, 2 Make in the same way as Cornflour Mould, mixing 2 oz. powdered chocolate with the cornflour and milk. If cake chocolate is used, it should be grated or shred down and dissolved in a small quantity of the milk, before the larger quantity is poured into the saucepan. Note.—Robinson’s patent barley may be used instead of cornflour. 1944. Coffee Mould (Moule au Cafe) & pt. milk. | pt. strong clear coffee. 2 oz. cornflour. 2 oz. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 1 oz. butter. Put the coffee and half the milk into a saucepan to heat. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the remainder of the milk and add it to the hot liquid in the saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and boil slowly until thoroughly cooked. Add the sugar, butter, and vanilla, and mix well. Pour all into a wet mould, and set aside until cold. Notes.—A little cream added to this is an im- provement. The coffee used should be very strong and clear. Coffee essence may be used instead of fresh coffee, the quantity of liquid being made up With milk or water. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or Sd. 1945. Cornflour Mould 2 oz. cornflour. [ 1 oz. butter. 1 pt. milk. 1 \ oz. sugar, j A little flavouring. Rinse out a small stewpan with cold water, put 3 gills of the milk into it, and make it warm over the fire. Put the cornflour into a basin, and add the remainder of the milk gradually to it, mixing well with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Add’ this to the milk in the saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil until the cornflour is thoroughly cooked, then add the sugar, butter, and any flavouring that is liked. Mix well, and pour while hot into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. Set aside until cold. When wanted, turn out on a glass or china dish, and serve jam, stewed fruit, or cream with it. Notes.—The butter may be omitted if a plainer mould is wanted. If vanilla pod or bay-leaf is used for flavouring, this should be infused for a short time in the milk, and lifted out before the cornflour is added. Arrowroot, flour, ol rice, or farola mould may be made in the same way, sub- stituting one of these for the cornflour. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1946. Cranberry Mould 1 lb. cranberries. I Cinnamon stick. 1 pt. water. 6 oz. sugar. I Cornflour. Pick and wash the cranberries and put them into a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and about 2 inches of cinnamon stick. Stew them until reduced to a pulp, and then strain through a hair sieve ov piece of muslin. Press the cran- berries gently to extract all the juice, but not enough to make it cloudy. Measure this juice, and allow 2 oz. of cornflour to each pint. Put it into a lined saucepan, mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little water, add it to the cranberry juice and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly about 10 minutes, then pour the mixture into a wet mould and put it in a cool place to set. Turn out when wanted, and serve with cream or custard sauce. Note.—Small sago or tapioca may be used instead of cornflour to stiffen the juice. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1947. Danish Fruit Jelly (“ Rode Greed ”) 1 qt. raspberry and red currant juice. 2 oz. potato flour or sago flour. Sugar to taste. Vanilla. 2 oz. blanched almonds. To Make the Fruit Juice.—Take about 1 lb. raspberries and 1 lb. red currants, pick them carefully and wash if necessary. Put them into a saucepan with 1 quart cold water and a little sugar, and boil until reduced to a pulp. Then strain through a piece of muslin. Measure the juice, and allow potato or sago flour in tbe above proportion. Put most of the juice into a saucepan, and heat it over the fire. Add the flour mixed smoothly with the remainder of the juice, and stir until boiling. Flavour with vanilla, add more sugar if necessary, and stir in the almonds either finely shred or chopped. Allow the mixture to cool, then pour it into a glass dish, sprinkle with sugar, and serve with cream. Notes.—If liked, a few whole raspberries may also be served in the jelly. Cranberries may be used instead of the raspberries and red currants, ov cranberries and apples mixed. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1948. Devonshire Junket 1 pt. new milk. 1 tea-sp. essence of rennet. 1 table-sp. brandy or rum. 1 table-sp. castor sugar, i tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Clotted cream. Mix together in a glass bowl or deep dish the brandy, cinnamon, and sugar. Pour on to these 1 pint of new milk, or fresh milk heated to the tem- perature of new milk, and add the rennet. Stir itCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 43G a small piece of butter at the last, which will give 1 or 2 eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. well, and let it remain until set. Then spread some clotted cream over the top, and sprinkle with castor sugar. When well made, junket should cut into smooth shiny slices like jelly. Unlike jelly, it will set better and more quickly in a room of ordinary temperature than in a cold larder. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1949. Dutch Flummery 3 gills water. 1 gill sherry or iaisin wine. 2 yolks of eggs. f- oz. gelatine. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 2 lemons. Wipe the lemons and peel off the rind very thinly. Put it into a lined saucepan with the sugar, water, and gelatine, and stand by the side of the fire until the sugar and gelatine are melted and the flavour extracted from the lemon. Then add the wine and the juice of the lemons, and make the mixture very hot. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin and strain the hot liquid on to them, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the yolks thicken as in a custard. The flummery must on no account boil. Strain again into the basin, and when cool pour into a wet mould and set aside until firm. When required, turn out and serve in a glass dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 1950. Genoa Cream 2 oz. ground rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. A little flavouring. 3 or 4 drops carmine. 2 table-sps. jam. Some pink cocoanut. Mix the ground rice smoothly with a little of the milk, and put the remainder of the milk and the butter into a saucepan. When hot, pom- them on t® the ground rice, stirring all the time, and then return all to the saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and then simmer slowly for 10 minutes or until the ground rice is thoroughly cooked. Re- move the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar, flavouring, and enough carmine to make it a pale pink colour. Now put the jam into a glass dish, and, when the rice mixture has cooled, pour it over it. Sprinkle the top with pink cocoa- nut, and serve cold. This is a pretty and simple dish for children. Note.—A little whipped cream piled on the top is an improvement. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1951. Ground Rice Mould 2 oz. ground rice. 1 pt. milk. Flavouring. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. A pinch of salt. A small piece of butter. Put the ground rice into a basin and mix it with a little of the milk. Heat the remainder of the milk in a saucepan and pour it on to the rice, stirring all the time. Return all to the sauce- pan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly for 10 minutes, or until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Sweeten and flavour to taste, and stir in the mixture a creamy taste. Turn the mixture into a wet mould to set, and when firm turn out and serve with jam, stewed fruit, or a custard or fruit sauce. Note.—The mould may be made richer by having a beaten egg stirred into the mixture before pouring it into the mould. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1952. Gooseberry Fool 2 lbs. gooseberries. | 1 gill custard, i lb. sugar. 1 gill water. | 1 gill cream. Top and tail the gooseberries, wash them and put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar. Cook them until they are quite soft, and then rub them through a fine sieve. Mix the custard and cream with the puree, and serve in a glass bowl or in custard glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top. Note.—The custard may be omitted and all cream used or vice versa. Milk is sometimes used, but it is rather poor. Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2cl. 1953. 1 pt. milk. oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 eggs. Honeycomb Mould Flavouring. 2 oz. sugar. 2 table-sps. water. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk (see Recipe 794), and sweeten and flavour it to taste. Add to it the gelatine dissolved in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and allow the mixture to cool. Beat up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a wet mould and put it in a cool place to set. Turn out when wanted. A little red currant or gooseberry jelly may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1954. Hydropathic Pudding White bread. Custard sauce. 1 lb. red currants. 1 cupful water. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. Strip all stalks from the currants and wash them if necessary. Put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar, and stew them until quite tender. Meanwhile line a lj-pint basin with white bread, cutting a round for the bottom and wedge-shaped pieces to fit round the sides. (The bread should be cut about \ inch thick.) Fill up the basin with the stewed fruit, cover with another round of bread and put a plate and a weight on the top. Allow the pudding to stand until next day. Then turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream. Notes.—The pudding should look quite red. If the bread shows white, it has been cut too thick, or there has not been sufficient juice to soak it. Raspberries or black currants may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1955. Lemon or Orange Mould 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. cornflour. Wipe the lemons or oranges, and peel the rind off them as thinly as possible. Put it into a 2 lemons or oranges. 1 pt. water.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 437 saucepan with the water, and let it simmer slowly at the side of the fire to extract the flavour. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little oold water, and then strain the water from the rind slowly on to it, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook about 10 minutes, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the sugar, butter, the strained juice of the fruit, and lastly the egg well beaten. Mix together and pour all into a wet mould. Put in a cool place to set, and when wanted turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1956. Pine-apple Mould 1 gill pine-apple syrup. 2 whites of eggs. Sugar to taste. 4 oz. cornflour. 1 qt. milk. 1 cupful pine-apple cut in dice. Put the cornflour into a basin and break it smoothly with a little of the milk. Heat the rest of the milk in a saucepan, and pour it over the corn- flour, stirring all the time. Then return all to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly from 8 to 10 minutes to cook the cornflour thoroughly. Meanwhile cut some tinned pine-apple in small dice, and whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. When the cornflour is sufficiently cooked, remove the saucepan from the fire and mix in the pine-apple, the syrup, and then add sugar if necessary. Lastly, stir in the beaten whites very lightly. Pour the mixture into wet moulds, and put them in a cool place to set. When required, turn out and serve with custard or pine- apple sauce. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOef. 1957. Raspberry and Red Currant Mould | lb. raspberries. I 4 to 6 oz. sugar. | lb. red currants. Cornflour. 1 pt. water. Prepare the fruit carefully, put it into a sauce- pan with the sugar and water, and stew slowly until soft, pressing the fruit occasionally with the back of a wooden spoon in order to extract all the juice. Then strain through a hair sieve. When all the juice has run through, measure it and allow 2 oz. cornflour to the pint. Put the juice into a saucepan, mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little water, mix all together and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly about 10 minutes, then pour into a wet mould, and keep in a cool place until set. Turn out when wanted, and serve plain or with custard sauce. Note.—Fine sago or tapioca may be used instead of cornflour to stiffen the juice. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1958. Rhubarb Fool Make in the same way as Gooseberry Fool (Re- cipe 1952), using rhubarb in place of gooseberries. 1959. Rhubarb and Sago Mould 1 lb. rhubarb. 3 oz. sugar. 1 pt. water. Flavouring. 2 oz. fine sago. A few drops of carmine. Wipe the rhubarb with a damp cloth and, if coarse, peel it. Cut it into short lengths, and put it into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and sago well washed. Simmer slowly until the rhubarb is cooked, and the sago is quite clear. Add a little grated lemon rind, a few drops of ratafia or other flavouring to taste, pour the mixture into a wet mould and set aside until cold and firm. When wanted, turn out, and serve with cream, or custard sauce. Note.—Fine tapioca may be used instead of sago. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3d. 1960. Rice Mould Make the same rice mixture as directed for Rice Surprises (see below), and put it into one large mould, omitting the jam. When cold and set, turn out and serve with custard or jam. 1961. Rice Surprises 3 oz. rice.- | 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-cupful water. Flavouring. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar, i Some jam. Wash the rice in several waters and put it into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of fresh cold water. Let it boil quickly until the water is absorbed, then add the milk and butter. Simmer slowly until the rice is thoroughly cooked and the mixture rather thick. Stir occasionally, as it will be in- clined to stick to the foot of the saucepan. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar and flavouring. Rinse out some small cups or dariole moulds with cold water, three- quarters fill them with the rice, and make a little hollow in the centre. Put a tea-spoonful of any nice jam into eaoh, cover and fill up with more rice, and set aside to cool. When firm, turn out on a glass dish, and serve with custard sauce poured round. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1962. Sago Snow 3 table-sps. small sago. I 2 eggs. 1 gill water. | \ pt. milk. 1 pt. milk. 1 Sugar and flavouring. Wash the sago, put it into a saucepan with the water and bring it to the boil. Simmer a few minutes, and add the pint of milk. Continue to cook slowly until the sago is quite soft and clear, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add sugar and flavouring to taste. Allow this mixture to cool, and pour it into a crystal or china dish. Now beat up the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, and poach this in spoonfuls in \ pint hot milkCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 438 as directed for Snow Eggs (Recipe 2023). Then make a custard with the yolks and the milk, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Pour the custard over the sago, and pile the snow eggs on the top. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1963. Semolina a l’Americaine 1 table-sp. semolina. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. . Flavouring. 2 table-sps. red currant or cranberry jelly. Put the semolina,milk, and butter into a saucepan and bring them slowly to the boil, stirring occasion- ally. Cook 5 or 10 minutes and then remove the saucepan from the fire. Add the sugar, chopped almonds, yolks of eggs, and flavouring, and mix well together. Pom the mixture into a glass or china dish and let it cool. Beat up the whites of eggs and jelly to a stiff froth, and pile it on the top of the pudding. Serve cold, with claret or any other suitable sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1964. Snow Pudding 1 pt. milk. 1 glass sherry. -t oz. gelatine. A few drops vanilla. 3 oz. sugar. 2 whites of eggs. Put the milk, sugar, and gelatine into a lined saucepan and let them stand by the side of the fire until dissolved. Then strain into a basin and cool. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the milk, &c., with the sherry and vanilla. Now whip all together until stiff, put into a glass bowl and when about to serve decorate with a little whipped cream, or serve custard sauce separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1965. Tapioca and Almond Mould 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 drops ratafia essence. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. small tapioca. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. A pinch of salt. Put the milk into a saucepan to boil, add a pinch of salt and sprinkle in the tapioca like rain. Simmer slowly until the tapioca turns quite clear. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar, yolks of eggs, almonds, and flavouring. Lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Rinse a mould with cold water, sprinkle it with sugar, and pour in the mixture. Set in a cool place until firm. Then turn out and serve with fruit or custard sauce. Note.—Other chopped nuts may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1966. Tapioca Custard Cream 2 table-sps. tapioca. 1 gill water. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 3 or 4 drops ratafia essence. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 table-sps. macaroon crumbs. Wash the tapioca and soak it in the water for h hour. Then put it into a saucepan with the milk and butter, and cook it gently until soft. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the sugar, the eggs well beaten, and the ratafia essence. Allow the mixture to cool. Put the jam into a glass dish, pour the tapioca on the top and sprinkle with the macaroon crumbs. Serve cold. Note.—1 or 2 table-spoonfuls whipped cream may be added to the mixture if wished. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1967. Tapioca and Orange Cream 3 oz. tapioca. l 2 oz. sugar. 1 pt. water. 3 oranges. | 1 gill double cream. Soak the tapioca in the water for 2 or 3 hours, then put it into a saucepan with the grated rind of 2 oranges and allow it to simmer slowly until it turns quite clear and is thoroughly cooked. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar and the strained juice of the 3 oranges. Allow the mixture to cool and pour it into a glass dish. Whip the cream, add sugar and flavouring to taste, and pile it on the top of the tapioca when it is quite cold. Decorate with small pieces of preserved fruits or sprinkle with pink sugar. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9c2. PART II JELLIES AND SPONGES 1968. Lemon Jelly (GeI6e au Citron) \ pt. lemon juice. 1| pts. cold water. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 1 inch of cinnamon stick. 4 cloves. 2 oz. leaf gelatine. The rind of 2 lemons. 2 whites and shells of eggs. To Prepare the Ingredients.—Take a clean lined saucepan, and put into it the water, gelatine, sugar, cinnamon stick, and cloves. Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind very thinly off two of them. Do not peel off any of the white part, as this would give the jelly a bitter taste. Then roll the lemons on the table to soften them, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice until there is half a pint. Strain this into the saucepan and add the lemon rind and the whites and shells of eggs. The latter should be washed and crushed. The pan should not be more than half full, as the jelly is very apt to boil over. To Clear and Strain the Jelly.—Take a wire whisk, and whisk the jelly over the fire until a good froth rises, and it is just beginning to boil. If it is whisked after it comes to the boil, the scum is driven down through it again. Watch the jelly carefully, and let it boil up as high as it will without boiling over. Then draw the pan gently to one side of the fire, where it will keep warm without simmering, and cover it with a lid or plate. Let it stand for 10 minutes, and then strain. Any kind of cloth will do for straining it through, so long as it is not too close in texture, and is kept for the purpose. Tie the cloth to a jelly stand or the four legs of a kitchen chair turned upside down, and let it sink in the middle so as toCOLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 439 form a bag (see p. 63). Have ready two basins and some boiling water. Pour the water through the cloth into one of the basins so as to heat it thoroughly, and then put the dry basin underneath and pour away the water. Remove the lid from the sauce- pan, lift it carefully over without shaking it, and pour the contents into the cloth. The jelly will not be clear the first time, as it is shaken up in pouring through ; so change the basin, and pour what has rim through back again into the cloth. Repeat this several times until the jelly runs through perfectly clear. Cover the stand with a piece of flannel or blanket, and let it remain until all the jelly has run through. Then mould or use as required. Notes.—The whites and shells of eggs are added to clear the jelly. The jelly should be strained in a warm place and out of a draught. Should it stiffen in the cloth before all has run through, place a small basin or cup in the centre and fill it with boiling water. If this fails to melt the jelly, it must be returned to the pan, whisked up again, and strained as before. Probable cost, Is. 1969. Calf’s Foot Jelly This jelly will take two days to make ; the stock must be made the first day, and the jelly finished the second. To Make the Stock 1 ox foot or 2 calf’s feet. 4 or 5 pts. cold water. Cut the foot or feet into four pieces, splitting the hoof piece in two. Wash and scrape them well in a basin of warm water, cutting away any discoloured parts. Remove all marrow from the bones with a skewer, and out away the fat from between the claws. Put the pieces into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, and bring them quickly to the boil. Pour the water away, rinse the pieces in clean cold water, and rinse out the saucepan. This is to blanch the pieces, and to make the stock a better colour. Return them to the saucepan, and cover again with cold water—from 4 to 5 pints. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours, until the stock is reduced to about half the quantity. Then strain through a hair sieve, or a cloth stretched over a colander, into a basin, and allow the stock to stand until it is quite cold, when it should be a stiff jelly. The pieoes of foot may be put on again with cold water to cover them, and a second stock made if required. To Make and 1| pts. stock. 1 gill lemon juice. 1 gill sherry. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 3 cloves. Clear the Jelly 1 inch cinnamon stick. Rind of 2 lemons. 2 whites and shells of eggs. First remove every particle of fat from the top of the stock, measure it into a saucepan, and add the other ingredients in the above proportions. Then follow the directions given for Lemon Jelly (see above), the jelly stock taking the place of the gelatine and water. Notes.—In hot weather, if the stock has not stiffened sufficiently, it may be necessary to add a sheet or two of gelatine. On the other hand, if it is too stiff, it must be diluted with a little water. The stock itself must always be stiffer than what a finished jelly should be, so as to allow for the thinning down with the wine and lemon juice. The amount of wine used can always be altered. If less is used, more lemon juice or some orange juice should be added to make up the amount. The amount of sugar can also be altered to suit individual tastes. Sometimes an invalid will ask for jelly without any, and this will make no differ- ence in the actual making of it. Probable cost. Is. dd. 1970. Apple Mould or Jelly (Moule aux Pommes) 2 lbs. apples. 3 oz. sugar. $ pt. water. Rind of 1 lemon. f oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Wash the apples and cut them in pieces without peeling and coring. Put them into a fined stewpan with the £ pint of water, the thinly peeled rind of a lemon, and the sugar. Stew until reduced to a pulp, and then rub through a hair sieve. This pur6e should measure 3 gills, and if less, the quan- tity should be made up with warm water. Melt the gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the apple pulp while still warm. Add 2 or 3 drops of carmine, or just enough to give the puree a pinkish tinge. Mix well, pour into a wet mould and set aside until cold and firm. Turn out when wanted, and serve with custard or cream. Notes.—Another way of moulding this mixture is to colour half of it pink, leaving the other half its natural colour, and to set them in layers in the mould. One layer should set before pouring in another. Or, the mixture may be set in a border mould, and when turned out the centre filled with whipped cream. Or, again, the mixture may be set in little dariole moulds, and when turned out, a little whipped and sweetened cream forced out of a forcing bag on the top of each in the form of a rose, and then lightly sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts or a few crystallised rose petals. Suitable for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 1971. Banana Sponge 4 or 5 bananas. I 1 gill cream. \ pt. lemon jelly. I Apricot yellow. Choose nice ripe bananas, peel them, cut them-in small pieces and rub -them through a sieve. Take \ pint lemon or other clear jelly, which is just be- ginning to set, mix it with the banana pulp. Whip them together with a wire whisk until white and frothy. .Then mix in the cream, which has been whipped and sweetened. Whisk again until quite light, colour with a little apricot yellow, and pile up on a glass dish. Note.—If preferred, the whipped cream may be kept separate and squeezed out of a forcing bag to decorate the sponge. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 2d. 1972. Cherry Mould or Jelly (Moule aux Cerises) 1 lb. cherries. 3 gills of water. | oz. leaf gelatine. The juice of £ lemon. J lb. sugar. A few drops of carmine. 1 gill of double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Wash and pick the cherries, then cut them in two and remove the stones. Put them into aCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 440 lined saucepan with the sugar, lemon juice, and water, and stew them gently until quite tender. Then strain the juice from the cherries and measure it; if not 3 gills, make up the quantity with water. Return this juice to the saucepan, and add to it the gelatine cut in small pieces, and a little carmine. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Put the cherries into a border mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and strain the liquid over them. Set aside until firm, then turn out and pile whipped and flavoured cream in the centre. Note.—The stones of the cherries may be broken and the kernels blanched and added to the mixture. The gateau may be further decorated by putting some fresh cherries and leaves of angelica round the cream. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1973. Coffee Jelly (Getee au Cate) J pt. strong coffee. | oz. gelatine. 1 oz. sugar. 3 or 4 drops of vanilla. For the Centre. 1 gill double cream. Sugar and flavouring. A few pieces preserved cherry and angelica. The coffee should be strong and clear. Put it into a lined saucepan with the sugar and gelatine, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Then strain into a basin, add the vanilla, and cool slightly. Rinse out a border mould with cold water, and fill it with Coffee Jelly the coffee jelly. Set aside until firm, and turn out when wanted. For the centre, whip the cream with a fork until thick, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Pile this in the centre of the coffee jelly, and decorate with a few pieces of preserved fruits. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. 1974. Fig Mould or Jelly | lb. figs. I 1 pt. packet lemon or J pt. water. I wine jelly. Wash the figs, allow them to soak a short time in the water, and then stew them until tender. Then drain off the syrup and cut the figs in pieces, removing the stalks and any discoloured parts. Make the jelly as directed on the packet, using rather less water to allow for the syrup from the figs. When cool, add to it the figs with their syrup, and pour all into a wet mould. Turn out when set, and serve with cream or custard. Or, the fig jelly may be set in a border mould and whipped and sweetened cream piled in the centre. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1975. Fruit Set in Jelly (Macedoine de Fruit) Clear lemon or wine jelly is generally used for this, and almost any fresh fruit that is in season. Small fruits, such as red and white eurrants, small strawberries, raspberries, stoned cherries, and green and purple grapes, may be used whole. In fact currants look prettiest if left in small bunches with a little of the stalkt Larger straw- berries may be cut in halves or quarters, bananas in slices, and oranges divided in sections free from pith. Small pieces of tinned fruits, such as apricot, peach, pear, or pine-apple may also be used, but they must first be well drained from the syrup. No hard fruit should be used. The jelly, while being used, should be just liquid, but not too warm. If it begins to set during the process, stand the basin containing it over a saucepan of hot water for two or three minutes. Select a pretty mould, rinse it out with cold water, and fix it steadily in a bed of chopped ice. It is a very tedious business to set fruit in jelly without ice, unless the weather is cold and the dif- ferent layers set quickly. Pour some liquid jelly into the mould, enough to well cover the bottom, and let it set. Then arrange some prepared fruit in a pretty design on the top, and pour in more jelly to keep it in position. When this is set, put in more fruit and more jelly, continuing in this manner until the mould is quite full. Do not overcrowd the mould with fruit, and a better effect can often be obtained by arranging one layer of fruit in the centre of the mould, and another round the sides alternately. A little chopped pistachio nut or cocoanut can often be effectively mixed with the fruits, but avoid over-decoration. The jelly may be set either in one large mould or in small moulds. If a large mould is used, the jelly must be slightly stiffer than for ordinary fruit, or the weight of the fruit will break it down. In summer, small moulds set with small bunches of red and white currants make a very pretty sweet. Fruit and jelly set in a border mould is also very pretty, as the centre can then be filled up with whipped cream and decorated with small pieces of the fruits. When a macedoine jelly is turned out it should be decorated round with chopped jelly and small pieces of the fruits. 1976. Golden Spark Jelly 1 pt. clear jelly. 2 sheets gold leaf. Any clear jelly will do for this, but it ought to be of good flavour. When it is almost setting, shake into it the gold leaf and break it up gently with a fork until it is in small pieces. Care must be taken not to cloud the jelly with over-mixing. When the particles of gold leaf no longer sink in the jelly, pour all into a wet mould and put aside to set. Turn out when wanted, and decorate round the base with chopped jelly. Note.—Silver leaf may be used in the same way, or a mixture of the two, with a little finely chopped pistachio nut added, makes a pretty sweet. Both gold and silver leaf can be bought in small books, the former costs about Is. 5d. and the latter Id.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 441 1977. Lemon Sponge Rind and juice of 2 lemons. 2 oz. sugar. 2 whites of eggs. 1 oz. gelatine. | pt. water. 1 table-sp. sherry. Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind off them as thinly as possible. Put the rind into a saucepan with the gelatine, sugar, and water, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Then strain into a basin and cool slightly. Strain in the Note.—This makes a pretty sweet for children’s parties. Sufficient for 6 or 8 jellies. Probable cost, 2d. each. 1979. Orange Baskets Prepare some cups with the orange peel as shown in the illustration. Fill them with liquid orange or lemon jelly, and let them set. Then put some whipped and sweetened cream into a forcing bag or paper cornet, and force some out prettily on the top of each. Decorate with small pieces of cherry. Lemon Sponge lemon juice, add the whites of eggs and sherry, and whisk all together until white and frothy. Put the mixture into a wet mould, and stand in a cool place until firm. Turn out on a glass dish when wanted. Notes.—Half the mixture may be coloured pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and then put into the mould in alternate spoonfuls. In- stead of moulding the sponge, it may be piled up on a glass dish in a rocky manner, and decorated with small pieces of angelica. The sherry may be omitted. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1978. Macaroon Jellies 6 to 8 small macaroons. | pt. clear jelly. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 2 table-sps. sherry. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill double cream. 1 sheet gelatine. 1 table-sp. water. Flavouring. A few glace cherries. Rinse out 6 or 8 patty tins with cold water, pour into each a little liquid jelly that has been coloured pink with a few drops of carmine, and allow this layer of jelly to set. Sprinkle the macaroons with a little sherry, place one in each tin, fill with more pink jelly, and put them in a cool place to set. Whip the cream, add the sugar and a little flavouring, and strain in the gelatine, which has been dissolved in a little water. Mix well and use when almost setting. Turn out the little jellies, and arrange on a lace-edged paper, or on a bed of chopped lemon jelly. Put the cream into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force some out on the top of each jelly, piling it rather high. Decorate with a few small pieces of cherry. Orange Baskets some silver dragees, or hundreds and thousands, and serve them on a bed of chopped jelly. Notes.—If liked, a handle of angelica that has been well soaked may be put across each basket. This makes a pretty dish for children’s parties. They may be decorated with natural flowers. 1980. Orange Jelly, \ pt. orange juice (4 or 5 oranges). The rind of 2 oranges. J- lb. loaf sugar. 1 (Gel6e d’Orange) 1 oz. sheet gelatine. | pt. water. The rind and juice of 1 lemon. Wipe the oranges and lemon with a damp cloth, and then peel off very thinly as much rind as required. Put the rind into a small lined sauce- pan with the gelatine cut in pieces, the loaf sugar and water. Stir these over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved, and then simmer for 10 minutes. Skim and strain into a basin. Roll the oranges and lemon on the table to soften them slightly, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice. Strain and measure this, and add it to the other ingredients in the basin. Stir occasionally, and when cool, pour into a wet mould or moulds, and set aside until firm. Turn out when required, and serve with cream. Note.—The jelly may be set in a border mould, and, when turned out, the centre may be filled with whipped and sweetened cream. Decorate the cream with chopped pistachio nuts or small pieces of cherry. Probable cost, 7d. 1981. Orange Jelly, | pt. orange juice. 1 gill lemon juice. 5 gills cold water. 6 oz. loaf sugar. I inch cinnamon stick. 4 cloves. 2 (Gelfie d’Orange) 2 oz. sheet gelatine. The rind of 2 oranges. The rind of 1 lemon. 2 whites and shells of eggs- Prepare the ingredients and make the jelly ac- cording to directions given for Lemon Jelly (Recipe442 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1968). Pour it into a wet mould, and allow it to set. Notes.—This jelly can be ornamented inside with sections of orange. Put a layer of jelly into the mould first. When it is set, arrange upon it a crown of sections of orange, cover them with jelly, set again, and continue thus until the mould is full. Mandarin orange sections are the best to use when obtainable. Probable cost, 10d. to Ls. 1982. Orange Quarters Cut two or three oranges in half crossways, and carefully remove all the inside without destroying the peel. If a small hole should be made at the stalk end of the orange, fill it up with a little butter. Make some clear orange jelly according to direc- tions given above, and colour half of it pink with a few drops of carmine. Place the orange cups in a tin with a bed of salt or broken ice, arranging them so that they stand straight and steadily. Fill them with the jelly, making an equal number of each colour, and let them stand until firm and set. To serve, cut the half oranges in two with a very sharp knife, and arrange the two colours alternately on a silver or glass dish. A few vine leaves or sprays of maiden hair, if obtainable, may be put on the dish first. Note.—This makes a pretty dish for children’s parties. 1983. Orange Sponge Make in the same way as Lemon Sponge (see Recipe 1977), using half orange and half lemon rind and juice. 1984. Port Wine or Claret Jelly (Gelee au Vin Rouge) \ pt. port or claret. | pt. water. The rind and juice of 1 lemon. \ lb. loaf sugar. 1 inoh cinnamon stick. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 3 cloves. 1 oz. sheet gelatine. 2 or 3 drops of car- mine. Put into a small lined stewpan the water, sugar, red currant jelly, cinnamon, and cloves. Cut the gelatine into small pieces, and add it with the lemon rind peeled off very thinly and the strained juice. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Simmer for a few minutes, and add the wine. Do not boil again. Strain through a piece of muslin, and if necessary add a few drops of cochineal or carmine. When nearly cold, pour into one large or several small moulds that have been rinsed out with cold water. Set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. Turn out when required, and, if wished, decorate with whipped and sweetened cream. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 1985. Prune Mould or Jelly, 1 (Moule aux Pruneaux) J lb. prunes. 2 oz. white sugar. Rind of b lemon. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 inoh cinnamon stick. b pt. water. 1 oz. sweet almonds. 1 glass claret. 1 gill whipped cream. Sugar and flavouring. Wash the prunes, and allow them to soak at least half an hour in the cold water. Then put both into a clean lined saucepan, and add the lemon rind thinly peeled, the cinnamon stick, and sugar. Stew until quite tender, then strain off the liquid and rub the prunes through a sieve. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels, and add them to the pulp. Put the liquid from the prunes into a saucepan, add to it the claret and gelatine, and dissolve carefully over the fire. Strain this into the pulp, and stir occasionally until nearly cold. Rinse out a border mould with cold water, and decorate it with some sweet almonds, blanched and shred, fill up with the prune mixture, and set aside in a cool place until firm. Then turn out and serve with whipped and flavoured cream in the centre. Decorate with some chopped pistachio nuts, or with a few glac6 cherries cut in small pieces. Note.—A pretty sweet can be made by decorating the mould with some clear jelly and pistachio nuts before pouring in the prune mixture. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, la. 4d. Another Way, 2 Make in the same way as above, but leave the prunes whole. The wine may be omitted and a few drops of pink colouring added. Another Way, 3 Make in the same way as Fig Jelly (Recipe 1974), using prunes instead of figs. Raspberry jelly may be used instead of the lemon, and a few drops of carmine added to give colour. 1986. Raspberry Jelly Cream 1 pt. packet raspberry r 2 oz. castor sugar. jelly. I 2 or 3 drops carmine. Hot water. j 1 glass red wine. 1 gill double cream. | Fresh raspberries. Dissolve a packet of raspberry jelly according to the directions given, using a little less water than what is stated, and making up the quantity with red wine. When the jelly is beginning to cool, pour it in a border mould and put it in a cool place to set. A short time before the jelly is required, turn it out on a crystal or silver dish. Whip the cream, add to it the sugar, colour it pale pink with carmine, and stir in at the last minute a few fresh rasp- berries carefully picked. Pile this in the centre of the jelly, and decorate with a few more rasp- berries, and, if liked, a little chopped pistachio nut. Note.—A strawberry-jelly cream may be made in the same way. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1987. Raspberry Sponge 1 lb. fresh raspberries. 3 oz. castor sugar. Rind and juice b lemon. \ oz. gelatine. 1 gill water. 3 whites of eggs. A few drops of car- mine. Pick the raspberries, crush them in a basin with the sugar, and rub them through a hair sieve. A wooden or silver spoon must be used for this, as metal would discolour the fruit. Put the gelatine (pink gelatine is best), water, and thinly-peeled lemon rind into a saucepan, and heat them slowly over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into the raspberry puree, add the lemon juice.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CEEAMS 443 carmine, and the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix very lightly, pour all into a wet mould, and allow it to set. Turn out when wanted. Notes.—Another method of serving the sponge is to pile it up, when almost set, on a glass dish and to decorate it with a few whole raspberries. A few red currants mixed with the raspberries will help to improve the flavour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. white of an egg, and finish in the same way as Lemon Sponge (Recipe 1977). 1993. Wjne Jelly (Gelee au Vin) Make in the same way as Lemon Jelly (Recipe 1968), using a gill or more of sherry or other wine in place of some of the water and lemon juice. 1988. Rhubarb Mould or Jelly (Moule a la Rhubarbe) 1 lb. rhubarb. 6 oz. sugar. 1 gill water. Gelatine. A few drops of carmine. Custard sauce. Wipe the rhubarb, but do not peel it. Put it into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar, and cook slowly until reduced to a pulp. Then rub through a hair sieve. Measure the liquid, and to each half-pint allow half an ounce of gelatine. Put both together into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin, add a few drops of carmine, and let it cool slightly. Then pour all into a wet mould, and set aside to cool. When firm, turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1989. Ribbon Jelly (Gel6e Rubanfie) 1 qt. clear jelly. 1 table-sp. maraschino. 1 table-sp. strawberry syrup. A few drops of car- mine. - 2 table-sps. cream. 1 table-sp. noyeau. Take 1 quart of plain jelly made rather stiffer than for ordinary use, and divide it into three equal parts. Flavour one part with maraschino, the second with strawberry syrup, deepening the colour with a few drops of carmine. To the third add the cream, and flavour with noyeau or any other flavour, and whip until it is frothy. Fill a mould with these three jellies in layers, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Note.—The flavouring may be altered to suit individual taste. 1999. Russian Jelly (GelSe a la Russe) Prepare some whipped jelly (see below), and divide it into two equal parts. Colour one part pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and leave the other part white. Then, before the jelly is too stiff, put the two kinds in spoonfuls into a wet mould, arranging them quite irregularly. Shake the jelly well down into the mould, and put it aside to set. Turn out when firm. Instead of moulding, the two different colours of jelly may be piled up on a glass dish. 1991. Strawberry Sponge Make in the same way as Raspberry Sponge (Recipe 1987), using strawberries instead of rasp- berries. 1992. Whipped Jelly Take any clear jelly or remains of jelly, and make it just liquid by standing it in a basin over a saucepan of hot water. Then whip it with a wire whisk until it is white and frothy like the PART III CUSTAEDS AND CEEAMS 1994. Apricot Cream (Creme d’Abricots) \ pt. apricot puree. | pt. double cream. | oz. sheet gelatine. 2 table-sps. water or syrup from the apricots. 2 oz. castor sugar. Squeeze of lemon juice. A few drops of car- mine. Decorations Sweet jelly. Pieces of apricot and pistachio nuts. Prepare the mould, and decorate it with the above decorations (see p. 432). Set this aside until the jelly stiffens. Make the puree by rubbing tinned apricots through a hair sieve. Use a little of the syrup from the tin, so that the puree is not too thick, and measure the half-pint after sieving. Put the puree into a basin, and stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water until the contents are slightly warm. Unless this is done the gelatine will not mix properly with it. Cut the gelatine into pieces with a pair of scissors, and put it into a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water or apricot syrup. Stir it over the fire until quite dis- solved, strain it into the apricot puree, and mix well. Add the sugar and a squeeze of lemon juice. The quantity of sugar may be regulated according to taste. Whip the cream in a separate basin until quite thick, and then mix it lightly with the other ingredients. Add enough carmine to make the cream of a peachy colour, not too pink, and stir occasionally until beginning to set. Then pour it into the prepared mould, and place in a cool place or on ice until set. When required, turn out on a glass or silver dish, and put a border of chopped jelly round. Notes.—This is an example of a fruit cream, and other fruit creams can be made in the same way. If fresh apricots are used, they must be stewed first in a little water. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 1995. Apricot Mousse \ oz. gelatine. 1 gill double cream. 2 whites of eggs. | pt. apricot puree. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. £ gill syrup from apricots Prepare the apricot puree by rubbing some tinned apricots through a fine sieve along with some of the syrup. Then dissolve the gelatine in about b gill of the syrup, strain it into the puree and mix well. Now whip the cream and beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix all together very lightly, flavour with essence of almonds, and make the mousse peach-coloured with two or three drops444 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD of carmine. Stir occasionally until setting, and then pour into a glass bowl. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1996. Apple Cream (Crgme de Pommes) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream, using a purie of cooked apples instead of the puree of apricots. 1997. Banana Cream (CrSme de Bananes) 5 or 6 bananas. I pt. custard. | oz. gelatine, i gill water, i gill double cream. 1 dessert-sp. brandy or liqueur. Yellow colouring. Sugar. Peel the bananas, cut them in pieces with a silver knife, and rub them through a sieve with a silver spoon. Add this pur6e to £ pint warm custard, and strain in the gelatine dissolved in | gill of water. Sweeten to taste, add the brandy, liqueur, or any other flavouring preferred, and colour with a little yellow colouring. Whip the cream, and stir it in lightly at the last. Pour the cream mixture into a mould that has been deco- rated with a little sweet jelly, thin slices of banana, and a few chopped pistachio nuts ; or the mould may be lined entirely with jelly decorated with sliced bananas, &c. (see p. 433). When cold and set, turn out and serve with chopped jelly round, or with some pretty fern leaves. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. 1998. Banana Whip or Trifle 4 bananas. 3 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. jam. 1 glass sherry. 1 pt. custard. 2 or 3 macaroons. A few sweet almonds. 1 gill cream. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and then cut them in slices. Peel the bananas, and cut them in four or six pieces. Arrange the sponge cakes and bananas in a glass dish, sprinkling them with the macaroons (crushed) and the sweet almonds blanched and shred. Pour the wine over, and let this soak a short time. Then pour over the custard. Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and use it to decorate the top of the trifle. Garnish with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, or other glac6 fruits. Serve very cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. Ad. 1999. Bramble or Blackberry Cream 1 lb. blackberries. 2 or 3 apples. Rind of 1 lemon. I lb. sugar. \ pt. cream, f oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 2 table-sps. water. Pick the blackberries carefully, and put them into a saucepan with the sugar, the thinly-peeled rind of 1 lemon, and 2 or 3 apples peeled and sliced. Stew slowly until the fruit is soft, stirring frequently, then rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Dis- solve the gelatine in about 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the fruit puree. When this pur4e is lukewarm, stir in the cream (whipped) very lightly, and colour pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. Pour into a wet mould. and put in a cool place to set. When required, turn out and serve plain, or with a little chopped jelly round. Note.—If a more decorative sweet is wanted, the mould used should first be decorated vith some clear jelly and a few pistachio nuts or pieces of cherry. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2000. Burnt Almond Cream (Creme aux Amandes) Make in the same way as Walnut Cream (Recipe 2032). The almonds should be blanched, chopped, and then lightly browned in the oven. 2001. Cold Cabinet Pudding 6 or 8 finger biscuits. 2 oz. ratafias. \ pt. custard. | oz. gelatine. Flavouring. Some sweet jelly. A few cherries and a little angelica. Take a plain pint mould, and decorate it at the bottom with sweet jelly and small pieces of cherry and angelica. Allow this to set, then trim the finger biscuits and line the sides of the mould with them, the same as for a Charlotte Russe (see below). Make a custard with 3 yolks, 2 whites of eggs, and i pint milk, allowing it to thicken well without boiling. Sweeten and flavour to taste, add the gelatine dissolved in a little milk or water, and allow this to cool. Put half the ratafia biscuits into the prepared mould; when the custard is beginning to set, pour it carefully over them, and then put the remainder of the ratafias on the top. Set aside until quite firm, then turn out when wanted and put a little chopped jelly round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2002. Charlotte Russe A Charlotte Russe is a cream mixture, moulded with finger biscuits or cake on the outside. It is easily made, and is a general favourite. To Line the Mould.—A plain mould is required, with straight sides and a flat bottom like a souffle tin. First place at the bottom of the tin a round of oiled paper, cut to fit it exactly. Then trim some finger biscuits, making the sides straight and cutting off one end, so that they will stand level in the tin. Arrange them evenly round the sides of the tin, putting alternately a brown and white side to the outside. They should be long enough to reach to the top ®f the tin, and must be packed very closely together. Sometimes the joins are brushed over with a little white of egg. Instead of the biscuits, strips of sponge cake may be used. Cut the strips from 1 to 1J inches wide, and fit them closely together round the tin. The top of the tin may also be lined with cake or biscuit, cut into triangular-shaped pieces and fitted in evenly. Filling the Mould.—Almost any cream mixture stiffened with gelatine may be used for filling the inside. Below are given two or three different fillings, but such mixtures as chocolate, coffee, raspberry, ginger, vanilla cream, &c., would all be suitable.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 445 Mixtures for Filling a Charlotte Russe (lj-pt. mould) No. 1 3 gills double cream. 4 oz. gelatine. | gill of water. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. | tea-sp. vanilla essence or 1 table-sp. of noyeau or other liqueur. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and add one dessert-spoonful or more of fine sugar. Flavour to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in \ gill of water, and strain it slowly into the cream, stirring all the time. When it begins to stiffen, turn it into the prepared mould. No. 2 2 eggs. 1 gill of milk. dessert-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. ; | oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. 1 gill of double cream. I I table-sp. sherry. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and add it to the custard with a pinch of salt. Strain all into a basin, and add the sherry, or any other flavouring preferred. Add the whipped whites of the two eggs, and stir occasionally until almost setting. Lastly, add the cream, whipped stiffly, and fill up the prepared mould. 1 gill orange juice. 4 gill lemon juice. 4 gill cold water. No. 3 2 oz. sugar. 4 oz. gelatine. 2 eggs. Put the orange and lemon juice into a lined saucepan with the sugar, and heat over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. Then turn it slowly on to the beaten yolks of the eggs, stirring all the time. Return this to the saucepan, and cook until it begins to thicken. Stir carefully, and do Charlotte Russe not boil. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and add it to the fruit custard, and strain all into a basin. When cool, add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat the mixture until it begins to stiffen. Then fill up the prepared mould. To Serve.—When the cream is set, turn out the charlotte russe on a glass or silver dish with a lace-edged paper under it, or a border of chopped jelly round. Other Decorations.—Instead of having a plain top of cream or biscuit, a charlotte can be orna- mented in many ways and made very elaborate if desired. The top of the mould may first be decorated with some sweet jelly and garnished with different fruits, and this allowed to set before lining the sides with biscuits or cake. Or, after turning out the mould, it may be ornamented with royal or butter icing put through a forcing bag. Or again, some of the inside mixture may be put into a forcing bag, and pressed out over the top in fancy forms. Meringues and whipped cream may also be used for decorating the top. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 2003. Charlotte Muscovite Make in the same way as Charlotte Russe, lining the mould with pink and white biscuits alternately, and filling the centre with apple cream (see Recipe 1996). When turned out, deco- rate with preserved fruits in different colours. 2004. Chestnuts with Cream (Nld de Marrons a la Creme) 1 lb. chestnuts. Milk. A small piece of vanilla. 4 lb. castor sugar. 4 pt. double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Decorations. Crystallised violets and pistachio nuts. Peel the chestnuts (see p. 377), put them into a saucepan with enough milk to cover them, and add a small piece of vanilla. Simmer slowly until the chestnuts are quite tender and the milk reduced. Crush them in the stewpan with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and pass all through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a basin, and stir it for a minute or two to render it smooth—it should be of a good consistency. Place a clean wire sieve upon a round dish, pass the chestnut puree through it, and form a border round the dish. Whip and flavour the cream, and pile it in the centre. Deco- rate with a few crystallised violets and chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2005. Chocolate Cream Make in the same way as Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), dissolving 2 oz. unsweetened chocolate in the milk before making the custard. The chocolate should be shred down or grated and melted in a small quantity of the milk before the larger quantity is poured into the saucepan. If sweetened choco- late is used, rather a larger quantity will be re- quired, and some of the sugar may be omitted. The mould for a chocolate cream would look pretty,decorated with sweet jelly, if made white with a small quantity of cream, and a few violets or silver dragees might be placed on the top when the cream is turned out. 2006. Chocolate Costard (Crdme Tournee au Chocolat) 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. | 5 yolks of eggs. 1 gill of hot water. 2 or 3 oz. fine sugar. 1 pt. milk. I 4 whites of eggs. Dissolve the chocolate in a saucepan with the hot water, add the milk, and bring it almost to the boil. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin with the sugar, and cream them well together with a wooden spoon. Add the chocolate little by littleCOOKERY EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 446 to the eggs, then return all to the saucepan, and stir oyer the fire until it thickens. At this point remove the stewpan from the fire, and add to the custard the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Stir for a minute or two longer over the fire, but it must not boil. Serve in a glass dish or bowl. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10d. to Is. sweeten and flavour it to taste, and pile it on the top. Decorate with a few ratafia biscuits or blanched and shred almonds. 2011. Hazel Nut Cream (Creme aux Noisettes) Make in the same way as Walnut Cream, substi- tuting hazel nuts for walnuts. 2007. Coffee Cream (Creme au Cafe) \ pt. double cream. 1 pt. coffee custard. § oz. sheet gelatine. 2 table-sps. black coffee. A few drops of vanilla. Coffee Custard. 1 gill black coffee. 1 gill milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 1 white of egg. 2 oz. sugar. Decorations—Sweet jelly, gold leaf. Decorate the bottom of a mould with some sweet jelly into which a little gold leaf has been stirred, and allow it to set. To Make the Cream.—The coffee used must be strong, clear, and of good quality, or coffee essence may be substituted, the quantity of liquid being made up with water. First make a custard with the above ingredients, and according to directions given under Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030). Dissolve the gelatine carefully in the 2 table-spoonfuls of coffee, and strain it into the custard. Then whip up the cream, add to it the sugar and vanilla, and when the custard has cooled a little, mix it lightly, but thoroughly, with it. Stir occasionally until the mixture shows signs of setting, and then pour it into the prepared mould. Set aside in a cool place until firm. When required, turn out on a pretty dish, and decorate with preserved fruits or chopped jelly. Note.—The decoration may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2008. Ginger Cream (Creme de Gingembre) Make in the same way as Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), omitting the vanilla and adding 2 or 3 oz. preserved ginger cut in small pieces, and dissolving the gelatine in half water and half ginger syrup. The mould would look pretty if decorated with small pieces of ginger and chopped pistachio nut set in clear jelly. 2009. Gooseberry Cream (Creme de Groseilles) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream (Recipe 1994), using a puree of cooked gooseberries instead of the apricot purde. 2012. Hollandaise Pudding 2 small sponge cakes. 1 1 oz. sweet almonds. 1 doz. ratafias. i 3 or 4 drops ratafia 2 oz. preserved fruits. j essence. £ pt. custard. 1 gill thick cream. | oz. gelatine. ) Make \ pint good custard (see Recipe 794) sweeten it to taste, and add a little ratafia essence. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk or water, and strain it into the custard. Now break up the sponge cakes, and put them into a basin with the ratafia biscuits. Pour the custard hot over them, and allow all to soak for a short time. Remove the hard sugar from the preserved fruits, and cut them in small thin pieces, reserving a few pieces to decorate the pudding. Add the cut-up fruit to the pudding mixture along with the almonds, blanched and shred, and, when the custard is beginning to set, pour all into a wet mould, and put in a cool place to stiffen. When firm to the touch, turn out and decorate on the top and round the sides with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured, and pretty pieces of preserved fruit. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2013. Italian Cream (Creme a l’ltalienne) 1 pt. milk. 3 eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. A pinch of salt. | oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Flavouring. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk. Pour it into a basin, and add flavouring to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and pour it into the custard. Mix well together, and strain all into another basin. When the custard begins to stiffen, stir in very lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Turn all into a wet mould, and set aside until firm. When wanted, turn out on a glass or silver dish. Notes.—The mould may be decorated with a little pink jelly before pouring in the cream mix- ture. A cold fruit sauce or a puree of fruit may be poured round the cream when it is turned out. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 2010. Gooseberry Trifle 1 lb. gooseberries. Sugar and water. \ pt. good custard. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. Vanilla. Decoration. Stew the gooseberries until soft and pulpy with very little water, and sugar to taste. Then rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back all the seeds. Put this gooseberry pulp into a glass or china dish, and let it become quite cold ; pour some good custard over, and stand again a short time. Then whip the cream until thick. 2014. Lemon Cream (Creme au Citron) | pt. double cream. \ pt. custard. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 large lemon. 1 oz. French gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Decoration. Some clear jelly, small pieces of angelica or chopped pistachio nut Take a l-|-pint mould, ornament it with the above, or any other suitable decoration, and put it aside to set. To Make the Cream.—Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and grate off the yellow rind on the447 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS top erf the sugar. Then work the lemon rind into the sugar with the blade of a knife until the two are thoroughly blended. Next make a custard, and proceed according to directions given for Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), adding the lemon sugar to the custard, and the strained juice when it has slightly cooled. Mix the whipped cream lightly, but thoroughly, with the custard, and, when be- ginning to set, pour into the prepared mould. When set, turn out on a lace-edged paper, or serve with a border of chopped jelly round. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2015. Neapolitan Creams (Pefites Cremes Napolitaines) Make some custard cream mixture as directed for Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), and divide it into three portions. Colour one portion pink with a few drops of carmine, another green with a little spinach green, and leave the third its natural colour. Add a different flavour to each. The pink might be flavoured with vanilla, the green with almond, and the yellow with a little sherry or liqueur. Rinse out some small moulds or cups with cold water, and fill them with the three mixtures set in alternate layers. Always allow one layer to set before pouring in another, and keep the layers of equal thickness. When ready, turn them out on a glass or silver dish, with a lace- edged paper under them. 2016. Orange Cream (Creme a 1’Orange) Make in the same way as Lemon Cream (see Recipe 2014), substituting orange for lemon. The top of the mould would look pretty if decorated with some small sections of tangerine orange set in clear jelly. 2017. Orange Custard (CrSme Renversee a 1’Orange) 2 whites and 4 yolks of eggs. J pt. milk. 2 large oranges. 2 oz. castor sugar. i oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. water. Sieve the sugar on to a plate, and grate the rind from the oranges on the top of it. Rub those two together with the fingers until thoroughly blended and then put this orange sugar into a basin. Add to it the yolks and whites of eggs, and beat together for a few minutes. Heat the milk, and pour it gradually into the basin, stirring all the time. Then return all to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the custard thickens, but do not let it boil. Remove quickly from the fire, and strain into a basin. Dissolve the gelatine in a very little water, and strain it into the custard, also the orange juice. Stir occasionally until lukewarm, then pour into a wetted mould, and set in a cool place until firm. Turn out on a glass or silver dish. Note.—The mould may, if liked, be decorated at the top with a little clear jelly set with a few small sections of orange. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 2018. Pine-apple Cream (Creme d’Ananas) 1 small tin pine-apple. | pt. custard. § oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. lemon or orange juice. 2 gills double cream. Some lemon or wine jelly. A few pistachio nuts. First decorate a quart mould with some jelly, small pieces of pine-apple, and chopped pistachio nuts (see p. 432). A little of the jelly may be coloured green if liked. Then prepare the cream mixture. Cut some of the pine-apple into dice, sufficient to fill a tea-cup. Take some of the re- mainder and rub it through a fine sieve, using a little of the syrup to moisten. Prepare enough of this pur6e to fill a gill measure. Dissolve the gelatine in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup, and strain it into \ pint warm custard. Add the pine-apple dice and puree, the lemon or orange juice, and sugar if necessary. Mix all together, and, lastly, stir in the cream whipped until stiff. When the mixture is almost setting, pour it into the prepared mould, and stand in a cool place or on ice until firm. Turn out when wanted, and decorate with chopped jelly or fern leaves. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2a. 2019. Peach Cream (Crfime aux Peches) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream (Recipe 1994). 2020. Raspberry Cream (CrSme aux Framboises) Make in the same way as Strawberry Cream (Recipe 2024), using raspberries instead of straw- berries. A few red currants may also be added. 2021. Rhubarb Cream (Creme de Rhubarbe) 2 lbs. rhubarb. 1 oz. gelatine, 4 to 6 oz. granulated sugar. J pt. cream. A few drops of carmine. Wipe the rhubarb, and cut it in small pieces without peeling it. Put it into a lined or earthen- ware saucepan with the sugar and just enough water to moisten, and stew it until quite tender. Then strain through a hair sieve, press the rhubarb gently to extract the juice, but do not rub through the fibre. Return the syrup or juice to the sauce- pan, and reduce it, if necessary, until there are only 3 gills, removing all scum that rises. Then add the gelatine cut in small pieces, and stir over the fire until it is dissolved. Strain into a basin, and let it cool. Whip the cream, and add it to the rhubarb syrup, when it is just lukewarm. Add a few drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour, and when setting pour into an oiled or wetted mould. "When cold and firm, turn out and serve with a little chopped jelly round. If liked, the mould may first be decorated with a little jelly and chopped pis- tachio nuts. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2022. Rice Cream (Riz & I’lmperatrice) 1| pts. milk. The rind of 1 lemon. } lb. Carolina rice. A pinch of salt. 1 oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. J pt. double cream. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. Put the rice and milk into a saucepan with the grated rind of one lemon and a pinch of salt.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 448 Cook until the rice is perfectly tender and the milk absorbed. (A double saucepan is best for this.) Then add the gelatine dissolved in a little water, the sugar, and more flavouring if wished. Mix well, and when beginning to set, stir in the cream whipped stiffly. Pour the mixture into a wet mould, and allow it to set. Turn out when wanted on to a glass or silver dish. Notes.—This is a very white dish, and makes a delicious dessert. It may be served alone or with a puree of apricots poured round it as a sauce. A compote of fruits may be served separately, or small pieces of ripe fruits, previously soaked in wine or liqueur, may be mixed with the rice mixture before moulding, or, if liked, the mould used may be first decorated with some sweet jelly and pieces of fruit; or the rice mixture may be set in a border mould, and mixed fruits piled in the centre. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 1*. 2d. or glass dish with a lace-edged paper on it, and decorate round with strawberry or fern leaves and a few fresh strawberries. Note.—Do not allow a strawberry cream to remain too long in the mould, as it is apt to dis- colour. Several small moulds may be used instead of one large. A few small pieces of strawberry may be added to the cream mixture if liked. Strawberry jam may be used instead of fresh strawberries. It ought to be warmed slightly before being sieved, and if very thick a little water or fruit juice should be mixed with it. The sugar will not be required, and a little more lemon juice would be an improvement. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. 2025. Tea Cream (Creme au The) Make in the same way as Coffee Cream (Recipe 2007), using strong tea in place of coffee. 2023. Snow Eggs (CEufs a la Neige) 1 pt. milk. A pinch of salt. The rind of £ lemon. | inch cinnamon stick. 3 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. A few glace cherries. Put the milk, lemon rind, and cinnamon into a shallow saucepan, and bring them slowly to boiling point. Remove the lemon rind and cinnamon stick. Put the whites of eggs on to a plate and the yolks into a basin. Add a pinch of salt to the whites, and beat them to a very stiff froth. Drop table-spoonfuls of this beaten white into the hot milk, poach them slowly for a few minutes and when firm, lift them on to a dish. Add sugar to the yolks of eggs in the basin, and mix them well together. Dour the milk that is left in the saucepan slowly on to these, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the custard thickens. When the custard is cool, pour it round the snow eggs in the dish, and decorate with a few pieces of glace cherry. Note.—Coffee essence or any other flavouring may be added to the milk. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or 8 d. 2024. Strawberry Cream (CrSme aux Fraises) 1 lb. strawberries. \ pt. double cream. 3 oz. castor sugar. oz. pink gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Squeeze of lemon juice. Decorations—Some sweet jelly, strawberries, and pistachio nuts. Take a 1 J-pint mould, ornament it with the above decorations, and put it aside to set. To Make the Cream.—Stalk the strawberries, and rub them with the sugar through a hair sieve. This quantity should make | pint of puree. Put this puree into a basin, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water until the contents are slightly warm. Then proceed as directed for Apricot Cream (Recipe 1994). If white gelatine is used, a few drops of carmine will require to be added. 'When the mixture is ready and almost setting, pour it into the prepared mould, and put it in a cool place until quite firm. When wanted, turn out the cream on to a silver 2026. Tipsy Cake 1 large sponge cake. 1 or 2 glasses sherry. 1 pt. custard. Sweet almonds. Apricot or raspberry jam. Split the sponge cake several times, spread the pieces with jam, and put them back in their original shape. Place it in a glass or china dish, pour the wine over, and let it stand for one hour, basting it occasionally with the wine until all is absorbed. Make a good thick custard, and when cool pour it over the soaked sponge cake. Have the almonds blanched, split, and browned slightly, and stick them here and there all over the cake. Note.—The jam may be omitted, and a little whipped cream may be used for decoration.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 449 2027. A Simple Trifle 4 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. raspberry jam. 1 gill milk or fruit syrup. 3 gills custard. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. 1 oz. sweet almonds. Slice the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and lay them in a glass dish. Pour the gill of milk or fruit syrup over them, and let them soak. Then make about 3 gills of fairly thick custard, either with eggs and milk thickened with a very little cornflour, or with custard powder. Sweeten and flavour it to taste, and when cold pour it over the sponge cakes. Blanch the almonds, cut them in strips, and stick them over the top. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 2028. A Richer Trifle 6 or 8 sponge cakes (Id.) J doz. macaroon bis- cuits. } lb. ratafias. Raspberry or apricot jam. 2 or 3 glasses sherry. \ glass brandy. | lb. sweet almonds. 3 gills good custard. 3 or 4 gills double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Decorations. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and then cut them in slices about an inch thick. Lay these pieces at the bottom of a glass dish, mixing with them the macaroons broken in pieces, about half the ratafia biscuits, and half the almonds blanched and shred. Pour the sherry and brandy over, and let all soak for J hour. Meanwhile make a good custard (see Recipe 794). Sweeten and flavour it to taste, let it cool, and then pour it over the sponge cakes, &c. A short time before serving, whip the cream until thick, adding to it, if wished, 1 or 2 whites of eggs. Sweeten and flavour, and pile this on the top of the trifle. It will look better if it is put through a forcing bag with a large rose pipe. Now decorate the trifle prettily with the remainder of the ratafias and almonds, and some pieces of bright-coloured pre- served fruits, or pistachio nuts. The decoration is very much a matter of taste, and can be more or less elaborate according to fancy. Small fancy biscuits or fancy sweets may be used, or the plain ratafia biscuits may be piped prettily with coloured icing, or spun sugar will make a very light and dainty decoration. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Provable cost, 4s. or 5s. the sides, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 2030. Vanilla Cream (Creme a la Vanille) \ pt. double cream. H oz. sugar. | pt. custard. Custard. Vanilla flavouring. 3 yolks of eggs. § oz. sheet gelatine. 1 white of egg. 2 table-sps. water. £ pt. of milk. Decorations.—A little lemon jelly, a few glace cherries. Ornament a lj-pint mould with the above decorations, and put it aside to set (see p. 432). (Any preserved fruit, that will make a pretty contrast to the pale colour of the cream, may be used for decorating, or the jelly may be coloured pink with a little carmine or cochineal.) To Prepare the Cream.—First make the custard. Pour the milk into a saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water, and bring it almost to the boil. Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin with the sugar, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. Pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the custard begins to thicken. Then strain into a basin. Cut the gelatine into pieces with a pair of scissors, put it into a small saucepan with the water, and stir over the fire, letting it dissolve slowly. Then strain into the custard, being careful not to lose any, and mix well. Put the cream into a separate basin, whip it until thick, add the sugar, and flavour with vanilla essence. When the custard has cooled a little, add the cream to it, and stir occasionally until the mixture shows signs of setting. Then pour into the pre- pared mould, and set aside in a cool place or on ice until cold and firm. WTien wanted, turn out on a glass or china dish, and decorate with pre- served fruits or chopped jelly. A lace-edged paper may, if liked, be put on the dish first. Notes.—This is an example of a custard cream, and many other creams with different flavourings may be made in the same way. A smaller pro- portion of cream to custard may be used if wished. Vanilla pod may be used instead of essence for flavouring; it should be infused in the milk for a short time before making the custard. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. Qd. 2029. Welsh Trifle A sixpenny sponge cake. 2 glasses sherry. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. 1 cupful clear red jelly. 1 A few pistachio nuts. Scoop out the centre from the sponge cake and place it on a glass dish. Pour over the wine and let it soak. Meanwhile, whip the cream until thick, and add the sugar and flavouring. Fill the centre of the sponge cake with this, making it level on the top. Then have the red jelly in a liquid condition and whip it until stiff and frothy. Pile this on the top of the trifle, put any remaining cream round 2031. Wafer Cream Bars Wafer biscuits. Strawberry or other cream mixture. Take a small wafer biscuit box, and line it very smoothly with grease-proof or wax paper. Then line the bottom of it with the narrow wafer biscuits, either white or pink, and brush over the upper surface with beaten white of egg. Make a straw- berry cream mixture as directed on p. 448 (half quantities), and when it is in a setting condition pour it into the lined box. Brush the top lightly over with white of egg, and cover with another layer of wafer biscuits. Set aside in a cool place. When the cream is firm, turn it out of the box, and carefully remove the paper. Then take a 2 F450 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD sharp knife and cut it in bars between the biscuits. Serve piled up crosswise on a glass or silver dish. Note.—Any nice cream mixture may be used in the same way. 2032. Walnut Cream (Creme aux Noix) 2 table-sps. water. Vanilla or other flavour- J pt. custard. | pt. double cream. J lb. shelled walnuts. ing. | oz. sheet gelatine. Decorations—Some clear jelly, pistachio nuts, glace cherries or crystallised violets. Prepare and decorate the mould prettily, and put it aside to set (see p. 432). To Make the Cream.—Put the walnuts on a tin and roast them in the oven for a few minutes, so as to draw out the flavour. When dry and crisp, pound them in a mortar, or crush them with a rolling-pin. Then make a custard, and proceed as directed for Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), putting in less vanilla, or some other flavouring, and stirring in the prepared walnuts just before mould- ing the cream. When required, turn out on to a glass or silver dish, and decorate with chopped jelly and a few half-walnuts that have been dipped in liquid jelly and coated with chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 2033. Whipped Cream (Crdme Fouettde) Double cream should be used for whipping— that is, cream that has stood on the milk for 24 hours; it should also be as cold as possible. Put it into a basin, and whip it with a wire whisk until it becomes thick and will hang on the end of the whisk without dropping off. At this point the beating must be stopped at once, or the cream will be turned into butter. Sweeten it to taste with finely-sifted sugar, and add the flavouring desired. Whipped cream may be flavoured in different ways, with flavouring essence, with liqueur, fruit puree, coffee essence, grated chocolate, &c. It may also be tinted by adding a few drops of colouring. Small pieces of fresh or preserved fruits may also be added to it. Whipped cream may either be used as a garnish for other dishes, or it may be served separately on small glass plates little fancy dishes. Tea wafers should be serv along with the cream. Note.—The cream may be made less rich by having some whipped whites of eggs added to it. 2034. Snow Cream 1 qt. cold water. I Juice of 1 lemon. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. | 1 gill cream. Put all the ingredients into a large basin and beat up lightly with a wire whisk. Remove the froth, as it rises, with a fish slice and put it on a sieve to drain. Continue beating until no more froth rises. Quite a quantity of light fluffy cream can be obtained in thus way, and it is much more economical than the ordinary whipped cream for garnishing trifles and other fancy sweets. PART IV VARIOUS FANCY SWEETS AND GATEAUX 2035. Apricot Souffle, Cold (Souffld froid aux Abricots) b pt. apricot puree. 3 or 4 eggs. £ oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. syrup from apricots. 2 oz. sugar. Asqueezeof lemon juice. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Chopped pistachio nuts. Prepare the puree by rubbing either tinned or bottled apricots through a hair sieve. Use a little of the syrup along with the apricots, and do not make the puree too thick. Put this puree, the yolks of the eggs, and the sugar into a large basin, stand them over a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk until it warms and thickens. Remove the basin to the table, strain in the gelatine dissolved in 2 table-spoonfuls of the apricot syrup. Cold Apricot Souffli and add the lemon juice and a little carmine. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, whisk the cream until thick, and stir both these lightly, but thoroughly, into the apricot mixture. Take a china souffle dish. Tie or pin a band of white paper round the outside of it, in order to raise it 2 or 3 inches ; pour the mixture into this, and place it in a cool place until set. Remove the band of paper, either by damping it with warm water or drawing it off carefully with the aid of a knife, sprinkle the souffle with a few chopped pistachio nuts or with browned and chopped almonds, and serve it as cold as possible. Note.—Any other fruit puree may be used in place of the apricot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd.to Is. 2036. Apricot Cream Biscuits 7 shortbread biscuits. Apricots (tinned). A few pistachio nuts. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. Flavouring. Choose round shortbread biscuits about 3 inches in diameter. Place a half apricot, well drained fromCOLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 451 the syrup, on the top of each with the rounded side uppermost. Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe. Force some out round each apricot, and decorate with finely-chopped pistachio nuts. Probable cost. Is. 2037. Babas au Rhum ! lb. flour. I lb. butter. 4 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. J cup milk. J oz. yeast. A pinch of salt. 1 oz. mixed peel. 1 or 2 oz. currants or sultanas. Syrup. 1 lb. sugar. 1 gill water. Lemon rind. 1 glass rum and 1 glass sherry or other wine, or liqueur. To Make the Babas.—Sieve the flour into a warm, dry basin, cream the yeast with a pinch of salt, add about | tea-cupful of warm milk, and strain into the centre of the flour. Mix together, adding more warm milk if necessary to make a soft dough. Beat well with the hand until the mixture no longer adheres to the fingers and basin. Then cover the dough and set it in a warm place until it has risen to double its original volume. Now break into it two eggs, add the sugar and butter slightly melted, and work them in lightly with the hands. Then add the other two eggs and the fruit (the peel finely shred or chopped, and the currants or raisins cleaned), and beat again until the dough is smooth and shiny-looking. Grease 9 or 10 dariole moulds, and dust them out very lightly with flour. Half- fill them with the dough, and set them to rise in a warm place until the dough reaches the top of the moulds. Then bake the babas in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. Insert a clean skewer to see when they are done. The skewer should come out clean. To Make the Syrup.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan with the thinly-peeled rind of half-lemon. Boil quickly for 10 minutes, then add the wine and rum, and strain before using. To Finish.—Have the syrup boiling hot, dip the babas into it, let them remain a minute or two, then lift out with a draining spoon, and they are ready to serve. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 9 or 10 babas. Probable cost, 2d. each. 2038. Banana Croutes Sponge cakes or Genoese pastry. Raspberry or apricot jam. Bananas. Whipped cream. Crystallised violets. Slice some sponge cake or other w hite cake, and cut it in oval-shaped pieces the length of a small banana. Spread these on one side with apricot or raspberry jam, and place the half of a small banana on the top. The bananas should be halved lengthwise, but if large they must be cut in four pieces instead of two, as the croutes wall not look pretty if they are too big. Whip some double cream until thick, and sweeten and flavour it to taste. Put this into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force it out in a border round the pieces of banana, and then make a few roses on the top. Decorate with a few crystallised violets or any other decoration preferred. Another pretty design Banana CroCites is to colour the cream pink and to decorate with a few silver dragees. 2039. Bavaroise of Bananas (Bavaroise de Bananes) Banana Cream. 4 bananas. £ pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 4 yolks of eggs. | oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. orange mar- malade. | pt. double cream. 1 table sp. liqueur. 3 or 4 drops carmine. To Line Mould. ! pt. lemon jelly. 2 or 3 bananas. Chopped pistachio nuts. First line a quart mould with lemon jelly (see p. 433), and decorate it with bananas cut in thin slices, and chopped pistachio nuts. These may either be arranged in alternate strips up the sides of the mould, or in any other design preferred. The decoration must not be laid on too thickly; space must be left for the banana cream to show through. The Banana Cream.—Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar, thickening it over the fire in the usual way. Dissolve a good J oz. of gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the custard. Slice the bananas and pound them in a mortar with the marmalade, add the custard to them gradually, then rub the mixture through a very fine hair sieve or tammy. Whip the cream until thick, and stir it in lightly to the banana puree. Flavour with a little liqueur or any flavouring preferred, and add a few drops of carmine to make the mixture a rich cream colour. Fill up the lined mould with this mixture, and set it aside to cool. When firm, turn out on a silver or crystal dish with a lace-edged paper under it. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 2040. Decoration. Wine jelly. Cherries, angelica, pistachio nuts. and Bavaroisq of Chestnuts (Bavaroise de Marrons) I lb. sugar. Water. 3 yolks of eggs. \ pt. milk. | oz. gelatine. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. brandy. A few drops of carmine. Take a plain or fancy Mixture. 1 lb. chestnuts. Rind of 1 lemon. To Prepare the Mould. quart mould and line it with wine jelly. Then452 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD decorate it with angelica cut in fine rings, small pieces of cherry, and split pistachio nuts, placing the pistachio nuts and pieces of cherry alter- nately inside the rings of angelica. Cover the decoration with a little more jelly and let it set. To Make the Mixture.—Cut the tops off the chest- nuts, bake them in the oven until they crack, and then remove the shells and skins. Now put them into a saucepan with the sugar, the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, and water to cover them. Stew them slowly until tender and nearly dry, and break them up with a fork or spoon. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs and milk. Dissolve a good 4 oz. of gelatine in a little water, add it to the custard, and strain all beside the chestnuts, and rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Add the brandy or any other flavouring preferred, and last of all the cream whipped stiffly. Stir in just a few drops of carmine, without making the mixture actually pink. Fill up the fined mould with the chestnut mixture and set it aside to cool. When wanted, turn out on a crystal or silver dish with a lace-edged paper under it. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. 2041. Chocolate Bavaroise (Bavaroise an Chocolat) 4 pt. milk. 3 oz. vanilla chocolate. 3 yolks of eggs. Sugar. 4 oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. A few drops of vanilla. 1 gill cream. Some clear jelly. unmoulded. The mixtures must be put into mould or dish in a setting condition, and one layer must be set before putting in another. Bavaroise RubannS 2043. Bavaroise of Strawberries (Bavaroise aux Fraises) 4 pt. custard. | pt. double cream. 4 pt. strawberry puree. 1 oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 table-sps. water. A few drops of carmine. A few whole straw- berries. Sweet almonds. Sugar. First make a rich custard with 4 yolks of eggs, about J pint of milk, and sugar to taste (see Recipe 794). Then dissolve the gelatine in the water, strain it into the custard and let this cool. Make the strawberry puree by rubbing some fresh straw- berries through a hair sieve. Add this puree to the custard and then stir in the cream, which has Take a simple jelly mould (14 pints) without too much decoration, rinse it out with cold water, and fine it about \ inch thick with lemon or any other clear jelly. Allow this to set on ice, and mean- while prepare a chocolate mixture thus : Grate or shred the chocolate and dissolve it in a little of the milk. When quite smooth, add the re- mainder of the milk and bring to the boil. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, and strain the chocolate gradually on to them, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan, and stir care- fully over the fire until the yolks thicken like a custard, but on no account must the mixture boil. Pour again into the basin, strain in the gelatine dissolved in a little water, add a few drops of vanilla and, if necessary, a little sugar. Allow this to cool, and then stir in the cream stiffly whipped. Pour this mixture into the fined mould, set aside in a cool place or on ice until wanted, and then turn out on a glass or silver dish. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2042. Bavaroise Rubanne This is made with two cream mixtures of dif- ferent colours and flavours set in layers, such as chocolate and vanilla, strawberry and lemon, coffee and banana, &c. They may either be set in a mould or in a glass dish. A more ornamental dish can be made by fining the mould first with a little clear jelly. A simpler dish may be made by setting the layers of cream in a glass dish. In this way the creams can be made of a more delicate texture and will be pleasanter to eat, as the amount of gelatine may be reduced when it has not to be Bavaroise of Strawberries been whipped until thick. Add a few drops of carmine to make the mixture a pretty pink colour, and stir in at the last a few very small whole strawberries. Pour all into a pretty glass or china bowl, and put it in a cool place to set. Before serving, decorate with fresh strawberries and some split sweet almonds, or with some whipped cream put through a forcing bag, or chopped wine jelly. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 2044. Tea Bavaroise (Bavaroise au The) Decoration. Pink jelly. Gold and silver leaf. Mixture. 3 gills tea. To Prepare the Mould. 3 yolks of eggs. | lb. castor sugar. 4 oz. gelatine. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. brandy. -Take a 14-pint mould, either plain or fancy, and fine it with pink jelly453 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS in which a little gold and silver leaf has been mixed, and let this set. To Make the Mixture.—Make 3 gills of good tea, strong and clear without having stood too long. Put it into a lined saucepan with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and gelatine, and stir them carefully over the fire until they thicken without boiling. Then strain this tea custard into a basin and allow it to cool. Whip the cream, and stir it lightly in along with the brandy. When the mixture is beginning to set, pour it into the prepared mould and place it in a cool place to set. Turn out when wanted, and garnish with fern leaves. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 2045. Charlotte a la B6atrice Finger biscuits. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. chocolate. 1 table-sp. sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. I oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. 1 gill cream. 1 table-sp. liqueur. Apricot sauce. 1 table-sp. chopped pistachio nuts. Take a plain souffle tin, put a round of oiled paper at the bottom, line the sides with trimmed finger biscuits. To Prepare the Mixture for Filling.—Grate the chocolate and dissolve it in the milk. Mix the yolks of eggs and sugar in a basin, and pour the hot chocolate gradually on to them. Strain back into the saucepan, and stir the mixture carefully over the fire to cook the yolks of eggs, but without letting it boil. When ready, pour into a cold basin, add the gelatine dissolved in the water, and flavour with liqueur or any other flavouring preferred. Whip the cream, and stir it in lightly at the last. Fill up the lined mould, and set aside until cold. When required, turn out, mask with the following sauce, and sprinkle with a few chopped pistachio nuts. Sauce. h pt. apricot puree. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. arrowroot. Flavouring. 2 or 3 drops carmine. To Make the Sauce.—Use tinned apricots, and rub sufficient through a hair sieve to make pint of puree. Use some of the syrup along with the fruit, as the puree must not be too thick. Put this pur6e into a saucepan, and add to it the arrowroot broken with a little of the syrup. Stir over the fire until boiling, and cook 5 minutes. Add the sugar, colouring, and flavouring the same as in pudding mixture. Use when cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 2046. Charlotte a la Malakoff C or 7 finger biscuits. 1 lb. ground almonds. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. A little kirsch or rum. i pt. double cream. Vanilla. Take a plain souffle or charlotte mould, IJ-pint size, place a round of greased paper at the bottom, and line the sides with finger biscuits in the same way as for Charlotte Russe (Recipe 2002). To Prepare the Filling.—Put the almonds into a mortar and pound them well with the sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and a little kirsch or rum. Add the butter, slightly warmed, but not melted. and pound well until a nice creamy mixture is formed. Put this into a basin, whip the cream, and add it to the almond mixture, reserving a little for decoration. Mix very lightly, and fill up the prepared mould. Set on ice until firm and required for use. The setting of the cream depends on the stiffening of the butter, and ice is a necessity. When ready, turn out and decorate the top with the remainder of the cream, sweetened and flavoured and put through a forcing bag. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 2047. Caramel Chestnuts in Cases 6 oz. prepared chestnuts. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. cake-crumbs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. brandy or liqueur. 1 table-sp. cream. A little rice flour. 6 oz. loaf sugar. J gill water. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Pistachio nuts. Remove both the outer and inner brown skin from at least \ lb. chestnuts, put them into a saucepan with the milk, and allow them to simmer slowly until tender. Then rub them through a fine wire sieve and measure 6 oz. Put this pre- pared chestnut into a basin, add to it the castor sugar, cake-crumbs, and cream, and flavour with brandy, liqueur, or any other flavouring preferred. Form the mixture into small balls about the size of a walnut, using a little rice flour to prevent its sticking to the hands. Allow these to dry for a short time whilst preparing the caramel. Put the loaf sugar, water, and lemon juice into a saucepan, and let them boil without stirring until they turn a golden brown oolour. Dip the bottom of the saucepan at once in cold water to prevent the caramel burning, and then dip the little balls quickly into it. Lay them on a greased plate, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts. When cold, place each one in a small paper case and serve as a dessert. Probable cost, Is. 2048. Petits Choux & la Creme (Cream Cakes) Choux pastry. 'Whipped and flavoured cream. Make the choux pastry (Recipe 1450), and put it into a forcing bag, with a tin pipe or nozzle of at least 1- inch in diameter at the end of it. Grease a baking tin, and force out the pastry on to it in little mounds about the size of half an egg. Hold the bag perpendicularly, the point to begin with almost touching the baking sheet. As each heap is finished, disengage the forcer by giving it a sharp twist and jerk. Be particular to make the choux all one size and not too large. Keep them some distance apart from each other on the tin, as they will rise considerably in baking. Bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. When the choux are ready, remove them from the baking tin, and allow them to cool upon a sieve or draining tray. Make a small hole in the top of each with a sharp-pointed knife, and fill them with whipped and flavoured cream put through a forcing bag. Sprinkle with a little fine sugar. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 1 dozen choux. Probable cost, Is.454 COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 2049. Chocolate Eclairs (Eclairs au Chocolat) Make in the same way as Co See Eclairs (see below), coating them with chocolate instead of coSee icing. 2050. CoSee Eclairs (Eclairs au Caf6) Choux pastry. | Pastry custard or CoSee icing. j whipped cream. Put the choux pastry into a forcing bag, with a tin pipe or nozzle J inch in diameter at the end of it. Grease a baking tin, and squeeze out the mixture on it in straight bars 3 to 3i inches in length. In making eclairs, hold the bag obliquely to the baking sheet. Let the end of the bar of paste rest on this, and continue forcing until it is long enough, drawing the bag at the same time slightly backwards. Then, cut oS the paste close to the pipe, and proceed with the next, keeping the eclairs about 2 inches apart so as to allow room for rising. Bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, allow the eclairs to cool on a sieve or draining tray, then make a small hole at the side, and, by means of a forcing bag, fill them with whipped cream, with pastry custard (see below) or with the two mixed. Then coat each with coSee icing. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 dclairs. Probable cost, Is. 2d. flavour a gill of whipped cream and sweeten it to taste, put it into a forcing bag, and force this out on the top of the souffle. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts. Put a white or silver band of paper round the dish, and tie with coloured ribbon. Sufficient for 5 or 0 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. fid. 2053. Little Creams a la Duchesse Marie (Petites Cremes a la Duchesse Marie) £ pt. milk. 1J oz. rice flour. 1 oz. sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. apricot puree. 1 gill thick cream. Sugar and flavouring. Decorations. Pistachio nuts chopped. Almonds cut in dice and browned. Put the milk and rice flour into a lined sauce- pan, and stir them over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly for 5 minutes, and then remove the saucepan from the fire. Add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and apricot puree (tinned apricots or jam rubbed through a sieve). Cook a minute or two longer over the fire, and then pour the mixture into small china cases, and let it cool. Whip the cream, and sweeten and flavour it according to taste. Pile a little on the top of the mixture in each of the cases, and sprinkle with the almonds and pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 6 or 7 creams. Probable cost. Is. 2051. Pastry Custard (Creme Patisserie) J pt. milk. | | oz. cornflour. 2 yolks and 1 white of A little powdered egg. 1 oz. sugar. I vanilla. Heat the milk in a small saucepan. Mix the cornflour, eggs, sugar, and flavouring together in a small basin, and pour the hot milk on to them. Return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Allow this custard to cool before using it. A little whipped cream may be added. 2052. Cold Chocolate Souffld £ lb. chocolate. 1 gill milk. £ oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. liqueur. 1 dessert-sp. coffee essence. J pt. lemon jelly. • 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill double cream. Garnish. 1 gill whipped cream. Sugar and flavouring. Browned almonds, pis- tachio nuts. Shred the chocolate and dissolve it in a small saucepan with the milk. When smooth, add the gelatine cut in small pieces, and dissolve that also. Then strain and add the coffee essence and liqueur. Allow this to cool, but not to set. Have the lemon jelly in a liquid condition, and whip it until light and spongy. Whip also the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and whisk the gill of cream until thick. Add the chocolate mixture to the whipped jelly, and mix it well in ; then stir in very lightly the whites of eggs and the whipped cream. Pour all into a china souffle dish with a band of paper tied round the outside to enable the mixture to come quite 3 inches above the top of the dish. Set aside until icy cold. To Serve.—Remove the band of paper, and coat the sides of the souffle which stand above the dish with finely-shred and browned almonds. Then 2054. Claret Pudding 1 pt. claret. | pt. strawberry or raspberry puree. £ lb. sugar, f oz. gelatine. A few drops carmine. 1 lemon. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. Pistachio nuts. Make the puree by rubbing some fresh fruit through a hair sieve along with the sugar. Put the claret into a saucepan with the gelatine and lemon rind and juice. Heat slowly until the gela- tine is dissolved, then add the fruit puree and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Strain into a basin, add carmine to make the mixture a good colour, and when cool pour it into a wet border mould. Allow this to set, then turn out, fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream, and decorate ■with chopped pistachio nuts. Note.—The claret may be diluted with half water if wished. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2055. Diplomatic Pudding (Pouding Dlplomate) To Garnish the Mould. Lemon jelly. Angelica. Pistachio nuts. Mixture. | pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. \ oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Vanilla. | pt. double cream. 2 sponge cakes. A few ratafias. Sherry or liqueur. Take a plain charlotte mould and line it thinly with lemon or wine jelly. Then decorate it with angelica and pistachio in imitation of sprays of maidenhair fern. The angelica should be softened first in hot water, then split and cut in very fine strips for the stalks. Gather up a bunch of theseCOLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 455 strips and arrange them like a fan on the side of the mould. Then at the ends of the stalks place thin pieces of pistachio nut to imitate the petals. Make four or five of those sprays round the sides of the mould, and set them with more jelly. To Make the Mixture.—First make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar, and flavour it with vanilla. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add it to the oustard, and strain both into a basin and allow them to cool. Whip the cream and stir it lightly into the custard, and when this mix- ture is beginning to set, pour a little of it into the prepared mould. Then in the centre place two or three small pieces of sponge cake and a few ratafias that have been well soaked in sherry or liqueur. Then more of the cream mixture, more sponge cake and ratafias, until the mould is full. The sponge cake, &c., must be kept well to the centre, so that it does not show through the cream when the pudding is turned out. Set the pudding aside until cold and set. When wanted, turn out carefully, and decorate with chopped jelly or some sprays of real maidenhair. Note.—The decoration of the mould may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2056. Fairy Baskets (Crimes des F6es) Some sponge cake or Madeira cake. A little sherry or liqueur. Raspberry or apricot jam. Custard. Thick cream. Sugar and flavouring. Strips of angelica. Decorations. Crystallised rose leaves and orange flowers. For these creams some small fancy dishes or pretty paper cases will be required. Allow one for each person and one over. Cut some sponge cake or Madeira cake into neat little pieces, and a suitable shape for the dishes. Split these, spread them with jam, and soak with a few drops of liqueur or sherry. Then put them into the dishes or cases, and pour a spoonful of thick custard, nicely flavoured, over them. Pile whipped cream, which has been sweetened and flavoured, on the top, and bend a strip of well-soaked angelica over the top to form a handle. Decorate with crystallised rose leaves and orange flowers. Note.—This makes a pretty sweet for a children’s party. 2057. Floating Island (fie Flottante) A sponge or Savoy cake. Apricot or raspberry jam. Whipped cream. Sugar. Flavouring. Some sherry or liqueur. Shred almonds. Pistachio nuts. Some custard. Choose a sponge cake or Savoy cake as high in form as possible. Cut it in slices, spread the pieces with a little apricot or raspberry jam, and soak them with a little sherry or liqueur. Then put the cake back into shape, and stand it in a deep china or crystal dish. Mask it with a little whipped cream, which has been sweetened and flavoured, stick some shred almonds all over the top and sides, and sprinkle with some finely-chopped pistachio nuts. Pour some good custard round the base, and the floating island is ready to serve. 2058. G&teau & la Prineesse 8 wafer biscuits. Pink royal icing A piece of white cake. \ pt. double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Preserved or fresh fruit. Choose the oblong wafer biscuits about 2 inches in width, such as are used for serving with ices. Cut a slice of Genoese pastry or any white cake about inches square and 1 inch thick. Then make it octagonal in shape by cutting off the four corners. Each side of the octagon should be the width of a wafer biscuit. Spread the sides of the cake with pink royal icing, and stand the biscuits G&teau a la Prineesse round it, pressing them well against the icing, which ought to be stiff enough to make them adhere. Join the biscuits together with more of the icing, put through a forcing bag, and thus make a little case or basket of the wafer biscuits. Allow this to stand some time until the icing is set, and do not fill with the cream until a few minutes before serving, as the wafers soon lose their crispness. For Filling.—Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and then mix in some fruit, either fresh or preserved, cut in small pieces. Stand the wafer case on the dish on which it is to be served, with a dish paper under it. Pile up the cream mixture in the centre, and decorate, if wished, with more of the fruit or with violets and pistachio nuts. Tie a piece of white ribbon round the gateau, and it is ready, for serving. Notes.—The colouring can, of course, be varied to suit individual taste and the decoration of the table. A larger gateau may be made by using 2 biscuits for each side of an octagon. A square of cream pastry may be used instead of the cake. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2059. Gfiteau de Pommes a la Cr6me Pastry. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 1 egg. A squeeze of lemon juice. Mixture. \ pt. apple puree. 1 gill lemon or wine jelly 1 gill double cream. 2 sheets of gelatine. 1 table sp. liqueur. To Make the Pastry Case.—First make the pastry according to directions given for Short Crust (see Recipe 1439), using enough beaten egg to bind, and keeping it rather stiff. Grease a plain souffle tin, and line it with this pastry rolled out rather456 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD thinly. Then line the mould with greased paper, and fill up with rice or small haricot beans. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked, remove the paper and filling, and return the case to the oven to dry and brown inside. When ready, turn it out carefully, and dry on a sieve or pastry rack. Then brush over the sides with melted apricot marmalade, and coat them with finely-chopped pistachio nuts, or finely-chopped almonds, which have been browned in the oven. To Prepare the Mixture.—Make the apple pulp according to directions given in Recipe 1970. It must be very thick and smooth, and sweetened to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the lemon or wine jelly so as to make it extra stiff, then strain it into a basin, and whip until white and frothy. Whip the cream, and stir it and the jelly very lightly into the apple puree. Add the liqueur or other flavour- ing to taste, and when this mixture is on the point of setting, pour it into the pastry case. Set aside in a cool place at least | hour. To Finish.—Have ready a gill of whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured. Put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force it out prettily on the top of the gateau. Decorate with some pieces of pre- served fruits, or with some very fight fancy biscuits. Note.—Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. 2060. Gateau Napolitain | lb. flour. I lb. butter. J: lb. castor sugar. \ lb. ground almonds. Grated rind of J lemon. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. water. Raspberry or apricot jam. Glac6 icing. Cherries and angelica. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the almonds and the grated rind of half a lemon. Mix the yolks of eggs with 1 table-spoonful of water, and moisten the dry ingredients with this. Knead well so as to form one lump, and turn out on a floured board. Then work the paste with the hands until free from cracks, and divide into five or six equal- sized pieces. Roll each piece round, and cut it with a cutter or saucepan fid about 6 inches in diameter. Place these rounds on a greased baking tin, prick them with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes, or until of a pale yellow colour. When these rounds of pastry are cold, spread them thinly with jam and place them one on the top of the other, reserving the best one, without jam, for the top. Trim the edges if necessary, and then ice the cake on the top and sides with glace icing. Decorate with some nice pieces of cherry and angelica, other preserved fruit, or crystallised violets. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2061. Gateau St. Honors Choux pastry. 2 dessert-sps. sugar. 2 dessert-sps. water. 1J gills good custard. 2 sheets of gelatine. 2 whites of eggs or 1 gill whipped cream. Short Crust. J lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2oz. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. rum. A pinch of salt. A little grated lemon rind. Decora'ions—Chopped pistachio nuts, pink sugar. First make some choux pastry and allow it to cool slightly. Make a short crust with the above ingredients—i.e. rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, salt, and grated lemon rind, and mix into a stiff paste with the yolk of egg, rum, and, if necessary, a little water. Roll it out to the thickness of J inch, cut round with a plate or large cutter, and prick all over. Put the choux pastry into a forcing bag, and force out a border all round this cake of short crust, and bake in a moderate oven. With the remainder of the choux pastry, which is in the bag, form upon another tin some fittle choux or lumps about the size of a small nut, and bake them in a moderate oven. When all is ready, boil the 2 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar with the same amount of water until the Gateau St. Honore sugar commences to turn slightly yellow. At this point dip briskly each fittle choux in the syrup, and stick them at once upon the border of the cake, arranging them in a circle round the top. Dissolve two sheets of gelatine in a fittle water, and strain it into 1gills of good custard. Stir this frequently until it is nearly cold, and then add two whites of eggs beaten to a stiff snow, or 1 gill of whipped cream. Flavour to taste. Fill the middle of the gateau with the custard, putting it in in spoonfuls, or by means of a forcing bag. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts and pink sugar, or any other suitable decoration. Time to bake, § to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. 2062. Genoese Baskets Genoese pastry. Raspberry jam. Chopped pistachio nuts. Desiccated cocoanut. Angelica. Whipped cream. Sugar and flavouring. Take some well-cooked Genoese pastry about 1 £ inches in thickness, and stamp it out in rounds 2 to 2J inches in diameter. With a smaller round cutter cut half-way through the centre of each, and remove these pieces so as to form fittle cases (see Croustades, p. 493). Spread the sides and top of these cases with raspberry jam or red-currant jelly, and roll either in chopped pistachio nuts, browned almonds, or in desiccated cocoanut. Whip some thick cream, sweeten and flavour it.COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 457 and put it into a forcing bag. Fill up the pastry cases with this, piling it rather high. Soak a piece of angelica in hot water, and when soft cut some thin strips and fix them across the baskets to form handles. Serve on a lace-edged paper. Note.—The tops of the baskets look very pretty, if decorated with a little pink or white icing. Probable cost, 1 \d. to 2d. each. 2063. Meringues with Cream (Meringues a la Creme) 3 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. 9 oz. castor sugar. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Put the whites into a large basin, add a pinch of salt, and with a wire whisk beat them to a very stiff froth. Sieve the sugar, and mix it in gently and lightly with an iron or silver spoon. Place a sheet of white paper over a wooden board, or baking sheet of iron, in readiness to place the meringues for baking. To Shape the Meringues.—Two dessert-spoons, a palette knife, and a jug or basin of cold water will be required. Take up a spoonful of the meringue mixture in a wet spoon, and with a palette knife, also wet, smooth it quickly over, piling it high in the centre and pointed at the two ends. With the second spoon scoop the meringue out, and place it on the prepared tin or board. Or, the meringue mixture may be put into a forcing bag, and the shapes forced out on the tin. Leave a space of \ inch between each meringue, and sprinkle them with fine sugar. Place them in a very gentle oven until they are crisp and delicately tinted golden. Turn the paper, on which the meringues have been baked, upside down upon the table; moisten the paper on the back with a brush dipped in cold water ; 5 minutes later the meringues will come off easily. Make each meringue hollow by pressing with the finger on its centre, place them back on the tin, and put them again in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Whip the cream until thick, sweeten and flavour it. Fill the meringues with this, putting two pieces together, and pile them on a glass or silver dish. Notes.—In making meringues the stiff beating of the whites of eggs is essential, but it is equally essential that this beating should cease directly the right consistency is attained, or a broken curdled appearance will be the result, and the mixture will be close and heavy. As soon as the egg froth stands up in solid points on the withdrawal of the whisk, or will allow itself to be divided with a knife into two separate halves, stop beating. The oven will be suitable for cooking meringues when it has cooled down after other use, or when the fire is allowed to get quite low. One of the main factors in making meringues is their prolonged and thorough drying in a cool oven. Instead of baking them on paper, warm an ordinary baking tin, rub the bottom of it all over with white wax, and cook the meringues on that. Meringues may be stored in a tin and kept for use at any time. For the filling, any flavouring or liqueur may be added to the cream, or small pieces of fresh fruit may be mixed in; or a little jam may be put in the meringue case first and then the cream. The cream may also be coloured pink with a little carmine. 2064. Mushroom Meringues (Champignons Meringues) Make the meringue mixture and prepare two tins as above. Put the meringue mixture into a forcing bag with a pipe J inch in diameter. Force it out on to one of the tins in pieces the size of the top of a mushroom. Then on to the other tin force an equal number of smaller pieces to repre- sent the stalks. Dredge well with icing sugar, and bake in a very slow oven until set and of a fawny colour. When ready, remove the meringues from the oven, and make a small round hole in the bottom of the large ones. Brush the bottom over with white of egg, and dip in grated chocolate. Brush over the stalks also with white of egg, and dip them in chocolate. Fix them into the holes with a little white of egg and icing sugar. Whip some cream, and sweeten and flavour it to taste. Put it into a forcing bag, and force out on a crystal or china dish, arranging the meringues prettily on the top. 2065. Meringued Apples (Pommes MeringuSes) 6 or 7 apples. f Meringue. Sugar. Water. J 3 whites of eggs. Lemon juice. j £ lb. castor sugar. Choose well-shaped apples of equal size. Peel and core them, keeping them whole. Cook them in a syrup of sugar and water, being careful they do not break. Lift them out of the syrup when ready, and let them cool. The apples should be under rather than overdone, as they will soften still further when returned to the oven with tbe meringue. Place them on a waxed or oiled tin, leaving a little space between each, and proceed to make the meringue according to directions given above. Put the meringue mixture into a forcing bag, and force it out round and over each apple, covering them entirely. Sprinkle with sugar, and return to a slow oven until the meringue Forcing Bag and Pipe is crisp and of a pale biscuit colour. Serve the apples on a crystal or silver dish, and decorate them with whipped and sweetened cream, or with small pieces of red-currant jelly. 2066. Meringued Apricots (Abricots Meringues) 1 doz. fresh apricots. | White of egg. £ lb. loaf sugar. Castor sugar. 1 pt. water. Angelica. Vanilla. I Rose leave's. Choose apricots or small peaches that are not quite ripe. Dip them one at a time in water that is almost boiling, and peel off the skin care- fully. Put the loaf sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them to a syrup, but not too thick. Place the apricots in this syrup, and cook them gently by the side of the fire until they feel tender when pressed between the fingers. "When ready, lift them out, allow them to drain a minute or two, then dip them in beaten white of egg and roll them in castor sugar. Place the apricots, when thusCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 458 coated, on a baking tin, and dry them a few minutes in a cool oven. Meanwhile chop some angelica and mix it with a few crystallised rose leaves. Sprinkle the apricots with this mixture, and serve them piled up on a pretty dessert dish. 2067. Meringued Oranges (Oranges Merlngu&s) 6 oranges. Red-currant jelly. Whipped cream. Meringue. 3 whites of eggs. \ lb. castor sugar. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and place them on a waxed or oiled baking tin. Make the meringue mixture accord- ing to directions given above, and put it into a forcing bag with a fancy pipe at the end of it. Then proceed in the same way as for Meringued Apples. 2068. Meringued Peaches (Peches Meringu6es) 6 or 8 pieces tinned peach. Slices of sponge cake. Preserved ginger. 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. A few drops vanilla. Granulated sugar. Cut as many round slices of sponge cake as there are pieces of peach. They should not be more than half an inch in thickness and slightly larger than the peach. Hollow out the rounds of sponge cake very slightly in the middle, and stand a piece of peach on each, the hollow side uppermost. Fill the hollows with small pieces of preserved ginger and then proceed to make the meringue with the whites of eggs and sugar as directed in Recipe 2063. When ready, flavour with a few drops of vanilla, and pile some on the top of each peach, covering cake and fruit entirely. Sprinkle with granulated sugar and then cook them. Place the meringued peaches in a slow oven until lightly browned. They ought to be in the oven at least 10 minutes before the browning begins. Lift carefully and place on a lace-edged paper. Serve either hot or cold. Notes.—Other preserved fruits may be used instead of ginger, and the peach may be sprinkled with a little brandy or liqueur. Pears may be used instead of peaches, the sponge cake being cut in a form to suit. of scissors, and when set turn out. Whip the cream until thick, add the sugar and flavouring, and drain on a sieve for a short time. Then fill the little moulds with it, put a thin strip of angelica over each for a handle, and decorate with chopped pistachio nuts or crystallised violets. 2070. Peaches a la Chantilly (Peches & la Chantilly) 1 tin of peaches. Genoese pastry or sponge cake. Peach marmalade. 1 small glass sherry < liqueur. £ pt. double cream. Sugar. Vanilla. A few cherries. Angelica. The Foundation.—Take a round of Genoese pastry or sponge cake about the size of a des- sert plate and 2 or 3 inches in thickness. (This should be at least one day old.) Split it in two, and spread a good layer of peach marmalade between the slices. Sprinkle with the wine or liqueur, and allow this to soak for £ hour or so, keeping it in as cool a place as possible. Peach Marmalade.—Take two or three halves, or any broken pieces of peaches, and boil them in a saucepan with a little of their syrup until reduced to a thickish paste. Care must be taken that this does not burn. Flavour with a little rum or liqueur, and use when cold. The Peaches.—Drain them from the syrup, and place them on ice or in a very cold place. A short time before they are required, decorate the rounded side with a piece of cherry in the centre and leaves of angelica round. The Cream.—-Whip the cream, sweeten it to taste with a little castor sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. To Finish.—Put the cream into a forcing bag with a large fancy pipe at the end, and force it out in a dome in the centre of the round of cake. Arrange the peaches round the edges of the round, one leaning against the other. Sauce.—If liked, the remainder of the syrup from the peaches may be reduced, coloured pink, flavoured to taste, and poured round. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. 2069. Nougat Baskets with Chantilly Cream (Petits Nougats & la Chantilly) l lb. castor sugar. | lb. sweet almonds. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. J pt. thick cream. 1 oz. sugar. J tea-sp. powdered vanilla. Decorations. Angelica, pistachio nuts, crystallised violets. Blanch and chop the almonds, but not too finely. Put them on a baking tin, and brown them slightly in the oven, turning them over occasionally, so that they may take colour on all sides. Put the sugar into an iron saucepan or sugar boiler, add the lemon, and melt slowly over the fire. Then boil quickly until of a light brown colour. Stir in the prepared almonds, and remove from the fire. Pour this nougat mixture on to an oiled slab, and work out first with an oiled palette knife and then with a rolling-pin until as thin as possible. Have ready greased some small basket-shaped moulds. Cut small pieces from the nougat paste, and line the moulds with it. Trim round the edges with a pair 2071. Pears a la Celestine (Poires a la Celestine) \ doz. pears. | lb. sugar. f pt. water. Juice of £ lemon. Stewed rice. 1 gill apricot puree or marmalade. A few preserved fruits. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Choose medium-sized pears, peel them, but leave them whole. Make a syrup with the sugar, water, and lemon juice, and cook the pears in this until they are tender. Lift them out and allow them to cool slightly. Then cut a good slice off each lengthwise to about one-third of the depth of the pear. Scoop out the inside, and fill up with a mixture of fruits, either fresh or preserved, cut in very small pieces and bound together with a little thick apricot puree (made by rubbing some tinned apricots through a sieve). Cover with the pieces of pear cut off, so as to give the pear its original shape. Have ready prepared some nicely stewed rice, sweetened and flavoured to taste, and to which the yolk of an egg or a little cream has beenCOLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 459 added. Arrange this in a bed on a glass or silver dish, placing the pears on the top. Add the re- mainder of the apricot puree to the syrup in which the pears were cooked, reduce it to nice consistency, colour with a little carmine, and strain. When cool, pour over the pears and serve cold. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, la. 4d. to la. 6d. 2072. Pears & la St. Honor6 (Poires a la St. Honor6) Custard. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. Vanilla. 2 eggs. Caramel. 2 or 3 oz. castor sugar. Compote. 5 or 6 pears. I lb. loaf sugar. J pt. water. Lemon juice. 1 or 2 table-sps. apricot puree. A little liqueur. Skin the pistachio nuts, chop them, pound them in a mortar, and then tud them through a ware sieve. Whip the cream, and add to it the sugar, orange-flower water, brandy, and most of the pistachio nuts. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and, when slightly cool, strain it into the cream, &c., and, lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten stiffly. Fill up the souffle cases with this mixture, and set them in a cool place or on ice to stiffen. Colour a little clear liquid jelly green, add to it the remaining pistachio nuts, and, when almost setting, run it over the top of the souffles and set again. When required, remove the bands of paper, and serve the souffles on a crystal or silver dish. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Probable cost, 3s. 2074. Pommes de Terre Nouvelles Decoration—Whipped cream. First prepare a caramel custard, and steam it in a border mould. Heat the milk in a saucepan and flavour it with vanilla. Beat the eggs and sugar together in a basin, and pour the hot milk gradu- ally on to them, stirring all the time. Then make the caramel by melting the castor sugar in a saucepan without any water, and allowing it to boil until it becomes a golden brown. Take a plain border mould, large enough to hold rather more than J pint, heat it first, pour in the caramel, and run it round the sides and over the bottom. Grease carefully the inner sides, which have not been coated by the caramel, and strain in the custard. Place the custard in a deep tin with cold water round it, heat this over the fire without letting it boil, and then place all in a moderate oven. Cook slowly until the custard feels firm to the touch (20 to 30 minutes), lift it out, and allow it to cool. Meanwhile make a compote with the pears. Choose pears of a medium size, peel them, cut them in quarters or in sixths, and remove the cores. Make a syrup with the sugar, water, and a little lemon juice, and cook the pieces of pear in it until they are tender but not broken. Strain off most of the syrup, add to the pears the apricot puree and a little kirsch or other liqueur, and allow the compote to cool. The compote must not be liquid, as the custard is already soft. To Serve.—Turn out the custard, place some of the pieces of pear in the centre, and the rest round the dish. Garnish the top with a little whipped and sweetened cream put through a forcing bag. Note.—Other fruits may be used in place of the pears. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2073. Pistachio Nut Souffles, Cold (Souffles froids aux Pistaches) J pt. double cream. 3 whites of eggs. 1 lb. pistachio nuts. 2 oz. sugar. | oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. brandy. 2 tea-sps. orange-flower water. I gill water. A little clear jelly. Green colouring. Prepare eight or nine small souffle cases with a band of paper pinned round the outside (see p. 486). Pastry. I- lb. sugar. 3} oz. flour. 4 eggs. | lb. almond paste. 1 gill double cream, sugar, and flavouring, or I gill thick custard, II oz. grated chocolate, l| oz. fine sugar. To Make the Pastry.—Put the yolks, of eggs into a basin and add the sugar finely sieved. Beat these two together with a whisk or wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and sieve and dry the flour. Add the flour and beaten whites alter- nately to the yolks and sugar, and mix all very lightly. Spread out on a greased and papered tin, and bake in a good oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Turn the pastry out on to sugared paper and allow it to cool. To Make the Potatoes.—Stamp out this pastry into small oval-shaped pieces, and hollow the centre of each with a tea-spoon. Fill up with thick whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured, or with thick custard, and put another piece on the top. Roll out the almond paste (see Recipe 2852) very thinly, and cut it in square pieces. Coat each piece of pastry with this, and roll in the hands until smooth. Then roll in chocolate and sugar mixed, and make small indentations to represent the eyes of the potato. Do not make the potatoes too regular in form. Serve them on a lace-edged paper. 2075. Another Method 6 oz. chocolate cake- crumbs. 1 table-sp. sieved apri- cot jam. 2 oz. sugar. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. any liqueur. k lb. almond paste. 1£ oz. grated choco- late. H oz. castor sugar. Glace cherries. Put the cake-crumbs into a basin, and add the sugar, lemon juice, and jam. Flavour with some liqueur, and mix into a paste. Divide this into small portions, and put a glac6 cherry into the centre of each. Then coat with almond paste, forming them into potato-shaped pieces, and finish as in last recipe.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 460 2076. Rice a la Royale (Riz a la Roy ale) 3 oz. Carolina rice. | pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. Custard. 4 yolks of eggs. b pt. milk. \ tea-sp. cornflour. Vanilla. 1 gill double cream. 2 sheets gelatine. Stewed or tinned pears. Chopped pistachio nuts. Stew the rice in the milk until tender and let it cool. Make the custard, adding the above small quantity of cornflour to give it a little more consistency. Flavour with vanilla, strain, and divide it into two equal portions. To one portion add the gelatine dissolved in a little water, and reserve the remainder to use as a sauce. When the rice is cool, add to it the custard, which contains the gelatine, along with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of thick cream, and more sugar if neces- sary. Mix lightly, and arrange this neatly in a glass or pretty china dish. Take some nicely cooked pears, wipe them dry from any syrup; if large cut them in two or three pieces, and place these on the top of the rice. Add any remaining cream to the rest of the custard, and pour it over. Sprinkle with a few chopped pistachio nuts or some shred almonds, and serve very cold. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 2077. Savarin Chantilly Make the same mixture as for Babas au Rhum (Recipe 2037), but omit the currants, and, instead of baking it in dariole moulds, bake in a border mould that has been well greased and dusted out lightly with flour. When cooked, baste it well with the rum syrup, and when ready to serve fill the hollow in the centre with whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with a little vanilla. A few pieces of preserved fruits or some chopped pistachio nuts may be used for decoration. 2078. Savarin with Cherries (Savarin aux Cerises) A savarin. 2 oz. loaf sugar. 2 table-sps. water. 1 table-sp. liqueur. \ lb. cherries. Castor sugar. 1 gill double cream. Vanilla. Angelica or pistachio nuts. The savarin, which must have been baked in a border mould, may either be bought ready or made according to directions given in last recipe; or, failing a savarin, use a sponge cake that has been made in a border mould. Make a syrup with the loaf sugar and water, and add to it enough kirsch or other liqueur to flavour it well. Allow it to cool, and pour sufficient over the savarin to soak it without making it soppy. Wipe the cherries, removing the stalks and stones, put them on a fire-proof dish, and sprinkle them well with castor sugar. Place them in a very moderate oven, and allow them to cook without any liquid. Then put them aside to cool. Whip the cream, flavour it with vanilla, and sweeten it to taste with castor sugar. To Finish the Sweet.—Put the savarin on the dish on which it is to be served, fill up the centre with the cherries, and pile the cream on the top, or put it through a forcing bag, forcing it out in a pretty design. Decorate with a few fresh uncooked cherries and small leaves of angelica, or a little chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2079. Savarin aux Fraises Make in the same way as the above, using strawberries instead of cherries. To Prepare the Strawberries.—Pick off the stalks, sprinkle them with sugar and a little kirsch or other liqueur, and allow them to stand for half an hour in a cool place. No cooking is required. 2080. Timbale de Fruits & la Parisienne A large brioche. i Fruits cooked in syrup. Apricot puree or mar- Vanilla. malade. A little kirsch or other Preserved fruits. j liqueur. To Make the Brioche Case or Timbale.—Take a large brioche cooked in a souffle tin to give it a straight form (Recipe 2662), and, if possible, let it be a day old. Cut off the top and reserve it for a cover. Then with a fine-pointed knife cut round the inside of the brioche a little distance from the crust, and to a depth of about 1 inch from the foot. Pass the knife round once or twice to make sure that the inside is free from the crust. Then slip in the knife through the crust an inch or so from the bottom of the brioche, and move it about from right to left so as to sever the centre piece entirely, making the hole as small as possible. Now lift out the soft centre part, leaving a case or crust of brioche. To Glaze the Timbale.—Take some thick apricot puree, made by rubbing tinned apricots or apricot marmalade through a sieve. Put it into a saucepan with some of the syrup from the fruit (see below), flavour with vanilla or a little liqueur, and boil quickly until reduced to a thick syrup or jelly. Brush over the brioche timbale with this, and also the cover, to glaze them well; then decorate them with pieces of preserved fruits, shred almonds, cocoanut, &c., and according to taste. The Fruit for Filling.—Take any fresh fruits, according to season, and cook them in a syrup of sugar and water flavoured with vanilla until they are tender. The pieces of fruit should be rather small in size, so that they will fit into the timbale easily. A little tinned fruit may be mixed with the fresh fruit if liked, or a few small pieces of preserved fruit. A little liqueur may also be added, and the apricot glaze left over after glazing the brioche. To Finish.—Fill up the brioche with the fruit, putting in as little of the syrup as possible. Put on the cover, and serve the rest of the syrup and fruit separately in a sauce boat.FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES, &c. 461 The value of fruit as an article of diet is well known, and that it should have a place on every table is a recognised fact. Although some fruits are not of much service as far as food is concerned, owing to the large quantity of water they contain, they are valuable on account of their mineral salts, which help to purify the blood and keep the body in good condition. They also supply water in a palatable and refreshing form, and their flavour and juiciness help to stimulate the appetite and give variety and light- ness to a more solid diet. It is now quite possible to have fresh fruit all the year round, because during the time that our own home-grown fruit is out of season, its place is taken by that which comes from abroad. Fresh fruit, prettily arranged, is always beautiful and inviting, and can be eaten without danger by those who are healthy. Others, however, find they can take it more easily in a cooked form, and for this reason, as well as to add a little variety to the ordinary fruit course, it is useful to know how to prepare it in diSerent ways. Compotes or stewed fruits, for instance, are always good, served with light cake or biscuits as a simple dessert, or along with a milk pudding as a more substantial sweet. Fruit salads, too, are universal favourites, especially in hot weather, when a more substantial pudding would be out of place. Then again, it is often necessary to know how to preserve fruit for winter consumption, especially for those who have fruit gardens of their own, and have a glut during late summer and autumn, and no fruit at all during the winter months. This section gives directions for serving fruit in different ways as a dessert, and also for preserving and bottling it in a simple manner for homely consumption. PART I FRUIT COMPOTES AND SALADS, <fcc. 2081. Baked Apples, 1 2083. Compote of Apples, Pommes) 1 (Compote de 1 lb. apples. I lb. loaf sugar. | pt. water. The juice of \ lemon. A few drops of carmine or cochineal. Take the number of apples required, and choose them, if possible, of equal size. Wipe them well with a damp cloth and remove the core with a fork or apple corer. Place them in a baking tin, sprinkle them first with a little water and then with granu- lated sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until soft. The time will depend upon the kind of apple used, and will vary from 20 minutes to 1 hour. When the apples are ready, lift them on to a clean dish and sift a little sugar over. Another Way, 2 Peel and core the apples, roll them in castor sugar, and place them in a fireproof baking dish. Fill up the hole in the centre of the apples with a small piece of butter mixed with sugar and grated lemon rind or ground cinnamon, pour a little water round, and bake in a moderate oven, basting them occa- sionally with the liquid. 2082. Steamed Apples Prepare the apples as in last recipe, placing them in a deep dish, and steam them over a saucepan of hot water until tender, but not broken. This is a very simple way of cooking apples, and if served with cream or custard they are excellent. They may be served either hot or cold. If cold, they may be decorated with a little whipped cream, or red-currant or gooseberry jelly. Put the sugar, water, and lemon juice into a clean fined saucepan, and let them boil quickly for 10 minutes. Meanwhile peel the apples, cut them in quarters, and remove the cores. Throw the pieces into the boiling syrup, and let them cook slowly until clear and tender, but not broken. Then remove the quarters of apple carefully, reduce the syrup a little, and colour it pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. Arrange the apples on a glass dish and pour the syrup over. A few chopped pistachio nuts may be sprinkled over. Notes.—If the apples are small, they may be cored and cooked whole. The centres may then be filled with a little whipped and sweetened cream. A little wine may, if liked, be added to the syrup, and orange juice may be used instead of lemon. A little cream or custard served with the compote is a great improvement. Another Way, 2 Apples. I Sugar. Water. Orange marmalade. | A little arrowroot. Peel and core the apples, keeping them whole. Throw them into a basin of cold water as they are done, to prevent discoloration. When all are ready, place them in a pie dish cr deep baking tin, and fill up the holes in the centre with orange marmalade. Sprinkle the apples with sugar and pour over enough warm water to almost cover462 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD them. Put a cover on the top and bake in a moderate oven until tender, but not broken. Lift the apples carefully and place them on a dish that can be sent to the table. Measure the liquid left in the dish, and to each \ pint allow 1 tea-spoonful arrowroot. Break the arrowroot first with a little cold water, then add it to the liquid and stir in a saucepan over the fire until it boils and turns clear. Add a little more marmalade and pour this sauce over the apples. A little liqueur may also be added to the sauce if wished. Serve this compote warm, handing finger biscuits and cream separately. 2084. Baked Bananas Bananas. I A little water. Granulated sugar. I Grated lemon rind. Peel the bananas and lay them in a fireproof dish. Sprinkle them liberally with sugar and a little grated lemon rind. Cover the bottom of the dish with water and bake in a good oven until the bananas are sufficiently cooked. Note.—Any other flavouring may be used instead of the lemon rind, such as spice, chopped nuts, vanilla, orange rind and juice, &c., and a little white wine may be used instead of water. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. 2085. Compote of Bananas 5 or 6 bananas. \ lb. sugar. Rind and juice of 1 orange. 2 table-sps. chopped walnuts. A little water. Peel the bananas, and with a silver knife cut them in slices about 1 inch in thickness. Place these in an enamelled or earthenware saucepan with the grated rind and the Juice of 1 orange, the sugar and nuts. Add just enough water to prevent the fruit from sticking to the saucepan, put on the lid and stew slowly until the bananas are soft, but not broken. Serve this compote warm. Note.—Lemon may be used instead of orange, And a little wine instead of the water. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2086. Banana and 4 or 5 bananas. 1 tea-cupful cranberries. J lb. sugar. Cranberry Compote 1 gill water. I tea-sp. ground cinna mon. Pick and wash the cranberries, put them into a saucepan with the sugar and cinnamon, and stew them until tender. Then rub them through a sieve and return the puree thus obtained to the saucepan. Peel the bananas, cut them in pieces with a silver knife, and put them into the cranberry puree. Cook for a few minutes until the bananas are soft and serve cold. Note.—Red currant* or raspberries may be used instead of the cranberries. 2087. Compote of Cherries (Compote de Cerises) 1 lb. cherries. f lb. sugar. Juice of 1 lemon. Wipe the cherries carefully, and separate them the one from the other. Trim the stalks with a pair of scissors, leaving only from 1 inch to H inch on each. Put the cherries into a lined saucepan "with the sugar, and strain in the lemon juice. Put the lid on the pan, and stew gently for 10 minutes, or until the cherries are cooked without being broken. Lift them carefully on to a glass dish, and pour back into the saucepan any juice which may be round them. Boil this juice a few minutes longer, and then pour it over the cherries. 2088. Jubilee Cherries (Cerises a la Jubile) 1 lb. cherries. £ lb. loaf sugar. | gill water. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. A little rum,champagne, kirsch, or brandy. Choose very good cherries for this, and pick, wash, anc! stone them. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan and let them melt over the fire. Skim if necessary. Put in the cherries, let them cook a for/ minutes and drain them from the syrup. Return the syrup to the saucepan, add to it the arrowroot broken with a little water, and stir over the fire until smooth and thick. Put back the cherries to warm them through; then serve in small china or silver casseroles. Pour a little hot rum, champagne, kirsch, or brandy over each, and set a light to them just before serving. 2089. Cherries in Brandy Morelia cherries. Castor sugar. French brandy. Choose perfectly sound and not over-ripe morella cherries of a good colour. Cut off the stalks about \ inch from the fruit and wipe the cherries with a soft cloth. Then pack them in perfectly dry pre- serving bottles and in alternate layers with the best castor sugar. Allow about 3 oz. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Rather more than half fill the bottles with the fruit and sugar, and then fill up with good French brandy. Cover or cork the bottles very tightly to make them air-tight, and store in a cool and dry place. These should be kept at least two months before using. 2090. Compote of Chestnuts with Rum (Compote de Marrons au Rhum) 1 lb. Italian chestnuts. 1 glass rum. 2 oz. sugar. Roast and peel the chestnuts (see Recipe 1625), place them in a hot dish which can be sent to table, and keep them warm. Heat the rum in a small lined saucepan with the sugar, pour it over the chestnuts, and set a light to it. Send the dish to table while burning. 2091. Compote of Dates 1 lb. dates. I Juice 1 lemon. \ lb. sugar. I 1 large glass Malaga. Wipe the dates and remove the stones. Put them into a jar with the sugar, strained juice of 1 lemon, and the wine. Cover and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Then- stew by the side of the fire or in the oven for 1 hour. Serve when cold. 2092. Stewed Figs 1 lb. dried figs. I 1 pt. water. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. | Juice of 1 lemon. Wash the figs thoroughly, cut oS the hard piece of stalk, and then look them over carefully, discard- ing any that are black or discoloured. Place theFRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 463 figs with the other ingredients in a strong jar, cover them over, and if possible allow them to stand overnight. This preliminary soaking is very important if the figs are wanted very soft and tender, and even an hour or two is better than none at all. To cook the figs, place the jar con- taining them in a saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides, put on the lid, and steam from \\ to 2 horns until the fruit is quite tender. Serve hot or cold. Cream or custard may be served Notes.—The jar containing the figs may be placed in a moderate oven instead of a saucepan of water, or, if more convenient, the figs may be cooked in a lined saucepan at the side of the stove. Orange juice may be used instead of lemon juice, or a little wine may be added. 2093. Grape Fruit, To Serve Cut the fruit in halves and scoop out the seeds and core from the centre. Fill the centres with castor sugar, and then stand for an hour or so in a cool place. Then serve with a spoon. 2094. Iced Melon h la Frangalse (Melon Frappe a la Frangaise) 1 melon. [ Sugar. Strawberries. | Liqueur. Choose a round ripe melon and with a sharp- pointed knife cut a round out of the skin at the stalk end about 2 inches in diameter. Reserve this round for filling up the hole later on. With a silver spoon carefully remove all the seeds from the inside of the melon. Choose very small strawberries, or, if large, cut them in pieces with a silver knife. There should be a sufficient quantity to fill the melon. Sprinkle them with sugar, moisten well with some liqueur, and let them stand at least | hour. Fill up the melon with the strawberries and replace the round of skin on the top. Now place the melon in a pail of broken ice and let it remain until icy cold. Serve on a folded serviette, cutting the number of slices required. 2095. Melon with Port Wine (Melon a Porto) Cut the top ofl a rock melon and scoop, out all the seeds from the inside. Place the melon on ice and pour into it 1 or 2 glasses of port wine. Allow it to remain on the ice for 2 or 3 hours, then pour out the liquid and fill the centre with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. Replace the top and serve as cold as possible. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be seasoned with salt and Paprika pepper. 2096. Stewed 1 lb. pippins. £ lb. sugar. The rind of 1 lemon. 1 inch cinnamon stick. Normandy Pippins 1 inch whole ginger. 1 pt. water. 1 glass port. Put the sugar, water, cinnamon, and ginger into a saucepan with the thinly-peeled rind of one lemon. Boil together for 10 minutes, then strain and cool. Pour this syrup over the pippins in a basin, cover with a plate, and soak for 12 hours. Then turn all into a lined saucepan, and stew slowly until the pippins are tender, from 1| to 2 hours. 'When ready, lift them out and place them on a glass dish. Add the port to the syrup in the saucepan, and strain it over the pippins. If the syrup is not a pretty colour, a few drops of carmine or coohineal may be added. Orange or lemon juice may be used instead of the wine. Normandy pippins are delicious when served with Devonshire cream, or a little whipped cream may be put on the top of each apple. 2097. Peaches a la Diable (Peches a la Diable) 6 half peaches (tinned). 8 macaroon biscuits. Sugar. 1 glass rum or kirsch. 2 table-sps. jam or mar- malade. Drain the peaches from the syrup in which they are preserved, and place them on a greased fire- proof dish. Sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and cook them in a moderate oven until they are thoroughly tender. Take six of the macaroons and spread them on the rounded side with some thick jam or fruit marmalade. Rub the remaining two macaroons through a wire sieve to make crumbs. When the peaches are ready, arrange them in a circle on a fireproof dish and alternately with the macaroons. Sprinkle them with sugar and the macaroon crumbs, and place the dish in the oven to brown. When about to serve, pour over a glass of hot kirsch or rum, set fire to it, and serve at once. 2098. Compote of Pears (Compote de Poires) 1£ lbs. pears. i 2 table-sps. port vine. \ lb. loaf sugar. J pt. cold water. A few drops of carmine. Juice of \ lemon. 1 inch cinnamon stick. | 2 or 3 cloves. Put into a fined saucepan the sugar, water, lemon juice, cloves, and cinnamon stick, and allow these to boil for 10 minutes. Peel the pears, cut them in halves or quarters, according to size, re- move the cores, and stew them slowly in the syrup until tender, from | to 1| hours. When nearly ready, add the wine and carmine. Serve the pears in a glass or silver dish, allow the syrup to cool slightly, and then strain it over. Note.—The pears may be stewed in a jar instead of the saucepan (see Stewed Figs). 2099. Stewed Prunes £ lb. prunes. A little lemon rind and 2 or 3 oz. sugar. lemon juice. Cold water. The prunes should first be well washed and put into a basin with the sugar and enough fresh water to cover them. Place a plate on the top of the basin, and allow the prunes to soak all night if possible, or for a few hours at least. Then turn the primes and water in which they have been soaked into a fined saucepan. Add a little finely- peeled lemon rind, or cinnamon or cloves if pre- ferred, and stew slowly until soft. Lemon juice, or a small quantity of red wine, may be added if liked. Note.—The prunes may be cooked in a jar instead of a saucepan. Place the jar in a saucepan with boiling water to reach half-way up the sides, and keep slowly simmering until the prunes are soft.464 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2100. Compote oi Quinces Quinces. Water. Sugar. Wash the quinces, peel them, cut them in quarters and remove the cores. Throw the pieces of quince into a saucepan of cold water and let them lie until wanted. Put the skins and cores into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and allow them to boil at least | hour. Strain through a fine sieve or piece of muslin and return the liquid to a saucepan along with 1 cupful of sugar to each pint. Bring to the boil and skim if necessary. Drain the pieces of quince, put them into the hot syrup, and stew slowly until tender. Then put them on a dish and pour the syrup over. Note.—A little wine may be added if wished. 2101. Strawberries and Cream it la Chantilly 1 lb. strawberries. 1 glass kirsch. Juice £ lemon. Sugar. 1 gill double crea Vanilla. Pick and wash the strawberries carefully. Small ones are best, but, if large, cut them in pieces. Put them into a glass bowl or dish, pour over the kirsch or some other liqueur, and the juice of £ lemon. Sprinkle well with sugar and stand in a 'very cold place, or on ice for preference, at least J hour. Then whip the cream until thick, flavour with vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Pile this on the top of the strawberries and decorate with small strawberries and, if liked, a few chopped pistachio nuts. Note.—This may be served in small individual cups if preferred. 2102. Strawberries a. la Cecil (Fraises a la Cecil) Choose small strawberries, wild ones by prefer- ence, and allow them to soak for 1 home in strained orange juice and sugar to taste. Serve in small cups with a little whipped cream on the top. 2103. Dried Fruits Delightful salads and compotes can be made from dried fruit, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. Quite a variety of these fruits is now on the mar- kets, besides the ordinary figs and prunes, such as apricots, peaches, pears, &c., and a mixture of the various kinds is also sold which is excellent for making a winter salad. Dried fruit should be well washed before using, then soaked overnight with sufficient cold water to cover it. Next day it should be slowly stewed or steamed with a syrup made of the water in which the fruit was soaked, and sugar in the proportion of | lb. to each pint of liquid, or according to taste. A little lemon juiee or rind may be added, also some nuts and wine if wished. 2104. Frosted Currants J lb. currants. I 1 table-sp. water. 1 white of egg. I Castor sugar. Either red or white currants may be chosen, but they should be fine and large for this purpose. Dust them lightly and break them into little bunches, removing any that are not perfectly sound. Sieve some sugar on to paper, and warm it without allowing it to melt. Beat up the white of egg and add the water to it. Dip the currants first into the egg and then into the sugar, shake them gently and place them on a paper to dry. Serve them piled up on a crystal or china dish. These make a very pretty dessert. Small grapes may be frosted in the same way. FRUIT SALADS General Notes Almost any kind of fruit may be employed in the making of a salad, such as strawberries, rasp- berries, white, red, or black currants, grapes, oranges, bananas, apples, pears, apricots, peaches, &c. In -winter, when fresh fruit is scarce, the tinned varieties will form a very welcome addition. The salad may be composed of a variety of fruits accord- ing to the season of the year, or merely of one or two fruits. Sometimes a small quantity of nuts, grated cocoanut, shred almonds or pistachio nuts, or chopped walnuts is mixed with the fruit. Fresh fruit must be dry and perfectly ripe—hard, unripe morsels will spoil any salad. It must be carefully prepared, and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Oranges should be skinned, every par- ticle of white pith removed from them, cut in thin slices, or divided in sections, and the pips taken out. Plums peeled, cut in halves or quarters, and the stones removed. Small grapes may be used whole, but the larger ones should be cut in two and have the seeds removed. Bananas, apples, pears, &c., should be peeled and cut in dice or in thin slices. Currants and berries must be carefully stalked and washed if necessary. All the cutting of the fruit must be done with a silver knife. The dressing of a fruit salad is generally com- posed of a syrup, made of sugar and water, with some wine or fruit juice added, or merely a sprink- ling of sugar with fruit juice or wine. The juicy fruits will require less liquid than the drier kinds. The kind of wine used is very much a matter of taste. For a salad composed principally of light-coloured fruits, such as apricots, peaches, pine-apple, pears, &c., it is better to use a light sweet wine; for strawberries, raspberries, and the darker fruits a red wine may be chosen, while the addition of a small quantity of liqueur is an improvement to any fruit salad. A fruit salad may be served either in a salad bowl, or in small glass cups with a vine or fern leaf under them. It should be allowed to stand some time after the dressing is poured over it; and the colder it is kept the better. It may be used either as a first course at luncheon or as a dessert. The following recipes are merely suggestive, and variety need only be limited by individual means and the material at disposal. For fruit salads with savoury dressing, see under Salads, p. 176. 2105. Mixed Fruit Salad, Winter (Salade de Fruits) £ lb. grapes (black or white). 2 bananas. 1 apple. 2 tangerine oranges. 1 cupful tinned apricots or pine-apple. 2 table-sps. chopped walnuts. | doz. glace cherries. Dressing. I lb. sugar. 1 gill water. 1 gill fruit syrup. Juice of 1 lemon. Wine or liqueur. Prepare the fruit carefully (see above), cut it in convenient-sized pieces, and mix it in a salad bowl.FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 465 Put the sugar, water, and syrup from the tinned fruit into a saucepan, and allow them to boil 10 minutes. Then strain into a basin, and when cold, strain in the lemon juice and add the wine or liqueur. Pour this dressing over the fruit, and allow it to stand in a cool place at least 1 hour. The chopped walnuts may either be mixed with the fruit or sprinkled over the top. If no fruit syrup is avail- able, use more sugar and water. The wine may be omitted. Whipped cream and sweet biscuits may be served separately. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 2106. Mixed Fruit Salad, Summer (Salade de Fruits) 1 cupful strawberries. 1 cupful raspberries. 2 bananas. 1 cupful red or white currants. 1 table-sp. shred pis- tachio nuts or 1 table- sp. cocoanut. Dressing. J lb. loaf sugar. 1 gill water. 1 glass claret or Bur- gundy. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. Prepare the fruit, and mix it lightly in a salad bowl. Boil the sugar and water together until they form a syrup, skim if necessary. Allow the syrup to cool, add the wine and brandy, and pour over the fruit. Stand in a cool place for several hours, and sprinkle the nuts over the top just before serving. Whipped cream and wafer or finger biscuits may be served separately. may be used instead of the cocoanut, or they may be omitted altogether. 2109. Oranges in Wine Peel the required number of oranges and care- fully remove all the white pith. Cut them in thin slices and take out the seeds. Arrange the slices neatly in a glass or china dish, dredge them with enough castor sugar to sweeten, and then barely cover with some good wine, such as sherry, port, or Madeira. Stand the oranges in a cool place, or on ice, for not more than \ hour and then serve. 2110. Strawberry Salad 1 lb. ripe strawberries. red-currant juice. 1 cupful fine sugar. Whipped cream. 1 small cupful orange or Prepare the strawberries, and if large cut them in pieces. Sieve the sugar and sprinkle it over them. Toss the two lightly together, and then let them rest \ hour. Add the fruit juice, and set in a cool place for 1 hour at least. Serve in glass cups or small china dishes placed on a few straw- berry leaves, and put a spoonful of whipped and sweetened cream on the top of each. Serve wafer or finger biscuits separately. Note.—Liqueur may be used instead of the fruit juice. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 2111. Watermelon Salad 2107. Banana and Raspberry Cups 4 or 5 bananas. I 2 table-sps. castor sugar. 1 lb. raspberries. Peel the bananas and cut them in small thin pieces with a silver knife. Pick the raspberries, mash them with the sugar, and then rub them through a hair or fine wire sieve. Half fill small cups or custard glasses with the bananas, and cover with the raspberry puree. Serve very cold with finger or other fancy biscuits. Notes.—A little orange or lemon juice, or some brandy or liqueur, may be sprinkled over the bananas before pouring on the puree, and a little whipped cream may be put on the top of the cups. Other fruits, such as strawberries, red or black currants, or apricots may be used instead of the raspberries. 2108. Orange and Banana Salad 3 oranges. 3 bananas. 2 table-sps. desiccated cocoanut. 1 tea-cupful loaf sugar. 1 tea-cupful water. Peel the oranges, carefully removing all the white pith, and cut them in very thin slices with a sharp knife. Remove the skin from the bananas and cut them also in slices, using a silver knife to prevent discoloration. Arrange the fruit in a salad dish, sprinkling over each layer a little of the cocoanut. Put the sugar and water into a sauce- pan, and boil them together at least 10 minutes. Skim if necessary and allow them to cool. Then pour this syrup over the fruit, and place in a very cool place until wanted. Note.—Other kinds of nuts, finely chopped. Take a nice ripe watermelon, cut it in quarters, and remove all the seeds. Then take all the red fleshy part, and break it in pieces with a silver knife or fork. Put this in a salad bowl, and sprinkle well with castor sugar. Place the bowl on ice or in a very cold place until the melon is thoroughly chilled, then, just before serving, pour over it a glass of claret or port. PART II JAM MAKING A FEW HINTS ON JAM MAKING Fruit for preserving should be uniformly ripe, sound, and fresh, and it should be picked, if pos- sible, on a dry, sunny morning, and not with the dew upon it. If the fruit be gathered under damp conditions, there is nothing more likely than this to prevent the jam from keeping. Fruit should be made into jam as soon as possible after picking. It must first be seen that it is free from all du^t and dirt, after which it must be picked and all stalks removed. The harder kinds of fruit such as apples, plums, gooseberries, and the like may be washed before being preserved. There are several different ways of making jam, and opinions vary as to which is the best. One method is to boil the sugar and water first, and thus make a syrup to which the fruit is added ; another is to cook the fruit by itself first and then to add the sugar in a crushed or half-melted con- dition ; and a third way is to boil both fruit and. sugar together from the beginning. In the follow- 2 GCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 466 ing recipes, examples of the different modes of treat- ment are given. The sugar used for preserving should be of the finest quality—pure cane sugar is the best—and in a crushed or granulated form, not powdered. An inferior quality of sugar will be found more expensive in the end, as there will not only be more waste in the form of scum, but the jam will neither have such a good colour nor will it keep so long. The quantity of sugar will vary somewhat according to the nature of the fruit used, the usual proportion being from f lb. to 1 lb. to each pound of fruit, or fruit juice, as the case may be. If too little sugar is used, the jam will not keep, and, if too much, it will candy, and the flavour of the fruit will be spoilt. It is possible, but not easy, to make jam without a proper preserving pan ; an iron one would dis- colour the jam, while a tin one is so thin that the jam would be almost sure to burn. Copper, brass, and aluminium pans are the best for the Preserving Pan and Spoon purpose. Enamelled iron preserving pans are also sold, and are less expensive, but jam made in them is much more likely to burn unless it has almost constant attention. If much preserving is to be done at home, it will be found a wise invest- ment to buy a thoroughly good preserving pan and to keep it for this purpose only. The greatest care must be taken to keep the pan in good condition, and it must always be scrupulously clean and dry before the fruit is put into it. For stirring jam use a wooden or silver spoon, never an iron one, as this latter would destroy the flavour of the fruit. During the time the fruit and sugar are being boiled together, they must be stirred carefully and almost constantly. Be careful, too, that the pan is raised a little above the fire, or it will he liable to burn. On the hot plate of a close range is really the best place for cooking jam, or, if on a gas stove, raise the pan a little above the gas jet, or place an asbestos mat under it. The skimming should not be commenced too early in the process, it is only a froth which rises at first; the scum itself is very thick and muddy looking. The time for cooking the jam will depend very much upon the method employed, the kind of fruit used, and the rate of boiling. As a matter of fact it does not do to lay down any hard and fast rule as to time. Experience will be found the best guide, as, not only will the time vary according as to whether the fruit is quickly or slowly boiled, but the same kinds of fruit will be found to differ, some being more watery than others, and the more watery the fruit the longer the boiling required. If boiled too short a time, the jam will neither set firmly, nor will it keep well; on the other hand, if too much boiled, the jam will be sticky and the flavour of the fruit will be spoilt. The Jelly Bag or Cloth The best strainer for jelly is a piece of hucka- back or strong cheese cloth. This is more easily kept in order than the old-fashioned flannel bag, and serves the purpose equally well. The material may be either in the form of a towel tied on the four legs of a chair (see p. 63), or a conical-shaped bag may be made with loops through which a stick may be put, in order to suspend it between two chairs with a basin underneath. The jelly bag should be well scalded with boiling water before it is used. After the fruit has been emptied into it no pressure must be used or the juice will not be clear. The straining must be done in a warm place and out of a draught, and sufficient time must be allowed to let every possible drop of juice run through. The best plan is to let it drain over- night. Some people use a hair sieve instead of a cloth, but this is not roomy enough if a large quantity of jelly is being made, and not a very convenient plan on the whole. To Know when Jam or Jelly is Ready When a little of the jam or jelly poured upon a cold plate sets in a few minutes, it is ready and should be put at once into pots. To Pot and Cover Jam Any kind of jam jar may be used, but glass ones are to be preferred, as the state of the jam can so easily be seen. They must be thoroughly clean, dry, and even heated. It is a good plan to stand them To Pot and Cover Jam in a cool oven for a short time before using. Ladle the jam out of the preserving pan with a silver soup ladle or with a cup or jug, and fill the pots to within quarter of an inch from the top. If any drops are spilt on the sides of the pots they shouldFRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 467 be immediately wiped oS with a cloth wrung out of hot water-. To cover the jam, cut rounds of thin w'hite paper the proper size of the pots, dip these in brandy, whisky, or vinegar, and lay them on the surface, then tie over each pot a piece of wetted vegetable parchment or a gummed paper cover sold for the purpose. Label the pots on the sides with a written or printed label, stating the name of the jam and the date when made. The jam must be stored in a cool, dry place. until reduced to a pulp. They must not he made too liquid. Pick and wash the cranberries, put them into another saucepan with the sugar, and bruise them down with the back of a wooden spoon. Unless this is done, they will never become sweet. Add them to the apple pulp, and boil both together until the jam will set. Note.—This is a very useful jam, as it can be made in the winter, when other fruit is scarce. It is very good served with roast game or mutton instead of red-currant jelly. 2112. Apple Ginger 3 lbs. apples. I 6 oz. whole ginger. 3 lbs. preserving sugar. | Water. Put the ginger into a jug or lined saucepan with boiling water and let it infuse by the side of the fire for several hours, keeping it well covered. Peel the apples, cut them into neat pieces, removing the core, and throw them into cold water to preserve the colour. Drain the water from the ginger and make up the quantity to 1^ pint. Put this into a preserving pan with the sugar, bring to the boil, and boil from 8 to 10 minutes. Drain the pieces of apple, throw them gently into this syrup, and let them boil until transparent, but not broken. Then lift them out carefully, put them into jars, and pour the syrup over. 2113. Apple Jelly To each pint of apple juice allow 1 lb. of preserving sugar and the rind and juice of 1 lemon. Wash the apples and cut them in four or six pieces, according to the size, without removing the peel and cores. Put these into a preserving pan with just sufficient cold water to cover them. Bring to the boil and boil gently for 1 hour or longer, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When reduced to a pulp, pour all into a jelly bag or cloth, and allow the juice to drip all night. The juice ought to be of a thickish consistency when cold; if very watery, either too much water has been added, or the pulp has not been sufficiently cooked. Next day measure the juice carefully and put it into a preserving pan with the lemon rind, peeled off thinly and tied in muslin, and the lemon juice, if liked. Bring to the boil and add the proper proportion of sugar. Stir carefully until the sugar is melted, and then boil quickly from 20 to 30 minutes or until the jelly will set when tested on a plate. The time depends very much upon the kind of fruit used. Remove any scum from the top before potting. Note.—This jelly may be flavoured with whole ginger instead of lemons, or orange juice and rind may be used instead of lemon juice and rind. The apple pulp may be sieved, mixed with sugar, and boiled carefully for \ hour, and can be used for making puffs or an open tart. It will not keep long. 2114. Apple and Cranberry Jam 2 lbs. apples (weighed after peeling and coring). 1 lb. cranberries. 3 lbs. preserving sugar. A little water. . Peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them into a preserving pan with a little water and stew them 2115. Apple and Pear Jam 4 lbs. apples. 4 lbs. pears. 8 lbs. preserving sugar. Rind of 4 lemons. 2 oz. whole ginger. 1 oz. cinnamon stick, pts. water. cinnamon in a mortar. Pound the ginger and then put them into a saucepan with the water, and simmer slowly until the strength is extracted and the quantity reduced to 1 pint. Put this essence into a preserving pan, add the sugar, and gradually dissolve it over the fire. Then add the rind of the lemons grated, and the apples and pears peeled and cut in small pieces. Boil all together for 1 hour, or until the mixture will jelly. Then pot. 2116. Apricot Jam or Marmalade, 1 To each pound of apricots (weighed after stoning), allow | lb. preserving sugar. Wipe the apricots, and, if time permits, remove the skins. Cut them in halves with a silver knife and take out the stones. Spread out the apricots on large dishes and strew over them their proper proportion of sugar. Let them stand thus for at least 12 hours. Meanwhile break the stones, or at least some of them, blanch the kernels, and add them to the apricots. Next day turn all into a preserving pan and simmer very gently until the apricots are clear and the jam will set. It must be stirred very carefully, and the time required will be from f to 1 hour. 2117. Apricot Jam or Marmalade, 2 Apricots. A little water. Preserving sugar. Take as many apricots as desired, wipe them, peel them, and cut them in halves, removing the stones. Then cut them in small pieces and weigh them. Put the prepared apricots into a preserving pan, and add to them an equal weight of sugar and about J pint of water to each 4 lbs. fruit. Boil all together, stirring almost constantly, until a little of the marmalade will set when tested on a plate. Then pour into pots, and cover. Note.—A few of the kernels may be blanched and added to the marmalade. 2118. Apricot Jam or Marmalade, 3 4 lbs. apricots. I 3 lbs. sugar. 1 gill water. I i pt. water. Wipe and stone the apricots, but do not peel them. Put them into a preserving pan with the above proportion of water, and cook them until reduced to a soft pulp. Then rub them through a sieve. Put the sugar and its proper proportion of water into a preserving pan and boil them to- gether to the “ hard ball ” (see p. 597), skimmingCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 468 when necessary. When ready, add the apricot pulp and boil again until the marmalade will set when tested on a plate. Pot and cover (see p. 466). Note.—A few of the kernels may be blanched and added. 2119. Apricot Jam from Dried Fruit 2 lbs. dried apricots. I 7 lbs. preserving sugar. 5 pts. cold water. | 4 lemons. Wash the apricots, put them into a large basin, cover them with the water, and let them soak for 3 days. Then put water and fruit into a preserving pan with the sugar, and add the thinly peeled rind of the lemons finely chopped, and the strained juice. Bring carefully to the boil, and then boil from 20 to 30 minutes or until the jam will set. Skim if neces- sary, pot and cover. 2123. Black-currant Jelly To 1 pint of black-currant juice allow 1 lb. of sugar. Pick the currants from the stalks and wash them if necessary. Put them into a double saucepan, or into a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, with 1 gill of water or rhubarb juice (see p. 472) to each pound of fruit, and cook for 2 hours at least, or until all the juice is drawn out. Then strain them through a jelly cloth or large sieve, allowing them to drip all night. Next day measure the juice and put it into a preserving pan with the above pro- portion of sugar. Stir carefully until the sugar is dissolved, and then boil for | hour, or until the jelly will set. Notes.—A few red currants may be mixed with the black. Red-currant or cranberry jelly can be made in the same way. 2120. Blackberry and Apple Marmalade Equal quantities of apples and blackberries and 1 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. pulp. Wash the apples, and cut them in slices without removing skins and cores. Pick the blackberries carefully, discarding any that are unsound. Put both kinds of fruit into a preserving pan with just enough water to keep them from burning. Cook until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently. Then rub through a hair sieve, leaving only the skins and seeds. Return the sieved pulp to a clean preserving pan with sugar in the above proportion, and stir almost constantly for 20 minutes or until it is firm. If this is put in small pots it can be turned out in shape when wanted, and is very good served with blancmange or with cream. 2121. Blackberry or Bramble Jelly Blackberries. Preserving sugar. Pick and look over the berries carefully. Put them into a preserving pan and nearly cover them with cold water. Bring them slowly to the boil, and bruise them well with a wooden spoon. Then allow them to boil slowly from £ to 1 hour, bruising them down occasionally until all the juice has run out. When ready, strain through a jelly cloth or fine hair sieve, and when all the juice has run through, measure it and return it to a clean preserving pan. Bring the juice to the boil, and boil it alone for 15 minutes, then add sugar, allowing £ lb. to each pint of juice, and boil both together until the jelly will set. Skim if necessary, and pot in the usual way. 2122. Black-currant Jam To 3 lbs. black currants allow 1 pint of rhubarb juice and 4 lbs. preserving sugar. The black currants should be as ripe as possible. Strip them from the stalks, and wash them if they are very smoked and dirty. Put them into a pre- serving pan with the proper portion of rhubarb juice (see p. 472), bring to the boil, and allow the currants to simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Warm the sugar without allowing it to brown and add it next. Boil with the sugar from 20 to 30 minutes, or until the jam will set. It must be stirred almost constantly. Note.—Raspberry or red-currant juice may be used instead of rhubarb, but either of these will give a distinct flavour. 2124. Black-currant Marmalade Black currants. Sugar. Choose fresh ripe currants, pick them from the stalks, and wash them if necessary. Then put them into a double boiler and let them cook until soft and broken; or, failing a double boiler, cook them in a large jar or crock placed in a saucepan of hot water, or in the oven. When the currants are soft, rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Measure the pulp into a preserving pan, bring it to the boil, and boil 15 minutes. Allow 1 lb. sugar to each pint of pulp, warm it in the oven, add it to the pulp, and boil both together until the marmalade will set. Then pot and cover. 2125. Carrot Jam Carrots. Preserving sugar. Warm water. Lemons. Brandy. Sweet almonds. Choose sound red carrots, wash and clean them carefully, and if the jam is wanted a very good colour, use the red part only. Cut the carrots in pieces, and put them into a preserving pan with sufficient hot water to cover them. Allow them to simmer slowly until quite tender, then drain off any water that may be left, and rub the carrots through a sieve. Now weigh the carrot puree and to each pound allow 1 lb. sugar, 1 lemon, \ oz. sweet almonds, and a good table-spoonful of brandy. Put the sugar and carrot puree into the preserving pan, and add the grated rind and the strained juice of the lemons. Bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time, then boil until the jam will set when tested on a plate. Have the almonds blanched and shred, and add them with the brandy at the last. Pot in the usual way. Note.—A few bitter almonds may be added if liked, or the jam may be flavoured with ginger instead of almonds. 2126. Cherry Jam 4 lbs. cherries. I 1 pt. fruit juice or 4 lbs. preserving sugar. | water. Choose sound cherries that are rather unripe, as sweet ripe cherries make a tasteless kind of jam. Wash or wipe the cherries carefully, then remove the stones, being careful to break the fruit as little as possible. If time permits, break some of theFRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 469 stones and reserve the kernels, as these help to give a nice flavour to the jam. This jam is much better when made with some fruit juice instead of water, as this helps to set it and make a jelly. Red- currant juice is perhaps the best kind to use, but failing that, use gooseberry or apple juice, or a mixture of fruit juice and water. Put the proper proportion of fruit juice and sugar into a preserving pan and boil them together until they are like a syrup. Then put in the cherries and kernels, and boil again slowly until the fruit is tender and the jam will set, when tested on a cold plate. When ready, pour into pots and cover. 2127. Crab-apple Jelly 8 lbs. crab apples. 4 qts. water. Preserving sugar. Wash the apples, cut them in two, and put them into a preserving pan with the above proportion of water. Bring to the boil and cook slowly until the apples are soft and broken. Then strain all night through a jelly bag or cloth. Next day measure the juice and return it to the preserving pan, along with 1 lb. of sugar to each pint. Boil together until the jelly will set, then pour into jars and cover in the usual way. 2128. Cranberry Jelly Make in the same way as Black-currant Jelly. 2129. Damson Cheese Damsons. Preserving sugar. Remove the stalks from the damsons and look over them carefully. Then wash and drain them well. Put them into a large jar with a lid, and steam them or cook them in the oven until tender. Then rub as much as possible through a fine wire sieve. Measure this pulp, and put it into a preserv- ing pan along with f lb. preserving sugar to each pint. Boil together until of a very thick consist- ency, and until the mixture will set very quickly when tested on a cold plate. The damson cheese must be stirred very carefully, and especially when it begins to thicken. When ready, pour into small oiled pots and cover. Keep for some time before using. Notes.—If liked, a few of the kernels may be blanched and chopped, and added to the cheese, but very few, as they are decidedly bitter. A mixture of damsons and apples is very good. 2130. Damson Jam Damsons. | lb. preserving sugar to each lb. fruit. Remove the stalks from the damsons and ex- amine them carefully. Then wash and dry them in a cloth. Put them into a preserving pan and let them stand by the side of the fire until the juice begins to flow. Now bring the fruit to the boil, and add the proper proportion of crushed pre- serving sugar. Boil both together until the liquid Will set readily, removing during the cooking as many of the stones as possible. When ready, pot and cover as directed on p. 466. 2131. Damson and Apple Jam 8 lbs. damsons. 2 pts. apple juice. 10 lbs. sugar, . Pick the fruit carefully, rejecting any that is not sound. Then wash if necessary, or rub it between the folds of a coarse towel. Prepare the apple juice in the same way as for Apple Jelly (see p. 467). Put the damsons into the preserving pan with their proper proportion.of sugar and apple juice, and stir carefully until they come to the boil. Take out as many stones as possible and boil the jam for 20 minutes, or until it will stiffen. Note.—This jam will be nicer if the stones can be removed from the damsons before they are used. A few of them can then be cracked, and the kernels blanched and used for flavouring. They should be tied in muslin and removed before the jam is' potted, as they are too bitter to eat. 2132. Fruit Pastes Various fruits may be used for making into paste, and this makes a very useful sweet for serving at dessert. Among the most suitable fruits to use are apples, apricots, quinces, plums, pears, &c., or a kind that has some substance in it. First prepare the fruit, removing the stones, but neither the skin nor peel, and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a preserving pan with just a small quantity of water, boil it, stirring frequently, until quite soft and pulpy, and then rub it through a sieve. Mea- sure this pulp, and weigh 1 lb. of sugar for each pint. Put the sugar with enough water to moisten it into a saucepan and boil them to the “ crack ” (see p. 597), skimming when necessary. Then add the pulp and boil again, stirring constantly until the mixture is quite thick and begins to draw away from the sides and bottom of the saucepan. Pour out the mixture in shallow tins or plates that have been wet with brandy. The paste should not be more than | inch thick. When cold and set, cut it in strips or fancy shapes, and roll them in fine crystallised sugar. Store in a tin box between layers of wax or grease-proof paper. 2133. Grape Jelly To 1 pint grape juice allow 1 lb. preserving sugar. The thinnings of grapes may be used for this. Wipe them and remove the stalks. Put them into a preserving pan with just enough water to moisten them, and boil them gently until soft. Then strain through a fine hair sieve or jelly cloth. Now measure the juice and return it to the preserv- ing pan with the above proportion of sugar. Bring carefully to the boil, and continue the boiling until the jelly will set when tested on a plate. When ready, pour it into small pots and cover in the usual way. 2134. Gooseberry Jam 4 lbs. green gooseberries. [ | pt. cold water. 4 lbs. preserving sugar. | Choose fresh young gooseberries before the skins are too hard. Top and tail them, and wash and drain them well. Put the sugar into a preserving pan with the water, let it dissolve, then bring to the boil and skim if necessary. Add the goose- berries, and boil all together'gently until the jam will set readily. Pour into pots when ready, and cover at once. 2135. Green Gooseberry Jelly Green gooseberries and best cane sugar in the proportion of 1 lb. sugar to 1 pt. juice. Choose the gooseberries before they are ripe, top and tail them, and then wash them thoroughly.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 470 Put them into a preserving pan and just cover them with cold water. Bring to the boil and then allow them to simmer until they are well broken, stirring occasionally. Strain through a jelly bag, and allow them to chip all night. Next day measure the juice, and return it to a clean preserving pan. Add to it 1 lb. of sugar to each pint of juice. Stir until the sugar is melted, then boil from 15 to 20 minutes or until it jellies. Skim well and pot (see p. 466). 2136. Gooseberry Marmalade Gooseberries. Water. Sugar. Wash the gooseberries (it is not necessary to top and tail them), put them into a preserving pan,allow- ing J gill of water to each quart, and let them cook until quite soft and pulpy. Then rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Measure this pulp, and weigh off 1 lb. of sugar for each pint. Put the sugar with enough water to moisten it into a preserving pan, bring them to the boil, skim if necessary, and then boil quickly until they reach the hard ball stage or 247° Fahr. (see p. 597). Then add the gooseberry pulp, and boil both together until the marmalade will set. Pot and cover in the usual way. 2137. Gooseberry and Red-currant Jam To 3 lbs. red gooseberries allow 1 gill red-currant juice and 3£ lbs. sugar. Top and tail the gooseberries and remove any that are unsound. Wash them thoroughly, and dry in a coarse cloth. Put them into a preserving pan with red-currant juice (see below) in the above proportion. Heat the contents slowly over the fire and then boil for 15 minutes. Add the sugar gradually, and boil again until the jam will set. Skim when necessary. 2138. Greengage Jam Make in the same way as Apricot Jam (Recipe 2116). 2139. Lemon Marmalade Make in the same way as Orange Marmalade (Recipe 2143). 2140. Lemon Jelly Marmalade 3 lbs. lemons. 4 pts. cold water. Preserving sugar. Choose good fresh lemons with thin skins. Wash them carefully, and peel off the rind as thinly as possible. Now cut the yellow rinds across in thin strips or shreds, put these into a small sauce- pan with a pint of the water, and let them simmer until tender, about | hour. Meanwhile remove the white skin from the lemons (this is not used in the marmalade) and cut the inside juicy part in small pieces. Put this into the preserving pan with the remainder of the water, bring to the boil, and boil steadily about 1 hour, stirring frequently. Then strain through a fine hair sieve or jelly bag without pressing the fruit. When all the liquid has run through, add to it the lemon shreds and their liquid. Measure this and return it to a clean preserving pan, allowing § lb. sugar to each pint of liquid. Bring to the boil, and boil until the marmalade will set readily. Pour into jars and cover. 2141. Loganberry Jelly Loganberries. Water. Preserving sugar. Take as many loganberries as desired, pick off the stalks, and look over them carefully. Put them into a preserving pan with just sufficient water to keep them from burning, and cook them slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently. Then strain through a jelly cloth, or through a piece of muslin placed over a sieve. When every drop of juice has run through, measure it and return it to a clean preserving pan. Add 1 lb. of sugar to every pint of juice, and stand the pan in a warm place until the sugar is melted. Then bring to the boil, skim if necessary, and boil 20 minutes, or until the jelly will set. Pour into 6mall pots and cover in the usual way. 2142. Mulberry Jam 4 lbs. mulberries. I 1 pt. water or rhubarb 3 lbs. preserving sugar. | juice. 2 lemons. Choose mulberries that are still hard and rather unripe, remove the stalks, look over them care- fully, and wash if necessary. Put them into a preserving pan with the water or rhubarb juice, and let them stew slowly until soft and clear- looking. Then add the sugar, along with the strained juice and the grated rind of the 2 lemons, and bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time. Boil until the jam ■will set, and remove any scum that rises. When ready, pour into pots and cover. 2143. Orange Marmalade 31 lbs. marmalade oranges. 3 lemons. 13J pts. cold water. 1 pt. boiling water. Sugar (see below). Wipe the oranges and lemons with a damp cloth, and cut them in halves. Squeeze out the juice on a lemon squeezer, and strain it into a basin. Put the pips into a smaller basin with the boiling water, and let them stand to extract the flavour. Cut the skins of both oranges and lemons into very thin strips, put them into a large basin or crock with the cold water, and let them soak 24 hours. Then pour into a preserving pan, and boil until the pieces of peel are quite tender. Put the seeds with their water into a smaller saucepan, and boil for 15 minutes; then strain the water from them into the preserving pan beside the rest. Pour again into the basin or crock, add the orange and lemon juice, and stand for at least 12 hours longer. Next day, measure, and allow 1 lb. of preserving sugar to each pint of liquid. Boil together in the perserving pan about 20 minutes, or until the marmalade will jelly. Then pour into pots, and cover while hot. 2144. Orange Jelly 4lbs.marmaladeoranges I 4J pts. water. 2 lemons. | Preserving sugar. Wipe the oranges and lemons with a damp cloth, and grate off the yellow rinds only. Then remove all the white skin, which is not used in the making of the jelly. Cut the inner part of the oranges and lemons into small pieces, and put it into a preserv- ing pan with the water. Boil for \ hour, stirringFRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 471 frequently, then strain through a hair sieve or jelly bag, and allow the juice to drop without pressure. Measure this liquid, and put it into a clean preserving pan, with the grated rinds and 1 lb. preserving sugar to each pint of juice. Bring to the boil, and boil from 10 to 15 minutes, or until it will jelly. Skim well, pour into jars, and cover while hot. 2145. Orange and Apple Jelly 4 lbs. apples. I Water to cover. 2 lbs. oranges. 2 lemons. ] 1 lb. sugar to 1 pt. juice. Wash and brush the apples, oranges, and lemons, and cut them all in pieces without removing any skin or rind. Put them into a preserving pan with cold water to cover them, bring to the boil, and simmer slowly until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Then strain through a jelly bag or cloth (see p. 466) until all the juice is extracted. Now measure the juice and return it to a clean preserving pan along with 1 lb. of sugar to each pint. Boil until the jelly will set when tested on a plate, then pot in the usual way. 2146. Pear Ginger 12 lbs. pears. 2 lbs. preserved ginger. 10£ lbs. sugar. Peel the pears and cut them in small pieces, removing the core. Put them into a large basin in layers with the sugar, and let them stand over- night. Next day pour off the syrup and put it into a preserving pan with the ginger cut in small pieces. Bring to the boil, boil 10 minutes, and skim carefully. Now add the pieces of pear, and cook all gently until the syrup is thick and the fruit transparent. Skim again if necessary, and pot in the usual way. 2147. Plum Jam Plums. Preserving sugar. Wipe the plums, or wash them if necessary. Then weigh them, and allow from f to 1 lb. sugar, according to the acidity of the fruit. Score the plums across or, if time permits, cut them in halves and take out the stones. Spread the plums and sugar on a large dish in layers, and let them stand overnight. Then turn all into a preserving pan, bring to the boil, and boil steadily, stirring occa- sionally until the jam will set. All the stones which rise to the surface should be removed, if this has not already been done. If liked, a few of them may be cracked and the kernels blanched and added to the jam to improve the flavour. Pot and cover when ready. 2148. Pumpkin or Pie Melon Jam 9 lbs. melon. 3 oranges. I 10 lbs. sugar. 1 tea-sp. citric acid. | 31 pts. water. Skin the pie melon or pumpkin, remove the seeds and eut it into dice. VTipe the oranges and slice them as for marmalade. Then put the sugar and water into a preserving pan, bring them to the boil, and boil for 10 minutes. Add the pre- pared melon and oranges along with the citric acid, and boil all together about 2 hours, or until the jam will set. Pour into pots and cover. Notes.—Lemons may be used instead of oranges, or oranges and lemons in equal parts. Some pre- served ginger cut in shoes may be added. Vegetable marrow jam can be made in the same way. 2149. Quince Marmalade Quinces. Water. Preserving sugar. Wipe and peel the quinces, then cut them in quarters and remove the cores. Put the cores and peelings into a preserving pan with enough cold water to cover them, let them boil slowly until all the goodness is extracted, then strain through a cloth or hair sieve, and allow the liquid to cool. Now weigh the quartered quinces, and put them into the preserving pan ; pour over them the liquid from the skins, &c., and let them cook until re- duced to a pulp, pounding and crushing them with a large wooden spoon occasionally. When smooth and soft, add f lb. of preserving sugar for each pound of fruit, stir carefully until dissolved, and then boil until the marmalade will set. Pot and cover. 2150. Quince Jelly 1 lb. sugar to 1 pt. quince juice. Peel, quarter, and core the quinces. Then weigh the pieces and put them into a preserving pan with 2 tea-cupfuls of water to each pound of fruit. Simmer slowly until the fruit is quite soft, but not too pulpy, or the jelly will not be clear. Strain through a hair sieve or jelly cloth without pressing the pulp. Measure the juice and put it into a preserving pan with the above proportion of sugar. Bring to the boil, and boil quickly from 15 to 20 minutes. Note.—To use the pulp that is left, see under Apple Jelly (p. 467). 2151. Quince Honey 5 large quinces. 5 lbs. sugar. 1 pt. water. Put the sugar and water into a preserving pan, and melt them over the fire. Peel and grate the quinces, add them to the syrup of sugar and water, boil all together for 20 minutes, and then pour into pots. 2152. Raspberry and Red-currant Jam To every pound of raspberries allow 1 gill of red- currant juice and 1J lbs. sugar. Stalk the currants and put them into a double saucepan, or into a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and let them cook until all the juice is drawn out; then strain either through a jelly cloth or hair sieve, allowing the juice to drip all night. Pick the raspberries, removing the stalks, then weigh them, and put them into a preserving pan with the above proportion of red-currant juice. Bring to the boil, and boil for 10 minutes, then add the sugar by degrees, and boil until the jam will set, stirring almost constantly, and skimming when necessary. 2153. Raspberry Jelly To each pint of raspberry juice allow |- lb. pre- serving sugar. Remove all stalks from the raspberries and look them over carefully. Bruise them slightly with a fork or spoon, put them in a jar, and cover with a472 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD lid or saucer. Stand the jar in a saucepan of hot water, and simmer by the side of the fire until the juice is well drawn from the raspberries. Then strain through a cloth or hair sieve, and let them drain all night. Next day measure the juice and put it into a preserving pan with the above pro- portion of sugar. Bring to the boil, stirring fre- quently, and boil gently until the jelly will set. Then pour into small pots and cover. 2154. Red-currant Jam Red currants. Preserving sugar. Pick the currants very carefully, and then weigh them. Weigh also f lb. preserving sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the sugar on to a large dish and let it heat slowly in the oven without taking colour. Meanwhile put the red currants into a preserving pan with just enough water to wet the bottom of the pan. Bring them to the boil, stirring all the time, and then boil 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Now add the sugar, and boil both together until the jam will set when tested on a cold plate. Pour into pots and cover as directed on p. 466. 2155. Red-currant Jelly Make in the same way as Black-currant Jelly (Recipe 2123). 2156. Red-currant Jelly without Water To 1 pt. of fruit juice allow 1 lb. sugar. Pick the large stalks and leaves from the quantity of currants to be used, and wash the fruit in cold water. Then put the currants into a large jar, place in the oven of a kitchen range in the even- ing, and leave them all night. Next day turn the fruit into a jelly bag or cloth, and squeeze out the juice thoroughly. Measure this juice, and put it into a clean preserving pan with the above pro- portion of sugar. Bring to the boil, stirring fre- quently, boil quickly for 5 minutes, then skim and pot. Notes.—Instead of being put into a jar, the currants may be thoroughly heated in the pre- serving pan until the juice can be freely drawn from 'them, then squeezed through the jelly bag as above. This makes a very delicious jelly, but unless one has a garden and the fruit is plentiful, it comes much more expensive than when water is used. 2157. Red-currant Marmalade, 1 Red currants. Sugar. Choose fresh, ripe currants, remove them from the stalks, and wash them if necessary. Mash them in a strong basin and then rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Measure the pulp into a preserving pan, and measure off 1 lb. sugar to each pint. Bring the pulp to the boil, and let it cook about 15 minutes. Meanwhile let the sugar warm in the oven, add it to the pulp when it has boiled the required time, and then boil both together until the mixture will set. Remove any scum, pour into pots, and cover. 2158. Red-currant Marmalade, 2 Red currants. Sugar. Pick and wash the currants. Put them into a saucepan and mash them over the fire until re- duced to a soft pulp. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve without allowing any of the seeds to pass through. Measure the pulp, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of sugar. Put sugar and pulp into a preserving pan, heat slowly over the fire, stirring frequently, then boil until the mixture will set when a little is tested on a plate. Pour into pots and cover in the usual way. 2159. Rhubarb Jam, 1 6 lbs. prepared rhubarb. 1J oz. bitter almonds. 6 lbs. preserving sugar. \ glass whisky. 2 lemons. Peel some nice fresh rhubarb, cut it in small pieces, and then weigh it. Rinse it well in cold water and put it into a preserving pan. Heat it slowly over the fire until the juice begins to flow, then add the sugar, the grated rind and the strained juice of 2 lemons, and the almonds blanched and chopped. Stir almost constantly until the sugar is melted, and then boil until the jam will set when a little is tested on a plate. Skim when necessary, and pot in the usual way. Note.—The whisky may be omitted, but the jam wall keep better if it is added. 2160. Rhubarb Jam, 2 6 lbs. rhubarb. 6 lbs. preserving sugar. 3 lemons. Choose some nice red-stalked rhubarb. Wipe it and, unless young and tender, take off the peel. Cut it into small pieces and then weigh it. Put it into a large crock or basin in layers with the sugar, and sprinkle with the grated rind of the lemons. Strain the lemon juice over, cover the basin, and stand for twenty-four hours. Next day pour off the liquid and as much of the melted sugar as possible into a preserving pan, and boil for 10 minutes. Put in the rhubarb and boil all together from J to £- hour, or until the jam will set. It must be stirred very frequently and skimmed when necessary. Note.—This jam may be flavoured with ginger if preferred, or oranges may be used instead of lemons. A few blanched and shredded almonds may be added. 2161. Rhubarb Juice Rhubarb juice may be used instead of water in the making of many jams, especially in the pre- serving of the less juicy fruits. Its flavour is so deli- cate that it does not overpower the flavour of the special fruit with which it is used. Wash the rhubarb, but do not peel it unless the skin is very coarse, as this helps to give a pink colour. Cut it in small pieces and put it into a large jar with just enough water to moisten the base. Cover the jar and steam in a saucepan of water, or cook in the oven until the juice is drawn out of the rhubarb. Then strain through a jelly cloth or clean hair sieve.FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 473 2162. Rhubarb and Fig Jam 4 lbs. rhubarb. I 4 lbs. preserving sugar. 1 lb. dried figs. | 6 to 8 oz. candied peel. Wash the figs in hot water, dry them, and cut them in thin shreds. Choose fresh garden rhubarb, wipe it, and cut it in small pieces about 1 inch in length, but do not peel it unless the skin is coarse. Remove the sugar from the peel and shred it finely with a sharp knife. Put these three ingredients into a large basin with the sugar ; cover, and stand for 24 hours. Then turn all into a preserving pan, bring to the boil, stirring frequently, and boil from | to 1 hour, or until the jam will set. Pour into pots and cover. 2163. Rowan or Mountain Ash Jelly To each pint of rowan juice allow 1 lb. sugar. Pick and wash the rowans and put them into a preserving pan with just enough water to prevent their burning. Cook slowly until the berries are reduced to a pulp ; then strain in order to get the clear liquid. Measure this and return it to a clean pan. Bring to the boil, and add the proper pro- portion of sugar. Then boil quickly for 20 minutes or until the jelly will set, skimming when necessary. Note.—This is a very good accompaniment to roast mutton or game. 2164. Strawberry Jam Allow | lb. preserving sugar to each pound of strawberries. Choose small or medium-sized red strawberries, and remove the husks and any decayed ones before weighing. Put them into a preserving pan and boil them for \ hour, stirring almost constantly. During this time allow the proper proportion of sugar to warm in the oven without taking colour. Add it to the strawberries and boil the two together, stirring all the time for another \ hour, or until the jam will set. Note.—The addition of 1 gill of red-currant juice to each pound of strawberries will much improve the flavour of this jam. It should be added with the sugar. 2165. Tangerine Orange Marmalade 2\ doz. tangerine I 2 lemons. oranges. | Preserving sugar. Water Weigh the oranges and allow double their weight in preserving sugar. Then wash or wipe them with a damp cloth, and put them into a preserving pan with enough warm water to float them. Boil them until soft, then drain. Now cut the oranges in quarters and remove the pips. Put these into a basin with 1 pint boiling water, cover, and stand overnight. Remove the pulp from the rind of the oranges and mash it up with a wooden spoon. Slice the peel very finely with a sharp knife or mar- malade cutter. Next day, put the required amount of sugar into a preserving pan with the strained juice of the 2 lemons and the strained water from the pips. Boil these together to a syrup, then add the orange pulp and peel, and boil again until the marmalade will set, about 30 minutes. Pour into pots and cover. 2168. Tomato Jam 4 lbs. tomatoes. 4 lbs. sugar. 1 pt. water. The red home-grown tomatoes are the best. Wipe them and put them into a basin with boding water to cover. Allow them to remain for a few minutes, then lift them out and peel them. Next cut them into quarters and remove the hard pieces from the end, and some of the seeds. Put the seeds, skins, and 1 pint of the water, in which the tomatoes were soaked, into a saucepan, boil for | hour and strain. Then put the sugar and this strained liquid into a preserving pan, and bring them to the boil. Add the tomatoes, and boil until the jam will set, stirring almost constantly. Note.—A little lemon juice or ginger may be added if liked. 2167. Vegetable Marrow Jam To each pound of prepared marrow allow 1 lb. sugar, | lemon, and 4 oz. whole ginger, water. The vegetable marrows should be medium-sized and fresh. Wash, dry, and peel them. Then cut them in slices an inch thick. Stamp out the seeds with a round cutter, and cut the rings in blocks an inch in width. Weigh the marrow and put it into a large basin with the proper proportion of sugar, the grated rind and juice of lemon, and the ginger broken in small pieces and tied in muslin. Put the skins and seeds into a saucepan with water to cover them, and boil i hour. Then strain, and allow 1 gill of this liquid to each pound of marrow. Pour this into the basin, cover, and stand for 24 hours. Next day boil all together, stirring almost constantly until the pieces of marrow look transparent, and the liquid will jelly when tested on a plate. From | to 1 hour will be required. When ready, lift out the ginger and pour into pots. PART III THE BOTTLING OF FRUIT The valuable notes following have been quoted by kind permission from “ The Book of Fruit- Bottling,” by Edith Bradley and May Crooke, published by John Lane. Fruit bottling is by no means laborious, but it demands the utmost nicety, cleanliness, and atten- tion to details. All fruits may be bottled, and the method is admirably suited to those particular fruits which are least in favour when freshly gathered, as black currants and damsons. These, when bottled and kept from six to eighteen months (or even longer) are vastly improved. They lose that element of roughness, almost acridity, which in the fresh fruit sometimes runs round the mouth and makes one shudder. The process is not new; in the “ good old times ” of stillrooms, herbs, and simples, and decoctions of all sorts, there is no doubt that bottled fruit was “ laid down ” in dozens in the capacious cellars and store rooms which occupied so large a space in the old-fashioned English home. The apparatus was of the very simplest—the fruit was packed into bottles, covered474 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD with water, and steamed in a large saucepan or kettle with bands of straw or hay between, to prevent the bottles touching each other. Pieces of bladder were afterwards used to cover the bottles, or they were corked and covered with resin. With the changed surroundings of domestic life a more systematic and up-to-date method is required, and sterilisers or steam cookers, simple in con- struction and moderate in price, and in which the temperature can be gauged accurately by means of a thermometer, have been put on the market, along with jars or bottles with special air-tight lids, and these make the operation of fruit bottling a very simple one, besides doing away with any haphazard results. The following simple directions for using the Mercia Steriliser (and in general terms the same will hold good for other kinds) may be of use to those who are tempted to take up this fascinating occupation. First of all the fruit must be sterilised, and for this a special steriliser must be used. It will be easier, however, to describe the steriliser after explaining the process of sterilisation. Steril- isation is briefly this—to make sterile or deprive of vitality the bacteriological germs which cause decay and putrefaction in fruit and vegetables, as well as in other forms of food. If these germs are de- stroyed and kept from approaching the sterilised object again, it will keep perfectly sound and good for a considerable time, possibly an unlimited time. This result is brought about by the following pro- cess. The article (fruit or vegetable) to be sterilised is packed into a glass jar or bottle, which is then filled with cold water and closed either by a metal or glass cap fastened by a clip or a screw; the bottles are placed in a vessel containing cold water ; heat is applied in one form or another, and the temperature of the water bath is slowly raised until it is sufficiently high inside the glass jars to kill the bacteriological germs. The exact degree of heat required to destroy the germs varies considerably according to the object which is being sterilised ; in fact, some fruits and some vegetables require three or four successive sterilisations (by which first one bacteriological family and then another are destroyed) to bring about the required con- ditions. The hot air and steam, by which the bottles in the steriliser or other vessel are now surrounded, causes the water or juice inside the bottles to get hot and expand, until it reaches the air-tight capsule or cover. The requisite temperature is sustained for some time at an equal height until the process is complete (this can be determined to a nicety by the fixed thermometer), and the bottles are either lifted out. and put into a cool place, or else cold water is turned into the machine whilst the bottles are in it (the hot water having been previously drawn off). With the decreasing temperature the vacuum is created, and unless the caps or tops are imperfect or imperfectly adjusted, and so admit the air, the contents of the jar, as before stated, will keep for any length of time, because germs do not incubate in a vacuum. This, then, is the theory carried out by the process of sterilisation, li sufficiently complete, and, as before stated, the requisite temperatures for the different fruits and vegetables have been proved, and these tempera- tures have been registered by a thermometer, the vacuum is attained and the germs made sterile. It may chance, however, that the rubber bands or the caps are not placed on the bottles quite evenly, or, if the cap is screwed, that the screw ring is not quite perfect; then, if from one cause or another air is admitted, as a certain consequence the vacuum is destroyed, the germs come into life, and immediately begin to cause decay and de- composition or fermentation. If this is not at once noted, and the batch of bottled fruit re- sterilised and re-capped, it will all go bad. In the Mercia Patent Steriliser every attempt has been made to put upon the market a steriliser Mercia Steriliser which is the outcome of practical experience, pre- sented in a portable, tangible, practical, and work- manlike form, and at a price which brings it within the reach of all who are taking the bottling of fruit year by year seriously. It is made in three sizes, of the best steeled tin. The largest. A, takes twenty-five bottles, holding 2 lbs. each, i.e. 50 lbs. of fruit—price £4. The second size, B, takes twelve bottles, containing 2 lbs. each—price, £3, 3s. The third size, C, which is for household use, holds six bottles, containing 2 lbs. each, or nine smaller ones—price 18s. These can be obtained from any of the large stores. Upon the copper bottom of the vessel stands a low tin shelf pierced with holes. The bottles, when filled, stand on this shelf, and it prevents them from cracking, as they are liable to do, by coming into too close contact with the heating underneath. In the lid is an aperture in which is inserted a socket; into this socket is screwed (when it is required) a specially constructed ther- mometer, consisting of a long tube, the bulb of which reaches about midway down the bottles which contain the fruit for sterilising (see illustra- tion). As will be readily understood, when the water in which the bottles is immersed is heated and turned into steam, the temperature at which the process is actually going on is registered on the porcelain scale above the lid, and it is thus pos- sible to adjust the temperature to a degree. The necessary heat for the Mercia steriliser can be supplied either by using a small oil stove or gas- burner and raising the steriliser on a strong stand above it, or the ordinary kitchen range, upon which the steriliser may stand. Special bottles must be used with lip and clip^ 475 FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES or screw-top lid, and the cost of these generally amounts to 3d. or id. each. The bottles will do again year after year, only the caps and rings will require renewal each season. The Fowler-Lee Bottles The best fruits for bottling are gooseberries, cherries, raspberries, apricots, plums, damsons, blackberries, tomatoes, apples, and pears. Straw- berries can also be successfully bottled, but they require more care and trouble than other fruits, because they are so much softer. 2168. To Bottle Gooseberries. General Directions for Bottling Gooseberries are the easiest of all fruits to bottle, and as a rule give the most satisfactory results. The following directions should be carefully fol- lowed. Have the bottles ready, making sure that they are perfectly clean and quite dry. The goose- berries should be picked when green and hard, and before they get too large. For bottling they ought always to be picked in the same condition as that in which they are used for green gooseberry tart. Before putting the fruit into the bottles it should be topped and tailed, and, to ensure a good appearance when finished, it is always best to grade the fruit and only put berries in which are the same size, rejecting any that are too large and not sound, or are disfigured in any way. These can always be used up in the preserving pan. Pack the fruit closely into the jars, without bruising, to within an inch of the top, and fill up with cold water or syrup to the very top of the bottle. Do not put on the cap at once, as the water often sinks when it has worked its way down among the fruit. If this happens the bottles should be filled up again, as the fruit ought always to be well covered. Gapping the Bottles.—The bottles are now ready for capping, and much of the success depends upon the care taken in capping. The india-rubber rings are next put on. Have ready a basin of hot water, and before laying the ring on the mouth of the bottle dip it into hot water for a second or two. This makes the rubber more flexible and more likely to lie flat, which i3 an important point. When the ring is in its place put on the metal cap. Care must be taken to place it on the bottle perfectly straight. The spring clip is then put on, and the bottle is ready to go into the steriliser. Imperfect capping is often due to the ring or the cap being carelessly put on. This allows the air to get in, and prevents the bottle becoming hermetically sealed, as it should be. Sterilising the Fruit.—The bottles are now placed in the steriliser. They should stand just clear of each other. A sufficient quantity of cold water is put in to cover the bottle three parts of the way up. The lid is then put on and the thermometer screwed into its socket. The temperature gener- ally registered at this stage is about 60°. It is very gradually allowed to rise until it reaches 155°. An increase of two degrees a minute is enough. If the temperature is allowed to go up with a rush the skin of the fruit in the bottles will be cracked. It nearly always takes an hour, if not more, before the required temperature is reached. The bottles should be kept at 155° for 45 minutes. If gas or oil is used for heating, this is easily done by regu- lating the flame. At the end of 45 minutes the bottles are taken out and put to cool. If a screw- topped bottle is used, the loose rim is now tightly screwed down. Where the spring clip is used, it is left on till the bottles are quite cold. When this stage has been reached (probably the next day), each bottle should be examined to see if the cap is perfectly tight; if so it has become hermetically sealed, and will only move by pressure from without, such as the insertion of a knife between cap and rubber ring to raise it. This will be a proof of the fruit keeping. If any are found imperfectly capped they should be re-sterilised ; but a careful examina- tion should be made of the cap to see if it fits properly or not, as a certain percentage of those sent out are sure to be faulty. The foregoing directions can be applied, broadly speaking, to all soft fruits enumerated above. The temperature must also depend upon the quality of the fruit. If young and tender 155°-160° is a usual standard. The time occupied in sterilising varies with the fruit; larger fruit, such as plums, require 25 minutes, pears 1 hour, apricots 45 minutes, peaches 45 minutes, tomatoes 30 minutes, rhubarb 20 minutes. 2169. Syrup for Bottled Fruits Sometimes it is desirable to bottle the fruit in syrup instead of water only. The following is a good recipe: To every quart of water allow | lb. of the best cane sugar. Bring to the boil and continue to boil at 212° for \ hour, taking care to skim when necessary. Pour the syrup into a vessel, and keep till quite cold before pouring over the fruits. 2170. Cherries The Kentish cherry is excellent for preserving in this way. Pick the cherries off their stalks, and pack in the bottles. The fruit should be firm but nearly ripe. When packing, shake the bottle gently up and down, so that the fruit may fit in closely. If the fruit is pricked at one end with a needle it prevents bursting. Fill up the bottles with syrup or water. Proceed as indicated in the foregoing recipe, and sterilise at 150°. Another method is to split the cherries in half with a sharp knife, take out the stones, crack some, and return the kernels.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 476 to the bottles when packing. This latter method keeps the fruit a beautiful colour, but it would be well to use syrup instead of water, because, pre- served in this way, they are richer in flavour and appearance. 2171. Raspberries and Red Currants Raspberries and currants together make one of the very best fruits for winter use. They are always liked, and as they keep their colour well when bottled they look appetising. Discrimina- tion should be used in the weather for bottling, and a specially dry day should be chosen for doing soft fruits, for if saturated with rain they lose their flavour, and do not keep as well as when picked on a warm dry day. The currants should be carefully picked off their stalks, and also the raspberries. Place a layer of raspberries about 1 inch thick first in the bottle, and shake gently down ; then place a layer of red currants. Proceed in this manner till the bottles are filled to within an inch of the top. Fill up and proceed as in the foregoing recipes. Sterilise at 155°. 2172. Strawberries Of all the soft fruits strawberries are the only ones that are really difficult. To the uninitiated strawberries are always a disappointment. When the bottles are taken out of the steriliser they pre- sent the appearance of a quarter of a bottle of strawberries floating on the top of a sea of juice. The only way to overcome this is to empty the contents of one bottle into another after sterilising. When one bottle is full, fill with syrup and sterilise again. This fruit loses its colour very much during the process, takes a lot of trouble to do, and is rather insipid when done. 2173. Plums Plums should be quite freshly gathered for bottling, and only those of a fairly good size should be used. The smaller plums can always be turned into jam. The fruit should be quite firm and not quite ripe. For all the stone fruits it is better to use the larger bottles, as with the smaller bottles the mouths are not large enough to allow the in- sertion of any very fine fruit. The packing of plums in the bottles is an important item, because, if the fruit is not properly packed, the bottles present a very ugly appearance when finished. To pack properly the fruit must be graded, and plums chosen as near of a size as^ possible. It is always best to make a good beginning by getting three even fruits if possible into the bottom of a bottle. When the lowest round is started properly the rest of the packing is fairly simple. The bottles should be gently shaken from side to side, and a round piece of wood with a blunt end should be used to help to slide the fruit gently into place. Great care must be taken not on any account to break the skin. Some people prick their fruit with a steel knitting-needle at the stalk end to prevent the skin breaking, but we have serious doubts whether anything is gained by so doing. The bottles, after packing, are filled up with syrup or water. When very large plums are used, they may be cut in half with a dessert knife, and the stones extracted and cracked. The kernels may then be distributed among the fruit in the bottles. When placed in the steriliser the temperature should be brought up very gradually till it reaches 160°. If the plums are in good condition the temperature should rise to this point without the skin cracking, but, if the fruit is at all soft, 155° will be sufficient. Victorias, Czars, and Monarchs are the best varieties for preserving. The well-known Pershore plum must not be forgotten, as it bottles admirably. 2174. A French Method Plums, which are bottled abroad, often have their skins entirely removed before they are packed in the bottles. This is done by dipping the fruit into very hot water, when it will be found that the skins may be removed without any difficulty ; but it is a matter of opinion whether any object is gained by the process, because the skins of plums do not become in the least uneatable from being bottled, and it represents a good deal more time and trouble. Moreover, when finished, the appearance is not so good or appetising as when bottled with the skins on. 2175. Damsons Bottle in the same way as plums. Apricots, Peaches, and Nectarines These fruits, unless quite small, should be cut in halves, always remembering to use a dessert knife, as a steel knife will not only make the fruit taste, but mark it and turn it brown or black. The stones should be cracked, and some of the kernels placed amongst the fruit when packing. The packing of the fruit is a slightly difficult operation. The halves should overlap each other evenly up the sides of the bottle, no space being left. Before trying packing of this sort it would be well to pur- chase a properly packed bottle and use it as a model. Care must be taken that all the juice which the fruit loses when it is being cut is saved and put into the bottles with the kernels. This can be done by halving the fruit on a plate. As these are choice fruits, syrup may be used in the bottling instead of water. When used, the fruit must not be ripe, but quite firm. Care must be taken not to bruise it when placing in the bottles. Bring it gradually up to a temperature of 155°, following in all cases the general directions for bottling. As apricots, peaches, and nectarines are generally expensive in this country, they are not so much used for bottling, though they are very delicious, and for those who have gardens they are quite worth doing. 2176. Apples and Pears These should be carefully and evenly peeled before bottling. They should be cut down the middle as already advised for peaches, &c., remov- ing the cores. Have ready a basin of water into which some lemon juice has been squeezed; drop the fruit into this, and then fill the bottles with the fruit so prepared, and at once add the water or syrup. If there is any delay, the fruit will turn brown, and it is to prevent this happening that it is dropped into the basin of water, the lemon juice keeping it white.477 FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 2177. Tomatoes These may be taken either as fruit or vegetable. Generally they come under the head of the latter, but as either they are most excellent bottled. They require a little more trouble than most other fruits to bottle successfully. They should be used small, and just coloured, as they have to be done at a high temperature, in order to ensure complete sterilisa- tion. In places where tomatoes are grown in quantities the small ones are often reserved for bottling. Pack in bottles as directed for plums, and cover with water. Bring the temperature up to 170°. Take out of the steriliser after an hour at this temperature, and leave for 24 hours; then repeat sterilisation at 170°. Again leave for two or three days, and again sterilise at the same tempera- ture. By doing them thus three times they will remain like fresh fruit, and can be kept for any length of time.ICES Of late years the ice has become very popular in this country, in fact no dinner-party with any pretence to the name is considered complete without an ice of some kind to give the finishing touch to the menu. At afternoon “ At Homes,” too, ices are very often included in the refreshments provided, whilst at even the smallest of dances they are considered a necessity. Now these ices, if they have always to be ordered from a caterer, are apt to be somewhat expensive luxuries, and for this reason families, where ways and means form an important consideration, have often to restrict themselves in this direction. However, if made at home, there is no need for much expense to be incurred, as many delicious little ices can be produced at very small cost: and if one goes in for entertaining to even a small extent, it will be found a decided economy to invest in a simple ice machine. Beyond this there is very little further required in the way of utensils, unless more elaborate ices and ice puddings are wanted. As regards trouble, the making of an ice is just as simple as that of making many a jelly or cream, and it is certainly easier than the making of a cake or pastry, which requires so much attention in the firing. Ices, too, are nearly always acceptable, and they have the great advantage of being able to be prepared beforehand; and beyond the actual serving or turning out they require no attention at tho hour of dinner. PRELIMINARY TO ICE MAKING Freezing Machines The most primitive form of freezing machine consists of a milk can with a tight-fitting lid placed in a small bath or pail and packed round with ice and salt. The mixture to be frozen is placed in the milk can and then this is kept in motion by turning it round and round with the hand until the mixture inside becomes sufficiently frozen. The can will require to be opened from time to time and the mixture scraped down from the sides in order to make it freeze evenly. This method, however, might do very well for once or twice, or for an amusement, but it is tedious at the best, and not by any means always successful. An advance on this was the simple pewter pot, placed in a wooden pail provided with a hole and plug for drawing off the water from the ice as it melted, but this also had to be turned round and round for an indefinite time, and the pot opened occa- sionally. With the more up-to-date machines the freezing is all done by the simple turning of a handle, and the process is a very simple one. There are quite a number of inexpensive machines now on the market, and a very good practical one for family use (2 quarts) can be bought for 8s. or 10s. The working of the different machines varies somewhat; with some a freezing mixture is used, and with others a mixture of ice and coarse salt, but full directions for use are issued with each special make of freezer. The ordinary modern form of freezing machine consists of a wooden pail into which a freezing- pot is fixed and packed round with crushed ice and salt. The inside of the pot is provided with a dash-wheel or paddle, and both this and the pot itself are moved round and round by means of a 478 handle on the side of the pail. In this way the contents of the pot are kept in motion, and uniform freezing is the result. The pail is also provided with a small hole a little way below the top of the can, which allows waste water above that height to ran off. 'v Freezing Fail Care of the Freezing Machine.—It is most im- portant that a freezing machine should be kept very fresh and clean, unless attention is paid to this point the ice-making will not be a success. The can and dash-wheel should be thoroughly scalded and then well rinsed in very cold water before use. Then, when the machine has been used, every part must be well washed and dried, so as to leave them sweet and clean, and the machine must be stored in a dry and airy place. From time to time a little oil should be put on the working parts of the machine. An Ice Cave This is by no means the expensive article it used to be, when £3 and upwards had to be given for an ice cave of a very small size—from 25s. to 30s. will now buy one that is quite sufficient for all479 ICES ordinary purposes. The accompanying illustra- tion shows a simple japanned ice cave, which is one of the cheapest kinds on the market. Japanned Ice Cave An ice cave is by no means a necessity for making ices, but if iced puddings and other moulded ices are frequently required, it will be found a great boon and will simplify their manufacture to a great extent. By this means, too, one freezing machine will serve for making two or three dif- ferent kinds of ices, as, when one mixture is sufficiently frozen, it can be put into a mould or can and kept frozen in the ice cave, while the same freezing pot is used again for another mixture. Apart from ice making, an ice cave is most useful in hot weather for keeping milk, butter, cream, and indeed all viands, cool and fresh, and in this way it is very often a means of saving. An ice cave is packed or “ charged " with a mix- ture of crushed ice and freezing salt, full directions for doing this being generally given with each Special make. A primitive kind of ice cave can be made out of an ordinary tin biscuit box which is perfectly watertight. Place the mould or moulds to be frozen into this box, put on the lid, and seal round the joins with a good coating of lard. Then bury the box in a mixture of ice and salt for the required time. Notes on Freezing First of all be most particular to have every part of the freezer scrupulously clean, and then see that it is properly packed with ice and salt. Ice alone cannot produce a sufficient degree of cold, therefore coarse salt is used in the proportion of one part salt to three parts ice. Proper freezing salt should be ordered, as fine table salt -will not serve the pur- pose. This can be bought in bags at a very low rate. The ice should be crushed or broken into very small pieces, as the finer it is made the quicker will be the process of freezing. This may bo done by means of an ice pricker or breaker, which will Ice-Pricker cost from 6d. to Is., or with a hat-pin, or, if a large quantity of ice is required, it may be put into a piece of house flannel or sacking and broken with a hammer. Fit the pot into the pail and pack it round with ice and salt mixed together in the above proportions until within an inch of the top of the pot. Keep pressing the mixture down with an ice spaddle (price about 3s. 8d.), or strong wooden spoon, in order to make the packing close and com- pact. When ready, remove the lid from the pot, pour in the mixture to be frozen, and re-cover quickly. It is important that this mixture should be cold, otherwise it will waste the ice unnecessarily and take a longer time to freeze. The pot should not be more than three-parts filled, and the greatest care must be taken in opening and shutting, that no salt is allowed to enter, or the mixture would be entirely spoilt. Allow the mixture to stand in the can a few minutes, then turn the handle at the side of the machine with a slow and regular motion until the contents of the can are sufficiently frozen. The turning must be constant or the mixture will not freeze smoothly. As the freezing process proceeds the turning of the handle will become gradually harder. The dasher inside the pot is continually scraping the frozen mixture from the sides and mixing it thoroughly, so that there is no occasion to open the can until the freezing is sufficiently advanced. The time required for freezing will vary some- what according to the make of the machine and the kind of mixture being frozen. It is always better if an ice can be made some time before it is required, as the flavours become blended with standing—the ice ripens as it were. Remove the dash-wheel from the pot, press down the mixture with the wooden spoon to make it Ice Spaddle compact, put on the lid, and plug up the hole in the top with a cork, or piece of paper. Pack up with plenty of ice and salt, and cover the pail with a piece of thick flannel or felt. The ice will then remain in a frozen condition for several hours, or even longer, if more ice and salt are added when necessary. Care must be taken to keep the waste hole in the side of the tub always open; this will allow any water above this point to run off, and thus prevent its working up under the cover of the freezing pot. To Serve Simple Ices The simplest way of serving ices is to put por- tions sufficient for one person on little ice plates. A tiny lace-edged paper should be laid on the plate first. Little cone-shaped servers are sometimes used to give the ices a more attractive shape. The iced mixture is pressed into the server, then reversed on the plate, when a turn of a key loosens the ice and it slips out. Another simple way of serving ices is to put them in pretty glass cups or in little fancy paper cases ; these latter might match the flowers, in colour at least, that are decorating the table. The top of the ices may be daintily de-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 480 corated with a few crystallised flower petals, such as rose leaves or orange blossom, or even a light sprinkling of finely-chopped pistachio nut, but the decoration must on no account be overdone. A Ice-Server small sprig of maidenhair fern, or one or two lovely rose petals, make a very dainty decoration for an ice when they can be procured. Wafer biscuits should always be served with ices. For serving moulded ices (see p. 485.) PART I SIMPLE ICES 1. WATER ICES Water ices may be divided into several different classes, according to whether they are made with fruit juice, fruit puree (made from fresh fruit, tinned fruit, or jam), and a syrup, liqueur, or per- fume. Perfumed ices are seldom used alone, but generally as an accompaniment or filling to another ice. In the making of all water ices, a syrup of sugar and water is required. Plain sugar and water may be used, but it is better to prepare the syrup first as below : If a water ice has to be moulded it is a good plan to add two or three sheets of dissolved gelatine to the hot syrup. 2178. Syrup for Water Ices 1 pt. water. | lb. loaf sugar. The juice of \ lemon. Put the sugar and water into a lined saucepan, bring to the boil, and boil for 10 minutes, removing any scum that rises. Add the lemon juice and strain through fine muslin. Sufficient for about 1| pints syrup. 2179. Apple Water Ice (Glace aux Pommes) 1 lb. apples. J pt. water. 1 inch cinnamon stick. Rind and juice 1 lemon. 2 oz. sugar. Syrup for ices. Rum. Choose good sound apples, peel, core, and slice them. Put them into a jar with the water, sugar, cinnamon, and lemon rind and stew them until tender. Then rub them through a hair sieve and strain in the lemon juice. To \ pint of this puree add | pint syrup for ices (see above) and i glass rum or a little liqueur. Stand till cold and then freeze. 2180. Apricot or Peach Water Ice (Glace aux Abricots ou aux Peches) | pt. apricot or peach puree. \ pt. syrup for ices. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Juice of 1 lemon. A few drops essence of almonds or 1 dessert- sp. of noyeau. Tinned fruit may be used. Rub it through a hair sieve until a sufficient quantity is obtained. Some of the syrup must be used along with the fruit as the puree must not be too thick. Make the syrup (see above), add it to the fruit puree along with strained lemon juice in the above pro- portions, and the flavouring. Make the mixture a peachy colour with a few drops of carmine, and, when cold, freeze in the usual way. 2181. Banana Water Ice (Glace aux Bananes) 1 gill banana pulp. \ pt. syrup for ices. 1 gill orange or lemon Yellow colouring, juice. Make the banana pulp by cutting up some ripe bananas and rubbing them through a hair sieve. Add to the pulp, orange or lemon juice and syrup for ices (see above) in the above proportions, and colour the mixture with a very little yellow colour- ing. Pour all into a freezing pot and freeze as directed on p. 479. Note.—A little liqueur may be added to this ice if wished. 2182. Black-currant Water Ice Make in the same way as Red-currant Water Ice (see below), using black currants instead of red. 2183. Cherry Water Ice (Glace aux Cerises) 1 lb. Morello cherries. 1 pt. syrup for ices. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 table-sp. noyeau or maraschino. A few drops of carmine. Stalk the cherries, wipe them in a clean cloth and then stone them. Crack some of the stones and pound the kernels in a mortar. Then add the cherries and pound them also. Make the syrup according to directions given above, pour it boiling hot over the cherries and kernels, add the lemon juice, cover over, and stand until cold. Then rub all through a hair sieve. Add the liqueur to the fruit puree, colour with a few drops of carmine and freeze. Note.—One or two beaten whites of eggs may be added when the mixture is half frozen. 2184. Coffee Water Ice (Glace au Caf£) 1 £ pts. strong clear coffee j | gill brandy. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. \ Whipped cream. The coffee must be very clear and good. Sweeten it to taste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and allow it to become quite cold. Then pour it into a freezing pot and half freeze it. Add \ gill of fine brandy and freeze again. Serve in ice cups or glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top.481 ICES 2185. Grape Water lee (Glace aux Raisins) 1 table-sp. orange-flower water. \ glass Marsala. Pistachio nuts. 1 lb. muscatel grapes. Rind and juice of 2 lemons. J pt. syrup for ices. Stalk the grapes, and wipe them carefully in a clean cloth. Crush them and rub them through a hair sieve. Make the syrup according to directions given above, boiling with it the thinly-peeled rind of the 2 lemons. Strain the syrup and lemon juice on to the grape puree, add the orange- flower water and Marsala, and stand until cold. Freeze, and serve piled up in small cups, sprinkled with finely-chopped pistachio nuts. 2186. Lemon Water Ice (Glace au Citron) 1 gill lemon juice. I 4 pt. syrup for ices. Rind of 2 lemons. | I white of egg. Make in the same way as Orange and Lemon Water Ice (see below). 2187. Melon Water Ice (Glace au Melon) 1 melon. 1 pt. water. I I lemon. Sugar. 1 orange. | 1 glass maraschino. Choose a ripe melon of medium size. Peel it and slice it thinly, removing the seeds. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan with the thinly- peeled rind of the orange and lemon. Bring these to the boil and add the sliced melon. Simmer slowly for 10 minutes, and then rub all through a hair sieve. Add the strained juice of the orange and lemon along with the maraschino, cool, and freeze in the usual way. 2188. Orange and Lemon Water Ice (Glace au Citron et a 1’Orange) 4 pt. orange juice. Rind of 2 lemons. 1 gill lemon juice. 1 pt. syrup for ices. Rind of 2 oranges. 2 whites of eggs. Wipe 2 oranges and 2 lemons, peel the rind off them very thinly and put it into a basin. Make the syrup according to directions in Recipe 2178, pour it boiling hot over the rind, cover the basin and stand until cold. Then add the fruit juice in the above proportion, and strain all through muslin. Put this mixture into the freezing pot, and, when it is half frozen, mix in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Continue the freezing until the ice is sufficiently stifl for serving. Note.—Either orange or lemon juice may be used separately, but the above makes a nice com- bination. 2189. Pine-apple Water Ice (Glace d’Ananas) 1 tinned pine-apple. I Yellow colouring. Syrup for ices. | Lemon juice. Vanilla. Chop the pine-apple, pound it in a mortar with a little of the syrup from the tin, and rub it through a fine sieve. To \ pint of this puree add \ pint syrup for ices (Recipe 2178) and the strained juice of 1 lemon. Colour with a very little yellow colour- ing, and flavour with vanilla or a little liqueur. When cold, put into the freezing pot and freeze until stiff enough to pile up in ice cups. Note.—A little liqueur may be added if wished. 2190. Raspberry and Red-currant Water Ice (Glace aux Framboises et aux Groseilles) l pt. raspberry and red- I \ pt. syrup for ices, currant puree. ] Juice of 1 lemon. Take equal quantities of carefully picked rasp, berries and red currants. Crush them in a basin with a silver fork, and then rub them through a hair sieve. Add to this puree an equal quantity of syrup for ices, and strained lemon juice in the above proportion. Allow the mixture to be- come quite cold, and then freeze. 2191. Red-currant Water Ice (Glace aux Groseilles) 1 pt. red-currant juice. I 2 whites of eggs. 1 pt. syrup for ices. | Extract the juice from some red currants in the same way as directed for Raspberry Jam (Recipe 2152). Measure the juice, and allow syrup for ices (Recipe 2178) and whites of eggs in the above pro- portion. Put the fruit juice and syrup into the freezing pot and half freeze them, then add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and freeze again until sufficiently hard. Note.—This ice is very good served with a little whipped and frozen cream on the top. 2192. Strawberry Water Ice (Glace aux Fraises) | pt. strawberry puree. | pt. syrup for ices. Juice of 1 lemon. 2 whites of eggs. A few drops of car- mine. Choose sound ripe strawberries, pick them care- fully, and rub them through a hair sieve. Make the syrup according to directions in Recipe 2178, add it to the fruit puree in the above proportion, along with the strained lemon juice and enough carmine to make all a pretty pink colour. When quite cold, freeze in the usual way. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stifl froth, and stir them into the mixture when it is half frozen, then continue the freezing until the ice is sufficiently stifl for serving. 2193. Tutti-Frutti—Mixed Fruit Ice (Tutti- Frutti Glaces) 1 pt. orange or lemon i | lb. mixed fruit. Sugar, water ice. | 1 table-sp. liqueur. Take any kind of fruit, fresh, tinned, or glace, and cut it into dice. Sprinkle it with sugar and liqueur, and let it stand a short time. Then stir it into half-frozen water ice, and continue the freez- ing until sufficiently firm. 2. CREAM ICES Cream ices, or so-called cream ices, can be made in diflerent ways, according to the degree of rich- ness required, and the amount of cream that can be afforded. The best cream ices are made of pure cream ■with the necessary flavouring or fruit added to it. Very good ones can also be made with equal parts of custard and cream, with flavouring added. Plainer ices are made without cream, a custard being used in its place, and plainer still with con- densed milk thickened with a little cornflour, and flavoured to taste. 2 H482 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Care must always be taken in the amount of sugar added; if the mixture is made too sweet it will not freeze properly, and if not sweet enough it will be hard and rough like snow. Examples of various qualities of ice creams are given below, and with a little ingenuity others can easily be invented. Those that are considered too rich may be made less so by substituting custard or milk for some of the cream. 2194. Apple Cream Ice (Glace aux Pommes) 1 lb. apples. 3 oz. sugar. 1 | pt cream or custard. l~ lemon. 1 gill water. I Colouring. Choose good cooking apples. Peel, core, and slice them and put them into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and the rind and juice of the \ lemon. Cook slowly until reduced to a pulp, then rub all through a fine sieve, and allow the puree to cool. Now add to it the custard, or cream lightly whipped, and more sugar if necessary. Colour a pale pink with carmine, or tinge it very slightly with apple or spinach green. Freeze in the usual way. A little liqueur may be added if wished. 2195. Apricot Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme d’Abricots) | pt. apricot puree. | pt. double cream. Sugar to taste. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Make the apricot puree by rubbing tinned apricots through a hair sieve, using some of the syrup. The puree must not be too thick. Mix the cream, lightly whipped, with the puree, and add the lemon juice and enough carmine to make the mixture an apricot colour. Sweeten to taste and freeze as directed on p. 479. A little liqueur may be added if wished. Notes.—Fresh apricots may be used, but they must be stewed until soft in a syrup of sugar and water. A plainer ice may be made by using half custard and half cream. moderate oven until dry and crisp. Make the custard according to Recipe 794, strain and let it cool. Then stir in the cream (whipped), sweeten with castor sugar, and flavour with vanilla and the brandy or noyeau. Put the mixture into the freezing pot, when half frozen stir in the crumbs, and then continue the freezing until sufficiently stiff. 2198. Cherry Ice Cream (Glace a la Creme de Cerises) 1| lbs. cherries. | pt. custard. 1 gill cream. Sugar. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 glass noyeau or a few drops essence of al- monds. Carmine. Choose ripe and juicy cherries. Remove the stalks, wipe them in a clean cloth, and remove the stones. Then pound the cherries in a mortar (a few at a time) and rub them through a fine sieve, j Add the custard and strained lemon juice to the cherry pulp and sweeten to taste. Whip the cream ’ and stir it in lightly, then flavour with noyeau or ; essence of almonds. Add a few of the cherry ^ kernels blanched and chopped, and colour if neces- s sary with a few drops of carmine. Freeze as directed on p. 479. Note.—If the cherries seem hard and rather ' wanting in juice, stew them for a short time in a little syrup of sugar and water. 2199. Chocolate Cream Ice (Glace au Chocolat) 1 pt. custard. pt. double cream. 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 2 table-sps. milk. Sugar to taste. Vanilla. Grate the chocolate and dissolve it in about 2 table-spoonfuls milk. Make the custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, add the chocolate to it, and strain both together. Whip the cream lightly, mix it with the chocolate custard, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of vanilla. Freeze as directed on p. 479. 2196. Banana Cream lee (Glace de Bananes) 5 bananas. | pt. custard. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. 1 orange. Sugar. 1 table-sp. maraschino. Apricot-yellow. Make the custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, flavouring it with the grated rind of the orange. Choose ripe bananas, peel them, chop them a little, and rub them through a sieve. There should be one gill of pulp when finished. Add to it the strained juice of the orange, and the custard when cold. Mix well, add the cream stiffly whipped, sugar to taste, and 1 table-spoonful mar- aschino or other liqueur. Colour slightly with apricot yellow. Freeze as directed on p. 479. 2197. Brown Bread Cream Ice (Glace au Pain Bis) | pt. custard. pt. cream. £ lb. brown crumbs. Sugar. Vanilla. bread- 1 table-sp. brandy or noyeau. Rub sufficient brown bread through a wire sieve to make i lb. crumbs. Put the crumbs into a 2200. Cocoanut Ice Cream 1 fresh cocoanut. 1 pt. cream. 6 oz. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. vanilla. 1 pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. sherry. Remove the cocoanut from the shell, peel off all the brown skin, and then grate it. Cook it for a short time in the milk, then strain it out and make a custard with the milk, eggs, and sugar. Allow the custard to cool, add to it the cream slightly whipped, the vanilla and sherry. Pour this mix- ture into a freezing pot and half freeze it, then add the cocoanut and freeze again until sufficiently hard. 2201. Coffee Cream Ice (Creme au Cafd Glacg) Make in the same way as Vanilla Cream Ice (Recipe 2217), making the custard with equal parts of strong black coffee and milk. A small liqueur glass of kirsch may be added. 2202. Cream Ices with Fruit Purge Very delicious ices can be made by combining an iced cream mixture with some puree of fresh483 ICES fruit. For instance, put some lemon cream ice into some pretty glass cups, and then a spoonful of raspberry pur4e, which has been iced and flavoured with a little liqueur. Pile a little whipped and iced cream on the top and put the ices in an ice cave or on ice until required. Or, again, a raspberry ice crfeam may be used with a puree of raspberries or strawberries, or a walnut or coflee cream with apricot or pine-apple, and so on. These ices may be varied according to individual taste and the materials at hand. 2203. Ginger Ice Cream (Glace a la Creme de Gingembre) Make in the same way as Vanilla Ice Cream (Recipe 2217), adding 3 oz. preserved ginger cut in small pieces and a little of the syrup to the custard. 2204. Gooseberry Ice | pt. gooseberry puree. I A little green colouring. | pt. double cream. I 1 glass liqueur. To Make the Puree.—Top and tail some green gooseberries, wash them, and then stew them until soft with very little water, and enough sugar to sweeten. Rub the stewed fruit through a hair sieve and add to it whipped cream in the above proportion. Make a pale green colour with spinach- green, and if liked add a little liqueur. Freeze as directed on p. 479. 2205. Lemon Cream Ice—Economical (Glace a la Creme de Citron) 1 pt. custard. I 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 lemons. I A little yellow colouring. Wipe the lemons and grate the rind off very lightly. Rub the rind into the castor sugar and use this for sweetening the custard. Add the strained juice of 1 lemon and a little yellow colour- ing. Mix well and freeze. Note.—A better ice can be made by using half double cream and half custard as in Vanilla Cream Ice. 2206. Liqueur Ice Cream (Glace au Liqueur) 1 pt. double cream. I 2 or 3 glasses maras- 4 oz. castor sugar. | chino or other liqueur. Whip the cream and add the sugar very finely sifted. Pour in the liqueur, mix well, and freeze. Note.—A rich custard may be used instead of the cream, or half custard and half cream. 2207. Orange Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme d’Orange) Make in the same way as Lemon Cream Ice (see above), using the rind and juice of 2 oranges instead of the lemon. Add also one or two drops of carmine as well as the yellow to produce an orange colour. . 2208. Praline Cream Ice 1 pt. custard, f pt. cream. J lb. sugar. J lb. almonds. A squeeze of lemon juice. Blanch the almonds, chop them roughly, and make them very dry. Put the sugar into a small saucepan or sugar boiler with the lemon juice, melt it carefully over the fire, and let it become a good brown colour, then add the almonds, and stir constantly until they are brown also. Then pour the mixture on to a flat tin that has been greased with salad oil, and let it cool. When cold and hard, pound in a mortar until reduced to a powder. Add this powder to the custard while warm, then cool and half freeze. Whip the cream, stir it in lightly with a little liqueur or brandy, and freeze again until sufficiently stiff. Note.—If liked, some of the praline may be left rather coarser, and added to the ice at the last. 2209. Peach Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme de Peehes) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream Ice (see above), substituting peaches for apricots. 2210. Pine-apple Cream Ice, 1 (Glace a la Cr6me d’Ananas) Jib. tinned pine-apple. pt. custard. I gill thick cream. Juice of f lemon. Sugar. A little rum. Chop the pine-apple, put it into a mortar, and pound it to a pulp. Then add some of the liquid from the tin and rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Add the custard to the puree and strain in the lemon juice. Whip the cream, add it to the other ingredients with sugar to taste, and a little rum if liked. Then freeze. 2211. Pine-apple Cream Ice, 2 (Glace a la Creme d’Ananas) 1 small fresh pine-apple. ! 1 lemon. 1 pt. cream. | 6 oz. castor sugar. Grate the rind off the lemon and rub it into half the sugar. Put this flavoured sugar into a double boiler with half the cream, and scald them until the sugar is quite dissolved. Then stand this cream aside until cold, peel the pine-apple, taking out the eyes ; then cut it in quarters, and remove the core. Now grate it down or chop it very finely, strain over it the lemon juice, and sprinkle with the remainder of the sugar. Whip the re- mainder of the cream, and add it to that which has been scalded. Turn these into the freezing pot and half freeze them, then add the prepared pine- apple and lemon juice, and freeze again until suffi- ciently stiff. Note.—A little brandy or liqueur may be added to this ice if wished. 2212. Raspberry Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme de Framboises) Make in the same way as Strawberry Cream Ice (see below), substituting raspberries for straw- berries. 2213. Rice Cream Ice If pts. milk. 1 bay-leaf. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 oz. flour of rice. 1 gill milk. J- lb. castor sugar. 1 glass brandy or liqueur If gills cream. Put the milk, bay-leaf, and lemon rind into a saucepan and stand them at the side of the fire until hot and well flavoured. Then remove the484 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD bay-leaf, and add the rice flour mixed smoothly with a gill of cold milk. Stir over the fire until boiling, add the sugar, and cook for a few minutes. Then strain into a basin and stir occasionally until Bice Cream Ice with Compote of Oranges Cold. Partly freeze the mixture in the usual way, add the cream, whipped, and the liqueur, and freeze again until stiff. This ice is best moulded and served with a good sauce or compote of fruit. Small pieces of fruit may be added to the mixture if wished. 2214. Strawberry Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme de Fraises) 1 lb. fresh strawberries. £ lb. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. J- pt. double cream. A few drops of car- mine. Choose sound ripe strawberries, pick them care- fully, and cut them in pieces with a silver knife or fork. Sprinkle them with the sugar and lemon juice and allow them to stand for £ hour or so. Then rub them through a hair sieve, using a wooden or silver spoon. The puree should measure 4 pint; if more or less, regulate the quantity of cream accordingly. Whip the cream until thick, and stir it lightly into the strawberry puree, add a few drops of carmine to make the cream a pretty strawberry colour, and then freeze in the usual way. Note.—A plainer ice may be made by using cus- tard, or partly custard, instead of so much cream. Strawberry jam may be used instead of the fresh fruit, when sugar will not be required. 2215. Tangerine Ice Cream 6 tangerine oranges. 1 pt. cream. \ lb. castor sugar Grate the rind very lightly off 3 of the oranges, and then rub it into the sugar. Put this flavoured sugar into a double boiler with half the cream, and scald them until the sugar is quite dissolved. Then remove from the fire, and stand until cold. Strain in the juice of the 6 oranges, and add the other half of the cream, whipped. Pour all into the freezing pot, and freeze in the usual way. Note.—The ordinary oranges may be used in- stead of the tangerines, half the number being allowed. 2216. Tea Ice Cream (CrSme au The Glace) Make in the same way as Vanilla Ice Cream, making the custard with equal parts of strong good tea and milk. A small glass of liqueur brandy may be added. 2217. Vanilla Cream Ice (Glace a la Cr&me de Vanille) \ pt. double cream. I Sugar. S pt. custard. ] Vanilla pod or essence. Make a rich custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, flavour it with vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Strain this and allow it to cool. Add the cream lightly whipped, mix both together, and freeze until a proper consistency. Note.—A cheaper mixture may be made by using a cornflour custard and adding less cream. 2218. Coupe aux Marrons Vanilla ice cream. I Liqueur. Marrons glaces. | Whipped cream. Break up one or two marrons glaces in small , pieces and soak them in a small quantity of liqueur. Put a dessert-spoonful of this at the bottom of some ■ glass cups or goblets, and fill up with vanilla ice cream. Put a whole marron glace on the top, and garnish round with a little whipped and flavoured cream put through a forcing bag. Serve at once. 2219. Walnut Ice Cream Make in the same way as Vanilla Ice Cream (see above), adding 3 oz. roasted and ground walnuts to the custard. 2220. Meringues au Chocolat Glacges Take some well hollowed out meringue cases, and fill the half shells with chocolate ice cream. Pile the ice rather high in each half, but do not put the two shells together. Have ready in a forcing bag with a small rose pipe at the end of it, some icy cold whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla and coloured a very pale pink. Force this out in a pretty pattern on the top of each meringue, and arrange them neatly on a dish. Decorate with fern leaves or red Vir- ginia creeper leaves, and serve at once. Note.—These may be varied indefinitely by chang- ing the ice cream mixture and the colouring and flavouring of the whipped cream, &o. 2221. Iced Tartlets Make some little fruit tartlets with good thin short crust as directed on p. 362, and let them be very cold. At the moment of serving pile some vanilla, strawberry, or other ice cream in each, decorate lightly with crystallised flower petals or any other decoration preferred, and serve at once. [Iimin 11 HI r- -485 ICES PART II MOULDED AND FANCY ICES TO MOULD AN ICE When something more elaborate is wanted, the ice mixture should be moulded and turned out in shape. The mixture in this case should not be frozen too hard or it will not mould prettily. Take an ice pudding mould and let it he on ice or in icy water for some time before it is required. Then pack it tightly with the frozen mixture, ressing it well down, in order to force out all air ubbles, and filling it to the brim. Cover with a piece of strong white paper, wetted with cold water, and put on the lid. Now seal round the join (of the hd and mould) with lard, which, when hard, will make the mould perfectly watertight, as the greatest care must be taken to prevent any salted water from entering. Imbed the mould in a mixture of ice and salt from 2 to 4 hours, according to size. The ice pail with the pot re- moved from it may be used for imbedding the pudding. If an ice cave is used the sealing of the mould will not be necessary, in fact the mixture might then be put into any fancy pudding mould, which is not so expensive as a proper ice mould. Longer time must be allowed for freezing in an ice cave. Ice pudding moulds may be had in many differ- ent forms, the best being made of pewter or copper. As a rule the simpler the shape tne better, and it is certainly easier where turning out is concerned. Favourite shapes are the pillar, the melon, and the dome or bomb moulds, and these lend themselves readily to some simple outside decoration. A nice compote of fruit, for instance, is always a good finish to a plain ice. With the more fanciful moulds it is often necessary to use two or three different coloured mixtures in order to show them off to advantage, and unless this is well done the result is not satisfactory. ICE PUDDINGS Almost, any good ice mixture may be made into a pudding, or a mixture of two or three kinds may be used together. A mixture of fruits cut in small pieces is often added, and liqueur of some kind is a favourite flavouring. When two kinds of cream are to be used in the mould, set the mould on ice and line it about an inch thick with the heavier of the two mixtures, and then fill up the centre with another mixture of a different flavour. If a cream ice and water ice are being used to- gether, the cream mixture should be used to line the mould and the water ice for filling the centre. Then, again, if the mixtures are being set in layers, the lightest should be put in first and the rnosfc solid last, as there will then be a firm foundation for the pudding to rest on when it is turned out. Very pretty combinations may be made by setting the iced mixture in a border mould, and filling the centre with fruit or whipped cream when it is turned out. For instance, a pink ice cream with white whipped cream in the centre and a few crystallised rose petals to decorate it, or a lemon- coloured ice cream with small pieces of pine-apple and whipped cream in the centre, and a decoration of maidenhair fern, or, again, a white cream with small strawberries or raspberries in the centre flavoured with liqueur, and so on; the variety is almost endless and leaves room for individual taste and ingenuity. To Unmould and Serve an Ice Pudding If the mould has been buried in ice and salt, scrape off the lard covering the join, wipe the out- side carefully, and then remove the hd and paper. Dip the mould in cold water for a few seconds, wipe it dry, then invert it on a dish which has a pretty lace-edged paper on it, and draw the mould slowly ofE. If it does not come away at once, let it stand for a minute or two. Thi3 unmoulding must be done with care, and a little practice will be required to do it nicely. If the outside is allowed to become too soft, some of the mixture will run down on the dish and the appearance of the pudding will be altogether spoilt. Decorate the pudding with preserved fruits, or pieces of fresh fruit that have been well chilled on ice, or with curled wafer biscuits, or small sprays of maidenhair fern. A rich sauce may be poured round the plainer ice puddings. Some moulded ices look better when they are raised on an ice border (see below), in order to give them height. These ice borders should have a piece of cotton-wool sheeting placed under them, in order to absorb any moisture. Place the cotton-wool on the dish first, and then a lace-edged paper on the top. SMALL FANCY ICES Small ices turned out of little fancy moulds are very dainty, but they are a little more difficult Fancy Ice Meulds to manage. They are more expensive, too, when special moulds are required, and it is only when one is the possessor of an ice cave that any ordinary486 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD small moulds can be employed, as they do not then come in direct contact with the freezing mixture. Small fancy ice moulds are generally made of pewter, and they are never cheap, from 18s. 6d. per dozen is about the least one will pay for them. They are to be had in a variety of forms, such as flowers, fruit, vegetables, nuts, eggs, balls, &c. These should be filled with an iced mixture suitable in colour to their form, and in the case of fruits, the flavour also should be the same as the fruit re- presented. They must be filled perfectly full, the mixture being well pressed into the form of the mould. Close the moulds and bury them in ice and salt, or put them into an ice cave, until required. Then when turned out they may be touched up with a little colour to make them resemble still further the form they represent. Stalks of fruit and flowers may be represented by small pieces of angelica, or artificial ones may be bought. There are different ways of serving these-little ices; either they may be served on individual ice plates with a tiny lace-paper or some natural leaves under them, or as a garnish to a larger ice; or what makes a very dainty dish is to serve them in a basket made of nougat, or of sugar, or piled up and covered lightly with spun sugar; or, again, a nest may be made of spun sugar, and egg-shaped ices put inside, only these dishes require some skill and should scarcely be attempted by the amateur. ICED SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, PARFAITS, AND BISCUITS These are all very much the same, in fact the names have become almost interchangeable now- adays. They are all very light in texture and differ from the ordinary ice pudding in the fact that they are poured directly into their moulds without any preliminary freezing, and then buried in ice and salt, or put into an ice cave to freeze. The souffle is frozen and served in a souffle case, and an ice cave of some kind is necessary to freeze it as it has no covering to protect it from the ice and salt. A band of paper is tied round the out- Souffte Case with Band of Paper side of the case in order to make it several inches higher, the mixture is then put in, and, when the paper is removed after freezing, the souffle will have the appearance of having risen. The mousse may either be frozen in an ice cave or buried in ice and salt in the same way as an ice pudding. A plain mould such as a bombe is generally best to use, as the mixture, being light in texture, would not readily take the impression of anything very fanciful. A good sauce or a compote or macedoine of fruit is a very usual accompaniment to a mousse. The parfait is the same as a mousse, only it is generally supposed to be richer in cream. Biscuit ices are as a rule served in little paper cases, a parfait or mousse mixture being used. Ice Border Fill a border mould with cold water and set it in the ice cave until frozen hard. Then turn out by dipping the mould in cold water, and use as a support for various fancy ices. The ice border should be dished with a piece of cotton-wool under it to absorb any moisture. The water used may be tinted, rose, green, violet, &c., according to the colour of the ice for which it is to be used. Ice Cups These are made of ice and are used for serving different kinds of ices, but principally sorbets. Either one large cup or small individual cups may be made. Special moulds are required ; these are like double cups, one acting as a lining to the other as it were, with a small space between the two to allow of a layer of water being frozen. Either plain water may be used or water that is slightly coloured, but the colour must be very pale and in keeping with, or forming a pretty contrast to, the ice that is to fill the cup. Three-parts fill the larger of the two cups with the water, place in the lining, fasten it securely down with the clips provided, and freeze in an ice cave for 2 or 3 hours. When re- quired, dip the cup in cold water, carefully remove the lining, loosen the layer of ice now formed on the larger mould with a palette knife, slip it care- fully out, and you have a cup ready for serving any kind of ice you wish. 2222. Neapolitan Ice Creams (Glaces Napolitaines) For these a special box-shaped mould should be used. Then three kinds of ice cream are necessary, of different flavours and different colours. Theso ought to be frozen separately and then packed in equal layers in the box. Cover with the lid and Neapolitan Ice Box freeze again in an ice chest, or, if this is not avail- able, seal up the joins of the mould with lard, wrap in paper, and bury in ice for 1 hour. When wanted, turn out, cut in slices, so that the three different colours show, and serve the ices on ice plates or in little paper cases. Note.—A flat tin biscuit box may sometimes serve the purpose of a Neapolitan ice box, but it should be carefully lined with white writing paper, cut to fit. These ices may be made more fanciful by decorating the slices with a little whippedICES 487 cream put through a forcing bag, and a small piece of preserved or crystallised fruit on the top. 2223. Peches a la Melba Cooked peaches. I Raspberry puree. Vanilla ice cream. | Peel and halve the required number of peaches, and cook them in a syrup of sugar and water flavoured with vanilla until tender, but not broken. Add a few drops of carmine to give the fruit a pinkish tint, and a little liqueur if wished. Lift out the peaches and drain them on a sieve in a very cool place. Prepare also some thick raspberry puree by rubbing fresh raspberries through a hair sieve with enough castor sugar to sweeten, or a good raspberry syrup may be used. Then take some pretty glass goblets and put a good spoonful of vanilla ice cream into each; place a half peach on the top and coat over with the raspberry pur6e. Serve at once. 2224. Peches Glacees au Nid Vanilla ice cream. Spun sugar. A little carmine. Prepare some vanilla ice cream as directed in Recipe 2217, and freeze it, but not too hard. Then take nine or ten small peach moulds, fill the two sides very full with the ice cream, and press them quickly together. Now bury them in powdered ice or salt" for | hour or longer, or put them in the ice cave. Meanwhile prepare some spun sugar- use from | to | lbs. of sugar, and spin a good bunch of it in two colours—in its natural colour and in pink. Roll the two together in a thickish roll, twist round to form a circle, fill up the centre, and thus form a nest. To Serve.—Line the nest with a small lace- edged. paper ; turn out the moulds and pile the little ices in the centre. Then, with a small brush, paint them lightly over with pale carmine to imitate the colour of a peach. Stick a small piece of angelica in each to form the stalk, and serve the ice quickly with a lace-edged paper under it. 2225. Pouding Glace aux Fruits, 1 | lb. preserved fruits. 1 dessert-sp. vanilla essence. 1 table-sp. rum or liqueur. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour or arrowroot. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. 1 gill double cream. 2 whites of eggs. Cook the cornflour or arrowroot thoroughly in the milk, then add the sugar and vanilla, and let the mixture cool. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and beat the cream until thick. Add both these to the thickened milk, mix well, and pour all into a freezing pot. Half freeze the mix- ture, then stir into it the fruits cut in very small pieces and the rum or liqueur. Freeze again and then mould in the usual way. 2226. Pouding Glacd aux Fruits, 2 | pt. double cream. 3 gills custard. I lb. preserved fruits. 1 table-sp. chopped almonds. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pistachio nuts. 1 table-sp. brandy or liqueur. A few drops vanilla. _ Make a good custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, sweeten it, allow it to cool. and then strain it into the freezing pot. Half freeze this custard and add to it the fruits cut in tiny pieces, the chopped almonds, and pistachio nuts. Flavour with vanilla and a little liqueur or brandy, and, lastly, stir in the cream which has been whipped until stiff. Freeze the mixture again until stiff. Decorate an ice pudding mould and pack the mixture into it, pressing it well down so that it takes the form of the mould. Then cover and freeze until wanted. It will require 3 or 4 hours at least. 2227. Iced Orange Pudding (Pouding Glaed d, I’Orange) 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 3 oranges. 1 table-sp. wine or liqueur. | pt. double cream. 2 table-sps. macaroon crumbs. 1 oz. candied orange peel. First grate the rind very thinly off two of the oranges and rub it into the sugar until the two are thoroughly blended. Then make a custard with the milk, eggs, and this flavoured sugar, let it cool, and add the strained juice of one of the oranges. Peel the remaining two oranges, remove every par- ticle of white skin, and cut the inside juicy part into small pieces, free from seeds. Sprinkle these pieces with sugar, pour over them the wine or liqueur, and let them stand for some time. Now whip the cream and add to it the cold custard; turn the mixture into a freezing pot and half freeze it. Then add the pieces of orange, the candied peel finely chopped, and the macaroon crumbs. Freeze again, and, when sufficiently firm, pack into a pudding mould and bury in ice from 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 8 persons. 2228. Pouding Glacd a la Rose 3 gills milk. 3 gills cream. 1 gill rose water. i lb. castor sugar. | tea-sp. vanilla. A few drops carmine. Put all the ingredients except the carmine into a freezing pot, and freeze until stiff enough to mould —do not make it too hard, or it will not shape nicely. Then colour half the mixture a pretty rose pink, and pack it into a mould in alternate spoonfuls with the white. Freeze for 3 or 4 hours, then, when required, turn out and decorate with sprays of maidenhair fern and some pretty rose petals or small rosebuds. Note.—The mixture may be made less rich by using all milk and adding just a little whipped cream when half frozen. Sufficient for 8 persons. 2229. Pouding en Surprise, 1 A cabinet pudding. I Apricot or chocolate Some cream ice. I sauce. Make a good cabinet pudding as directed in Recipe 1747, using double quantities of the in- gredients. Steam it carefully in a plain charlotte or souffle mould, and, when firm to the touch, lift it from the steamer and allow it to stand a few minutes. Then turn it out, with a very sharp knife cut a slice about | inch in thickness off the top, reserving this carefully without breaking.COOKERY FOR EVERY. HOUSEHOLD 488 Now scoop out the centre of the pudding, leaving a good hollow, and fill this with a well-frozen ice- cream mixture. Put on the top slice again, pour the hot sauce (Recipe 774 or 783) over, decorate with a sprinkling of pistachio nuts or pieces of pre- served fruits, and serve at once. Notes.—Many different puddings can be made in this way by simply varying the ice cream and the sauce. Small sponge puddings or castle puddings may be used instead of the cabinet pudding. A pudding of this , kind is always a novelty, and it is a cause of wonderment to find a frozen mixture inside a hot. It is a good plan to add 1 or 2 sheets of gelatine to the inside mixture before freezing it; it will hold together longer. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 2230. Pouding en Surprise, 2 Another method of making an iced pudding en surprise is to freeze any good ice-cream mixture in a plain and rather flattish mould. It should be frozen if anything a little too hard. A few minutes before the pudding is wanted, have ready some meringue mixture, and put it into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe at the end of it. Turn tho pudding out of its mould, and force out the mer- ingue mixture over it, covering it entirely. Dredge with sugar, place the pudding in theoven,and brown the meringue quickly; then serve at once. A cold mousseline or liqueur sauce may be poured round the pudding or served separately. 2232. Mousse au Chocolat 3 oz. chocolate. | gill milk. 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Vanilla essence. 3 table-sps. whipped cream. First break up the chocolate, put it into a small saucepan with the milk, and melt over the fire. Stir until a smooth, thick batter is formed and then cool slightly. Put the eggs (yolks and whites) into a basin with the sugar and a little vanilla essence, whip them a little, and add the chocolate. Now stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whisk over the fire until the mixture is warm and thick, and begins to hang on the end of the whisk. The basin should not be kept flat on the Ean, but should be tilted slightly, and care should e taken that the mixture does not begin to cook on the bottom. It is important, also, that the whisking be done in one direction, the motion should not be reversed. When ready, remove the basin to the table and continue the whisking until the mixture is cold. It may be cooled down gradually on ice, but should not be suddenly chilled. Then add the whipped cream, stirring it in lightly. Mould and freeze at least 3 hours. Turn out when required, and serve sprinkled with chopped pis- tachio nuts or with a good sauce poured over it. A light covering of spun sugar would also make a pretty finish. Sufficient for 6 persons. 2231. Melon en Surprise Vanilla cream ice. Strawberry water ice. Take a melon-shaped mould, rinse it with water, and stand on ice to become thoroughly cold. Make some vanilla cream ice (Recipe 2217) and line the mould with it to about 1 inch in thickness, keeping it standing on the ice all the time. Fill up the centre with strawberry water ice, which has been flavoured with a little liqueur, then close the mould and freeze at least 3 hours. Freeze Melon en Surprise also an ice border (see p. 486), and, when ready, turn out the border first, and place it on a dish with a sheet of cotton-wool and a dessert paper on the top. Then turn out the melon and stand it on the top of the border. Decorate with some sprays of maidenhair fern. Note.—By altering the kinds of ices used this dish may be varied indefinitely. 2233. Iced Tomato Mousse 1 lb. tomatoes. 2 cloves. A small bay-leaf. 2 lumps sugar. Salt. Pepper. J tea-sp. celery salt. 1 tea-sp. tarragon vinegar. | pt. double cream. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in halves, and squeeze out some of the liquid from the inside. Then cut them in pieces and put them into a sauce- pan with the seasoning. Stir over the fire until reduced to a pulp and then simmer until thick. Now rub this tomato pulp through a hair sieve and let it cool. Whip the cream until thick and add | pint of the tomato puree gradually to it. Pour into a well-chilled ice-cream mould, cover and pack as directed on p. 485, and freeze for 4 hours. Then turn out, cut in slices, and garnish with crisp lettuce. 2234. Iced Fruit Souffle (Souffle Glae6) 1 gill fruit puree. 7 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 2 or 3 oz. castor sugar. % pt. cream. Colouring. Make the puree by rubbing some tinned or fresh fruit through a hair sieve. The puree should be of a medium consistency, neither too thick nor too thin, and the amount of sugar used will depend on the acidity of the fruit. Put this puree into a basin with the sugar and eggs, also a little colouring and flavouring if wished. Stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whisk all over the fire until thick and frothy. Then remove the basin to the table, and whisk the mixture until cold. The basin may be stood on ice after a while, but the mixture must not be chilled too suddenly. Pro-489 ICES pare a souffle dish with a band of paper tied round it, pour the mixture into this, and freeze in an ice cave from 2 to 3 hours, or until sufficiently stiff. When ready, remove the paper, being careful not to drag it away, as the mixture is very light and might easily be damaged. Pin round the souffle a band of silver paper or a fine doyley, decorate the top with a few chopped pistachio nuts or ratafia crumbs, and serve at once. 2235. Biscuits Glacis 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs H oz. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. maraschino. 1J gills cream. 2 table-sps. browned and chopped almonds. Crystallised violets. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin with 1 table- spoonful maraschino or other liqueur, and whip them over hot water until thick, and then until cold, in the same way as directed for Iced Souffle. Whip the cream and add 2 table-spoonfuls of it to the mixture. Fill little paper or china souffle cases with the mixture, and put them in the ice cave to freeze from 2| to 3 hours. When required, sprinkle the tops of the biscuits with the almonds, and decorate with the remainder of the cream, sweetened and flavoured, and a few crystal- lised violets. Sufficient for 12 or more souffles. 2236. Coffee Parfait (Parfait au Caf6) 4 yolks of eggs. Vanilla. 1 pt. black coffee. J pt. whipped cream. I lb. castor sugar. Put the yolks and sugar into a beating bowl with the coffee, which must be clear and good. Whisk over a saucepan of hot water until the mixture thickens; then remove it from the fire and continue Coffee Parfait to beat until cold and light. Mix in the cream, keeping back any liquid which has run from it. Turn into a freezing pot and leave packed in ice and salt for 2 or 3 hours. Serve in glass cups or goblets. BOMBES The term “ bombe ” indicates two or three differ- ent kinds of ice moulded together in what is known as a bomb-shaped mould. There is a large variety of these, but the foliowing should sufficiently illus- trate the mode of procedure, and enable others to be made in a similar manner by simply changing the kind and flavour of the ices used. Bombe Mould 2237. Bombe Espagnole Chocolate ice cream, li gills double cream. Sugar. Vanilla. 2 or 3 finger biscuits. A little kirsch. Make some chocolate ice cream as directed in Recipe 2199. Whip the cream, sweeten it to taste, and flavour with vanilla. Cut the finger biscuits into small pieces, and soak them with a little kirsch. Take a plain ice mould, place in ice for a short time, and then line it with the chocolate ice cream. Fill the centre with the whipped cream and the pieces of soaked biscuits. The mould must bo perfectly full. Cover with paper, put on the lid, and seal round the join with lard or butter (see p. 485). Bury in ice for I hour at least. Then un- mould the bombe on a silver dish with a lace-edged paper under it. 2238. Bombe aux Fraises a la Crdme 1| pts. strawberry water 2 table-sps. sugar. ice. Vanilla. \ pt. cream. Whip the cream until thick, add the sugar, flavour with vanilla and set it on ice to become icy cold. Prepare the strawberry water ice accord- ing to Recipe 2192, freezing it very hard. Then take a plain bombe or melon mould, rinse it out with cold water, pack it in ice and salt, and fine it quickly with the strawberry water ice, reserving enough to cover the top. Put the whipped cream in the centre, and cover with the remainder of the water ice. Put a piece of white wetted paper on the top, then the lid, and seal round the join with lard. Cover the mould entirely with ice and salt, and leave to freeze at least 2 hours. Note.—It is a good plan to add 1 or 2 sheets of dissolved gelatine to the strawberry ice before freezing it. 2239. Bombe Frangaise Chocolate Ice. £ pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 or 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 2table-sps. water or milk Banana Mousse. 3 ripe bananas. Icing sugar. Juice of \ lemon. 1 table-sp. rum. 1 gill double cream. This is a moulded ice. A bombe mould is lined with chocolate ice cream, and the inside filled up490 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD with the banana mousse. First prepare the choco- late ice : Chocolate Ice.—Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar. The amount of sugar will depend on the kind of chocolate used; care must be taken not to make the mixture too sweet or it will not freeze properly. Allow the custard to cool and then freeze it. Dissolve the chocolate in a small quantity of water or milk, and, if not perfectly smooth, strain through muslin. Add this to the custard when frozen, and mix it well in. If frozen along with the custard the chocolate loses its colour. Banana Mousse. — To prepare this, rub the bananas through a hair sieve, weigh the pulp, and allow an equal weight of icing sugar. Mix the sugaB and pulp together with a wooden spoon, then add the lemon juice, rum, and the same volume of whipped cream as of purge, about 1 gill. Stir all lightly together and the mixture is ready. To Make the Borribe.—Take a bombe mould, place it on broken ice and salt to make it very cold. Then line the mould quickly with the chocolate ice cream and fill up with the banana mixture. Cover with a piece of white paper and then put on the lid of the mould. Close round the joins with lard or margarine and bury the mould in ice and salt for 2 hours or longer. When required, turn out and serve in the usual way. Note.—Other bombes may be made in the same way by varying the flavouring of the ice which lines the mould and using a different kind of fruit for the mousse—for example, coflee ice with apricot mousse, vanilla ice with strawberry mousse, lemon ice with raspberry mousse, and so on. Other Bombes Borribe Americaine.—Line a bombe mould with strawberry ice cream and fill up the centre with orange-water ice. Bombe Delicieuse.—Line the mould with apricot ice cream, and fill up with vanilla ice flavoured with liqueur. Bombe Dlplomate.—A lining of vanilla ice cream and a filling of fruits soaked in liqueur. Bombe Marie Louise.—Line the mould with rasp- berry and fill up with vanilla ice cream. Borribe Napolitaine.—Vanilla, strawberry, and pistachio nut ice cream set in layers. Bombe Royale.—A mixture of vanilla and straw- berry ice cream, decorated when serving with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. 2240. Creme de Fromage Glace 2 oz. Parmesan and 1 oz. Gruyere cheese. 1 gill aspic jelly. 1 gill double cream. Cayenne. Watercress. Grate the two kinds of cheese very finely. Melt the aspic without making it too warm, and whip it until light and frothy. Mix the cheese with the whipped jelly, and then add the cream also whipped. Season to taste. Pour the mixture into a Neapolitan ice box and freeze at least 2 horns. When required, turn out, cut in slices, and serve in small lace-edged papers garnished with a small sprig of watercress. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be moulded in small fancy-shaped moulds, or in little souffle dishes. 2241. Creme de Jambon Glace Make in the same way as Creme de Fromage Glace, using 3 or 4 oz. finely-chopped ham instead of the grated cheese, and colour pink with two or three drops of carmine. Set in any small fancy- shaped moulds and freeze at least 2 hours. When required, turn out on a bed of chopped aspic and garnish with some pretty salad. Or, the mixture may be frozen and served in little paper souffle cases. SORBETS A sorbet is a half-frozen water ice, which is served directly before the roast at a dinner. It is also fashionable at present to serve a delicately flavoured sorbet at an afternoon tea or tennis party. Its preparation is quite simple and may easily be undertaken by the unprofessed cook. The foundation of a sorbet is always a water ice of some kind frozen to a smooth, creamy consist- ency, with the addition of whipped whites of eggs and of one or more kinds of liqueur. They should be served in pretty ice cups or glasses. Sherbets and punches are both similar to the sorbet. 2242. Lemon Sorbet (Sorbet au Citron) 1 pt. lemon water ice. \ wine-glassful rum. 1 wine-glassful maras- 2 table-sps. mixed fruits chino. Cut the fruit in small pieces and marinade it in the liqueur and rum. Half freeze the lemon water ice and stir in the fruits, &c. ; freeze a little longer, but do not make the mixture hard. 2243. Red-currant and Raspberry Sorbet (Sorbet aux Groseilles et Framboises) 1 pt. red currant water I 1 gill Curasao. ice. I A few ripe raspberries. Freeze the ice until smooth, but not too hard. Stir in the cura9ao and serve garnished with rasp- berries which have been sprinkled with sugar and placed on ice until cold. 2244. Ginger-ale Sorbet 1 qt. ginger ale. £ lb. preserved cherries. Juice of one lemon. 1 tea-sp. chopped mint. Juice of 1 orange. Put the ginger ale, fruit juice, and sugar into a freezing pot and half freeze them. Then add the mint and cherries ; freeze again for a few minutes and serve in sorbet glasses.HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES The term hors-d’oeuvre is applied to small appetising morsels served at the commencement of a luncheon or dinner, and intended to stimulate the appetite for what there is to follow. While they are a marked feature of the modern restaurant dinner, and of that of the French and Italian restaurants in particular, they are by no means a necessity at the ordinary English dinner, in fact, by many they are considered quite superfluous. Fashions change, however, and tastes vary, and a knowledge of what to serve as hors-d’oeuvre, and how to serve it, may prove useful to not a few. The savoury is of much greater importance than the hors-d’oeuvre, and is served after the sweets at the end of a dinner. It takes the place of the cheese course in the old-fashioned dinner, and grated cheese still enters largely into its composition. Those who do not care for sweet dishes generally look forward to the savoury, and without it no dinner of several courses is considered complete. The following pages show the kind of materials most suitable to use for hors-d’oeuvre, and give direc- tions for making many little savoury dishes; while an ingenious person with a little practice will not find it difficult to devise others. The chief point to remember is that smallness and neatness combined with piquancy of flavour must always distinguish them. Directions are also given for making some savoury dishes of a more substantial character, sui and suppers. GENERAL REMARKS ON HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES In this country hors-d’oeuvre are nearly always served cold. They must never be of a satisfying nature, but should consist rather of something tasty and very appetising. They may either be served in small individual dishes of china, silver, or glass, which are placed on the plate of each guest before the meal is commenced; or a choice of several different kinds is offered on a special hors-d’oeuvre dish. This latter method, the hors Special Hors-d’CEuvre Dish d'oeuvres varies, or miqnardises assortis, is very common at the restaurant dinner, and is also suitable for luncheons, but for a dinner the indi- vidual hors-d’oeuvre is more popular, as it save3 time by avoiding the extra serving. An hors-d’oeuvre should always be very simple in character, but choice of its kind. Its success will depend very much on the dishing up ; it must be daintily and tastily served, without the appear- ance of having been overmuch handled. Many hors-d’oeuvres are served plain, au natural, as it were; others are made up on little canapes or croutes of various kinds. They must always be used as cool and fresh as possible, chopped ice being used in hot weather. For decorating pur- poses, curly green parsley, tarragon and chervil, seasoned watercress, mustard and cress, thin slices of lemon, pieces of tomato and hard-boiled egg, nasturtium flowers, sliced cucumber, small green gherkins, capers, chopped aspic or savoury jelly, &c., may all be used. serving at more homely dinners, high teas. Small pieces of dry toast, thin brown bread and butter or crisp biscuits may be served separately. What can be used as Hors-d’CEuvre The following are some of the most popular articles used as hors-d’oeuvres : Oysters.—Beyond doubt this is the favourite hors-d’oeuvre in this country. They are served au naturd (Recipe 315), from four to six being allowed for each person. Caviare, which is the roe of the sturgeon and other fish of the same family, is another favourite hors- d’oeuvre, and is considered a great delicacy by those who like it. It is rather an acquired taste, how- ever, and one which is not appreciated by everyone. There are different kinds of caviare, but the Russian is generally considered the best. Large quantities from Germany and America are also imported into this country, and they are more moderate in price than the Russian. It is green when fresh, but turns almost black when it is preserved. Caviare must be kept very cold or on ice until it is wanted. It may either be handed round in its jar or little barrel placed on a folded serviette, or made up into little canapes. Cut lemon and brown bread and butter should be served along with it. Olives.—These are also very appetising, and are considered very wholesome. They should be steeped for a short time as they are generally too salt, and then served in small dishes with a little cold water. They are often stoned and stuffed in various ways, in fact they can be bought ready prepared in this form. Olives, like salted almonds, are often allowed to remain on the table until dessert is served. If any are left over they should be re-bottled in salted water. Anchovies and Sardines.—These can either be served plain, carefully filleted, seasoned to taste, and garnished, or made up in various ways. Unless they have been very specially prepared it is betterCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 492 to drain off the oil in which they have been pre- served (see p. 494), and to use fresh salad oil in the dishing up. This will apply to all other fish preserved in oil, as the preserving oil cannot always be depended on, unless a very expensive brand is bought. Lax and Tunny Fish.—The former, a preparation of smoked salmon preserved in oil, and the latter (Thon marine), a fish very much resembling veal in character, are both favourite delicacies. They should be served in thin slices, very neatly arranged, and fresh oil or vinaigrette dressing poured over them. Garnish with parsley, tarragon and chervil, or chopped pickles. Herring and Mackerel.—Small fillets of these fish preserved in various ways can also be bought ready prepared, and provide another variety of hors- d’oeuvre. There are also the Dutch herring, which are salted and preserved in small tubs. They should be well washed and soaked for a short time in milk before use. Then cut in small fillets, ar- ranged neatly with vinaigrette sauce, and suitably garnished. Prawns and Shrimps can also be served in this course. They usually appear in their natural form, Dish of Prawns and should be very prettily arranged and deco- rated with curly green parsley. The pink-coloured (icrevettes roses) should be chosen. Smoked Salmon.—This form of salmon may be served either cooked or raw, cut in very thin slices, arranged neatly on a dish and then garnished with pickles, watercress, or cucumber. Sausage, Ham, Beef, &c.—Various kinds of sausage, such as Brunswick, liver, garlic, salami, &c., spiced and smoked beef, ham, tongue, &c., are served as hors-d’oeuvre, especially for luncheon. These should be cut in extremely thin slices, or rolled up into little cornets and arranged neatly on a dish. Then garnished with parsley and pickles, or with a little chopped aspic jelly. Foie Gras may either be served in its terrine, or cut in thin slices and garnished with parsley and chopped aspic. It must be served very cold. Salads of different kinds may also be served in small quantities, especially in the hors-d'oeuvres varies, as they serve as an accompaniment to the meat and fish varieties. They must be very simple in nature and mixed with vinaigrette or mayonnaise dressing. Radishes very often appear in the hors- d’oeuvre course, either as a garnish or prettily arranged by themselves in the hors-d'oeuvres varies. Sometimes the red skin is cut down in sections like petals, to make the radish look like a little flower. They must be served very cold or on crushed ice. Sandwiches, small and of a very tasty nature, can also appear in the hors-d'oeuvres varies, and they are generally appreciated, as they are so easily eaten. Fruit.—There are few hors-d’oeuvre more popular at the present moment than the melon (canteloupe). It must be served very cold, in fact it should be allowed to remain on ice for some horns before being cut, and then a generous portion served to each person. Sugar and pepper and salt should be served with it, sometimes ground ginger as well. Green figs are also popular when in season. Besides the above simple form of hors-d’oeuvre there are many little made dishes, which are particularly suitable when small individual hors- d’oeuvres are required. SAVOURIES The savoury has become quite an important course at even a small dinner, and the tasty morsel which ends the repast is appreciated by nearly everyone. Savouries are not difficult to make, but it does require some thought and manage- ment to provide them in sufficient variety. Odds and ends of all kinds can be utilised in the making of these little dishes; the remains of fish, vegetables, game, cooked eggs, sauces, &c., can all be brought into service, as the following recipes will show; in fact, before deciding what the savoury is to be, the first question should rather be, “ What is there to use up ? ” An intelligent and artistic cook should be able to multiply savouries ad infinitum, and the recipes here given should only be sugges- tive of many others. An after-dinner savoury should always be simple of its kind, especially after a dinner of many courses; something to clean the palate, as it were, after the sweets. A rich, creamy mixture, or anything of a substantial nature, would be quite out of place. For a luncheon, or for one of those short dinners which are so fashionable now, and where the savoury really takes the place of an entree, something more substantial may be chosen. A more substantial savoury may also be served as a supper dish. Although certain decorations and garnishes are generally recommended for the savouries here ex- plained, it must be remembered that these are not always obligatory, in fact very often others may be substituted according to the material at hand, as long as they are in keeping with the rest of the dish. Savouries may be served either hot or cold and, as in the case of the hors-d’ceuvre, success will depend greatly on the careful and tasteful dishing, the simple and pretty decoration. In houses where a savoury of some kind is served every day a variety of little moulds or serving dishes will be found most useful. These need not be expensive, but they will help greatly towards producing some- thing novel and artistic. Following are a few useful preliminaries, which will be found helpful in the making of various hors-d’ceuvre and savouries: PRELIMINARY RECIPES 2245. Croutes or Croutons for Savouries These may be made of fried bread or of toasted bread. The bread used should be light in texture, but without holes, and two days old if possible.HORS-D’(EUVRE and savouries 493 For fried erofites, cut the bread from £ to £ of an inch in thickness, and then stamp it out in rounds about 2 or 2£ inches in diameter. Other shapes may be cut if preferred, and the croutes may be made larger for the more substantial savouries. Then fry these in clarified butter or fat until a golden brown colour, and drain them well on paper before using. The finest croutes „ are fried in clarified butter, but for ordinary purposes clarified fat, or deep frying fat, will serve the purpose very well. These are used for both hot and cold savouries. If for the latter, they must be as crisp as a biscuit right through. For croutes of toasted bread slice the bread as above, but toast it carefully before cutting it in shapes. Then butter the pieces while the toast is still warm. 2246. Little Croustades for Savouries (Crofites Creuses) These are somewhat similar to the above, only they are made thicker and hollowed out in the centre. Slice the bread J inch or more in thick- ness, and cut out rounds from 2 to 21 inches in Croustades of Bread diameter. Then, with a smaller cutter, cut down the centre of these rounds to about \ inch from the bottom. Fry until crisp and brown, scoop out the centre part, leaving a little hollow case, and drain well on kitchen paper. If preferred, the centres may be hollowed out before frying. 2247. Canap6s These are generally made of brown or white bread and butter cut out in rounds or fancy-shaped pieces. The bread should be rather close in texture, and the slices about J of an inch in thickness. The name canape is also applied to rounds or other shaped pieces of fried or toasted bread; the name signifies “ a sofa,” or something that raises the savoury above the dish. 2248. Pastry Cases or Croustades Take some plain pastry without sugar, roll it out thinly, and stamp out rounds with a cutter. Grease some small round tins, deeper in shape than those used for tartlets, and line them with the pastry. Prick the pastry at the bottom, line the tins with a little paper, fill them with dry rice, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and cooked. Re- move the paper and rice, and if necessary return the cases to the oven to dry the insides. These little cases can be filled with various purges or savoury mixtures, and are used either for decorating entrees or for serving as small savouries. Note.—Cheese or anchovy pastry may be used instead of plain pastry. 2249. BouchSes These are small pastry cases filled with a savoury mixture. The cases should be made of puff pastry in the same way as directed for patties (p. 352), only very much smaller; from li to 2 inches in diameter will be sufficiently large. They can generally be ordered from the confectioners, if it is inconvenient to make them at home. Almost any nice savoury mixture may be used for filling them, also the mixtures given for filling patties. 2250. Pastry Cornets Small cornets of pastry are very useful for serv- ing up savoury mixtures of different kinds. Use either plain short crust, cheese pastry, or anchovy pastry. Roll it out thinly and cut it into rounds 3 or 4 inches in diameter, grease the outside of some little cornet moulds, fold the rounds of pastry over them, moistening the join with a little water or beaten egg. Place these on a greased baking tin and bake in the oven until brown and crisp. When ready, slip out the moulds, and if necessary return the cornets to the oven to dry the insides. These may be used for either a hot or a cold mixture. Note.—The pastry must not be too rich or the cornets will lose their shape in baking. 2251. Batter Cases Prepare some batter the same as for Pancakes, but rather thicker. Put it in a small basin, cover it over, and let it stand in a warm place for an hour or two. To Make the Cases.—Have ready a saucepan of hot fat, not quite boiling; take a fritter mould as in illustration, and dip the cup part into the fat to make it very hot. Dip it into the batter until the little cup is three-parts covered, or as high as you wish the case to be. Then plunge it into the hot fat, when the batter on the outside of the cup will cook and form a little cup. Slip out the mould and let the case cook a minute or two longer to brown the inside. Drain on paper, and proceed to make more cases in the same way. These cases may be made some time before they are required and re-heated for a moment in hot fat. They are exceedingly light in texture, and may be filled with almost any kind of savoury mixture. They can also be used for entrees. 2252. Butter Cases or Cassolettes Butter. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Take small pieces of firm butter about the size of a walnut, and the number required, and let these lie in very cold or iced water for J hour. Then roll494 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD them into round balls, and dry and flour them lightly. Next egg and bread-crumb these balls of butter twice very carefully, pressing on the crumbs each time. Flatten them slightly with a knife and, with a cutter a size smaller, mark the centre of the cases. Put them in a frying basket, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. With a small sharp knife lift off the centre piece and let the melted butter run into a basin. Turn the cases upside down, and allow them to drain for a few minutes. The butter that is run out may be used for making sauces. These little cases may be filled with various savoury mixtures, and make a very dainty-looking dish. They may also be made larger and used for entrees. 2253. Devilled Biscuits These can be prepared in different ways, and they may either be used as an accompaniment to savouries, or different savouries may be served on the top of them. Use a plain biscuit, such as milk, water, toast, Bath oliver, &c., butter them, sprinkle them with black pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and toast them in the oven until brown and crisp. If liked still hotter, the butter with which the biscuits are spread may be mixed with a little mustard or curry powder. Or, melt a small quantity of butter in a frying pan and fry the biscuits on both sides, then season them to taste. Or, again, the biscuits may be spread with devil paste (Recipe 763), and then grilled until as hot as possible. 2254. Anchovy Pastry 3 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. i tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 yolk of egg. A little water. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Rub the butter into the flour, add the anchovy essence and 1 or 2 drops of carmine, and bind to- gether with a small yolk of egg and a little cold water. Knead until the paste is smooth and of a uniform colour, then roll out and cut in shapes as required. Note.—This pastry is useful in savoury-making, for lining small moulds, and making biscuits or croutons of different shapes. 2257. To Prepare Sardines for Savouries Sardines, like anchovies, should have the preserv- ing oil well drained from them, and then be dipped in hot water, and the skins rubbed off in a cloth. They can be filleted in the same way as anchovies. 2258. To Stone or “ Turn ” an Olive Choose large olives by preference, and they must be very fresh. Cut a small piece off the stalk end of each to enable 'them to stand easily, then with a penknife or small sharp-pointed knife, peel or “turn” them so as to remove the stone. Com- mence at the thick end and, keeping the knife close to the stone, peel round and round as you would an apple, making about three turns in all. The stone should be removed as clean as possible and the olive itself be left in one spiral coil, which can easily be put back into its original form, and will be ready for filling in various ways. Some- times the stones are stamped out with a small cutter. Olives can be bought ready “ turned ” and stuffed (olives farcies) with pimentos, capers, anchovies, truffles, &c., but this is an expensive form in which to buy them. PART I HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SMALL COLD SAVOURIES 2259. Salted Almonds (Amandes Salees) 2255. Cheese Pastry For making little croustades, biscuits, &c., for various savouries. I lb. fine flour. 1 oz. butter. Pinch of cayenne. 2 tab.-sps. grated Par- mesan. Yolk of egg. Cold water. Mix the flour, Parmesan, and cayenne in a basin. Rub in the butter, and bind into a paste with a little yolk of egg mixed with water. Knead slightly, then roll out once, and use as required. 2256. To Prepare Anchovies Salted anchovies should be soaked for some time before being used. The others should be dipped in hot water or have hot water poured over them to free them from the preserving oil, then wiped in a cloth to remove the skins. To Fillet.—Cut off heads and tails, split the fish open with the forefinger and thumb, draw out the bone, and cut in two fillets, or smaller pieces as required. £ lb. almonds. I clarified butter. ^ tab.-sp. salad oil or | Fine salt. Blanch and dry the. almonds. Put them on a delicately clean baking tin with \ table-spoonful of the best salad oil, or clarified or fresh butter melted. Place them in a moderately hot oven, and turn them over and over frequently until they are a light brown on all sides. Then turn them on to a sheet of kitchen paper and sprinkle them liberally with fine salt. When cold, shake off the loose salt, and the almonds are ready to serve; or they may be kept in a glass jar until wanted. Notes.—Walnuts, filberts, and pea-nuts may be salted in the same way; or a mixture of nuts is good. Salted nuts may be served at luncheon or dinner; they are placed in small dishes and eaten at intervals throughout the meal. 2260. Devilled Almonds Prepare in the same way as above, using cayenne pepper in addition to the salt. Devilled almonds should be served hot.HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 495 2261. Barquettes d’Anchois Anchovy pastry. Mayonnaise sauce. 3 or 4 filleted anchovies. 1 gherkin. 1 small tomato. Coralline pepper. Make some anchovy pastry as directed in Recipo 2254, line seven or eight small boat-shaped moulds with it, prick them at the bottom, and bake them until crisp. Then remove the cases from the tins and let them cool. Wash and dry the anchovies and cut them in small pieces, mix them with some tiny pieces of red tomato and some chopped gherkin or other green pickle, and bind all together with a small quantity of thick mayonnaise. Fill up the little cases with this mixture and decorate with small fancy shapes of gherkin or any other garnish to taste. 2262. Biscuits d’Anchois Anchovy or Parmesan Cayenne. biscuits. Whipped cream. Anchovy paste. Decoration. Whip a little double cream until thick, and mix into it a little anchovy paste or one or two pounded and sieved anchovies. Add a pinch of cayenne and one or two drops of carmine to make the mix- ture a pinkish colour. Put this cream mixture into a small forcing bag or paper cornet with a rose pipe and force it out prettily on small Parmesan biscuits, or little biscuits made of anchovy pastry (see Recipe 2254). They may be decorated in vari- ous ways—with tiny strips of filleted anchovy, with a turned olive with a filleted anchovy inside, with small pieces of cucumber, a little lobster coral, a sprig of chervil, &c. 2263. Anchovy Canapes (Canapes d’Anchois) Croutons fried bread. Hard-boiled egg. Filleted anchovies. Chopped parsley. Anchovy butter. Prepare some finger-shaped croutons of white bread, fry them brown in boiling salad oil, and allow them to cool. Make a small quantity of anchovy butter by mixing some butter with a little anchovy paste, and colouring it pink with a few drops of carmine. Spread the top and edges of the croutons with this butter, dip one long edge in finely-chopped white of egg, the other in sieved or chopped yolk of egg, and the two ends in finely- chopped parsley. Then cut some thin strips of filleted anchovies and cross them on the top of the. crouton. Note.—The decoration of these canapes may be varied to taste. 2264. Anchovy Creams (Petites Cremes d’Anchois 2 table-sps. whipped cream. \ gill liquid aspic. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Aspic jelly. Small cress. Mixture. 4 filleted anchovies. 2 hard-boiled yolks. Take seven or eight very small moulds, line them with aspic jelly, and decorate them at the bottom with some small cress. To Make the Mixture.—Pound the anchovies in a mortar with the yolks of egg and anchovy essence, and, when smooth, rub through a hair sieve. Then add \ gill very stiff aspic and the whipped cream, and fill up the prepared moulds. When firm, turn out on a bed of chopped aspic, and decorate with bunches of small cress. Note.—A little lobster coral added to the mixture when pounding would be an improvement. 2265. Anchovy Straws (Pailles d’Anchois) Coralline pepper. Chopped parsley. Anchovy pastry. Anchovy butter. Aspic jelly. First make some anchovy pastry as directed above, roll it out rather thinly, and cut it in narrow strips about f inch wide and 3 or 4 inches in length. Prick them with a fork, and bake on a greased baking tin. When ready, allow the straws to cool, then place them together with a good layer of an- chovy butter (see Recipe 760) between. Coat the top of these little sandwiches with liquid aspic or other savoury jelly, and sprinkle them lightly with finely-chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Serve piled up crosswise on a lace-edged paper. 2266. Artichoke Bottoms with Shrimps (Fonds d’Artichauts aux Crevettes) Artichoke bottoms. Picked shrimps. Seasoning. Mayonnaise sauce. Small cress. Coralline pepper. Tinned artichoke bottoms may be used. Drain them, wipe them carefully in a clean cloth, and trim them a little smaller if necessary. Then sprinkle them with white pepper, salt, and a few drops of salad oil and lemon juice and let them stand a few minutes. Chop up some shrimps roughly and mix them with some mayonnaise sauce. Pile some of this mixture on the top of each artichoke bottom and decorate with little bunches of small cress and a light sprinkling of coralline pepper. Note.—Small pieces of crab, lobster, oysters, or a macedoine of vegetables may be used instead of the shrimps, the savoury changing its name accordingly. 2267. Petites Gondoles aux Bananes Small bananas. Mayonnaise sauce. Capers and gherkin. Choose small Canary bananas and cut a small piece from the side of each. Scoop out the meat Whipped cream. Seasoning. Red chilli and chervil. Banana prepared for Filling from the inside and break this up slightly with a silver fork. To each table-spoonful of the pulp496 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD allow J- table-spoonful of thick mayonnaise sauce and 1 tea-spoonful of chopped capers and gherkin mixed. Mix together very lightly, adding more seasoning if necessary, and fill up the banana skins. Whip some double cream until thick, season it with salt and a dust of cayenne, and pile a little on the top of each banana boat. Decorate with fine strips of red chilli and small sprigs of cherries or a little mustard and cress. Serve on small lace- edged papers, and as soon as possible after prepara- tion. 2268. Canapes au Caviare Bread and butter. I Seasoning. Caviare. | Savoury butter. Cut small round or fancy-shaped canapes of Hovis or other fine brown bread and butter. Season some caviare with cayenne and lemon juice, and pile some up neatly on each canape. Then decorate prettily with some savoury butter, such as maitre d’hfitel, anchovy, lobster, or shrimp butter, put through a forcing bag or paper cornet with a small rose pipe. Notes.—The decoration may of course be varied according to the materials at disposal, but it must be light and delicate. Small buttered biscuits may be used instead of the bread and butter, and a thin slice of cucumber may be laid on them first. 2269. Croutes au Caviare Caviare. I I.emon juice. Oysters. Cayenne pepper. | Fried croutes. Make the required number of croutes of fried bread as directed in Recipe 2245, or small croUtes creuses as in Recipe 2246 may be used. They must be small, dry, and crisp. Season some caviare with cayenne, lemon juice, and a little chopped shallot if liked, and pile some on the top of each croute. Lay a fresh bearded oyster on the top, and garnish with tiny pieces of sliced lemon and little sprigs of parsley or chervil. Note.—Use a silver spoon or wooden skewer for mixing the caviare ; it must never be touched with a steel knife or other metal. 2270. Caviare and Prawn Canapes (Canapes de Crevettes au Caviare) Caviare. I Picked prawns. Seasoning. Lemon. | Brown bread and butter Season some caviare with cayenne pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and if hked a small quantity of very finely chopped shallot. Prepare some oval- shaped canapes of brown bread and butter (see Recipe 2247), lay a small piece of thinly sliced lemon or cucumber on each, and cover this with the seasoned caviare. Now lay a picked prawn across one end of each canape?, and put a tiny sprig of chervil at the other side. Serve on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, garnishing with some of the heads of the prawns. 2271. Cheese Canapds (Canapes au Fromage) Small round biscuits. Cucumber. Butter. Cream cheese. Tarragon vinegar. Salt. Small cress. Choose plain crisp biscuits and very small. Butter as many of them as will be required for the savoury. Then take a straight piece of cucumber, and cut the peel off it in narrow strips lengthwise, leaving alternate dark and fight green stripes. Cut as many slices J inch in thickness as there are buttered biscuits. Stamp the centre out of each with a small round cutter, and lay the rings on a plate. Sprinkle them with salt and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and allow them to stand a few minutes. Then drain the cucumber, and put a piece on the top of each biscuit. Put some cream cheese into a paper cornet or small forcing bag, and force it out to fill the centre of the cucumber rings and also a little round the sides to cover the edges of biscuit. Garnish with tiny bunches of small cress, and serve as a cold savoury. Notes.—If the cheese is rather stiff, work a little cream into it before putting it into the forcing bag. A thin slice of tomato may be used instead of the cucumber. 2272. Cheese Comets (Cornets de Fromage) Cheese pastry. Cayenne. Salt. £ gill double cream. Coralline pepper. J lb. cheese. Chopped parsley. Make some very small cornets with cheese pastry (see Recipe 2250), bake them, and let them cool. Then whip the cream and mix it with the cheese; season with cayenne and salt if necessary, and put the mixture into a forcing bag -with a rose pipe. Force this out into the little cornets, and decorate them alternately with chopped parsley and coralline pepper. 2273. Cheese Creams (Petites Cremes au Fromage) 2 oz. grated Parmesan or Gruyere. 1 gill aspic jelly. 1 gill double cream. Cayenne. I tea-sp. made mustard. A few radishes. Watercress. Take six or seven small dariole moulds, rinse them out with cold water, and decorate them at the bottom -with some of the aspic jelly melted and tiny rounds of red radish. Allow this decoration to set, and meanwhile prepare the cheese mixture. The cheese used should be dry and fight—two different kinds may be taken, a mixture of Gruyere and Parmesan is very good. Put the cheese into a basin and season it wdth cayenne and a little made mustard. Whip the remainder of the aspic jelly (which should be stiff) and the cream sepa- rately, and mix them lightly with the cheese, add- ing salt if necessary. When the mixture is beginning to set, fill up the little moulds and put them aside until cold and firm. Turn out when wanted, and serve garnished with small bunches of watercress, thinly sliced radishes, and some chopped aspic jelly. 2274. Potted Cheese 6 oz. cheese. 1 oz. butter. Cayenne pepper. A pinch of mace. | tea-sp. made mustard. Any scraps of good potting; it is a good Remove the rind and pieces, which will make 1 table-sp. white wine. 1 tea-sp. Worcester sauce. Clarified butter. cheese may be taken for way of using up remains, either chop or grate the the pounding easier. ThenHORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 497 pound the cheese with the above proportion of butter, or rather more if the cheese is very dry. Sometimes salad oil is used instead of butter. Then season to taste and rather highly, and pound until a smooth paste is formed. Pack this into small pots, and run some liquid clarified butter over the top to preserve it. Potted cheese will keep good for weeks, and will be found very useful for making sandwiches and savouries of different kinds. 2275. Cold Cheese Souffles (Petits Souffles au Fromage) 1 oz. grated Parmesan. 1 oz. grated Gruyere or Cheddar. 1 gill double cream. 1 white of egg. \ gill aspic jelly. Seasoning. Toasted nuts. Beforo beginning to make the mixture prepare five or six small souffle cases by pinning a band of white paper round the outside of them, as directed on p. 486. Whip the cream until thick, and add to it the two kinds of cheese finely grated. Have the aspic in a liquid condition, add to it the white of egg, and whip the two together until white and frothy, but still somewhat liquid. Add this to the cheese and cream, and season to taste. Fill up the souffle cases with this mixture, and place them in a cool place until set. Then remove the bands of paper, and sprinkle the tops with toasted and finely-chopped nuts, and, if liked, a light sprinkling of coraline pepper. 2276. Swiss Cheese Savoury (Biscuits & la Suisse) \ cream cheese (petit Suisse). 1 or 2 table-sps. whipped cream. Cayenne and salt. Small Parmesan biscuits. Watercress. Sieved yolk of egg. Take the remains of a Swiss cream cheese, break them down with a silver fork, and then mix with about an equal quantity of thick whipped cream. Season highly with cayenne and salt to taste. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a rose pipe and force out a nice little heap on small round Parmesan biscuits, or little biscuits made out of cheese pastry. Decorate round the edge of the biscuits with leaves of watercress, and sprinkle a little sieved yolk of egg in the centre. 2277. Darioles de Crabe en Aspic Cooked crab. Mayonnaise sauce. Chopped capers. Aspic jelly. Small cress. Tomato. Line some small dariole moulds with aspic jelly (see p. 433) and decorate them at the bottom with a small piece of tomato and a little small cress. Then cut some crab meat into small pieces and mix it with thick mayonnaise sauce, add a few chopped capers and, if liked, a little chopped gherkin as well. Season to taste and nearly fill the lined darioles with this mixture, being careful to shake it well down into the moulds. Cover with some more aspic which is just setting, and put them in a cool place until firm. When ready, turn out the darioles and serve them in small paper cases with a little salad or chopped aspic round. Note.—Lobster may be prepared in the same way. 2278. Cucumber Cups with Mayonnaise A large cucumber. Mayonnaise sauce. Cooked chicken, salmon A few radishes or olives. or lobster. Choose a large, straight cucumber, one that is very firm. Peel it and then cut it in about 2-inch lengths. Boil or steam these pieces until tender without being soft and pulpy, and drain them well. Scoop out the centres and round off the edges, in order to form little cups, and set them in a cool place until wanted. Now take some cold minced chicken, or some cooked salmon or lobster, and mix it with mayonnaise sauce. Fill up the cucumber cups with this mixture and place a pretty radish or a stoned olive on the top. Serve the cucumber cups on small individual dishes, or on small lettuce leaves on a salad dish. 2279. Timbales of Finnan Haddock (Timbales de Merluche Fume) | lb. cooked smoked haddock. 1 gill white sauce. 1 gill double cream. \ oz. gelatine. Seasoning. A little aspic jelly. Decorations. Take from 8 to 10 small timbale or dariole moulds, and decorate them at the bottom with a little aspic jelly and hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, cress, or lobster coral, &e. Allow this decoration to set whilst preparing the mixture. To Make the Mixture.—Chop the fish very finely, being very particular to remove any small bones. Add to it a gill of good white sauce and the gelatine dissolved in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls milk or water. Season with cayenne, lemon juice, and salt if neces- sary, and add the cream whipped until stiff. When the mixture is beginning to set, fill up the small moulds and place them in a cool place, or on ice, until firm. When required, turn out and serve garnished with small cress or a little chopped aspic jelly. 2280. Canapes of Game (Canapes de Gibier) Potted game. I Whipped cream. Small biscuits. I Chopped pickles. Take some small biscuits or little rounds of brown bread and butter, and spread them rather thickly with potted game. Whip some double cream until thick, season it with cayenne and salt and, if liked, a little anchovy essence or Worcester sauce. Put this into a paper cornet with a rose pipe, and force out a little on each biscuit, decorate wdth chopped pickles or with small strips of red chilli or green gherkin. 2281. Game Balls Small oatcakes or Small biscuits. Potted game. Butter. Small cress. Seasoning. Hard-boiled yolk of egg. Make some small round oatcakes (Recipe 2722), or take small plain biscuits, and butter as many 2 iCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 498 as will be required for the savoury. Then dip the buttered side of each into sieved hard-boiled yolk of egg, making a yellow surface. Take some potted game, mix it on a plate with a little extra butter and more seasoning according to taste. Then with the butter hands roll this into balls, and put one on the top of each biscuit or cake. Garnish with a tiny bunch of cress, and serve as a cold savoury. Note.—If the game mixture is very soft, set it aside in a cool place before attempting to roll it. 2282. Canapes de Lax Lax. Seasoning. Small oatcakes or bis- cuits. Tarragon or parsley. Capers. Drain the oil from some lax, sprinkle it with some fresh salad oil, lemon juice, and white pepper, and let it stand for 1 hour or so. Butter some small crisp oatcakes or Parmesan biscuits, lift the lax from its seasoning, and arrange a few pieces neatly on the top of each. Decorate lightly with a few leaves of tarragon or small sprigs of parsley and green capers. This must not be prepared until a very short time before serving. 2283. Tartelettes de Lax 2 oz. lax. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. 1 filleted anchovy. 1 hard-boiled yolk. 2 table-sp. liquid aspic. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. A few capers. Seasoning. 6 or 7 tartlet cases. Make some small cases of anchovy pastry, either round or boat-shaped, bake them until crisp, and let them cool. To Malce the Mixture.—Drain the lax free from oil and then weigh it. Pound it in a mortar with Tartelettes de Lax the filleted anchovy, hard-boiled yolk of egg, and salad oil. When smooth, rub all through a fine sieve. Add the aspic jelly, and, when beginning to set, stir in the whipped cream. Season to taste, and set on ice until wanted. Then fill up the little cases with the mixture, using a forcing bag if pos- sible, and garnish with some thin strips of lax and a few capers. 2284. Petits Cornets de Homard cream. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 6 or 7 pastry cornets. Chervil or cress. 2 table-sps. cooked lobster. £ gill mayonnaise sauce. | gill aspic jelly. 2 table-sps. whipped Have the aspic jelly in a liquid condition, and whip it until stiff like the beaten white of egg. Add to it A gill thick mayonnaise sauce and the whipped, cream. Mix very lightly, and then stir in the lobster meat finely chopped. Add more seasoning if necessary, also I or 2 drops of carmine, or by preference a little prepared lobster spawn, or lobster butter. Have ready some little cornets made of anchovy or plain pastry (see Recipe 2250), and fill them with the lobster mixture by means of a forcing bag. Place a nice piece of lobster meat or a prawn at the mouth of each, and decorate with a little chervil or small cress. Serve neatly arranged, and very cold. Note.—The pastry may be brushed over with a little aspic jelly to give it a more finished appear- ance. 2285. Lobster Croustades (Croustades de Homard) 2 table-sps. lobster meat. 1 table-sp. mayonnaise sauce. 1 pickled gherkin. Small cress. 7 or 8 pastry croustades. Decorations. Make small pastry cases as directed in Recipe 2248, bake them and let them cool. Chop the lobster meat, add to it the gherkin finely chopped, moisten with the mayonnaise sauce, and season highly and to taste. Put a little carefully prepared cress at the foot of each croustade and then some of the lobster mixture on the top. Decorate with tiny strips of red chilli or with little bunches of small cress, &c. Note.—Crab, oysters, or even bloaters may be used in the same way. 2286. Mussels a la St. Vincent 3 doz. mussels. Mayonnaise sauce. 2 oz. picked shrimps. Green salad. Aspic jelly. Prepare and cook the mussels as in Recipe 312, and drain them from their liquor. Break them in Mussels A la St. Vincent pieces with a silver fork, and mix them with shelled shrimps. Add to them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls499 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES thick mayonnaise sauce, to which a little liquid aspic has been added to stiffen it. Season to taste, and put on ice or in a very cold place. Take about 1 dozen large mussel shells, clean and dry them, and brush them over with a little liquid aspic to give them a glossy appearance. When ready to serve, arrange a border of chopped aspic on a dish, with a bed of finely shred lettuce or other green salad in the centre. On the top of the salad pile the mussel mixture, and arrange the mussel shells round. Put a slight sprinkling of chopped aspic on the top and garnish with one or two fine shrimps or prawns. 2287. Nasturtium Savoury Brown bread and butter Cucumber. Whipped cream. Grated Parmesan. Seasoning. Nasturtium flowers. Cut some small rounds of brown or Hovis bread and butter, and lay a thin slice of cucumber on the top of each. Then whip some double cream until thick, and add to it enough finely grated Parmesan to flavour it well. Season with cayenne and salt to taste. A little grated horse-radish may also be added. Pile this mixture on the top of the cucumber in the form of a dome, or it may be put through a forcing bag, and on the top of each put a small nasturtium flower. Serve neatly arranged on a lace-edged paper. 2288. Olives farcis aux Anchois Choose the large Spanish olives if possible, and soak the required number in cold water to remove some of the salt. Then dry them and remove the stones (see p. 494). Take as many anchovy fillets as there are olives, dip them in hot water and scrape off the skin. Then roll them up and insert one in each olive. Serve them neatly on a glass or china dish, sprinkle them with a very little good oil, and garnish with parsley or small sprigs of watercress. 2289. Olives Farcies (Other Ways) Almost any nice savoury butter may be used for stuffing olives, such as sardine, lobster, shrimp butter, &c. Prepare the olives as described above, and fill them with the butter by means of a small forcing bag or paper cornet. They may then be served as they are on a hors-d’ceuvre dish, or stood on end on small canapes with some more of the butter forced round them, and garnished with small cress or chervil. 2290. Olives en Aspic Stuffed olives. I A few radishes. Aspic jelly. | Hard-boiled egg. 2291. Olives a la Suzette Olives. Hard-boiled eggs. Aspic jelly. Sardine or bloater paste. Small biscuits and butter. Chopped parsley. Make little cups of the hard-boiled white of egg, fluting them along the top and cutting a small piece off the bottom to make them stand. Pour a tea-spoonful of liquid aspic into each and allow it to partly set. Then allow an olive for each cup. Soak them in water to remove the salt and then stone them (see p. 494). Pound half the yolks Olives k la Suzette with some bloater or other savoury paste, season to taste, and rub the mixture through a hah- sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a small rose pipe, force some into each olive, and then stand them in the setting aspic. When firm, place the cups on small biscuits that have been buttered and sprinkled with finely-chopped parsley. Force out a little more of the paste round the edges, and de- corate with tiny sprigs of parsley or chervil. 2292. Oyster Canapes (Canapes aux Huitres) Brown bread and butter. ! Sliced cucumber. Oysters. | Seasoning. Cut some neat rounds of brown bread and butter, and lay a thin slice of crisp cucumber on the top of each. Then place a fresh and bearded oyster on the top of the cucumber, and season with salt, lemon juice, and a pinch of cayenne or coralline pepper. If used as a hors-d’oeuvre, serve two or three to each person. Note.—The oyster may be surrounded with a little caviare if wished. 2293. Oysters with Caviare Serve the oysters in their deeper shell, putting about a tea-spoonful of seasoned caviare below each. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley, and hand cut lemon and brown bread and butter separately. Take as many small moulds as required, and just sufficiently large to hold an olive comfortably with a little jelly round. Set a very little liquid aspic at the bottom of each, then decorate with tiny rounds of red radish with a fancy-shaped piece of white of egg in the middle. Then set the garnish with a little more aspic. Stuff an equal number of olives with anchovy or any other good savoury butter, place one in each mould, and fill up with more liquid aspic. Place in a cool place to set, then turn Out on small dishes and garnish with a little cress. 2294. Oysters a la Mayonnaise Fresh oysters. Mayonnaise sauce. Aspic jelly. A few radishes. Small cress or chervil. Croutes fried bread. Choose large fresh oysters, bring them to the boil in their own liquor, then drain them and remove the beards. Place them on a wire draining tray, and coat them with mayonnaise sauce to which a little liquid aspic jelly has been added. Allow this coating to set, placing the draining tray on500 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD ice if possible. Then decorate the oysters with tiny rounds of the red part of radish to imitate berries, and small leaves of chervil, or mustard and cress. Pour a little liquid aspic very gently over them to set the decoration and make the surface glossy, and set again. Serve each oyster on a croute of fried bread and garnish round the edges with chopped aspic put through a forcing bag. 2295. Prune and Cheese Savoury (Pruneaux farcis au Fromage) Stewed prunes. I Mayonnaise sauce. Grated cheese. | Lettuce. Choose good prunes, stew them until tender, but not broken, drain them and let them cool. Then remove the stones carefully without breaking the prunes in pieces. Take some grated Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, and moisten it with thick mayon- naise sauce. Season the mixture well and put a little into each prune, giving each its original form. Serve them on small leaves of round lettuce, pouring over a little more mayonnaise if desired. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley or a little coralline pepper. Note.—After stuffing, the prunes may be dipped in a little liquid aspic to give them a glossy appearance. 2296. Little Croustades of Salmon 7 or 8 pastry croustades. 2 table-sps. cooked salmon. J gill aspic. 1 gill double cream. \ tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Seasoning. Cucumber. Radishes. Prepare some small pastry croustades (see Recipe 2248), bake them, and allow them to cool. Chop and sieve the salmon, then add to it the aspic jelly in a liquid condition. When beginning to set, stir in the cream, which has been whipped until stiff, and season to taste with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little anchovy essence. If necessary, add a drop or two of carmine, but do not colour highly. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and force it out into the pastry cases, piling it rather high. Decorate with a small radish cut in the form of a rose on the top, and small pieces of scalloped cucumber (see p. 313) round the sides. Note.—Lobster, crab, or tunny fish may be used instead of the salmon. 2297. Bonnes Bouches de Sardines 1 dessert-sp. sardine paste. 2 hard-boiled yolks. 1 oz. butter. Small cress. A few drops tarragon vinegar. Brown bread and butter Chopped white of egg. Put the sardine paste into a mortar with the butter, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and some small cress. Pound well together, season with cayenne pepper, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and salt if necessary. When well pounded, rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, and make sandwiches with the above paste, cutting them in neat shapes. Butter the top of the sandwiches, sprinkle them with a little finely chopped white of egg, and decorate with a little of the sardine mixture put through a forcing bag. 2298. Canap6s de Sardines Make in the same way as Canapes d’Anchois (Recipe 2263). 2299. Shrimp Canapes (Canapes de Crevettes) Croutons fried bread. i Hard-boiled white of egg Shrimps. Shrimp butter. | Capers. Prepare some round croutons of bread, fry them brown in butter, and allow them to cool. Then spread the top and sides with shrimp butter made by working a little shrimp paste or strong shrimp essence into a small quantity of butter. Dip the edges of the croutes into finely-chopped white of egg. Then take 5 or 6 picked shrimps for each canape, arrange them in a circle like a rosette on the top, and put a caper in the centre of each. 2300. Shrimp Eclairs (Eclairs de Crevettes) Choux pastry. | Shrimps. Shrimp essence Whipped cream. | Seasoning. Make some tiny eclairs about 3 inches long with choux pastry (Recipe 2050), and bake them until brown and well risen. When ready, brush them over with beaten egg and return to the oven for a few minutes. Then split them open, and leave them on a sieve until cold. Whip about 2 table- spoonfuls cream until thick, season it with shrimp essence and white pepper, and then mix in about 1 table-spoonful of picked shrimps rather finely chopped. Fill the eclairs with this mixture, and serve garnished with small cress. 2301. Shrimps a la Mayonnaise (Salade de Crevettes) Shrimps. Mayonnaise sauce. Lemon and parsley. Pick the shrimps and mix them with some thick mayonnaise sauce. Serve them piled up in an hors-d’oeuvre dish, put a border of thinly sliced lemon round, and here and there a small sprig of parsley. Or, small portions may be served on small leaves of a round lettuce, coquilles de crevettes. 2302. Tomato Canapes (Canapes de Tomates) 2 tomatoes. Croutons fried bread. Seasoning. Savoury butter. A little chervil. Chopped parsley. Prepare some round croutons of bread, fry them in oil, and let them cool. Peel the tomatoes, squeeze out the soft part from the centre, and cut them in small pieces. Then season them as for a salad, adding a little chopped chervil if obtainable. Care must be taken not to make the tomato too liquid. Now spread the croutons with a little shrimp, anchovy, or any other savoury butter, which will prevent any liquid from soaking into the bread, and pile-a little of the tomato salad on the top of each. Decorate with a little finely-chopped parsley. 2303. 1 gill tomato puree. \ gill aspic jelly. 1 table-sp. grated Parmesan. Seasoning. Tomato Cheese 1 sheet of gelatine. 1 table-sp. mayonnaise sauce or double cream. Salad. Use fresh red tomatoes. Cut them in halves, squeeze out the juice and rub sufficient of the thickerHORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 501 part through a fine sieve to make 1 gill of puree. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic jelly, allow it to cool slightly and strain into the tomato puree. Add the mayonnaise or cream, season to taste, and stir occasionally until beginning to set. Take a flat tin or box, rinse it out with cold water, pour in the tomato mixture, and set aside in a cold place until firm. When required, cut the tomato cheese in small neat pieces and serve garnished with small cress or salad. Note..—Some good jelly stock may be used in- stead of aspic jelly. 2304. Savoury Tomato Creams (Petites Cremes aux Tomates) \ tea-cupful tomato puree. 1 oz. sheet gelatine. | gill double cream. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. Small biscuits. A little butter. Chopped parsley. The tomato puree may be made from either fresh or tinned tomatoes by rubbing them through a fine sieve. The puree must not be too thin. Put it into a small saucepan with the gelatine cut in pieces, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Then turn into a basin to cool, and add the grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere will be best). Season to taste, and lastly stir in the cream, slightly whipped. Rinse some very small dariole or other shaped moulds with cold water, fill them up with the tomato cream mixture when it is beginning to set, and place them in a cool place until firm. When required, turn out the creams on small round biscuits that have been buttered and sprinkled with some finely-chopped parsley. Serve cold, garnished with sprigs of parsley or watercress. 2305. Mayonnaise of Tunny Fish (Thon a la Mayonnaise) some thick whipped cream, season with cayenne, put it into a small forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force out a rose on the top of each biscuit. Finish with a stoned olive or a small radish placed on the top of each. 2307. Canapgs a la Duchesse Small biscuits. Plover’s eggs. 4 or 5 oz. cooked ham. 1 table-sp. bechamel sauce. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. thick cream. Cayenne. Mustard. Parsley or chervil. Use small round biscuits, either plain or made of anchovy or cheese pastry. Chop the ham finely, pound it in a mortar with the sauce, butter, and seasoning, and rub all through a fine wire sieve. Then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls thick cream lightly whipped. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a rose pipe on the end of it, and force out some on to each biscuit. Place a half or quarter of a hard-boiled plover’s egg on the top, and garnish with a tiny sprig of parsley or chervil. Serve very cold. 2308. Canapes a la Russe Brown bread and butter Tomato. Spiced beef. Whipped cream. Grated horse-radish. Chilli vinegar. Cut some round canapes of brown bread and butter (see Recipe 2247). Take a firm red tomato, peel it, cut it in thin slices, and lay a slice on each canap4 of bread. Then a thin round of spiced or smoked beef, or tongue on the top. Mix some grated horse-radish with the whipped cream, season with a few drops of chilli vinegar, and pile a little of this on the top of each canapA Sprinkle with coralline pepper and serve on a lace-edged paper. Lettuce. Tunny fish. Mayonnaise sauce. Chopped parsley or chervil. Coralline pepper. Take the heart of a nice round and firm lettuce and separate the leaves carefully, being careful not to break them. The leaves should be as much the shape of a scallop shell as possible. Wipe them very gently with a damp cloth, or wash them if neces- sary, but on no account must they be made limp. Then take some tunny fish and mix it with some well-seasoned mayonnaise sauce. Put some of this mixture into the centre of each lettuce leaf and decorate with chopped parsley or chervil, and a little coralline pepper. Arrange neatly on a round dish with all the stalk ends of the lettuce leaves towards the centre. 2306. Biscuits a la Mignonne Parmesan biscuits. Potted meat. Cream or butter. Whipped cream. Capers. Olives. Take any nice potted meat and mix it with a little cream or butter to make it of a softish con- sistency. Spread this rather thickly on Parmesan cheese biscuits, or any other nice savoury biscuit, and smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle with chopped capers or other green pickle. Then take 2309. Canapes a la Victoria Cucumber (6 or 8 slices). 1 table-sp. shrimp paste. 2 table-sps. tomato juice 2 sheets gelatine. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 6 or 8 radishes. Small cress. Take a fresh raw cucumber and cut 6 or 8 slices about \ inch in thickness. With a round cutter stamp off the green skin from the slices of cucumber, and then, with a smaller cutter, stamp out the seeds from the centre. Now place these rings of cucumber on a plate and put them in a very cold place or on ice, whilst preparing the rest of the savoury. Take a table-spoonful of potted shrimp, remove all the butter from the top, and work it in a basin to soften it slightly. Dissolve the gelatine in the tomato juice and strain into the shrimp paste. Add the whipped cream, seasoning, and a very little carmine to make the mixture a pale pink colour. Stir occasionally until beginning to set; then put the mixture into a forcing bag and force it out on the top of the rings of cucumber, piling it high like a rosette. Stand a small radish on the top of each, and decorate with a little small cress or tiny sprigs of chervil. Serve on a dish paper as a savoury, or one on each plate as a hors- d’oeuvre.COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 502 2310. Petites Cremes de Monte Carlo Mixture. 2 table-sps. smoked haddock. 1 table-sp. white sauce. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 2 table-sps. liquid aspic. Seasoning. For Decoration. Aspic jelly. Tongue. Truffle. Salad. Required—5 or 6 small card moulds. Take 5 or 6 small card-shaped moulds, and line them at the bottom with a thin coating of liquid aspic jelly. When this is set, decorate them to resemble cards, cutting out the clubs and spades from thin slices of truffle, and the hearts and diamonds from thin slices of cooked tongue, with little cutters suitable to the purpose. Set the decoration with a little more liquid aspic. To Make the Mixture.—Use cooked smoked haddock free from skin and bone, chop it finely, pound it in a mortar with the white sauce, and then rub it through a sieve. Put this puree into a basin and add to it 2 table-spoonfuls liquid aspic. This must be stiff aspic in order to set the mixture; if not sufficiently so, dissolve in it about f a sheet of gelatine first. Lastly, stir in the whipped cream and season to taste. Place the mixture in a cool place or on ice until beginning to set; then fill up the little moulds and set them aside until firm. If any mixture is over, it may be used in the dishing up. Turn out the moulds when required, and ar- range them neatly on a silver dish, garnishing with salad and chopped aspic. Note.—Other cream mixtures may be used in place of the smoked haddock, and this dish may also be served as a cold entree. PART II SMALL HOT SAVOURIES 2311. Anchovy Croutes 4 filleted anchovies. 1 hard-boiled egg. Coralline pepper. \ tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. (Crofites aux Anchois) 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Croutons fried bread. Wipe the anchovies and chop the hard-boiled egg, reserving a little of the white for decoration. Pound the anchovies and egg together with the butter and seasoning, and rub them through a sieve. Have ready some round or oval-shaped croutons of fried bread (see Recipe 2245), spread them rather thickly with the mixture, and place them in the oven to become very hot. Decorate the croutes with finely-chopped parsley, chopped white of egg, and coralline pepper, and serve them on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. 2312. Anchovy Fingers 1 tea-sp. anchovy paste 2 table-sps. grated Par- mesan. 1 yolk of egg. Coralline pepper. (D’Artois aux Anchois) 1 table-sp. melted butter or cream. 3 or 4 oz. puff pastry. Beaten egg. Mix the anchovy paste, cheese, and yolk of egg together with the cream or melted butter. Season with coralline or cayenne pepper, and set the mixture aside until very cold. Then roll out some puff pastry very thinly and cut it in two strips from 3 to 4 inches in width. Spread one of the pieces to about \ inch from the edge with the anchovy mixture, brush the other piece of pastry over with beaten egg, and lay it on the top. Press the two together, brush over with beaten egg, and cut across in finger-shaped pieces. Bake them in a good oven until well browned and thoroughly cooked. 2313. Anchovy Fritters (Beignets d’Anchois) Filleted anchovies. Cayenne pepper. Lemon juice. Salad oil. Frying batter. Chopped parsley. Take as many filleted anchovies as required, wash them in warm water, anc) dry them, then curl them round into a neat little roll. Sprinkle these little rolls with cayenne, salad oil, and a few drops of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar, and let them stand for J hour. Then dip them into frying batter (Recipe 1863), and fry them in boding fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve pded up on a hot dish sprinkled with finely-chopped parsley. Place a few thin slices of lemon round the dish. 2314, Anchovy Rolls (Rissolettes d’Anchois) Filleted anchovies. Puff pastry. Coralline pepper. Lemon juice. Beaten egg. Grated Parmesan. Roll out some scraps of puff pastry very thinly, and cut it in oblong-shaped pieces the length and twice the width of a filleted anchovy. Wash and dry the anchovies, season them with coralline pepper and lemon juice, and lay a fillet on each piece of pastry. Moisten round the edges with beaten egg, cover the anchovy with the pastry, and roll with slightly floured fingers into pencil- shaped pieces. Lay these on a greased tin, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated Parmesan and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 2315. Anchovies on Toast, 1 (Anchois sur Croutes) Filleted anchovies. I Toast. Butter. Pepper. Lemon juice. I Chopped parsley. Wash some filleted anchovies in warm water and dry them lightly in a cloth. Prepare some neat fingers of hot buttered toast, and lay a filleted anchovy on each. Season them with pepper (coralline pepper would look nice) and lemon juice, lay small pieces of butter on the top, and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley. Heat the croutes in the oven and serve at once on a lace-edged paper. Note.—This savoury may be varied by using fried bread or little rounds of pastry instead of the toast. Also by spreading the croute first with a little savoury butter, such as shrimp, curry, lobster, &c., before laying on the anchovy. Or again, the croute may be made round or heart- shaped and the anchovy curled on the top.HORS-D’CEUVRE AttD SAVOURIES 503 2316. Anchovies on Toast, 2 (Anchois sur Croutes) \ tea-sp. chopped shallot Pepper. Lemon juice. 1 table-sp. cream. Hot buttered toast. 3 or 4 anchovies. 1 dessert-sp. butter (melted). 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley \For this savoury any broken pieces of anchovy may be used. Wash and dry the anchovies, re- move all skin and bone, and cut them in small pieces. Heat the butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot, and cook it a few minutes without browning. Then add theanchovy, parsley, and seasoning, and moisten with the cream or the yolk of an egg. Make all thoroughly hot and serve on small rounds of hot buttered toast, and sprinkle with a little coralline pepper or decorate with parsley. Note.—A few chopped capers or a piece of chopped gherkin may be added to the mixture if wished. 2317. Anchovy Twists Filleted anchovies. I Grated Parmesan. Short crust. | Coralline pepper. Take some scraps of short crust, work into them some grated Parmesan, and roll out very thinly. Then cut some strips or straws the length of an anchovy and about inch wide. Wash and wipe the required number of anchovy fillets, and lay each one on a strip of pastry. Then twist them round each other, and pinch them to- gether at the ends. Lay these on a greased baking- tin, sprinkle with a little coralline pepper, and bake in a good oven until lightly browned. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Anchovy or cheese pastry may be used instead of short crust. 2318. Cassolettes de Bananes 2 small bananas. \ oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. biscuit crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chutney. Cayenne and salt. \ tea-sp. curry powder. | oz. butter. 1 table-sp. white wine. 5 or 6 small butter cases. 1 cooked kipper or bloater. ltea-sp. chopped parsley | tea-sp. anchovy essence. pan with the chopped parsley, anchovy essence, and a good pinch of pepper. Moisten with a little white sauce or cream, and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Pile the mixture on finger- shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with a little grated cheese, and brown in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Note.—The cheese may be omitted, and a little whipped and seasoned white of egg put over the bloater mixture. The yolk of egg may be added to the mixture. Or, if the bloater contains a roe, this may be cut in pieces, warmed in the oven, and used to garnish the toast. 2321. Kromeskies of Bloater (Kromeskies a la Yarmouth) 2 table-sps. cooked bloater. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 table-sp. white sauce. Seasoning. Wafer paper. Frying batter. Take the remains of cooked bloater, and break it into small flakes free from skin and bone. Then pound well in a mortar with the butter, and rub the mixture through a sieve. Moisten with a little white sauce or any good fish sauce, and season to taste. Wrap up small portions of the mixture in wafer paper, just moistening the paper slightly to make it bendable. Then dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain and serve piled up on a dish paper ; garnish with fried parsley. Note.—Kippered or any other smoked fish may be used in the same way. 2322. Bloater Souffles (Petits Souffles de Hareng Fum6) table-sps. cooked bloater. table-sps. cooked potato. 1 table-sp. melted butter 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. 1 egg. Seasoning. Make very small butter cases as directed in Recipe 2252, or small croustades of pastry may be used. Peel the bananas and cut them in dice, heat the butter in a small saucepan, and put in the prepared banana with the chutney, curry powder, and seasoning. Cook 2 or 3 minutes over the fire, then add the biscuit crumbs and white wine, and cook 2 or 3 minutes longer. Fill up the little cases with this mixture, place them in the oven to heat through, and serve hot, garnished with parsley or watercress. 2319. Croutes de Bananes Prepare the same mixture as in last recipe, and serve it on small croutes of fried bread or toast. Sprinkle some chopped nuts over them, and make thoroughly hot in the oven. 2320. Bloater or Kipper Toast (Croutes a la Yarmouth) Chop the bloater very finely or pound it and rub it through a sieve. Put it into a saucepan with the potato (sieved), the butter, and seasoning to taste, and add a little milk to moisten. Make the mixture thoroughly hot over the fire, then draw the saucepan to one side and stir in the yolk of egg. Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in very lightly at the last. Half fill small greased souffle dishes with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and brown. Serve as quickly as possible. 2323. Savoury Brain Croutes (Croutes de Corvelles) 2 table-sps. cooked;brains 1 table-sp. white sauce or cream. 1 yolk of egg, Cayenne and salt. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. 1 table-sp. cream or white sauce. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Grated cheese. Remove all the flesh from a cooked kipper or bloater and chop it very finely. Put it into a sauce- Chop the brains and heat them in a saucepan with the white sauce or cream, but be careful not to make the mixture too moist. Add the grated cheese and chopped capers, and season to taste with cayenne and salt. Lastly, stir in the yolk of egg, pile the mixture on five or six small rounds of hot buttered toast and sprinkle with more cheese. Place them in a hot oven or under... 504 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the grill for a minute or two to brown the surface, then sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and serve very hot. 2324. Brain Fritters (Beignets de Cervelles) cooked melted butter. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 table-sps brains. 1 table-sp. fine flour. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. salad oil or Mash the brains with a fork until soft and light. Make a smooth batter with the egg and flour, beating it well, add the brains, oil, and seasoning, and beat all together for a few minutes. Drop small pieces of this mixture in a saucepan of boil- ing fat, and fry them to a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 2325. Caviar sur Crofites Caviare. Rounds of fried bread. Lemon juice. Red chilli. Cut some small round croutons of bread, hollow out the centres slightly, and fry them in hot fat until brown. Mix some caviare with a little lemon juice and cayenne, and warm it in the oven or over hot water. Fill up the bread croutons with the caviare, and garnisli with fine strips of red chilli or with strips of browned almonds. Note.—Be careful to use a silver spoon or fork to mix the caviare. 2326. Aiguilles au Parmesan 1 gill water. 2 oz. flour. i oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. 2 eggs. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Put the water, butter, and seasoning into a sauce- pan and bring them to the boil. Sieve the flour, and add it, beating well until perfectly smooth. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the eggs, one at a time, and the Parmesan cheese. Mix thoroughly, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool; then rub it through a small colander into hot fat, and fry until brown and crisp. Drain well, and serve very hot, sprinkled with cheese. 2327. Allumettes de Fromage Puff pastry. Parmesan cheese. Beaten egg. Take some puff pastry that has only had four rolls (see Recipe 1447), and give it two more rolls, sprinkling it well with finely grated Parmesan and rolling the cheese into it. Then roll it out into a strip 4 or 5 inches in width, and cut this strip across into finger-shaped pieces. Place these on a wetted baking tin, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle with more cheese, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. 2328. Cheese d’Artois (Fromage d’Artois) 2 yolks of egg. 1 white of egg. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Seasoning. Puff pastry. Put the cheese into a basin and add to it the yolk of egg and the butter melted. Season with cayenne, salt, and a little made mustard, and then stir in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Roll out some puff pastry rather thinly, and spread the cheese mixture over half of it. Moisten round the edges with beaten egg and fold over the other half. Cut in fingers or fancy-shaped pieces, brush over with yolk of egg, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and bake in a good oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve hot with a lace-edged paper under them. 2329. Cheese Bouchees (Bouchdes au Fromage) 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 2 table-sps. water. Seasoning. 3 table-sps. grated Par- Bouchee cases, mesan. Make and bake some very small bouchee or patty cases. Then put the butter, flour, and water into a saucepan and stir them over the fire until smooth, thick, and thoroughly cooked. Re- move the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg, cream, cheese, and seasoning. Re- heat, but do not boil. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, piling it rather high, put on the little lids and re-heat in the oven a few minutes. Note.—Batter cases (Recipe 2251) may be used instead of pastry cases. 2330 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Cayenne. Salt. A little cold water. 1 yolk of egg. Cheese Biscuits, 1 (Biscuits au Fromage) A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 whites of eggs. A little grated cheese. Coralline pepper. Put the flour and grated Parmesan into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Season with cayenne pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and bind all together with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cold water. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, cut it in finger-shaped strips, and bake in a moderate oven. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to them a little grated cheese. Spread this over the biscuits, sprinkle them with coralline pepper, and return them to the oven to dry and become lightly browned. Serve the biscuits hot on a lace-edged paper. 2331. Cheese Biscuits, 2 (Biscuits au Fromage) Plain biscuits. I Some soft cheese. Butter. I Seasoning. Take any dry unsweetened biscuits, such as captain, Bath oh vers, or lunch biscuits, and butter them lightly on both sides. Then take some soft cheese, such as St. Ivel, and work into it a little made mustard and a few drops of tarragon vinegar or Worcester sauce. Spread this thickly on one side of the biscuits, sprinkle them with a little coralline pepper, and then brown or toast them in a quick oven. Serve the biscuits at once. 2332. 4 table-sps. cheese. 2 table-sps. crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Make some Cheese Croustades (Petites Croustades au Fromage) grated Seasoning. 1 egg. 2 table-sps. cream or bread- milk. 6 or 7 small croustades of bread. small croustades, not more than 2 inches in diameter (see Recipe 2246), and fry them505 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES until brown and crisp. Drain them well and keep them warm. Put the butter, milk, or cream and bread-crumbs into a small saucepan and bring them to the boil. Then add the cheese, yolk of egg and seasoning, and make all thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. Put some of this mixture into each croustade, cover with a little whipped white of egg, smoothing it over with a knife, and place the croustades in the oven for a minute or two or until lightly browned. Note.—The white of egg may be omitted. 2333. Cheese Fritters, 1 (Beignets au Fromage) Prepare the same mixture as for Aiguilles au Parmesan (Recipe 2326), but instead of rubbing it through a sieve drop it in small pieces in the Cheese Fritters boiling fat, and let them fry slowly until well puffed out and lightly browned. Drain and serve sprinkled with grated Parmesan. 2336. Cheese Ramequlns, 1 1 oz. flour. I 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. | Seasoning. Mix the milk gradually with the flour, and beat the batter until smooth and light. Then add the egg and cheese, season to taste, and beat again. Half fill small greased ramequin cases with the mix- ture, and bake them in a good oven until brown and well risen. Serve as quickly as possible. 2337. Cheese Ramequins, 2 Make in the same way as Cheese Fondue (Recipe 2408), baking the mixture in small china dishes or paper case3 instead of one large dish. 2338. Cheese Rissoles (Creme Frites au Fromage) 1 oz. cornflour. 1 gill milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 3 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mix the cornflour slowly with the milk, turn the two into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire. Simmer slowly for a few minutes, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and mix in the cheese, yolks of eggs, and butter. Season with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard, and spread the mixture on a plate. When cool, form into balls, using a little flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Serve very hot on a dish paper and sprinkle with grated cheese. 2334. Cheese Fritters, 2 (Beignets au Parmesan) 2 oz. grated Parmesan I 2 whites of eggs. Salt, cheese. | Cayenne pepper. Beat the whites of eggs to a perfectly stiff froth with a pinch of salt and a dust of cayenne. Then stir in quickly and lightly 2 oz. of freshly grated Parmesan cheese. Drop small tea-spoonfuls of the mixture into a saucepan of boiling fat, and cook them until a pretty brown colour (about 5 minutes). Drain well and serve on a dish paper, sprinkled with Paprika pepper and grated cheese. 2335. Cheese Puffs 3 oz. Cheddar cheese. 1 oz. butter. 1 hard-boiled egg. Cayenne pepper. Salt. A little made mustard. Flaky pastry. A little beaten egg. Roll out some flaky pastry rather thinly, and cut it in pieces about 4 inches square. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cheese finely chopped or shred, the hard-boiled egg chopped, and seasoning. Heat slowly over the fire until thick, but do not boil. Put a little of this mixture in the centre of each square of pastry, moisten the edges with beaten egg, and then bring two opposite corners together so as to make triangular-shaped puffs. Mark round the edges, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot with a lace-edged paper under them. 2339. Cream Cheese Savoury 2 table-sps. cream cheese 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. A little butter. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Plain biscuits. This is a very good way of using up the remains of cream cheese. Put the cheese into a small basin, and break it up with a fork or spoon, working in a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Add the cream and season with cayenne and a little salt. Stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and make the contents thoroughly hot over the fire. Butter 5 or 6 water or toast biscuits, heat them in the oven until brown and crisp, then pour the cream cheese mixture over them. 2340. Cheese Souffle (Souffle au Parmesan) 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. 1 £ oz. Cheddar cheese, if oz. Parmesan cheese. 1 gill of milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 whites of eggs. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix these two well together with a wooden spoon. Pour in the milk, and stir quickly over the fire until the mixture draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add the grated cheese and the seasonings. Next add the yolks, one at a time, and beat well together. Have the whites beaten to a very stiff froth with a wire whisk, and stir them lightly in with an iron spoon. Pour the mixture into smallCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD m greased souffle dishes, not more than half filling them, and bake them in a good oven until well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Then serve them as quickly as possible. Note.—If preferred, this mixture may be baked in one large dish. 2341. Cheese Straws, 3 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 1 (Pailles de Fromage) h yolk of egg. A pinch of cayenne. A pinch of salt. A little water. Rub the butter lightly into the flour. Add the grated cheese and seasoning, and mix into a paste with half the yolk of an egg beaten with a little water. Make the pastry rather stiff, and work with the hands until free from cracks. Then roll it out on a floured board into a strip about 4 inches wide. Trim evenly at the edges, and cut most of the Cheese Straws pastry into straws about \ inch wide. Place these on a greased tin, and out of the remainder of the pastry cut 6 or 8 rings. Bake all together in a good oven until very lightly browned and firm to the touch. Watch them most carefully, as they burn very easily. Serve them with a bundle of straws placed in each ring. Note.—These may be served either hot or cold. 2342. Cheese Straws, 2 (Pailles de Fromage) Make in the same way as Allumettes de Fromage (Recipe 2327), cutting the strips much thinner, like straws. These may either be served as a savoury or as an accompaniment to some soups. 2343. Cheese Tartlets (Tartlettes de Fromage) 7 or 8 small pastry cases. \ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. \ gill milk. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 egg. Cayenne. Make some small cases or croustades of pastry as directed in Recipe 2248, but do not bake them. The ordinary short crust may be used, and a little grated cheese may be worked into it before rolling it out. To make the cheese mixture, melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the cornflour, and mix the two together. Then stir in the cheese, yolk of egg and seasoning, and lastly, the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, sprinkle a little grated cheese on the top, and bake them in a good oven until nicely browned and well risen. Serve at once. 2344. Devilled Chestnuts (Marrons a la Diable) Chestnuts. Salad oil. Seasoning. Boil some good chestnuts and remove the outer and inner skin. Melt a small quantity of salad oil in a frying pan, and fry the chestnuts in it a few minutes, seasoning them with salt and cayenne pepper. Then drain and place each chestnut in a little paper case. Serve very hot. 2345. Devilled Chicken Croustades 3 oz. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham or tongue. 1 or two table-sps. stock or gravy. \ tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot. A little chutney. Tomato. 6 or 7 croustades of pastry. Make the croustades of pastry as directed in Recipe 2248, and bake them until nicely browned. Cut the chicken and ham in fine shreds, or chop them. Heat them in a saucepan with the stock or gravy, add the shallot, curry powder, seasoning to taste, and a little chutney. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, put a thin shoe of tomato on the top of each, and place them in the oven until thoroughly hot. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 2346. Devilled Chicken Livers, 1 (Foie de Volaiile a la Diable) 2 chicken livers (cooked) 1 egg. oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 1 dessert-sp. port wine. | tea-sp. mustard. Cayenne. Salt. Croutons of fried bread. Small fresh mushrooms. Ham butter. Chop the livers finely and put them into a mortar with the egg, butter, wine, and seasoning. Pound well and rub through a sieve. Heat this mixture in a small saucepan. Fry some heart-shaped croutons of bread and butter, trim an equal number of small mushrooms and fry them also. Spread the croutons with the liver mixture, place a mush- room on the top with the hollow side uppermost, and place a small ball of ham or other savoury butter in the centre. Serve hot. 2347. Devilled Chicken Livers, 2 (Foie de Volaiile a la Diable) 2 chicken livers. 1 dessert-sp. anchovy essence. Made mustard. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. A little butter. Hot buttered toast. Devilled almonds. Chopped parsley. Take 2 cooked livers, and pound them in a mortar with a small piece of butter and the anchovy essence. Season highly with made mustard, pepper, salt, and a good pinch of cayenne. When the mixture is smooth, spread it on neat pieces of hot buttered toast. Place them under the grill of the gas stove a minute or two, then garnish with shreds of devilled almonds and a little finely chopped parsley or coralline pepper. 2348. Chicken Liver on Toast (Tartines de Foie de Volaiile) 2 or 3 chicken or game livers. 1 oz. butter. | shallot. 1 tea-sp. red-currant jelly- Pepper. Salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. Hot buttered toast. Take cooked livers, chop them and then pound them with the butter until perfectly smooth. AddHORS-D»CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 50? the l shallot finely chopped and the red-currant jelly, and then season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread this mixture rather thickly on small fingers of hot buttered toast, sprinkle them with grated Parmesan, and place them in the oven to brown and heat through. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 2349. Smoked Cod Roe Soak the roe for a short time to soften it, then dry it, and cut it in small thin slices. Melt a small quantity of butter in a frying or saute pan, and fry the roe lightly on both sides. Then arrange the pieces neatly on croutons of fried or toasted bread, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 2350. Cod Roe a la Victoria Smoked cod’s roe. Hot buttered toast. Butter. Sieved yolk of egg. Seasoning. Olives. Prepare and cook some smoked cod’s roe as above, and, after frying, pound it in a mortar with a small quantity of butter. Season it with cayenne and a few drops of lemon juice. Spread this mix- ture rather thickly on finger-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, and decorate with sieved yolk of egg and turned olives. Make thoroughly hot iu the oven before serving. 2351. Crab Balls (Boulettes de Crabe) 1 boiled crab. I Melted butter. Bread-crumbs. | Seasoning. 1 egg. Remove all the meat from a crab, and pound it in a mortar until reduced to a smooth paste. Then add about half as much fine bread-crumbs as there is crab, and enough melted butter to bind all together. Season with cayenne, salt, a pinch of mace, and a little lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Form into small balls about the size of a marble, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Serve piled up on a dish and garnished with parsley. 2352. Devilled Crab (Crabe a la Diable) 3 table-sps. crab meat. £ table-sp. butter. I tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers. Salt. Pepper. Heart-shaped croutons. Coralline pepper. Chop the meat from a cooked crab and put it into a saucepan with the above seasonings. Make all thoroughly hot, pile up on small heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, and sprinkle lightly with coralline pepper. Re-heat in the oven and then serve very hot. 2353. Crab Toast, 1 (Crabe sur Croutes) 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped celery. 1 table-sp. bread or biscuit crumbs. 1 table-sp. sherry. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the crumbs, celery, and crab meat chopped rather finely. Mix well, and pour in the milk or cream. \ gill milk or cream. J lb. crab meat. Seasoning. Plain biscuits or thin toast. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, and then add the sherry and seasoning. Spread on hot toasted biscuits, or on thin shoes of toast. Serve very hot. 2354. Crab Toast, 2 (Crabe sur Croutes) Take the meat from a cooked crab and chop it finely. Re-heat it in some good white sauce. Crab Toast seasoning it rather highly. Pile this on round or heart-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, and decorate with small pieces of green and red pickle. Re-heat in the oven for a minute or two. 2355. Devils on Horseback, 1 (Diables a Cheval) Sardines. I Devil butter. Seasoning. | Bacon. Toast. Prepare and fillet some sardines as directed in Recipe 2257, and cut some very thin slices of fat bacon. Season the fillets with pepper and lemon juice, and wrap each one in a strip of bacon, enclos- ing with it a small piece of devil butter (Recipe 762) . Fix the rolls with a tiny wooden skewer or piece of match, place them on oval-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, which have been sprinkled with pepper and salt, and place in a good oven until the bacon is thoroughly toasted. Serve very hot. Note.—Fillets of anchovy may be used instead of the sardines, or small pieces of cooked chicken or game fiver are also very tasty done in this way. 2356. Devils on Horseback, 2 (Diables a Cheval) Make in the same way as above, rolling a stewed and stoned prune inside the bacon instead of the sardine. The prunes must he tender without being too soft, and they must be well drained from their liquid. The prune itself may be stuffed with a devilled almond or with a little devil paste (Recipe 763) . The seasoning is very much a matter of taste. 2357. Pomponettes de Foie Gras A little pastry. Foie gras. Small nuts. Take some scraps of pastry, not too rich, roll them out thinly and cut out rounds from 3 to 4 inches in diameter. Any remains of foie gras will do, but if not already in puree, they should be rubbed through a sieve. Shell and roast a few small nuts, and then rub off the brown skins. Put a tea- spoonful of foie-gras puree in the centre of each piece of paste, with a nut in the centre, and wet round the edges. Gather up the edges of the pastry, and pinch them together in the form of a little sack. Then fry the pomponettes in boiling fat and serve them on a serviette or dish paper garnished with fried parsley. Note.—Other meat purees may be used instead508 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD of the foie gras, and a pistachio nut or piece of truffle may be put in the centre. 2358. Tartelettes de Foie Gras Foie gras. I Sherry or Marsala. Espagnole sauce. | Pastry cases. Make the required number of small tartlet cases or croustades (see Recipe 2248), bake them and re- move them from the tins. Take some remains of foie gras and cut them in dice, and have ready a little good brown sauce to which some Marsala or sherry has been added. The sauce must be thick and very good. Put about a tea-spoonful of it into each pastry case, fill up with the foie gras, mounting it rather high, and cover with more sauce. Place the tartelettes in the oven to become thoroughly hot, and then decorate them with tiny leaves or stars of pastry, or in any other way pre- ferred. Serve them very hot with a dish paper under them. 2359. Smoked Haddock “ en Coquilles ” 2361. Croutes of Finnan Haddock, 2 (Croutes de Merluche Fume) 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. A small piece of butter. Browned bread-crumbs. 2 eggs. 3 table-sps. smoked haddock. 3 table-sps. milk. Cayenne pepper. Use cooked smoked haddock or finnan, remove from it all skin and bones, and break it into small flakes. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, pour in the milk and then the eggs well beaten. Stir over the fire until the mixture is just beginning to thicken, then draw the saucepan to one side and add the fish, anchovy essence, a good pinch of cayenne, and salt if necessary. Make the mixture thoroughly hot, but do not boil. Put it into scallop shells that have been greased and sprinkled with bread-crumbs, sprinkle a few browned bread- crumbs over, lay one or two small pieces of butter on the top, and brown the scallops quickly in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Notes.—Cooked kipper may be used instead of the finnan haddock. The mixture may be served on small pieces of toast instead of in the scallop shells. 2360. Croutes of Finnan Haddock, 1 (Croutes de Merluche Fum6) lemon Cayenne. Salt. A squeeze of juiee. Croutes of hot buttered toast or fried bread. 1 small smoked haddock 3 anchovies. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 yolk of egg. Dip the fish into boiling water, then skin it and remove the bone. Wash the anchovies, and skin and bone them. Pound the flesh of the haddock and the anchovies in a mortar with the butter, and then rub them through a wire sieve. Then put the mixture into a saucepan with the seasoning and cream, and heat thoroughly over the fire without allowing it to boil. Pile this mixture on small rounds of hot buttered toast or fried bread, decorate them with finely-chopped parsley and hard-boiled egg or lobster coral, and serve them very hot. 4 table-sps. smoked haddock. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning. Use cooked haddock. | doz. small rounds of toast. A little butter. 1 tomato. A lit tie pickle. Chop it rather finely, removing all skin and bone. Moisten with the sauce and season rather highly. Have ready some small rounds of hot buttered toast, put some of the haddock mixture on each, and lay a thin slice of tomato on the top. Decorate with a slice of, or a little chopped pickle, and cook the savouries in the oven about 10 minutes. Serve hot. 2362. Savoury Haddock Custards (Cremes de Merluche Fum6) 2 table-sps. haddock. 1 gill milk. 2 yolks and cooked 1 white of Seasoning. 1 tea-sp.chopped pickles. Chopped parsley. Rounds of hot buttered toast. 1 tea-sp. anchovy essence Beat up the yolks and white of egg with the milk, and strain them into a basin. Take the remains, or about 2 table-spoonfuls smoked haddock, chop them finely, and add them to the custard. Stir in also the anchovy essence and a little chopped green pickle, and season to taste. Pour the mixture into very small greased dariole moulds, and poach them carefully until firm to the touch. Have ready an equal number of small rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle them with finely-chopped parsley, and place the little custards on the top. Serve very hot. 2363. Smoked Haddock Rissolettes (Rissoles de Merluche Fumd) \ lb. smoked haddock. 1 or 2 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning. Some scraps of pastry. Egg and vermicelli. Cook the smoked haddock and chop it roughly, removing all bone and skin. Moisten with a little thick white sauce, and season to taste. Then roll out some scraps of unsweetened pastry very thinly, and cut out some rounds 3 inches in diameter. Put a little of the fish mixture in the centre of hah the number of rounds, wet round the edges of the other half with a little beaten egg, and place them on the top. Press well together and then egg the croquettes and toss them in crushed vermicelli or fine bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, and serve garnished with parsley. 2364. Savoury Haddock Souffles (Souffles de Merluche Fume) 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 2 eggs. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked smoked haddock. 2 table-sps. white sauce or 1 oz. butter. Pick the haddock free from skin and bone and chop it finely. Pound it in a mortar or basin with the white sauce or butter and yolks of eggs, then rub it through a sieve. Put the pur£e into a basin, season it to taste, and stir in very lightly509 IIORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES the whites of the 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the whipped cream. Half fill some greased china or paper souffle cases with the mixture and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and lightly- browned. 2365. Devilled Ham Biscuits (Biscuits de Jambon a la Diable) 2 table-sps. minced ham. 1 tea-sp. minced an- chovies. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers. Brown sauce. Sherry. Water biscuits. Butter. Seasoning. Use cooked ham and mince it very finely with a small proportion of fat. Mix with it the chopped anchovy and capers, and moisten with some good brown sauce flavoured with sherry or Marsala. Heat the mixture in a small saucepan, adding more seasoning if necessary. Then butter some small water biscuits, dust them lightly with pepper and salt and toast them in the oven. Pile some of the mixture on each, sprinkle with coralline pepper and return to the oven until thoroughly hot. Serve on a dish paper, and garnish with parsley. 2366. Ham Croutes 3 or 4 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. white or brown sauce. (Croutes de Jambon) \ tea-sp. made mustard. Cayenne. Grated cheese. Croutes of fried bread. Chop the ham finely, mix it with the sauce, and pound the two together to a paste, seasoning with cayenne, mustard, and salt if necessary. Spread this mixture thickly on small rounds of fried bread or hot buttered toast, sprinkle them with grated cheese, and place them in a hot oven to brown and heat through. Serve garnished with parsley. 2367. Ham and Egg Savoury (Croutes Favorites) Cooked ham. A little sherry. Round croutons of bread. Scrambled egg. Chopped parsley. Cut and fry some round croutons of bread about 3 inches in diameter and keep them warm. Then cut some thinly-sliced cooked ham in rounds the same size as the croutons. Put these on a plate, sprinkle them with sherry, cover with another plate, and heat over a saucepan of boiling water. Now prepare some scrambled egg (see Recipe 1325), allowing 1 egg, &c., for each four croutons. To Serve.—Place a round of ham on each crouton, pile some of the egg mixture on the top, and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley. Serve hot with a dish paper under them. 2368. Herring Roes on Toast, 1 (Laitances de Harengs sur Croutes) Soft roes. Butter. | Lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. | Hot buttered toast. Wash the roes, dry them and cut them in con- venient-sized pieces. Make some butter very hot in a frying pan, put in the pieces of roe, and fry them lightly. Then season them rather highly with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some fingers or rounds of hot buttered toast, lay the roe on them, and place in the oven a few minutes. Serve garnished with parsley. Notes.—If liked, the pieces of toast may be spread with a little anchovy paste before putting on the roe ; or a little grated Parmesan may be sprinkled over the croutes before putting them in the oven. Preserved herring roes may be used instead of fresh ones; these will not require frying, but they must be made thoroughly hot in the oven. 2369. Herring Roes on Toast, 2 (Laitances de Harengs sur Crofltes) 2 or 3 hard herring roes. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 table-sp. butter. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. Coralline pepper. Wash the herring roes and cook them in the oven with a small quantity of butter. Then pound them or mash them up with the anchovy essence and enough melted butter or cream to make a paste. Season highly with cayenne, and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread this mixture thickly on little rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast, and make the croutes very hot in the oven. Sprinkle them alternately with chopped parsley and coralline pepper and serve at once. 2370. Herring Roes with Mushrooms (Laitances aux Champignons) 2 or 3 hard roes. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. A little butter. 6 or 7 mushrooms. 6 or 7 fried croutes of bread. Cook the roes and then chop them, removing any skin. Season well with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and add enough melted butter or a little cream to bind all together. Spread this mixture rather thickly on croutes of fried bread or rounds of hot buttered toast, and put a fried or grilled mushroom on the top. Serve very hot. 2371. Lax Croutes (Croutes a la Norvegienne) Lax. Croutes of fried bread. Shrimp or anchovy paste. Seasoning. Horse radish. Lax is a preparation of salmon cut in small thin pieces and preserved in oil. Prepare some oval- shaped croutes of fried bread and spread them thinly with shrimp or anchovy paste. Drain and wipe some lax and arrange it neatly on the crofites. Season to taste, cover with a piece of greased paper, and make all thoroughly hot in the oven. Then garnish each croute with a little finely-shred horse-radish, and serve at once. 2372. Devilled Lax Water biscuits. I Pepper. Salt. Salad oil. | Lax. Devil paste. Dip the required number of water biscuits in salad oil, sprinkle them with salt and black or eayenne pepper, and toast them brown on both sides. Drain some lax, cut it in small pieces, and lay some on the top of each biscuit. Cover with devil paste (see Recipe 763), and place the croutes in a hot oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot.510 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2373. Lobster Bouchees (Bouchees de Homard) 1 table-sp. cooked lobster. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 egg- 1 tea-sp. anchovy sauce. 1 tea-sp. tarragon vine- gar. Cayenne. Salt. Pastry cases. Make and cook 6 or 7 very small pastry cases as directed in Recipe 2249. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and then the lobster finely chopped. Season to taste and add the egg well beaten. Stir the mixture over the fire until hot and thick, but do not boil. Fill up the pastry cases with this, put on the little lids or sprinkle with lobster coral, and put in the oven to re-heat. Serve garnished with parsley. Note.—Batter cases (Recipe 2251) may be used instead of pastry cases. 2374. Lobster Croustades (Croustades de Homard) 2 table-sps. cooked lobster. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp. made mustard. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. white wine. 1 tea-sp. chutney. Salt. Pepper. Croustades of bread. Lobster coral. Chop the lobster finely and pound it in a mortar or strong basin with the butter, bread-crumbs, wine, and seasoning. Make all into a smooth and softish paste, and season rather highly. Have ready some small croustades of fried bread (Recipe 2246) and fill them with the lobster mixture, piling it rather high. Cover the croustades with buttered paper and make them thoroughly hot in the oven. Then sprinkle with lobster coral, and serve at once. 2375. Lobster Moulds (Petits Pains de Homard) 3 table-sps. lobster meat. 1 or 2 table-sps. brown stock. | gill cream. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kin. Seasoning. Browned biscuit-crumbs Hot tartare sauce. Chop the lobster meat finely, pound it in a mortar with the chutney and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls brown stock, and then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve. Then add to this puree the egg well beaten, the chopped gherkin, and the cream whipped until stiff. Season to taste, then pour the mixture into very small dariole moulds that have been well greased and coated with browned biscuit-crumbs. Cover with greased paper and poach them carefully until firm to the touch. Then turn out and serve with hot tartare sauce poured round. 2376. Marrow Toast (Croutes a la Moelle) Beef marrow. Hot buttered toast. Seasoning. Have a marrow" bone broken or sawn in pieces by the butcher, so that the marrow may be removed easily. After removing it, cut it in small pieces and scald it in boiling water for 5 or 10 minutes. The simplest way to do this is to put the marrow into a frying basket or small strainer and to plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, or to tie it in a piece of muslin; by either means it can be easily removed from the water. Drain it well, arrange it on small rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast, season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and break the marrow down with a fork. Place the croutes in the oven to become very hot, then sprinkle them with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 2377. Marrow Croustades (Croustades de Moelle) Beef marrow. Pastry croustades. Brown sauce. Prepare the marrow as in last recipe, and after scalding allow it to become cold. Then cut it in small pieces. Have ready some small and nicely- cooked pastry croustades (see Recipe 2248), put a very little good brown sauce at the bottom of each, then some marrow and more sauce on the top. Place the croustades in the oven to become thoroughly hot, sprinkle them with a little coral- line pepper, and serve at once. 2378. Mushroom Cassolettes (Cassolettes de Champignons) Make a ragout of mushrooms as directed in Recipe 516, and fill it into small butter cases or cassolettes (see Recipe 2252). Place them in the oven to re-heat, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 2379. Mushroom Fritters (Beignets de Champignons) Mushrooms. Salt. Pepper. Chopped shallot. Salad oil. Lemon juice. Frying batter. Choose small round mushrooms, remove the stalks, peel them, and wash and dry them carefully. Then lay them on a plate, season them with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley and chopped shallots or chives, and a sprinkling of salad oil and lemon juice. Allow the mushrooms to lie with t0e seasoning about \ hour, then dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, pile up on lace-edged paper, and garnish with parsley and a little cut lemon. 2380. Mushroom Toast (Croutes aux Champignons) 3 or 4 oz. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. 1 table-sp. brown or tomato sauce. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp. cream. 6 or 7 croutes of bread. Any trimmings of mushrooms will do for this. Trim and chop them rather coarsely, put them into a small saucepan with the butter and seasoning, cover over and cook slowly about 10 minutes. Then add the sauce, which must be thick and well- flavoured, and the yolk of egg or cream. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then pile the mixture511 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES neatly on small croutes of fried bread or hot buttered toast, decorate with small sprigs of parsley and tiny pieces of cut lemon, and serve very hot. 2381. Mussels with Spinach 11 to 2 doz. mussels. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp.choppedparsley | lemon. Seasoning. A little butter. Cooked spinach. Prepare and cook the mussels as in Recipe 312, and drain them, reserving the liquor. Mix the bread-crumbs with the parsley, the grated rind of J lemon, pepper and salt. Select half a dozen of the best mussel shells, and wash and brush them without separating the halves. Brush over the insides with melted butter and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, &c. Put 3 or 4 mussels into each. Mussels with Spinach squeeze over a little lemon juice, and then cover with more bread-crumbs. Now beat up the egg with a table-spoonful of the liquor from the mussels, strain and pour a little into each shell. Put small pieces of butter on the top, place the mussels on a tin, and bake them in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Have ready some nicely-prepared spinach, pile it in the centre of a hot dish, and arrange the mussels round. - Note.—The spinach may be omitted and the mussels simply served as they are, garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 2382. Bonnes Bouches of Oysters (Bonnes Bouches aux Huitres) 6 or 8 oysters. 3 table-sps. cooked haddock. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning 6 to 8 croutes of bread. Strips of gherkin or truffle. Beard the number of oysters required. Put the beards into a saucepan with the oyster liquor, and simmer them a few minutes to extract the flavour, and then strain. Then take some cooked haddock, smoked haddock is best, and chop it finely. Add to it the butter, yolk of egg, and enough oyster liquor to moisten and make a paste. Season to taste, pound well together, and if possible rub through a sieve. Have ready some small round croutes of bread fried until brown. Put some of the mixture on each, make a little hollow in the centre, into which place an oyster. Cover with the fish mixture and smooth over with a knife. Cover the croutes with buttered paper and put them in the oven to heat. Then garnish with strips of green gherkin or truffles, and serve very hot, 2383. Little Oyster Boats (Barquettes d’Huitres) A little pastry. 1 doz. oysters. 3 table-sps. thick be- chamel sauce. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 egg- Seasoning. Roll out some scraps of plain pastry very thinly and line a dozen small boat-shaped moulds. Prick the pastry at the bottom, fine the moulds with a little paper and some rice, and bake them in the oven but not too brown. When ready, remove the little cases from the moulds. Scald the oysters in their own liquid, strain them, and cut them in 3 or 4 pieces according to size. Then make 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, rather thick, season it, and add the yolk of an egg and a good table-spoonful of grated cheese. Mix well, and then stir in half the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. Put a little of this souffle mixture into each pastry case, lay some pieces of oyster on the top, and cover with more souffle. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese, and place the little boats in the oven until the mixture is brown and risen. Serve as a small entree or hot savoury. 2384. Potted Meat Toast Take any nice potted meat, and mix it with enough cream or good sauce to make it of a softish consistency. Then spread this rather thickly on neat-shaped, pieces of crisp toast and smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese and put the toast in the oven to become thoroughly hot and brown. Serve at once, garnished with parsley or seasoned watercress. Note.—Instead of the cheese the croutes may bo sprinkled with chopped nuts or chopped pickles, or thin strips of filleted anchovy may be laid across them. 2385. Smoked Salmon a la Diable (Saumon fume a la Diable) Smoked salmon. I Croutons of toast or fried Devilled paste or butter, j bread. Prepare some round croutons of toast or fried bread and spread them with devilled paste or butter (see Recipe 763 or 764). Lay a few thin slices of smoked salmon on the top of each, and. cover with a little more of the paste or butter. Place the croutes in the oven until thoroughly hot, and then serve them at once. Note.—Devilled biscuits may be used instead of the toast or fried bread. 2386. Sardine Croutes, 1 (Croutes de Sardines) 7 or 8 sardines. £ oz. butter. 1 shallot. £ gill white sauce. 1 oz. grated Parmesan. 1 dessert-sp. white wine. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs Seasoning. 7 or 8 croutes fried bread Chop the shallot, put it into a small saucepan with the butter, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to brown. Then add the white sauce, cheese, wine, and seasoning, mix thoroughly, and turn all on to a plate to cool. Choose small smoked sardines, drain them from their oil, and trim off the tails. Prepare some finger-shaped croutes ofCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 512 fried bread ; spread them with some of the above mixture, lay a sardine on the top of each, and cover with more of the mixture. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and place the croutes in a hot oven long enough to warm through. Then serve them at once, garnished with parsley. 2387. Sardine Croutes, 2 (Croutes de Sardines) 3 or 4 sardines. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. J tea-sp. anchovy essence Seasoning Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. Prepare 6 or 7 neat little rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast. Dip the sardines in hot water, then remove the skin and bone, and chop them rather finely. (Any small broken pieces of sardine may be used for this savoury.) Put the butter and milk into a saucepan and heat them over the fire. Now add the egg without beating it, the minced sardine and seasoning, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Then draw the saucepan to one side and stir a few seconds longer. Pile a little of this mixture on each piece of toast, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and serve at once. and stir quickly over the fire until the ingredients form one smooth lump, which draws away easily from the sides, of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, allow the contents to cool slightly, and add the sardine paste (this can be bought ready). Season to taste with cayenne, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Then add the egg and beat it well into the mixture. Now put the mixture into a forcing bag, and force out small portions about the size of a walnut on a sheet of greased paper. When all are ready, slip them off with a palette knife into a saucepan of hot fat, and fry the beignets gently from 5 to 7 minutes, turning them over occasionally with a spoon. Drain and serve piled up on a dish paper as a hot savoury. 2391. Grilled Sardines (Sardines Grilles) Sardines. I Cut lemon. Flour. I Brown bread and butter. Choose small smoked sardines and drain them well from their oil. Then toss them lightly in finely sifted flour, place them on a greased grill, and grill them about 5 minutes. Serve them very hot, garnished with cut lemon, and hand thin brown bread and butter separately. 2388. Fried Sardines Sardines. I Hot buttered toast. Egg and biscuit crumbs. | Lemon and parsley. Choose large sardines, take them from their tin about an hour beforehand and let them drain, as the oil is rich and indigestible. Then egg them and toss in fine biscuit-crumbs. Make them very smooth and tidy, and then fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Have ready a finger of hot buttered toast for each sardine, and put them in the oven to become crisp. Lay a sardine on each, and garnish with thin slices of lemon and small sprigs of parsley. Note.—If preferred, the sardines may be dipped in frying batter instead of the egg and bread- crumbs, or simply tossed in flour. 2389. Sardine Fritters, 1 (Beignets de Sardines) Sardines. Chopped parsley. Chopped shallot. Cayenne pepper. Lemon juice. Frying batter. Remove the bones from the number of sardines required and cut them into neat little fillets. Sprinkle them with the above seasonings and let them lie a short time. Have ready a small quantity of frying batter (Recipe 1861), dip the prepared fillets into it, and then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain and sprinkle with coralline pepper. Serve piled up on a lace-edged paper, garnished with cut lemon. Note.—Anchovies or small fillets of herring may be prepared in the same way. 2390. Sardine Fritters, 2 (Beignets de Sardines) 1 oz. flour, \ oz. butter. | gill water. 1 egg. sardine 1 dessert-sp. paste. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. Have the flour dry and finely sifted. Put it jnto/ a small saucepan with the butter and water, 2392. Sardines a la Piedmontaise 6 or 7 small sardines. G or 8 finger-shaped croutons of bread. Sauce. 1| oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. tarragon vine- gar. 1 tea-sp. plain vinegar. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. Dip the sardines in warm water, wipe them and remove the skin. Then place them on a greased tin, cover with greased paper, and heat them in the oven. Meanwhile prepare the sauce. Put the butter and vinegars into a small saucepan with a pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and a little made mustard, and heat them over the fire. Then add the yolks of eggs well beaten, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Place the sardines on the croutons of fried bread, and put the sauce over them. Sprinkle with parsley or lobster coral and serve very hot. 2393. Sardines Rissolettes 1 table-sp. minced sar- dines. 1 table-sp. white sauce. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning Scraps of pastry. Beaten egg. Remove all skin and bone from some sardines or scraps of sardines, and mince them finely. Put the mince into a small saucepan with the white sauce, yolk of egg and seasoning, and make all hot over the fire without allowing it to boil. Then spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Now roll out some scraps of good pastry very thinly, and cut out rounds with a small fluted cutter. Brush round the edges with beaten egg, and put a small spoonful of the mixture in the middle. Fold over and press the edges together. Place these little crescent-shaped rissolettes on a greased tin, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. Notes.—These rissolettes may be fried in boiling fat instead of being baked. A few chopped mush- rooms may be added.HORS-D’(EUVRE AND SAVOURIES 513 2394. Shrimp Croustades (Croustades de Crevettes) 1 gill picked shrimps. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice 1 tea-sp. shrimp essence. Cayenne pepper. A pinch of salt. Croustades of bread. Chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Make some small croustades of bread as directed in Recipe 2246, and fry them to a pretty brown colour. Heat the shrimps in a small saucepan Croustades of Shrimps with the white'sauce, add the cream and seasoning, and heat again. Fill up the cases with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Sprinkle them with finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper, arrange 2 or 3 shrimps on the top, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 2395. Devilled Shrimps (Crevettes a la Diable) Chopped parsley. Lemon. Brown bread and butter. Shrimps. A little flour. Cayenne. Pick the required number of shrimps, and coat them very lightly with flour. Put them into a frying basket, and fry them in boding fat until a golden brown colour. Drain them well and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and cayenne pepper. Serve pded up on a dish paper, and garnish with small pieces of cut lemon. Thin brown bread and butter should be handed separately. 2396. Croustades of Tongue 3 table-sps. cooked tongue. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs 1 table-sp. cream or sauce. 2397. Tongue Ramakins 4 or 5 oz. cooked tongue 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. I made mus- light and frothy, then add the tongue finely chopped and the shallot, and mix all together. Grease some china or paper ramakin cases, three parts fill them with the mixture, stand them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven untd set. Have ready the re- maining white of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pile a little on the top of each ramakin, sprinkle a little coralline pepper over, and return them to a cooler oven until the white is set and lightly browned. Serve hot, garnished with a little parsley. 2398. Woodcock Toast £ lb. poultry or game livers. 1 or 2 anchovies. \ oz. butter. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper. Salt. Pickles. Hot buttered toast. Wash the livers (uncooked) carefully, removing the gall and any green parts ; drain them and dry them in a cloth. Then pound them in a mortar with the anchovies (boned and filleted) and butter, until a smooth paste is formed. If time permits, the mixture may be rubbed through a sieve. Then add to it the yolk of egg and cream, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Put the mixture into a small saucepan, and heat it very gently over the fire without allowing it to boil. Arrange it neatly on small rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast, and decorate with small pieces of pickled walnut and strips of red chilli or other decoration to taste. Serve very hot. 2399. Biscuits & la Diable ham. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers 1 table-sp. brown sauce. Grated Parmesan. Cayenne pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. 5 or 6 small croustades of bread. 7 or 8 small water bis- cuits. Butter. Seasoning. 1 or 2 table-sps. cooked Butter the biscuits, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and toast them in the oven, or put them under the grill for a few minutes. Chop the ham finely, heat it in a saucepan with enough thick brown sauce to bind it together, add the chopped capers and chutney, and season highly to taste. Spread some of this mixture on each biscuit, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and place them under the grill or in a hot oven for a minute. 2400. Biscuits a, la St. Clair Mince the tongue very finely, and pound it until smooth with the bread-crumbs and enough thick cream or tasty sauce to moisten it. Season to taste with cayenne pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if time permits, rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Then heat it in a small saucepan and pile it up in small croustades of bread or in little bouch^es of pastry. Garnish with strips of green gherkin and a little chopped white of egg or parsley. Serve hot. Cheese biscuits. Butter. Made mustard. Cheddar cheese. Bacon. tea-sp. tard. £ tea-sp.chopped shallot Coralline pepper. Put 2 yolks and 1 white of egg into a basin with the mustard and milk or cream. Beat them until Take some water or other plain biscuits and spread them with butter and a little made mustard. Then sprinkle them liberally with grated cheese and put them in the oven to brown. Prepare some little rolls of bacon (Recipe 1646), and either grill them or cook them in the oven. Place a roll of bacon on the top of each biscuit and serve very hot. 2401. Croutes a I’lndienne Rounds of bread. Chopped pickles. Clarified butter. Curry powder. Grated Parmesan. Worcester sauce. Cooked chicken and ham Cut some thin rounds of white bread, dip them in clarified butter and then in grated Parmesan. Chop some cooked chicken and ham very finely, 2 KCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 514 mix it with some chopped pickles, curry powder, and a little Worcester sauce. Put some of this mixture between two rounds of bread, and brown in the oven. 2402. Croutes a la Marguerite 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 table-sp. white sauce or cream. | tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Seasoning. 6 anchovy fillets. 6 fried bread croutes. Cut a hard-boiled egg in slices about J of an inch in thickness, remove the yolk, take half a dozen of the best white rings and trim them neatly. Now take all the yolk and other scraps of egg and pound them with the white sauce or cream, using enough to make a softish paste. Season with the anchovy essence, pepper and salt, and rub all through a sieve. Spread some of this mixture on small round croutes of fried bread or hot buttered toast, and lay a ring of white of egg on the top. Now take small fillets of anchovy, curl them round, and put one in the centre of each croute. Cover the anchovy with more of the egg mixture, lay a piece of greased paper on the top, and heat through in the oven. Serve hot, garnished with small sprigs of parsley. PART III SOME MORE SUBSTANTIAL SAVOURIES 2403. African Baked Beans | lb. haricot beans. I 1 table-sp. golden syrup. 2 or 3 oz. bacon. | Salt. Pepper. Cook the beans until they are quite tender (see Recipe 613), and have the bacon cut in small thin slices. Take a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, and arrange in it the beans and bacon in layers, seasoning them with pepper, and keeping a layer of bacon for the top. Pour the syrup over, place on the last layer of bacon, stand a few minutes, and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—Either cooked or uncooked bacon may be used, but the latter is best. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. 2404. Bacon and Greens 1 lb. cooked greens. Some rashers of bacon. Any cooked greens may be used, such as cabbage, turnip tops, Brussels sprouts, spinach, &c., but any water or liquid must be well drained from them. Chop them finely, removing any hard pieces of stalk, and season with pepper and a very small quantity of salt, if necessary, always bearing in mind that the bacon is salt. Now prepare and fry some rashers of bacon ; rather under- than over-cook them, and keep them warm. Then fry the greens in the fat left from the bacon, and, when very hot, press them quickly into a greased basin so as to take the form. Unmould on a hot dish, and arrange the rashers of bacon round. 2405. Bloater Fillets on Toast 1 or 2 bloaters. I Parmesan cheese. Butter. Pepper. | Toast. Chopped parsley. Bone one or two bloaters carefully and cut them in neat and small fillets. Lay these fillets on a plate with some melted butter, season them with pepper, and let them he for a few minutes. Mean- while prepare some hot buttered toast, cutting it in finger-shaped pieces and sprinkling them with grated cheese. Keep these warm in the oven, grill the fillets of bloater until thoroughly cooked, and then lay one or two on the top of each piece of toast Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley or more grated cheese, and serve very hot. 2406. Cabbage Rolls 1 cabbage. | lb. cooked meat. 2 or 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. sauce. Seasoning. 4 egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A little butter. I pt. stock. Choose some nice tender leaves from the inside of the cabbage. Wash them and scald them in boding salted water a minute or two. Then drain them, and spread them out on a cloth to dry. Mince the meat, mix it with the bread-crumbs, and season to taste. Moisten with 1 dessert-spoonful of good brown or tomato sauce and about \ a beaten egg or 1 yolk of egg. Put some of this stuffing on each leaf of cabbage and make up in little rolls. Tie with string, and coat lightly with flour. Melt a small quantity of butter in a stewpan when smoking hot, put in the cabbage rolls and brown them slightly on all sides. Then pour in the stock, put the lid on the pan, and cook in the oven or the top of the stove until tender. When ready, arrango the cabbage rolls neatly on a hot dish, removing the strings, and pour the gravy over. Note.—If liked, a little grated cheese may be added to the stuffing. 2407. Cheese Custard 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. \ tea-sp. mustard. 3 oz. Cheddar or Gruyere cheese. Cayenne pepper and salt. Beat up the eggs with the mustard, pepper and salt. Heat the milk and pour it on to them. Add the cheese and pour all into a greased pie dish, sprinkle a little more cheese over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for \ hour. Serve hot with plain biscuits. 2408. Cheese Fondue (Fondue au Fromage) 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 1J oz. bread-crumbs. A little made mustard. 1 gill of milk. 2 eggs. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of cayenne. Put the bread-crumbs and butter into a basin, boil the milk, and pour it over them. Add the cheese (keeping back about 1 dessert-spoonful), yolks of eggs, and seasonings, and mix well. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix themHORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 515 in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and bake in a good oven about 20 minutes, or until nfcely browned and well risen. 2409. Cheese Sandwiches (Hot) Bread and butter. Grated cheese. Seasoning. 1 egg. | tea-cupful milk. Clarified fat or butter. Spread four or six slices of bread with butter, mixing a little mustard or cayenne with the butter before using it. Trim the crusts off the bread, and then sprinkle the slices with as much grated cheese as the butter will take up. Press the cheese well on to the butter, place two slices together, and then cut in convenient-sized pieces. Beat up the egg on a plate, and mix it with the milk and a little salt. Dip the sandwiches into this and let them soak for a minute or two, then fry them in a small quantity of hot clarified fat or butter, browning them on both sides. Serve hot, sprinkled with a little grated cheese. 2410. Cheese Toast with Bacon 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour, lto 1£ gills milk. /Zio 4 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Rolls of bacon. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook these two together for a minute or two. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in 1 gill of milk. Stir until boiling and cook Cheese Toast with Bacon 2 or 3 minutes longer. Now add the cheese and seasoning with cayenne, a little mustard, and salt if necessary. Allow the cheese to melt, but not boil, and if too thick add more milk. Spread this mixture on neat pieces of hot buttered toast, and lay some rolls of bacon (see Recipe 1646) on the top. Serve very hot. 2411. Cheese and Tomato Rarebit I lb. Cheddar cheese. 1 gill tomato puree. 2 table-sps. bread- ' crumbs. A pinch of cayenne. \ tea-sp. made mustard. 2 slices hot buttered toast. Grate or shred the cheese finely, and put it into a saucepan with a pinch of cayenne and the mustard. Add the bread-crumbs and 1 gill of fresh or tinned tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve. Stir over the fire until hot and smooth, but do not let the mixture boil. Cut the toast in pieces, arrange them on a hot dish and porn) the cheese and tomato mixture over. 2412. Cucumber and Nut Croquettes 3table-sps. bread-crumbs 1 or 2 table-sps. white or tomato sauce. J tea-sp. mixed herbs. Seasoning. 1 cucumber. A little flour. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Stuffing. 2 table-sps. nuts. Peel the cucumber and cut it in pieces about 1 inch thick. With a small round cutter stamp out all the seedy part from the centre, leaving rings of cucumber. Place these in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, add a little salt and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, and boil for 10 minutes. Then drain, rinse in cold water, and let the rings of cucumber he in the folds of a towel until they are thoroughly dry. To Prepare the Stuffing.—Use pine nuts, walnuts, or Barcelona nuts, or a mixture of nuts, and chop or grind sufficient to make 2 table-spoonfuls. Mix these in a basin with the bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little very finely powdered mixed herbs. Then bind together with white, tomato, or any tasty sauce, but be careful not to make the stuffing too moist. Fill up the hole in the centre of the cucumber ring with the stuffing, coat the pieces lightly with flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Serve with tomato sauce as a vegetable entree. 2413. Egg and Ham Kromeskies 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Grated lemon rind and juice. Seasoning. A little flour. Bacon. Frying batter. Warm the sauce, which must be thick and good, in a small saucepan and add to it the eggs and ham, both finely chopped. Add also the chopped parsley, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix well and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Then form it into small cork-shaped rolls, using a little flour to pre- vent it from sticking to the board and knife. Cut some small and very thin slices of bacon, wrap the egg rolls in these, then dip them in frying batter, and fry in boiling fat. 2414. Gniocchl I lb. semolina. | pt. milk. | pt. water or 'white stock. Butter. Grated cheese. Salt. Pepper. 1 egg. White bread-crumbs. Put the milk and stock or water into a saucepan, and bring them to the boil. Sprinkle in the semolina like rain, and stir a few minutes until smooth and thick. Then add half the butter, and cook a few minutes longer, stirring all the time. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the egg well beaten and half the cheese (Gruyere or Parmesan is the best). Season to taste with pepper and salt, and spread the mixture on a greased plate, and let it stand until cold. Now cut it into squares, or form it into quenelle-shaped pieces with a spoon, and arrange these in a greased and fireproof dish, sprinkling them with moreCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 516 cheese, and laying on some small pieces of butter. Then coat the top with bread-crumbs and cheese mixed, also some more butter, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve very hot. Note.—Sometimes a cupful of white or tomato sauce is poured over the gniocchi before the coating of bread-crumbs is put on. 2415. Golden Buck Make in the same way as Welsh Rarebit (Recipe 2440), and serve with one or two poached eggs on the top. Golden Buck 2416. Ham and Eggs with Tomatoes 4 or 5 eggs. 4 or 5 slices of ham. Salad oil. 2 or 3 tomatoes. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. A pinch of thyme. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. First prepare the tomatoes. Peel them care- fully, cut them in two, squeeze out the seeds and watery part from the centre, and then cut the tomatoes themselves in rough pieces. Heat a dessert-spoonful salad oil or butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it slowly a few minutes, then add the prepared tomato, Ser, salt, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Cook reduced to a soft thick pulp, and add the chopped parsley at the last. Fry the eggs in salad oil until nicely browned, being careful to keep them of a uniform and compact shape. Lift them out of the pan as they are cooked and keep them warm. Have ready an equal number of thin slices of ham, and fry them lightly after the eggs. To Serve.—Arrange the ham and eggs alternately round a dish and put the tomato pulp in the centre. Note.—A little chopped pickle may be added to the tomato mixture if liked. 2417. Haricot Beans and Bacoa | lb. haricot beans. | Seasoning. \ lb. sliced bacon. ( Chopped parsley. Wash and soak the beans and cook them until tender, according to directions given in Recipe 613. When ready, drain as dry as possible. Cut the bacon in convenient-sized slices, fry it, and keep it hot. Then toss the beans in the bacon fat, season them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Pile up the beans on a hot dish, and arrange the bacon round. 2418. Hominy Fritters Cooked hominy. I Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Take some cooked hominy or hominy porridge (see Recipe 1643), spread it out on a dish or baking tin, and let it stand until cold. Then cut it in rounds or finger-shaped pieces, coat these lightly with flour, then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well and serve hot, piled up on a dish paper. These fritters may be made either sweet or savoury. If the former are wished, sweeten the hominy suffi- ciently, and add a little spice or flavouring before spreading it out to cool. Then sprinkle the fritters with sugar after frying. Jam or stewed fruit may be served separately. For savoury fritters, season the hominy well with pepper and salt and add a little grated cheese if wished. A little brown or tomato sauce may be served separately. 2419. Croustades of Kidney Make six pastry cases as directed in Recipe 2248, and, when baked, fill them with the same kidney mixture as for Kidney Toast (Recipe 1689). Sprinkle then with a little finely-chopped parsley or coralline pepper. 2420. Liver and Mushroom Toast J lb. calf’s liver, f- doz. mushrooms. 1 egg. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. gravy or cream. \ doz. round croutons of bread. Chopped parsley. Prepare the mushrooms and chop them roughly. Wash and dry the liver, and cut it in tiny dice. Then fry them in the butter until sufficiently cooked. Season rather highly with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Beat up the egg with the gravy or cream, pour into the saucepan, and mix all together quickly until the egg begins to thicken. Arrange this mixture neatly on rounds of fried bread, or hot buttered toast, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and re-heat in the oven for a minute or two. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. 2421. Marrow Bones Scrape and wash some marrow bones very clean and saw them in halves, or ask the butcher to do this for you. Half a marrow bone should be allowed for each person. Make a stiffish paste of flour and water, and roll it out on a floured board. Lay a piece of this paste over the ends of the bones in order to seal up the marrow, and then tie each bone in a small pudding cloth. Stand them upright in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and simmer slowly about 2 hours. The saucepan must be filled up with more boiling water if wanted. When readv, remove the cloth and the paste, and wipe the bones. Fasten a small serviette round each bone, and serve them upright on a hot dish. Neat pieces of crisp toast should be served separately, and a marrow fork or spoon should be put down to each person.HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 517 2422. Mealy Puddings 1 lb. oatmeal. I Salt. Pepper. | lb. beef suet. 2 onions. | Long pudding skins. Prepare the pudding skins as directed in Recipe 998, washing them well and letting them lie in cold water overnight. Choose either medium or coarse oatmeal, put it on a tin in the oven and toast it to a light brown colour, turning it over now and again that it may colour equally. Chop the suet finely, using a very little flour if necessary, and skin, scald, and chop the onions finely. Now mix the oatmeal, onions, and suet together, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Tie one end of the pudding skin and put in enough of the mixture to make a fair-sized sausage, then tie again, leaving room for the mixture to swell in the cooking. Proceed to make more sausages in the same way, tying them at both ends so that they can be cut separate afterwards. When all are ready, prick them well with a needle to prevent the skins bursting, put them into a saucepan of slowly boiling water, and let them simmer for \ hour. When the puddings are re- quired, toast them a few minutes in front of the fire or in the oven. 2423. Savoury Pancakes Very nice savoury pancakes can be made by following the directions given for the ordinary sweet pancake (Recipe 1889), and adding to the batter a seasoning of pepper and more salt, also a little finely-chopped parsley and chopped shallot, or a small quantity of powdered herbs. Or, if pre- ferred, grated cheese, minced mushrooms, or finely-chopped ham or tongue may be added to the batter. These pancakes can afterwards be rolled up and served as they are, or a little filling, such as is used for the various omelets, may be put into them previous to rolling up. Or again, the pancakes may be left flat, and piled up one on the top of the other with a savoury mixture or puree between each; and some gravy or sauce may be poured round. 2424. Herb Pancake 2 oz. flour. 2 eggs. i pt. milk. Grated lemon rind. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot or onion. | tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Lard to fry. Make a smooth batter with the flour, milk, and eggs, and beat it well. Then add to it a little grated lemon rind and the other seasonings, and mix well together. Allow the batter to stand at least \ hour, and then fry in thin pancakes, brown- ing them on both sides. Roll the pancakes up as they are ready, and serve them very hot. 2425. Mushroom Pancakes 3 or 4 mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 2 shallots. | tea-sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Batter. J lb. flour. \ pt. milk. 2 eggs. Salt. _ First make the batter according to directions given for pancakes (see p. 422), and allow it to stand while the mixture is prepared. To Make the Mixture.—Chop the mushrooms and shallots and cook them 5 minutes in the butter, seasoning with pepper, salt, and the herbs very finely powdered. Make a thin ordinary pancake, and, before the batter sets, put a small spoonful of the mixture on the top. Shake the pan a little so as to spread the mixture over the pancake; then, when brown on the under side, toss over and brown on the other. Make the rest of the pancakes in the same way, and serve them flat, one on the top of the other. If large they may be cut in two or four pieces. They must be served very hot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 pancakes. 2426. Surprise Onions 3 Spanish onions. 3 sheep’s kidneys. 2 oz. butter. Itable-sp.bread-crumbs Pepper. Salt. 1 gill brown gravy. Peel the onions and scald them in boiling salted water for a few minutes. Then cut off the tops and remove the centre part from each. Skin the kidneys, season them with pepper and salt, and place one inside each onion. Sprinkle the bread- crumbs over, and put some of the butter in small Eieces on tbe top. Melt the remainder of the utter in a baking tin or dish, place the stuffed onions on it, and bake in a moderate oven from 1| to 2 hours, basting frequently with the butter. When ready, lift the onions on to a hot dish and pour a little brown gravy round. 2427. Potato and Cheese Balls 4 potatoes. J lb. grated cheese. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. A little flour. A little butter. Choose large potatoes and bake them in the oven. When ready, scoop out the pulp and rub it through a sieve. Mix it in a basin with most of the cheese and seasoning, and then bind together with the yolks of eggs. Form this mixture into balls and roll them lightly in flour. Melt some butter in a frying pan; when smoking hot, put in the balls and fry them to a pretty brown colour. Drain, serve them with a dish paper under them, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over. 2428. Potato and Cheese Mould | lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 table-sp.milk or cream 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A few browned bread- crumbs. Pepper. Salt. Sieve the potatoes, and add to them the butter melted, the yolks of eggs, cheese, seasoning, and the milk or cream. Mix well together. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly to the other mixture. Grease a plain mould or basin, and line it with browned bread-crumbs. Three parts fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven about 30 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once. 2429. Potato and Sausage Croquettes Mashed potatoes. I A little flour. Cooked sausages. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare some mashed potatoes the same as for Potato Balls (Recipe 542). Remove the skins518 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD from some cooked sausages and cut them in halves or quarters according to size. Cover these pieces with the potato mixture, forming them into neat little rolls with a little flour. Then egg and bread- crumb the rolls, and fry them in boiling fat, or bake them in a quick oven until nicely browned. Serve garnished with parsley. 2430. Potato and Tomato Savoury 1 lb. boiled or steamed potatoes. 1 tea-cupful white sauce 1 tea-cupful tomato puree. 1 lb. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Waxy potatoes are best for this dish ; in any case they should not be overcooked. Cut them in slices, and season them with pepper and salt. The tomato pur4e may be made either from tinned or from cooked fresh tomatoes by rubbing some through a fine wire sieve. Keep the puree as thick as possible; do not use too much of the liquid from the tomatoes. Add this puree to a cupful of good white sauce, and heat them together over the fire. Then grease a pie dish or deep fireproof dish, and put a layer of the sliced potato at the bottom of it. Sprinkle this with grated cheese, and pour some of the sauce over. Then put in more potatoes and repeat until all is in. The last layer should be sauce. Cover with bread-crumbs, and put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. 2431. Sausage and Leeks 6 or 7 large leeks. f 3 gills stock. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. flour. ' 1 lb. liver sausage. Prepare and wash the leeks (see Recipe 505), and cut them in short lengths. Throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil for 5 minutes and drain. Then return the leeks to the saucepan with the butter and seasoning, and shake over the fire a few minutes. Mix in the flour and then the stock, and stir until boiling. Now add the liver sausage, which can be bought in any German ware- house, put the lid on the pan, and stew all slowly by the side of the fire. To serve, arrange the leeks neatly in the centre of a hot dish, and garnish with the sausage cut in slices. Time to cook, £ to | hour. 2432. Sausage Toast Cooked sausages. Brown or tomato sauce. Toast Take the remains of any cooked sausages, remove the skin, and cut them in slices. Put into a sauce- pan or frying pan enough brown, tomato, or other good savoury sauce to moisten the pieces of sausage. When thoroughly hot, put in the sausage, allow it to simmer a few minutes, add more seasoning if necessary, and then serve neatly on well-made toast cut in fingers. A little chopped parsley may be sprinkled on the top. 2433. Semolina Cakes 3 oz. semolina. 1 pt. milk or broth. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. £ tea-sp. made mustard. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Use either milk or some light stock or broth, or half of each may be taken. Put it into a saucepan with the butter, and bring it to the boil. Sprinkle in the semolina and let it cook until it swells and thickens, about 15 minutes. Stir the mixture occasionally and, when soft and thick, remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the grated cheese and seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate and let it cool. Then form it into small round cakes, using a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb these, and then fry them in boiling fat until a golden brown. Drain, and serve piled up on a hot dish and garnished with parsley. 2434. Sheep’s Tongues au Gratin 2 cooked sheep’s tongues J pt. white sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 slices hot buttered toast. The tongues must be well cooked and tender. Remove all skin and gristle from them, and cut them into tiny dice. Have ready J pint of good white sauce, heat the pieces of tongue in it, add the yolks of egg, seasoning, and most of the cheese, and make all thoroughly hot. Cut the toast in neat pieces, put some of the mixture on each, sprinkle with the remaining cheese, and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill. Serve at once, garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2435. Swiss Fondue 4 eggs. 2 oz. Gruyere cheese. 1 oz. butter. A little made mustard. Plain biscuits or thin toast. Pepper and salt. Beat the eggs in a saucepan, add the cheese grated and the butter. Season highly, and stir over the fire until the mixture is soft and creamy. Serve very hot on toasted biscuits, or fingers of thin toast. Note.—White wine should be served with this savoury. 2436. Tomato Rarebit 1 gill tomato pur6e. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. grated cheese. Pepper. Salt. \ tea-sp. made mustard. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A pinch carbonate of soda. Hot buttered toast. A little chopped parsley. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, then pour on the milk, and stir until boiling. Now add the tomato puree, which has been made by rubbing some tinned or fresh tomatoes through a fine sieve. Add also the grated cheese, seasonings and soda, and mix all together. Lastly, add the519 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES egg, well beaten, yolk and white together, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, but without allowing the mixture to boil again. Have ready some neat pieces of hot buttered toast, pour the tomato and cheese mixture over them, sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 2437. Tomatoes & la Rggence 2 large tomatoes. 4 small rounds of hot buttered toast. 2 eggs. £ oz. butter. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. Seasoning. Chopped parsley. Choose large, firm tomatoes as round in shape as possible. Wipe them, remove the stalk, and cut them in two crosswise, i.e. from side to side. Squeeze out the soft watery part from the inside, place them on a greased tin, season with pepper and salt, and bak& in a moderate oven until tender, but not broken. Scramble the eggs with the butter, cream, and seasoning as directed in Recipe 1325, and put a little into each half tomato, piling it rather high. Place them on neat rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 2438. Tomatoes with Rice 6 tomatoes. 2 table-sps. cooked rice. 2 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. mayonnaise sauce. Seasoning. Gherkin. Choose firm, ripe, and medium-sized tomatoes, cut off the top of each, and scoop out some of the Tomatoes with Rice inside without breaking them. Season with pepper and salt, and turn them upside down to drain. The rice should be boiled dry as for curry, mix with it the chopped ham, moisten with some of the mayonnaise sauce and add more seasoning if neces- sary. Put some of this mixture into each tomato, smooth over, coat with a little more sauce, and finish with a small round of gherkin or other green pickle on the top. Serve very cold, garnished with a little parsley or green salad. 2439. Scotch Woodcock 2 slices hot buttered toast. Anchovy butter. Sauce. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 or 4 table-sps. cream. 1 tea-sp.choppedparsley Seasoning. Make two good slices of toast, butter them hot, and trim off the crusts. Spread one piece thickly with anchovy butter (Recipe 760), lay the other piece on the top, and press lightly together. Then cut them in neat square pieces or small fingers, arrange them neatly on a dish, and keep them warm. To Make the Sauce.—Put all the ingredients into a basin, and season them to taste. Stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and stir over the fire until the sauce thickens. Pour over the toast, and serve very hot. 2440. Welsh Rarebit £ lb. Cheddar cheese. 2 table-sps. milk or beer. A pinch of cayenne. £ tea-sp. made mustard. A little butter. 1 or 2 slices hot buttered toast. Grate the cheese or shred it finely. Place it in a saucepan with the milk or beer and seasonings, and stir over the fire until the mixture is perfectly smooth and beginning to thicken. Butter the toast, cut it into neat pieces, place it on a hot dish, and pour the cheese mixture over it. Everything must be very hot, and it must be served at once, because the cheese quickly hardens. Notes.—One or two yolks of eggs are sometimes added just before serving. The egg makes it richer, and prevents the cheese hardening so quickly. Any rich cheese may be used, but it must be mild in flavour.SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET The word “ sandwich” is supposed to have originated with John Montague, 4th Earl of Sandwich, who, to avoid being interrupted by meals, used to have slices of bread and butter, with meat between, brought to him at his gaming table. The term has now a much wider meaning than formerly; it includes not only the plain sandwich, consisting of slices of meat placed between two pieces of buttered bread, cut in varying degrees of thick- ness, but also many dainty trifles suitable for afternoon teas and other light refreshments. The variety of these little sandwiches is endless, and the following hints and recipes are merely sug- gestive. Clever fingers and a little ingenuity will soon invent many others. SOME PRELIMINARIES Sandwiches may be made of white or brown bread, small rolls, various kinds of biscuits, toast or pastry, filled with meat, salad, eggs, fish, flavoured butter, nuts, &c., and made up in a variety of ways. There are also the sweet sand- wiches, which can be filled with fresh fruit, pre- served fruit, jam, honey, cream, &c. When Bread is used, it should be a day old and fine in texture. New bread that is full of holes and crumbly does not cut well. A square sand- wich loaf is best for white bread, and Hovis, Bermaline, or other fine makes for brown. If Rolls are preferred they must be quite fresh and small, and with a soft crust. The little finger-shaped ones are neatest, and are very easy to arrange. There are many kinds of plain Biscuits which can be utilised for making sandwiches, and they make a nice change from the usual bread-and- butter species. The plain water, milk, wheaten, and Parmesan are all suitable; in fact, any kind which is unsweetened and not too crumbly. Toast, when it is used for this purpose, must be thin, well made, and not too crisp. Slices of pastry can also be employed, and are especially suitable for evening refreshments. Any good pastry may be cut in strips or rounds, baked in the oven and allowed to cool, then split open to receive the sandwich mixture. The Butter used for sandwiches must be very good, and of a consistency that will spread easily on the bread without crumbling it to pieces. If hard, it should be creamed first, or worked on a plate with a knife until it is soft enough to use. The knife may be dipped in boiling water occa- sionally, so as to make the butter less hard. Instead of plain butter one of the savoury butters given on pp. 193-4 may be used. The bread should be buttered first, and then cut. The Meat used must be free from all skin, gristle, and a superabundance of fat. In most cases it is better to mince the meat and mix it with its special seasonings before placing it on the bread, unless a more substantial sandwich is wanted for travellers or sportsmen, when it can be sliced. Fish too is better either chopped or pounded to a paste, and Salads should be cut in small pieces. As will be seen in the following recipes, a little well-flavoured sauce or a little cream is sometimes mixed with the meat or fish, especially when it is dry, in order to bind all together. The various kinds of potted meat now on the market are all most useful for sandwich-making, and these can either be combined with the butter, or put on as a separate layer. Sandwiches may be cut in various shapes— square, triangular, oblong, or diamond, while different fancy shapes may be stamped out with a cutter, although the latter method is apt to be wasteful unless the scraps can be otherwise used up. Very dainty little sandwiches can also be made by spreading a tasty mixture on thin bread and then rolling it up, instead of putting a second piece of bread on the top. The thickness and size of the sandwiches will depend upon the purpose for which they are to be used. For afternoon tea they must be cut very thin, and nothing of a substantial nature must be offered, as it would take away the appetite for dinner which follows so shortly after. For evening refreshments they may be made more substantia], and still more so if they are to serve as a substitute for meat. Neatness and exactitude in the cutting are very necessary to the appearance of the sand- wiches, and the filling used should be just moist enough to spread easily. If made too moist, they will be difficult to handle. Sandwiches should be served on a pretty serviette or lace-edged paper, and may be decorated with a little parsley, small cress, tomato, &c., according to their kind. When several different kinds of sandwiches are served at receptions, the different dishes should bear a ticket or label with the name. Little tickets in the form of a flag can be bought for the purpose. If bread sandwiches have to be kept for any length of time, they should be wrapped in a piece of damp muslin and placed in a tin box in a cool place. When required for travelling, they should be wrapped in a thin piece of damp muslin and then in grease-proof paper.SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET 521 PART I SAVOURY SANDWICHES 2441. Anchovy Sandwiches 1 tea-sp. anchovy paste. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Brown or white bread and butter. Chop the egg, mix it with the anchovy paste and butter, and rub all through a fine sieve. Mix well and season to taste. Spread some of this mixture between thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Trim, and cut into small neat shapes. If any of the anchovy mixture is left over, it may be put into a forcing bag with a small rose pipe and a very little forced out on the top of each sand- wich. Serve garnished with parsley or small cress. Note.—Small milk biscuits may be used instead of the bread and butter. 2442. Beef Sandwiches Cold roast beef. ; A little chutney. White bread and butter. Cress, cucumber, or to- Made mustard. j mato. Cut the beef in small pieces, trimming off all skin and superfluous fat. Mix some butter with a little made mustard, and chutney cut in small pieces, adding extra salt if necessary. Spread some slices of white bread with this savoury butter, and lay thinly-sliced beef on half the number of slices. Put some thinly-sliced cucumber, or tomato, or some watercress leaves on the top, and cover with more bread. Press well together, and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Serve garnished with small sprigs of watercress. Note.—A little grated horse radish may be mixed with the butter, instead of the chutney. 2443. Minced Beef Sandwiches 3 or 4 table-sps.cold beef 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Salt. Pepper. A little made mustard. 1 dessert-sp. brown or tomato sauce. White bread and butter. Mince the meat finely, add to it the pickles and seasoning, and moisten with a little thick and well-flavoured sauce. Put a layer of this between slices of bread and butter, trim and cut into shapes. Note.—Different kinds of meat may be used in the same way, varying the flavouring accord- ing to the kind of meat used. Or, two different kinds of meat may be used together, such as ham and chicken, veal and tongue, &c. Mayonnaise, tomato, brown, curry, or any savoury sauce can be used to moisten the mixture. 2444. Spiced Beef Sandwiches Spiced beef. | White bread. Curry powder. Butter. | Seasoning. Flavour the butter with curry powder, and season with mustard and cayenne pepper, working all together on a plate. Spread slices of white bread with the mixture, and put small thin slices of spiced beef between each two. Trim and cut in shape. 2445. Bloater Sandwiches Cooked bloater. Cayenne. Lemon juice. Cream or white sauce. Bread and butter. Watercress. Remove all skin and bones from some cooked bloater, and chop it finely. Then pound it in a mortar or basin, adding enough white sauce, cream, or melted butter to make a paste. Season with cayenne, lemon juice, salt if necessary, and, if liked, a little anchovy essence. Spread this mixture between slices of brown or white bread and butter, enclosing with it a few carefully picked leaves of watercress. Trim neatly, cut into shapes, and serve garnished with sprigs of watercress. 2446. Caviar Sandwiches Russian caviar. I Butter. Lemon juice. Brown bread. I Cayenne. Prepare some thin slices of brown bread and butter. Sprinkle some caviar with a few drops of lemon juice, and add a good pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread a layer of caviar between two slices of the bread, press lightly together, trim, and cut into shapes. Serve garnished with little bunches of small cress and very thinly-sliced lemon. Note.—A little very thinly-sliced cucumber may be added to these sandwiches if liked. 2447. Cheese Sandwiches Cheese. I Seasoning. Butter. 1 Plain biscuits. 1,«Z Method.—Season butter with cayenne pepper and mustard, and spread it on some plain biscuits. Put a thin slice of Gruyere, Cheddar, or Dutch cheese on the top, and cover with another biscuit. 2nd Method.-—Season the butter as above, and mix into it an equal quantity of grated cheese, and spread a layer of this between two biscuits. A little thick cream may be added to the mixture. Notes.—Almost any kind of cheese may be used for making sandwiches, and the various kinds of cream cheeses are also very suitable. It is a nice way of using up small remains. A little salad may be served with these sandwiches. Bread and butter may be used instead of the biscuits.' Cheese sandwiches are a very good accompaniment to a green salad.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 522 2448. Cheese and Egg Sandwiches Brown or rye bread. 1 hard-boiled egg. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 2 table - sps. melted butter. Cayenne pepper. Salt. | tea-sp. lemon juice. Chop the hard-boiled egg and pound it with the grated cheese, melted butter, and seasoning. Spread a thickish layer of this mixture between two slices of brown or rye bread. Press together, trim and cut into shape. 2454. Curry Sandwiches, 2 1 hard-boiled egg. £ tea-sp. curry powder. | tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. cream. \ tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Cayenne pepper. Brown bread and butter. Chop the hard-boiled egg, and pound it with the cream and seasoning. Spread thus mixture rather thickly between slices of brown bread and butter. Press lightly together, trim, and cut into shape. 2449. Chicken and Celery Sandwiches Cooked chicken. Celery. ( cream. Mayonnaise sauce or | Bread and butter. Take equal quantities of tender chicken and the heart of celery, and chop them together. Moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce or thick cream, and season to taste. Spread between bread and butter or small sandwich rolls. 2450. Cod’s Roe Sandwiches 2 table-sps. cooked cod’s roe. 1 dessert-sp. white sauce or cream. Cayenne. Salt. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. A squeeze of lemon juice White or brown bread and butter. Remove all skin and fibre from the roe, put it into a basin, and break it up with a fork. Season with cayenne, salt, anchovy, or shrimp essence, and a few drops of lemon juice, and moisten with a little white sauce or cream. Spread this mixture between thin slices of bread and butter, or put it into small buttered rolls. Garnish the sandwiches with parsley or small cress. 2455. Egg and Cress Sandwiches 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 table-sp. white sauce, cream, or melted butter. Seasoning. Watercress or small cress. Brown or white bread and butter. Chop the eggs, season them with pepper, salt, and if liked a little anchovy or shrimp essence or tomato ketchup. Mix well together and moisten with white sauce, cream, or melted butter. Wash and pick some cress carefully, dry it well, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle lightly with a few drops of salad oil and lemon juice. Cut some thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Spread half of them with the egg mixture, put a little prepared cress on the top, and cover with the remainder of the bread. Press together, trim and cut into shape. Serve garnished with water- cress or mustard and cress. 2456. Egg and Cucumber Sandwiches Make in the same way as Egg and Cress Sand- wiches (see above), using thinly-sliced cucumber instead of the cress. 2451. Crab Sandwiches Make in the same way as Lobster Sandwiches (see below). 2452. Cucumber and Cheese Sandwiches Cream cheese. Made mustard. Cucumber. Butter. Brown or white bread. Spread some slices of brown or white bread and butter, mixing the butter first with a little made mustard. Then spread half the bread with cream cheese, and put a layer of thinly-sliced cucumber on the top. Cover with the remaining pieces of bread, and press well together. Then trim and cut into neat pieces. Serve garnished with parsley or watercress. 2453. Curry Sandwiches, 1 Remains of meat curry. White bread and butter. Take the remains of some curried meat, chicken, or veal, &c., and put it through a mincing machine. Then mix it with enough of the curry sauce to make it sufficiently moist. Spread this mixture between thin slices of bread and butter. Trim and cut into pretty shapes. Serve garnished with parsley. 2457. Egg and Shrimp Sandwiches 2 hard-boiled eggs. A few picked shrimps. 1 oz. butter, or 1 table-sp. cream. Cayenne pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. Small rolls. Chop the eggs, and add the shrimps cut in small pieces, season to taste, and add the butter melted or the cream. Mix well together. Split some finger-shaped rolls, put a good teaspoonful of the mixture into each, and close them up. Note.—A little mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of the cream or butter, and chopped salmon or sardines may take the place of the shrimps. 2458. Foie-gras Sandwiches Foie gras. Butter. Thin milk biscuits. Any trimmings of foie gras may be used for these. Pound them in a basin or mortar with some butter and any extra seasoning that may- be necessary. Spread this mixture between small thin milk biscuits, and serve garnished with small cress or parsley, or with nasturtium flowers. Note.—A puree of foie gras (sold ready prepared) may be used if no scraps of the real foie gras are available, and bread and butter may be used instead of biscuits.523 SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET 2459. Game Sandwiches 3 or 4 table-sps. cooked game. A little brown sauce. 1 tea-sp. red-currant jelly. Brown or white bread and butter. Take the remains of cold roast game, remove from them all skin and bone, and put them through the mincing machine. Put the mince into a basin, add the red-currant or any other sharp jelly, and enough good brown sauce to moisten and bind all together, adding more seasoning if necessary. Spread a layer of this mixture between thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Press to- gether, trim and cut in shape. Garnish with parsley or cress. Note.—A layer of finely-shred lettuce or small cress may be added if desired. 2460. Ham Sandwiches Cooked ham. Mustard. Bread and butter. The ham should be thinly sliced and then cut in convenient sized pieces free from rust. Lay these pieces between slices of bread and butter that have been lightly spread with mustard. Arrange the ham in such a way that there is an equal distribu- tion of lean and fat. Press together, and trim if necessary. If the ham is very scrappy, it may be better to mince it; it may then be moistened with a little chutney or tomato ketchup. This chopped ham mixture is very good in toast sandwiches. 2461. Lettuce Sandwiches Crisp lettuce. I White bread. Maitre d’hotel butter. Take the crisp inside part of a lettuce, trim and wash it quickly, and dry it lightly in a clean towel. Then cut it in fine shreds, removing any hard stalk. Spread thin slices of bread with maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770), and make sandwiches with the shred lettuce between. Press well together, trim and cut in shape with a very sharp knife. Serve garnished with a little of the shred lettuce. Note.—Plain butter or other kinds of savoury butter may be used instead of maitre d’hotel butter. Other green salads may be used in the same way. 2463. Nasturtium Sandwiches Nasturtium flowers. | Brown or white bread Cream cheese. I and butter. Make neat little sandwiches of brown or white bread and butter and a layer of cream cheese, and put a few nasturtium flower petals into each. Garnish them with nasturtium leaves and one or two of the flowers. The cheese may be omitted, and simply bread and butter used with the nas- turtium petals. These sandwiches are very delicate and delicious, and can either be served as an accompaniment to a salad or at afternoon teas. 2464. Olive Sandwiches Olives. Celery. Cream cheese. Bread and butter. Stone the olives, cut them in thin shreds, and mix them with an equal quantity of finely chopped celery. Cut some thin slices of brown or white bread and butter, spread half the number of pieces with cream cheese, and sprinkle with the olives and celery. Cover with the other pieces of bread, and press lightly together. Then trim neatly and serve garnished with parsley or some green tops of celery and a few olives. 2465. Pastry Sandwiches PuS or flaky pastry. 3 table-sps. cooked chicken or game. 1 table-sp. cooked ham or tongue. 2 table-sps. brown or white sauce. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Roll out some pastry about J inch in thickness, and cut it in finger-shaped pieces. Place these on a baking sheet, brush them over with a little beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Meanwhile prepare the mixture for filling. Chop the meat very finely, or put it through the mincing machine. Moisten it with some good sauce or whipped cream, and season to taste. When the pastry is ready, split the pieces open and remove any soft part from the centre. Put in some of the mixture and close together again. These sandwiches may be served hot or cold. Notes.—Qther savoury mixtures may be used instead of the above. If to be served hot, heat the mixture first and put the sandwiches into the oven for two or three minutes after filling. 2462. Lobster Sandwiches 2 or 3 table-sps. lobster meat. Mayonnaise or white sauce. Anchovy or shrimp essence. Pickled gherkin. Seasoning. Small rolls. Butter. Take some cooked lobster meat and chop it finely, being careful to remove any pieces of shell. Put it into a basin, and moisten it with mayonnaise or some good white sauce. Season with cayenne, salt, and a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence. Split and butter some small finger-shaped rolls. Put a spoonful of the lobster mixture in the centre of each, sprinkle it with a little chopped or shred gherkin, and put on the covers. Serve garnished with small cress. 2466. Potted Meat Sandwiches Very tasty and quickly made sandwiches can be made from all the potted meats sold in tins and jars. The paste may be spread on brown or white bread and butter, buttered biscuits, or little rolls, according to fancy, and some thinly-sliced cucumber, tomato, cress, or other salad may be added. If the paste is highly seasoned it must be used sparingly, or it may be toned down by being mixed with hard-boiled egg, or a little good thick sauce, or double cream. 2467. Rolled Sandwiches Potted meat. Brown bread. Butter. Cream the butter on a plate with an equal quan- tity of some tasty potted meat. If a highlyCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 524 flavoured paste is used, such as anchovy, a smaller proportion will be sufficient. The mixture must be delicate in flavour and of a nice smooth con- sistency. Spread this on thin slices of brown bread from which the crust has been removed, and then roll up the pieces. If white bread is preferred, the round sandwich loaf makes a very pretty shape. 2468. Salmon Sandwiches 2 or 3 table-sps. cooked salmon. 1 dessert-sp. mayonnaise or white sauce. Seasoning. Cucumber or small cress. Small rolls. Butter. Free the salmon from any skin and hone, and break it up in a basin with a fork. Moisten it with a little mayonnaise or good white sauce and season to taste. If white sauce is used, it will be better to add a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. Butter some small finger-shaped rolls, put into each some of the salmon mixture, lay some thinly-sliced cucumber or a little small cress on the top, and put on the covers. Small cress or parsley may be used for garnishing. 2469. Shrimp Sandwiches 2 table - sps. picked shrimps. 1 tea-sp. anchovy paste. 1 or 2 table-sps. whipped cream. Small rolls. Butter. Small cress. Chop the shrimps, and mix them with the anchovy paste and a dash of cayenne pepper. Then stir in very lightly 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of stiffly whipped cream. Split some little finger- shaped rolls, and spread them with butter; then fill them with the above mixture, and serve garnished with small cress or some fresh parsley. 2470. Sardine and Cucumber Sandwiches Sardine paste. f Brown or white bread Cucumber. Seasoning. | and butter. Spread thin slices of brown or white bread and butter with a layer of sardine paste, which can be bought in jars or small tins. On half the number of pieces put a layer of thinly-sliced cucumber which has been seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Cover with the remaining pieces of bread, press together, trim and cut into neat sandwiches. Serve garnished with watercress or parsley. Note.—Sardines may be used instead of the paste. They will require to be skinned, boned, pounded with a little butter, and rubbed through a sieve. 2471. Smoked Haddock Sandwiches Make in the same way as Bloater Sandwiches (Recipe 2445), substituting smoked haddock for bloater. 2472. Tomato Sandwiches 1 or 2 ripe tomatoes. I Seasoning. 1 gherkin. | Bread and butter. Skin the tomatoes and cut them in very thin slices. Put the slices on a plate and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a few drops of oil and lemon juice. Arrange the tomato on the top of some thin bread and butter, sprinkle a little chopped gherkin or pickle over, and put another piece of bread and butter on the top. Trim, and cut in shape. Note.—A little thick mayonnaise sauce may be spread over the sliced tomato if liked. 2473. Tongue Sandwiches Make in the same way as Ham Sandwiches, Recipe 3460. 2474. Veal and Pickle Sandwiches Cooked veal. Pickles. Bread and butter. Chop some cooked veal finely, and mix it with chopped pickles; gherkin, cauliflower, or a little pickled walnut may T>e used, and enough to flavour the veal. Add salt if necessary, and, if at hand, a very small quantity of mayonnaise sauce. Spread this mixture between slices of white or brown bread and butter, trim neatly, and cut in convenient-sized sandwiches. Garnish with parsley or small cress. Note.—Other kinds of meat may be used instead of the veal. 2475. Savoury Walnuts. Malted bread and butter. Walnut Sandwiches Mayonnaise sauce cream. Salt. Cayenne. or Toast a few walnuts in the oven, then rub them to get rid of the skins, and chop them rather finely.SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET 525 . Mix them with a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce or cream, and season with cayenne and salt to taste. Spread this mixture between thin slices of malted bread and butter, trim and cut into shape. Serve garnished with parsley and a few shelled walnuts. PART II SWEET SANDWICHES Sweet Sandwiches Sweet sandwiches can also be made in great variety, in fact there need be no limit to the different kinds, if one is just inclined to do a little experi- menting by trying various combinations. Preserves of all kinds can be used for making dainty little sandwiches for afternoon tea. These should not be too liquid, or if they are so, should be thickened before use with some ratafia, macaroon, or other sweet biscuit crumbs. Crystallised and candied fruits can also be utilised ; but these should be cut in thin slices, and the harder kinds previously softened in a little water, or in wine if preferred. Fresh fruits, too, are very acceptable, such as chopped or sliced apple, chopped pine-apple, thinly sliced pears, bananas, strawberries, &c. Different kinds of nuts, pounded or chopped, are also popular, used either by themselves or in con- junction with cream or some sweet mixture, while a little whipped and flavoured cream will add to the delicacy of most sandwiches. The following are just a few examples of what can be done in the way of making sweet sand- wiches. 2476. Banana and Nut Sandwiches thin shoes of brown or white bread and butter, cut into shapes, and serve on a dainty lace-edged paper. Small finger-shaped rolls may be used instead of the bread and butter. 2479. Chocolate and Apple Sandwiches White bread and butter. Apple. Grated chocolate. Cut some thin bread and butter, and sprinkle it with finely grated chocolate. Teel one or two good eating apples and cut them in thin slices free from core. Put a layer of these slices between two pieces of the prepared bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat sandwiches. Serve on lace-edged paper. 2480. Date and Fig Sandwiches 3 or 4 figs. 6 or 8 dates. Orange juice. 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. Bread and butter. Remove the stones from the dates, and pass them and the figs through a mincing machine. Then moisten with orange or lemon juice, and sprinkle in the chopped nuts. Put this mixture into a cup or small basin, and press it with a weight for an hour or two. Then turn out and cut in thin slices, and place these slices between thin bread and butter to make sandwiches. 2481. Ginger and Nut Sandwiches Ginger. Bread. Nut Butter. Spread some thin slices of brown or white bread with nut butter. On half the number of pieces lay thin slices of preserved or crystallised ginger. If the latter, the hard sugar should first be soaked off the outside. Cover with the other pieces of bread, press together and trim neatly. Ripe bananas. I Chopped nuts. Orange or lemon rind. I Bread and butter. Choose small ripe bananas, peel and cut them in slices, and sprinkle with a little grated lemon or orange rind. Prepare some thin brown or white bread and butter, and sprinkle the pieces with chopped or ground nuts—desiccated cocoanut may be used if liked. Put a layer of sliced bananas between two pieces of bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat sandwiches. 2482. Honey Sandwiches Pastry slices. Honey in the comb. Make and bake some puff pastry shoes, split them and let them cool. Then place a slice of honey in the comb between the pieces, sprinkle lightly with sugar, and serve at once. 2483. Lemon Curd Sandwiches Lemon curd. Finger biscuits. 2477. Brown and White Sandwiches Gingerbread. I Orange jelly or mar- White bread and butter. I malade. Cut some thin slices of white bread and butter, and spread them lightly with a little orange jelly or marmalade. Then cut some thin slices of gingerbread, and lay them on half the number of pieces of bread. Cover with the remaining pieces of bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat sandwiches. 2478. Chocolate Sandwiches 2 table-sps. grated choco- cream. late. Vanilla essence. 2 table-sps. whipped Bread and butter. Mix the chocolate and cream together, adding a few drops of vanilla. Spread this mixture between Take some lemon curd as required for Cheese Cakes (see Recipe 1572)—or it can be bought ready in jars—and spread it between freshly-made finger biscuits; or if preferred, brown or white bread may be used. 2484. Nut Sandwiches . Shelled nuts. I Slices of pastry. Cream. J Seasoning. Any kind of shelled nuts can be used. Toast them for a few minutes in the oven or in front of the fire, and then chop them rather small. Mix with clotted or whipped cream, and season to taste. The mixture may be made either sweet or savoury. Put a thick layer of this inside a finger-shaped piece of pastry. Note.—Honey may be used instead of cream, and gingerbread or any plain cake may be used instead of pastry.526 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2485. Sponge Cake and Nut Sandwiches Sponge cake. 1 table-sp. chopped nuts. \ gill double cream. A few drops of vanilla. Sugar. Whip the cream until thick, and mix in the chopped nuts. Sweeten to taste, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Spread this mixture rather thickly between thin shoes of sponge cake, trim neatly, and serve on a lace-edged paper. 2486. Strawberry Sandwiches Fresh strawberries. I Sponge cake. Sugar. I Clotted cream. Slice a few ripe strawberries with a silver knife, and dredge them with fine sugar. Then spread some slices of sponge cake or Madeira cake with clotted cream, and put a layer of strawberries on half the number of pieces. Cover with the re- maining pieces, and press them lightly together. Trim if necessary and serve on a lace-edged paper. These sandwiches must be made fresh and kept in a cool place. Note.—Other kinds of fresh fruit may be used in the same way. 2487. Wafer Sandwiches, 1 Wafer biscuits. | Sugar. Vanilla. Double cream. J Nuts or fruit. Use wafer biscuits the same as are sold for ices. Whip a small quantity of double cream until thick. sweeten it with castor sugar, flavour with a few drops of vanilla, and stir into it either some chopped nuts or some small pieces of fresh or preserved fruit. Then make sandwiches with this cream mixture and the wafer biscuits. They must be pressed very lightly together and only made a short time before serving. Cut them in two and serve them in a circle, one slightly overlapping the other. 2488. Wafer Sandwiches, 2 8 wafer biscuits. I 1 table-sp. castor sugar. 2 table-sps. desiccated 1 table-sp. marmalade. cocoanut. I Mix the cocoanut and sugar together, and moisten with the marmalade. Spread some of this paste between wafer biscuits, press them lightly together, and cut in two. Jam may be used instead of marmalade, and other chopped nuts instead of cocoanut. 2489. Walnut and Maple Sugar Sandwiches Walnuts. Maple sugar. Bread and butter. Take equal quantities of toasted and chopped walnuts and grated maple sugar, and mix them well together. Spread this mixture rather liber- ally between thin slices of bread and butter. Then trim and cut into fancy shapes. Serve on a lace- edged paper, and decorate with a few halves of walnut.527 INVALID COOKERY This section contains recipes for dishes suitable for the sick and convalescent. In addition to these, many other recipes in other parts of the book may be used for the sick-room, although in some cases they may require a little modification to make them suitable for special requirements. When preparing food for real invalids, the object aimed at must be to give nourishment combined with the greatest simplicity, and in a form suited to the digestive powers of the patient. A FEW HINTS ON INVALID COOKERY When there are doctor’s orders regarding the food, these must be faithfully carried out. See that all food given is the very best of its kind, and not stale nor tainted in any way. Pay particular regard to cleanliness in its pre- paration. Make nothing in large quantities. The seasoning should, as a rule, be of the very simplest, and should be used sparingly. The method of cooking should also be of the simplest. Never cook or prepare the food within sight of the patient. Any tasting should be done out of the sick- room. Serve the food punctually at the hour expected. Offer all food in small quantities, and as daintily as possible. Let all hot dishes be really hot and cold dishes cold; lukewarm food is, as a rule, very unpalatable. Try to vary the food, even although it may only be in the manner of serving it. Do not consult the patient about his meal, but give, when possible, what will be liked, and let it come as a surprise. Remove all dishes and untouched food from the sick-room as soon as finished with. Do not keep food in the sick-room unless the invalid is left alone and likely to require it. Always have something in readiness, such as Soup or jelly, or a cooling drink. PART I INVALID SOUPS AND MEAT JELLIES INTRODUCTORY Meat soups for invalids should always be made from fresh meat, and not from stock drawn from the general stock-pot. As a rule they are better made the day before they are wanted, as this allows time for the fat to rise to the surface and be easily removed. Beef-tea and other meat teas are an exception to this rule, and should be made fresh. In the following recipes very little, if any, vege- table flavouring is given, but this can easily be added if desired. Clear soups, meat teas, and broths are gener- ally considered more digestible than thickened soups and purees, and if well made they have wonderfully restorative qualities. Soups contain- ing eggs, milk, or cream also contain nourishment in a very digestible form. . Care must be taken to serve the soup very hot and free from grease. A covered cup or soup- basin is better for the purpose than a plate, and, Covered Cup for Soup failing that, a well-heated cup and saucer should be used. This latter must not be filled too full, and none of the liquid must be spilt in the saucer. Some well-made toast cut in fingers or dice, a neat piece of bread, a rusk, or a few dry biscuits should be served with the soup. 2490. Beef-Tea, 1 | lb. beef. § pt. cold water. A little salt. Choose lean, juicy beef for the purpose. It ought to be freshly killed. A piece from the but-528 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tock, rump, or top side would be suitable, but skin of beef should not be employed, as it contains too much bone and gristle, which require long, slow cooking and produce gelatine, a substance of small value to an invalid. Rub the meat lightly with a damp cloth, and remove from it all fat and skin. Cut it in thin slices, and then shred down finely with a knife, in order to break the fibres of the meat, and to enable the juice to escape more freely. If a large quantity of beef-tea has to be prepared, as in a hospital, the meat may be put through a mincing machine. Weigh the meat, and put it into a strong jar or basin with the above proportion of water and a little salt (unless this latter is pro- hibited). Cover with a piece of strong white paper or, better still, with a lid, and, if time permits, allow the beef-tea to stand for f hom’, as the cold water will help to draw out the juice. Stir well before putting it on to cook. Then place the jar containing the beef-tea in a saucepan with cold water to reach three-quarters way up the sides. Cover with the lid, bring to the boil, and keep the water simmering from 2 to 3 hours. If the water boils down, more must be added. When sufficiently cooked remove the jar from the saucepan, stir the contents with a fork, and strain through a wire sieve or coarse strainer, pressing the meat as dry as possible. (The scraps of meat should be put in the stock-pot.) When clear beef-tea is ordered the straining should be done through a hair sieve or piece of muslin. Note.—A double cooker may be used instead of a jar for cooking the beef-tea. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours after soaking. Probable cost, 7d. 2491. Beef-Tea, 2 (Baked) Prepare the meat as in last recipe, and allow the same proportion of water, but instead of steaming, place the jar containing the beef-tea in a slow oven and cook from 2 or 3 hours. Made in this way the beef-tea will be more savoury than when steamed, but it is not always appreciated by a delicate palate. 2492. Beef-Tea, 3 (A Quicker Method) | lb. beef. J pint cold water. A little salt. Prepare the meat as in No. 1, and, if time permits, let it soak in cold water with the salt for £ hour. Then turn it into a lined saucepan and heat slowly over the fire, stirring and pressing the meat well with the back of a wooden spoon, in order to extract the juice. When the meat becomes very pale in colour, and the liquid a rich brown, the beef- tea is ready and must be strained as above. Re- move all fat from the top, and serve as required. The greatest care must be taken that the beef-tea does not boil. The reason for this is that the albumen, which is the flesh-forming element in the juice of the meat, will harden if heated above a certain temperature (150° Fahr.). It mixes freely with cold water, and remains soluble as long as the heat is not too great; but if once allowed to coagu- late, it either hardens in the meat itself or forms a coarse sediment, which is kept back in the strain- ing, thus robbing the beef-tea of one of its most valuable properties. Time to cook, about J hour after soaking. Prob- able cost, 7d. 2493. Raw Beef-Tea 2 oz. lean, juicy beef. I A pinch of salt. £ gill cold water. I As this preparation will not keep, it must only be made in small quantities as required. Free the meat from all fat and skin, and shred it down finely with a knife. Then put it into a breakfast-cup, with the water and salt, and allow it to soak from i to 1 hour, pressing the meat from time to time with the back of a spoon or fork. Strain through a fine strainer and serve in a red glass in order to disguise the colour. This beef-tea is given in cases of great exhaustion. It is frequently added to other foods, such as gruel, Benger’s food, &c. Time, \ to 1 hour. Probable cost, 2d. 2494. Thickened Beef-Tea | pt. beef-tea. tapioca. 1 yolk of egg. A little water. \ tea - sp. Groult’s Cook the tapioca in a small saucepan with a little water until it turns quite clear. Add the beef-tea to it and heat thoroughly, but do not boil. Beat up the yolk of egg in a basin or cup with a fork, pour the beef-tea gradually on to it, stirring all the time, and it is ready for serving. If too rich, the yolk of egg may be omitted. Note.—Arrowroot or cornflour may be used in- stead of tapioca, but in each case they must be cooked in water separately, before the beef-tea is added. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2495. Pur6e of Beef J pt. beef-tea. 3 or 4 oz. juicy beef. Shred the meat finely, pound it in a mortar or in a strong basin, and then rub through a wire sieve, being careful to scrape the sieve underneath. Add this meat pulp to a cupful of hot and well- made beef-tea, stir well, and serve at once. This is very strengthening. Probable cost, lOd. 2496. Beef Juice | lb. juicy steak. Wipe the meat with a clean cloth, and beat it slightly with a heavy wooden spoon. Then grill Meat Juice Extractor it sufficiently to heat it through, but on no account cook it. Next cut the meat in small pieces, and529 INVALID COOKERY press out the juice in a meat-press or strong lemon- squeezer. Note.—A meat-press or juice-extractor can be bought at any of the ironmongery stores, from about 7s. upwards. 2497. Beef-Tea Jelly | pt. beef-tea. £ oz. isinglass. Put the beef-tea and isinglass into the saucepan together, and stir them over the fire until warm. Then stand the pan by the side of the fire until the isinglass is quite dissolved. Pour into a small basin that has been wet out with cold water, and set aside till firm. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 2498. Savoury Beef-Tea £ lb. lean juicy beef. 3 gills cold water. | tea-sp. salt. A small piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. A small bunch of herbs. 3 or 4 peppercorns. A small blade of mace. Make the beef-tea as directed in recipes given above. Put into the jar, along with the meat and water, the above vegetable seasonings, and cook as before. The vegetables must be carefully pre- pared and cut in small pieces. Be careful not to have too much of any one, but rather an agree- able blending of flavours. One small tea-cupful of the vegetables cut up and mixed will be quite sufficient. Any flavouring that is objected to may be omitted. 2499. Beef-Tea and Milk The combination of beef-tea and milk constitutes a very strengthening drink for an invalid, and will often be taken when milk alone is found too in- sipid. The proportions can be varied according to taste. 2500. Asparagus Soup | bundle asparagus. | pt. milk. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour or corn- flour. Salt. White pepper. Cook the asparagus as directed in Recipe 148. Cut oS the tender tips, reserve them for serving in the soup, and rub the remainder of the asparagus through a sieve. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, stir in the flour, and mix smoothly. Then pour on the milk, and stir until boiling. Add the sieved asparagus and the points, simmer a few minutes until all is thoroughly blended, and season to taste. Probable cost, 6d. to 9d. 2501. Barley Milk Soup (Stove Barley) 2table-sps. pearl barley. I 2 pts. milk. 2 oz. butter. 1 pt. cold water. | Salt to taste. Wash the barley in several waters, then put it into a double saucepan with the water, milk, and butter, and cook it with plenty of water round it for 3 or 4 horn’s, or until quite soft and creamy. Then add salt to taste and pepper if wished. A large jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water may be used for the cooking if no double cooker is available. Note.—This is an excellent soup for children, and one that is almost a universal favourite. It is also very good for invalids, when the barley may be strained out if considered too heavy. Probable cost. Id. 2502. Celery and Rice Soup lpt. light stock or broth. 2 or 3 sticks white celery. £ oz. butter. | cup milk or 1 or 2 table-sps. cream, ltea-sp.rice. Seasoning. Well wash and brush the celery, and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a saucepan with the stock, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and the rice well washed. Cook slowly, stirring now and again, until the ingredients are quite soft. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve and return to the saucepan to re-heat. Add the milk or cream, and season to taste. Serve with small strips of toast or with a dry rusk. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2503. Chicken Broth 1 a chicken. 2 pts. cold water. Salt. 1 tea-sp. rice, fine bar- ley, or fine tapioca. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Take half a chicken or the inferior parts of one, reserving the white parts for serving separately. Wash the joints thoroughly, cut the meat in small pieces, and break up the bones. Remove any fat or soft grease, but not the skin. Put all into a deep saucepan, add the water, which should be sufficient to cover the meat, &c., and season with salt. Cover with the saucepan lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Then simmer from 4 to 5 hours, removing the scum from time to time and adding more water if necessary. When all the goodness is ex- tracted from the chicken, strain the liquid through a fine strainer and, if possible, stand till cold. Care- fully remove all grease from the top, and return the broth to a saucepan. Bring to the boil, sprinkle in the tapioca, barley, or rice well washed, and simmer until this is cooked. Add the chopped parsley a minute or two before serving. Note.—A richer broth may be made by pouring it slowly on to the beaten yolk of an egg. A more savoury broth may be made by adding a few small pieces of vegetable when making the stock. Or small pieces of cooked chicken may be served in the broth, if a more substantial dish is required. When economy has to be studied, the meat used may be half chicken and half veal; the flavour of the chicken will still predominate. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 2504. Essence of Chicken 1 chicken, or part of one. Prepare and cut up the chicken in the same way as directed in last recipe. Put the meat, bones, skin, &c., into a large jar without any water, covering the jar with a tight-fitting lid or strong piece of white paper greased. Place the jar in a saucepan, with cold water to come fully half- way up; put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours. If the water boils down, add more. When cooked sufficiently, remove the jar from the saucepan, and strain all the liquid 2 hCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 530 away from the chicken through a fine strainer or hair sieve. This is just the pure juice or essence of chicken, and, like essence of beef, should only be given in small quantities in extreme cases. When cold, it will be a jelly. Time to cook, 6 to 7 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 2505. Chicken Jelly 1 chicken, or part of one. I A few parsley stalks. Cold water. 1 bay leaf. I A pinch of salt. The inferior joints will do very well for chicken jelly; the breast can be used for some other pur- pose. Cut the chicken into joints, and cut all the flesh from the bones. Wash any part that does not look perfectly clean, and keep back any fat. Cut the flesh into small pieces, and chop up the bones. The neck and gizzard may also be washed, and used in the jelly, but not the liver, as it is too dark in colour. Put all into a lined saucepan with a little salt, and cover with cold water ; bring to the boil, and skim well. Add the bay leaf and parsley stalks, and simmer slowly for from 3 to 4 hours. Keep it well skimmed, and add more water if it boils down too much. When ready, strain through a hair sieve, and stand till cold. Remove all fat from the top, first with a spoon dipped in hot water, and then with a cloth dipped in boiling water. This may now be served as it is, or it may be cleared. To clear the stock, put it into a clean lined saucepan, with the white of egg, and the shell washed and crushed up. Put the pan on the fire, and finish in exactly the same way as calf’s foot jelly (Recipe 1969). Notes.—More vegetable flavourings can be used in the making of the jelly if wished. Clearing the jelly with white of egg, while.making it more at- tractive looking, rather impoverishes it. Instead of white of egg, J lb. lean, juicy beef may be shred down and used in its place, in exactly the same way. The albumen in the beef clears in the same way as white of egg. It will, of course, make the jelly a little stronger in flavour. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 8d. per gill. 2506. Chicken Soup 1 chicken. I 1 dessert-sp. salt. 2 or 3 pts. cold water. ( 1 gill cream. Draw and clean the chicken thoroughly, cut it into joints and, if wished, keep back the breast for serving in some other way. Cut up the flesh in small pieces, and break the bones. Wash any pieces which do not look perfectly clean, and keep back any soft fat. Remove the gall-bag from the liver and the bag of stone from the gizzard, and wash these well, also the neck and the heart. Put all together into a clean lined pan, with enough cold water to well cover—from 2 to 3 pints ; add a little salt, and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim well, and simmer slowly about 5 or 6 hours. Take off any scum that may rise, and boil down to about half the quantity. When cooked sufficiently, strain through a fine strainer or hair sieve, and let it stand till cold. Remove all the fat from the top of the stock. Take some of the pieces of meat from the chicken, pound them well in the mortar, and then rub through a wire sieve, using some of the liquid to moisten it while rubbing through. Add this meat puree to the soup as a thickening. Warm up as much as will be required at one time, and add one table-spoonful of cream to each cup- ful of soup. A yolk of egg may also be used if liked. Beat up the yolk in the cup or basin, and pour the hot soup on to it, stirring all the time. The addition of a little celery seed and a small ham bone will improve the flavour of this soup, should the condition of the invalid allow of it. The breast of the chicken may be cooked in the soup, and then lifted out, cut into small meat pieces, and served in the soup when ready. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 2507. Cream of Barley 1J lbs. knuckle of veal. 2 oz. pearl barley. 3 pts. cold water. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 yolk of egg. J gill of cream. Wash the barley well, and, if possible, soak it overnight in cold water. Then blanch it, i.e. put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to well cover it, bring to the boil, pour the water away, and rinse the barley. This makes the barley a very much better colour. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into very small pieces away from the bone, and put it into a saucepan with the water, salt, and blanched barley. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Simmer slowly 3 to 4 hours until the barley is perfectly soft. Then strain through a hair or fine wire sieve. Put the meat and barley into a mortar, pound well, and then rub a good deal of the mixture through a wire sieve, using some of the liquid to moisten it whilst rubbing through. Return the liquid and the sieved mixture to the saucepan, and re-heat over the fire. Beat the yolk of egg and cream together; draw the pan to the side of the fire, so that the soup may be off the boil, and strain this thickening into it, stirring all the time. Do not boil again. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2508. Fish Soup 1 lb. white fish. 1 pt. cold water. 1 gill milk. \ oz. butter. | oz. flour. A little chopped parsley. Salt to taste. Almost any white fish may be used for this, but haddock, whiting, or plaice are among the most suitable. Wash the fish carefully, and cut it in pieces without removing the skin. Put these into a lined saucepan with the water and salt, and bring slowly to the boil, removing all scum as it rises. Cook for a few minutes until the fish loses its trans- parent appearance, then lift out a few neat pieces, free from skin and bone, and put them to one side, for serving in the soup. Allow the remainder to cook slowly until all the goodness is drawn from the fish—about 1 hour—then strain through a fine sieve or strainer. Clean the saucepan in order to remove all scum, and put in the butter. Allow this to melt, and stir in the flour until smooth. Add the fish liquor and milk, and stir until boiling. Then add the pieces of fish that were reserved, and the chopped parsley, cook two minutes longer and serve very hot. Notes.—A more savoury soup may be made by cooking small pieces of vegetable along with the fish, but this is not so simple for an invalid. The ■531 INVALID COOKERY yolk of an egg may be used if the soup is wished richer. Put the yolk into a basin, and pour the hot soup slowly on to it, stirring all the time. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream may be used instead of the milk. 2509. Game Soup 1 bird (grouse, wood- cock, pigeon, or par- tridge), or the re- mains of game. £ lb. lean, juicy beef. H pts. cold water. J tea-sp. arrowroot. A pinch of celery seed, pepper, and salt. Wipe the game with a damp cloth, and break it into small pieces. Also wipe the beef, and shred it finely, the same as for beef-tea. Put all these into a cleaned lined saucepan, with the cold water and seasoning; bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Allow the soup to simmer gently about 4 hours, then strain, and allow it to cool. Remove all fat from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan. Break the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil 2 or 3 minutes until the arrowroot turns quite clear. More flavouring may be added according to taste, and a little sherry or port, if liked. Time to cook, 4 hours. Cost uncertain. 2510. Mutton Broth 1 lb. neck or knuckle of mutton. 2 pts. cold water. 1 dessert-sp. whole rice. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. salt. Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth to make it quite clean, and cut it into small pieces away from the bone. Remove as much of the fat from it as possible, and do not use it in the broth. Put the meat, bones, water, and salt into a clean lined pan ; put on the lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Then remove with an iron spoon all scum that rises. If this is allowed to boil down again, the broth will have a cloudy appearance. Simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, skimming when necessary. Then strain through a fine strainer or sieve, and let it stand till cold. When cold, remove all fat from the top with a spoon, or by passing pieces of kitchen paper over the top. Return it to a clean sauce- pan with the rice well washed, and allow it to cook again until the rice is quite soft, about 20 minutes. Add the parsley, finely chopped, at the last, and it is ready for serving. Note.—Crushed tapioca, or arrowroot broken with a little cold water, may be used for thickening the broth instead of rice. For a more savoury mutton broth, see p. 45. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, lOd. 2511. Mutton Tea This may be made in the same way as beef-tea. A shoe of meat from the leg is one of the best pieces to use, as it is less streaked with fat than the other parts. A few small pieces of celery or other flavouring vegetable may be added if allowed. This makes a little variety to the constant use of beef, and it is liked by some invalids. Note.— Veal tea may also be made in the same way, or a mixture of mutton and veal, or beef and veal may be used. 2512. Onion Soup 1 large or 2 small Spanish onions. 1 pt. light stock or broth | cup milk. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. \ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. Peel the onions, and soak them in boiling water with a little salt for about h hour. Then cut them in thin shoes or rings, and put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with the stock and butter. Cook slowly until the onions are quite tender, and then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the milk, add it to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Season to taste, cook slowly for a few minutes, and add the cream just before serving. Time to cook, I to hours. Probable cost, 6d. 2513. Rice Soup 1 pt. of mutton, veal, 1 yolk of egg. or chicken broth. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 table-sp. Patna rice. Remove any fat from the top of the broth, put it into a clean saucepan with the rice well washed, and boil until the rice is perfectly soft. Then rub all through a fine sieve, rinse out the pan, and return the soup to it. Beat up the yolk of egg and cream with a fork, strain them into the soup, and stir carefully over the fire until thoroughly hot, but on no account let it boil, or it will curdle. Notes.—Milk (1 tea-cupful) may be used instead of yolk of egg and cream, and a little chopped parsley may be added. This soup may also be served without sieving. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. 2514. Strengthening Soup or Jelly 1 lb. shin of beef. 4 to 5 pts. cold water. 1 lb. knuckle of veal. Salt. 1 lb. shank of mutton. Wash the pieces of meat in cold water, or wipe them thoroughly with a damp cloth. Then cut the meat in small pieces away from the bone, and remove any fat or marrow. Put the meat, bones, and skin into a large deep saucepan, sprinkle with a little salt, and cover well with cold water. Bring very slowly to boiling point with the lid on the pan, and skim carefully. Simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours, or until the goodness is well extracted from the meat, &c. The liquid should reduce to about half the quantity in the cooking ; if it boils away more than this, some fresh water must be added. When ready, strain into a large basin, and stand until cold. Carefully remove all fat, and heat as required, or it may be served cold as a jelly. Note.—The addition of a few pieces or trimmings of game will help to make this soup or jelly more tasty. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. 2515. Strong Meat Jelly 1 calf’s foot. 3 pts. cold water. 1 lb. knuckle of veal. Salt. 1 lb. shin of beef. Wash and scrape the calf’s foot, and blanch it according to directions given in Recipe No. 1969.532 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Wipe the meat and cut it in small pieces away from the bone. Remove any fat and marrow, and do not use them in the making of the jelly. Put the water into a large deep saucepan, and add the meat, bones, and calf’s foot to it. Sprinkle in also a little salt, but be careful not to over-salt the liquid at this stage. Put the lid on the pan, and bring slowly to the boil. Then simmer very slowly from 4 to 5 hours, until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. Skim occasionally, and do not let the liquid go oS the simmering point. When ready, strain through a hair sieve or clean tea-cloth placed over a colander, and set in a cool place. It should be a jelly when cold. All fat must be re- moved from the top, and the jelly served in small quantities. Note.—If wished, the jelly stock may be warmed and served as a soup. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 2516. Tapioca or Sago Soap Make in the same way as rice soup, using tapioca or sago in place of rice. If large tapioca or sago is used, it must be soaked first in a little cold water, so as to make it cook more quickly. 2517. Tomato Soup 1 pt. light stock. 2 or 3 fresh tomatoes. A few parsley stalks. J tea-sp. fine tapioca. | tea-cupful of milk or 1 table-sp. cream. Salt to taste. Wipe the tomatoes with a wet cloth, cut them in pieces, and cook them in the stock until quite soft. Then rub through a fine sieve, keeping back the seeds and skins. Rinse the saucepan, and return the soup to it, and bring to the boil. Sprinkle in the tapioca, and cook slowly for about 10 minutes, or until it turns quite clear. Add the milk or cream and season to taste. A little celery salt may be added if liked. Serve with sippets of crisp toast; or the toast may be put into the soup bowl and the hot soup poured on to it. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 2518. Veal Broth A piece of knuckle or neck of veal may be pre- pared in the same way as for mutton broth, and makes a very delicately flavoured broth. Or, for variety, the broth may be made with half mu* on and half veal. Other Invalid Soups Many of the recipes in the “ Soups ” section of the book could also be used for invalids, especially those who are not suffering from a par- ticularly weak digestion. The flavouring can always be modified to suit special requirements. Among other recipes the following might be men- tioned : Gravy Soup, Cock-a-I.eekie, Tripe Soup, Clear Soup, Artichoke Soup, Barley Soup, Eel Soup, Endive Soup, Almond Soup, Asparagus Soup, Potato Soup, Lettuce Cream Soup, Tapioca Cream, Velvet Soup, Sorrel Soup, Giblet Soup. PART II INVALID FISH AND VEGETABLE DISHES - INTRODUCTORY Fish is a valuable article of diet for invalids, as it is one of the lightest forms of solid food, and much less stimulating than meat. The whiting is one of the most suitable, as it is so delicate in flavour and tender in fibre. It is sometimes called the chicken of the sea. The sole is also very valuable, but it is much more expen- sive, and not always obtainable. Haddock, plaice, smelts, and lemon soles may also be given, in fact any of the white fish, although the larger kinds are often tougher in fibre. The oily or dark fleshed fish, such as herring, • j mackerel, salmon, &c., should, as a rule, be avoided, especially by those of a weak digestion. Oysters are said to be very digestible, and especi- ally in their raw state, and they are certainly nutritious, but they cannot be taken by everyone. There must be no doubt about the freshness of the fish that is given to an invalid, and, when possible, it should be filleted and made free from skin and bone. Boiling, and especially steaming, are two of the best ways of cooking it, and then comes broiling or grilling. Fried fish is less suitable, and when given must be dry and crisp and not saturated with fat. A cream, souffle, or quenelles, are other very light forms of serving fish. When the digestion is very weak a thickened sauce should not be given, although a little cold butter may be allowed. 'When serving plainly cooked fish, garnish with a small sprig of parsley and one or two thin slices of lemon, and this will add very much to the appearance of the dish. 2519. Baked Fish 1 filleted fish. I Lemon juice. Seasoning. | A little butter. Wipe the fillets with a damp cloth, and either cut them in small pieces or double them lengthways, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Lay the pieces on a small greased tin or plate, cover them with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is quite cooked. Serve neatly with little pats of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top, or garnish with cut lemon, and serve thin bread and butter separately. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. 2520. Steamed Fish 1 filleted fish—sole, whiting, or haddock. A little butter. Seasoning—pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Wipe the fillets lightly with a damp cloth, and season them carefully. Then either roll up the533 INVALID COOKERY fillets, or cut them in neat-sized pieces. Place them on a greased plate, cover with greased paper, and place another plate or saucepan lid on the top. Place this on the top of a saucepan of fast boiling water, and cook in this manner until the fish loses its transparent appearance, and looks white and creamy. The water must be kept boiling all the time, and any juice which runs from the fish must be served with it. This is one of the simplest methods of cooking fish for an invalid, and is vastly superior to boiling. If sauce is allowed, this may be made separately, the liquid from the fish added to it, and the fish nicely coated before serving. A sprig of parsley or one or two small pieces of lemon may be used as a garnish. Serve the fish with dry toast or with snowflake potatoes. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2521. Stewed Fish 1 filleted fish—whiting, haddock, sole, or plaice. 1 table - sp. bread- crumbs. \ gill cold water. 1 gill milk. i oz butter. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. White pepper. Salt. Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, and cut it into small, neat pieces. Take a clean lined saucepan, rinse it out with water to prevent the fish sticking to it, and place the pieces of fish at the foot. Sprinkle over them a little salt and white pepper, pour on the milk and water; put the lid on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly by the side of the fire until it is ready, which will be from 10 to 15 minutes. Lift out the pieces of fish on to the plate on which they have to be served, and keep them hot. Add the bread-crumbs and the butter to the water and milk in the pan ; stir over the fire for a few minutes until the bread-crumbs swell and thicken the sauce. Sprinkle in the parsley, finely- chopped, and then pour this sauce over the fish. Wipe the dish round the edges before serving. Note.—This dish is very suitable for cooking and serving in a small fireproof casserole. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2522. Fish Stewed in Milk 1 small filleted sole or plaice. 1 table - sp. bread- crumbs. A pinch of nutmeg. | tea-cupful milk. A small piece of butter. Salt. Wipe the fish with a cloth, season lightly with salt, and make up in little rolls. Put these into a basin with the milk, bread-crumbs, butter, and seasoning. Cover with a saucer or piece of greased paper and steam until tender. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with a sprig of parsley. Time to cook, hour. 2523. Fish Cooked in Paper Any light white fish may be cooked in this way. It is better if it can be filleted. Rip the fish into melted butter and season to taste. Wrap it in paper or place it in one of the special cookery bags now sold for the purpose (see p. 626). One table- spoonful of milk or water may be added. Gose the bag securely and cook on a grid shelf in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Turn the fish on to a hot dish and pour any liquid round it. This is an excellent way of cooking small pieces of fish ; none of the flavour is lost as in boiled fish, it is also more nutritious. 2524. Fish Cream Make in the same way as chicken cream (Recipe 2544), using J lb. uncooked white fish, pounded and sieved, instead of the breast of chicken. 2525. Fish Custard 1 egg. I 1 table-sp. cooked fish. 2 table-sps. milk. | Pepper and salt. Any nicely cooked fish will do for this. Chop it finely, and season with pepper and salt. Beat up the egg with the milk and add the fish to it. Pour all into a well-greased cup or small basin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until set. Turn out when ready, and decorate with a little sprig of parsley. Time to steam, 10 to 15 minutes. 2526. Steamed Fish Pudding 3 oz. uncooked fish. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. 1 egg. It gill milk. Pepper and salt. Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, wipe it with a cloth, and cut it into small neat pieces. Grease a small basin about the size of a breakfast- cup ; put in first a layer of bread-crumbs, then some fish, more bread-crumbs, and so on. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork, add the milk and seasoning to it, and strain over the fish and bread- crumbs. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, then twist a piece of greased paper over the top of it, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, lift it out of the pan, let it stand for a minute or two, loosen round the edges, and turn out carefully on to a hot plate. Garnish with a small sprig of parsley. Notes.—If preferred, the fish may be chopped 6mall instead of being left in pieces. The pudding may be baked instead of steamed. Time to cook, 15 minutes. 2527. Haddock or Whiting Stuffed and Baked 1 whiting or small had- dock. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. A little chopped parsley. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 yolk of egg. Grated lemon rind. A small piece of butter. Pepper and salt. Clean and skin the fish, and cut off the head. Make a stuffing with the bread-crumbs, parsley, a little grated lemon rind, pepper and salt, and bind together with the yolk of an egg. Fill the opening in the fish with this mixture, and then place it in a fireproof dish. Pour the milk round, cover over, and bake quickly about 15 minutes. Then remove the cover, sprinkle the fish with a few dry bread- crumbs, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and brown lightly. Time 15 to 20 minutes.534 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2528. Flaked Haddock in Shells 1 small fresh haddock. White sauce. Salt and pepper. A few bread-crumbs. A little lemon juice. Steam a small haddock (see p. 532), and, when cooked, lift the flesh from the bones and let it fall in flakes. Season it nicely with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Place the fish in small greased china shells, and coat well with white sauce ; sprinkle a few bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a hot oven about 10 minutes. Notes.—Any other white fish may be used in- stead of haddock, or remains of cold cooked fish. 2529. Fricass6e of Oysters | doz. oysters. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. A squeeze of lemon juice. Choose very fresh oysters. Put them into a small lined saucepan with their liquor, and just bring them to the boil. Then strain, reserving the liquor. Melt the butter in the saucepan, and stir in the flour, add the oyster liquor gradually, and stir until boiling. Cook a minute or two, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolk of egg, oysters, lemon juice, and seasoning. Do not boil again, but serve at once with a little dry toast or toast biscuits. 2530. Stewed Smelts 2 or 3 smelts. I Seasoning. £ tea-cupful light stock. | Lemon. Cut the heads oii the smelts and clean them care- fully. Place them in a small fireproof dish with a little light stock or, if allowed, some white wine, and seasoning to taste. Cover the dish and cook in the oven until tender. Serve on the same dish, garnished with a few thin slices of lemon. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. 2531. Baked Sole or Plaice 1 small sole or plaice. i 3 table-sps. milk. 2 or 3 table-sps. bread- A little parsley, crumbs. | Pepper and salt. A little butter. I Fillet the fish and cut it in neat-sized pieces. Dip these in milk, and then in fine bread-crumbs in which a little finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt have been mixed. Cover each piece rather thickly. Place the fish in a small greased fireproof dish, pour the milk round, put a cover or piece of greased paper on the top, and bake quickly 10 or 15 minutes. Then remove the cover, sprinkle some dry crumbs over the fish, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and brown lightly. Note.—A small haddock or whiting may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2532. Fillets ( 1 small sole. | gill of water. 1 slice of toast. | tea-sp. cornflour. 1 tea - sp. chopped Fillet the sole and wip cloth. Season the fillets f Sole on Toast parsley. | oz. butter. A pinch of salt. A little lemon juice. e the pieces lightly with a with salt and a few drops of lemon juice, and roll them up with the skin side inside. Place these rolls in a small saucepan with the water and butter, and cook slowly from 10 to 15 minutes, then lift them out carefully. Arrange them on a neat piece of toast, and keep them warm while you make the sauce. Put the cornflour into a cup, and mix it smoothly with a little cold water, add it to the liquid in the saucepan, and stir until boiling. Add the parsley very finely chopped, cook 2 or 3 minutes longer, and pour over and round the fish. Note.—The yolk of an egg may also be added to the sauce at the last. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. 2533. Fillets of Sole with Tomatoes 1 small sole. 1 tomato. I A squeeze of lemon Pepper and salt. [ juice. First skin and fillet the sole (see p. 78). Wipe the fillets and lay them out, with the side which the skin came off lying uppermost. Season each fillet with a little pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Double each fillet over, the thin end towards the thick, and place on a tin greased with a little butter. Wipe the tomato, remove the stalk, and cut it into four pieces. Lay these pieces on the tin beside the fish, and cover all with a piece of greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, until the fish looks quite white and has lost its transparent appearance. Lift the fillets carefully on to a hot dish, and serve the pieces of tomato round them. Other Fish Dishes In addition to the recipes given above many in the “ Fish ” section of the book would also be suitable for invalids and convalescents, such as the following :—Boiled Fish, Fried Fish, Grilled Fish, Cod’s Roe, Stewed Eels, Fish Cakes, Fish Cream, Fish Cutlets, Fish Omelet, Fish Que- nelles, Fish Souffle, Fish Pie with Macaroni, Fish Pie with Rice, Fricassee of Fish, Kedgeree, Stuffed Fillets of Haddock, Scalloped Oysters, Oyster Souffle, Smelts au Gratin, Fillets of Sole a, la Creme, Grilled Trout, Baked Whiting. Time to cook, 15 minutes. VEGETABLES FOR AN INVALID Although fresh vegetables are valuable on account of the mineral salts they contain, they come as a rule rather late in a sick-room dietary, as the majority of them require a somewhat vigorous digestion. Among the green vegetables, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, spinach, lettuce (cooked), and asparagus should have the first choice. Sea-kale, celery, endive, Spanish onions, and leeks are all considered wholesome if well cooked, but it will be found that certain vegetables agree with one system and not with another. The root vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, parsnip, beetroot, and potato are not usually included in an invalid’s diet. 'When potatoes are given they must be very dry and mealy, or they may be sieved or given in the form of a puree. Rice, macaroni, spaghetti, and other forms of Italian paste form good substitutes for fresh vegetables, when the latter are not allowed.INVALID COOKERY When vegetables are given they must be as fresh as possible, well cooked, and delicately served. They must be cooked until tender, and then served immediately and very hot. For directions for cooking the different vegetables (see under “ Vegetables ”). Among the most suit- able recipes for an invalid diet may be quoted the following :—Asparagus ; Brussel Sprouts with Butter ; Cauliflower ; Cauliflower Souffle ; Celery, Stewed; Celery with. Cream Sauce; Endive, Stewed; Endive with Cream; French Beans & la Maitre d’Hotel; Leeks, Stewed; Lettuce, Stewed; Onion, Boiled; Onion, Puree of; Pota- toes, Boiled, Steamed, or Baked; Potato Puree; Potato Souffle ; Potato Snowflakes ; Rice, Boiled ; Sea-Kale with Cream Sauce ; Spaghetti, Stewed ; Spinach with Butter ; Spinach with Cream. PART III INVALID MEAT DISHES INTRODUCTORY Fowl, or rather chicken, comes about first in the order of digestibility, and the white meat of the breast and wings is more tender than the legs. Game is also good and forms a nice variety, but it should not be high. Pheasant, partridge, grouse, or woodcock are among the most suitable. The white meat of a turkey, or a tender young pigeon may also be given before butcher’s meat. Ducks and geese should be avoided, as they are too rich in fat. A young rabbit will sometimes form a nice change, but it is not considered of very much value in the sick-room, and requires very careful cooking. With regard to the other meats, mutton gener- ally comes first in the order of digestibility in this country, and then beef. Young meats, such as veal and lamb, are not considered so digestible, and they are more difficult to masticate. Pork should never be given to an invalid, although bacon, if lightly toasted or well boiled or steamed, supplies a wholesome form of fat. Other salted meats should never be given. Of the internal meats, liver, kidney, and heart are too close in fibre to be digestible, but tripe and sweetbread are both light and nourishing, if well cooked. Brains are also light and delicate, but there is little nourishment in them. Boiling, grilling, steaming, and roasting are the best methods of cooking meat for an invalid. Stewing and frying are not so suitable. All white meats must be thoroughly cooked, although beef and mutton are sometimes more digestible if under- done. Warmed-up meats are not so wholesome as those that are freshly cooked. 2534. J lb. lean, juicy beef. £ oz. butter. | oz. flour. Beef Cream £ gill stock, or beef-tea. 2 table-sps. of cream. Pepper and salt. Wipe the beef with a damp cloth, and shred it down very finely with a sharp knife. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add to it the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour on the stock, and stir until boiling and 535 thoroughly cooked. Put this panada into a mortar with the shred beef, and pound well together. Add the whole egg and seasoning, aqd pound again until as smooth as possible. Then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve into a basin, and scrape the sieve well underneath. Add to the mixture the cream, and taste it to see that it is sufficiently seasoned. Have ready a small basin well greased, put the mixture into it, and shake it down. Cover the basin with a piece of greased paper, and steam the cream very gently until it is firm to the touch. Turn out on a hot plate, with a piece of paper remove any grease from the top, and serve plain, or with a little beef-tea heated and poured round. Time to steam, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2535. Beef or Mutton Quenelles 4 to 6 oz. best steak or lean mutton. 2 table - sps. bread - crumbs. 1 egg. A little beef-tea or stock Seasoning. Wipe the meat, and remove all fat from it. Shred it down finely, or pass it through a mincing machine, and put it into a mortar with the bread-crumbs, egg, and seasoning, and pound well together. Add a little beef-tea or stock, but keep the mixture stiff enough to form into quenelles. When the mixture is well pounded, rub all through a fine wire sieve, using two iron spoons—one to rub through with, and the other to scrape underneath the sieve. Scrape underneath the sieve every now and then, as it gets clogged. Shape the mixture into que- nelles (see Recipe 1099), and lay them in a greased pan or tin, pour in very gently enough boiling water to come half-way up the quenelles, and cover with a round of greased paper. Poach slowly until they have lost their raw appearance and are firm to the touch. Lift out, and drain for a minute on a clean cloth. Then serve, either plain, with a piece of dry toast, or dish on a neat square of toast, and pour some hot beef-tea round them. Note.—Veal, chicken, or game quenelles may be made in the same way. - Time to poach, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2536. Fillets of Beef Sautes 6 oz. fillet steak. I 1 tomato. £ oz. butter. I Pepper and salt. Cut the steak into two neat pieces, trimming away the skin and untidy edges. Season with pepper and salt. Wipe the tomato, and with a sharp knife cut it in six or eight sections, removing the stalk. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, and, when smoking hot, put in the fillets; fry them a minute or two on each side until brown, then add the pieces of tomato. Cover the frying pan with a plate or lid, and let all cook slowly for 10 or 12 minutes. Serve the meat with the pieces of tomato round, and the gravy poured over it. Time to cook, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 2537. Minced Beef 6 oz. best rump steak. crumbs. £ gill of cold water. Pepper and salt. 1 table - sp. bread- Sippets of toast. Choose the beef, and select a nice juicy piece. Either get the butcher to mince it for you, or re-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 536 move all fat and sldn from it, and put it through the mincing machine yourself. Do not buy for an invalid the ready-prepared mince from a shop, as it has too much fat in it. Take a small lined stewpan, put the minced beef into it, with half the water and the seasoning. Put the pan on the stove, and pound the meat well with a spoon for a few minutes, until it loses its red appearance. Then add the rest of the water, and simmer gently by the side of the fire until the meat is tender. The greatest care must be taken that the meat is not allowed to cook too quickly. Remove any grease that may rise on the surface, and add the bread-crumbs 10 minutes before serving. Garnish the dish with some neat sippets of toasted or fried bread, and serve very hot. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. or 8 d. 2538. Raw Beef Sandwiches Take 2 oz. of lean, juicy beef. Wipe it with a cloth, and with a sharp knife shred it down as finely as you would for beef-tea. Pound this in a mortar, if possible, with any seasoning that may be allowed, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Spread between thin slices of bread, with a little butter on it, if it is allowed, and cut it into neat strips. These sandwiches are generally ordered for special cases. 2539. Raw Beef Balls or Steaks \ lb. lean juicy beef. I Cream or beef-tea. A pinch of salt. | A little butter. Prepare the beef as for beef-tea, shredding it down and removing all stringy parts. Then rub it through a sieve. Season it very lightly with salt, and add a few drops of cream or beef-tea, not more than about \ tea-spoonful. Form the mix- ture into small balls the size of a marble, place them in a frying pan that has been made hot and greased with a little butter, and shake them over a good heat until the outside only has lost its red colour. The inside must remain quite raw, in fact sometimes even the outside browning is prohibited. Probable cost, 4d. 2540. Stewed Calf’s Foot 1 calf’s foot. J pt. milk and water. A small bunch of herbs. 2 sticks of celery. Rind of J lemon. | oz. butter, f oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. Wash the foot, cut it in pieces, and blanch it. Then put it into a lined saucepan with equal quan- tities of milk and water to cover it, and add a small bunch of herbs, the thinly peeled rind of £ lemon, 1 or 2 sticks of celery cut in small pieces, and a little salt. Put the lid on the pan, and cook slowly until the flesh slips away easily from the bone of the foot. Then strain, and cut the flesh in small pieces. Now melt the butter in a clean saucepan, and stir in the flour; pour on a cupful of the liquid in which the foot was cooked, and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the chopped parsley and pieces of foot; cook a few minutes longer, and serve very hot. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 8d. 2541. Stewed Chicken \ a chicken. | pt. water or white stock. 1 stick of celery. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. Cut the chicken into neat joints. Remove as much of the skin as possible, and wipe the pieces with a damp cloth. Put them into a small lined stewpan, with enough water or white stock to cover them—about 1 pint. Add pepper and salt, and a small stick of celery well washed and brushed, and cut into shreds, or, if not in season, use celery salt or celery seed. A small slice of onion may be used instead of celery. Put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until the meat is tender. When sufficiently cooked, lift the joints ;<fut on to a hot dish, and keep them warm. Put the arrowroot into a small basin, and break it with a little cold water. Add this to the stock in the pan, stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolk of egg, but do not boil again. The sauce should be thick enough to coat the pieces of chicken, but not too thick. One table-spoonful of cream may be used instead of the yolk of egg, but both may be omitted. Rolls of bacon may be served along with the chicken. Time to stew, 1 to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. to Is. 8d. 2542. Chicken The breast of'a chicken 1 gill new milk. A small blade of mace. Stewed in Milk 1 tea-sp. flour. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. Cut the chicken into small neat pieces, removing the skin. Put these into a jar with the milk, mace, pepper, and salt. Put a lid on the jar, or tie a piece of white greased paper over it, and place it in a saucepan with enough hot water to reach half- way up the sides. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently from 1 to 2 hours, or until the chicken feels quite tender. If the water boils down, more must be added. When sufficiently cooked, lift out the pieces of chicken on to a plate, and keep them hot. Pour the milk into a saucepan, and remove the mace from it. Break the flour with a little cold milk in a basin, and add it to the milk in the pan. Stir over the fire until it boils and thickens, and add more seasoning if necessary. Stir in the butter or one table-spoonful cream at the last. Pour this sauce over the pieces of chicken, to coat them nicely. Small rolls of bacon may be served round the dish. Time to cook, 1 to 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. to 1$. 3d. 2543. Steamed Fillets of Chicken Cut the fillets from the breast of a chicken, remove the skin, and season them with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Now place them on a well-greased plate (a deepish plate is best), cover them with greased paper, and put a lid or second plate on the top. Stand this over a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and cook steadily until the chicken is tender. Serve on a clean dish with the juice which has run from the chickenINVALID COOKERY 537 poured round it. Hard dry toast or thin bread and butter separately. Note.—Be careful to use the best butter. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 4d. 2544. Chicken Cream J lb. breast of chicken. £ gill cream. Seasoning. Use uncooked chicken for this, and have it as tender as possible. Weigh it free from skin and bone, shred it finely with a knife, then pound it well in a mortar, and rub it through a wire sieve. Season to taste and mix it with the cream lightly whipped. Put the mixture into a well-greased cup or small basin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully, and garnish with a sprig of parsley and a few sippets of toast. Note.—A veal cream may be made in the same way. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. 2545. Chicken Custard Make in the same way as Fish Custard (Recipe 2525), adding 1 large table-spoonful raw pounded and sieved chicken to the custard instead of the fish. Serve with small fingers of buttered toast or with a little good gravy poured round. 2546. Chicken Mince J lb. uncooked chicken. | oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 gill milk or stock. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Sippets of toast. Choose the most tender part of the chicken, the breast if possible, and weigh it free from skin and bone. Shred it down finely or cut it in tiny dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan or earthenware casserole, put in the prepared chicken, and cook it a few minutes over the fire without allowing it to brown. Mix in the flour, and then add the stock or milk gradually. Season to taste, cover the sauce- pan, and allow the contents to simmer slowly until tender. Then remove it from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve at once garnished with small sippets of toast, or with boiled rice. Note.—Minced game may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, | to § hour. Probable cost, Is. 2547. Chicken or Veal Panada J lb. breast of chicken, 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. or | lb. fillet of veal. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. cold water. Wipe the meat, and cut it into small pieces free from fat and skin. Put it into a cup or small basin, with a pinch of salt and the cold water. Tie over it a piece of greased white paper, and steam slowly from 1 to 1£ hours. Then lift out, and put the con- tents of the basin into a mortar; pound well, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Put the sieved mixture into a saucepan, add the cream, and heat through. This may be served on a piece of toast, or even cold. If considered too rich, use a little more water in the cooking, and omit the cream. Time to cook, 1 to 1£ hours. Probable cost— veal, 6d.; chicken. Is. to Is. 6d. 2548. Steamed Chop 1 mutton chop. A pich of salt. A little butter. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth. Trim off most of the fat, and make it as neat in shape as possible. Grease a plate with a little butter, place it over a pan half full of boiling water, and put the chop on it. Sprinkle it with a little salt, cover with a piece of greased paper, and then with a basin or saucepan hd. Keep the water underneath fast boiling, that there may be sufficient steam, and, if it boils away too much, add more. Cook from 15 to 20 minutes, then turn the chop, and cook about the same length of time on the other side. Serve at once, along with any juice that has run from it. Note.—This is one of the most digestible ways of cooking a chop for an invalid. It is more deli- cate in flavour than one broiled or fried. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2549. Mutton Chop in Paper Choose a loin chop, trim it neatly, and season with salt. Grease one of the special cookery bags sold for the purpose, place the chop in it and seal up securely. Or, grease a heart-shaped piece of white paper, lay the chop on one half of it, fold Mutton Chop in Paper over and twist the two edges together. Put it on a grid shelf or little wire stand in a hot oven and cook about 15 minutes. When ready, open the bag or paper, and place the chop on a hot plate. This is one of the best ways of cooking a chop for an invalid. A piece of steak may be cooked in the same way. 2550. Mutton Chop in Paste 1 mutton chop. I Paste—2 table-sps. flour, A pinch of salt. | a little cold water. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth. Trim it neatly, removing most of the fat, and sprinkle with a little salt. Make a stiff paste with the flour and water. Slightly flour a baking board, turn this paste on to it, and roll with a floured rolling-pin until thin. Place the chop in the centre, and fold it up in the paste, sealing the joins of the paste with a little water. Bake in a moderate oven, about | hour. To serve it, remove the crust; lift out the chop onCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 538 to a hot plate, and pour round it any juice that may have run from it. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. 2551. Steamed Mutton and Rice 1 mutton chop. 1 gill of cold water. 1 tea-sp. whole rice. 1 small stick of celery. A pinch of salt. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth, and trim off nearly all the fat. Put it into a jar or basin, with the salt, water, and rice well washed. Wash and brush the celery, removing any brown parts from it; cut it into fine shreds, and put it in along with the chop, &c. Cover all with a lid or strong piece of greased white paper. Place the jar or basin in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half- way up the sides; put the lid on the pan, and steam slowly until tender. If the water boils down, more must be added. When ready, lift the chop on to a hot plate, and pour the rice, &c., round it. Note.—The celery may be omitted in this recipe, and the jar containing the chop may be placed in a moderate oven instead of in a saucepan of boiling water. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Probable cost, 6d. 2552. Stewed Pigeon 1 pigeon. A little butter. J pt. light stock. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. flour. Prepare and clean the pigeon, and carefully truss it as for roasting (Recipe 1168). Melt a small piece of butter or a little bacon fat in a stewpan, put the pigeon into it and keep turning it over and over until nicely browned on all sides. Then pour away any fat that may be left, and add the stock. Season to taste, and put the lid on the pan. Stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the bird is tender, turning it once or twice during the cook- ing and removing any scum that may rise. The time will depend on the kind of pigeon. When ready, lift it on to a hot dish, pour some of the gravy round, and garnish with parsley or a little watercress. Time to stew, 1 to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 2553. Quails with Spinach Roast two little quails as directed on p. 303, and have ready prepared some nicely cooked spinach and two small rounds of well-made toast. Pile the Quails on Toast spinach neatly in the centre of a hot dish, place the rounds of toast at the sides and then the quails on the top with the feet crossed over the spinach in the centre. Serve very hot. 2554. Rabbit Stewed in Milk i a young rabbit. 1 gill new milk. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. flour. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. Proceed in exactly the same way as for chicken stewed in milk (Recipe 2542), except that the joints of rabbit, after being well washed, must be blanched —that is, put on in a saucepan with cold water to cover them, brought to the boil, and the water poured away. Then rinse them in fresh cold water, and they are ready for putting into the jar with the milk, &c. This makes the meat a much whiter colour, and takes away some of the strong flavour. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, Gd. to 8d. 2555. Stewed Sweetbread 1 calf’s sweetbread. Cold water. 1 tea-cupful light stock, ltea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. cream or 1 yolk of egg. Choose a very fresh heart sweetbread, throw it into cold water, and let it soak for an hour. Then put it into a saucepan with fresh cold water, bring to the boil, and boil for 3 minutes. Throw the sweetbread again into cold water, pull away from it all skin and fat, and break it in small pieces. This preliminary preparation makes the sweet- bread white. When ready, put the prepared pieces into a small stewpan or earthenware casserole, pour in the stock and add any seasoning desired. Simmer very slowly until tender, removing any scum that may rise. Then lift out the pieces of sweetbread and keep them warm. Break the corn- flour with a little cold water, and add it to the stock in the pan. Stir until boiling and cook for a few minutes. Add the cream and parsley, cook 2 minutes longer, and then pour this sauce over the sweetbread. If a yolk of egg is used instead of cream, the sauce must not boil after it is added. The dish may be garnished with a few sippets of toast. Note.—Lambs’ sweetbreads may be cooked in the same way; they will take a shorter time to cook. Time to cook, 1 to l£ hours. Cost uncertain. 2556. Stewed Tripe £ lb. prepared tripe. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-cupful tripe liquor. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. Prepare the tripe as directed on p. 223, remove it from the liquid in which it has cooked, and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a small stewpan, when melted add the flour and mix until smooth. Add the liquor from the tripe (the liquid in which it was cooked) and the milk, and stir until boiling. Put in the pieces of tripe, and add salt and a little white pepper to taste. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to simmer at least a quarter of an hour. Serve very hot, and garnish with some neat pieces of toast. Note.—A little cream added to the above will be found an improvement, and, if preferred, 2 table-spoonfuls fresh tomato puree may be used instead of the milk.INVALID COOKERY 539 Other Meat Dishes In addition to the recipes given above, many of the dishes in the Meat and Poultry sections would be suitable for invalids; the flavourings can always be modified to suit special requirements. Among other recipes the following might be consulted : Grilled Chop or Steak, Veal or Chicken Quenelles; Chicken, Veal, or Rabbit Cream; Roast Chicken or Game, Boiled Fowl, Broiled Chicken or Game, Stewed or Steamed Pigeon, Boiled Rabbit, Baked Tripe; Tripe with Onions, Oysters, or Tomatoes; Mutton Cutlets, Grilled Minced Steak, Steamed Mutton or Veal, Chicken Souffle, Fricassee of Chicken, Calf’s Brains, Calf’s Feet, Sweetbreads, &c. PART IV PUDDINGS AND SWEETS FOR INVALIDS For Milk Puddings, which are nearly all suitable for invalids, see p. 390. The egg may always be omitted if desired, because, although the pudding may be more nourishing with the egg, it is not always so digestible. In any case the white of egg should be beaten up separately from the yolk, as this intro- duces air into the pudding and makes it lighter. The flavourings used must always be of the simplest, such as grated lemon or orange rind, lemon or orange juice, grated nutmeg or cinnamon, a bay-leaf or piece of vanilla pod. Essences should as a rule be avoided. Avoid making the puddings too sweet or too firm in texture. ^ Jellies are nearly always acceptable to invalids, as they are cooling and easily taken. They must on no account be stiff, but should melt easily in the mouth and require no mastication. Although jelly made from calf’s feet is very delicate in flavour, it is a mistake to think that it is more nourishing than that which is made from gelatine, and provided a pure form of gelatine can be procured, there is really no occasion to take this extra trouble, unless it is specially wanted. Whether the jelly is made from stock made from a foot or from gela- tine, these in themselves are of little or no value, but rather a vehicle for conveying other forms of nourishment or restoratives. The French sheet gelatine is to be recommended for making jellies. It dissolves easily and has little taste. Isinglass, which is also used for stiffen- ing purposes, is the purest form of gelatine. 2557. Buttered Apples 2 apples. I oz. butter. | A pinch of ground cin- £ oz. sugar. [ namon. Choose good sound apples. Peel them, cut them in halves, and remove the cores. Arrange them in a fireproof dish, well greased with. some of the butter, and sprinkle with sugar and a little powdered cin- namon or grated lemon rind. Place the remainder of the butter in small pieces on the top, cover with greased paper or another dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are soft and lightly coloured. Time to cook, \ to f hour. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 2558. Apple Cream 2 baked apples. I A squeeze of lemon juice i gill of double cream. | Sugar to taste. Remove the pulp from two baked apples, rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath, and put the pulp into a basin. Add to it the cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, and sweeten to taste with castor sugar. Beat this well for a few minutes, and serve in a small glass dish. A few ratafia crumbs may be sprinkled over the top. Note.—Custard may be used instead of cream. Probable cost, 4d. 2559. Water Arrowroot £ oz. arrowroot. £ pt. cold water. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Put the arrowroot into a small basin, add to it a table-spoonful of the cold water, and break it with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Then pour on the rest of the water, mix well, and pour into a small lined saucepan. Stir this over the fire until it boils and thickens, and then let it boil from 7 to 10 minutes longer, to thoroughly cook the arrow- root. Sweeten to taste, and serve in a cup or small basin. A little nutmeg may be grated over the top of it, and wine or cream added as desired. Note.—It is not sufficient to break the arrowroot with a little cold water, and then to pour boiling water on to it until it turns clear. This only half cooks the arrowroot, and might prove most in- jurious to the patient, besides being so sticky that it is most disagreeable to take. Buy the best arrowroot. Some of the cheap arrowroots are not wholesome. 2560. Arrowroot Made with Milk J oz. arrowroot. £ pt. milk. | tea-sp. sugar. Prepare in exactly the same way as water arrow- root, using milk instead of water. 2561. Baked Bananas Wash the bananas and cut off the ends. Put them on a tin or dish in the oven, and bake them until the skin bursts open like a baked apple. Serve hot with sugar and cream. A little lemon juice may be sprinkled over the bananas if they are found wanting in taste. 2562. Bananas and Cream Peel one or two bananas, and cut them in very thin slices with a silver knife. Dust them over lightly with castor sugar, and arrange in a small glass or china dish. Add the juice of half an orange, or, if it is allowed, a little wine or liqueur, such as noyeau or kirsch. Cover and set in a cool place about 15 minutes. Then whip 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream until thick, sweeten to taste, and pile this on the top of the bananas. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 540 2563. Banana Custard Pudding 1 or 2 bananas. Sugar. Grated lemon rind. 1 tea-cupful of milk. 1 egg- A little butter. Peel and slice the bananas with a silver knife. Lay them at the foot of a greased pie dish, and sprinkle with sugar and grated lemon rind. Beat the egg in a small basin with the milk, and strain over the bananas. Put some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2564. A Light Batter Pudding 1 table-sp. flour. I A pinch of salt. | table-sp. suet. 1 egg. | 2 table-sps. milk. Mix the flour smoothly with the egg, and beat well until full of air bubbles. Add the suet very finely chopped, and thin down with the milk to the consistency of thinnish cream. Allow the mix- ture to stand for J hour if possible, then pour into a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned and well risen. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 2c?. or 3c?. 2565. Beef Tea Pudding 1 gill of beef tea. I 1 table - sp. bread- 1 egg. I crumbs. Beat up the egg with the beef tea. Put the bread- crumbs into a small greased pie dish, and pour the beef tea and egg over them. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and let the pudding stand about 10 minutes, until the bread-crumbs are thoroughly soaked. Then bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Serve hot. Time to bake, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 6c?. 2566. Chocolate Cream 2 oz. grated chocolate. I 1 gill double cream. 2 table-sps. water. j Put the chocolate into a saucepan with the water, and stir over the fire until dissolved, and cool slightly. Whip the cream until thick, and add the chocolate to it. Mix well, and sweeten if necessary. Serve in a small glass or china dish. Probable cost, 6c?. 2567. Cornflour Charlotte 4 or 5 finger biscuits. £ pt. milk. 1 level table-sp. corn- flour. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. butter. A few drops vanilla. Bed-currant jelly. Take a good-sized mug or a jam pot with straight sides, and grease the bottom with salad oil or melted butter. Then line the sides with finger biscuits split and neatly trimmed, fitting them closely together. Put most of the milk on to boil with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the remainder of the milk, and add it to the rest. Stir over the fire until boiling, and cook for a few minutes ; add sugar and vanilla or any other flavouring to taste. Cool Blightly, and then pour into the lined mould. Set aside until cold, then turn out and decorate the top with a little red-currant or other bright-coloured jelly. Notes.—Arrowroot or rice flour may be used in- stead of the cornflour. A table-spoonful of cream or the yolk of an egg may be added instead of the butter. Probable cost, 6d. 2568. Custard Pudding (Steamed) 1 egg. 1 tea-cupful milk. A little sugar. Beat up the egg with' the milk, add sugar to taste, and strain into a greased cup or basin. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, and steam very slowly until set. Turn out carefully, and serve plain or with a little cream. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 3c?. 2569. Fig Mould J lb. figs. 1 gill water. I i lemon. A little sugar. | J oz. gelatine. Wash the figs and, if time permits, allow them to soak an hour in the water. Then put them into a saucepan along with the water, add the grated rind and juice of | lemon, and stew slowly until the figs are quite soft. Lift out the figs and cut them in small pieces, removing the stalks. Dis- solve the gelatine in the liquid, adding a little water if it has become too thick. Strain this over the figs, and pour all into a wetted mould. When set, turn out and serve with cream. Probable cost, 4c?. 2570. Invalid Fruit Tart A lc?. sponge cake, or 2 finger biscuits. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. $ gill of milk. 1 large apple. 2 table-sps. water. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Stew the apple with the water and sugar until soft, and put it at the foot of a small greased pie dish. Cut the sponge cake or finger biscuits in slices, and place them on the top. Separate the yolk from the white of the egg. Beat up the yolk in a basin -with the milk, and pour it over the sponge cake. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, and then bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Have the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, add the tea-spoonful of sugar to it, and pile it on the top of the pudding. Return to the oven until the white is set and very lightly brown; then lift out, and sprinkle with sugar. Note.—Any other stewed fruit may be used instead of apples. Probable cost, 4c?. or 5c?. 2571. Prune Souffle J lb. cooked prunes. I 1 table-sp. castor sugar. 2 eggs. I 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. The prunes should be well cooked. Drain them from any syrup, remove the stones, and cut them in four pieces. Put the sugar and yolks into a basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until of a pale creamy consistency. Add the lemon juice (a little wine or liqueur may be used instead of this) and prunes, and mix them well in. Then beat up the whites of the two eggs to a very still froth, andINVALID COOKERY 541 stir them in as lightly as possible to the other mix- ture. Pour all into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve it as soon as taken from the oven. Time to cook,15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2572. Rice Cream 1 tea-cupful cooked rice. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. Sugar to taste. 1 tea-sp. sherry or other flavouring. Take some rice that has been well cooked in milk (the remains of a rice pudding will do), sweeten to taste, and add the flavouring. Then stir in some whipped cream very lightly and serve it cold, piled up on a little fancy plate. Stewed fruit may be served separately if wished. 2573. Rusk Pudding 1 or two rusks (un- I 1 gill of milk. 1 egg. sweetened). I 1 tea-sp. sugar. Grease a small pie dish, and half fill it with broken rusks. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork, add the sugar and milk to it, and beat again. Strain this over the rusk in the pie dish, covering it well. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and allow the pudding to stand for 10 minutes, until the rusk is thoroughly soaked. Bake in a moderate oven until firm and nicely browned. Serve hot, with a little cream if liked. This makes an ex- ceedingly light and simple pudding. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2M. 2574. Savoury Custard (Steamed) 1 egg. \ gill beef tea. Break the egg into a small basin or cup, remove the speck from it, and beat up with a fork. Add to it the beef tea, hot or cold, and more seasoning if necessary. Mix well together, and pour into a well-greased cup or basin. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, and steam very gently, until it is firm to the touch. If steamed too quickly, it will be full of little holes. Let it stand for a minute or two before turning out, and serve hot or cold. This may be baked instead of steamed, and a good meat stock used instead of beef-tea. Time to steam, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2575. A Simple Cream 1 gill cream. 1 gill milk. I Flavouring. A little sugar. I J oz. Isinglass. Put the milk and isinglass into a small lined saucepan, and add some flavouring, a little thinly- peeled lemon rind, a bay-leaf, or a small piece of vanilla pod. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire, and allow it to remain until the milk is flavoured and the isinglass dissolved. Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Then strain into a basin. Add the cream, sweeten to taste, and stir now and again until nearly cold, as this will prevent the cream resting on the top. Pour into a wetted mould and place in a cool place until set. Turn out when required. A little red-currant, apple, or other jelly may be served separately. Probable cost, 6d. 2576. Bran Jelly 1 cupful bran. 2 cupfuls water. Juice of £ lemon. Put the bran and water into a covered jar, and cook slowly in the oven for 4 or 5 hours. Then strain, pressing the bran well, and add the lemon juice. Pour into a clean dish and set aside to cool. Note.—A sour apple, peeled and cut in small pieces, may be cooked with the bran. The lemon juice would not then be required. 2577. Bread Jelly 1 slice of bread. | 1 tea-sp. sugar. | pt. cold water. [ 1 table-sp. cream. Toast the bread on both sides until dry and brown. Cut off the crusts, and break it into small pieces. Put it into a small lined saucepan with the cold water, and let it simmer over the fire until it becomes a jelly, adding more water if necessary. When cooked sufficiently, stir in a table-spoonful of cream or milk, and sweeten and flavour to taste with lemon or nutmeg. Serve hot or cold. Note.—A yolk of egg may be used instead of milk or cream, and wine or brandy added if required. 2578. Egg Jelly 2 lemons. 2 eggs. I i oz. gelatine. | pt. water. | 2 oz. sugar. Wash the lemons, peel ofi the yellow rind very thinly and put it into a saucepan with the water, gelatine, and sugar. Simmer by the side of the fire until the gelatine is melted and some flavour extracted from the rind, stirring occasionally to pre- vent the gelatine sticking to the saucepan. Beat up the eggs in a basin and pour the gelatine, &c., slowly on to them, stirring all the time. Add the lemon juice and strain through muslin. Then set aside to cool. Note.—A little wine or brandy is sometimes added to this jelly. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. 2579. Farinaceous Jelly 1 oz. pearl barley. 1 oz. whole rice. 1 oz. small sago. 2 pts. cold water. 1 oz. sugar. Rind and juice of | a lemon. Wash and blanch the barley, by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, pour the water off, and then rinse it. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the barley to it, with the rice and sago both well washed. Pour on the cold water, and add the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, skim- ming when necessary; then strain, and add the lemon juice and sugar. When cold, this will be a jelly, and very nourishing and refreshing. A little cream may be served with it. It can also be served hot as a drink. 2580. Irish Moss Jelly 1 oz. Irish moss. [ Lemon juice. 1 qt. cold water. | Sugar. Make in the same way as Irish Moss Drink (Recipo 2610), using a smaller proportion of water. Pour542 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD into a wetted mould and set aside until cold. A little cream may be served with the jelly. Note.—Wine may be added if wished. 2581. Irish Moss Blancmange 1 oz. Irish moss. | Sugar to taste. 1 qt. milk. | Lemon rind. S. Prepare in the same way as Irish Moss Jelly, using milk instead of water, and lemon rind boiled with it instead of lemon juice. Note.—Wine may be added if liked. 2582. Milk Jelly 1 ox foot, or 1 calf’s foot. I 1 pt. milk. 1 bay-leaf. 2 oz. sugar. | Rind of £ lemon. Prepare and blanch the foot in the same way as for Calf’s Foot Jelly (Recipe 1969). Put the pieces into a jar with the other ingredients, and steam from 5 to 6 hours until the meat will slip easily off the bones. Strain, and set aside till cold. Remove any grease from the top, and it is ready to serve. Notes.—The pieces of foot may afterwards be rinsed and put into the stock pot, or they may be used for a dish of stewed cow heel. Gelatine may be used instead of the ox foot, 1 oz. being sufficient for the above quantity. Place it in a jar with the other ingredients, and stand in hot water until dissolved, stirring occasionally. Then strain. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Probable cost. Id. 2583. Prune Jelly J lb. prunes. I 2 oz. sugar. | pt. water. 4 lemon. I £ oz. gelatine. Prepare and cook the prunes with the water, lemon, and sugar, as in Recipe 2099. Dissolve the gelatine in a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water or prune juice. Sieve the prunes with their juice into a basin, and strain in the gelatine. Mix well, pour into small moulds or cups that have been wet with cold water, and set aside to cool. Turn out when required, and serve with or without cream. Note.—Remains of cold cooked prunes may be used for this dish, but they must be re-heated or the gelatine would not mix properly with the sieved mixture. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. Other Invalid Puddings Besides the above recipes, many of the dishes given in the Pudding and Sweets sections of the book are suitable for invalids, such as the following : All the Simple Milk Puddings, Batter Pudding, Cabinet Pudding, Caramel Custard, Caramel Rice, Caramel Semolina, Apple Amber Pudding, Bird’s Nest Pudding, Bread-crumbland Marmalade Pudding, French Pancakes, Queen of Puddings, Swiss Apple Pudding, Apple Souffle, Banana Souffle, Orange Souffle, Semolina Souffle, Sweet Omelet, Apple Whips, Blancmange, Danish Fruit Jelly, Dutch Flummery, Devonshire Junket, Gooseberry Fool, Honeycomb Mould, Lemon or Orange Mould, Tapioca Custard Cream. Also most of the Jellies, Sponges, and Simple Creams, and Fruit Compotes, &c. PART V DRINKS AND MISCELLANEOUS INVALID DISHES 2584. Albumen or. Egg Water 1 white of egg. 1 gill of water. Mix the white of egg and water together without beating. Strain through muslin, and add sugar or salt. This is a very nutritive solution, which may be added to different drinks. 2585. Almond Milk 1 oz. sweet almonds. Orange-flower or rose 2 bitter almonds. water. \ pt. water. Blanch the almonds in order to remove the brown skin. Chop them finely on a board, and pound them in a mortar with a little rose or orange- flower water. Then put them into a jug with the water, cover and stand 12 hours, stirring occasion- ally. Strain, and add sugar if wished. This i3 used to dilute barley water and other drinks, and to give flavour. Time, 12 hours. Probable cost, 2d. 2586. Apple Water, 1 2 large apples. 3 or 4 lumps of sugar. Rind and juice of £ 1 pt. boiling water, lemon. Select juicy apples with a sharp flavour, and wash them well, but do not peel them. Cut them in thin slices, and put them into a jug. Add to them the sugar, and the thinly peeled rind and juice of \ a lemon. Have the water freshly boiling, and pour it over them. Cover, and stand till cold. Then strain, and it is ready for serving. Probable cost, 2d. 2587. Apple Water, 2 2 large apples. I Rind of J a lemon. 1 pt. cold water. I 1 oz. sugar. Wash the apples and cut them in thin slices without peeling them. Put them into a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and thinly peeled rind of \ a lemon. Boil gently for an hour, until the fruit is soft. Then strain through muslin, and cover until cold. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, 2d. 2588. Barley Meal Gruel 1 dessert-sp. barley A small piece of butter. meal. Sugar, or salt. | pt. milk. Mix the milk very gradually with the meal, stir- ring until quite smooth. Take a small lined sauce- pan, rinse it out with cold water, and porn: the barley and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire until boiling, and boil from 5 to 7 minutes. Season to taste with salt or sugar, and stir in a small piece of butter at the last. Serve very hot.INVALID COOKERY 543 Notes.—The gruel may be made thicker or thinner according to taste, and a little cream may be served with it. Water may be used instead of milk, and wine or brandy added as required. A very good drink can be made by making the gruel with water, rather thick ; then thinning it down with port wine. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Barley gruel makes a change from the ordinary oatmeal gruel, and is very nourishing. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 2d 2589. Barley Water (Clear) 2 table-sps. pearl barley. I Sugar. 2 cupfuls boiling water. | £ lemon. Wash and blanch the barley as in last recipe. Then put it into a jug, and pour the boiling water over. Add the rind and juice of the lemon and a little sugar if wished. Cover over, stand until cold, and strain ready for use. Probable cost, ljd 2590. Barley Water (Thick) 2 table-sps. pearl barley. I water. J lemon. 2 breakfast-cupfuls cold ( Sugar. Wash the barley, put it into the lined saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring quickly to the boil, strain and rinse the barley. This whitens it and prevents the drink having a dark and cloudy appearance. Put the barley back into the sauce- pan with the 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water and rind of the \ lemon peeled off very thinly. Allow this to cook slowly by the side of the fire from 1J to 2 hours, adding more water if necessary. Then strain, add the lemon juice and a little sugar if wished. Serve hot or cold. Note.—This is considered a very light and nour- ishing drink, and having no decided taste is usually a favourite with invalids. It is often mixed with milk, the lemon in this case being omitted. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Probable cost, l|d 2591. Barley Water (from “ Patent ” Barley) 1 dessert-sp. Robinson’s “ Patent ” barley. J tea-cupful cold water. 1 qt. boiling water. Lemon juice. Sugar to taste. This barley water is more quickly made than the above. Robinson’s “ Patent ” barley is in the form of a powder, and is bought ready prepared in tins. Mix the barley to a smooth paste with the cold water. Then have ready on the fire a quart of freshly boiling water in a scrupulously clean lined saucepan; add the barley to it, and stir over the fire for 5 minutes. Add lemon juice to taste and sugar if desired. Simmer a minute or two longer, and strain ready for use. This makes a very refreshing drink. Note.—If a more nourishing drink is required or an invalid, use a larger quantity of the barley. 2592. Black Currant Drink 1 dessert-sp. black- currant jam. £ pt. boiling water. A squeeze juice. A little sugar. of lemon Put all the ingredients into a jug, and stir well. Cover over and stand by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes. Strain through a fine strainer or piece of muslin, and serve as a remedy for a cold. 2593. Bran Tea table-sps. bran. I A small piece of butter. 1 pt. cold water. ] £ table-sp. honey. Put the bran into a saucepan with the cold water, bring to the boil, and simmer for 10 minutes. Be careful it does not boil over. Then add the honey, and when dissolved strain. The butter may be added at the last, or it may be omitted. This is a remedy for hoarseness. Time to cook, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 2594. Camomile Tea 4 to 6 camomile flowers. 1 cupful boiling water. Put the camomile into a small teapot, pour on the boiling water, and infuse by the side of the fire for 10 minutes. Or it may be infused in a cup covered with a saucer. Pour off or strain, and serve with sugar. Note.—This is a very soothing drink and is good for sleeplessness. Time to infuse, 10 minutes. Probable cost, \d. 2595. Caudle 1 cupful gruel. I A pinch of nutmeg. 1 glass sherry. 1 egg. | Sugar. Beat up the egg with a fork, removing the speck, and add the sherry. Make the gruel boiling hot, and pour it on to the egg and wine very gradually, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, and if liked a little nutmeg. Serve very hot. Probable cost, 4d. 2596. Cocoa from the Nibs 2 oz. cocoa nibs. 3 cupfuls cold water. Slightly crush the nibs and put them into a jug with the cold water. Cover and stand overnight. Next day pour the contents of the jug into a clean saucepan, and simmer very gently from 3 to 4 horns. Add more water if necessary, and strain when ready. Allow the liquid to cool, remove any fat from the top, and re-heat as required. This preparation of cocoa is much clearer and more refreshing than the ordinary cocoa, although the flavour is somewhat peculiar. Milk and sugar may be served with it. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours after soaking. Prob- able cost. Id to 2d. 2597. Coffee or Tea with Egg Beat up a fresh egg in a cup or basin; and strain it into a breakfast cup. Pour hot tea or coffee slowly on to it, stirring all the time. A little hot milk may also be added if wished, and sugar to taste. 2598. Egg with Cream and Brandy Beat up the white of an egg to a stiffish froth. Put it into a glass and add 1 table-spoonful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Mix well and sweeten to taste. Probable cost, 3d 2599. Egg Drink 1 egg. I 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 tea-sp. sugar. | 1 tea-cupful of milk. Break the egg, and remove the speck. Add to it the wine and sugar, and beat together with a544 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD fork, but do not make them too frothy. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and, when almost boiling, pour it on to the egg, &c., stirring all the time. Serve hot. Note.—The wine may be omitted. The yolk of egg only may be used, and soda water instead of milk. Probable cost, 3d. 2600. Egg Flip 1 white of egg. 1 gill hot milk. A little sugar. Beat up the white of egg to a white froth, but do not make it too stiff. Put it into a tumbler and pour the hot milk gradually on to it, stirring all the time. A little sugar may be added if wished, or, if preferred, a pinch of salt or a pinch of pepper. Probable cost, l^d. 2601. Egg Nog 1 egg. 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put the yolk of egg and sugar into a small basin and mix them together until of a creamy consis- tency. Then add the wine, and lastly the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Mix lightly but thoroughly, and serve in a glass. Brandy or rum may be used instead of the sherry. 2602. Egg and Rum 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 table-sp. rum. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 yolk of egg. Put the yolk of egg, rum, sugar, salt, and nutmeg into a cup or small basin, and beat them together with a fork. Add the milk, either warm or cold, and mix all together. Pour into a tumbler and serve. This is very good in cases of exhaustion. Probable cost, 2\d. 2603. Milk Gruel 1 table-sp. oatmeal. I A good pinch of salt or J pt. milk. I 1 tea-sp. sugar. Tut the oatmeal and milk into a basin, and mix them together. Cover the basin with a plate or piece of paper, and let it stand at least J an horn, stirring now and then. Then strain off the milk into a small lined saucepan, pressing the oatmeal as dry as possible. Stir this over the fire until boiling, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. If too thick, a little more milk may be added. Season with salt or sugar according to taste. A small piece of butter may also be added at the last, and wine or brandy if desired. Gruel must be served very hot. Note.—Oatmeal powder may be used instead of the ordinary oatmeal, in this case the gruel would be made as in Recipe 2588. Probable cost, 2d. 2604. Water Gruel Make in the same way as milk gruel (see above), using water instead of milk. A little cream may be served with the gruel. 2605. Beef-tea Gruel 1 table-sp. fine oatmeal. 1 1 gill beef-tea. 1 gill of cold water or milk I Salt. Make the gruel with the oatmeal and water, or milk, as above. When cooked, add to it the beef- tea, and stir until quite hot, but do not boil again. Season to taste, and serve hot. Time to cook, 10 minutes after soaking. Prob- able cost, 4d. 2606. Gum Arabic Milk 1 oz. gum arabic. | 2 table-sps. warm water. £ pt. milk. I Only the best picked gum arabic must be used. Soak it first in the water for several hours, then boil the milk and pour it on to it. Put all into a jug or jar, and stand in a saucepan of hot water until the gum is quite dissolved. Add sugar or salt, and a little flavouring, if liked. Strain before using. Probable cost, 2d. 2607. Gum Arabic Water 1 oz. gum arabic. 1 pt. water. 2 oz. sugar candy. Put all in a jar, and place in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir occasionally until dissolved, and strain before using. Serve hot, to relieve a cough or tickling of the throat. 2608. Ice, To Keep and Serve. Ice should be kept wrapped in a clean piece of flannel and put in a colander placed over a basin, so that the water can drain off as the ice melts. It should not be exposed to the air, neither should it be allowed to soak in water, or it will waste quickly. Only the purest ice must be given to an invalid, and, when being bought, the purpose for which it is required should be stated. To break it, pierce it with an ordinary hat-pin, strong darn- ing needle or ice pick. Ice should be given to a patient in very small pieces and in a silver tea- spoon. Tie a piece of muslin over a glass or tea- cup and place a few pieces on the top, or use a small tea strainer. 2609. Iceland Moss This can be used in the same way as Irish moss. Iceland moss is a lichen, which grows on barren rocks, principally in northern latitudes. It con- tains an acid which gives it an unpleasantly bitter taste. A pinch of soda added to the water in which it is soaked will help to counteract this. Like Irish moss, it is given to people suffering from chest complaints. 2610. Irish Moss Drink 1 oz. Irish moss. I Lemon juice. 2 qts. cold water. | Sugar. Wash the Irish moss well, and soak it for several hours in cold water. Then lift it out of this water, and put it into a saucepan with the 2 quarts of coldINVALID COOKERY 545 water, and simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours. Strain, and sweeten to taste. Lemon juice may be added if liked. Note.—Irish or Carrageen moss is a sea-weed, and is collected on the northern shores of Ireland. Its nutritive value is considerable; and, from the the jug and set the lemonade aside until cold. Strain oil as required. Note.—If preferred, the lemonade may be made with less water, and soda or potash water added to it when serving, or barley or rice water may be mixed with it. 1. 2. 1. Irish Moss 2. Iceland Moss amount of mucilage it contains, it is used as a remedy in diseases of the chest. It also contains iodine and sulphur. It should be well washed, and soaked for some hours previous to cooking. It can be made either into a drink or a jelly. Irish moss is pleasanter to the taste than Iceland moss. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 3\d. 2611. Koumiss 3 gills new milk. 1 small lump of sugar. German yeast, size of small nut. 4 gill boiling water. [For each pint bottle.) The bottles must be very clean, and the milk as new as possible. Fill the bottles nearly full with the milk and water, and put into each the small piece of yeast and the lump of sugar. Cork them tightly with new corks, and fasten them down very securely with wire. (The corks should be soaked for some time before being used.) Keep the bottles lying on their sides in a warm place, such as a dining-room cupboard, and shake them two or three times a day, for from 4 to 6 days. In cold weather koumiss will take longer to make than in warm. Notes.—Be careful in opening the bottle, or half the contents may be lost. It is very effervescent. Koumiss is a very refreshing drink, and more easily digested than ordinary milk. The water is added as in the case of a champagne tap being used ; the milk without it would be in too large flakes to pass through. Bottles with patent stoppers may be used to avoid the corks and wire. Time to make, 4 to 6 days. Probable cost, 2d. per bottle. 2612. Lemonade 2 lemons. 1 pt. boiling water. 2 or 3 lumps sugar. Choose fresh, juicy lemons, and wash them first in cold water. Peel the rind off one of them very thinly, taking only the outside yellow part, and put it into a jug. Then roll the lemons on the table to soften them, cut them in halves, squeeze out the juice, and strain it into the jug. Add sugar to taste, and pour on the water freshly boiled. Cover 2613. Milk Lemonade Juice of 1 lemon. 1 gill boiling water. 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 gill of milk. I table-sp. sugar. Strain the lemon juice, and add to it the sherry and sugar. Pour on the boiling water, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add the milk cold, and stir until the milk curdles. Strain through a piece of muslin that has been rinsed in warm water, and serve warm or cold. Probable cost, 3d. 2614. Linseed Tea 1 table-sp. whole lin- seed. 1- pt. boiling water. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. Rind and juice of \ a lemon. Put the linseed into a jug with the sugar, the thinly peeled rind of | a lemon, and the juice. Have the water freshly boiled, and pour it over. Cover the jug, let it stand till cold, and then strain. Notes.—If this is wanted thicker, it may be put on with cold water in the same proportions, and slowly boiled for 20 minutes. Add the lemon juice after straining. Do not bruise the linseed, or it will have a bitter taste. If the drink is used for a bad cold, a small piece of liquorice root or sugar candy may be soaked or boiled with it, or half a table-spoonful of honey may be used. Probable cost, 1 \d. 2615. Milk, To Keep and Serve Purity and cleanliness in milk are essential. Every jug or vessel in which it is kept must be carefully washed and well scalded. The best way to buy it is in sealed or closed bottles. Always keep the milk in a cool place and let it be well covered. Milk must never be boiled, but if required hot place the jug or bottle containing it in a saucepan of water ; bring to the boil, and continue the boil- ing until the milk is hot enough. If the milk has to be kept overnight, continue the boiling for 15 minutes. When pure milk is found too heavy, it may be diluted with soda or potash water, or lime water or barley water may be used. The flavour of the milk may be somewhat disguised by adding to it a little strong, clear coffee, or milk tea may be made, if allowed. Or again, it may be given in the form of junket or milk jelly. When a more strengthening drink is required, the milk may be mixed with a little beef-tea, meat essence, or Bovril, or one of the various egg drinks may be made. Milk should always be taken very slowly, and not gulped down. When the digestion is very weak, the doctor may order the milk to be peptonised or pre- digested. This can be done with Fairchild’s Pep- tonising Powders (see directions given on the box 2 MCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 546 containing the powders), or with Benger’s “ Liquor Pancreaticus.” Benger’s Food may be given for a change. Malt, also, in various forms is much used for making milk more digestible. 2616. Milk Tea This is frequently ordered for an invalid, as it is more wholesome and nourishing than ordinary tea. It must, however, be properly prepared. To make 1 breakfast-cupful, allow 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and 1 tea-spoonful good China tea. If a larger quantity is wanted, increase the proportions. First heat a small teapot with boiling water, pour away the water and put in the tea. Heat the milk to boiling point in a small saucepan and pour it over the tea. Cover, and allow it to stand in a warm place for 20 minutes. The side of the stove or a cool oven will do, but the tea must on no account be allowed to boil. Then pour off carefully into another heated teapot or into a breakfast cup, being careful not to disturb the leaves and sediment. Serve at once. By this means the drink contains only the cream and the whey of the milk and the refreshing element of the tea. The casein, which is the heavy part of the milk, combines with the tannin, the bitter element of the tea, and forms a curd which sinks to the bottom of the teapot. Hence the necessity for pouring off the tea carefully. Milk tea, if well made, is perfectly wholesome, and may be given to the most delicate person. 2617. Mulled Wine and Egg I gill water. 1 gill wine. 1 clove. £ inch cinnamon stick. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put the water, clove, and cinnamon into a small lined saucepan, and boil them for 10 minutes. Add the wine, and let the mixture barely reach boiling point. Beat up the egg with the sugar, pour the hot liquid gently over it, and stir well. The pre- paration should be of the consistency of cream. Probable cost, id. to 6d. 2618. Oatmeal Drink Put a large tea-spoonful of fine oatmeal into a tumbler, and mix it smoothly with a little cold water. Then fill up the tumbler with boiling milk or milk and water, stirring all the time. Add salt to taste. 2619. Prune Drink 5 or 6 prunes. 1 pt. cold water. £ oz. sugar. Wash the prunes and cut them in halves. If time permits, soak them for an hour in a pint of cold water. Then put them into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar, and simmer slowly for an hour. Strain and let stand till cold. Note.—This makesa refreshing and excellent drink. A little lemon juice or port wine may be added. Time to cook, I hour. Probable cost, 2d. 2620. Revalenta Gruel 1 tea-sp. revalenta. A pinch of salt. 2 tea-cupfuls milk. A small piece of butter. 1 tea-cupful water. Mix the revalenta smoothly with the water. Put the milk into a saucepan to heat, and, when almost boiling, stir in the revalenta. Simmer slowly for £ hour, stirring frequently. Add sugar or salt to taste, and stir in a small piece of butter at the last. 2621. Rice Milk £ oz. rice. £ pt. milk. Sugar to taste. Wash the rice well, and put it into a small lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water. Pour on the milk, and simmer slowly for an hour until the rice is reduced to a pulp. Be careful the milk does not boil over, and stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Sweeten to taste, and serve hot or cold. Note.—Tapioca or sago may be used in the same way. The crushed tapioca is the best for the purpose. The larger kind, and also sago, would require soaking first. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, ljd. 2622. Rice Water 1 oz. Carolina rice. i £ inch cinnamon stick. 1 pt. cold water. | Well wash the rice, and put it into a small fined pan with the water and cinnamon stick. Simmer it slowly for an hour, then strain, and it is ready for use. It may be served hot or cold. If cold, stir it occasionally while cooling, or it will jelly. A little sugar may be added, if allowed. Notes.—Carolina rice is the best for the purpose, as it contains most starch. A table-spoonful of sherry or port may be mixed with the rice water, if the patient has need of stimulant. A piece of ginger may be boiled with the rice water instead of cinnamon stick. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost. Id. 2623. Rum and Milk £ pt. milk. 1 A pinch of nutmeg. £ glass rum. J Sugar. Make the milk very hot, sweeten to taste, and pour it into a glass. Add the rum and a pinch of nutmeg (if liked) and serve very hot. Probable cost, 3d. 2624. Sago and Port Wine 1 dessert-sp. sago. I 1 glass of port wine. £ pt. cold water. | Sugar to taste. Wash the sago, and soak it for an hour in the cold water. Then put it into a saucepan, and simmer slowly for £ an hour, until it is a clear jelly. If too thick, add more water. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the port wine, but do not boil again. Sweeten to taste, and serve. Note.—Tapioca may be used instead of sago. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 6d. 2625. Suet and Milk £ pt. new milk. I £ to 1 oz. mutton suet. Sugar or salt. : Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, and put into it the milk and suet very finely shred. Simmer slowly by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes, then strain. Add salt or sugar according to taste, and serve warm. Notes.—If time permits, this may be prepared inINVALID COOKERY 547 a double saucepan; it will require a little longer. Sometimes a small piece (£ inch) of stick cinnamon is cooked with the milk, or a little brandy may be added after straining. This suet and milk is very nourishing. A piece of dry toast or biscuit may be served with it. Time, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 2626. Thick Milk, 1 £ oz. flour. \ pt. milk. Sugar to taste. Put the flour into a basin, and add 1 table- spoonful of the milk to it. Stir with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, and then pour on the rest of the milk gradually, mixing well. Pour this into a small lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for 10 minutes, so as to thoroughly cook the flour, and sweeten to taste. Serve hot, adding wine if required. 2627. Thick Milk, 2 £ oz. prepared flour. ^ pt. milk. Sugar to taste. To prepare the flour, tie some tightly in a pudding cloth, and boil for about 4 hours. It will then be a hard ball. Open it out, and grate down as much as is required at one time. Then proceed as in last recipe. 2628. Toast Water 1 slice of stale bread or t 1 pt. cold water. the crust of bread. | - The crust of bread is to be preferred for this, as it does not turn sour so readily. Toast it well on both sides until dry and nicely browned, without being burnt. Have the water, which must be very fresh and cold, in a jug ; break the toast into pieces, and put it into it. (If the water were poured on to the toast it would be thick and not so clear.) Cover the jug, and let the toast remain soaking until the water is the colour of sherry wine. Then strain and serve cold. Note.—This makes a very refreshing drink. A little lemon juice may be added. 2629. Treacle Posset 1 gill of milk. 1 table-sp. treacle. Rinse out a small saucepan, put the milk into it, and bring it to the boil. Add the treacle, and boil up again. The acid of the treacle will curdle the milk. Strain through a piece of muslin, and serve hot for a cold. Time, 5 minutes. Probable cost, 1 d. 26230. Whey 1 pt. new milk. 1 tea-sp. of rennet. Warm the milk in a basin to a lukewarm tempera- ture, or about the beat of new milk, and stir in the rennet. Let it stand in a warm place about 15 minutes, until the curd forms and the whey is quite clear. Then let it cool; break up the curd, and strain oS the whey. 2631. Wine Whey 1 tea-cupful milk. \ glass sherry. A little sugar. Put the milk into a small clean saucepan with a lump of sugar if desired, and bring it to the boil. Add the wine and heat until the milk curdles. Stretch a piece of muslin over a glass or cup and strain the contents of the saucepan through. This keeps back the curd, which is the heaviest part of the milk, and the whey forms a soothing drink which is very easily digested. Time, 5 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2632. Lemon Whey Prepare in the same way as in the last recipe, using 1 table-spoonful of lemon juice instead of the sherry. 2633. Cream Whey This can be made according to either of the two last recipes. Add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream after straining. 2634. Bread and Milk Stale bread. I A pinch of salt. £ pt. milk. | Sugar. Remove the crust from the bread, and cut it into small even-sized pieces, sufficient to half fill a breakfast cup or small basin. Bring the milk to boiling point, add a pinch of salt to it, and pour it over the bread. Cover, and let it stand 5 minutes. Serve very hot. A little sugar may be added to the bread and milk if wished, or it may be served separately. Probable cost, 1 \d. 2635. Egg in Bread Sauce 1 egg- 1 dessert-sp. bread- crumbs. 1 gill of milk. 1 tea-sp. butter. 1 clove. \ blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Put the milk into a small saucepan, and add the bread-crumbs, butter, and seasoning. Cook slowly by the side of the fire for 10 or 15 minutes, and then remove the clove and mace. Pour this sauce into a greased saucer or small dish, break the egg. into the centre of it, and bake in the oven for 5 or 7 minutes, or until the egg is set. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. 2636. Egg Poached in Milk 1 fresh egg. 1 tea-cupful of milk. A pinch of salt. A round of toast, or a shredded wheat bis- cuit. 1 tea-sp. butter. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the milk with a pinch of salt, and bring it almost to boiling point. Then break the egg into a teacup, and slip it very carefully into the hot milk. Poach very gently for 3 or 4 minutes, until set without be- coming hard. Place a neat round of toast or a shredded wheat biscuit on to a hot plate, put the egg on the top, and pour round it some of the milk. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 2Jd.COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 548 2637. Egg in Gravy 1 egg. I or gravy. 2 table-sps. good stock 1 ltable-sp.bread-crumbs Take a small fireproof dish and pour the gravy or stock boiling hot into it. Break in the egg, season to taste, and sprinkle the bread-crumbs on the top. Bake in a good oven about 5 minutes and serve very hot. Time to bake, 5 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 3d. 2638. Prairie Oyster Put into a small cup or glass \ a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt. Then break into it a very fresh egg, and let it be swallowed whole. This is considered one of the lightest ways of serv- ing an egg. If preferred, the yolk only of the egg may be used. 2639. Peptonised Milk | pt. fresh milk. | pt. water. 2 tea-sps. of Liquor pancreaticus. £ a level tea-sp. bi- carbonate of soda. Mix the milk with the water, and warm in a saucepan to a temperature of about 140° Fahrenheit, or as hot as can be tasted without burningthe mouth, or half the milk may be brought to the boil, and then added to the other half cold. Pour into a jug or basin,and stir in the soda and Liquor pancreaticus (Benger’s). Cover over to keep out any dust, and keep in a warm place or under a tea-cosy. In most cases it is best to allow the digestive process to go on from 10 to 20 minutes, according to the degree of peptonisation or predigestion desired. Partially peptonised milk is scarcely distinguishable from ordinary new milk, and it is very much more easily digested. As the process of peptonisation goes on, a slight bitterness is developed which is unobjectionable to many palates. A few trials will indicate the limit most acceptable to the in- dividual patient. As soon as this is reached, the milk, if not required by the patient at once, must be boiled up to prevent the further action of the Liquor pancreaticus. It will then keep like ordin- ary milk. If peptonised milk is consumed as soon as the process is carried far enough, it need not undergo any final boiling. In fact, it is better to use it without boiling, because then the half- finished process of digestion will go on for a time in the stomach. Note.—The practical rule for guidance in pep- tonising milk, or any milk food, is to allow the process to go on until a perceptible bitterness is developed, and not until it is unpleasantly pro- nounced. In peptonising these it is important not to carry the process so far as to render them un- palatable. The extent of the peptonising process can be regulated either by increasing or diminish- ing the quantity of the Liquor pancreaticus, or by increasing or diminishing the time dining which it is allowed to act upon the food. 2640. Peptonised Gruel, Arrowroot, &c. 1 pt. gruel. I 2 tea-sps. Benger’s | Liquor pancreaticus. The gruel should be well boiled, and made very thick in the same way as Water Gruel. Pour into a jug, and let it cool down to a lukewarm temperature, not exceeding 140° Fahrenheit (60° Centigrade). Add to it the Liquor pancreaticus, and mix it well in ; cover the jug, and keep it warm as before. Stand from £ bom to I hour, then bring to the boiling point, and strain. The action of the Liquor pancreaticus on gruel is twofold : the starch of the meal is converted into sugar, and the albuminoid matters are peptonised. The conver- sion of the starch into sugar causes the gruel, however thick it may have been at starting, to become quite thin. Note.—The gruel need not necessarily be made of - oatmeal; it may be prepared from any of the numerous farinaceous articles in common use— such as wheaten flour, arrowroot, sago, pearl barley, tapioca, pea or lentil flour, &c. Whichever is used, it must be thoroughly cooked, and then cooled down before the extract is added to it. 2641. Peptonised Milk Gruel \ pt. thick gruel. 2 tea-sps. Benger’s Liquor pancreaticus. J pt. new milk. A pinch of bi-carbonate of soda. First prepare a good thick gruel from any of the farinaceous articles. Add to the gruel while still boiling hot an equal quantity of cold milk. The mixture will then be of the required temperature. Add the Liquor pancreaticus and the soda in the above proportions. Pour it into a jug, cover over, and keep in a warm place for § an hour. Then boil for a few minutes, and strain. Note.—This is a complete and highly nutritious food for weak digestions. The slight bitterness of the digested milk is almost completely covered in the peptonised milk gruel, and invalids take it much more readily than peptonised milk. 2642. Peptonised Beef-Tea £ lb. lean, juicy beef. I 1 table-sp. of Benger’s 1 pt. cold water. | Liquor pancreaticus. Shred down the meat finely, put it into a lined saucepan with the cold water, and simmer very slowly for H hours. Then pour it into a jug, and let it cool down to a lukewarm temperature not exceeding 140° Fahrenheit. Add to it the Liquor pancreaticus in the above proportions, and stir it well in. Cover the jug, and keep warm for about 2 hours, stirring occasionally. At the end of this time bring it to the boil, and strain off the liquid part ready for use. 2643. Peptonised Beef-tea Jelly \ pt. peptonised beef- I J oz. French sheet gela- tea. | tine, or £ oz. isinglass. Thebeef-teamust first be boiled to stop the pepton- ising process, or the extract would act upon the gelatine and dissolve it also. Then strain it, and return to the saucepan with the above proportion of gelatine or isinglass. Stir over the fire until this is dissolved. Pour into a small mould or basin that has been rinsed out with cold water, and keep in a cool place, or on ice, until set. Then turn out, and serve cold.INVALID COOKERY 549 2644. Peptonlsed Blancmange £ pt. peptonised milk. Flavouring if wished. £ oz. French sheet gela- 2 tea-sps. cream, tine, or £ oz. isinglass. Prepare in the same way as peptonised beef-tea jelly, adding the cream at the last. Instead of using peptonised milk, peptonised milk gruel may be used. Flavouring may be added if thought desirable. 2645. Peptonised Custard Pudding \ pt. peptonised milk I 2 eggs. Sugar to taste, gruel. | Flavouring if desired. Allow the milk gruel to undergo the final boiling. Then let it cool slightly, and add sugar and flavour- ing if desired. Beat the two eggs well, and stir them in. Pour into a greased pie dish, and bake in a slow oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Note.—Malt extract may be used instead of sugar for sweetening purposes.550 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES There is perhaps no branch of cookery where greater care and accuracy are required than in that of cake making, and novices in the art are recommended to follow the instructions to the letter, and not to experi- ment in altering the quantities, or even the mode of procedure, until some experience has been acquired. The handling or manipulation of the cake has a^great deal to do with the lightness of it. Some people seem to have a natural gift for turning out light cakes and pastry, while to others success will only come after much practice. This is especially noticeable in the making of such things as scones and bread, where much of the actual mixing is done by the hand itself, and the same recipe followed by several different people will produce entirely different results in each case, varying from light to what might be termed decidedly heavy. However, failure at first must not dishearten the amateur, as repeated efforts almost invariably end in quite successful productions. The following pages deal with bread and cake making in their different branches, and include a repre- sentative selection of recipes, from plain bread and scones to fancy cakes of all kinds. VARIOUS PRELIMINARIES Before beginning to make a cake, pay attention to the oven and see that it is likely to be sufficiently hot by the time the cake is ready for it. Many cakes, and especially those that are made with baking powder, will spoil if they have to stand waiting for the oven to heat, or if they are put into one that is not sufficiently hot. A little forethought in this respect will avoid many a failure. Then get ready the necessary cake tin or tins, and prepare them in a manner suited to the kind of cake that is being made. Having considered these necessary preliminaries, the actual making of the cake may be commenced. First gather together all the materials that will be required and weigh and measure them care- fully ; then, if there is any fruit or other ingredient requiring preparation, make all this ready before starting the actual mixing. In some cake mixtures, and especially the plainer ones, the butter or fat is rubbed into the flour, in others it is beaten to a cream before the other in- gredients are mixed with it; then again, in other mixtures, the eggs or yolks of eggs are creamed with the sugar, and the butter is added in a melted form, according to the nature of the cake. For explanation of these processes, instructions as to what method to follow are given with each recipe. Cake baking is somewhat troublesome at first, and especially until one gets accustomed to a par- ticular oven, and as small cakes are more easily fired than the larger and more solid ones it is ad- visable to experiment with these until some ex- perience has been gained. In fact experience is the surest guide to successful cake-baking. Certain instructions may be given and certain simple tests as to the heat of the oven applied, but after a little practice the right temperature can be pretty ac- curately gauged by simply feeling the oven with the hand. Of course the most accurate test of all is the thermometer, but even this will not do away with the necessity for careful watching. PREPARATION OF CAKE TINS Cake tins should always be prepared before the mixing of the ingredients is commenced; as most cakes will spoil if the mixture is allowed to stand and wait because the tins are not ready. Cake tins made of good block tin are the best to buy and will be found the cheapest in the end. To Line a Round Cake Tin with Paper.—Cut a double band of paper 2 or 3 inches deeper than the cake tin and rather longer than the circumference. Fold up an inch of this band on the double fold and make a mark. Open out and make cuts along the marked-off inch of the paper an inch or so apart. Arrange this band inside the cake tin, making the notched part of the paper to lie flat on the bottom of the tin. Then cut a double round of paper exactly the size to fit inside the tin, and lay it smoothly on the bottom. The paper must lie per- fectly flat: there must be no wrinkles. If the tin used is very large, three or four folds of paper may be used. If the cake mixture contains a fair amount of butter, no grease is required, but if there is little or no fat in the cake ingredients the paper and tin may be greased with clarified butter or melted lard. To Line a Flat Tin with Paper.—If the tin is very shallow the paper will not require to be shaped, but just pressed in smoothly and snipped at the corners if necessary. Grease if necessary, and inBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 551 some cases the paper is dusted over with a mixture of flour and sugar as well. Flat Tin Lined with Paper For Scones or Small Rock Cakes.—A flat baking sheet should be greased and sprinkled with flour; knock the edges of the tin on the table so that the flour coats it all lightly, and then shake off any that is superfluous. For Sponge Cakes.—Tie a double band of paper round the outside of the tin so as to project 2 or 3 inches over the edge at the top. Then coat the inside of the mould and the paper with melted clarified butter. This should be put on with a brush, and the butter should not be too liquid or the coating is apt to be too thin. Then pass through a sieve together one table-spoonful of flour and one table-spoonful of castor sugar, and dust the inside of the mould and paper over with this mixture. Turn the mould round and round until every part is coated, and then empty out what does not adhere. It is this preparation which gives the light dry coating to a sponge cake. Small Cake Tins.—Prepare these in the same way as a tin for a sponge cake by greasing them with clarified butter and dusting them out with a mixture of flour or potato flour and sugar. If two ounces each of flora and sugar are sieved together, the mixture may be kept in a tin, and will always be in readiness for the preparation of cake tins. Some cooks mix a small proportion of' cream of tartar with the flour and sugar, as it is supposed to prevent the two latter from burning. Small cake tins may often be filled more easily by means of a forcing bag and pipe. CHOICE AND PREPARATION OF VARIOUS MATERIALS USED IN CAKE-MAKING Flour.—Ordinary household flour or “ whites ” should be used in all the recipes except where otherwise stated. In the case of some of the very Flour Sifter light cakes, Vienna or Hungarian flour is preferable. It is very important to have the flour dry, as damp flour would render any cake heavy. If there is any doubt about the dryness it will be safer to warm the flour in a cool oven or on the rack above the stove before weighing and using it. Flour should be sieved for all cakes, as this not only renders it lighter, but keeps back any hard lumps it may contain. For sieving use either a very fine wire sieve or a patent flour sifter, which can be bought for about Is. 8d. Butter, Dripping, <&c.—Inferior or tainted butter should never be used for cakes. If butter is em- ployed at all it must be good, fresh butter being the best. In cases where the butter is rubbed into the flour, the butter should be as cool and firm as possible ; where it is to be creamed with the sugar it may be rather softer, but not on any account oily. If the butter is very salt it will be better to wash it in cold water, and dry it in a floured cloth before using. If the butter contains a large proportion of water it should be dried and squeezed in a floured cloth before using. For many of the plainer cakes, and especially when baking for large families, or where expense has to be considered, a cheaper kind of fat may be substituted for butter. Lard, beef dripping, margarine, or one of the different vegetable fats now on the market will generally answer the pur- pose. A good sweet margarine, costing about 8d. per lb., is always to be preferred to inferior butter, or a mixture of margarine and butter is very good. When beef dripping is used it must be carefully clarified to free it from any meat juice and any brown sediment scraped from it. For nursery cakes beef dripping or marrow is to be specially recommended. Mutton dripping is not so suitable for cake- making unless for gingerbread, as it has too strong a flavour. Sugar.—Take castor or sifted sugar for all the recipes except where otherwise stated, and always sieve it before use. Baking Powder.—There are many kinds and many qualities, but the best should always be chosen. It may be tested by putting a small quantity into a spoonful of water; if fresh it will effervesce, if it does not bubble it is spoilt. Baking powder can also be made at home (see p. 634). It should always be kept in an airtight tin box, and in a dry place. Eggs.—These must be fresh and good, but not necessarily new laid. Well-preserved eggs serve the purpose excellently. They should always be broken separately into a small cup or basin before adding them to any mixture. To Clean Currants.—Rub these on the top of a sieve with a little dry flour to clean them and re- move the stalks. Then drop them on a plate a few at a time to make sure there are no stones amongst them. If the currants are dirty they may be washed first in hot water, then dried in a cloth or a cool oven, and rolled in flour. This should be done some little time before the currants are re- quired, as they should be quite dry and cold before being added to the cake, otherwise they will spoil the mixture. To Clean Sultana Raisins.—Rub these on the top of a sieve with a little dry flour, and carefully remove all stalks. If very dirty they should be washed and dried like currants. To Prepare Valencia Raisins.—Remove the stalks, split them open with a small knife, and take out the stones, using a little warm water to552 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD prevent their sticking to the fingers. These raisins are usually cut in small pieces or chopped roughly. To Prepare Candied Peel.—Remove the hard sugar from the inside, and with a sharp knife shred the peel very finely. The strips may be left any length desired, but as candied peel at the best is an indigestible article, it should never be cut in thick chunks. If the peel is too hard to shred easily, it may be soaked for a few minutes in boding water. To Prepare Angelica.—Prepare in the same way as candied peel. It generally requires soaking in hot water before cutting, especially if it has to be cut thinly. To Prepare Glace Fruits.—Glace fruits, such as cherries, apricots, pineapple, &c., should have the hard sugar removed from them first by soaking them for a minute in hot water. Then dry the pieces lightly, cut them to the size required, and roll them in flour. Note.—All fruit should be mixed with a little dry flour (taken from the quantity given in the recipe) before being added to the cake mixture. To Prepare Almonds.—Blanch these by throw- ing them into a small saucepan of boiling water and allowing them to remain a minute or two, or just long enough to soften the skins. Then strain, remove the skins with the fingers, and throw the nuts as they are done into a basin of cold water to rinse them and preserve the colour. When ready, dry the nuts in a cloth, and afterwards in the oven, being careful they do not take colour. Almonds are usually shred or chopped before being used, or for decorative purposes they are some- times split in halves broadwise. Pistachio Nuts.—Treat in the same way as almonds. Lemon Rind and Juice.—When the rind of a lemon is required for flavouring it must be re- moved very thinly. The yellow part only must be taken and none of the white, which is bitter in flavour. The rind may either be grated off the lemon or peeled off very thinly with a knife. The grated rind is very often rubbed into castor sugar in order to draw out the flavour. The peeled rind should be chopped very finely if it is to be left in a mixture. To obtain the juice of a lemon, first roll it back- wards and forwards on the table to soften it. Then cut it in halves, and squeeze out the juice with the back of a wooden spoon or on a lemon squeezer. Strain before using. Orange Rind and Juice.—Prepare in the same way as lemon rind and juice. ABOUT YEAST Yeast is a minute plant or vegetable germ of the fungi family, which has the power of fermenting bread and making it rise. It only requires warmth, moisture, and a suitable soil to start its growth, and it finds this in the bread dough, or a mixture of flour and warm liquid. During its growth it causes certain chemical changes to take place in the flour, by which carbonic acid gas is given off, and it is this gas which causes the bread to rise. It is very important to have the yeast good. The German or Compressed Yeast is, perhaps, the simplest kind to use, and with it bread can be quickly and easily made, and very satisfactory results obtained. It can be" bought for Id. per ounce from most bakers or sent by post if necessary. Care must be taken to procure it fresh and sweet, as it quickly spoils, especially in close and muggy weather. When good and fresh, German yeast should have a pleasant smell and be of a light greyish colour, very like putty. It should be moist to the touch without being sticky, and crumble easily between the fingers. If it has brown spots it should be discarded. Another proof of freshness is when the yeast creams easily or becomes a smooth creamy liquid when a small quantity of sugar or salt is mixed with it. Brewers' Yeast or “ barm ” is a liquid form of yeast, and used to be the only kind obtainable. It can be very good, but it is more uncertain in its results, and is sometimes inclined to have a bitter taste. About 2 table-spoonfuls of brewers’ yeast will equal 1 ounce of the compressed yeast. The liquid that is added to yeast, whether it be milk, water, or a mixture of the two, should be of a lukewarm temperature, as this will be most favourable to its growth. If too hot it will kill or destroy the yeast, and if too cold the process of rising will not be so rapid. About 98° Fahr. is the best temperature, but if no thermometer is at hand a simple test is to put the little finger into the liquid; if it feels uncomfortably hot for the finger to rest in it, it is too warm. Another means of getting the right heat is to use one part of boiling liquid to two parts cold. EXPLANATION OF VARIOUS TERMS USED IN CAKE-MAKING To Ruib Butter into Flour.—Sieve the flour into a dry basin. Place the butter on the top of the flour, cover it over, and break it in small pieces. Then rub the two together lightly with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until they are as fine as bread-crumbs. While rubbing, keep lifting the flour well up in the basin to allow the air to mix with it and prevent the butter becoming soft. Unless this operation is well carried out the cake will look streaky. To Cream Butter and Sugar.—The butter should be creamed first and then the sugar added./ BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 553 Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a large wooden spoon, or the hand, until of a light creamy consistency. If over half a pound of butter is being used, it is quicker to take the hand. If the butter is very hard, the basin may be warmed slightly before commencing, but the butter must on no account be oiled, or it will make the cake heavy. This process requires some time, and un- less it is well carried out the cake will be heavy. The time will depend upon the quantity of butter used. When the butter is creamy, sieve the sugar on the top of it, and beat again for a few minutes. To Cream Yolks of Eggs and Sugar.—Castor Bugar is generally used for this purpose. Sieve it into a basin, and drop the yolks of eggs on the top. Then work the two together with a wooden spoon "»or wire whisk until they become a pale lemon colour, and quite light and frothy looking. This will require some little time. To Beat Eggs (Yolk and White Together).—If more than one egg is used, break them separately first into a small cup or basin to make sure that each one is fresh, then mix them together With a fork or egg whisk beat them lightly with an upward motion until they are light and frothy, and the whites and yolks thoroughly mixed together. Do not overbeat the eggs, or they will not be so light. To Whip the Whites of Eggs.—When only one or two are used put them on a flat dinner plate, being careful that none of the yolk falls in. Add a pinch of salt, and, with a dry broad-bladed knife or spatula, whip them with an upward motion to a stiff dry froth, or until they are so firm that the Whipping White of Egg plate can be turned upside down without the whites falling off. When more than two whites are used, put them in a dry basin with a pinch of salt, and beat them with a wire whisk until stiff enough to stand on the end of the whisk without dropping. There are also a number of patent whisks sold for beating eggs; directions for use are generally given with them. The whites of eggs ought to be beaten in a cool place, and if the eggs are fresh and cool, the beating will only take a few minutes. To Whip Cream.—Cream for whipping must be nice and thick and as cold as possible. Put it into a basin, and, if there is only a small quantity, beat it with a fork until it is stiff enough to stand on the fork without dropping off. For a larger quantity use a wire whisk instead of a fork. Stop beating the cream as soon as it becomes thick, otherwise it will turn into butter. Sugar and flavouring may then be added as required. THE BAKING OF CAKES This is one of the most difficult parts of cake- making. No matter how carefully the mixture has been prepared, the success or failure of the cake will very much depend upon the proper regulation of the heat of the oven. Ovens require very close observance; some are inclined to burn at the bottom, while in others the top is the hottest part, and it is only by experience and careful watching that the capabilities and faults of individual ovens can be learned. The most correct way of gauging the heat of an oven is with the thermometer. These are no longer the expensive articles they used to be : a very simple and yet efficient one can now be bought for the small sum of 2s. Gd., and will be found of invaluable service to the amateur cake-maker. The degrees of heat would be nearly the following : From 400° to 450° . . .a hot oven. 300° to 350° . . .a moderate oven. 250° to 275° . . .a slow oven. There are also one or two popular tests which may be applied by novices, such as the following : Sprinkle a little dry flour on a tin and place it in the oven. If there is sufficient heat to bake a cake, this will be brown in about 5 minutes. Or, put a piece of white paper in the oven, and if at the end of 5 minutes it is a good yellow colour, the heat is moderate and suitable for most cakes. After a very little experience the heat of the oven can easily be judged by simply feeling it with the hand. It is very important that the fire should be made up some little time before the cake is put into the oven, and in such a way that it will last, if possible, during the baking, or will not at least require fresh coal during the first hour of baking, while the cake is in process of rising, and when it is most essential for it to have steady heat. If a large cake requiring several hours’ cooking is in the oven, the fire should neve® be allowed to burn too low, except perhaps the last half hour when the cake is just “ soaking,” but a little coal should be added from time to time in order to keep up a uniform heat. The heat of the oven can generally be regulated by opening or shutting the damper. If shutting the damper is not sufficient to reduce the heat, the lid of the range over the oven may be opened a little way. If the oven does not become hot554 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD enough in spite of a good fire, the trouble probably is that it has not been properly cleared of the cinders and soot which collect underneath and above the oven, and prevent the heat reaching these parts. This is a point which should be at- tended to before cake-making is thought of. For all cakes, except where otherwise stated, a moderate oven is best; if anything, it should be rather hotter for small and light cakes than for the thicker fruit cakes. A cake to be baked to perfection should rise evenly and be smooth on the top, and by the time it has been in the oven half its time a light bjrown crust should be formed. Owing to the variation in the heat of an ordinary oven, it is not always possible to arrive at this point of perfection ; still, by careful manipulation, it may be aimed at. When a cake rises in a cone in the centre it shows that the oven has been too hot at the commence- ment, with the result that the sides of the cake became hardened with a crust before the mixture had had time to rise. If the cake seems inclined to rise at one side, it shows that the oven is hotter on one side than the other, and this fault may be obviated to a certain extent by turning the cake carefully during the baking. If the bottom of the oven is found to be the hottest part, it is a good plan to place an asbestos mat below the cake to prevent its burning at the foot, or to stand the cake in another tin containing a bed of sand. When a cake shows signs of becoming sufficiently brown before it is ready, it should be covered with a double fold of wetted kitchen paper. The oven door should not be open for at least 5 minutes after the cake has been put in, and then only with the greatest care. If by slamming the oven door a draught of cold air is allowed to enter, it will be fatal to the successful rising of the cake. Any moving or turning of the cake must be done very cautiously ; it cannot have too careful hand- ling. Moving or shaking the cake during the process of rising is almost sure to cause it to fall. Be sure the cake is sufficiently cooked before re- moving it from the oven. Small cakes are ready if they feel firm when gently touched with the finger. Larger cakes should be tested by running a bright and heated skewer into the centre of them. If the skewer comes out sticky the cake is not cooked Cake Cooling enough, but if it is dry and undimmed the baking is finished. A cold knife should never be run into a cake, as it would make it “ sad.” Cakes should be allowed to stand for a minute or two before re- moving them from the tin ; they will then come out more easily. They should be cooled on a wire stand or sieve, or stood on end so that the air gets round the bottom and sides. The time given for baking in the following recipes is only approximate; it is impossible to lay down any hard and fast rules, as the time is bound to vary slightly owing to various causes. A Gas Oven.—If the baking is done in a gas oven, the following hints may be of use: Light the oven, turning the gas full on; keep the door shut for 10 minutes, then reduce the gas more or less according to the heat required, and put in the cake. Continue reducing the heat at shorter or longer intervals, according to the size of the cake, until the cooking is complete. Always place the cakes on the grid shelves of the oven and below the solid shelf. The solid shelf is useful for bring- ing down the heat of the oven and browning the top of the cakes, but in the case of very large cakes this is better removed altogether. With large cakes, too, it is a good plan to leave them in the oven for about half an hour after the gas has been turned off, and to let them dry slowly in the gradu- ally reducing heat. TO KEEP BREAD AND CAKES As soon as bread is taken from the tin in which it has been baked, it should be placed on a wire stand or sieve, or else supported in such a way that the air can circulate freely round it. If laid flat or covered while still warm, the moisture generated by the escaping steam is retained and destroys the cake’s lightness and crispness. The cooling should be done slowly and in the warm kitchen if possible. To put hot bread almost at once into a cool atmos- phere is almost bound to make it heavy. When quite cold, the bread should be stored in a cool, dry, and light closet or pantry, and never in a dark underground cellar. Both dampness and darkness would be unfavourable to its keeping well, and would readily foster mould. The bread may either be placed on a shelf and covered with a clean cloth, or be kept in a special bread pan or bin. This should not be air-tight but have a per- forated fid to allow of ventilation. If to be kept for any length of time the bread may be further pro- tected by being wrapped in a sheet of grease-proof paper and then in a cloth. Perfect cleanliness must be observed as regards the bread pan. It must be wiped out regularly to free it from all musty crumbs, and once a week, or once a fort- night, thoroughly washed and scalded and then dried in front of the fire or in the sun. Scones and Tea-cakes should always be wrapped in a clean cloth to prevent their becoming dry, and kept on a shelf or in the bread box. They are generally improved by reheating if kept until the second or third day. The above rules apply equally to the cooling of Cakes, which must never be stored away until quite cold. Large cakes will keep best if wrapped in paper and put in a tin box with a tight-fitting lid. Fruit cakes, which have to be kept for any length of time, should be wrapped in grease- proof paper, and then in a sheet of ordinary paper or a clean cloth. For small cakes the box should just be lined with paper. Biscuits should also be kept in tin boxes lined with paper, and neither cakes nor scones should be packed with them, as the moisture from the two latter would destroy the crispness of the biscuits.BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 555 The crispness of biscuits can sometimes be re- stored by reheating them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. WHAT TO DO WITH STALE CAKES AND BISCUITS Many nice puddings and sweets may be made out of the remains of stale cake and broken biscuits. Small pieces of white cake, such as sponge and Madeira cake, if too small for other purposes, can be made into crumbs by rubbing them through a wire sieve, and these can be used instead of bread- crumbs for many sweet dishes. The same can "be done with the remains of plain biscuits. These crumbs will even keep for some time if they are first dried in a slow oven and then stored in a jar with a tight-fitting lid. Larger pieces of cake can be used for making trifles and various puddings. In fact they may take the place of bread in many instances. It is gener- ally better to soak these pieces first with a little wine, fruit syrup or juice, or even milk. Fruit cake soaked in hot milk, then mashed up and one or two beaten eggs added, will make quite a nice plain plum pudding 2 steamed in a basin. Cakes made with yeast or dough cakes do not lend themselves so well for this purpose, although tea cakes and plain buns make an excellent pudding. PART I BREAD, SCONES, AND TEA CAKES 2646. Household Bread 3J lbs. flour (| stone). 1 oz. German yeast. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 2 tea-sps. salt. About 2 pts. lukewarm water. Sieve the flour and salt into a large basin, and place it in a cool oven, or some other warm place, to get warmed through, as this will assist the rising of the bread. Put the yeast into a smaller basin with the sugar, and mix these two together until they become smooth and liquid. (This is called creaming the yeast, and may be accomplished with either salt or sugar.) Add half the water to the creamed yeast, and mix well together. Make a well in the centre of the warm flour, and strain in the yeast and water. Stir in gradually from the sides enough flour to form a thick and smooth batter, still leaving a wall of flour round the edges. Sprinkle the surface lightly with flour, cover the basin with a double cloth, and set it in a warm place out of a draught until the sponge (mixture of flour, yeast, and water) is well risen. If the yeast is good, fif- teen or twenty minutes will be sufficient; the batter should then be covered with large bubbles. Mix in the rest of the flour by degrees, adding the rest of the lukewarm water, or enough to form rather a soft dough, as it will become firmer with kneading. Dough that is to be baked in tins may be a little softer than that which is made up in special shapes without support. Turn the dough on to a floured board, and knead well for fifteen minutes, or until it ceases to cling to the hands. Then flour the basin, and put the dough back into it, making a deep cross cut on the top from side to side with a sharp knife. Cover the basin, and let it stand in a warm place again for about one hour, or until the dough is well risen. It should be about twice its original size, and the cut on the top almost invisible. Turn out again on the board, re-knead lightly, and make up into loaves the size and shape desired. For a cottage loaf make one large ball with a smaller one on the top. Press a floured finger through the middle of both, and make four or five cuts at regular intervals round the sides. For a Coburg loaf form the dough into an oval shape, and make several deep cuts across the top. If the loaves are to be baked in tins, grease the tins first, and do not more than half fill them. After shaping the loaves, place them on a baking sheet (greased and floured for the loaves that are not in tins), and set them to prove for fifteen or twenty minutes. That is, place them again in a warm place to rise—on the rack above the fire is a very good place. The bread should be covered with a cloth or piece of paper, to prevent any smuts from falling on it. To bake the bread, place it in a hot oven to begin with until the loaves are well risen and slightly browned, then in a more moderate oven until they are cooked through to the middle. If an oven thermometer is used, 350° Fahr. will be about a right degree of heat to begin with. The time will depend on the size of the loaf. If the above quantities are made into two loaves they will take from 1 to 1£ hour to bake. When ready, the bread should give a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom ; it must on no account be underbaked. Directly the bread is taken from the oven, it should be turned on its side to allow the steam to escape. It must be quite cold before it is stored away. Probable cost, 8d. Notes.—There are different ways of making bread, but the above method is perhaps one of the simplest for a beginner. It is somewhat difficult to give exact rules as regards quantities and time, as these are bound to vary according to the material used and the prevailing conditions, but after one or two trials, the careful worker will soon learn to judge what is best, and be successful in producing a good batch of bread. 2647. Steamed Bread Make the dough according to directions given above, and half fill well-greased tins. Cover with greased paper, and steam in the same way as a pudding. Care must be taken that the water does not enter the tin. The time will depend on the size and thickness of the loaf, but it may be tested with a hot skewer ; 2 sufficiently cooked the skewer will come out dry. The bread may be put in a hot oven for a few minutes after removing it from the tin, to brown the outside.556 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2648. Brown Bread If lbs. brown meal. 2 gills water. 1 gill milk. | oz. German yeast. 2 tea-sps. salt. 1 oz. butter. Either fine, coarse, or medium whole meal may be used, or a lighter bread will be obtained by using half brown meal and half ordinary household flour. Put the meal into a warm, dry basin, rub in the small piece of butter until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Mix the yeast with the salt until smooth and creamy. Make tHe milk and water tepid, pour them on to the yeast and then strain them into the centre of the flour. Make a “ sponge ”—that is, mix a little of the meal into the liquid with the tips of the fingers until of the consistency of batter. Cover the basin, and set it in a warm place until the sponge is covered with air-bubbles. Then work in the rest of the meal, using more warm milk or water if necessary. The dough should be made softer than for white bread, and it will not require so much kneading. Work it up quickly and lightly, and put it at once into greased and floured bread tins. Brown bread is always better if made in small loaves, and the tins should not be more than half filled. Set them in a warm place to rise (about 1 hour), and then bake them in a good oven in the same way as white bread. Note.—A little sugar may be added to the bread if wished. The butter may be omitted, and water only used for the mixing. Probable cost, 6d. 2649. Hovis Bread 3£ lbs. Hovis flour. 1 1 qt. warm water. l| oz. German yeast. | 4 tea-sp. castor sugar. Put the flour into a large basin or baking pan, warm it slightly and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast with the sugar, add a little of the water, and strain into the middle of the flour. Add the rest of the water by degrees until a soft dough or thickish batter is formed, mix well, but do not attempt to mould or knead it. Half fill warmed tins that have been greased and dusted out with Hovis flour, and set them in a warm place until the dough has risen to the top of the tins; from 20 to 30 minutes should be allowed. Then bake in a steady oven, allowing rather longer than for ordinary bread, and testing it in the usual way. Use no salt in the making of this bread. 2650. Currant Loaf 2 lbs. bread dough. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. | lb. butter. 2 oz. candied peel. | lb. currants. Make the dough according to Recipe 2646, or it may be bought ready made from the bakers. Put into a warm basin, add to it the butter melted, the currants carefully picked and cleaned, the candied peel finely shred, and the spice. Knead all together until thoroughly mixed. Then half fill a greased and floured cake tin with the dough, cover over and set the loaf in a warm place to rise for about an hour. Bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. When nearly ready, glaze the top with a syrup of sugar and water. Time to bake, 1 to 1| hours. 10d. to 1«. Probable cost, 2651. Sultana Bread 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. salt. £ lb. sultanas. .1 pt. warm milk. | oz. yeast. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the sultanas carefully picked and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast in a smaller basin with the sugar, add the warm milk, and strain all into the centre of the flour, &c. Mix in a little of the dry mixture from the sides until a thickish batter is formed, cover the basin, and let it stand in a warm place about | hour. Then mix all into a soft dough, turn out on a floured board, and knead for a few minutes. Put the dough into a greased and floured tin, and place it in a warm place to rise. When well risen, bake in a hot oven. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hours. Probable cost. Id. 2652. Vienna Bread 1 lb. Vienna flour. 1 tea-sp. sugar. £ oz. German yeast. 1 oz. butter. Milk. 1 tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a warm basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast in a smaller basin with the sugar, heat the milk to a lukewarm tem- perature, and pour it on to it. Strain this into the middle of the flour, and mix lightly. Beat all together for a few minutes until the dough leaves the sides of the basin quite clear. Then sprinkle it lightly with flour, and score it across with a knife. Cover the basin, and put the dough to rise for about 2 hours. When the dough is well risen, turn it out on a floured board, re-knead it lightly, and make it up into small rolls or a variety of fancy shapes. One of the prettiest shapes is the horseshoe twist, Horse-Shoe Twist which is made as follows : Roll out some of the dough to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut it into triangular-shaped pieces. Then take the two corners A and B at the base of the triangle, and roll up each piece until point C turns over on the outside. Another shape is to make small round rolls, and then to cut two slits across the top with a very sharp knife. Place the rolls on a greased and floured tin, and set them in a warm place to prove for about twelve minutes. Then bake in a rather quick oven until they are sufficiently cooked ; the time will vary according557 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES to the size of the rolls. Just before removing the rolls from the oven, brush them over with milk, or egg and milk, to make them shiny. Notes.—Sometimes an egg is added to the above dough. The mixture may, if liked, be baked in 6mall greased tins. Probable cost, 5d. 2653. Fancy Bread 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk. 1 gill cream. 1 oz. German yeast. 1 table-sp. orange flower water. 1 or 2 oz. shredded almonds. Sieve the flour, sugar, ginger, and cinnamon into a warm basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast in a smaller basin with a little salt, make the milk and cream lukewarm, and add them to it along with the orange flower water. Strain this into the centre of the dry ingredients and make into a light dough. Sprinkle with flour, cover the basin and then stand in a warm place from 1J to 2 hours, until the dough is well risen and feels light and elastic to the touch. Turn out on a floured board and knead lightly. Make into small rolls, and place' them on a greased and floured tin. Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg, sprinkle with shredded almonds, which have been dried in the oven, and bake in a moderate oven until quite crisp and of a pretty brown colour. Note.—These may be cut in pieces and served with coffee, or sliced and buttered for afternoon tea. Time to bake, | to f hour, according to size. Probable cost, Is. 2654. Gluten Bread 1 oz. German yeast. 3 gills warm water. 4 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 lb. Callard’s gluten flour. A pinch of salt. Dissolve the yeast and salt in the warm water. Put the gluten flour into a basin, and strain the yeast into it. Add the eggs, and the butter melted, and knead until perfectly smooth. Cover the basin with a cloth, and set it to rise in a warm place for 1 hour. Then divide it, and bake it in tins. Note.—2 oz. almond flour added to this is an improvement. These specialities can be bought from Messrs. Callard & Co., 95 Regent Street, London, W. : Gluten flour, 2s. 6d. per lb. ; almond flour, 2s. This bread is specially recommended for diabetic patients. 2655. Bread Sticks | lb. light dough. 1 egg. Any bread dough may be used for these, but a light dough such as that used for Vienna bread is best. Work in the egg, and, if there is no butter in the dough, work in i oz. of this as well. Knead the dough, until it is elastic, and cut it into pieces about the size of an egg. Roll those pieces on the board into a long stick rather thicker than a pencil. Place them on a greased and floured tin, and set them in a warm place to rise for 10 minutes. Then bake in a moderate oven until crisp and very lightly browned. Serve these bread sticks with soup or with cafe au lait. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 2656. Salt Sticks Make in the same way as Bread Sticks, keeping the sticks much smaller and shorter. Brush them Salt Sticks over with milk and sprinkle with coarse salt and Nepaul or coralline pepper before baking. When ready, tie them in bundles with narrow ribbon. 2657. Breakfast Bannock 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. salt. 2 tea-sps. baking powder. 1 table-sp. sugar. \ pt. milk. 1 egg. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten, and then the milk gradually until all is bound together into a light dough. Form the dough quickly into a round or oval-shaped bannock, and put it on a greased and floured baking tin. Brush over with a little milk, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Qd. 2658. Breakfast Rolls 1 lb. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. \ oz. German yeast. £ pt. tepid water. 1 tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter thoroughly, and make a well in the centre. Mix the yeast with the salt until smooth and creamy, then pour on to them the tepid water. Strain this into the centre of the flour, and mix up quickly into a dough. Turn out on a well-floured board, and knead until smooth. Then form it into a long roll, and cut across in pieces about 3 inches in length. Place these on a greased and floured tin and set them to rise in a warm place558 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD about 1 hour. When well risen, bake the rolls in a quick oven until brown and crisp. Note.—A little sugar may be added to these rolls if wished. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2659. Milk Rolls 1 lb. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. £ tea-sp. salt. 2 tea-sps. baking powder. About £ pt. milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter as lightly as possible. Make a well in the centre, and add enough milk to make a softish dough. Mix quickly and lightly, then turn out on a floured board, and form the dough into small rolls. Place them on a greased and floured baking tin and bake at once in a quick oven. The time required will depend on the size of the rolls, from 15 to 20 minutes. When brown and crisp, brush the rolls over with a little milk or melted butter to glaze them. Note.—Success will depend on quick and light working up, and putting the rolls at once in a good oven. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 2660. Wholemeal Rolls \ lb. wholemeal flour. | lb. ordinary flour. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. baking powder. 1 or 2 oz. butter. About J pt. milk. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin and mix them together. Rub in the butter wit. the tips of the fingers, and make a well in the centre. Add the milk by degrees until a softish dough is formed, then turn on to a floured board and knead lightly until free from cracks. Divide into about twelve equal portions, and form into little rolls. Place them on a greased and floured baking tin, brush over with beaten egg or milk, and bake in a good oven until brown and well risen. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2661. Yorkshire Dinner Rolls 1J lbs. flour. 2 oz. lard or butter. £ oz. yeast. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 lump sugar. 1 pt. milk. Sieve the flour into a basin and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter or lard in a saucepan, add the sugar and milk, and heat them to a luke- warm temperature. Cream the yeast with the salt, pour the milk, &c., on to it, and strain into the middle of the flour. Work the flour gradually into the liquid, and then beat the dough with the hand from 20 to 30 minutes until it looks light and full of air bubbles. Then cover the basin, and set the dough to rise in a warm place. When well risen, work in enough flour to prevent its sticking, form into small rolls, and place them on a greased. and floured tin. Set to rise again for a few minutes and then bake in a good oven. When nearly ready, brush the rolls over with a little milk. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. 2662. Brioche \ lb. flour. 4 to 6 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. 3 small eggs. £ oz. yeast. Warm water. To Make the Sponge or Leaven.-•—Sieve the flour and take a quarter of it. Put this into a basin and make a well in the centre. Mix the yeast with a pinch of salt until smooth and creamy, pour on to it 2 or 3 table-spoonfufs of tepid water, and then strain into the centre of the flour. Mix in the flour and form a softish dough. Roll this in a little flour to make a ball, and cut it across the top with a sharp knife. Then place it in sufficient warm water to cover it whilst preparing the dough (about £ hour). The water must be kept warm, rather more than tepid, but not hot, and the sponge or leaven will swell to two or three times its original volume. To Make the Dough.—Put the remainder of the flour into a basin and make a well in the centre. Add 2 eggs, mix in the flour gradually, adding the third egg by degrees as the whole of it may not be required. Make a softish dough, and when well mixed turn it out on a lightly floured baking board. Now work it and beat it energetically with the hands until it becomes smooth and elastic and no longer sticks to the fingers. Then mix in the sugar, salt, and butter, slightly softened. When these are well incorporated, drain the sponge, place it in the centre of the other dough, and mix it in very lightly and without beating the dough. Put the dough into a floured basin, cover it over, and let it stand in the natural heat of the kitchen for about 3 hours, when it should have swelled to twice its original volume. Then beat i|e dough down to make it fall again, and set iun a cool place until the next day, beating it down again if it rises too much. It may be kept for 24 hours in this way as long as it is not allowed to rise too high. To Make Small Brioches.—Grease small fluted brioche tins. Take some brioche dough, cut off Eieces the size of a large walnut, roll them in the ands to form compact little balls, and place one in each tin. Then cut some smaller pieces of dough, the size of a small nut, roll them first into little balls, then into little carrot-shaped pieces with a point. Place'one of these pieces on the top of each Brioche ball of dough in the tins, inserting the pointed end well into the centre. Score the lower piece of dough across two or three times with a knife, and place the brioche in a warm place to rise. When double their original size, brush them over with559 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES beaten egg, and bake in a good oven 15 to 20 minutes. To Make a Large Brioche for Timbale.—Grease a souffle tin, and tie a strong band of greased white paper round the outside to give it more height, in the same way as for a souffle (see p. 425). Half fill the tin with brioche dough, and set it in a warm place to rise. When the dough fills the tin, put it in a good oven to bake. It will require from 30 to 40 minutes to bake. To make a Timbale, see Recipe 2080. 2663. Plain White Seones, 1 | lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. | tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Rub all the dry ingredients through a sieve into a basin. Add the butter, and rub together with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and stir in enough fresh milk to make a light dough. Turn out on a floured board, and work very lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Roll out to \ inch in thickness with a floured rolling-pin, cut into shapes, place on a greased and floured baking tin, and bake in a good oven until firm to the touch and of a nice brown colour. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 2664. Barley Meal Scones | lb. barley meal. | lb. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. A good pinch of salt. 1 dessert-sp, powder. 1 egg. About | pt. milk. baking i lb. flour. 1 egg. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill sour cream. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of sak. first on one side and then on the other until they are cooked through. Note.—A little castor sugar may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d.' 2666. Currant Scones 1 lb. flour. oz. Paisley flour. 2 oz. butter. J lb.'currants. 2 oz. sugar. About | pt. milk. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a clean dry basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make a w$l in the centre, and add the egg well beaten and enough milk to make a smooth soft dough. Turn it out on a floured board, and leave the basin as clean as possible. Work the dough lightly with the hands until free from cracks, then flour a rolling-pin, and roll it out about half an inch in thickness. Cut this out in shapes with a small round cutter, and place them on a hot girdle. When brown on one side, turn them over and brown them on the other. When ready they should feel dry at the edges. Note.—These scones may also be baked on a greased tin in the oven. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. ■ 2665. Cream Scones Sieve the flour and Paisley flour into a basin (the latter takes the place of baking powder). Rub in the butter lightly with the tips of the fingers, and add the currants well cleaned and the sugar. Make a well in the centre, and add the milk gradually until a soft smooth dough is formed. Turn out on a floured board, and divide in three pieces. Roll each piece into a round scone, cut in four and place on a floured tin. Brush the scones over lightly with milk, and bake them in a good oven. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost. Id. 2667. Crumpets | lb. Vienna flour. 1 egg. | tea-sp. salt. Milk. | oz. baking powder. 1 oz. butter. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the butter melted and the egg well beaten, then, gradu- ally, enough milk to make a thinnish batter. Grease some muffin rings, and lay them on a hot and greased girdle. Pour a little batter into each, and watch until air-bubbles begin to rise. Then remove the rings, turn the crumpets, and brown on the second side. Repeat this until all are finished. Toast the crumpets lightly, spread them with butter, and pile them one on the top of the other. Cut in four, and serve hot. Time to cook, 8 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. £ lb. flour. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. cream of tartar. 2668. Dropped Scones \ tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 egg. | breakfast-cupful milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and pour in the egg and cream beaten together. Mix from the centre outwards, gathering in the flour gradually until all is formed into one lump. Turn out the dough on a floured board, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Roll out to about hah an inch in thickness, cut in rounds, and bake on a greased tin in the oven or on a greased girdle. If the latter, brown the scones Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg well beaten, and then the milk gradually, beating all well to- gether with the back of a wooden spoon. When the batter looks light and full of air bubbles pour it into a iug. Heat a girdle and grease it well. Pom: the batter on to it, about a table-spoonful at a time, being careful to keep the scones a nice shape and a little distance apart. When the top surface looks covered with bubbles, slip a broad- bladed knife under the scones and turn them over. When both sides are nicely browned the scones are ready. They should be served quickly and hot buttered. Time to cook, 5 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2669. J lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. |tea-sp. cream of tartar. A pinch of salt. Elcho Scones | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 Some buttermilk sour milk. or Sieve the flour, soda, cream of tartar, and salt into a clean, dry basin, and rub in the butter withCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 560 the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, add the egg, well beaten, and enough buttermilk to form all into one lump. The mixing should be done very quickly and lightly with the hand, or with a broad-bladed knife. Turn the dough on to a slightly floured board, and knead lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Form into a round (do not roll) about 1 inch in thick- ness, and place the scone on a greased and floured baking tin. Prick all over with a fork, jmd mark in four with the back of a knife. Bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Two or three minutes before removing the scone from the oven break it in four, and brush it over with a little milk or egg and milk. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6 d. 2670. Girdle Scones 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. J tea-sp. cream of tartar. | tea-sp. salt. 1 egg. Buttermilk. Rub all the dry ingredients through a sieve into a basin. Add the butter, and rub together with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and add the egg, well beaten, and enough buttermilk to make a light dough. Turn out on a floured board, and work very lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll the dough into a neat round shape, rather more than half an inch in thick- ness. Cut with a sharp floured knife into six or eight pieces, and place the scones on a hot girdle. Cook over a moderate heat until brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. Note.—These scones may also be baked on a greased tin in the oven. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2671. Hovis Meal Scones 2672. Potato Scones Boiled potatoes. Salt. Flour or barley meal. Mash some well-boiled potatoes, or put them through a sieve or vegetable presser, adding a little salt. The scones will be lighter if this can be done while the potatoes are still hot. Then knead them up quickly with a little flour or barley- meal, and roll out thinly. Cut in rounds and cook on a greased girdle, browning them on both sides. Serve the scones hot with a little butter. Note.—A little melted butter may be added to the potatoes if wished. 2673. Treacle Scones 1 lb. flour. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1| tea-sps. carbonate of soda. 1 tea-sp. cream of tartar. 2 table-sps. treacle. A pinch of salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Buttermilk. Sieve the dry ingredients into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Heat the butter and treacle together and pour them into the centre. Then pour in gradually enough buttermilk to make a softish dough. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly. Then flour a rolling-pin, and roll into a round about \ inch in thickness. Cut across in six or eight pieces, place them on a greased and floured tin, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6 d. 2674. Wheaten Meal Scones § lb. wheaten meal, i lb. flour. | tea-sp. cream of tartar 1 or 2 oz. butter. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. | tea-sp. salt. Some buttermilk or sour milk. Make in the same way as Elcho Scones (Re- cipe 2669). Probable cost, 6d. 1 lb. Hovis meal. 2 oz. butter. 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. £ oz. cream of tartar. J oz. carbonate of soda. | pt. sweet milk. A pinch of salt. Put the Hovis meal into a basin, and sieve the carbonate of soda, cream of tartar, sugar, and salt on the top. Rub the butter into these dry in- gredients until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Pour in the milk, and mix quickly from the centre outwards until all is gathered to- gether in one lump. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Form into a round scone, mark across in four with the back of a knife, place on a greased and floured tin, and bake in a good oven until the scone is nicely browned, and feels firm to the touch. Break it through in four places by the marks, and stand on end to cool. Note.—Instead of making large scones to cut in slices, the dough may be rolled out, and cut in small rounds with a cutter. These will take a shorter time to bake, but unless they are made up very quickly, they will not be so light. The sugar may be omitted. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2675. Hot Breakfast Cakes \ lb. flour. | tea-sp. salt. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. £ tea-sp. cream of tartar. 1 egg. | pt. milk. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Break in the egg with- out beating it, and mix into it a little of the flour, &c. Then add the milk gradually, mixing in the dry ingredients by degrees, in the same way that a batter is made. Beat until air bubbles begin to rise, and the mixture looks light. Pour the batter into well-greased patty tins, not more than half filling them, and bake in a quick oven until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, turn the cakes out of the tins, split them open, butter them, and serve hot. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost. 4d. 2676; Tea Cakes or Sally Lunns | lb. flour. | oz. German yeast. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 egg. \ pt. milk. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a warm basin, and make a well in the centre. Put the yeast into aBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 561 smaller basin with the sugar, and mix them to- gether until smooth and creamy. Melt the butter in a-small saucepan, and add the milk. When lukewarm, pour on to the yeast, and mix well. Strain this into the centre of the flour, and add the egg well beaten. Mix from the centre outwards, and then beat with the hands for a few minutes. Cover the basin with a cloth, and allow the dough to rise in a warm place from § to 1 hour. Turn out the dough on to a slightly floured board, and knead lightly with the hands until smooth and free from cracks. Form into two or three round cakes, and place them on a greased and floured tin. Set the cakes again to rise on the rack above the fire for 10 or 15 minutes, until they look light and puffy. Then bake them in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. A few minutes before removing the cakes from the oven, brush them over with sugar and milk to give them a gloss. These cakes should be split and buttered hot. Note.—A few currants or some very finely chopped candied peel may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 2677. Yeast Muffins and Crumpets i lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. | oz. German yeast. 1 tea-sp. sugar. | pt. sweet milk. A pinch of salt Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and let it become just lukewarm over the fire. Put the yeast into a small basin with the sugar, and mix them together with a spoon until of a creamy con- sistency. Add the warm milk and butter to the yeast and sugar, mix well together, then strain into the centre of the flour. Add also the egg well beaten, and mix together for a few minutes. Cover the basin with a clean cloth, and set it in a warm place for 1£ hours to allow the mixture to rise. (On a chair by the side of the fire, or on the rack will do, provided the placo is not so hot that it causes the mixture to cook on the sides of the basin.) Crumpets.—Heat a girdle, and grease it with butter ; drop on to it spoonfuls of the above mix- ture, and brown first on one side and then on the other. Serve hot, buttered. mixture, cook and brown on one side, then remove the rings, turn the muffins, and cook and brown them on the other side. These are nice split, buttered, and served hot. Time to cook—Crumpets, about 5 minutes; muffins, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2678. Yorkshire Tea Cakes | lb. flour. 1| gills warm milk. 1 egg. | oz. German yeast. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk to it, and make it just lukewarm. Cream the yeast with a little salt, pour the warm milk and butter on to it, and then strain into the middle of the flour. Add also the egg well beaten, and beat well together for a few minutes. Grease and flour one or two shallow cake tins, put the mixture into them, and set in a. warm place to rise, about | hour. Then bake in a good oven. When ready, brush them over with a syrup of sugar and water, dredge them with castor sugar, and return the cakes to the oven for a minute or two to dry. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, 6d. PART II BUNS AND SMALL CAKES 2679. Almond Rock Cakes 2 or 3 drops of essence of almonds. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Girdle and Muffin Ring Muffins.—Grease some rings, and place them on a hot greased girdle ; half fill them with the above £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. sweet almonds. A pinch of salt. First blanch and chop the almonds finely, and put them to dry, but not brown, on a tin in the oven. Then sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter untU free from lumps. Add the prepared almonds, and make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients. Add the egg well beaten, the flavouring, and enough sweet milk to bind all together. The mixture must be kept stiS enough for the spoon to stand upright in it. Have ready a baking tin, greased and sprinkled with flour, and arrange the mixture on it in small heaps (one teaspoonful of the mixture in each) and at some little distance apart. Sprinkle the cakes with sugar, or with ground almonds and sugar mixed, and bake in a quick oven until brown and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2680. Almond Slices | lb. butter. 7 oz. flour. J lb. castor sugar. J tea-sp. baking powder. £ lb. sweet almonds. 3 eggs. A few drops of essence of almonds. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft creamy consistency. If the butter is very hard, the basin may be warmed slightly. Add the sugar, and mix the two well together. Dry and sieve the flour, and add it by degrees with the eggs. Then beat for 10 minutes 2 N562 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD until the mixture looks light and full of air-bubbles. Add most of the almonds, blanched and finely shred, the baking powder, and flavouring, and pour out on a shallow tin that has been lined with paper. Sprinkle the remainder of the almonds on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and firm to the touch. When the cake is ready, turn it out on a sheet of sugared paper, and when cold, cut it in neat slices with a very sharp kmfe. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2681. Little Apricot Cakes Cake Mixture. Filling. 4 eggs. 1 gill apricot puree. 4 oz. flour. 1 gill double cream. 6 oz. sugar. J oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Decoration—Glace or fondant icing—silver dragees. To Make the Cakes.—Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and whip them over hot water until fight and frothy, and the mixture begins to hang on the end of the whisk. Then remove the basin to the table and continue beating the mixture until the mixture is cold. Have the flour warmed and sieved, and mix it in very lightly at the last. Three parts fill small prepared moulds (see p. 550) with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Little peach- shaped moulds are the best to use, as the cakes will then be of a convenient shape for filling. When the cakes are ready, turn them out carefully and allow them to cool. To Make the Filling.—Make the puree by rub- bing tinned apricots through a hair sieve, using just a little of the syrup along with the fruit. Warm the puree slightly, and add to it the gelatine dissolved in a little water. Whip the cream, and stir it lightly into the pured, and sweeten if neces- sary. Add two or three drops of carmine, and use the mixture when it is just setting. To Finish the Cakes.—Make a slit at the bottom of the cakes, scoop out some of the centre, fill up with the cream mixture and close them up again. Coat the cakes with glace or fondant icing flavoured with noyeau or any other flavouring preferred, and decorate with leaves of pale green icing and small silver balls, or according to taste. Place the cakes in paper cases, and use them as a dessert sweet or for afternoon tea. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. to 1 \d. each. 2682. Barcelona Slices Cake Mixture. 2 oz. Vienna flour. \ lb. castor sugar. & lb. shelled Barcelona nuts. 4 eggs. Filling. 1 gill double cream. 1 table-sp. sugar 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. A few drops vanilla essence. Decoration—Coffee glace icing, glazed Barcelona nuts, angelica. To Make the Cake Mixture.—Place the shelled nuts on a tin, and roast them in the oven for a few minutes to improve the flavour. Then rub them on the top of a sieve to remove the brown skin. Grind the prepared nuts in a nut-mill or pound them until fine in a mortar. Then put them into a basin with the sugar and yolks of eggs, and cream well together with a wooden spoon or whisk. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth in another basin, and add them alternately with the flour until all is in. Mix very lightly, turning the mixture over and over until all is thoroughly blended. Spread out on a flat tin lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out on a sheet of sugared paper to cool. To Make the Filling.—Whip the cream until thick, add the sugar and chopped nuts, slightly toasted, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla. To Glaze the Nuts.—Boil J lb. loaf sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of water together until they just turn brown. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and remove the saucepan from the fire. Dip in the nuts, and lift them quickly on to an oiled plate or wired stand to cool and dry. To Finish the Slices.—Cut the cake into neat slices or fancy-shaped pieces. Then split them and put some of the cream filling between like a sandwich. Coat them with coffee glace icing (Recipe 2840), and decorate with glazed Barcelona nuts and small leaves of angelica. Note.—Walnuts or almonds may be used instead of the Barcelona nuts. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2683. Bath Buns 1 lb. flour. 6 oz. butter. 1 oz. German yeast. 1 gill warm milk. 1 lb. sugar. 4 eggs. 2 or 3 oz. candied peel. Rind of 1 lemon. Some coarse sugar. Sieve the flour into a warm basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and then make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast with a tea-spoonful of the sugar, add to it the warm milk, and strain into the centre of the flour. Add also the eggs, mix all the ingredients gradually, and then beat well until smooth and fight. Cover the basin and put it in a warm place until the dough is well risen, about 11 hours. Then add the remainder of the castor sugar, grated lemon rind, and candied peel finely chopped, and mix them well in. Make up the dough into small buns, putting them on a greased and floured tin, and place them in a warm place to “ prove ” for a few minutes. Then brush them over with beaten egg and sprinkle them with coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Bake the buns in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2684. Chapel Windows Genoese pastry in three Raspberry or apricot colours. jam. Almond paste. Cut the three colours of Genoese pastry in slices of an equal thickness (about 1 inch) and of the same size. Spread them with some nice jam, and place them one on the top of the other. Press well, and with a sharp knife cut in slices of the same thickness as the slices of Genoese pastry. SpreadBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 563 these slices again with jam, and place them again one on top of the other, reversing them this time so as to form checks of colour. Press well together, and trim if necessary. Make some almond paste Chapel Windows and work it on the board with icing sugar until quite smooth and elastic. Roll out into a thin sheet, using more icing sugar to prevent its sticking, and then roll across with a fluted rolling-pin, first one way and then the other, so as to form checks. Wrap the cake in this sheet of almond paste, join- ing it very neatly underneath. Trim the ends of the cake, and cut in slices as required. Probable cost. Id. per slice. | lb. flour. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. £ lb. syrup. 2 eggs. . £ lb. sugar. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2685. Coburg Cakes £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. | tea-sp. allspice. 1£ oz. butter. A few sweet almonds. Sieve all the dry ingredients except the almonds into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter and syrup in a small saucepan, and pour them into the middle of the dry ingredients. Add the eggs well beaten, and mix all together. Have ready some small patty tins well greased, and with a half-blanched almond at the foot of each. Half fill the tins with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, £ to § hour. Probable cost, 8d. 2686. Chocolate Cakes 4 oz. chocolate. 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 3 eggs. 3 oz. flour. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Grate the chocolate and place it in a jar in the oven or in a saucepan of hot water, allowing it to melt slowly. Put the butter into a basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix it in. Then add the yolks of egg and chocolate, and beat for a few minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and sieve the flour with the baking powder. Add alternately a little flour and a little white of egg to the first mixture until all is lightly blended together. Half fill small prepared tins (p. 550) with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—These cakes may be glazed with chocolate icing if wished, and decorated with small pieces of preserved fruit or pistachio nuts. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2687. Cocoanut Rock Cakes £ lb. flour. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. A little grated lemon rind. 3 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the cocoanut, baking powder, and grated lemon rind, and mix all together. Then make a well in the centre and add the eggs well beaten, and enough milk to bind all together. Do not make the mixture too moist. Form in small rough heaps on a greased tin, dust them over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2688. Cocoanut Slices 2 oz. flour. 3 eggs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. A few drops of vanilla. Icing—£ lb. icing sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a little water. Decorations—1 oz. cocoanut and a few pistachio nuts or coloured sugar. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix it well in. Then add the eggs and flour by degrees, beating well and lifting the mixture high in the basin. When the mixture looks light and full of air bubbles, add the cocoanut, vanilla, and baking powder, and mix these in. Pour the mixture into a shallow tin that has been lined with paper, and bake in a moder- ate oven until lightly browned and cooked through. When the cake is ready, turn it out on to a sheet of sugared paper, and allow it to cool. Then pre- pare the icing. Sieve the sugar and put it into a small lined saucepan. Strain in the lemon juice and warm slightly over the fire, adding a little water if necessary. Care must be taken not to make the icing too liquid, but just sufficiently so to pour over the cake. Coat the cake nicely with the icing by means of a spoon, and sprinkle with the 1 oz. of cocoanut and a few chopped pistachio nuts, or a little coloured sugar. Cut in neat slices whilst the icing is still soft. Time to bake, from 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, la. 2689. Coffee Buns £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. 2 oz. currants. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 egg- 1 tea-sp. baking powder. £ lb. castor sugar. A little milk. | tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add the currant cleaned, the candied peel finely shred, and the castor sugar. Mix well together and make a well in the centre.' Add the egg well beaten and enough milk to form a stiffish paste. Form the mixture in small rough heaps on a greased and floured baking sheet, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp.564 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Note.—The fruit may be varied according to taste, and a little spice may be added. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2690. Crullers | lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of nutmeg. The grated rind of £ lemon. v Sieve the flour, sugar, baking powder, and nut- meg into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until quite free from lumps. Add the grated lemon rind or any other flavouring preferred, and bind the mixture with two eggs well beaten. Turn the dough on to a floured board, and work with the hands until free from cracks. Roll out to about § inch in thickness, and cut into fancy shapes, or make into twists. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat, drop the crullers into this, a few at a time, and cook slowly until they are a nice brown colour, and have swelled to double their original size. When the crullers are ready, lift them out of the fat with a perforated spoon, drain them on kitchen paper, and dredge well with sugar. These should be used while fresh. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2691. Currant Buns 1 lb. flour. £ oz. yeast. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 egg. Milk (about £ pt.). £ lb. currants or £ lb. sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and make a well in the centre. Put the yeast into a smaller basin, and mix it with one teaspoonful sugar. Then melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and when this is lukewarm, pour it on to the yeast. Mix together, and strain into the midst of the flour. Beat all together until smooth, then cover the basin, and set it in a warm place about 2 hours. When the dough is well risen, add the remainder of the sugar, the fruit, and egg well beaten. Knead thoroughly, and beat until the dough no longer sticks to the basin. Porm into small buns with a little flour, and place them on a greased and floured tin. Set again to rise about half an hour, then bake in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. Brush the buns over with sugar and milk just before removing them from the oven. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, lOd 2692. Currant Rock Cakes £ lb. flour. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. butter or lard. 2 oz. currants. Grated rind of £ lemon, 1 oz. candied peel. 1 egg. A little milk. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter or lard with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Prepare the currants and candied peel (see p. 551), and add them with the grated lemon rind or any other flavouring preferred. Mix all these dry ingredients together, and then make a well in the centre with a wooden spoon. Beat up the egg until light and frothy, and add it with enough milk to make a stiffish paste. The mixture must be stifl enough for the spoon to stand upright in it. Place small heaps of this mixture on a greased and floured baking sheet, taking care to form them a little distance apart, as they spread somewhat while cooking. Roughen them over with a fork, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a good oven until the cakes are nicely browned and feel dry, when tested with a skewer. Note.—If liked, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, and a quarter of a pound of ordinary flour may be used instead of half a pound of flour. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. 2693. Dough Nuts, 1 £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 egg. A little milk. Some jam. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat the egg, and add it with enough milk to form all into a smooth dough. Turn out on a floured board, knead slightly, and roll out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp out rounds with a cutter about three inches in diameter. Put a small teaspoonful of red jam in the centre of half of these, and brush over the others with a beaten egg. Place two together, one with jam and the other without, and press the edges well where they join. Fry these, a few at a time, in boiling fat, allowing them to cook until they are about double their original size, and are nicely browned. Lift out, drain on paper, and sprinkle well with sugar, or with sugar and ground cinnamon mixed. Dough nuts should be used when they are quite fresh. Note.—Care must be taken to have the fat sufficiently hot : it should be quite still, and a blue smoke should be seen rising from it. Allow the fat to reheat before putting in a second lot of dough nuts. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Another Way Make the same way as above, making the dough fairly firm. Divide into eight equal-sized pieces, roll them into balls, then make a hole with the finger and put a small tea-spoonful of jam into the centre of each. Seal it up and fry as in last recipe. 2694. Dough Nuts, 2 (With Yeast) 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. German yeast. 1| gills of sweet milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. Some jam. Sieve the flour into a good-sized basin, add a pinch of salt, and make a well in the centre. Put the yeast and sugar into a smaller basin,'and mix them together with a teaspoon until of a creamy consistency. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and, when lukewarm, pour over the yeast, and strain into the centre of the flour. Add the eggs, yolks and whites, well beaten, and mix from the centre outwards, forming a nice light dough. Beat with the hands from 10 to 15 minutes, then cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise from 1J to 2 hours. When565 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES well risen, turn out the dough on to a floured board, knead lightly until free from cracks, and then roll out to about £ inch in thickness. Stamp out in rounds with a cutter, and finish as above. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2695. Dominoes Genoese pastry. Jam. Royal icing. Chocolate Take some Genoese pastry or other white cake mixture and cut it into small pieces resembling a domino. Split these, spread them with jam, and make a sandwioh. Then make some icing by sieving £ lb. icing sugar and 'mixing it gradually with white of egg until of a softish consistency. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and coat the little cakes with this, and set them aside to dry. Now colour some of the remaining icing brown with a little melted chocolate or brown colouring ; put it into a small paper cornet, and force out first a line across the centre of each cake, and then brown spots in imitation of dominoes. 2696. Easter Cakes | lb. flour. | lb. butter. | lb. sugar. 2 oz. currants. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. brandy. 2697. French Buns 3 eggs. Flour (Vienna). 1 gill of milk. 1 oz. German yeast. 3 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. butter. £ lb. butter. 1 oz. sugar. £ lb. currants. Cream the yeast in a small basin with the salt. Heat the milk to a lukewarm temperature, and pour it on to the yeast. Put a handful (2 or 3 oz.) of flour into a basin, and strain the milk and yeast into the centre. Make a sponge by working the flour into the liquid with the fingers until a stiffish batter is formed. When quite smooth, cover the basin with a cloth, and set the sponge in a warm place to rise. When risen, and just before it falls, add 2 oz. of butter melted, 3 eggs, 3 oz. of castor sugar, and enough dry flour to make a light dough. Beat until light and smooth, cover the basin again, and set in a warm place until well risen (from 15 to 20 minutes). Then turn the dough on to a floured board, and roll it out very lightly into an oblong shape. Put on the £ lb. of butter in small pieces in the same way as for flaky pastry (Recipe 1446), giving the dough about three rolls. Then sprinkle with the currants and 1 oz. of sugar. Roll up like a roly poly, cut in slices, and lay these on a greased and floured tin. Set to prove in a warm place, and then bake in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. Just before removing the buns from the oven, glaze them over with sugar and milk. Note.—These buns, although somewhat trouble- some to make, are very good when finished. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2698. Geneva Squares Pastry. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Mixture. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. baking powder 3 eggs. Put the butter into a warm basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon until soft and creamy. Add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and brandy, and mix well together. Then work in the flour by degrees, and add a little milk if necessary. Lastly add the currants well cleaned. When smooth and free from cracks, cover the paste over, and let it stand in a cool place 1 hour at least. Then roll out on a floured board to rather less than £ inch in thickness. Cut out in rounds about 5 inches in diameter, and place the cakes on a greased tin. Bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. When nearly ready, brush the cakes over with slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge them with castor or icing sugar. Cool the cakes on a sieve or wire cake stand. Note.—These little cakes make a nice present for Easter, about half a dozen of them should be tied together with narrow coloured ribbon. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, Is. £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. currants. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. candied peel. 3 oz. flour. First make the pastry—sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat up the egg, and add it with enough water to bind all into a paste. Turn out on a floured board, and knead with the hands until free from cracks. Roll out very thinly, and cut in two pieces. Grease a flat tin, line it with one piece of the pastry, put in the mixture (see below), cover with the other piece of pastry, wetting the edges where they join, and prick all over with a fork. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven until brown and crisp. Allow the cake to cool a little in the tin, then cut in squares with a sharp knife. To Make the Mixture.—Put into a ba sin the sugar, flour, spice, and baking powder, add the currants well cleaned, the aln onds blanched and chopped, and the peel finely shred, mix all together, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter, and pour it in with the eggs well beaten. Mix all to- gether. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2699. Genoese Pastry (Beaten Cold) £ lb. Vienna flour. 8 eggs. 10 oz. sugar. A few drops of vanilla 7 oz. butter. or other flavouring. Weigh all the ingredients very carefully. Clarify the butter (see p. 634), sieve and warm the flour. Put the yolks of the eggs into one large basin and the whites into another. Sieve the sugar over the yolks, and then with a wire whisk beat them well about 15 minutes, or until light and creamy. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and add them alternately with a little of the flour to the creamed yolks and sugar. Mix very gently and lightly. Add the clarified butter and vanilla essence, and mix again. Pour out on a shallow tin lined with paper, and bake in a quick oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes, Probable cost. Is. 6d.566 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2700. Another 6 oz. flour (Vienna). 6 oz. butter. 8 oz. castor sugar. Way (Beaten Hot) 7 eggs. A few drops of flavour- ing. First weigh all the ingredients carefully. Then clarify the butter, and pour into a basin ready for use. Sieve the flour, and put it into a warm place to get thoroughly dry. Break the eggs into a large basin or beating bowl, and sieve the sugar over them. Stand this basin over a saucepan of hot water, and Beating Bowl beat well with a wire whisk from 15 to 20 minutes, or until the mixture looks light and frothy. The water in the saucepan underneath ought to be kept slowly simmering. When ready, remove the basin to the table and continue the beating a few minutes longer. Stir in the flour and butter very lightly, a little at a time, and do not mix more than is necessary. Add a few drops of any flavouring that is liked. Pour the mixture out on a shallow tin lined with paper, but not greased. The shape of the tin must depend upon what the pastry is to be used for. Bake in a quick oven until slightly browned and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out on'a sheet of sugared paper, and place on a wire stand to cool. Brown Genoese Pastry.—Melt 2 oz. of unsweet- ened chocolate in a tablespoonful of water and add it to either of the above mixtures before beating up the eggs. Pink Genoese Pastry.—Add a fewdropsof carmine to either of the above mixtures just before baking. Note.—Genoese pastry is used for various kinds of fancy cakes. For icing and decoration see p. 594. 2701. Ginger Cakes (Small) 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. £ tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 eggs. A few drops of ginger essence. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. candied lemon peel. Cream the butter, add the sugar, ground ginger, essence of ginger, and the lemon peel chopped finely, and mix well. Then add 1 egg and half the flour, and beat well, then the other egg and the re- mainder of the flour, and beat again. When the mixture is light and frothy looking, mix in the baking powder, and half fill small prepared tins (see p. 550). Place the tins on a baking sheet, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven until they feel firm to the touch and are nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2702. Girdle Cakes Take some pastry (flaky or rough pufl will do) and roll it out to £ inch in thickness. Cut out into squares or oblong-shaped pieces, and place these on a hot girdle. Brown first on the one side and then on the other until the pastry is thoroughly cooked. Then split, butter, and serve hot. Note.—A few currants may be rolled into the pastry before cooking. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, id. or Id. each. 2703. Honey Cakes 1 lb. honey. £ lb. butter. 1 lb. flour. A pinch of salt. £ lb. ground almonds. • A pinch of ground cloves Grated rind of £ lemon. £ oz. carbonate of soda. Sieve the flour, salt, carbonate of soda, and ground cloves into a basin, add the almonds and grated lemon rind, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter and honey in a lined saucepan, and pour them into the centre of the dry ingredients. Mix together until all is thoroughly blended, then cover the basin and allow the mixture to stand all night. Next day sprinkle the paste with a little flour and turn it out on a baking board. Flour a rolling- pin and roll out the paste to £ inch in thickness ; cut in small square pieces or round cakes, and place them on a greased and floured tin. Brush over the top of the cakes with slightly beaten white of egg, and sprinkle with some chopped almonds. Bake in a moderate oven until the cakes feel firm to the touch and are of a pale brown colour. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 2704. Hot Cross Buns 1 lb. flour. £ lb. butter or dripping. £ tea-sp. salt, f oz. German yeast. About £ pt. warm milk. 2 eggs. 2 to 4 oz. currants. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. £ lb. sugar. Candied peel. Sieve the flour and spice into a basin, rub in the butter or dripping until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast with the salt, pour on to it the warm milk, and strain into the centre of the flour. Add also the 2 eggs well beaten, and mix all lightly together. Beat well until smooth, cover the basin, and set it in a warm place until the dough is well risen, about 1£ hours. Then add the sugar and currants, mixing them well in. Form the dough into round buns, and place them on a greased and floured tin 2 or 3 inches apart. Form a cross with two strips of candied peel on the top, or, if preferred, mark them with the back of a knife in a cross, and set them in a warm place to rise, from 10 to 15 minutes. Then brush the buns over with a little milk and bake them in a quick oven. Note.—These buns are always made for Good Friday. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, Is. £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. £ lb. ground almonds. 2705. Japanese Cakes £ lb. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 2 eggs. Coffee icing. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, add the ground almonds, and then rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat up the eggsBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 567 and use these to bind the mixture together, keeping it very stiff. Roll out rather thinly, and cut in rounds about 3 inches in diameter. Bake these slowly on a greased and floured tin until brown and crisp. When ready, lift them off and let them cool. Then place them two together with a layer of coffee icing between. Coat the top and sides with another layer of the icing, and then sprinkle them with icing sugar. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2706. Lemon Cakes 1J oz. biscuit crumbs. 1 oz. rice flour. 1 oz. flour. J lb. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 eggs. 2 oz. candied lemon peel. Lemon glace icing. | lb. flour. J lb. castor sugar. 2 or 3 oz. butter. 1 1 large lemon. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Cream the butter, and add the sugar with the grated rind of the lemon. Then add the egg and the strained lemon juice. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir them lightly into the other ingredients. Use a little milk if neces- sary to make a stiffish dough. Turn the dough on to a floured baking board, and divide it into small equal-sized pieces. Roll each piece out quickly with the hands, and twist into the shape of the letter <£ S.” Bake the jumbles on a greased tin in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. 2708. Louise Cakes 3 oz. flour. 4 oz. sugar. 3 oz. rice flour. 3 eggs. 4 oz. butter. Flavouring to taste. Cream the butter, and add the sugar and a little flavouring. Then add the eggs and the two kinds of flour by degrees. Beat the mixture well, and bake in small greased and floured tins until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—These little cakes may be iced if wished. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 10 d. 2709. Lump Cakes 1 egg. J lb. flour. | lb. butter. | lb. sugar. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. egg well beaten and mix together. Sieve the flour and soda, and add them gradually to the other mixture. Have ready a flat tin, greased and floured, and arrange the mixture on it in small lumps, keeping them a little distance apart. Bake in a quick oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Madeleines 2 eggs. Vanilla flavouring. Put the butter into a slightly warmed basin and beat it to a cream. Grate only the yellow rind off the lemon, and rub it into the sugar; then work this into the butter. Add the flour, rice flour, and biscuit-crumbs (ratafia crumbs are best), alter- nately with the eggs, and beat all well together. Add the candied peel, finely chopped, at the last. Half fill small prepared moulds (see p. 550) with the mixture; and bake in a good oven until well risen and brown. When ready, turn out and cool on a sieve or wire cake stand. Coat the cakes with lemon glace icing, and decorate with small strips of angelica and small silver balls or dragees, or any other suitable decoration. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2707. Lemon Jumbles 2710. 2 oz. fresh butter. Jr lb. fine flour. \ lb. castor sugar. Put the butter into a slightly warmed basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft and creamy consistency. Add the sugar, sifted, and beat again for a few minutes. Now add the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, along with a little of the flour, and lastly add the remainder of the flour Put the butter into a basin and warm it in the oven, or before the fire. Add the sugar and the Madeleine Moulds along with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix very lightly, and do not beat again. Half fill madeleine moulds that have been prepared according to directions given on p. 550 with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. These little cakes may be iced with glace icing if wished. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2711. Othello Shells To Make the Cases 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. Vienna flour. 5 eggs. Put half the sugar into a basin, and add the yolks one at a time, beating them well in with a whisk. Be sure to cream the yolks and sugar well together, and keep the mixture moving all the time. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into them the remainder of the sugar. Then add the creamed yolks and flour to the whites, and mix very lightly with a spoon, turning the mixture over and over. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a pipe the size of a sixpenny piece at the end of it, and force out on a tin lined with paper, but not greased. Make different shapes according to taste, such as half apricot, a half pear, the section of an orange, &c. Bake in a quick oven until quite dry and brown. Note.—These cases or shells are really better if they can be made the day before they are wanted. In an air-tight tin box they will keep good for some time, and will be in readiness for using in different ways.568 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD To Fill the Shells.—First scoop out the centres; fill the hollow with any of the following mixtures : 1. Any good well-flavoured jam that is not too liquid. 2. Whipped double cream, sweetened and flav- oured, to which small pieces of fruit or a puree of fruit may be added if wished. 3. Thick custard sweetened and flavoured. 4. A soft almond paste, flavoured and coloured pale pink or pale greem. Any mixture that is liked may be used as long as it is nicely flavoured and sweetened, and not too liquid. After filling the shells put two pieces of the same size and shape together, and place them on a draining tray ready for icing. To Ice the Calces.—Either gla?6 or fondant icing (see Icings, p. 589) will do. Colour the icing ac- cording to taste, such as yellow, very pale green, pink, chocolate, &c., according to the fruit or form you wish to represent, and add suitable flavourings. A little blue will be an improvement to the white icing ; and for fruits, such as pears and apricots, add just a suspicion of green. Dip the cakes right into the icing and lift out to drain. Then dry in the oven for a few minutes to give a gloss. The pale-coloured cakes should look just like marble. To Decorate the Cakes.—This is very much a matter of taste, and the variety is endless, as for instance : Chocolate Iced Cakes.—Pipe, with a paper cornet, tiny loops of chocolate icing, dust over with green sugar, blow oil the loose sugar, and put a silver ball in the centre. To Imitate Fr uits.—Coat the cakes with the palest green icing. Mix up some slightly darker green icing on a plate with a little water, and touch up the fruit very lightly with this, using a brush, and then in the same way with pink to imitate the colours of the fruit. Little drops of pink may also be splashed on with a brush. Put a green arti- ficial leaf at the end of the fruit, and a piece of wore for the stalk. Coat over the wire with chocolate icing, put through a forcing bag, and mark the heart at the other end with the same. Probable cost, 1 \d. each cake. 2712. Princess Cakes Grated rind of \ lemon. A few drops of vanilla essence. 2 small eggs. Decoration.—Glace icing flavoured with maras- chino, crystallised violets, and rose leaves. 1J oz. butter. l| oz. castor sugar. oz. rice flour. 4 oz. cocoanut. Cream the butter and work in the sugar. Add half the rice flofir, flavouring, cocoanut, and one egg, and mix well. Then the remainder of the rice flour, and the second egg, and mix again. Beat all together for about 10 minutes. Have ready ten or twelve small fancy-shaped tins, grease them with clarified butter, and coat them with fine cake or ratafia crumbs. Half fill these tins with the above mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Turn the cakes out of the tins, and when cold, ice them with glace icing flavoured with a few drops of maraschino, and decorate them with violets and rose leaves. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2713. Queen Cakes, 1 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 eggs. h tea-sp. baking powder. A little grated lemon rind. A few currants. Prepare nine or ten small tins (see p. 550), and place a few clean currants at the bottom of each. Cream the butter, add the sugar, salt, and grated lemon rind and mix well. Sieve the flour, and add half of it to the mixture with one of the eggs. Mix Queen Cake Tins slowly, and then beat well for a few minutes. Add the second egg and the remainder of the flour, and beat again. Sprinkle in the baking powder at the last, and half fill the prepared tins with the mixture. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2714. Queen Cakes, 2 J lb. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 eggs. 3 oz. glace cherries. 1 or 2 table-sps. water. 5 oz. flour. \ tea-sp. baking powder. Cream the butter (see p. 552), add the sugar, and mix well. Then add the yolks of the eggs and beat a few minutes longer. Whip the whites of the eggs to a still froth, and sieve the flour with the baking powder. Add these two alternately to the other mixture, mixing them in gradually and very lightly. Stir in the cherries, cut in small pieces, and the water last of all. Half fill small prepared tins and bake the cakes in a moderate oven. When ready, turn them on to a sieve to cool. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2715. Raspberry Buns £ lb. flour | lb. rice flour or ground rice. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter or lard. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Raspberry jam. Rub the butter or lard into the flour, and add the sugar and baking powder. Make a well in the centre, and add the egg well beaten and enough milk to form a stiffish dough. Divide this into nine or ten pieces, and roll each piece into a ball, using aBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 569 little flour. Lay them on a greased and floured tin, and make a hole in the top of each. Fill up with a small quantity of raspberry jam, and pinch the dough together again. Then flatten the buns slightly, brush them over with a little milk or white of egg, sprinkle them with sugar, and bake in a good oven. When ready, the buns will crack on the top and show the jam. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2716. Little Raspberry Cakes Genoese pastry. Raspberry essence. Raspberry jam. Carmine. Almond paste. Take some Genoese pastry or other sponge cake mixture and cut it in small round pieces about \ an inch in thickness, and from 2 to 2\ inches in diameter. Then coat these on one side with rasp- berry jam. Prepare a small quantity of almond little Kaspberry Cakes paste, flavour it with raspberry essence, and colour it a pretty pink with liquid carmine. Roll this out very thinly, and stamp out little rounds about the size of a sixpenny piece. Arrange these in a circle round the cakes, one overlapping the other, and put a very little chopped pistachio nut in the centre. 2717. Rice Buns 2 oz. ground rice. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. \ tea-sp. baking powder. A little flavouring. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and beat them together for a few minutes. Add the ground rice flavouring, and 1 egg, and beat well for a few minutes. Sieve the flour with the baking powder, and add them next with the second egg. Beat again for a few minutes, and then three-parts fill small prepared cake tins with the mixture. Place the cakes on a baking tin, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are brown, and feel firm to the touch. This quantity will make from ten to twelve small cakes or buns. Note.—This mixture may, if liked, be made in one large cake. It will take about one hour to bake. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2718. Richmond Cakes 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. brown sugar. 2 oz. treacle. £ tea-sp. ground ginger. | tea-sp. mixed spice. | lb. flour. A little grated lemon rind. 1 oz. rice flour. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. desiccated cocoanut. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Cream the butter and work in the sugar by de- grees. Add the treacle, spices, and lemon rind, and mix well together. Sieve the two kinds of flour, and add them alternately with the 2 eggs. Beat the mixture until air bubbles begin to appear, and add the baking powder and cocoanut at the last. Half fill small greased tins that have been dusted out with flour and sugar mixed, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2719. Russian Slices Genoese pastry. i Fondant or glace icing. Scraps of cake. | Syrup—2 oz. loaf sugar, \ gill of water, a little rum, or other flavouring. Any scraps of cake may be used for making Russian slices, except dough cake, or very stale cake. They will look prettier if there are several different colours of cakes used. Cut a slice of Genoese pastry the size you wish the cake to be, spread it with jam, and fit it into a shallow tin or wooden box. Break up sufficient scraps of cake to nearly fill the box, and put the pieces into a basin. Make a syrup in the above proportion by boiling the sugar and water together for 10 minutes, and then adding the flavouring. Pour sufficient syrup over the pieces of cake to moisten them and bind them together, but be careful not to make them too moist. Mix lightly, but do not mash up the cake. Press this mixture into the box smoothly and evenly. Spread another slice of Genoese pastry with jam, and lay it on the top. Let all rest for a short time, and then turn the cake out. To Ice the Cake.—Have some white fondant or glace icing rather thick, flavour it, and spread it evenly over the cake with a knife. Colour a little of the icing pink, put it into a paper cornet, and force it out in thin lines across the cake. Then with the back of the point of the knife score it across at equal distances, thus giving the lines a curve. Turn the cake, and score across the other way, so as to give the icing a marbled appearance. Allow the cake to stand for an hour or two before cutting, and then, cut in neat slices with a very sharp knife. The colour of the icing and the flavouring may be varied according to taste. Probable cost, 1 d. a slice. 2720. Seed Rock Cakes Make in the same way as Currant Rock Cakes (Recipe 2692), using one teaspoonful of caraway seeds instead of the currants. 2721. Scotch Cookies 1 £ lbs. flour. 1 oz. yeast 1 tea-sp. salt. 3 gills tepid milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 oz. currants. 3 oz. butter. Sieve the flour into a warm basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter in a saucepan, pour in570 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the milk, and heat both to a lukewarm temperature. Cream the yeast with the salt, pour the warm milk and butter on to them, and strain into the middle of the flour. Add also the eggs well beaten, mix all together, and beat well until smooth and light. Cover the basin, and set it in a warm place until the dough has risen to about twice its original size. Then mix in the sugar and the currants well cleaned, shape the dough into small buns, and place them on greased and floured tins. Set the tins in a warm place until the cookies begin to swell and puff out, then bake them in a good oven. When almost ready, glaze them with a little sugar dissolved in hot milk. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2722. Scotch Oatcakes 1 tea-cupful fine oat- meal. 1 tea-sp. melted butter or bacon fat. A pinch of salt. A pinch of carbonate of soda. Hot water. Put the dry ingredients into a basin, add the melted fat and enough hot water to make a softish paste. Turn this out on a board that has been well sprinkled with oatmeal. Flatten out with the hand or roll with the rolling-pin until very thin. Rub over with more oatmeal, and cut round with a saucepan lid. Then cut into four or six pieces, and slide the cakes carefully on to a hot girdle. Cook them over a moderate fire until they begin to curl up, then toast them in front of the fire for a few minutes, or put them on a tin in the oven for a short time until dry and crisp. Note.—The scraps which are left over from cut- ting should be put back into the basin, and made up again. Time to bake, about 10 minutes. Probable cost, \d. 2723. Small Sponge Cakes J- lb. Vienna flour. I Grated lemon rind. | lb. castor sugar. | 3 large or 4 small eggs. First sieve the flour and put it in a warm place for a short time. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, putting the yolks into one large basin and the whites into another. Add the sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon to the yolks, and work them together with a wooden spoon or wire whisk until of a light creamy consistency. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add a little of them alternately with a little of the flour until all is mixed in. The mixing must be done as quickly and lightly as possible. Have ready prepared some small sponge cake moulds (see p. 551), half fill them with the mixture, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and well risen. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2724. Sultana Buns 1 lb. dough same as for 2 eggs. Scotch Bun (p. 585). 2 oz. candied peel. J lb. sultanas. Prepare the fruit, and add it to the dough with the eggs well beaten. Knead lightly with the hands until free from cracks, and form into small round balls with a little flour. Place these on a greased and floured baking tin, and set to rise on the rack above the fire for 20 or 30 minutes. Then bake in a good moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Before removing the buns from the oven, brush them over with a little sugar and milk. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2725. Victoria Buns | lb. flour. 2 oz. ground rice. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. Grated rind | lemon. 2 oz. candied peel. 2 oz. currants. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Prepare the fruit, add it with the other dry ingredients, and mix all to- gether. Make ft well in the centre, add the egg well beaten and enough milk to make a softish dough. Bake in small prepared tins (see p. 551), or in rough lumps on a greased baking tin. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2726. Vienna Queens 1£ oz. butter. 2 oz. icing sugar. 1 oz. rice flora. 1J oz. biscuit crumbs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. A little flavouring. Maraschino icing. Put the butter into a basin, warm it slightly, and then beat it with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Sieve the icing sugar on the top of it, and mix for a few minutes longer. Then add the eggs and the rice flour, and beat for 10 minutes. Mix in gradually the biscuit crumbs, cocoanut, and baking powder. Colour pink with two or three drops of carmine, flavour to taste, and put the mixture into very small prepared tins (see p. 551). These little cakes should be baked in a moderate oven, and, when ready, must be cooled upon a sieve or cake stand. Coat them on one side with maras- chino glace icing, and sprinkle with a mixture of cocoanut, chopped pistachio nut, and pink crystallised sugar, or with any other ornamenta- tion that may be preferred. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 10<f. 2727. Waffles (Gauffres) 1 lb. flora. 1 gill milk. A pinch of salt. 3 or 4 drops vanilla. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 small eggs. 1 tea-sp. brandy. Warm water. Sieve the flora and salt into a basin, make a well in the centre, and put in the yolks of eggs and milk. Mix until a smooth batter is formed, add a little warm water if necessary. Beat well, and add the butter melted, sugar, brandy, and vanilla. Then allow this to stand for some time, and, just before cooking, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. To Cook the Waffles.—Special irons are necessary for this ; they can be bought from any good iron- monger. See that they are very clean, heat them thoroughly, and brush them over on both sides with a little clarified butter. Two thirds fill them with the batter and cookBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 571 over a sharp clear fire for 2 or 3 minutes on each side until the waffles are brown and crisp. Then remove them from the irons and servo hot, sprinkled with sugar, or maple sugar may be served sepa- rately. Note.—Cream may be used instead of milk. 2728. Walnut Buns 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. rice flour. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. shelled walnuts. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. cream. | tea-sp. baking powder. Some red currant jelly. Beat the butter until of a creamy consistency, add the sugar, and mix well. Toast the walnuts for a few minutes in a moderate oven, then pound or chop them rather finely. Reserve one tea-spoon- ful of these, and add the rest to the creamed butter and sugar with 1 egg and the rice flour. Mix well for a few minutes, then add the other egg, flour, cream, nutmeg, and baking powder Beat well for a few minutes longer, and half fill small prepared tins (see p. 551). Bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out and cool slightly. Then coat the top of the buns with red currant jelly and sprinkle them with the remainder of the walnuts. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, lOd. PART III BISCUITS 2729. Almond Biscuits 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1J oz. sugar. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 3 or 4 drops essence of almonds. A few sweet almonds. Sieve the flour and sugar, and rub the butter into them until free from lumps. Mix the yolk of egg with one table-spoonful of cream and the essence of almonds, and pour this into the centre of the dry ingredients. Work up with the hand into a stiffish paste, using a little more cream if necessary. Roll out on a floured board rather thinly, and cut in fancy shapes. Bake on a greased and floured tin until a golden brown colour. Allow the biscuits to cool on the tin, then brush them over with white of egg and sugar mixed, and sprinkle with chopped and browned almonds. Return the biscuits to the oven for a few minutes to dry. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2730. Arrowroot Biscuits £ lb. arrowroot. I 1 tea-sp. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. | A little milk. Sieve the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then form into a stiff paste with a little milk. Knead until smooth, and roll out very thinly on a floured board. Cut into biscuits, and bake on a greased tin until brown and crisp. Note.—Richer biscuits may be made by adding more butter and mixing with a beaten egg and less milk. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 2731. Ayrshire Shortbread £ lb. flour. | lb. rice flour. | lb. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 egg. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Sieve the two kinds of flour into a basin, and rub the butter into them. Sieve in the sugar, and add the flavouring. Beat up the egg in a small basin, and add a little cream to it; pour this into the centre of the dry ingredients, and mix all into a paste with the hand, using more cream if necessary. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to about £ inch in thickness. Stamp it out in small rounds with a cutter, and place the biscuits on a greased and floured tin. Roll the scraps again, and cut out more biscuits until all is used, then bake the biscuits in a moderate oven until a pretty brown colour. Sprinkle them well with sugar while they are still hot, and lift them on to a sieve or wire stand to cool. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2732. Bachelor’s Buttons 5 oz. flour. | 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. 3 oz. castor sugar. [ A little flavouring. Cream the butter and sugar together, and add a little flavouring. Beat the egg, and add it gradu- ally with the flour until a stiffish paste is formed. Do not add all the egg unless necessary. Take small portions of the mixture, and roll them into balls the size of a hazel nut, using a little flora) to prevent them sticking to the hands. Place them on a greased and floured tin, and when all are ready sprinkle them with sugar. Bake in a good oven until the biscuits are lightly browned, then lift them on to a sieve to cool. Time to bake, about 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2733. Brandy Snaps £ lb. butter. J lb. castor sugar. | lb. flour. i lb. golden syrup. | tea-sp. ground ginger. A few drops of vanilla. Put the butter, sugar, and syrup into a saucepan and allow them to melt over the fire. Sieve the flour and mix it in gradually off the fire. Add the ginger, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Have ready one or two well-greased tins, pour the mixture on to them in small rounds, and then bake in a moderate oven. When ready, remove the snaps with a palette knife, twist them round cornet moulds, or round the handle of a wooden spoon, and remove them when cold. Time to bake, 10 minutes. 2734. Chestnut Biscuits £ lb. chestnuts. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. chocolate. Vanilla essence. Cook the chestnuts, t inner skin. Then rub 1 table-sp. water. 1 white of egg. A pinch of salt. Wafer paper. remove both outer and e nuts through a sieve572 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD and add the sugar also sieved. Grate or shred the chocolate, and dissolve in a small saucepan with the water. Now add it to the chestnuts and sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix it with the other ingredients at the last. Arrange some wafer paper on a dry baking tin, drop small portions of the mixture on to it, keeping them some little distance apart, and bake in a moderate oven until crisp. 2735. Chocolate Biscuits A lb. icing sugar. 2 oz. powdered choco- late. 2 oz. ground almonds. About 2 whites of eggs. Vanilla essence. Put the ground almonds and chocolate into a basin or mortar, and mix them or pound them to a smooth paste with 1 white of egg. Then add the sugar sifted, vanilla essence to flavour nicely, and enough of the second white of egg to make all into a smooth paste. Now put this paste into a lined saucepan, and stir it carefully over the fire until lukewarm. Then put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe on the end of it, and force out small fancy- shaped biscuits on a greased and floured tin. Allow the biscuits to dry for 3 or 4 hours, then bake them in a cool oven until crisp. Time to bake, about \ hour. Probable cost, Id. to the touch. Turn them on to a sieve or wire tray to cool. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2738. Cinnamon Macaroons A lb. ground almonds. A lb. icing sugar. 1 oz. flour. A tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Some white of egg. Icing.—3 tab.-sps. icing sugar, 1 tea-sp. flour, white of egg. Sieve the flour, icing sugar, and cinnamon on to the baking-board, and mix with the ground almonds. Then add gradually enough white of egg to form a very stiff paste. Work with the hands until per- fectly smooth and elastic, and form into a long roll quite free from cracks. Flour the rolling-pin and press out the roll into an even strip, keeping it perfectly straight at the edges so as to avoid any waste. Then prepare the icing. Mix the flour and icing sugar together, and bind with a very little white of egg. Spread this smoothly over the almond paste with a wetted knife, and then cut in neat fingers. Place these on a greased and floured tin, and bake in a moderate oven until a light brown colour, and firm and crisp to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8ct. 2736. Chocolate Rock Biscuits 10 oz. icing sugar. A lb. sweet almonds. 1A oz. powdered choco late. 1 or 2 whites of eggs. 2 or 3 drops of vanilla. Wafer paper. Blanch the almonds, shred them finely and length- wise, and make them very dry. Add to them the sugar and chocolate, which have been sifted to- gether, flavour with vanilla, and add enough white of egg to bind all together. Place some wafer paper on a baking sheet, and form the mixture on it in little heaps about the size of a penny, but high and rocky. Allow these to dry for 3 or 4 hours, then bake them in a cool oven until crisp and lightly browned. Note.—The chocolate may be omitted from this mixture, and other flavourings and colourings added according to taste. Time to bake, about A hour. Probable cost, 10d. 2737. Cinnamon Biscuits A lb. flour. J lb. castor sugar. | lb. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Milk if necessary. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then bind together with the yolk of an egg, and a little milk if necessary. The dough must not be made too soft, but of the consistency of pastry. Knead with the hand until free from cracks, and turn out on a slightly floured board. Flour a rolling-pin and roll out the dough to A of an inch in thickness. Then cut in rounds or fancy shapes, and place the biscuits on a greased baking tin. Roll out the scraps that remain, and repeat the pro- cess until all the dough is used up. Bake the biscuits in a moderate oven, until they feel firm 2739. Cocoanut Biscuits 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 white of egg. Wafer paper. Chop the cocoanut a little more finely if neces- sary, and mix it in a basin with the other dry in- gredients. Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and bind all together with this. Put small squaTea of wafer paper on a dry baking tin, arange a tea- spoonful of the mixture on each, and bake in a slow oven until the biscuits are firm, and of a pale brown colour. Cool them on a sieve, breaking off the wafer paper which projects beyond the edges. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2740. Dutch | lb. castor sugar. 4 whites of eggs. A lb. ground almonds. Macaroons Vanilla or orange flower water. Wafer paper. Sieve the icing sugar and put it into a mortar with the ground almonds. Flavour with orange flower water or a few drops of vanilla, and pound well, adding the white of eggs by degrees.. The mixture must not be made too moist. Put it into a forcing bag, and force out small rounds or fancy shapes on wafer paper. Allow the macaroons to dry in a warm place (on the rack above the stove would do) for several hours, then bake and colour slightly. Cool on a sieve on wire stand and trim off the wafer paper. Probable cost, 9d. 2741. Finger Biscuits 3 eggs. J lb. castor sugar. J lb. Vienna flour. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and beat them over a saucepan of hot water until thick and frothy. Then remove the basin from the top of573 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES the saucepan, and beat the mixture until cold. Dry and sieve the flour, and stir it in very lightly. Then put the mixture into a forcing bag with a nozzle the size of a sixpenny piece at the end of it, and force out finger-shaped pieces of the mixture on a sheet of white paper. Dredge well with sugar, and shake the loose sugar off. Put the paper with biscuits on a baking tin, and bake in a good oven. Then wet the paper underneath, and the biscuits will come off easily. Place two together, and allow them to cool on a sieve. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be baked in special spongo finger tins. Time to bake, 7 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2742. Ginger Biscuits £ lb. flour. I lb. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. ground ginger. A little sherry. Sieve the flour, sugar, and ginger into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then form into a stiff paste with sherry, turn on to a floured board, and knead with the hands until free from cracks. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll the paste out very thinly. Cut it into small round or fancy- shaped pieces with a cutter, lay them on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. . Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. 2743. Gingerbread Nuts £ lb. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. dripping or lard. 2 table-sps. treacle or syrup. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. £ tea-sp. carbonate of soda. ‘ Grated rind £ lemon. 2745. Macaroons £ lb. ground almonds. i A squeeze of lemon £ lb. castor sugar. juice. 3 to 4 whites of eggs. ' Wafer paper. Put the almonds and sugar into a basin, and add the lemon juice and the whites of eggs very gradu- ally, beating well with a wooden spoon or spatula. Beat thoroughly and make the mixture just moist enough to drop from a spoon. Put it into a forcing bag with a plain pipe at the end, and force out small portions on rounds or squares of wafer paper. This quantity should make twelve. Dust over with icing sugar, which will make the macaroons crack on the top, and place a half blanched and split almond on the top of each. Bake in a very moderate oven until nicely browned, dry, and well risen. Lift on to a sieve to cool, and break off any scraps of wafer paper that extend beyond the edges. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, 8 d. or 9d. 2746. Milan Biscuits £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. £ lb. sugar. 1 tea-sp. rum. 1 egg. 1 yolk of egg. A little grated lemon rind. 1 pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the other ingredients, and knead with the hand until all is formed into one lump. Turn the paste on to a floured board and roll it out to about J of an inch in thickness. Stamp out in little cakes with a cutter, and place them on a greased baking tin. Brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2747. Milk Biscuits Put the dripping, treacle, and sugar into a sauce- pan and let them melt over the fire. Put the flour, ginger, and lemon rind and juice into a basin. Add the soda to the hot mixture in the saueepan, and pour all into the centre of the dry ingredients. Mix all together into a smooth paste, form into small balls the size of a marble, and place them on a tin lined with greased paper. Allow the nuts to stand for £ hour, then bake them in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2744. Lemon Biscuits £ lb. flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. Grated rind £ lemon. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. A few chopped almonds. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add to it the grated lemon rind, and rub these two together until the sugar is quite yellow. Sieve the flour on the top, and then rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the lemon juice and enough beaten egg to bind all together. Roll out rather thinly and stamp out in rounds or fancy shapes. Place the biscuits on a greased tin, brush them over with egg, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. £ lb. flour. 1 gill of milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and make it just lukewarm. Pour this into the centre of the flour, and mix all together. Flour a baking-board, turn the paste on to it, and knead with the hands until free from cracks. Then roll out as thin as possible, and prick all over with a fork or biscuit pricker. Stamp out in rounds with a cutter about three inches in diameter, place the biscuits on a greased tin, and bake them in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. The oven must not be too hot, but regular. When the biscuits are ready, remove them from the tins and put them on a sieve or wire stand to cool. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2748. Neva Biscuits £ lb. sugar. A pinch of cream of tartar. 2 eggs. £ lb. flour. A few drops carmine. A few chopped almonds. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the eggs and cream of tartar, stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and beat with a wire whisk until light and frothy. Then remove the basin to the table.574 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD and, when the mixture is tepid, sift in the flour very lightly. Colour pink with a few drops of carmine, and pour into small biscuit moulds, which have been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar. Sprinkle the tops with chopped almonds and sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2749. Norwegian Biscuits 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. rice flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 oz. ground almonds. Make in the same way as Ayrshire Shortbread. See Recipe 2731. Probable cost, 6d. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. oatmeal. 1 oz. sugar, or £ tea-sp. salt. 1£ oz. butter. A pinch of baking powder. A little water or milk. 2750. Oatmeal Biscuits 1 egg. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Beat up the egg in a small basin, add half of it to the mixture, and then enough water or milk to form all into one lump. Knead with the hands until free from cracks, and turn the dough on to a floured board. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to rather less than £ of an inch in thickness. Stamp out in shapes with a cutter and place the biscuits on a greased tin. Re-roll the scraps, and cut out more biscuits until all the paste is used up. Bake in a moderate oven until th9 biscuits are nicely browned. Place them on a sieve to cool. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2751. Orange Biscuits Make in the same way as Lemon Biscuits. See Recipe 2744. 2752. Raspberry Biscuits Take any sweet biscuits, such as Milan or Ayr- shire shortbread, and place two together with a little raspberry jam between. Coat them with raspberry glace icing, and decorate them with a few chopped pistachio nuts or small pieces of pre- served fruit. 2753. Ratafias Make the same mixture as for macaroons (see above), flavouring with a few drops of ratafia essence. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a £-inch pipe and force out small drops the size of a sixpenny piece on white paper placed on a baking tin. Bake in a cool oven until a light brown colour. Should the biscuits adhere to the paper, damp the reverse side with a little water, and return the biscuits to the oven for a few minutes to dry. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. £ lb. flour. 3 oz. ground rice. £ lb. castor sugar. 2754. Rice Biscuits Vanilla essence. 3 oz. butter. 1 egg. A little milk. Put the flour, sugar, and ground rice into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat up the egg, add a few drops of vanilla to it, and moisten the dry ingredients with this, using also a little milk to form all into a paste. Turn out on a floured baking board, knead until free from cracks, and then roll out to £ inch in thickness. Cut into biscuits, place them on a greased tin, and bake in a hot oven until brown and crisp. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 2755. Scotch Parkins £ lb. flour. £ lb. coarse oatmeal. 3 oz. dripping or lard. 2 table-sps. brown sugar. 2 table-sps. treacle or syrup. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. £ tea-sp. baking powder. A few sweet almonds. Put the oatmeal, flour, spice, and baking powder into a basin and mix them together. Heat the sugar, treacle, and dripping in a small saucepan until melted, and stir them into the centre of the dry ingredients. Mix well until a smooth paste is formed. Then form into small halls the size of a walnut. Place these on a greased baking tin, put one or two slit almonds on the top of each, and flatten them slightly. Then bake the parkins in a moderate oven until crisp and firm. Cool them on a sieve, and keep in an air-tight tin box. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2756. Shrewsbury Biscuits 7 oz. flour. 6 oz. castor sugar. £ lb. butter. 1 egg. £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Make in the same way as Cinnamon Biscuits. See Recipe 2737. Probable cost, 7d. 2757. Tea Biscuits £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. £ lb. castor sugar. 2 oz. ground nuts. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. i egg. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat them together until of a creamy consistency. Add the flour, nuts, and baking powder, and mix these ingredients well together. Form into a stiff paste with a little beaten egg, and roll out very thinly. Cut out in shapes and bake on a greased tin in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 2758. Vanilla Biscuits 2 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 4 oz. flour. Piece of vanilla pod. 3 oz. castor sugar. Put the sugar and small piece of vanilla pod into a mortar, pound them well together, and pass through a sieve. Beat the butter until very soft and creamy, work in the sugar and yolk of egg, then the flour gradually, kneading well. Leave the paste a little while to harden, then roll out and cut into biscuits as described for Cinnamon Biscuits. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6 d.575 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 2759. Walnut Macaroons 3 oz. shelled walnuts. 1£ oz. sweet almonds. £ lb. castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour, 2 or 3 whites of eggs. 1 tea-sp. orange flower water, or a few drops lemon juice. Wafer paper. Blanch the almonds, and put them through a nut-mill with the walnuts, or chop them all finely. Then pound the nuts in a mortar with the orange flower water or lemon juice, and, when smooth, add the rice flour, and sugar. Moisten with the whites of eggs, using only two to commence with and the third, or part of it, if required. Work the mixture well until light and creamy-looking, then put it into a forcing bag with a £-inch pipe at the end of it. Force out the mixture on wafer paper in pieces about the size of half a crown, and bake in a very moderate oven until crisp and lightly browned. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2760. Wheaten Meal Biscuits 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. wheaten meal. 1 oz. sugar, or £ tea-sp. salt. 1£ oz. butter. A pinch of baking powder. £ egg. A little water or milk. Make according to directions given for Oatmeal Biscuits (Recipe 2750). Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. and beat with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the flour and whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix these two very lightly with the other mixture, and just at the last. Have a cake tin prepared according to directions given on p. 551; half fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 40 to 50 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2763. Angel Cake 2 oz. Vienna flour. 1 tea-sp. cream of tar- tar. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. orange flower water. 6 whites of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. Dry and sieve the flour two or three times with the cream of tartar. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and beat them to the stiffest pos- sible froth. Well sieve the sugar, and mix it very lightly in. Then the flour and cream of tartar in the same way, and lastly the flavouring. Do not stop the beating after the mixing is begun, and keep the mixture as light as possible. Bake in a floured and ungreased tin, and in a moderate oven. Test the cake with a fine skewer before removing it from the oven, and do not allow it to become too brown. When ready, turn the cake upside down on a sheet of paper, and leave it until the tin can be slipped off quite easily. The cake may be iced with fondant or glac4 icing if desired. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, without icing, 6d. PART IV LARGE CAKES 2761. Almond Cake 7 oz. flour. 3 eggs. £ lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. £ lb. sweet almonds. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Blanch and shred the almonds, reserving a few split halves to put on the top of the cake. Place them on a tin near the fire to become thoroughly dry. Then cream the butter and sugar in a basin, and when ready add the eggs and flour finely sifted, by degrees. Beat the mixture well until light and frothy, then add almond flavouring, or a little grated orange or lemon rind, and stir in the shredded almonds and the baking powder at the last. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, cover the top with half almonds, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hours. Probable cost, Is. 2762. Almond Sponge Cake 1 lb. castor sugar. 2£ oz. sweet almonds. 2 bitter almonds. 2 oz. Vienna flour. 7 eggs. 1 lemon rind grated. Blanch and chop the almonds rather finely. Put them into a mortar with one whole egg and the grated lemon rind, and pound until reduced to a fine paste. Then put the mixture into a basin, add the yolks of the other six eggs and the sugar, 2764. Apricot Cake I lb. fresh butter. | lb. castor sugar. 6 oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking pow- der. 2 yolks and 1 whole egg- 1 tea-sp. vanilla. 1 gill apricot syrup. 2 table-sps. apricot marmalade. Glaze. £ lb. sugar. 2 or 3 table-sps. apricot syrup. Saffron. 2 or 3 preserved or crystallised apricots. To Make the Cake.—First beat the butter to a cream and add the sugar (see p. 552). Add the egg and yolks by degrees, and mix them well in. Sieve the flour with the baking powder and add it gradually and alternately with 1 gill of syrup from a tin of apricots. Beat well together, and then bake the mixture in two flat tins, which have been greased and lined with paper. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned and well cooked, then turn out on a sugared paper and allow the cakes to cool. Make some apricot marmalade by rubbing a few pieces of apricot through a fine sieve and then boiling the puree with an equal quantity of sugar. When thick, turn on to a plate to cool. Spread the cakes with this marmalade, and put one on the top of the other. If the cakes are thick they may be split, and another layer of the apricot marmalade put between. To Make the Glaze.—Put the sugar and apricot syrup into a saucepan, and boil them together until fairly thick, then colour an apricot yellow with saffron, and allow the syrup to cool. When luke- warm, pour it slowly over the cake, covering the top and sides. Decorate with pieces of crystal-COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 576 lised apricots, and if liked a few cherries or pis- tachio nuts. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2765. Buttermilk Cake (Plain) 1 lb. flour. 1 lb. dripping. | lb. moist sugar. I lb. currants. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Buttermilk or sour milk. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and rub in the dripping until free from lumps. Now add the currants well cleaned, the candied peel finely shred, and the spice and soda free from lumps. Mix these dry ingredients well together, make a well in the middle, and pour in enough buttermilk to make the mixture just moist enough to drop from the spoon. Put it into a well-greased Yorkshire pudding tin and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out the cake when ready and cool on its side or on a wire tray. Cut in pieces when wanted. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2766. Cherry Cake £ lb. flour. 3 eggs. 5 oz. castor sugar. 4 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 2 or 3 oz. glace cherries. A pinch of nutmeg. Make in the same way as German Pound Cake (Recipe 2781). Time to bake, f- hour. Probable cost, lOd. 2767. Children’s Birthday Cake | lb. flour. | lb. rice flour or corn- flour. £ lb. butter. 10 oz. sugar. 4 to 6 eggs. 6 to 8 oz. glac6 cherries. Rind of 1 lemon. 2 tea-sps.baking powder. Milk if necessary. Put the butter into a warm basin and beat it well until soft and creamy (see p. 552). Add the sugar and grated rind of 1 lemon and mix them well in. Then add the eggs one at a time along with the flour and rice flour, and beat the mixture well after the adding of each egg. The mixture should be of a consistency that will drop easily from the spoon, and if only four eggs are used a little milk will likely be necessary. When the mixture has been well beaten, add the cherries cut in small pieces and then the baking powder at the last. Pour the mixture into a cake tin that has been lined with paper, and bake in a good steady oven until well risen and thoroughly cooked. When ready, turn on to a sieve or wire stand to cool. Next day the cake should be iced with glace, fondant, or royal icing, and then decorated according to taste (see p. 593). Note.—It is not usual to put almond paste on a cake for children, but this may be added if wished. Sultanas may be used instead of cherries in the mixture, or the fruit may be omitted altogether. A ring, a button, and a threepenny piece should be wrapped in paper and slipped into the cake after baking. Time to bake, about-2 hours. Probable cost, without icing, 2s. 2768. Chocolate Layer Cake | lb. fine flour. | lb. butter. £ lb. castor sugar. 4 eggs. 1 gill milk. £ oz. cream of tartar. £ oz. carbonate of soda. Grated rind 1 lemon. Grated rind 1 orange. Chocolate icing. Beat the butter in a warm basin until very light and creamy. Mix the grated orange and lemon rind with the sugar and add them to the butter, beating them well together. Next work in the yolks of the eggs with a spoonful of flour, and handle all very lightly. Mix the cream of tartar and carbonate of soda with the remainder of the flour and add them gradually to the other ingredi- ents along with the milk. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in quickly and lightly at the last. Bake in a lined cake tin until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out of the tin and allow the cake to cool. Then cut the cake in three or four slices, spread each piece with chocolate Vienna icing (p. 590) and put the cake together again. Coat with chocolate glace icing (see p. 589), and decorate to taste with preserved fruits or finely chopped pis- tachio nuts. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hours. Probablo cost, Is. 6d. 2 eggs. £ lb. flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. £ lb. butter. 2769. Chocolate Roll 2 oz. chocolate. 1 table-sp. water. Vanilla flavouring. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Vanilla butter icing. Grate or shred the chocolate and melt it slowly in the water without allowing it to boil. Then make the mixture according to directions given for Swiss Roll (Recipe 2831), adding the melted chocolate, and bake it in the same way. When ready, turn on to sugared paper, sprinkle more sugar on the top, trim the edges, and roll up quickly. When cold, unroll, spread with vanilla butter icing, and then re-roll the cake. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2770. Chocolate Tea Cake 4 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. grated chocolate. 1 oz. ground almonds. Grated rind of £ lemon. 4 oz. Vienna flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 dessert-sp. orange flower water. A pinch of ground cinnamon. A pinch of nutmeg. 3 small eggs. Beat the butter to a soft creamy consistency, Bieve the sugar, cinnamon, chocolate, and nutmeg on the top and mix them well in. Then add the eggs and flour by degrees, beating and mixing well between the addition of each egg. Flavour to taste, and add the baking powder at the last. Pour into a tin that has been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar mixed, and bake the cake in a moderate oven about 1 hour until well risen, and until it feels dry when tested with a skewer. Note.—When cold, this cake may be iced with chocolate glace icing, and then decorated with crystallised violets and leaves cut out of angelicaBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 577 or any other suitable decoration that will form a nice contrast to the brown icing. Time to bake, 1 hour. Probable cost, without icing. Is. 2771. Christmas Cake, 1 1£ lbs. flour. 1 lb. butter. 1 lb. brown sugar. 10 eggs. 2 table-sps. treacle. 1 gill brandy. 1 lb. currants. \ lb. candied peel. | lb. glac6 cherries. 6 to 8 oz. chopped almonds. Grated rind 1 lemon. £ tea-sp. grated nutmeg. First prepare all the fruit, clean the currants, shred the candied peel finely, blanch and chop the almonds, and cut the cherries in small pieces. Mix the different kinds together with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of the flour. More or less fruit may be put into the cake according to individual taste, and the kind of fruit may also be varied. Put the butter into a large warm basin, and beat it to a cream. When very light, mix in the sugar, grated lemon rind, and nutmeg ; then add the eggs one at a time with a little of the flour, beating well after each. When all are in, add the treacle, brandy, and fruit, and stir just sufficiently to mix all to- gether. Bake the mixture in one or two cake tins, which have been greased and lined with two or three folds of strong white paper. A good moderate oven will be required, and then towards the end of the baking a cool one to dry the cakes. This cake should be made a month or two before it is required, as it improves with keeping. It should be kept in a tin box wrapped in greaseproof paper. When required, cover the cake with a good coating of almond paste and then with royal icing (Recipe 2853). Decorate with some of the icing put through a forcing bag, with preserved fruit, with fancy sweets, or little sprays of artificial holly and mistletoe. Note.—For a plainer Christmas cake use the recipe given for Holiday Cake (Recipe 2789), adding a little more fruit if wished. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours if two cakes, 4 to 5 horns if one cake. Probable cost, without icing, 5s. 2772. Christmas Cake, 2 1 lb. butter. 1 lb. castor sugar. 2 lbs. flour. 3 lbs. currants. 1 lb. candied peel. £.lb. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 12 eggs. 2 glasses brandy. Put the butter into a large warm basin, and beat it to a cream. Add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and spices, and beat for a few minutes. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and add them next, alternately with the flour. Beat again for 20 minutes. Add the fruit, carefully prepared, and the brandy at the last. Pour the mixture into one or two well-lined cake tins, and bake in a moderate and steady oven from 2 to 4 hours according to size. This cake ought to be kept at least three months before it is cut. It should be wrapped in greaseproof paper, and stored in a tin box. It may be iced in the same way as a wedding cake. See p. 591. Time to bake, 2 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 7s. Qd. 2773. Cocoanut Cake | lb. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 lb. flour. 3 eggs. 4 lb. desiccated cocoa- nut. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. About 1 tea-cupful milk. Beat the butter to a cream, and mix in the sugar, carefully sieved. Add the cocoanut, and the eggs well beaten. Then sieve the flour with the baking powder, and mix these in to the other mixture gradually, adding enough milk to make the mixture just soft enough to drop from the spoon. (A cake made with milk should never be too moist.) When all is thoroughly beaten, pour the mixture into a lined cake tin and bake in a moderate oven until the cake is nicely risen and feels firm to the touch. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 2774. Coffee Cake | lb. flour. 2 eggs. | lb. brown sugar. 2 to 3 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. syrup. 2 table-sps. coffee essence. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. J lb. currants. | lb. sultanas. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 gill warm milk. Sieve the flour and spice into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add the sugar, and the fruit carefully prepared. Mix to- gether and make a well in the centre. Add the eggs well beaten, the syrup, coffee, and soda dissolved in the warm milk. Stir together until thoroughly mixed, and then beat for a minute or two. Bake in a tin lined with greased paper. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2775. Currant Short Cake \ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. | tea-sp. baking powder. Cold water. £ lb. currants. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. J tea-sp. mixed spice. Sieve the flour and baking powder into a basin with 1 tea-spoonful of fine sugar and a pinch of salt. Put in the butter, and rub together with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps and like fine bread-crumbs. Then add enough water to form all into one lump, keeping the paste rather stiff. Work with the hand until free from lumps, and turn out on a floured board. Divide the paste into two pieces, and roll each into a round about | of an inch in thickness. Clean the currants, mix them with the 2 oz. of sugar and the spice. Spread them over one of the rounds of pastry and put the 1 oz. of butter in small pieces on the top. Then wet round the edges with a little water or white of egg, and place the second piece of pastry on the top. Press together and mark the edges neatly with the back of a knife. Make a few holes with a skewer on the top of the cake, brush it over with white of egg, and dredge with sugar. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Cut in pieces and serve hot. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2776. Double Nodden or Deception Cakes Take some good pastry, puff or flaky is the best, roll it out, and cut in rounds the size of a tea plate. <2 o578 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Is. 9d. ready for the cake. Beat the butter to a light Put a thick layer of cleaned and picked currants on half these rounds, sprinkle with sugar, flavour with grated nutmeg, and moisten with brandy. Moisten round the edges of the pastry with a little white of egg or water, cover with another round of pastry, and press the edges well together. Orna- ment round the edges with the back of a knife or end of a teaspoon, brush over with the white of egg, and sprinkle with sugar. Place the cakes on a tin slightly sprinkled with cold water, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. Sprinkle the cakes again with sugar, after removing them from the oven, and serve them hot. Time to bake, about § hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. each. 2777. Dough Cake J quartern of dough, j lb. currants. | lb sultanas. \ lb. sugar. 2 eggs. | nutmeg grated. & tea-sp. cinnamon. 6 oz. butter. The dough may either be bought from the baker or made according to directions given for Household Bread (see Recipe 2646, half quantity). Put the dough into a basin, add the butter slightly warmed, the eggs well beaten, the fruit carefully prepared, and the other ingredients. Knead all together with the hand until the ingredients are well blended. Put the mixture into a greased cake tin, cover it over, and put it in a warm place to rise for about 1 hour. Then bake in a moderate oven until the cake is nicely risen and firm to the touch. Note.—The fruit and flavouring may be varied according to taste. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2778. Fig Cake l lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. \ doz. large figs, i tea-sp. spice. \ lb. sugar. 1 gill milk. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 tea-sp. cream of tartar. Grated rind of 1 lemon. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. Soak the figs for a short time in hot water, then dry them, cut them in pieces, removing the stalks and any discoloured parts,'and mix the pieces with a little of the flour. Cream the butter in a basin, add the sugar, grated lemon rind, and egg, and mix them well together. Sieve the flour, cream of tartar, spice, and carbonate of soda on to a piece of paper, and stir them gradually into the other mixture along with the milk. Beat all together for a minute or two and add the figs at the last. Bake the mixture in a flat tin until well risen and firm to the touch. When sufficiently cooked, brush the cake over with a little sugar and water, sprinkle it with the chopped almonds, and return it to the oven to brown. When required, cut in small squares or finger-shaped pieces. Time to bake, \ to J hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2779. Genoa Cake 10 oz. flour. | lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 4 eggs. | lb. sultanas. 1 lb. currants. 10 oz. candied peel. 4 oz. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Grated rind of 1 lemon. First prepare the fruit, and line a cake tin creamy consistency, sieve the sugar on the top, and mix well together. Add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat all together for 15 minutes. Add the fruit at the last (reserving a few of the almonds), with the baking powder and grated lemon rind, mix lightly, but do not beat again. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, brush the top of the cake over with white of egg, sprinkle it with the remainder of the almonds, and return to the oven for a few minutes to brown the almonds. Allow the cake to remain in the tin for a few minutes before turning it out, then cool on a wire stand. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. 2780. German Cakes \ lb. flour. | l tea-sp. ground ginger. | lb. butter. 1 egg. \ tea-sp. ground cinna- 1 tea-sp. baking powder. mon. J lb. castor sugar. | Some jam. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Beat up the egg in a smaller basin and add it to the other mixture, forming all into a Easte. Turn out on a floured board and knead ghtly until free from cracks. Then divide the paste into two equal-sized pieces and roll them into rounds the size of a dinner plate. Grease an old plate that will stand the heat of the oven, or a tin of similar shape and size, and line it with one of the pieces of paste. Spread the jam at the foot, and wet round the edges. Lay the other piece of paste on the top, and press the two edges well together. Trim and mark round the edges with a knife. Brush over with a little white of egg or water, and dredge with sugar. Bake the cake in a moderate oven, and when ready, cut in triangular- shaped pieces, and serve hot if possible. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, lOd. 2781. German Pound Cake 6 oz. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. 10 oz. flour. Grated rind of J lemon. | lb. sultanas. | lb. candied peel. 5 eggs. | tea-sp. baking powder. First prepare the fruit (see p. 551) and mix it with 1 table-spoonful of the flour. Then beat the butter to a cream, sieve the sugar on the top, and mix well together. Add the grated lemon rind, one egg, and a little of the flour sieved, and mix well for a few minutes. Add the second egg and a little more flour, and so on, repeating this process until all the eggs and flour have been added. Beat all together for about 10 minutes, lifting the mixture well up in the spoon so as to introduce some air. Mix in the fruit and baking powder at the last, but do not beat again, or the fruit will be inclined to fall in the baking. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until thor oughly cooked and nicely browned. When ready, remove the cake from the oven, allow it to stand a few minutes, then turn on to a wire stand to cool. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost,BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 579 2782. Gingerbread, 1 1 lb. flour, £ lb. sugar. | lb. butter, lard, or dripping. | lb. syrup or treacle. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 1 gill buttermilk or water. 2 eggs. £ lb. candied peel. 1 dessert-sp. ground ginger. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. baking soda. A pinch of cayenne. Sieve the flour, spices, and soda into a large basin, and rub in the fat until free from lumps. Add the sugar, peel finely shred, and the almonds blanched and shred, and mix well. Make a well in the centre, pour in the treacle or syrup slightly warmed, the eggs well beaten, and the buttermilk or water. Mix in the dry ingredients from the sides of the basin, and beat all well for a few minutes. Pour the mixture into a greased shallow tin, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Note.—The fruit may be omitted from this re- cipe, or sultanas or currants added as desired. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hour. Probable cost, Is. 1 lb. flour. 1 lb. treacle. £ lb. butter. | lb. sugar. £ oz. ground ginger. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 2783. Gingerbread, 2 A pinch of powdered cloves. The grated rind of £ lemon. £ tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 egg. the dry ingredients mixed together in a basin. Stir until well mixed, then bake in a shallow greased tin in a very moderate oven. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 7d 2786. Queen’s Gingerbread 14 oz. moist sugar. 1£ lbs. flour. £ lb. sweet almonds. £ oz. mixed spice. 1 lb. honey. £ oz. ground cinnamon. £ oz. ground ginger. £ lb. candied peel. Grated rind of £ lemon. 1 wineglassful water. Put the honey and water into a small lined sauce- pan, and heat them slowly over the fire. Sieve the flour and spices into a basin, add the almonds blanched and shred, peel finely shred, sugar, and grated lemon rind. Mix all together, and make a well in the centre. Pour in the honey and the water, and beat together for a few minutes. Allow the mixture to stand overnight, then put it in a well- greased and shallow tin, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. After removing the cake from the oven, let it remain a few minutes in the tin before turning it out. Cut in small square pieces. Time to bake, about £ hour. Probable cost, Is. U. 2787. Ginger and Chocolate Cake Sieve the flour, soda, and spices into a basin, add the grated lemon rind, and the almonds blanched and split, mix well, and make a well in the centre. Put the sugar and treacle into a saucepan, and heat them gradually over the fire until they reach boiling point. Add the butter, and when this is melted, pour it into the centre of the dry ingredi- ents. Add the egg, and beat all together for ten minutes. Put the mixture into a well-greased and rather shallow tin, and bake in a very moderate oven until firm to the touch. Time to bake, I to 1£ hour. Probable cost, Is. 2784. Nuremberg Gingerbread £ lb. flour. £ lb rice flour. £ lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 2 tea-sps. ground ginger. £ lb. glac6 ginger. £ lb. mixed peel. 2 oz. grated chocolate. 2 oz. ground almonds. 2 table-sps. treacle. 7 eggs. Rind of 1 lemon. £ oz. carbonate of soda. £ oz. ground ginger. £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. £ tea-sp. ground cloves. A pinch of salt. lOoz. flour. 6 oz. butter. 8 oz. castor sugar. 4 oz. mixed peel. 4 eggs. 6 oz. sweet almonds. 2 table-sps. cream. Sieve the flour, sugar, salt, and spices into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add the soda, almonds finely shred, and the peel chopped. Beat the eggs and cream together, add them to the dry ingredients, and mix all together. Beat for ten minutes, and half fill greased tins with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until the gingerbread is well risen, and feels firm to the touch. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hour if one cake. Prob- able cost, Is. lOd. 2785. Parkin Gingerbread £ lb. flour. 1 dessert-sp. ground £ lb. oatmeal. ginger. £ lb. dripping. A pinch of salt. £ lb. brown sugar. A little grated nutmeg. £ lb. treacle. £ tea-sp. carbonate soda. Melt the dripping, treacle, and sugar in a sauce- pan over the fire, and stir them into the centre of Cream the butter in a large basin with the grated or chopped rind of 1 lemon. Add the sugar, ground ginger, and chocolate sieved together, and beat again for a few minutes. Then add the yolks alternately with a spoonful of the flour and rice flour mixed, beating well between each, and making the mixture as light as possible. If the mixture be- comes too stiff, add the treacle slightly warmed. When all the beating is done, put in the glace ginger and mixed peel cut in fine shreds, along with the ground almonds, and, lastly, the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Mix as lightly as possible, pour into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—If liked, this gingerbread may be covered with glac6 icing, and decorated with angelica and small pieces of glace ginger. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 2788. Hedgehog Cake Make an almond cake as directed in Recipe 2761. Hedgehog Cake Trim the top if necessary to give it a nice rounded appearance, and cover it with a coating of almondCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 580 paste (Recipe 2851). Smooth over with a wetted knife, glaze with the yolk of an egg, and then make a golden brown colour in a hot oven. Have ready some split almonds dried and lightly browned; stick them into the cake in even rows, put a band of white or silver paper round, and tie it on with a pretty coloured ribbon. and well risen, then cut in slices, and serve hot. buttered. Note.—This cake is not so good eaten cold, but if not required at once, it may be toasted and buttered hot before serving. Time to bake, 4 to £ hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2789. Holiday Cake 1 lb. flour. £ lb. butter. I lb. currants. £ lb. mixed peel. I lb. sultanas. £ lb. Demerara sugar. 2 tea-sps. mixed spice. ! pint stout. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 4 eggs. First prepare the fruit carefully, and mix it with a little of the flour. Then put the rest of the flour into a large basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the fruit and other dry ingredients except the soda, mix all together, and make a well in the centre. Heat the stout in a small saucepan and add the soda to it. Mix quickly, and while still frothy pour it into the centre of the dry ingredients. Add also the eggs well beaten, and beat all together for 15 minutes. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a slow oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—This cake if iced will make a very good Christmas or birthday cake. It is excellent for taking to the country or seaside, as it does not readily become dry. Time to bake, about 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 10 d. 2790. Invalid Cake 3 oz. flour. 2 eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 oz. butter. £ lemon rind grated. Cream the butter, sieve the sugar on the top of it, and mix the two together. Then add one egg and half the flour, sieved, and beat well for a few minutes. Add the second egg and the remainder of the flour, and beat again until very light. Add the lemon rind and the baking powder at the last, pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and cooked through. Or, the mixture may be baked in small patty pans that have been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar ; 10 or 15 minutes will he sufficient to cook them. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 6d. 2791. Johnny Cake \ lb. Indian corn meal. i lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. | pt. sweet milk. £ lb. castor sugar. 3 tea-sps. baking powder. 3 eggs. Sieve the meal, flour, sugar, and baking pov'der into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Make a well in the centre. Beat up the eggs in a separate basin, and add the milk to them. Pour this into the centre of the dry ingredients, and mix from the centre outwards until all the flour, &c., is gathered in. Beat quickly for a few minutes, and pour the mixture into a well-greased Yorkshire pudding tin. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned 2792. Jubilee Cake 10 oz. butter. 10 oz. sugar. 14 oz. flour. \ lb. candied peel. | lb. glace cherries. A few drops of vanilla essence. £ lb. sultanas. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 6 eggs. Almond Paste.—£ lb. ground almonds, £ lb. castor sugar, £ lb. icing sugar, 1 tab.-sp. brandy, and 1 or 2 whites of eggs. White Glace Icing.—Recipe 2838. Decorations.—2 oz. shred and browned almonds, some red jam, and a few pistachio nuts. Cream the butter, add the sugar and then the eggs and flour by degrees, beating well. Prepare the fruit, mix it with a little of the flour, and stir it in lightly at the last with the flavouring. Pour the mixture into a well-lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, lift the cake on to a sieve, and let it cool. Prepare the almond paste as directed in Recipe 2851, put a nice smooth layer on the top of the cake, and set it aside for several hours to become quite dry. Then coat the top with a little white glace icing. Coat the sides of the cake with some red jam, and then with a layer of shredded almonds and pistachio nuts, or with browned cocoanut and some cocoanut coloured pink with cochineal. The top of the cake may be further decorated with some pieces of preserved fruits, or with some of the icing put through a forcing bag, and little silver balls. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 45. to 5s. 2793. Kugelhoff £ lb. flour. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. £ oz. yeast. 1 tea-sp. salt. 2or 3 oz. Valencia raisins 2 eggs. A little warm milk. Sieve the flour, then take a quarter of it and put it into a warm basin. Make a well in the centre and put in the yeast. Add enough warm milk to melt it, mixing them together with the fingers. When smooth, mix in the rest of the flour, gradually using enough warm milk to form a soft dough. Cover the basin and set this dough to rise in a warm place from £ to f of an hour. When well risen, add the two eggs one at a time, and if too stiS add a little more milk. Mix well, then work in the butter, softened but not melted, the raisins (stoned), sugar, and salt, and mix again. Have ready a well- greased border mould, decorated at the top with a few pieces of shred almonds, half fill it with the mixture, and set to rise again until the mixture fills the mould, perhaps 1 hour. Then place the cake in a hot oven for a few minutes, and when it begins to brown, moderate the heat, and cook until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 40 to 50 minutes. Probable cost, 10d. to Is.581 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 2794. Lemon Layer Cake Filling. 3 yolks of eggs. Rind and juice J lemon. 1 table-sp. water. A small piece of butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. I lb. butter. About 1 gill of milk. I lb. sugar. £ lb. flour. 3 whites of eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar together until light and creamy. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and sieve the flour with the baking powder. Add the milk and flour alternately to the butter and sugar, and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs. Mix very lightly, and when ready, pour the mixture into two sandwich cake tins, which have been greased and lined with paper. Bake in a moderate oven until a light brown colour and well cooked. Then turn out to cool, and serve with the following filling between the two cakes Lemon Filling.—Put the grated rind and the strained juice of \ lemon into a basin, and add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and water. Stand the basin in a saucepan of hot water, and stir over the fire until the contents thicken. Then remove from the fire, and allow the mixture to cool before using it. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 2795. Luncheon Cake, 1 2 oz. candied peel. A pinch of nutmeg. | lb. flour. £ lb. rice flour. 6 oz. castor sugar. £ lb. butter. 3 large eggs. £ lb. currants. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Grated rind of § lemon. 1 gill of milk. Sieve the flour, rice flour, and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add the nutmeg, lemon rind, sugar, and fruit, carefully prepared. Mix together, and make a well in the centre. Heat the milk in a small sauce- pan, add the soda to it, and while still frothy, pour it into the midst of the dry ingredients. Add also the eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and mix all together. Beat the mixture well for a few minutes, and then pour it into a cake tin that has been lined with paper. Bake the cake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, la. 6d. 2796. Luncheon Cake, 2 1 lb. flour. | lb. castor sugar. | lb. butter. | lb. sultanas. 6 oz. candied peel. Grated rind of 1 lemon. A pinch of nutmeg. 5 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the sultanas cleaned and picked, the candied peel cut in fine shreds, the flavouring, and baking powder. Mix all these dry ingredients together, and make a well in the centre. Break the eggs into another basin, and beat them until they are light and frothy. Pour them into the centre of the dry in- gredients, and mix all together for a few minutes. Put the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until the cake feels dry and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about li hours. Probable cost. Is. lOd. 2797. Madeira Cake 6 oz. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. 9 oz. flour. 4 large eggs. i tea-sp. baking powder. Grated rind of \ lemon, or 3 or 4 drops of vanilla essence. 1 or 2 strips of citron peel. Put the butter into a basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a fight creamy consistency. Sieve the sugar on the top, add the flavouring, and mix well together. Beat the eggs in a separate basin until they are fight and frothy, and add them to the creamed butter and sugar. Mix well for a few minutes. Sieve the flour and baking powder, and mix these very lightly but thoroughly into the other mixture. Have ready a cake tin fined with paper, pour in the mixture, not more than half filling it, and bake in a moderate oven until the cake is well risen and feels firm to the touch. When the cake has been in the oven about 20 minutes, place the strips of citron peel on the top. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2798. Marie’s Cake £ lb. flour. I lb. sugar. 3 oz. butter. £ lb. sultanas. \ lb. mixed peel. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Sieve the flour and sugar, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the fruit carefully prepared and the baking powder. Mix all thor- oughly, and make a well in the centre. Beat the eggs, pour them in, and mix again. Pour the mixture into a papered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 2799. Marmalade Cake £ lb. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. butter. 1 or 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. marmalade. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and add the mar- malade, the egg well beaten, and enough milk to make a softish dough. Mix well together, and pour into a well-greased shallow tin. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch, and nicely browned. Note.—This cake is very good made into a sand- wich with marmalade or orange cream filling, and coated with orange or lemon icing. Time to bake, \ hour. Probable cost, 8d. 2800. Mocha Cake, I lb. castor sugar. I lb. Vienna flour. A few drops of vanilla essence. 1 (Gateau Mocha) 4 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder Mocha icing. First prepare a plain round cake tin in the same manner as for a Sponge Cake (p. 551), then proceed to make the cake. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, putting each into a medium-sized basin. Sieve the flour with the baking powder, and put it in a warm place until required. Add the sugar and vanilla to the yolks of eggs, and cream these together with a wire whisk from 10 to 15 minutes, or until they look very light in colour and582 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Then put some more icing into a forcing bag with Is. 3d. consistency. Then whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them very lightly in, alternately with a little flour, turning the mixture over and over, and as delicately as possible. When all is blended, pour the mixture into the prepared tin, place it on a bed of salt or sand on a baking tin, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. As soon as the top is brown, the cake ought to be covered with paper to prevent its taking too deep a colour. Allow the cake to stand for 5 minutes after removing it from the oven, then turn it out on a sieve and let it cool gradually. Then ice the cake as below: To Ice the Cake.—Prepare some Mocha icing (Recipe 2846), and keep it on ice or in a very cool place until it is required. Split the cake once or twice according to height, spread each piece with a layer of the icing, and put the cake back into shape. Then with a spatula or broad-bladed knife spread the top, and, if wished, the sides of the cake with the icing. Put the remainder into a forcing Forcing Bag and Fancy Pipes bag with a rather large fancy-shaped pipe at the end of it, and force out pretty patterns on the top of the cake. A few crystallised violets or pistachio nuts may be used as an ornamentation, or any sweet that will make a pretty contrast in colour to the brown icing. Allow the cake to stand in a cool place for an hour or two before cutting, so as to harden the icing. Note.—Sometimes this cake is coated with coffee glace icing, and the coffee butter icing piped on the top. Time to bake, about i hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2801. Another Way, 2 2 oz. castor sugar. About 2 oz. Vienna flour. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. Crystallised sugar. Mocha icing. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin, and cream them together. Then whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, along with the flour finely sifted. Melt the butter, and pour it in last of all. Pour the mixture into a round flat mould that has been greased and dusted with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, turn out and allow the cake to cool. Then split it once or twice, spread with Mocha icing, and put the pieces together again. Turn the cake so that the bottom is uppermost, and coat it all over with a layer of the icing, and sprinkle with crystallised sugar. a fancy pipe, and force it out on the top of the cake in a pretty design. Other decorations, such as pistachios, violets, angelica, &c., may be added according to taste. Time to cook, 25 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2802. Nellie’s Ginger Cake £ lb. flour. £ lb. brown sugar. | lb. butter. | lb. treacle or syrup. 1 dessert-sp. ground ginger. 2 eggs. 3 or 4 oz. preserved ginger. 2 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 2 table-sps. warm milk. Put the butter, sugar, and treacle into a basin, and place them near the fire or in a cool oven until just warm. Then beat all together for a few minutes. Beat up the eggs, and add them gradually with the flour. When thoroughly mixed and well beaten, add the soda dissolved in the warm milk, and lastly the preserved ginger cut in small pieces and the walnuts chopped roughly. Pour the mixture into a greased and papered cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, § to 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2803. Nut Cake 2 oz. sugar. 1J oz. butter. About 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. ground nuts. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg- (Gateau de Noisettes) Cream for Filling. 2 yolks of egg. 2 oz. sugar. | tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-cupful essence of coffee. 2 oz. fresh butter. Decoration.—Coffee glace icing, shred almonds, &c. To Prepare the Nuts.—Take the amount of shelled Barcelona nuts required, toast them a minute or two in the oven or under the grill, rub them in a cloth to remove the skins, and then put them through the nut mill, or chop them finely with a knife. Make the Cake Mixture in the same way as directed for Gateau Mocha (see above), adding the ground nuts at the last. When ready, pour it into a round or square tin that has been greased, and dusted out with flour. Bake in a moderate oven until brown and firm to the touch. Turn out when ready and let it cool. Cream for Filling.—Make a thick custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk, flavour with a little coffee essence, and let it cool. Then slightly melt the butter, and beat it to a cream. Add the ground nuts and the coffee custard very gradually, keeping back a little if the mixture is found to be too sweet. Allow this mixture to stand a short time before using. Ter Finish the Cake.—Split it in two, and spread it thickly with the above cream. Place the pieces together again, spread the sides with some of the cream, and coat them with shred and browned almonds. Make a little coffee glac6 (Recipe 2840), and coat the top of the cake. Garnish the edge with a little of the cream put through a forcing bag, and decorate with a few nuts, pieces of angelica, or any other decoration preferred. Time to bake, 25 to 30 minutes. Probable cost,583 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 2804. Orange Cake 6 oz. Vienna flour. The grated rind of 1 orange 3 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 5 oz. castor sugar. Icing.—I lb. icing sugar, and the juice of 1 orange. Sieve the sugar into a basin, grate the orange rind on the top of it, and rub these two together with the tips of the fingers, until they are thoroughly blended. Add the eggs to the orange sugar, and beat with a wire whisk about 15 minutes until smooth and creamy. Then add the flour dried and sifted, and also the baking powder. Mix these in very lightly, and pour the mixture into a tin that has been greased and dusted out with a mixture of flour and sugar. Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. When ready, turn carefully on to a sieve to cool. For the Icing.—Sieve the icing sugar into a basin, and add gradually enough strained orange juice to make the icing just soft enough to pour. Mix well until smooth, and then pour over the cake. The cake may be decorated with chopped pistachio nuts, crystallised violets, or small sections of pre- served fruits. Note.—Instead of being iced, this cake may be split when cold, and spread with the following cream mixture : Whip a gill of double cream until quite thick, sweeten to taste, and flavour with orange flavouring. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. with the hands. This may take some little time, but no liquid must be used. Form into a round flat cake about 1J inches thick, and prick all over with a fork. Place the cake on a baking tin, and tie a band of double paper round it. Bake in a moderate oven until the cake feels firm and is a nice brown colour. Allow it to cool on the tin before removing it, and take oS the band of paper. Note.—This cake should be rolled in paper and kept in an air-tight tin box, and then broken in pieces when required. Time to bake, 1 to 1J hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2807. Potato Cake \ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. candied peel. Orange flower water. 2 eggs. A few chopped almonds. The potatoes must be very dry and mealy. Sieve them into a basin, and add the salt, sugar, candied peel finely shred, and the butter melted. Flavour with orange flower water or any other flavouring preferred. Stir in the yolks of eggs, and, lastly, the whites beaten to a stifl froth. Pour the mixture into a flat cake tin that has been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar, sprinkle the top with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven. Sprinkle with sugar and serve the cake either hot ob cold. Time to bake, about J hour. Probable cost, 8d. 2805. Orange Sandwich Cake 6 oz. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. J lb. sugar. 1 gill milk. 2tea-sps. baking powder 1 table-sp. orange juice. Grated rind J orange. Filling. 1 gill orange juice. Grated rind | orange. Juice \ lemon. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Cream the butter, sugar, and grated orange rind together, then add the eggs well beaten and the orange juice. Sieve the flour and baking powder, and add them gradually to the other mix- ture along with the milk. Mix lightly ; spread the mixture on a flat tin lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, remove the cake from the tin and allow it to cool on a wire stand or sieve, then split and spread with orange filling. Orange Filling.—Mix the cornflour smoothly with the lemon juice, sugar, and grated orange rind, add the orange juice and turn all into a sauce- pan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and simmer slowly 5 or 6 minutes. Turn the mixture on to a plate and use it when cold. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2806. Pitcaithly Bannock \ lb. butter. \ lb. flour. | lb. rice flour. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 2oz. candied orangepeel. I oz. castor sugar. A little flavouring. Warm the butter slightly and then beat it to a cream. Blanch and chop the almonds, and 6hred the peel very finely. Mix all the other ingredients with the creamed butter, and knead into one lump 2808. Raisin Cake 1 lb. flour. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. lard. 6 oz. sugar. J lb. raisins. J lb. currants. 1 oz. baking powder. Rind of \ lemon. 2 eggs. gills milk. ’ Sieve the flour into a large basin, and rub in the butter and lard until free from lumps. Then add the fruit carefully prepared, the grated lemon rind, sugar, and baking powder. Mix all together and make a well in the centre. Pour in the eggs well beaten and the milk, and mix again from the centre outwards. Bake in a papered tin until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 11 hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2809. Rice Cake 5 oz. Vienna flour. 3 oz. rice flour. \ lb. castor sugar. 1 lb. butter. 6 eggs. A pinch of salt. A little flavouring. Beat the butter to a light cream, add the sieved sugar and beat again. Then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat well between each. Add the ground rice, salt, and flavouring, and lastly the flour sieved. Mix lightly, but do not beat again. Pour the mixture into a papered cake tin, filling it only half full, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—This mixture will also make very nice little cakes if baked in small greased tins. They will be richer than those from Recipe 2717. Time to bake, 1| hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d.584 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2810. St. George’s Cake | lb. flour. 6 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. A little milk. 2 oz. candied peel. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. lard. £ lb. currants. 2 tea-sps. baking powder £ oz. carraway seeds. Sieve the flour, sugar, and ginger into a basin, and add the butter and lard. Rub together very lightly with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps, and then add the currants cleaned and picked, the candied peel finely shred, the carraway seeds, and the baking powder. Mix lightly together, and make a well in the centre with a wooden spoon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add a little milk (about \ a gill) to the yolks. Add these to the dry ingredients, and mix all together quickly and lightly. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until the cake is nicely browned, and feels dry when tested with a skewer. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, la. 2d. 2811. Sand Cake \ lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. I lb. ground rice. | lb. potato flour. £ lb. ordinary flour. 3 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar until light, then add the yolks of eggs, the ground rice, and the two flours finely sifted with the baking powder. Lastly add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a cake tin which has been greased and dusted out with a mixture of flour and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2812. Jam 3 eggs; their weight in butter, flour, and sugar. Sandwich, 1 A few drops of vanilla or other flavouring. 2 or 3 table-sps. jam. Put the butter and sugar into a warm basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until they are of a light creamy consistency (the success of the cake will depend very much upon this being well carried out). Add one egg and a little flour, and beat them lightly in; then a second egg and Sandwich Cake Tins some more flour, and beat again; then lastly the third egg, and the remainder of the flour with the flavouring. When all are blended, pour the mix- ture into two sandwich cake tins that have been lined with paper, and bake in a good oven. When the cakes are nicely browned and cooked through, turn them out on a sheet of sugared paper, and when cool, spread one with jam, and place the other on the top. Note.—A plainer jam sandwich may be made by using mixture given in Recipe 2832. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2813. Iced Sandwich Cake, 2 } lb. sugar. A small glass of rum. 3 oz. butter. Some red jam. 1| oz. flour. 1 \ oz. potato flour. 5 eggs. Grated rind of \ lemon. Icing.—1 dessert-sp. orange or lemon juice, about \ lb. icing sugar, \ glass rum. Put the butter into a small lined saucepan, and let it melt slowly by the side of the fire. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the yolks of eggs and grated lemon rind, and mix them together with a wooden 6poon or wire whisk until they are light and creamy. Then have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the two flours sieved together. Add these alter- nately and very lightly to the other mixture. Then skim the butter, and add it last of all with the rum. Pour the mixture into two sandwich cake tins that are lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cakes are ready, turn them out on sugared paper, and allow them to cool. Then spread one piece with jam, and cover with the other. Spread a thin layer of jam on the top, and then coat with the icing. To make the icing, put the rum and fruit juice into a basin. Sieve the sugar, and add it gradually to the liquid, until the icing is of a suit- able consistency to coat the cake. Beat the icing until it is quite smooth, then spread a thin even layer over the cake. Place the cake in an open oven for a minute to give the icing a gloss. Note.—The rum may be omitted if the flavour is objected to. Time to bake, about \ hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2814. Savoy Cake l lb. castor sugar. 21 oz. Vienna flour. 1 j oz. potato flour. 7 eggs. Grated rind of I orange. Grated rind of 1 lemon. A pinch of salt. Put the sugar and yolks into a basin with the grated orange and lemon rinds. Work well with a wooden spoon or wire whisk from 15 to 20 minutes until the mixture looks light and creamy. Sieve and warm the flour, and add it last with the whites of eggs beaten very stiffly. Prepare a mould as for a sponge cake (p. 551), fill it three-quarters full, putting the mixture in care- fully in spoonfuls. Place the mould on a baking sheet with a layer of sand under it, and bake in a good oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. Turn it out of the mould as soon as it is taken from the oven, and dust with sugar. Note.—This is a plainer form of sponge cake, used principally for fancy sweets and gdteaux. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, Is.BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 585 2815. Scotch Bun 2 lbs. flour. 6 oz. butter. 6 oz. sugar. Dough. 2 tea-cupfuls of cold milk. — 1 oz. yeast. A pinch of salt. 1| lb. above dough. 1 oz. mixed spice. $ tea-cupful treacle. 2 lbs. currants. 1 lb. sultanas. Inside of Bun. | lb. candied orange peel. \ lb. sweet almonds. 2 eggs. Cover.—1 lb. 2 oz. of above dough. First prepare the dough. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Cream the yeast in a small basin with the salt, and pour in the milk. Strain this into the centre of the flour, &c., and work all to- gether with the hand, adding a little more milk if necessary. The dough should be rather soft. When it is well kneaded, put it in a clean dry bowl, cover it with a thick cloth, and leave it in a warm kitchen overnight. Next day prepare the centre of the bun. Take 1J lb. of the dough, and put it into a basin. Mix the spice with the treacle, and add them to the dough with the eggs well beaten, the almonds blanched, but not cut, the currants and sultanas picked and cleaned, and the orange peel finely shred. Mix all well together in a basin, and then knead on the baking board until very stiff. Mould the mixture with a little flour in a 7-inch hoop, and leave it for a short time. Cover.—Take 1 lb. 2 oz. of the dough, and knead it well on the board, using extra flour if too soft. Then take three parts of this dough, and roll it. into a round. Lift the inside part of the bun on to this, and draw the dough up the sides to reach the top. Brush the edges with beaten egg, and roll out the remainder of the dough for the top. Press the top round on, and make it very neat. Turn the bun upside down in an 8-inch hoop, and prick it all over with a fork, making a few holes go right through to the foot. Brush over with egg, and bake in a good moderate oven. Just before removing the bun from the oven, brush it over with a little gelatine dissolved in water with a lump of sugar. Note.—If there is any dough not required for the bun, it may be made up in small buns (see Recipe 2724). The above quantities will make a 6-lb. bun. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. 2816. Scotch Seed Cake J lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 14 oz. flour. 6 eggs. | lb. candied peel. I lb. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little grated lemon rind. Some sugar caraways. Shred the candied peel finely, and blanch and chop the almonds. Mix them with about 1 table- spoonful of the flour, or just sufficient to prevent them clotting together, and then make the cake mixture. Put the butter into a large basin and beat it until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix well together. Add the eggs, one at a time, with a little flour, and beat well until very light. Then mix in the fruit, baking powder, and a little grated lemon rind or other flavouring. Pour into a papered cake tin and put some sugar caraways on the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 2 to 2| hours. Probable cost, 2s. 2817. Seed | lb. flour. 3 oz. clarified dripping. 3 oz. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. caraway seeds. Cake (Plain) 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 1 or 2 eggs. A little milk. Put the flour and salt into a basin, and rub in the dripping with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then add the sugar, caraway seeds, and baking powder, mix well together, and make a well in the centre. Beat up the egg or eggs until light and frothy, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls milk, and pour this liquid into the centre of the dry ingredi- ents. Mix all quickly and lightly, adding a little more milk if necessary. The mixture should be of a consistency that will drop easily from the spoon. Put all into a well-greased and papered Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a good oven until well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about | hour. Probable cost, Qd. \ lb. flour. I lb. sugar. 6 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. caraway seeds. 2818. Seed Cake (Good) 3 eggs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 or 2 oz. orange peel. Make in the same way as German Pound Cake (Recipe 2781). Probable cost, Is. 2819. Shamrock Cake l lb. flour (Vienna). | lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 3 small eggs. Rind of \ lemon. Vienna or butter icir Decoration. Pale green glace icing. j Silver dragees. Artificial shamrock. | Wafer biscuits. Cream the butter very thoroughly with the lemon rind finely chopped, then add the sugar and work it well in. Add one egg with a little of the flour, and beat for a few minutes, then another egg and more flour, and so on until all the eggs and flour are added. Sprinkle in the baking powder last of all. Bake the mixture in a flattish tin lined with greased paper, and dusted out with flour and sugar mixed. A square or oval shape looks nice, or else an ordinary round tin that is not too deep. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, turn out of the tin and allow the cake to cool. To Finish.—Split the cake in two or three ac- cording to its height, spread each piece with Vienna icing that has been flavoured with essence of almonds or some liqueur, and coloured a very pale green, and then put the cake back into shape. Coat the top with very pale green glace icing (Recipe 2838), and decorate with small sprigs of artificial shamrock and little silver balls. Then take some small wafer biscuits just the height of the cake and arrange them round the sides. Tie586 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Bound with a piece of white or green ribbon, and the cake is finished. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, la. 2d. to la. 6d. 2820. Shortbread 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. rice flour. 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. A few drops of flavour- ing. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter. Add the flavouring, and then knead all into one lump without using any liquid. Turn out on a board sprinkled with rice flour, and form into a smooth round. If a shortbread mould is obtainable, shape the cake in that; if not, pinch it round the edges with the fingers, or mark it with a knife. Then place the shortbread on a greased baking tin, and prick it all over with a fork. A strip of candied peel may be put on the top if wished, or any other decoration that is desired. Bake in a moderate oven until the shortbread is of a uniform brown colour, and feels firm to the touch. Allow it to cool before removing it from the tin. Note.—If the dough becomes rather soft in the making, it will be well to allow the shortbread to stand until quite cool before baking, otherwise it is apt to lose its form. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, M. 2821. Silver Cake l lb. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. J- lb. flour. J lb. cornflour. 5 whites of eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. | tea-sp. essence of al- monds, or any other flavouring preferred. Put the butter into a warm basin, and beat it to a cream. Sieve the sugar on the top and beat again. Sieve the flour and baking powder to- gether, and mix them for a minute with the creamed butter and sugar. Then beat the whites of eggs to a stiffish froth, but not quite so stiff as for an omelet, and add them lightly at the last with the flavouring. Half fill one large tin that has been prepared as for a sponge cake (see p. 551), and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Or, the mixture may be baked in smaller tins, when less time will be required. This cake will look very nice if coated with white or pink glace icing, and ornamented with any suitable decoration. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Probable cost, 9d. 2822. Simnel Cake 1 lb. flour. | lb. butter. \ lb. castor sugar. 5 eggs. The grated rind of 1 lemon. The grated rind of 1 orange. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. | lb. sultanas. J lb. candied peel. \ lb. Valencia raisins. § lb. currants. | gill brandy. \ tea-sp. ground ginger. \ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. ^tea-sp. grated nutmeg. Almond •paste. First prepare the fruit (see p. 551), and mix it with one table-spoonful of the dry flout:. Then take a strong cake tin, and line it with at least two folds of thick white paper. When these are ready, proceed to make the cake. Put the butter into a large basin, and warm it slightly without allowing the butter to become oily. Then beat with a large wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix it well in. Next add the spices, grated orange and lemon rinds, yolks of eggs and brandy. Beat for a few minutes, and add the flour sieved and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix very lightly, and stir in the prepared fruit and baking powder last of all. Do not beat after the fruit is added. Pour the mixture into the prepared cake tin, smooth it over the top, and bake in a steady oven until well risen and firm to the touch. This cake improves with keeping, and should not be cut for three or four weeks after making. A simnel cake is usually coated with almond paste, and this should be put on two or three days before the cake is to be used. To Coat with Almond Paste.—Take the quantity of almond paste, given on p. 590, and spread it smoothly on the cake. Then take a fork and score the paste across first one way and then the other, and coat lightly with beaten yolk of egg. Place the cake in a moderate oven, or place it beneath the grill light on a gas stove until the almond paste is nicely browned. Note.—Sometimes a layer of almond paste is put in the middle of this cake. When this is desired, half the above quantity of the paste should be made before the cake is baked, and this should be made in a round the size of the cake tin, and laid in the middle of the mixture before baking. Simnel cakes are generally eaten at Easter, although in some parts of the country they are indulged in at Mid-Lent or on “ Mothering Sunday.” They also make good Christmas cakes. In olden days the simnel cake used to be boiled as well as baked. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, without almond paste, 2s. 9d. 2823. Snow Cake, 1 J lb. fresh butter. | lb. fine castor sugar. J lb. arrowroot. | lb. Vienna flour. 3 whites of eggs. Flavouring. Juice of 1 lemon. Beat the butter to a cream in a warm basin, add the sugar finely sifted, and beat again for a few minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them gradually with the arrowroot and flour, which should be sifted. Beat all together for half an hour, flavour to taste, and add the lemon juice. Pour the mixture into a flat tin which has been greased and lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about £ hour. Probable cost. Is. 2824. 1 lb. potato flour. 6 oz. butter. £ lb. sugar. Snow Cake, 2 4 eggs. The rind of 1 lemon. A few drops of vanilla. Cream the butter and sugar, add the grated rind of 1 lemon, and a few drops of vanilla, and then the eggs and potato flour by degrees. When all are in, beat the mixture steadily for half an hour, pour it into a rather shallow tinBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 587 Time to bake, 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. from the oven is great, stand the cake on a bed of lined with greased paper, and bake in a good oven until firm to the touch and a pale brown colour. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, la. ' sand placed on a baking tin, or put a tile or briok under the tin. Time to bake, about | hour. Probable cost, &d. 2825. Soda Cake 1 lb. flour. £ lb. currants. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. £ lb. sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. A little milk (about 1 gill). Sieve the flour, sugar, and nutmeg into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Add the fruit, carefully prepared, and make a well in the centre. Beat up the eggs in a smaller basin with a fork, and pour them in, then the soda dissolved in the milk, slightly warmed. Mix quickly, beat for a few minutes, and pour into a greased tin. Bake immediately in a good oven, until the cake is well risen and feels firm to the touch. This cake should be eaten the day it is made, or the day after ; it soon becomes dry. Note.—A few caraway seeds may be added to the above mixture if wished. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 2826. Spice Cake (Plain) 1 lb. flour. 1 egg- 1 dessert-sp. baking powder. £ lb. beef dripping. £ lb. sifted sugar. £ lb. currants. 2 oz. candied peek 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Milk (about £ pt.). Sieve the flour into a basin and rub in the drip- ping with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then add the fruit, carefully prepared, and the other dry ingredients. Mix these together, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg, well beaten, and enough sweet milk to bind all together, and make a softish dough. The mixture should just be moist enough to drop from the spoon. Pour quickly into a well-greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, lOd. 2827. Sponge Cake 6 oz. loaf sugar. 1 wineglassful water. £ lb. flour (Vienna). 2 whole eggs and 1 yolk. Grated lemon rind. Put the sugar and water into a small lined sauce- pan, bring them to the boil, and simmer slowly for 5 minutes. Beat the eggs slightly in a basin with a wire whisk, and pour the syrup of sugar and water on to them, stirring all the time. Then whisk steadily for half an hour, until the mixture looks light and froth}7 and is well risen in the basin. Dry and sieve the flour, and mix it in very lightly at the last, with a little grated lemon rind or any other flavouring preferred. Pour the mixture into a cake tin prepared according to directions given on p. 551, and do not more than half fill the tin. Bake the cake in a very steady oven until it is well risen and feels firm to the touch. If the heat 2828. Strawberry Short Cake, 1 £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. £ lb. sugar. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. About 1 gill milk. Grated lemon rind. Filling. 1 gill double cream. £ lb. strawberries. Sugar. Put the butter into a warm basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar, and mix a little grated lemon rind with it. Add this to the creamed butter, then the egg and a little flour, and mix well. Mix the baking powder with the remainder of the flour, and add them gradually with the milk. Beat all well to- gether, and bake in two sandwich cake tins lined with paper. Bake in a moderate oven, and when nicely browned and firm to the touch, turn the cakes out on sugared paper, and allow them to cool. Filling.—Whip the cream, and sweeten it to taste, adding a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring if liked. Husk the strawberries, and cut them in slices or small pieces with a silver knife. Spread a layer of cream on one of the cakes, then a layer of strawberries with a little more cream on the top. Place the other cake over, and spread the remainder of the cream on the top. Decorate with a few whole strawberries and a sprinkling of ohopped pistachio nuts. Time to bake, about 25 minutes. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 3d. 2829. Strawberry Short Cake, 2 £ lb. flour. 1£ tea-sps. baking powder. £ tea-sp. salt. 1 oz. butter. Milk. 1 lb. strawberries. £ lb. castor sugar. 3 whites of eggs. Sieve the baking powder and salt with the flour, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then stir in lightly and quickly sufficient milk to make a soft dough—too soft to roll. Turn it into a flat round tin that has been greased and floured, and bake in a hot oven until brown and well risen. Then unmould, cut a circle around the top of the cake within 1 inch of the edge, and lift off the circle of crust. With a fork pick out the crumb from the centre, being careful not to break through the sides. Crush the strawberries slightly, and sprinkle them with half the sugar. Let them stand for half an hour, and strain off some of the juioe. Fill up the cake with the strawberries, and replace the circle of crust. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add the remainder of the sugar to them. Heap this meringue irregularly on the top of the cake. (A forcing bag may be used to give it a more orna- mental form.) Place it in the oven for a minute or two to colour the meringue slightly. Sprinkle with sugar, and decorate with a few whole straw- berries. Serve the juice from the strawberries as a sauce. Notes.—Short cake should be freshly made and used as soon as possible. Whipped cream may be used instead of the meringue.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 588 2830. Sultana Cake (Good) l lb. flour. J lb. sultanas. 3 eggs. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 6 oz. butter. Flavouring to taste. Make in the same way as German Pound Cake (Recipe 2781). A little candied peel may be added if wished. Time to bake, about 1£ hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2831. Swiss Roll, 1 3 eggs—their weight in flour and castor sugar. The weight of two eggs in butter. \ tea-sp. baking powder. A few drops of flavour- ing. 2 or 3 table-sps. jam. Cream the butter and sugar (see p. 552). Then add 1 egg and a little of the flour sieved, beat well, add another egg and a little more flour, beat again, and add the last egg with the remainder of the flour. The lightness of the roll depends upon the mixture being well beaten. Flavour to taste, and add the baking powder last. Spread the mixture on a flat tin of an oblong shape that has been lined with paper. (The mixture should not be more than a quarter of an inch in thickness, or it will not roll when baked.) Bake in a quick oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Have Bolling Swiss Boll ready a sheet of paper sprinkled with sugar, and turn the pastry on to it. Trim the edges with a sharp knife, and spread quickly with the jam slightly warmed. Then take hold of one end of the paper and roll up quickly. Place on a wire stand or sieve to cool. Notes.—Jam without stones should be used, and if very thick a little water may be added. Swiss roll may also be served hot as a pudding; a little custard sauce may be poured over or round it. Genoese pastry may be used for making a Swiss roll instead of the above mixture. It will be richer and better. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2832. Swiss Roll, 2 (Without Butter) 2 eggs. } lb. castor sugar. | lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. 2 table-sps. jam. First grease a Swiss roll tin and line it with greased paper, allowing the paper to come a little above the rim of the tin. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until light and frothy. Then sift in the flour very lightly, and add a little milk if necessary. This will depend on the size of the eggs ; the mix- ture must be soft enough to drop easily from the spoon. Add flavouring to taste, and the baking powder last of all. Bake and finish with jam as above. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2833. Vinegar Cake J lb. flour. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 lb. sugar. 4 lb. raisins. 2 oz. candied peel. | tea-sp. baking powder. \ tea-sp. mixed spice. A pinch of salt. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 gill milk. 1 table-sp. vinegar. Sieve the flour, salt, baking powder and spice into a basin, and rub in the butter or dripping until free from lumps. Then add the fruit carefully prepared, mix it in, and make a well in the centre. Put the carbonate of soda into a cup, and mix it smoothly with the milk, then add the vinegar, and, while the mixture is still effervescing, pour it into the centre of the dry ingredients. Mix quickly and lightly, pour at once into a greased flat tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen, lightly browned and firm to the touch. Turn out to cool, and then cut in square pieces. Note.—The fruit may be varied to suit in- dividual taste. Time to bake, about \ hour. Probable cost, 8d. 2834. Walnut Cake J lb. fresh butter. £ lb. castor sugar. A pinch of salt. I lb. shelled walnuts. \ tea-sp. baking powder. 3 oz. fine flour. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. Decoration.—Tea glace icing—a few half walnuts and crystallised violets or pieces of angelica. First put the walnuts on a tin in the oven for a few minutes, and when toasted, crush them rather small in a mortar, or with a bottle filled with water. Then prepare the cake mixture : Cream the butter in a basin, and, when very light and frothy looking stir in the prepared walnuts, sugar, salt, and nut- meg, and mix well. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly and alternately with the flour. Add the baking powder at the last, and pour the mixture into a rather shallow tin lined with paper. Bake in a moderate and steady oven until the cake is nicely browned and firm to the touch. Turn out on a wire tray or sieve, and, when cold, coat with tea glace icing (see p. 589), and decorate with halves of walnuts and a few pieces of angelica or crystallised violets. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. 2835. Wedding Cake 1J lb. fresh butter. | lb. dark treacle. 1J lb. raw sugar. J pt. warm milk. 1 pt. brandy. I tea-sp. salt. 12 eggs. 4 lbs. currants. 1 lb. sweet almonds. 2 or 3 bitter almonds. J lb. citron peel. £ lb. orange and lemon peel. 2 lbs. flour. Almond and royal icing. Put the butter into a large and warm basin, and beat it to a cream with the hand or with a largeBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 589 wooden spoon. Add the sugar and treacle slightly warmed, and beat again for a few minutes. Then add the eggs two at a time, beating the mixture well after each addition. (It will be safer to break the eggs into a small basin previous to adding them to the mixture, to ensure their being fresh.) Have the fruit carefully prepared (p. 551), and mixed with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of the flour, and add it next with the milk, brandy, and salt. Dry and sieve the flour, and add it last of all. The mixture must not be beaten after the flour is added. When all is thoroughly blended, pour the mixture into two lined cake tins, one of which is three or four sizes smaller than the other, and bake in a moderate and steady oven. The larger cake will probably require from 4 to 5 hours to bake, and a smaller one less in proportion. When the cakes begin to brown they should be covered with a double fold of 'wetted white paper, to prevent their burning on the top. The success of the cake will depend very much upon the long steady baking. When the cakes are baked and cold, they should be wrapped in a thick sheet of white paper or a cloth, and kept in a tin box for two or three months before being iced or used. Note.—For icing and decoration of cakes, see pp. 591-2. Probable cost, without icing, 6s. PART V CAKE ICINGS AND DECORATIONS 2838. Glac6 Icing | lb. icing sugar. Flavouring and colour- About 3 table-sps. ing to taste, water or other liquid. This is a simple soft icing, and one that is very quickly made. Sieve the sugar and put it into an enamelled saucepan or sugar boiler. Add the liquid very gradually, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until warm. The icing must not be made too hot, or it will become lumpy and have a dull appearance. Whilst adding the liquid it must be borne in mind that, as the sugar melts, the icing will become softer. The icing should be kept thick enough to flow over and coat the back of the spoon, and then it will be of the right consistency for coat- ing the cake. If by any chance this icing should become too soft in the making, it may be stiffened by adding more sieved icing sugar, but it is always better if this has not to be done. The following are a few of the colourings and flavourings in which this icing may be made. 2836. White Sandwich Cake £ lb. flour. | lb. butter. 2 oz. potato flour. I lb. sugar. 4 whites of eggs. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. Jam. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin. Sieve the flour and potato flour, and add them gradually along with the milk. Beat well for a few minutes. Then add a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring, and, lastly, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth and the baking powder. Spread the mixture on a flat tin lined with paper, or on two sandwich cake tins, and bake in a moderate oven until a pretty brown colour and firm to the touch. Turn out on sugared paper when ready, and, when cold, make a sandwich with jam between. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 10d. 2837. Yorkshire Parkin 2839. Chocolate Glacd Shred down 1| to 2 oz. unsweetened chocolate and melt it with very little water until perfectly smooth. Then make some Glace Icing, flavour it with vanilla, and add it to the chocolate. Mix the two together, beating them well, and then use. Sometimes a small piece of butter is added to give the icing a glossy appearance. The icing must on no account boil or it will not be shiny. 2840. Coffee Glace Make the icing according to above recipe, using clear black coffee or essence of coffee to moisten the sugar. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla. 2841. Lemon or Orange Glace Make Glac6 Icing as directed above, using strained orange or lemon juice to moisten it and a little water if necessary. Some yellow colouring may also be added. 2| lbs. oatmeal. 2 lbs. syrup. | lb. white sugar. 1 lb. lard or dripping. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 3 tea-sps. ground ginger. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, mix them thoroughly together, and make a well in the centre. Melt the lard and syrup in a saucepan, pour into the centre of the dry mixture, and add the eggs well beaten. Mix well with a wooden spoon and spread out on a large greased tin to the thickness of about 1 inch. Bake in a moderate oven. Cut in squares while hot, but do not remove from the tin until quite cold. This parkin improves with keeping for two months. Store it in an air- tight tin box. Time to bake, f hour. Probable cost, Is. Gd. 2842. Liqueur Glace Make Glace Icing as directed above, using any liqueur to moisten the sugar along with a little water. Colouring may also be added if wished. 2843. Raspberry or Strawberry Glace Icing Make Glace Icing as directed above, flavouring with raspberry or strawberry essence and colouring it pink with carmine or cochineal. Or, strawberry or raspberry syrup may be used instead of water. 2844. Tea Glace Make in the same way as Coffee Glace, using strong clear tea instead of coffee.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 590 How to Use GlacS Icing This icing may either be poured over the cakes, or the cakes may be dipped into it. If a large cake is to be iced, put it on a wire stand placed on a sheet of white paper, and pour over enough icing to cover the top only, or the top and sides as desired. Any icing that runs over may be gathered up and used again. Small cakes may be iced in the same way, or they may be held on the point of a palette knife over the pan of icing, and the icing poured over them, or they may be dipped right into the icing. Arrange any decoration on the cakes while the icing is still soft. 2845. Vienna or Butter Icing 6 oz. fresh butter. ] Colouring. 1 lb. icing sugar. | Flavouring. If salt butter must be used, wash and work it in several cold waters, and finally press out the water in a cloth before using it. Put the butter into a basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon or spatula until it is like whipped cream. Then sieve the sugar, and mix it gradually with the creamed butter. Add the desired flavouring and colouring, and the icing is ready for use. The colouring and flavouring of this icing may be varied according to taste. Spirit or liqueur is frequently added, such as rum, maraschino, Curasao, &c. The following are a few examples of different flavourings : 2845. Mocha Icing, 1 Make the icing as in previous recipe, adding very strong black coffee or coffee essence to taste. 2847. Another Mocha Icing, 2 2 oz. loaf sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. Coffee essence. 2 oz. butter. A little water. Put the sugar into a small saucepan, and moisten it with coffee essence and a little water; or very strong black coffee may be used. Boil these to- gether until they form a thick syrup, or to 215° F. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, break, them with a wooden spoon or small whisk, pour the syrup gradually on to them, stirring all the time, and then beat until cold. Cream the butter, and add the coffee mixture to it. 2848. Chocolate Butter Icing Make the icing as directed in Recipe 2845. Dis- ' solve 2 oz. unsweetened chocolate in 1 table-spoon- ful of water or milk, allow it to cool and mix it with the icing. 2849. Strawberry or Raspberry Butter Icing Add a few drops of essence of strawberry or raspberry to Vienna Icing, and colour pink with carmine. 2850. Orange or Lemon Butter Icing Grate the rind oS an orange or lemon, and rub it into 2 oz. of the sugar to be used for the icing. Make the icing as in Recipe 2845, and colour with a little yellow colouring. Note.—Any of the above icings may be made in half or quarter quantities, or if a number of little fancy cakes are to be iced, the plain butter and sugar may be worked together first, and then the quantity divided and different flavourings and colours added. How to use Butter Icing The icing must be allowed to become quite cold and hard before using. In hot weather the basin containing the icing should be placed on ice or put in a very cold place. If a large plain cake is to be iced, it is usual to split it once or twice, and put a layer of the icing between. Sometimes for this purpose a little thick cream is worked into the icing just before using. Spread a thin coating of the icing on the top and sides of the cake, and put most of the icing into a forcing bag, with rather a large pipe on the end of it. Force out the icing on the cake in stars or scrolls, and do it as quickly as possible, before the heat of the hand has time to soften the icing. If liked, two different colours of icing may be used, such as yellow and pink, yellow and brown, pink and white, &c. Or a very pretty effect can be obtained by putting two different coloured icings into the bag at the same time. It will come out with a marbled appear- ance. Do not put too much of this icing on any cake, as it is decidedly rich. Some other light and suitable deooration may be used as well, such as a little finely chopped pistachio nut, a few rose leaves or violets, small pieces of angelica, &c. 2851. Almond Paste or Icing 1 lb. ground almonds. J lb. fine castor sugar. | lb. icing sugar. Juice of | lemon. Yolks or whites of eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. brandy. Orange flower water, vanilla or other fla- vouring. Be particular to choose good ground almonds; unless they are fresh and have been well preserved they are liable to have a bitter or mouldy taste, or perhaps no taste at all. Put the ground almonds into a strong basin, and sieve the two sugars on the top of them. Add the flavouring, lemon juice, and brandy. The brandy may, of course, be omitted if it is objected to, but it renders the almond paste more wholesome, and better for keep- ing. Then add enough egg to bind all together. Knead well with the hand, adding the moisture very gradually as the paste becomes soft with working. Either yolks or whites of eggs may be used; the yolks will make the paste richer and yellower, the whites drier, and of a paler colour. Or both yolks and whites may be used if it is more convenient. The paste ought to be very smooth when finished, and just moist enough to be bound together. Whole almonds may, of course, be used instead of the ground, but it will mean a great deal more work. They would re- quire to be blanched and dried, and then very finely chopped or put through a nut mill. A little extra weight should be taken to allow for the skins. The ingredients should then be thoroughly pounded in a mortar in order to get a smooth paste. About half a dozen bitter almonds very finely chopped may be added to the above paste if wished.BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 591 2852. Coloured Almond Paste Sometimes for fancy purposes and for decorating, Borne coloured almond paste is required. Only the small quantity necessary should be taken, and colouring with suitable flavouring worked into it, as, for instance: Pink.—Work into the almond paste enough carmine or cochineal to make it the desired pink colour, and flavour it with vanilla, raspberry, or strawberry essence. Green.—Flavour a small quantity of almond paste with pistachio or ratafia essence, maraschino or other liqueur, and colour it with green colouring. Brown.—Dissolve some unsweetened chocolate without water, and add sufficient to some almond paste to make it the required brown colour. Flavour with vanilla, and set aside before use in order to harden. Apricot.—Add a little carmine and a little yellow colouring to the almond paste, or have the paste mixed with yolk of egg when the yellow will not likely be required. Flavour with ratafia essence or noyeau. The colouring especially must be added with caution, and then well worked in until a uniform colour is obtained. How to use Almond Paste This is generally used for coating rich fruit cakes, such as wedding, birthday, Christmas, or simnel cakes. Trim the cake, making it fairly flat on the top, and rasp off any overbaked or burnt pieces if necessary. It is not necessary to cut a good slice off the cake in order to make it perfectly flat, as the almond paste will level it up. Lay on a nice thick layer of the paste, and shape it first with the hands. Then take a wetted knife, a palette knife is best, and make the top and sides perfectly smooth with a sharp, straight ridge round the edges. Sometimes the sides of the cake are coated with almond paste as well. Brush over the sides of the cake first with a little orange or apricot mar- malade in order to make the paste adhere. Then roll out a portion of almond paste in a strip, the depth and circumference of the cake, using a little rice flour or cornflour to prevent its sticking to the board and rolling-pin. Press this on to the cake, joining neatly, and make the edges as smooth and sharp as possible. If the cake is a large one, it will be found easier to make the strip in two pieces and then to be careful with the joining. If the cake is to be iced with a white icing as well, allow the almond paste to become quite dry and hard before putting on the second icing. Sometimes, as in the case of a simnel or Easter cake, no white icing is put on the top. In this case the almond paste should be scored across with a fork, or marked in checks with a fluted roller, brushed over with yolk of egg, and browned under a gas grill or in a quick oven. 2853. Royal Icing 2 lbs. icing sugar. 6 or 7 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Blue colouring. or 8 drops acetic acid. This is a hard white icing used principally for the icing of wedding, birthday, or Christmas cakes. Sieve the sugar, and put most of it into a basin. reserving a small proportion in case the icing should be made too moist, when this may be used. Add a very little blue colouring, either a drop of liquid blue or a tiny dust of stone washing blue, and just enough to take off the yellow shade from the sugar, and to make the icing a finer white. Then put in some acid, lemon juice, or acetic acid, as without this the icing would not harden on the cake. Acetic acid is really the best, and a penny- worth will last a long. time. Now add the whites of eggs by degrees, mixing the icing with a wooden spoon or spatula. It is very important that both basin and spoon should be dry and free from grease before commencing, or otherwise the icing might be spoiled. The whites of hens’ and not ducks’ eggs must always be used, and as these vary somewhat in size it is impossible to state the exact number required. Beat the icing as quickly as possible until it is perfectly smooth and of the right consistency; from 5 to 10 minutes may be sufficient, but it requires some hard beating to make it workable. To be of tbe right consistency the wooden spoon should be able to stand vertically in it without falling. The icing is now ready for use, but in order to prevent a skin forming on the top it must be kept covered with a damp cloth. Place a piece of stick or wire across the basin to prevent the cloth falling down on the icing, then take a clean tea-cloth or old serviette—something that is not of a woolly nature—wring it out of cold water and lay it over the basin. This icing will keep for several days if it is attended to, but the cloth on the top must be kept damp, and the icing itself beaten up occasionally. If once a skin is allowed to form on the top through exposure to the air, the icing will be spoilt for all fine purposes, and especially for piping, as the little hard particles would choke up the tube. Keep the icing in a cool place. To Ice a Cake with Royal Icing.—It is a compara- tively easy matter to put a plain coating of icing on a cake; it is when something more elaborate, designs and ornaments, are required, that much patience and practice are necessary. To Ice the Top of the Cake.—To begin with, the cake must be perfectly flat; if there is not a coat- ing of almond paste to make it so, it will be better to trim the cake so as to make it stand evenly, and then to turn it upside down and ice the bottom. If cake icing is frequently done in a house, a rotation Cake Stand stand or cake drum should be bought, as this will simplify the process very considerably. Fix the cake on to the stand by means of a little icing, andCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 592 then have it raised to a convenient height for the hand. Failing a proper cake stand, fix the cake on to the bottom of a cake tin turned upside down, always choosing the tin a size smaller than the cake itself, in order that the knife may pass freely round it while icing. Then pile on the top of the cake sufficient icing to cover it and spread it over, quite roughly at first, with a good-sized table knife. Now place the point of the knife to the centre of the cake, holding it horizontally and steadily with the right hand and, with the left, move the rotation stand round until a complete circle has been made, when the knife may be slipped off. It will require some practice to leave the surface smooth after one turn of the stand ; a little touching up may be neces- sary, but skill will be acquired by degrees. If the cake is being iced without a rotation stand, the knife must just be brought smoothly across it in one direction. If the top only of the cake is to be iced, allow it to dry, then decorate to taste and cover the sides with a silver or gilt paper band or with a coloured paper frill, and perhaps a band of ribbon. To Ice the Sides of the Cake.—Place some more icing on the bare parts, and spread it roughly round with a knife. Then hold the knife verti- cally and in a slanting position against the cake, seeing that it touches the complete width, and turn the stand round with the left hand. Any super- fluous icing should be carried off with a sweep of the knife when the circle is finished. If not smooth after the first attempt, repeat the process. Touch up the edges with the point of the knife, and allow the cake to dry. For a wedding cake, two, or even three coats of this icing are generally put on, but one coat must always be dry before another is added ; in fact, if more convenient, the cake may rest for several days between the coatings. To Decorate the Cake.—The simplest method of decorating a Christmas or birthday cake is to use bon-bons or preserved fruits, and these can easily be fixed in place with a little icing. The other style of decoration, known as “ piping,” is more elaborate and requires a considerable amount of practice. A few lessons from an experienced teacher would be an immense help to a beginner. For piping purposes paper bags and fancy forcing pipes are necessary. There is a special paper sold for the purpose, and this ought to be cut in triangular-shaped pieces, and twisted into little cone-shaped bags. Cut a small piece oS the end of the bag and slip in the pipe you wish to use. The pipes or tubes are made with various-shaped rpenings to give different forms to the icing pressed through them. Put some icing into this bag and fold down the top to keep it in. Now force out this icing as fancy dictates, experimenting first on the back of a plate or even a piece of paper until you get a definite and regular pattern. Then try your hand on the cake itself. Dots, stars, or rosettes are easier than a long flowing pattern, and they can be arranged very effectively. Points may be pricked at regular intervals on the cake to act as a guide in forming any pattern. Then press the icing slowly through the tube, following any device you may have in view. Of course this piping is an art which cannot be learned in a day, but if it is com- menced at the simple stages and gradually worked up to something more difficult, it will be found a most fascinating employment. Cotton and india- rubber bags are also sold for the purpose of piping, but when once the use of the paper bag is mastered it will be found much more satisfactory than any other kind, and it will do finer work. An empty paper bag, if not broken, may be refilled with icing and used again. A little colouring may also be added to the icing when desired, but this should be in the form of a paste, as any liquid would spoil the icing. When a cake is to be in two or three tiers, as in the case of a wedding cake, the cakes must be in graduated sizes, the plain coatings of icing put on separately, and then the cakes stuck together by means of a little icing before the decorating or piping is commenced. Note.—Any icing used for practising purposes may, if it is kept clean and not allowed to harden, be put back into the basin, and beaten up again with the whole. 2854. Fondant Icing 2 lbs. loaf sugar. \ pint water. £ lb. glucose. This is the most difficult kind of icing to make, and one that is not frequently tried by the amateur. It is, however, one of the nicest to eat, since it melts away in the mouth like a fondant bon-bon. The following directions may therefore prove useful. To Make the Fondant.—Use good loaf sugar. Put all the ingredients into a white enamelled saucepan or sugar boiler, and melt gradually over the fire, stirring all the time (it must not be allowed to boil before the sugar is melted). Remove any scum, then put the lid on the saucepan, and boil quickly for 5 minutes. Skim again, and wash round the sides of the saucepan with a small brush. Now put in a sugar thermometer, and boil with the lid off, and to a temperature of 240°, or to what is called the “soft ball ” (see p. 597). Pour out on a marble slab, and let the syrup cool until it can be rolled up at the sides in a sort of soft sheet. Work with a wooden spatula, turning the mixture over and over until it is quite white. Then pound with the hands until the fondant is quite smooth, and like a piece of putty. This is very hard work, so that it is better not to attempt too much at one time. The fondant is now made, and in this form it may be wrapped in paper and kept for some time in an air-tight box. If no marble slab is available, a small quantity of fondant can be worked up in a basin or on a large flat dish. To Flavour and Colour the Icing.—Take as much of the fondant as you require for the cake or cakes to be iced and put it into an enamelled saucepan. Warm this gradually over the fire, stirring care- fully, and adding a very little water if too thick. Be very careful not to make the icing too liquid, and it must on no account boil. The degree of thickness may be tested on the back of a wooden spoon ; if it coats that without running off too freely, it will coat the cake. Flavouring and colouring may be added according to taste, and the flavouring should always be suited to the colour, as for example : White Fcmdant Icing.—Flavour the fondant with vanilla, peppermint, ratafia, or maraschino. Pink.—Add a few drops of carmine or other redBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 593 colouring, and flavour with almond, raspberry, rose, or strawberry essence. Chocolate.—Use a little unsweetened chocolate, melting it first over the fire or in the oven, and then adding it. Flavour with vanilla. Coffee.—Add some strong coffee essence and flavour with vanilla. Oreen.—Colour with a little green colouring, and flavour with essence of almond, or some liqueur. Yellow.—Mix in some yellow colouring, and flavour with essence of lemon or orange. One colour may also be turned into another thus: Yellow into orange by adding a little red ; pink into purple by adding a little blue; yellow into green by adding a little blue, and so on. If, after use, a little of this icing is left, it may be kept for a day or two by pouring some water on the top. Pour the water off before using again. To Use Fondant Icing Follow directions given for using Glac6 Icing (see p. 590). Arrange any decoration on the cakes while the icing is still soft, and place the cakes in a cool oven with the door open for a few minutes. There must just be sufficient heat to dry the icing and give it a gloss, but not to brown it. Some Cake Decorations The following are a few of the materials which may be used for decorating cakes : Coloured Sugars.—Put some coarse granulated sugar on to a stiff sheet of white paper, and pour a few drops of liquid colouring on the top. Work this in with the point of a knife until an even tint is obtained, and then leave the sugar to dry. Pink, green, yellow, &c., sugar may be made in this way, and these sugars will keep if put in corked bottles. Pistachio Kernels.—Put these into cold water, and bring them quickly to the boil. Then drain, and pour plenty of cold water over them. Rub off the skins, and dry the pistachios in a cloth. Shred or chop before using. Browned or Coloured Almonds.—First blanch the almonds, and dry them thoroughly. Then shred them finely, or chop them rather roughly. To brown the almonds, put them on a tin in a very moderate oven, and keep turning them over and over until very evenly and lightly browned. To colour them, sprinkle a few drops of colouring on the top, and rub it into the almonds. Pistachio nuts (which are much more expensive than almonds) may be imitated by colouring the almonds pale green. Cocoanut.—This may also be browned or col- oured in the same way as almonds, and used for decorating purposes. Candied Cherries and other Fruits.—These are very pretty and useful for decorating cakes, and as they will keep almost indefinitely in an air-tight tin box, they are not expensive. They are gener- ally cut in pieces unless they are very small. _ Angelica.—This is also a very effective decora- tion. If it is hard and sugary, soak it in warm water for a minute or two, then dry. Cut it first into thin strips, then into diamond-shaped pieces to represent leaves, stars, rounds, &c. A com- bination of angelica and cherries is very pretty. Nuts, such as walnuts, filberts, Barcelona nuts. &c., either plain, or iced, or caramelise^, may also be used. Bon-bons.—These may be had in many forms, and if tastefully used they make a very simple and easy decoration. Silver and gold dragees are among the most useful. Flowers, both artificial and real, make a very effective and simple decoration. Crystallised Flowers.—These can be bought ready, such as rose petals, violets, orange flowers, lilac ; and leaves to suit can be cut from angelica, or even from citron peel. ' Caramelised Fruits.—This is a somewhat more elaborate form of decoration, but one that may be very lovely and very uncommon. A syrup of sugar and water must first be prepared for cara- melising the fruits. Take, say, half a pound of loaf sugar, put it into an enamelled saucepan or sugar boiler, and just moisten with cold water. Melt slowly over the fire, skim, and then boil quickly until the syrup is a golden brown colour. Add a few drops of lemon juice, or two or three drops of acetic acid. Remove the saucepan at once from the fire, and dip the bottom of it into cold water to stop the boiling. The caramel is now ready, and must be used immediately. Any fruit used must be perfectly dry or it will spoil the caramel. The following are a few examples of what may be used and how to prepare them : Oranges.—Divide into sections, free from pith, and if any juice oozes from them, dry in the oven. They are better prepared the night before they are wanted. Grapes.—Wipe, and dry in the oven, leaving a piece of stalk. Red or White Currants.— Prepare in the same way as grapes. Apricots or Greengages.—Cut in halves and dry. Walnuts or Hazel Nuts.—Shell, roast, and, if liked, stick two together with a little almond paste. Drop the fruits a few at a time into the caramel, coat either one or all sides, lift out with a fork or wire ring, and place on a greased tin or wire stand. JDisturb the caramel as little as possible when lifting out the fruits, and it will keep longer. Hints on Decorating Cakes Cakes, as well as other eatables, should be made to look pretty as well as to taste good. Of course, many cakes are better left in their simple state with- out any decoration at all, and when this is the case particular care should be taken with the baking to avoid overcooking or burning, and consequently an unsightly appearance. In no circumstances should a cake be over- decorated, and there are many simple and harm- less forms of decoration which may be employed. One of the simplest forms of decoration is a sprinkling of sugar, or the cake may be brushed over with white of egg and sprinkled with sugar in two colours, or even chopped nuts. Another simple decoration is to spread a thin coating of jam or jelly over the cake, and then to sprinkle with browned or coloured almonds, cocoa- nut, pistachio nuts, &c., or a mixture of these. This is very suitable for the sides of cakes where the top only is iced. When a more elaborate decoration is wanted, one of the various icings may be used. With a large cake it is very usual to ice the top only, and then to 2 P594 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD decorate with preserved fruits, bon-bons, or icing in two colours put through a forcing bag. Any decoration may be fixed in place with a little soft icing. A fancy band of paper is often used for decorat- ing the sides of the cake, and this is tied into posi- tion with a pretty piece of ribbon. Small wafer biscuits can be used in the same way, a little very thin icing should be put on first to make them stick, and then a ribbon put round and tied in a bow. Pleasing effects in colour must always be studied. Light and delicate colours are preferable to the darker shades, which are apt to suggest “some- thing painted.” Small Fancy Cakes In the decorating of little fancy cakes there is a wide range for individual taste and arrangement. With the help of the icings and decorations above described, or even odds and ends of icings, the variety of pretty cakes which can be made is end- less, and it is just these pretty little cakes which cost so much, and which add so immensely to the attractiveness of an afternoon tea-table. The making and decorating of these cakes require the same amount of taste and ingenuity as any other fancy or artistic work, but it is wonderful how many new inventions can be made with a little careful handling and some goodwill. Most of the small fancy cakes are made up from Genoese pastry, sponge cake, Madeira cake, chocolate cake, orange cake, or any other plain cake mixture. These are sliced and cut in small fingers, diamonds, rounds, heart-shapes, &c., and iced op made into sandwiches. Two different cake mixtures may be put together, such as pink and white, chocolate and white, chocolate and pink, orange and pink, and so on ; and for spreading purposes jam, marmalade, soft almond paste, thick flavoured custard, clotted or whipped cream mixed with chopped nuts, sieved jam or pieces of fruit, Vienna icing, fondant icing, and so on, may be used. Then a coating of icing or a little piping in icing put on the top with some other form of decoration. The following are a few examples of what may be done : 1. Genoese pastry made into a sandwich with raspberry jam, and cut into fancy shapes. Coated with chocolate or white fondant icing, and decor- ated with leaves of angelica and caramelised hazel nuts or grapes, the stalks being marked in with a little chocolate icing. 2. Sandwich of orange cake spread with marma- lade, iced with yellow glace, and decorated with caramelised sections of orange, and a little chocolate icing to mark the seeds. 3. Sandwiches of chocolate cake spread with pink Vienna icing, a piping of Vienna icing on the top and a few silver dragees. 4. Sandwiches of Madeira cake spread with soft almond paste. Spread the top with almond paste, brush over with white of egg, and decorate with chopped pistachio nuts or browned almonds. 5. Sandwiches of Genoese pastry spread with clotted cream. Coat with pale yellow fondant or glace, and decorate with leaves of angelica and red berries (bon-bons). These hints may be varied indefinitely, and ac- cording to what there is at hand to make the cakes of, but they will perhaps serve as a guide to the beginner, who, after a little practice, will soon launch out on her own account, and be able to make dainty morsels without any trouble or difficulty.SWEET MAKING Sweet making has become quite a popular home occupation, and many ladies take it up as a hobby, especially those who work for charity sales and bazaars. Home-made sweets always sell quickly if they are well made and daintily packed, and there is often more profit to be made on them than on elaborate sewing and fancy work, which entail so much time and labour. Pure and wholesome sweets have also a distinct value in our dietary, and many of them, besides being dainties, are articles of nutrition as well. It is quite a mistake to think that it is only the professional confectioner who can turn out dainty sweets ; quite a number of pretty and attractive ones can be made quite easily by amateurs, provided that the recipes are followed with care and accuracy. Anyone desirous of taking up the higher branches of sweet making, however, is strongly recommended to have a few lessons from a good teacher, in order to master the mysteries of sugar boiling, fondant making, and such like. In the making of many sweets, success depends to a great extent upon boiling sugar to the right degree, and when this is thoroughly understood, the more elaborate recipes should present no difficulty. This section does not presume to be a complete treatise on sweet making, space does not allow of so much attention being given to the subject, but a fairly representative selection of the different kinds of sweets has been given, along with many useful hints and instructions, and it is to be hoped that the reader who tries them will be induced to invent other nov PART I VARIOUS PRELIMINARIES UTENSILS FOR SWEET MAKING The number of utensils required for sweet making depends very much upon the extent to which the art is to be carried on. Quite a number of simple and pretty sweets, such as toffees, candies, tablets, marzipan sweets, &c., may be made with the ordi- nary kitchen utensils. If, however, sweet making is to be done frequently, it is much better to have a separate set of appliances, and to keep them for this special purpose only. Sweet making is such a delicate operation, that, unless the saucepans, spoons, &c., are perfectly free from grease or any special odour, the results are bound to be unsatisfactory. Scrupulous cleanliness must be observed through- out. The set of appliances does not require to be elaborate, in fact it is much better for the amateur to commence with the few which are absolutely necessary, and to add others as her art develops. A Sugar Thermometer.—Endless trouble can be saved by the use of this instrument, and without it, it is almost impossible to arrive at accuracy. A very good thermometer with a metal frame can now be bought for 5s. 6d. It should register not less than 350° F. It must never be plunged directly into boiling hot syrup, but should be heated first in a jug of hot water. After use it should be again put back into the hot water to prevent any sugary substance from hardening on it, and then carefully washed when finished with. Unless it is kept quite free from hard sugar, it is very apt to grain the sugar or syrup into which it is put. When not in use, keep it hanging up. If at any time the little thread of mercury should break in two, give the ther- mometer a shake downward until the pieces join together again. les of her own. A Marble Slab.—This is rather an expensive item if it has to be bought specially; it will cost from 7s. to 8s. for quite a small one. The top of a marble washstand, if it is scoured, will however serve the purpose very well, or even a large dish, if only a small quantity of the sweet mixture is being made. In very cold weather the marble should be warmed before boiling-hot syrup is poured on to it, other- wise it is liable to crack. Saucepans.—One large and two smaller ones will be sufficient to begin with. Aluminium ones are perhaps the best kind to use; they are not nearly so expensive as they used to be, and they wear well. Copper, steel, strong enamel, or suicated iron saucepans are also very good. A Wire Ring and Fork.—These are very neces- sary for dipping sweets into various coatings, and they can be bought for a few pence. Wooden Spatula.—This is better than a spoon for mixing up fondant and many other sweets. A Sugar Scraper.—A strip of tin rolled round at one end to form a handle. It is not essential, but is very useful for scraping together marzipan, fondant, &c., when working them on the marble slab. A palate knife can be used in its place. Tins.—Two or three flat sheets of bright tin are very useful for drying sweets. They can be ob- tained from any tinsmith for a trifling sum. One or two deeper tins for setting toffee, &c., will also be required. Candy Bars.—These are not absolutely neces- sary, but they are useful for making spaces of various sizes on the marble slab, into which the caramel and such-like mixtures may be poured for setting. They can take the place of the deeper tins. Weights and Scales.—The ordinary kitchen set will do, as long as it is accurate. Cream Rings.—Little rings of tin which are placed on a marble slab and used for moulding peppermint and other creams.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 596 A Caramel Cutter.—This is rather a luxury ; it is used, lor cutting, or rather marking, caramels and other sweets into exact squares. Crystallising Trays.—These are shallow tins fitted with wire stands or trays for holding fondants or other sweets in position when crystallising is being done. They are only necessary for this purpose. Starch Trays.—Shallow wooden trays which are used for filling wdth confectioner’s starch. Im- pressions are made in this starch with small moulds, and the hollows thus produced used for moulding fondants and other sweets. A shallow wooden tin or cardboard box might be utilised for the purpose. Starch Tray and Moulds Starch Moulds.—These are little plaster of Paris casts, which are used for making impressions in starch when moulding fondants. Several are generally fixed together on a strip of wood. If these are not to be had, impressions may be made in the starch with the end of a spoon, the stopper of a bottle, or seal, or thimble, &c. Nougat Frames.—Small wooden frames which are used for shaping nougat and other sweets. They are not expensive. Rubber Mats.—These are also used for moulding fondants, &c. They are somewhat costly. Marzipan Moulds.—Little fancy moulds used when making up marzipan in various shapes. The simple ones are made of tin, very small, and in a variety of patterns. Others are double, made of a special metal mounted on plaster of Paris. Saccharometer or P6se Syrop. —An instrument used for measur- ing the exact quantity of sugar in a syrup. It is only necessary in the higher branches of confection- ery, where a very accurate test is required. It consists of a glass tube with a bulb at the end con- taining quicksilver. The tube is marked off in degrees from 0° to 50°, and, contrary to the ther- mometer, it reads from the top downwards. The syrup that is being tested should be put into a tin or glass test tube, or a tall narrow bottle will do, and the saccharometer dropped into it. Sundries.—A hair sieve, a gill and pint measure, 2 or 3 wooden spoons, 1 large and 1 small pointed Saccharometer knife, a palette knife, 1 or 2 egg brushes, and a rolling-pin will all be found useful in the sweet-maker’s outfit. MATERIALS FOR SWEET MAKING Sugar.—Must be of the best quality, and for the finer sweets cane sugar only should be used. Good granulated sugar is suitable for most kinds of sweets. Buy it from a reliable grocer and store it in a dry place. Glucose, or starch sugar, is used in various sweets to prevent the sugar graining and to make them keep. It is quite wholesome, and has no unpleasant taste. Chocolate.—Both sweetened and unsweetened chocolate will be required. Buy a good quality of plain chocolate, but not necessarily an expen- sive one. Butter.—Choose a good quality, and for the finer sweets fresh butter will be required. Cocoa Butter.—This is melted and added to chocolate to make it of the right consistency for coating. Colourings.—Pure vegetable colourings are the best to use. Carmine, green, yellow, coffee-brown, and blue are useful colours to have. Essences.—Buy these in as concentrated a form as possible. Almond, ginger, lemon, orange, rose, and vanilla are useful ones to have. Gelatine.—Use French sheet gelatine or other of a good make, and without a gluey taste. Ir is better always to keep to the same make, as they vary somewhat in strength. Cream of Tartar and Tartaric Acid.—These are sometimes used instead of glucose to prevent sugar graining. Lemon juice and acetic acid can be used in the same way. Starch.—This is used principally for moulding sweets. What is known as confectioner’s starch should be bought. It must be kept in a warm place, and dried and sieved before use. Nuts.—When possible it is best to buy these ready shelled. Most nuts are improved by toast- ing a few minutes in the oven before they are used, as this helps to bring out the flavour. Italian chestnuts are the best for marrons glacis. Wax Paper and Grease-proof Paper.—Both these are useful in sweet making—the former for wrap- ping up sweets, as it does not stick to them, the latter for fining trays on which sweets are dried, and also for fining boxes. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BOILING SUGAR The boiling of sugar is one of the niceties of cookery, and it requires some practice to gain the requisite skill. A proper knowledge of sugar boiling is necessary, not only for the making of bon-bons, but also for the manufacture of many fancy sweets for dessert, such as nougat baskets, spun sugar, crystallising of fruit and flowers, &c. If sugar boiling is carried on to any extent a thermometer should be used, as without this it is almost impossible for the amateur to arrive at any degree of accuracy. A thermometer will pay itself over and over again by avoiding failures and possible loss of good material. There are other means of testing the degree to which sugar is boiled and for which directions are given below, but these require far more skill than the use of the thermometer, and are more suited to the professional than the amateur. Sugar is boiled to different stages or degrees according to the purpose for which it is required. It passes very quickly from one stage to the other.SWEET MAKING 597 and requires very careful watching and the closest attention. Sugar boiling may be done over a gas stove, a gas ring, or an ordinary stove. Gas is generally to be preferred to file heat, as it can be so much more easily regulated. Commence by putting the sugar and water into a saucepan, and allowing them to melt slowly over the fire. This must on no account boil before the sugar is melted or it will be liable to grain. When quite dissolved, bring quickly to the boil, then put the lid on the pan, and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. This allows the steam to wash down the sides of the saucepan and rid them of any sugar crystals which may have formed. Then remove the lid and skim if necessary. Now put in the ther- mometer, which has been heated by placing it in a jug of hot water, and continue the boiling until the desired stage is reached. This will depend on the purpose for which the sugar is to be used. During this time the sides of the saucepan should be washed occasionally with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent crystals forming. If these were allowed to collect they rnignt cause the whole quantity of sugar to grain. For the same reason the syrup must on no account be stirred nor moved about after it has once reached boiling point. By graining is meant that the sugar has re-formed into crystals, and this has always to be guarded against. A little glucose or a small quantity of tartaric acid or other acid is generally added to prevent this. If by chance an accident should happen and the syrup should grain, add more cold water and begin the process of melting over again. When the required degree of boiling is reached and the syrup is not to be used at once, dip the bottom of the saucepan into cold water to arrest the boiling, or this will continue, even after the saucepan is removed from the fire. If the sugar has to be tested with cold water instead of the thermometer, use the water as cold as possible. Table of Degrees for Sugar Boiling The following are the different degrees to which sugar can be boiled : 1. Small thread. 2. Large thread. 3. Small pearl. 4. Large pearl. 5. Small blow or souffle. 6. Large bio wor feather. The most accurate way of gauging the degree to which sugar has been boiled is with the ther- mometer, but it may also be tested with cold water in the following manner : The Small Thread, 215° F. Dip the tip of the forefinger into the syrup, press it against the thumb, and on being separated the sugar should draw out in a fine thread, breakable at a very short distance. The Large Thread, 217° F. Test as above ; the sugar should draw out in rather a thicker and longer thread. The Small Pearl, 220° F. Test as above ; the thread of sugar should draw out to a greater distance still. Large bubbles will also begin to show on the syrup. The Large Pearl, 222° F. Test as above; open the fingers as wide apart as possible and the thread of sugar should not break. The surface of the syrup will be well covered with bubbles. The Small Blow or Souffle, 230° F. Dip a straw or a wire twisted to form a loop in the syrup, lift it out, blow through the little hole, and if bubbles appear on the other side this degree is reached. The Large Blow or Feather, 232° F. Test as for “small blow”; the bubbles shofSd be larger, and should fly off like little feathers. The Small or Soft Ball, 236° to 240° F. Drop a small quantity of the syrup into very cold water, and leave it a second or two. Then roll it between the thumb and forefinger, and if a small softish ball can be formed it is ready. The Large or Hard Ball, 247° to 252° F. Test as for “ small ball,” but the ball should be larger and harder. The Small Crack, 290° F. Drop a small quantity of the syrup into very cold water; when cold it should break, but feel sticky when bitten. The Large Crack, 312° F. Test as for “ small crack,” but the sugar should be short and brittle, and break clean when bitten. Caramel, 330° to 350° F. When the sugar has boiled a little longer and begins to turn brown it has reached the “ caramel ” stage. Great care must then be taken that it does not bum. SYRUPS FOR SWEET MAKING The following different syrups are required in the making of various sweets : 2855. Sugar or Stock Syrup 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 pt. water. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and dissolve them over the fire. When boiling, put the lid on the saucepan, and boil for 5 minutes, in order to wash down the sides of the saucepan. Now uncover, and allow the syrup to boil gently from 20 to 25 minutes. Set aside to cool, and then bottle ready for use. 2856. Coating Syrup | lb. granulated sugar. | A pinch of cream of | gill water. | tartar. Boil the ingredients to 236° F. according to direc- tions given above for sugar boiling. Colouring 7. Small balL 8. Large balL 9. Small crack. 10. I.arge crack. 11. CarameLCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 598 may be added if wished. When using the syrup, stand the saucepan containing it in a larger pan containing hot water. 2857. Crystallising Syrup 1 lb. sugar. £ pt. water. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and boil to 225° F., according to directions given above for sugar boiling. Carefully remove all scum that rises, and when ready, cover with a round of wetted paper and set aside until cold. Before using, remove any crystals which may have formed on the top of the syrup. PART II FONDANTS, CREAMS, AND TABLETS 2858. Fondant 2 lbs. loaf or granulated j § pt. cold water. sugar. 1 1 table-sp. glucose. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and melt gradually over the fire, stirring slowly. (The contents must on no account be allowed to boil before the sugar is melted.) When melted, add the glucose, and bring quickly to the boil. Then put on the lid and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. Un- cover, and skim if necessary. Now put in the thermometer, which has been previously heated in hot water, and allow the syrup to boil until the temperature reaches from 240° to 245° F., accord- ing to the purpose for which the fondant is to be used. The syrup must be kept carefully skimmed, but on no account must it be stirred again, or it may granulate and the fondant will be spoilt. For the same reason the sides of the saucepan must be kept washed with a brush dipped in cold water. When the fondant is sufficiently boiled, pour it out on a marble slab that has been sprinkled with cold water. Sprinkle also the surface of the fon- dant with cold water to prevent a crust forming. Allow it to cool until it can be turned up at the Wooden Spatula sides with a wooden spatula ; if worked up while it is too hot it will grain. Then work it up with a wooden spatula, keeping it together as much as possible. When sufficiently cool, knead backwards and forwards with the hand until the fondant is white and perfectly smooth like a piece of putty. The fondant is then ready to be flavoured and used as required. If it has to be kept for any length of time, wrap it in wax paper, and put it in an air-tight box. It will become hard and dry if exposed to the air. Notes.—A good pinch of cream of tartar is some- times used instead of the glucose. If making a larger quantity of fondant a smaller proportion of water may be taken, it will not take so long to boil down. Fondant forms the basis of a great variety of sweets; it is extensively used in the art of con- fectionery. 2859. Fondant Creams Take some fondant made according to above directions, and boiled to 240° F., and colour and flavour it to taste. Quite a variety of different kinds may be made by using the various essences, which can now be obtained, along with an appropriate colour, as, for instance, raspberry, rose, or straw- berry flavouring with pink colouring; orange or tangerine flavouring, with orange colouring ; lemon or pine-apple flavouring, with yellow colouring; orange-flower and almond or peppermint flavour- ing, with green colouring ; or, again, white fondant with vanilla flavouring, and so on. The various liqueurs also make very good flavourings, and colouring may be used according to fancy. See also the various centres given under Chocolate Creams. Put the required amount of fondant on to a marble slab, and flatten it out with the hand. Put the colouring and flavouring on the top, and work it into the fondant with the ball of the thumb, gathering it together now and again with a scraper. Sugar Scraper Begin by using very little colouring and flavour- ing, and then add more if necessary. Avoid crude colouring and over-flavouring. When perfectly smooth and uniform in colour, allow the fondant to rest a short time before attempting to shape it, as the working out will have softened it somewhat. Then roll out in a long roll and cut across in pieces the size of a nut. Shape these with the hands, either into balls, little rolls, cone or bean shapes, according to fancy, and use a little icing sugar to prevent the fondant sticking. Place the little shapes on a tin lined with grease-proof or wax paper, and let them remain in a cool place 24 hours. Next day cover them with coating fondant (see below). 2880. Coating Fondant Take some fondant made according to above recipe, and boiled to 245° F., as it should be rather harder than that which is used for the centres. Put it into a saucepan and add the necessary colouring and flavouring. This may either be the same as that used for the centres, or a pretty contrast. Add a little sugar syrup (see p. 597) and melt the fondant over a gentle heat. Keep moving the fondant about all the time, and pounding it down with a wooden spoon or spatula. It must never be allowed to simmer. It is a good plan to take the pan away from the heat now and again, to rest it on the table and to beat the fondant well. Add enough sugar syrup to bring it to the consistency ofSWEET MAKING 599 thick cream, and heat it to a lukewarm tempera- ture. If made too hot the glossy appearance will be destroyed. When ready, remove the fondant from the heat, and tilt the pan up on the table. Dip in the fondant centres one at a time, coat them well with the fondant, and lift out with a dipping Dipping Fork fork, allowing all superfluous fondant to drop off. Place them on a tin lined with grease-proof paper, and make a twist of the fondant on the top of each. This may either be done with the side of the fork, or put on afterwards by putting a little of the fon- dant into a forcing bag and forcing out a twist on the top of the sweets. When coating, the fondant must be re-warmed from time to time, or whenever it becomes too thick. Keep it constantly stirred, and hold the pan over a low flame to warm it. The bottom of the saucepan must never be so hot that the fingers cannot touch it comfortably. After coating, the fondants must again be left to dry, when they are ready, unless they are to be kept for any length of time, when they should be crystallised (see below). 2861. Moulded Fondants Fondant. I Flavouring. Stock syrup. | Colouring. The simplest way of moulding fondants is in a starch tray (see p. 596). Fill the tray with some finely-sieved corn starch, and make it perfectly level on the top. Make the required number of impressions with little moulds sold for the purpose. Take some fondant that has been kneaded perfectly smooth, put it into a saucepan with a spout, add flavouring and colouring to taste, and a very little stock syrup. Heat very gradually and carefully over the fire until of a creamy consistency, adding more of the syrup if necessary. Pour this into the impressions in the starch, and when set,- ft the fondants out with a fork, and brush the starch lightly off them. The fondants may then be crystallised if wished. Notes.—The fondant may be put into a paper cornet with a very small opening at the end, and piped into the impressions in the starch, if this is found easier. The starch should be sieved and dried after use. Rubber mats with fancy-shaped impres- sions may be used instead of the starch tray, but these are more expensive, although the shapes are generally very pretty. Two different colours of fondant may be moulded together. 2862. To Crystallise Fondants Special crystallising trays are required for this. Place the fondants on the trays, and cover with another tray to prevent their floating in the syrup. Giver the fondants with crystallising syrup, and lay a piece of muslin that has been wrung out of Crystallising Tray cold water over the top. The syrup must not be used hot, or it will soften the fondants. Leave the fondants in the syrup from 8 to 10 hours, or if a thick coating is required they may be left even longer. Then drain off the syrup, and put the sweets on clean trays to dry. They should then be covered with bright crystals, and will keep better than when left without this coating. 2863. Uncooked Fondant 1 lb. icing sugar. I A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 white of egg. | A little water. Sieve the icing sugar, add to it the white of egg and lemon juice, and then enough sugar to form into one lump. Knead with the hand until smooth, and then use as required. This fondant may be coloured and flavoured and used for chocolate oentres. 2864. Cerises Degulsges Brandy cherries. Coating fondant. Cerises deguisees are brandy cherries, well drained, coated with fondant, and then served in little paper cases. They make a very pretty dessert sweet, and they are not difficult to prepare. Choose cherries that have a little piece of stalk attached to them. Drain them from their liquid about an hour before they are to be coated, place them on a piece of muslin on the top of a sieve, and let them dry exposed to the air. Then prepare some coating fondant as directed on page 598, flavour it with kirsch, or any other flavouring pre- ferred, and either keep it white, or make it a very pale pink with carmine. Or, a pretty eflect can be made by covering half the number of cherries with white fondant, and the other half with pink. The cherries must be very dry before attempting to coat them, otherwise the fondant will run off, so, if necessary, wipe them gently with the musliD. Then dip them one at a time into the prepared fondant, holding them by the stalk. Coat well, and place them on a tin lined with grease-proofCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 600 Cerises I)eguis4es the boiling until the “ soft ball ” stage is reached, or 240° on the thermometer. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir the syrup with a wooden spoon or spatula, until it begins to turn white. Then stir in the cocoanut a nd pour into an oiled tin. Leave until cold, and cut in bars. Note.—The cocoanut ice may be made in two colours if wished. Pour about two-thirds of the white mixture into the tin, and colour the remain- ing part pink, with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. Keep the latter warm by standing the saucepan in boiling water, and in a few minutes’ time, when the white ice has set, pour the pink on the top. A cheaper cocoanut ice may be made by using brown moist sugar instead of the loaf. Note.—These should not be coated more than a few hours before they are wanted, as the moisture from the cherries works through the fondant and softens it. 2865. Cocoanut Creams Fondant. I Coating syrup. Flavouring. | Desiccated cocoanut. Take the required amount of ordinary fondant that has been boiled to 240°, and work it up on a marble slab, flavouring it to taste. Roll out into a long thin roll. Cut in small equal-sized pieces, and form these with the hands into balls or little rolls, using a little corn starch or icing sugar to prevent the fondant sticking. Lay these on a board or tin covered with paper, and let them he all night. Next day dip them into coating syrup (see p. 597), and toss them in desiccated cocoanut. Set aside to harden. Note.—Half the fondant may be coloured pink if liked. 2866. Cocoanut Ice, 1 1 lb. granulated sugar. I cocoanut. 1 gill milk. i A few drops of car- 4 to 6 oz. desiccated | mine. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and boil for 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Then add the cocoanut, and continue to stir until the mixture thickens, or reaches about 230° F., but on no account must it be allowed to brown. Pour out two-thirds of the mixture into a wetted tin or between bars on a marble slab, colour the remaining portion pink with a few drops of carmine, and pour it on the top. When nearly cold, cut in bars. Note.—Brown sugar may be used instead of the white, the colouring should then be left out; or, the cocoanut ice may be left all -white. 2867. Cocoanut Ice, 2 3 lbs. loaf sugar. I | tea-sp. cream of tartar b to J lb. cocoanut. or | tea-sp. lemon | pt. water. | juice. Either fresh or desiccated cocoanut may be used. If the former, remove all shell and brown skin, wipe the nut meat quite clean and then grate it; if desiccated cocoanut is used, chop it smaller if necessary. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar or lemon juice into a saucepan, bring them to the boil, skim if necessary, and then continue 2868. Cocoanut Kisses, 1 1 lb. loaf sugar. | 1 gill of water, i lb. glucose. I 6 oz.desiccated cocoanut. Put the sugar, water, and glucose into a lined saucepan, bring to the boil and skim. Put the lid on the pan and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. Then remove the lid and boil to 240° F. Take the sauce- pan off the fire, and add the cocoanut and a little flavouring if wished. Arrange in small rocky heaps on a papered tray, and leave them to dry. Note.—If liked, the mixture may be divided into two portions and one part coloured pink. 2869. Coflee Walnuts 1 lb. fondant. 5 or 6 doz. shelled wal- nuts. Coffee essence. Vanilla. Sugar syrup. Toast the walnuts for a few minutes in a moderate oven to make them crisp, and let them cool again. Then put the fondant, which has been boiled to 245°, into a saucepan with enough coffee essence to flavour and colour it, and a few drops of vanilla. Heat very carefully over the fire, using if necessary a little sugar syrup to prevent its sticking. Be care- ful it does not become too hot, and beat well until smooth and glossy. Put some of this coffee fondant on to a plate and let it cool slightly, then place a little between two half walnuts, press them lightly together, and let them set on a tin lined with wax paper. When finished, thin down the fon- dant in the saucepan writh sugar syrup until of a proper consistency for coating. It should be rather thicker than the ordinary coating fondant. Then cover the walnuts with this (see Coating with Fon- dant, p. 598), place them again on the tray to set, and finish them off with a little twist of fondant on the top of each; or this may be put on after- wards by putting some of the fondant into a paper cornet and forcing it out on the top. Note.—Instead of the fondant between the two half walnuts, a little marzipan flavoured with coffee essence may be used. 2870. Chocolate Tablet 1 lb. granulated sugar. I J lb. chocolate powder. b pt. water. | Vanilla essence. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, stir them over the fire until boiling, and then boil moderately quickly for J hour. Add the chocolate (or good cocoa may be used), stir a few minutes longer, flavour with vanilla, and pour into a tin601 SWEET MAKING which has been lined with greased paper. When set, mark in squares, and break in pieces when cold. 2871. Chocolate Walnuts Make in the same way as Coffee Walnuts, flavour- ing the fondant with some grated or shred un- sweetened chocolate instead of the coffee essence. 2872. Ginger Creams Make in the same way as Peppermint Creams, flavouring the fondant with strong essence of ginger instead of the peppermint, and colouring it a pale yellow. A little chopped preserved ginger may be added. 2873. Ginger Tablet 2 lbs. Demerara sugar. ] 1 oz. ground ginger. 2 gills cold water. | Put the sugar and water into a lined or copper saucepan, and stir till they come to the boil. Re- move any scum, and then boil till a little dropped in water will form a “ soft ball,” about 245° F. Take the saucepan off the fire, add the ginger, and keep stirring until the mixture begins to turn thick. Have a flat oven tin lined with greased paper, pour the mixture into this, and let it remain until cold. Cut or saw into neat pieces of equal size. A better way of shaping the tablet is to lay four steel rods, which are sold for the purpose, on a marble or stone slab so as to form a square, and to pour the tablet in the centre of this. By this means the edges will be kept even and the pieces will be more regular in shape. Note.—Lemon and rose tablet can be made in the same way, substituting white loaf for brown sugar, and essence for the ground seasoning. 2874. Neapolitan Squares Prepare three or more colours of fondant and of different flavours. Roll them out to a similar shape and about J inch in thickness. Put one piece on the top of the other, and press them lightly together with the rolling-pin. Then brush the top over with sugar syrup, or with liquid fondant, and coat it with ground almonds or cocoanut. Allow the block to stand overnight, and then cut it in small squares. 2875. Opera Creams 1 lb. loaf sugar. Cream. 1 gill water. Icing sugar. 2 oz. glucose. Flavouring. Put the sugar, water, and glucose into a sauce- pan and melt slowly over the fire, stirring all the time until the sugar is melted. Skim well and wash any scum off the sides of the saucepan with a small brush. Then boil with the thermometer to 245°. Pour on a slab, cool slightly, and work until white, first with a wooden spoon or spatula, and then with the hands, in the same way as fondant. Then put this fondant back into the saucepan, add a little cream and enough icing sugar to bring it back to the right consistency for shaping. Flavour to taste, and put out again on the slab. Form into a square, using a little icing sugar to prevent its sticking to the hands. Then roll out to 1 inch in thickness, making the mixture as smooth and even as pos- sible. Leave until cold and set, and then cut in squares with a very sharp knife or with a caramel cutter. These creams are great favourites, and they may be made in a variety of colours and flavours. Note.—Opera creams may also be used as centres for chocolates. 2876. Orange Bon-bons 6 oz. fondant. 1 orange. Orange colouring. A pinch of citric acid. Icing sugar. Candied orange peel. Take fondant that has been boiled to 245° (see Recipe 2858) and work it on a marble slab until soft and pliable. Wipe the orange, peel the yellow rind off very thinly, and chop it as fine as possible. Add this to the fondant with a tea-spoonful of orange juice, the citric acid, and a few drops of orange colouring. Mix all together, form into small shapes, using a little icing sugar, place a thin piece of candied peel on the top, and lay the sweets on a papered tray to dry. 2877. Peppermint Creams, 1 1 lb. icing sugar. I Oil of peppermint. 1 white of egg. | 1 table-sp. water. Sieve the icing sugar into a basin, and moisten with the white of egg and water. Work with the hands into a smooth, soft paste, flavouring with a few drops of oil of peppermint. When the paste is pliable and free from cracks, roll it out to § of an inch in thickness on a board that has been sprinkled with sieved icing sugar. Cut out into rounds with a small cutter, and place aside on a sheet of white paper sprinkled with castor sugar, and let them re- main until dry. The cutter should be dipped into castor sugar to prevent its sticking to the paste. The scraps ought to be pressed together and rolled out again until all are used. 2878. Peppermint Creams, 2 1 lb. icing sugar. f tea-sp. cream of tartar. 2 or 3 table-sps. of cream. A few drops oil of pep> permint. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the cream of tartar, and, when thoroughly mixed, add enough cream to form a stiff paste. Turn out on a sugared board, and knead with the hand until smooth and pliable, working in the peppermint flavouring. Then cover the paste over, and let it rest for an hour. Finish off as above. 2879. Peppermint Creams, 3 1 lb. fondant. Oil of peppermint. Water. Make the fondant according to directions given in Recipe 2858, boiling it to 240°. Put it into a saucepan with a very little water, or stock syrup, and warm carefully over the fire. Flavour with oil or essence of peppermint. Remove the sauce- pan from the fire or gas occasionally and beat the fondant in order to make glossy. Heat it until it feels uncomfortably hot when the tip of the finger is held in it. If the fondant is not made hot enough, the peppermint creams will not harden, and, if too hot, they will become hard and streaky- looking. Be careful, too, about the amount of water used; the fondant should be of a thick creamy consistency. If made too thin the creamsCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 602 will not set. The quantity of water will vary somewhat according to the weather; in hot weather scarcely any will be required. Have ready some small peppermint rings placed on a marble slab, or on a tray lined with wax paper. Pour the fon- dant into these and allow them to set—they should set at once. Turn out when cold, and leave the peppermint creams to dry a short time before eating or packing. Note.—These may be crystallised (Recipe 2862) if they have to be kept some time. 2880. Peppermint Tablet 1 lb. granulated sugar. I 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. | Essence of peppermint. Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan, bring them slowly to the boil, and then simmer from 10 to 15 minutes, stirring all the time. Test a little of the mixture in cold water, and, if ready, it should form a hardish ball, or register about 245° P. on the thermometer. When sufficiently cooked, re- move the saucepan from the fire, add the butter and enough peppermint to flavour, and stir until the mixture grains. Pour out on an oiled tin, mark ■with the back of a knife into convenient- sized pieces, and when cold cut up. PART III CHOCOLATES 2881. Chocolate for Covering 1 lb. chocolate. 1 to 2 oz. cocoa butter. For covering purposes buy good, plain chocolate at from Is. 6d. to 2s. per lb., and use also the best and purest cocoa butter. Or, special covering chocolate may be used, which is already mixed with a certain proportion of cocoa butter, in which case little or none of the latter will be required. In any case the quantity of cocoa butter necessary vail vary somewhat according to the kind of choco- late used, and also according to the weather, more being required in cold weather than in hot. Cut up the chocolate roughly—it is quite unnecessary to grate it—and heat it very gently over the fire until it forms a smooth paste. Keep moving and stirring the chocolate constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking and burning, and, if seems dry at the beginning, add a little cocoa butter, previously melted in a separate saucepan, and then more afterwards until the chocolate is of the right consistency for coating. A little experience mil soon teach the amount necessary. If the chocolate is not thin enough it will be thick and lumpy- looking on the sweets, and, if too much cocoa butter is used, the chocolate will be greasy and will run off the sweets. If too much is added in error, the fault can easily be remedied by adding more chocolate. Water must on no account be used to thin down the chocolate. Beat the chocolate well to give it a nice glossy appearance, but do not make it too hot. The saucepan should be removed from the fire or gas occasionally, and the beating continued ; the heat from the saucepan will be quite sufficient to continue the melting of the chocolate. If made too hot the chocolates will have a dull appearance. When ready, allow the chocolate to cool, and, when required, warm up over a gentle heat. Note.—If unsweetened chocolate is used, take equal quantities of the chocolate and sugar, and flavour with vanilla. A larger proportion of cocoa butter will be required. 2882. To Cover Centres with Chocolate The variety of centres which can be covered with chocolate is very great, but space will only allow of a few being given here. They may be made of fondant of various colours and flavours, of marzi- pan, nougat, caramel, glace fruits, fruit paste, praline, marshmallows, &c. Most centres are best made the day before they are to be covered, as they should be dry and set. The following recipes will give an idea of what can be done in the way of making centres, and a little ingenuity will no doubt suggest many others. The coating of centres must be done in a dry atmosphere; it will never be successful if carried on near steaming saucepans. The temperature of the room should be between 60° and 65° F. In very hot weather it is best to do this piece of work in the early morning or evening. Before beginning, have everything in readiness— a pan of covering chocolate, prepared as above, the Dipping Ring centres for covering, a dipping fork or dipping ring, and a tray lined with grease-proof paper for laying the chocolates on after coating. Heat the chocolate over a small gas jet or other gentle heat, always being careful not to make it too hot. It should always be possible to touch the bottom of the sauce- pan with the hand. Remove the saucepan from the gas, and tilt it on one side on the table, in order to keep the chocolate well together, and to get a greater depth. Drop a centre into the deepest part, cover it over with the chocolate, and lift out with the dipping fork. Let any surplus chocolate drop oS, and draw the fork lightly across the edge of the saucepan. Then place the chocolate on the prepared tin; it may be turned right upside down if wished, or simply slipped off the fork. A little twist may be made on the top of the chocolate by drawing out a thread of the chocolate with one of the prongs of the fork, and then curling it round. Or, a little of the covering chocolate may be put into a small paper bag and forced out on the top of the chocolate, to give the desired twist. The chocolate should set immediately, and look bright and glossy. Proceed to cover the other centres in the same way. The chocolate must be kept well mixed up with a fork and re-heated when necessary. Do not allow it to become too cold. Place the chocolates on the tin a little distance apart—they must never be allowed to touch each other. If they are to be decorated, put on the decoration before they become too dry. Chocolates must not be left exposed to the air too long, or they will lose their glossy appearance. Any coveringSWEET MAKING 603 chocolate that is left may be used over again, or more may he added to it. If it has to be kept for some time, cover it over or scrape it out of the sauce- pan, and put it into an air-tight tin box. 2887. Vanilla Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, flavouring the fondant with essence of vanilla and leaving it white. 2883. Strawberry or Raspberry Chocolate Creams 1 lb. fondant. Strawberry or rasp- berry flavouring. A few drops of car- mine. Covering chocolate. This is an example of chocolates made with a fondant or creamy centre. The fondant used may be cooked or uncooked (see Recipes 2858 or 2863); if the former, it should only be boiled to 240°, as the centres must not be too nard. Put the fondant on to a marble slab, work it out a little with the hand, add either raspberry or strawberry essence to flavour, and enough carmine to make it a pale pink colour. Work well, flattening out the fondant with the palm of the hand until all is well blended. Then roll out in a long roll, cut across in. small pieces, and roll again into balls. Use a little icing sugar to prevent the fondant from sticking to the hands. Lay the little balls of fondant, as they are shaped, on a marble slab or on a tin lined with grease-proof paper, and, when all are ready, set them aside in a cool place overnight, or for several hours at least. Then coat them with covering chocolate as directed above. They may either be left plain, or decorated with little gold or silver balls. Note.—Many other chocolate creams may be made in the same way as above, the shape, flavour, and colour being altered to fancy. The following are a few further examples : 2884. Coffee Chocolate Creams 1 lb. fondant. I Covering chocolate. Coffee essence. . ] Put the fondant on to a marble slab, and work into it by degrees some strong coffee essence until it is well flavoured, and of a good brown colour. When thoroughly blended, spread out the fondant, and leave it for a little while to harden, as the coffee essence will moisten it considerably. Then form into a long roll, cut in small pieces, and pro- ceed as directed above. After coating, the creams may be left plain or decorated with a little chopped pistachio nuts. 2885. Rose Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, flavouring the fondant with essence of rose and colouring it a very pale pink. Decorate when finished with a small piece of crystallised rose-leaf on each. 2886. Tangerine Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, flavouring the fondant with essence of tangerine, and colouring it a pale orange with orange colouring, or with a little yellow and carmine mixed. De- corate the top of the chocolates with a small thin slice of candied orange peel, or with a little crystal- lised orange flower. 2888. Violet Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, but flavour the fondant with essence of violet, and colour it with violet colouring. When the choco- lates are finished, decorate them with a small piece of crystallised violet on each. 2889. Almond Chocolate Creams 1 lb fondant. Almond essence. \ lb. ground almonds. Covering chocolate. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Put the fondant on to a marble slab, and work into it the other ingredients. Be careful to keep it a very pale pink colour, or the colour may be left out if preferred. Form into almond-shaped centres, and, when set, cover with chocolate. Decorate with a small split almond on the top of each. 2890. Barcelona Chocolates 2 oz. shelled Barcelona nuts. 2 oz. unsweetened choco- late. \ lb. fondant. 1 oz. butter. Vanilla essence. Water or sugar syrup. Covering chocolate. Brown the nuts in a moderate oven, and chop them roughly. Grate or shred the chocolate finely, and put it into a saucepan with the fondant and a little sugar syrup or water. Melt these carefully over the fire without making them too warm, using just enough liquid to keep them from burning. When well blended, add the butter and nuts, and flavour with vanilla. Mix again and then spread the mixture on a marble slab to cool. Form into small balls or any other shape preferred, and leave them several hours or until next day before cover- ing. Coat with chocolate in the usual way. 2891. Chocolate Almonds and Raisins, 1 Jordan almonds. I Covering chocolate. Muscatel raisins. j Blanch some fine large Jordan almonds, and toast them in the oven to a nice brown colour. Remove the seeds from about the same number of muscatel raisins, and wipe them well in a clean towel. Choose raisins with as thin skins as possible. Then coat these, one at a time, with rather thick covering chocolate, and decorate them with a neatly-cut half almond on the top of the chocolate raisins, and a small seeded raisin on the top of the almonds. Notes.—A more elaborate sweet may be made bv surrounding the almond with a thin coating of almond paste, and putting a small ball of almond paste inside the raisins before coating them with chocolate. Or, another way is to coat the almonds and raisins with fondant covering before coating them with chocolate. Or yet another method is to toast and chop the almonds, seed and chop the raisins, and mix them with double their weight of fondant, flavour with vanilla, form into centres and cover with chocolate.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 604 2892. Chocolate Almonds and Eaisins, 2 2 oz. stoned raisins. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. brandy. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Castor sugar. Covering chocolate. Chop the almonds and raisins rather finely or put them through the mincing machine. Add to them the lemon juice and brandy, and enough castor sugar to make a stiffish paste. Form this into small balls or other shapes, using a little icing sugar. Place on a papered tray, and set aside until next day to dry. Then cover with chocolate as directed in Recipe 2882. The tops may be deco- rated with a split almond or a small stoned raisin. 2893. Chocolates with Chocolate Centres 1 lb. fondant. 2 or 3 oz. unsweetened chocolate. Vanilla essence. Sugar syrup. Covering chocolate. Grate or shred the chocolate finely, put it into a saucepan with the fondant, a little sugar syrup, and enough vanilla essence to flavour. Warm care- fully over the fire, mixing the fondant and chocolate well together, and using just enough of the syrup t o prevent their burning. Do not make the mi xture too warm, and beat it off the fire now and then. When it looks a nice brown colour and is thoroughly mixed, turn it on to a marble slab, and work with the hands until smooth and of a uniform brown colour. Then roll out, mark in squares with the back of a knife or with a caramel cutter, and, when sufficiently firm, cut with a clean knife. Make the pieces as smooth and tidy looking as possible, place them on a tin lined with paper, and allow them to dry about two hours, but not too long, as they are apt to become hard. Other shapes may be made if preferred. Cover the centres with chocolate in the usual way. 2894. Date and Nut Chocolates 3 oz. stoned dates. 2 oz.walnuts or almonds. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Grated rind of J lemon. Castor sugar. Covering chocolate. Chop the dates and nuts, or put them through a mincer. Add to them the grated lemon rind and juice, and then work in enough fine sugar to make a stiffish paste. Cut in small neat pieces, place on a papered tray, and set them aside to dry. Then cover with chocolate, and decorate with finely- chopped and toasted nuts. 2895. Chocolate Ginger and Pine-apple Cut some glace ginger or pine-apple into con- venient-sized pieces, paring off with a sharp knife the outer coating of sugar. Then coat the pieces with covering chocolate (see Recipe 2882). De- corate with small pieces of ginger or pine-apple on the top of eaoh, or leave the sweets plain with a twist of chocolate on the top. Notes.—Other glace fruits may be used in the same way. Good stem ginger may be used instead of the above. The syrup must first be removed by dipping the pieces in hot water. Then dry them in a clean towel, and leave them for several hours in a warm room to dry. Coat with chocolate in the ordinary way. Or, another way is to chop the ginger finely, mix it with some fondant, flavour with ginger essence, and colour yellow. Mix well, form into centres, and coat with chocolate in the usual way. 2896. Maple Sugar Chocolates Fondant. I Vanilla. Maple sugar. | Covering chocolate. Take some fondant and work into it about one- third its weight of grated maple sugar. Flavour with vanilla, and form into small centres. Leave these to dry for several hours, then coat with covering chocolate, and place on a papered tray to set. 2897. Chocolate Marrons 1 lb. fondant. I Vanilla. 2 oz. marrons glacis. | Covering chocolate. Work the fondant until stiff and pliable, add the vanilla or any other flavouring preferred, and then the marrons glaces finely chopped. Form into small centres and set aside to dry. Then coat with covering chocolate as directed in Recipe 2882. Any scraps of marrons glaces may be used with these, and the chocolates may be decorated with a split pistachio kernel. 2898. Chocolate Marzipan Take a small quantity of marzipan (Recipe 2931) and flavour and colour it to taste. Then make it up in small shapes, rounds, ovals, &c., according as fancy dictates. Place these on a papered tray, and leave them a few hours to dry. Then cover with chocolate, and decorate to taste. 2899. Chocolate Nougatines \ lb. castor sugar. I 1 dessert-sp. glucose. \ lb. sweet almonds. | Covering chocolate. First rub the almonds in a wet cloth without blanching, then dry them and chop them roughly. Put the sugar and glucose into a saucepan, and melt them slowly over the fire until they turn a golden brown. Keep pounding the mixture with a spoon until it is quite smooth and free from lumps. Add the almonds at the last, and stir them Well in. Do not cook them too long or they will get a burnt taste. Pour the mixture on to a well-oiled slab, and quickly flatten it out with an oiled palette knife. Then dust it over with icing sugar, and roll with the rolling-pin until it is rather less than \ inch in thickness. Now cut it across in strips, using a strong knife and hammer, wipe these strips to free them from the oil, and then cut across again in squares or oblong-shaped pieces with a pair of scissors. This must be done quickly, as the nougat becomes hard when cold, and it is difficult to cut it neatly. These may then be coated with chocolate in the usual way, or they may be kept for some time in an air-tight box before covering. Finish with a slice of sweet almond on the top of each. Notes.—Other kinds of nuts may be used instead of the almonds. Any scraps of the nougat may be broken up finely, mixed with a little chocolate.605 SWEET MAKING then dropped in small lumps on wax paper, and allowed to set. PART IV 2900. Chocolate Pralines \ lb. castor sugar. I Lemon juice. 6 oz. sweet almonds. | Covering chocolate. Wipe the almonds in a damp cloth to clean them, but do not blanch them. Then dry them in a slow oven until they are slightly browned all the way through. Put the sugar into a saucepan with a few drops of lemon juice and melt it carefully over the fire until there are no lumps left, and the sugar itself looks brown and clear. Keep pounding down the lumps with a spoon or fork, and remove the saucepan from the fire occasionally, if the sugar shows signs of browning too quickly. When ready, pour it out on a well-greased tin, and scrape out the saucepan with a spoon. This should be quite brittle when cold, and snap clean when it is broken. Put this crisp toffee into a mortar with the almonds, and pound the two together until the mixture is very fine and clings together in one lump. When required, form into small round balls with the hands, or in any other shape preferred, and coat at once with chocolate. They lose their shape if allowed to stand. Note.—If a larger quantity of the praline centre is required, the toffee part should be made in differ- ent lots of 8 oz. each, as it is not easy to melt more than this quantity at a time. 2901. Chocolate Drops Prepare some chocolate the same as for covering (Recipe 2881). Put a small quantity at a time of this chocolate into a paper cornet, close it securely at the top, and cut a piece off the end in order to make a small opening. Then force out little lumps on a bright and clean tin, making them as far as possible one size and shape. Shake the tin to flatten them slightly, and then leave the chocolates to set. When cold, tap the tin, and the drops will become detached. Note.—If liked, the drops may be sprinkled with some nonpareils (tiny white and coloured sweets) before the chocolate has set. 2902. Chocolate and Nut Kisses £ lb. covering chocolate. 4 to 6 oz. shelled nuts. Toast the nuts for a few minutes in the oven, then pound or chop them, but not too finely. Use good covering chocolate, or chocolate prepared as in Recipe 2881, and melt it carefully in a saucepan without making it too hot. When quite smooth, add the prepared nuts, walnuts are perhaps the best, and there should be sufficient to thicken the choco- late. Drop the mixture in small rough heaps on greased paper, and leave them until set. If liked, the kisses may be decorated, before they have time to harden, with a slice of pistachio nut, or a small crystallised violet or rose leaf. 2903. Chocolate Peppermint Creams Make some peppermint creams as directed on p. 601, keeping them rather small. When quite cold and set, cover them with coating chocolate in the ordinary way. TOFFEES, CANDIES, AND CARAMELS 2904. Almond Hardbake 1 lb. Demerara sugar. £ lb. butter. 6 to 8 oz. sweet almonds. 3 table-sps. water. A good pinch cream of tartar, or 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. First blanch the almonds, shred them with a knife, and dry them in a cool oven until they are a pale brown colour. Turn them over once or twice so as to make them dry and brown equally. When these are ready, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the water and sugar, and melt over the fire, stirring occasionally. Then add the cream of tartar or lemon juice, and allow the contents of the saucepan to boil steadily without stirring until they become a rich brown colour, or to about 280° F. Stir in the almonds, cook them a moment, and pour the mixture into a greased tin. It should be quite a dark brown colour, and not the usual golden colour of toffee. When cold, break in pieces, and store in an air-tight tin box. 2905. Almond or Walnut Toffee 2 lbs. granulated sugar. 6 oz. butter. 1J gills water. A pinch cream of tartar. 6 oz. almonds or wal- nuts. If almonds are used, blanch and split them, then dry them in the oven, and arrange them with the flat side downwards on a greased tin. If walnuts are preferred, use those that are already shelled, toast them a few minutes in the oven, and then spread them out on a greased tin. To make the toffee, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the sugar, water, and cream of tartar, bring to the boil, and then boil without stirring to 300° F., or until the toffee breaks brittle when tested in cold water. Pour over the nuts and leave to set. Then break in pieces as required. 2906. American Candy 1 lb. loaf sugar. 3 oz. butter. 1 gill water. Flavouring. £ lb. glucose. Put the sugar, water, and glucose into a saucepan, and melt them slowly over the fire. Then boil with the thermometer to 290° F. Add the butter broken in pieces, and boil again to 305°. Pour the mixture out on a greased slab; add flavouring to taste. Fold over and over with a wooden spoon or spatula, and, when sufficiently cooled, work well with the hands, and pull out into a long roll until it begins to stiffen. Then cut in pieces with a pair of scissors, and wrap in wax paper. Note.—A little colouring may be added to the candy if desired. 2907. Barcelona Toffee 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 1 oz. butter. 6 oz. Barcelona nuts. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. Put all the ingredients except the nuts into a saucepan, stir until dissolved, and then boil toCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 606 300° or until the toffee breaks crisply when tested in cold water. Have the nuts ready shelled, toasted and chopped roughly, add them to the to See, pour out on an oiled tin, and, when cold, break in pieces. 2908. Barley Sugar 2 lbs. white sugar. A few drops vanilla or 1 pti water. lemon essence. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Either granulated or loaf sugar may be used. Put it into a saucepan and boil as directed for Sugar Boiling (see p. 597) to 230° F. Then add the strained lemon juice and the flavouring essence. Continue the boiling until the “ large crack,” or 312° F., is reached. Pour out quickly on to a well- oiled slab, and let the sugar cool slightly. Then cut it in narrow strips with a knife, and twist these with the fingers into a spiral shape. When quite cold, keep in an air-tight tin box. Note.—Barley water is sometimes used instead of plain water, hence the name. 2909. Butter Scotch 1 lb. light brown sugar. 4 to 6 oz. butter. J lb. syrup. 1 table-sp. water. 1 tea-sp. glucose or a pinch cream of tartar. | tea-sp. vanilla. | tea-sp. lemon essence. First melt the butter in a saucepan, then put in the syrup, sugar, and water, and dissolve them slowly by the side of the fire. Bring to the boil, stirring all the time, add the cream of tartar or glucose, and boil to 300° or until the toffee breaks crisp when tested in cold water. Flavour to taste, and pour it on to an oiled or buttered tin. When set, mark in squares, and break in pieces when cold. If this has to be kept for any time, wrap it in wax paper, and store in a tin box. 2910. Candy Sticks 1 lb. granulated sugar. Flavouring and colour- 1 gill water. ing. £ lb. glucose. Melt the sugar in the water, then add the glucose, and stir until dissolved. Boil to 300° F., according to General Directions for Boiling Sugar on p. 597. Then pour the syrup on to a marble slab, and flavour and colour to taste. Fold over and over with a wooden spatula, and, when cool enough, pull out with the hands, double, and pull again, continuing this until the candy is too hard to work longer. The last pulling out should be made rather thin. Cut in sticks and keep in an air-tight tin or glass bottle. Quite a variety of candy sticks may be made by changing the colour and flavour, such as ginger or cinnamon essence flavouring and yellow colouring, strawberry or raspberry flavouring and pink colouring, peppermint flavouring and green colouring ; or, when one becomes expert at making the candy, two different colours may be pulled out together, and this gives a very pretty effect. Note.—If a large quantity of candy is made it should be pulled over a hook fixed to the wall. 2911. Chelsea Toffee 2 lbs. granulated sugar. £ lb. butter. 1 tea-cupful water. 1 tin Swiss milk. 2 tea-sps. vanilla essence 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the sugar and water, and bring to the boil. Boil a few minutes, and then add the Swiss milk. Now stir constantly and boil about £ hour longer, or until the toffee reaches 255° F. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla and carmine, and pour out on an oiled tin. When set, mark in squares, and cut in pieces when cold. Note.—A few chopped nuts may be added to the mixture if wished. 2912. Everton Toffee lib. coarse brown sugar. 3 oz. butter. 1£ gills water. Pinch of cream of tar- tar. Flavouring to taste. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and melt slowly over the fire. Add the cream of tartar, and boil to the hard ball, or about 260°. Then re- move the saucepan from the fire and add the butter, a small piece at a time, and a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring. Return to the fire and boil again until the mixture reaches 300°, or feels hard when tested in cold water. Pour out on a well-oiled tin, and when partly set, mark across in convenient* sized pieces. When quite cold, break up the toffee, and wrap it in wax paper, and, if it is to be kept for any length of time, wrap it in tinfoil paper as well. Probable cost, 7d. 2913. Fudge, 1 1 lb. granulated sugar. | pt. milk. 2 oz. unsweetened choco- late. 1 oz. butter. 1 cupful chopped nuts. Vanilla essence. Grate or shred the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, and milk. Heat slowly over the fire, stirring all the time, until the ingredients are melted. Then simmer, stirring occasionally, until the mixture registers 240°, or, when tested in cold water, -will form a soft ball. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the nuts, and flavour with vanilla essence. Con- tinue the stirring until the mixture thickens, then pour it into an oiled tin or between oiled bars on a slab. Mark it in squares with the back of a knife, or with a caramel cutter, and cut in pieces when cold. Note.—The mixture may be made richer by using partly cream instead of milk. 2914. Fudge, 2 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill honey. 1 gill water. A pinch cream of tartar. 2 whites of egg. Flavouring. J lb. shelled walnuts. Put the honey, water, and sugar into a saucepan, and stir them carefully over the fire until dissolved. Then add the cream of tartar, and boil to 254° F. Beat the whites to a stiff froth in a basin, pour the hot mixture gradually on to them, and continue the beating until thick. Add the walnuts, chopped and toasted, flavour with orange-flower water orSWEET MAKING 607 vanilla, and spread out on an oiled or buttered tin. Mark in squares when set. 2915. Ginger Toffee 2 lbs. brown cane sugar. 1 large tea-sp. ground | cup white vinegar. ginger. 1 oz. butter. Put the sugar and ginger into a saucepan, mix them together, and add the butter and vinegar. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until the sugar melts, then bring to the boil, and boil until the toifee breaks crisp when tested in cold water. Pour out in an oiled tin, and break in pieces when cold. 2916. Lemon Toffee, 1 | lb. white sugar. § tea-cupful water. | lb. brown sugar. Rind and juice £ lemon. 2 oz. butter. Grate the rind of £ a lemon, and put it on a plate with the butter. Strain the juice into a saucepan, add the two kinds of sugar and the water, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until the sugar is melted. Then bring to the boil, stirring occa- sionally. When boiling, put the lid on the sauce- pan, and boil covered for a minute or two, so that the steam may wash the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the fid, and boil without stirring to 300° F., or until crisp when tested in cold water. Now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and add the butter with the lemon rind, a small piece at a time. When all is melted, give the toffee one more boil up, then pour out on an oiled tin and, when firm enough, mark across in square pieces. When cold, wrap m wax paper or store in a tin box. 2917. Lemon Toffee, 2 2 lbs. brown cane sugar. I Grated rind 1 lemon. | tea-cupful lemon juice. | 1 oz. butter. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and let them stand by the side of the fire until the sugar is melted. Then bring to the boil, stirring all the time, and boil to 300° F., or until crisp when tested in cold water. Pour at once into a well-greased tin, when set, mark across in small squares, and when cold, break in pieces. Store in an air-tight tin, or wrap up in wax paper. 2918. Peppermint Cushions 1 lb. loaf sugar. | Essence of peppermint. 1 gill cf water. | A pinch cream of tartar. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a lined saucepan and boil to 270° F., removing any scum that may rise. Pour this out on a marble slab, and sprinkle over it a few drops of peppermint. Great care must be taken not to flavour too strongly. Fold over and over with a wooden spatula, and when cool enough pull out with the hands until quite white and firm and in the shape of a long roll. Cut in pieces with a strong pair of scissors. i lb. brown sugar. J lb. white sugar. £ lb. butter. 2919. Russian Toffee, 1 1 gill cream. 1 gill golden syrup. Vanilla flavouring. First dissolve the butter in a lined saucepan or sugar boiler, then add the other ingredients, and flavour nicely with vanilla. Boil all together until the toffee feels crisp when tested in a little cold water. It must be stirred all the time, and when ready it will draw away from the sides of the pan. Pour the toffee into a well-greased shallow tin. Mark it across in squares, and, when nearly cold, cut in pieces with a very sharp knife. Wrap the pieces in waxed paper. Note.—Three or four ounces of grated chocolate may be added if wished. 2920. Russian Toffee, 2 1 lb. granulated sugar. 2 table-sps. water. £ lb. butter. Vanilla flavouring. 1 gill cream. Use either brown or white cane sugar for this. Melt the butter first in a saucepan, then add the sugar and water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Now add the cream and boil again, stirring all the time, until the mixture thickens and hardens when a little is tested in cold water. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add about a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence, and, when the mixture has ceased to boil, pour it into a greased shallow tin. When nearly set, mark it in squares with a knife, and, when cold, break in pieces, and store in a tin box. Note.—A few chopped or shredded nuts may be added at the last if wished. Probable cost. Is. | lb. granulated sugar. | lb. butter. | gill milk or cream. 1 table-sp. red currant 2921. Russian Toffee, 3 jelly. 1 tea-sp. grated choco- late. Vanilla. Put the butter into a saucepan and let it melt over the fire, then add ail the other ingredients except the vanilla. Bring very carefully to the boil, stirring all the time, then continue to stir, and allow the toffee to boil until it thickens and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan, about 15 minutes. When ready, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, add the vanilla, and pour out quickly on an oiled tin. When set, mark across with a knife into small square or oblong shaped pieces, and, when cold, break apart and wrap in wax paper. 2922. Syrup Candy 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. A pinch of cream of tartar. A pinch of tartaric acid. 1 table-sp. golden syrup. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a saucepan and boil them to 270° (see Sugar Boiling, p. 597). Then pour out quickly on a well-oiled slab, and put the golden syrup and tartaric acid in the middle. Fold the candy over and over with a wooden spatula, and, when cool enough, pull out with the hands, then double and pull again. Do this as rapidly as possible until the candy becomes light in colour, and becomes too hard to work any longer. Then cut in pieces with a pair of scissors. 2923. Syrup Toffee 1 lb. brown moist sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 tab.-sps. golden syrup. A good pinch cream of tartar or 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Melt the butter in a strong saucepan, add the syrup and then the sugar. Stir until boiling, thenCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 608 add the cream of tartar or lemon juice, and con- tinue to boil without stirring until the toffee will harden when tested in cold water. It will require from 10 to 15 minutes’ boiling. When ready, pour into an oiled tin, and set aside to cool. When set, break in pieces, and store in an air-tight tin box. 2924. Treacle Toffee 1 lb. brown cane sugar. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar or 1 lb. treacle. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. 1 oz. butter. Use black treacle, not golden syrup. Put it into a saucepan with the sugar and butter, and stand by the side of the fire until melted. Then stir until boiling, and stir until it breaks crisp when tested in cold water. Flavour with the vinegar or vanilla, pour out in an oiled tin, and break in pieces when cold. of the chocolate, and 3 oz. of butter instead of a J lb. The coffee and butter must not be added until the syrup has boiled to 245°, and after that the mixture must not be stirred. 2928. Vanilla Caramels £ lb. granulated sugar, | lb. brown sugar. 4 to 6 oz.-butter. 1 gill milk. 1 gill cream. 2 table-sps. glucose. I tea-sp. vanilla. Put the two sugars, milk, cream, and glucose into a saucepan and dissolve them carefully over the fire, stirring all the time. Then add the butter broken in pieces, and stir again over the fire until the “ hard ball ” stage is reached, or about 250° F. Pour out on a greased tin or between candy bars on a greased slab. When set, mark in squares or oblong-shaped pieces, and, when cold, break them apart and wrap in wax paper. 2925. Chocolate Caramels, 1 1 lb. loaf sugar. £ lb. butter. 1 lb. unsweetened choco- late. I lb. syrup. 1 gill thin cream. Vanilla essence. Grate or shred the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan with all the other ingredients. Melt slowly over the fire, and then boil to the “ crack,” or to 300° F., stirring almost constantly. When ready, pour out, and, when set, mark in squares. 2926. Chocolate Caramels, 2 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 gill water or milk. 1 gill cream. | lb. butter. § lb. chocolate. 6 oz. glucose. Vanilla. Put the sugar, milk, and glucose into a saucepan, melt slowly and then boil to 245° F. Cut the chocolate into small pieces, and melt it in another saucepan without any water. This is best done in an earthenware saucepan in the oven, or by placing the saucepan inside another containing hot water. Add the butter to the chocolate, and, when quite melted, add these to the sugar, &c., and boil all together to 245° or 250°. The mixture must not be stirred after the chocolate is added, but must be boiled very carefully to prevent its burning. Flavour with vanilla, and pour out in a shallow oiled tin. Mark in squares with the back of a 2929. Walnut Molasses 1 lb. brown sugar. 1 gill water. A pinch cream of tartar. 2 oz. shelled and chopped walnuts. 1 oz. butter. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, and then chop them somewhat roughly. Put the water, sugar, and cream of tartar into a lined sauce- pan, and boil with the thermometer to 280° F., adding the butter just before it reaches this point. Pour out on a marble slab into a long shape, sprinkle with the walnuts, and fold over with a wooden spoon or spatula. When slightly cool, roll with the hands, and pull out until about the thickness of a thin walking-stick. Then cut quickly in pieces with a pair of strong scissors, allow the pieces to cool, and twist them into small pieces of waxed paper. If this sweetmeat is left exposed to the air, especially in damp weather, it becomes sticky. Note.—Chopped hazel nuts may be used instead of walnuts. 2930. White 1J ids. granulated sugar. J pt. water. 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. syrup. Walnut Candy \ lb. shelled walnuts. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. Put the water, syrup, and sugar into a saucepan, let them dissolve slowly over the fire, then boil to 240° Fahr. Meanwhile have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and put them into a basin; pour the hot syrup slowly on to them, beating with a small wire whisk, and continue to beat until the candy begins to thicken. Add the nuts, roughly chopped, and the flavouring; pour out on a greased tin, or between candy bars on a greased slab. When cold, cut in small neat pieces. Note.—Other nuts may be used in the same way, and the flavouring may be altered. knife or with a caramel cutter, and, when nearly cold, cut the mixture right through. Wrap the caramels in wax paper. 2927. Coffee Caramels Make in the same way as chocolate caramels, using sufficient essence of coffee to flavour instead PART V SWEETS WITH MARZIPAN MARZIPAN Marzipan, literally almond bread, is a paste made of almonds and sugar. It is of German origin.SWEET MAKING 609 but has now become a great favourite in this country. It can either be made from whole almonds, which would require to be blanched, thoroughly dried, and then well pounded with orange-flower or rose water, or a little brandy; or, it may be made from the ready-prepared ground almonds, which is a much simpler method and the one usually adopted nowadays. In fact it is even possible to buy the marzipan ready made in blocks or by the pound, but this comes rather more expensive. 2931. Marzipan, 1 | lb. ground almonds. 6 oz. icing sugar. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. rose or orange-flower water. White of egg. Be careful to choose good ground almonds— if they have been kept for some time they are apt to be musty—put them into a basin, and add to them the icing sugar, which has been previously rubbed through a hair sieve, and the orange-flower or rose water. Mix all together with the hands, and then moisten with enough white of egg to bind, kneading well with the hand. Or, if preferred, the mixture may be pounded in a mortar. When perfectly smooth, the paste may either be used as it is in its natural colour, or coloured and flavoured with different essences and liqueurs, according to the purpose for which it is to be used. Use colouring and flavouring very cautiously; it is always easy to add more, but impossible to withdraw. Be careful also to work the colouring well through the paste, or it will look streaky. 2932. Boiled Marzipan, 2 i lb. granulated or loaf sugar. 6 oz. ground almonds. 1 gill water. I white of egg. Flavouring. A little icing sugar. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and let them dissolve slowly over the fire. Then put on the lid, and bring to the boil. Now uncover it, and boil with the thermometer to 242°. Skim the syrup carefully when necessary, and wash the sides of the saucepan occasionally with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent the sugar graining. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the almonds and white of egg, and mix briskly for a few minutes. Then return the sauce- pan to the fire, and cook a minute or two longer. Turn the marzipan on to a marble slab, and work it first with a wooden spatula and then with the hand until smooth and firm. Use a little icing sugar when kneading with the hand, to prevent the mix- ture sticking. Flavour and colour as required. Any flavouring and colouring should be worked in while the marzipan is still warm. If it has become hard and dry, a few drops of warm water may be added to it. This marzipan will keep for some time if first wrapped in wax paper and then in a cloth, and kept in an air-tight box. 2933. Moulded Marzipan With Moulds.—Very pretty sweets may be made by moulding marzipan in little moulds sold for the purpose. Various fruits, flowers, vegetables, shells, &c., may be imitated in this way. The marzipan should either be coloured first to resemble as nearly as possible the colour of the article imitated, or the sweets may be painted over after moulding with a little vegetable colouring. Stalks may be formed with a small piece of angelica or a piece of natural stalk, such as the stalk of a raisin. The husk in fruit may be formed with a small piece of marzipan coloured brown, cut out in the desired shape and then pressed on to the shaped fruit, or with a little husk made out of cambric and sold for the purpose. The calyx of flowers, too, may be imitated by cutting a star-shaped piece out of thinly-rolled green marzipan, and so on. Moulds for the above are usually double, and they are made of a special preparation or of pewter mounted on plaster of Paris. Such shapes as the pea-pod, marguerite, almond, walnut, pansy, thistle, &c., are all favourites. The moulds vary in price from about Is. 6d. to 2s. Gd. each. When the moulds are new, they should be lightly rubbed with a soft rag dipped in salad oil, otherwise the marzipan will be liable to stick to them. They should be washed as little as possible, and hot water must never be allowed to run over the plaster of Paris mounting, as it would be liable to crack it. Recipes 2936-7 will give a good idea of how to use these little moulds. Small single moulds of tin can also be used for moulding, and these are cheaper to buy, as they Fancy Sweet Moulds only cost about 9d. per dozen. These can also be had in a variety of shapes, such as shells, walnuts, leaves, fish, &c. Flavour and colour the marzipan in keeping with the shape of mould to be used. Then divide it into pieces large enough to fill the mould, and roll them into balls or oval shapes. Take one piece at a time, and press it into the mould until the pattern is well marked. Then ease the marzipan away from the edges, being careful not to spoil the shape ; give the mould a sharp tap on the table, and the marzipan should fall out. The mould may be dusted out with a little corn starch or icing sugar if the marzipan is inclined to stick to it. As the pieces are moulded, place them on a tin and set aside to dry. Without Moulds.—Simple shapes, such as apples, pears, cherries, carrots, potatoes, &c., may be formed with the hands without the help of any mould; in fact with a little taste and ingenuity an endless variety of sweets may be made from coloured marzipan paste. 2934. Marzipan Slices, 1 Divide some marzipan into three equal-sized pieces, and flavour and colour each according to taste. One portion might be coloured pink and 2 Q610 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD flavoured with raspberry, another green and flav- oured with maraschino, and the third left its natural colour and flavoured with lemon. Then roll out each piece to a similar shape and \ of an inch in thickness. Brush over one piece very lightly with cold water, and lay a second piece on the top, then brush over again with water, using very little, and lay on the third piece of almond paste. Now press the slices together with a rolling-pin, moisten the marzipan with a little sugar syrup or white of egg, and press a sheet of wafer paper on to both sides. (This latter may be omitted if not convenient.) Set the block aside until dry and firm, then trim the edges, and cut in fancy shapes. A more decorative sweet may be made by coating the topmost layer with a little glace icing (see Recipe 2838), and sprink- ling it with chopped pistachio nuts before cutting out. A larger variety of colours may be made if wished, and if the block of paste is rather thick, cut it in slices first, and then across again into small pieces. 2935. Marzipan Slices, 2 Take some marzipan and divide it into three portions, but not of equal size. Take a small piece, flavour it with essence of vanilla, and leave it its natural colour. Take a second piece, double the size of the first, flavour it with rose or straw- berry, and colour it a pretty pink; then a third piece, double the size of the second, colour it green, and flavour with essence of almonds or some liqueur. Now take the smallest piece, and roll it out with the hands until it is like a thin lead pencil. Next roll out the pink portion with a rolling-pin until it forms a strip as long as the natural-coloured roll and about 2 inches in width. Lay the pencil- shaped roll in the centre of this, and fold the pink paste round it, cutting off any that may be super- fluous. Roll on the board with the hands until the join is scarcely seen. Now roll out the green portion of marzipan, and wrap it round the pink roll in the same way. Make the roll as smooth and even as possible—if very long cut it in two— and place it on a tray lined with paper to dry. Then brush over with melted chocolate, coating syrup, or thin glace icing, and roll in chopped pistachio nuts, cocoanut, coloured sugar, or chopped and coloured almonds, and dry again. Cut in pieces as fancy dictates. 2936. Marzipan Pearpods For these a pea-pod mould and some greeh marzipan are required. Take a small piece of green marzipan, sufficient to fill one half of the mould, roll it into an oblong shape, and press it into the mould. Then fill the other half in the same way. Now make some tiny round peas with marzipan of a paler shade of green than that used for the pods, and lay four or six of these on the side of one of the half moulds, and in such a way that they will show over the edge when the Eea is completed. Press the two halves of the mould ghtly together, then lift the upper one off, and the completed pea-pod, with the little peas showing, should come away quite easily. If the two halves do not adhere together, it shows that the moulds have not been sufficiently filled. Continue to make other pea-pods in the same way. 2937. Marzipan Almonds For these an almond-shaped mould, some brown marzipan, and a few sweet almonds are required. Colour the marzipan to a pale brown colour with coffee essence and a little brown colouring, or with some melted chocolate. Roll the almond paste into small oblong-shaped pieces, sufficiently large to fill the half moulds. Press one piece into each half, lay a blanched and toasted almond on the top of one half, and press the other lightly on the top. Then open, and the completed almond should drop out. 2938. Marzipan Acorns These may be shaped with the hand without the aid of a mould. Make some almond paste or marzi- pan a pretty apple-green colour, and flavour it with a few drops of vanilla or essence of almonds. Form it into acorn-shaped pieces, and lay these on a tin lined with wax paper to dry. Then dip the larger end of the acorns in melted covering chocolate, and set them in a tin of powdered chocolate with the pointed ends uppermost, and just sufficiently deep to cover the wet chocolate. Leave until dry, and insert a small piece of stalk in the end of each. 2939. Brochettes Brochettes. Marzipan. Caramel. Brochettes are little rounds of candied fruit paste of different colours and flavours, threaded on straws. They can be bought in this form at almost any good grocery store. Roll out some marzipan to about £ inch in thickness and cut out little rounds the same size as the brochettes. Unthread the brochettes, and put a round of marzi- pan between two of different colours. Then dip Brochettes them in caramel as directed for Caramel Walnuts ; (see below), and, when cold and set, place them in little paper cases. Or, they may be finished off in a simple way by rolling them in castor sugar. Another method of making up these brochettes ) is to place a little ball of fondant between them instead of the marzipan. When they are all placed together and set, brush over the centre part of fondant with slightly beaten white of egg, and coat it with finely-chopped pistachio nuts or cocoanut, or with the two mixed together. 2940. Caramel Walnuts l lb. shelled walnuts. Almond Paste. % lb. ground almonds. \ lb. castor sugar. J lb. icing sugar. 1 egg or 2 yolks. Colouring and flavour- ing. Caramel. 1 lb. loaf sugar. .1 gill water. Lemon juice Small paper cases. Put the walnuts on a tin, and toast them in the oven for about 10 minutes. Then make some611 SWEET MAKING almond paste or marzipan according to directions given in Recipe 2931. Divide this paste into small pieces the size of a hazel nut, and roll them into balls. Put a half walnut on each side of these balls, and press them well in. Proceed thus until all are finished. Various Colours.—A nice variety is made by dividing the almond paste into three portions before the flavouring is added, and making them up in different colours; keep one portion its natural colour, and flavour with vanilla, colour a second portion pink by adding a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and flavour with essence of strawberry, and make the third green by using a little spinach green, and flavour with essence of almonds or ratafia. The colouring and flavouring must be worked well into each separate portion. The flavouring may, of course, be varied according to taste. A few drops of liqueur may be used instead of a flavouring essence. To Make the Caramel.—Put the loaf sugar, lemon juice, and water into an iron saucepan or sugar boiler, and boil quickly without stirring until a golden brown colour. Then remove the saucepan quickly from the fire, and dip the bottom of it into cold water, to prevent the caramel burning. Dip the walnuts into this one at a time; lift them out with two forks or with a wire fork or ring, and place them on an oiled slab or dish. This must be done very quickly, as the caramel soon hardens. It is better if two people can be engaged with it —one to drop the walnuts into the caramel, and one to lift them out. Everything must be ready, too, before beginning. When all are done, remove the walnuts from the dish, break off any superfluous caramel, and place the sweets in small paper cases. Note.—A simpler method of finishing off the walnuts is to roll them in castor sugar instead of dipping them in caramel, but they will not look nearly so pretty. 2941. Caramel Dates and French Plums These may be prepared in the same way as Caramel walnuts, and make a nice variety. Very good soft fruit must be chosen, because, if dry, the caramekj will be hard and tasteless. Remove the stones from the dates or plums without cutting the fruit in two or breaking it in any way. Then fill the centres with an almond-shaped piece of marzipan, and roll slightly with the hands to form a neat shape. Allow these to dry for a few hours, and then coat with caramel, and finish as above. A green or pink filling looks particularly pretty with this kind of sweet. Instead of the marzipan stuffing, a piece of flavoured fondant may be used, and small pieces of candied fruit may be added. 2942. Marzipan Cherries Marzipan paste. Glace cherries. Castor sugar. Choose nice large cherries of a good colour and shape. Make a small hole in each and insert a little ball of marzipan. Roll in the hand to make them round, then coat with castor sugar. Serve in little paper cases for dessert. 2943. Caramel Figs Good figs. | Flavouring. Almond paste. | Caramel. Choose very good preserved figs that are not dry. Wipe them, split them, and cut them in strips about \ inch in width, removing the stalks and any discoloured parts. Prepare some almond paste or marzipan, roll it into small cork-shaped pieces, and put one of these between two slices of fig. Press together and make the pieces tidy. Then coat them with caramel in the same way as caramel walnuts. 2944. Cocoanut Balls 6 oz. ground almonds. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 tca-sp. essence of almonds. White of egg. Carmine. Desiccated cocoanut. Put the ground almonds and sugar into a basin, add the essence of almonds, and form into a paste with white of egg. Divide this paste, and colour one half pink with a few drops of carmine. Form all into small balls, and roll them in desiccated cocoanut. Press the cocoanut well on, and place the ball0 on a papered tray to dry. 2945. Marzipan Kisses Take some well-flavoured marzipan and roll into small balls, using a little icing sugar or com starch. Place these on a papered tray, and allow them to dry a short time. Then dip the balls in coating syrup (Recipe 2856) or in thin glace icing, and roll them in coloured sugar. Dry again and serve in small paper cases. 2946. Marzipan Potatoes Almond paste. I Orange-flower water. Crystallised cherries. | Grated chocolate. Prepare some almond paste the same as for caramel walnuts or for fruit marzipan, and flavour it with orange-flower water, or any other flavour- ing preferred. Remove any hard sugar from the cherries by placing them in hot water for a minute ; then form the paste into shapes resembling very small new potatoes, and place a cherry in the centre of each. They must not be too large. Roll them in finely powdered chocolate, and mark a few eyes in each. Small pieces of other preserved fruits may be used instead of the cherries, but there must, of course, be no stone in the fruit, and it must not be hard nor too much crystallised. 2947. Apricot Marzipan 1 lb. granulated sugar. \ gill water. | lb. apricot puree. | lb. ground almonds. J tea-sp. cream of tar- tar. Glace icing. Chopped pistachio nuts. Make the apricot pulp by rubbing some tinned apricots through a hair sieve; it must be of a thick consistency, and very little of the syrup should be used. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a saucepan and boil them to 250°. If neces- sary, wash the edges of the saucepan with a brush and cold water to prevent the sugar graining on the sides. When ready, add the almonds and612 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD apricot pulp, and stir carefully over a slow fire until the mixture thickens and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Now pour it out on a marble slab, and, when cool, sprinkle with icing sugar, and roll out to J inch in thickness. Coat the surface with some thin glace icing—with whatever flavouring preferred,—sprinkle with finely-chopped pistachio nuts, and cut into fancy shapes with a sharp knife. Note.—If liked, the marzipan may be coloured, or a coloured icing may be used. PART VI MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS, &c. 2948. Apricotines Equal quantities of apricot pulp and castor sugar; and some crystallised sugar. Take some good tinned apricots, lift them from the syrup, and drain them on a sieve for \ hour. Then rub them through a hair sieve, and weigh the pulp. Put this pulp into a lined saucepan with an equal quantity of castor sugar. Bring to the boil, and boil until fairly thick, when the mixture will begin to draw away from the sides of the sauce- pan. It must be stirred all the time, and must not cook too quickly. Drop small pieces about the size of a halfpenny on a wetted tin, and sprinkle with crystallised sugar before they harden. When firm put two together, the flat sides against each other ; roll in sugar, and put them in little crimped paper sweetmeat cases. Small sweet moulds may be used for shaping the sweets ; these should be wet with cold water, and sprinkled inside with granu- lated sugar before the fruit pulp is poured into them. Note.—Other fruit pulp can be used in the same way, but it must be one with some substance, such as apples, plums, peaches, &c. Currants, strawberries, and the like are too juicy. Quince pulp lends itself very well for this purpose, and makes a delicious sweet. The fruit must be stewed to a pulp with as little water as possible. 2949. Black Currant Jellies 1 gill black-currant jelly. J lb. granulated sugar. 1| oz. gelatine. 1J gills boiling water. A few drops of carmine. Pink sugar. Put the jelly and sugar into a saucepan, stir them over the fire until dissolved, and then boil to 235° F. Dissolve the gelatine in a small saucepan with the boiling water, strain it into the other ingredients, and boil together for a few minutes. Pour all into a wet plate, sprinkle with pink or white granulated sugar, and set aside to harden. Then turn out, cut in squares, and toss them in sugar until well coloured. 2950. French Jellies 2 lbs. loaf sugar. [ Colouring. 5 gills water. Flavouring. 2 oz. gelatine. | Granulated sugar. Soak the gelatine in the water for J hour, then put it into a saucepan with the sugar, bring to the boil, and boil for 20 minutes, stirring all the time. Divide into two portions, and colour and flavour according to taste. For instance, colour one half pink with a little carmine or cochineal and flavour with raspberry or strawberry essence, and colour the other half a pale yellow and flavour with lemon, or colour green and flavour with peppermint. Turn each portion into a wetted soup plate or pie dish, sprinkle with granulated sugar, and leave until the next day. Then turn out, cut in neat square or oblong-shaped pieces, and roll them in granulated sugar. Leave spread out until dry and crisp on the outside. 2951. Marshmallows l lb. gum-arabic. | pt. water. | lb. granulated sugar. 3 whites of eggs. Almond essence. Icing sugar and corn starch. Choose the very best gum, and soak it in the cold water overnight, keeping it covered. Next day strain it through muslin into a saucepan, and add the sugar. Stand this in a larger pan containing hot water, and stir over the fire until thick and white. When sufficiently cooked, it should form a firm ball when tested in cold water. Remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the flavouring and the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. This will make the mixture spongy. Turn it into a tin that has been dusted out with icing sugar and corn starch mixed, making it not less than an inch thick. Sprinkle with icing sugar, and leave the mixture to stand all night. Next day cut in pieces about 1 inch square, and coat these thickly with icing sugar, or with corn starch and icing sugar mixed. Note.—Orange-flower water may be used for flavouring instead of almond essence. These , sweets used formerly to be made from a gluey substance obtained from the marshmallow, hence the name. 2952. Glycerine Jujubes 3 oz. glycerine. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 gill lemon juice. ■’ Cut the gelatine in pieces and put it in a small saucepan with the glycerine and lemon juice. Stand the saucepan in a larger pan with hot water, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Then strain into a wetted plate, sprinkle with sugar, and set aside until cold and firm. Turn out on sugared ^ paper, cut in small pieces, and roll in sugar. Then place the jujubes on a wire stand or sieve to dry. 2953. Nougat 1 lb. icing sugar. 1 tab.-sp. pistachio nuts. 4 oz. clear honey. 1 or 2 oz. glace cherries. 3 oz. sweet almonds. 4 whites of eggs. Sieve the sugar, and put it into a copper beating bowl with the whites of eggs and honey. Mix well with a whisk, then place the bowl over a slow fire, and keep mixing until the mixture is white and thick. It will take about 30 minutes, and the bowl must be turned occasionally to prevent its becoming too hot in any one part. When ready, remove from the fire, and stir in the almonds and pistachios (both shred and well dried) and the cherries cut in small pieces. Have ready a small wafer biscuit box, greased at the sides613 SWEET MAKING and the bottom lined with wafer paper. Pour the nougat mixture into this, pressing it well down, cover with more wafer paper, and put a weight on the top. When cold, cut in convenient-sized pieces with a very sharp knife, and if not to be eaten at once, wtap the pieces in wax paper. 2954. Chocolate Nougat 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. glucose. 2 oz. unsweetened cho- colate. I lb. nuts. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. Wafer paper. Shred or grate the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan with the sugar, water, butter, and glucose. Stir over the fire until dissolved, then remove the spoon and boil to 240° F. Pour into a wet basin, add \ lb. shred nuts—almonds, walnuts, pignolias, or cashew nuts may be used—flavour with vanilla, and stir occasionally until thick. Then take a small biscuit tin, put a sheet of wafer paper at the bottom, pour in the nougat mixture, and cover with another piece of wafer paper. Set aside to cool, then turn out and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Note.—A few pieces of preserved cherry and angelica may be added to the mixture if desired. 2955. Orange Nougat 1 lb. granulated sugar. I lb. glucose. 1 gill milk or cream. 1 orange. J lb. blanched almonds. 1 oz. butter. 3 whites of eggs. Wafer paper. Put the sugar, milk or cream, and glucose into a saucepan, stir until melted, and boil to the “hard boil,” about 250° F. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the butter, the grated or finely-chopped rind and the strained juice of the orange, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Return to the fire, and boil the mixture until it again reaches 245°, and has become a pale brown colour. Mix in the almonds, and pour quickly into a shallow box lined with wafer paper. Put another piece of wafer paper on the top, and set aside until cold. Then turn out and cut in pieces as required. 2956. White Nougat with Nuts \ lb. granulated sugar. | pt. water. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 tea-sp. glucose. 1 or 2 whites of eggs. lb. shelled walnuts. 1 tea-sp. almond essence. Juice of h lemon. Put the sugar, water, and gelatine into a saucepan, and allow them to melt by the side of the fire. Add the glucose, and Btir until boiling. Then boil quickly for 7 or 8 minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and let the mixture cool slightly. Add the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, the walnuts roughly chopped, and the flavouring. Mix them in, and stir occasionally until the mixture begins to set, and the heavier portion no longer sinks to the bottom. Grease a tin, or box, dust it out with com starch and sugar mixed; pour in the nougat, and leave it in a cool place for 12 hours. Then cut it in neat pieces, and, if not to be served at once, wrap in wax paper. 2957. Orange and Walnut Drops | lb. granulated sugar. J oz. butter. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 small orange. Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until dissolved. Then add the strained juice and grated rind of a small orange and boil to 240° F. Now add the nuts rather finely chopped, the small piece of butter, and a little yellow or orange colouring. Allow the mixture to cool slightly, and, when it is beginning to thicken, beat it until creamy. Then drop small spoonfuls on an oiled tin or on wax paper, and allow them to set. Remove when cold. 2958. Peppermint Rock 1 lb. granulated sugar, i A pinch cream of tartar. 1 tea-cupful water. | Essence of peppermint. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan with a good pinch of cream of tartar. Bring them slowly to the boil, then put on the lid for a few minutes to let the steam wash down the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the lid, and boil quickly until a temperature of 262° F. is reached. Use the thermometer, as the exact temperature is important. Now pour out on an oiled slab, and sprinkle with enough essence of peppermint to flavour. Fold over the edges with a wooden spatula, and, when cool enough, pull out with the hands, fold and pull again until the mixture is quite white. Finally, draw out in slender stalks, and cut in even lengths. Lay on a papered tray, and put aside until next day. Store in a tin box. Note.—Other flavours may be used, and the rock may be coloured if wished. 2959. Port Wine Drops 1 gill port wine. I 4 or 5 lumps loaf sugar. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 clove. 1 table-sp. water. 1 inch cinnamon stick. J oz. isinglass orgelatine. | A little lemon rind. Soak the isinglass or gelatine with about 1 table- spoonful of water, then put it into a small lined saucepan with the other ingredients, peeling the lemon rind very thinly, and using rather less than | a lemon. Stir over a slow fire until almost boiling, then simmer gently for 5 minutes. Strain through a piece of muslin, and pour into a wetted soup plate. Set aside until cold, and cut into small lozenges. 2960. To Spin Sugar Take from £ to | lb. loaf sugar, according to the quantity required, and melt it in a saucepan or sugar boiler with just enough water to moisten it. Add a pinch of cream of tartar, and boil to 310° F., or until the sugar is just beginning to change colour. Wash round the sides of the sauce- pan occasionally with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent the sugar graining. When ready, take a long wooden spoon or stick, hold it up in a hori- zontal position with the left hand. With the right hand take up a small quantity of the boiled sugar in a dessert-spoon, and wave it rapidly backwards and forwards across the stick, when it will fall down in long threads. A sheet of paper should be spread on the floor to catch any of the sugar614 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD that may falL The sugar may be coloured, if wished, green or pink according to what is required. This makes a very pretty decoration for fancy sweets; it can also be twisted into a basket or nest for holding small sweets or ice creams. Spun sugar must be made on a dry day; moisture or a draught will spoil it. 2961. Sugar Basket Take 1 lb. cane loaf sugar and | pint hot water, and put them into a small saucepan or sugar boiler. Let the sugar melt, then bring it to the bod with the lid on the pan. Remove the lid, and boil without shaking or stirring to the “ crack,” or until the sugar just begins to change colour. Have ready a very well oiled marble slab, and also an oiled mould in the form of a flat basket. A good-sized fluted mould would do very well. Pour out the sugar in a round on the oiled slab, and let it cool slightly. If liked, the edges may be slightly touched with colour, put on lightly with a fine brush. Then lift the sheet of sugar, and line the mould with it, pressing it well into the form. The edges may be trimmed if liked, but as a rule they look better slightly uneven. When set, remove the sugar basket from the mould, wipe the outside with a clean cloth to remove the oil, and set it on a wire tray until cold. It must be kept in a cool place and out of a draught, A sugar basket is a very pretty receptacle for ices ; a little unmoulded ice mixture may be put in first, and small ices piled on the top. It is also useful for holding meringues a la, crime. 2962. Turkish Delight 1 oz. French sheet gela- tine. 1 gill cold water. 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill hot water. 1 orange. 1 lemon. \ wine-glassful rum. Carmine. Icing sugar. Put the gelatine into a small saucepan with the cold water, and dissolve it slowly by the side of the fire, stirring occasionally. Into a larger saucepan put the sugar and hot water, bring them to the boil, then draw the saucepan to one side, and strain in the gelatine, being careful to waste none. Re- turn the saucepan to the fire, and simmer the contents steadily for 15 minutes, stirring frequently. Now add the rum, and the thinly-peeled rind and the strained juice of the orange and lemon, stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until the liquid is well flavoured. Then strain and divide into two portions. Colour one portion pink with a few drops of carmine, and leave the other its natural colour. A few blanched and shred almonds and pistachio nuts may also be added at this stage. Pour into wetted tins or plates about 1 inch thick, and set aside to cool. When cold and firm, turn out on white paper sprinkled with sieved icing sugar, cut in small pieces, and coat well with the sugar. Place the Turkish delight on a papered tray to dry, and coat again with icing sugar if necessary. Store in an air-tight box, keeping it well dusted with the sugar. Note.—A little honey is sometimes added to the above, and the flavouring may be altered to suit individual taste. The Packing of Sweets If sweets are to be offered for sale or given away as presents it is very important that they should be properly packed. Boxes of different sizes, with a rim of lace-edged paper round the top, are Paper Cases for Sweets sold for the purpose. The plainer and simpler they are the better, but they should be distinctive in style. These should first be lined with two pieces of grease-proof paper, one to lie lengthwise and the other crosswise of the box, and cut long enough to fold over on the top of the sweets. Neatly folded strips of paper should be used to divide such sweets as chocolates and fondants in rows, and the better kinds may be placed in little frilled paper cases as well. Candies, tablets, and such like should be simply wrapped up in wax paper, and fitted into the box as neatly as possible. Fold the lining paper over the sweets, and then place a pad of very fine soft shavings on the top to prevent their moving about. Put on the lid, and finally tie round with pretty ribbon of a tasteful shade, which will greatly add to the daintiness of the appearance.DRINKS AND BEVERAGES The following paragraphs give directions for making tea, coffee, and chocolate in the best way. They also contain recipes for drinks of various kinds, both hot and cold, which are not difficult to make, and which will no doubt prove useful for home consumption, and more especially in summer when some cool- ing beverage is required. 2963. Tea, and How to Make it Tea is so largely used in this country that it may seem almost unnecessary to give directions for making it, and yet it is so often rendered injurious and deprived of its proper flavour through being badly made, that a few hints upon the correct method of preparing it may not come amiss. Tea, boiling water, and a teapot or infuser are the requisites. The first thing is to choose good tea. It is almost impossible for anyone but an expert to tell whether one tea is genuine, or another is not, from the appearance of it; all that can be done is to buy it from a good dealer, and to be willing to pay a fair price for it. Good tea at a fair price will be found the cheapest in the end. The cheapest teas are sometimes adulterated by having old, damaged, or spent leaves, dried and coloured, and added to them. The different qualities of strength and flavour found in tea are due to the different varieties of the plant, the soil, and climate in which it has been grown, and the manner in which it has been pre- ared. Tea may be bought in large quantities, ut should be kept in a tea chest or tin box with a tight-fitting lid. The water used for making tea must be freshly drawn and freshly boiled. Water that has been standing or slowly simmering in a kettle for several hours has lost its gases, and is unfit for making good tea. The kettle used for boiling it must be kept clean both inside and out, and the water must be quite boiling. A silver or metal teapot is better than a china or earthenware one for drawing out the flavour of the tea. Whatever kind is used, the greatest care must be taken to keep it clean. It must on no account be put away with the tea-leaves in it, but be thoroughly washed and well dried after using. When a brown fur has collected on the lining of the teapot, fill the pot with boiling water, add a good piece of soda, put on the lid, and stand until cold. Then rub the inside well with a cloth and rinse thoroughly in clean hot water. To Make the Tea.—Half fill the teapot with boiling water, let it stand a minute or two until thoroughly hot, then empty it. Put in the requisite quantity of tea (the old rule of a level teaspoon for each person and one over is a good one, but for a number, a smaller proportion may be allowed), and pour on gently enough boiling water to half fill the teapot. Take the teapot to the kettle, and never the kettle to the teapot. Cover with a cosy, or let it stand in a warm place to infuse for three minutes, then fill up the teapot and pour out the tea. Tea is never good if allowed to stand too long, and the use of a tea cosy is to be deprecated, if it is employed to keep tea hot for a long time until it becomes black and bitter. If the tea has to be kept hot for any length of time, it should be poured off the leaves into another teapot, or some teapots are fitted with an inner case which contains the leaves, and which can be removed when the tea has infused sufficiently. When only a cup of tea is required, a tea infuser is a useful thing to use. Both cup and infuser should be well heated with bo'ling water before being used. Sugar, milk, or cream, or sliced lemon (see below) should be served with the tea. When sugar and milk or cream are used, they should be put into the teacup before the tea. The addition of milk makes the tea more wholesome, that of sugar less so. Although tea has little nutritive value, if taken in moderation it is strengthening, refreshing, and exhilarating ; but if partaken of too freely, it is injurious to the nervous and digestive systems. 2964. Tea with Lemon, or Russian Tea Lemon is now frequently taken with tea instead of milk or cream. Choose a small lemon for pre- ference, wipe it perfectly clean, and then cut it in thin slices right through rind and pulp. Serve a shoe in each cup of tea, and sugar to taste. 2965. Iced Tea This makes a very refreshing drink in hot weather. Make tea in the usual way, pouring it off the leaves as soon as infused, and allow it to cool. Put some cracked ice into a glass with either a slice of lemon or some lemon juice, and sugar or not according to taste, then fill up the glass with cold tea. 2966. Coffee, and How to Make it Coffee is a beverage which has for long been highly esteemed on the Continent, and now in this country the appreciation of it is becoming more and more general. To get good coffee is often one of the difficulties of the housekeeper, and yet it need not be so. The making of it is very simple. It just requires some nicety and care.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 616 Coffee, to be good, should be freshly roasted and freshly ground. When this cannot be done at home, it should be bought in very small quantities, and kept in a tin box with a tight-fitting lid, or in a bottle with a good stopper. Coffee should also be kept apart from other strong tasting or smelling substances, as it very readily absorbs any foreign flavour. If pure coffee is wanted, chicory should not bo used. Chicory imparts a slight bitterness to the coffee, and darkens the colour, and some people prefer coffee with it. The usual proportions are 2 oz. chicory to 1 lb. coffee. The water, as for tea, must be freshly boiled. It is also important to have the coffee pot very clean. There is an oily substance in coffee which not only adheres to the sides of the pot, and clogs up the holes of the percolator, but if not removed, will give the next coffee made in the pot a bad flavour. The coffee pot must be taken to pieces, and each piece well washed with very hot water, hen rinsed and dried. There are many different k;nds of cafetieres, and some of them are more complicated than others, but the method is nearly always the same. For ordinary use, there is perhaps nothing better than the earthenware fireproof pot. Whatever kind is used, it must be one in which the straining is perfect, or the coffee will not be clear. First fill the cafetiere with boiling water, let it stand until thoroughly heated, and pour the water away. Then put in the required amount of coffee —the quantity will vary accord- ing to the taste of the consumer ; but a very good proportion is Earthenware one table-spoonful coffee to each Coffee Pot half pint of boiling water. Pour the boiling water gently and gradually over the coffee, and let it filter slowly through. Keep the pot standing in a warm place or in a saucepan of slowly boiling water, and serve as hot as possible. Coffee, to be good, must be hot. If there is no percolator attached to the coffee pot, it is a good plan to have a metal ring made to fit the top of the coffee pot inside. To this ring sew a muslin bag, and fit the bag into the pot. Pour some boiling water through it, and when it is well warmed, pour the water away. Put the coffee into the bag, and proceed as before. Coffee can also be made in a jug. Heat the jug thoroughly with boiling water, and pour the water away. Put the coffee into the jug, and stand it on the top of the stove for a few minutes until the coffee is hot. Then pour the proper quantity of boiling water over it, and stir with a spoon. Cover the jug with a lid or thickly-folded cloth, and let it stand by the side of the stove for fifteen minutes. Have the jug or pot in which the coffee has to be served made very hot. Stretch a piece of muslin over it, and strain the coffee through. 2967. Coffee with Milk (CafS an Lait) When milk is served with coffee, it should be scalded, but not quite boiled. The proportions are equal quantities of strong coffee and milk, or two- thirds milk to one-third of coffee. A little cream may be added. 2968. Black Coffee (Caf6 Noir) This is very strong, clear coffee, served without milk. No chicory should enter into its composi- tion. It is served after luncheon or dinner, and large crystals or small cubes of sugar should be handed separately. Or, some people prefer raw sugar ; this is a matter of taste. 2969. Iced Coffee, Black (Cafe Frappe) 1 pt. strong clear coffee. I 2 oz. sugar. 1 table-sp. brandy. Mix the ingredients together in a jug, and set deep in ice until wanted. Before serving, add a lump of ice, and hand-whipped and iced cream separately. 2970. Iced Coffee (White) Cafe au lait is also very good if put in a jug, sweetened to taste, and stood on ice until icy cold. It makes a very refreshing drink in hot weather. 2971. Viennese Coffee Make good, black coffee and serve it with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top of each cup. 2972. Turkish Coffee This is a very strong form of black coffee, which is generally made in a special pot and served in special cups, which are very small. The pot, which is much wider at the base than at the top, Turkish Coffee Pot' is placed on a stand over a spirit lamp, and the little cups have generally an outer case of metal by which to hold them. Good Java and Mocha coffee are the best to use, and they should be freshly ground and roasted. Allow 1 tea-spoonful of coffee to each cup required. Measure the neces- sary amount of water into the pot, and bring it to the boil. Stir in the coffee, and bring just to boiling point again. Remove the pot from the flame, let it stand a minute, and then bring it to the boil again. Repeat this three times, bringing the coffee each time to boiling point and no more. At the last boil up, throw in a tea-spoonful of cold water, and extinguish the flame. Let the coffee settle, and then pour off the clear liquid very gently into the cups. Serve sugar in large crystals separately, and if liked, some thinly-sliced lemon as well.DRINKS AND BEVERAGES 617 2973. Chocolate, To Drink 2 oz. chocolate. I 1 pt. milk. 2 or 3 table-sps. water. ) Sugar to taste. Use good plain chocolate and grate it, or shred it down with a knife. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with the water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved. Add the milk gradually, and whisk with a small whisk, or beat with a wooden spoon until boiling. Then pour it into a hot jug, and serve at once. A coffee mill or French chocolatiere is the correct thing for making chocolate. In this a small beater passes through the lid, and the chocolate can be whisked without any trouble while it comes to the boil. The quantity of chocolate used may be varied to suit individual taste; it also depends somewhat on the kind of chocolate used. Less milk and more water may also be used if preferred. A richer chocolate may be made by adding a well- beaten egg. Or it may be served with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top of each cup. 2974. Cocoa When making cocoa it is better, as a rule, to follow the directions given with each special make or brand, although most kinds are improved by being boiled. This seems to give the cocoa more flavour and substance than when the powder is simply mixed with boiling water poured over it. The amount of milk added is a matter of taste, and sometimes a drop or two of vanilla will im- prove the flavour. Note.—For cocoa made from the nibs see Recipe 2596. 2975. Boston Cream 1 oz. tartaric acid. lemon. II pts. boiling water. 1 white of egg. | to 1 lb. loaf sugar. Carbonate of soda. 2 tea-sps. essence of Pour the boiling water over the sugar and tar- taric acid, and let them stand until cold and dissolved. Then add the essence of lemon and the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and bottle for use. Put about a wine-glassful of this mixture into a tumbler, nearly fill with cold water, stir in a pinch of carbonate of soda, and drink while effervescing. 2976. Egg Punch 2 yolks and 1 white of egg- \ lb. castor sugar. 2 small lemons. 1 pt. water. J bottle white wine. 1 gill brandy or rum. Grate the rind off the lemons, and rub it into the sugar. Put this into a basin with the yolks and white of egg, beat well together, and add the water by degrees. Strain in the juice of the lemons, and add the white wine. Turn all into a lined saucepan, and whisk over the fire until hot and frothy. Add the brandy or rum at the last, and serve hot. 2977. Ginger Beer 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 gallon boiling water 2 lemons. I oz. cream of tartar. 1 oz. whole ginger. | oz. German yeast. Take a large jar or earthenware pan and put into it the loaf sugar, cream of tartar, and the ginger crushed small. Peel the rind off the lemons as thinly as possible, then remove all the white pith, and cut the lemons in thin slices. Add the slices and the peel to the other ingredients, and pour over the boiling water. Stand until luke- warm, then add the yeast which has been dis- solved smoothly with a little castor sugar. Stir well, cover the pan, and stand in a warm place for 24 hours. Then skim well, and strain the ginger beer through a fine cloth into another vessel, being To Tie Down a Cork careful to leave the sediment. Bottle at once, using new corks, and tie down securely as indicated in illustration. In two or three days it will be ready for use. 2978. Lemonade, To Keep 3 lemons. I 1 oz. tartaric acid. 1| lbs. loaf sugar. | 1 pt. boiling water. Wipe the lemons, and peel the rind off them very thinly, then halve them and strain out juice. Now put the lemon rind, juice, sugar, and tartaric acid into a large jug and pour over the boiling water. Stir frequently until nearly cold, and when quite cold, bottle and cork tightly. One table-spoonful of this in a tumblerful of cold water or soda water makes a refreshing drink. syrup. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Soda water. Ice. 2979. Lemonade Punch 1 lemon. 2 table-sps. water. 1 table-sp. raspberry Put the strained juice of a lemon into a large glass with the water, sugar, and raspberry syrup. Add some crushed ice, and fill up with soda water. A thin slice of lemon may be placed on the top. Serve with a straw. Other fruit syrups may be used, and a little brandy may be added. 2980. Lemon Squash 1 lemon. Cracked ice. 1 small bottle soda or Sugar to taste, seltzer ice. Strain the juice from the lemon into a tumbler, add a little cracked ice, and fill up with soda or seltzer water. Castor sugar may be stirred in to taste. The ice is sometimes omitted. 2981. Lemon Syrup, 1 \ lb. citric acid (crystals) 1 1 lb. lemons. 3 lbs. loaf sugar. | 4 pts. boiling water. Put the loaf sugar into a large basin or crock, and pour over it 3 pints boiling water. Peel the618 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD rind very thinly off the lemons, taking off only the yellow and none of the white, and add it to the sugar and water. Then dissolve the citric acid in a saucepan with the remainder of the water, and pour it also into the crock. Peel the lemons, carefully removing all the white pith, which is not used; cut the lemons themselves into slices, re- move as many of the seeds as possible, and then add them to the rest. Cover the crock, and allow the lemon syrup to stand for a day or two, stirring occasionally. Strain through muslin or a fine cloth, and bottle and cork tightly. Two table-spoonfuls of this syrup is sufficient for a tumblerful of plain or soda water. 2982. Lemon Syrup, 2 Fresh lemons. Sugar. Brandy. Take about six lemons, wipe them, peel the rind ofi them as thinly as possible, and cut it in small pieces. Then press the juice out of the lemons, strain it, and measure it. To each pint of juice allow 1 lb. of sugar and £ gill good brandy. Put all together into a jug or basin, adding the prepared rinds, cover and let it stand for 24 hours. Then strain through muslin, and bottle for use. A little of this syrup mixed with iced water or aerated water will make a delicious summer drink. 2983. Milk Punch, 1 Put into a tumbler a small wine-glassful of brandy with a table-spoonful of castor sugar. Add a little crushed ice, and fill up with cold milk. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve with a straw. 2984. Milk Punch, 2 Put into a large tumbler 1 table-spoonful rasp- berry syrup, 1 table-spoonful cura£ao or noyeau, 1 table-spoonful rum or brandy, and a dessert- spoonful of fine sugar. Add a little crushed ice, fill up with milk and grate a little nutmeg over the top. 2985. Mulled Claret 1 pt. claret. \ pt. water. 3 to 4 oz. sugar. 2 cloves. Rind of J lemon. 1 inch cinnamon stick. A grate of nutmeg. Put the water and sugar into a delicately clean saucepan with the spices, and the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon. Br'ng slowly to the boil, add the claret, and boil up again. Pour into a jug and serve very hot. Thin biscuits or toasted rusks should be served along with it. Port may be used instead of claret. 2986. Orange Punch 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 1 lemon. Apollinaris. 1 pt. water. 4 oranges. | Crushed ice. Put the sugar and water into a lined saucepan with the grated rind of two of the oranges. Stir over the fire until dissolved, then bring to the boil, and boil quickly for 5 minutes. Remove from the fire, allow the liquid to cool, and add the juice of the oranges and lemon. When wanted, strain into a jug or bowl, add a large bottle of Apolli- naris, and some crushed ice. 2987. Orange Soda Juice of 1 orange. I 1 table-sp. liqueur. 1 table-sp. brandy. | Ice. Soda water. Put some finely-broken ice into a soda-water glass, and strain in the juice of an orange. Add the brandy and a little Curasao or other liqueur. Fiil up with soda water and serve. 2988. Raspberry Drink Make some raspberry puree by rubbing fresh raspberries through a very clean hair sieve. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of this puree into a tumbler with 1 table-spoonful of brandy or liqueur, and sugar to taste. Add a little crushed ice, and fill up with aerated water. Serve with straws. 2989. Raspberry Lemonade 1 table-sp. raspberry syrup. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A little shaved ice. Soda water. Put the raspberry syrup, lemon juice, and castor sugar into a large tumbler; add about 2 table- spoonfuls of shaved ice, and fill up with soda water. A thin slice of lemon may be floated on the top. Serve with a straw. Note.—Strawberry lemonade may be made in the same way. 2990. Raspberry Vinegar 3 lbs. raspberries. I Preserving sugar, lqrt. white wine vinegar. | Only 1 lb. of raspberries is used at a time, so it is better to have them fresh when required. Pick 1 lb. of fruit carefully, put it into a large jar, and pour the vinegar over it. (White wine vinegar is the best to use, as it is not so harsh as the ordi- nary white vinegar.) Cover the jar, and stand in a cool place for 3 or 4 days, stirring the contents gently each day. At the end of this time strain the liquid through a hair sieve or piece of muslin. Allow it to drip thoroughly, but do not use any pressure. Now pour the liquid over another pound of raspberries, and repeat as before until the 3 lbs. of fruit have been used. After the last draining, measure the liquid and put it into a lined saucepan with 1 lb. of cane sugar to each pint. Bring to the boil, and boil gently for 10 minutes, removing all scum as it rises. Allow the vinegar to cool, then bottle and cork securely. Store in a cool place. Note.—Another method is to put all the rasp- berries at once into a jar with the required quantity of vinegar and to let them stand for 10 days, stirring them gently each day. Then strain and boil with sugar as before. 2991. Red Currant Syrup Choose ripe and juicy red currants, pick them carefully, and put them into a large jar. Set this in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until the juice has run freely from the currants. Then strain through a jelly cloth or fine hair sieve. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of sugar and \ gill French brandy. Put the sugar and juice into a saucepan, stir over the fire until619 DRINKS AND BEVERAGES dissolved, bring to the boil, and boil 3 or 4 minutes. Skim, and add the brandy. Strain the syrup through fine muslin, bottle and use as required. Add some of this syrup to iced water, or aerated water, for a summer drink. 2992. Rum Punch 3 pts. cold water. \ pt. strong tea. 1 lb. loaf sugar. f pt. rum. 4 oranges. 1 lemon. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, add the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon and one orange, stir until dissolved, bring to the boil and boil 5 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the juice of the lemon and all the oranges, the tea, which must be well made and strong, and 4 pint of good rum. Strain care- fully, and serve either hot or cold. 2993. Sherry Punch Put a wine-glassful of sherry into a tumbler with the strained juice of one orange and half a lemon. Add sugar to taste, and about 2 table-spoonfuls finely-crushed ice. A few thin slices of orange or lemon, free from pits, may also be added, or a few raspberries and strawberries when in season. Sip the punch through a straw. 2994. Sloe Gin Sloes. Unsweetened gin. Cloves. Barley sugar or sugar candy. Essence of almonds or noyeau. Choose ripe sloes, wipe them well, pick off the stalks, and prick each one several times with a needle. Have ready some clean and dry quart bottles, and half fill them with the fruit, shaking it well down. To each bottle add 1 clove, 2 oz. crushed sugar candy, and a few drops of essence of almonds or a little noyeau. Then fill up with unsweetened gin. Cork the bottles securely, and keep them in a moderately warm place for three months, shaking them occasionally. At the end of this time, open the bottles and strain the gin through fine muslin until clear. Then re-bottle and cork securely again, and store till wanted. Note.—Damsons may be used in the same way. 2996. Cider Cup 2 pts. sparkling cider. 1 to 2 oz. castor sugar. A sprig of borage. 1 lemon. 2 bottles soda water. 1 small glass brandy. Cut the lemon in slices, and put that, and all the ingredients except the soda water, into a large jug, and stand on ice for 1 hour at least. Then strain off into another jug, and add the soda water, also iced, at the last. This is a very cooling and refreshing drink. 2997. Claret or Burgundy Cup 1 bottle claret. 2 bottles soda or seltzer water. Loaf sugar to taste. A sprig of borage or verbena. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 inch cucumber. 1 glass brandy or liqueur, or 1 gill sherry. Ice. First dissolve some loaf sugar in a little boiling water, and let it stand until cold. This will keep the claret cup clearer than if powdered sugar were used. Put the claret into a large jug, add the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, and the juice as well, if liked, or the juice of an orange may be used. Add also the cucumber cut in slices, a sprig of verbena or borage if obtainable, and the brandy, sherry, or liqueur. Sweeten to taste with the dis- solved sugar, and stand the jug imbedded in ice for 1 hour. Then strain, add the soda or seltzer water which has also been on the ice, and a few small pieces of ice. Note.—There are many variations of this drink, almost every household having its own recipe. 2998. Chablis Cup 1 qrt. bottle chablis. 2 bottles seltzer or soda water. 1 liqueur glass brandy or maraschino. A sprig of borage or 2 slices cucumber. 1 orange or 1 lemon. Powdered sugar. Put the wine into a large jug with the liqueur, an orange or lemon thinly sliced, the sliced cucumber, or borage, and powdered sugar to taste, or 1 or 2 oz. crushed sugar candy. Surround the jug with ice and let it stand for 1 hour, then add the soda or seltzer water, also iced, at the last. A piece of ice may also be added to the cup itself. Strain when decanting. A few pieces of fresh fruit may then be added. 2995. Tea Punch 2 pts. tea. 2 lemons. I 3 oz. sugar. 1 orange. | Crushed ice. The tea must be strong and well made. Pour it boiling hot over the sugar and the grated rind of the orange. Add the juice of the two lemons, and allow the liquid to stand until cold. Then strain, add the orange cut in thin slices and free from white pith, and serve the punch in tall glasses with a little crushed ice. This makes a very re- freshing drink in hot weather. Other fruits may be added, such as shred pine-apple, strawberries, banana, &c., and a little soda water may be mixed with the punch before serving. Note.—A little good brandy or rum may be added. 2999. Champagne Cup 1 qrt. bottle champagne. 2 bottles soda or seltzer water. ldessert-sp.castor sugar. 1 glass Curasao or other liqueur. Juice of 1 orange. A sprig of borage or verbena. \ inch cucumber. If time permits, stand the champagne and seltzer water on ice for some time before making the cup. Then put all the ingredients into a large jug, adding the cucumber cut in two or three slices, and the sugar very gradually at the last, or this latter may be omitted altogether. Cover the jug and let it stand well surrounded with ice for 1 hour, or, if ice is scarce, one or two lumps may be put into the champagne cup before serving. When required, decant free from cucumber and herbs.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 620 Note.—The cucumber may be omitted, and lemon used instead of orange. Some fruit may be added to the cup, such as thin slices of pine-apple, straw- berries, raspberries, &c. if liked, a few fresh strawberries cut in pieces, or some small wild strawberries. Note.—Any other white wine may be used in place of the sauterne. 3000. Strawberry Cup 1 pt. strawberry puree. 1 qrt. bottle sauterne. 1 glass liqueur. 1 bottle soda v ater. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Ice. Make the puree by rubbing some fresh straw- berries through a very fine hair sieve. Put it into a large jug, and add to it 1 table-spoonful of sugar, or more, according to taste, the wine, liqueur, and soda water. Cover the jug and stand it, sur- rounded with ice, for 1 hour or more. Add about 2 table-spoonfuls crushed ice before serving, and, 3001. White Wine Cup 1 qt. white wine. 1 glass rum. Juice of 2 lemons. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. A sprig of mint. 1 pt. soda water. Put all the ingredients except the soda water into a jug, surround it with ice and stand for an hour or two. Add soda or seltzer water just before serving, and ornament with fresh fruits cut in pieces, if desired. Note.—For other drinks see under Invalid Cookery.CHAFING-DISH COOKERY This is really one of the earliest methods of cooking, a form of chafing dish having been used when much simpler dishes were expected than in the present day. To its comparatively recent re-intro- duction we are, perhaps, indebted to America, where a modern form of chafing dish has become very popular, and chafing-dish parties are quite festive entertainments. Of still more recent years it has been adopted in Britain as well, although not so extensively perhaps as across the water. There is something very sociable about the chafing dish and a certain amount of fascination in its use. It can often be the means of turning a cold and somewhat untempting repast into one that is not only tasty, but has cheer and comfort as well. It is to be recommended for those who live in rooms or elsewhere, where it is difficult to get little tasty dishes. In fact, for those who like to do a little cooking for themselves, or produce some special novelty for their friends, the chafing dish will prove a most useful friend and companion. It can be used for after-theatre suppers, for high-teas, luncheons, breakfasts, and Sunday evening suppers ; also for yachting, shooting, and picnic parties, &c. It is also invaluable for cooking small and special dishes for the sick and convalescent. The following paragraphs give only a few typical recipes for this method of cooking, but many of the dishes given in other parts of the book can be quite successfully carried out in this way. THE CHAFING DISH AND HOW TO USE IT A chafing dish can now be had in many and various styles, in brass, copper, aluminium, nickel, and even gleaming silver. Both brass and copper are difficult metals to keep in order, and for a moderate priced article a good nickel is perhaps the most sensible kind to buy. These can be had from about 12s. upwards. A chafing dish usually consists of four pieces, the upper pan or blazer, the lower or hot-water A Chafing Dish pan, the lamp, and the stand on which the pans are supported. Then there are other accompaniments which will be found useful, and even indispensable, if this method of cooking is adopted to any extent— such as, a small flagon to hold the spirit for the lamp and act as filler, a long-handled wooden spoon for stirring, a spoon and fork for serving, a skimmer, a measuring cup, a toaster, and a metal tray on which to stand the chafing dish and its equipment. 621 Servers and Skimmer The blazer or hot-water pan can either be used by itself, or in conjunction with the hot-water pan placed beneath it. Used by itself it is suitable for any quick cooking, where the contents will not be spoiled by the direct heat from the flame of the lamp underneath. In this manner it may serve the purpose of an ordinary frying pan or saute pan, although it is never advisable to do any long frying in the chafing dish, as the smell of hot fat would be too objectionable. When a slower method of cooking is required, the blazer is used over the lower pan containing hot water. This latter acts as a kind of bain-marie, and is useful for re-heating different foods and also for keeping dishes warm. It is a great advantage to have this hot-water pan fitted with handles, it will be so much more easily lifted and moved about. In the cheaper chafing dishes these handles are often wanting. It is also very important to have a good lamp for the chafing dish, one that can be regulated to suit different requirements is best, as this will ensure greater safety and comfort. In some of the lamps622 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the wick is of cotton,- and in others it is made of asbestos covered with a fine wire netting. Only the very best spirit should be used for burning pur- poses, and this will ultimately prove less expensive than that of an inferior quality. Good spirit will give more heat and will also burn with less odour. The lamp should be properly filled before any cook- ing is commenced, as there is nothing more annoying than having to stop in the middle owing to want of fuel. It will always be found easier to do the heating up of tinned food, for Welsh and other rare- bits, and many little savoury dishes, &c. &c. There is nearly always a certain amount of pre- paration required for chafing-dish cookery. Only the actual cooking and serving should be done at the table itself, otherwise the process would be too tedious for the onlookers. All the different in- gredients should be measured and prepared as much as possible beforehand, then put into small cups or basins in readiness. Spirit Flagon and Filler filling from a proper filler, and if any alcohol is spilt it should be wiped up with a cloth before lighting. Needless to say there must be no flame when the filling is being done. When properly filled the chafing-dish lamp should burn from 30 to 40 minutes, quite long enough for all ordinary purposes. The light should be extinguished as soon as the cooking is finished. The toaster is not indispensable, but it is useful when no other fire is available, as nice pieces of crisp toast are a very necessary accompaniment to many of the dishes. The asbestos side is placed next the flame, and the bread laid on the metal top, and turned in the usual way. The chafing dish is generally used on the table on which the meal is served, and the food is helped directly from it. Garnishing has therefore little or no part. The dish with its equipment should be placed on a metal tray, and be shielded from any draught. No fight must be put to the lamp until it is in its proper place, it would be most dangerous to carry it about whilst burning. Although the chafing dish has its limitations as far as cooking is concerned, it is more than a mere toy, and its offices can be more than ornamental. Food can either be cooked in it, re-cooked, or kept warm. It is best suited to foods that take only a short time to cook, or a short time to finish, the finishing only being done on the chafing dish. It is very suitable for the cooking of eggs, omelets, and the so-called cream dishes, such as creamed oysters, lobster, chicken, &c., for fight stews, ragouts, and curries, for many a rechauffe, where the food is simply reheated in a good sauce, for the RECIPES 3002. Apple Slices 3 or 4 apples. 1 table-sp. wine or brandy. Juice of $ lemon. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. \ tea-sp. cinnamon. Hour. 2 oz. butter. Choose good soft cooking apples, peel them, core them, and cut them in slices about J of an inch in thickness. Lay these slices on a deep plate, sprinkle them with the sugar and cinnamon, pour over the wine or brandy and lemon juice, and let them soak at least £ hour. Then drain the apples, and coat each slice with finely-sifted flour. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish; when smok- ing hot put in the apple slices, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. 3003. Fried Bananas 3 or 4 bananas. Lemon or orange juice, 1 oz. butter. or sherry. Castor sugar. Peel the bananas, split them lengthwise, and then cut them across in four pieces. Melt the butter in the blazer, put in the bananas, and fry them over a gentle flame until sufficiently cooked. Then serve them very hot, sprinkled with sugar and a few drops of orange or lemon juice, sherry wine or liqueur. 3004. Fillets of Beef Cut § lb. cf fillet of beef in neat pieces, beat them out rather thin, and season with pepper and salt. Melt 1 oz. butter in the blazer of the chafing dish; when smoking hot put in the fillets, and fry them about five minutes on each side. Serve them very hot, and if gravy is wished, pour away all fat from the pan, add a little good stock, boil up, and pour round the meat. A few slices of lemon may be used as a garnish. 3005. Brains with Eggs 1 cupful brains. I 3 or 4 eggs. 1 oz. butter. | Seasoning. Parboil the brains as directed in Recipe 958. Trim them carefully, and either chop them or break them up with a fork. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the brains, and let them heat thoroughly for 4 or 5 minutes. Beat up the eggs, and stir them in with seasoning to taste. Allow the mixture to thicken without overcooking the eggs, and then serve at once on croutons of fried bread or with fingers of toast.623 CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 3006. Brook Trout Fresh brook trout, when they can be procured, are delicious if cooked in the chafing dish. Clean the fish, removing the trails and gills without split- ting them open. Then dry them in a cloth and dust them lightly with flour, seasoned with pepper and salt. Melt a small quantity of butter in the blazer. When hot, lay in the trout, and fry them on both sides until sufficiently cooked. Serve on a very hot dish garnished with parsley or water- cress. Maitre d’hotel butter may be served separately. 1 3007. tea - cupful cheese. tea - cupful crumbs. Cheese Fondue on Toast grated 1 oz. butter. \ tea-cupful milk, bread- \ tea-sp. mustard. Cayenne. 1 egg. Put the butter and milk into the chafing dish, and bring them to the boil over the lamp. Add the bread-crumbs and cheese, season to taste, and heat carefully, stirring all the time until the cheese is melted. Then add the egg, well beaten, make thoroughly hot, and serve at once with toast bis- cuits, or fingers of toast. 3008. Cheese Fritters Cheese. Frying batter. Butter. Choose Gruyere, Cheddar, or Dutch cheese, and cut some small slices about J of an inch in thick- ness. Prepare a small quantity of batter according to Recipe 1861, allowing it to stand at least | hour before using it. Then melt a little butter in the chafing dish, dip the slices of cheese in the batter, and fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. Drain and serve very hot. 3009. Creamed Chicken 1 cupful cooked chicken. I Seasoning. 1 cupful white sauce. | Toast. Trim the chicken free from skin and gristle, and chop it finely. Put a cupful of good white sauce into the blazer over the hot-water pan. Mix in the chicken, season to taste, and then cover until all is thoroughly hot. Serve with fingers of toast. 3010. Chicken with Macaroni 1 cupful cooked chicken. 1 cupful cooked macaroni 1 or 2 oz. butter. \ cupful milk or cream. 1 cupful tomato pur^e. Seasoning. Cut both chicken and macaroni into small neat pieces. Melt the butter in a chafing dish, add the cream and tomato puree and bring all to the boil. Then put in the chicken and macaroni, season to taste, make all very hot and then serve. 3011. Chicken Livers on Toast 3 or 4 chicken livers. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 tea-cupful stock. | glass sherry Madeira. Seasoning. Toast. or Wash and trim the livers, dry them and cut them in small pieces. Then toss them in the flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish, put in the prepared liver, and cook it over the flame, stirring constantly until nicely browned. Add the stock and wine, and mix well. Now place the blazer over the hot- water pan, cover, and cook from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve on toast or on croutons of fried bread. A few chopped mushrooms or olives may be added if wished. 3012. Crab with Radishes 1 bunch radishes. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Seasoning. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 cupful crab meat. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 glass white wine. Scrape or peel the radishes and cut them in thin slices. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the prepared radishes and cook them slowly for 10 minutes or until tender. Mix in the flour, add the milk, and stir until boiling. Then put in the crab meat and let it warm through in the sauce. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the wine, and stir them in quickly without letting the mixture boil again. Serve at once. 3013. Stuffed Figs Take the required number of pulled figs, and insert in the centre of each a few blanched and split almonds. Now, for each \ dozen figs, put into the chafing dish 1 table-spoonful castor sugar, a good squeeze of lemon juice, and a glass of red wine. Heat these ingredients over the lamp without allowing them to boil, then put in the figs, cover, and cook slowly about 10 minutes, or until the figs are tender. Serve either hot or cold. 3014. Fish Rarebit 1 oz. butter. \ oz. cornflour. 1 gill white or fish stock. 1 cupful cooked fish. 2 table-sps. grated | cheese. Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 table-sp. sherry. Hot buttered toast. Melt the butter in the blazer, and mix in the corn- flour. Add the gill of stock, and stir until boiling. Then sprinkle in the cheese, and stir carefully until melted. Now add the fish, chopped or flaked, and lastly, the egg beaten with the wine. Make all thoroughly hot without boiling, and serve on fingers of hot buttered toast. 3015. Rechauffe of Fish | lb. cooked fish. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice or vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. 1 glass sherry or Chablis. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and leave it in large flakes or good-sized pieces. Put these pieces on a plate, pour over them the salad oil and lemon juice or vinegar, sprinkle with the chopped onion, pepper and salt, and stand J hour, turning occasionally. Then melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the tomato sauce and wine, and bring to the boil. Now lay in the fish, and baste it with the liquid until thoroughly heated. Serve at once.624 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 3016. Fish 1 cupful cooked roe. £ tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 hard-boiled egg. Roe Savoury 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. Pepper and salt. Break up the roe with a fork, and chop the hard- boiled egg. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in all the other ingredients, seasoning to taste and moistening with a little milk. Stir over the lamp until thoroughly hot, and then serve with fingers of toast or toast biscuits. Note.—A little grated cheese, or anchovy or shrimp essence may be added to the mixture if liked. 3017. Stewed Kidneys 3 or 4 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 gill water or stock. 1 glass red wine. Seasoning. Toast. Skin the kidneys, split them and remove the core. Then cut them in slices, and toss them in the flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in the blazer, and, when smoking hot, put in the kidney and onion, and stir them about until brown. Add the stock and wine, and mix well. Now place the blazer over the hot-water pan, cover and cook slowly from 10 to 15 minutes, or until the kidney is tender. Serve with fingers of dry toast. 3018. Lobster with Tomatoes 1 cupful cooked lob- ster. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill tomato puree. 1 glass white wine. Seasoning. Tinned lobster may be used for this. Cut it in small pieces free from shell, and rub sufficient tinned tomato through a sieve to make 1 gill. Melt the butter in the blazer over the hot-water pan, put in the lobster, and cook it about 5 minutes. Then add the tomato puree, wine, and seasoning to taste. Make all thoroughly hot and then serve. 3019. Mushrooms and Bacon \ lb. bacon. 1 doz. mushrooms. Wash and peel the mushrooms, and cut them in thinnish slices. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon, and cut it in small neat pieces. Heat the blazer of the chafing dish, put in the bacon, cook it a minute or two, then add the mushrooms, and cook both together for a few minutes longer, until the mushrooms have absorbed the fat of the bacon. 3020. Mushrooms with Wine J lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. | gill boiling water. 1 glass red or white wine. Seasoning. Prepare the mushrooms and cut them in pieces. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the mush- rooms, and pour the boiling water over them. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, cover, and cook slowly from 10 to 15 minutes. Then add a glass of wine, make thoroughly hot, and serve with croutons of fried bread, or fingers of toast. 3021. Mutton with Red-currant Sauce Cold mutton. 1 table-sp. red currant jelly. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. | pt. brown stock. Seasoning. Have the mutton trimmed and cut in small neat slices. Melt the butter in the blazer, and when beginning to brown, mix in the flour until smooth. Add the stock, and stir until boiling. Then place the blazer over the under pan with hot water, add the red-currant jelly and the meat to the sauce, with seasoning to taste. Cover, and cook a few minutes until thoroughly hot. 3022. Creamed Oysters 1 to 1| doz. oysters. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill milk. | gill oyster liquor. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. First drain the oysters from their liquor. Then make a sauce in the blazer placed over the pan of hot water. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and pour on the milk and oyster liquor. Stir until boiling, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add the oysters, allow them to heat thoroughly, and then serve on pieces of hot buttered toast. The dish may be made richer by adding 1 or 2 yolks of eggs or a little cream. 3023. Oysters with White Wine 1 to H doz. oysters. 2 table - sps. melted butter. Salt. Cayenne. 1 glass Chablis or Sau- terne. Make the butter hot in the blazer, drain the oysters, and add them to it with a seasoning of salt and cayenne. Cook them a minute or two until they look plump and the edges ruffle. Then add the wine, and make all thoroughly hot. Put out the lamp, and 6erve the oysters on hot buttered toast. 3024. Creamed Peas 1 pt. cooked green peas. A sprig of mint. 4 table-sps. cream. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of sugar. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Heat the peas in boiling water with a sprig of mint added to it, and then strain. Heat the cream in the chafing dish, add the peas, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Stir over the flame for a minute or two, but do not boil. Serve with toast or toast biscuits. A little butter may be added if wished. 3025. Savoury Slices 2 slices bread. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 gill cream or stock. Seasoning. Cut the bread from a sandwich loaf, remove the crust, and make finger-shaped pieces. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish, fry the bread until brown on both sides, and then drain it. Now put all the other ingredients into the blazer, seasoning them rather highly, and stir over the lamp until very hot. Spread this mixture on the pieces of fried bread and serve at once.them very lightly with a little made mustard. Now 625 CHAFING-DISH COOKERY very hot with fingers of dry toast. 3026. Shrimps with Rice onion. \ gill milk or cream. 1 table-sp. tomato sauce 1 cupful picked shrimps. | cupful boiled rice. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. chopped Heat the butter in the chafing dish, put in the onion, and cook it a few minutes, then add all the other ingredients, and season to taste with cayenne pepper and salt. Stir carefully until boiling, then simmer a few minutes and serve very hot. 3027. Epigrams of Sweetbread 1 pr. sweetbreads. | \ lb. bacon. Egg and bread-crumbs. | Prepare and parboil the sweetbreads, then press them until cold. Cut them in slices about \ inch in thickness, and coat the pieces with egg and bread- crumbs. Have the bacon cut in small thin pieces, fry these first in the blazer, then keep them warm, and fry the sweetbread in the bacon fat until sufficiently cooked. Serve both as hot as possible. 3028. Rechauffe of Tongue Cut 6 or 8 slices of cold cooked tongue, and spread put about 2 table-spoonfuls salad oil in a soup plate, lay the slices of tongue in this, let them soak a few minutes, and then drain the oil well from them. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut in the blazer, when boiling hot lay in the slices of tongue and fry them until brown on both sides. A few drops of Worcester or other piquant sauce may be added. Serve at once with fingers of toast. 3029. Curried Veal 1 cupful cooked veal. 1 oz. butter. 1 small onion. 1 small apple. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 cupful stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Cut the veal in small neat pieces free from skin and gristle. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the onion and apple finely chopped, and cook them a few minutes. Then stir in the flour and curry powder, and when smooth pour on the stock. Stir again until boiling, add the meat, season to taste, and simmer all together for 10 minutes. ServePAPER-BAG COOKERY A book on cookery would scarcely be complete without some mention being made of this special method of preparing food. The principle is not a new one, experts in cookery have long been accustomed to cook dainty morsels in greased paper, realising that by no other means was the flavour of the food so well retained ; but the method was confined almost exclusively to small articles, such as mutton cutlets, fillets of meat or game, small fish or slices of fish, and such like, which were both cooked and served in paper, the en papilottes of classical French cookery. A few years ago, however, the system of cooking in paper began to be applied in a more extensive manner, and by the introduction of specially prepared paper bags, it was shown to be one of the simplest, and at the same time one of the most satisfactory methods of cooking various kinds of food. All that is required is a good oven, a special paper bag, with a grill shelf or grid on which to place it, and then attention to the simple rules for using these. Only a few recipes to demonstrate the system are here given, but anyone interested in Paper-bag Cookery will very soon experiment in fresh directions and apply it to other dishes given in this book. THE BAG AND HOW TO USE IT The Choice of Bag.—This is one of the first points of importance in paper-bag cookery. The success of the system depends, to a large extent, upon using a bag which is not only air-tight and grease- proof, but one which is made of the right quality of paper and free from any injurious property. The ordinary tradesman’s bag is useless for the purpose, even if made of unprinted paper, and the directions for using it are faithfully carried out; the food cooked in it would be almost bound to taste of paper, which, besides being objection- able, might be most unwholesome as well. Choose, therefore, a bag that is sold specially for this kind of cookery, such as the Soyer “ Kookera ” bag, which is the result of repeated experiments and trials to get the right kind of paper. It is made from materials which guar- antee its purity, and is proved to be both tasteless and odourless. Method of Using.—Select a bag proportionate in size to the food to be cooked in it. It is extrava- gant to take one unnecessarily large, as they cost more money than those of a smaller size; at the same time it must be large enough to allow of the opening being well secured. Grease the bag inside with good dripping, lard, or clarified butter (except when water is used) to prevent the food sticking to the paper. Less grease may be used for a fat joint of meat than for food that is wanting in this ingredient. Place the food when it is prepared in the greased bag, turn down the corners at the open end, then fold over the open edges two or three times, and secure them with small paper clips, or with a special clip sold for the purpose. It is essential that the bag be hermetically sealed as far as possible, in order that the food may cook in its own steam and none of the flavour be lost. For this reason pins should not be used to fasten the edges together, as they make holes. If by any chance a bag should become injured and begin to leak, it should 626 be simply slipped inside a second bag without taking the trouble to remove the food. Kind of Oven.—Any kind of oven may be used, provided the necessary heat is secured. A gas or electric one is perhaps best, as the heat can be so easily regulated. The oven must be clean, and should be made thoroughly hot before the food is put into it. If the temperature is gauged by a thermometer, 200° Fahr. is a very good heat to begin with, but this should be reduced to 180° or 170° when the cooking has fairly started. Experi- ence, however, will very soon teach the necessary heat, and this will vary somewhat with the kind of cooking required. In most cases the bags should become well browned, but if there is any smell of burning the heat must be reduced. Grid Shelves.—Another very important point to bear in mind is that the bag with its contents must never be placed on a solid shelf in the oven. A grid shelf or a special grill must be used, as it is absolutely necessary for the hot air to circulate round the food. If the bag were laid on a solid shelf, it would burn underneath and most likely burst, and the cooking would be a failure. If a gas oven is being used, care must be taken not to place the bag too near the gas jets. To Know when Food is Ready.—As a general rule it may be taken that food cooked in a paper bag requires a rather shorter time than when cooked by other methods. There are also means of judging whether it is ready or not, i.e. by touching the bag with the finger, and feeling if the food is tender; by testing it with a trussing needle or fine skewer, or by making a small hole in the bag, which in some cases will do no harm. It is also well to remember that there is not much danger of overcooking, and that food may often be left in the oven a little longer than the stated time without any harm resulting. To Serve the Food.—Place a hot plate or dish a little way under the bag, and draw the bag on to it with the fingers, or a fish slice may be used to slide it on. Then slit open the bag along two627 PAPER-BAG COOKERY sides with a knife or pair of scissors, and draw the bag carefully away, leaving the food on the dish. Some Advantages of the System Cleanliness and freedom from smell are among the first. The food is placed in a perfectly clean bag, which cannot be said of all saucepans even under the most ideal conditions ; and the odour of cooking, so often objectionable in small houses or fiats, is done away with altogether. Various kinds of food can be cooked at the same time without any fear of the flavours mingling or of one contaminating another. There is economy, too, in this method of cooking; meat and fish lose little or nothing as far as weight is concerned, and their flavour and nutritive pro- perties are retained. It also means a saving of time and labour, as food requires little attention when cooked in this way, and there will be no saucepans to wash up, even the oven should be left perfectly clean, if the cooking has been properly done. As far as efficiency is concerned, this simple method of cooking leaves little to be desired in point of tenderness, nutritiveness, and natural flavour, and when properly carried out the results are most savoury and appetising. RECIPES 3030. Cod or Halibut Steaks Cut slices of fish about one inch in thickness, dip them in flour, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a well-greased bag. Squeeze over them a little lemon juice, lay on a few small pieces of butter, close up securely, and cook in a good oven about 15 minutes. One or two thinly-sliced tomatoes, a few chopped mushrooms, a little finely-chopped shallot and parsley, or 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of good fish sauce may be added as desired, and cooked along with the fish. 3031. Smoked Haddock Trim a smoked haddock weighing from 1£ to 2 lbs., and season it with pepper to taste. Place it in a well-greased paper bag, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Seal up and bake in a hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes. White sauce may be used instead of the milk and butter, and a few small tomatoes or a sprinkling of Parmesan cheese may be added. Or again, a short time before the fish is ready, a hole may be cut in the bag with a pair of scissors, and one or two fresh eggs dropped in, then returned to the oven until sufficiently cooked. 3032. Stuffed Haddock Prepare the fish as directed in Recipe 207, using butter rather than suet in the stuffing. After it is sewed up and trussed, brush it over with beaten egg, and sprinkle with browned bread-crumbs. Place in a well-greased bag, seal up, and bake in a good oven from 20 to 40 minutes according to size. Serve with anchovy or parsley sauce poured round. 3033. Mackerel Take two fresh mackerel, remove the head and fins, cut them open, and take out the backbone. Brush the fish over with melted butter, season them with pepper, salt, a little mixed herbs finely powdered, and J tea-spoonful chopped shallot. Place one fish on the top of the other, the open sides together, and slip them into a well-greased paper bag. Add 2 table-spoonfuls tomato sauce or tomato ketchup, seal up, and cook in a good oven from 20 to 30 minutes according to the size and thickness of the fish. Dish up carefully, pour- ing the sauce over. Herring may be prepared in the same way. 3034. Red Mullet Take two or three red mullet, prepare them care- fully, and wipe them dry. “ Oil or butter a paper bag, and place the fish inside, seasoning them with cayenne and a little salt. Add a small glass of white wine, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Seal up and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. A tomato and two or three mushrooms cut in pieces may be cooked along with the fish if wished. Grey mullet may be cooked in the same way. 3035. Whiting Have the fish cleaned and skinned, and fasten the tails in the mouths. Roll them in flour, dip them in milk, and then cover them with bread- crumbs, seasoning with white pepper and salt. Place the fish in a well-greased bag, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and seal up. Cook in a very hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes, according to the size of the fish. Other kinds of light white fish may be done in the same way, and it may be filleted if preferred. 3036. To Roast Meat Prepare the meat as for other roasting, stuffing it or not as desired. Select a good-sized bag, and either grease it with dripping or grease the joint itself, regulating the amount of dripping according to the fatness of the meat. Put the meat into the bag, seal it up, and place the bag on a grid in a well-heated oven. No basting is required, and the time allowed must be rather less than for ordinary roasting. Reduce the heat after the joint has been in the oven about 10 minutes. There will be very little gravy from meat cooked in this way, as the juice remains in the meat itself, but what there is in the bag should be poured into a basin, and have the grease removed from it. A little extra gravy or stock may then be added to it, and this poured round the meat. If a thick gravy is wanted, the joint of meat should be coated with flour before it is put into the bag, or a good gravy may be made separately. This is a particularly good method of cooking a small joint of meat, which is very liable to become dried up if roasted in the ordinary way. 3037. Roast Chicken Prepare and truss the chicken for roasting. Cover the breast well with good dripping or butter.628 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD or tie over it some thin slices of fat bacon. Place the bird in a greased bag, seal up, and set on a grid. Cook in a hot oven, reducing the heat after the first 10 minutes, allowing from 30 to 35 for a young chicken, and from \ to 1 hour for an older bird. If the chicken is stuffed, rather .longer time should be allowed. Game may be cooked in the same way. 3038. Beef Olives Prepare the beef olives as directed in Recipe 841, tying them up with fine string. Arrange them neatly in a well-greased paper bag, and seal up. Place the bag on a grid, and cook in a hot oven from f to 1 hour. When ready, remove the bag and strings, and serve the olives on a hot dish with a little finely-shred horse-radish, or a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on the top of each. A little good gravy or brown sauce may be poured round. 3039. Irish Stew Prepare the meat, potato, and onions for this stew as directed in Recipe 902, leaving very little fat on the meat, and season them well with pepper and salt. Put them into a well-greased bag with enough water to moisten, and fasten the bag very securely. Place on a grid, and cook in a hot oven about 1 hour. 3040. Sheep’s Kidneys Split the kidneys in halves, and remove the skin and core. Wrap each piece in a thin rasher of bacon, and when all are ready place them in a well-greased bag. Seal up and cook in a hot oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Or, the bacon may be omitted and the kidney fixed on a skewer the same as for broiling. Seasoning and a little butter should be added. Or again, the kidneys may be made into a stew. Cut them in small pieces and roll in flour. Season well with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add a little chopped shallot and parsley, and mix all together. Put into a greased bag, add a little good stock or wine, seal up, and cook in a good oven about 30 minutes. 3041. Liver and Bacon Wash and dry the liver, and cut it in thinnish slices. Coat these with flour, and season them with pepper and salt. Now lay a thin rasher of bacon on the top of each piece of fiver, or wrap the bacon round the fiver. Or, to make a still more savoury dish, prepare a little veal stuffing, and place some between the fiver and bacon, making a sandwich as it were. Place the fiver and bacon in a well-greased bag, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls stock or water, seal up, and cook from 15 to 20 minutes in a good oven. 3042. Beef-steak and Kidney Pudding Prepare some meat and suet crust as directed in Recipe 1467. Divide the crust in two pieces, and roll each piece into a round of medium thick- ness. Wet round the edge of one of these rounds, and place the prepared and seasoned beef and kidney in the centre. Moisten with a little water or stock, and lay the other round on the top. Press the two edges well together, and pinch them round. Make a small hole in the top of the pudding, and slip it into a well-greased paper bag. Seal up, leaving a little room inside the bag. Place on a grid, and cook in a hot oven about 1 hour. Note.—Meat pies may be made in the same manner, using ordinary pastry, rolled out to about J of an inch in thickness, and meat and seasoning to taste. 3043. New Potatoes Peel the required number of potatoes, and cut them in halves. Place them in a well-greased bag wet from the washing. Season them with salt, and add one leaf of mint. Seal up and place the bag on the grid. Cook from 30 to 35 minutes in a hot oven. 3044. Tomatoes Peel the required number of tomatoes, arrange them neatly in a well-greased paper bag, and season them with pepper and salt. Put a pinch of castor sugar and a small piece of butter on the top of each, and seal up the bag. Place on a grid, and cook in a good oven from 12 to 15 minutes. Stuffed tomatoes are also very good cooked in this way. 3045. Tarts and Puddings These may be made in the ordinary way, and just slipped into a greased paper bag for cooking; or, they can be made without the dish as directed for Beef-steak and Kidney Pudding (see above). Ornament the tart with a few leaves of pastry, and, after baking, dredge it well with castor sugar. Apple dumplings may be made in the ordinary way and cooked in a greased bag well sealed up. Suet dumplings, too, and a jam roly-poly will cook very well if simply slipped into a well-greased bag, room being allowed for them to swell. Other puddings, of a softer nature, are better put into a souffle dish or pie dish first, and then put into the bag, as this secures a better appearance. 3046. Scones and Cakes Any kind of scone may be cooked in a paper bag, and very successfully too. The bag must be well greased, and must be large and loose enough to allow room for the scone to rise. Cakes, too, may be cooked in this way, some being put straight into the greased bag, such as small buns, tea-cakes, and biscuits, and others placed in a prepared tin first, and then slipped into the bag. The bag must always be greased, and room must always be left for the mixture to rise. Bake in a fairly hot oven.629 HERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS, &e. Success in cookery depends to a large extent on the proper use of seasonings and flavourings, and greater attention, than is usually thought necessary, should be paid to this important point. A certain amount of skill is necessary in order to use the different flavouring auxiliaries properly, and to judge the exact amount required. No cookery book can teach this, as it is impossible to lay down any hard and fast rules ; but the knowledge is not difficult to acquire, provided the tastes of the individual are considered, and care is taken to make food pleasing to the palate. It is a mistake to think that simple cookery requires nothing further than a pinch of pepper and a pinch of salt to make it palatable ; there are many other simple flavourings which might well be employed to relieve the monotony of an otherwise uninterest- ing fare. While food with an overdose of seasoning should be avoided, there is no occasion to serve that which is insipid and unpalatable through lack of it. Whenever possible, natural seasonings should be chosen in preference to made-up sauces, and other condiments and flavourings ; these latter should only be used when the very best quality can be afforded. Fresh or dried herbs, spices in small quantities, lemon and orange rind and juice, &c., are all simple and do not cost much. Although some palates demand much more highly spiced food than others, it is better, as a rule, to season moderately, and to avoid a mixture of flavours that do not blend, and that even overpower the flavour of that which is seasoned. The aim in seasoning should be to render food more palatable, more digestible, and more appetising to those for whom it is cooked. HERBS Herbs are not so much used as they used to be, when they could be obtained fresh from old- fashioned gardens. In the days of still-rooms, when cordials, pickles, and such like were made at home, various herbs for flavouring purposes Tarragon Chervil were found invaluable, but now they are more used abroad than in this country, and only a few re- main in common use. They have always a better flavour when they can be obtained fresh, but failing this, herbs that have been well dried will be found a very fair substitute. The following are some of our best known herbs : Angelica (angelique).—An aromatic herb or plant resembling rhubarb in size and texture. It is specially cultivated for its leaf stalks, which are boiled in syrup or candied, and used in confec- tionery. It is well known by its pretty green colour, and is useful for ornamental purposes. The fruits or seeds of some kinds of angelica are used for flavouring liqueurs, bitters, cordials, &c., and the stalks are sometimes blanched and eaten like celery. Balm (baume).—Not much used nowadays, but a small sprig is sometimes put into claret cup. Basil (basilic) is reckoned among the sweet herbs and has a very pleasant smell and taste. It is useful as a flavouring both for soups and sauces, but is more used in France than in this country. It can be bought in a ready-dried state. Bay-leaf (feuille de laurier).—The leaves of the bay or common laurel are much used for flavouring purposes, and both for sweet and savoury dishes. A bay-leaf is generally added to a bunch of herbs for soups, stews, sauces, &c., whilst milk that is to be used for making custards and puddings has frequently a bay-leaf infused in it, wliich will give it the flavour of almonds or other nut kernels. Bay-leaves are best when used fresh, but they can also be hung up and dried. Borage—The young leaves of this plant are used for flavouring claret cup, and are occasionally put into salads. Burnet is rather an old-fashioned herb. It used to form one of the ingredients of claret and other wine cups, imparting a flavour of cucumber to tho drink. It is also useful in salads and sauces where chopped herbs are required. Chervil (cerfeuil) can be used both for flavouring and decorative purposes. It is so pretty and deli- cate that it is highly appreciated. It can be dried, powdered, and bottled. Chives (ciboule or civettes).—A small kind of onion with a very delicate flavour. They must be used very fresh, and are frequently put into salads. The leaves finely minced are used for flavouring purposes, and form one of the ingredients of a fines herbes garnish. Fennel (fenouil) is used principally for flavouring some kinds of fish, as in fennel sauce with mackerel. Garlic (ail).—This belongs to the onion tribe and has a very pungent taste and strong smell. The root can be divided into about a dozen small natural divisions, which are called “ cloves of garlic.”COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 630 Garlic is more used abroad than in this country. For English tastes sufficient flavour is generally obtained by rubbing the dish or saucepan to be used with a cut clove of garlic. Horse-radish (raifort).—This is not really a herb, but for convenience’ sake it is here classed as such. It is a long edible root, which is used principally as a condiment. It is very stimulating and has a strong acrid taste, strongly resembling mustard. It can either be grated and made into a sauce, or scraped into shavings and used as a garnish. It is a favourite accompaniment to roast beef. Marjoram (marjolaine).—A small quantity of sweet marjoram finely minced is a favourite in- gredient in different forcemeats, while a sprig of the herb generally finds a place in the bouquet garni, or bunch of herbs. It has a very pleasant and aromatio flavour, and can be used either fresh or dried. Mint (menthe).—This is used principally for making the sauce of the same name. A spray of mint is also used in the cooking of green peas and new potatoes, while it is customary to serve dried and powdered mint with pea soup. Nasturtiums (capucines).—The flowers and leaves of this pretty plant can be used raw in salads, and also in sandwiches. The flowers form a dainty garnish and add a touch of colour to a green salad. The young seeds are sometimes pickled, when they resemble capers; they also act as a preservative in other pickles. Parsley (persil).—One of the most valuable of herbs, as it can be used both for flavouring and for garnishing. It can be kept fresh for some days if the stalks are placed in a jar of cold water, and the water changed every day. Peppermint.—A herbaceous plant of the mint family, which grows largely in this country. It is readily known by its strong aromatic odour and pungent taste. A liquor distilled from the plant is much used in the flavouring of sweetmeats and cordials. Sage (sauge).—This belongs to the same family as mint. It is used principally for flavouring the stuffing for pork, duck, and goose. Savoury (sarriette).—A most important aromatio herb, used principally for flavouring different vege- tables, soups, and sauces. There are two kinds, the summer and the winter savoury, and they can be used both fresh and dried. Shallot (echalote).—A small member of the onion family, resembling garlic in form, but much more delicate in flavour. It is very useful in cookery, when a mild flavour of onion is desired. Tarragon (estragon).—A very useful herb both for flavouring and decorative purposes. It is a favourite ingredient in salads and sauces, and the pretty shape of the leaf lends itself admirably for garnishing various cold dishes. Vinegar and mus- tard flavoured with tarragon are much esteemed. Tarragon is cultivated more in France than in this country. Thyme (thym) along with marjoram forms one of the principal ingredients of a bunch of herbs. It is a favourite flavouring and one that is easily procured. There are two different kinds, the common thyme and lemon thyme ; the latter must be used very sparingly, as it has a very pronounced taste. SPICES, &c. The term spice is applied to certain condiments which have a hot pungent flavour. They are derived from the fruit, the seed, the bark or the root of various plants, and are used to impart flavour and improve the taste of various dishes. The following are among the best known spices: Allspice (piment).—Made from the berry of the pimento, a small tree of the myrtle order, which grows in South America and the West Inches. It has an agreeable and aromatic taste, and combines the flavour of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, hence the name. It is also known as pimento and Jamaica pepper. Aniseed (anis).—The seed, or rather fruit, of the anise plant, which is cultivated in Europe and elsewhere. It is very aromatic, and is used prin- cipally in confectionery and in the flavouring of cordials and liqueurs. Capsicums (piment).—The name given to an order of plants, of which there are several different kinds. They are natives of tropical climates, and are also cultivated in this country under glass. The fruit consists of a pod, which varies in shape, some being much larger than others. When ripe they are generally bright red and glossy, although there are others of a yellowish green colour. The unripe green pods are often pickled. The ripe pods are imported into this country as capsicums and chillies, from which are made both chilli vinegar and cayenne pepper. Caraways (carvi).—The seeds or fruit of a plant belonging to the parsley family, and with a root which resembles the carrot in form. The caraway plant grows abundantly in some parts of Europe, and is also cultivated to some extent in this country. The seeds are very aromatic and are used for flavouring purposes, both whole and in a ground form. Cassia (casse).—The prepared bark of an aromatic tree. It closely resembles cinnamon in taste and smell; but it is thicker and not nearly so delicate in flavour. When ground it is difficult to distin- guish it from the true cinnamon. Our chief sup- plies come from China. The cassia buds, which look like cloves, are also valuable for their aromatic properties, and are used for flavouring cordials and confectionery. Cinnamon (cannelle).—The dried inner bark of a small evergreen tree belonging to the laurel family. The finest quality comes from Ceylon. It should be of a light yellowish brown colour, thin, smooth, and closely rolled. It is used in cookery on account of its pleasant aromatic taste and fragrant odour. It can also be obtained in a ground form. The oil obtained from cinnamon is used in the preparation of some liqueurs, while essence of cinnamon is taken medicinally as a stimulant, and a cure for colds. Cloves (girofle).—These are the unopened and dried flower buds of a plant belonging to the myrtle order, which grows in the Moluccas and other hot and moist climates. When the buds are gathered they are of a reddish colour, but they become dark brown by being dried, either artificially or in the sun. In appearance they are very like the head of a nail, and are about an inch in length. They have a powerful and fragrant odour, and in cookeryHERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS 631 they are used to flavour both sweet and savoury dishes. Ground cloves are also useful for flavouring purposes. Coriander (coriandre).—The ripe and dried fruit of an annual found in Southern Europe, and also cultivated in our own country. The coriander fruit, or so-called seed, is valuable on account of its pleasant and pungent flavour. It is used in confectionery and for flavouring liqueurs and cordials; it also forms an important ingredient in curry powder. The young leaves of the plant are sometimes used in salads. Curry (cari).—The name given to a powder or paste made from a mixture of various spices, in- cluding chillies, coriander, ginger, turmeric, &c. It is only to be had in perfection in the East, where it is manufactured from the fresh ingredients. The name is also applied to any dish flavoured with curry. Ginger (gingembre).—The dried and scraped root or underground stem of the ginger plant, which grows principally in Brazil and the West Indies. It has an agreeable and aromatic odour and strong pungent taste, and is one of the most valuable of spices. It is of a pale yellowish brown colour and striated in appearance. It can be obtained whole or in a ground form, and is also very good when crystallised or preserved in syrup. Mustard (moutarde).—Made from the seeds of the mustard plant, of which there are two kinds, the black and the white. Table mustard is made from both kinds of seeds ground together. The seed- lings of the white mustard plant are also used in salads. Nutmeg and Mace (muscade).—A nutmeg is the kernel of the stone of a pear-shaped fruit belonging to a tree which grows in the Moluccas and other hot climates. It is used in a grated form, and is useful for flavouring both sweet and savoury dishes. As it is strongly aromatic, it must be used with caution. Mace is the outer covering of the nutmeg flattened and dried. It is of an orange-yellow colour, and is used both whole and in a ground form. Pepper (poivre).—Made from the dried berries of a plant, which is cultivated in most tropical countries. The berries, which grow in clusters, are first green, then turn to red, and then to yellow. When the red berries are dried they become black. Black pepper is made by grinding the berries just as they are. To make white pepper, the dried berries are soaked and the skin and fleshy parts removed, the seed alone being ground. Mignonette pepper is white pepper coarsely ground or crushed. Cayenne.—The name given to a very strong pepper made from the dried pods and seeds of various kinds of capsicums. It is bright red in colour, very pungent and stimulating. It takes its name from Cayenne in South America, from whence it came originally. Paprika or Krona pepper.—This is also a red pepper which is made from the Hungarian paprika, a capsicum pod, which is much less strong and pungent than cayenne. Turmeric (curcuma) is obtained from the tuber of a plant belonging to the same family as ginger, which is dried and ground. It has a rather peculiar odour, and yields a large quantity of yellow matter. It is much used in the making of curry, and it is to turmeric that the colour of curry powder is largely due. Vanilla (vanille).—The dried fruit or pod of a kind of climbing orchid, which grows in the tropics. It is much valued on account of its delicious aro- matic fragrance, and is largely used for flavouring puddings, cakes, chocolates, and liqueurs. Vinegar (vinaigre).—A very important condi- ment, which is obtained from various sources. In this country it is generally made from malt or acetic acid, but on the Continent large quantities are made from wine or grape juice. The French and Italian red and white wine vinegars are con- sidered the best. Special flavourings are some- times added, as in tarragon, chilli, and spiced vinegars, \inegar is largely used for preserving and pickling. It helps to soften the fibre of meat and to make it tender, and is also useful for giving a piquant flavour to certain dishes. Ketchup or Catsup is a valuable condiment made usually from walnuts, tomatoes, or mushrooms by squeezing out their juice, boiling this juice down and adding various seasonings to it. It forms the foundation of a number of bottled sauces. 3047. Herbs, To Dry The most suitable herbs for drying are: balm, basil, marjoram, mint, sage, savoury, and common and lemon thyme. They must be picked in good condition, and before they begin to flower. Gather the herbs on a fine day, when they are free from moisture, spread them out on sheets of paper, dry them in the sun, in a cool oven with the door left slightly open, or on the rack above the fire. Unless the drying is done fairly quickly the herbs will lose their colour. When ready, strip the leaves from the stalks, dry them again if neces- sary, and then rub them through a fine sieve. Put the powder into perfectly dry bottles, keeping each sort separate, and cork tightly. Label the bottles and store them in a dry place. This is a better and cleaner method than hanging up the bunches of herbs to dry. When required for flavouring soups and sauces, a small quantity of the powder should be tied up in a piece of muslin. 3048. Herb Seasoning or Aromatic Spice Take 1 oz. each of thyme, basil, marjoram, and summer savoury, 2 bay-leaves, 2 cloves, a blade of mace, 1 tea-spoonful dried and grated iemon rind, J tea-spoonful grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound all together in a mortar, rub through a fine sieve, and bottle for use. This will be found useful for flavouring stuffings, sauces, and savoury meat dishes. The flavour is excellent. 3049. A Bunch of Herbs or Bouquet Garni This is used for flavouring sauces, soups, stews, and other savoury meat dishes. It is usually com- posed of a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme and marjoram wrapped up in parsley, and tied together with a piece of cotton. A small piece of basil, tarragon, and a little lemon rind are sometimes added. 3050. Herb Vinegar Herb vinegar is very easily made, and especially by those who have herbs growing fresh in their ownCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 632 gardens. Mint, thyme, marjoram, basil, tarragon, &c., are all suitable, or a mixture of herbs may be used. Choose young leaves, pick them from the stalks, and wash and dry them, if necessary. Then put them into wide-mouthed bottles, idling these about three parts full, and fill up with good vinegar. Cork the bottles closely, and leave them for 2 or 3 weeks. By this time the vinegar ought to be suffi- ciently flavoured, and may be strained olf into other bottles and corked again. The vinegar will become impregnated with the full flavour of the herbs, and will bo found useful in winter for flavour- ing salads, sauces, fish dishes, &c. 3051. Parsley, To Dry Parsley may be dried and powdered in the same way as other herbs, but, if it is required for garnish- ing, the following method should be adopted. Choose large curly parsley, and let it be freshly gathered. Remove from it ad the larger stalks, dividing it into small sprays suitable for garnishing. Wash these carefully until free from all grit, then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, and let them remain a minute or two. (The simplest way of doing this is to use a wire frying basket.) Then shake the parsley as dry as possible, spread it out on a sheet of paper, and dry on the rack above the fire or in a very cool oven. Then store in a tvide-mouthed bottle, or in a tin box between layers of wax paper. When wanted, soak the required quantity in warm water for a minute or two, then shake out and use. 3052. Parsley, To Chop Wash the parsley well to get rid of all the earth. Pick it from the stalks, put the heads into a cloth, and squeeze them quite dry. Then put them on a chopping board, with a sharp dry knife cut them across, and then chop as finely as possible. In chopping, hold the point of the knife steady on the table, and keep working the handle quickly up and down. Unless the parsley is very finely chopped, it is most irritating to the throat. If a lighter green is wanted, put the chopped parsley in the corner of a towel, and squeeze it in cold water, then wring dry. Instead of a knife, the “ Lightning ” mincer may be used for chopping, it does the work very quickly. Lightning Chopper 3053. Parsley, To Fry (Persil Frit) The parsley should be very fresh and green. Wash it carefully and pick it, leaving the stalks about a,n inch long. Let it lie between the folds of a cloth until dry, and then put it into a wire frying basket. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248) deep enough to cover the parsley. Plunge the parsley into this for a second or two, and lift it out. The moisture in the parsley will make the fat bubble up, and if kept in too long will make the fat come over the sides of the pan. When the fat becomes quite still, plunge the parsley in again for a second or two, and it will bo ready. It ought to be quite green and crisp. Turn out on to kitchen paper and drain well. Note.—This is used as a garnish for fried dishes, such as fried fish, rissoles, croquettes, &c. 3054. 2 lbs. apples. 1£ pts. vinegar. 1 lb. brown sugar. 1 table-sp. salt. 1 dessert-sp. ground ginger. Chutney 1 oz. garlic. £ lb. tamarinds. | lb. mustard seed. 5 or 6 shallots. 1 or 2 chillies. Use good sour baking apples, peel, core, and slice them and put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with the vinegar. Boil until the apples are soft, then add the sugar, salt, ginger, and mus- tard seed, and the other ingredients chopped. Allow the mixture to cool, then let it stand in a warm place near the kitchen fire for several days, to let the mustard seed swell. Store in jars or bottles, covering them in the same way as jam. This chutney will keep well and is very good. 3055. To Make Mustard Put the required quantity of dry mustard into a cup and add boiling water to make a stiffish paste. Mix quickly until smooth. Add 2 or 3 drops of plain or tarragon vinegar, also a pinch of sugar and a pinch of salt. Or, simply mix the mustard smoothly with cold water, and add a pinch of salt. If a mild flavoured mustard is preferred, mix the powder with milk or cream instead of water. Mustard should always be prepared in small quantities, as it quickly deteriorates. 3056. Mushroom Ketchup 7 lbs. fresh mushrooms. Spices. \ lb. salt. Gather the mushrooms on a dry day, or the ketchup will not keep well. Cut off the ends of the stalks, wipe them carefully, but do not wash them. Then break them up, put them into a large crock or basin, and sprinkle them with the salt. Cover and leave for three days, stirring the mushrooms two or three times daily. Now turn all into a preserving pan, or an enamelled saucepan, and cook gently by the side of the fire until the juice is well drawn out. Strain through a fine cloth, and allow the mush- rooms to drip some time, but without squeezing. Put the liquid into a jar, and add spice in the pro- portion of £ oz. peppercorns, J oz. bruised ginger, and a blade of mace to each quart. Stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from 21- to 3 hours. Strain again, pour into bottles, and cork tightly. 3057. Nasturtium Seeds, To Pickle Nasturtium seeds. I Salt. Vinegar. | Peppercorns. Choose young nasturtium seeds, and gather them on a dry day, or they will not keep well. WipeHERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS 633 them in a cloth, pack them into dry bottles, not more than three parts filling them, and fill up with vinegar, which has been brought to the boil with the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonful of salt and 6 peppercorns to each pint. Cork tightly and tie over with moistened bladder. These should be kept two months at least before using. They will be found an excellent substitute for capers. 3058. To Pickle Onions 1 qt. small silver onions. 1 qt. white wine vinegar. 1 oz. white peppercorns. £ oz. allspice. 3 or 4 cloves. 1 dessert-sp. salt. Choose very small onions for pickling. Peel them under water, and use a silver knife to prevent their discolouring. Put all the other ingredients into a saucepan, and bring them to the boil. Re- move the scum, and simmer a few minutes until the vinegar is well flavoured with the spices. Dry the onions, throw them into the boiling vinegar, and let them cook 5 minutes or until they turn clear. Then pour them into a strong jar or bottle, cork or tie down securely, and keep a month before using. 3059. Pickled Red Cabbage 2 firm red cabbages. Salt. 1 qt. brown vinegar. | oz. peppercorns. £ oz. allspice. | oz. whole ginger. J oz. cloves. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Remove any decayed and outside leaves from the cabbages. Cut them in quarters and remove all the hard stalk from the centre. Then take each quarter, and, with a sharp knife, cut it across in very fine shreds. Spread this shred cabbage on a large dish, sprinkling a good handful of fine salt over each layer of cabbage. Place another dish on the top, and let this stand for two days. Then strain off the liquid, shake the cabbage dry in a salad basket or strong cloth, and put it into stone or earthenware jars. Put the vinegar into a saucepan, add to it the spices tied in muslin, boil together for a few minutes, add the carmine, cool and strain. Pour this spiced vinegar over the cabbage (there should be enough to cover it), and cover the jars tightly. This pickle will be ready for use in two or three days ; it will keep for several months, but loses some of its crispness after a time. 3060. Green Tomato Pickle 2 qts. green tomatoes. 2 table-sps. salt. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 gill treacle or syrup. 1 table-sp. mustard. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 3 large onions, i tea-sp. cayenne pepper. Wipe the tomatoes, remove the stalks, and cut them in thin slices. Sprinkle them with the salt and let them stand for 24 hours. Put the vinegar,' treacle, mustard, curry powder, and spice into a saucepan, and bring them almost to boiling point. Add the tomatoes, the onion very thinly sliced, and cayenne pepper. Cook for five minutes and pour into bottles or jars. Cover in the usual way. This pickle is excellent. 3061. Tomato Store Sauce 6 lbs. tomatoes. 1 doz. peppercorns. 5 or 6 shallots. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 table-spoonful salt. \ tea-sp. cayenne. Choose ripe English tomatoes for making this sauce. Wipe them, remove the stalks, and cut them in quarters. Put them into a preserving pan with the other ingredients, and stew slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring occasionally. From 2 to 3 hours will be required to cook the tomatoes thoroughly. When ready, rub the mixture through a hair sieve, using a wooden spoon; then allow it to cool, and bottle and cork tightly. Note.—The best brown malt vinegar should be used. 3062. Pickled Walnuts Green walnuts. Vinegar. Spices. Salt. Gather the walnuts about the beginning of July, or before the shells begin to form. If too hard they will not pickle well. Wipe them, prick them with a darning needle or fork to allow the flavouring to penetrate, and put them into a large crock or basin. Now make enough brine to cover them, allowing £ lb. salt to each quart of boiling water. When quite cold, pour this over the walnuts and leave them in it about a fortnight. They ought to be stirred occasionally and the brine changed twice during this time. Now drain the walnuts, spread them out in a single layer on dishes or trays, and leave them to dry in the sun until they turn black. From 12 to 24 hours will be sufficient. Have ready some dry wide-necked bottles, three parts fill them with the walnuts, and fill up with vinegar prepared in the following manner. Prepared, Vinegar.—To 1 quart best vinegar allow £ oz. each of black peppercorns, allspice, and bruised ginger, \ tea-spoonful salt, and a little grated horse-radish. (The spices can be varied to taste, and a little garlic may be added.) Boil all together from 10 to 15 minutes, and use at once. Cork the walnuts very tightly, tie a piece of moistened bladder over the top, and store a month at least before using; they will be better if kept for several months. 3063. Essence of Hawthorn Hawthorn or may blossom. Brandy. Take some petals of hawthorn when they are at their best and freshest, and put them into a scrupu- lously clean and dry bottle, filling it about three parts full. Fill up with good brandy, and cork tightly. Keep this in a cool place for three or four weeks, and then strain oS into another bottle. This makes a delicious flavouring for creams and cus- tards, or it may be used as a liqueur. 3064. Lemon or Orange Sugar Grate the yellow rind of 1 or 2 lemons or oranges on to £ lb. castor sugar. Rub together with the tips of the fingers or the blade of a knife, until a uniform yellow colour, dry and keep in an air-tight box for use. 3065^ Vanilla Sugar Take £ oz. vanilla pod, cut it in pieces, and put it in a mortar with £ lb. castor sugar. Pound to a powder, and pass through a fine sieve. Keep in an air-tight tin box or bottle. This is useful for flavouring purposes.MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 3066. How to Render Down or Clarify Fat Take any scraps of fat, remove from them every particle of meat and any discoloured parts, and cut them up in small pieces. Put them into a stewpan with cold water to cover them, and boil with the lid on for one hour. The steam will help to whiten the fat. Then remove the lid, and continue boiling slowly until all the water has evaporated, removing all scum as it rises. Now stir frequently to prevent the pieces of fat sticking to the pan, and cook until the membranous pieces of fat become shrivelled and brown, but not burnt, and the liquid which has oozed out of them looks like clear oil. At this stage remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and allow the contents to cool. Then strain through a piece of muslin stretched over a tin basin, pressing the scraps of fat until as dry as possible. Avoid using small strainers for this purpose, as the heat of the fat is liable to melt any soldering; the muslin may be rinsed out after use, and will serve the same purpose many times. When cold, this fat will form a hard white cake, and will be found useful for many purposes. Perhaps its chief use is as a frying medium, but in good plain cookery it can also be employed in the making of cakes and pastry, and is infinitely to be preferred to cheap butter. Either beef or mutton fat may be clarified, and it may be either cooked or uncooked, although it is better to keep the cooked fat separate from the uncooked if there is sufficient quantity. Beef fat is the best for most purposes. Any fat trimmings from meat should be saved, and if these are not sufficient to supply the needs of the household, scraps of fat (they need not be suet) should be bought from the butcher and rendered down. When cooked scraps are being rendered down, a more liberal supply of water should be allowed, as they generally require more boiling to throw up the scum. The sole use of the water is to wash the fat, and every drop must pass off by evaporation before the fat is ready for straining. 3067. To Clarify Frying Fat and Dripping Frying Fat.—When after frequent use fat be- comes brown and discoloured, it can be clarified in the following manner : Melt the fat and pour it into a large basin half full of warm water. Stir well to wash the fat, and put it aside to cool. When cold, the fat will have risen and formed a cake on the top of the water. Lift this off, scrape away any sediment which may lie underneath, wipe the fat dry, and put it aside for future use. The water may be poured away, as it was simply used for cleaning purposes and contains nothing of value. Dripping.—When a joint of meat has been roasted, the fat or dripping which runs from it should be carefully preserved, as this is one of the most valuable materials in the kitchen. Pour it from the roasting tin into a jar or basin containing about a cupful of hot water. When cold, the cake of dripping may be removed, and will be found useful for many purposes; while the water under- neath, which will contain some of the juice from the meat, can be used in place of stock. 3068. To Clarify Butter Put some good salt butter into a small lined saucepan, and bring it slowly to the boil. Let it simmer gently a few minutes, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand until the butter has ceased to bubble. Now remove all froth from the top with an iron spoon, and pour the clear oil into a dish ready for use, leaving the sediment in the saucepan. 3069. To Make White Bread-crumbs The simplest way to make these is to rub some rather stale bread through a wire sieve. Some cooks make them on a grater, but these are never so smooth and even. When crumbs have been used for egging and bread-crumbing, they should be re-sieved before being put away. 3070. To Make Browned Bread-crumbs Break some stale bread, or crusts of bread, into small rough pieces, put them on a baking tin, and bake them in a cool oven until brown and crisp. A good plan is to put the bread in the oven when the fire is going down in the evening, and to allow it to remain all night, as the more slowly it is dried the better. Crush the dried bread in a mortar, or on a sheet of paper with an old rolling-pin, or with a bottle filled with water, and when reduced to crumbs pass them through a wire sieve. These crumbs are useful for various purposes in cookery; if the bread is only slightly coloured, they will do very well for egging and bread-crumb- ing, and are more economical than fresh white crumbs. Dried crumbs should be stored in a tin box, or in a jar with a lid. 3071. Baking Powder, 1 2 oz. tartaric acid. I 2 oz. rice flour or ground 2 oz. carbonate of soda. | rice. The ingredients used, should be fresh and of the best quality. Pass them twice through a fine635 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES wire sieve, in order to mix them thoroughly and make them free from lumps. Then put the mixture into a dry tin lined with paper, or into a glass jar with a good stopper, and store in a dry place. 3072. Baking Powder, 2 | lb. cream of tartar. I § lb. ground rice. £ lb. carbonate of soda. | Mix and store as in preceding recipe. 3073. To Preserve Eggs 2 qts. quicklime. I \ oz. cream of tartar. I lb. coarse salt. I 50 eggs. 1 gallon -water. Put the lime, salt, and cream of tartar into a large pan or crock. Mix them together and pour on the gallon of cold water. Cover over and leave this mixture standing until next day. Then strain and pour the liquid over the eggs. The eggs should be completely covered, and will keep thus for several months. If the liquid should re- duce, more should be added. 3074. To Make Candied Peel The peel used for candying should be sound and fresh. Cut it in convenient-sized pieces, and soak it in salt and water for a few days. Then drain off the water and put the peel into a lined saucepan with fresh cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and simmer slowly until the peel is quite tender. Drain again and put the peel into a basin. Now measure 1 lb. of granulated sugar and \ pt. of water to six skins, and boil them together for 10 minutes. Pour this syrup over the peel, cover the basin, and stand in a cool place for a week. At the end of this time, pour off the syrup into a clean saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the peel and let it boil until clear, and very little syrup shows in the saucepan. Turn out on a greased tin or dish, sprinkle with sugar, and set in a warm place to dry and candy. Store in a tin box or in a jar with a lid. 3075. Cocoanut Milk J lb. cocoanut. | pt. boding water. Take fresh cocoanut, using the white part only. Grate and, if possible, pound it as well. Put it into a basin and pour over the boiling water. Cover the basin and let the cocoanut infuse for half an hour at least, stirring occasionally. Then strain, pressing the cocoanut well. This is used in the making of curries. 3076. Almond Milk Make in the same way as cocoanut milk, using chopped and pounded almonds instead of the cocoanut. 3077. Spinach Green 1 lb. spinach. I \ tea-cupful water. | tea-spoonful salt. | Wash the spinach carefully and pick off the stalks. Put it into a large saucepan with the water and salt, cover with the lid, and cook for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then turn the spinach on to the top of a hair sieve, press out all the juice, and strain it through a piece of muslin. The liquid may be bottled and used for colouring purposes, while the spinach itself may be served as a vegetable. 3078. Clotted Cream Put some new milk into a large milk pan, and let it stand for twelve hours, or rather less if the weather is warm. Then place the pan at the side of the kitchen range, and let the milk heat slowly. It should be made quite hot (170° to 180° F.), but on no account must it be allowed to boil, and the more slowly it is heated the better. When suffi- ciently scalded, remove the vessel carefully to a cool place, and leave it until the following day. Then skim off the cream ready for use.636 FRENCH TERMS FOR VARIOUS FOODS (USEFUL IN MENU MAKING) Poultry and Game English Black game. Capon. Chicken. spring. Duck. Ducklings. Fowl. Goose. Gosling. Grouse. Guinea-fowl. Hare. Hazel hen. Lark. Leveret. Ortolan. Partridges. „ young. Pheasant. Pigeon. „ young. Pintail. Plover. Prairie hen. Quails. Rabbit. „ young. Snipe. Teal. Turkey cock. „ hen. „ poult. Widgeon. Wild duck. Woodcock. Fruit English Almonds. Angelica. Apples. Apricots. Bananas. Blackberries. Bilberries. Cherries. Chestnuts. Cranberries. Currants, dried. „ black. (Gibier et Volaille) French Coq de bruyere. Chapon. Poulet. Poussin. Canard. Canetons. Poulet, volaille. Oie. Oison. Grouse. Pintade. Lievre. Gelinotte. Mauviette, alouette. Levreau. Ortolon. Perdrix. Perdreaux. Faisan. Pigeon. Pigeonneau. Pilet. Pluvier, vanneau. Poule de prairie. Cailles. Lapin. Lapereau. Becassine. Sareelles. Dindon. Dinde. Dindonneau. Canard sifileur. Canard sauvage. Becasse. (Fruits) French Amandes. Angelique. Pommes. Abricots. Bananes. Mures sauvages, baies de ronce. Airelles. Cerises. Marrons, chataignes. Canneberges, airelles. Raisins de Corinthe. Groseilles noires. Currants, red. „ white. Damsons. Dates. Figs. Filberts. Gooseberries. Grapes. Greengages. Hazel nuts. Lemons. Limes. Medlars. Melons. Mulberries. Nectarines. Nuts. Olives. Oranges. „ Mandarin. „ Tangerine. Peaches. Pears. Pine-apple. Plums. Pomegranate. Prune. Quince. Raisins. Raspberries. Rhubarb. Strawberries. Walnuts. Vegetables English Artichokes, globe. „ Japanese. „ Jerusalem. „ bottoms. Asparagus. Balm. Basil. Bay-leaf. Beans, broad „ French. „ Haricot. Beetroot. Borage. Broccoli. Brussels sprouts. Cabbages. „ red. Capers. Groseilles, rouges. „ blanches. Prunes de Damas. Dattes. Figues. Avelines. Groseilles a Maquereau. Raisins. Reine-claudes. Noisettes. Gtrons. Limes. Nefles. Melons. Mures. Brugnons Noix. Olives. Oranges. „ Mandarines. „ Tangerines. Peches. Poires. Ananas. Plures. Grenade. Pruneau. Coing. Raisins secs. Framboises. Rhubarbe. Fraises. Noix. (Legumes) French Artichauts. Crones japonaises. Topinambours. Fonds d’artichauts. Asperges. Baume. Basilic. Feuille de laurier. Feves. Haricots verts. Haricots blancs. Betterave. Bourrache. Brocoli. Choux de Bruxelles. Choux. Choux rouge. Capres.637 FRENCH TERMS FOR VARIOUS FOODS Cardoons. Cardons. Carrots. Carottes. Cauliflowers. Chouxfleurs. Celeriac. Celeri rave. Celery. Celeri. Chervil. Orfeuil. Chicory. Endive. Chives. Ciboule, ciboulette. Cress. Cresson. Cucumber. Concombre. Egg-plant. Aubergine. Endive. Chicoree. Fennel. Fenouil. Flageolets. Flageolets. Garlic. Ail. .Gherkin. Cornichon. Green peas. Petits pois. Horse-radish, Raifort. Indian corn. Mai’s. Kale. Chou-frise. Leeks. Poireaux. Lettuce. Laitue. „ Cos. Romaine. Marjoram. Marjolaine. Mint. Menthe. Mushrooms. Champignons. Onions. Oignons. Parsnips. Panais. Parsley. Persil. Potatoes. Pommes de terre. Pumpkin. Potiron. Radishes. Radis. Sage. Sauge. Salsify. Salsifis. Sea-kale. Choux de mer. Shallot. Echalote. Sorrel. Oseille. Spinach. Epinards. Split peas. Pois secs. Tarragon. Estragon. Thyme. Thym. Tomatoes. Tomates. Turnips. Navets. Truffles. Truffes. Vegetable marrow. Courge a la moelle. Watercress. Cresson. Fish Poissons English French Anchovies. Anchois. Barbel. Barbeau. Bass. Bar. Bream. Breme. Brill. Barbue. Carp. Carpe. Caviare. Caviar. Cod. Cabillaud. „ smoked. Morue. Conger eel. Congre. Crab. Crabe. Crawfish. Langouste. Crayfish. Ecrevisses. Dace. Vandoise. Eels. Anguilles. „ smoked. Anguilles fumees. Flounder. Carrelet. Frogs. Grenouilles. Grey mullet. Mulet. Gudgeon. Goujon. Gurnet. Grondin. Haddock. Eglefin ou aigrefin. „ smoked. Merluche. Hake. Merlus. Halibut. Fletan. Herring. Hareng8. „ salted. „ sors. John dory. Dorade ou St. Pierre. Ling. Lingue. Lobster. Homard. Mackerel. Maquereaux. Mussels. Moules. Oysters. Huitres. Perch. Perche. Pike. Brochet. Plaice. Plie. Prawns. Crevettes. Red mullet. Rouget. Roe. Laitance. Salmon. Saumon. Sardine. Sardine. Scallops. Coquilles St. Jacques. Shad. Alose. Shrimps. Crevettes. Skate. Raie. Smelts. Eperlans. Sole. Sole. Sprats. Esprots, melettes. „ smoked. Esprot fume. Sturgeon. Esturgeon. Tench. Tanche. Trout. Truite. Tunny fish. Thon. Turbot. Turbot. Turtle. Tortue. Whitebait. Blanchailles. Whiting. Merlans. Meat Viande English French Bacon. Lard. Beef. Bceuf. „ brisket of. Poitrine de boeuf. „ rump of. Culotte de bceuf. „ sirloin of. Aloyau de boeuf. „ sirloin steak. Entrecote. „ shin of. Jarret de bceuf. „ steak. Bifteck. „ undercut. Filet de boeuf. „ salt. Bceuf sale. Brains. Cervelles. Breast. Poitrine. Calf’s brains. Cervelles de veau. „ feet. Pieds de veau. „ head. Tote de veau. „ liver. Foie de veau. „ sweetbread. Ris de veau. „ tail. Queue de veau. Gravy. Jus. Ham. Jambon. Haunch. Hanche. Heart. Coeur. Knuckle. Cuissot. Lamb. Agneau. „ leg of. Gigot d’agneau.638 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Lamb, quarter of. Quartier d’agneau. Tete d’agneau. Pork, loin of. „ head. „ salt. „ sweetbreads. Ris d’agneau. Rib. Liver. Foie. Sausage. Loin. Longe. Sheep’s head. Mutton. Mouton. „ heart. „ cutlets. Cotelettes de mouton. „ kidneys. „ leg of. Gigot de mouton. „ tongues. „ neck of. Carre de mouton. Shoe. „ saddle of. Selle de mouton. Steak. „ shoulder of. Epaule de mouton. Sucking pig. Tripe. Ox cheek. Tete de bceuf. „ kidney. Rognon de boeuf. Veal. ,, palate. Palais de boeuf. „ breast of. „ tail. Queue de boeuf. „ fillet of. „ tongue. Pig’s feet. Langue de boeuf. „ loin of. Pieds de pore. „ neck of. „ head. Tete de pore. „ shoulder of. „ tongues. Langues de pore. Venison. Pork. Pore. „ haunch of. ,, cutlets. „ leg of. Cotelettes de pore. Gigot de pore. „ shoulder of. Longe de pore. Pore sale. C6te. Saucisse, saucisson. Tete de mouton. Coeur de mouton. Rognons de mouton. Langues de mouton. Tranche. Bifteck. Cochon de lait. Tripe, gras double. Veau. Poitrine de veau. Filet de veau. Longe de veau. CarrO de veau. Epaule de veau. Chevreuil, venaison. Cuissot or hanche de chevreuil. Epaule de chevreuil. EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND OTHER TERMS USED IN COOKERY .4 la—In the style of—ex. d Vanglaise, in the English way ; d la francaise, in the French way, &c. A la Broche—Cooked on a spit or in a Dutch oven in front of the fire. A la Carte—According to the menu. Abatis—Giblets. Aiguillettes—Small needle-shaped pieces of meat, fish, vegetables, &c. Andouillettes—A salpicon of meat wrapped in caul and fried. Andouille—A kind of sausage. Appetissants—Appetisers served at the commence- ment of a dinner or between the courses. Aromates—Savoury herbs used for flavouring. Aspic—A savoury jelly, used for cold entrees, &c. Assaisonnement—Seasoning: pepper, salt, and other condiments. Assiette—Plate, also small savouries or other dishes, which are served on a plate. Au bleu—Applied to fish which is cooked in fish stock with wine. Au four—Cooked in the oven. Au gras—Prepared with meat or meat gravy, the opposite of maigre. Au gratin—Applied to a dish that has been browned on the top, generally coated with bread- crumbs or grated cheese, and served in the dish in which it is cooked. Au maigre—Prepared without meat, or meat gravy, like Lenten dishes. Au naturel—Applied to food that is uncooked or served as simply as possible. Babar—A very light kind of cake, which is generally soaked in rum or spirit. Bain-marie—A large vessel holding hot water, in which saucepans containing sauce, &c., can be kept warm without boiling. Ballotine—A piece of meat or poultry stuffed and rolled; a small galantine. Batterie-de-cuisine—A cookery outfit: saucepans, moulds, &c. Barder—To cover with slices of bacon, as the breasts of game and poultry when roasting. Bavaroise—A rich creamy mixture, generally cus- tard and cream mixed. Beignets—Fritters of different kinds. Beurre—Butter. Beurre manie—Butter and flour mixed together for thickening sauces. Biscotte—A kind of rusk. Bisque—A soup made from shellfish. Blanchir—To blanch or whiten; to put into cold water and to bring to the boil over the fire. Blanquette—A white stew, made generally with veal or chicken, the sauce thickened with yolks of eggs and cream. Borribe—An iced pudding made in a bomb-shaped mould. Bouchees—A mouthful, so to speak, generally applied to very small patties of light pastry. Boudin—Small French sausages like black pud- dings. Bouille & Baisst—A stew made of different kinds of fish ; famous in France. Bouilli—The meat that has been used for making soup, as in pot-au-feu. Bouillon—Stock made from fresh meat and un- clarified, as the liquid part of pot-au-feu. Bouquet-garni—A bunch of herbs used for flavouring. Bourgeoise (a la)—Prepared in a tasty and homely manner. Braiser—To braise. Brider—To tie together, to truss. Brioche—A light kind of French bread. Broche (d la)—Roasted on a spit or skewer in front of the fire. Brunoise {a la)—Garnished with spring vegetables. Canape—Small pieces of bread, toast, pastry, &c., on which little savouries are served ; literally, sofa.EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND OTHER TERMS 639 Cannelon—Small rolls, generally of pastry, filled witli a delicate mince mixture. Capilotade—A kind of hash, generally of game or chicken. Carte du jour—Menu for the day. Casserole—A saucepan ; the case in which a ragout or compote is served. Cassolette—A small case for holding mince, or ragout, &c. Cassonade—Moist sugar. Cervelas—A kind of smoked sausage. Chapelure—Dried bread-crumbs. Charcuterie—Various parts and preparations of pork, such as sausages, pig’s feet, liver, black puddings, &c. Charlotte—Generally applied to a mould that is lined with strips of bread or finger biscuits, and filled with a cream or fruit mixture. Chartreuse—Applied to moulds of fruit and jelly, also to various savoury mixtures moulded. Chaudfroid—Applied to a sauce used for coating pieces of meat, game, fish, &c., to be served cold; that which is coated with chaudfroid sauce. Chijfonade—Herbs finely shred for soup. Choucroule (German, Sauer kraut)—A German national dish, a kind of pickled cabbage. Chow-chow—A kind of pickle ; vegetable preserved in a very hot sauce. Chowder—An American dish consisting of pickled pork, fish, and potatoes, and well seasoned. Clouter—To put nail-shaped pieces of bacon, tongue, or truffle into meat. A coarse kind of larding. Cocotte (en)—Served in small earthenware dish. Compote—A stew of fruit, also of pigeons and other small birds. Concasser—To chop or pound roughly. Conftt—Preserved in sugar. Confiture—Jam and other fruit preserves. Contiser—To insert shoes of truffle or tongue by making incisions in flesh of poultry or fish. Coquilles—Shell, that which is served in a shell. Cordon bleu—A badge of distinction given to skil- ful cooks in France. Couronne (en)—Dished in the form of a crown. Court-bouillon—A fish stock for boding fish. Crecy (d la)—Applied to dishes in which carrots, or a puree of carrots, form a leading part. Crepes—Pancakes. Crepine—Card. Crepinettes—A kind of sausage. Cretes de coq—Cock’s combs. Croissants—Half-moon shaped pieces of bread or pastry. Croustade—A case of bread, rice, potato, &c., for holding a mince or ragout. Cro&tes—Shapes or blocks of fried bread used for dishing. CroiUon—Bread cut in dice or fancy shapes and fried ; used for garnishing or serving -with soup. Cru—Raw. Cuisse—Leg of a chicken. Cuissot—Haunch. Dariole—A small cup-shaped mould. The term is also applied to what is cooked in them. Darne—A thick slice of fish; the middle cut of a large fish. D’Artois—A sandwich of very light pastry with a savoury or sweet mixture inside. Daub—A kind of stew. Debrider—To remove trussing strings and skewers. Degraisser—To remove the fat from soup or sauce. Depecer—To cut in pieces. Desosser—To remove the bones. Dhall—A kind of pulse, like split peas or lentils. Diable (d la)—With a hot seasoning. Diner—Dinner. Dorer—To brown or to glaze over ; to make yellow with egg. D'Uxelles—A chopped mixture of parsley, mush- rooms, shallot, &c., used for flavouring or stuffing. Fbarber—To remove the beards from oysters. Fchaudtr—To scald, to heat in boiling water. Fclair—A light kind of pastry (choux pastry) filled with cream or custard. Fcossaise (d la)—In the Scotch manner. Ecumer—To remove the scum. Egoutter—To strain off the water. Emince—Minced. Emondtr—To remove the skins from almonds. Entrie—A dish served in the first part of a dinner ; generally a made dish with a sauce. Entremet—A dainty dish served in the second part of a dinner, such as a dressed vegetable, a hot or cold sweet, a savoury, &c. Epigrammes—Small fillets of game, poultry, or meat served as an entree. Escalopes—Small round pieces of veal cut very thin, egged and bread-crumbed, and fried; also round or oval pieces of lobster or fish. Escargot—Snail. Eluvee—To stew slowly, generally in the oven. Fagot—A bunch of herbs. Faire rtvenir—To fry partially, without cooking. Fanchonnettes—Small tartlets, generally coated with meringue or icing. Farce—Stuffing. Fecule—A very fine flour (rice or potato) used for thickening sauces and soups. Fermiere (a la)—Farmhouse style; generally very simple. Feuilletage—The lightest kind of puff pastry. Filet—Fillet. Fines-herbes—Parsley, chervil, chives, tarragon, thyme, &c., mixed. Flamber—To singe; to set a light to, as in rum omelet. Flan—An open case of pastry which can be filled with a sweet or savoury mixture. Fleurons—Small pieces of pastry used as a garnish. Foie gras—The fiver of a goose which has been specially fattened. Fondant—Soft and melting like fondant icing, fondant sweets. Fondue—A savoury made of melted cheese. Fouettee—Whipped. Crime foueitee—Whipped cream. Fourre—Coated with cream, sugar, &c. Frangipane—A confectioner’s custard, generally flavoured with almonds. Frapper—To ice, or to set on ice. Fricandeau—A large piece of veal larded and braised.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 640 Fricandelles—Small steaks of game or veal, gener- ally braised. Fricassee—A kind of stew, generally white, and the sauce thickened with yolks of eggs and cream. Future—The deep fat used for frying, also applied to the articles fried in the fat. Fumet—Essence of meat, game, fish, &c. Galantine—Meat or poultry boned and stuffed, glazed or coated with sauce, and served cold. Galette—A kind of light roll or bun. Garbure—A very plain soup, generally made of bread and vegetables. Gdteau—A cake, or a dish made in the form of a cake. Gaufre—A biscuit-like cake made in a special kind of mould. Gelee—Jelly. Gibier—Game. Gibolette—A stew or fricassee of rabbit. Glace—An ice. Glace—Iced, glazed, or frozen. Glace de viande—Glaze. Gout—Taste. Gras (au)—With meat or meat gravy. Gratiner—To brown in oven or under grill. Grenadin—Small pieces of veal or other meat larded and braised. Hache—Cold meat minced or cut in small pieces. Hdtelets—Silver skewers, used for holding meat together. Hors-d'oeuvre—Small tasty “tit-bits,” served before the soup to give an appetite. Irlandaise (a la)—In the Irish style, generally with potatoes in it. Italienne (a la)—In the Italian way, generally with macaroni or Italian paste and tomatoes. Jardiniere (A la)—Served with a garnish of vege- tables. Julienne [A la)—Served with a garnish of vege- tables cut in fine shreds. Jus—Juice or gravy. Kabobs—Small pieces of meat, highly seasoned, fixed on a skewer, and generally grilled or braised. Kari (en)—Served in a curry sauce. Kromeskis—A savoury mixture of meat or fish wrapped in bacon, then dipped in batter and fried. Kugelhopf—A kind of German cake. Larder or Piquer—To lard. Lardons—Lardoons, the pieces of bacon used for larding. Liaison—A mixture of eggs and cream for thicken- ing soups and sauces. Luting—A paste of flour and water used for fasten- ing the fids on pie and terrine moulds. Macedoine—A mixture of vegetables or fruit cut in small pieces or dice. Madeleine—A small French cake similar to a sponge- cake. Maitre d'hdtel (A la)—Applied to dishes in which parsley is the principal flavouring. Marinade—A mixture of oil, wine or vinegar, vegetables, herbs, &c., in which meat or fish is soaked to make it tender before cooking. Masquer—To coat a dish with sauce; to line a mould with jelly. Matelote—A stew of fish, generally flavoured with herbs and wine. Menu—Bill of fare. Mets—The dishes of which the menu is composed. Mijoter—To simmer; to cook slowly. Minute (A la)—Applied to a dish that is cooked very quickly. Mirepoix—A mixture of vegetables and seasonings, which form the foundation of a sauce, or for braising purposes. Mirletons—Small fancy tartlets. Mitonner—To cook slowly and for a long time. Mortfier—To hang a joint or bird until it is tender. Mouiller—To moisten. Mousse—Something fight and spongy. Napper—To cover ; to coat. Navarin—A stew of mutton in which turnips form one of the principal ingredients. Neige (A la)—Like snow; white of egg beaten stiffly. Nouilles—Nudels or noodles; a kind made with flour, water, and eggs ; cut in strips and boiled, it somewhat resembles macaroni. Oreilles—Ears. Orangeat—Candied orange peel. Orly (A la)—Applied to meat or fish, which is mari- naded, dipped in a rich batter, and fried: generally accompanied with tomato sauce. Pailles—Straws; en pailles, in the shape of a straw. Pain—Bread. Pain d'Fpice—A kind of spiced bread. Panache—A mixture in colour or kind. Panade—A paste of flour and liquid, or bread and liquid used for binding. Paner—To egg and bread-crumb. Pannequet—A pancake. Panurette—A preparation of rusk or biscuit crumbs. Papillotes (en)—Cooked in buttered paper. Paprika—Red Hungarian pepper, not so hot as cayenne. Pdte Brise—Short crust. P&te A Frire—Batter for frying. Pdtisserie—Pastry and cakes. Paupiettes—Fillets of meat or fish rolled up with stuffing. Petit Lait—Skim milk. Petits Fours—Small pastries or fancy biscuits used for tea or dessert. Piece de resistance—The principal dish in a dinner. Pimento—Allspice. Piquer—To lard with bacon or truffles. Pluche—Parsley, tarragon, and chervil, &c., cut in fine shreds as a garnish for soup. Potage—Soup. Praline—Burnt almonds used for flavouring. Printanniere (A la)—With a garnish of spring vege- tables. Profiterole—Very small balls of pastry used for garnishing soup.641 EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND OTHER TERMS Puree—A smooth mixture of meat, fish, vegetable, or fruit, which has been pulped or pounded, and generally rubbed through a sieve. Rdble—The back of a hare without the head and legs. Rafraichir—To cool or refresh. Ramequin—A mixture served in a china or paper ramakin case. Ragotit—A stew. Rdper—To scrape or shred. Fromag& rape—Grated cheese. Rechauffe—Warmed-up meat or fish, &c. Reduire—To reduce. Releve—The remove or the joint course in a dinner. Remouillagc—Second stock. Rissole—Covered with crumbs and fried or baked. R6ti—Roast—meat, game, or poultry. Roux—Butter and flour cooked together, used for thickening soups and sauces. Saignant—Underdone. Saindoux—Hog’s lard. Saler—To salt or cure. Salmi—A hash made of game. Salpicon—A savoury mince, generally mixed with ham or tongue and mushrooms. Sarboliere—A freezing pot. Sauciere—Sauce boat. Saucisses, saucissons—Sausages. Sauerkraut—A kind of preserved cabbage; a German national dish. Saute pan—A shallow stewpan. Sauter—To toss over the fire in a small quantity of fat. Saveloy—A kind of sausage. Socle—A stand or block, made of rice or lard, on which dishes of meat, game, &c., are mounted. Sorbet—A half-frozen ice, usually served in cups. Souffle—A very light mixture, either sweet or savoury, and generally puffed out with whipped whites of eggs. Supreme—A rich white sauce, generally made with chicken or veal stock and cream added. Tendrons—The thin cartilaginous part of the breast of veal or mutton ; sometimes used for entrees. Timbale—A cup-shaped mould; that which is made in a timbale mould. Tournedos—Small round fillets of beef ; served as entrees. Tourner—To turn, to stir. Toxirte—An open tart; a flan. Tranche—A slice, applied generally to a thick slice of fish. Trousser—To truss, to tie together. Truffer—To garnish or season with truffles.642 SERVIETTE FOLDING Although the fancy folding of serviettes is not much in vogue at present, custom rather demanding that they be folded very simply and laid on the table or plate, or, if for family use, slipped into a serviette ring ; tastes diifer in this respect and fashions alter quickly, so that the instructions here given for folding a few effective designs may come in useful, and serve at times to improve tve appearance of a table. Not more than one or two designs should be used at the same time; if a low style of folding is used at the sides of the table, something standing a little higher may be put at the two ends, but anything more elaborate would be quite out of place on the present-day dinner table. Serviettes for folding must be fresh and clean, slightly starched and very well ironed. For some designs a perfectly square serviette is required, for others it will not matter if it is somewhat oblong. Again, some designs demand that the serviette be folded in three, while others require its being folded in four ; this folding must be done in the ironing and not altered afterwards. When one is not very sure how a certain design is executed, it is better to practise first on a piece of paper, as the serviette itself will never look well if it has been fumbled about. The folding must be very exact and each fold well pressed down as it is made, or the final appearance will be slovenly. Besides designs for table serviettes the following instructions include two or three different styles of folding plate doyleys and also serviettes for holding hot rolls, scones, &c. The instructions have been given as clearly as possible, and it is hoped that by following them and the diagrams closely, the results will be satisfactory. THE POCKET.—Have the serviette folded in four, or in three only if it is a small one. Double it in order to mark the centre and open out. Now take hold of point A, Fig. 1, and fold it downwards by the dotted line B, and so that the upper edge of the serviette lies parallel with the centre mark. Do the same with point C, folding it downwards by dotted line D. The serviette should now have the appearance of Fig. 2. Turn the serviette right over from left to right and roll up the two ends E and F, Fig. 3, until they reach the fold G, Fig. 4. Turn over again, from left to right, take hold of the rolled portion at point H, Fig. 5, and double it upwards by dotted line to point J, do the same, with point I, doubling it also up to point J, Fig. 6. Then turn over and the serviette should appear as in finished design. The bread or roll may be put into the pocket.SERVIETTE FOLDING 643 THE ROXBURGH.—Take a square serviette and fold it in two, point to point as in Fig. 1. Then fold point B upwards to point A, and do the same with point G. Now take point D and fold it upwards about three-quarters of the way towards point E and turn up the fold thus made a second time so as to make a band at the foundation of the design. Fig. 3. Take hold of the ends F and G and turn them round backwards, making them overlap and fit into each other at the back. Stand up the serviette as in Fig. 4, and place the bread or roll underneath. The points may be curled over if wished. THE BISHOP’S MITRE.—Commence this in the same way as the cockade by taking a square serviette and folding it in four to make a smaller square. Lay it on the table with the double fold uppermost and the four single points at the bottom right-hand corner, and fold down the two upper corners to the centre and also two thicknesses of the material from the lower corners as indicated in Fig. 1. Now double up- wards point B to point A and turn the serviette right over from left to right. Fig. 2. Turn the corners C and D upwards to dotted line, making them meet in the centre E, when the serviette should appear as in Fig. 3. Next fold over points F and G by dotted fines. Fig. 3, bringing them to about I inch from the centre E on each side. Fig. 4, and finish by doubling upwards so that point H lies on the top of point I. Stand the serviette up, and open out as in completed design. Fig. 5. The bread or roll may be placed underneath.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 644 THE TENT.—This is a very simple and quickly executed design, and one that does not crush the ser- viette. Have the serviette folded in three to begin with, double it to find the centre, make a mark and open out as in Fig. 1. Now fold the ends marked A and B over to this centre mark, when the serviette should appear as in Fig. 2. Then turn downwards points C and D by the dotted lines in Fig. 2, making them meet in the centre as in Fig. 3. Double over from left to right Fig. 4, and double upwards half the thin lower portion by the dotted line E, so as to make a stand to support the serviette. Do the same on the other side with the other half, and stand the serviette on end as in completed design, Fig. 5. THE ORCHID.—Take a square serviette, and fold it in four so as to make a smaller square. Lay it on the table with the four single points towards you as in Fig. 1, and double these four single points upwards to point A, giving the serviette the form of a triangle. Fig. 2. Now place the triangle with the point B nearest to you, and pleat from B to C in the style of a fan, but making the pleats moderately wide, Fig. 3. Hold these pleats firmly together at the base with the left hand, and then with the finger and thumb of the right hand pull down the four single points, giving them a curve as in the finished design. Fig. 4. This design is suitable for the ends of a table, and should be placed in a wine-glass «r tumbler.SERVIETTE FOLDING 645 THE COCKADE.—Fold a square serviette in four, thus obtaining a smaller square, and mark it across the middle both ways in order to find the centre, Fig. 1. Place it on the table with the double fold upper- most and the four single points at the bottom right-hand corner. Fold points A and B downwards, making them meet at the centre C, and pressing them well into position. Do the same with points D and E, but take only two folds of the serviette this time, giving it the appearance of Fig. 2. Then turn the serviette right over, and fold up remaining points F and G to the centre H on the other side, Fig. 4. Now take half the thickness of point I and fold it upwards to point J on one side, and the remainder to point J on the other side, thus making a triangle, Fig. 4. Stand this up, open out slightly, and the cockade is complete, Fig. 5. THE VASE AND POCKET.—Either a square or oblong serviette may be used for this design, but it must be slightly stiffened. Fold it in four and lay it on the table with the two double edges at the top as in Fig. 1. Now double from left to right, make a mark down the centre, and open out. Next fold each end in towards this centre mark, press the folds well down, and open out. The length of the serviette is thus marked out in four squares as indicated by the dotted lines in Fig. 1. Now turn over the two upper points by the dotted lines marked A A, giving the serviette the appearance of Fig. 2. Turn over the ends again, bringing the slanting sides B B perpendicular with the dotted fines C C, Fig. 3. Next take hold of the serviette at D, and fold upwards by dotted fine until D rests on the top of E, Fig. 4. Do the same with the other end, folding upwards by dotted fine so that F rests on the top of G, Fig. 5. Double back- wards by dotted fine and turn over. Fig. 6. Now take hold of the two points marked H and I, draw them downwards and together, and cross them slightly. Arrange the back portion so that it forms a little stand to support the serviette, and stand up as in finished design. Fig. 7. A small flower may be put in one side and the guest’s card in the other, or the serviette may be left as it is.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 646 THE BOW.—This is a very simple and effective design, and it takes very little time to fold it. Either a square or oblong serviette may be used, and it does not require to be stiff. Have it folded in three, and lay it on the table with a single edge uppermost on the top. Turn over this single upper edge about 1 inch as indicated by dotted line A, Fig. 1, then over again by dotted line B, arranging the size of the folds so that they form a box pleat, as it were, right along the centre of the serviette. Fig. 2. Turn over so that the box pleat now lies underneath, fold double lengthwise, mark the centre, and open out. Next divide each end into three equal portions, mark the divisions well, and open out (see dotted lines in Fig. 3). Now turn over C on to D and then over again on to E. Do the same with the other end of the serviette, making the two sides meet in the centre, Fig. 4. Double backwards, when the serviette should appear as in Fig. 5. Now take hold of one of the double folds at F, and drawing it downwards in such a way as to form a diamond, tuck the point under the box pleat. Finish the other end in the same way and the design is complete, Fig. 6. THE FAN.—Take a square and rather stiff serviette, double it to find the centre and open out. Fold the two upper corners downwards to this centre mark, Fig. 1. Then double the two points A half-way back again, when they should appear as in Fig. 2. Now lay three tucks across the width of the serviette about 2 inches in depth (or two tucks only if it is a small serviette) and an equal distance apart as in Fig. 3. Next place the serviette lengthwise on the table, and pleat it in the mode of a fan from one end to theSERVIETTE FOLDING 647 other. The pleats should be small and even, they must also be very straight and well pressed down. Stand the straight edges in a glass or tumbler, and open out the fan as in Fig. 4. ■— tv 0 0 5 0 V 0 0 / 0* 0 0 0 0 • /A £ THE SCROLL.—This is a very favourite design, as it is simple and quickly executed. Fold the serviette in three as in Fig. 1, and double and mark at dotted line in order to find the centre. Open out, and fold each end into this centre mark, Fig. 2. Now fold upwards by dotted line A and downwards by dotted line B, and the serviette should have the appearance of Fig. 3. Then fold backwards so that the double fold C lies parallel with the double fold D, and the points stand upwards as in Fig. 4. Next take the two points E and F, roll them round backwards and tuck them one inside the other. The scroll is now complete as in Fig. 5. THE WATER LILY.—A square and stiSened serviette is required for this. Find the centre by doubling first selvedge to selvedge and then hem to hem, marking the folds well. Open out, and the serviette should have the appearance of Fig. 1 with A as the central point. Now fold the four corners to the centre, turning them in and pressing them down as exactly as possible. Fig. 2. Repeat this twiceCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 648 more, so that the corners have been three times folded to the centre on the one side. Now turn the serviette carefully over, holding the points in position, and fold the four points once to the centre on the other side. Then take a cup or tumbler, and placing it in the centre so as to keep the last four points firmly down, pull up the points carefully from underneath, Fig. 3, and one at a time until twelve points have been curled round to this side. The last four should be pulled up rather tightly, and these will keep the others in position. The serviette should now have the appearance of a water lily as in Fig. 4. This design is more suitable for holding hot scones and rolls than for putting round the table, as the style of folding crushes it too much. THE COCKSCOMB.—Take a square serviette, fold it in four in order to make a smaller square, and lay it on the table with the four loose points towards you, Fig, 1. Fold points B upwards to point A by dotted line, when the serviette should be in the form of a triangle with four single points and one double one at the top, Fig. 2. Now take the points C and D and fold them over and downwards by dotted lines, making the serviette look like Fig. 3. Turn the little ends E and F underneath, and approach them to each other slightly in order to give the serviette an arched appearance on the table. Hold them in position with the left hand while, with the thumb and finger of the right hand, you pull up the four single points at G to make them look like finished design, Fig. 4. THE HAMBURG.—Commence this in the same way as the water lily by folding the four points to the centre. Fig. 1. Then double by dotted line A A the four points to the inside. Now place the serviette on the table so that the double fold is furthest from you, Fig. 2. Take hold of the point A with the thumb and finger, slipping the thumb underneath the fold, and draw it down until it reaches C, giving the form of Fig. 3. Now draw down the point B in the same way, thus making a triangle. Fig. 4. Fold back one fold from each side by the dotted line, making them meet in the centre as in Fig. 5. Turn right over, and repeat the same on the other side. Then fold back the little points by the dotted line, so as to make feet or supports for the serviette, and stand it up as in Fig. 6.SERVIETTE FOLDING 649 THE EMPRESS.—Take a square serviette, and fold it in four so as to form a smaller square. Lay it on the table with the four single points nearest to you. Fig. 1, make a mark across by dotted line and open out again. Now take the four points at A and roll them up one at a time towards this central mark, making one roll lie below the other. Fig. 2. Then take the two ends B and C and roll them round back- wards, making them overlap behind. Hold these two ends together with the thumb and finger, while with the other thumb and finger you take hold of point D, and bending it backwards, bring it right round, and tuck it in over the two joins held by the first finger and thumb. This forms a little pocket to hold the bread, and the Empress design is complete, Fig. 3. THE CARDINAL’S HAT .—The serviette does not require to be absolutely square for this design, an oblong-shaped one will do very well. Fold it in two and make a small double tuck in one end as in Fig. 1, then turn the serviette over and make the same tucks on the other end. Turn over again so that the upper tucks lie underneath at the top, and fold the two upper points at right angles to the centre as in Fig. 2. Turn once more from top to bottom and do the same with the two points which now lie at the top, when the serviette should appear as in Fig. 3. Double point A upwards so that it lies a little below point B, Fig. 4, and fold up the base or the lower portion again by dotted line in order to form a band. Now take up the serviette in the hands and, folding the two ends backwards, tuck them one inside the other and this completes the cardinal’s hat. Fig. 5. THE PALM.—This design is very similar to the orchid, only, the points are arranged rather differently. Take a square serviette and fold it in four in order to make a smaller square. Lay it on the table with the four single points towards you and double two only of the single points upwards to point A as in Fig. 1.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 650 Now turn the serviette right over from left to right, and double the two remaining points upwards to point A on this side, thus making a triangle, which has at the apex A two single points on each side of a double one. Fig. 2. Turn this triangle so that point B lies nearest to you on the table, and pleat in moderate-sized pleats and in the mode of a fan until point C is reached. Hold these pleats in position at the base, and pull down the points, two single ones on each side, giving them the form as in finished design. Fig. 3. Stand in a glass or tumbler. TO FOLD A PLATE DOYLEY OR SERVIETTE I Take a square serviette, and fold the points three times to the centre, turning the serviette each time. Now turn over, and the serviette will appear as in Fig. 1. Slip the fingers into the openings at A, and open out the little pockets as in Fig. 2. This makes a pretty design for holding scones or little rolls. Or, the pockets may be further opened and drawn backwards as in Fig. 3. Or, again, Fig. 3 may be turned on to the other side, and the two sets of points there found turned half-way backwards as in Fig. 4. This design may be varied very much to suit the dish for which it is intended. II Take a square doyley and fold it double, first one way and then the other, in order to find the centre, marking the folds well and then opening it out. Then fold the four corners into the centre, and press them well down. Fold the corners into the centre a second time on the same side, and press them down again. Fig. 1. Then turn the doyley right over and fold the four corners once into the centre on the second side. Fig. 2. Now turn the last set of points fully half-way back651 SERVIETTE FOLDING as indicated by dotted lines in Fig. 2, and so that they project beyona the edges of the square. Fig. 3. Turn the doyley right over. Fig. 4, and fold the four centre points A back to corners B by dotted lines. The inner set of points may also be turned back if wished, or made to stand up as in Fig. 5. The above may be made into an oblong shape by turning back only two of the points on the first side, and pulling the other two further out. Fig. 6. m Take a perfectly square doyley or serviette, and fold it double from corner to corner, first one way and then the other, in order to find the centre A, Fig. 1. Fold in the two sides B until in a line with this centre mark, making them meet in the centre, mark the folds well and open out. Do the same with sides C, merely marking the folds again and opening out. The doyley should now be marked as in Fig. 2. Next take the centre of the four sides as marked at D D and E E in Fig. 2, and bend them inwards until they I 2 all touch at the centre A, Fig. 3. Open out the four wing-shaped portions thus produced, and lay them flat with the points to the centre as in Fig. 4. Turn back the four points now lying in the centre by the dotted lines, as marked in Fig. 4, and until they touch the corners F. The design is now finished, as shown in Fig. 6. Or, the four inner points may also be turned half-way back and this will produce a slightly different design. Fig. 6. This is a very suitable design for a fringed doyley, as all the fringe will be shown to advantage.HINTS ON TABLE DECORATION The floral decoration of the table is now a universal custom. Large sums of money are frequently spent on the flowers and vases for a smart dinner party, and hostesses vie with each other as to whose table will present the most novel and effective appearance. Unless means are unlimited, however, it is impossible to follow every passing fashion, and it is a good thing for most of us that a pretty floral de- coration does not depend on lavish expenditure; in fact, in many cases, the simpler the arrangement the more charming the result. Even although we are not all the happy possessors of a garden, flowers are brought into our towns in such lavish quantities nowadays, and are sold at such a moderate rate, that they are within the reach of the poorest. It is seldom that one cannot get a bunch of some sort of blooms for a few coppers, and when we consider the joy they bring, the outlay is amply compensated. The delight a few flowers can give is unlimited. There is no comparison between a table that is tastefully decorated with flowers and one on which the bare necessaries alone appear. A table without a flower or plant of some kind is a very desolate affair. The arrangement of the flowers is very much a matter of skill and taste, and the following paragraphs are only suggestive. FLOWERS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT Choice of Flowers.—Flowers are now to be had in such variety, and at every season of the year, that their choice is very much a matter of in- dividual taste, limited only by the resources at one’s command. Flowers typical of the season are, as a rule, more pleasing than exotics and forced productions. Those with a strong scent should be avoided, especially if they have to be used in large quantities and in a heated room. There is no need to have a great display ; more taste can often be shown in the arrangement of a few blooms, than in an exuberant show. It is very important to study pleasing effects in colour; a mixture rarely looks well, and is much more difficult to arrange. It is sufficient to have one or at most two colours with green, although there may be gradations in shade of the prevailing colour. The colour of the room and the general tone of decoration should also be taken into consideration when selecting, and, unless the walls are cream-coloured, or of some very pale neutral tint, bright colours that clash should be avoided. Colour schemes are now the fashion, the flowers, candle shades, dinner ware, bonbons, &c., being of corresponding hues. Some hostesses even aim at having flowers to match the gowns they are going to wear. As regards quantity, this will depend very much on the size of the table; a large table will require some show of abundance, while small tables, now so fashionable even in private houses, lend themselves to a light form of decoration only. The Foliage.—Plenty of foliage should be used, and that of the flowers themselves whenever possible. When extra green is required, asparagus fern, springeri, maidenhair, and smilax are among the best known and most delicate, but there are many people, especially in the country, who may find these too costly for ordinary use, or too difficult to procure. To these it may be suggested that there are many trailing plants to be had for little or nothing, which can be employed in a similar way; such as the small-leaved gold or silver ivy, creeping jenny, canary creeper, peri- winkle and travellers’ joy. The tops of asparagus, too, can often take the place of the more expensive fern, while more use might be made of carrot leaves and those of the wild geranium, the latter often being found in delightful shades of a red-brown colour. Convolvulus trails and Virginia creeper are a splendid addition to our autumn decorations. When plants and ferns are used for table de- coration, they should be small and light looking, so that they do not intercept the view. The tiny dwarf Japanese trees and plants are very fashion- able for table decoration at present. Flower Vases.—Almost any kind of vase can be used, as long as it suits the style of flower, and does not clash as far as colour is concerned. Those made of silver, or of white or green crystal, are usually the most adaptable, although it is the fashion at present to have the vases corresponding in colour to the flowers used. Tail-stalked flowers, such as lilies, chrysanthemums, daffodils, &c., look best in high glasses, whilst short-stemmed flowers, such as violets, primroses, snowdrops, and forget-me-nots, &c., should be arranged in a low shape of vase or in little bowls. Roses look parti- cularly well in a bowl, or as single blooms in slender glasses. Most people pick up quaint vases at different times, especially on a holiday, when they can often be found both pretty and cheap. It is astonishing, too, what can be done in case of necessity; meat or fruit tins packed with wet silver sand can be made to do duty inside an artistic basket, and, if covered with moss, will be quite as effective as a proper lining. Small glass jars, too, placed inside smaller baskets, come in653 HINTS ON TABLE DECORATION handy; indeed, any one at all resourceful need never be at a loss. Arrangement.—When arranging flowers, the aim should be to make the table pretty and attractive, and at the same time to think of something novel. Insert any ferns or foliage first in the vase, stripping ofl any leaves from the stalks, as these would only crowd the vase, and prevent the flowers drawing sufficient water. Then place in the flowers care- fully, making them face in the direction required. They should not be crowded, but should have room to stand out individually. The Japanese, who are so artistic, consider one choice bloom quite suffi- cient to put in a vase. If some flowers have a tendency to twist about, this can be remedied by pushing a piece of thin wire up the inside of the stem, and allowing it to project half an inch. The projection can usually be inserted into a piece of foliage or stem, and the flower can thus be retained in the desired position. Trailing green, such as smilax, can also have a little wire inserted in the stems, if it is desired to keep it in a special position. The tendency at present is to keep the floral decoration low; tall growing flowers, when they are used, being put in slender glasses, or arranged in such a way that they do not obstruct the view. From the conversational point of view this is a great advantage, as it is never pleasant to be forced to look around ornaments in order to talk to some one at "the opposite side of the table. Harmony of colour with the surroundings, a sense of proportion as to height, size, and shape of vases, a lightness of touch in the grouping together, with a quick eye for possibilities in the blending of shades, are all necessary to insure success in the arrangement of flowers. SEASONABLE DECORATIONS Spring Decorations.—Spring brings with it a glorious variety of flowers; tulips, narcissus, hyacinths, pheasant’s eye, daffodils, &c., follow each other in quick succession. These may either be cut and arranged in vases, or put on the table growing in pots; the latter having an added interest if grown by oneself. There is nothing easier to grow than bulbs of all kinds, and, if placed in pretty bowls with cocoanut fibre, they can be used for table decoration as long as they last. Violets also take a first place among spring flowers on account of their sweetness, but unfortunately they do not make a good show at night. A favourite combination is that of dark violets with the lavender-coloured Neapolitan variety. Dark violets with the pale purple iris also look well, while a large bowl of lily of the valley, surrounded by smaller ones with violets, is very effective and charming. Lilac, too, in all its blending shades, is a sweet spring decoration, but it is somewhat difficult to arrange, except on a very large table. Another important niche in our spring decorations is filled by the little salmon pink anemones. Sold in small bundles of unopened flowers, they look insignificant to those who do not know their value, but when they have been in water for a short time in a warm room, a lovely show is made by the gradual unfolding of the buds to their full size. Their colour alone makes them valuable, coming at a time when so many of our flowers are white or yellow. The larger variegated anemones are also pretty, and perhaps more showy, but they do not blend so well with other colours. Summer Decorations.—The rose, the queen of flowers, in all its many forms and shades, is the most beautiful decoration at this season of the year. As a queen it must reign alone, no other flower being permissible near it. For table de- coration it is better to choose roses of one colour, or various shades of the same colour, for example a blending from pink to crimson. Never attempt mixing colours ; it is a fatal mistake, and the result never looks well. There is perhaps nothing more beautiful than an old silver or china bowl filled with dark crimson roses, kept in place with wire or leaden clips; or long-stalked pink roses with perfect foliage in clear glass vases. Rambler roses, although more difficult to arrange, are also pretty, if the clusters are not too heavy, and suitable vases can be found. Carnations, in all their varying shades, rank perhaps next to the rose in beauty of colour and fragrance. They look best when arranged with some very light-looking green, such as maidenhair or asparagus fern. Sweet peas are also favourites, and, with their many shades of pink and mauve, are particularly useful in colour schemes. They look best when loosely arranged in clear glass vases, with some pretty fight green, such as gypsophila. A simple and effective decoration can sometimes be arranged with dwarf nasturtiums prettily arranged in small bowls; large fine blooms of pansies are also admired, and when well arranged in little bowls are very attractive. Another delightful table decoration for a hot day is formed by large marguerites, blue Canterbury bells or blue cornflowers, and some pretty grasses or corn. They seem to impart a sense of coolness. Harebells and dog daisies have the same effect, while the addition of a few red poppies gives a more festive appearance. Shirley poppies, too, in all their soft and pretty shades, are another welcome addition to our summer decorations. Arranged in tall glasses with sprays of feathery white gypsophila, they look very charming and graceful. If chosen as much in bud as possible they will last a week, and very pretty combinations can be worked out in the different colours. Autumn and Winter Decorations.—Asters and dahlias in all their varied colours now come along. The single dahlias are perhaps better than the double ones for table decoration, as they lend themselves more readily to arrangement, although a bowl of the latter, if the shades are well blended, give a rich feast of colour. The loose-petalled asters are more effective than the closer kinds, and these, too, can be had in some lovely shades. Michaelmas daisies are also valuable at this time of the year, and there are now some very pretty new varieties, small blooms that are fight and feathery-looking, and that are useful for mixing with other flowers. The Virginian creeper supplies a beautiful form of foliage for some of the autumn flowers, but it is necessary to wire it, as the leaves soon drop off. For those who live in the countryCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 654 there is the possibility of making use of many richly shaded leaves of all sorts; bright-coloured berries can also be utilised, and look very effective along with bronze-coloured foliage. Winter gives us the ever popular chrysanthemum, which is now grown in such quantities, and in such a variety of shades and forms. They look best in tall jars or vases, and they require plenty of water, in fact they will keep best if left in a pail of water up to their head? at night. These flowers have a long reign, and they last until the forced or imported spring flowers again begin to appear. During Christmastime, holly should of course reign supreme, helped out with white and fragile Christmas roses, which form such a delicate con- trast to the brilliant and prickly holly. Fancy pots or baskets filled with ferns and forced scarlet tulips, and tied with a green or scarlet ribbon to match, are also seasonable at this time of the year.WAITING AT TABLE AND TABLE SERVICE Intelligent and proficient waiting is essential to the success of a dinner. No matter how prettily the table may be decorated, nor how good the cooking may be, inferior service will spoil the effect. Every hostess should make a point of having the waiting done as well as possible, as this will not only add to the enjoyment and appreciation of the meal by her guests, but to her own comfort and peace of mind as well. The following simple and elementary rules may prove useful to the novice in the art of waiting, while the other suggestions regarding table service contain hostess. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WAITING AT TABLE The maid who waits at table should be neatly dressed in a plain black frock, with a white apron, collar, cuffs, and simple cap. Or, a clean and tidy print dress may be worn for luncheon or early dinner, if she is expected to do housework after the meal is served. Her hair should be neatly done, and she ought to pay special attention to her hands, in order to keep them clean and in good order. A good waitress should be quick and fight in her movements, without having any appearance of hurry or bustle, and her work should be done as quietly as possible. There should be no clatter of dishes, nor rattling of silver and glasses. She must give her whole attention to the work in hand, and be ever on the alert to see what is wanted. A pleasant and gracious manner is also essential, along with thought for the comfort of those she is serving, and a readiness to forestall their wants. Before the meal is served, the waitress ought to become acquainted with the contents of the menu, and to consider what will be required for serving the diSerent courses, in order that there need be no needless moving about, nor leaving the room when once the meal is commenced. She must also see that everything that is laid on the table and used in the service is as bright and clean as possible. When the meal is ready, the maid should announce it by going to the drawing-room and saying with a clear voice, “ Dinner is on the table,” or “ Dinner is served, madam.” The drawing-room door is then left open, and she returns to the dining-room to take up her duties there. When the courses are served from the table, as is frequently the case with the ordinary family dinner, the waitress should stand on the left-hand side of the one who serves, and commence by removing the cover, if there is one in use. She should accustom herself to hand two things at a time, as, for instance, soup with croutons of bread* fish and sauce, meat with a vegetable, &c. When a dish has to be handed round, a spoon, or a spoon and fork, should be placed in it, in readiness for serving. It should then be held firmly and evenly in this chapter may be helpful to the inexperienced on a finger napkin, and handed at a convenient height, so that the person seated may reach it without difficulty. It is not customary to put vegetables and sauces on the table if a maid is in attendance; they should be kept on the sideboard, and handed when required. If, however, the waitress is obliged to leave the room for any length of time, she should place them on the table after they have once been handed round. Soiled plates should be removed at once when finished with, and never allowed to remain in front of those who have used them. It is customary, however, except in the case of the formal dinner, to ask if a little more meat, or pudding, &c., is desired. Plates should be taken straight to the sideboard; the knives and silver put into a box or basket put there to receive them ; and the plates themselves piled up and taken from the room as soon as possible. The soup tureen, or any dish served from, should not be removed until everyone at table has finished that particular course. All dishes must be removed as quietly as possible, and care taken that no gravy nor grease is spilt. Before sweets and dessert are served, a small tray should be carried round the table, and all cruets, salt-cellars, and any knives and silver that will not be required, placed upon it. If a carving cloth has been used, that also should be taken away. All crumbs and pieces of bread should then be removed from the left-hand side of each person, a crumb brush or scoop and a small tray being used. A waitress should never reach across anyone seated to put down or remove an article from the table, but she ought to walk quietly to the right or left hand side as required. When extra knives or silver are required, they should be put down on the table in their proper lace, and never handed on a tray; if bread, owever, is asked for, it should be cut in small pieces, and handed in a small bread basket, or on a plate. Condiments too, when asked for, Bhould be handed on a small tray. When dinner is served in the old-fashioned way, it is quite possible for one quick and intelligent maid to wait on six persons properly; although.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 656 of course, tko service can bo more quickly per- formed if two are in attendance, or if some help is given by dishes being brought from the kitchen, and soiled dishes carried away. When two maids are in attendance, the principal one carries round the soup, fish, or meat, as the case may be, and the assistant follows with the accompaniments. The head waitress should never leave the room, her second doing all the carrying to and fro. Inexperienced waitresses have sometimes a little difficulty in knowing at what side a dish should be laid down or removed. The following rules should be attended to. (1) When there is no choice of dishes, the plate with its contents should be put down at the right- hand side of the person seated. (2) When there is a choice, as in the case of two different sweets, or two different kinds of fish, these should bo handed at the left-hand side. (3) When a dish has to be offered, as, for instance, an entree or a vegetable, it should be carried to the left-hand side. (4) Soiled plates should be removed from the right-hand side. (5) Clean and empty plates should be put down at the right-hand side. (6) Wine should be offered from the right-hand side, as the glasses are naturally standing in that position. It is a good rule to remember that anything that is offered, except wine, should be carried to the left-hand side. PRECEDENCE IN SERVING At a family dinner the lady of the house should be served first, unless she is carving; then the daughters of the house, and the governess if there is one, and lastly the master of the house, and the sons accord- ing to age. If only one or two guests are present, serve them first, commencing with the ladies and the principal guest. At a formal dinner-party, where there are a number of guests, commence with the lady on the right-hand side of the host (the principal guest), and continue straight round the table irrespective of sex. It is not then the custom to serve the ladies before the gentlemen. If there are several maids in attendance, the two sides of the table may be served simultaneously, commencing with the lady seated next the host on each side. In the case of small tables, the one where the principal guests are seated should be served first. THE DIFFERENT COURSES Hors d’CEuvre.—These are generally served on little china or glass dishes, and placed on the plate before dinner is announced—especially in the case of oysters—or a choice of several kinds may be offered on a small tray, and any accompaniments handed with them. Soup.—If the soup is served from the side and the dinner consists of numerous courses, three- quarters of a ladleful will be sufficient to give as a helping. If there are two different soups, the waitress should take a plate of each and offer a choice ; if only one, she should take a plate of soup in ono hand and a plate of croutons or pulled bread in the other. Parmesan cheese may also be served with clear soup. Fish.—The waitress should take a portion of fish in the right hand, and the sauce or other accom- paniment in the left. If there is a choice, she should take a portion of each kind, and the accom- paniments would be offered by a second waitress. Dressed fish or fish entries should be handed round in the dish. Entries.—A hot or cold plate as required must first be put down to each person, and it must be seen that they have the necessary knives and forks. The entree must then be handed with a spoon and fork in readiness in the dish. Entrees are always handed, no matter how simple the dinner. Joints and Game.—Unless these have been carved beforehand, the head waitress must be able to help them neatly from the side and serve them out in small portions, which must be handed round, followed by their various accompaniments. Salad.—A small salad plate should be put to the left of each guest before the salad is carried round. The salad itself should be mixed at the side or in the kitchen, and handed in the bowl with the salad spoon and fork in readiness. If not partaken of, the special plate should be removed. Sweets and other Entremets are usually handed in the same way as entrees, a hot or cold plate with necessary fork or spoon and fork being put before each guest previously. In the case of any sweet requiring cutting, such as tart, this would be served out in portions from the side. Savouries are also handed round in the same way as entrees. Cheese.—It is not customary to serve plain cheese at a formal dinner, but when it is desired it is usually handed in a dish with different divisions containing cheese in small pieces, butter, and one or two different kinds of biscuits. A small plate and knife would be put down to each guest before the dish is handed. Dessert.—The table should be cleared of crumbs and all unnecessary glasses, &c., before dessert is served. Unless the fruit has not been on the table during the dinner it should now be put down, and a dessert plate with a doyley and finger bowl, along with a fruit knife and fork, should be placed before each guest. If ices are served in this course, they should be served first and the ice plates removed before the fruit is handed. Each kind of fruit should be offered in turn, and then replaced on the table. THE SERVING OF WINES Until within a few years ago it was the custom to have a different kind of wine to accompany each course at a dinner, and the choice of these was a very complicated affair. Modern diners have, however, reduced the number considerably, and it is quite usual nowadays to serve only one or two kinds throughout the meal. The fashion used to be to offer sherry with soup, olaret or Burgundy with the entrees and removes, champagne with the game and entremets, port or Madeira with dessert, and liqueurs with the ices and after coffee. Sometimes, too, a white Rhine wine, Chablis. or Sauterne, was offered withWAITING AT TABLE AND TABLE SERVICE 657 ... v ’ • fish, or with oystera when they commenced the meal. At a simple informal dinner it is quite customary now to ofier a good claret or Burgundy, and a good sherry or some light white wine. At a formal dinner, champagne or sparkling hock is usually given, either alone or with other wines. If a variety of wines is decided on, the following is the order in which they would be served—sherry with soup, champagne with the first entree and throughout the meal, port with dessert, and_liqueurs with coffee. At lunch, one wine is usually sufficient, such as claret. Burgundy, or hock. Mineral waters and lemonade should be at hand at all meals, as so many do not take wine. Barley water, too, is a favourite and fashionable drink, especially among ladies, and is often served at luncheon. Brandy or whisky and soda may be in readiness at informal meals where men are present. When one is in doubt as to what wine to buy, it is a good plan to consult a reliable wine-dealer, as it is impossible for the amateur to know all the different brands and their distinctive qualities. Whatever wine is offered should be good of its kind. How to Serve the Different Wines.—Claret and Burgundy should always be decanted when used for dessert, at other times it is a question of taste. These wines will not keep long after they have been opened. Sherry and port are always decanted, and this should be done some time before the wine is required, so as to allow any sediment to sink to the bottom of the decanter. Champagne is served from the bottle, a serviette being wrapped round it, or held beneath the neck after the wine has been poured out, to prevent drops falling on the cloth. Hock and Moselle are also served from the bottle. It is also important to serve wines at a proper temperature. Both claret and Burgundy should be warmed to the temperature of the room. The best way to do this is to let them stand in a warm dining-room some time before they are required, or if they are wanted in a hurry, the bottles may be placed in a pail of warm water for a short time. Champagne and hock, on the other hand, should bo served very cold. In hot weather it is customary to place the bottles on ice for an hour or so before using them. Metal pails are sold for the purpose, and these are filled with a mixture of broken ice and salt. Decanters of wine are not put on the table at a formal dinner until dessert is served, when claret and sherry can be placed in front of the host. To open champagne or other sparkling wines, first cut the wire with a pair of champagne nippers, and then cut the strings. Hold the bottle in a slanting position and remove the cork slowly and carefully. The bottle must be held on the slant until the wine has been poured out. When drawing ordinary bottles, care must be taken not to break the cork; the corkscrew should be screwed into the middle of the cork as straight as possible. A lever corkscrew is best. Wine should always be poured out at the right- hand side of the person seated, and poured out very carefully. When handing champagne at a dinner, it is usual to-ask in the first instance if it is desired, but when handing it later the glass should be refilled without any comment. Liqueurs are always served in small liqueur glasses, on a silver tray or liqueur stand, and handed at the left-hand side. When stout or ale is taken, the bottle should be opened at the sideboard and then poured out carefully and slowly, holding the bottle at an angle so that the glass may be filled with ale and not froth. It should then be handed on a silver waiter. If it is draught ale, it should be poured out briskly, and then slowly from a jug in order to give it a head.658 THE ART OF CARVING Although at the present time the formal dinner is always served a la Russe, when all carving and serving is done at the side table or in the kitohen, a knowledge of carving is still required at family repasts. Everyone ought to know how to carve, in fact, it would be a good thing if even the young people in the house took it in turn to perform this duty. They would not then feel at a loss when they came to have homes of their own, or when called upon to take the place of their parents. A knowledge of carving can only be learnt by practice, by actually doing the work oneself, although previous to this it is a good plan to watch an expert carver at work. The following directions may also serve as a guide to those who wish to become proficient in the art. SOME GENERAL DIRECTIONS To begin with, there should be some general knowledge of the anatomy of the different joints, of the relative position of bones, joints, muscles, and fat; and also of which are the choicest por- tions. The most satisfactory way of learning this is to take the chance, when opportunity occurs, of studying the various pieces of meat off the table. In the case of game or poultry, for instance, a bird might be cut up once in its raw state, and a point made of examining the different joints. Carving does not require much physical strength ; in fact, any undue effort or exhibition of exertion, tends rather to indicate a want of skill or bad implements : the really clever carver is able to cut up the most difficult joint with perfect ease. One should first of all learn to carve neatly without splashing the gravy over the cloth, or sending pieces of meat beyond the dish. The next point is to try and cut straight and uniform slices, so that the joint may not be made to look untidy and jagged, but inviting enough to tempt one to desire another helping, or, if the piece of meat is large enough to come to the table again, it may do so wearing a presentable appearance. A number of cut surfaces only allow the escape of juice, and tend to make the joint flavourless. Bad carving is always wasteful, but the good carver will cut in such a way as to make every portion inviting and full of flavour. Both the butcher and the cook can do much to facilitate the work of the carver—in the case of a loin of mutton or veal, for instance, neat carving would be impossible unless the butcher had per- formed his part of well jointing between the ribs. The cook, too, should see that all skewers, pieces of string, &c., are removed. The size of the dish on which the joint is served is also important. It should be large enough not only to hold the joint when whole, but also to allow room for several cut portions when they are detached. Some people prefer to have a separate dish for the cut portions, and these can, if liked, be handed round. It is a mistake to put a garnish on any meat which re- quires carving at table, and the less gravy there is, the easier it will be for the one who is serving. An extra supply can always be served separately in a sauce boat. Care should be taken to place the dish correctly on the table, and near enough the carver to allow of her reaching it without difficulty. The chair, too, on which she is seated ought to be sufficiently high to enable her to have perfect control over her work without the necessity of standing. A firm cushion placed on the chair will sometimes facilitate the operation. The sharpness of the knife is another very im- ortant matter. It should always be sharpened efore a meal, and never on any account at the table, where the performance might be most trying to someone’s nerves. The knife should have a handle that can be grasped easily, and a long thin blade of a size adapted to the article to be served. It should not be used for anything but its own legitimate purpose. There are different kinds of knives sold for the purpose, as, for instance, a meat carver, a slicer, a breakfast carver, a game knife, and game scissors ; but if means are limited and only one general carver can be afforded, choose one made of the best steel, 1| inches wide at its broadest part, and from 8 to 10 inches long. The carving fork should have two long prongs, and a good guard to protect the fingers. The hand should be held over the handle of the fork with the palm downwards, and the first finger extended. The fork should then be inserted deeply enough into the meat, to enable it to be held firmly in position. The knife also should generally be held firmly and applied lightly. Both knife and fork, in fact, should be held in a natural manner, and not grasped as if they were weapons. All meat should be cut across the grain with the exception of saddle of mutton, and the cutting should be sharp and clean, never jagged like a saw. The carver must try to make a fair distribution of the different cuts, and bear in mind individual likes and dislikes. As a rule, one small slice is sufficient to serve to a lady, and two small or one large to a gentleman, but the quantity must be regulated somewhat by the number of courses in the dinner. If there is only one joint on the table, and there are ladies and gentlemen present, the carver should try to regulate the helpings so that a659 THE ART OP CARVING smaller portion ia served to the ladies. If there ia more than one dish to choose from, the portions should be made equal and rather small in size. Never ask a guest, before beginning to carve, to make a choice between two difierent dishes, but help the dishes first, and then make the inquiry, otherwise they might feel that it was being cut into solely for them. The following notes on the carving of some of the principal joints indicate the general method adopted, but these rules need not be hard and fast, clever carvers very soon acquire their own style. BEEF Sirloin of Beef.—This joint should be placed with the back bone, or thickest end, at the left-hand side of the dish. Although it is usual to carve the undercut first, as this is one of the primest cuts when hot, the joint is served with this piece under- neath, and the carver raises it and turns it over. The undercut should be cut across in fairly thick slices, and a small portion of fat served with each. The upper part should be carved in long thin slices parallel with the ribs. The shoes should be as thin as possible without being ragged. Insert the knife between the bone and the meat, and run it along from end to end to detach the slices. Ribs of Beef.—The joint should be placed with the thickest end at the left-hand side of the carver. Commence by inserting the knife between the bone and the meat, and running it along from end to end of the joint. This enables the slices to be easily detached. Then cut long thin slices the whole length of the joint, in the same way as the upper part of the sirloin. Round of Beef or Rolled Ribs.—A thin-bladed and very sharp knife is required for this. First cut rather a thick slice ofi the outside to make the top surface even, and then continue cutting thin slices right across the joint. Ox Tongue.—As the centre is the choicest portion, the tongue should be cut nearly through, 3 or 4 inches from the top, and thin slices cut from both ends. A small piece of the fat, which lies near the root, might be served with each portion. MUTTON AND LAMB Leg of Mutton.—Place this joint on the dish with the thickest part lying towards the outside of the dish, and the small end to the left. The carving is not difficult, and it is always done in the same way. Insert the fork in the thickest part, and raise the joint slightly towards you. Then cut several slices of medium thickness through the thickest part and right down to the bone B to A. Next slip the knife along underneath the slices, and detach them from the rest. Some prefer a piece from the upper end, and others one nearer the knuckle, as the meat is usually better done towards the thin end. One of the tastiest morsels lies quite close to the knuckle or lower joint. A small piece of fat which lies underneath the thick end should be served with each portion. When the thick side of the meat is finished, slices should bo cut from the other side in the same way. Loin of Mutton and Lamb.—This cut should be thoroughly well jointed by the butcher, or it will be found most difficult to carve. It will be well also to examine it before cooking, and, if necessary, joint any part that has been forgotten. Place the joint on the dish with the thick part towards theCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 660 outside. Insert the knife between the bones, and cut right through, separating all the cutlets in the same manner. The slices should be of moderate thickness, and if there is a kidney, a piece of it should be served with each portion. Saddle of Mutton.—This should be placed on the dish with the tail end to the left. Insert the fork firmly in the middle, and carve across the ribs in long slices running parallel with the back bone. Then slip the knife under and detach the slices from the ribs. If too long, they may be cut across in two or three pieces. A small piece of crisp fat from the lower part of the ribs may be served with each portion. Shoulder of Mutton.—This is one of the most difficult joints to carve. Serve with the skin side uppermost on the dish. Insert the fork in the fleshy part, and raise the joint slightly from the dish. Take as many slices as possible from the side A to B, cutting in each case right through to the bone. Then insert the knife close to the'bone and detach the slices. The meat lying on each side of the blade bone on the upper side of the joint should next be cut, carving the whole length of the meat from the knuckle end B to C. Cut also a small piece of crisp fat from D to E, to serve with each portion. Then turn the joint, and take slices off the under side. The under-part is the juiciest and most delicate part, and is frequently cut before the upper portion. Fore Quarter of Lamb.—This is another some- what troublesome joint to carve. The first point to attend to is to raise the shoulder from the ribs and breast. Insert the fork in the most fleshy part of the shoulder, and with the knife cut round as shown by dotted line C. Raise up the shoulder on the fork and cut it away, without removing too much of the meat from underneath. The shoulder portion should be carved in the same manner as a shoulder of muton, but unless the whole joint is required for one meal, it is usual to have this put aside on a separate dish and served cold. Cut the under portion across, separating the ribs from the breast. Divide the ribs one from the other, A to B, and cut the breast in slices. A small portion of each may be served to each person. VEAL Fillet of Veal.—This should be carved in thin, even slices, in the same way as a round of beef. If there is stuffing, a small quantity should be served with each portion. Loin of Veal.—Carve in the same way as loin of mutton, unless the cutlets are very large, when they may be cut in slices like ribs of beef. Knuckle of Veal.—Carve in the same way as a leg of mutton. PORK Leg of Pork.—Carve in the same way as a leg of mutton, serving a piece of the crisp fat and a small quantity of stuffing, if there is any, to each person. Loin of Pork.—Carve in the same way as a loin of mutton, separating the cutlets between the bones. Sucking Pig.—This is generally sent to table cut in two down the centre, with the head cut off and a piece laid at each side. The four legs should first be cut away from the carcase, and then the ribs separated into small cutlets. It is all good, it is entirely a matter of choice which part is served. Ham.—If the ham is sent to table whole, the thickest part should be placed towards the outer side of the dish. Take a very sharp knife, and make an incision through the thickest part and right down to the bone. Continue cutting in very - thin slices towards both ends of the ham, and serve a fair amount of fat with each portion. A more economical way of carving a ham is to commence at the knuckle end, and cut off thin slices, working towards the thicker part. When ; the bone begins to look unsightly, it can be sawn off.661 THE ART OF CARVING GAME AND POULTRY Fowl (Roast or Boiled).—The fowl should be placed on the dish with the legs to the left-hand side. Insert the fork deeply across the breast bone, so that it takes a firm hold. First remove the wing on the side nearest you by cutting through the skin and shaving off a thin slice of the breast towards the wing joint. Then with the point of the knife sever the joint from the carcase. Next remove the leg on the same side, by making a downward cut between the thigh and the body. Bend the leg over, and sever the joint with the oint of the knife. Now cut the meat from tho reast in thin slices, and the whole length of the bird. The fork should never be moved from its original position, and the necessary carving should be finished before beginning to serve. If the family is small, and the whole fowl is not required, the second side may be left, and if the bare pieoe of carcase is cut away, and the half fowl served bone downwards on a dish with a nice garnish of parsley or salad, it will be quite presentable again. If, however, the whole fowl is required, remove the wish bone from the neck in front of the breast bone, by inserting the point of the knife at that end, and cutting down by dotted lines. Then turn the bird round, and carve the second side in exactly the same way as the first. Finally turn the carcase over, and remove the oyster, a small dark portion which lies near the centre of the side bones. The wing and the breast are considered the finest parts. Turkey.—This is carved in very much the same way as a fowl, only if it is large, and the whole is not required, it is usual to commence with the breast, and to cut slices from that before removing the legs and wings. When the legs are cut off, they should be divided in two at the joint, and then cut in slices, as they make too large portions by themselves. If the bird is stuffed, a small quantity of the forcemeat should be served with each portion. Goose.—Serve the bird with the neck at the left- hand side of the dish. As the breast is the best part, it is usual to carve this first, and not to use the legs and wings the first day unless they are required. Insert the fork in the centre over the ridge of the breast bone, and cut the breast in thin parallel slices, commencing at the wing and con- tinuing until the breast bone is reached. Then slip the knife under and detach them from the bone. Remove the legs and wings in the same way as from a fowl. If there is sage and onion farce, inquire of each one if a small helping is agreeable, or hand it round separately. Roast Duck.—Carve in the same way as roast goose. Pigeon.—The usual plan to adopt is to cut the bird right through the middle into two equal parts. If these are too large, they may be cut through again into quarters. Partridge and Grouse.—These may either be cut n halves or quarters the same way as a pigeon, or cut in three portions in the following manner: Cut off the leg and the wing with a small portion of the breast adhering to make two portions, and then the upper part of the breast, separated from the carcase for a third. Small birds, such as snipe, quail, ortolan, &c., may either be served whole, or else cut in two if very small portions are desired. FISH A silver or plated fish knife and fork, or fish carvers, ought to be used for serving fish. A steel knife should never be used, as it would spoil the delicate flavour of the fish. Care should be taken to break the flakes no more than is necessary, and to serve as little bone as possible. Cod or Salmon.—The fish should be placed on the dish with the thick part of the back towards the further side. Remove the skin from one side, and make an incision the whole length of the fish, as indicated by dotted lines. Then carve in fairly thick slices right through to the centre bone. Slip the knife underneath and detach them. When the top part is finished, remove the bone, and carve the lower portion in the same manner.662 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Turbot and Brill are both served in the same fish right down to the back bone. Commence at the head end, and continue to the tail. Then cut slices across from the centre towards the sides of the fish, and detach them from the bone. Part of the fins and a little of the gelatinous skin should be served with each portion. Sole.—Cut through the whole length of the thick part, and then raise the fillet from each side. Then remove the bone and separate the other side into two fillets. Plaice.—If large, carve in the same way as a turbot; if small, according to directions given for sole. Small fish are either served whole or cut in two pieces.MENUS AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION When giving a dinner or luncheon, the first thing one does is to draw out the menu or bill of fare. Thi3 is not always such an easy task as it would appear, especially if the meal has to consist of several courses ; and it requires some skill and experience to do it properly. A well-balanced and suitably chosen menu will add considerably to the success and popularity of a meal; while one that is badly planned will spoil the best served repast. It is therefore well worth while to give a due amount of thought to the selection of the dishes, and whether the meal has to be a simple one, or of a more important and formal character, there are several important points to bear in mind in its arrangement. The scope of this book does not permit of any lengthy list of menus, yet by the application of the follow- ing general rules, along witn a little ingenuity and originality, many dainty and successful dinners should be easily provided by its readers. FIRST CONSIDERATIONS The Style of Dinner.—Consideration should first be given to the kind of meal required, to the number of the guests, and the occasion of the dinner. The social position of the host and hostess should also be borne in mind, as well as the means at disposal. A long course dinner with all its formalities should never be attempted by those who keep only one or two servants, it should only be served in the houses of the wealthy. Of course it is always possible to have a certain number of dishes sent in from a caterer, but this is not only more expen- sive, it is never the same as having good cooking nicely done at home. Hired waiters and waitresses can also be employed, but formality of this sort is never so enjoyable, as a more simply served repast. Fortunately for most of us, simple dinners are now the fashion, and it is even considered bad taste to offer a long and heavy meal of double courses. The time spent at table should not exceed from 1 to 1£ hours. The rules of service are not nearly so rigid as they used to be; one can assume greater freedom of action as regards the dishes given, and the order in which they are served, so long as they follow each other harmoniously. Success depends largely on having the dishes well cooked and properly served, sufficient in quantity, and, above all, of the best quality. A few choice dishes, carefully selected to suit the tastes of the guests, will give infinitely more pleasure than an elaborate spread of indifferent quality. The Season of the Year.—It is always well to select foods that are in season, as the standard fare at the time of year is nearly always the best. Although many articles, such as vegetables, fruit, and fish, can be had out of their proper season, it must be remembered that an exorbitant price will likely be asked for them, and even at that, they will in all probability be lacking in flavour. In cold weather, too, a larger number of hot dishes should be given than in summer, when foods that are cooling and refreshing are more appreciated. Variety,—Even at the simple family meal an effort should be made to vary the dishes from day to day, and to escape monotony, while at the more formal dinner, the combination of dishes should be well assorted and care taken to avoid repetition, as regards material, mode of prepara- tion, colour, taste, and garnish. There should be variety in flavour, and the dishes should follow each other in such a way as will please the palate. An insipid dish should not directly follow one that is very tasty, and the same flavouring should not be repeated in two conse- cutive dishes. If two or three different entries are served, the most savoury one should come last. There should also be variety in the method of cooking, and in the character of the different dishes. It would not do for fried cutlets to follow fried fish, for instance, nor for two grills, or two pastry dishes, to come together. A simple dish should be followed by one that is a little more elaborate, or vice versa. And finally, there should be variety in colour and decoration. Although the dishes should be made pleasing to the eye as well as to the palate, there should be no sameness and an element of refinement should mark them rather than osten- tation. The Cook.—The powers of the cook and the capabilities of the kitchen range and cooking utensils should be thought of when arranging a dinner. If the cook is single-handed, do not give her many complicated dishes to prepare, especially of a kind that cannot be finished off until the moment of serving, as this would be sure to lead to confusion in the kitchen. Try rather to give her one or two dishes, among the number, that can bo well advanced beforehand, and cause little trouble at the time of dinner. Above all, give the cook fair notice and explicit directions as to what will be required, if a special dinner has to be arranged for. The materials necessary should also be ordered in good time to enable her to get well ahead with her preparations, and be saved unnecessary hurry at the last minute.664 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD THE MENU What It Comprises.—The different courses of a complete menu will compriso the following : hors- d’oeuvre, potage, poisson, entrees, releve, sorbet, roti, entremets, dessert, cafe. One or more of tho courses may, of course, be omitted, but the order of serving them remains the same. The number of dishes depends entirely upon the style of the dinner ; it may consist of three or four, or of eleven or twelve. For instance, the hors-d’oeuvres and sorbet are seldom given at a small dinner, and either the releve or the r6ti would be omitted. One sweet might follow the last meat course, to bo followed by a cheese dish or other savoury. Ices may either be served in place of a cold sweet, or they may form a separate course after the savoury. The names of the dishes may be written on the menu cards either in French or in English, this is entirely a question of choice. French is perhaps the more fashionable of the two, especially for any dinner of importance, as it is the recognised lan- guage of the kitchen all the world over. It is well to remember that the names of standard dishes should never be altered, and although the English language is generally capable of providing a name for every dish, there are some typical French dishes the names of which are untranslatable. The following are a few notes on tho different courses : Hors-d’CEuvres.—These consist of small appetis- ing morsels usually served cold, such as oysters, olives, anchovies, caviare, smoked salmon, small salads, thin slices of sausage, &c. They may either be served plain or made up in some more elaborate style. Small plain biscuits or thin brown bread and butter may accompany the plain hors- d’ceuvres. Potage (Soup).—Either one or two soups may be served. If only one, it is preferable to have it clear or of a very light character, especially if there are a number of courses to follow. If there are two soups, one may be clear and the other thick, or one brown and one white, for the sake of variety. Poisson (Fish).—This either be plainly boiled with a sauce, or dressed in a more elaborate fashion, or there may be one dish of each. A simple dish should be served before one that is more elaborate, and a hot dish before a cold. Entries.—The term is applied to all kinds of made dishes, which are complete in themselves as regards sauce and garnish, such as cutlets, fillets, quenelles, croquettes, made dishes of poultry and game, &c. An entree may be either hot or cold, and it should be served very daintily. If more than one is served, they should differ in colour and kind, and a hot should always precede a cold. Releve (or Remove).—This is the substantial part of a dinner, and consists generally of a joint, either roasted, boiled, or braised, and a garnish generally gives the characteristic name. One vegetable besides potatoes is usually served with the remove, and the accompaniments should be handed round. Sorbet.—A half-frozen water ice which is served in cups immediately after the roast. Roti.—Game or poultry plainly roasted or other- wise prepared, served with salad and potato chips. Entremets.—These may be divided into three classes—(1) dressed vegetables (legumes); (2) sweet entremets, both hot and cold; (3) savouries, which precede the dessert and are usually hot. Dessert.—Fruits of various kinds and 'petite jours or other fancy biscuits. Coffee.—This must be black—cream being served separately.SIMPLE DINNERS FOR A MONTH IN SPRING, SUMMER, AUTUMN, WINTER Sun. Mon. Tubs. Wed. Thurs. Fri. . Sat. . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. . Sat. . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. . Sat. . SPRING Veal and Ham Pie. Cauliflowers with White Sauce. Ground Rice Mould. Stewed Rhubarb. Macaroni Soup. Cold Pie with Beet- root. Bread Fritters. Boiled Mutton with Parsley Sauce and Vegetables. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes. Orange Mould. Rice Soup. Cold Meat Mince with Potato Border. Open Jam Tart. Stewed Rabbit with Rice. Cabinet Pudding. Cheese Biscuits. Tomato Soup. Fried Cod Steaks. Custard Pudding. Stewed Prunes. Fried Steak with Bananas. Stewed Tomatoes. Baked Sponge Pudding. Roast Ribs of Beef. Stewed Chicory. Chocolate Pudding. Lemon Sponge. Onion Soup. Cold Roast Beef. Tomato Salad. Rice and Apple Pudding. Fricassee of Fish. . Meat and Potato Cones. Rhubarb Tart. Sea Pic. Baked Tomatoes. Genoa Cream. Mutton Broth. Sheep's Tongues au Gratin. Jam Pufis. Stuffed and Baked Haddock. Apple Fritters. Cauliflower with Cheese. White Vegetable Soup. Savoury Chops. Rhubarb Mould. Stuffed and Roast Shoulder of Mutton. Braised Onions. Tapioca Pudding. Compote of Apples. Bone Soup. Cold Meat. Haricot Bean Salad. Treacle Sponge. Fish Pie. Ham Omelet. Plain Plum Pudding. Fish Soup. Veal and Ham Mould. Fried Plum Pudding. Mutton Pudding. Junket with Stewed Figs. Cheese Straws. Stuffed and Baked Cod. Meat Patties. Ginger Pudding. Veal Soup with Macaroni. Stewed Tripe. Currant Fritters. Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. . Sat. . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. . Sat. . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. . Sat. . Braised Beef with Vegetables. Floating Island. Cheese Fritters. Mulligatawny Soup. Cold Beef with Salad. Fig Pudding. Boiled Fish with Shrimp Sauce. Grilled Cutlets. Fried Fig Pudding. Boiled Fowl. Stewed Macaroni. Baked Sultana Pudding. Chicken Soup. Baked Mackerel. Coffee Mould. Roast Pork with Apple Sauce. Savoury Batter. Castle Puddings. Red Pottage. Cold Pork. Stewed Potatoes. Pancakes. SUMMER Roast Lamb. Salad. Caramel Cus- tard. Strawberries and Cream. Lettuce Soup. Cold Lamb with Cucumber. Coffee Pudding. Steamed Fish Pudding with Parsley Sauce. Meat Puffs. Junket and Stewed Fruit. Stewed Pigeons. Macaroni with Tomatoes. Cornflour Mould with Jam. Sago Soup. Curry of Beef. Lemon Jelly. Halibut with Tomatoes. Stuffed Vege- table Marrow. Danish Fruit Jelly. Omelet. Veal Mould with Salad. Chocolate and Rice Pudding. Watercress Soup. Salmon with Green Peas. Honeycomb Mould. Cold Salmon with Cucumber. Mutton Cutlets. Semolina Pudding. Roast Sirloin. Asparagus. Open Fruit Tart. Lentil Soup. Cold Meat. Salad. Vanilla Souffle with Sauce. Ragout of Lamb. Stewed Spaghetti. Fruit Tartlets. Stewed Fish. Curry and Rice. Fruit Salad. Cup Custards. Fricassee of Veal. Dressed Spinach. Casserole of Rice with Stewed Fruit. 66SCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 666 Sun. Mon. Tubs. Wed. Thurs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Vegetable Marrow Soup. Braised Lamb. A Simple Trifle. Shepherd’s Pie. Tomatoes with Cream Sauce. Pine-apple Mould. Fried Fillets of Plaice. Sheep’s Tongues with Spaghetti. Fruit with Custard. Boiled Salt Beef with Vegetables. Egg Salad. Gooseberry Fool. Cream of Corn. Cold Salt Beef with Cucumber. Swedish Rice. Hake Cutlets. Bubble and Squeak. Fruit Salad. Fish Salad. Veal and Ham Pie. Steamed Batter Pudding. Roast Fowl with Salad. Sago Snow with Compote of Fruit. Cream Cheese Savoury. Gravy Soup. Chicken Patties. Lemon Pudding. Steamed Fish with Sauce. Scotch Collops. Tapioca Custard Cream. Breast of Veal Stuffed and Roasted. Risotto. Hydropathic Pudding. Brown Vegetable Soup. Cold Veal. Salad. Milk Pudding. Rice and Fish Pie. Russian Steaks. Coffee Custard. Stewed Lamb. Sago and Raspberry Tart. Cheese Souffles. AUTUMN Sun. . Roast Beef. Yorkshire Pudding. Blackberry Mould. Cheese Straws. Mon. . Spinach Soup. Cold Beef with Salad. Delaware Pudding. Tues. . Baked Halibut. Macaroni and Meat Shape. Delaware Pudding (Fried). Wed. . Green Pea Soup. Veal and Ham Cut- lets. Baked Apples. Thurs. . Hot Pot. Cheese and Tomato Rarebit. Compote of Figs. Fri. . . Fillets of Fish with Anchovy Sauce. Cornish Pasties. Sago Pudding. Sat. . . Artichoke Soup. Grilled Steak. Fried Potatoes. Empress Pudding. Sun. . Roast Loin of Veal. Braised Celery. Pudding a la Reine. Fruit. Mon. . Leek Soup. Cold Veal. Potato and Celery Salad. Syrup Tart. Tues. . Fried Whiting. Cottage Pie. Bread and Butter Pudding. Wed. . Pork Cutlets. Stewed Potatoes. Semo- lina Mould with Stewed Plums. Thurs. . Ox-tail Soup. Macaroni and Fish Pie. Banana Fritters. Fri. . . Russian Fish Pie. Meat Scallops. Bird’s Nest Pudding. Sat. . . Fish Soup. Stewed Rabbit with Rice. Chocolate Mould. Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Sun. Mon. Tues. Wed. Thurs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Sun. Mon. Tues. . Wed. Thurs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Loin of Mutton Roasted. Risotto. Queen of Puddings. Green Peas with Curried Rice. Cold Meat. Apple Balls. Mock Kidney Soup. Plaice au Gratin. Sultana Pudding. Irish Stew. Baked Tomatoes. Sultana Pudding (Fried). Rice and Tomato Soup. Fricassee of Rabbit. Apple Mould. Scalloped Fish. Roman Pie. Banana and Cranberry Compote. Knuckle of Veal with Rice. Mixed Salad. Amber Pudding. Venison Stew. Damson and Apple Tart. Anchovy Eggs. Broth with Potato Dumplings. Venison Pastry. Bird’s Nest Pudding. Crimped Skate. Tripe with Tomatoes. Rusk Pudding. Roast Game. Chestnuts with Parsley Sauce. Cranberry Mould. Vermicelli Soup. Steak with Bananas. Rice with Stewed Figs. Baked Soles. Cold Meat Cutlets. Lemon Cheese Cakes. Beef Olives. Braised Lettuces. Sylvan Pudding. WINTER Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding. Brussel Sprouts. Caramel Semolina Pudding. Masked Cutlets. Devilled Rice. Small Fruit Tarts. Ox-tail Soup. Stuffed and Baked Haddock. Baked Custard. Boiled Beef with Vegetables. Chelsea Pudding. Cream Cheese. Tomato Bisque. Cold Beef with Potato Salad. Apples in Batter. Fillets of Cod with Parmesan. Stuffed Cabbage. Chelsea Pudding (Fried). Peasant’s Soup. Pot Roast. Stewed Celery. Snow Eggs. Jugged Hare. Spaghetti with Toma- toes. Apple Whips. Hare Soup. Fried Brains with Brussels Sprouts. Milk Pudding. Hake with Piccalilli Sauce. Grilled Fillets of Beef with Fried Potatoes. Pine-apple and Custard. Barley Soup. Stewed Ox Kidney. Bread-crumb and Marmalade Pud- ding. Fried Haddocks. Mutton Stew with Tomatoes. Cheese Souffles. Fish Mulligatawny. Mutton Roll. Brown Betty. Stewed Beef with Vegetables. Savoury Baked Rice. Banana and Orange Tart. •« w...'A'. .• fc > VlriSIMPLE DINNERS FOR A MONTH 667 Sun. Mon. Tues. . Wed. Thtjrs. . Fri. . . Sat. . . Boiled Salt Pork. Pease Pudding. Cornflour Pudding. Stewed Prunes. Macaroni Soup. Cold Pork. Fried Potatoes. Swiss Apple Pudding. Mutton en Casserole with Vegetables. Syrup Pudding. Cheese. Haricot Bean Soup. Boiled MackereL Syrup Pudding (Fried). Stewed Beef with Dumplings. Banana Fritters. Croutes of Finnan Had- dock. Cod Steak & la Flamande. Cold Meat Cannelon. Rice and Apple Pudding. Potato Soup. Rabbit Pie. Fig Mould. Sun. . Kidney and Tomato Soup. Fricassee of Veal. Prune Mould with Cream. Mon. . Steak and Onions. Neapolitan Rice. Blakemore Pudding. Tues. . Carrot Soup. Cold Meat au Gratin. Apple Pufls. Wed. . Fish Baked in Batter. Stewed Ox-tail. Cheese Pudding. Thurs. . Haricot Mutton with Vegetables. Potato Balls. Crofltes of Apricot. Fri. . . Fillets of Haddock h l’Ttalienne. Scotch Eggs. Banana and Sago Pudding. Sat. . . Rabbit Soup. Gateau of Liver. Apples h la Madame.SEASONABLE DINNERS OF FIVE OR SIX COURSES (For t}i£ French Names of the Dishes refer to Recipes) SPRING I Clear Soup a la Celestine. Cod Steaks with Mushroom Sauce. Roast Guinea-fowl. Potato Chips. Salad. — Gateau of Chestnuts. Compote of Bananas. Anchovy Croutes. II Artichoke Soup. Grilled Mullet with Maitre d’Hotel Butter. Roast Fillet of Beef. Spinach with Gravy. Potato Balls. Orange Jelly. Whipped Cream. Devilled Biscuits. III Brown Soup. Scalloped Salmon. Veal Olives. Stewed Mushrooms. Pine-apple Fritters. Vanilla Cream. Biscuits a la St. Clair. IV Julienne Soup. Fish Creams with Anchovy Sauce. Roast Gosling. Orange Salad. Potato Ribbons. Coffee Meringue Pudding. Marigold Tartlets. Swiss Cheese Savoury. V Oysters. Parisian Cream Soup. Mutton Cutlets. Sea-kale a la Polonaise. Apricot SoufflA Wafer Cream Bars. Anchovy Straws. VI Game Soup. Boiled Halibut. Hollandaise Sauce. Russian Steaks. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel. Rhubarb Cream. Pastry Fingers. Devilled Shrimps. VII Cauliflower Soup. Scalloped Oysters. Roast Mutton with Potato Balls. Artichoke SoufflA Iced Orange Pudding. Croutes a la Marguerite. VIII Spring Soup. Fish Quenelles. Compote of Game. Stuffed Tomatoes. Trifle. Almond Tartlets. Sardine Croutes. IX Fish Soup. Vegetable Patties. Veal Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. Kidney Omelet. Chestnut and Custard Pudding. Compote of Apples. Cheese Biscuits. X Vermicelli Soup. Fish Cutlets. Braised Chicken with Tomatoes. Steamed Chocolate Pudding. Dutch Flummery. Smoked Salmon h la Diable. 6G8669 SEASONABLE DINNERS XI Portuguese Soup. Boiled Salmon. Tartare Sauce. Grilled Cutlets with Spaghetti. Almond Pudding. Orange Custard. StuSed Olives. XII Oyster Soup. Ham Omelet. Jugged Hare. Cauliflower with Sauce. Banana and Rhubarb Tart. Devonshire Junket. Herring Roes on Toast. SUMMER I Hollandaise Soup. Sole au Gratin. Roast Lamb. Green Peas. New Potatoes. Gooseberry Fool. Fancy Pastry. Anchovy Straw*. II Spinach Soup. Baked Trout. Salmi of Duck en Casserole. French Beans a la Poulette. Coffee Junket. Compote of Cherries. Cheese Aigrettes. III Clear Soup a ITtalienne. Mayonnaise of Salmon with Cucumber. Pigeon Pie. Asparagus. Welsh Trifle. Tomato Cheese. IV Asparagus Soup. Chicken and Ham Cutlets. Blanquette of Veal. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel. Raspberry and Red Currant Tart. Cup Custards. Cheese Canapes. V Giblet Soup. Shrimp Patties. Roast Hazel Hen. Mixed Salad. Potato Roses. Rum Omelet. Strawberry Cream Ice. Olives a la Suzette. VI Clear Soup a la Royale. Boiled Turbot. Shrimp Sauce. Beef Olives. Vegetable Marrow with Cream Sauce. Fruit Salad. Coffee Eclairs. Nasturtium Savoury. VII Lettuce Soup. Sole in Aspic. Braised Lamb with Vegetables. Raspberry Sponge. Lemon Tartlets. Sardine Savoury. VIII Green Pea Soup. Salmon Steaks with Tartare Sauce. Potted Pigeons. Macaroni with Green Peas. Jubilee Cherries. Meringues. Cheese Straws. IX Cucumber Soup. Eggs in Aspic. Calf’s Head with Brain Sauce. Cauliflower au Gratin. Bavaroise of Strawberries. Mushroom Toast. X Tapioca Cream Soup. Fried Fillets of Mackerel. Boiled Chicken with Parsley Sauce. Potatoes a la Duchesse. Gooseberry Tart with Cream. Finnan Haddock Croutes.670 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD XI Plovers’ Eggs. Fish Creams with Bechamel Sauce. Roast Fillet of Veal. Salad. Peches k la Melba. Cheese Aigrettes. XII Bonne Femme Soup. Fried Sole with Orange Sauce. Ragout of Lamb. Green Peas with Lettuces. Fruit Jellies. Whipped Cream. Devilled Chicken Livers. AUTUMN I Gravy Soup. Whitebait. Fricassee of Rabbit. Ham and Egg Salad. Blackberry Cream. Cheese Straws. H Rice Cream Soup. Fried Smelts. Anchovy Butter. Roast Beef. Horse-radish Sauce. Braised Celery. Cranberry Mould. Custard Sauce. Bonnes Bouches of Oysters. III Veal Soup. Lobster Cutlets. Chicken en Casserole. Banana Pudding. Snow Eggs. Devilled Biscuits. IV Clear Soup with Vegetables. Fish Patties. Roast Pheasant. Salad. Potato Snowflakes. Claret Jelly with Cream. Cream Cheese Savoury. V Oysters. Tomato Soup. Game Patties. Grilled Cutlets. Potato Ribbons. Canary Pudding. Cod’s Roe a la Victoria. VI Cream of Com Soup. Russian Fish Pie. Fillets of Beef with Tomatoes. Cabinet Pudding. Lemon Ices. Game Balls. VII Almond Soup. Crimped Skate. Caper Sauce. Haricot Mutton. Bavaroise Rubannee. Compote of Pears. Cheese Fritters. VIII Celery Soup. Fish Souffle. Venison en Casserole. Brussels Sprouts. Blancmange. Compote of Pears. Anchovy Rolls. IX Kidney Soup. Stewed Scallops. Chicken k la Hongroise. Pine-apple Fritters. Orange Custard. Ham Crofttes. X Mock Turtle Soup. Spinach with Poached Eggs. Roast Grouse. Potato Chips. Salad. Coffee Meringue Pudding. Ham Toast. XI Hare Soup. Fillets of Sole a la Creme. Fried Sweetbreads. Tomato Sauce. Cauliflower Souffle. Coffee Jelly with Cream. Herring Roes on Toast. XII Brussel Sprout Pur6e. Fried Fillets of Haddock. Blanquette of Veal. Walnut Pudding. Ginger Ice Cream. Devils on Horseback.671 SEASONABLE DINNERS WINTER I Barley Cream Soup. Mackerel h, la Meuniere. Stufied and Roast Shoulder of Mutton. Potato Balls. Caramel Custard. Compote of Prunes. Anchovy Twists. II Brown Celery Soup. Boiled Cod. Oyster Sauce. Roast Pheasant. Potato Chips. Salad. French Pancakes. Orange and Banana Salad. Cheese d’Artois. III Chicken Soup. Fish Quenelles. Fillets of Beef au Vert-Pre. Japanese Artichokes. Stewed Normandy Pippins. Whipped Cream. Sardines a la Piedmontaise. IV Rice and Tomato Soup. Stuffed Fillets of Haddock. Fricassee of Game. Potato Pur£e. Baked Chocolate Pudding. Compote of Chestnuts with Rum. V Clear Soup a la Jerusalem. Chicken and Ham Rolls. Steamed Veal with Cauliflower. Raspberry Pudding. Little Orange Jellies. Devilled Ham Biscuits. VII Mutton Broth. Smelts au Gratin. Curried Chicken. Boiled Rice. Tartlets. Cold Apricot Souffle. Devilled Lax. VIII Oyster Soup. Veal and Ham Patties. Stewed Oxtail. Scalloped Artichokes. Gateau a la Princesse. Allumettes de Fromage. IX White Vegetable Soup. Fish and Potato Souffle. Braised Beef with Vegetables. Apple Charlotte. Chestnuts with Cream. Biscuits a la Mignonne. X Fish Soup. Eggs & la Pi6montaise. Braised Duck with Olives. Orange Salad. Queen of Puddings. Coflee Eclairs. Cheese Rissoles. XI Tapioca Soup. Fillets of Brill. Tomato Sauce. Mutton Cutlets with Chestnuts. Stuffed Tomatoes. Peaches a la Diable. Savoury Brain Croutes. VI Onion Soup. Mayonnaise of Halibut. Veal and Ham Pie. Tomato and Celery Salad. Pine-apple Souffle. Smoked Haddock en Coquilles. XII Clear Soup h la Portugaise. Fillets of Plaice with Green Peas. Salmi of Game. Potato Fritters. Pear and Chestnut Tart. Cheese Ramequins.672 SUGGESTIONS FOR FIFTY BREAKFASTS In the following menus, tea, coffee, and porridge are not mentioned, as these are naturally understood. The lists generally include two hot dishes and one cold, along with a special variety of bread or fruit of some kind. These, however, are only suggestions, and the number of dishes can be reduced in houses where a simpler meal is required. 1 8 Scalloped Fish. Grilled Kidneys. Cold Ham. Bananas. Fried Bacon. Fried Eggs. Soused Mackerel. Stewed Applos. 2 Scrambled Eggs with Tomato**. Sausage Rolls. Cold Ham. Barley Meal Scones. 9 Smoked Haddock with Egg Sauce. Boiled Eggs. Brawn. Watercress. 3 Stuffed and Baked Herring. Poached Eggs. Potted Meat. Stewed Figs. 10 Smoked Haddock Balls. Scalloped Brains. Brawn. Mustard and Cress. 4 Ham Toast. Fish Omelet. Sardines. Oatcakes. 11 Baked Whiting. Scrambled Eggs. Cold Tongue. Brown Scones. 5 Broiled Mackerel. Eggs sur le Plat. Chicken and Ham Sausage. Vienna Rolls. 12 Devilled Kidneys. Fried Soles. Cold Tongue. Apples. 6 Fried Whiting. Curried Mushrooms. Chicken and Ham Sausag*. Fruit. 13 Stewed Fish. Cold Meat Croquettes. Potted Salmon. Muffins. 7 Rissoles. Moulded Eggs. Soused Mackerel. Scones. 14 Fish Cakes. Poached Eggs. Cold Meat Shape. Stewed Prunes.SUGGESTIONS FOR FIFTY BREAKFASTS 673 15 24 Fried Ham. Fried Eggs. Cold Meat Shape. Milk Rolls. Kippers. Fricassee of Eggs. Cold Ham. Fruit. 16 Egg and Bacon Rolls. Grilled Tomatoes. Honey. Hovis Meal Scones. 25 Ham Toast. Poached Eggs. Potted Meat. Barley Meal Scones. 17 Filleted and Fried Haddock. Devilled Ham. Potted Herring. Watercress. 26 Broiled Sausages. Bacon. Shredded Wheat Biscuit. Honey. 18 Plain Omelet. Bacon. Potted Herring. Oatcakes. 27 Fish Knots. Curry Toast. Cold Tongue. Stewed Fruit. 19 Fish Toast. Grilled Mushrooms. Breakfast Tate. Stewed Apples. 28 Smoked Cod with Bacon. Boiled Eggs. Cold Tongue. Hot Breakfast Rolls. 20 Bloaters. Eggs sur lo Plat. Breakfast PatA WJieaton Meal Scones. 29 Smoked Cod Balls. Eggs in Tomatoes. Sardines. Lettuce. 21 Fried Cod’s Roe. Boiled Eggs. Hominy Porridge. Watercress. 30 Omelet with Bacon. Tongue Toast. Grape Nuts and Milk. Stewed Prunes. 22 Chicken and Ham Kedgeree. Kidney Omelet. Potted Cod’s Roe. Honey. 31 Baked Sprats. Sausages Egged and Bread-crumbed. Potted Meat. Brown Scones. 23 Brains on Toast. Eggs en Cocotte. Cold Ham. Breakfast Rolls. 32 Sheep’s Tongues, Devilled. Moulded Eggs. Bath Chap. Hot Buttered Toast. 2 UCOOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 33 42 Fresh Herring, Fried. Boiled Eggs. Bath Chap. Compote of Apples. Bloaters Eggs in Bread Sauce. Cold Ham. Bananas. 34r' Meat Kedgeree. Fried Eggs. Potted Salmon. Mustard and Cress. 43 Ham Toast. Sausage Rolls. Bread and Milk. Stewed Apples. 35 Fish Cutlets. Fried Bacon. Scotch Potted Head. Breakfast Rolls. 44 Fried Cod Steaks. Boiled Eggs. Potted Meat. Vienna Rolls. 3G Kentucky Cod. Eggs sur le Plat. Scotch Potted Head. Watercress. 45 Kedgeree. Savoury Omelet. Raised Veal and Ham Pie. Lettuce. 37 Savoury Meat Toast. Fried Plaice. Tomatoes. Stewed Figs. 46 Fried Bacon. Eggs a la Maltre d’Hotel. Raised Veal and Ham Pie. Wheaten Meal Scones. 38 Grilled Kidneys. Bacon. Eggs en Cocotte. Hot Rolls. 47 Bacon and Mushrooms. Eggs sur le Plat. Cold Tongue. Muffins. 39 Baked Haddocks. Cold Meat Patties. Stewed Figs. Oatcakes. 48 Kidneys and Tomatoes. Poached Eggs. Cold Tongue. Watercress. 40 Tomato Omelet. Liver and Bacon. Hovis Bread. Fruit. 49 Fried Smelts. Curry Toast. Potted Game. Milk Rolls. 41 Cod’s Roe Scalloped. Scrambled Eggs. Cold Ham. Radishes. 50 Grilled Trout. Boiled Eggs. Hominy Porridge. Watercress.675 SEASONABLE LUNCHEONS Ltjncheoh ia a meal which varies very much in diSerent houses; it is always less formal than a dinner, and there are no hard-and-fast rules regarding the service. Roughly speaking, there are two different kinds of luncheons—the family luncheon or children’s dinner, and the luncheon proper, which resembles the French dejeuner in style. To make the latter a success a nicely chosen menu is necessary and a daintily set table. The dishes selected should be rather light in character, suited to the tastes of those who are to partake, and in accordance with the season of the year. The following menus will give an idea of the kind of dishes that are suitable and may be found useful. If less is required, one dish may be suppressed ; and, on the other hand, the lists may be supplemented with hors d’ceuvre at the commencement, and cheese and biscuits or some savoury at the end. A choice of cold meats on the sideboard also plays an important part in a luncheon menu, and black coffee is usually served after the repast. LUNCHEONS IN SPRING 1 Eggs on Spinach. Cold Beef with Mixed Salad. Orange Souffle. Cheese-cakes. 2 Cauliflower Souffle. Curried Veal. Custard Pudding. Compote of Apples. Cheese Straws. 3 Stewed Scallops. Grilled Steak & la Maitre d’Hotel. Potato Chips. Apple Fool. Sponge Fingers. 4 Soup in Cups. Fish Souffle. Raised Veal and Ham Pie. Beetroot and Orange Salad. Meringues. 5 Shrimp Patties. Spring Stew. Trifle. Tomato Cheese. 6 Savoury Omelet. - Fricassee of Rabbit. Banana Fritters. Junket and Cream. 7 Eggs in Aspic. Stewed Ox-tail. Rhubarb Fool in Glasses. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes. 8 Fish Curry. Sea-kale with Cream Sauce. Grilled Cutlets. Lemon SoufflA Apple Tartlets. 9 Fried Soles with Tartars Sauce. Cold Pigeon Pie. Cucumber Salad. Fruit with Cream. Cheese Fondue. 10 Spring Soup. Mayonnaise of Halibut. Stewed Pigeons. French Pancakes. 11 Plovers’ Eggs. Veal Cutlets with French Beans. Semolina Pudding. Rhubarb Tart. 12 Cauliflower au Gratin. Roast Chicken. Salad. Prune Mould with Cream. Angel Cake.COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD LUNCHEONS IN SUMMER 1 Fish Salad. French Beans k la Maitre d’H&tel. Roast Lamb. 10 Shrimp Salad. Fricassee of Chicken. Mimosa Pudding. Cream Cheese. Compote of Cherries. Custard Sauce. 2 Clear Soup in Cups. Stewed Peas and Lettuce. 11 Scrambled Eggs with Kidney. Grilled Fillets of Beef. Swiss Roll. Strawberry Salad. Cold Chicken and Tongue, with Cucumber. Fruit Salad. 3 Dressed Crab. Stewed Lamb. 12 Lobster Mayonnaise. Lamb Cutlets with Green Peas. Milk Pudding. Strawberry Short-cake. Gooseberry Tart. Ground Rice Pudding. LUNCHEONS IN AUTUMN 4 Salmon Mayonnaise. Asparagus. Veal Quenelles. Baked Apples. Cream Cakes. 1 Rice Cream Soup. Grilled Steak with Mushrooms. Steamed Batter Pudding. Compote of Pears. 5 Eggs a la Clifton. Chaudfroid of Chicken. Banana Pudding. Cheese Omelet. 2 Oyster Patties. Beef Olives. Baked Tomatoes. Omelet Souffle. Jellies. 6 Fish Cream. Chicken and Ham Patties. Cold Lamb. Salad. Charlotte Russe. 3 Eggs k la Tripe. Galantine of Chicken. Tomato Salad. Chocolate Pudding. 7 Stuffed Cucumber. Russian Steaks. Raspberry and Red Currant Tart. Custard. 4 Fish Quenelles. Compote of Pigeons. Semolina Pudding. Damson Tart with Cream. 8 Asparagus Omelet. Halibut with Tomato Sauce. Rissoles. Fruit Salad. Junket. 5 Grilled Mackerel. Minced Chicken with Spinach. Bread-crumb Pudding. Stewed Prunes. 9 Fish Vol-au-Vent. Globe Artichokes. Cold Lamb with Salad. Strawberries and Cream. 6 Cucumber Soup. Chicken and Ham. Rissoles. Curry and Rice. Custard Tartlets.SEASONABLE LUNCHEONS 7 4 Halibut with Cream Sauce. Meat and Macaroni Timbale. Claret Jelly. Mocha Cake. Fillets of Cod, with Parmesan. Stewed Mutton. Viennoise Pudding. - Lemon Cheese-cakes. 8 Nut Souffle. Fricassee of Veal. Coffee Custards. Banana Salad. 5 Sardine Eggs. Rabbit en Casserole. Celery with Cream Sauce. Stewed Normand Pippins, with Cream. 9 Tomatoes with Curried Rice. Grilled Fillets of Beef. Almond Pudding. Babas au Rhum. 6 Vermicelli Soup. Fillets of Sole, with Cheese. Smothered Sausages. Rice Souffle. Stewed Pears. 10 Fish Omelet. Beef Balls with Curry. Scalloped Chicken. Cream Cornets. 7 Crimped Skate with Hollandaise Sauce. Grilled Cutlets with Mushrooms. Banana Puffs. 11 Vegetable Marrow Soup. Fish Pie. Chicken and Ham Croquettes. Cream Cornets. 8 Potato and Fish Timbale. Turkey Legs Devilled. Cabinet Pudding. Fancy Pastries. 12 Fish Custards. Fried Liver and Bacon. Rice a l’lmperatrice. Cheese d’Artois. 9 Fish Souffle. Ham Mince, with Poached Eggs. Cold Beef. Cauliflower Salad. Little Russian Puddings. LUNCHEONS IN WINTER 1 Stuffed Fillets of Fish. Russian Steaks. Apple Charlotte. Coffee Eclairs. 10 Fish au Gratin. Chestnuts, with Parsley Sauce. Stewed Venison. Ground Rice Pudding. Stewed Apricots. 2 Ox-tail Soup. Scalloped Fish. Spiced Beef. Salad. Caramel Semolina Pudding. 11 Fish Cutlets. Game Hot Pot. Queen of Puddings. Swiss Apple Tart. 3 Savoury Pancakes. Mince, with Baked Tomatoes. Apple Tart. Cheese Biscuits. 12 Golden Eggs. Curried Fowl. French Pancakes. Mince Pies.INDEX Acorns, Marzipan, 610 African Baked Beans, 514 Aiguilles au Parmesan, 504 Aitch Bone of Beef, 202 Albert Pudding, 396 Albumen Water for Invalid, 542 Alexandra Consomm^, 67 AUemande Sauce, 188 Allspice, 630 Allumettes de Fromage, 504 Glac^es, 365 Almonds and Raisins, Chocolate, 603, 604 and Tapioca Mould, 438 Biscuits, 571 Browned, or Coloured, for Cake Decoration, 593 (Burnt) Cream of, 444 Cake, 57s Chocolate Creams, 603 Devilled, 494 Fritters, 419 Hard Bake, 605 Marzipan, 610 Milk, 635 —for Invalid, 542 Paste or Icing, 590 — Coloured, 591 — How to Use, 591 Pastry, 362 Pudding, 409 Rock Cakes, 561 Salted, 494 Slices, 561 Soup, 70 Sponge Cake, 575 Tart, 361 to Prepare for Cake Making, 552 Toffee, 605 Aluminium Saucepans, 10 — to Clean, 13 Amber Pudding, 396 American Bombe, 490 Candy,605 Fritters, 419 Anchovies, as Hors-d’CEuvre, 491 Barquettes of (Barquette d’Anchois), 49S Biscuits (Biscuits d Anchois), 495 Butter, 193 Canapes, 495 Creams, 495 Croutes, 502 Eggs, 320 Fingers, 502 Fritters, 502 Omelet, 329 on Toast, 502, 503 Pastry, 494 Rolls, 502 Sandwiches, 521 Sauce, 184 Anchovies, Straws, 495 to Fillet, 494 Twists, 503 Andalouse Consomm^, 67 Angel Cake, 575 Angelica, 629 for Cake Decoration, 593 to Prepare, 552 Angels on Horseback, no Aniseed, 630 Anti-Incrustator for Kettles, 13 Ants, 16 Apples, k la Florentine, 410 k la Madame, 410 Amber Pudding, 409 and Blackberry Marmalade, 468 — — Tart, 355 and Bread Pudding, 410 and Celery Salad, 176 and Chocolate Sandwiches, 525 and Cranberry Jam, 467 and Damson Jam, 469 and Orange Jelly, 471 and Pear Jam, 467 and Pork Pie, 244 and Pumpkin Pie, 356 and Rice Dumplings, 396 — — Pudding, Baked, 393, 416 and Semolina au Gratin, 411 Baked, 461 Balls, 362 Buttered, for Invalid, 539 Charlotte, 410 Compote of, 461 Cream, 444 — for Invalid, 539 Custards, Baked, 410 Doughdy, 396 Flan of, 359 Fried, for Pork, 243 Fritters, 410 — without Batter, 420 G&teau k la Creme, 455 Ginger, 467 Hedgehog, 433 Ice, Cream, 482 — Water, 480 in Batter, Baked, 410 Jelly, 467 — (Crab Apple), 469 Meringued, 457 Mould or Jelly, 439 Normandy Pippins, Stewed, 463 Pancakes, 423 Pie, or Tart, 355 Pudding, Swiss, 417 Puddings, Little, 411 Puffs, 363 Rissoles, 420 Sago Pudding, 411 Sauce 194 Slices, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 622 678 Apples, Souffle, Baked, 426 — Steamed, 426 Soup, 62 Steamed, 461 Stuffing, 307 Tart, 355 — Swiss, 361 — with Meringue, 357 Tartlets, 363 to Bottle, 476 to Store, 33 Water, for Invalid, 542 Whip, 433 Apricotines, 612 Apricots a la Colbert, 420 Cake, 575 Cakes, Small, 462 Cream, 443 Cream Biscuits, 450 Crofttes of, 4x1 Flan of, 359 Fritters, 423 —■ with Cream, 420 Ice (Cream), 482 Ice (Water), 480 Jam or Marmalade, 467 — from Dried Fruit, 468 Marzipan, 611 Meringued, 457 Mousse, 443 Pudding, Baked, 411 — Steamed, 396 — Sauce for, 396 Sauce, 195 Souffle, Baked, 427 — Cold, 450 — Steamed, 427 Soup, 62 Tartlets, 363 to Bottle, 476 April, Calendar of Food for, 27 Aromatic Spice, 631 Arrowroot Biscuits, 571 — Made with Milk, for Invalid 539 Peptonised, 548 Pudding, 392 Sauce, 195 Water, for Invalid, 539 Artichoke Bottoms k ia Florentine 128 — to Fry, 128 — with Shrimps, 495 Artichokes, 127 Globe, Pur6e of, 128 — Stuffed, 127 — to Boil, 127 — to Fry, 127 Japanese, to Bake, 129 — to Steam, 129 Jerusalem, Chips, 129 — Cream, 129679 INDEX Artichokes, Jerusalem, Sauted, 129 — Souffle, 129 — Soup, 47 — and Potato Soup, 48 — to Fry, 128 — with Parsley Sauce, 128 to Store, 33 Asbestos Mats, 20 Asparagus, 129 au Gratin, 130 Iced,130 Omelet, 329 Points with Cream, 130 Soup, 70 — for Invalid, 529 —■ to Prepare and Cook, 130 — to Serve, 130 Aspic Crofltons, 313 Jelly, 312 to Chop, 313 Aubergine. See Egg Plant August, Calendar of Food for, 28 Aunt Elizabeth’s Pudding, 411 Aurore Sauce, 188 Ayrshire Shortbread, 571 Babas au Rhum, 451 Bachelor’s Buttons, 571 Bacon,201 and Egg Rolls, 383 and Greens, 514 and Haricot Beans, 516 and Kidneys, Fried, 388 and Mushrooms, 382 — — Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 and Tomatoes, 382 Larding with, 206 Lardoons, 206 Omelet with, 329 Rashers, to Prepare and Cook, 382 Rolls, 382 to Bake, 382 to Boil or Steam, 382 to Fry, 382 to Keep, 33 Toasted, 382 with Bananas, 382 with Cabbage, 135 with Potatoes, 157 with Spaghetti, 376 Bain-marie, for Sauces, 182 Baked Bread for Soup, 312 Soup, 41 Baking, in Gas Oven, 21 of Cakes, 553, 554 of Fish, 79 of Meat, 207 of Pastry, 332 Temperature required for, 34 Baking Powder, 634, 635 Baking Tins or Sheet, to Clean, 13 to Prepare for Sconee and Rock Cakes, 551 Balm, 629 Bananas and Cranberry Compote, 462 and Nut Sandwiches, 525 and Orange Salad, 465 and Orange Tart, 355 and Raspberry Cups, 463 and Rhubarb Tart, 355 and Sago Pudding, Cold, 433 Baked, 462 — for Invalid, 539 Bavaroise of, 451 Cassolettes of, 503 Bananas, Compote of, 462 Cream, 444 — for Invalid, 539 Croquettes, 420 Croutes, Savoury, 503 — Sweet, 451 Custard Pudding, for Invalid, 540 Fried in Chafing Dish, 622 Ice (Cream), 482 — (Water), 480 Mousse, for Bombe Frangaise, 489 Omelet, 329 Petites Gondoles, 495 Pudding, 397 Puffs, ,363 Salad, 177 Sauce, 195 Souffle, 427 Sponge, 439 Whip or Trifle, 444 Banbury Puffs, 363 Bannock, Breakfast, 557 Pitcaithly, 583 Barbel, 101 Barcelona Chocolates, 603 Slices, 562 Toffee, 605 Barding of Meat, 206 Barley and Celery Soup, 50 Cream of, for Invalid, 530 Cream Soup, 70 Custard Pudding, 391 Meal Gruel for Invalid, 542 Meal Scones, 559 Milk Soup, for Invalid, 529 Pudding with Eggs, 391 — without Eggs, 391 Soup, 58 Stove, 529 Sugar, 606 Water, Clear, 543 — from “ Patent” Barley, 543 — Thick, 543 Barm, 552 Baroness Pudding, 397 Barquettes d’Anchois, 495 Basil, 629 Basin, to Prepare for Pudding, 395 Bass, 81 Baked, 81 Stuffed, 82 Bath Buns, 562 Bath Chap, 383 Batter and Fruit Pudding, 397 Cases for Savouries, 493 for Frying, 418, 419 Pudding, 397 — Light, for Invalid, 540 Bavaroise of Bananas, 451 Chestnuts, 451 Chocolate, 452 Rubannd, 452 Strawberries, 452 Tea, 452 Bay-leaf, 629 Beans, African Baked, 514 Broad or Windsor, 130 — in Potato Border, 131 — Pur6e of, 131 — Soup of, 48 Butter, or Lima, 173 — with Apple Sauce, 171 Flageolet, 171 — au Beurre, 171 — au Gratin, 172 —• in Sauce, 171 Beans, French, k la Maitre d'H6tel, 131 — k la Poulette, 132 — Salad, 179 — Stewed, 132 Haricot, 172 — and Bacon, 516 — and Tomato Soup, 52 — Curried, 172 — Mashed, 172 — Mould, 173 —• Pur6e, 173 — Rissoles, 173 — Salad, 179 — Savoury, 173 — Soup, 51 — to Prepare and Cook, 172 — with Butter, 172 — with Cold Meat, 252 — with Parsley Sauce, 172 Scarlet Runner, 162 Bearnaise Sauce, 188 Beating Bowl, 566 Bechamel Sauce, 184 Beef, 200 Aitch Bone of, 202 k la Mode, 213 and Veal Mould, 218 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 as Mock Hare, 214 Balls with Curry, 218 Boiled, Unsalted, 211 Braised, 212 Brisket, 202 Buttock or Round, 202 Cannelon, 218 Cheek, 202 — Soup from, 45 — Stuffed and Braised, 220 Clod, 202 Cold, with Haricot Beans, 252, See also Cold Meat Redressed. — Pilau of, 253 Collops, 2x5 Cream, for Invalid, 535 Creams, 262 Curried, 214 Curry, Dry, 214 Dishes made with, 211 et seq. Diagram showing English and Scotch Methods of Cutting, 202 en Casserole, 213 Fillet of, 202, 260 — k la Dauphine, 260 — k la Dubarry, 261 — k la Maryland, 261 — a la Provengale, 260 — k la Richelieu, 260 — au Vert-pre, 261 — Cooked in Chafing Dish, 622 — Saut6, for Invalid, 535 — Tournedos k la Parisienne, 261 — — k la Porugaise, 612 — with Horse-radish, 261 Flank, 202 Galantine, 218 Gulash of, 214 Heart, 202 —• Stewed, 221 — Stuffed and Roasted, 221 Hough, 202 Juice, 528 Kidney, 203. See Kidney. Liver, 203. See Liver. Loaf, 218 Midriff, 202 Minced, for Invalid, 535INDEX 080 Beef, Minced, Sandwiches of, 521 Olives, 215 — Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Patties, 352 Potted, 383 — Scotch, 384 Prices of,.204 Pur6e, for Invalid, 528 Quenelles, for Invalid, 535 Raw, Balls or Steaks, for Invalid, S36 — Sandwiches, for Invalid, 536 Ribs, 202 Ribs of, to Carve, 659 Roast, 211 Rolled, Ribs of, to Carve, 659 Round of, 202 — to Carve, 659 Rump, 202 Salad, 177 Salt, Pudding, 257 — with Dumplings, 211 Sandwiches, 521 Shin, 202 — Stewed, 213 Silverside of, 202 Sirloin of, 202 — to Carve, 659 Soup, with Marrow Balls, 41 Spiced, 219 — Sandwiches of, 521 Steak, k la Maitre d'Hotel, 216 — and Kidney Pie, 338 — and Kidney Pudding, 342 — and Kidney Pudding, Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 — and Kidney Pudding,Steamed, 217 — Baked, with Bacon, 217 — Fried, 216 — Grilled, with Tomato Sauce, 216 — in Batter, 216 — Minced, Grilled, 217 — Porterhouse, 217 — with Bananas, 216 — with Mushrooms, 216 — with Onions, 216 — with Oysters, 217 Steaks, Russian, 217 Stewed in Lettuce, 212 — with Dumplings, 212 Stlcking-piece of, 202 Stuffed Roll of, 215 Sweetbread, 203. See Sweetbreads, to Pickle, 219 — — Dry Method, 219 — — Wet Method, 219 to Carve, 659 Tongue, 202. See Tongue. Tripe. See Tripe, with Rice and Tomatoes, 214 Beef-tea, 527, 528 and Milk, 529 Gruel, 544 Jelly, 529 — Peptonised, 548 Peptonised. 548 Pudding, 540 Raw, 528 Savoury, 529 Thickened, 528 Beetles, 16 Beetroot, 132 and Orange Salad, 177 and Potato Salad, 180 Beetroot and Potatoes, 133 Baked, 132 Cold, 133 — Dressed, 133 Salad, 177 Soup,48 Stewed, 132 to Store, 33 Tops, 133 with Butter, 132 with Sauce, 132 Beignets de Foie Gras a l’Orlie, 273. See Fritters Beignets Souffles, 420 Beverages and Drinks, 615-620 Bigarade Sauce, 188 Bill of Fare, Daily, 25 Bird’s Nest Pudding, 4x1 Bird's Nests (Eggs), 324 Birthday Cake, Children's, 576 Biscuit Crust Pastry. See Short Crust Biscuits, 571-575 & la Diable, 513 k la Mignonne, 501 & la St. Clair, 513 Almond, 571 Anchovy (Biscuits d'Anchois), 495 Apricot Cream, 450 Arrowroot, 571 Ayrshire Shortbread, 571 Bachelor’s Buttons, 571 Brandy Snaps, 571 Cheese, 504 Chestnut, 571 Chocolate, 572 — Rock, 572 Cinnamon, 572 Cocoanut, 572 Devilled, 494 Devilled Ham, 508 Finger, 572 Ginger, 573 Gingerbread Nuts, 573 Glacis, 489 Iced, 486, 489 Lemon, 573 Macaroons, 573 Milan, 573 Milk, 573 Neva, 573 Norwegian, 574 Oatmeal, 574 Orange, 574 Raspberry, 574 Rice, 574 Scotch Parkins, 574 Shortbread, 571 Shredded Wheat, 381 Stale, What to do with, 555 Tea, 574 to Keep, 554 Vanilla, 574 Walnut Macaroons, 575 Wheatenmeal, 575 Bishop's Mitre design, for Folding Serviette, 643 Blackberry and Apple Marmalade, 468 and Apple Tart, 355 Cream, 444 Jelly, 468 Mould, 434 Soup,62 Black Butter, 184 Black Cap Puddings, 397 Blackcock, Roast, 300 Black Currant Drink for Invalid, 543 — Ice, Water, 480 — Jam, 468 — Jellies, 612 — Jelly, 468 — Marmalade, 468 Blackleading of Stove, 18 Blakemore Pudding, 412 Blanc-mange, 434 — Irish Moss, for Invalid, 542 — Peptonised, 549 Blanquette of Mutton, 228 — Veal, 235 Bloater, Fillets on Toast, 514 Kromeskies, 503 Potted, 384 Sandwiches, 521 Souffles, 503 to Cook, 384 Toast, 503 Bobotee, South African, 256 Boiler, to Heat, 17 Boiling, Approximate Time required for, 210 of Fish, 79 of Fresh Meat, 208 of Puddings, 395 of Salt Meat, 208 Temperature required for, 34 Bombes, 489 Americaine, 490 aux Fraises k la Creme, 489 D^licieuse, 490 Diplomate, 490 Espagnole, 489 Fran9aise, 489 Marie Louise, 490 Mould for, 489 Napolitaine, 490 Royale, 490 Bon-bons for Cake Decorations, 593 Orange, 601 Bone Soup, 41 Stock, 37, 38 Bones, Marrow, 516 to Keep, 33 Boning of Fowl, 277 of Meat, 205 of Rabbit, 291 Bonne Femme Soup, 70 Bonnes Bouches of Oysters, 5x1 — of Sardines, 500 Borage, 629 Border, Ice, 486 Potato, 158 Rice, 372 — with Green Peas, 372 Boston Cream, 617 Bottling of Fruit, 473-477 — — General Directions for, 475 Bouchfees, 493 Cheese, 504 for Savouries, 493 Lobster, 5x0 Bouillon, Court, 79 — & la Nantaise, 79 — au Bleu, 79 Bouquet Garni, 36, 631 Bow Design for Folding Serviette, 646 Bowl, Beating, 560 Brains, Calfs, a l’Aurore, 268 — cl la Nifoise, 268 — k la Poulette, 268INDEX 681 Brains, Calf's, au Gratin, 239 — Fried, 239. — P4t6 of, 269 — Scalloped, 239 — to Prepare, 238 — with Black Butter, 238 Crodtes, Savoury, 503 Fritters, 504 Omelet, 329 on Toast, 384 Sauce, 184 Sheep's, 230 With Eggs, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 622 Braising, 210 Bramble. See Blackberry. Bran Jelly, for Invalid, 541 Tea, for Invalid, 543 Brandy Butter, 195 Sauce, 195 Snaps, 571 Brawn, 245 Bread and Apple Pudding, 410 and Butter Pudding, Baked, 391 and Cherry Pudding, 412 and Chocolate Pudding, 412 and Fruit Pudding, 397 and Milk, 381 — for Invalid, 547 Baked, for Soup, 312 Brown, 556 — Cream Ice, 482 Cases, 254 Crofite or Socle, 312 Crofttons, for Garnish, 312 — for Soup, 311 Currant, 556 Dumplings, 309 Fancy, 557 Gluten, S57 Household, 555 Hovis, 556 Jelly, for Invalid, 541 Pudding, from Scrap Bread, 39® — Steamed, 398 Pulled, 312 Sauce, 184 Soup, 58 Steamed, 555 Sticks, SS7 Sultana, 556 to Keep, ss4 Toasted, for Savouries, 493 Vienna, 556 Bread-crumbs and Marmalade Pud- ding, 412 Browned, to Make, 534 Fried, for Game, 300 Fritters, 421 Pudding, Steamed, 392 Breakfast Bannock, 557 Breakfasts, Suggestions for Fifty, 672-674 Cakes, Hot, 560 Cooker, Electric, 23 — Gas, 20 Dishes, 380-389 Pdtd, 384 Rolls, S57 Bream, Freshwater, iox Sea, 95 Brill, 82 Fillets au Pecheur, 82 to Carve, 662 Brinjal. See Egg Plant. Brioche, 558 Case, to Make, 460 Large, for Timbale, 559 Small, 558 Brisket, 202 Brpad Beans, 130 in Potato Border, 131 Pur^e of, 131 Soup, 48 Broccoli, 133 Soup, 48 Brochettes, Marzipan, 610 Broiling of Fish, 79 of Meat, 208 Broad Beans, 130 — in Potato Border, 131 •— Purde of, 131 — with Butter, 131 Brook Trout, Cooked on Chafing Dish, 623 Broth, 35 — Chicken, for Invalid, 529 Fish, 60 Meat, 41 Mutton, 45 — for Invalid, 531 Scotch, 46 Sheep’s Head, 47 Veal, 47 — for Invalid, 532 with Potato Dumplings, 42 Brown and White Sandwiches, 525 Brown Betty Pudding, 412 Brown Bread, 556 — Ice, Cream, 482 — Pudding, 398 Sauce, 183 Soups, 41, 68-70 — Stock for, 37 Stock, 36, 37 Vegetable Soup, 48 Browned Bread-crumbs, to Make, 634 Brunoise Soup, 64 Brussels Sprouts, au Gratin, 134 — Soup, 71 — to Fry, 133 — with Butter, 133 — with Rice, 134 — with Sauce, 133 Bubble and Squeak, 257 Bun Pudding, 392 Buns and Small Cakes, 561 et seq. Bath, 562 Coffee, 563 Currant, 564 French, 565 Hot Cross, 566 Raspberry, 568 Rice, 569 Scotch, 585 Sultana, 570 Victoria, 570 Walnut, 571 Burgundy Cup, 6x9 Burnt Almond Cream, 444 Burnet, 629 Butter, Anchovy, 193 and Sugar, to Cream, 552 Black, 184 Brandy, 195 Care of, 31 Cases for Savouries, 493 Chutney, 194 Cocoa, 596 Cooler for, 32 Devil, T94 Butter, for Sweet Making, 596 Golden or Egg, 194 Green, 194 Ham, 194 Horse-radish, 194 Lobster Coral, 194 — Spawn, 194 Maltre d’Hdtel, 194 Melted, 186 — Sauce, 186 Nut, 397 Savoury, 193 et seq. Shrimp, 194 Supply of, 26 to Clarify, 634 to Rub into Flour, 552 to Use in Cake Making, 551 Watercress, 194 Butter Beans, 173 — with Apple Sauce, 171 Butter Cases for Savouries, 493 Butter Cassolettes for Savouries, 493 Butter or Vienna Icing, 590 — Chocolate, 590 — Howto Use, 590 — Orange or Lemon, 590 — Strawberry or Raspberry, 590 Buttered Apples, for Invalid, 539 Buttered Eggs, 316 Toast, Hot, 381 Buttermilk Cake, 576 Buttock or Round of Beef, 202 Buying of Provisions, 25 Cabbage,134 and Potato Soup, 49 au Gratin, 135 Baked, 134 Colcannon, 135 Red, Pickled, 633 — to Stew, 136 — with Apples, 136 Rolls, 514 Soup, 49 Stewed, 134 Stuffed, 235 to Store, 33 with Bacon, 135 with Butter, 134 with Chestnuts, 135 with Rice, 135 with Sausages, 246 Cabinet Pudding, Cold, 444 — Hot, 398 — Richer, 398 Cake Making, 550 Choice and Preparation of Various Materials Used in, 551 Preliminaries, 550 Terms Used in, 552 Cake Stand, for Icing Cakes, 591 Cake Tins, Flat, to Line with Paper, 550- Preparation of, 550 Queen, 568 Round, to Line with Paper, 550 Small, to Prepare, 551 to Clean, 14 to Prepare, for Scones and Small Rock Cakes, 551 Cakes, Almond, 575 — Rock, 561 — Slices, 561 — Sponge, 561 Angel, 575 Apricot, 575682 INDEX Cakes, Apricot, Glaze for, 575 — Little, 562 Baked in Paper Bag, 621 Baking of, 553-554 Barcelona Slices, 562 Breakfast, Hot, 560 Buttermilk, 576 Chapel Windows, 562 Cherry, 576 Chestnut, Savoury, 378 Children’s Birthday, 576 Chocolate, 563 — and Ginger, 579 — Iced,568 — Layer, 576 — Roll, 576 — Tea, 576 Christmas, 577 Coburg, 563 Cocoanut (Large), 577 Cocoanut Rock (Small), 563 Cocoanut Slices, 563 Coffee, 577 Currant, Rock, 564 — Short, 577 Decorating of, 593 — of Small Fancy, 594 Dominoes, 565 Double Nodden, or Deception, 577 Dough, 578 Easter, 565 Fig, 578 Fish, 113, 114 Geneva Squares, 565 Genoa, 578 Genoese Pastry, 565 German, 578 — Pound, 578 Ginger, and Chocolate 579 — Nellie's, 582 — Small, 566 Gingerbread, 579 — Nuremberg, 579 — Parkin, 579 — Queen, 579 Girdle, 566 Glaze for, 575 Hedgehog, 579 Holiday, 580 Honey, 566 Icings and Decorations for, 589-594 Invalid, 580 Jam Sandwich, 584 Japanese, 566 Johnny, 580 Jubilee, 580 Kugelhoff, 580 Large, 575 Lemon, 567 Lemon Cheese, Small, 367 Lemon Layer, 581 Louise, 567 Lump, 567 Luncheon, 581 Madeira, 581 Madeleines, 567 Marie’s, 581 Marmalade, 581 Mocha, 581, 582 Nellie’s Ginger, 582 Nut, 582 Orange, 583 —• Sandwich, 583 Othello Shells, 567 Pitcaithly Bannock, 583 Potato, 583 Cakes, Princess, 568 Queen, 568 Raisin, 583 Raspberry, Little, 569 Rice, 583 Richmond, 569 Rock, Almond, 561 — Cocoanut, 563 — Currant, 564 — Seed, 569 Russian Slices, 569 St. George’s, 584 Sand, 584 Sandwich, Iced, 584 — Jam, 584 — Orange, 583 — White, 589 Savoy, 584 Scotch Bun, 585 Seed, Good, 585 — Plain, 585 — Scotch, 585 Semolina, 518 Shamrock, 585 Shortbread, 586 Silver, 586 Simnel, 586 Small, 561 — to Decorate, 568 — to Ice, 568 — to Imitate Fruits, 568 Snow, 586 Spice (Plain), 587 Sponge (Large), 587 — (Small), 570 — to Prepare Tin for, 551 Stale, What to do with, 555 Strawberry, Short, 587 Sultana, 588 Swiss Roll, 588 — — without Butter, 588 Tea, or Sally Lunns, 560 Tipsy, 448 to Bake in Gas Oven, 21 to Decorate with Royal Icing, 592 to Ice with Royal Icing, 591-592 to Keep, 554 Vienna Queens, 570 Vinegar, 588, Walnut, 588 Wedding, 588 White Sandwich, 589 Whiting, 388 Yorkshire Parkin, 589 Yorkshire Tea, 561 Calendar of Food for the Months, 26 Calf. See also Veal Brains, 203 — k l’Aurore, 268 — h la Nifoise, 268 — k la Poulette, 268 — au Gratin, 239 — Fried, 236 — Pat6 of, 269 — Scalloped, 239 — to Prepare, 238 — with Black Butter, 238, 239 Diagram showing Mode of Cut- ting Up, 203 Ear, Fringed, 269 Feet, 203 — k la Rouennaise 269 — Fricassee of, 257 — Fried, 239 — Jelly, 439 — Stewed, for Invalid, 536 Calf’s Feet, with Tomato Sauce, 239 Head, 203 — en Tortue, 269 — Pie, 338 — with Brain Sauce, 239 Heart, 203 — Roasted, 240 — Stewed, 240 Kidney, 203 Liver, 203 — k la Hongroise, 241 — Broiled, 241 — Larded, 241 — Poor Man’s Goose, 241 — Roasted, 241 — Saut6, 241 Sweetbreads, 203 — k la Comtesse, 271 — k la Mayonnaise, 271 — Chaudfroid of, 271 — en Casserole, 242 — Escalopesaux Epinards, 271 — Fried, 242 — Kromeskies of, 271 — M6daillons & la Graziella, 272 — Stewed, for Invalid, 538 — Timbale of, 272 — (Timbale) i la Monte Carlo, 272 Tail Soup, 71 Camomile Tea, for Invalid, 543 Canapes, 493 a la Duchesse, 501 k la Russe, 501 k la Victoria, 501 Anchovy, 495 au Caviare, 496 Caviare and Prawn, 496 Cheese, 496 Game, 497 Lax, 498 Oyster, 499 Sardine, 500 Shrimp, 500 Tomato, 500 Canary Pudding, 399 Candied Fruits for Cake Decoration, 593 Peel, to Make, 552 — to Prepare, 552 Candies, 605-608 Candles, Supply of, 26 Candy, American, 605 Bars for Sweet Making, 595 Sticks, 606 Syrup, 607 White Walnut, 608 Cannelon, Beef, 218 Cold Meat, 250 Caper Sauce, Brown, 185 — White, 184 Capercailzie, to Cook, 300 Capon, a, 274 Capsicums, 630 Caramel Chestnuts in Cases, 453 Custard, 399 — Chocolate, 399 — Coffee, 399 Cutter, 596, 608 Rice Pudding, 399 Semolina Pudding, 399 Sauce, 195 Caramelised Fruits for Cake Decora- tion, 593 Caramels, 608 Chocolate, 608683 INDEX Caramels, Coffee, 608 Dates, 6x1 Figs, 611 French Plums, 611 Sugar, 597 Vanilla, 608 Walnuts, 610 Caraways, 630 Cardinal's Hat Design for Folding Serviette, 649 Cardinal Sauce, 188 Cardoons, 136 Stewed, 136 Carp, 101 Stuffed and Baked, 102 to Stew, X02 with Cream Sauce, 102 Carpet for Kitchen, 10 Carrageen Moss. See Irish Moss. Carrots, 136 and Lentil Soup, 49 and Rice Stew, 137 Croquettes, 137 Glazed, 138 Jam, 468 Moulds, 137 New, k la Flamande, 138 — k la Maltre d'H6tel, 138 — k la M6nag£re, 138 Pudding, Baked, 4x2 —• Boiled, 399 Pur6e of, 138 Salad, 177 Soup,49 to Stew, 137 to Store, 33 with Parsley Sauce, 137 with Spaghetti, 138 Carving, the Art of, 658-662 General Directions, 658 of Beef, 659 — — Ribs of, 659 — — Round of, 659 — — Sirloin of, 659 of Brill, 662 of Cod, 66x of Duck, Roast, 661 of Fish, 661 of Fowl, 661 of Game, 661 of Goose, 66x of Grouse, 66x of Ham, 660 of Lamb, 659, — — Fore Quarter, 660 — — Loin of, 659 of Mutton, 659 — — Leg of, 659 — — Loin of, 659 — — Saddle of, 660 — — Shoulder of, 660 of Ox Tongue, 659 of Partridge, 661 of Pigeon, 661 of Plaice, 662 of Pork, 660 — — Leg of, 660 — — Loin of, 660 — — Sucking Pig, 660 of Salmon, 661 of Sole, 662 of Turkey, 661 of Veal, 660 — — Fillet of, 660 — — Knuckle of, 660 — — Loin of, 660 Cases, Batter, for Savouries, 493 Bread, 254 Butter, for Savouries, 493 Pastry, for Savouries, 493 Potato, 158 Tartlet, to Make, 362 Casserole Cookery, 209 of Beef, 213 — Chicken, 278 — Haddock, 386 — Meat, 250 — Mutton, 227 — Rice, with Stewed Fruit, 405 — Sweetbread, 242 —• Venison, 299 Cassia, 503 Cassolettes, Banana, 503 Butter, for Savouries, 493 — and Chicken, 257 — Cold Meat, 251 — Cucumber and Green Peas, 144 — Kidneys (Sheep’s), 270 — Mushroom, 510 — Vegetables, 169 Cassoulet k la Toulousaine, 285 Castle Puddings, 400 Catsup, 631. See Ketchup Caudle, for Invalid, 543 Cauliflower, 138 k l’ltalienne, 140 k la Polonaise, 140 k la Villeroi, 140 and Lettuce Soup, 49 au Gratin, 139 Baked, 139 Cake, 139 Fritters, 140 Salad, 177 Souffle, 140 Soup, 71 Steamed, with White Sauce, 139 with Curry Sauce, 139 Caviare as Hors-d'CEuvre, 491 and Prawn Canapes, 496 Canapes au, 496 Crofltes, 496 Sandwiches, 521 sur Crofltes, 504 Cayenne Pepper, 631 Celeriac, 142 Pur6e of, 142 with Egg Sauce, 142 Celery, 141 and Apple Salad, 176 and Barley Soup, 50 and Chicken Sandwiches, 522 and Rice Soup, for Invalid, 529 and Tomato Salad, 181 and Walnut Salad, 178 Salad, 177 Sauce, 185 Souffle, 142 Soup, Brown, 50 — White, 50 Stuffing, 307 to Curl and Fringe, 141 to Fry, 141 to Serve Raw, 141 to Stew, 141 with Cream Sauce, 141 C41estine Garnish, 64 Soup, 64 Cereals, Supply of, 25 Chrises Deguis6es, 599 Chablis Cup, 619 Chafing-dish Cookery, 621-625 Chair, Kitchen, 9 Champagne Cup, 619 Chantilly Savarin, 460 Chapel Windows Cake, 562 Charlotte k la Beatrice, 453 k la Malakoff, 453 Apple, 410 Cornflour, for Invalid, 540 Muscovite, 445 Russe, 444 — Mixtures for Filling, 445 Chartreuse of Partridge, 302 Chaudfroid of Chicken, 281 Sauce, 188, 189 — Sweetbreads, 271 Checking of Orders, 25 Cheese, Aiguilles au Parmesan, 504 Allumettes (Allumettes de From- age). S°4 and Cucumber Sandwiches, 522 and Egg Sandwiches, 522 and Nut Pudding, 378 and Potato Balls, 517 and Potato Mould, 517 and Prune Savoury, 500 and Tomato Rarebit, 515 Balls or Quenelles for Soup, 309 Biscuits, 504 Bouch6es, 504 Cakes, Lemon, 367 — Lemon Curd for, 367 — Macaroon, 367 — Potato, 369 Canapes, 496 Cornets, 496 Cream, Savoury, 505 Creams, 496 Croustades, 504 Custard, 514 d’Artois, 504 Eggs, 320 Fondue, 514 — on Toast, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Fritters, 505 — Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Ice cream (Cr£me de Fromage Glac6), 490 Omelet, 329 Pastry, 494 Potted, 496 Puffs, 505 Quenelles, for Soup, 309 Ramequins, 505 Rissoles, 505 Sandwiches, 521 — Hot, 515 Sauce, 185 Savoury, 505 — Swiss, 497 Serving of, 656 Souffle, Cold, 497 — Hot, 505 Soup, 58 Straws, 506 Supply of, 26 Tart, 348 Tartlets, 351, 506 to Keep, 32 Toast with Bacon, 515 Tomato, 500 Chelsea Pudding (Half Pay), 400 — Toffee, 606 Cherries and Bread Pudding, 412 Compote of, 462 Candied, for Cake Decoration, 593684 INDEX Cherries, Fondants, or Chrises De- guisdes, 599 Fritters, 421 Ice (Cream), 482 — (Water), 480 in Brandy, 462 Jam, 468 Jubilee, 462 Marzipan, 611 Mould or Jelly, 439 Pudding, 400 Sauce, 195 Savarin with, 460 Soup, 62 Tartlets, 364 to Bottle, 475 Cherry Cake, 376 Chervil, 629 Chestnut and Custard Pudding, 400 and Pear Tart or Flan, 360 Bavaroise of, 451 Biscuits, 571 Cake, Savoury, 378 Caramel in Cases, 453 Compote, with Rum, 462 Croquettes, 378 Devilled, 506 Giteau, 434 Ice with (Coupe aux Marions), 484 in Brown Sauce, 377 Puree of, 378 Pyramid of, 434 Sauce, Brown, 185 — White, 185 Souffle, 427 Soup, Brown, 50 — White, 50 Stuffing, 307 Tartlets, 364 to Boil, 377 with Cream, 445 with Parsley Sauce, 377 with Rice, 370 Chicken k la Cardinal, 279 k la Hongroise, 279 k la Marengo, 280 and Celery Sandwiches, 522 and Ham Croquettes, 257 — — Cutlets, 257 — — Kedgeree, 385 — — Patties, 353 — — Pie. Cold, 338 — — — Hot, 339 — — Rolls, 350 and Lettuce Salad, 178 Braised with Tomatoes, 277 Broiled, 278 Broth, for Invalid, 529 en Casserole, 278 Cassolettes, 257 Chaudfroid of, 281 Cream, 281 — for Invalid, 537 Creamed, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Croustades, Devilled, 506 Curried, 278 Custard, for Invalid, 537 Devilled, 385 Essence of, for Invalid, 529 Fillets, Steamed, for Invalid, 536 Fricassee of, 278 Fritters, 258 Jelly, for Invalid, 530 Legs, with Spinach, 280 Chicken, Livers, a la Madere, 282 — Devilled, 506 — on Toast, 50 i — Cooked on Chafing Dish, 623 — Omelet with, 329 — Pilaff of, 282 Mayonnaise of, 281 Mince, for Invaiid, 537 Mousse, 281 Mousselines (Mousselines de Vil- aille), 282 Omelet with, 329’ Panada, for Invalid, 537 Quenelles, 282 — for Garnish, 3x1 Roast, in Paper Bag, 627 Roulettes, 351 Salad, 178 Souffle, 282 Soup, 71 — for Invalid, 530 Stewed, for Invalid, 536 — in Milk, for Invalid, 536 to Choose, 274 with Macaroni, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Chicory or Batavian Endive, 142 Soup,51 Chicory or Endive Frisde, 146 — to Stew, 146 — with Cream, 146 Children’s Birthday Cake, 576 Chimney, Kitchen, Cleaning of, 19 Chips, Potato, 157 Chives, 629 Chocolate, to Drink, 617 Chocolate and Apple Sandwiches, S2S and Bread Pudding, 412 and Ginger Cake, 579 and Orange Custard, 434 and Rice Croquettes, 424 and Rice Pudding, 393 Bavaroise, 452 Biscuits, 572 Cakes, 563 — Iced, 568 Cream, 445 — for Invalid, 540 Custard, 445 ;— Caramel, 399 Eclairs, 454 Fondant Icing, 593 — for Sweet Making, 596 Ice, 482 — for Bombe Frampaise, 489, 460 Iced Meringues (Meringues au Chocolat Glacdes), 484 Icing, Butter, 590 — Glacd, 589 Layer Cake, 576 Mould, 435 Mousse, Iced (Mousse au Choco- lat), 488 Omelet, 431 Puddings, 400, 401, 413 Rock Biscuits, 572 Roll Cake, 576 Sandwiches, 525 Sauce, 195 Souffle, Baked, 428 —■ Cold, 454 — Steamed, 427 Tablet, 600 Tartlets, 364 Tea Cake, 576 Chocolates, 603-605 Almonds and Raisins, 603, 604 and Nut Kisses, 605 Barcelona, 603 Caramels, 608 Creams, Coffee, 603 — Rose, 603 — Strawberry or Raspberry, 603 — Tangerine, 603 — Vanilla, 603 — Violet 603 Date and Nut, 604 Drops, 605 Ginger, 604 Maple Sugar, 604 Marrons, 604 Marzipan, 604 Nougat, 613 Nougatines, 604 Peppermint Creams, 605 Pine-apple, 604 Pralines, 605 to Cover, 602 Walnuts, 601 with Chocolate Centres, 604 Chopper, Lightning, 632 Chops, Fried, 229 Grilled, 228 in Paper, for Invalid, 537 in Paste, for Invalid, 537 Savoury, 229 Steamed, for Invalid, 537 Veal, Sautd, 236 Choux k la Creme, Petits, 4S3 Pastry, 336 Christmas Cake, 577 Pudding, 708 Christophe Colombe Consomme, 67 Chutney, 632 Butter, 194 Cider Cup, 6x9 Cinnamon, 630 Biscuits, 572 Macaroons, 572 Clam Soup, 60 Claret Jelly, 442 Mulled, 618 or Burgundy Cup, 619 Pudding, 454 Sauce, 196 Clarifying of Butter, 634 of Fat, 634 of Frying Fat or Dripping, 634 Cleaning Mixture for Scullery Work, 12 Clear Soup or Consommd. See Con- somme and Soup, Clear Clod or Sticking Piece of Beef, 202 Cloths, Kitchen, 13 Clotted Cream, 635 Cloves, 630 Coal Hod, 10 Scuttle, Kitchen, 10 Coating Syrup for Sweet Making, 597 Coburg Cakes, 563 Loaf, 555 Cock-a-Leekie Soup, 42 Cockade Design for Folding Servi- ette, 645 Cockscomb Design for Folding Servi- ette, 648 Cocoa, 617 Butter, for Sweet Making, 596 from the Nibs, for Invalid, 543 Cocoanut Balls, 611 Biscuits, 572 1 i a 1 m685 INDEX Cocoanut Cake, 577 Creams, 600 for Cake Decoration, 593 Ice (Tablet), 600 Ice (Cream), 482 Kisses, 600 Milk, 635 Pudding, Baked, 413 — Steamed, 401 Rock Cakes, 563 Sauce, 196 Slices, 563 Soup, 51 Tart or Flan, 359 Cocottes, Fireproof, 326 Cod, 83 Fillets, with Parmesan, 83 Head, Stuffed, 83 Kentucky, 385 Roe, 4 la Victoria, 507 — Fried, 84 — Sandwiches, 522 — Scalloped, 385 — Smoked, 507 — with Bacon, 385 — with Parsley Sauce, 84 Salt, k l’Americaine, 85 — au Gratin, 83 — Balls, 385 — to Prepare and Boil, 84 — with Egg Sauce, 85 — with Parsnip Pur^e, 85 Smoked, k la Creole, 85 — and Bacon, 385 — with Tomatoes, 385 Sounds, with Parsley Sauce, 84 Steaks, i la Flamande, 83 — to Fry, 83 —• in Paper Bag, 627 —■ with Tomato Sauce, 83 Stuffed and Baked, 84 to Boil or Steam, 82 to Carve, 661 Coffee, and How to Make it, 615-616 au Lait (or, With Milk) 616 — — Iced, 616 Black, 616 — Iced, 616 Buns, 563 Cake, 577 Caramel Custard, 399 Cream, 446 feclairs, 454 Fondant Icing, 593 Glac6 Icing, 589 Ice (Cream), 482 —■ (Water), 480 Jelly, 440 Meringue Pudding, 413 Mould, 435 Parfait, 489 Place in Menu, 664 Pudding, 401 Sauce, 196 Souffle, with Caramel, 428 Supply of, 26 Turkish, 616 Viennese, 616 Walnuts, 600 with Egg, for Invalid, 543 Coffee Pot, Earthenware, 616 Colcannon, 135 Cold Meat, Redressed, 248-259 — and Macaroni Timbale, 255 — and Macaroni Pie, 255 — and Potato Cones, 254 Cold Meat, Redressed, and Rice Cakes, 255 — — — Mould, 255 — au Gratin, 252 — Beef, Pilau of, 253 — — with Haricot Beans, 252 — Bubble and Squeak, 257 — Cakes with Poached Eggs, 255 — Calfs Feet, Fricassee of, 257 — Cannelon, 250 — Casserole of, 250 — Cassolettes of, 251 — Chicken and Ham Croquettes, 257 — — — — Cutlets, 257 — Chicken, Cassolettes of, 257 — — Fritters, 258 — Cottage Pie, 250 — Croquettes of, 251 — Curry of, 251 — Darioles, 251 — Dormers, 251 — Dressed Patties, 254 — Fritters, 252 — Fricassee of, 259 — Giteau, 252 — Ham and Potato Hash, 258 — Ham Mince, with Poached Eggs, 258 — Hash, 249 — in Batter, 250 — in Sauce, 253 — Kromeskies, 254 — Lamb Rechauffe, 258 — Mince, 250 — Minced, with Scrambled Egg, 256 — Ox Tongue, Fried, with Caper Sauce, 258 — — — in Brown Sauce, 258 — Pastry, 347 — Patties, 353 — Pie, 339 — Pilau of, 253 — Potted Meat, 256 — Puffs, 350 — Rabbit and Spaghetti, 258 — Rissoles, 256 — Roly-poly, 348 — Salt Beef Pudding, 357 — Sausages with Carrots, 259 — Savoury Rolls of, 256 — Scallops, 253 — Shape, 253 — Shepherd’s Pie, 250 — Souffld, 253 — South African Bobotee, 256 — Surprises, 254 — Veal Cake, 259 — — Cooked, Fricassee of, 259 — — Creamed, 259 — — — with Spinach, 259 — — Scrambled, with Toma- toes, 259 — Venison with Aspic, 298 — with Spanish Onions, 253 — with Stewed Lettuce, 252 Cold Sweets, 432-460 College Puddings, 413 Collops, Scotch, 215 Coloured Sugars, 593 Colourings for Sweet Making, 596 Compote of Apples, 461 Bananas, 462 — and Cherries, 462 — and Cranberries, 462 Compote of Cherries, 462 Chestnuts with Rum, 462 Dates, 462 Fruit, 461-473 Game, 304 Pears, 463 Quinces, 464 Condiments, 629 Conger Eel, Baked, 85 — Stewed, 86. See also Eel, Freshwater. Consomm^ or Clear Soup, 63 & la Brunoise, 62 a la Celestine, 64 k la Dubarry, 67 a la Duchesse, 67 k la Favorite, 67 k l'lmpdratrice, 66 & l’ltalienne, 65 k la Jardiniere, 65 k la Jerusalem, 67 k la Julienne, 65 k la Macedoine, 66 a la Portugaise, 66 & la Prince de Galles, 68 & la Rachel, 67 a la Royale, 67 k la Sfivigne, 68 & la Tortue, 67 ala Tosca, 68 Alexandra, 67 Andalouse, 67 aux Nouilles, 66 aux CEufs Files, 66 aux Profiteroles, 66 aux Quenelles, 66 Chasseur, 64 Christophe Colombe, 67 de Fausse Tortue, 64 de Perdrix, 66 de Queue de Bceuf, 66 • Frapp6, 64 Hongroise, 67 Invernaise, 67 l’lndienne, 64 Parmentier, 67 Poissoniere, 75 Prince, 67 Romaine, 68 Vert-Prd, 68 Cook, the, Capabilities of, 663 Cooker, Double, 381 Hutching’s Patent, 208 Cookery, Importance of, 1 Invalid, 527 Paper Bag, 626-628 Points to Remember in, 3 Cooking Stoves, 16 Cookies, Scotch, 569. See also Buns Copper Saucepans, 10 to Clean, 13 Coral, Lobster, 313 Coriander, 631 Corn Soup, 61. See also Indian Corn Cream of, Soup, 72 Cornets, Cheese, 496 de Homard, Petits, 498 Mould for, 364 Pastry, for Savouries, 493 Cornflour and Pine-apple Meringue, 415 Charlotte, for Invalid, 540 Custard Pudding, 392 Mould, 435 Pastry, 336 Pudding, 392686 INDEX Cornflour Sauce, 196 Cornish Pasties, 350 Cornucopias, with Cream, 364 Cottage Loaf, 555 Pie, 250 Coupe aux Marrons, 484 Courses, Comprised in Menu, 664 Serving of the Different, 636 Court Bouillon, 79 — Ala Nantaise, 79 — au Bleu, 79 Covered Cup for Soup, 327 Cow Heel, 202 Soup, 42 with Parsley Sauce, 220 Crab,106 and Tomato Salad, 178 Balls, 507 Curried, 108 Cutlets, 107 Darioles in Aspic, 497 Devilled, 107, 307 Dressed, Cold, 106 — Hot, 106 Potted, 107 Salad, 178 Sandwiches, 322 Scalloped, 107 Souffles, Hot or Cold, 107 to Boil, 106 Toast, 507 with Mushrooms, 107 with Radishes, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Crab Apple Jelly, 469 Cranberry and Apple Jam, 467 and Banana Compote, 462 Jelly, 469 Mould, 43s Sauce, 196 Crawfish, 103 Crayfish, 103 to Boil, 106 Cream, Boston, 617. See also Creams Cheese Savoury, 503 Clotted, 635 Ices. See Ices of Barley Soup, 70 — — for Invalid, 530 of Corn Soup, 72 of Rice Soup, 74 Pastry, 336 Rolls, 363 Sauce, 189, 196 Scones, 359 to Add to Soup, 40 to Whip, 553 Whey, for Invalid, 347 Creamed Chicken, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Oysters, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Peas, Cooked in Chafing-Dish, 624 Veal, 239 — with Spinach, 239 Creaming of Butter and Sugar, 352 Yolks of Eggs and Sugar, 333 Creams, 432, 443-460 A la Duchesse, Little, 434 Anchovy, 495 Apple, 444 — for Invalid, 339 Apricot, 443 Artichoke, 129 Banana, 444 — for Invalid, 539 I Creams, Beef, 262 — for Invalid, 535 J Blackberry or Bramble, 444 Burnt Almond, 444 Cheese, 496 — Iced (Crime de Fromage Glaci), 490 Chicken, 281 — for Invalid, 537 } Chocolate, 443 | — for Invalid, 340 Coffee, 446 Fish, 114 — for Invalid, 533 Genoa, 436 Ginger, 446 j Gooseberry, 446 I Ham, Iced (Creme de Jambon Glaci), 490 Hazel Nut, 446 Italian, 446 Lemon, 446 Lobster, 108 Monte Carlo (Crimes de Monte Carlo, Petites), 502 Neapolitan, 447 Orange, 447 — and Tapioca, 438 Peach, 447 Pheasant, 302 Pine-apple, 447 Rabbit, 294 Raspberry, 447 — Jelly, 442 Rhubarb, 447 Rice, 447 — for Invalid, 341 Salmon, 121 Simple, for Invalid, 341 Snow,450 Strawberry, 448 Tapioca and Orange, 438 — Custard, 438 j Tea, 448 to Prepare, Mould for, 432 to Unmould, 433 Tomato, Savoury, 501 Vanilla, 449 Veal, 266 — in Aspic, 267 Wafer Bars, 449 i Walnut, 450 1 Crime de Fromage Glaci, 490 — Jambon Glaci, 490 Crimes de Monte Carlo, Petites, 302 Crepinettes of Game, 303 Cress and Egg Sandwiches, 322 Cress and Mustard, to Prepare for Salad, 176 Crimped Skate A la Hollandaise, 96 Croquettes, Banana, 420 Carrot, 137 Chestnut, 378 Chicken and Ham, 257 Cold Meat, 251 Cucumber and Nut, 315 Date, 422 Egg, 318 Macaroni and Cheese, 374 Parsnip, 133 Potato, 157 — and Sausage, 517 Rice, 424 and Chocolate, 424 with Fruit, 424 s Croquettes, Savoury Rice, 372 Semolina, 424 ; Shrimp, 112 Vegetable, 169 Crosnes, Japanese, to Bake, 129 j — to Steam, 129 ! Croustades, for Savouries, 493 Cheese, 504 Devilled Chicken, 506 Kidney, 516 Lobster, 498, 510 Marrow, 510 Rice, 372 — with Cheese, 373 Salmon, 300 Shrimp, 313 Tongue, 313 CroAte (or Socle), Bread, 312 — Rice, 314 CroAte-au-Pot, 42 CroAtes A la Marguerite, 314 A l'lndienne, 3x3 Anchovy, 502 Apricot, 411 au Caviare, 496 au Rhum, 421 Banana, Savoury, 503 — Sweet, 431 Brain, Savoury, 503 Caviare sur, 504 Finnan Haddock, 307 for Savouries, 492 Fried, for Savouries, 493 Ham, 508 Lax, 509 Sardine, 311, 312 ! CroAtons, Aspic, 313 Bread, for Soup, 311 — for Garnish, 312 for Savouries, 492 Pastry, for Soup, 3x2 Crullers, 564 ; Crumpets, 559 ; Yeast, 561 : Crystallised Flowers for Cake De- ' coration, 593 Crystallising Syrups for Sweet Making, 598 Trays, 596, 599 Cucumber A la Poulette, 143 j and Cheese Sandwiches, 522 and Egg Sandwiches, 522 and Green Peas, Cassolettes of, 144 and Nut Croquettes, 313 and Sardine Sandwiches, 524 au Gratin, 143 Cut with Pea-shaped Cutter, 65 Cups with Mayonnaise, 497 Garnish, 313 Salad, 178 Sauce, Cold, 192 — Hot, 189 Scalloped, 143 i Soup, 72 Steamed, with Hollandaise Sauce 143 Stuffed, 144 J to Fry, 143 to Stew, 143 to Store, 33 ; Cup for Soup, Covered, 327 i Cup Puddings, 400 Curly Greens, 149 — and Bacon, 314 Currant Buns, 564 Dumplings, 401687 INDEX Saucepans, 11 Dinner Rolls, Yorkshire, 558 — k la Soubise, 26a Currant, Fritters, 421 Loaf, 556 Rock Cakes, 564 Scones, 559 Short Cake, 577 Currants, to Clean, 551 Frosted, 464 Curries, Betf, 214 — Dry, 214 Cauliflower, 139 Chicken, 278 Cold Meat, 251 Crab, 107 Egg Plant, 145 Egg Rissoles, 318 Eggs, Cold, 321 — Hot, 316 Fish, 114 Haricot Beans, 172 Kidneys, 232 Lentils, 173 Omelet, 329 Ox Palate, 222 Potato, 158 Rabbit, 293 Rice, 370 — to Boil for, 370 Sandwiches, 522 Sauce, 185 Scallops, 112 Soup, 72 Toast, 385 Tripe, 224 Turkey, 289 Veal, 236 —• Cooked in Chafing Dish, 625 Vegetables, 169 — Soup,51 Curry, 631 Curtains for Kitchen Window, xo Custards, 443 et seq. Apple, Baked, 410 and Chestnut Pudding, 400 Caramel, 399 Cheese, 514 Chicken, for Invalid, 537 Chocolate, 445 — and Orange, 434 — Caramel, 399 Coffee Caramel, 399 Cornflour, 392 Fish, 115 — for Invalid, 533 Fritters, 421 Orange, 447 Pudding, Baked, 392 — Banana, for Invalid, 540 — Barley, 391 * — Fish, 113 — Peptonised, 549 — Steamed, 392 — — for Invalid, 540 Sauce, 196 Savoury, Steamed, for Invalid, 541 Smoked Haddock, Savoury, 507 Tapioca Cream, 438 Tart or Flan, 359 Tartlets, 365 Cutlet Bat, 229 Cutlets, Chicken and Ham, 257 Crab, 107 Egg, 318 Fish, 115 Hake, Baked, 89 Lamb, k la Mayonnaise, 263 Cutlets, Lamb, Grilled, 230 — in Paper, 230 Lobster, 109 Mutton, 229 — k la Milanaise, 262 — k la Russe, Cold, 263 — Grilled, with Cucumber, 229 — Masked, 229 — with Asparagus, 262 — with Chestnuts, 262 Oyster, 111 Pigeon, k la Duchesse, 287 — k la Milanaise, 288 — k la Villeroi, 288 Pork, 243 Salmon, 388 Veal and Ham, 237 — with Spinach, 265 Cutters for Vegetables, 66 Daily Bill of Fare, 25 Damper, 17 Hints on Using, 17 Dampf Nudeln, 401 Damson Jam, 469 and Apple Jam, 469 Damsons, to Bottle, 476 Dandelions, 145 Salad, 145, 178 with Cream, 145 Danish Fruit Jelly, 435 Dariole Moulds, 115 Darioles of Cold Meat, 251 of Crab in Aspic, 497 of Fish, 115 of Ham k la Mireille, 272 Date and Fig Sandwiches, 525 and Nut Chocolates, 604 and Orange Salad, 180 Caramel, 611 Compote, 462 Croquettes, 422 Pudding, 402 December, Calendar of Food for, 29 Deception or Double Nodden Cakes, 577. Decoration of Cakes, Hints on, 589, 593 of small Fancy Cakes, 594 of Table, 652, 654 Deep Frying, 209 Deer, Leg of, Old and Young, 298 Delaware Pudding, 402 Demi-glace Sauce, 189 Dessert, 664 — Serving of, 656 Devil Butter, 194 Paste, 194 Sauce, 185 Devils on Horseback, 507 Devonshire Junket, 435 Diagram showing different Cuts of Pork, 204 showing Mode of Cutting up Beef in England, 202 showing Mode of Cutting up Beef in Scotland, 202 showing Mode of Cutting up a Calf, 203 showing Mode of Cutting up a Sheep in England, 203 showing Mode of Cutting up a Sheep in Scotland, 203 showing Mode of Cutting up side of Bacon, 201 Dinners, Seasonable, of Five and Six Courses, 668-671 Simple, for a Month, 665-667 — in Autumn, 666 — in Spring, 665 — in Summer, 665 — in Winter, 666 Style of, 663 Diplomatic Pudding, 454 ] Dipping Fork or Ring for Sweet Making, 595, 599 . Dish Cloths, 14 Covers, Tin, to Clean, 14 j Dishes, Washing of, 14 Disposal of Refuse, 15 - Dominoes, 565 Dormers of Cold Meat, 251 Egg, 318 Dory, 92 Fillets & l’lndienne, 92 Double Cooker, 391 Double Nodden or Deception Cakes, 577 Dough Cake, 578 Dumplings, 402 Doughdy, Apple, 396 Doughnuts, 419, 564 with Yeast, 564 Doyley, to Fold, 650, 651 Dresden Patties, 254 Dresser, Kitchen, 8 Dressings, Salad. See Salad Dress- ings Dried Fruits, 464 Supply of, 26 Vegetables, 171-175 Drinks and Beverages, 615-620 Invalid, 542-548 Dripping, to Clarify, 634 Crust, 333 Dropped Scones, 559 Dry Frying or Sauteing, 80, 209 Dry Toast, to Make, 380 Dubarry Consomme, 67 Duchesse Consuming, 67 Duck, 274 Braised with Olives, 283 Patd of, 283 Pie, 339 Roast, 282 — to Carve, 661 Salmi of, 284 Wild, 4 la Bigarade, 304 — Roast, 304 — to Keep,31 with Celery, 283 with Turnips, 283 Ducklings, Roast, 283 Dumplings, Apple and Rice, 396 Bread, 309 Currant, 401 Dough, 402 for Garnish, 309 for Stewed Fowl, 279 Potato, for Soup, 310 Sponge, 310 Suet, for Soup, 311 to Serve with Meat, 211 Dustbin, Sanitary, 15 Dutch Flummery, 436 Macaroons, 572 D’Uxelle Stuffing, 308 Earthenware Casserole, 236 Coffee Pot, 616688 INDEX Earthenware Saucepans, Stewing in, 209 — to Clean, 13 Easter Cakes, 565 Eclairs, Chocolate, 454 Coffee, 454 Shrimp, 500 Edgebone, 202 Eel, Conger, 85 — Baked,85 — Stewed, 86 Freshwater, 102 — A la Poulette, 119 — in Jelly, 103 — Pie, Cold, 345 — — Hot, 345 — Soup, 60 — Stewed, 103 — to Fry, 102 — to Skin, 102 Egg and Bread-crumb, to, 249 Egg Plant, 145 Curried, 145 Moussaka A la Turque made with, 265 Salad, 179 Saute, 146 Stuffed, 146 to Bake, 145 to Fry, 145 with Cream Sauce, 145 Egg Poacher, 316 Eggs, Dishes with, 316-327 a l’Aurore, 320 A la Clifton, 318 a la Fermiere, 320 A la Mornay, with Cheese, 317 A la Parmentier, 320 A la Tripe, 317 A la Tzarina, 326 Anchovy, 320 and Bacon Rolls, 383 and Cheese Sandwiches, 522 and Cress Sandwiches, 522 and Cucumber Sandwiches, 522 anu Green Pea Salad, 179 and Ham Kromeskies, 515 and Mulled Wine for Invalid, 546 and Potato Pie, 3x7 and Rice Pie, 371 and Rum for Invalid, 544 and Shrimp Mayonnaise, 321 — — Sandwiches, 522 Balls, 310 Bird’s Nests, 324 Boiled, 315 Butter, 194 Buttered. See Eggs, Scrambled Cheese, 320 Croquettes, 318 Curried, Cold, 321 — Hot, 316 Cutlets, 318 Dormers, 318 Drink for Invalid, 543 en Cocottes, 325 en Surprise, 328 Flip, for Invalid, 544 for Cake Making, 551 Fricassee of, 317 Fried, 316, 324-325 — with Black Butter, 324 — with Endive, 324 —■ with Tomato Sauce, 325 Fritters, 321 Garnish, 313 Eggs, Golden, 317 Ham, 321 Hard-boiled, 315, 316 in Aspic, 321 in Bread Sauce, for Invalid, 547 in Gravy, for Invalid, 548 in Tomatoes, 327 Jelly, for Invalid, 541 Miscellaneous Dishes with, 325-327 Mol lets, 326 — A 1’AlIemande, 326 — A la Diable, 326 Moulded. 326 Nog, for Invalid, 544 Patties, 318 Plovers’, in Aspic, 327 — to Cook and Serve, 327 Poached, 315, 321-323 — A l’Americaine, 322 — A l'Egyptienne, 322 — A la Florentine, 323 —• A la Jeannette, 323 — A la Maitre d'H6tel, 322 — A la Pi6montaise, 323 — A la Virginie, 323 — in Milk, for Invalid, 547 — with Cheese, 321 — with Curry Sauce, 321 — with Lentils, 321 — with Mince, 322 — with Mushrooms, 322 — with Potatoes, 322 — with Rice, 322 — with Shrimps, 322 — with Spinach, 323 Punch, for Invalid, 451 Rissoles, Curried, 318 Salad, 179 Sardine, 320 Sauce, 185 Scotch, 318, 319 Scrambled or Buttered, 316 — with Anchovies, 325 — with Cheese, 325 — with Green Peas, 325 — with Ham, 325 — with Kidney, 325 — with Mushrooms, 325 — with Spinach, 325 — with Tomatoes, 325 Simple Methods of Cooking, 315 Snow, 448^ Soft-boiled, 326 Soup, 71 Stuffed, Fried, 319 — with Artichokes, 319 — with Game, 319 — with Nuts, 319 — with Salmon, 319 Sur le Plat, 316, 323-325 — in Bread Sauce, 323 — in Sunshine, 324 — Ox Eyes, 324 — Swiss, 324 _ — with Cheese, 324 — with Mushrooms, 324 — with Tomatoes, 324 — with Tongue, 324 Supply of, 26 to Add to Soup, 40 to Beat, 553 to Cream with Sugar, 553 to Keep, 32 to Preserve, 32, 635 to Test, 26 to Whip Whites of, 553 Eggs, Water, for Invalid, 542 with Brains, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 622 withCream and Brandy, for Invalid, S43 with Spaghetti, 317 with Vegetable Marrow, 318 Elcho Scones, 559 Electric Cookers, 22 Electricity, Cooking by, 22 Empress Design for Folding Serviette, 649 Empress Pudding, 413 Enamelled Saucepans, 13 — to Clean, 13 Endive, Batavian, or Chicory, 142 Soup, 51 Endive, Frisee, 146 to Stew, 146 with Cream, 146 English Melted Butter Sauce, 186 Entries, Place in Menu, 664 — Serving of, 656 Entremets, 664 — Serving of, 656 Epigrams of Mutton, 263 — A la Villeroi, 264 — A la Soubise, 263 — aux Champignons, 263 of Sweetbread, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 625 Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Epi- nards, 271 of Veal, 265 —■ A la Talleyrand, 265 — aux Champignons, 265 Espagnole Sauce, 183 Essence of Chicken, 529 of Hawthorn, 633 Essences for Sweet Making, 596 Everton Toffee, 606 Faggots, 245 Fairy Baskets, 455 Fan Design for Folding Serviette, 646 Fanchonettes, 365 Fancy Bread, 557 Fritters, 422 Pastries, for Dessert or Tea, 365 Farce, Liver, 307 — au Gratin, 308 Fish Quenelle, 307 Whiting, 309 Farinaceous Jelly, for Invalid, 54T Soup,58 Farm Produce, Care of, 32 Fat, Frying, to Clarify, 634 — to Render Down or Clarify, 634 to Remove from Stock, 46 Favorite Consommd, 67 February, Calendar of Food for, 27 Fender, Kitchen, 10 Fennel, 629 Sauce, 186 Figs and Date Sandwiches, 525 and Rhubarb Jam, 473 and Rhubarb Tart, 356 Cake, 578 Caramel, 611 Fritters, 422 Green, as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 Mould or Jelly, 440 — for Invalid, 540 Pudding, 402 Stewed, 462 Stuffed,Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623INDEX G89 Fillet, How to, 78 Finger Biscuits, 572 Finnan Haddock, CrofUes of, 507 See also Haddock, Smoked — Kedgeree of, 116 — Timbales, 497 Fire, to Keep Low, 17 to Lay in Range, 18 Fireproof Cocottes, 326 Earthenware, 11, 209, 211 Terrine, 304 Fish and Oyster Pie, 345 and Potato Souffle, 119 and Potato Timbale, 119 and Rice G4teau, 116 Baked, for Invalid, 532 — in Batter, 113 Baking of, 79 Boiling of, 78 Broiling or Grilling of, 79 Broth, 60 Cake, Baked, it4 Cakes, 113 Choice of, 77 Cooked in Paper, for Invalid, „ 533 Cream, 114 — for Invalid, 533 Curry, 114 Custard, for Invalid, 533 — Puddings, 115 1; Cutlets, 115 ft Darioles, 1x5 Devilled, 115 Forcemeat for, 307 French Terms for, 637 Freshwater, 101 Fricassee of, 1x5 Fritters, 1x6 Frying of, 80 General Rules for Cleaning, 77 General Rules for Cooking, 78 Invalid Dishes with, 532-534 Kedgeree of, 116 Knots, 386 .. Kromeskies, 116 Mayonnaise of, 90 More Elaborate Dishes, 119 Omelet, 330 Patties, 353 Pie 4 la Russe, 117 — Russian, 346 — with Macaroni, 116 — with Potatoes, 117 — with Rice, 117 Place in Menu, 66 Poaching of, 81 Price of, 81 Pudding, Steamed, 117 — — for Invalid, 533 Quenelles, 118 — for Garnish, 311 — Meat or Farce for, 307 Rarebit, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Rechauffe, 624 Redressed, 113-1x9 Roe, Savoury, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624. See Roe Salad, 179 Saltwater, 81 Sausages, 386 Scalloped, Cold, 118 — Hot, 118 Serving of, 656 Shell, 105-113 ft Fish Souffld, Baked, 118 — Steamed, 118 Soups, 58, 60, 61 — Clear, 75 — for Invalid, 530 — Mulligatawny, 61 Steamed, for Invalid, 533 Steaming of, 80 Stewed, for Invalid, 532 — in Milk, for Invalid, 533 Stewing of, 81 Stock, 37, 38 — from Trimmings, 78 Stuffing for, 307 Tart, 346 Timbales in Aspic, 119 Toast, 386 to Carve, 661 to Keep, 32 to Sew up, 88 to Skin and Fillet, 78 Vol-au-Vent, 350 Flageolets, 171 au Beurre, 171 au Gratin, 172 in Sauce, 171 Flaked Haddock in Shells for Invalid, 534 — Flaky Pastry, 335 Flan, Apples, 359 Apricots, 359 Custard, 359 Greengages, 359 Peaches, 360 Pear, and Chestnut, 360 Raspberries with Cream, 360 Strawberry with Meringue, 360 to Make, 358 Flank, Beef, 202 Flat Fish, to Skin and Fillet, 78 Fleurons of Pastry, 312 Flies, to get rid of, 16 Floating Island, 455 Floor, Kitchen, 7 — to Clean, 12 Flounder, 86 Flour, to Rub1 Butter into, 552 Used for Cake Making, 551 Flour Sifter, 551 Flower Vases, 652 Flowers, Arrangement of, 652 Choice of, 652 Crystallised, for Cake Decoration, 593-- Flue Rake and Brush, 10 Flues of Range, 17 — to Clean, 18 Foam Sauce, 197 Foie Gras, as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 — Beignets 4 l’Orlie, 273 — Parfait de, 273 — Petits Pains de, 273 — Pomponettes de, 507 — Sandwiches, 522 — Tartelettes de, 508 Folding of Serviettes, 642-651 Fondant, Coating, 598 Icing, 592 — Chocolate, 593 — Coffee, 593 — Green, 593 — Pink, 592 — White, 592 — Yellow, 593 —• to Use, 593 Fondants, 598 et seq. Fondants, Chrises Deguis6es, 599 Cocoanut Creams, 600 Creams, 598 Moulded, 599 to Crystallise, 599 Uncooked, 599 Fondue, Cheese, 514 — on Toast, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Swiss, 518 Food, Care of, 29, 31 How to Keep without a Larder, 30 Monthly Calendar of, 36 et seq. Variety in, 663 Forcemeats, 307 - Balls, 310 — for Jugged Hare, 296 for Fish, 307 for Hare, 307 for Pigeon, 308 Liver, 307 — au Gratin, 308 Veal or Herb, 309 Forcing Bag and Pipes, 457, 581 Fork or Ring for Dipping Sweetmeats, 595, 599, 602 Fowl, Boiled, 277. See also Chicken Cold, 4 la St. Honor6, 281 Galantine of, 280 Preparation for Table, 275 Roast, 277 Steamed, 277 Stewed with Dumplings, 279 — with Onions, 279 to Bone, 277 to Carve, 661 to Choose, 274 to Cut in Joints, 276 to Draw, 275 to Kill, 274 to Pluck and Singe, 275 to Truss for Boiling, 276 to Truss for Roasting, 276 Fowler-Lee Bottles for Fruit, 475 Freezing, Notes on, 479 Freezing Machines, 478 French Beans, 131 — 4 la Maitre d’Hotel, 131 — 4 la Poulette, 132 — Salad, 179 — Stewed, 132 Buns, 565 Dressing, 192 Frying, 248 Jellies, 612 Plums, Caramel, 611 Fritters, 422 Pancakes, or Saucer Puddings, 413 Terms for various Foods, 636-638 — used in Cookery, Explanation of, 638-641 Fricandeau of Veal, 235 Fritters and Fried Puddings, 418,425 Almond, 419 American, 419 Anchovy, 502 Apple, 419 — without Batter, 420 Apricot, 423 — with Cream, 420 Brain, 504 Bread, 421 Bread-crumb, 421 Cauliflower, 140 Cheese, 505 — Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 2 xINDEX 690 Fritters, Cherry, 421 Chicken, 258 Cold Meat, 252 Currant, 421 Custard, 421 Egg, 321 Fancy, 422 Fig, 422 Fish, Cold, 116 Foie Gras k l’Orlie, 273 French Plum, 422 Hominy, 516 Mould for Savoury, 493 Mushroom, 510 Orange, 422 Oyster, no Pancakes, 423 Peach, 423 Pear, 424 Potato, 158 Prune, 424 Rusk, 424 Sardine, 512 Smoked Haddock, 387 Souffles, 420 Sponge Cake, 425 Walnut, 425 Frontage Glac6, Crime de, 490 Frosted Currants, 464 Frozen Meat, 201 — to Thaw, 205 Fruit and Batter Pudding, 397 — Bread Pudding, 397 as Hors-d’G2uvre, 492 Bottling of, 473-477 Candied and Caramelised for Cake Decoration, 593 Compotes, 461-473. See Compotes Dried, 464 — Supply of, 26 French Terms for, 636 Ice, Mixed, 481 Iced Pudding (Pouding Glacdsaux Fruits), 487 Iced Souffle of, 488 Jelly, Danish, 455 Macedoine, 440 Pastes, 469 Pies and Tarts, 354 — Small, 366 Preserves, 461-477 Pudding, Baked, 414 — Boiled or Steamed, 402 Purie Sauce, 197 Salads, 464, 465 Sauce, Cold, 197 — for Game, 197 Soups, 62 Stand for, 33 Storing of, 33 Syrup Sauce, 197 Tarts, 3S4 — for Invalid, 540 — Mixed, Summer, 356 — — Winter, 356 — Small, 366 to Prepare for Tarts, 354 Timbale k la Parisienne, 460 Vol-au-Vent, 361 Frying, 209 Batter for, 418, 419 Deep, 209 Dry, or Sauteing. 80, 209 Fat, to Clarify, 634 Temperature required for, 34 Wet, or French, 80, 248 Frying Basket, 248 Fudge, 606 Fuel for Range, 17 Funnel for Pie, 336 Galantine of Beef, 218 of Fowl, 280 of Rabbit, 294 of Turkey, 289 of Veal, 237 Game, 299-306 Approximate Time required for Cooking, 306 Balls, 497 Canapes of, 497 Compote of, 304 Crepinettes of, 305 French Terms for, 636 Fricassee of, 305 Garnish and Accompaniments for, 300 Gravy for, 300 Hints on Choosing, 299 Hints on Cooking, 299 Hot Pot, 305 Kromeskies of, 305 Minced, in Scallops, 396 Pie, Raised, 344 Puffs, 351 Quenelles for Garnish, 311 Salad, 179 Salmi of, 305 — k la Chasseur, 306 Sandwiches, 523 Scallops, 306 Serving of, 656 Souffles, 306 Soup, Clear, 64 — For Invalid, 531 — Thick, 68 Stock, 37, 38 to Carve, 661 to Keep, 31 Garlic, 629 Garnishes, 307 Balls, 309 C61estine, 64 Crohtons of Bread, 312 Cucumber, 313 Dumplings, 309 Egg, 313 for Game, 300 for Soups, 309, 310, 311 Julienne, 65 Macedoine of Vegetables, 313 Quenelles, 309 Spinach, 164 Various, 3x1 Garvies. See Sprats Gas, Cooking by, 19 Boiling Ring, 20 Griller, 20 Oven, Baking in, 21, 554 — Paper bag Cookery in, 626 Stoves, Choice of, 19 — How to Clean, 21 — How to Use, 20, 21 et. seq. — Placing of, 20 Gateau k la Princesse, 455 Chestnuts, 434 Cold Meat, 252 Fish and Rice, 116 Hare, 297 Liver (Sheep’s), 232 Pommes k la Creme, 455 Gateau, Napolitain, 456 Rabbit, 297 St. Honor!, 456 Various Fancy, 450 Veal, 259 Gelatine for Sweet Making, 596 General Satisfaction Puddings, 414 1 Geneva Squares, 565 G6n6voise Sauce, 189 Genoa Cake, 578 Cream, 436 Genoese Baskets, 456 Pastry (Beaten Cold), 565 — (Beaten Hot), 566 — Brown, 566 — Pink, 566 Sauce, 189 German Cakes, 578 — Pound Cake, 578 Sauce, 197 Tart, 361 Gherkins, 143 Giblet Pie, 339 Soup, 42 (Goose), Stewed, 284 Gin, Sloe, 619 Ginger, 631 and Chocolate Cake, 579' and Nut Sandwiches, 525 Beer, 617 Biscuits, 573 Cake, Nellie’s, 582 Cakes, Small, 566 Chocolates, 604 Cream, 446 Creams (Sweetmeats), 601 Ice Cream, 483 Pudding (with Preserved Ginger), 4°3 Sauce, 198 Souffl!, Steamed, 428 Souffles, Small, Baked, 428 Tablet, 601 Tartlets, 366 Toffee, 607 Ginger-ale Sorbet, 490 Gingerbread, 579 Nuremberg, 579 Parkin, 579 Queen, 579 Gingerbread Nuts, 573 Pudding, 403 Girdle, 561 Cakes, 566 Scones, 560 Glac6 Fruit, to Prepare for Cake 1 Making, 552 Icing, 589 — Chocolate, 589 — Coffee, 589 — How to Use, 590 — Liqueur, 589 — Raspberry or Strawberry, :j 589 — Tea, 589 Glaze, 37, 40, 210 Cheap, 313 for Cakes, 575 Sauce, Half, 189 Glazed Carrots, 138 Onions, 154 Parsnips, 155 Sausage Roll, 388 Turnips, 169 Glazing of Meat, 210 of Pastry, 333INDEX 691 Glenloch Pudding, 403 Globe Artichokes, 127. See under Artichokes, Glucose for Sweet Making, 596 Gluten Bread, 557 Glycerine Jujubes, 612 Gniocchi, 515 Golden Buck, 516 Butter, 194 Eggs, 317 Pudding, 403 Spark Jelly, 440 Goose, 274 Braised with Chestnuts, 284 Cassoulet a la Toulousaine, 285 Giblets, Stewed, 284 Mock, 245 Poor Man’s, 241 Preserved, 285 Roast, 284 to Carve, 661 Gooseberry Cream, 446 Fool, 436 Ice, 483 Jam, 469 and Red Currant Jam, 470 Jelly, 469 Marmalade, 470 Sauce, 198 Soup,62 Tart, open, 357 Trifle, 446 Gooseberries, to Bottle, 475 to prepare for Tart, 354 Gosling, Roast, 284 Grains, Supplies of, 25 Grape Fruit, to Serve, 463 Grapes, Caramelised, for Cake De- coration, 593 Ice (Water), 480 Jelly, 469 Tartlets, 366 Grateful Pudding, 414 Gravy for Game, 300 for Roast Meat, 207 Soup, 43 Thickened, 208 Green Butter, 194 Figs, as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Goose, Roast, 284 Gooseberry Jelly, 469 Peas, 146 — and Egg Salad, 179 — and Spaghetti, 175 — and Tomato Soup, 74 — Balls, 148 — Cassolettes of Cucumber and, 144 ■— Creamed, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 — Pur^e, 148 — Soup,72 — — from Dried Peas, 51 — — from Pea Flour, 54 — to Steam, 147 — with Bacon, 147 —• with Butter, 147 — with Carrots, 147 — with Curried Rice, 147 — with Lettuces, 147 — with Rice Border, 372 Spinach, 635 Tomato Pickle, 633 Greengages, Flan of, 359 Jam, 470 Tartlets, 366 Greengages, to Caramelise, for Cake Decoration, 593 Greens, Curly, 149 and Bacon, 514 Grenadins of Veal, 265 — — k la Provenfale, 266 •— — Larded, 266 Grey Mullet, 103 Grill, Hanging, 209 Griller, Gas, 20 Grilling, 208 of Fish, 79 of Meat, 208 on Gas Stove, 21 Ground Barley Pudding, 391 Rice Mould, 436 — Pudding, 394 — Souffle, 428 — Tart, 357 — Tartlets, 366 Grouse k I'Alsacienne, 301 Broiled, or Spatchcock, 300 Pie, 340 Roast, 300 to Carve, 661 Gruel, Barley Meal, for Invalid, 542 Beef-tea, for Invalid, 544 Milk, for Invalid, 544 — — — Peptonised, 548 Peptonised, 548 Revalenta, for Invalid, 546 Water, for Invalid, 544 Guards' Sauce, 195 Guinea-fowl, 285 Fricassee of, 285 Roast, 285 Gulash of Beef or Veal, 214 Gum Arabic Milk, for Invalid, 544 — Water, for Invalid, 544 Gurnard. See Gurnet Gurnet, Fillets au Gratin, 86 with Lemon Sauce, 120 with Potatoes, 86 Haddock, Baked, 386 Custards, Savoury, 508 en Casserole, 386 Filleted and Fried, 87 Fillets il'Italienne, 88 Finnan, Crofites of, 507.’ See also Haddock, Smoked — Kedgeree, 116 — Timbales, 497 Flaked in Shells, for Invalid, 534 Fried in Batter, 87 Rizzared, 386 Smoked, 387 — Balls, 387 — en Coquilles, 507 — Fritters, 387 — in Paper Bag, 627 — Rissolettes, 507 — Sandwiches of, 524 — Stewed in Milk, 387 — with Egg Sauce, 387 Souffles, Savoury, 508 Stuffed and Baked, 88 — — — for Invalid, 533 — Fillets of, 88 — in Paper Bag, 627 to Fry, 87 to Skin and Fillet, 78 to Steam or Boil, 87 Haggis, Scotch, 234 Hake, 88 Cutlets, Baked, 89 Hake, with Piccalilli Sauce, 89 Half-Glaze Sauce, 189 Half-pay, Chelsea Pudding, 400 Halibut, 89 Baked, with Vinegar, 89 Mayonnaise of, 90 Steaks in Paper Bag, 627 with Cream Sauce, 89 with Tomatoes, 89 Ham, 201, 242-247 k la Mad6re, 247 and Eggs, 383 and Egg Kromeskies, 515 and Eggs, Savoury, 509 and Eggs with Rice, 383 and Eggs with Tomatoes, 516 and Macaroni Cake, 375 and Macaroni Pie, 375 and Potato Hash, 258 and Veal Mould, 237 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 Baked,247 Biscuits, Devilled, 509 Boiled, 247 Butter, 194 Cream, Iced (Crfeme de Jambon Glac6), 490 Crofftes, 509 Darioles k la Mireille, 272 Devilled, 383 Eggs, 321 Mince, with Poached Eggs, 258 Omelet, 330 Sandwiches, 523 to Carve, 660 to Keep, 33 Toast, 383 Hamburg Design of Folding Servi- ette, 648 Hand and Spring of Pork, 204 Hanging Grill, 209 Hard Bake, Almond, 605 Hard Sauce, 198 Hare, 290 Forcemeat for, 307 Gateau of, 297 Hashed, 296 Jugged, 296 Mock, Beef as, 214 Raised Pie of, 345 Saddle of, Roasted, 296 Soup, 68 — Economical, 43 — Mock, 44 Stuffed and Roasted, 295 Stuffing for, 307 Terrine of, 297 Timbale of, 297 to Keep, 31 to Skin and Paunch, 291 • Haricot Beans, 172 — and Bacon, 516 — and Tomato Soup, 52 —• Curried, 172 — Mashed, 172 — Mould, 173 — Pur£e, 173 — Rissoles, 173 — Salad, 179 —• Savoury, 173 — Soup, 51 — — Red, 55 — to Prepare and Cook, 172 — with Butter, 172 — with Cold Meat, 252 — with Parsley Sauce,. 172692 INDEX Haricot Mutton, 226 Hash, 249 Ham and Potato, 258 Hare, 296 Harslet, Haslet, or Pig’s Fry, 204 Fried, 244 Stewed, 244 Hawthorn, Essence of, 633 Hazel-nut Cream, 446 — to Caramelise, 593 Heart, Beef, 202 — Stewed, 221 — Stuffed and Roasted, 221 Calfs, Roasted, 240 —■ Stewed, 240 Sheep's, Roasted in the Pan, 231 Hearthstone, to Clean, 18 Hedgehog Cake, 579 Herb or Veal Forcemeat, 309 Pancake, 517 Vinegar, 631 Herbs, 629 Bunch of, 631 for Flavouring Stock, 36 Seasoning, 631 to dry, 631 Herrings, 90 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 au Gratin, 91 Balls, 387 Filleted and Fried, 387 Fillets, to Fry, 91 Kippered, 387 Red, 91 Roes on Toast, 509 — with Mushrooms, 509 Soused or Potted, 91 Stuffed and Baked, 91 to Broil, 90 to Fry, 90 Holiday Cake, 580 Hollandaise Pudding, 446 Sauce, 189 Soup,72 Homard, Petits Cornets de, 498. See Lobster Hominy, Fried, 382 Fritters, 516 Porridge, 381 Honey Cakes, 566 Quince, 471 Sandwiches, 525 Honeycomb Mould, 436 Hongroise Consomme, 67 Hops, 148 Hors-d’CEuvre, 491, 664 Cold, 494 General Remarks on, 491 Serving of, 656 What can be Used as, 491 Horse-radish, 630 Butter, 194 Grated, 313 Sauce, Cold, 192 — Hot, 186 Hot Cross Buns, 566 Hot-pot, 228 Game, 305 Veal, with Dumplings, 236 Hot-water Circulator, 19 Hotch-potch, 43 Hough, 202 Household Bread, 555 Hovis Bread, 556 Meal Scones, 560 Hutching’s Patent Cooker, 208 Hutching's Patent Cooker, Used with Gas Fire, 20 Hydropathic Pudding, 436 Ice Border, 486 Cave, 478 Cups, 486 Pricker, 479 Server, 480 Spaddle, 479 to Keep and Serve for Invalid, 544 Iced Biscuits (Biscuits glacis), 486, 489 Coffee, Black, 616 — White, 616 Fruit Souffle, 488 Melon k la Franpaise, 463 — en surprise, 488 Meringues auChocolat glacies, 484 Mousses, 486 — au Chocolat, 488 — Tomato, 488 Parfaits, 486 — Coffee, 489 Peaches a la Melba (Peches Glacees a la Melba), 487 —- au Nid (Peches Glacees au Nid), 487 Puddings, 485, 488 — k la Rose (Pouding Glaci k la Rose), 487 — aux Fruits (Pouding Glaci aux Fruits), 487 — en Surprise (Pouding en Sur- prise), 487, 488 — Orange, 487 — to Unmould and Serve, 485 Souffles, 486 — Fruit, 488 Tartlets, 484 Tea, 615 Iceland Moss, 544, 545 Ices, 478 ct seq. Apple, Cream, 482 — Water, 480 Apricot, Cream, 482 — Water, 480 Banana, Cream, 482 — Water, 480 Black Currant Water, 480 Bombes, 489 — Americaine, 490 — aux Fraises k la Crime, 489 — Delicieuse, 490 — Diplomate, 490 — Franfaise, 489 — Marie Louise, 490 — Napolitaine, 490 — Royale, 490 Brown Bread Cream, 482 Cheese Cream (Creme de Fromage Glaci), 490 Cherry Cream, 482 — Water, 480 Chocolate Cream, 482 — — for Bombe Franfaise, 489, 490 Cocoanut Cream, 482 Coffee Cream, 482 — Water, 480 Coupe aux Marrons, 484 Cream, 481-48 \ — with Fruit Purie, 482 Freezing of, 479 Ginger Cream, 483 Gooseberry, 483 Ices, Grape Water, 480 Ham Cream (Crime de Jambon Glaci), 490 Lemon Cream—Economical, 483 — Water, 481 Liqueur Cream, 483 Melon en Surprise, 488 — Water, 481 Meringues au Chocolat Glacees, 484 Mixed Fruit, 481 Moulded and Fancy, 485 Neapolitan Cream, 486 Orange Cream, 483 — and Lemon Water, 481 Peach Cream, 483 — Water, 480. See also Iced Peaches Pineapple Cream, 483 — Water, 481 Praline Cream, 483 Preliminaries to making, 478 Raspberry Cream, 483 — and Red Currant Water, 481 Rice Cream, 483 Simple, 480 Small Fancy, 485 Strawberry Cream, 484 — Water, 481 Tangerine Cream, 484 Tea Cream, 484 to Mould, 485 to Serve Simply, 479 Tutti-Frutti Water, 481 Vanilla Cream, 484 Walnut Cream, 484 Water, 480 — Syrup for, 480 Icings and Decorations for Cakes, 589-594 Almond, 590 — Coloured, 591 — How to Use, 591 Butter or Vienna, 590 — How to Use, 590 Chocolate Butter, 590 — Fondant, 593 — Glaci, 589 Coffee Fondant, 593 — Glaci, 589 Fondant, 592 — Green, 593 — Pink, 592 — White, 592 — Yellow, 593 — to Flavour and Colour, 592 — to Use, 593 Glaci, 589 — How to Use, 590 Liqueur Glaci, 589 Mocha, 590 of small Cakes, 568 Orange or Lemon Butter, 990 Royal, 591 — to Ice a Cake with, 59I~592 Strawberry or Raspberry Butter, 59° — — •— Glaci, 589 Vienna, or Butter, 590 Tea Glace, 589 Imperial Pudding, 403 Indian Corn or Maize, 148 — Creamed, 148 — Soup, 51, 72 — to Cook, 148 Indian Pudding, 414693 INDEX Invalid Cake, 580 Cookery, 527 — Hints on, 527 Drinks, 542-548 Fish Dishes, 532-534 Jellies, 539 Meat Dishes, 535 Miscellaneous Dishes for, 542-548 Puddings and Sweets for, 539-542 Soups, 527-532 Tray, 527 Vegetables for, 534 Invernaise Consomme, 67 Irish Moss Blancmange, for Invalid, 542 — Drink, 544 — Jelly, 541 Stew, 227 — Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Iron Saucepans, 10 — to Clean, 13 Italian Cream, 446 Sauce, 189 Soup, 52 — Clear, 65 Jam Layer Pudding, 403 Pudding, Baked, 414 Puffs or Turnovers, 367 Sandwich, 584 Sauce, 198 Tart, Open, 356 Jams, Apple and Cranberry, 467 — and Damson, 469 — and Pear, 467 Apricot, 467 —■ from Dried Fruit, 468 Black Currant, 468 Carrot, 468 Cherry, 468 Cranberry and Apple, 467 Damson, 469 — and Apple, 469 Gooseberry, 469 — and Red Currant, 470 Greengage, 470 Hints on Making, 465 Mulberry, 470 Plum, 471 Pumpkin or Pie Melon, 471 Raspberry and Red Currant, 471 Red Currant, 472 — — and Gooseberry, 470 Rhubarb, 472 — and Fig, 473 Strawberry, 473 to Know when Ready, 466 to Pot and Cover, 466 Tomato, 473 Vegetable Marrow, 473 January, Calendar of Food for, 26 Japanese Artichokes, or Crosnes. See under Artichokes Cakes, 566 Jardiniere Soup, 65 Jellied Turkey, 290 jellies or Moulds, 432-438. See also Moulds Apple, 439 Aspic, 312 Beef-tea, 529 — — Peptonised, 548 Bran, for Invalid, 541 Bread, for Invalid, 541 Calf’s foot, 439 Cherry, 439 Jellies, Chicken, for Invalid, 530 Claret, 442 Coffee, 440 Danish Fruit, 435 Egg, for Invalid, 541 Farinaceous, for Invalid, 541 Fig, 440 Fruit set in, or Macedoine of Fruit, 440 Golden Spark, 440 Invalid, 539 Irish Moss, for Invalid, 541 Lemon, 438 Macaroon, 441 Meat, for Invalid, 527 — — — Strong, 531 Milk, for Invalid, 542 Orange, 441 Port Wine, 442 Prune, 442 — for Invalid, 542 Raspberry Cream, 442 Rhubarb, 443 Ribbon, 443 Russian, 443 Soup, 64 Strengthening, for Invalid, 531 to Chop, 433 to Unmould, 433 Tomato, 313 Whipped, 443 Wine, 443 Jellies (Preserves), Apple, 467 Apple and Orange, 471 Blackberry or Bramble, 468 Black Currant, 468 Crab-apple, 469 Cranberry, 469 Grape, 469 Green Gooseberry, 469 Loganberry, 470 Orange, 470 —■ and Apple, 471 Quince, 471 Raspberry, 471 Red Currant, 472 —• — without Water, 472 Rowan or Mountain Ash, 473 to Know when Ready, 466 Jellies (Sweetmeats), Black Currant, 612 French, 6x2 Jelly, to decorate Mould with, 432 to line Mould with, 433 Jelly-bag or Cloth, 466 — to clean, 14 Jerusalem Artichokes. See under Artichokes Consomme, 67 John Dory, 92 Johnny Cake, 580 jubilee Cake, 580 Cherries, 462 Jugged Hare, 296 Jugs for Milk, 32 juice, Beef, 528 Rhubarb, 472 Jujubes, Glycerine, 612 Julienne Soup, 65 July, Calendar of Food for, 28 Jumbles, Lemon, 567 june, Calendar of Food for, 28 Junket, Devonshire, 435 Kail, Scotch, 55 Kale, or Curly Greens, 149 Kale and Bacon, 514 Kedgeree, 116 Chicken and Ham, 385 Meat, 388 Kentucky Cod, 385 Ketchup, 631 Mushroom, 637 Kettle, Choice of, ir “ Octopus " or Anti-Incrustator for, J3 Kidneys and Bacon, Fried, 388 and Liver Pudding, 342 and Tomato Soup, 44 and Veal Pudding, 343 Croustades of, 516 Omelet, 330 Ox, 203 — Stewed, 221 Pig’s, Broiled, 245 Sheep’s, 204 —■ k la Turque, 269 — Cassolettes of, 270 — Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 — Curry of, 232 — Devilled, 231 — Grilled, 231 — Sauted, 232 —• Stewed in Chafing Dish, 624 Soup,43 Toast, 388 Veal, 203 — Stewed, 240 Kipper Toast, 503 Kippered Herring, 387 Kirsch Sauce, 198 Kitchen, the, 7 et seq. Chimney, cleaning of, 19 Cleaning of, 12 Cloths, 13, 14 Fitting and Furnishing of, 7 Order and Cleanliness in, 11 Range, Management of, 16 et seq. — to Clean, 18 Refuse, 15 Utensils, 10 Knuckle of Veal, 203 Browned, 235 Stewed with Rice, 235 Kohl-Rabi, 149 Koumiss, 545 Kromeskies, 254 Bloater, 503 Cold Meat, 254 Egg and Ham, 515 Fish, xx6 Game, 305 Sweetbreads, 271 Krona pepper, 631 Kugelbon Cake, 580 Lamb, 200 Cutlets a la Mayonnaise, 263 — a la Soubise, 262 — Grilled, 230 —• in Paper, 230 Forequarter of, to Carve, 660 Fry, 204, 230 Head, 204 — — Dressed, 230 Loin of, to Carve, 659 Prices of, 205 Ragoftt, with Green Peas, 22S Rechauffe, 258 Roast, 226 Sweetbreads, Fried, 23a694 INDEX Lamb Sweetbreads, in Cases, 264 to Carve, 659 Lard, to Keep, 33 to Prepare, 247 Larder, Arrangement and Fittings, 3° Cleaning, Daily and Weekly, 30 Daily Inspection of, 30 Position, 30 Useful Requisites in, 30 Ventilation and Temperature, 30 Larding of Meat, 205 Lardoons, 206 Lax, as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 Canapes de, 498 Crofttes, 509 Devilled, 509 Tartelettes de, 498 Leeks, 149 4 la Crime, 149 and Potato Soup, 54 and Sausage, 518 Soup,52 to Stew, 149 Lemon and Orange Ice (Water), 481 Biscuits, 573 Cakes, 567 Cheese Cakes, 367 Cones, 367 Cream, 446 Curd, for Cheese Cakes, 367 — Sandwiches, 525 Ice, Cream—Economical, 483 — Water, 481 Icing, 590 Jelly, 438 — Marmalade, 470 Jumbles, 567 Layer Cake, 581 Mould, 436 Pudding, Baked, 414 — Boiled, 404 Rind and Juice, to Prepare, 552 Sauce, 198 Sole, 97. See Sole Sorbet, 490 Souffli, 429 Sponge, 441 Squash, 617 Sugar, 633 Syrup, 617, 618 Tart, 357 Toffee, 607 Whey, for Invalid, 547 Lemonade, for Invalid, 545 Milk, for Invalid, 545 Punch,617 Raspberry, 618 to Keep, 617 Lemons, to Keep, 33 Lentils, 173 Lentil and Carrot Soup, 49 and Potato Cakes, 174 Baked,173 Curried, 173 Omelet, 330 Potted, 174 Pudding, 174 Puree, 174 Souffli, 174 Soup, 52 — from Lentil Flour, 53 Stewed, 173 with Eggs au Gratin, 174 with Rice, X74 Lettuces, Cos and Cabbage, 150 and Cauliflower Soup, 49 and Chicken Salad, 178 Braised, 150 Cream Soup, 73 Salad, 179 Sandwiches, 523 Soup, 53 Stewed, 150 Stuffed, 150 to Prepare for Salad, 176 Leveret, Roasted, 296 Lightning Chopper, 632 Lima or Butter Beans, 173 Ling, 92 Linseed Tea, for Invalid, 545 Liqueur Glac6 Icing, 589 Ice Cream, 483 Sauce, 198 Souffle, 429 Liver and Bacon, 232 — — cooked in Paper Bag, 628 — — Savoury, 233 and Kidney Pudding, 342 and Mushroom Toast, 516 Balls, 388 — for Soup, 310 Calf’s, ft la Hongroise, 241 —■ Broiled, 241 — Larded, 241 — Poor Man's Goose, 241 — Roasted, 241 — Saut4, 241 Chicken, 41a Mad&re, 282 — Devilled, 506 — Omelet with, 329 — Pilaff of, 282 — on Toast, 506 Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Farce or Forcemeat, 307 — au Gratin, 308 Ox, 203 Sauce, 186 Sheep's, Gateau of, 232 Loaf, Coburg, 555 Cottage, 555 Currant, 556 Lobster 4 l’Americaine, 109 41a Newburg, 109 Baked,108 Bouch^es, 510 Broiled, 108 Coral, 313 — Butter, 194 Cream, 108 Croustades, 498, 510 Cutlets, 109 Moulds, 510 Omelet, 330 Patties, 353 Petits Cornets, 498 Plainly Dressed, 108 Roast, 108 Salad, 179 Sandwiches, 523 Sauce, 190 Soup or Bisque, 6x, 75 Spawn Butter, 194 to Extract Meat from, 108 to Kill, 107 with Tomatoes, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Loganberry Jelly, 470 Louise Cakes, 567 Love-Apple. See Tomato Lump Cakes, 567 Luncheon Cake, 581 Luncheons, Seasonable, 675-677 in Autumn, 676 in Spring, 675 in Summer, 676 in Winter, 677 Macaroni and other Italian Pastes, 373 4 l'ltalienne, 375 4 la Milanaise, 375 and Cheese, 374 and Cheese Croquettes, 374 and Ham Cake, 375 and Ham Pie, 375 and Meat Pie, 255 and Meat Timbale, 255 and Tomato Soup, 58 and Walnut Scallops, 375 au Gratin, 374 Cream Soup, 73 Dishes with, 373-376 Plainly served, 374 Pudding, with Eggs, 393 — without Eggs, 392 Soup, Brown, 58 — White, 58 Stewed, 375 to Boil, 374 with Green Peas, 375 with White Sauce, 374 Macaroons, 573 Cheese Cakes, 367 Cinnamon, 572 Dutch, 572 Jellies, 441 Walnut, 575 Mace, 631 Macedoine of Fruit, 440 — Vegetables, for Garnish, 313 Soup, 66 Mackerel, 92 4 la Meuniere, 93 Fillets 4 la Venitienne, 120 in Paper Bag, 627 Potted, 93 Soused, 93 Stuffed and Baked, 93 to Bake, 92 to Boil, 92 to Broil or Grill, 92 to Fry, 93 Madeira Cake, 581 Madeleines, 567 Madfere Sauce, 190 Maids of Honour, 368 Maitre d’Hdtel Butter, 194 Sauce. See Parsley Sauce Maize. See Indian Corn and Hominy. Maltese Pie, 346 Maple Sugar and Walnut Sand- wiches, 526 — Chocolates, 604 Marble Slab for Sweet Making, 595 March, Calendar of Food for, 27 Marie’s Cake, 581 Marie Louise Bombe, 490 Marigold Tartlets, 368 Marinade, 206 Marinating of Meat, 206 Marjoram, 630 Marketing Hints, 23 Marlborough Pudding, 414INDEX 695 Marmalade, Apricot, 467 Blackberry and Apple, 468 Black Currant, 468 Cake, 581 Gooseberry, 470 Lemon Jelly, 470 Orange, 470, 473 — Tangerine, 499 Pudding, Baked, 415 — Boiled, 404 Quince, 471 Red Currant, 472 Sauce, 198 Marmite, 39 Marrons, Chocolate, 604 Glaces, Coupe aux, 484 Marrow Bones, 516 Croustades, 510 Pudding, 413 Toast, 510 Marshmallows, 612 Marzipan, 609, 610 Acorns, 610 Almonds, 610 Apricot, 611 Boiled, 609 Brochettes, 610 Cherries, 611 Chocolate, 604 Kisses, 6x1 Moulded, 609 Moulds, 596 Pea-pods, 610 Potatoes, 611 Slices, 609, 610 Sweets, with, 608-612 Matelote Sauce, 190 May, Calendar of Food for, 27 May-Blossom, Essence of, 633 Mayonnaise, Egg and Shrimp, 321 Chicken, 281 Fish. See Mayonnaise of Halibut Halibut, 90 Lamb Cutlets, 263 Oysters, 499 Salmon, 121 Sauce, 192 — green, 193 — red, 193 Tunny Fish, 501 Mealy Puddings, 5x7 Measures and Weights, 34 Meat and Macaroni Pie, 255 — — Timbale. 255 and Potato Cones, 254 — — Pie, 340 and Rice Cakes, 255 — — Mould, 255 Approximate Time required for Boiling or. Roasting, 210 Boilings, 37 Boning of, 205 Broths, 41 Cakes with Poached Eggs, 255 Care of, 31 Casserole of, 250 Cold, Redressed, 248-259. See Cold Meat Different Joints and their Uses, 201 — Methods of Cooking, 207 Dishes with Pastry, 336 French Terms for, 637 Frozen, 201 — to Thaw, 205 Glaze, 37, 40, 210, 313 Gravy for, 207, 208 Meat, Hints on Choosing, 200 Invalid Dishes, 535-539 Jellies, Invalid, 527-532 Jelly, Strong, 331 Kedgeree, 388 Larding of, 205 Marinating of, 206 More Elaborate Dishes, 260 et seq. Pickle for, 219 Pickling of, 219 — Dry, 219 — General Directions for, 219 —• Wet, 219 Pies, 336 et seq. See Pies Potted, 256 Prices of, 204 Preparation for Cooking, 205 Puddings, 341-343 Rolls, Savoury, 256 Safe, 30 Savoury Toast, 388 Scallops, 253 Soups, 41 Surprises, 254 to Bake, 207 to Bard, 206 to Boil, 208 to Braise, 210 to Broil or Grill, 208 to Fry, 209 to Glaze, 210 to Pickle, 219 to Roast, 208 — — in a Pan, 207 —• — in Paper Bag, 627 to Steam, 208 to Stew, 209 — — in Earthenware, 209 Medaillons de Ris de Veau a la Graziella, 272 —• Veau k la Princesse, 266 Melon, as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 en Surprise, Ice, 488 Ice (Water), 481 Iced, k la Framjaise, 463 — with Port Wine, 463 Melted Butter, 186 — Sauce, English, 186 Menus, and their Construction, 663- 664 French Terms used in, 636-638 of Fifty Breakfasts, 672-674 of Seasonable Dinners of Five and Six Courses, 668-671 of Seasonable Luncheons, 675-677 of Simple Dinners for a Month, 665-667 What it Comprises, 664 Mercia Steriliser for Bottling Fruit, 474 Meringued Apples, 457 Apricots, 457 Oranges, 458 Pancakes, with Apples, 423 Peaches, 458 Meringues au Chocolat Glacees, 484 Mushroom, 447 Pineapple and Cornflour, 457 with Cream, 457 Mice, 16 Midriff of Beef, 202 Milan Biscuits, 573 Milk, Almond, 635 — for Invalid, 542 and Beef Tea for Invalid, 529 and Rum, for Invalid, 546 Milk and Suet, for Invalid, 546 Biscuits, 573 Cocoanut, 635 Gruel, for Invalid, 544 — Peptonised, 548 Gum Arabic, for Invalid, 544 Jelly, for Invalid, 542 Jugs, 32 Lemonade, for Invalid, 545 Peptonised, for Invalid, 390 Puddings, 390 et seq. — Baked, 390 — Steamed, 391 Punch,6x8 Rice, for Invalid, 546 Rolls, 558 Seasoned, for Sauces, 183 Tea, for Invalid, 546 Thick, for Invalid, 547 to Keep, 32 — — and Serve, for Invalid, 545 Toast, 381 Mimosa Pudding, 415 Mince Pies, 368 Mincemeat for, 368 Minced Beef, for Invalid, 535 , — Sandwiches, 521 Chicken, for Invalid, 537 Cold Meat, 250 — — with Scrambled Eggs, 256 Game, in Scallops, 386 i Ham, with Poached Eggs, 258 Steaks, Grilled, 217 Veal Steaks, 237 Mincing Machine, t^Clean, 14 Mint, 630 Sauce, 193 to Keep, 33 Mixed Fruit Ice, 481 — Salad, 180 — Tart, Summer, 356 — — Winter, 356 Mocha Cake, 581, 582 Icing, 590 Mock Hare, Beef as, 214 — Soup, 44 Goose, 245 Kidney Soup, 44 Oyster Soup, 55 Sweetbreads, 238 Turtle Soup, Clear, 64 — — Thick, 69 Molasses, Walnut, 608 Monte Carlo Creams, 502 Monthly Calendar of Food, 26 Mornay Sauce. See Cheese Sauce Moulded Eggs, 326 Moulds, Apple, 439. See also Jellies Beef and Veal, 218 Bombe, 489 Bramble or Blackberry, 434 Carrot, 137 Cherry, 439 Chocolate, 435 Coffee, 435 Cold Meat and Rice, 255 Cornflour, 435 Cranberry, 435 Dariole, 115 Fig, 440 — for Invalid, 540 for Ices, Fancy, 485 for Sweetmeats, 596, 6og Ground Rice, 436 Haricot Bean, 173 Honeycomb, 436696. INDEX Moulds, Lemon, 436 Lobster, 510 Orange, 436 Pineapple, 437 Potato and C.'heese, 517 Prune, 442 Rabbit, 295 Raspberry and Red Currant, 437 Rhubarb, 443 — and Sago, 437 Rice, 437 Tapioca and Almond, 438 Tin, to Clean, 14 to Decora'e with Jelly, 432 to Line with Jelly, 433 to Prepare for Creams and Jellies, 432 to Prepare for Pudding, 395 Veal and Ham, 237 Mountain Ash Jelly, 473 Moussaka & la Turque, 265 Mousse, Apricot, 443 au Chocolat (Iced), 488 Banana, for Bonrbe Franfaise, 489, 490 deVolaille 281 Iced, 486 Tomato (Iced), 488 Mousseline Farce, 309 Sauce, 190 Mousselinesde Veau a la St. Flonore, 267 de Volatile, 282 Muffins, Ring for, 561 Yeast, 561 Mulberry Jam, 470 Mulled Claret, 618 Wine and Egg for Invalid, 546 Mullet, Grey, 103 Red, A la MarAchale, 121 — a la Parisienne, 121 — au Gratin, 94 —• Cooked in Paper Bag, 627 — in Cases, 120 — to Bake, 94 — to Grill, 94 Mulligatawny Soup, Clear, 64 — Fish, 61 — Thick, 44 Mushrooms, 151 and Bacon, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 and Liver Toast, 516 - au Gratin, 151 Cassolettes, 510 Fritters, 510 Ketchup, 632 Meringues, 447 Omelet, 330 Pancakes, 5x7 Patties, 353 Ragofit of, 152 Sauce, Brown, 1S6 — White, 186 Scalloped, 151 Soup, 73 Stewed, 152 Stuffed, 152 Stuffing, 308 to Bake, 151 to Grill, 151 Toast, 510 with Wine, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Mussels, 109 k la MarimAre, no Mussels, & la St. Vincent, 498 a la Poulette, no Sauce, 186 Soup,6t to Prepare and Cook, 109 with Spinach, 511 Mustard, 631 and Cress, Preparation for a Salad, 176 Sauce, 186, 187 to Make, 632 Mutton, 200, 225-234 and Rice, Steamed, for Invalid, 538 Blanquette of, 228 Boiled, 225 Breast of, 204 — Braised, 226 Broth, 45 — for Invalid, 531 Chops) Fried, 229 — Grilled, 228 —• in Paper, for Invalid, 537 — in Paste, for Invalid, 537 — Savoury, 229 — Steamed, for Invalid, 537 Cutlets, 229 — A. la Milanaise, 262 — a la Russe, Cold, 263 — Grilled, with Cucumber, 229 — Masked, 229 — with Asparagus, 262 —- with Chestnuts, 262 Diagram of Mode of Cutting up, 203 en Casserole, 227 Epigrams of, 263 — a la Soubise, 263 — A la Villeroi, 264 — aux Champignons, 263 Filets A la Tyrolienne, 264 Haricot, 226 Irish Stew of, 227 — — Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Leg or Gigot, 203 — to Carve, 659 — Stuffed and Roasted, 225 Loin, 204 — to Carve, 659 — Stuffed and Roasted, 225 Moussaka A la Turque, 265 Neck of, 204 Noisettes, 264 — aux Olives, 264 Pie, 340 Pies, Small, 344 Prices of, 205 Pudding, 342 Quenelles, for Invalid, 535 Roast, 225 — Saddle of, 226 Roll, 230 Saddle of, 204 — to Carve, 660 Scallops of, 264 Shoulder of, 204 — to Carve, 660 — Stuffed and Roasted, 225 Spring Stew of, 228 Steamed, 225 Stew with Tomatoes, 227 to Carve, 659 with Red Currant Sauce, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 with Turnips, 227 Nasturtiums, 630 Sandwiches, 523 Savoury, 499 Seeds, to Pickle, 632 Neapolitan Creams, 447 GAteau, 456 Ice Creams, 486 — (Bombe Napolitaine), 490 Rice, 371 Soup, 53 Squares, 601 Nectarines, to Bottle, 496 Nellie's Ginger Cake, 582 Nettles, 152 Neva Biscuits, 573 Nickel Saucepans, 10 Nog, Egg, for Invalid, 544 Noisettes de Mouton aux Olives, 2^4 Pommes de Terre, 161 Venison A la Diana, 299 Noodles, or Nouilles, 376 Normande Sauce, 190 Normandy Pippins, Stewed, 463 Norwegian Biscuits, 574 Nougat, 612 Baskets, with Chantilly Cream, 458 Chocolate, 613 Frames, for Sweetmaking, 596 Orange, 613 White, with Nuts, 613 Nougatines, Chocolates, 604 Nouilles, 376 November, Calendar of Food for, 29 Nuremberg Gingerbread, 579 Nutmeg, 376 Nuts, 376 and Banana Sandwiches, 525 and Cheese Pudding, 378 and Chocolate Kisses, 605 and Cucumber Croquettes, 515 and Date Chocolates, 604 and Ginger Sandwiches. 525 and Potato Rissoles, 378 — — Roll, 378 and Rice, 371 and Spongecake Sandwiches, 526 Butter, 379 Cake, 582 Dishes, 376 et seq. for Cake Decoration, 573 for Sweetmaking, 596 Omelet, 330 Pastries, 365 Sandwiches, 525 -— (Savoury), 199 Sauce (Sweet), 190 Souffle, 378 Stuffing, 308 Value of, 376 Oatcakes, Scotch, 570 Oatmeal Biscuits, 574 Drink, for Invalid, 546 Porridge, 381 Soup, 59 October, Calendar of Food for, 29 “ Octopus,” for Kettle, 13 Oil-stoves, care of, 22 Cooking on, 21 Use of, 22 Olives A la Suzette, 299 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 49X en Aspic, 499 Farcies, 499 — aux Anchois, 499 Sandwiches, 523INDEX 697 Ol ves, Sauce, 190 to Stone or Turn, 494 Omelet Pans, 13, 328 Omelets, 327-331 Anchovy, 329 Asparagus, 329 Bacon, 329 Banana, 329 Brain, 329 Cheese, 329 Chicken, 329 Chicken Livers, 329 Chocolate, 431 Curry, 329 Fish, 330 Ham, 330 Kidney, 330 Lentil, 330 Lobster, 330 Mushroom, 330 N ut, 330 Oyster, 330 Plain, 328 Potato, 330 Rice,331 Rum, 431 Sardine, 331 Savoury, 329-331 Shrimp, 331 Soufflces, 431 — with Apricots, 431 Sweet, 431 Sweetbread, 331 Tomato, 331 Vegetable, 331 Onions, 152 au Gratin, 153 Baked,153 Boiled, with White Sauce, 153 Fried, 153 Glazed,154 Pur^e of, 154 Sauce, 187 Soup, Brown, 53 — for Invalid, 531 — White, 53 Stewed, 153 Stuffed, 153 Surprise, 517 to Keep, 33 to Pickle, 633 Open Tarts, 356-362. See Flans and Tarts Opera Creams, 601 Orange and Apple Jelly, 471 and Banana Salad, 465 and Banana Tart, 355 and Beetroot Salad, 177 and Chocolate Custard, 434 and Date Salad, 180 and Lemon Ice (Water), 481 and Tapioca Cream, 438 and Walnut Drops, 613 Baskets, 441 Biscuits, 574 Bon-Bons, 601 Cake, 583 Cream, 447 Custard, 447 Fritters, 423 Hearts, 368 Ice (Cream), 483 — (Tangerine), 484 Icing, 590 in Wine, 465 Jelly, 441 Orange Jelly (Preserve), 470 Marmalade, 470 — (Tangerine), 473 Meringued, 458 Mould, 436 Nougat, 613 Pudding, Baked, 415 — Iced, 487 —■ Steamed, 404 Punch, 618 Quarters, 441 Rind and Juice, to Prepare, 552 Salad, 180 Sandwich Cake, 583 Sauce (Bigarade), 188 — (Savoury), 190 — (Sweet), 199 Slices, 368 Soda, 618 Souffle, 429 Souffles, Small, 429 Sponge, 442 Sugar, 663 Tart, 358 Tartlets, 359 to Caramelise for Cake Decoration, 593 Orders, Checking of, 25 Orchid Design for Folding Serviette, 644 Ortolans, Roast, 301 Othello Shells, 567 — to Decorate, 568 — to Fill, 568 — to Ice, 568 — to Imitate Fruits, 568 Oven, the, 17 Gas, 21 — to use, 21 to Heat, 17 to Test Heat of, 553 Ox-Cheek, 202 Soup, 45 Stewed, 220 Stuffed and Braised, 220 Ox-Eyes, or Eggs in Sunshine 324 Ox-Heart, 202 Stewed, 221 Stuffed and Roasted, 221 Ox-Kidney, 203 Stewed, 221 Ox-Palates, k l’Espagnole, 270 a l’ltalienne, 270 Curried, 222 Fried, 221 How to Prepare them, 221 with Parsley Sauce, 222 Ox-Tail, 202 Fried, with Tartare Sauce, 222 Soup, Clear, 66 — Thick, 45 Stewed, 222 Ox-Tongue, 202 Braised, 223 Fried, with Caper Sauce, 258 in Brown Sauce, 258 in Jelly, 223 to Carve, 659 to Pickle, 222 to Serve Cold, 223 to Serve Hot, 223 Oysters, no k 1‘Americaine, m 4 la Mayonnaise, 499 and Fish Pie, 345 as Hors-d’CF,uvre, 491 Oysters au Naturel, no Bonnes Bouches, 511 Canapes, 499 Creamed, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Cutlets, in Fricassee for Invalid, 534 Fried, no Fritters, no Little Boats, 5x1 Omelet, 330 Patties, 354 Prairie, for Invalid, 548 Roasted, no Salad, 180 Sauce, 190 Scalloped, no Souffles, Baked, n Soup,76 Stuffing, 308 with White Wine, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Oyster Plant. See Salsify. Palates, Ox. Sir? Ox-Palates. Palm Design of Folding Serviette, 649 Panada, Chicken or Veal, for Invalid, 537 for Souffles, 426 Pancakes, 422 Apple, 423 French, or Saucer Puddings, 413 Fritters, 423 ® Herb, 517 Meringued, with Apples, 423 Mushroom, 517 Savoury, 517 Paper-Bag Cookery, 626-628 How to Use it, 626 Some Advantages of, 627 Cases for Sweets, 614 Paprika or Krona Pepper, 631 Parfaits, Coffee, 489 de Foie Gras, 273 Iced, 486 Parisian Cream Soup, 73 Parkin Gingerbread, 579 Parkins, Scotch, 574 Yorkshire, 589 Parmesan, Aiguilles au, 504 Parsley, 630 Sauce, 187 to Chop, 632 to Dry, 632 to Fry, 632 to Keep, 33 Parsnips, 154 k la Maltre d’Hbtel, 154 Balls, 155 Croquettes, 155 Glared and Browned, 155 Mashed, 154 Scalloped, 155 Soup, 53 to Boil, 154 Partridges, k la Valencienne, 301 Chartreuse of, 302 Broiled, 301 Pudding, 342 Roast, 301 Salmi of, 306 Soup, Clear, 66 — Thick, 68 to Carve, 661698 INDEX Partridges with Cabbage, 301 Pastes, Almond, 390 — Coloured, 591 — How to Use, 591 Devil, 194 Fruit, 469 Pasties, 345 Pasty, Cold Meat, 347 Cornish, 350 Potato, 351 Veal and Ham, 347 Pastry and Pastry Dishes, 332-369 Almond, 362 Anchovy, 494 Cases for Savouries, 493 Cheese, 494 Choux, 336 Cornflour, 336 Cornets for Savouries, 493 Cream, 336 Crofltons, for Soup, 312 Custard, 454 Different Kinds of, 333-336 Fancy, for Dessert or Tea, 365 Flaky, 335 Fleurons of, 312 Genoese (Beaten Cold), 565 — (Beaten Hot), 366 — Brown, 566 — Pink, 566 Hints on Baking, 333 Leaves, Roses, Tassels, &c., 337 Materials Required, 332 Meat Dishes with, 336 et seq. Mixing and Rolling, 332 Nut, 365 Potato, 336 Puff, 33 s Raised Pie Crust, 334 Rough Puff, 334 Sandwiches, 523 Savoury Dishes with, 336 Short Crust, 333 — — Plain, or Dripping Crust, 333 Small Savoury, 350 et seq. — Sweet, 362 et seq. Suet, 333 to Cover Tarts with, 355 to Glaze, 333 to Line and Decorate a Pie Dish with, 409 Wholemeal Suet, 334 P4td, Breakfast, 384 de Foie Gras, as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492. See Foie Gras, of Duck, 283 Rabbit, 347 Patent Cooker, Hutching’s, 208 — for Use with Gas Fire, 20 Patties, 352-354 Beef, 352 Cases, to Make, 352 Chicken and Ham, 353 Cold Meat, 350, 353 Dresden, 254 Egg, 318 Filling for, 352 Fish, 353 Lobster, 353 Mushrooms, 353 Oyster, 354 Sardine, 354 Shrimp, 354 Sweetbread, 354 Veal and Ham, 354 Patties, Vegetable, 354 Payment of Provisions, 25 Pea. See Peas Pea-Pods, Marzipan, 610 Peaches 4 la Chantilly, 458 41a Diable, 463 Cream, 447 Flan of, 360 Fritters, 423 Ice (Cream), 483 — (Water), 480 Iced, 4 la Melba, 487 (Peches 4 la Melba) — au Nid (Peches Glacees au Nid), 487 Meringued, 458 Sauce, 199 Souffle, 429 to Bottle, 476 Pears 4 la Celestine, 458 4 la St. Honors. 459 and Apple Jam, 467 and Chestnut Tart or Flan, 360 Compote of, 463 Fritters, 424 Ginger, 471 to Bottle, 476 to Store, 33 Peas, Dried, 175 — Pur6e of, 175 — Soup,51 — — from Pea Flour, 54 — to Cook, 175 Green, 146 — and Egg Salad, 179 — and Spaghetti, 175 — and Tomato Soup, 74 — Balls of, 148 — Cassolettes of Cucumber and, 144 — Creamed, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 — Puree, 148 — Soup,54 — to Steam, 147 — with Bacon, 147 — with Butter, 147 — with Carrots, 147 — with Curried Rice, 147 — with Lettuces, 147 — with Rice Border, 372 Tinned, 148 Peasants’ Soup, 46 Pease Pudding, 175 PSches 4 la Melba, 487 Glacdes au Nid, 487 Peel Candied, to Make, 635 •— to Prepare, 552 Pepper, 631 Black, 631 Cayenne, 631 Mignonette, 631 Paprika or Krona, 63 Peppermint, 630 Creams, 601 — Chocolate, 605 Cushions, 607 Rock, 613 Tablet, 602 Peptonised Arrowroot, 548 Beef-Tea, 548 — Jelly, 548 Blancmange, 549 Custard Pudding, 549 Gruel, 548 Milk, 548 Peptonised Milk Gruel, 548 Perch 4 la Maltre d’Hotel, 104 to Boil or Fry, 103 to Stew with Wine, 104 P^rigueux Sauce, 190 Pese Syrop, 596 Petite Marmite Soup, 69 Petites Crimes de Monte Carlo, 502 Gondoles aux Banana, 495 Petits Amours, 365 Choux 4 la Creme, 453 Cornets de Homard, 409 Pains de Foie Gras, 273 Pheasant, Boiled, 302 Cream, 302 Roast, 302 Pickle and Veal Sandwiches, 524 for Meat, 219 — — Dry, 219 — — Wet, 219 for Pig’s Head, 245 for Pork, 242 Pickled Green Tomatoes, 633 Nasturtium Seeds, 632 Onions, 633 Red Cabbage, 633 Walnuts, 633 Pickling of Meat, General Directions for, 219 of Pork, 242 Pie-Crust, Raised, 334 Pie-Dish, to Line and Decorate with Pastry, 409 Pie-Melon Jam, 471 Pies, Apple, 355. See also Pasties and Patties — and Pumpkin, 356 — and Pork, 244 Beefsteak and Kidney, 338 Calfs Head, 338 Chicken and Ham, Cold, 338 — — — Hot, 339 Cold Meat, 339 — — (Pasty), 347 — — and Macaroni, 255 Cottage, 250 Duck, 339 Egg and Potato, 317 Eel, Cold, 345 — Hot, 345 Fish, 4 la Russe, 117 -— and Oyster, 345 — Russian, 346 — Tart, 346 — with Macaroni, 1.16 — with Potatoes, 117 — with Rice, 117 Fruit, 354-356 — Small, 366 Funnel for, 336 Game, Raised, 344 Giblet, 339 Grouse, 340 Hare (Raised), 345 Macaroni and Ham, 375 Maltese, 346 Meat, 336-354 — and Macaroni, 255 — and Potato, 340 — to Cover and Bake, 337 Mince, 368 Miscellaneous, 345-350 Mutton, 340 — Small, 344 Pigeon, 340 Pork (Raised), 344699 INDEX Pies, Pumpkin, 356 — and Apple, 356 Rabbit, 341 — (P&te), 347 Raised, 343-345 — Crust for, 334 Rice and Egg, 371 Roman, 348 Salmon (Raised), 345 Sea, 348 Sheep's Head, 341 Shepherd's, 250 Sweet Potato, 165 Veal and Ham, 341 (Pasty) 347 Raised, 314 — and Rice, 347 Vegetable, 349 Venison, 341 Pig's Cheek, 383 Feet, 204 — Stuffed, 244 — with Tomato Sauce, 244 Fry or Harslet, 204 — Fried, 244 — Stewed, 244 Head, 204 — Collared, 245 — to Pickle and Boil, 245 Kidneys, Broiled, 245 Sucking, Roasted, 243 Tongues, to Cook, 246 Pigeons, 274 Boiled or Steamed, 286 Braised with Spaghetti, 287 Cutlets k la Duchesse, 287 — k la Milanaise, 288 — k la Villeroi, 288 Forcemeat for, 308 Grilled, with Orange Sauce, 286 Pie, 340 Potted, 286 Roast, 286 Stewed, for Invalid, 538 — with Macaroni, 286 Stuffed, with Mushrooms, 287 to Carve, 661 with Green Peas, 287 with Rice, 287 Pike a la Bordelaise, 120 a la Meunifere, 104 k la Pompadour, 120 Stuffed and Baked, 104 to Boil, 104 to Grill, 104 to Stew with Wine, 104 Pilaff or Pilau, of Cold Beef, 253 of Rice, 371 Pineapple and Cornflour Meringue, 4^5 Chocolates, 604 Cream, 447 Ice (Cream), 483 Ice (Water), 481 Mould, 437 Sauce, 199 Souffte, 429 Pintails, to Cook, 302 Pippins, Normandy, Stewed, 463 Piquante Sauce, 187 Pistachio Kernels, for Cake Decora- tion, S93 Nut Souffles (Cold), 459 Nuts, to Prepare for Cakemaking, 552 Pitcaithly Bannock, 583 Plaice, 93 Baked, for Invalid, 534 Fillets, with Green Peas, 94 Stuffed and Baked, 94 to Carve, 662 to Stew, 93 Plate-Rack, 9 Plover, Roast, 303 with Rice, 303 Plovers’ Eggs, in Aspic, 327 — to Cook and Serve, 327 Pluck, Sheep’s, 204 Plum Duff, 404 Jam, 471 Pudding, Baked, 415 — Vegetarian, 407 — Xmas, 408 Tartlets, 304 Plums, to Bottle, 476 — — French Method, 476 Poached Eggs. See Eggs, Poached. Pocket Design for Folding Serviette, 642 Pointed Strainer, 182 Poivrade Sauce, 190 Polenta, 148 Pommes de Terres. See Potatoes Pomponettes de Foie Gras, 507 Pop-Com, 148 Poor Man's Goose, 241 Pork, 201, 242-247 Pork, 201, 242-247. See also under Ham and Pig and Apple Pie, 244 Brawn, 245 Cutlets, 243 Diagram illustrating Cuts of, 204 Faggots, 245 Ham, to Carve, 660 Hand and Spring, or Belly, 204 Kidneys, Broiled, 245 Lard, to Prepare, 247 Leg of, 204 — to Carve, 660 Loin of, 204 — to Carve, 660 Mock Goose, 245 Pie, Raised, 344 Prices of, 205 Roasted, 243 Salt, Boiled, and Pease Pudding, 243 Sausages. See under Sausages Stew, 243 Sucking Pig, Roasted, 243 — to Carve, 660 to Carve, 660 to Pickle, 242 Tongues, to Cook, 246 Porridge, Hominy, 381 Oatmeal, 381 Wheatenmeal, 381 Port Wine and Sago, for Invalid, 546 — Drops, 613 — Jelly, 442 Porterhouse Steak, 217 Portuguese Soup, 54 — Clear (Consomme k la Portu- gaise), 66 Posset, Treacle, for Invalid, 547 Pot-au-feu, 46 Pot Roast, 212 Potatoes, 155 a la Duchesse, 158 k la Maltre d’H6tel, 159 ala Parisienne, 161 Potatoes and Artichoke Soup, 48 and Beetroot, 133 and Beetroot Salad, 180 and Beetroot and Cabbage Soup, 49 and Cheese Balls, 517 — — Mould, 512 and Cold Meat Cones, 254 and Egg Pie, 317 and Fish Souffle, 119 — — Timbale, 119 and Ham Hash, 258 and Leek Soup, 54 and Lentil Cakes, 174 and Meat Pie, 340 and Nut Rissoles, 378 — — Roll, 378 and Sausage Croquettes, 517 and Tomato Savoury, 518 — — Soup,54 and Watercress Soup, 57 Anna (Pommes de Terre Anna), 161 au Gratin, 159 Balls, 157 Borders, 158 Cake, 583 Cases, 158 Cheese Cakes, 369 Chips, 157 Croquettes, 157 Curry, 158 Dressing, 192 Dumplings, for Soup, 310 Fritters, 158 Marzipan, 611 Mashed, 156 New, Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 — (Pommesde Terre Nouvelles: Almond Pastry), 459 Noisettes (Pommes de Terre Noisettes), 161 Omelet with, 330 Pasties, 351 Pastry, 336 Pudding, 416 Puree, 159 Quenelles, for Soup, 3ro Ribbons, 157 Roses, Rings, &c., 159 Saratoga, 157 Sautdd, 159 Scones, 560 Snowflakes, 156 Souffle (Baked), 160 Souffldes (Pommes de Terres Souffles), 160 Soup,54 — k la Parmentier, 73 Stew of, 159 Stewed, 160 Straws, 157 Stuffed, 160 — au Gratin, 160 Stuffing, 308 Sweet. See Sweet Potatoes to Bake, 156 to Boil, 155 — — in the Skin, 155 to Fry, 156 to Roast, 156 to Steam, 156 to Store, 33 with Bacon, 157 with Parsley Sauce, 159 with Tomatoes, 168 Potted Beef, 383 — Scotch, 384700 INDEX Potted Beef, Bloater, 384 Cheese, 496 Crab, 107 Head, 220 Herring, 91 Lentils, 174 Mackerel, 93 Meat, 256 — Sandwiches, 523 — Toast, 511 Pigeons, 286 Salmon, 388 Shrimps, 112 Pouding en Surprise, 487. See Iced Puddings Glac6 a l’Orange, 487 — 4 la Rose, 487 — aux Fruits, 478 Poularde, 274 Poulette Sauce, 191 Poultry, Approximate Time required for Cooking, 306. SVe also Fowl and Chicken Choice of, 274 French Terms for, 636 Preparation for Table, 273 to Carve, 661 to Keep, 31 to Pluck and Singe, 275 Pound Cake, German, 578 Prairie Oyster, for Invalid, 548 Praline Cream Ice, 483 Pralines, Chocolate, 605 Prawns, in and Caviare Canapes, 496 as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Salad, 180 Preserved Ginger Pudding, 403 Goose, 285 Preserves, Fruit, 461-477. See Jams and Jellies Preserving of Eggs, 32, 635 Preserving Pan and Spoon, 466 Prices of Fish, 81 of Meat, 204, 205 Prince Ccnsommd, 67 Prince de Galles Consomme, 68 Princess Cakes, 568 Profiteroles, 314 Consomme aux, 66 Provisions, Buying of, 25 Notes on Choosing, 25 Payment of, 25 Storage of, 2s Prune and Cheese Savoury, 500 Drink for Invalid, 546 Fritters, 424 Mould or Jelly, 442 — — — for Invalid, 542 Pudding, 404 Souffle, 429 — for Invalid, 540 Stewed, 463 Ptarmigan, to Cook, 303 Pudding-Cloth, to Clean, 14 Puddings, 390-431 k la Reine, 403 Albert, 396 Almond, Baked, 409 Amber, 396 Apples & la Florentine, 410 — k la Madame, 410 — Amber, 409 — and Bread, 410 — and Rice, Baked, 416 — and Rice Dumplings, 369 Puddings, Apples and Rice, Steamed, 393 — and Semolina au Gratin, 411 — Charlotte, 410 — Custards, Baked, 410 — Doughdy,396 — in Batter, Baked, 410 — Little Puddings, 411 — Pancakes, 423 — Sago,411 — Swiss, 417 Apricot, Baked, 411 —• Crofites, 411 — Steamed, 396 — — Sauce for, 396 Arrowroot, 392 Aunt Elizabeth’s, 411 Baked, 408-418 Banana, 397 — and Sago (Cold), 433 — Custard, for Invalid, 540 Barley, Custard, 391 — Ground, 391 — with Eggs, 391 — without Eggs, 391 Baroness, 397 Batter, 397 — and Fruit, 397 — Light, for Invalid, 540 Beefsteak and Kidney, 342 — — — Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Beef-tea, for Invalid, 540 Bird’s Nest, 4x1 Black Cap, 397 Blakemore, 4x2 Boiled and Steamed, 394-408 Bread, 398 — and Apple, 410 — and Butter, 391 — and Cherry, 412 — and Chocolate, 4x2 — and Fruit, 397 Bread-crumb, 392 — and Marmalade, 412 Brown Betty, 412 Brown Bread, 398 Bun, 392 Cabinet, 398 — Cold, 444 — Richer, 398 Canary, 399 Caramel Custard, 399 — Rice, 399 — Semolina, 399 Carrot, Baked, 412 — Steamed, 399 Casserole of Rice, with Stewed Fruit, 405 Castle or Cup, 400 Chelsea (Half-pay), 400 Cherry, 400 — and Bread, 412 Chestnut and Custard, 400 Chocolate and Bread, 4x2 — and Rice, 393 — (Baked), 413 —• (Steamed), 400, 401 — Caramel Custard, 399 Christmas, 408 Claret, 454 Cocoanut, Baked, 413 — Steamed, 401 Coffee, 401 — Caramel Custard, 399 — Meringue, 413 Puddings, College, 413 Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Cornflour, 392 — and Pine-apple Meringue, 415 — Custard, 392 Cup, 400 Currant Dumplings, 401 Custard and Chestnut, 400 — Baked,392 — Caramel, 399 — Peptonised, 549 — Steamed, 392 — — for Invalid, 540 Dampf Nudeln, 401 Date, 402 Delaware, 402 Diplomatic, 454 Dough Dumplings, 402 Empress, 413 Fig, 402 Fish Custard, 113 — Steamed, 117 — — for Invalid, 533 French Pancakes, or Saucer Puddings, 413 Fried, 418. See also Fritters Fruit and Batter, 397 — Baked,4x4 — Boiled or Steamed, 402 General Satisfaction, 414 Ginger (Preserved), 403 Gingerbread, 403 Glenloch, 403 Golden, 403 Grateful, 414 Ground Barley, 391 Ground Rice, 394 Hollandaise, 446 How to Boil a Pudding, 395 How to Prepare Mould cr Basin * f°r, 395 How to Steam, 395 How to Turn out, 395 Hydropathic, 436 Iced, 485 et seq. — k la Rose, 487 —• aux Fruits, 487 — en Surprise, 487, 488 — Orange, 487 - — to Unmould and Serve, 485 Imperial, 403 Indian, 414 Invalid, 539-542 Jam, Baked, 414 — Layer, 403 Kidney and Liver, 342 — and Veal, 343 Lemon, Baked, 414 — Steamed, 404 Lentil, 174 Macaroni with Eggs, 393 —• without Eggs, 392 Marlborough, 414 Marmalade, Baked, 415 — Steamed, 404 Marrow, 415 Mealy, 517 Meat, 341-343 Milk, 390 et seq. — Baked, 390 — Steamed, 391 Mimosa, 415 Mutton, 342 Nut and Cheese, 378 Orange (Baked), 415 — (Boiled), 404Sponge, 442 Cheese, 505 Fried or Grilled, 293 Puddings, Orange (Iced), 487 Pancakes, 422 — Apple, 423 — Meringued, with Apples, 423 Partridge, 342 Pease, 175 Pine-apple and Cornflour Merin- gue, 414 Plum, Baked, 415 — Christmas, 408 — Vegetarian, 407 Plum Duff, 404 Potato, 416 Preliminaries for Making, 394 Preserved Ginger, 403 Prune, 404 Queen, 416 Raspberry, 404 Red Cap, 405 Rice and Apple, Baked, 416 — — — Steamed, 393 — and Chocolate, 393 — and Milk, Steamed, 393 — and Orange Marmalade, 416 — and Raisin, 405 — Steamed, 393 — — with Eggs, 393 — — without Eggs, 393 Roly-poly, 405 Rusk, 394 — for Invalids, 541 Russian, Little, 406 Sago and Banana (Cold), 433 — with Eggs, 394 — without Eggs, 394 St. Clare, 416 Salt Beef, 257 Saucer Puddings, or French Pan- cakes, 413 Scrap Bread, 398 Semolina, Baked, 394 — Caramel, 399 — Steamed, 394 Six Cup, 406 Snow, 438 Snowdon, 406 Sponge, Baked, 417 — Steamed, 406 Suet, 406 —• Vegetarian, 407 Sultana, Baked, 417 —■ Steamed, 407 Swedish Rice, 393 Swiss Apple, 417 Sylvan, 417 Syrup, 407 Tapioca, 394 Treacle, Sponge, 407 Vegetarian Plum, 407 — Suet, 407 Veal and Kidney, 343 Vermicelli, 394 Viennoise, 407 Walnut, Baked, 417 — Steamed, 407 Welcome Guest, 408 West Riding, 417 Winchester, 408 Xmas Plum, 408 Yorkshire, 418 Puff Pastry, 335 Puffed Rice, 373 Puffs, Apple, 363 Banana, 363 Banbury, 363 INDEX Puffs, Cold Meat, 350 Game, 351 Jam, 367 Pulled Bread, 312 Pullet, to Choose, 273 Pumpkin, 161 and Apple Pie, 356 Jam, 471 Pie, 356 Soup, ss Punch, Egg, 617 Lemonade, 617 Milk, 618 Orange, 618 Rum, 619 Sherry, 619 Tea, 619 Purges, 35, 36 Artichokes, 128 Beef, for Invalid, 528 Broad Beans, 131 Carrots, 138 Celeriac, 142 Chestnuts, 378 Fruit, Ices with, 482 Fruit, Sauce, 197 Green Pea, 148 — — Dried, 175 Haricot Beans, 173 Lentil, 174 Onions, 154 Potato, 159 Turnip, 169 Pyramid of Chestnuts, 434 Quails, Broiled, 303 in Cases, 304 Roast, 303 with Spinach, for Invalid, 538 Queen Cakes, 568 Tins for, 568 Queen of Puddings, 416 Queen’s Gingerbread, 579 Quenelles, Beef, for Invalid, 535 Cheese, for Soup, 309 Chicken, 282 — for Garnish, 31 x Decorated, 31 x Fish, 118 — for Garnish, 311 for Garnish, 309 Game, for Garnish, 311 Meat or Farce, 307 Mutton, for Invalid, 535 Potato, for Soup, 310 Rabbit, 282, 295 to Shape, 267 Veal, 267 — k la Florentine, 268 — & la Supreme, 268 •— for Garnish, 311 Quince Compote, 464 Honey, 471 Jelly, 471 Marmalade, 471 Rabbit, 290 Boiled, with Onion Sauce, 291 Choice of, 290 Cold, and Spaghetti, 258 Cream, 294 Curried, 293 Fillets k la Carnot, 294 — with Chestnut Pur^e, 294 Fricassee of, 293 701 Rabbit, Galantine of, 294 G4teau of, 295, 297 Mould, 295 Pat6, 347 Pie, 341 Quenelles of, 282, 295 Souffle, 295 Soup, Brown, 46 — Cream, 73 Stewed, in Milk, for Invalid, 538 — with Brown Sauce, 292 — with Pork, 292 Stuffed and Roasted, 292 to Bone, 291 to Clean, 291 to Cut in Joints, 291 to Keep, 31 to Paunch and Skin, 290 with Mushrooms, 293, 294 with Rice, 293 Rachel Consomme, 67 Radishes as Hors-d’Q-2uvre, 492 Preparation for Salad, 176 RagoOt of Lamb with Green Peas, 228 of Mushrooms, 152 of Turkey, 290 of Veal, 236 Raised Pie Crust, 334 Pies, 343-345 — Game, 344 — Hare, 34? ® — Pork, 344 —• Salmon, 345 — Small Mutton, 344 — Veal and Ham, 343 Raisins and Almonds, Chocolate, 603, 604 Cake, 583 Sultana, to Clean, 551 Valencia, to Prepare, 551 Ramakinsof Ramequins, Cheese, 505 — Tongue, 513 Range, Closed, 17 Fuel for, 17 Management of, 16 Open, 17 to Clean, 18 Rarebit, Fish, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 Spaghetti, 376 Tomato, 518 — and Cheese, 515 Welsh, 519 Raspberry and Banana Cups, 465 and Red Currant Ice (Water), 481 — — — Jam, 471 — — — Mould, 437 — — — Sorbet, 490 and Sago Tart, 358 Biscuits, 574 Buns, 568 Cakes, Small, 569 Chocolate Creams, 603 Cream, 447 Drink, 618 Flan, with Cream, 360 Ice (Cream), 483 Icing, Butter, 590 —• Glac6, 589 Jelly, 471 Jelly Cream, 442 Lemonade, 618 Pudding, 404 Sauce, Whipped, 199INDEX 702 Raspberry Tartlets, 369 to Bottle, 476 Vinegar, 618 Ratafias, 574 Rats, 16 Ravigote Sauce, Cold, 193 — Hot, 191 Raw Beef Balls, or Steaks, for Invalid, 536 — Sandwiches, 536 — Tea, 528 Red Cabbage, Pickled, 633 — to Stew, 136 — with Apples, 136 Red Cap Puddings, 405 Red Currant and Gooseberry Jam, 470 — and Raspberry Jam, 471 — — Ice (Water), 481 — — Mould, 437 — — Sorbet, 490 — Jam, 472 — Jelly, 472 — — without Water, 472 — Marmalade, 472 — Syrup, 618 — Tartlets, 369 — to Bottle, 476 — to Caramelise for Cake Decor- ation, 593 Red Haricot Soup, 55 Red Herring, 91 Red Mullet. See Mullet Red Pottage, 55 Reeves, 304 Rdforme Sauce, 191 Refuse, Disposal of, 15 Reindeer Tongues, 299 Relev6(or Remove), place in Menu, 664 R6moulade Sauce, 193 Remove (or Relev6), place in Menu, 664 Revalenta Gruel for Invalid, 546 Rhubarb and Banana Tart, 355 — and Fig Jam, 473 — — Tart, 356 and Sago Mould, 437 Cream, 447 Fool, 437 Jam, 472 Juice, 472 Mould or Jelly, 443 Ribbon Bavaroise, 452 Jelly, 443 Ribs of Beef, 202 Rice. See also Ground Rice 4 la Royale, 460 and Apple Dumplings, 396 — — Pudding, 393, 416 and Carrot Stew, 137 and Celery Soup, for Invalid, 529 and Chocolate, Croquettes, 424 and Cold Meat Mould, 255 and Egg Pie, 371 and Fish Gateau, 116 and Meat Cakes, 255 and Milk Pudding, 393 and Mutton, Steamed, for Invalid, S38 and Nuts, 371 and Orange Marmalade Pudding, 416 and Raisin Pudding, 405 and Tomato Soup, 59 Balls, for Soup, 31 x Rice Biscuits, 574 Border, 372 — with Green Peas, 372 Buns, 569 Cake, 583 Casserole, with Stewed Fruit, 405 Cream, 447 — for Invalid, 541 Croquettes, 424 — Savoury, 372 — with Fruit, 424 Croustades, 372 — with Cheese, 373 Curried, 370 Devilled, 371 Dishes with, 370-373 Ice (Cream), 383 Kinds of, 370 Milk, for Invalid, 546 Mould, 437 Neapolitan, 371 Omelet, 331 Pilaff or Pilau, 371 Pudding, Caramel, 399 — Steamed, 393 — with Eggs, 393 —• without Eggs, 393 Puffed, 373 Savoury, Baked, 372 Savoury Croquettes, 372 Socle, 314 Souffl6, 430 — with Pine-apple, 430 Soup, 59 — Cream, 74 — for Invalid, 531 Surprises, 437 Swedish, 393 Timbales, 373 to Boil for Curries, 370 Water, for Invalid, 546 • 'ith Cabbage, 135 with Cheese, 370 with Chestnuts, 370 with Shrimps, 371 Richmond Cakes, 569 Rind and Juice of Lemon, to Prepare, 552 - • Ring or Fork for Dipping Sweets, 602 Rings for Open Tarts or Flan, 358 Muffin, 561 Risotto, 371 with Tomatoes, 372 Rissoles, Apple, 420 Cheese, 505 Cold Meat, 256 Curried Egg, 3x8 Haricot Bean, 173 Nut and Potato, 378 Rissolettes, Sardines, 512 Smoked Haddock, 507 Rizzared Haddock, 386 Roasting, 207 Approximate Time required for, 210 in Gas Oven, 21 in a Pan, 207 Robert Sauce, 187 Rock Biscuits, Chocolate, 572 Cakes, Almond, 561 — Cocoanut, 563 — Currant, 564 — Seed, 569 — to Prepare Baking Sheet for, 551 Roe, Cod, a la Victoria, 507 Roe, Cod, Fried, 84 — Sandwiches, 522 — Scalloped, 385 — Smoked, 507 — with Bacon, 385 — with Parsley Sauce, 84 Fish, Savoury, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Herring, on Toast, 509 — with Mushrooms, 509 on Toast, 388 Sauce, 187 Roll Cake, Chocolate, 576 Rolled Sandwiches, 523 Rolls, Anchovy, 502 Beef, Stuffed, 212 Breakfast, 557 Cabbage, 514 Chicken and Ham, 350 Cream, 365 Milk, 558 Mutton, 230 Nut and Potato, 378 Sausage, 351 — Glazed, 388 Wholemeal, 558 Yorkshire Dinner, 558 Roly-poly, Baked, 416 Boiled, 405 Cold Meat, 348 Romaine Consomm6, 68 Roman Pie, 348 Rose Chocolate Cream, 603 Pastry, to Make, 337 Potato, to Make, 159 R6ti, course in Menu, 664 Rouennaise Sauce, 191 Rough-puff Pastry, 334 Roulettes, Chicken, 351 Roux, a, 182 Rowan Jelly, 473 Roxburgh Design of Folding Servi- ette, 643 Royal Consommd, 67 Icing, 591 — to Ice a Cake with, 591-592 Rubber Mats for Sweet Making, 596, 599 Ruffs, 304 Rug, Kitchen, 7, xo Rum and Egg, for Invalid, 544 and Milk, for Invalid, 546 Omelet, 431 Punch, 619 Rump, 202 Rusk Fritters, 424 Pudding, 394 — for Invalid, 541 Russian Fish Pie, 346 Jelly, 443 Slices, 569 Steaks, 217 Tea, 615 Toffee, 607 Saccharometer for Sweet Making, 596 Sage,630 and Onion Stuffing, 308 Sago and Banana Pudding (Cold), 433 and Port Wine, for Invalid, 546 and Raspberry Tart, 358 and Rhubarb Mould, 437 Apple Pudding, 411 Pudding, with Eggs, 394Sandwiches, Nut and Ginger, 525 Sago Pudding, without Eggs, 394 Salmon Cream, 121 Snow, 437 Souffle, 420 Soup, 59 — for Invalid, 532 St. Clare Pudding, 416 St. George's Cake, 584 St. Germain Soup, 72 St. Honors Gateau, 456 Salad Basket, 176 Salad Dressings, 192 French, 192 Potato, 192 Salads, 175-181 Apple and Celery, 176 as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Banana,177 — and Orange, 465 Beef, 177 Beetroot, 177 — and Orange, 177 — and Potato, 180 Cauliflower, 177 Carrot, 177 Celery, 177 — and Apple, 176 — and Tomato, 181 — and Walnut, 178 Chicken, 178 — and Lettuce, 178 Crab, 178 — and Tomato, 178 Cucumber, 178 Dandelion, 178. Date and Orange, 180 Dressing and Serving of, 176 Dressings for, 192-193 Egg. 179 — and Green Pea, 179 Egg Plant, 179 Fish, 179 French Bean, 179 Fruit, 464 Game, 179 Green Pea and Egg, 179 Haricot Bean, 179 Ingredients of, 175 Lettuce, 179 — and Chicken, 178 Lobster, 179 Mixed, 180 Mixed Fruit, Summer, 465 — — Winter, 464 Orange, 180 — and Banana, 465 — and Beetroot, 177 — and Date, 180 Oyster, 180 Potato and Beetroot, 180 Prawn, 180 Preparation of Vegetables for, 176 Salmon, i8x Serving of, 656 Strawberry, 465 Tomato, 181 — and Celery, 181 — and Crab, 178 Turkey, 181 Walnut and Celery, 178 Water Melon, 465 Sally Lunns, 560 Salmi of Duck, 284 Game, 305 — k la Chasseur, 306 Partridge, 306 Salmon, 95 INDEX Croustades of, 500 Cutlets, 388 Mayonnaise of, 121 Potted, 388 Raised Pie of, 345 Salad, 181 Sandwiches, 524 Slice of, with Cucumber, 121 Smoked, k la Diable, 511 — as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Steaks, in Paper, 95 to Boil, 95 to Carve, 661 to Grill, 95 Salmon Fishing, 29 Salsify, 162 Scalloped, 162 Soup,55 with White Sauce, 162 Salt, Supply of, 25 Salt Beef Pudding, 257 — with Dumplings, 211 Cod, h. 1'Americaine, 85 — au Gratin, 85 — Balls, 385 — to Prepare and Boil, 84 — with Egg Sauce, 85 — with Parsnip Pur^e, 85 Meat, Boiling of, 208 Pork, Boiled, and Pease Pudding, 242 Sticks, 557 Salted Almonds, 494 Sand Cake, 584 Sandwich Cake, Iced, 584 — Jam, 584 — Orange, 583 — White, 589 Sandwiches, Anchovy, 521 Apple and Chocolate, 525 as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Banana and Nut, 525 Beef, 521 Bloater, 521 Brown and White, 525 Caviar, 521 Cheese, 521 — and Egg, 522 — Hot, 515 Chicken and Celery, 522 Chocolate, 525 — and Apple, 525 Cod’s Roe, 522 Crab, 522 Cucumber and Cheese, 522 — and Sardine, 524 Curry, 522 Egg and Cress, 522 — and Cucumber, 522 — and Shrimp, 522 Date and Fig, 525 Foie Gras, 522 Game, 523 Ginger and Nut, 525 Ham, 523 Honey, 525 Lemon Curd, 525 Lettuce, 523 Lobster, 523 Maple Sugar and Walnut, 526 Minced Beef, 521 Nasturtium, 523 Preliminaries to Making, 520 Nut, 525 — and Banana, 525 703 Olive, 523 Pastry, 523 Potted Meat, 523I Raw Beef, for Invalid, 536 Rolled, 523 Salmon, 524 Sardine and Cucumber, 524 Savoury, 521-526 Shrimp, 524 Smoked Haddock, 524 Spiced Beef, 521 Sponge Cake and Nut, 526 Strawberry, 526 Sweet, 525-526 Tomato, 524 Tongue, 524 Veal and Pjckle, 524 Wafer, 526 Walnut, Savoury, 524 — and Maple Sugar, 626 White and Brown, 525 Saratoga Potatoes, 157 Sardines k la Piedmontaise, 512 and Cucumber Sandwiches, 524 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 491 Bonnes Bouches, 500 Canapes, 500 Crohtes, 51 x, 5x2 Eggs, 320 Fried, 512 & Fritters, 512 Grilled, 512 Omelet, 331 Patties, 354 Rissolettes, 512 to Prepare for Savouries, 494 Saucepans, 10 Cafe of, 13 Saucepan Lids, to Clean, 14 Saucepan Stand, 9 Saucepans, Copper, 10, 13 Earthenware, ro, 13 Enamelled, 11, 13 Iron, 10, 13 Nickel, 10 Steel, 10, 13 Stoneware, 10, 13 Tin, 18 Saucer Puddings or French Pan- cakes, 413 Sauces, 182-199 h. la Crfeme, 189 Allemande, 188 Anchovy, 184 Apple, 194 Apricot, 195 Arrowroot, 195 au Liqueur, 198 au Vin Blanc, 123 Aurore, 188 aux Olives, 190 Bain-marie for, 182 Banana, 195 Bdarnaise, 188 Bechamel, 184 Bigarade, 188 Black Butter, 184 Brain, 184 Brandy, 195 Bread, 184 Brown, 183 Caper, Brown, 185 — White, 184 Caramel, 195 Cardinal, 1887u4 INDEX Sauces, Celery, 185 Chaudfroid, 188, 189 Cheese, 185 Cherry, 195 Chestnut, Brown, 185 — White, 185 Chocolate, 195 Claret, 196 Cocoanut, 196 Coffee, 196 Cold, 192-194 Cornflour, 196 Cranberry, 196 Cream, 189, 196 Cucumber, Cold, 192 — Hot, 189 Curry, 185 Custard, 196 Demi-glace, 189 Devil, 185 Egg. 185 Espagnole, 183 Fennel, 186 Foam, 197 Foundation, 183 Fruit, Cold, 197 — for Game, 197 — Pur6e, 197 — Syrup, 197 General Remarks on, 182 Genevoise, 189 G&roise, 189 German, 197 Ginger, 198 Gooseberry, 198 Guards’, 195 Half-glaze, 189 Hard, 198 Hollandaise, 189 Horse-radish, Cold, 192 — Hot, 186 Italienne, 189 Jam, 198 Kirsch, 198 Lemon, 198 Liqueur, 198 Liver, 186 Lobster, 190 Mad6re, 190 Maltre d’ Hdtel. See Parsley Sauce Marmalade, 198 M&telote, 190 Mayonnaise, 192 —• Green, 193 — Red, 193 Melted Butter, 186 — — English, 186 Mint, 193 More Elaborate, 188-191 Mornay, 190 Mousseline, Savoury, 190 — Sweet, 198 Mushroom, Brown, 186 — White, 186 Mussel, 186 Mustard, 186, 187 Normande, 190 Nut, Savoury, 190 — Sweet, 199 Olive, 190 Onion, 187 Orange (Bigarade), 188 — Savoury, 190 — Sweet, 199 Oyster, 190 Parsley, 187 Sauces, Peach, 199 P^rigueux, 190 Pine-apple, 199 Piquante, 187 Pointed Strainer for, 182 Poivrade, 190 Raspberry, Whipped, 199 Ravigote, Cold, 193 — Hot, 191 Rdforme, 191 Remoulade, 193 Robert, 187 Roe, 187 Rouennaise, 191 Seasoned Milk for, 183 Shrimp, 187 Simple, 183 Soubise, 191 Strawberry, 199 Supreme, 191 Sweet, 194-199 Syrup, 199 Tartare, 193 to Keep, 33 to Keep Warm, 182 to Tammy, 183 Tomato, 187 — Store, 633 Treacle, 199 Vanilla, 199 Veloute, 184 V^nitienne, 191 Villeroi (For Coating Meat), &c., 191 Vinaigrette, 192 White, for Fish, 184 — Made with Stock, 184 — Richer, 184 — Simple, 183 — Sweet, 199 Wine, 123, 199 Sausage and Leeks, 518 and Potato Croquettes, 517 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 Boiled, with Curried Rice, 388 Fish, 386 Meat Balls, 310 Pork, Egged and Bread-crumbed, 246 — Fried or Baked, 246 — Smothered, 246 — to Broil, 246 — to Make, 246 — with Cabbage, 246 — with Potatoes, 246 Roll, Glazed, 388 Rolls, 351 Stuffing, 309 Toad in a Hole, 247 Toast, 518 with Cabbage, 246 with Carrots, 259 Saut6 Pan, 266 Sauteing, or French Frying, 209 Savarin aux Fraises, 460 Chantilly, 460 with Cherries, 460 Savoury (Aromatic Herb), 630 Savoury Beef-tea, 529 Brain Crofites, 503 Butters, 193 et seq. See Butters Chestnut Cake, 378 Custard (Steamed) for Invalid, 541 Dishes with Pastry, 336 Fish Roe, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Savoury Haddock Custards, 508 — Souffles, 508 Haricot Beans, 173 Meat Rolls, 256 — Toast, 388 Omelet, 329 Pancakes, 517 Pastries, 350 et seq. Rice, Baked, 372 — Croquettes, 372 Sandwiches, 521-526 Slices, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 624 Savouries and Hors-d’Gcuvre, 491- ' 5i9 African Baked Beans, 514 Aiguilles au Parmesan, 504 Almonds, Devilled, 494 — Salted, 494 Allumettes de Fromage, 504 Anchovies, 494 — Barquettes (Barquettes d’An- chois), 495 —■ Biscuits (Biscuits d’Anchois), 495 — Canapes, 495 — Creams, 495 — Crofites, 502 — Fingers, 502 — Fritters, 502 — on Toast, 502, 503 — Pastry, 494 — Rolls, 502 — Straws, 495 — Twist, 503 Artichoke Bottoms, 495 Bacon and Greens, 514 Bananas, Cassolettes of, 503 — Crofites, 503 — Petites Gondoles aux, 495 Batter Cases for, 493 Biscuits k la Diable, 5x3 —• & la Mignonne, 501 — k la St. Clair, 513 — Devilled, 494 Bloater, Fillets on Toast, 514 — Kromeskies, 503 — Souffles, 503 — Toast, 503 Bouchees, 493 Brain Crofites, 503 — Fritters, 504 Butter Cases for, 493 Cabbage Rolls, 514 Canapis for, 493 — k la Duchesse, 501 — la Russe, 501 — k la Victoria, 501 Cassolettes for, 593 Caviare and Prawn Canapes, 496 — Canapds au, 496 — Crofites au, 496 — sur Crofites, 504 Cheese and Tomato Rarebit, 515 — —• Potato Balls, 5x7 — — — Mould, 517 — Biscuits, 504 — Bouchees, 504 — Canapes, 496 —• Cornets, 496 — Creams, 496 — Croustades, 504 — Custard, 514 — d’Artois, 505 — Fondue, 514 — Fritters, 505705 INDEX Savouries and Hors-d’CEuvre, Cheese Pastry, 494 — Potted, 496 — Puffs, 505 — Ramequins, 505 — Rissoles, 505 — Sandwiches, Hot, 515 — Souffl6, Hot, 505 — Souffles, Cold, 497 — Straws, 504 — Swiss, 497 — Tartlets, 506 — Toast, with Bacon, 5x5 Chestnuts, Devilled, 506 Chicken Croustades, Devilled, 506 Chicken Livers, Devilled, 506 — — 6n Toast, 506 Cod Roe, 4 la Victoria, 507 — — Smoked, 507 Cold, 494-502 Crab Balls, 507 — Darioles in Aspic, 497 — Devilled, 507 —■ Toast, 507 Cream Cheese, 505 Croustades for, 493 CroQies or Crohtons for, 492-493 — 41a Marguerite, 514 — 41'Indienne, 513 Cucumber and Nut Croquettes, 515 — Cups with Mayonnaise, 497 Devils on Horseback, 507 Egg and Ham Kromeskies, 515 Finnan Haddock, Crofttes of, 508 — —• Timbales, 497 Foie Gras, Pomponettes de, 507 — — Tartelettes de, 508 Game Balls, 497 — Canapes of, 497 Gniocchi, 515 Golden Buck, 516 Ham and Egg, 509 — — Kromeskies, 515 — — with Tomatoes, 516 — Biscuits, Devilled, 509 —• Crofttes, 509 Haricot Beans and Bacon, 516 Herring Roes on Toast, 509 —■ — with Mushrooms, 509 Hominy Fritters, 516 Hot, 502-514 Kidney Croustades, 516 Kipper Toast, 503 Lax, Canapes of, 498 — Crohtes, 509 — Devilled Hot, 509 — Tartelettes, 498 Liver and Mushroom Toast, 5x6 Lobster Bouchees, 510 — Croustades, Cold, 498 — — Hot, 510 — Moulds, 510 — Petits Cornets de, 498 Marrow Bones, 516 — Croustades, 510 — Toast, 510 Mealy Puddings, 5x7 More Substantial, 514-519 Mushroom Cassolettes, 510 — Fritters, 510 — Pancakes, 517 — Toast, 510 Mussels 4 la St. Vincent, 498 — with Spinach, 511 Nasturtium, 499 Olives 4 la Suzette, 499 Savouries and Hors-d’CEuvre Olives en Aspic, 499 — Farcies, 499 — — aux Anchois, 499 — to Turn or Stone for, 494 Onions, Surprise, 517 Oysters 4 la Mayonnaise, 499 — Boats, 511 — Bonnes Bouches of, 511 — Canapes, 499 — with Caviare, 499 Pancakes, Herb, 517 — Savoury, 517 Pastry Cases or Croustades for, 493 — Cornets for, 493 Petites Cremes de Monte Carlo, 502 Potato and Cheese Balls, 517 — — — Mould, 517 — and Sausage Croquettes, 517 — and Tomato, 518 Potted Meat Toast, 511 Prune and Cheese, 500 Salmon, Little Croustades of, 500 Salted Almonds, 494 Sardines 4 la Piedmontaise, 512 — Bonnes Bouches, 500 — Canapes of, 500 — Crofltes, 511, 512 — Fried, 512 — Fritters, 512 — Grilled, 512 — Rissolettes, 512 — to Prepare for, 494 Sausage Toast, 518 —■ aqd Leeks, 518 Scotch Woodcock, 519 Sheep’s Tongues au Gratin, 518 Shrimps 4 la Mayonnaise, 500 — Canapes, 500 — Croustades, 513 — Devilled, 513 — Eclairs, 500 Smoked Haddock Custards, 508 — — en Coquille, 508 — —• Rissolettes, 508 — — Souffles, 508 Smoked Salmon 4 la Diable, 511 Swiss Fondue, 518 Tomatoes 4 la Regence, 519 — Canapes, 500 — Cheese, 500 — Creams, 501 — Rarebit, 518 — with Rice, 519 Tongue, Croustades of, 513 — Ramakins, 513 Tunny Fish, Mayonnaise of, 501 Welsh Rarebit, 5x9 Woodcock Toast, 513 Savoy Cake, 584 Scallop Shell, 322 Scallops, 4 la Franyaise, 112 Curried, 11 Scalloped, 112 to Fry, in to Stew, 112 Scarlet Runners, 162 Scones, Baked in Paper Bag, 62 Barley Meal, 559 Cream, 559 Currant, 559 Dropped, 559 Elcho, 559 Girdle, 560 Hovis Meal, 560 Plain White, 559 Scones, Potato, 560 to Keep, 554 to Prepare Baking-sheet for, 551 Treacle, 560 Wheatenmeal, 560 Scotch Broth, 46 Bun, 585 Collops, 215 Cookies, 569 Eggs, 318, 319 Haggis, 234 Kail, 55 Oatcakes, 570 Parkins, 574 Seed Cake, 585 Woodcock, 519 Scrambled Eggs, 316. See under Eggs. Scrap Bread Pudding, Steamed, 398 Scroll Design of Folding Serviette 647 Scullery, the, 8, 9 Sea-Bream, 95 Sea-kale, 162 4 la Polonaise, 163 with Cream Sauce, 163 Sea-pie, 348 Season of Year affecting Foods, 25 — in relation to Bill of Fare, 663 Seasonings, 629 Seed Cake, Plain, 585 Good, 585 Rock Cakes, 569 Scotch, 585 Semolina 4 l'Americaine, Cold, 438 and Apples, au Gratin, 411 and Sorrel Soup, 59 Cakes, 518 Croquettes, 424 Pudding, Baked, 394 — Caramel, 399 — Steamed, 394 Souffld, 430 Soup, 59 September, Calendar of Food for, 28 Serviette Folding, 642-651 Serving at Table, 656 — Precedence in, 656 Wine, 656 S6vign6 Consommd, 68 Shallot, 630 to Keep, 33 Shamrock Cake, 585 Sheep’s Brains, 230 Diagram showing mode of cutting up, 204 Head, au Gratin, 231 — and Trotters, 204, 231 — Broth, 47 — Pie, 341 Heart Roasted in the Pan, 231 Kidneys, 204 — 4 la Turque, 269 — Cassolettes of, 270 —■ Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 — Grilled, 231 — Sautd, 232 Liver and Bacon, 232 — Gateau of, 232 — Savoury, 233 Pluck, 204 Tongues au Gratin, 518 — Devilled, 388 — Fried, 233 — Larded and Braised, 233 2 Y706 INDEX Sheep’s Tongues, with Spaghetti, 233 Trotters, Baked with Tomatoes, 233 — Stewed, 234 Shell-fish, 105-113 Shells, Othello, 567 Scallop, 322 Shepherd’s Pie, 250 Sherry Punch, 619 Shin of Beef, 202 — — Stewed, 213 Shopping, Personal, 24 Shops, Choice of, 24 Short Cake, Currant, 577 " — Strawberry, 587 Crust, 333 — Plain, 333 Shortbread, 586 Ayrshire, 571 Shredded Wheat Biscuit, 381 Shrewsbury Biscuits, 574 Shrimps, 112 k la Mayonnaise, 500 and Egg Mayonnaise, 32t and Egg Sandwiches, 522 as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Butter, 194 Canapes, 500 Croquettes, 112 Croustades, 513 Devilled, 513 Eclairs, 500 Omelet, 331 Patties, 354 Potted, 112 Rolls, 113 Sandwiches, 524 Sauce, 187 Scallops, 113 Soup, 76 Stuffing, 98 to Boil, 112 with Rice, 371 — — Cooked in Chafing Dish, 625 Sieves, to Clean, 14 Sieving of Soup, 40 Silver Cake, 586 Silverside of Beef, 202 SimnelCake, 586 Sink, the Kitchen, 8, 9 Care of, 15 Sink Basket, 15 Sink Brush, 15 Sirloin of Beef, 202 Six Cup Pudding, 406 Skate, 95 Crimped k la Hollandaise, 9 Soup, 61 with Black Butter, 96 Slices, Almond, 561 Barcelona, 562 Cocoanut, 563 Marzipan, 609, 610 Savoury, Cooked in Channg Dish, 624 Sloe, Gin,619 Smelts, 96 au G rat in,-96 Fried, 96 Stewed, for Invalid, 534 Smoked Cod, &la Creole, 85 and Bacon, 385 Roe, 507 with Tomatoes, 385 Smoked Haddock, 387 Smoked Haddock Balls, 387 Cooked in Paper Bag, 627 en Coquilles, 508 Fritters, 387 Rissolettes, 507 Sandwiches, 524 Stewed in Milk, 387 with Egg Sauce, 387 Smoked Salmon a la Diable, 511 as Hors-d’CEuvre, 492 Smothered Sausages, 246 Snaps, Brandy, 571 Snipe, Roast, 304 Snow Cake, 586 Cream, 450 Eggs, 448 Pudding, 438 Sago, 437 Snowdon Pudding, 406 Soap, Supply of, 26 Socle, Bread, 312 Rice, 314 Soda Cake, 587 Sole, 97 k la Maitre d'Hotel, 98 k la Normande, 122 a la Rouennaise, 123 au Gratin, 97 Baked, for Invalid, 534 Filleted and Fried, 97 Fillets a la Cr&me, 98 — a la Florentine, 122 — & l’Orly, 122 — on Toast, for Invalid, 534 — Souffle of, 123 — with Cheese, 97 — with Egg-plant, 122 — with Prawns, 122 — with Tomatoes, for Invalid, 534 — with Truffles, 123 to Carve, 662 to Fry, 96 to Skin and Fillet, 78 with Shrimp Stuffing, 98 Sorbets, 490, 664 Ginger Ale, 490 Lemon, 490 Red Currant and Raspberry, 490 Sorrel, 163 k la Creme, 163 Soup, 74 — and Semolina Soup, 59 Soubise Sauce, 191 Souch6, Water, 99 Souffle Tin, to Prepare, 425 Souffles, 425 ei seq. Apple, Baked, 426 — Steamed, 426 Apricot, Baked, 427 — Cold, 450 — Steamed, 427 Artichoke, 129 Baked, 426 Banana,427 Bloater (Small), 503 Cheese, 505 — (Small, Cold), 497 Cauliflower, 140 Celery, 142 Chestnut, 427 Chicken, 282 Chocolate, Baked, 428 — Cold, 454 — Steamed, 427 Souffles, Coffee, with Caramel, 428 Cold Meat, 253 Crab, 107 — Hot or Cold, 107 Dish in Frame, for, 426 Fillets of Sole, 123 Fish, Baked, 118 — Steamed, 118 — and Potato, 119 Game, 306 Ginger, Baked (Small), 28 — Steamed, 428 Ground Rice, 428 Iced, 486 — Fruit, 488 Lemon, 429 Lentil, 174 Liqueur, 429 Nut, 378 Orange, 429 — Small, 429 Oyster, hi Panada for, 426 Paper cases for, 426, 486 Pineapple, 429 Pistachio Nut, Cold, 459 Potato, Baked, 160 Prune, 429 — for Invalid, 540 Rabbit, 295 Remarks on, 425 Rice, 430 — with Pine-apple, 430 Sago, 430 Savoury Haddock, 508 Semolina, 430 Spinach, 164 Steamed, 425 Tapioca, 430 to Cook and Serve, 426 to Make the Mixture, 425 to Prepare Tin for, 425 Tomato, 167 Vanilla, 430 Violet, 430 Soups, 35-76 Almond, 70 Apple, 62 Apricot, 62 Artichoke, 47 — and Potato, 48 Asparagus, 70 — for Invalid, 529 Baked, 41 Barley, 58 — and Celery, 50 — Cream, 70 — Milk, for Invalid, 529 Beef, with Marrow Balls, 41 Beetroot, 48 Bone, 41 Bone Stock for, 38 Bonne Femme, 70 Bramble or Blackberry, 62 Bread, 58 Broad Bean, 48 Broccoli, 48 Broth, with Potato Dumplings, 42 Brown, 41, 63, 68, 70 — Stock for, 37 — Vegetable, 48 Brussels Sprout, 71 Cabbage, 49 — and Potato, 49 Calf’s Tail, 71 Carrot, 49INDEX 707 Soups, Carrot and Lentil, 49 Cauliflower, 71 — and Lettuce, 49 Celery, Brown, 50 — White, 50 — and Barley, 50 — and Rice, for Invalid, 529 Cheese, 58 Cherry, 62 Chestnut, Brown, 50 — White, 50 Chicken, 71 — for Invalid, 530 Clam, 60 Clear, 35, 63-68 — A la C61estine, 64 — A la Dubarry, 67 — a la Duchesse, 67 — & la Favorite, 67 —• A l’ltalienne, 65 — a la Jardiniere, 65 — k la Jerusalem, 67 — A la Portugaise, 66 — k la Prince de Galles, 68 — k la Rachel, 67 — A la Royale, 67 — A la Sevigne, 68 — A la Tosca, 67 — Alexandra, 67 — aux CEufs Fifes, 66 — aux Profiteroles, 66 — Brunoise, 64 — Christophe Colombe, 67 — Fish, 75 — Game, 64 — Hongroise, 67 — Invernaise, 67 — Jelly, 64 — Julienne, 65 — Macedoine, 66 — Mock Turtle, 64 — Mulligatawny, 64 — Oxtail, 67 — Parmentier, 67 — Partridge, 66 — Prince, 67 — Romaine, 68 — Stock for, 37 — Turtle, 67 — Vert-Pr6, 68 — with Noodles, 66 — with Poached Eggs, 66 — with Quenelles, 66 — with Ravioli, 67 Cocoanut, 51 Cock-a-Leekie, 42 Corn, 51 Cowheel, 42 Cream of Barley, 70 — for Invalid, 530 Cream of Corn, 72 Cream of Rice, 74 CroAte-au-Pot, 42 Cucumber, 72 Curry, 72 — Vegetable, 51 Different kinds of, 35 Eel, 60 Egg. 7i Endive, 51 Farinaceous, 58 First Stock for, 37 Fish, 60, 61 — Broth, 60 — Clear, 73 — for Invalid, 530 Soups, Fish, Mulligatawny, 61 — Stock for, 38 Fruit, 62 Game, Clear, 64 — for Invalid, 531 — Stock for, 38 — Thick, 68 Garnishes for, 309, 310, 311 Giblet, 42 Gooseberry, 62 Green Pea, 72 — — from Dried Peas, 51 — — and Tomato, 74 Gravy, 43 Hare, Brown, 68 — Economical, 43 — Mock, 42 Haricot Bean, 31 — — and Tomato, 52 — — Red, S3 Hollandaise, 72 Hotch Potch, 43 Invalid, 527-532 Italian, 52 — Clear, 63 Jelly, 64 Julienne, 65 Kidney,43 — and Tomato, 44 Leek, 52 — and Potato, 34 Lentil, 52 — from Lentil Flour, 33 — and Carrot, 49 Lettuce, 33 — and Cauliflower, 49 — Cream, 73 Lobster, 73 — from Tinned Lobster, 61 Macaroni, and Tomato, 58 — Brown, 38 — Cream, 73 — White, 58 Macedoine, 66 Meat, 41 Mock Hare, 44 Mock Kidney, 44 Mock Oyster, 55 Mock Turtle, Brown, 69 — — Clear, 64 More Expensive, 63 Mulligatawny, 44 — Clear, 64 — Fish, 61 Mushroom, 73 Mussel, 61 Mutton Broth, 45 Neapolitan, 53 Oatmeal, 59 Onion, Brown, 33 — for Invalid, 531 — White, S3 Ox-cheek, 43 Ox-tail, 43 — Clear, 66 Oyster, 76 Parisian Cream, 73 Parsnip, 53 Partridge, Brown, 68 — Clear, 66 Pea, 54. See also Green Pea, above. — from Pea Flour, 34 — with Dried Peas, 51 Peasant’s, 46 Petite Marmite, 69 Soups, Place in Menu, 664 Plain, for Family Use, 41 Portuguese, 54 Pot-au-Feu, 46 Potato, 54 — A la Parmentier, 73 — and Artichoke, 48 — and Cabbage, 49 — and Leek, 54 — and Tomato, 54 — and Watercress, 57 Pumpkin, 35 Quantity to Allow, 36 Rabbit, Brown, 46 — Cream, 73 Red Haricot, 35 Red Pottage, 53 Rice, 39 — and Tomato, 59 — for Invalid, 331 Sago, 59 — for Invalid, 532 St. Germain, 72 Salsify, 55 Scotch Broth, 46 Scotch Kail, 33 Second Stock for, 37 Semolina, 39 —• and Sorrel, 59 Sheep's Head Broth, 47 Shrimp, 76 Sieving of, 40 Skate, 61 Sorrel, 36 — and Semolina, 39 — Cream, 74 Spinach, 56 Spring, 56 Strainers for, 63 Strawberry, 63 Strengthening, for Invalid, 331 Tapioca, 39 — Cream, 74 — for Invalid, 532 Thickened, 33 to Add Cream and Eggs to, 40 to Keep, 33 to Sieve, or Tammy, 40 to Serve, 41, 636 Tomato, 56 —• and Green Pea Soup, 74 — and Haricot Bean, 52 — and Kidney, 44 — and Macaroni, 58 — and Potato, 54 — and Rice, 59 — Bisque, 36 — for Invalid, 332 — with Rice Balls, 56 Tripe, 47 Turkey, with Chestnuts, 69 Turnip, 57 Turtle, Clear, 67 — from Dried Turtle, 69 — Mock, 69 Veal Broth, 47 — Cream, with Vermicelli, 74 — with Macaroni, 47 Vegetable, 47 — Brown, 48 — Cream, 70-76 — Curry, 31 — White, 37 Vegetable Marrow, 57 Vegetable Stock for, 38 Velvet, 73708 INDEX Soups, Vermicelli, 60 Viennese, 75 Watercress, 57 — and Potato, 57 — Cream, 75 White, 70-76 — Stock for, 37 — Vegetable, 57 Soused Mackerel, 93 South African Bobotee, 256 Spaghetti, k l’ltalienne, 376 Rabbit and, 258 Rarebit, 376 Stewed, 376 with Bacon, 376 Spatchcock Grouse, 300 Spatula for Sweet-making, 595, 598 Spice Cake (Plain), 587 Spiced Beef, 219 — — Sandwiches, 521 Spices, 630 Aromatic, 631 Supply of, 26 Spinach, 163 for Garnishing, 164 Green, 635 Souffle, 164 Soup, 56 with Butter, 163 with Cream, 164 with Gravy, 164 Sponge Cake, 587 — Almond, 575 — and Nut Sandwiches, 526 — Fritters, 42 c — Small, 570 — to Prepare Tin for, 551 Sponge Dumplings, 310 Sponges, 438 Banana, 439 Lemon, 441 Orange, 442 Pudding, 406 — Baked,417 Raspberry, 442 Strawberry, 443 Treacle, 407 Sprats, 98 Baked, 98, 389 Dried and Smoked, 98 Fried or Boiled, 98 Spring Soup, 56 Stew, 228 Spun Sugar, How to Make, 613 Stale Cakes and Biscuits, What to do with, 555 Starch, for Sweet-making, 596 Moulds for Sweet-making, 596 Trays for Sweet-making, 596 Steak, Beef, k la Maltre d’Hotel, Grilled, 216 and Kidney Pie, 338 — Pudding, 342 — — Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 — Steamed, 217 Baked, with Bacon, 217 Fried, 216 Grilled, with Tomato Sauce, 216 in Batter, 216 Minced, Grilled, 217 Porterhouse, 217 Raw, for Invalid, 536 with Mushrooms, 216 with Onions, 216 with Oysters, 217 Cod, k la Flamande, 83 Steak, Cod, to Fry, 83 — with Tomato Sauce, 83 — Cooked in Paper Bag, 627 Salmon, 95 Russian, 217 Veal, Minced, 237 Venison, Broiled, 298 — in the Pan, 298 Steak-Tongs, 209 Steamer, Patent, 208 Use with Gas Fire, 20 Steaming of Meat, 208 of Fish, 80 of Puddings, 395 Steel Kitchen Range, to Clean, 18 Saucepans, 10 — to Clean, 13 Steriliser for Bottling Fruit, 474 Stewing, 209 , in Earthenware, 209 Sticking-piece of Beef, 202 Stocks, 35 Bone, 38 Different Kinds of, 36 Fish, 38 — from Trimmings, 78 Flavouring of, 36 for Brown Soups, 37 for Clear Soup, 37 for White Soup, 37 Game, 38 General, 37, 39 et seq. How to Keep, 40 Making of, 36 Second, 37 to Keep, 33 to Remove Fat from, 40 Vegetable, 38 Stock-Pot, 36, 39 Stoneware Saucepans, 10, 13 Storeage of Provisions, 25 Stove Barley, 529 Strainer, for Soups, 63 — Pointed, 182 Strawberries, k la Cecil, 464 and Cream, k la Chantilly, 464 Bavaroise of, 452 Chocolate Creams, 603 Cream, 448 Cup, 620 Flan, with Meringue, 360 Ice (Bombe aux Fraises & la Crfeme), 489 — (Cream), 484 — (Water), 48t Icing Butter, 590 — Glac6, 589 Jam, 473 Salad, 465 Sandwiches, 526 Sauce, 199 Short Cake, 587 Soup, 63 Sponge, 443 Tart (Open), 358 Tartlets, 369 to Bottle, 476 Strengthening Jelly for Invalid, 531 Soup for Invalid, 531 Stuffings, 307 Apple, 307 Celery, 307 Chestnut, 307 for Fish, 307 for Hare, 307 Liver, 307 Stuffings, Liver, au Gratin, Mushroom, 308 Nut, 308 Oyster, 308 Potato, 308 Sago and Onion, 308 Sausage, 309 Shrimp, 98 Tomato, 309 d'Uxelle, 308 Walnut, 309 Sturgeon, 98 Fillets with Sauce, 99 Stuffed and Roasted, 99 Sucking Pig, Roasted, 243 to Carve, 660 Suet, 201 and Milk, for Invalid, 546 Dumplings for Soup, 311 Pastry, 333 — Wholemeal, 334 Pudding, 406 — Vegetarian, 407 to Chop, 394 to Keep, 33 Sugar and Butter, to Cream Sugar and Yolks of Eggs, to Cream, „ 553 Basket, 614 Boiling, General Directions for, 596 — Table of Degrees for, 597 Coloured for Cake Decoration, 593 Lemon, 633 Orange, 633 Scraper for Sweet-making, 595, 598 Syrup, or Stock Syrup for Sweet Making, 597 Thermometer, 595 to Spin, 613 to Use for Cake-making, 551 Vanilla, 633 Sultana Bread, 556 Buns, 570 Cake, 588 Pudding, Baked, 417 — Steamed, 407 Raisins, to Clean, 551 Summer Fruit Salad, Mixed, 464 Supreme Sauce, 191 Surprise Eggs, 327 Iced Pudding, 487, 488 Meat, 254 Onions, 517 Rice, 437 Swedish Rice, 393 Sweep’s Brush, 18 Sweatbreads and How to Prepare them, 242 Braised, with Green Peas, 270 Calfs, k la Comtesse, 271 — k la Mayonnaise, 271 — en Casserole, 242 — Escalopes aux Epinards, 271 — Fried, 242 — M^daillons k la Graziella, 272 —- Timbale k la Monte Carlo, 272 Chaudfroid of, 271 Epigrams, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 625 Kromeskies, 271 Lamb's, Fried, 232 — in Cases, 264 Larded with Mushrooms, 270 Mock, 238 Omelet, 331INDEX 709 Sweetbreads, Ox, 203 Patties, 354 Timbale of, 272 Sweet Potatoes, 164 Broiled, 164 Pie, 165 with Cream, 165 to Boil, 164 Sweet Sauce, with Liqueur, 198 White Sauce, 199 Sweet-making, 595 et seq. Materials for, 596 Syrups for, 597 Utensils for, 595 Various Preliminaries, 595 Sweets, Cold, 432 — Inexpensive, 433 for Invalids, 539-542 Hot, 390 Various Fancy, 450 Chocolate, 602-605 Fondants, Creams and Tablets, 598-602 Marzipan, 608-612 Miscellaneous, 612-614 Packing of, 614 Paper Cases for, 614 Toffees, Candies and Caramels, 605-608 Swiss Apple Pudding, 417 — Tart, 361 Cheese Savoury, 497 Fondue, 518 Roll, 583 — without Butter, 588 Sylvan Pudding, 417 Syrup Candy, 607 for Bottled Fruits, 475 for Sweet-making, 597 Lemon, 617, 618 Pudding, 407 Red Currant, 618 Sauce, 199 Tart, 358 Toffee, 607 Table Decoration, Hints on, 652- 654 Service at, 655 Table, Kitchen, 9 to Clean, 12 Tablet, Chocolate, 600 Cocoanut Ice, 600 Ginger, 601 Peppermint, 602 Tammy-Cloths, to Clean, 14 Tammying of Sauces, 183 of Soups, 40 Tangerine Chocolate Creams, 603 Ice Cream, 484 Orange Marmalade, 473 Tapioca and Almond Mould, 438 and Orange Cream, 438 Cream Soup, 74 Custard Cream, 438 Pudding, 394 Souffle, 430 Soup, 59 — for Invalid, 532 Tarragon, 630 Tartare Sauce, 193 Tartlets, 362 Apple, 363 Apricot, 363 Cases, to Make, 362 Tartlets, Cheese, 351, 506 Cherry, 364 Chestnut, 364 Chocolate, 364 Custard, 365 Ginger, 366 Grape, 366 Greengage, 366 Ground Rice, 366 Iced, 484 Marigold, 368 Orange, 369 Plum, 364 Raspberry, 369 Red Currant, 369 Strawberry, 369 Tartelettes deFoie Gras, 508 de Lax, 498 Tarts, Almond, 361, See also Flan Apple. 355 —■ Swiss, 361 — with Meringue (Open), 357 Banana and Orange, 355 Blackberry and Apple, 355 Cheese, 348 Cocoanut, 359 Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Custard, 359 Fish, 346 Fruit, 354 — for Invalid, 540 German, 361 Gooseberry (Open), 357 Ground Rice (Open), 357 Jam (Open), 356 Lemon (Open), 357 Mixed Fruit, Summer, 356 — — Winter, 356 Orange (Open), 358 Pear and Chestnut, 360 Rhubarb and Fig, 356 Sago and Raspberry (Open), 358 Strawberry (Open), 358 Syrup or Treacle (Open), 358 to Bake and Serve, 355 to Cover, 355 to Prepare Fruit for, 354 Tea and How to Make it, 615 Bavaroise of, 452 Biscuits, 574 Bran, for Invalid, 543 Cake, Chocolate, 576 Cakes, or Sally Lunns, 560 — to Keep, 554 — Yorkshire, 561 Camomile, 543 Cream, 448 —• Ice, 484 Glacd Icing, 589 Iced, 615 Linseed, 545 Milk, 546 Punch, 619 Russian, 615 Supply of, 26 with Egg, for Invalid, 543 with Lemon, 615 Teal, 304 Temperature Required for Different Methods of Cooking, 34 for Cake Baking, 553 Tench, 104 Tent Design for Folding Serviette, 644 Terms, French, for various Foods, 636-638 Terms, French and other, Used in Cookery, 638-641 Terrine, Fireproof, 304 of Hare, 297 Thick Milk, for Invalid, 547 Thon, Marine, 492. See Tunny Fish Thyme, 630 Tiles, to Clean, 18 Timbale k la Milanaise, 348 Brioche for, 559 of Finnan Haddock, 497 Fish in Aspic, 119 Fruits, k la Parisienne, 460 Hare, 297 Meat and Macaroni, 255 Sweetbreads, 272 — k la Monte Carlo, 272 Potato and Fish, 119 Rice, 373 Time, Approximate, Required for Boiling or Roasting Meat, 210 — Required for Cooking Game, 306 — Required for Cooking Poultry, 306 Tin Lids, Moulds, or Covers, to Clean, 14 Saucepans, to Clean, 13 Tinned Goods, Supply of, 27 Tipsy Cake, 448 Toad in a Hole, 247 Toast, Anchovies on, 502, 503 Bloater, 503 Brains, 384 Buttered, Hot, 381 Cheese, with Bacon, 515 Crab, 507 Curry, 385 Dry, to Make, 380 — — on Gas Stove, 21 — for Savouries, 493 Fish, 386 Ham, 383 Kidney, 388 Kipper, 503 Liver and Mushroom, 516 Marrow, 510 Milk, 381 Mushroom, 510 Potted Meat, 511 Roes on, 388 Sausage, 518 Savoury Mtat 388 Tongue, 388 Water, for Invalid, 547 Woodcock, 513 Toaster for Chafing Dish, 622 Toffees, 605-608 Almond, 605 Barcelona, 605 Chelsea, 606 Everton, 606 Ginger, 607 Lemon, 607 Russian, 607 Syrup, 607 Treacle, 608 Walnut, 605 Tomatoes, 165 a la Frampaise, 167 k la Portugaise, 167 k la Regence, 519 and Celery Salad, 181 and Cheese Rarebit, 515 and Crab Salad, 178 and Green Pea Soup, 74INDEX 710 Tomatoes and Haricot Bean Soup, 52 and Kidney Soup, 44 and Macaroni Soup, 58 and Potato Savoury, 5x8 — Soup,54 and Rice Soup, 59 au Gratin, 166 Baked,165 Bisque, 56 Boiled, 165 Canapes, 500 Cheese, 500 Cooked in Paper Bag, 628 Creams, Savoury, 501 Fried, 166 Green, Pickle, 633 Jam, 473 Jelly, 313 Mousse, Iced, 488 Omelet, 331 Rarebit, 518 Salad, 181 Sandwiches, 524 Sauce, 187 — Store, 633 Soup, 56 — for Invalid, 532 — with Rice Balls, 56 Souffle, 167 Stewed, 166 Stuffed, 166, 167 Stuffing, 309 to Bottle, 477 to Keep, 33 with Cream Sauce, 167 with Curried Rice, 167 with Rice, 5x9 Tongue, Croustades of, 513 Fried, with Caper Sauce, 258 Ox, Braised, 223 — in Brown Sauce, 258 — in Jelly, 223 — to Carve, 659 — to Pickle, 222 — to Serve, Cold, 223 — — Hot, 223 Pig's, to Cook, 246 Ramakins, 513 Rechauffe, Cooked in Chafing Dish, 625 Reindeer, 299 Sandwiches, 524 Sheep’s, au Gratin, 518 — Baked, with Tomatoes, 231 — Devilled, 388 — Fried, 233 — Larded and Braised, 233 — Stewed, 233 — with Spaghetti, 233 Toast, 388 Tosca Consomme, 68 Tournedos de Boeuf k la Parisienne, 261 — — k la Portugaise, 261 Treacle Posset, for Invalid, 547 Sauce, 199 Scones, 560 Sponge, 407 Tart, 358 Toffee, 608 Trifle, Banana, 444 Gooseberry, 446 Richer, 449 Simple, 449 Welsh, 449 Tripe, 202 Tripe, Baked, 224 Curried, 224 Fried, 224 How to Prepare, 223 Soup, 47 Stewed, for Invalid, 538 with Onions, 224 with Oysters, 224 with Tomatoes, 224 Trout, 105 4 la Princesse, 124 ;Y la Hongroise, 124 Baked,105 Cooked in Chafing Dish, 623 in Paper, 105 to Grill , 105 with Tomato Mousse, 124 Truffles, 168 Tunny Fish, as Hors-d'CEuvre, 492 Mayonnaise of, 501 Turbot, 99 Fillets 4 l'ltalie’nne, 125 to Boil, 99 to Carve, 662 Turkey, 274 Boiled, 288 Braised, 289 Curried, 289 Galantine of, 289 Jellied, 290 Legs, Devilled, 289, 290 RagoCit, 290 Roast, 228 —• to Serve Cold, 288 Salad, 181 Soup, with Chestnuts, 69 to Carve, 661 Turkish Coffee, 616 Delight, 614 Turmeric, 631 Turnip Tops, 169 with Poached Eggs, 169 Turnips, 168 Glazed, 169 Mashed, 168 Purde, 169 Soup, 57 to Store, 33 with Potatoes, 168' White, with Sauce, 16S Turnovers, Jam, 367 Turtle Soup, Clear, 67 — from Dried Turtle, 69 Tutti-frutti, 481 Valencia Raisins, to Prepare, 551 Vanilla, 631 Biscuits, 574 Caramels, 608 Chocolate Creams, 603 Cream, 449 Ice, 484 Sauce, 199 Soufiffe, 430 Sugar, 633 Vase and Pocket Design for Folding Serviette, 645 Vases for Flowers, 655 Veal, 201. See also Calf and Beef Mould, 218 and Ham Cutlets, 237 — — Mould, 237 — — Pasty, 347 — — Patties, 354 — — Pie, 34X —■ — — Raised, 343 Veal and Kidney Pudding, 343 and Pickle Sandwiches, 524 and Rice Pie, 347 Blanquette of, 235 Breast of, 203 — Stuffed and Roasted, 234 Broth, 47 — for Invalids, 532 Cake, 259 Chops, Saute, 236 Cream, 266 — in Aspic, 267 Creamed, 259 — with Spinach, 259 Curry of, 236 — Cooked in Chafing Dish, 625 Cutlets, with Spinach, 265 Escalopes of, 265 — k la Talleyrand, 265 — aux Champignons, 265 Fillet of, 203 — to Carve, 660 Forcemeat, 309 Fricandeau of, 235 Fricassee of, 259 Galantine of, 237 Gateau of, 259 Grenadins of, 265 — a la Provenfale, 266 — Larded, 266 Gulash of, 2x4 Hot Pot, with Dumplings, 236 Kidney,203 — Stewed, 240 Knuckle of, 203 — Browned, 234 — Stewed, with Rice, 235 — to Carve, 660 Larded k la Nivernaise, 266 Loin of, 203 — Roasted, 234 — to Carve, 660 — with Macaroni, 236 M6daillons k la Princesse, 266 Mock Sweetbreads, 238 Mode of Cutting Up, 203 Mousselines & la St. Honor6, 267 Neck of, 203 Olives, 238 Panada, for Invalid, 537 Prices of, 205 Quenelles of, 267 — & la Florentine, 268 —■ k la Supreme, 268 — for Garnish, 311 Ragout of, 236 Scrambled, and Tomatoes, 259 Soup, with Macaroni, 47 — Cream, with Vermicelli, 74 Steaks, Minced, 237 Steamed, with Cauliflower, 234 Stewed, with Potatoes, 235 Sweetbreads, 203 — k la Comtesse, 271 — k la Mayonnaise, 271 — en Casserole, 242 — Escalopes aux Epinards, 271 — Fried, 242 — Medaillons, k la Graziella, 272 — Timbale, k la Monte Carlo, 272 to Carve, 660 Vegetable Marrow, 170 Fried, 170 Jam, 473 Soup, 57 Stewed, 170INDEX 711 Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 170, 171 to Store, 33 with Cheese, 170 with Eggs, 318 with W hite Sauce, 170 Vegetable Cutters, 66 Presser, 156 Rack, 33 ' Vegetables and Salads, 126-181 Cassolettes of, 169 Cream Soups, 70-76 Croquettes, 169 Curry, 169 Dried and Preserved, 171 for Invalid,. 534 French Terms for, 636 General Remarks on Cooking of, 126 Macedoine for Garnish, 313 Patties, 354 Pie, 349 Omelet with, 331 Preparation for Salads, 176 Soups, 47 — Brown, 48 — Curry, 51 — White, 57 Stock, 37, 38 Storing of, 33 Vegetarian Plum Pudding, 407 Suet Pudding, 407 Velout6 Sauce, 184 Velvet Soup, 75 Venison, 297 Care of, 31 cold, with Aspic, 298 en Casserole, 299 Noisettes a la Diane, 299 Pie, 341 Roast Haunch of, 298 Saddle, & l’Allemande, 298 Steaks, Broiled, 298 — in the Pan, 298 Stew, 299 Venitienne Sauce, 191 Vermicelli Pudding, 394 Soup, 60 Vert Pr6 Conscmm£, 68 Victoria Buns, 570 Vienna Bread, 556 (or Butter) Icing, qqo Queen’s, 570 Viennese Coffee, 616 Soup, 75 Viennoise Pudding, 407 Villeroi Sauce (for Coating Meat, &c.), 191 Vin Blanc Sauce, 191 Vinegar, 6ar Cake, 588 Herb, 631 Raspberry, 6r8 Vinaigrette Sauce, 192 Violet Souffl6, 430 Volaille, Mousse de, 281 Vols-au-Vent, 349-350 Vol-au-Vent, a la Supreme, 350 Fish, 350 Fruit, 361 Wafer Cream Bars, 449 Sandwiches, 526 Waffles, 570 Waiting at Table, 655 Walls, to Clean, 12 Walnuts and Celery Salad, 178 and Macaroni Scallops, 375 and Maple Sugar Sandwiches, 526 and Orange Drops, 613 Buns, 571 Cake, 588 Candy, White, 608 Caramel, 610 Chocolate, 601 Coffee (Fondants), 600 Cream, 450 Fritters, 425 Ice Cream, 484 Macaroons, 575 Molasses, 608 Pickled, 633 Pudding, Baked, 4x7 — — Steamed, 407 Roast, 379 Sandwiches, Savoury, 524 Stuffing, 309 to Caramelise for Cake Decoration, 593 Toffee, 605 Washing of Dishes, 14 Water Gruel, for Invalid, 544 Watercress, 171 and Potato Soup, 57 Butter, 194 Cream Soup, 75 Preparation for Salad, 176 Soup, 57 Stewed, 171 Water Ices. See Ices Water Lily Design for Folding Servi- ette, 647 Watermelon Salad, 465 Water Souch6, 99 Wedding Cake, 588 Weights and Measures, 34 Welcome Guest Pudding, 408 Welsh Rarebit, 519 Trifle, 449 West Riding Pudding, 417 Wet Frying, 80, 248 Wheatenmeal Biscuits, 575 Porridge, 381 Scones, 560 Whey, for Invalid, 547 Cream, 547 Lemon, 547 Wine, 547 Whipped Jelly, 443 Whipping of Cream, 553 of White of Egg, 553 White and Brown Sandwiches, 525 White and Brown Sauce, for Fish, 184 — Made with Stock, 184 —• Simple, 183 — Sweet, 199 — Richer, 184 Sandwich Cake, 589 Scones, Plain, 559 Soup, 75 Soups, 70-76 Stock, 36, 37 Vegetable Soup, 57 White Wine Cup, 620 — Sauce, 123 Whitebait, 100 Devilled, 100 Imitation, 100 to Fry, 100 Whiting, 100 a la Russe, 101 Baked, 386 Cakes, 388 Cooked in Paper Bag, 627 Farce, or Mousseline, 309 Fillets, with Mushrooms, 101 Stuffed and Baked, for Invalid, 534 to Bake, 101 to Fry, 100 Wholemeal Rolls, 558 Suet Pastry, 334 Widgeon, 304 Wild Duck k la Bigarade, 304 Roast, 304 to Keep, 31 Winchester Puddings, 408 Windsor Beans. See Beans, Broad. Windows, Kitchen, 10 to Clean, 12 Wine, Addition to Stock, 36 and Egg, Mulled, for Invalid, 456 Cup (White Wine), 620 Jelly, 443 Sauce, 199 Serving of, 656 Whey, for Invalid, 547 Winter Salad, Mixed Fruit, 464 Wire Ring and Fork for Sweet Making, 595, 599 Woodcock, Roast, 304 Scotch, 519 Toast, 513 Xmas Plum Pudding, 408 Yams, 171 Yeast, Brewers', 552 Crumpets, 561 German, or Compressed, 552 Muffins, 561 Yolks of Eggs and Sugar, to Cream, 553 Yorkshire Dinner Rolls, 558 Parkin, 589 Pudding, 418 Tea Cake, 561 Zinc, to Clean, 14 4/i4 Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson &■ Co. at Paul’s Work, Edinburgh 15RECENTLY PUBLISHED THE LAST GREAT SUCCESS 750 double-column Pages with Illustrations Uniform with JACK’S REFERENCE BOOK, THE WOMAN’S BOOK, THE PARENTS’ BOOK, and A HISTORY OF THE BRITISH NATION THE MODERN FAMILY DOCTOR A GUIDE TO PERFECT HEALTH ON MODERN SCIENTIFIC LINES BY A STAFF OF EXPERIENCED DOCTORS INCLUDING J. Milne Bramwell, M.D.; H. Maughan Brown, M.D. • Alexander Bryce, M.D., D.P.H.(Camb.); Kenneth Campbell, M.B., F.R.C.S.; H. S. Davidson, M.B., F.R.CS.Ed.; J. S. P. Dickey, M.B.; N. S. Neil, M.B.; G. Francis Oldershaw, M.D.; Charles Porter, M.D., B.Sc., M.R.C.P.; Mary Scharlieb, M.D., M.S.; F. Arthur Sibly, M.A., LL.D.; R. Scott Stevenson, M.B.; D. G. Watson, M.B. The Sections Include Diseases : Their Diagnosis and Treat- ment. The Human Body : Its Structure, Functions, &c. Habits and Conditions Inimical to Health. Health in Childhood. Health in the Home. Health in Maturity and Old Age. Definition and Signs of Health. First Aid. Home Nursing. Invalid Cookery. Modern Curative Treatments. Diet and Dieting. Care of the Teeth. Youth and Sex. Health in the Tropics. The Culture of Physical Beauty. Common Sense in Training. Pregnancy and Motherhood. The Baby. Culture of Health in Collective Life, &c. A Health Encyclopaedia worth Two Guineas for A BOOK WHICH WILL BE THE PIONEER OF A WIDESPREAD SYSTEM OF HEALTH CULTURE. BASED ON SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES, IT IS BOUND TO SUPERSEDE THE OLD “HOME DOCTORS.” INDISPENSABLE TO EVERY HOUSEHOLDIN ONE VOLUME THE NEW ENCYCLOPAEDIA 1600 PAGES, MAPS, AND ILLUSTRATIONS IN A SINGLE VOLUME No more tracing references from one volume to another No more hunting for the right volume EQUAL IN EXTENT TO SIX LARGE VOLS. ABREAST OF THE LATEST KNOWLEDGE Edited by H. C. O’NEILL, Editor of the People's Books assisted by Expert Contributors in the various branches No subject which receives any treatment, beyond the slightest, even in the largest encyclo- paedias, has been omitted, and many that are not mentioned in the most recent have articles allotted them. The simple form, the thin, opaque paper used, and the anticipation of a large sale enable the publishers to issue The New Encyclopaedia at a very low price. Strong cloth, 7 s. 6d. net A FEW QUOTATIONS FROM INNUMERABLE LAUDATORY COMMENTS “A marvel of cheapness."—The Athenaeum. “A miracle of miscellaneous usefulness.”—The Bookman. “ Unquestionably the most comprehensive one-volume book of reference that has yet been published."—Truth. “ Crammed with information and thoroughly up-to-date.”—English Review. “ Every article is vouched for by the latest and best authorities.”—Contemporary Review. “An excellently conceived and executed book.”—Daily Mail. “The most useful book for general purposes with which we are acquainted.”—The Bazaar. “A masterpiece in the art of careful condensation.”—The Observer. JACK’S REFERENCE BOOK 1088 PAGES QUARTO, CLOTH, 3s. 6d. NET BESIDES MANY OTHER SECTIONS THE VOLUME CONTAINS— 1. A Universal Encyclopedia. 2. A Medical Dictionary. 3. A Legal Guide. 4. A Parliamentary Government Guide. 5. A Guide to Local Government. 6. A Social Guide. 7. A Guide to Education. 13 Books of Ref erence in One Volume. 8. A Guide to Study of English. 9. An English Dictionary. 10. The World and Empire. n. Glossaries, Reckoners, &c. 12. Dictionary of Quotations and of Characters in Fiction. 13. A Commercial Guide, &c. standard Work of Reference This remarkable book has become a It is kept standing in type and brought down to the latest date “JACK’S REFERENCE BOOK ” is one of the cheapest books in the world. At ten times its price it would be cheap because of the quality of its contents. But published at 3s. 6d. net. bound in cloth, it is an astonishing production. It contains over a million and a half words, and in point of “extent for price ” is immeasurably in advance of any other work of reference. Sir J. H. YOXALL, M.P.—“The book once seen and used becomes absolutely indispensable. It has become my most valuable desk companion.” Right Hon. T. BURT, M.P.—“An examination of‘Jack’s Reference Book* convinces me that nowhere in the same compass can one find such a vast fund of miscellaneous information so well arranged. Prof. OSCAR BROWNING of King’s College, Cambridge.—“I consider ‘Jack’s Reference Book’ a work of very high value.” UNIVERSALLY PRAISED BY THE PRESSTHE WOMAN’S BOOK CONTAINS EVERYTHING A WOMAN OUGHT TO KNOW Fully Illustrated, Cloth, 750 Double-Column Pages, 3s. 6d. net; Cloth, Full Gilt, 5s. net EQUAL IN VALUE TO A TWO-GUINEA ENCYCLOPAEDIA SYNOPSIS OF SECTIONS The House—Mistress and Servants—Work of the House—Food and the Kitchen—The Table— Guide to Cookery—Health and the Toilet—Management of Money and Legal Guide—Etiquette and Social Guide—The Child—Home Nursing and Medical Guide—Gardening—Poultry and Domestic Pets—Home Carpentry and Upholstery—Holidays and Travel—Recreation—Household Linen—Guide to Laundry Work—Plain Sewing and Mending—Home Dressmaking—Home Millinery—Dress, its Choice and Care. CAREERS FOR WOMEN : Women in Education ; Women in Medicine and Nursing; Women in Literary and Secretarial Work ; Women in Agriculture and Horticulture ; Women in Domestic Subjects; Women in Other Professions; Women in Minor Arts and Crafts. Miscellaneous Facts and Figures. The Ladies’ Field.—“As a reference book for the domestic woman we know nothing to surpass it. . . . The domestic woman's life may well be revolutionised by it. . . . The list of contributors is most notable, including women at the head of most of the more advanced professions in which the members of their sex are nowadays engaged." Vanity Fair.—“ All the articles are thoroughly up to date, and no woman should be without the volume, which is a veritable encyclopaedia of the very highest quality.” The Clarion.—“ How on earth such a book can be turned out for the money I am unable to guess." THE PARENTS’ BOOK A BOOK WHICH ANSWERS CHILDREN’S QUESTIONS An Absolute Novelty in Idea. A Phenomenal Volume for Size and Price SIMPLICITY THE KEYNOTE. A CHILD CAN UNDERSTAND IT A book for Children as well as Parents. It will interest the children, and the information which interests is always digested and remembered. ANSWERS ARE GIVEN TO THOUSANDS OF QUESTIONS These include questions on every possible subject—Everyday Objects, Science, Manufacturing Processes, Machinery and Inventions, Nature Study, Biography, Geography, Travel, History, &c. &c. Within the compass of a single book more useful everyday information is to be found than in a library of many volumes. “ THE PARENTS’ BOOK” tells why things are, how things are made, how things work ; it is easy of reference. 750 Double-Column Pages. Illustrated. Strongly Cloth bound. Ss. 6d. net (in view of an enormous sale) Examine the great INDEX at end. This is the Key to any Question required. Every article in the book has been revised by an expert The Times.—“ This is certainly a book for which the world of parents have been waiting.” T.P.’S. WEEKLY.—“Unless the sale is enormous the publishers are bound to lose money, but so good is the book that every householder should obtain a copy. Each member of the family would find it useful, and the Index makes it an historical encyclopaedia.” A HISTORY of the BRITISH NATION FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES TO THE PRESENT DAY By A. D. INNES Sometime Scholar of Oriel College, Oxford. Author of “ England under the Tudors," etc. AN EXTRAORDINARY VOLUME. 1000 Large Pages (size, 9 x 6£). 400 Illustrations and Maps Equal in extent to four ordinary volumes costing 30s. For 3s. 6d. net. Bound in Cloth The Collection of Illustrations from authentic sources is absolutely unique The Contemporary Review.—“ The book is fairly comparable to Mr. J. R. Green's ‘ Short History of the English People,’ and perhaps avoids some of the weaknesses of that great work.” The Athenaeum.—“ This is a most encouraging book. When we remember the sort of work that did duty for a popular history of England thirty, and even twenty, years ago, the progress achieved gives every cause for satisfaction." The Times.—“ Its publication is an enterprise remarkable even in these days of cheap books. . . . The book is well-propor- tioned and accurate, its narrative is smooth and pleasant, the little character sketches are often neat and happy,”THE PEOPLE’S BOOKS A GREAT LIBRARY (102 VOLS. ALREADY ISSUED) OF BOOKS, SPECIALLY CONTRIBUTED BY LIVING SPECI- ALISTS, DESIGNED TO BRING MODERN KNOWLEDGE WITHIN THE REACH OF ALL 6 CLOTH D. net List of 102 Volumes already Issued 6 CLOTH D. net j. The Foundations of Science. By VV. C. D. Whetham, M.A. а. Etnbryologry—The Beginnings of Life. By Prof. Gerald Leighton, M.D. 3. Biology. By Prof. W. D. Henderson, M.A. 4. Zoology: The Study of Animal Life. By Prof. E. W. MacBride, M.A. 5. Botany : The Modem Study of Plants. By M. C. Stopes, D.Sc., Ph.D., F.L.S. б. Bacteriology. By W. E. Carnegie Dickson, M.D. 7. The Structure of the Earth. By Prof. T. G. Bonney, Sc. D., F.R.S. 8. Evolution. By E. S. Goodrich, M.A., F.R.S. 10. Heredity. By J. A. S. Watson, B.Sc. 11. Inorganic Chemistry. By Prof. E. C. C. Baly, F.R.S. 12. Organic Chemistry. By Prof. J. B. Cohen, B.Sc., F.R.S. 13. The Principles of Electricity. By Norman R. Campbell, M.A. 14. Radiation. By P. Phillips, D.Sc. 15. The Science of the Stars. By E. W. Maunder, F.R.A.S. 16. The Science of Light. By P. Phillips, D.Sc. 17. Weather Science. By R. G. K. Lempfert, M.A. 18. Hypnotism and Self-Education. By A. M. Hutchison, M.D. 19. The Baby : A Mother’s Book. By a University Woman, ao. Youth and Sex—Dangers and Safeguards for Boys and Girls. By Mary Scharlieb, M.D., M.S., and F. Arthur Sibly, M.A., LL.D. 31. Marriage and Motherhood. By H. S. Davidson, M.B. 22. Lord Kelvin. By A. Russell, M.A., D.Sc., M.I.E.E. 23. Huxley. By Prof. G. Leighton, M.D. 24. Sir William Huggins and Spectroscopic Astronomy. By E. W. Maunder, F.R.A.S., of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. 26. Henri Bergson. By H. Wildon Carr. 27. Psychology. By H. J. Watt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Phil. 28. Ethics. By Canon Rashdall, D.Litt., F. B.A. 29. Kant’s Philosophy. By A. D. Lindsay, M.A., of Balliol College, Oxford. 32. Roman Catholicism. By H. B. Coxon. Preface, Mgr. R. H. Benson. 33. The Oxford Movement. By Wilfrid Ward. 34. The Bible and Criticism. By W. H. Bennett, D.D., Litt.D., and W. F. Adeney, D.D. 36. The Growth of Freedom. By H. W. Nevinson. 37. Bismarck and the Origin of the German Empire. By Prof. F. M. Powicke. 38. Oliver Cromwell. By Hilda Johnstone, M.A. 39. Mary Queen of Scots. By E. O’Neill, M.A. 40. Cecil John Rhodes, 1853-1902. By Ian D. Colvin. 41. Julius Caesar. By Hilary Hardinge. 42. England in the Making. By Prof. F. J. C. Hearnshaw, M.A., LL.D. 43. England in the Middle Ages. By E. O’Neill, M.A. 44. The Monarchy and the People. By W. T. Waugh, M.A. 45. The Industrial Revolution. By Arthur Jones. 46. Empire and Democracy. By G. S. Veitch, M.A., Litt.D. 47. Women’s Suffrage. By M. G. Fawcett, LL.D. 51. Shakespeare. By Prof. C. H. Herford, Litt.D. 52. Wordsworth. By Rosaline Masson. 53. Pure Gold—A Choice of Lyrics and Sonnets. By H. C. O'Neill. 54. Francis Bacon. By Prof. A. R. Skemp, M.A. 55. The Brontes. By Flora Masson. 56. Carlyle. By L. Maclean Watt. 57. Dante. By A. G. Ferrers Howell. 60. A Dictionary of Synonyms. By Austin K. Gray, B.A. 61. Home Rule. By L. G. Redmond Howard. Preface by Robert Harcourt, M.P. 62. Practical Astronomy. By H. Macpherson, Jr., F.R.A.3. 63. Aviation. By Sydney F. Walker, R.N. 64. Navigation. By William Hall, R.N., B.A. 65. Pond Life. By E. C. Ash, M.R.A.C. 66. Dietetics. By Alex. Bryce, M.D., D.P.H. 67. Aristotle. By Prof. A. E. Taylor, M.A., F.B.A. 68. Friedrich Nietzsche. By M. A. Mugge. 69. Eucken: A Philosophy of Life. By A. J. Jones, M.A., B.Sc., Ph.D. 70. The Experimental Psychology of Beauty. By C. W. Valentine, B.A. 71. The Problem of Truth By H. Wildon Carr. 72. The Church of England. By Rev. Canon Masterman. 73. Anglo-Catholicism. By A. E. Manning Foster. 74. The Free Churches. By Rev. Edward Shillito, M.A. 75. Judaism. By Ephraim Levine, M.A. 76. Theosophy. By Annie Besant. 78. Wellington and Waterloo. By Major G. W. Redway. 79. Mediaeval Socialism. By Bede Jarrett, O.P., M.A. 80. Syndicalism. By J. H. Harley, M.A. 82. Co-operation. By Joseph Clayton. 83. Insurance as a Means of Investment. By W. A. Robert- son, F. F. A. 85. A History of English Literature. By A. Compton- Rickett, LL.D. 87. Charles Lamb. By Flora Masson. 88. Goethe. By Prof. C. H. Hereford, Litt.D. 92. The Training of the Child. By G. Spiller. 93. Tennyson. By Aaron Watson. 94. The Nature of Mathematics. By P. E. B. Jourdain, M.A. 95. Applications of Electricity. By Alex. Ogilvie, B.Sc. 96. Gardening. By A. Cecil Bartlett. 98. Atlas of the World. By J. Bartholomew, F.R.G.S. 101. Luther and the Reformation. By Leonard D. Agate, M.A. 103. Turkey and the Eastern Question. By John Macdonald, M.A. 104. Architecture. By Mrs. Arthur Bell. 105. Trade Unions. By Joseph Clayton. 106. Everyday Law. By J. J. Adams. 107. Robert Louis Stevenson. By Rosaline Masson. 108. Shelley. By Sydney Waterlow, M.A. no. British Birds. By F. B. Kirkman, B.A. in. Spiritualism. By J. Arthur Hill. 112. Kindergarten Teaching at Home. By Two Members of the National Froebel Union. 113. Schopenhauer. By Margrieta Beer, M.A. 114. The Stock Exchange. By J. F. Wheeler. 115. Coleridge. By S. L. Bensusan. 116. The Crusades. By M. M. C. Calthrop. 117. Wild Flowers. By Macgregor Skene, B.Sc. 118. Principles of Logic. By Stanley Williams, B.A. 119. The Foundations of Religion. By Stanley A. Cook, M.A. 120. History of Rome. By A. F. Giles, M.A. 121. Land, Industry, and Taxation. By Frederick Verinder. 122. Canada. By Ford Fairford. 123. Tolstoy. By L. Winstanley, M.A. 124. Greek Literature. By H. J. W. Tillyard, M.A. NATURE.—“Written by people whose lives have been devoted to the subjects which they survey." ACADEMY.—“ The series bids fair to provide a liberal education at a nominal cost to all who are fortunate enough to possess it." OBSERVER.—“ They seem to be taking the world for their parish.” THE EXPOSITORY TIMES.—“The most amazing of all the issues of cheap books which have astonished our day and generation.” THE NATION.—“A wonderful enterprise, admirably planned, and deserving the highest success." MR. WILL CROOKS, M.P.—“The simple, homely language in dealing with a scientific subject is such a rarity that at first sight one took to reading without effort.” STOCKED BY ALL BOOKSELLERS AND THE LEADING NEWSAGENTS LONDON & EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK, AND ALL BOOKSELLERS- * •J . . '4':. V’. . * ' *■ »