•> • . »r4 -Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b22021401]D)» W? IK.IIT <T 1HT E IKK- Zmraycd. lyEJ-mdtnf’vm Pr.m,w h mj&veto Jfnrcft, tfiSfi.HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE; OR, ART OF DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT: CONTAINING A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF CARVING WITH ACCURACY AND ELEGANCE; HINTS RELATIVE TO DINNER PARTIES; THE ART OF MANAGING SERVANTS; AND THE aSrmtmm'st anti epicure's CaRntiar, SHEWING THE SEASONS WHEN ALL KINDS OF MEAT, FISH, POULTRY, GAME, VEGETABLES, AND FRUITS, FIRST ARRIVE IN THE MARKET EARLIEST TIME FORCED WHEN MOST PLENTIFUL—AND WHEN BEST AND CHEAPEST. BY THE LATE WILLIAM KITCHINER, M.D. To which is added a Variety of useful and Original Receipts. " First for the Kitchen, as without that we shall look lean, and grow faint quickly."—Hannah Wooley’s Cabinet, 12mo. 1084, p. 255. LONDON: PRINTED FOR WHITTAKER, TREACHER, AND CO. AVE MARIA LANE. M.DCCC.XXIX.yCuco>. /<</ V. /r <^\ historical medioal R LONDON: J. MOVES, took’s court, chanckrv LANPREFACE. The Housekeeper’s Oracle was intended by the late Dr. Kitchiner to have been a Companion to the Cook’s Oracle, and to supply that information to young persons of all classes, which the nature of the latter work necessarily precluded. I trust his endeavour has been successful. The object was to guard young housewives against the impositions — of dishonest servants, or the extortions of—extravagant tradespeople; and it is hoped such knowledge will not be too dearly- bought by the purchase of this little Volume. W. B. Kitchiner. Albany, 1829.-THE HOUSEKEEPERS ORACLE. CHAPTER I. To understand the Economy of Household Affairs is essential to a woman’s proper and pleasant performance of the duties of a Wife and a Mother—is indispensable to the com- fort, respectability, and general welfare of all families, whatever be their circumstances. The Author has employed some leisure hours in collecting these practical hints, for instructing inexperienced Housekeepers in the useful ART OF PROVIDING COMFORTABLY FOR A FAMILY, which he has endeavoured to display as plainly and so particularly, that a young Lady may learn the delectable Arcana of Domestic Af- fairs in as little time as is usually devoted to the directing the position of her hands on a Piano-Forte, or of her Feet in a Quadrille, which will enable her to make the Cave of nTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 2 Matrimony as comfortable, as the Net of Courtship was charming. Every opportunity has been sought of con- sulting with experienced Housewives, and ac- complished Mistresses of Families, and of making Memoranda of their Counsel: these gleanings are now presented to the reader; and for such humble effort to augment “ The Happiness of Home,” the writer claims no other credit than that of having collected them. “ The World has not yet learned the riches of Frugality." Tu it. He has long thought with Dr. Johnson, that the “ greatest part of those who lose them- selves in Studies by which I have not found that they grow much wiser, might with more advantage both to the Public and themselves, have applied their understandings to Domestic Arts, and stored their minds with “ Axioms of Humble Prudence and Private Economy.” Atlienceus affirms, that Cooks were the first Kings of the Earth; and that they obtained the Sovereign Power by instituting set Meals, and dressing Meat to please every Man’s palate— “ From a savoury Bonne Bouche, to a Soup or a Salad.”THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 3 Tis certain the Old Patriarchs, who, accord- ing to Sir Robert Filmer, must be reckoned Kings and Princes, were their own Cooks; and we are well assured, one of their number procured a Blessing for himself and posterity, by making a Savoury Hash, though craftily imposing Kid for Venison. The Greek Commanders at the siege of Troy, and who were likewise all Royal Sovereigns, never presumed to set before their guests any food but that cooked by their own hands— Achilles was famous for'—broiling Beef- steaks. In the infancy of the Roman Republic, every Citizen, from a Dictator down to a Plebeian, dressed his own victuals; and one of their greatest Generals received the Samnite Ambas- sadors in the room where he was boiling Turnips for Dinner, but like a wise man did not con- sider their offer of a sum of gold of so much consequence as to occasion his pot to boil over. These Royal, Patriarchal, or Consular Cooks, never dressed above one Dish at a time, and that in a very plain manner, whether of animal or vegetable Food. In process of time, as it became fashionable to multiply dishes, they required assistants ;4 TI-IE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. and at length delegated this kingly office to their Ministers. In the dMtfcn times, it was customary for every Family in England to have a complete Code of Economic Laws; the most minute attention was paid to the most inconsiderable Domestic Expense, and the formal stated orders established with regard to many parti- culars, were precise in the extreme. THE NORTHUMBERLAND HOUSE BOOK For 1512, is a very curious specimen of such a system of ancient iEconomicus, consisting of 50 Chapters, and 464 closely printed octavo pages: this curious and scarce book is one of the most singular and exact accounts of ancient manners that English Antiquity affords us. The Earl’s family, consisting of 166 persons. Masters and Servants, and 57 Strangers, were expected every day—in the whole, 223. Two-pence halfpenny was reckoned to be the daily expense of each for meat, drink, and firing; and one thousand pounds the annual expense for Housekeeping—Wheat being then 5s. 8d. per quarter. This Earl’s domestic concerns were managed with such extreme exactness, and such rigidTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 5 economy, that the number of pieces which were cut out of every quarter of Beef, Mutton, See. were determined, and were entered and accounted for by the Clerks appointed for that purpose, so that there cannot be any tradition much more erroneous than the magnificent ideas many people have entertained of the unbounded liberality of “ OLD ENGLISH HOSPITALITY.” It may amuse the reader to relate a Speci- men of the Pompous, and even Royal style assumed by this Feudal Chieftain. He does not even give “ AN ORDER FOR THE MAKING OF MUSTARD,” Of which it is stated that the annual al- lowance was 166 Gallons, but it is introduced with the following formal preamble: — “It seemeth good to US and our COUNCIL,” Sec. Sec.. Sec. Daily. Item.—That the Brevementes of the Ex- pensez of the Hous be kept every day in the Countyn-hous at two times on the day, that is to say, First time incontynent after the Dynnar, and the Secounde tyme at afterTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 6 W EEKLY. That the said Clarkes of the Kechynge shall affore they maik any Barganne for Provision of any manner of gross Empcion for keepinge of my Loordes Hous, that they make my Loorde privey thereto affore the Barganne be concluded, to the ententt that they may knowe whether His Loordship be absentt from home, thanne to maik such of His Loordships Counsaill or Servaunts, that my said Loorde leefs in trust to see which he haithe appointed prevey to the said Empcion affore the Barganne be con- cluded, to th’ ententt that they may see whe- ther they have made there Bargans in dewful tyme or nott. Mounthly. Item.—That the saide Clarkes of the Kechynge at th’ ende of every mouneth, taik theRemaneth what it is worth, and to maik a Bill of all the clere expensez of the said mouneth ; and to rate every man what he standes in a Meel the day and the Week, and what th’ hoole Mouneth draweth too in the hous.”—See ISorthumber- land Household Book, p. 115 and 116. All to whom want is terrible, upon whateverTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 7 principle, ought to think themselves obliged to learn the sage maxims of our parsimonious Ancestors, and attain the salutary arts of con- tracting expense: Without Economy none can be Rich, with Prudence feiv can be Poor. “ The mere power of saving what is already in our hands, must be of easy acquisition to every Mind; — the example of Lord Bacon shews that the highest intellect cannot safely neglect it, a thousand instances every day prove that the humblest may practise it with suc- cess.”—Rambler, No. 57. Order is the basis of Economy. Allow me to recommend to you, Order in the conduct of your Affairs ; Order in the distribution of your Time ; Order in the management of your Fortune ; Order in the regulation of your Amusements; Order in the arrangement of your Society. Thus “ Let all things be done decently and in order.”—St. Paul’s First Epistle to the Co- rinthians, Chap. xiv. 40. There can be no real Happiness in that Man’s Life who allots not a due share of his time to Regularity.8 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Make an exact estimate of your Net Income, after subtracting all the charges thereon, and all the deductions therefrom for repairs, col- lecting, &c. Be assured, that so great is the mutability of Fortune, and so great is the uncertainty of Income, from whatever source it is derived, that if you hope to enjoy tranquillity of Mind, and to be Independent and Respectable — you MUST RESERVE AT LEAST TWO-FIFTHS OF WHAT APPEARS YOUR NET INCOME, One fifth for your family, and the other as a reserve against those casual deficiencies and unforeseen expenses which happen in every station of Society; therefore “ In fair weather, prepare for foul.” “ Experience has proved that charges of all kinds seldom fail to exceed the original com- putation ; and that new demands, not foreseen at first, continually occur. Hence it is the part of prudence in every Master of a family rigidly to adjust his expenditure to such a standard as may not only provide for defici- encies in his Estimate, but also an annual fund for his family, and an annual surplus for unexpected contingencies, heavy losses, bur- thensome repairs, distressed relations. ’—Gis- borne’s Enquiry, vol. ii. p.478.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 9 To ensure this, compare your weekly Ex- penses with a computation, which you may easily make, of how much your Annual Income will afford every week. The following hints may help a young House- keeper to make a tolerably accurate Estimate of what is likely to be THE ANNUAL EXPENSES OF A FAMILY Of Two, and occasionally Three in the Parlour, and two Maids and a Man Servant, who have a Dinner party once a Month, where there is always plenty of good provisions, but no affec- tation of Profusion. £. Meat 65 Fish and Poultry 25 Bread 18 Butter and Cheese 25 Milk 7 Vegetables and Fruit 20 Tea, Coffee, and Sugar 15 Table Ale 25 Washing 20 Coals 30 Candles and Soap 20 270 Sundries and Forgets 50 n 2 £ 32010 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. The price of many Articles is regular and fixed, and by consulting with experienced per- sons, you may easily learn the rate of others — the average consumption of moderate persons in a frugal family, who seldom purchase either Fish or Poultry, is per Mouth per Week of Meat* 6 Pounds weight undressed. Bread 4 Ditto (Quartern Loaf.) Butter 1 Half-pound. Tea 2 Ounces. Sugar 1 Half-pound. Beer (Porter) 1 Pint per day. * Some Housekeepers allow their Cooks a certain Sum instead of the Kitchen Stuff; give those you are obliged to trust every inducement to be' honest, and no temptation to play tricks. A Kitchen-stuff Merchant gave us the following Anecdote of the History of Grease:—“ Do you know that some Cooks will strip your Meat of its Fat—crib your Candles, cabbage your Potatoes, &c. to increase the contents of their Grease Pot—nay, will you believe it? are so naughty as even to cheat me ! Do you know, that after melting 20 pounds of fat, I have found almost half that weight of Potatoes; which, when nicely mashed, and stirred well into the hot Dripping, alas! worse luck, I cannot detect till melted !! !”— Now, I must tell my Reader, in my usual candid manner, that the foregoing observations have not escaped the censure of certain furious Economists, who have exclaimed to the Author “ I would not for the World have your Book read in my Kitchen.”THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 11 A Fund for ensuring the independence of a growing Family, aucl for encountering those unexpected demands upon your Purse which occasionally overtake the most Prudent, can only be provided by the most Provident. They only can do their duty to others;— They alone can exercise the Godlike power of rewarding those who have done their Duty to them ;— They only can yield to the best feelings of the heart, and “ Comfort the Fatherless and Widows in their Affliction, and keep them- selves unspotted from the World.” The genuine Golden Rules of Economy. 1. The present pleasures produced by a large expense of money, by no means balance the future miseries of a wasted patrimony, dissipated fortune, and a decayed constitu- tion. 2. There is great reason for us to make a reserve of property against the day of decrepi- tude ; because in old age we want chiefly those comforts which only money can procure: a comfortable house, a warm fire, delicate living, and a little share of authority, which, in the last stage of life, is exceedingly soothing and acceptable.12 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 3. Perhaps society cannot shew a more piti- able figure than either a very old man or woman, who, having spent their substance in the flattering gaieties of youth, are reduced, in the most helpless situation, to live upon acci- dental strokes of generosity, and to be at once ridiculed and relieved. 4. If an old person expects to receive the least degree of attention from the world in general, or even from his relations in particular, it must be by the force of happy circumstances in his favour; such, for instance, as arise out of a fortune accumulated by the industry or ingenuity of youth. This will render the veteran respectable among- his domestics, and make even his utmost infirmities supportable. Whereas if an old man has no testimonials of his eco- nomy to produce, he will crawl contemptibly about the world, be upbraided for his former prodigality, even by his own children, who, having no hopes, will consider him as an en- cumbrance; and, wanting the various atten- tions which are necessary to the accommodation of the last scene, his continuance in the family will be irksome, his life must be supported by the contributions of the charitable, and he must die unmourned.—Keep, therefore, the staff in thine own hand.13 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. To make an appearance beyond your Fortune, either in dress, equipage, or entertainment, is a certificate of a much greater weakness in your character than to keep within it. Public Virtue can only be supported by Pri- vate Independence, and private Independence by Economy. Let Prodigals, if they please, report that “ you Have more than you Spend”—Can you think yourself the wiser for pleasing Fools? Such a remark will have a much pleasanter effect upon your credit than if prudent men say that “ you Spend more than you Have.” For the latter, your warmest friends will not be able to furnish an apology; but for the former, every man wdio does not prefer mad- ness to Mirth, will commend and respect you. The Danger of creating Wants. The Maxim that he who has the fewest wants is the richest man, is as true as it is old; most of our wants are of our own creating, and often make us Poor in the midst of Plenty. “ Give no more than nature needs, Man’s Life is cheap as Beast’s.” Shaksfeare. \THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 14 A true Story. I was bred a Linen Draper, and went into business with better than a thousand pounds. I married the Daughter of a Country Tradesman, who had received a Boarding-School Education. When I married I had been in Business five years, and was in the way of soon accumulating a fortune I was never out of my shop before it was shut up, and was remarked by my friends as being a steady young man, with a turn for business. I used to dine in the parlour, where I could have an eye upon the shop ; but my new acquaintances told me this was extremely ungenteel; that if I had no confidence in my men I should get others ; that a thief would be a thief, watch him how I would, and that I was now too forward in the world to be a slave to the shop. From being constantly in my shop from seven in the morn- ing till eight in the evening, I lay in bed till nine, and took a comfortable breakfast before I made my appearance below. Things, however, went on very well—I bowed to my best customers, and attended closely to my business while I was in it, trade went on briskly, and the only effect of this acquaintance was the necessity of letting our friends see that we were getting above the world, by selling some of our old- fashioned furniture, and replacing it with that which was more genteel, and introducing Wine at Dinner when we had Company. As our business increased, our friends told us it would be extremely genteel to take a lodging in summer just at the out- skirts of the City, where we might retire in the evening when shop was shut, and return to it next morning after breakfast; for as we lived in a close part of the town, fresh air was necessary to our health ; and though, before I had15 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. this airy lodging, I breathed very well in town, yet indulging in the fresh air, I was soon sensible of all the stench and closeness of the metropolis ; and I must own I began to relish a glass of Wine after Dinner as well when alone as when in Company:—I did not find myself the worse in circumstances for this lodging, but I did not find I grew richer, and we had no money to lay by. We soon found out that a lodging so near town was smothered with dust, and smelt too much of London air, therefore I took a small House we had seen about five miles from town, near an acquaintance we had made, and thought it imprudent to sleep from home every night, and that it would be better for my business to be in town all the week-, and go to this house on Saturday, and continue there until Monday; but one excuse or other often found me there on Tuesday. Coach-hire backwards and forwards, and carriage of parcels, generally cost us seven or eight shillings a week ; and as a one-horse chaise would be attended with very little more expense, and removing to a further distance, seeing the expense would be saved by not having our house full of company on Sunday, which was always the case, being so near town : besides the exercise would be beneficial, for I was growing corpulent with good living and idleness—Accord- ingly we removed to the distance of fifteen miles from town, into a better house, because there was a large garden adjoin- ing it, and a field for the horse. It afforded abundance of fruit, and fruit was good for scorbutic and plethoric habits, our table would be furnished at less expense, and fifteen miles was but an hour’s ride more than seven miles. All this was plausible, and I soon found myself under the necessity of keeping a Gardener: so that every Cabbage that I before put on my table for one 'penny, cost me one shilling, and I bought my dessert at the dearest hand ; —but I was inTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 16 it — I found myself happy in a profusion of fruit, and a blight was little less than death to me. This new-acquired want, now introduced all the expensive modes of having fruit in spite of either blasts or blights. I built myself a small hot-house, and it was only the addition of a Chaldron or two of Coals ; the Gardener was the same, and we had the pride of putting on our table a pine-apple occasionally, when our acquaintance were contented with the exhibition of a melon. From this expense we soon got into a fresh one. As we often out-staid Monday in the Country, it was thought pru- dent that I should go to Town on Monday by myself, and return in the evening; this being too much for one Horse, a second-hand Chariot might be purchased fora little more than what the one-horse Chaise would sell for ; the field was large enough for two horses; going to town in Summer in an open Carriage was choking ourselves with dust, burning our faces, and the number of Carriages on the road made driving dan- gerous ; besides, having now a genteel acquaintance in the neighbourhood, there was no paying a visit in a one-horse Chaise. Another horse would be but very little addition in expense ; we had a good Coach-house, and the Gardener would drive. All this seemed true. I fell into the scheme ; but soon found that the wheels were so often going that the Gar- dener could not act in both capacities ; whilst he was driving the Chariot, the hot-house was neglected : the consequence was, that I hired a Coachman. The Chariot brought on the necessity of a Footman—a better acquaintance—wax Candles Sherry — Madeira, French Wines, &c. In short, I grew so fond of these indulgencies that they became Wants, and I was unhappy when in town and out of the reach of them. All this would have done very well if I had not had a17 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. business to mind ; but the misfortune was, that it took me off from trade—unsettled my thoughts ;—my shopmen were too much left to themselves, they were negligent of my business, and plundered me of my property. I drew too often upon the till — made no reserve for the wholesale Dealers and Manu- facturers — could not answer their demands upon me — and became — Bankrupt. Reduced now to live upon a Chop and a draught of Porter, I feel my wants more than ever; my wife’s genteel notions having upset her, she has lost her spirits. We do little but upbraid each other, and I am become despicable in my own opinion, and ridiculous in that of others. I once was happy, but now am miserable. “ Those who are negligent when young, wilt If you hope to enjoy the comfort of having enough in the close of life, in the commence- ment “ Learn the Virtue and the Art, The following economical Table, called the Housewife's plea against quarrelling, contains an account of the expenses of a Man and Wife and four Children, in humble life, and suffi- ciently explains the grand secret of living with a “ little means.” To live on little with a cheerful Heart.”THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 18 First, the Cost of a Man per Week. s. d. Bread being at 2d. per pound, suppose the labouring man to eat six ounces at a meal, and six ounces at a bait in the afternoon; that is a pound and a half a day, which is... 0 3 For Breakfast, two ounces of butter, 2d.; tea and sugar, 2d 0 4 Dinner, eight ounces of meat, 3d.; garden- stuff, 2d.; and half a pint of beer, lirf 0 6J Bait in the afternoon, two ounces of cheese, 1 d.; beer, Id 0 2 Supper, cheese, Id.; beer, lid.; tobacco, Id.... 0 3i The cost per day, at this moderate rate, is... 1 7 Ditto, per week 11 1 2. The Cost of a Wife. Breakfast, bread, Id.; butter, Id. ; tea and sugar, lid. ; Gin, 2d. 0 oi Dinner, four ounces of meat, lid.; garden- stuff, id.; beer, Id 0 3 Tea in the afternoon, bread and butter, 2d.; tea and sugar, lid. 0 3i Supper, bread, Id. ; cheese, Id.; beer, Id.; snuff, id 0 3i Per day 1 3i Per week... 9 Oi ITHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 19 3. The Cost of Four Children. s. d. Say for one child’s breakfast, bread and milk, Id.; dinner, Id.; supper, Id. Suppose it eats twice between meals at Id., that is per day 0 4 Per Week... 2 4 Expenses of the four ditto... 9 4 4. The Cost of Housekeeping. Suppose the P,ent of the House to be 50s. a year, that is per week nearly 0 114 Coals or firing a week, lOd.; soap, blue, starch, thread, pins, and tape, per week, 8d 1 0 Candles a week, 3d.; vinegar, pepper, salt, and mustard, per week, 3\d. 0 fit For wear and tear of household furniture per week 0 4 Wearing apparel for the Man, 5d.; Wife, 3d.; each Child, lid. per week 1 2 Suppose the Wife to have one Child in two years, at 20s. expense : expense per week ... 0 2.^ 4 H t The total expense at this rate of living is... £\ 14 2THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 20 When Socrates was asked which of Mor- tals was to be accounted nearest to the Gods in Happiness — he answered, “ That Man who is in want of the fewest Thinsrs.” In this answer, “Socrates” left it to be guessed by his auditors, whether by the ex- emption from want, which was to constitute happiness, he meant amplitude of possessions, or contradiction of desire. And, indeed, there is so little difference between them, that “ Alexander the Great” confessed the inha- bitant of a “Tub” was the next Man to the “ Master of the World.” Those who have the fewest wants are not only the Happiest, but the Richest. If they do not abound in what the World calls Wealth, they do in Independence. To make great acquisitions can happen to very few ; and in the uncertainty of human affairs, to many it will be incident to labour without reward, and to lose what they already possess by endeavours to make it more; it is, therefore, happy that nature has allowed us a more certain and easy road to Plenty. “ Every Man may grow rich by contracting his wishes.” Cautiously contrive that your constant Every-THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 21 Day Expenses are confined considerably within the half of what you have actually ascertained to be your absolutely certain means of de- fraying them. “ Let no man anticipate certain profits “ Who lives by Hope, may die by Hunger." “ Let no Man squander against his incli- nation,” says that “ Doctor subtilis,” the sagacious Samuel Johnson, who goes on to observe— “ With this precept it may be, perhaps, imagined easy to comply ; yet, if those whom profusion has buried in prisons, or driven into banishment, were examined, it would be found that very few were ruined by their own choice, or pleased by the loss of their Estates; but that they suffered themselves to be borne away by the violence of those with whom they con- versed, and yielded reluctantly to a thousand prodigalities, either from a trivial emulation of wealth and spirit, or a mean fear of contempt and ridicule ; an emulation for the prize of folly, or the dread of the laugh of Fools.” — Rambler, No. 57. The moment you permit your current ex-22 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. penses to exceed three-fifths of your Income, you enter the path of Danger. “ Certainly if a Man would not run out, his ordinary expenses ought not to exceed the half of his Receipts ; and if he thinks to increase his Estate, not the third part of them.”—Lord Bacon’s Essay on Expense. To keep a scrupulously Exact Account of Payments and of Receipts, can alone enable you so to regulate your plan of expen- diture, that it will admit of occasional indul- gence without imprudent extravagance. v Set down the smallest sum—“ Take care of the Pence—the Pounds will take care of them- selves”—“ A Penny a Day, is Half-a-Crown a Month, and thirty shillings a year.” “ Who spends more than he should, Shall not have to spend when he ivould.” Not only limit your expenses to Pounds and Shillings—but ever bear in mind the old favourite and fortune-saving maxim of frugal Housewives— “ One penny saved is two-pesce clear, A Pin a day’s a Groat a year.”23 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Don’t let Fools laugh you out of your Economy— “ Many a little makes a Mickle.” Leave them their Jest, and keep you your Money, for surely, gentle reader— “ ’Tis better to be laughed at than ruined.”—LaCON, p. 72. “ Keep within compass, and you shall be sure To avoid many evils which others endure.” There are two questions which “The Cook’s Oracle” advises every Economist always to ask before he makes any purchase— Is THIS ACTUALLY WANTED? Can we do without it? “ Beware of ’Tis Buts.” There are few of my Readers, who, if they please to reflect on their past lives, will not find that had they saved all those little sums which they have spent unnecessarily, their circumstances would be very different from what they are. “ He that buys what he does not want, Will soon want what he cannot buy.”24 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. The ’Tis Buts. \ ou ask me the secret by which we contrive, On an income so slender so fairly to thrive ; Why the long and the short of the matter is this, We take things as they come, and thus nought comes amiss: My Sons are no Sluggards, my Daughters no Sluts, And we still keep an eye to the main and 'Tis Buts. 2. Neighbour Squander’s grand treat, 'tis but so much he says. And his Wife’s fine new Gown, 'tis but so much she pays ; 'Tis but so much the Fan, 'tis but so much the Play, His Child’s gewgaws, too, 'tis but that thrown away ; But each ’tis but grows on, till they run on so fast, That he finds ’tis but coming to want at the last. 3. Now something occurs, and he says like a Ninny, I’ll buy it at once, for it is but a Guinea ; And then something else, and he still is more willing, For it is but a Trifle, it is but a Shilling : Then it is but a Penny, it is but a Mite, ’Till the 'Tis Buts at last, sum up ruin outright. 4. But for my part I ever these maxims would take, That a little and little a mickle will make; Take care of the Shillings, those vain wand’ring elves, And the Pounds, my good friend, will take care of themselves ; If you quarter the Road you avoid the great ruts, And you will run on quite smooth if you mind the ’ Tis Buts.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 25 5. Contentment’s the object at which we should aim, It is Riches and Power, and Honour and Fame; For our wants and our comforts in truth are but few, And ne’er purchase that thing without which you can do. And this maxim of maxims, most others outcuts, If you’d thrive, keep an eye on the Main—and ’tis buts. From the Rev. J. Plumtre’s excellent Letters on Vocal Poetry, 12mo. 1811, p. 396, which I advise every Song-writer and Play-writer to read before they write. Reduce all your Disbursements, excepting Rent, Taxes, and Servants’Wages, to Ready Money, and Monthly Pay- ments, which most Tradesmen rate aa ready money : if you take six months’ credit, you must for many things pay 15 or 20 per Cent dearer. It is in vain for any man who will not adopt the Ready Money principle to study economy. Cash, and cash only, is the corner- stone upon which the economical edifice can be erected. Remember, that he that sells on credit asks a price for what he sells, at least equivalent to the principal and interest of the money for the time he is to be kept out of it; therefore c26 the housekeeper’s oracle. he that buys on credit pays interest for what he buys. “ He that pays ready money might let that money out to use; so, he that possesses any thing he has bought, pays interest for the use of it: yet in buying goods it is best to pay ready money, because he that sells upon credit, expects to lose five per Cent by bad debts; therefore, to those who purchase on credit he charges an advance that shall make up that deficiency. “ Those who pay for what they buy upon credit, pay their share of this advance. He that pays ready money escapes, or may escape, that charge. “ Good-natured Creditors (and such, one would always wish to deal with if possible,) feel pain when they are obliged to ask for money: — spare them that pain, and they will love you. “ When you receive a sum of money, divide it among them in proportion to your Debts. Do not be ashamed to pay a small sum because you owe a greater demand; more or less is always welcome, and your creditor would rather be at the trouble of receiving 10/. vo- luntarily brought to him, though at different times or payments, than be obliged to go ten27 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. different times to demand it, before he can receive it in a lump. It shews, besides, that you are mindf ul of what you owe ; it makes you appear a careful as well as an honest man, and that still increases your credit. “ Beware of thinking all your own that you possess, and of living accordingly. It is a mistake that many people who have credit fall into. To prevent this, keep an exact Account for some time, both of your Expenses and your Income. “ If you take the pains at first to mention particulars, it will have this good effect, that you will discover how wonderfully small trifling expenses amount to large sums; and will discern what might have been, and may for the future, be saved, without occasioning any inconve- nience. “ In short, The Way to Wealth, if you desire it, is plain as the way to market. It depends chiefly on two words. Industry and Frugality ; that is, Waste neither Time nor Money, but make the best use of both. Without industry and frugality, nothing will do, and with them every thing will prosper. “ He that gets all he can honestly, and saves all he gets (necessary expenses excepted), will28 the housekeeper’s oracle. certainly become rich,— if that Being who governs the world, and to whom all should look for a blessing on their honest endeavours, doth not, in his wise providence, otherwise determine.”—Dr. Franklin on the Advantage of Paying Ready Money. “ Pay what you owe, And what you’re worth you’ll know.” In the first place, deal with Tradesmen of Fair character and established circumstances ; they can not only afford to sell better Bargains, but have too much at stake, to forfeit (by any idle imposition) the good name they have been years establishing by their Integrity. If you desire such persons to send you a good article at the regular and fair market price,— and, as Mr. Philip Quar/l, the English Hermit, says,—(see his Adventures, p. 16)—“ have them without committing the sin of bidding less for them than you know they are really worth, or making the Poulterers swear that they cost more than they did you will be supplied with prime provisions, and at as reasonable a rate as those Bargain-hunters who trot “ around, around, around about ” a Market, till they areTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 29 trapped to buy some unchcwable old Poultry— tough Tup-Mutton — stringy Cow-Beef— or stale Fish — at very little less than the price of prime good food : or French Cambric manu- factured at Manchester— Russia Duck from Aberdeen — and Brussels Lace from Not- tingham. However, those desperate Economists, Messrs. Pennywise — Justenough — Makeitdo— Spare- salt—Skinflint, and Saveall, &c. 8tc., may thank us for the following extract: “ Early in the Morning is the best time to have a choice of Meat at Market — but under certain circumstances the Economist will pre- fer the Evening; wholesale and large Butchers having a large stock of Veal or Lamb on their hands, on a Saturday night in Summer, will sell upon almost any terms; as the meat, al- though then perfectly good, and fit for eating on Sunday, would not resist the assaults of Captain Green* until Monday: upon these occasions, a fine joint of Veal or Lamb may often be purchased for 3d. or Ad. per pound, * “A quaint saying among the Butchers, alluding to the discoloration in Veal when kept too long." From the Economist.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 30 which would in the morning have fetched Id. or 8d.” Some adventurers draw customers to their Shops, by dazzling them with the offer of selling some particular article at a losing price, as a lure to the unwary; while they more than repay themselves by unsuspected and unwary profits on others.* * The best Rowland for an Oliver that ever these ticket fellows received was from a witty Hibernian, about three years ago. Pat had but just arrived in London, and, wan- dering about one day, perceived a blanket marked thus— “This superior Blanket for Half price”—“the very thing be wanted for be was an economical Soul, and yet fond of the luxury of a warm and comfortable snooze. In he quietly walked, and addressed the shop-keeper upon the subject, “ I want to buy that blanket, Sir.” It was imme- diately placed before him, with numerous kind recommenda- tions to the buyer’s notice. “ Plase to tell me the price of it, Sir,” says be. “ Five shillings, replied the seller.” “ By my soul! and that’s chape enough, too, considerin as times goes and after folding up the blanket, putting it tightly under his arm, and running his hand two or three times round his pocket, he coolly put down lialf-a-crown, and was respectfully taking his leave, when the active shopkeeper leaped over the counter and intercepted his customer’s passage to the street, demanding 2s. Gd. more. The Hibernian gentleman insisted that he had advertised the blanket in question for /m//-price — facetiously apologising by, “ didn’t you say now your price was 5s., and didn’t I give you the half-price of it, and havn’t you got yourTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 31 “ Sugar is sometimes sold at an under-rate to O get customers for Tea, which article is again sold far more than proportionally too dear ; great bargains are allowed in Ribands and Gauzes, with a view to allure purchasers for Silks and Laces at an exorbitant price. In such cases it is often contrived, that the cheap article shall be one of trifling worth, and one the value of which is well known; while the dear article is of an opposite description. When the bait has taken, the price of the cheaper commodity is commonly raised, or one of in- ferior worth is substituted in its place. Shops of this sort are commonly called Cheap half-crown ? The devil burn myself and the blanket to boot, if I give up my bargain ! A little scuffling followed; but John found Pat rather a rough customer, and therefore called in the aid of a Constable. All would not do; the blanket he would have, and, to put an end to the dispute, all parties adjourned to Bow Street, when, after a patient and pleasant examination before the worthy magistrate—Pat wa3 permitted to retain his purchase, and the blanket-seller warned never more to mark up half-price. This case must be in the recollection of many of our readers ; and we think, that where articles appear marked in windows for less than their value, people would do well to follow Pat’s example. They should ask first to look at the article, and if they think it is worth the price marked, put down the money, and walk away with their purchase.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 32 Shops.”—Gisbourne’s Inquiry, &c. 8vo. 1795, vol. ii. p. 199. Every trade has its tricks, and if you chal- lenge those who follow it to a game of “ Catch who can,” by entirely relying on your own judgment, you will soon find that nothing but very long experience can make you equal to the combat of marketing to the utmost advan- tage— and, after all, to depend on an honest Tradesman is the only sure plan—most of those who advertise to sell cheap, live by deception ; and prey on the innocent, as sharks do on the incautious fish. “ It is the height of folly to lay out your money with such people. “ Don’t suppose they are contented with less profits—on the contrary, they get more by vending sophisticated or inferior articles, than the regular dealer does at the regular market- price—there is a variation of full 20 per Cent, and sometimes of double that sum, in the quality of almost every thing which comes to market.”—See Mr. Accum’s Book on the Adulterations of Food, fyc. 12mo. 1820. If you think you have been imposed upon, never use a second word if the first does not do, nor drop the least hint of such Imposition;THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 33 the only method to induce a tradesman to make any abatement, is the hope of your future cus- tom— pay the demand, and deal with the gen- tleman no more;—but do not let him see you are displeased, or as soon as you are out of sight, your reputation will suffer as much as your Pocket has; indeed, The first Lesson in comfortable Economy, is to learn to submit cheerfully to be imposed on in due proportion to your circumstances. He who will not be cheated a little, must be content to be abused a great deal, to be at constant variance with his servants, tradesmen, and with every one dependent upon him. Choose your Tradespeople with circumspec- tion— choose them wisely — but change not wantonly—when you have dealt with them for some time, and are found to be a constant customer, their Interest, if not their Gratitude, will prompt them to supply you with Goods of the best quality, and at the most reasonable rate, and you will take every opportunity to recommend their Shop—thus will arise that re- ciprocal good feeling which generally produces the greatest mutual advantage. As some apology for not having discussed these subjects more minutely, the Author may c 234 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. be permitted to observe, that what he would otherwise have had to say on Domestic Economy, he has said already in the 116 first pages of “ The Cook’s Oracle,” of which, as there are now in circulation many thou- sand Copies—the Reader is probably in pos- session.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 35 CHAPTER II. DINNER PARTIES. A Dinner Table should not be more than three feet and a half in width; what will spread handsomely on such a Table, will appear scanty on a Table that is five feet in width. Let the Appointments of your Table be equally distant from pompous Parade and penurious Parsimony. Let your provision be abundant in quantity, excellent in quality — cooked in the best style, and put on Table in the neatest manner. Provide for one or two more Guests than you expect, especially if you are not well acquainted with the capacity of your Visitors. Some Folks eat two or three times as much as others — for instance, our incomparable and inspired Composer Handel required uncom- monly large and frequent supplies of Food.— Among other stories told of this great Mu- sician, it is said that whenever he dined alone at a Tavern, he always ordered “Dinner forTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 36 three;” and on receiving an answer to his question — “ Is de Tinner retty0}” — “As soon as the Company come.” — He said, con stre- pito, “ Den pring up te Tinner prestissimo, I AM DE GOMBANY.” “ There’s no Creature that’s kneaded of Clay hut hath his frailties, extravagancies, and ex- cesses, some way or other; for you must not think that Man can be better out of Paradise than he was within it—Nemo sine crimine.— He that censures the good fellow, commonly makes no conscience of gluttony and gour- mandising at home; and I believe more men do dig their graves with their teeth than with the tankard.”.— Howel’s Letters. However plain your Dinner — if it is prime, plentiful, and properly dressed, it will be as acceptable to Friends to whom yon are accept- able, as a profusion of all the expensive Rarities which extravagance could have assembled; — unless, indeed, gentle reader, you affect the Company of Boris Vivants, who have a hole under their Nose into which all their money runs, and with whom Dinner is the chief busi- ness of the Day; who merely “ live to Eat,”— who see the sun rise with no other hope than that they shall fill their Bellies before it sets;37 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. who are not satisfied till they are surfeited;—or of those Arid Sons of Anacreon, who are not en- tertained till they are intoxicated, and who ridi- culously maintain that the Restorative Process cannot be complete till they feel as frisky as a four-year old, and that “ British Wine should recruit As Life’s Winter may wear ye t till old receive the same refreshment as young persons do from their ordinary unexcitant meals; when healthful children are so exqui- sitely alive all o’er, that they often exhibit the antics of incipient inebriety; and therefore, as the sensibility of the system diminishes, to produce equally perfect restoration, they take “ another Cup,” and then chant, “ O bring me Wine!” and “Jolly Mortals, fill your Glasses,” till hilarious symptoms shew that the Ma- chinery is fully wound up, — and who never allow that they can be Drunk while they are so Sober that they can lie upon the Ground with- out holding ! ! !* * The same quantity of Wine diluted intoxicates sooner than the same quantity drank in the same time without dilu- tion ; the wine being applied to a larger surface of the sto- mach, acts with proportionably greater quickness though Wine diluted sooner intoxicates, its effects are sooner over.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 38 It has been proposed as an Improvement of the old rule for the Circulation of the Bottle, “ Fill what you will, but drink what you fill; ” that while you continue at the festive board, as often as the Bottle goes round “ Fill your Glass, and empty it.” This would afford those who are Thirsty the opportunity they so ardently desire of pro- ceeding vigorously in vinous irrigation, and furnish a fair excuse for those who feel suffi- ciently refreshed, to retire to amusements more agreeable to them; and by accelerating the progress of potation, ensure the early presence of the Guests at the sociable Tea Table. “ Youth has better Joys, And is it wise when youth and pleasure flow, To squander the reliefs of Age and Pain ?” Armstrong. We deprecate the stupid custom of sitting at the Dinner Table for Hours after Dinner, and keeping the Stomach in an incessant state of irritation by sipping Wine ;—nothing is more prejudicial to Digestion, nothing more fevering and enfeebling to the whole system.* * Nothing could be better adapted to Apartments in which the Orgies of Bacchus are celebrated ; nothing more like toTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 39 “ Immediately after Dinner, drink so much as is necessary to excite that degree of action in preserve those who unwittingly join in the celebration, than bloated dropsical figures,—some overwhelmed by death-like languor, some starting out of their sleep under those Horrors which water in the Chest brings on ; and others, in one of those gasping fits, which come on with greater and greater violence, till the Lungs are entirely overwhelmed by the increasing inundation. Anacreon and Horace, who detail their convivial hours with so much pleasantry, have shewn us only one side of the Picture. The schirrous Liver, palsied Limb, and all the nameless ills the body suffers before those mortal distempers appear, are thrown into the back-ground. “ Bacchus hath drowned more Men than Neptune.” “ More than one half of the sudden Deaths which happen, are in fits of intoxication, softened into some milder name, not to ruffle the feelings of Relations in laying them before the Public.” — Dr. Thottek on Drunkenness, 8vo. 1804, p. 136. Grant, in his Account of the Bills of Mortality of London, informs us, that in twenty years there died 229,250. Of this number only two are set down to excessive drinking. — If the matter were truly stated, several hundreds should be set off from the articles of Gout, Stone, Palsy, Apoplexy, Consump- tion, and the other Diseases generated by hard drinking; and set down to the account of excessive drinking, as having directly brought on those disorders. The like remark may be made concerning the passion of Grief, of which there died within that period, 279 How40 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. the System, without which you feel uncom- fortable, then stop.”—See The Art of Invi- gorating Life, 12mo. p. 176, where the Reader will find some wholesome Truths on the subject of Wine ; and see Chapter on Wine. Translation of a Fragment from the Greek of Eubulus: — “ Those friends who to listen to prudence incline, I’d only indulge in three bumpers of Wine ; The first, in due order, our health to improve ; The second be sacred to pleasure and love ; The third having settled our slumbers aright, The Guests truly sober will wish me good night. Far far be the fourth from our peaceable joys, It leads but to insult, the fifth but to noise ; And madness and broils from the sixth will arise. Though small he the Bumper, if often repeated, The stoutest is quickly by Bacchus defeated.”* C. T. S. No healthy Man need habitually take Wine as Food till he is past thirty years of age. Animal food affords the most permanent nourishment; or, as the saying is, “ sticks to your Ribs.” much greater a number would they amount to, if they were reckoned, as they ought tp be, who died of such diseases as Grief brought upon them ? * Let no Man leave your House in a state of Intoxication without some one attending him in a Coach.41 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Dr. Trotter says, “ No Man in health can need Wine till he arrives at forty.”—See his Essay on Drunkenness, 8vo. 1804, p. 151. That which may be a needful stimulus at forty or fifty, will inflame the Passions into madness at twenty or thirty ; and at an earlier period is absolute poison. Children forced by unnatural stimulants, as Wine and Heat, become like Plants in a Hot-house, that have their lives shortened in proportion as the stimuli of Heat and manure are applied to them : early and premature qua- lities are sometimes produced, but the life of the Plant is more than in proportion sooner exhausted: the same holds good with regard to Children. Wine cannot but be highly detri- mental to their future, if not so to their present health and welfare; but it is difficult to con- vince people that if immediate mischief does not take place, future bad consequences will ensue. A late ingenious Surgeon, occupied for a great part of his life in experiments, equally well conceived, as accurately executed, gave to one of his Children a full glass of Sherry every day for a week. The child was about five years old, and had never been accustomed toTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 42 wine. To another Child, nearly of the same age, and under similar circumstances, he gave a large China Orange, for the same space of time. At the end of the week he found a very material difference in the pulse, the heat of the body, the urine, and the stools, of the two Children.— In the fqst place the pulse was quickened, the heat increased, and the urine high coloured, and the stools destitute of their usual quantity of bile ; whilst the second had every appearance that indicated high health. He then reversed the experiment: to the first-mentioned Child he gave the Orange, and to the other the Wine. The effects followed as before :—a striking and demonstrative proof of the pernicious effects of vinous liquors on the constitution of children in full health. How mistaken are those Parents who give Wine even to young Children! It has as violent an effect upon their tender susceptible stomachs as the like quantity of Spirits of W ine would have on a grown person. Those disorderly days, when it was supposed that the Host who did not oblige his Guest to “ put an Enemy into his mouth to steal away his Senses,” neglected the first Duty of hos- pitality, are gone by. The barbarous customTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 43 of people destroying their own health by drink- ing that of others, has happily declined, and its declension affords one of the few examples in which Fashion is the friend of Virtue. It is easier to induce people to follow than to set an Example—however good it may be both for themselves and others, most men have a silly squeamishness about proposing an ad- journment from the Dinner Table. The Host, fearing that his Guest may take it for a token that he loves his Wine better than his friends, is obliged to feign an unwillingness to leave the Bottle, and, as Sponge says—“ In good truth, ’tis impossible, nay, I say it is impudent, to contradict any Gentleman at his own Table; the President is always the wisest man in the party.” “ Be of your Patron’s mind, whate’er lie says ; Sleep very much, think little, and talk less ; Mind neither good nor bad, nor right nor wrong, But eat your Pudding, Fool, and hold your tongue.” Mat. Piuon. Therefore his friends, unless a special com- mission be given to them for that purpose, feel unwilling to break the gay circle of convi- viality, and are individually shy of asking for what almost every one wishes.44 the housekeeper’s oracle. A prudent Host, who is not in the humour to submit to an attack from “ Staunch Topers,” “ who love to keep it up ” as Eons Vivants, whose favourite song is ever “ Fly not yet,” will engage some sober friends to fight on his side, and at a certain hour to vote for “ no more Wine,” and bravely demand “ Tea/’ and will select his Company with as much care as a Chemist composes a neutral Salt, judiciously providing quite as large a proportion of Alkali (Tea Men) as he has of Acid (Wine Men). To adjust the balance of power at the Court of Bacchus, occasionally requires as much address as sagacious Politicians say is sometimes re- quisite to direct the affairs of other Courts. To make The Summons of the Tea Table serve as an effective ejectment to the Dinner Table, let it be announced as a special invitation from the Lady of the House. It may be, for example, “ Mrs. Souchong requests the pleasure of your Company to the Drawing Room.” This is an irresistible Mandamus — “ Though Bacchus may boast of his care-killing Bowl, And Folly in thought-drowning revels delight, Such worship soon loses its charms for the Soul, When softer devotions our senses invite.” Captain Morris.45 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Aim at the happy mean—you may be liberal without being lavish, and be prudent without being penurious. On Prudence. To breathe is not life ; but to cast away care, That wrinkles the forehead, and whitens the hair. A modest attention to money is just; Too great, of the mind is the canker and rust: Thus, careful of fortune, nor less of your health, Enjoy the glad gifts of existence and wealth ; ’Tis thus that the wise Man his maxims pursues, And sketches in hope what his reason would choose. Who does not perfectly understand, that a Parade of useless Plate, &c. and a profusion of curious Viands and costly Wines, are not set out so much to entertain the Guests, as to afford an ostentatious Evidence of the Opu- lence, Pride, and Vanity of the Host? “ Here beggar pride defrauds his daily cheer, To boast one splendid banquet once a year.” “ No reality—all Formality— All they want is, to show off their Plate.” That splendour and elegance are not de- sirable, I am not so abstracted from life as to46 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. inculcate; but if we inquire closely into the reasons for which they are esteemed, we shall find them valued principally as evidences of Wealth. Nothing, therefore, can shew greater depravity than to delight in the appearance when the reality is wanting; or voluntarily to become Poor, that strangers may for a time imagine us to be rich— “ As if this hour life’s pageant scene should close, Enjoy the good propitious Fate bestows; As if secure of each revolving year, Your wealth, though great, with caution learn to spare: Happy is he who plants a guardian fence Betwixt vile penury and mad expense.” Plenty of good food, plainly but properly prepared, is a feast for an Emperor. But if you have only one Dish, take care that be one which most people like. To Folk who desire more, Dr. Hunter dedicated his Cookery Book, i. e. To those Gentlemen who freely give two Guineas for a Dinner at a Tavern, when they might have a more wholesome one at home for 10s. Gentle Reader, don’t you think that every good HousevnJ'e would rather desire the room of such persons than their company ?47 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. That maxim of a profligate Poet has piloted thousands to poverty— “ Keep up appearances : there lies the test, The world will give you credit for the rest.” “ To me for ever be that Guest unknown, Who, measuring my Expenses by his own, Remarks the difference with a scornful leer, And slights my humble house and homely cheer.” Gifford’s Translation of the 11 th Satire of Juvenal.48 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. MADE DISHES. Excepting those substantial and interesting preparations which are set down in the “ Cook’s Oracle,” and which are intended for an Invi- gorating Meal,— Made Dishes are a useless expense and trouble, for they are not even tasted one time in ten, if your plain Cookery is received with applause. However, I must tell my young Housekeepers that those Dishes are not quite such formidable performances as people in general imagine. One of the- first questions commonly put to a Cook who comes after a place is, “ Do you understand how to make Made Dishes?” Now, a person who can Roast, Fry, and Boil well, cannot fail in making what are called Made Dishes. For what are they ; but Roasts, Fries, and Boils, with sauce poured over them? Nothing is more ridiculous — nothing can be more ruinous to real Comforts, than the vulgar custom of setting out a Table with a parade of profusion, unsuited not only to the circum- stances of the Host, but to the number of the Guests.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 49 Nothing can be more fatal to True Hos- pitality, which, I think, means the frequency with which we give our friends a hearty wel- come, than the multiplicity of Dishes which Luxury has made fashionable at the Tables of the Great, the Wealthy, and the Ostentatious, who are not seldom any thing but great or wealthy. The great evil of the advanced state of society in which we live, is, that moderate enjoyments are too little valued, and things only of the highest relish will please our pam- pered and vitiated appetites. Amusement has changed into dissipation, Convenience into Luxury, Elegance to Splendour; Ideas of opu- lence have passed all bounds of modest compu- tation, and the wealth of a province is scarcely enough for a London Counting-house—• “ Quos non Oriens, non Occidens satiaverit.” Such prodigious preparation, (as Dominie Sampson would say), instead of being a com- pliment to our guests, is really nothing better than a direct offence ; — is it not a tacit insi- nuation that you think it absolutely necessary to bribe the depravity of their palates, when you desire the pleasure of their Company ? n50 the housekeeper’s oracle. that you think so lightly of them, as to sup- pose that the savoury Sauces on your Table, are a more inviting attraction than sensible Society around it! and that an honest man is to be caught by a slice of Mutton, as easily as a hungry Mouse is with a bit of Cheese ? When twice as much cooking is undertaken as there are Servants, or conveniences in the Kitchen to prepare it properly — Dishes must be dressed long before the Dinner hour, and stand by spoiling; your Cook must compro- mise her credit, and your Guests get indi- gestion ! Now is this not the silliest thing imaginable, that awhole family should, for a foolish Fashion, submit to suffer fatigue for several days before, and famine for several days after a Dinner Party, for the strange fancy of contriving a parcel of cloying combustibles which they know will most likely make their Company sick ! for, as Addison says, “ when I behold a Fashionable Table set out in all its magnifi- cence, I fancy that I see Gouts and Dropsies, Fevers and Lethargies, with innumerable other distempers, lying in ambuscade among the Dishes.”—Spectator, No. 195.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 51 Instead of, “ Do let me send you some more of this Mock Turtle” — “Another Patty” — “ Sir, some of this Trifle,” “ I must insist upon your trying' this nice Melon The language of hospitality should rather run thus:— “ Shall I send you a fit of the Cholic, Sir?” “ Pray let me have the pleasure of giving you a Pain in your Stomach.” “ Sir, let me help you to a little gentle bilious Head-Ache.” “ Ma’am, you surely cannot refuse a touch of Inflammation in the Bowels.” If you feed on rich sauces, drink deep of strong wine, In the morn go to bed, and not till night dine; And the order of Nature thus turn topsy turvy ! You’ll quickly contract Palsy, Jaundice, and Scurvy ! !! Dr. Kitchiner’s “ Forty Peristaltic Per- suaders,” or Pills against Indigestion and Obstruction— Take Turkey Rhubarb, finely powdered, 2 drachms; Syrup (by weight) 1 drachm ; Oil of Carraway, 10 drops, made into Pills; each of the Pills will contain 8 grains of Rhu-52 the housekeeper’s oracle. barb: of these from two to half a dozen make a dose, ac- cording to the constitution and intent of the patient. They impede neither business nor pleasure, and may be taken at any time on an empty stomach, but with most advantage half an hour previous to breakfast. They are parti- cularly calculated for delicate habits, male or female. I have sometimes thought to draw up A Memorial in the behalf of Supper against Dinner—setting forth, that the said Dinner has made several unjustifiable encroachments on the said Supper, and entered very far upon his Frontiers; indeed, that he has banished him entirely out of several Families, and in all has driven him from his head-quarters, and forced him to make his retreat into the hours of Midnight; and, in short, that he is now in danger of losing his character for ever, by being compelled in self-defence to make similar unreasonable encroachments upon the territo- ries of his ancient Neighbour and old friend. Breakfast. “ The Gentleman who dines the latest, Is, in our Street, esteemed the greatest;53 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. But surely, greater than them all, Is he who never dines* at all.” Some foolish Children of the largest growth, who give dinners at seven or eight o’clock, affect to wonder that those who keep rational hours, and “ live a little like other people,” object to their ridiculous hours : — but which is most unreasonable, for you to require * A Wag, on being told it was the Fashion to dine later and later every day, said, “ he supposed it would end at last in not dining till to-morrow !” The folly of Procrastination has even altered the time of Divine Worship, and the ancient hour of humbling ourselves before our God, is made subservient to the caprices of Fashion. We strain at a Gnat and swallow a Camel; and in this in- stance the Publican’s Houses are kept open, while we deny ourselves other necessaries of Life out of a scruple of Con- science. For example: in extreme hot weather, when Meat will not keep from Saturday to Monday, we throw, or cause to be thrown away, vast quantities of tainted Meat, and have generally stinking Dinners, because the Butchers dare not sell a joint of Meat on a Sunday Morning. ' Now, though I would not have the Sabbath so far violated as to have it made a Market-day, yet rather than abuse God’s mercies by throwing away Creatures given for our use, nay, for our health and cleanliness’ sake, I would have the same Indulgence in extreme Hot Weather, as there is for Milk and Mackerel, that is to say, that Meat might be killed in the cool of the Morning, at one or two o’clock, and sold till ten, and no longer.54 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. me to visit you at hours which are not only disagreeable to my Habit, but destructive to my Health ; or for Me to refuse to come except at such hours as are not only agreeable to me, but which would be greatly advantageous to your Comfort and Health ? However, there is no rule without an ex- ception. If a Dinner-party is given, merely to shew how much Plate, and how many different kinds of Wine the giver of it has, and for the purpose of gormandizing and swilling from the hour the Guests sit down till they go away, and then— “ Behold the monstrous human Beast, Wallowing in th’ excessive Feast; No more his Maker’s Image found, But self-degraded to a Swine.” The later such Banquets begin the better. Why prepare for eight or ten Friends, more than sufficient Food for twenty or thirty ? “ Enough is as good as a Feast;” ’tis better. Gentle Reader, ’tis better, it is indeed — unless it is better to be surfeited than it is to be satisfied. A prudent Provider, who sensibly takes measure of the StoJiiachic, instead of the Ocular55 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Appetites of his Guests, may entertain twice as many, twice as well, and twice as often. It is your silly infecting farrago of Made Dishes, and preparations which are provided to pamper satiated Appetite, and to feed the Eyes of superannuated Epicures, that over- come the Stomach, and paralyse the Digestion of those who eat them, and empty the Pockets of those who provide them. Superfluity and difficulty begin together. To dress food for the Stomach is easy enough; great art and expense are only requisite to tickle the Palate when the Stomach is satisfied. When you invite Company that you have any real regard for, and it will actually add to your Happiness to see them as Hilarious as possible, endeavour to treat them exactly after the same manner as they treat themselves when at Home. Pope relates the following Anecdote of Swift:—“ Dr. Swift has an odd blunt way, that is mistaken by Strangers for ill breeding — ’tis so odd that there is no describing it but by facts :— One evening, Gay and I went to see him: you know how intimately we were all ac-56 the housekeeper’s oracle. quainted. On our coming in, — ‘ Hey day, Gentlemen (says the Doctor), what’s the mean- ing of this visit ? How came you to leave the great Lords that, you are so fond of, to come hither to see a poor Dean? !’—1 Because we would rather see you than any of them.’— ‘ Ay, any one that did not know so well as I do, might believe you. But since you are come, I must get some Supper for you, I suppose.’ — ‘ No, Doctor, we have supped already.’—‘Supped already? that’s impos- sible ! why, ’tis not eight o’clock yet. That’s very strange; but if you had not supped, I must have got something for you. Let me see, what should I have had ? ■—A couple of Lobsters; ay, that would have done; two shil- lings—tarts a shilling: but you will drink a glass of wine with me, though you supped so much before your usual time only to spare my pocket?’—‘ No, we had rather talk with you than drink with you.’ — ‘ But if you had supped with me, as in all reason you ought to have done, you must then have drank with me—a bottle of Wine, two shillings—two and two are four, and one are five, just two and sixpence a piece. There, Pope, there’s Half- a-Crown for you, and there is another for you,57 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Sir; for I wont save any thing by you, I am determined V “ This was all said and done with his usual seriousness on such occasions; and in spite of every thing we could say to the contrary, he actually obliged us to take the money.” I do not mean you should give Pomposo such a Dinner as Pomposo may choose to give you at a formal Birth-day Banquet, when all the best China comes out of the Cupboard! and all the family Plate is produced !! and all their extravagant Appurtenances are ex- hibited ! ! ! — For, if by the assistance of the China and Sheffield Plate Warehouses, (and your own inconsiderate folly in wasting your Independence to procure it,) you are even en- abled to outshine his Gorgeous Paraphernalia, Nobody cares about it, except those silly People who EAT with their EYE instead of their MOUTH !— “ Who by the Fashion, not the Taste, approve all, As Geese will sit on Chalk, if ’tis but oval.” Indeed, many folks are more vexed than pleased if they are outshone by their Neigh- bours, if they are only merely out-plated, or out-dished:—any affectation of opulence excites u 258 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Envy in Inferiors, and Hatred in Equals and Superiors. “ Rather be happy than be thought rich.” If you really wish to sheiv your love and respect for your old and real Friends, invite them to come at the same hour they dine when at home. A facetious French Author observes, that the following rule will enable you easily enough to distinguish your Real from your Trencher friends ; or, as the droll phrase of the Parisian Wag has been translated, “ Pounders,” be- cause such gentlefolk never wear out your knocker, unless you send a polite invitation, begging of them to be so good as to do you the favour to come and partake of a good Dinner, which my French Friend reckons can- not be given at Paris, a la mode d’Amphitrion magnifique, for less than a Napoleon (Anglice a Pound) per Mouth : we have heard such-like Guests very appropriately termed “ GUINEA PIGS.” However, this maxim appears to be more exactly calculated for the meridian of Paris, than it is for the latitude of London. An industrious Englishman is too rationallyTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 59 employed to waste the precious hours of the morning in ceremonious visiting. From one end of the Metropolis to the other, is now a reasonable day’s Journey. From one side of it to the other is a long way to travel on an uncertainty; we do not say “ it is too far to go to see a friend,” but it is too far to go and not see a friend. It is agreed that a General Invitation is no Invitation at all; accordingly we seldom meet but by an especial summons. The hospitable Colonel Bosville ordered his dinner to be placed on the Table exactly two minutes before five o’clock, and no guest was admitted after that hour; he was such a deter- mined supporter of punctuality, that when his clock struck five, his Porter locked the Street Door, and laid the Key at the head of the Dinner Table — the time kept by the Clock in the Kitchen, the Parlour, the Drawing-room, and the Watch of the Master, were minutely the same; that the Dinner was ready, was not announced to the Guests in the usual way, but when the Clocks struck, this superlative time-keeper himself declared to his Guests “ The Dinner waits.” His first Covenant with his Cook was, that60 the housekeeper’s oracle. the first time she was not punctual, would be the last she would be under his patronage. However willing your “ Queen of the Kit- chen” may be to ensure her master’s favour and her own praise, by the punctuality of her performance, still, if when she has finished her roasts and boils, &c. &c., she is frequently being told, that the Dinner must be kept back, it can be no matter of surprise if this irregular and disorderly manner of proceeding soon at- taches itself to her—• “ Bad Masters make bad Servants.” Many silly people order the dinner not to be dished up till the last visiter (perhaps half or three quarters of an hour after the stated time) arrives; yet, for all that, poor Cookey’s dishes are expected to look as beautiful and as pretty as if just finished and sent from the fire. It is morally impossible for any Cook to have any chance of giving you any Dinner fit to be eaten, unless you tell her to send it up when it is ready, no matter whether every or any person is present, and not to wait one moment beyond the time. The Money given to the Footman at Dinner- parties should be divided between him and the61 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Cook: only those object to their Servants re- ceiving these twelve-penny presents who never give a Dinner to others — such get a bellyful of meat and a skin full of wine cheap enough at a shilling. As a Certificate of your intention to be punctual, you may send your friends a similar billet to the following :— My dear Sir, The Honour of your Company is requested to dine with on Jn/day, 1828. The favour of a positive answer is requested, or the proffered Plate will be appropriated as it was when— Sir Ill-bred Ignorance returned the following answer:—“ I shall be quite happy to come if I possibly can.” Such words the Committee voted were equivalent to these—I’ll come, if in the mean time I am not invited to a party that I like better. The Committee dine with Bosvillian punc- tuality, and have directed, that as soon as the first Course is served, the Table shall be gar- nished with the Key of the Street Door. Mem. — It is particularly requested by the Committee, when any thing may be offered to you which you do not like, that you will be so62 the housekeeper’s oracle. good as to decline it with your sweetest smile, and a gentle “ No, I thank you.”—To give any reason why you refuse it, as “ It is so hot,” or “ so cold,” or “ too strong,” or “ too weak,” &c., the Committee pronounce to be an act of bar- barous impoliteness!—If you do not like it yourself, do not set other people against it.— Indeed, all discussion on the peculiarities of any specimen before its merits have been de- creed by vote, inevitably creates some preju- dice for or against it, which extremely embar- rasses the minds of the Jury of Taste, and may mislead them in their verdict.* At the last General Meeting, it was unani- mously resolved, that 1st, “ An Invitation to ETA BETA PI must be answered in writing, as soon as pos- * When you dine at home, order what you please. He who does not make his family comfortable, will himself not be happy at home ; and he who is not happy at home, will not be happy elsewhere. When you dine out, be pleased, (or pretend to be,) and praise whatever is ordered : and when you lay your hand on the knocker of your friend’s Door, tune your mind to Con- tent and Cheerfulness. “ The greatest King and Conqueror is he Who Lord of his own Appetites can be.”THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 63 sible after it is received, within twenty-four hours at latest,” reckoning from that in which it is dated; otherwise the Secretary will have the profound regret to feel that the Invitation has been definitively declined. 2dly, The Secretary having represented that the perfection of several of the preparations is so exquisitely evanescent, that the delay of One Minute after their arrival at the Meridian of Concoction, will render them no longer worthy of Men of taste, — therefore, to ensure the punctual attendance of those illustrious Gas- trophilists, who, on grand occasions, are invited to join this high tribunal of taste, for their own pleasure and the benefit of their Country, it is irrevocably resolved, “ That the Janitor be ordered not to admit any Visiter, of whatever eminence of Appetite, after the hour which the Secretary shall have announced that the specimens are ready.” After such notice, one would suppose that only those imperfect beings who have, somehow or other, been born sans Brains, sans bowels, and sans every thing but mere legs and arms, will think of corning after the appointed hour,— but those who are too stupid to understand the importance of the regular performance of theTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 64 restorative process, as it relates to themselves, are seldom tolerably regardless how they destroy the enjoyftient of others — their want of the cream of 'politeness, arises from their lack of the milk of human kindness. What arguments can avail, if nature has not furnished your Auditor with either sense or senses to understand them? Your only defence against such Gentlefolk is to tell them plainly that you dine “ a la Bosville.” The crazy Creatures whom your eloquence cannot persuade to be punctual for their own comfort’s sake, it is your duty to bar from destroying the comfort of your other Guests :— Let not the innocent suffer for the guilty ! A sensible old Gentleman, when he answered an invitation to dinner, plainly stated, in a Not a Bene, something to the following effect:— Nota Bene.—I conclude you mean what you say, and that the dinner will be on the table at five o’clock, when I shall arrive at your door;— if the dinner be on the table, I shall come in and partake of it—if it is not —I shall take the liberty of returning home. Can any thing be more insulting to those who have come at the time you requested, than to keep a dozen of such good people waiting, andTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 65 have your Dinner spoiled into the bargain, because some stupid Brute, who happens to have more money or less wit than the rest of your guests, chooses to rudely neglect coming at the appointed hour. This is one of the impertinent affectations of opulent upstarts, and commercial Mushrooms, which no man of sense or spirit will ever sub- mit to;— it is a direct and unpardonable insult to all the other Visiters who are arrived. Moreover, you have issued apromissory Note, undertaking to dine at a certain hour; and if you do not, your word shall thenceforth be considered as unworthy of credit; nor shall your promise pass current in future on any subject whatever. The Million are strangely ignorant of the vital importance of punctuality in the interest- ing affairs of the Mouth. People who appear to be orderly and con- scientious about other matters, yet make no scruple of habitually telling lies respecting the time of their dining; and those who are in other business polite and punctual enough, are in this rude and careless. A very common excuse set up by your furious Economists for being too late is, “ There was66 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. not a Coach to be found.”—Uncalculatino- and O improvident selfish Idiot, not to send for one till the very last moment; you save nothing by it, and spoil your friend’s Dinner, in order to save yourself sixpence. — Suppose you have a mile and a half to go, the fare is one shilling and sixpence; — you will be about eighteen minutes going that distance, and for that sum you may detain the Coach forty-four minutes. Always call a Coach a quarter of an hour before you want it — i. e. if you do not wish to be too late. Others are mighty fond of conferring the silly sixpenny civility of taking up every person they know who is bound to the same house: such good kind of folk are generally too late. Boileau, the French satirist, has a shrewd observation on this subject: — “ I have always been punctual at the dinner hoursays the Bard, “ for I knew that all those whom I kept waiting at that provoking interval, would em- ploy those unpleasant moments to sum up all my faults—Boileau is indeed a Man of Ge- nius— a very honest Man ; — but that dilatory and procrastinating way he has got into would mar the virtues of an Angel.” There are some who seldom keep an Appoint-67 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. ment. — They may depend upon it that they seldom “ scape without whipping.” Such an offence inevitably excites those murmurs which are sure to drop from the best-regulated Tongue, when “ Every Mari’s Master,” the Stomach, is empty, and impatient to be filled. Moreover, the Man who makes an Appoint- ment with his Stomach and does not keep it, disappoints his Best Friend. The most amiable Animals, when hungry, become ill-tempered ; — our best friends employ the time they are kept waiting in recollecting and repeating any real faults we have, and attributing to us a thousand imaginary ones. Ill-bred selfish Beings, who will wilfully indulge their own caprice, and are entirely regardless how they wound the feelings of others — if they possess entertaining or useful talents, may now and then meet with a knave who may occasionally endure them as conve- nient Tools; — but deceive themselves sadly, if possessing all the Wit in the World, they are so silly as to suppose it can serve as a sub- stitute for unworthiness; and vainly imagine that they can ever be esteemed as Friends. Manners make the Man. Good Manners have often made the Fortune68 the housekeeper’s oracle. of many, who have had nothing else to recom- mend them.—III Manners have as often marred the hopes of those who have had every thing else to advance them. Provide for your friends, in the greatest pos- sible perfection, those things which constitute their comfort, and are the every day and con- tinual zest of their own Fire-side.'—However people may pretend to admire the variety, rarity, and costliness, of what I term an Eye Dinner, those things which they actually like to eat and drink, and really love and will love you for providing for them, are seldom either dear or difficult to procure; such attentions will be received as the most unequivocal demon- strations of your respect that you can possibly produce. Persons who are ambitious of acquiring the character of being Discreet Dinner- givers, keep a register of the peculiarities of the Palate, and capacity of the Appetite of their respective Guests, something after the manner persons are described in a Passport, against the name in various columns, writing the quality and quantity of their favourite Dishes and Drinks, &c. thus — Beef or Veal, Port or Claret, Fish or Fowl, Brandy or Beer, &c.69 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. While Hospitality prompts you to consider how your friends can be best entertained accord- ing to their several fancies, let Prudence gently compel you to consider also the condition of your own circumstances. — If you spend ten pounds upon a Dinner, at which every one of your friends knows that five pounds would have been as much as your finances will pro- perly permit; instead of increasing the plea- sure of the Banquet, to see you squander your Independence with such useless and ruinous profusion, is enough to make them “ Melancholy even in the midst of Mirth.” “ A necessitous Man who gives large Din- ners, pays large sums to be laughed at.” — Lacon, p. 153. Don’t you think that those who have half a grain of real respect for you, will regret instead of rejoice? — “ Wilful Waste makes woful Want! ! !” How many worthy and sensible Mistresses of families—(generous Hearts! whose greatest enjoyment is to make their friends happy at any price, save that of exhausting those funds which their duty and affection as parents impe- ratively impel them to preserve for ensuringTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 70 the independence and comfort of their children) — have I heard lament this folly — wasting health and destroying fortune ; but, strange to say, such is the infatuation of Fashion, and the force of example, that few have the courage to resist it.—However, “ It is a long lane that has no turningLet us hope that the time is not distant when it will be as much the Fashion to be economical, as it has been to be extra- vagant. If you will venture to set an example of moderation, you may depend upon it that all the sensible part of your circle of society, all those who really esteem you, will not only cordially thank you, but will immediately, and gladly follow it. “ Never mind what Mrs. Grundy says.” “ Come, with native Lustre shine, Moderation, Grace divine, Whom the wise God of Nature gave, Mad Mortals from themselves to save; Keep, as of old, the middle way, Nor idly sad, nor madly gay; But still the same in look and gait. Easy, cheerful, and sedate.” These words are beautifully set by Handel in L’Allegro il Penseroso.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 71 “ Such is the increasing progress of Luxury, and so baneful its effects, that every individual is bound to exert himself to check and repress it, instead of endeavouring to surpass his Neighbours in splendid and sumptuous enter- tainments, late Hours, and the other inordinate extravagances of vanity and fashion. “ If the Master of a Family bears in mind and applies the Christian principles of Temperance and Moderation, he will keep down all matters of this nature to the lowest point which the man- ners of the times, and his own station in life, will reasonably allow.” “ With established Customs, as far as they are neither morally wrong in themselves, nor flagrantly prejudicial in their effects, it becomes him in some reasonable measure to comply, that he may not needlessly acquire the cha- racter of cynical moroseness, absent affectation, or penurious covetousness; and thus by losing the esteem and good opinion of others, diminish his power of doing good. “ Not a moderate and unostentatious confor- mity to those customs and habits, or a reason- able indulgence in those comforts which are become almost necessary in the eyes of the world to the wealthy, is here reproved — Pride72 the housekeeper’s oracle. — Prodigality, and Intemperance, only are censured.” — Gisborne’s Enquiry, Vol. ii. p. 395, &c. “ Conform to common custom, but not to com- mon folly.” “ Let the Pretensions of Custom be weighed in the scales of Reason.” In obedience to the commands of several amiable Housewives, the Editor has here in- serted their invitation to rational Economy, and recommends to his readers the following maxims:— “ Nourishment is the main end of Eating- and “ A hearty Welcome is the Best Sauce.” We can only anticipate the future, by con- cluding what is probable from what is past. Only those who have properly performed the first duty of Life, can, we reasonably presume, fulfil the second. “ Dutiful Daughters make beautiful Wives.” Only those who have been dutiful Sons and Daughters, and kind Brothers and Sisters, can, we naturally hope, be affectionate Husbands and Wives, or perform the third, of being pro- vident Fathers and tender Mothers — or the73 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. fourth, and prove firm Friends and improving Companions. “ What can we reason but from what we know ?” Only among kindred minds, who have given these Sureties, the only sureties of their wor- thiness— will the virtuous seek Society, or the wise hope to find friends. To such benevolent beings, “ Whom humble joys and homefelt quiet please, Successive Study, Exercise, and Ease,” To whom “ Home’s Home, be it ever so homely,” the strongest inducement to forego the comforts of their own fireside, is the attractive charm of agreeable and instructive Society, and the opportunity of cultivating connexions which may augment the interest and increase the enjoyment of their journey through life.74 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. CHAPTER III. ON CARVING. Observe your Guests — “ Study their Genius, Caprices, Gout; They, in return, may haply study you : Some wish a Pinion, some prefer a Leg, Some for a Merry-thought or Sidesbone beg The wings of Fowls, then slices of the round, The trail of Woodcock, of Codfish the sound. Let strict impartiality preside — Nor grace, nor favour, nor affection guide.” From the Banquet. “ ‘ Have you learned to carve?’ for it is ridi- culous not to carve well. “ A man who tells you gravely that he can- not carve, may as well tell you that he cannot feed himself; it is both as necessary and as easy.”—Lord Chesterfield’s 21 \th Letter. Next to giving a good dinner, is treating our friends with hospitality and attention, and this attention is what young people have to learn. Experience will teach them in time, but till75 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. they acquire it, they will appear ungraceful and awkward. Although the Art of Carving is one of the most necessary accomplishments of a Gentle- man, it is little known but to those who have long; been accustomed to it — a more useful or acceptable present cannot be offered to the public than to lay before them a book calcu- lated to teach the rising generation how to acquit themselves amiably in this material part of the duties of the table. Young people seldom study this branch of the Philosophy of the Banquet, beyond the suggestions of their own whims and caprices; and cut up things not only carelessly, but wastefully, until they learn the pleasure of paying Butchers’ and Poulterers’ Bills on their own account. Young Housekeepers, unaccustomed to carv- ing, will, with the help of the following In- structions, soon be enabled to carve with ease and elegance ; taking care also to observe, as occasion may offer, the manner in which a skilful Operator sets about his task, when a Joint or Fowl is placed before him. It has been said, that you may judge of aTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 76 person’s character by his Hand-writing — you may judge of his Conscience by his Carving. Fair Carving is much more estimable evi- dence of good nature than fair writing : let me see how a Gentleman carves at another person’s Table, especially how he helps himself, and I will presently tell you how far he is of Pope’s opinion, that “ True self-love and social are the same.” The selfish appetites never exhibit themselves in a more unmasked and more disgusting; man- ner than in the use they excite a man to make of his knife and fork in carving for himself, especially when not at his own cost. Some keen observer of human nature has said, “ Would you know a man’s real dispo- sition, ask him to dinner, and give him plenty to drink.” “ The Vizor of Life is pulled off by the Bowl, And the face of a Drunkard exhibits his soul; Then beware, all who are in rascality sunk, You’ll be detected, if once you get drunk.” C. Diudin’s Ballad, “ The Virtue of Drunkenness.” “ The Oracle” says, “ invite the GentlemanTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 77 to Dinner, certainly, and set him to carving.” The Gentleman who wishes to ensure a hearty welcome, and frequent invitations to the Board of Hospitality, may calculate with Cockerial correctness, that “ the easier he appears to be pleased, the oftener he will be invited.” In- stead of unblushingly demanding of the fair Hostess, that the prime “ tit-bit of every dish be put on his plate, he must receive, (if not with pleasure or even content,) with the live- liest expressions of thankfulness, whatever is presented to him—and let him not forget to praise the Cook (no matter whether he be pleased with her performance or not), and the same shall be reckoned unto him even as praise to the Mistress.” 11 H he does not like his fare, he may con- sole himself with the reflection, that he need not expose his mouth to the like mortification again. Mercy to the feelings of the Mistress of the Mansion, will forbid his then appearing otherwise than absolutely delighted with it— notwithstanding it may be his extreme anti- pathy. If he like it ever so little, he will find occasion to congratulate himself on the advan- tage his digestive organs will derive from his making a moderate Dinner — and consolationTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 78 from contemplating the double relish he is creating for the following meal, and anticipating the rare and delicious zest of (that best sauce) good Appetite, and an unrestrained indulgence of his gourmandizing fancies at the Chop-house he frequents.” The following Extract from that rare Book, Giles Rose’s School for the Officers of the Mouth, 16mo. 1684, shews that the Art of Carving was a much more elaborate affair for- merly than it is at present. Le Grand Escuyer Tranchant, or the Great Master Carver. “ The exercise of a Master Carver is more noble and commendable, it may be, than every one will imagine; for suppose that life to be the foundation of all that is done in the world, this life is not to be sustained without maintaining our natural heat by eating and drinking.” Never intrust a Cook Teaser with the im- portant office of Carver, or place him within reach of any principal Dish. I shall never forget the following exhibition of a selfish spoiled child: — the first Dish that Master Johnny mangled, was three Mackerel; he cut off the upper side of each fish: — next came a79 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. couple of Fowls; in taking off the wings of which the young Gentleman so hideously hacked and miserably mangled every other part, that when they were brought for luncheon the following day, they appeared as if just removed from a conclave of Dainty Cats, rather than having been carved by a rational Creature. When the Master of the family, who was ex- tremely near-sighted, sat down to his Nooning, in expectation of enjoying the agreeable amuse- ment of having a “ Nice bit of Chicken For his own private picking,” no sooner had he put on his Specs, and begun to focus his Fowl, than he suddenly started up, tang for the Cook, and after having voci- lerated at her carelessness, and lectured her for being so extremely perfunctory and disor- derly in not keeping the Cat out of the Cup- board, till his Appetite for scolding was pretty well satisfied, he paused for her apology: the Guardian Genius of the Pantry, to his extreme astonishment, informed him, that his suspicions concerning the hideous appearance which had so shocked him, was erroneous ; such unsightly80 the housekeeper’s oracle. havoc was not occasioned by the epicurism of a ^/crar-legged brute, and that the Fowls were exactly in the same state they came from the Table, and that young Master Johnny had cut them up himself. Those in the parlour should recollect the importance of setting a good example to their friends at the Second Table. If they cut bread, meat, cheese, &c. fairly, it will go twice as far as if hacked and mangled by some sensualists, who appear to have less consideration for their domestics than a good Sportsman for his Dogs. A prudent Carver will distribute the dainties he is serving out in equal division, and regulate his helps by the proportion his dish bears to the number it is to be divided amongst, and considering the quantum of appetite the several guests are presumed to possess. If you have a Bird, or other delicacy at Table, which cannot be apportioned out to all as you wish, when cut up, let it be handed round by a Servant—Modesty will then prompt the Guests to take but a small portion, and such as perhaps could not be offered to them without disrespect.81 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Those Chop-house Cormorants who “ Critique your wine, and analyse your meat, Yet on plain pudding deign at home to eat,” are generally tremendously officious in serving out the loaves and fishes of other people — for, under the notion of appearing exquisitely amiable, and killingly agreeable to the Guests, they are ever on the watch to distribute them- selves the dainties * which it is the peculiar part of the Master and Mistress to serve out, and is to them the most pleasant part of the business of the Banquet — the pleasure of help- ing their friends is the gratification which is their reward for the trouble they have had in preparing the Feast: such Gentry are the terror of all good Housewives—to obtain their favourite cut they will so unmercifully mangle your joints, that a1 Lady’s dainty Lap-dog would hardly get a meal from them afterwards ; but which, if managed by the considerative hands of an old Housekeeper, would furnish a decent Dinner for a large Family. Fhe Man of Manners picks not the best, but * He who greedily grapples for the prime parts, exhibits indubitable evidence that he came for that purpose. E 282 the housekeeper’s ORACLE. rather takes the worst out of the dish, and gets of every thing (unless it be forced upon him) always the most indifferent fare by this civility, the best remains for others; which being a compliment to all that are present, every body will be pleased with it; the more they love themselves, the more they are forced to ap- prove of his behaviour, and gratitude stepping in, they are obliged, almost whether they will or not, to think favourably of him. After this manner it is that the well-bred man insinuates himself in the esteem of all the companies he comes in; and if he gets nothing else by it, the pleasure he receives in reflecting on the applause which he knows is secretly given him, is to a proud man more than equi- valent for his former self-denial, and overpays self-love, with interest, the loss it sustained in his complaisance to others. If there are seven or eight apples, or peaches, among people of ceremony, that are pretty nearly equal, he who is prevailed on to choose first, will take that which, if there be any con- siderable difference, a child would know to be the worst. This he does to insinuate, that he looks upon those he is with to be of superior merit; andTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 83 that there is not one whom he does not love better than himself. Custom and general prac- tice make this modish deceit familiar to us, without being shocked at the absurdity of it. “ If people had been used to speak from the sincerity of their hearts, and act according to the natural sentiments they felt within, till they were three or four and forty, it would be impossible for them to assist at this Comedy of Manners without either loud laughter or in- digestion ; and yet it is certain, that such a behaviour makes us more tolerable to one another, than we could be otherwise.”— The Plebeian Polished, or Rules for Persons who have unaccountably plunged themselves into Wealth, 8vo. p. 9. The Master or Mistress of the Table should appear to continue eating as long as any of the Company; and should, accordingly, help themselves in a way that will enable them to give this specimen of good manners without being particularly observed. “ It belongs to the Master and Mistress, and to no one else, to desire their Guests to eat, and, indeed. Carving belongs to nobody but the Master and Mistress, and those whom they think fit to desire, who are to deliver what theyTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 84 cut to the Master or Mistress, to be by them distributed at their pleasure.”— Rules of Civi- lity, 12mo. 1703, p. 88. A seat should be placed for the Carver suffi- ciently elevated to give him a command of the Table, as the act of rising to perform this duty is considered ungraceful. 1 have mentioned those parts of Joints, Poultry, &c. that are most esteemed, to afford an opportunity to the young Housekeeper of helping the Guests to their liking. LEG OF MUTTON. A Leg of boiled Mutton should be sent up to Table as here represented, i. e. lying upon its back.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 85 The shank, which is represented broken and bent for the convenience of putting into a less pot or vessel to boil, is not broken or bent in a roasted Joint; of course, it should be wound round (after it is taken up) with half a sheet of writing paper, and so sent to table, that the Carver in taking hold of it may not grease his hands. Accordingly, wdien he wishes to cut it on the under side, it being too heavy a joint to be easily turned with a fork, the shank should be held with the left hand, the Carver will then be enabled to turn it readily, and to cut it where he pleases with the right. A Leg of wether Mutton (which is by far the best flavoured) is known by the kernel, or round lump of fat just above the figures 1,5. When a Leg of Mutton is first cut, the Carver should turn the joint towards him as it here lies, the shank to the left hand; then holding it steady with his fork, should cut in deep on the fleshy part, quite to the bone, in the direction 1, 2, cutting right through the kernel of fat called the Pope’s Pye, which many are fond of. 1 he thickest and most juicy parts of the Leg, are from the line 1, 2, upwards to 5, but many prefer the part which is about the shank or knuckle, especially when boiled : this part is86 the housekeeper's oracle. by far the coarser. The fat of this Joint lies chiefly on the ridge 5, 5, and is to be cut in the direction 5, 6. There is but one Bone that can be readily separated from the Leg of Mutton, it is called the Cramp Bone, and is to be cut out by hold- ing the knuckle with the left hand, and cutting down at the point 4, then passing the knife under the Cramp Bone in the direction 4,3. SHOULDER OF MUTTON. It is here represented, and is usually laid on a dish, with the back or upper side upper- most. When not over roasted, it is a joint very full of eravv. much more so than a Leg, to which O J 7 it is by many preferred, and particularly as having many delicate and savoury parts in it.the housekeeper’s oracle. 87 The shank bone should be wound round with writing paper, as pointed out in the Leg, that the Carver may turn it according to his wish. The hollow part is attacked first, in the direction 1, 2, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The Gravy then runs fast into the dish, and the part cut, opens wide enough to take many slices from it readily. The fat which is full of kernels and best flavoured, lies on the outer edge, and is to be cut out in thin slices in the direction 5, 6. If many are at table, and the hollow part, cut in the direction 1, 2, is eaten, some delicate slices may be cut out on each side the ridge of the Blade-bone, in the direction 3, 4. The line between these two dotted lines, is the direction in which the Blade-bone lies.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 88 There are two parts full of gravy, and these many persons prefer to the upper side. One is a deep cut, in the direction 7, 8, accompanied with fat, and the other all lean, in a line from 9 to 10. The parts about the shank are coarse and dry. SADDLE OF MUTTON. Sometimes called a Chine of Mutton; the Saddle being two necks,—but as the two necks are now seldom sent to table together, they call the two Loins a Saddle. A Saddle of Mutton is a genteel and hand- some dish ; it consists of the two loins together, the back bone running down the middle, to the tail. — Of course, when it is to be carved, you must cut a long slice in either of the fleshyTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 89 parts on the side of the back-bone, in the direction 1, 2. If sent up with the tail, it may be readily divided into several pieces, by cutting between the joints of the tail, which are about the distance of an inch a part. HAUNCH OF VENISON. In carving a Haunch of Venison, first cut it across down to the bone, in the line 2, 3, 1, then turn the dish with the end 1, towards you, put in the point of the knife at 3, and cut it down as deep as you can in the direction 3, 4; thus you may take out as many slices as you please on the right or left. — As the fat lies deeper on the left, between 4 and 1, to those who are fond of fat, which most veni-90 the housekeeper's oracle. son-eaters are, the best-flavoured and fattest slices will be found on the right of the line 3, 4, supposing the end 1, turned towards you. Slices of Venison should not be cut thick, nor too thin, and plenty of gravy should be given with them; but as there is a particular sauce made for this meat, with red wine and currant jelly, your guest should be asked if he pleases to have any. The fat is very apt to get cool soon, and become hard and disagreeable to the palate; it should, therefore, always be served up on a water-dish; and if your company is large, and the joint is a long time on the table, a lamp should be sent for, and a few slices of fat and lean, with some of the gravy, are presently heated over it, either in a silver or pewter plate. This is always done at table, and the sight of the lamp never fails to give pleasure to your company.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 91 PIECE OF A SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Whether the whole sirloin, or part of it only, be sent to table, is immaterial with respect to carving it. The figure here represents part of the joint only, the whole being too large for families in general. It is drawn as standing up in the dish, in order to shew the inside, or under part; but when sent to table, it is always laid down, so as that the part described by the figure 3 lies close on the dish. The part 3, 4, then lies uppermost, and the line 1, 2, underneath. The meat on the upper side of the ribs is firmer, and of a closer texture than the fleshy part underneath, which is by far the most tender; of course some prefer one part, and some another. lo those who like the upper side, and would rather not have the first cut, or outside slice, that outside slice should be first cut off, quite92 the housekeeper’s oracle. down to the bone, in the direction 3, 4; — plenty of soft marrowy fat will be found under- neath the ribs. If a person wishes to have a slice underneath, the joint must be turned up, by taking hold of the end of the ribs with the left hand, and raising it, till it is in the position as here represented. One slice, or more, may now be cut in the direction of the line 1, 2, passing the knife down to the bone. The slices, whether on the upper or under side, should be cut thin, but not too much so. BRISKET OF BEEF. This is always boiled, and cut in the direc- tion 1, 2, quite down to the bone; the outside slice, which should be taken off pretty thick, ought never to be offered to any one.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 93 The fat cut from this slice is firm and gristly; a softer kind may be found underneath. BUTTOCK OF BEEF Is always boiled, and requires no print to point out how it should be carved. A thick slice should be cut off all round the buttock, that your friends may be helped to the juicy and prime part of it. The outside thus cut off, thin slices may then be cut from the top; but as it is a dish that is frequently brought to table cold a second day, it should always be cut handsome and even. When a slice all round would be considered too much, the half, or a third, may be given, with a thin slice of fat. On one side there is a part whiter than ordinary, by some called the white muscle. In Wiltshire, and the neighbouring counties, a buttock is generally divided, and this white part sold separate, as a delicacy; but it is by no means so, the meat being coarse and dry; whereas the darker-coloured parts, though apparently of a coarser grain, are of a looserTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 94 texture, more tender, fuller of gravy, and better flavoured ; and men of distinguishing palates ever prefer them. EDGE-BONE OF BEEF. As the outside suffers in its flavour, from the water in which it is boiled, the dish should be turned towards the Carver, as here repre- sented ; and a thick slice should be first cut off, the whole length of the joint from 1 to 2. The soft fat, resembling marrow, is on the back below the figure 4, and the firm fat should be cut in thin horizontal slices at the point 3.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 95 The upper part is certainly the handsomest in appearance, fullest of gravy, most tender, and encircled with fat; however, some prefer the under side, which is lean. The skewer at 1 should be drawn out before the meat is sent to table ; or if one is actually necessary, a silver one should be substituted. HALF A CALF’S HEAD BOILED. It should be cut along the cheek-bone, in the fleshy part, in the direction 3, 2, from which two or three handsome slices may be obtained. Part of the throat sweetbread is situated in the fleshy part at the end of theTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 96 jaw-bone; this is cut in the line 3, 4, and esteemed the best part in the head. The eye is considered by some as a very tit bit; and to take this from its socket, 1, the point of your carving knife should be forced down on one side of it, taking care, whilst cutting round, to keep the point of the blade slanting towards the inside, — by this means detaching the meat from the bone. The palate is found on the under side of the roof of the mouth ; by lifting the head up with your left hand, it may easily be separated from the bone. Some good meat may be cut from the under side, covering the under jaw, some fat pared from the ear. The brains and tongue should be served in a separate dish. The thick part of the tongue is the best. <THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 97 KNUCKLE OF VEAL Is always boiled, and esteemed for its fat, and tendons about the knuckle. A handsome slice can be carved only in the direction 1, 2. About this part is some deli- cate fat, — and cutting in the direction 4, 3, two bones will be divided, — between these, fine marrowy fat is to be found.98 the housekeeper’s oracle. BREAST OF VEAL ROASTED Should be first cut quite down, in the first line on the left, 4, 3; next cut across, in the direction 1, 3, from 3 to the last 1 on the left, taking care to divide the gristles from the rib-bones. The gristly part being divided into parts, in the direction 1, 2, may be offered to those who prefer it: — (in a breast of Veal stewed, these are particularly tender and in- viting) : — the ribs are to be separated in the direction 4, 3 ; and, with a part of the breast, a slice of the sweetbread, 5, cut across the middle.99 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. HAM. A Ham should first be cut straight down cutting four or five slices in the direction 1,2; then put your knife in and detach them from the bottom, and they will come out neatly and nicely. — Some do not cut a Ham till it is cold; considering that by this means the gravy is preserved in the meat, and that it conse- i quently eats much better. r100 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. TONGUE. 1 A Tongue is to be cut across straight through at 1,2. The most tender and juicy slices are about the middle, and it is comparatively much better eating when hot than it is when cold; — therefore, provident Housekeepers cut a Tongue at about two inches and a half from the tip. As the tip is the hardest and driest part, reserve it for those who are fond of an opportunity of proving they have a courageous appetite. LEG OF PORK. The method of carving a Leg of Mutton may be applied to a Leg of Pork, without any dif- ference;— see the treatment of that joint. It should be observed, that the close firm flesh about the knuckle is preferred by many, but in Mutton it is not.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 101 The Shank-bone, with a small portion of meat attached, is called a Spring; it is gene- rally boiled, and considered very good eating. A SPARE-RIB OF PORK. To carve a Spare-rib of Pork, cut out a slice from the fleshy part, in the line 1, 2;— many good cuts may be taken in this direction, with plenty of fat for those who prefer such strong meat. When the fleshy part is removed, it is easy to separate one bone from another, in the line 4, 2, 3, disjointing it at 3. The gravy of Pork being too strong for the gene- lality of people, it is mostly accompanied with Apple sauce.102 the housekeeper’s oracle. ROASTED PIG. After a Pig is roasted, the Cook usually cuts off the head previous to its being sent to table; the body is split down the back and served up — the dish garnished with the chaps and ears. The shoulder is cut off before any one is helped, — this is done by passing the knife under it, in a circular direction ; and the leg is separated in the same manner, in the dotted lines c, d, e. The triangular piece of the neck is the mostTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 103 delicate part in the Pig: this may be cut oft’. The ribs are the next best parts ; they may be divided. In a Pig three weeks old, the bones are little else than gristle, and may be cut through without difficulty : after the ribs, pieces are cut from the leg and shoulder. Some prefer an ear, others a chap, 8tc. HARE. A Hare is trussed and sent to table as here represented. A skewer is run through the two shoulders, (or wings, as called by some,) the point of which is seen at 4; another is passed through the mouth at 1 into the body.104 the housekeeper’s oracle. to keep the head in its place; and two others through the roots of the ears, in the direc- tion 2, 6, to keep the ears erect;—the skewers are seldom removed till the hare is cut up. It may be cut up two different ways,—the best and readiest way is to put in the knife at 7, and cut it through all the way down the rump on the side of the back-bone, in the line 7, 8. This done, cut it similarly on the other side, at an equal distance from the back-bone. The body is thus divided into three. You may now cut the back through the spine, or back-bone, into several pieces, more or less, in the lines 9, 10, the back being much the tenderest part, fullest of gravy, and the greatest delicacy. With a part of the back should be given a spoonful of pudding, with which the belly is stuffed, below the line 10. The legs being thus separated from the back- bone, they may be easily cut from the belly. The legs are the next in estimation ; but their meat is closer, firmer, and less juicy. The shoulders, or wings, must be cut off in the circular dotted line 5, 6, 7. Much blood generally settles in the shoulders, which many like, and, of course, prefer the shoulder to theTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 105 leg. The whole leg of a large Hare is too much to be given to any person at one time; it should, therefore, be divided 5 and the best part is the fleshy part of the thigh at 2, which should be cut off. Some like the head, brains, and that part ot the neck where the blood settles. Before you becdn to dissect the head, cut off the ears at the roots, which, if roasted crisp, many prefer, and may be invited to take one. Now the head should be divided — it should be put on a clean plate, so as to be under your hand,— turn the nose towards you, hold it steady with your fork, to prevent its slipping from under the knife; you are then to put the point of the knife into the bone between the two ears, and by forcing it down, as soon as it has made its way, you may easily divide the head into two, by cutting, with some degree of strength, quite dowo through the nose. Half the head may be given to any person that likes it. This mode of cutting up a Hare can only be i adopted without difficulty when the animal is 1 quite young. With an old Hare, the best method is to put your knife pretty close to the back-bone, and f 2106 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. cut off one leg; but the hip-bone being in your way, the back of the Hare must be turned towards you, and you must endeavour to hit the joint between the hip and thigh-bone. When you have cut off one, then cut off the other; then cut a long narrow slice or two on each side of the back-bone, in the direction 7,8; then divide the back-bone into two, three, or more parts, passing your knife between the several joints of the back, which may readily be effected with a little patience and attention. RABBIT. All the rules for trussing and cutting up a Hare are applicable to the Rabbit; but being much smaller, the legs are first separated from the body, the back is then divided into two or three parts, without dividing it from the belly, but cutting it in the line 7, 8, as in the Hare; and instead of dividing the head in two, the whole is given to a person who likes it, the ears being removed before the Rabbit is served up. Many prefer the wing (i.e. the shoulder) to any other part.THE HOUSEKEEPER'S ORACLE. GOOSE. In dissecting a Goose, the neck should be turned towards you. Cut two or three long slices on each side of the breast, in the lines 1, 2, quite to the bone; then turn the Goose on one side, and take off the leg—in doing this, take care to put the fork through the small end of the leg-bone, pressing it close to the body, which, when the knife is entered at 4, assists in raising the joint; then pass the knife under the leg, in the direction 4, 5. Should the leg adhere to the body at the joint 5, it will separate by turning the fork back : if the Goose is young, in that case he will part with his leg without much persuasion; but an old Goose will evince great reluctance, and oppose con- siderable resistance; it will then require some strength to detach the leg. The leg being re- moved, pass the fork through the pinion of the wing, pressing it close to the body, entering108 the housekeeper’s oracle. the knife at the notch 3, and passing it under the wing, in the direction 3, 4, and the wing will come off without difficulty. It requires some skill to hit the notch 3 : it is visible in the figure here represented, but not so when the bird is on table. If the knife is introduced upon the notch above it, you cut upon the neck-bone, and not on the wing-joint. A little practice will render this operation easy with a young Goose, but an old bird is as tenacious in keeping his wing as his leg, and will not part with either without force. The leg and wing on the other side must then be taken off; cut off the apron in the line 6, 7. The neck-bones, and all other parts, are to be separated in the same manner as a Fowl; to which you may refer for information. The general estimation in respect to the best parts of a Goose, is according to the following order: the breast slices; the fleshy part of the wing, which may be divided from the pinion; the thigh-bone, separated from the leg-bone, commonly called the drumstick; the pinion; and next the side-bones : — draw out the sage and onion with a spoon from the place the apron has been taken from. The rump is con- sidered a delicacy by many — peppered, salted,THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 109 and broiled, it is called a Devil. The rump of a Turkey, prepared in the same way, takes the same appellation. The body of a Goose, after the joints, &c. have been removed, being more juicy and savoury, is often preferred to any other part. GREEN GOOSE. The rules for carving a common Goose may be applied in all respects to the Green Goose; it is, however, to be remarked, that the most esteemed part is the breast, and the gristle at the lower end. PHEASANT. The Pheasant is skewered and trussed for the spit with the head tucked under the wing, D 7110 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. as here represented ; the skewers are taken out before it is sent to table. To have a proper command of this bird, the fork must be fixed in the breast where the two dots are placed; it can then be turned at pleasure; slice down the breast in the lines 1, 2 — then take off the leg on one side, in the direction 4, 5, and cut off the wing on the same side, in the line 3, 4 ; cut off the leg and wing on the other side — then separate from each side the breast-bone, the parts you had before sliced down. Take care to cut in at the notch 1, in taking off the wing; if it is cut too near the neck, as at 7, the neck-bone will interfere. The wing must be separated from the neck-bone. Next cut off the merry-thought, in the line 6, 7, by passing the knife under it towards the neck. The re- maining parts must be cut up in the same manner as the Fowl. The head is chosen by some for the brains. It is customary to cut no more off the Pheasant than is immediately wanted. The best parts of a Pheasant are the white parts, i. e. the breast, wings, and merry- thought. If your company is numerous, give part of a leg with a slice of the breast; or a side’s-bone with a merry-thought; or divideIll THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. the wing, by cutting off a portion of the white fleshy part from the pinion. PARTRIDGE. It is here trussed for the spit, the skewers being withdrawn previous to its being brought to table. It is carved similarly to a Fowl (see next page); the wings taken off in the lines 1, 2, and the merry-thought in the line 3, 4. The prime parts of this bird are the wings, breast, and merry-thought—the wing is thought the best. If a brace of birds only is to be divided amongst many, cut them up and send a servant with them round the table. In this case, he that is last served may obtain the most delicate part; for a guest will take that himself, which if you were to send him, would create offence.112 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. A FOWL. This bird is here represented lying on its side, with one of the legs, wings, and neck- bone, taken off. Whether roasted or boiled, the same method of carving is adopted. A roasted Fowl is sent up trussed similarly to a Pheasant (see page 109), except that, in the place of the head being tucked under one of the wings, it is in a Fowl cut oft" before dressed — the leg;-bones of a boiled Fowl are bent and OTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 113 turned inwards — but this is a silly inconve- nient custom, giving much more trouble to the Carver than the mode of trussing roasted fowls: we recommend all Housekeepers to adopt the mode of trussing roasted with their boiled fowls. When speaking of a Pheasant, we have described the manner of detaching the wings, legs, and merry-thought of a Fowl; it only re- mains to shew, therefore, how the remaining parts are to be divided: —10, is the wing cut off; 9, the leg. After the removal of the legs, wings, and merry-thought, the neck-bones at 11 must be cut off—this is done by putting the knife in at 7, and passing it under the long broad part of the bone, in the line 7, 8, then lifting it up, and breaking off the end of the shorter part of the bone which adheres to ■ the breast-bone. All the parts being thus separated from the carcass, divide the breast from the back, by cutting through the tender ribs on each side, from the neck quite down to the vent or tail. Then lay the back upwards on your plate, fix your fork under the rump, and laying the114 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. pressing it clown, lift up the tail or lower part of the back, and it will readily divide, with the help of your knife, in the line 2, 5, 3. This done, lay the croup or lower part of the back upwards in your plate with the rump from you, and cut off the side-bones, by forcing the knife through the rump-bone, in the lines 5, 6 ; which will finish the dissection of the whole fowl. The prime parts of it are the wings, breast, and merry-thought — after these the neck and side-bones: — the legs of a roasted fowl are rather coarse; those of a boiled fowl are more tender; but of a chicken every part is equally good: next to the breast, the legs are certainly most full of gravy, and the sweetest, as the thigh-bones being easily broken with the teeth, the gristles and marrow render them delicious. TURKEY. The rules for cutting up a Pheasant are in all respects applicable to a Turkey; whether roasted or boiled, it is trussed and sent to table like a Fowl.* The best parts are the * In trussing a Turkey, tliree skewers should be placed so as just to admit the spit between them and the back of it—THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE* 115 white ones—the breast, wings, and neck-bones. It has no merry-thought — the neck must be taken away, and the hollow part under the breast stuffed with forced meat, which is to be cut in thin slices, in the direction from the rump to the neck, and a slice given with each piece of turkey. The breast is the only part usually cut up; if more is wanted, take off one or both wings, a leg, &c. The Gizzard and Rump are favourites with some Epicures. It is called a Devil, when well peppered, salted, and broiled — many people score it with a knife before it is peppered and salted: — when brought up fresh from the Grid- iron, it is divided into parts, and handed round to the Company as a Bonne Bouche, “ just to set You a going, and season your Wine.” these keep it firm on the spit, and prevent the great weight of the stuffing, &c. from making it turn irregular while at the fire. One skewer should be passed through the legs—one in the middle, which confines the wings— and the other under the wings, near the end of the merry-thought.116 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. PIGEON. The back and breast of a Pigeon is liere represented — Fig. A, the back — Fig. B, the breast. It is cut by some in the same manner as a Chicken ; but the croup, or lower part, with the thigh, is generally preferred; and the Pigeon being a small bird, half a one is con- sidered not too much to serve at once. The usual way of carving it, is to fix the fork at theTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 117 point 1, entering the knife just before it, and divide the Pigeon into two parts, cutting in the lines 1, 2, and 1, 3, Fig. A., at the same time bringing the knife out at the back, in the direction 1, 2, and 1, 3, Fig. B.118 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. CHAPTER IV. THE ART OF MANAGING SERVANTS. Who has not regretted, that so little attach- ment seems to subsist between the Heads of Families and their Domestics?—The natural consequence of Domestication ought to be Confidence, and mutual Intercourse ought to produce mutual Esteem. How happens it, then, that Masters so ge- nerally seem to consider Servants as merely indispensable Inconveniences—and Servants so frequently change their situations ? Any hints which may produce that attach- ment, that affectionate Confidence on one side, and of Fidelity on the other, which are so necessary to the harmony of Family-govern- ment, will, it is trusted, be an acceptable offering to Young Housekeepers. WHEN YOU WANT A SERVANT, If you cannot get a person recommended by a Friend, or the Baker—Butcher—Poulterer—THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 119 Green-Grocer —Milkman, &c. with whom you deal—by looking in the daily papers you will find plenty who are in want of Places. “ There are seldom less than Ten Thousand Servants of both sexes, at all times, out of place in the Me- tropolis.”— Colquhoun on Po/zce, 8vo. 1796. The shortest way is to advertise* yourself, describing what sort of Servant you wish for: this will bring you plenty of applications pre- sently ; and it will save you some trouble to direct them to call on one of the above Trades- men, and let him select and send to you only such as he deems most likely to suit you. * The following we took from “ The Mohning Post,” for October 1819. “ Wanted immediately, a SERVANT of ALL-WORK: — so uniting COOK and HOUSEMAID, that the utmost ex- cellence in either capacity would not answer, without corre. sponding perfectionin both; accompanied by absolute sobriety and universal honesty. Her age must be from twenty-five to forty. In regard to character, that of her last service, unless it has been a long one, will not be sufficient. The Advertiser, being of opinion that all the malefactions of mankind originate in practical falsehood, gives warning, that the first lie shall be the last. There is no possibility of any perquisite, nor im- punity for the slightest fraud or waste; but liberal wages and the kindest treatment may be confidently counted on by a really deserving woman.”120 the housekeeper’s oracle. Or, apply to the Free Registry of the Lon- don Society for the encouragement of faithful Female Servants, No. 10, Hatton Garden, Hol- born, instituted 1813. No Fee whatever to be paid either by Servants or Subscribers. At- tendance is given only on Mondays, Wednes- days, and Fridays, from ten o’clock to four. By order of the Committee, no Letter can be attended to that is not Post Paid—All Letters to Servants must be Post Paid. The Society is formed to promote the Moral and Religious improvement of Servants — to encourage them to be correct and trustworthy in their conduct, and to abide as long as possible in the same service ; by these means to promote mutual goodwill and friendship between Servants and their Employers. Various Rewards are pro- posed for long-continued service in the same family; the commencement of which is calcu- lated from the day the Subscribers (by Letter addressed to the Assistant Secretary, 10, Hat- ton Garden) direct the names of such Servants to be inserted in the Society’s Books for that express purpose. But each Subscriber of a guinea may recommend one Servant to receive a Bible or Testament, on her completing her121 the housekeeper’s oracle. first year’s Service, provided the Subscription has been so long previously made. Rev. H. G. Watkins, Secretary. Subscriptions received at the Registry; also by Samuel Tomkins, Esq. Treasurer, 76, Lom- bard-street; and by Mr. John Cooper, 4, Glou- cester-street, lloxton, Collector. RULES OF THE REGISTRY. No fee whatever to be paid, either by Servants or Subscribers. No Cook, Housemaid, or Nurse, can have her name inserted, except she has lived two ! years at least in one Situation, (or Twelve Months in her last Place, if she is in want of a service of All work,) or has never been in •: service. Every Female, whose name is inserted in 3 the Registry, must apply in Office Hours, till k she has gotten a Situation. When she has ti obtained a Place, she is to give notice thereof, ■ whether through the Society’s means or other- | wise, on the next Office day, to prevent further I trouble. In default of this, she will be ex- K eluded all future benefit from the Society. Ladies who have applied are earnestly re- G122 the housekeeper’s oracle. quested to give the like particular information as soon as they are provided. Applications from Subscribers may be made to the Office by Letter, stating all such parti- culars as may be necessary, to prevent useless trouble to themselves or the Servants. John Wheei.ton, Assistant Secretary. Henry Stokes and 1 Mrs. Stokes, j ,■ Registrars. The Society’s Report may be had, price 6d.; and Friendly Hints to Female Servants, price 4d. or 2s. Qd. per dozen to Subscribers, to give away. Plans of the Society gratis. “ While Charitable Institutions to recover the Wicked from the error of their ways are numerous and laudable, few public endeavours have comparatively been made expressly to pre- vent vice, or to encourage a virtuous behaviour among the inferior ranks of Society; yet must it be acknowledged that such endeavours are duties equally interesting, important, and Chris- tian. It is on all hands allowed, that our per- sonal tranquillity greatly depends on the good conduct of our Domestics; but the paucity of good and respected servants, and the plenty of bad and unhappy ones, are facts constantlyTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 123 acknowledged and daily lamented. While, however, we deeply regret these circumstances, we ought not to overlook, or to view without sympathy, the various temptations and moral dangers through which most female servants have to pass. If in every class of society it is found, that ‘ Evil communications corrupt Good manners,’ surely, domestic servants, and especially females, are peculiarly exposed to the accumulating influence of much evil conversa- tion— evil example — and vicious solicitation. Possessing the same common fallible nature with ourselves, and less restrained by circum- stances than persons of higher rank and better education — far removed from parental obser- vation, and perhaps almost habitually deprived of the weekly means of Christian Instruction—• Servants are certainly liable to imbibe, adopt, and imitate the very worst part of the principles and conduct of the many and various charac- ters with whom, in a succession of services, they must necessarily associate. Hence it hap- pens that, in a multitude of cases, the moral habits of those females who, through necessity or heedlessness, have frequently changed their situations, become progressively deteriorated. Hence, also, many who began their career of124 the housekeeper’s oracle. service with the most upright intentions and cheering expectations, have terminated a gra- dually declining course in the wretched ranks of Prostitution; and in that miserable con- nexion have been the occasion of many Burg- laries.” Require strict Economy and Accountableness from every Servant;—ensure this, by a uni- form adherence to SETTLED RULES AND SYSTEMATIC PLANS, but not by acting the part of a suspicious spy over them, and thus whetting the ingenuity of your Domestics to impose upon you the more. Let an Inventory of the various Articles committed to the care of each Servant be given to them, and a Copy of it kept, and the several things compared therewith at stated periods — and always when any Servant comes or goes away. Desire them, if they break any thing, to come and tell you directly — that, added to the }oss — you may not also suffer the inconve- nience of not having the thing when you want it. With proper Management, all the OperationsTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 125 of Domestic Economy may be performed with as much regularity, and good discipline, as in a Regiment of Soldiers or a Ship’s Company. The following is a Specimen of a Time Table for the Housemaid : — Rise at Six, Open Shutters by a quarter past, Clean Grates by Seven, Sweep Rooms by half past, Dust and have Rooms ready by Eight, Have your own Breakfast till half past. Prepare all ready to go up Stairs by Nine, Turn down Beds and open Windows by half past. Clear away things, empty slops, and change water by Ten, Make Beds by Eleven, Sweep Rooms by Twelve, Dust and lay all smooth by One, Clean yourself ready for Needle-work, or whatever may be required, by half past. Order is especially important to Comfort in the choosing convenient Days and Hours for clean- ing the House ; — some good Huswives act as if they fancied that this cannot be done often enough, and seem to have such amphibious126 the housekeeper’s oracle. Dispositions, that one would think they chose to be half of their Lives in Water, there’s such a continual clatter of Pails and Brushes, such Inundations in every Room, that a Man can hardly find a dry place for the sole of his foot. The Mistress must learn to be an exact Computer of time, and should know the number of Minutes required in every common opera- tion ; she may then always know, at any Hour of the day, exactly about what business each of her Servants is employed. Hire no Servant that cannot Read and Write, and keep a Common Account. WHEN NEW SERVANTS COME, Let the whole routine of their Business be given them in Writing, with full and particular directions about every thing which they are expected to do, and at what hours they are to do it; and direct them to remind You, that if at any time you set them about any Extraordinary Affairs, what parts of their Ordinary Business, (as the time devoted to the Extraordinary Affair occupies,) must be left undone : — so that you may choose which may be most important to attend to first. In these Rules, contrive every method youTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 127 can to save Time and lessen labour, allow them a few days to become perfect, and then steadily insist upon the regular practice of them — tell them that the least deviation therefrom will be a direct offence; that if they Disobey they will Disoblige, and if Disoblige they will be Dis- charged. “ He that Commandeth well, shall be obeyed well.” “ Exhort Servants to be obedient unto their own Masters, and to please them well in all things, not answering again.” — St. Paul’s Epistle to Titus, chap. ii. 9. Never keep Bad Servants in hope of their reformation.” If they won’t be governed, discharge them at once, and do not suffer your own Peace to be disturbed by their Incorrigibleness. There is an Old saying, that “ Good Masters make Good Servants.” — We will give you a New One, which is quite as true as the Old One—“ Bad Servants make Bad Masters.” ' Hie greatest Enemies that Good Servants have, are their Unprincipled Fellow-Servants, who sour the minds of the most benevolent, and render them suspicious, and insensible to128 the housekeeper’s oracle. the best endeavours of the most deserving and faithful Domestics. An extremely convenient use of a set of rules is, that if one servant is taken ill, or is absent, by these regulations a deputy may do the business in as orderly a manner. Tell them, when they dust a room, to notice carefully where they find every thing, and endeavour to replace it so exactly that nobody may know that they have moved it — no matter how absurd such arrangement of furniture may appear to them. If they go into a room and find the door open — leave it open when they go out; and if shut, to shut it. The business of most servants lies within a very narrow compass — their employment being a train of the very same acts repeated every day, with very little variation; therefore only a very moderate capacity is required to enable them to know their duty when it is completely explained to them, and as moderate a degree of diligence will enable them to discharge it completely; and whatever excuse Good Nature may accept of, for the first committal of faults, Good Sense will not receive any for the repe- tTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 129 tition of them, after they have been frequently pointed out. Be as particular and plain as possible in the Directions you give,— do not, like Ladij Betty Hint, when you mean that your Carriage should be ordered on a very dirty day, say, “ Don’t you think, Molly Quick, that the streets are remarkably clean ? Don’t you think I had better walk ?! !” When you would have something put away in its proper place, “ Don’t you think that ought to be laid on the floor?” — or when you wish the Candles snuffed, ask your attendants, “ Don’t you think that my eyes are a good deal like a cat’s ?”— or if you are kept waiting for your Dinner, talk of the benefit of absti- nence,* or if the Needle-work is neglected, say to your sempstress that “ you suppose she has heard of the body that died by prickino* her fingers ! !!” The good or ill conduct of servants con- i tributes so very greatly to the daily comfort or disturbance of all Domestic Arrangements, that we earnestly advise young Housekeepers that nothing will conduce more to their own com- foit, than to cultivate the Honesty, and Industry g 2130 the housekeeper’s oracle. of their Domestics; endeavouring to convince them, that “ According to their Pains will be their Gains.” Expose as few temptations to servants as possible — nor send them to wine cellars, store closets, 8cc. Treat them with Kindness and Liberality, and with that Suavity of Manners, which those only neglect who are unhappily either stupidly ignorant or wilfully ill-natured,—but take care that Kindness does not beget Carelessness, and Familiarity Contempt; of which Mrs. Worthy related to us the following illustration, as the character of a favourite Maid: — “ The First Year she was an excellent Servant—the Second, she was a kind Mistress — the Third, an into- lerable Tyrant, at whose dismissal every crea- ture in the castle rejoiced heartily ! ! !” Many families are governed by a Favourite, who tells Lies of, and to, all in the house. Forgive a Fool — but never forget a Liar. Never listen to any request from one servant for another,—'encourage every one, even the humblest in your house, to speak to you for themselves, especially whenever they request any extraordinary indulgence.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 131 When you find it necessary to give direc- tions, or to reprove them, do not send any angry message by another servant, as mistake or ill-nature are prone to misrepresent it — and you may mention it yourself with much more effect than you can by any deputy; and, more- over, without half so much distress to the feel- ings of the person censured. Pardon the venial Errors of Valuable Ser- vants, to prevent more serious Evils : — let the acknowledgment of a fault be a sufficient atone- ment of it: — “ At every Trifle seem to take offence, It always skews great Pride, or little Sense.” Pope. I once heard the following dialogue between a Master and his Cook: — My friend was fond of having his Breakfast in his mouth as soon as possible after he was out of his Bed-room, and this usually happened at eight in the morning. The Cook was ordered to have the Water boiling at half-past seven ; — rising at that hour, and having suffered several disappointments at not finding it ready, — he called for the Cook, and asked her if there was any of the arrangements of his house whicli132 the housekeeper’s oracle. were unpleasant to her:—“No, Sir; I am very comfortable, I thank you.” Then, said the Master, I hope you will be so good as to make me very comfortable, and not let me have to wait for my Breakfast. I was delighted with the mildness of this mode of reproof, and pleased to hear, some months after, that it was an infallible Cure for the Evil it was intended to remove. “ We should in all cases make allowance for the Failings of others—considering that we also have our Failings, and, perhaps, of a more systematic kind. Our thoughts, when we are displeased, might usefully run into some of these channels that may be suited to the subject: — “ We cannot put Old heads upon Young shoulders. “ We ought not to expect from almost Children, the discretion of mature years. “ If we had to handle as many little articles as often as they, perhaps we ourselves might break as many. “ We perhaps were not sufficiently clear in paving: our Orders,” &c. &c.— The Rev. Mr. no Watkins’ Hints to Heads of Families, p. 30. People who express themselves satisfied withTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 133 what we do, and pass over an inadvertency, because they know our habitual attention is good, greatly engage our energies, quicken our diligence in serving them, and make us anxious to maintain the good opinion they have formed of us. MAID SERVANTS, including their Board and Wages, cost about 40/. per annum. A MAN SERVANT, including the Tax, Livery, &c. is not main* tained for less than '20/. or 30/. per annum more. “ While some assert that they cannot afford to give high Wages, others shrewdly maintain that they cannot afford to give lorv. “ Persons who save 3/. or 4/. a vear in this •i way, forget, that nothing is gained in Board ; and generally, that a great deal more than an equivalent is lost by carelessness and want of skill.”—Mrs. Taylor’s Hints to Young Fe- males, 12mo. 1816, p. 38. Do not give unusually high standing Wages. These should neither exceed nor fall short of the Rates which Custom has established :134 the housekeeper’s oracle. or, in the former case, you will make your own Servants Idle and extravagant, and those of your Neighbours unhappy and discontented — and if you do not pay the customary compen- sation for the service you receive, you will ex- cite a continually rankling discontent in the minds of your Domestics, and be harassed with those continual changes in your establish- ment which will soon render Servants of Merit and Character shy of engaging in it. When once it is observed that a Family fre- quently change their Servants, they are likely to have few applicants except very ordinary ones ; or if they engage worthy Servants, such mostly make a speedy departure, from the reports which they hear to the prejudice of their em- ployers. “ I knew a respectable family who treated their Servants with great kindness, but for a long time could not persuade such as were suitable to stay; their perplexity rose to a great height as to the cause : at length it was ascer- tained that the Tradespeople in the Neighbour- hood had received some false representations of the Family from a discarded servant, which they sillily detailed to the new comers, and that this had occasioned so many abrupt depar-THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 135 tures.”—The Rev. H. G. Watkins’ Hints to Heads of Families, 12mo. 1816, pp. 18 and 35. Always give the Character of a Servant in the presence of such Servant, and receive it in the same way. “ If Servants were to have Certificates of their Conduct and Abilities from the families they have served, it would give confidence to their employers, and make them cautious of their behaviour.”—Good Nurse, 8vo. 1824. “ Perhaps there is no fault but dishonesty and drunkenness, which would not be too se- verely punished by being told ; for there is no proportion between want of diligence, clean- liness, or good temper, and being driven naked and hungry into the world, without means of procuring food or raiment; much less between what an unreasonable master or mistress, in a fit of anger, may call a want of diligence, clean- liness, or good temper: yet it is certain, that if when you have said that a Servant is Sober and Honest, you add that he is ill-natured, idle, and nasty, nobody will receive him, for in this case the master or mistress is implicitly be- lieved. A sense of this inequality between the fault and punishment, is perhaps the only mo-136 the housekeeper’s ORACLE. tive that restrains the resentment of those who dismiss their servants, from giving their sense of the cause for which they dismiss them in plain terms; and if they should be taught to think that this motive ought to be over-ruled, no servant that does not give warning himself will ever get another place, for the reason why he is not kepi, will, nine times in ten, be a reason why he will not be taken. The evils of this conduct are so evident as to need no com- ment ; and perhaps, it will, after all, be a good general rule, always to give a servant such a character as will introduce him into another state of approbation, if his fault is not such as will endanger the life or property of his master, which drunkenness and dishonesty only can do.”—From No. 129 of The World. Any person personating a master, &c. or giving a false character to a servant, or assert- ing that a servant has been hired for a period of time, or in a particular station, or was dis- charged at any other time, or had not been hired in any previous service, contrary to the fact; or any person offering himself as a ser- vant, pretending to have served where he has not served, or with a false certificate; or who,THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 137 having before been in service, shall pretend not to have been in such service, shall, on convic- tion, forfeit 201. See an Abstract of all the Laws on the sub- ject of Servants, in page 118 of the 5th vol. of Sir George Chetwynd’s Burn’s Justice, 8vo. 1825. Accept of no Written Character when any other can be obtained. Rewards and Punishments are the great springs and wheels which set the whole world in motion; there is hardly any thing to be done in life without one or both of these. There is a pride in human nature which often sets itself against correction, and is restive to reproofs; but pliant and yielding to the least expressions of Kindness. Pride is like the rust that sears and stiffens the spring of an engine, and checks its motion, so that no force can set it to work; but Kindness is like oil, which- smooths and supplies the machine in such a manner that the parts move of them- selves. . This gentle method of dealing with our Fel- low-Creatures, is God’s own method of dealing with Mankind, who “ delighteth not in the death oj a Sinner, hut rather that he should turn from138 the housekeeper’s oracle. his ivickedness and live;” and chooses rather to lead us to repentance by his Goodness, than to drive us to it by his Wrath. As Humanity and Prudence prompt us to take this method of exciting our Servants to duty, so justice and equity require that, when they have excelled in it, they should be re- warded and encouraged to the utmost of our power ; for the same motives that excited them to excel, are the best engagements upon them to continue in well doing; and God knows, when servants are truly faithful and diligent in the discharge of their duty, all the encourage- ment in our power is justly due to them: if they lay out their whole time and care in our service, and make it the Business of their Life to consult our Happiness and Interest — can they be too much encouraged ? ! ! Encourage Servants with “ Occasional Pre- sents and Indulgencesthese I would not be- stow in Money, but give them some good Tea — a pair of Strong Shoes to keep their feet dry in Winter — or an Umbrella—or a Watch, ac- cording as their diligence and long service deserve them. Confer these rewards—rather as if given for general good conduct, than as for any particular or recent occurrence : or theyTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 139 may be received as merited payment for an isolated piece of service. You will thus keep alive their Attention and Industry—your Commands will be obeyed with alacrity, and their labour will become pleasure to them, when they find that their exertions are observed and really appreciated and regularly rewarded. It is not merely paying Wages and giving Commands to Servants which constitutes the duties of the Head of a Family; but an evident readiness to protect and cherish them, which sows the seed of Affection in their very Hearts and Sentiments. “ Some people seem to expect from their Dependants, from the sole motive of Fear, all the good effects which a liberal Education, an affluent Fortune, and every other advantage, cannot produce in themselves—and will have a Servant Just — Diligent—Sober—Chaste — and a paragon of all that is Wise and Virtuous, for no other earthly reason than the fear of losing her Mistress’s favour—when, perhaps, all Laws, Divine and Human, cannot keep those whom they serve within bounds. “ The Blessing so desirable of acquiring and retaining Good Servants is not attainable by140 the housekeeper’s oracle. mere arbitrary authority, nor even by compa- ratively High Wages—but chiefly by a moral influence over those who serve us,—an influ- ence which must be daily operating in their minds and disposing them to serve us from a feeling, that by our conduct to them, we de- serve to be honestly and faithfully served.”— The Rev. H. Watkins’ Hints, p. 28. “ If the wary Housekeeper would be advised by me, when he or she is resolved to part with a Servant, let them go the Instant you resolve upon it, and rather give them a Month’s Wages than keep them to a Month’s Warning, which is generally the Custom. For many Servants will do more Mischief in that Month than perhaps ten times their Wages would come to. I do not mean this Method to be taken with every Servant, for no doubt but there’s many of them honest.”—Warning to Housekeepers, by a converted Thief, 8vo. p. 69. As Servants have no right to employ one moment for any other purpose but that pointed out by their Employers till that is entirely com- pleted, and honest Servants never think about their own affairs till then — so, after they have finished their task, let them have as little in- terruption as you can conveniently avoid givingTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 141 them ;— the best way of encouraging them to mind your Business is, to shew them you are willing they should have sufficient time to at- tend to their own. Is not the condition of those Servants who are not allowed some Time which they may call their own rather too severe ? how would you like it? — When they have properly per- formed the business you have set them to do for you, if their Ability and Industry manages to get it completed sooner than you may ex- pect, if it is well done, — let them have the re- mainder of the Evening (to repair their Clothes, to make and mend their own Things, will take, on an average. Two hours a day) to improve their Minds in reading instructive Books, and to amuse themselves with any innocent Re- creations :—their Lives as well as Ours require intervals of Sunshine, which will keep them in Good Health and Good Humour, and it is their due in equity, although you may politically bestow it as an Act of Grace. The Slaves * in the West Indies, whose con- “ I have seen the slavery of the West Indies and the slavery of the Galleys, but the veriest slaves I have ever seen, are the all-work Maid Servants of London.”— UTemoirs of R. Tiiicknesse, 12mo. 1788.142 the housekeeper’s oracle. dition has been described as the hardest human nature is subjected to, have certain hours which they employ as they please — and those who are industrious and clever, sometimes earn enough during this over-time to purchase their Freedom. The most furious Economist cannot think I propose too much Indulgence to Ser- vants by suggesting, that in this Land of Free- dom their labour should not be harder than that of Slaves. I advise you to manage it so that their Wages all become due and be paid to them on the regular Quarter Days — and on Christ- mas Day, if they are very good, you may give them, at an hour before the time which you dine, a dinner of a Turkey and Plum Pudding; on Lady Day, a Sir-loin of Beef; on Mid- summer Day, a Quarter of Lamb; and on Mi- chaelmas Day, a Goose ; — and if there will be enough left, dine after them, as they, on the other 361 days in the year, dine after you. This will not add forty shillings a year to your Expenses; or, if you have Three Servants, allow them Three shillings each week to pur- chase any thing they please : such attention to their comfort will be the surest plan of securingTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 143 their attention to yours, and induce such a zeal for the general Economy and Conduct of your Affairs, as will infinitely more than repay your kind consideration of them. It is a vulgar observation, that there is much more Meat, &c. ate in the Kitchen than there is in the Parlour : this is easily accounted for. Those in the Kitchen take more exercise, and consequently have a sharper Appetite, than ; those in the Parlour;—moreover, the stomachs in the Parlour are sometimes fed as much by Fluids as they are by Solids. Servants are supported almost entirely by Eating, much more of which is wanted with Water or Small Beer, than there is with Wine and Strong Beer. — Animal Food holds the same rank among Solids, that Alcohol does among Fluids. It was a custom of one of the Great Nations of antiquity, on certain days in the year, for the Masters to wait upon the Slaves — and it was a good Custom, as it made them acquainted with what they had to endure the rest of the H Year. Try the Experiment, Gentle Reader. Some Mistresses allow to each Servant a i whole Holyday every third Month, and a half Holyday in each intervening Month, requiring144 the housekeeper's oracle. them to return, on the whole Holyday, before 10 o’clock in the Summer, and before 8 o’clock in the Winter. “ Female Virtue, which is so inestimably valuable to the Individual and to Society, is a very delicate and tender plant, and not fit to be exposed to the absence of the Sun, to the blighting air of large Towns and Cities, without sufficient protection. “ Why do Ladies dislike walking alone in the vicinity of London, or after dusk, in the very Streets ? they will say truly, that it is be- cause they fear that they may meet with in- sults. We should, therefore, take care to give our Female Servants as little occasion as pos- sible of being from home by themselves, espe- cially in the Evening : the greatest kindness you can do them, is to be very strict as to the Time, the Early time, of returning Home.”— The Rev. H. Watkins’ Hints, pp.27 and 81. Many Housekeepers fancy that they gain a great point by making an Agreement with their Servants that they shall have “ NO FOLLOWERS.” However excellent this may be as a general Rule, I strongly recommend excepting from itTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 145 occasional Visits from Relations, especially from the Mothers and Sisters of Female Servants.— Most Servants find their own Tea and Sugar; and a bit of bread and butter is a trifling con- sideration to a Housekeeper, compared to the comfort given to a Good Servant — and the advantage derived from such cultivation of their regard—and it may be one of your Rewards to occasionally permit such an invitation to be given; but strictly forbid any visitor entering your Kitchen till the Parlour Dinner is entirely sent up, or the Cook may be as likely to be playing polite to her own guests as to be taking- care of your Dinner. The following is an Extract from Mr. Bos- well’s account of “ An admirable System of Domestic Economy, adopted by Mr. Peregrine Langton.” “ He was very diligently and punctually attended and obeyed by his Servants; was very considerate as to the injunctions he gave, and explained them distinctly; and, at their first coming to his service, steadily exacted as close a compliance with them without any re- mission ; and the servants finding- this to be the case, soon grew habitually accustomed to H146 . the housekeeper’s oracle. the practice of their business, and then very little further attention was necessary. “ On extraordinary instances of Good Beha- viour or Diligence, he was not wanting in par- ticular encouragements and presents above their wages ; and it is remarkable that he would per- mit their Relations to visit them, and to stay at his house two or three days at a time.” — Dr. S. Johnson’s Table Talk, 12mo. 1807, p. 170. When Servants have spent a considerable time in your service, and have behaved com- mendably, like a Parent, you should keep in view their ultimate establishment in some way that may preserve their old age from indigence; to this end, endeavour to inspire them with care to lay by part of their wages, and con- stantly discourage in them all vanity in Dress, and extravagance in idle expenses. That you are bound to promote their eternal as well as their temporal welfare, you cannot doubt, since, next to your children, they are your nearest Dependants, agreeable to the Wise Man’s Rule, “ A Wise Servant shall have rule over a Son that causeth shame, and shall have part of the inheritance.”—(Prov.xvii. 2.) \ouTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 147 ought, therefore, to instruct them as far as you are able, furnish them with good books suited to their capacity, and see that they attend the public worship of God : and take care yourself so to pass the Sabbath-day as to allow them time, on that day at least, for reading and re- flection at home, as well as for attendance at church. Though this is a part of your reli- gious duty, I mention it here, because it is also a part of family management: for the same reason, I here most earnestly recommend Fa- mily Prayers to all, especially to Servants — who, being constantly employed, are led to the neglect of private prayer. The Sabbath is the Lord’s: let that at least be allowed to your Servants for their in- struction in the way of salvation, let them not be withheld from the service of God by being employed in the service of your luxuries and vanities, as is too often the case, especially with Cooks and Coachmen ! In all well-governed Families, a Servant has the liberty every Sunday, or every other Sun- day at least, of going once to Church, which, if they neglect, it discovers that they have very little sense of true religion;—those may well be suspected of failing in their duty to their earthly148 the housekeeper’s oracle. Master or Mistress, who fail in that to their Maker. A person who goes regularly to Church will be well spoken of, though he may have no other Merit to recommend him. He that neglects that Duty will be ill spoken of, if he has no other Fault, and has every other Virtue. If your Domestics have any peculiar Reli- gious opinions, leave their conscience free,— in their Devotions they are accountable only to God. “ We cheerfully subscribe to Societies for promoting Christian Knowledge — to Charily Schools — and to Sunday Schools — and it is our duty to do so; but let us remember, that a few Guineas thus laid out, will not make atonement for the want of Christian Cha- rity at Home.”—The Rev. G. II. Watkins’ Hints, Sfc. p. 31. Briefly, the whole Art of Managing Servants, consists, 1st.—In making their situations so com- fortable, that they are convinced that they are better off with You than they can hope to be elsewhere. 2dly.—That they must strictly and diligentlyTHE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 149 perform every part of their Duty, if they hope to continue in your service; this accomplished. Self-love will make them fear losing such a place, and Gratitude will make them exert themselves to the utmost; and they will have as much pleasure in the performance of their Work, as they have in receiving their Wages.150 the housekeeper’s oracle, and CHAPTER V. THE ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR, Shelving exactly when all kinds of Provisions first appear in the Markets, ivhen Pest and Cheapest. The following Tables are equally -worthy of the attention of the two extremely opposite cha- racters to which they are addressed ; they will teach extreme Economists, who only “ eat to live,” when things are cheapest and most in season — and inform the exquisite Epicure, who only “ lives to eat,” when they are dearest and most out of season ! for some persons really appear so silly as to suppose that the highest recommendation of any thing is the rarity and extravagance of its price—that Wines are de- licious in the degree that they are dear; and that the articles composing our desserts, are desirable in tbe proportion that they are diffi- cult to procure. The proper use of the Con- servatory is to cultivate Pine Apples, Melons,ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 151 Grapes, &c. See. and other Exotic fruits, which, without such artificial heat, would never ripen in our Northern climate. However convenient the Hot House is, as a substitute for the Sun, the finest Forced Fruits, &c. never have half the flavour of those which are fed with the fresh air, and ripen gradually in due season : — nothing can be more absurd than to employ Art to invert the order of Nature, and to pro- duce in the Winter the fruits, See. of the Summer — “ Impatient Art rebukes the Sun’s delay, And bids December yield the fruits of May.” Dr. Young. However, many people are so ridiculously fond of rarities, that when Green Peas first “ come in,” they will willingly pay a pound a pint for them; but when in their greatest perfection, and a Peck may be purchased for a Shilling, they are hardly considered worth the trouble of shelling; although your curious \ ianders grudge neither cost nor care to pre- serve them, and will not grumble at any price to obtain a plate of them at Christmas. Such would-be-thought men of exquisite152 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Taste have no relish for Cucumbers at Mid- summer, when they are full of fragrance and flavour, and may be bought for a penny — but when they are in a premature state, having no more taste than a Turnip, and costing a crown a piece, they are then considered the pride of a second course, and called a “ Bonne Bouche” for an Emperor. New Potatoes are little worth eating, till they little cost: with all the care of the most consummate Cook, Framed Potatoes have not half the flavour of Field Potatoes, which are not worthy to be introduced to the Mouth, till they are not more than two-pence per pound. All-bountiful Nature has benevolently or- dered, that when her best gifts are in greatest perfection, they are also in greatest plenty. The following Information concerning the Quality and Price of the various articles of Food, especially— , Meat, Poultry, Fish, Fruit, and Vegetables,ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 153 and the Tables which shew the Seasons when they First come in, and when they are best and cheapest, are one of the Editor’s most successful contributions to Domestic Comfort. n o154 the housekeeper’s oracle, and OF ANIMAL FOOD. Calculation of London Consumption Numerous Calculations have been made of the annual consumption of food in the Metropolis ; but this is not easily obtained, as, although we may know the number of cattle and sheep, yet we have no means of learning the weight. Of the quantity of cattle sold in Smithfield market, we have the most accurate returns, and find, that in the year 1822 the numbers were, 149,885 beasts; 24,609 calves; 1,507,098 sheep; 20,020 pigs. This does not, however, by any means form the total consumed in London, as large quan- tities of meat in carcasses, particularly pork, are daily brought from the counties round the metropolis. The total value of the cattle sold in Smithfield is calculated at £8,500,000. That the flesh of animals contains more nutri- tive matter, and stimulates the absorbent and se- cerning vessels more powerfully, than vegetable aliment, is demonstrated by the superior warmth and strength which, in a state of health, we experience after a meal of flesh than of vege- tables : of the former (animal flesh) that, in o-eneral, which is of the darkest colour, contains more nutritive matter, and stimulates our ves- sels with more energy, than the white kinds. The greater stimulating virtue of this kind of food has laeen attributed to the greater quan- tity which it has been supposed to contain ofEconomist and epicure’s calendar. 155 volatile alkali. Dr. Darwin, however, properly questions whether it is not rather the elements only of this principle, that are contained in the strongest dark-coloured animal flesh. Next in strength to the flesh of carnivorous animals, ought to rank that of those animals when killed after full growth; the young ot which afford a softer, whiter, more digestible, but less nutritious food, such as the Sheep, the Bullock, the Hog. These, with a due mixture of vegetable aliment, constitute the best kinds of food for healthy and athletic individuals, whose digestion is powerful, and who have a firm fibre. The flesh of young animals, veal and suck- ing pigs, affords a less stimulating and nutri- tious, but more digestible food; these meats are consequently more congenial to persons of I less muscular energy, whose powers of digestion are more feeble, and who accustom themselves to but little exercise: they are adapted to the hypochondriac, and should be principally used as aliment by individuals' who are disposed to those kind of affections which have received the vulgar and indiscriminate appellation of ); scorbutic. A still milder, but, in the same proportion,156 the housekeeper’s oracle, and less nutritive food, is furnished by the white meats, such as the domestic fowl, partridge, pheasant, and their eggs, with oysters and young lobsters. These, from their bland and unacrimonious nature, are generally allowed to convalescents from acute diseases. They are peculiarly suitable to very weak stomachs, and ought, in general, to form the first articles in the diet of females after child-birth. The major part of the' river fish, which have scales, as pike, perch, and gudgeon, are possessed of very inferior nutritive faculty. Various modes of preparing and dressing both animal and vegetable articles of food have been contrived, in order to render them more palatable, and better adapted to the stomach. By boiling, animal flesh is, in some measure, deprived of its nourishing juice, which is with more or less facility given out to, and incorpo- rated with, the broth: this last, then, contains the most nutritious part of the meat; but unless stronger than is ordinarily used, it is too diluted to admit of an easy digestion. Broths likewise have a remarkable tendency to acidity, particularly when made from the flesh of young animals, as of lamb and veal; and on this account also are much less conge-economist and epicure’s calendar. 157 nial to weak stomachs than is generally ima- gined. The various jellies, which contain the gela- tinous and nutritive, to the exclusion of the fibrous part of animal flesh, are, in general, much more suitable to the invalid and the con- valescent than either broths or soups. Perhaps the most eligible mode of preparing animal food, is by the process called stewing; for by this process its nutritious and substantive parts are concentrated and preserved. It is scarcely necessary to observe, that the gravy of boiled meat contains its nutritive parts in a state of concentration ; it is digested with facility ; and gravy is therefore the best mode of giving ani- mal food to very young infants. Roasting preserves the nutritive part of flesh from dissipation in a greater degree than boil- ing ; and it has been remarked by an observant author, (Dr. Willich), that “ one pound of roast meat is, in real nourishment, equal to two or three pounds of boiled meat.” It ought, how- ever, to be noticed, that the fat of meat treated in this way has undergone some degree of che- mical decomposition from its exposure to heat, and is in consequence more oppressive to deli-158 the housekeeper’s oracle, and cate stomachs, and generally less salutary than boiled meat. Both baking and frying are, upon similar principles, improper methods of preparing animal food. Smoked meats, as prepared hams, are hard of digestion,— they should only be taken in small quantities, and rather as condiment than food. The art of cookery, as applied to vegetable substances, is principally useful in destroying the native acrimony, and rendering the texture softer in some, and by converting the acerb juices of others into saccharine matter. The boiling of cabbage, of asparagus, &c. are ex- amples of the one ; the baking of unripe pears is an instance of the other. Another mode by which the nourishment of mankind is facilitated, is the mechanic art of grinding farinaceous seeds into powder; and, in some instances, exposing them afterwards to a fermenting process, as in the making of bread ; and then to the action of fire, by baking or boiling. The mill-stones, by which the process of grinding is effected, have been quaintly termed the artificial teeth of society. If. has been suggested by Dr. Darwin, “ thatECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 159 some soft kinds of woods, especially when they have undergone a kind of fermentation, and become looser, might, by being subject to the action of the mill-stones, be probably used as food in the time of famine. Nor is it impro- bable,” continues our ingenious speculator, “ that hay which has been kept in stacks, so as to undergo the saccharine process, may be so managed, by grinding and by fermentation with yeast, like bread, as to serve, in part, for the sustenance of mankind in times of great scarcity.” Dr. Priestley gave to a cow, for some time, a strong infusion of hay, in large quantities, for drink, and found that she pro- duced, during this treatment, above double the quantity of milk. Hence, if bread cannot be made from ground hay, there is great reason to suspect that a nutritive beverage may be thus prepared, either in its saccharine state, or fermented into a kind of beer. In times of great scarcity, there are other vegetables, which, though not in common use, would most probably afford wholesome nourish- ment, either by boiling them, or drying and grinding them; or by both these processes in succession. Of these, perhaps, are the tops and barks of all those vegetables which are160 the housekeeper’s oracle, and armed with thorns or prickles, as gooseberry- trees, holly, gorse, and perhaps hawthorn. The inner bark of the elm-tree makes a kind of gruel; and the roots of fern, and probably very many other roots, as of grass and clover, taken up in winter, might yield nourishment, either by boiling or baking, and separating the fibres from the pulp by beating them; or by getting only the starch from those which pos- sess an acrid mucilage, as the white betony. And the alburnum of, perhaps, all trees, and especially of those which bleed in spring, might produce a saccharine and mucilaginous liquor, by boiling in the winter or spring.ECONOMIST AND EPICUKE’s CALENDAR. 161 MEAT. The Prices were fixed by an eminent Butcher, ivlio sells an article of first-rate quality ; and though the Price should vary, the relative value will be exhibited. e s £ A- ©*"~ "B ^•0 . O’ *B ■v. O BEEF. ■&/S, 3 £ o*-a ft THE HIND QUARTER. lb. oz. lb. oz. per lb. 13 0 1 8 1. Sir-Loin 0 9 Roasted. 20 0 4 0 2. Rump 0 9 Steak to Broil — to Stew. 11 0 1 4 3. Edge-Bone.. 0 0 Boiled. 13 12 1 8 4. Buttock, or Round 0 7 Ditto, or Savoury Salted Beef. 5. Mouse ditto 0 0 For Alamode Beef. 11 0 1 8 6. Veinv Piece ' 0 7 Generally Baked or Salted. 7- Thick Flank 0 <> 0 0 0i 2J 9. Leg Soup of—or Stewed. THE FORE QUARTER. per lb. 14 4 1 12 10. Fore Rib, 6 Ribs- 0 9 Roasted, Boned and Rolled. 11. Middle do. 3 do. • 0 7 Ditto. 12. Chuck, do. 3 do • 0 5 For making Gravy. 13. Shoulder, or Leg ) of Mutton Piece ) 0 6 For Steaks or Soup. 14. Brisket 0 6 f For Stewing or Haricot—or ( Salted. 15. Clod 0 4J ( Principally used for Beef \ Sausages. Ditto, or making Soup. 8 4 0 10 16. Neck, or Sticking! Piece j 0 3J 9 0 2 4 17. Shin 0 2J f Excellent Scotch Barley \ Broth, and Stewed. 18. The Head, 3s. Gd.» ... Soup of, Stewed. The Tail, 7d Ditto do. 1 he Heels Boiled, Jelly of, Soup.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE, AND 162 Weight of Bone after being dressed. MEAT. lb. oz. lb. oz. 8 0 0 13 6 0 0 8 8 4 1 0 : 9 0 1 0 5 0 0 10 MUTTON. per lb. 1- Leg ) 2. Loin, best end • • ■ • > 0 8 3. Ditto, Chump end ) 4. Neck, best end 0 7 5. Ditto, Scrag end • • • • 0 5 6. Shoulder 0 7 7* Breast 0 5 Head, The Chine, or the I Saddle, two Loins: I the Haunch is a > 0 8 Leg, and part of the Loin J ( Boiled or Roasted. .. Do. Roasted. ^ Chops. < Ditto, Roasted. Irish Stew. ( Haricot, Stewed. To make Broth. Roasted. Grilled. Broth. Roasted, Venisonified. VEAL. 1. Loin, best end 0 11 2. Ditto, chump end - - Oil 3. Fillet 1 1 4. Knuckle, Hind The whole Leg 5. Neck, best end G. Ditto, Scrag end • • The whole Neck • • 7. Blade Bone 8. Breast, best end 8. Ditto, Brisket end- • 10. Knuckle, Fore The Head, with the on, from 7«. to 15s. Ditto, skinned, os. • Cutlets 0 7 0 101 0 11 0 8 0 01 0 10 0 11 0 10 0 7 Skin Roasted. Ditto. ( Roasted to make Veal Olives, t Scotch Collops. t To Ragoflt, to Stew, \ Soup of. Roasted. Ditto. Roasted. Stewed, to Ragout, to Curry. Stewed, to Ragout. Same as Hind Knuckle. ^ Boiled plain, to Hash. Fried, Broiled.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 163 In the foregoing Tables, we have given the proportions of Bone to Meat,— the former not being weighed till Cooked — by which, of course, its weight was considerably diminished. These proportions differ in almost every ani- mal— and from the different manner in which they are cut. Those who pay the highest, do not always pay the dearest price. In fact, the best Meat is the cheapest — and those who treat a Trades- man liberally, have a much better chance of being well served than those who are for ever bargaining for the Market Penny. The BEST RULE FOR MARKETING is to pay ready money for every thing, and to deal with the most respectable tradesman in your neigh- bourhood. When you order meat, poultry, or fish, tell the tradesman when you intend to dress it, and he will then have it in his power to serve you with provision that will do him credit, which the finest meat in the world will never do, unless it has been kept a proper time to be ripe and tender. In dividing the Joints, there is always an opportunity of apportioning the Bones, Fat, Flaps, &c. so as to make up a variation of much more than a penny per pound in most164 the housekeeper’s oracle, and pieces, — and an honest Butcher will be happy to give the turn of his knife in favour of that customer who cheerfully pays the fair price of the article he purchases. Have those who are unwilling to do so any reason to complain? Have they not invited such conduct? The Quality of Butcher-Meat varies quite as much as the Price of it — according: to its age — how it has been fed — and especially how it has been treated the week before it has been killed. The following statements were sent to us by a very respectable Tradesman — Beef' is best and cheapest from Michaelmas to Midsummer. The price per pound now varies from 4d. to Is. The lean parts of Ox beef have an open grain; when young, it has a tender oily smoothness, save in the neck and brisket, which are fibrous parts ; old beef appears rough and spongy. Cow beef is closer grained, neither is the meat so firm — the fat is whiter, the lean paler; if young, your finger on pressing the flesh will leave no dent. Bull beef is close grained, of a dusky red, tough when pinched, the fat skinny and hard, having a rank smell. Those parts of meatECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 165 which have been bruised look darker than the rest. A Bullock’s tongue should have a plump and bright appearance. Veal is best from March to July. The price varies according to the Season and the supply ; and the quality differs so much, that the same Joints now sell from 5cl. to 11 d. per pound. Veal is fresh killed, if the bloody vein in the shoulder possesses a blue or brightish red colour. The contrary is the case when it has a black, green, or yellowish appearance. In loins, the flesh will be slimy and soft if the meat is not fresh killed. The breast and neck, when stale, have a dusky greenish appearance. The sweetbread is clammy. The flesh of Veal, if delicate, should look like that of chicken, white; hanging in the air, however, will cause it to look red — but if cut, the natural colour can be easily discovered. Mutton is best from Christmas to Mid- summer. The difference in price between the worst and the best, is now from 5d. to 9d. per pound. The flesh of young Mutton feels tender, if166 the housekeeper’s oracle, and pinched; of old, will wrinkle up, and remain so: in young Mutton the fat readily separates from the lean ; in old, sticks by strings. Fat Mutton is by far the best. A Wether, five years old, is very fine eating. If after Mutton is dressed, the flesh comes readily and cleanly from the bone, you have the gratifying reflection of knowing that such unfortunate beast had the rot. The leg of Wether Mutton is easily distin- guished by a round lump of fat on the inside of the thigh. Ewe Mutton is worth a penny per pound less than Wether— its flesh is paler and grain closer. The best Mutton is that which is not less than two, nor more than five years old. Grass Lamb is best from Easter to June — House Lamb, from Christmas to June. House Lamb is insipid and innutritive, and prized merely because it is unseasonable and expensive. This strange predilection for insipid premature meat is a compound of Ostentation and Ignorance. — Rich and full-grown meats are alone capable of exciting a fine, healthy, and vigorous circulation, — on the due per- formance of which all our faculties and func- tions depend.economist and epicure’s calendar. 167 OF LARDERS, PANTRIES, AND MEAT SAFES. Larders, pantries, and safes for keeping meat, should be sheltered from the sun, and the influence of warmth. All places where pro- visions are kept, should be so constructed that a brisk current of cool air can be made to pass through them. Stagnant and confined, air, although cool, taints meat very soon. With this view it would be advisable to have open- ings on all sides of Larders, or Meat Safes, which might be closed or opened according to the way from which the wind blows, the time of the day, or season of the year ; they should be kept very clean, and the sides or walls of meat safes should occasionally be white-washed, and the shelves scoured. If you have a well-ventilated larder, in a shady, dry situation, you may, by ordering in your meat and poultry a certain time before it may be wanted, render it tender, which the finest meat cannot be, unless hung a proper time, —according to the season and nature of the meat, &c.— but this should always be till it has made some advances towards putre- faction ! the tendency to which commences the moment life is extinguished: the allowing168 the housekeeper’s oracle, and this process to proceed to a certain degree, renders the meat much more easy of solution in the stomach. Meat should be cut at table as well as bread, if either Economy or Enjoyment be desired ; it not only prevents waste, but preserves the succulence and flavour of it till the moment the mouth is ready. In serving Luncheons or Suppers, the frugal Housewife will forbid all cutting up Cold Ham, Tongue, &c. into slices, to make what those, whose Eye requires more pleasing than their Palate, call Pretty Dishes. How common it is to see such Corner Dishes taken away un- touched. Then why provide them? Cooks, to make Cold Meat look smart, cut off the outside slices every time it goes to table. This should never be done, because the first person helped will not like the out- side, but expect the ceremony which has been performed in the Kitchen, should be repeated in the Parlour. Do you love a Broiled Bone? (if you have ever tasted one nicely done, you have no taste if you do not!) prepare it yourself; it is putting too much temptation in the way of your “ Officers of the Mouth,” to delegateECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 169 such a delicate operation to them. Mark! if you are so exceedingly indiscreet, the chances are ten to one, that their Lingual Nerve obfus- cates their sensorium commune; i. e. their Tongue will get the better of their Brains, and suggest that their Mouth shall have the Meat, and yours the Bones. Therefore, Mem. When your joint ofRoastedBeef makes its appearance in the Parlour for the last time, make such abridgement of it as your Eye and Appetite advise, and desire it may be laid upon the Gridiron without any further dilapidation.170 the housekeeper’s oracle, and CHAPTER VI. POULTRY.* “ The quantity of Poultry annually con- sumed in London is supposed to cost between 70,000/. and 80,000/.— that of game depends on the fruitfulness of the season. There is nothing, however, more surprising than the sale of rabbits. One salesman, in Leadenhall Mar- ket, during a considerable portion of the year, is said to sell 14,000 rabbits weekly: the way in which he disposes of them is, by employing between 150 and 300 men and women, who hawk them through the streets.”f—Percy’s London. * A Poulterer is one of the very few Trades that may be carried on without serving an Apprenticeship to it. This was tried in 1752, when neither the Court nor the Jury could find Unnecessary for any person to be obliged to serve seven years to learn the mystery of plucking a Goose, or skinning a Rabbit See Maitland’s History of London, p. G92. -J- COURT OF REQUESTS, Tuesday, Nov. 5, 181G. HOWARD v. miLLirs. This was a case of some importance to the public. The defendant, a walking poulterer, was summoned by the plain- tiff, a widow lady residing near the Asylum, to shew causeepicure’s calendar. 171 economist and Birds, as they move in the purest atmo- sphere, afford the best prepared animal food, why he did not pay back to her four shillings, which he had obtained from her under false representations. The plaintiff stated, that the defendant called at her house on Wednesday last, and inquired if she wanted a fine fowl, as he had some he could recommend. She desired he would select her one she might depend upon as being young and good. He accord- ingly picked out one which he said he could recommend as being a young one, and she took it upon his recommendation, and paid him four shillings. At dinner, however, to her great dismay, on attempting to carve this delicate young chicken, she discovered that so great an attachment had the bones and joints formed to each other from long acquaintance, that they successfully resisted all her attempts to separate them, and she was obliged to give over the attempt. A favourite pug dog was then allowed to commence his opera- tions upon the breast, but so thick was the skin, and so solid the flesh, that he, after much labour, found himself foiled, as his mistress had been before him. On the following day the plaintiff applied to the defendant, sending back the fragments of the young chicken, and desiring to have her money back again; but the defendant positively refused, either to receive back his property, or to refund the money | he had received; upon which refusal the plaintiff summoned him. Mrs. Howard’s servant corroborated her statement, and iji added that defendant, as he was quitting the house, desired •| her to boil the fowl double the time her mistress told her, i because it was a large one. It was accordingly boiled more than double the usual time. The defendant did not attempt to deny that the fowl was172 THE housekeeper’s ORACLE, AND and of them the Breast is the most tender and nutritive part. Poultry. Chickens Poulards, with eggs. Fowls i Capons Green Geese Geese* Turkey Poults Turkeys Ducklings Ducks Wild Ducks Widgeons Teal Plovers Larks Wheatears Wild Pigeons Tame Ditto Tame Rabbits • • • Wild Ditto Sucking Pigs Leverets Hares Partridges Pheasants Grouse Moor Game Woodcock Snipes- Come into Season. Spring Chickens, April - • I March I J Dearest in April, ) 1 May, and June. / Largest at Christmas 1 March ] September April i * September March June September- ! November July March ■ • • June March September- Ditto October - • • I August • • • November- Continue. Cheapest... To be had all the year. November. Till June December. To be had all the year. November.:. Ditto Oct. and No Till September Ditto. Till February Ditto. Till June Till March Till May Till February Ditto. ( Dec.butt Till February < flights ! f uncertaii Till March And during August. Ditto. Till September August. All the year Till February All the year Till March. November * There was sold in Leadenhall Market, on the two days preceding that o[ Michoea 1734, upwards of 34,000 Geese. — Maitland’s History of London, p. 759. an old one, but said, be was himself deceived by the person of whom he purchased it, and the plaintiff having seen it before ! she paid for it, could not complain of any imposition being practised upon her. The Court, however, decided that the defendant should ■ refund the four shillings, and pay all the costs. It was plain that when he sold the fowl, he was aware of the imposition be •was practising. He had given evidence of this himself, byECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 173 For the Month of January. — Capons, Pou- lards, and Fowls of all sizes; Chickens, Turkeys, Larks, Snipes, (Golden Plovers are the best). The well-known Plovers’ Eggs are those of the Black Plover. Woodcocks, Tame Pigeons and Squab Pigeons, Wild Ducks, Widgeons, Teal, Dunbirds, Pintails, (commonly called Sea Pheasants); Tame Rab- bits, every month alike. February. — All kinds of Poultry peculiar to January, may be had in this month, (Wild Fowl upon the decline), Guinea Fowl, Green Geese, Ducklings, &c. March. — Guinea Fowl, 8cc. &c. &c. Same as the preceding month. (The March flight of Wild Fowl is generally known). Turkey desiring the servant to boil it longer than the usual time. At the same time, however, that the Court thus gave judg- ment against the defendant, they could not avoid censuring, to a certain extent, the plaintiff, and all those who encouraged persons of the defendant’s description, by dealing with them. Little doubt could exist in the mind of any one, that most of the fowls thus hawked about the streets were stolen, at least by those who sold them to the hawkers ; and whilst the thieves could find so ready a market for their plunder, there was but little chance that the robbing of farm-houses would he put an end to.174 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE, AND Poults, Turkeys, Wild Fowl, (these may be obtained, but are out of season). April. — Same as March, Spring Chickens, (no Wild Fowl). May and June. — Quails, Pea Fowls, Guinea Fowls, Turkey-Poults, Ducklings; Geese are considered to be prime in these months; Chickens to be had every month in the year. Plovers’ Eggs come in season the begin- ning of April, and continue till the 5th or 6th of June. Wild Rabbits in this month. July. —The same as June. Ruffs and Reas. August. — Fine Essex Ducks are good this month; Quails are good till Game is in season. Other things the same as July. September. — Turkeys, Game, Ducks and Geese, Fowls and Chickens, Pigeons, Rab- bits, Wild and Tame. October. — Pheasants, &c. Sic. &c. same as September. November.—All kinds of Wild Fowl; Guinea Fowls come in this month; Turkeys of all sizes. December.—Wild Fowl of every description;ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 175 the largest Turkeys and Capons, and almost all other kinds of Poultry, to be had in perfection this month. Fowls and Chickens to be had every day in the year. Cocks’ Combs, Fat Livers, Eggs, &c. are dearest in April and May, cheapest in August. Fowls’ Heads may be bad for tliree a penny,— a dozen will make a very good Pie, or Soup. Turkey Heads, about a penny each. Duck Giblets, about three-halfpence a set; four sets will make a Tureen of pood Soup —for Sixpence. Obs Poultby is in greatest perfection when in greatest plenty. The price of it varies as much as the size and quality of it, the supply at market, and the demand. It is generally dearest from March to July, when the town is fullest, and cheapest about September, when the Game Season commences, and the weather being colder, allows of its being brought from more distant parts, and the town becoming thin, there is less demand for it. The above information will, we trust, be very acceptable to Economical Families, who, from hearing the very high price Poultry sometimes costs, are deterred from ever inquiring about it; in the cheap seasons we have noted, it is sometimes as cheap as Butcher’s Meat.176 the housekeeper’s oracle, and / CHAPTER VII. FISH. “ There never was perhaps a greater plenty of fish in Bilings- gate Market than at present. Mr. Goldham, clerk of the market, on Wednesday (26), caused about 400 bushels of Dutch plaice to be destroyed as unfit for food. A very fine cod can be purchased now at Bilingsgate, of fifteen or six- teen pounds weight, for three shillings ; and fine soles are on sale at sixpence per pair ; the families who run up bills with fishmongers, are, notwithstanding, charged as if there was a scarcity. Fishmongers at the west end of the town would not give a straw for a ready-money customer.”— Examiner (Sunday), March 30tli, 1828. It is surprising that it still continues to be a general complaint, that this great city is sup- plied with no kind of provision in so sparing a manner, and at so dear a rate. Dr. Franklin says, “ he that puts a seed into the earth is recompensed by receiving forty for it; but he who draws a fish out of the water, draws out a piece of silver.” Another cele- brated author remarks, that “ no species of national Industry is more lucrative than Jishing;ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 177 it converts the Ocean into a Mine, and furnishes immense profit, with hardly any other expense than the labour.” It is not sufficiently known, that by the Act ■of the 41st Geo. III. cap. 99, entitled, “ An act for granting bounties for taking and bring- ing: fish to the cities of London and Westmin- ster, and other places in the united kingdom,” a sum not exceeding 30,000/. is placed at the disposal of the Lords of the Treasury,* to en- * The following new regulations have just been issued by the Lords of the Admiralty:—“ There shall be allowed to every person serving in his Majesty’s ships, the following daily quantities of provisions, viz. Bread I ft. Beer -. 1 gal. Cocoa 1 oz. Tea Sugar li oz. Fresh Meat 1 ft. Vegetables i ft. i oz. When Fresh Meat and Vegetables are not issued, there shall be allowed in lieu thereof:— Salt Beef alternately ... J ft. Flour ft. Salt Pork alternately J ft. Pease i Pint. And, weekly, whether fresh or salt meat is issued, Oat-meal half-pint, Vinegar half-pint. The days on which Flour is ordered to be issued, Suet and Raisins, or Currants, may be substituted for a portion of flour, it the following rate : One pound of Raisins being considered equal to 1 ft. of Flour. Half-pound of Currants do do. Half-pound of Suet do do.178 the housekeeper’s oracle, and able them to grant such premiums, sums of money or bounties, to persons taking fish to the Markets of London and W estminster, or to any other city, town, or port, as shall seem to them best suited to promote and encourage the sup- ply of Fish.” Fish is an article of food which is produced in greater plenty by nature, and easier to be procured, than any other :* why the supply of i In case it should be found necessary to alter any of the • above species of provisions, and to issue others as their substi- ■ tutes, it is to he observed, that ljft. of soft Bread, orl 1ft of Rice or 1, is t0 considered as equal to 1ft. • 1ft.’ of Flour01 J of Biscuit. 1 Pint of Wine, or ... 4 is to he considered as equal to a 1 Pint of Spirits J Gallon of Beer. 1 Ounce of Coffee, or 1 is to be considered as equal to 1 | Ounce of Tea / Ounce of Cocoa. 1 ft. of Rice, or "1 1 Pint of Cavalances,or ■ is tobe considered as equal to 1 1 Pint of Dholl J Plnt of Pease‘ lft. of Butter is to he considered equal to 1ft. of Sugar. 2ft. of Cheese are to be considered equal to lft. of Cocoa. |ft. of Onions or Leeks to be equal to lft. of other Vege- tables. * “ Particulars of the number of Fishing-Vessels entered at the Coast Office, Custom-house, London, with the quantity of fish imported in the course of one year: — Number of vessels, 1 3,827 5 fresh salmon, 45,448 fish, 22,907 boxes ; maids, plaice. IiECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 1?9 it should be attended with difficulty and dear- ness, is astonishing indeed — for there is no food of which we can have a more certain supply, and consequently none that we ought to obtain cheaper. The sea affords it ready for our use, without the labour and expense which attends the produce of the land; yet at middling private tables, a good dish of fish is rarely seen, and even at the tables of the wealthy, nothing is complained of more than the enor- mous expense of it. “ It has been repeatedly remarked, that there is not perhaps a country in the world better suited to be plentifully and constantly supplied with Fish, yet, excepting sprats and herrings, which are caught only during a short season, none are tasted by the poor, though fresh fish, of some kind or other, might certainly be sold all the year round much cheaper than butcher’s meat, if sinister arts were not used to prevent it.”—Colquhoun on the Police of the River Thames, 8vo. 1800, p. 436, &c. where the and skate, 50,754 bushels; turbot, 87,951); fresh cod fish, 447,180; herrings, 8,300,407; haddocks, 482,493; sprats, 00,879 bushels; mackerel, 3,070,700; lobsters, 1,954,000; soles, 8,072 bushels ; whitings, 90,004 ; and 1,500 eels.” Times. Oct. 1824.180 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Reader will find much interesting information on the cause of the artificial scarcity of fish. How to remedy this is the question — Open another Free Fish Market at Westminster, under the like regulations as that at Bilingsgate—the fishmonger will then have less distance to bring; home his fish, and may sell it cheaper. Prohibit Well Boats and Store Boats, and oblige the Fishermen to come up with their cargo, immediately on their arri- val from fishing, to market; this would bring the best fish to Market in plenty — and let the prices of the various kinds of Fish be regulated by the quantity supplied, in the same manner that the price of Bread is by the price of Flour. Before the Market opens, there might be marked on Tables, placed so conspicuously that all persons might see on their arrival at Market, what quantities and kinds (and at what prices) of fish are to be had that day. For the following, and for several other Ob- servations on Fish, the Public are indebted to Mr. William Tucker, Fishmonger, GreatRussell Street, Bloomsbury : “ Sir,—Seasons of Fish frequently will vary, the spawning time being governed in some degree by the heat or coldness of the Season;ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 181 and there may be a good Cod in the midst of Summer, or a good Turbot in the midst of W in- ter.— Attention to the proper seasons of fish is, however, very important, for many are abso- lutely poisonous when out of season — espe- cially Barbel—Salmon — Skate, &c. and occa- sion most frightful vomiting, purging, &c. “ There is no article so fluctuating in price as fish ; the London Market being principally sup- plied by water carriage from all parts of the coast, the wind cannot be fair for all; the con- sequence then is, frequently a great abundance of some sorts, and none, or little, of many others. “ Persons send their Servants to market to get perhaps a Turbot, or Cod’s head and shoulders; it very likely happens that those articles are scarce and extravagant — the Servants have no other order, or perhaps will not take the trouble to learn what other fish may be in the market, so buy a Turbot at 30s. or 40s., whereas they might have as good a dish of any other sort for half the money. In this case the tradesman is frequently condemned as an extravagant fellow, when perhaps he gets nothing by selling it. It is people’s own fault that they have fish at such an extravagant182 THE IIOUSEIvEEPEr’s ORACLE, AND price: if masters or mistresses were to go to market themselves, — if one sort was dear they could have another; or, if not convenient to go themselves, desire the fishmonger to send a hand- some dish, the most seasonable and reasonable, for so many persons.” If a Cook is a good Market Woman, she will go very early to market, and not fancy herself too fine a lady to bring home what she buys, at least of fish or poultry. To those who live near enough, Bilingsgate is the place to buy Sea fish at, whether you want little or much ; Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, are the market days, but there is plenty of fresh fish every day. You must be there not later than six o’clock, and you may generally buy a whole salmon or cod, or almost any kind offish, at about one-third the price usually charged by the Retail Fishmongers. Herrings, Mackerel, Flounders, Cod, See. when in full season, (when they are cheapest and best,) may sometimes be bought at a cheaper rate than Butcher’s Meat; and the judicious purchase of fish is one of the main points in Domestic Economy, especially of those who can go to Bilingsgate for it. August 14th, 1822, a peck of the best Oysters,ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 183 i. e. about twenty-one dozen, was purchased for 3s. lOd. Pickled Salmon, Salt Fish, &c. may be purchased equally cheap at the dry Fishmonger's, in Thames Street. Maitland, in page 759, &c. of his FIistory of London, says, that in 1729, 115,536 Bushels of Oysters came to Bilingsgate; 14,740,000 Mackerel; 16,366,728 pounds of Butter; 2,166,000 pounds of Cheese. “ The size of the eggs is nearly the same, both in great and small fishes of the same species, but the number is in proportion to the size of the animal. “ In a Carp, he found 203,109; in a Cod, 5,686,760; in a Flounder, 1,357,400; in a Herring, 36,960; in a Lobster, 21,699; in a Mackerel, 546,681 ; in a Perch, 28,323; in a Prawn, 3,806 ; in a Roach, 81,586 ; in a Shrimp, 6,807; in a Smelt, 38,278; in a Sole, 100,000; and in a Tench, 383,252.” — Har- mer on the Fecundity of Fish, in the Phil. 1 vans. In the following Table, the black lines will point out the different months during which the various sorts of fish are in season.184 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Jan. Feh. March. April. May. June. July. Aug. Sept. ■*-» O o Nov. Dec. Brawn Brill — — — — — — — — uod Cockles z _ z z Carp — —, — Urabs , — — — — — — longer Eel Dabbs — — _ — — — — John Dory — — — — Flounders... Gurnets — — — — — Haddocks ... — — — — — Herrings ... Line Mackerel... — — — — Mullets — — — Muscles — — — — — — — — Oysters — — — ■ — — — — — Perch — — — — — — Plaice — — — — — — — — — — Salmon — — — — — — — — — Soles — — — — — Shrimps .... — — — — — — — — — Sprats — — — Sturgeon ... — — — — — — Skate , — — — — — — — Tench. — — — — — — Thornback . — — — — — Turbot — — — — — — — Whitings... — —picure’s calendar. 185 economist and e Barbel.—This fish spawns at the latter end of April, or in the beginning of May; begins to be in season about a month after, and con- tinues in season till the time of spawning re- turns. It is very bony and coarse, and is not accounted, at any time, the best fish to eat, either for wholesomeness * or taste; but the spawn is of a very poisonous nature. When it is full of spawn, in March and April, it may be easily mistaken for Tench, if the barbs or wattles under the head are carefully cut off; and (if the same art is taken to disguise it) its fine case and handsome shape, during the rest of the year, give it so near a resemblance to Grayling, that it is very common to impose it upon the public for one or the other, as the different seasons give the proper opportunities. * Hawkin3, the Editor of Walton’s Complete Angler, observes, p. 217, — That “ though the spawn of Barbel is known to be of a poisonous nature, yet it is often taken, by country people, medicinally, who find it at once a most pow- erful Emetic and Cathartic. And, notwithstanding what is said of the wholesomeness of the flesh, with some constitutions it produces the same effects as the spawn. About the month of September, in the year 1754, a servant of mine, who had eaten part of a Barbel, though, as I had cautioned him, he abstained from the spawn, was seized with such a violent purging and vomiting as bad like to have cost him his life.”186 the housekeeper’s oracle, and The public, therefore, cannot be too much warned* of the danger attending such deceit; and the prudent matron, housekeeper, or cook, cannot examine with too much care, whether the skin under the chaps of such fish as are purchased for Tench or Grayling, be perfectly whole ; since, if they are Barbel, there will be four slight wounds under the chaps or head of the fish, by the barbs or wattles being cut oft'. For if it is served up to the table for Tench, the spawn may prove fatal to the person who eats it; and, at the best, whether it is dressed as Tench or Grayling, the free eating of the Flesh (if we may be allowed the expression), may be attended with disagreeable, if not dan- gerous consequences. Tench —spawn in July; we must, therefore, remark, that if any fish is sold for Tench in March or April, and proves to be full of spawn, it cannot be Tench, but is a cheat upon the Purchaser, and must be Barbel. Bleak.—The time of its spawning is very uncertain, and the fish is little regarded at any time. Bream — spawns in the beginning of July, but is most in season in June and September. Brills — are generally caught at the sameECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 187 place as Turbots, and are mostly of the same quality as the Turbot, from the different parts. Some Brills are very good, but not equal to Turbot. Carp*—This fish is said to breed twice or thrice in a year, but the chief time of * In the pond at Charlottenburg, a palace belonging to the King of Prussia, I saw more than two or three hundred Carp, between two and three feet long; and I was told by the keeper they were between 50 and 60 years standing. They were tame, and came to the shore in order to be fed; they swallowed with ease a piece of white bread, of the size of half a halfpenny roll. We shall only add the author’s testimony, concerning the possibility of the Carp not only living for a considerable time out of water, but of its growing fat in its new element. The author has seen the experiment successfully tried, and attended to the whole process, in a nobleman’s house where he then resided, in the principality of Anhalt-Dessau. The fish being taken out of the water, is wrapt up in a large quantity of wet moss, spread on a piece of net, which is then gathered into a purse ; in such a manner, however, as to allow him room to breathe. The net is then plunged into water, and hung up to the ceiling of a cellar. At first the dipping must be repeated every three or four hours ; but afterwards, the Carp need only be plunged into the water once in about six or seven hours. Bread soaked in milk is first given him, in small quantities. In a short time the fish will bear more, and grow fat under this seemingly unnatural treatment Forster, on the Management of Carp, in the Phil. Trans. for 1771 ; and Albin on Fish, 4lo. 1794, p. 10.188 the housekeeper’s oracle, and spawning is in May. It is, indeed, rather a pond than a river fish ; and a well-fed fish is at all times a delicate dish. Chub—spawns in March, but is best in season about Christmas. The Spawn is ex- cellent, and very wholesome. Cod—generally comes into good season in October, when, if the weather is cold, it eats as fine as at any time in the year; towards the latter end of January and February, and part of March, they are mostly poor, but the latter end of March, April, and May, they are gene- rally particularly fine ; having shot their spawn, they come in fine order. The Dogger-Bank Cod are the most esteemed, as they generally cut in large fine flakes; the north country Cod, that is caught off the Orkney Isles, are generally very stringy, or what is commonly called woolly, and sell at a very inferior price, but are caught in much greater abundance than the Dogger-Bank Cod. The Cod are all caught with hook, and brought alive in Well-Boats to the London Markets. The Cod cured on the Dogger-Bank is remark- ably fine, and seldom cured above two or three weeks before brought to market; the Barrel-Cod is commonly cured on the Coast of Scotland andECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 189 Yorkshire. There is a great deal of inferior cured salt fish brought from Newfoundland and Ireland. The Skull of a Dogger-Bank Cod is a famous dish for an Epicure, it being the richest and most luscious part of the fish; one of them is a good dish for three or four per- sons, and eats well either baked or boiled. The Tail of a Cod should always be cut in fillets or slices, and fried, which makes a good dish, and is generally to be bought at a very reasonable rate; if boiled, it is always soft and watery. The Skull and Tail of a Cod makes an excellent Scotch dish, stewed and served up together, with anchovies or oyster sauce, and the liquor it is boiled in, in the tureen. Obs.—If Coc/-fish eats woolly or stringy — and puzzles the machinery of your mouth, much in the same manner as if you were to “ masti- cate, denticate, chump, grind, and swallow,” a Skein of Worsted/!! gentle reader, blame not your Cook, for her “ Oracle ” has not yet been able to inform her how to make stale fish fresh— pay a visit to your fishmonger, and warn him that if he again sends you “ bad fish,” — (do not venture to say Stale, that word can never be190 the housekeeper’s oracle, and uttered in a Fishmonger’s shop : he will tell you plainly that it was quite impossible that he could have sent you “ Stale fish,” perhaps it might have “ been rather too long kept,”) — that you must consider it a civil hint, that he does not w'ish to be troubled with your custom any more. A large Cod, if more than sufficient for pre- sent use, may be divided — the head and shoulders boiled fresh—the remainder cleaned, washed, and salted for a day or two, will be found much preferable to the Salt fish as gene- rally brought to Market. Dace — spawn about the middle of March,’ are in season about three weeks after, are not very good till about Michaelmas, and are best in February. Eels — are equally in season all the year. The bright Silver Eels, which are bred in clear rivers and streams, are in great esteem; those which are caught in ponds, or waters of a slow course, whose bottoms are rather inclined to earth and slime than gravel, are at the best insipid, and frequently taste of the very mud in which they have been bred. Eels are frequently very useful fish, as you can generally obtainECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 191 them when other fish are not to be purchased; they make a good dish either stewed or spitch- cocked. Grayling or Umber.—This excellent fish spawns in May, is in season all the year, but in the greatest perfection in December. See ob- servations on Barbel. Gudgeon — spawn in May, and once or twice more during the Summer; are in season all the year, but in the greatest perfection in December. See observations on Barbel. Gurnets. — There are many different sorts of this fish; the red gurnet is much like a piper, and is dressed the same way as a piper or haddock. Haddock — is a firm good fish, generally brought to market about June; — is dressed many different ways — Large Haddocks boiled, and oyster sauce — Haddocks salted a day or two, and eaten with egg sauce — Haddocks cut in fillets and fried, or if small, broiled, or baked with a pudding in their belly, and some good gravy. John Dory. — A good fish, cutting very white and firm ; equal to turbot in firmness, but not in richness : those caught off Plymouth192 the housekeeper’s oracle, and and Torbay are the best. Is in season from March to June. Ling — is brought to Market in the same manner as Cod, but is very inferior to it, either salt or fresh. Lobster.—This fish is caught all along the British Channel, on the coast of Scotland and Norway, and on the coast of Northumber- land ; — of those under eight inches from the eye to the tail, and those having but one claw, they count two for one ; they also go to Scotland to contract with the fishermen there for the season, beginning in December and ending in May— and pay for them, from 7s. to 9s. a score. Lobsters are best from April to August; after that time they begin to spawn, and seldom open solid. Crabs nearly the same. Prawns are best from March to August. Crawfish are generally to be procured good at all times; the sea crawfish are very indif- ferent, of had digestion, and are only fit for making of Curry. “ When Lobsters, Crabs, or Prawns, are grown stale, some boil them a second or even a third time; others keep them alive so long that they are in a great measure consumed,ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 193 and then boil them.” — Arnaud’s Alarm to All touching their Health, 8vo. 1740, p. 9. Dr. Willich tell us. that “ the greater number of Lobsters sold in London, are boiled and reboiled every day for a week or longer, to sweeten them externally: the inner part is ge- nerally corrupted.”—See his Domestic Encyclo- pedia, 8vo. 1802, vol. iii. p. 121. The remonstrance of an itinerant fish-mer- chant to an accidental customer, when com- plaining of the Lobster sold to him not being- very fresh, was, — “ You know I can’t help its being stale, master; that’s your fault, not mine; I’ve cried him by your house every night for this fortnight past; you know you might have bought him before, if you had liked!!!” Mackerel — generally make their appear- ance off the Land s End about the beginning of April; as the weather becomes warm, they gra- dually come round the coast, and commonly arrive off Brighton about May, continue for some months, until they begin to shoot their spawn, when for above two months they are missing, until about Michaelmas, at which time a few very fat small mackerel of ex- £ cellent flavour again make their appearance. K194 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Mullets, Red—are a very delicious fish, commonly called sea woodcock, and are dressed with their entrails in, there being no gut, only like a string, and which is like marrow itself; they only require scraping : washed tenderly with a cloth, and broiled in a buttered paper, are so rich they scarcely require sauce. The best are caught off Plymouth, and all the way up the Channel to Portland, and some few off Brighton. Mullets, Gray— when in season, are very rich good fish, but not equal to the red: these o-enerally keep in the season near the fresh water. The best way of dressing them, is by baking them in a pie, or roasting or baking them with a pudding in their belly; and put in a tureen, with some good gravy, and they eat very fine. Oysters. — In 1621, the Colchester Oysters, with Green Beards, were the favourites. Mr. Howel writes thus : — “I have sent you two barrels of Colchester Oysters, which were pro- vided for my Lord of Colchester himself, there- fore I presume they are good, and all Green finn’d.”—SeeHowEL’s Letters, 5th edit. 1678, p. 74. Green Oysters (les Huitres Verts) are theECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 195 greatest delicacy that can be obtained in Paris ; and the most famous house there, the Rocher de Quancal, is the general resort of the Pari- sian Gourmands. Perch.—This nutritious and wholesome fish is in season all the year, but most so in August and September.* Pike. — The time of breeding or spawning is usually in April; he is in season all the year, but the fattest and best fed in Autumn, though in most general use in Spring. “ The Pike was introduced into England in the reign of Henry VIII. in 1537, when a Pike was sold for double the price of a House-Lamb in February. It is remarkable for its longevity : * The following receipt for dressing large Trout or Perch in the Yorkshire manner, is esteemed an excellent one : — (Take the fish as soon as possible after they are caught, wipe them well with a soft dry cloth, wrap a little of the cloth o about your finger, clean out the throat and gills very well, (you must not scale or gut the fish, or use any water about ■ them,) then lay them on a gridiron, over a clear fire, and i- turn them frequently. When they are enough, take off their heads, to which you will find the guts have adhered, then put a lump of butter, seasoned with salt, into the belly of every fish: so serve them up. Most people eat them with their own gravy; but if you use any sauce, serve it up in a boat.196 the housekeeper’s oracle, and we read of one that lived 90 years, and of another 270.” — Albin on Fishes, 4to. 1794, p. 24. Pipers — are a very good fish: the best that are caught are in the mid channel, from off Tor- bay to Plymouth : they are a very handsome fish whenfirst caught,having many beautiful colours, but soon fade: they eat a great deal like a firm fine Cod; eat good with a pudding in their belly, baked or roasted, and some good gravy, or plain, boiled as you would a Haddock. Plaice, Dutch — when in season, and what are caught off’the Dutch coast, are good fish, either fried or boiled: they are frequently con- demned, merely because they do not eat so firm as a Turbot or Brill, which is not their nature; but they are a more nutritious fish than Turbot: those caught on our own coast are nothing equal to the others. Pope, or Ruff, or Barce. — This Fish spawns in April, and is in season all the year: no fish that swims has a pleasanter taste. Roach — spawn about the latter end of May, when they are unwholesome; but they are again in order in about three weeks, and continue in season till the time of spawn- ing returns. The spawn is excellent. For theECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 197 manner of dressing, see Dace. It has been looked upon (though without much reason,) as remarkable for its vivacity and liveliness, from which comes the proverb, “ Sound as a Roach.’ Salmon.'—The earliest that comes in season to the London market is brought from the Severn, and begins to come into season the beginning of November, but very few so early, perhaps not above one in fifty, as many of them will not shoot their spawn till January, or after, and then continue in season till October, when they begin to get very thin and poor. The principal supply of Salmon is from different parts of Scotland, packed in ice, and brought by water: if the vessels have a fair wind, they will be in London in three days; but it fre- quently happens that they are at sea perhaps a fortnight, when the greater part of the fish is perished. Some tolerably good, and some of all qualities, has, for a year or two past, sold as low as twopence per pound, and up to as much as eighteen pence per pound at the same i time, owing to its different degrees of good- ness.* * This accounts for the very low price at which the itine- ; rant fishmongers cry their “ delicate Salman“ dainty fresh Salmon,” and “ Live Cod," “ New Mackerel,” &c. &c. 1198 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Salmon Gwilts, or Salmon Peel — are the small Salmon which run from about five or six to ten pounds, are very good, and make handsome dishes of fish sent to table crooked in the form of an S. Salmon Calvered — is the Salmon caught in the Thames, and cut into slices alive; and some few Salmon are brought from Oxford to London alive, and cut. A few slices make a handsome dish, but it is generally very expensive. SalmonSmelts— are in season all the year. They are a wonderful instance of quick growth; they go down the River at Salisbury the latter end of April, and at that time they weigh about three ounces each. The said Smelts return as Salmon (if there is a fresh in the River) in about seven weeks, . and weigh about twelve pounds each. The way this was ascertained was, “ the Fishermen, when the Fish were going down, caught some of them, and put a wire through their back fin, which they found in the fish when they caught it on its return.”— Gentle- maids Mag. for 1780, p. 187. Skate—is a very good fish when in good season, but no fish so bad when it is otherwise.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 19U Those persons who like it firm and dry, should have it crimped; but those who like it tender, should have it plain, and ate not earlier than the second day ; and if cold weather, three or four days old, it is better : it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. Skate, if young, eats very fine, crimped and fried. Smelts — are allowed to be caught in the Thames on the first of November, and continue till May. The Thames Smelts are the best and sweetest, for two reasons,— they are fresher, and richer, than any other you can get; they catch them much more plentiful and larger in Lancashire and Norfolk, but not so good, as they are a fish that should always be eaten fresh ; indeed all river fish should be eaten fresh, except Sal- mon, which, unless crimpt, eats better the second or third day; but all Thames fish par- ticularly should be eaten very fresh; no fish ■eats so bad when kept. Soles — are a fish that are generally to be procured good from some part of the coast, as some are going out of season, and some coming in, both at the same time ; many are brought in well-boats, alive, that are caught off Dover and Folkstone, and some are brought from the200 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE, AND same places by land carriage. The Soles that are caught on that part of the coast are rather small, but exceeding good fish. The finest Soles that are caught any where, are those that are off Plymouth, near the Eddystone, and all the way up the Channel, and to Torbay; it being very deep water, and the ground a fine gravelly bottom. They feed very solid, and are caught fre- quently very large, eight or ten pounds per pair: they are generally brought by water to Portsmouth, and thence by land; but the greatest quantity are caught off Yarmouth and the Knole, and many are caught off the Fore- lands. Sturgeon, Fresh—is esteemed a good Fish by many; but, I believe, only because it does not come plentiful enough to be common; and to the eater of fish, it makes a change: as many Gentlemen cannot dine without fish, it makes a variety, or becomes useful, when people want to give a course of fish entirely: a piece stewed, with some good gravy, is the best way of dressing; or cut in slices and fried, as you would a Veal Cutlet, eats very well. Sturgeon pickled makes a handsome winter dish for the second course.ECONOMIST AN1) EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 201 Tench.—This pleasant-tasted fish spawns in July, is in season all the year, but most valued in the six winter months. See the observations upon Barbel. Trout.—This beautiful and delicious fish spawns in October and November, and is not of any value till the latter end of March, but continues afterwards in season till the spawn- ing time returns. It is in the highest perfection, and of the most delicate taste, in May and June. For the method of dressing, see Perch. Trout,Berwick—are a distinct fish from the IGwilts, and are caught in the River Tweed, and dressed in the same manner as the Gwilt. Turbots.—The finest Turbots that are brought to the London Market, are caught off the Dutch coast, or German Ocean, and are - brought in well-boats alive. The commencement of the season is gene- | rally about March and April, and continues all jj the summer. Turbots, like other fish, do not spawn all at irthe same time ; therefore there are always good '< and bad all the year round. For this year or two past there has been an immense quantity r brought to London from all parts, and of all k 2202 the housekeeper’s oracle, anu qualities; a great many from a new fishery off Hartlepool, which are a very hand some-looking Turbot, but by no means equal to what are caught off the Dutch coast. A great many excellent Turbots are caught off Dover and Dungeness; and a large quantity brought from Scotland, packed in ice, which are of a very inferior quality, and are generally to be bought for about one-fourth the price of good Turbots. Whitings—are a very delicate fish, and re- quire to be eaten very fresh; those caught off Dover and Folkstone are the best; but some are brought alive, and some by land-carriage.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 203 CHAPTER VIII. VEGETABLES. it is supposed that a Million a Year is expended in Fruits and Vegetables. The seeds, roots, leaves, and fruits, of plants, particularly the two former, constitute a very material part of the food of mankind. According to the opinion of Dr. Cullen, and other physiologists, the quantity of actual nou- rishment that these contain, is in proportion to the quantity of sugar that they can be made to produce; it is imagined that the mucilage which abounds in the farinaceous seeds, is changed in the granary to starch; and that this starch, in the processes to which the seeds are after- wards subjected, or by digestion in the stomach, is at length converted into saccharine prin- ciple. The farinaceous seeds are wheat, barley, oats, rye, and millet, maize, or Indian corn, &c. The roots of this class are the sugar root, the204 the housekeeper’s oracle, and common carrot, beet, and polypode. Those with less of the saccharine principle, and which afford a tender farina, are the turnip-rooted cabbage, the parsnep, parsley root, asparagus, turnips, potatoes, &c. all of which, if less nu- tritive, are better suited to weakly organs of digestion, than those in which the sugar is more abundant. Other vegetables contain oil, sugar, muci- lage, or acid, in various proportions, diluted with much water: these are but slightly nutri- tive ; and are, for the most part, injurious to delicate stomachs especially, unless taken with moderation; these are the apple, pear, plumb, apricot, nectarine, peach, strawberry, grape, orange, melon, cucumber, dried figs, raisins, and a great variety of other roots, seeds, leaves, and fruits. Of these it may be observed generally, that those which are cold, watery, and sweet, are most calculated to prove indigestible, and con- sequently injurious. The Public residing in London and other large Towns, are frequently, from want of regular information when the proper seasons arrive for Vegetables, put to much inconvenience in at- tending the Markets, making unnecessary in-ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 2Q5 quiries, &c. Those who wish for very young and fresh-gathered Pease, Beans, Strawberries, and the finest fruits with the bloom on, &c. should apply to a Covent Garden Fruiterer a day or two before they are wanted, when they may obtain them in the utmost perfection. The following List, it is presumed, will afford much useful information to the Reader : — Names of Vegetables. Earliest Time for Forced. Earliest Natural Growth. When Cheapest. • September. Nov., Dec., <k Angelica Stalks, for pre- \ .( Middle of May and i foil, months. serving / Begin, of Jan. | Early in Feb. ^ whole of June- • • • ) Mid. of April, May,) June and July. August. September. July and Aug. Dec. and Jan. Beans, French or Kidneys - • June, and July • • ( End of J une, or be- \ ginning of July - • / Windsor Beans, long pods, Juno and early kinds / Borcole, or Scotch Cale, l or Kale S Dec. and Jhn. Feb. and Mar. July and August August. October. Nov. and three fol-\ lowing months •./ August. July and Aug. November. Beginning of June • Ditto of September • Corn Salad Ditto. • *' Price of Provisions during Elections During the Election at Sud- bury, four Cabbages sold for 101.; and a plate of Gooseberries fetched 251.; the sellers, where these articles were so scarce, being voters. At Great Marlow, on the contrary, things were cheap, and an elector, during the election, bought a sow and nine young pigs fora penny.”—Times, June 20th, 1826.206 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Names of Vegetables. Earliest Time for Forced. Earliest Natural Growth. When cheapest. Beginning of July June, and through") Aug. and Sept. Sept, and Oct. | Sept. &twofolL months. December. j June, July, and August. Oct. and Nov. Feb. and Mar. July. Aug. and foil. / Eschalots for keeping Leeks 1 r l { the year / Aug. and through? the year 5 Sept, and six months S after / pJtto } / Aug. Sept, and fol-I l ! lowing months • • / Feb. and through \ j the year J Oct. and continue \ Beg. or midd. 1 until May / June, July, and fol-\ of May . • ■) lowing months • • J May, and through") month. May and June. June. Ditto. September. Beg, of March | the year j End of March, and") Ditto, Turnip, Red and \ White / following months / / August, and follow-? ing months ) \ July and August • • • • August. Ditto. May. Scoizoiicrti Dec. and Jan. « Sept., and following? months ) June and July. / March, ’ April, and ! Spinach, Spring i. ' following months. Oct., Nov., and fol-S L/lllU) VV lillCl * • ' * .( ing months j May, June, and fol-/ June and July. April and May. June and July. 1 -! lowing months • • i March, April, and? May 3 April and May • • • • ? uiLio tor saiaa Ditto, W deli • • * A Cheshire Cucumber.— There is now to be seen in the gardens of G. C. Antrobus, Esq. M.P., Eaton Hall, a cucumber of the snake species, which now measures six feet, and is still in a growing state. It is worthy of remark, that in the short period of forty-eight hours, the cucumber grew to the wonderful extent of fourteen inches. The Macclesfield Courier adds, that the growth of the vege- table appears to be nearly complete, as its increase daily becomes less and less!! ! t One is almost induced to imagine that the lower orders of London conceive that “ Tatars," as they commonly call them in their uncooked state, is a gene- rical term; and that they only become entitled to the prefix of “pot," after they have been boiled.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 207 FRUITS. The Advice we have given, of letting your Fishmonger choose your Fish for you, applies also with equal propriety to your Fruiterer. The price of Fruit is governed by the supply at Mar- ket; and the quality of Fruit is so likewise — which varies more, and more unexpectedly, than an inexperienced person can imagine, even in the course of two or three days, when the heat is extreme, or rain falls in heavy showers. Strawberries will vary as under : at first, in Thumb-pottles, or by the ounce, 2s. 6cl., pro- gressively declining to 9d. and 6d. previous to commencing regular Pottles ; the very best, of superior quality, seldom sell at less than 10s. per Pottle when first brought to Market; 3s. or 2s. 6d. per Pottle at the cheapest time, when they are gathered in the morning and brought quickly to market on the head. Peaches at first 42s. per dozen, lowering pro- gressively to Is. 6d. and sometimes as low as Is. A Dessert requires even more care in the providing than a Dinner. The latter, Appetite pleads for, the Dessert pleads to Appetite.208 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Appearance must be consulted, as well as tin* intrinsic excellence of the articles. So many Plates filled with many things, no matter whether they are good or bad. Variety and cheapness are the order of the day; and De- cayed Apples, Sleepy Pears, Sour Oranges, Musty Figs, Shrivelled French Plums, dried Raisins, Biscuits, &c. frequently constitute what is called a Dessert. Have plenty of the one or two things most in Season, and some fresh-baked Biscuits; a few prime things of this sort are infinitely more acceptable than a crowd of under, or over ripe, or perished articles. Ninepence# per week, disbursed with dis- cretion, will make all the difference between purchasing prime Provisions, and entertaining your Friends with a hearty welcome, and plenty of good things in perfection, instead of pre- senting them with such forbidding fare, that its appearance will rather persuade them to fast than to feast. As to the Wholesomeness and Digestibility of Fruits, I rank them in the following order :— * According to the present rate of interest, 50/. will not produce more than 9rf. per week.economist and epicure's calendar. 209 1. Strawberries. 2. Raspberries. 3. Gooseberries. 4. Grapes. 5. Currants. C. Oranges. 7- Apples. 8. Pears. 9. Cherries. ... f Peaches, Nectarines, ' \ Apricots, Plums. 11. Melons, Pine Apples. 12. Almonds,Walnuts, Filberts. Hazel, and all other Nuts, are very proper Food for Pigs, for whose use Nature provided them; but the essential oil with which they abound, turns rancid and acrid in the Sto- mach, and often occasions most distressing heartburn, &c.; and the substance of them being absolutely indigestible and innutritive, I forbid all persons who wish to support any pretensions to being considered rational, ever to eat one of them. Many fatal cases of Constipation of the Bowels have been occasioned by eating Wal- nuts and Filberts. If immediately after a feast from the Kitchen, of which the articles may be more agreeable to the palate than suitable to the stomach, a second, from the garden is, without mercy, piled upon the first; what can you expect but to sink under the consequences of Repletion ? To those who understand the Economy of a Good Dessert, and to whom Fruit is not Fruit,210 the housekeeper’s oracle, and unless it is really the best that can be pur- chased, the following Table will prove (it is hoped) a very useful addition to Housekeeping knowledge. Names of Fruit. Apples, (the sorts') are very nume- J- rous) j Apricots Cherries Cobnuts Currants Cranberries Figs Filberts Gooseberries Grapes Ditto, Dutch • • Ditto, Malaga • • Ditto, Portugal Lemons Medlars Melons Mulberries Nectarines Nuts, Cob Olives Oranges Ditto, Seville • • • • Peaches Pears Pine Apples Plums Pomegranates I Puffins, Norfolk-• I Quinces j Raspberries Shaddock Strawberries Services Walnuts Earliest Time Forced. Earliest Natural. June April and May- May May / End of March \ \ and April / May May- May be had all the July July June September June October August August July September- • October November November All the year ■ N ovember About ten days May May and June • •• All the year June From November /Not Natural in \ \ this Climate. / End of August- August September • • • year good. December before January August July May | Arrivals very April ; July November- to April. September. July partial. June November- September- Most Plenty. Oct., Nov., Dec. i July and August. July. October. July and August. I October. September. September. August. October. October. December. December. February. November. August. September. September- October. March. March. September. Sept, and Oct. August. August and Sept. December. October. July and August. July. November. October.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 211 CHAPTER IX. BEER. Beer should be at least a Month in your Cellar, to get settled and fine, before it is tapped. If you have good and capacious cel- lars, desire your Brewer, about the Months of March and October, to lay in a quantity of Beer that will last the family for at least six months ; or if you have room to contain enough, to carry you through the whole year. The Brewer will engage that it will keep good and fresh ; and if it becomes too stale, will take it back, and exchange it for fresh. This is the best plan of having good Beer. It is a good rule not to draw more than Half a Pint per head ; we mean this for the Kitchen Dinner; for the present silly Fashion has banished Sir John Barleycorn’s Old English Cordials from the Parlour: however, the sac- charine and mucilaginous material of the Malt, and the astringent and tonic power of the Hop,212 the housekeeper’s oracle, and render good Beer a much more nutritive and heartening beverage than any Wine. “ Fashion is the curse of Wise Men, and the Idol of Fools.” The best Beer that the Author has drank for many a year, he buys of Verey, Brewer, at Willesden Green; and Bottled Stout of Field, Henrietta Street, Covent Garden. Well-fined Porter, from a capital Brewer who is above sophisticating it, agrees with most people; and good Beer is a less inflam- matory cordial than any at present in use, and, is Nutritious and Stomachic, without inducing costiveness, as Red Wines do—or raking the Kidneys, as Cider, Perry, and other Diuretics, are known to do; insomuch that Cyprianus, the great Lithotomist, has declared, that out of 1500 persons whom he had cut for the stone, he had never cut an Ale-Drinker; and it is a well-known truth, that few, even hard drinkers, whose constant and only liquor has been Ale, have ever suffered much from the Gout. Not- withstanding this just encomium on Good Ale. the Ale of Public-houses is frequently most abominably adulterated, by an addition of the poisonous berry called cocculus indicus; meant to save malt, and facilitate intoxication. It isECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 213 hardly credible what quantities the Druggists import, and sell for this purpose. Ale thus cooked up is very clear, very strong, and heady. (Jones’s Vulgar Errors, 8vo. 1797, p. 158.) Opium is applied to the same use.* If more Beer be drawn than is drunk at dinner, put a piece of bread into it, and it will be almost as pleasant drinking at supper as if it was fresh drawn. In very small families a pint of Porter per head is sometimes allowed instead of Table Beer, or rather the money that a Pint of Porter would cost, which, at the present price, 2\d. per pint, is not quite 41. per annum. Most Servants prefer this to having Table Beer; the common sort of which so soon be- comes sour, that it is often so absolutely un- drinkable, that Jack Cade would have no occa- sion to prohibit it now, by proclaiming, “ I will make it felony to drink Small Beer.” If Beer becomes too stale, a few grains of Carbonate of Potash added to it at the time it is drunk, will correct it, and make Draught Beer as brisk as Bottled Ale. * “ One Grain of Opium is enough to double the intoxi- eating power of a quart of Porter.” — Du. Trotter, on Drunkenness, 8vo. 1804, p. 39.214 the housekeeper’s oracle, and When Beer is tapped too soon, and is too bitter, the addition of a bit of sugar to each pint will greatly improve it. Take care the vent-peg is kept in tight — and when you think that your Cask is two- thirds empty, tilt it; this will greatly help to preserve what remains from becoming flat or sharp ; to make sure of which bottle it. By putting a rod into the Bung-hole of a Barrel of a known given measure, not perpen- dicularly down, but extending it to the lowest part, at the end of the Barrel, and marking the rod where it touches the Bung-hole, you may always find the dimensions of such a sized Barrel again. Barrels of given contents are all of equal dimensions, and if you thus prove your Barrel when bought, if full, you will be certain of having your quantity, and your Brewer cannot bring you a 12 Gallon cask for one of 18 Gallons. BREWING. For good Table beer, or Small Ale—To make four 18 Gallon Barrels, or 72 Gallons; begin at night, have the water boiling by nine o’clock. For the quantity of three Bushels, draw off into the Mash-Tub 18 Gal. water (boiling) and letECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 215 it stand till it comes down to between 160 and 170 degrees of heat; (or till you can see your face well in it) then pour in the Malt, having- one person to stir it all the time it is pouring- in : continue to stir it for five or six minutes; let it stand about half an hour, then add 33 Gallons of water from 170 to 190 degrees of heat; cover up at about 10 o’clock, and let it stand till six o’clock next morning, then draw it off. If the first part is not quite bright, return it into the Mash-Tub. When the whole is drawn off, put 33 Gallons of nearly boiling water, mash for some minutes, cover it up, and let it stand for one hour. The third mash the same. When the third water is in the Mash- Tub, clean the copper and make it nearly dry, then take the first wort, and part of the second (if the copper is sufficiently large), add the hops, and boil for about one quarter of an hour, (I reckon from the time it absolutely boils,) draw off one half, or one third, according to the quantity, and fill up with the remainder of the wort; let this boil nearly an hour, draw oft' a part, and continue to fill up till the whole is boiled. This is much less trouble than to make two or three separate boilings : put your beer to cool as fast as you draw it off from the216 THE housekeeper’s oracle, and copper. When you can get it down to 50 or 60 degrees of heat, you may put it together, the Mash-Tub having been cleared of the grains, and well washed, will make a good working tun. Let it stand till you find it about 60 or 65 degrees, when you may add the yeast — about a quart of good fresh yeast will be suffi- cient: if not quite fresh, three pints. The best way to add the yeast is to put it into a wooden bowl, and stir it well with a whisk; add as you stir it, about a handful of flour; let some of the yeast from the bowl run over into the beer, and let it swim quite full. Cover up, keep the room from 50 to 60 degrees of heat. When the head begins to fall, which may be from 24 to even 60 hours, skim off the yeast, stir it well, add about a double handful of salt with a little flour before you stir it up, and then barrel. It will work in the barrels from two to ten days, according to the weather, and other circumstances. As it works, the barrels must be filled up twice a day with some of the beer you have left, or if you are short in your brew- ing, from any you have in tap. When it has nearly done working, which you may know from the yeast appearing wet or frothy, add two or three handsful of the oldECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 217 hops to each barrel; stir them well, and let them stand for about 12 hours: bung down, and in about 12 or 15 days you ought to have beer as bright as wine. The hops should be soaked the night before in three or four Gallons of cold water, and the sugar melted in an iron saucepan, and put into the Copper about a quarter of an hour before you draw it off. It is customary with some to make one sort of Beer only—if you make Ale and Table beer, you generally rob one or the other. Five bushels of Malt and 10 or 121bs. of Sugar will make 72 Gallons of most excellent Ale ; about lib. of hops to each bushel of malt is the usual quantity : but for beer to be kept during the summer, Jib. to the bushel will not be found too much. OTHER RULES FOR BREWING. Boil as clear river water as you can get; or, if hard water, throw in a handful of salt; when it boils draw it off into your mash-tub, let it be cool enough to see your face in, or by the Thermometer 172°; then put in your malt and mash it well, covering it as close as you can to keep in the heat; let it stand three hours, L218 the housekeeper’s oracle, and during which time prepare your second Copper of water, then draw oft’ your wort very slow (to prevent its running thick), through a hole at the bottom of the tub, secured by a strainer. Continue the same a second and third time, till you have got your requisite quantity, al- lowing one-third for boiling and ivasle. Then fill the Copper with the first wort, and put in the proportion of hops, making it boil quick : about an hour is long enough, but you may tell by taking a little out, and examining. If it curdles and separates, have rgady a large tub, and strain your beer into it. As soon as you empty one Copper, fill again and boil the hops which are strained from the first, and so on with every Copper. Capital Ale may be brewed at the rate of 12 Gallons to a bushel of Malt and one pound of hops. Take great care your Casks are not musty, or have any ill smell. After the wort and hops have been boiled together, when the liquor is about milk warm, take a little out, and mix it with the yeast in a pail; in about half an hour afterwards put it to the rest: let it work for 48 hours in your mash- tub, stir it now and then, but not for the lastECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 219 hour before you barrel it, as it should be bar- relled as clear as possible from the yeast. Take care to fill your barrels up with beer left for that purpose until it has done working, which may be ten days or a fortnight; —fit for drinking, if you like it mild, in six weeks or two months. Mem.—Take 18 Gallons from a Bushel for Table beer, and it is a very pleasing family beer. This Beer should not be worked more than 24 hours.220 THE housekeeper’s oracle, and CHAPTER X. BREAD. “ The consumption of wheat amounts to a million of quarters annually ; of this, four-fifths are supposed to be made into bread, being a consumption of sixty-four millions of quar- tern loaves every year, in the metropolis alone. Until within the last few years, the price of bread was regulated by assize ; and it may afford some idea of the vast amount of money paid for the staff of life, when it is stated, that an advance of one farthing in the quartern loaf formed an aggregate increase in expense, for this article alone, of upwards of 13,000/. per week.” As I have observed, the average consumption by adults who have plenty of Potatoes, Vege- tables, and other Food, is about a Quartern Loaf per week.* * “I have been informed by eminent Bakers, that twelve ounces of Bread was the average consumption of each person, which they said was not only in a great measure owing to the unwearied labours of the Tea Table, but likewise to children, who eat more than Adults, and also to labouring men, who eat treble the quantity of others. But the consumption of Bread has much decreased with the great one of Spirits; andECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 221 Bread is now sold by the Pound:—the Author has had excellent Bread from T. Lis- ter, No. 6, Salcombe Place, York Terrace, Regent’s Park. Fresh-baked Bread is extremely unwhole- some—a Loaf should not be cut till it has been baked at least 24 hours — and should be kept in an Earthen pan with a cover. Cut the Loaf as even as possible; pare off all burned and black parts of the crust, and cut no more Bread at a time than you are pretty sure will be wanted. If any pieces are left, let them be eaten before any more Bread is cut, or at least put them away carefully in the Bread Pan — the Crum will be useful for making Bread Crums for Fried Fish,* &c. (No. 320), the Crust will make a Save-All Pudding. See No. 110 of the Appendix to The Cook’s Oracle. The Pieces should be thus used twice a week, they are now (anno 1740) unanimously agreed, that including Puddings, Pies, and the other Pastry ware, the quantity of Flour consumed in the City and its suburbs amounts to ten ounces per head daily.” — Maitland’s Hist. London, p. 756. * See page 209, Receipt 320, of the Cook’s Oracle, to which book all numbers, as the above, refer.222 THE housekeeper’s oracle, and I especially in clamp weather, or they will be in danger of becoming mouldy. One of the surest tokens of a Good House- wife is the state of her Bread Pan. The Whiter bread is, the more it is adulte- rated : the consequence of adulteration is, that bread, which has been called the “ Staff of Life,” becomes “ an arrow in the hand of death.” Constant experience proves that such bread after it is two days old, becomes more dry and husky than good home-made bread is at four or five days old. The difference of consuming New Baker’s bread of the first day, and that which has been baked the day before, is computed to be at least one-fourth more of the New Bread. Persons troubled with Flatulency, Heart- burn, and the various concomitants of Indi- gestion, should never eat nexo Bread — or Pastry. If Bread made in a private family, of the same flour as the Baker uses, is much less white and much more moist, it is a clear proof that the Baker’s bread is whitened, and arti- ficially.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 223 All the care of the Baker is to produce some- thing that is White — for the old distich, “ They by the colour, not the Taste, approve all, As Geese will sit on Chalk, if ’tis but oval.” applies to his customers exactly. Families who buy flour and make their own Bread, will escape a great deal of mischief; but the Corn must be bought fine, and ground in the house, to secure the safety of the Bread entirely. “ There is not one Baker in ten who is not as much at the mercy of his Flour Merchant, as a Publican is at that of his Brewer or Dis- tiller : they, therefore, dare not dispute either the price, or the quality of what is delivered to them.”— Hints on the State of the Country, 8vo. 1812, p. 19. The frugal Housewife, who would enjoy the Luxury of eating good unadulterated Bread, A\i 11 find here such plain and accurate direc- tions as cannot fail of easily being put into practice. And for making French Rolls, Sally Lunn, Muffins, Crumpets, and Yorkshire Cakes, see also the Nos. 100, 100*, 101, 102, 103, 104, of the Appendix to the Cook’s Oracle.224 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE, AND THE COMMON FAMILY WAY OF MAKING' BREAD. To half a bushel of Flour add six ounces of Salt, a pint of yeast, and six quarts of water that has boiled : in warm weather put the water in nearly cold; but in winter, w;hen the weather is very cold, let it be as warm as the hand can be endured in it without causing pain ; and in temperate weather, observe a mean be- tween the two extremes. This is deemed a proper proportionate mixture, and the mode of proceeding is as follows :— Put the flour into a kneading-trough, or other vessel used for the purpose, and make a hole in the middle of the Flour ; put the water into it, to which add the Yeast and Salt; stir them together, and mix up the flour with it till the dough becomes of a very thick consistence. Cover the whole up warm to ferment and rise, (particularly in cold weather). This is called setting the sponge, and on a due management of this part of the business depends the goodness of the bread. After letting it lie a proper time in this state — an hour and a half, more or less, accordingECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 225 to the weather—knead it well together ; be not sparing of labour, and afterwards lay the whole thick at one end of the kneading-trough, and let it lie some time longer covered up. During this part of the process, the oven must be heated ; when that is effected, and properly cleansed from ashes, cinders, &c. make the bread into eight loaves, and place them in the oven as expeditiously as possible, observing to leave a little fire on one side of the mouth of the oven, to give light while setting, and also to prevent the external air from cooling it. Stop the oven up close, and draw the bread out when baked. The proof of its being well fermented and baked will appear on putting a slice in water ; if it is good bread, it will dissolve entirely into a pap in the course of a few hours, without rendering the water turbid or mucilaginous. O TO MAKE WHEATEN BREAD, AS PRACTISED BY THE BAKERS. As it was my wish to be particularly ac- quainted with the several minute circumstances respecting this branch of the art, I procured access to a bakehouse that had reputation for making exceeding Good Bread.226 the housekeeper’s oracle, and I went there about two o’clock in the after- noon ; soon after, nine faggots of wood were put into the oven to get dry, and the copper warming-pan being filled with water, was placed there also. At three o’clock they prepared to set the sponge ; for which purpose two sacks of house- hold flour were emptied into the kneading- trough ; it was then carefully sifted through the brass-wire sieve, which made it lay much lighter than before. The following mixture was then prepared. Two ounces of Hockey* were first put into a tin pot, and dissolved over the fire in a little water, which Bakers call liquor; * The reason given for adding the alum was, that it saved kneading, but it ought to be discountenanced, as it is very apt to produce an obstinate costiveness; and the late Dr. Leate, in his Treatise on the Diseases of the Viscera, asserts, from his own knowledge, that jalap is frequently added to coun- teract the astringent quality of the Alum. Other reasons have been given for this addition, which appear very plau- sible ; one is, that when Alum is mixed with new wheat, it makes the flour of new, equal to that of old. Another is, that the London Bakers use it to clear the river water, which is frequently muddy. There is a heavy penalty annexed to this species of adulte- ration, and any person that suspects his bread contains this drug, or any other, may convince himself by the following simple experiment: — Take a loaf of bread and cut it into thinECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 227 this was poured into the seasoning-tub, and nine pounds of salt were thrown in, over which they poured two pailsful of hot liquor; when cooled to 84 degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermo- meter, six pounds of yeast were added; the com- position was then stirred well together, strained through the seasoning-sieve, and emptied into a hole made in the flour; and afterwards was mixed up with it to the consistency of a thick batter. Some flour was now lightly sprinkled over the top, when it was covered up with two or three sacks to keep in the heat. This operation is called setting quarter sponge. slices, put it into a saucepan-ful of water, set it in a sand bath, or other very warm place, without shaking for twenty- four hours ; the bread will, in this time, soften in all its parts, and the ingredients will separate from it. If any jalap has been used, it will swim on the top in a coarse film ; if any chalk or whiting, it will sink to the bottom; and when the water is poured away, the addition of a little vinegar will occasion a fermentation, like the working of yeast. The water that is poured off is to be filtered, and afterwards evaporated to the consistence of honey ; and. when put by in a cool place, the alum will crystallise, and by weighing it you may deter- mine the exact quantity that a loaf contains. Dr. Darwin thinks, that when much alum is mixed with bread, it may be distinguished by the eye in the place where two loaves have been together in the oven ; they break from each other with a much smoother surface than those loaves which do not contain alum.228 the housekeeper’s oracle, and It remained in this situation till six o’clock in the evening, when I observed it had swelled to a considerable size, and broke through the flour; two pailsful more of warm liquor were now stirred in, and the mass was covered up as before. This second stirring is called setting half sponge. At eleven o’clock at night five more pails- ful of warm liquor were added, and when the whole was intimately blended, it was kneaded for upwards of an hour. The dough was then cut into pieces with the knife, thrown over the sluice-board, and penned to one side of the trough; some dry flour being sprinkled over, it was left to prove till about three o’clock in the morning, when it was again kneaded for the space of half an hour. The. dough was then taken out of the trough with the arms, put on the lid, and cut up into pieces, and what stuck to the sides and bottom was removed with the scraper. It was then weighed, and four pounds fifteen ounces were allowed for each quartern loaf, the Baker observing, that a loaf of that size loses from ten and a half to eleven ounces while in the oven. It was then worked up, and the separate masses were laid in a row till theECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 229 whole was weighed; and on counting them afterwards, I found they were equal to one hundred and sixty-three and a half quartern loaves; but this circumstance I understand is variable.* As some flours knead better than others, some sacks will produce from eighty- one to eighty-two and a half quartern loaves, while others will scarce make eighty ; hence the law has directed the magistrates who set the assize, to make the calculation from eighty loaves to a sack of flour. I should have mentioned that the fire was kindled at two o’clock, and continued burning till near four, when the wood being converted to an ash, the looker was put into the oven, and the ashes drawn up to the mouth; the hoe then scraped up what escaped the rooker, and all the ashes were thrown with the spade into the ash-hole, except a few that were left at one corner to light the man who set in the bread. The swabber was now introduced, which * A variation of temperature makes a considerable differ- ence to the baker’s profit or loss, in converting flour to bread. In summer, a sack of flour will yield a quartern loaf more than in winter; and the sifting it before it is wetted, if it does not make it produce more bread, certainly causes the loaves to be larger.230 the housekeeper’s oracle, and cleaned out the bottom of the oven, and left it perfectly free from dirt and ashes. Two men now began- to mould* up the loaves, while a third took his station at the mouth of the oven, who marked each loaf with a large roman W. as it was removed to him, and then placed it on the quartern-peel, and carried it to the upper end of the oven, where it was left, and the peel withdrawn ; the next loaf was placed by the side of the first, and they went on, moulding and delivering, till the whole was set in. The door was now stopped up close till seven o’clock, when it was unclosed, and the drawing- peel being carried under, a part of the batch was obliquely elevated, which separated three or four loaves from their adhesion to the others, when they.were withdrawn, having been in the oven about three hours. The remainder were separated and removed in the same man- ner, and then turned with their bottoms up- wards to prevent them from splitting. * The operation of moulding is peculiar, and can only be learnt by practice: it consists in cutting the mass of dough destined for a loaf into two equal portions; they, are then kneaded either round or long, and one placed in a hollow made in the other, and the union is completed by a turn of the knuckles on the centre of the upper pieje.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 231 TO MAKE ROLLS, AS PRACTISED BY BAKERS. After the bread was placed in the oven, they prepared to set sponge for a bushel of flour, which was sifted, and mixed in the same man- ner, and with the same flour, as was done for the bread; at half-past six o’clock they were moulded up, and a slit was cut along the top of each with a knife; they were then set in rows on a tin, and placed in the proving-oven to rise, till seventeen minutes before eight o’clock, when they were drawn and set in the oven, which was closed as before: at eight o’clock they were drawn, and the moment they were taken out they were slightly brushed over with a buttered brush, which gave the top crust a shining appearance; and then covered up with flannel till wanted for sale. TO MAKE FRENCH ROLLS, AS PRACTISED BY THE BAKERS. Put a peck of flour into the kneading-trough, and silt it through the brass-wire sieve; then rub in three quarters of a pound of butter, and when it is intimately blended with the flour, mix up with it two quarts of warm milk, a232 the housekeeper’s oracle, and quarter of a pound of salt, and a pint of yeast; let these be mixed with the flour, and a suffi- cient quantity of warm water to knead it into a dough; let it stand two hours to prove, and then be moulded into rolls or bricks, which should be placed on tins, and set for an hour in the prover. Place them in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes, and, when drawn, they are to be rasped. TO MAKE HOUSEHOLD BREAD, AS PRACTISED BY THE BAKERS. Household Bread undergoes the same pre- paration as that for wheaten bread, with this difference, that instead of being made of fine white flour, it is made of an inferior sort called seconds flour, and the loaves, instead of being marked with a W, are, in conformity to Act of Parliament, marked with a H; and Bakers neglecting to make this distinction are liable to be fined; but, like all good laws, it is some- times evaded, by mixing the two flours toge- ther, and making the mixture into white bread, which is coloured with chalk or whitening, that the fraud may not be detected.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 233 TO MAKE STANDARD WHEATEN BREAD, AS PRACTISED BY THE BAKERS. Send a quarter of Wheat to the mill, and let the Miller so grind and dress it, that the flour shall weigh three fourth parts of the wheat from whence it was made, without any mixture or addition; then let it undergo the same pre- paration as that for wheaten bread ; only be- fore the loaves are put into the oven, let them be marked S W. If this flour is properly ground, and the bread well made, it will be of a yellowish cast or tint, and far more nourish- ing than any bread that can be devised. TO MAKE BREAD. Put a Quartern of Flour and an ounce of Salt into a large wooden or earthen Bowl, or a small Tub, make a hole in the middle of it, and mix half a Tea-cupful of Yeast with a pint and a quarter of lukewarm water; pour this mixture gradually into the hole in the Flour, mixing part of the flour with it by the hand till it becomes a thick batter—sprinkle it lightly over with flour, cover it with a clean cloth, and let it stand near the fire for an hour234 the housekeeper’s oracle, and and a half; then knead it with the rest of the flour, and cover it over again with the cloth till it begins to rise, which will be in half an hour or an hour, depending entirely upon the state of the weather — make it up in two loaves, and put it into a quick oven — it will take about an hour and a half baking. The proper heat that the oven should be of can only be knowrn by experience. This will make 4£lbs of Bread, and costs Is. 1 d. s. d. Flour. 0 10 Baking 0 2 Yeast 0 1 1 1 If you bake it in an Oven of your own, and buy the flour in large quantities, it will cost much less. The same weight of Bread, viz. 4Albs, may be bought at the Bakers for 10|f/. but will neither be so agreeable to the- taste, so nutri- tious, nor so wholesome, as that made at home, as it will certainly contain a large portion of Potatoes,* See. &c. * The writer of this article lived at a Baker’s, and occa- sionally superintended the boiling a large copperful of Pota-ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 235 THE PRESENT WAY OF MAKING BREAD, AS PRACTISED BY THE BAKERS. Take six pounds of fruit (Potatoes) well boiled; mash them well in a pail, put a good bowl of cold water to them — more if required, and keeping them as hot as you can, rub them through the Colander: take care to keep room for your yeast, as you can increase the quantity after. It should be a good-sized pailful. After you have got your yeast in, and to a proper heat, which will be regulated by the weather and your own judgment, put in a pound and a half of sifted flour, well stirred together for several minutes; in a short time you will per- ceive it begin to work ; it will require plenty of room, as it must be well down before you take it the second time. This is what we call put- ting in the ferment: when it has been in about two hours, take the same quantity of water and put into your ferment, with a good handful of salt well stirred about. This quantity will require to be kept warm in the sponge; put your strainer over your toes — saw the machinery used for preparing them, and the men kneading the DOUGH WITH THEIR FEET.236 the housekeeper’s oracle, and sponge place, and pour it in ; stir it well, and shake it up dry and tough. In summer you may stir sponge much tighter, as it will require to be kept back. This may be done between four and five in the evening; it may lie till twelve ; if not then gone down, wait a short time; for unless you have a good sponge, there is but poor depend- ence on having good bread : when it is ready, take up as much more water as you have got in before; let it be in comfortable order, unless it is summer time; then all cold. I should allow three quarters of a pound of salt to a bushel, or three pounds and a half to a sack. This will be near a sack of flour made up. Be sure to make your dough dry, and if it comes on very free, take a handful of salt with a little flour, and work it down well, and draw it over again. This will clear your bread very much; let it lie half an hour longer, then throw it out; by this time you should light your furnace fire; if it draws well, it will heat while you scale oflT. You may weigh the loaves in at 41b. 6oz. ; they will not lose more than the 6oz. in baking, unless the oven is very hot; I think two hours sufficient in a sound oven, but the cheapECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 237 Bakers will draw in an hour and a half; they can weigh in 5oz. less on that account, Ton may improve the colour by adding a quarter of a pound of Stiff. I don’t agree with having more than 4oz. to a Sack of flour. The Batch should be in be- fore five, you may then put in your Roll Sponge: having got a small quantity of fruit done while you are setting the Bread, rub them through as you did for the bread, but take care to give them plenty of Yeast and Roll Yeast, with a handful of flour; it will come up very quick if kept warm; when down, take it. Take care to have a third of what you are going to make in the ferment, so as to have only a quarter when you make the dough ; some will throw it out as soon as it is made. I think to let it lie in the trough for twenty minutes will clear the Roll very much. You must take care to have them on the tin. Most of them before they draw the Bread, keep some of it to put in the trough to prove the Rolls, that must be well looked after, as there is a great dependence on proving a roll. Keep the place close shut while you are getting your Rolls up. For what you wish to make into French Roll, take the quantity of Dough from238 the housekeeper’s oracle, and the other ; and a very small bit of butter rubbed into it, will improve them both in the eating and baking. SCOTCH GINGERBREAD. 51bs. Molasses, 81bs. Flour, l§lbs. Sugar, 31bs. Orange Peel, lib. Caraway Seeds, 5oz. Ground Ginger, 3oz. Pimento, 2oz. Pearl Ashes, loz. Alum, lib. Butter. Dissolve the Ashes in a little cold water, and the Alum in a Gill of hot water on the fire — melt the Butter to a thin cream. — Mix to- gether.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 239 CHAPTER XI. BUTTER AND CHEESE.* The annual consumption of butter in London amounts to about 11,000, and that of cheese to 13,000 tons. The money paid annually for milk is supposed to be 1,250,000?. Butter is so important an Article in almost every department of Domestic Cookery — and * Of Milk and its Products.—Milk partakes of the proper- ties of both animal and vegetable aliment: it may be sepa- rated by rest, or by agitation, into cream, butter-milk, whey, and curd. The cream is easier of digestion by the adult stomach, on account of its containing less of the caseous, or cheesy part; it is likewise on this account more nutritive. Butter contains still more nutriment, and is likewise, if not taken to excess, exceedingly easy of digestion, and is by no means calculated to generate unpleasant humours in the body. If given without any separation of its principles by artificial preparation, it might be admitted into the diet of infancy with much greater propriety than other articles which are employed with less apprehension of injury. Butter-milk is agreeable, bland, and gently nutritive. Whey is the least nutritious, and most easy of digestion. It is on this account ordered with the utmost propriety to those invalids whose constitutions have been rendered too irritable to bear the240 the housekeeper’s oracle, and it is in this Country so completely a necessary of Life, that no English Breakfast can dispense with it—no English Dinner can be cooked, or relished, or hardly ever eaten without it. It has been calculated that the annual con- sumption of Butter in London is not less than 50,000 Tons, of which the Counties of Cam- bridge and Suffolk are said to furnish 50,000 Firkins; each containing 561bs. That produced in Essex, calledEpping Butter, is the favourite in the Market. stimulus of more solid and nutritive aliment. Cheese is of various kinds, arising principally from the greater or less quantity of cream that it contains. Those Cheeses which are broken to pieces in the mouth with most readiness, are generally easiest of digestion, and most nutritive. Many kinds of Cheeses are a considerable time in undergoing chemical change in the stomach; and, on this account, al- though difficult of digestion, do not disagree with weak stomachs. New Cow’s milk is the food of infants, and is by far the best substitute for the milk of the mother, if this last be not afforded in sufficient quantity or quality by the parent, which, however, is seldom the case. The stomachs of children abound with acidity; and milk, which is always curdled before it is. assimilated, is consequently digested with more facility in the earlier than in the more advanced periods of life. It is on this account likewise that certain vegetable substances, which have a great tendency to acidity, are exceedingly injurious to the infantile stomach.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 241 There is a great proportion of bad, much good, but very little Excellent Butter, which must be attributed to the immense quantity used — the great distance from which it is often brought — the time it is kept — and the method of manufacturing it. It is also well known that Butter wastes extremely in quan- tity from the various substances on which the Cows feed. Butter is of two kinds. The Fresh and The Salt. The peculiar excellence of each consists in its perfect sweetness and delicate flavour. What is termed the Weekly Dorset is the best Salt Butter. This arrives in Town twice a week. It is generally about 3cl. per pound cheaper than the best Fresh Butter, and will keep good for a fortnight in Summer, and longer in Winter. For Melting, Pastry, and many other purposes, this is quite as proper as Fresh Butter. Fine Carlow Butteri which comes in about Michaelmas, is about 5d. per pound less than Fresh Butter, and will keep good for a couple of months. Salt Butter is sold in Firkins of about 60 pounds weight, and also in what are termed Whole Half Firkins, of about 28 or 30 pounds. M242 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Butter must be as closely compacted as pos- sible in order to preserve it from the air: the Butter near the joints of the Tubs, where the air has access to it, is always the most rancid. Butter Gaugers have a long Augur, which they thrust through the whole Tub, and as they find it uniform, or of two or three different qualities, mark the Cask 1, 2, 3. Stone Jars are infinitely better machines to keep Butter in than the Tubs it is usually packed in; and the face of it should be de- fended from the air by constantly keeping it covered by about a quart of strong Brine. TO MAKE SALT BUTTER FRESH. Salt Butter may in winter generally be bought for 4d. or 10c?. per pound cheaper than Fresh Butter; and by the following simple pro- cess the former may be made nearly quite as good as the latter, for buttering Muffins, Crum- pets, Toast, Pastry, &c.; and, indeed, for all purposes except Melting. Put a pound of Salt Butler in a wooden Bowl, kept very clean for the purpose, only with a quart of water, and work it well, either with your hand or a wooden spoon, for twentyECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 243 minutes, then pour away the water, and wash it well in seven or eight different waters,— add a very little fine salt, and make it into pats. N. B. — When you choose Salt Butter, taste a piece of the outside next the Tub ^ if that is good and free from rankness, you may be certain the middle is; but the centre is often excellent when the sides are half spoilt; and those who sell it, knowing this, always give you a taste out of the middle. CHEESE. The observations on the various qualities of Butter apply to Cheese, which, if possible, vary still more. Fine Cheshire Cheese, two years old, is the best Bread Sauce in the world. It is not very easy to obtain it, and the retail market price is now Is. per pound. One year old it may be bought for lid., and as low as 8d. Ask your Cheesemonger which of his Cheeses is best,—they have generally a favourite Dairy, and that is the one to select from. I can never forget asking a Cheesemonger which of two Cheeses he thought was the best: — “ Why, Sir, I will tell you with pleasure —244 the housekeeper’s oracle, and I have no reason for not doing so — for you have a Palate, and would choose the best Cheese if I did not tell you : but, my dear Sir, I should not like to be often asked such a question. People in general have so little taste, that if they choose for themselves, it is an even chance that they choose the worst, and you know that is the best they can choose for me.” ■ 1. A Cheshire man sail’d into Spain, To trade for Merchandise : When he arrived from the Main, A Spaniard he espies — Who said, ‘ You English Rogue, look here, What Fruits and Spices fine Our Land produces twice a year; Thou hast not such in thine.’ 2. The Cheshire man ran to his hold, And fetched a Cheshire Cheese ; And said, ‘ Look here, you dog, behold We have such Fruits as these. Your Fruits are ripe but twice a year, As you yourself do say, But such as I present you here, Our Land brings twice a day.’ The above celebrated Song of The Cheshire Cheese is from Jones’s Popular Cheshire Me- lodies.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 245 Cheddar of the best quality is also an excellent Cheese. This weighs from 10 to 20 pounds, and, being smaller than the Che- shire, sooner comes to perfection. The finest quality, of a year and a half old, now sells for Is. per pound. Stilton Cheese, if nursed properly, approximates to maturity soon after Christ- mas ; for the fine creamy Stilton comes to perfection in about six or eight months. The best is now Is. 6d. per pound; but we prefer either of the preceding Cheeses, Stil- ton is so very rarely met with fine, and then, as soon as it is ripe, it decays in a few days, and is a very uncertain and extra- vagant article. For Toasting. — Single Berkley, or Derby : these weigh from 14 to 20 pounds, and are from 8d. to 9d. per pound. Good fat, mellow Cheshire, or double Glou- cester, is much better than the poor, thin single Gloucester, which is commonly used. See “The Cook’s Oracle,” Receipts No. 539 and 540. Cheese for Toasting must be perfectly sound. Rotten Cheese Toasted is the very ne plus ultra of Haut Gout, and only eatable by the thorough-246 the housekeeper’s oracle, and bred Gourmand, in the most inverted state of his jaded appetite. Cheese must be kept in a cool but not in a damp cellar. Let a broad shelf be suspended from the ceiling of the Cellar, for then no mice can get at your Cheese — and on this let it always be kept, and not carried into the Par- lour till the minute it is wanted; and as soon as it is done with, let it be replaced on the shelf in the Cellar. By such attention, Cheese will be long preserved pleasant and fresh — which, by the usual careless way in being left standing about in the Passages and Kitchens, speedily gets dry, and is spoiled. It must be turned, and its Coat well brushed, and rubbed quite dry and clean, once or twice a week. IT its Coat becomes damp or mouldy, the body of the Cheese will be impregnated with the same flavour, and its taste will soon be irrecoverably spoiled. The most delicate and delicious of Cheeses are the Bedfordshire. Cream Cheese will not ripen till the Ther- mometer is above sixty-five degrees,—seldom continues in perfection twenty-four hours, and that is in the months of June and July.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 247 BACON. When Salted Meat is dried, it gets the name of Bacon, Ham, or Hung Beef. The Wiltshire Bacon is reckoned the best, and may be bought by the Flitch (a side) at from 8d. to 9d. per pound. Have the Flitch cut through; if the skin is thin and the fat red, it is good, and will boil firm: but make an agreement with the Seller to change it if you do not like it. Good Irish Bacon may be bought for 7cl. per pound per Flitch. They run from fifty to seventy Pounds. HAMS. When you purchase these, tell the person you buy them of whether you wish them highly Smoked — or prefer them Unsmoked, or what is called pale dried. The Real York Hams are preferable to any, and a rasher, cut about one-third of an inch in thickness, will broil as mellow as a Rump Steak especially while the Ham is what is termed green —that is until about April. Hams come to their flavour, and perfection for boiling, about Midsummer, and keep good248 the housekeeper’s oracle, and till about Christmas. They must not weigh less than from ten to fourteen pounds; if smaller, they are thin and lean, and boil tasteless. Hams and Bacon are tasted by thrusting a long narrow knife into them; close the aper- ture with your finger immediately after, or the air will enter, and turn it rancid. Westphalia Hams may be bought here for exportation for 6d. or Id. per pound; but when the duty is paid for home consumption, real best Westphalia Hams come very dear. They are imported in November, but are not equal to our best York Hams. Mem. — Look sharp at the edge of the back that it is not too fat, or you may buy more Hog’s-lard than you do Ham. The Real Wiltshire Smoked Pig’s Chops are a delicious Relish, cost about 8d. per pound, and weigh about eight pounds each. Ham should always be on the fire an hour and a half before coming to a boil, and then simmer gently for four hours. Never cut off the knuckle, but draw the bone out. HAM PIE. Charles Dartiquenane, better known by the abbreviated name ofDartineuf, was the intimateECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 249 friend and associate of Swift, Steel, and Addi- son, and a member of the Kit Cat Club. He was not only celebrated as an epicure but as a punster. He is said to have been a writer in the Tatler, though his papers cannot now be ascertained. Pope alludes to him in his Epistles: — “ Each mortal has his pleasure none deny— Scarsdale his bottle, Darty his Ham Pie. * * * * Hard task to suit the palate of such guests, When Oldfield loves what Dartineuf detests.” i Lord Lyttleton has given a dialogue in the shades between “ Dartineuf and Apicius ” on the subject of good eating, ancient and modern, in which ham pie is stated to have been the favourite dainty of the former. Darty died in 1737, and is supposed to have left the receipt of his favourite pie with an old lady, who afterwards transferred it to Dr. Kitchiner. London Pickled Tongues are now from Ad. to Id. each, according to their size. Dried Tongues are of a stronger flavour, and very inferior to the Pickled Tongues. If you have not time to soak a Tongue pre- vious to boiling it, cook it in two waters, let- ting the first be one hour coming to boil, and m 2250 the housekeeper’s oracle, and then pouring it off, and covering it with fresh lukewarm water. The best and most expeditious way of skin- ning a Tongue, is to take it up when it is done enough, and just dip it into cold water: this loosens the skin, and makes it come off very easily, without the Tongue being disfi- gured ; which, without this precaution, it often happens to be, by the skin adhering so tight as to bring away part of the Tongue with it. This operation, and that of trimming the Tongue, should be performed about half an hour before it goes to Table, and it should then be put into the Pot again. By managing thus, you will be able to send it to Table quite hot, and it will not occupy your time nearer the Hour of Dinner, when you will always have plenty of other things to do.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 251 CHAPTER XII. CANDLES. Kind of Candle. Number in a Pound. Cost per Pound for Ready Money. Lengt h in Inches. Diameter, Inches. Time one Candle Will burn. j Best Wax* 6 s. cl. 3 10 9 i H. M. j 8 0 Spermaceti 6 2 10 8| i 7 40 Composition 6 2 10 i 7 30 Best Tallow Moulds 6 0 9 7 40 Moulds for Reading 4 0 9 10 10 J Dipped Candles ... 8 o n 5 50 ! Dipped Candles 10 o 74 8^ 6 5 5 0 Rushlights 8 o 74 8 40 J A Wax Candle of three-fourths of an Inch in diameter, loses one grain of its weight in thirty-seven Seconds, and con- sumes about three grains, or nine cubic inches of oxygen gas, producing heat enough to raise the temperature of about 15,000 grains of water one degree of Fahrenheit.—Young’s JVat. Phil. vol. i. p. 634 ; and Buchanan on Fuel, p. 83.252 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Candles should be made in cold weather — and become much Whiter and more dur- able when they have been kept six or nine months, but after twelve months they begin to deteriorate — and if they still burn steady, they burn away very fast. Housekeepers who have a good store-room, are advised to lay in their stock of Candles and Soap about Midsummer — at which time they are generally cheaper than they are later in the year. The price of Candles is in a great measure regulated by the Price of Tallow. The present Ready Money price of the best dipped Candles, is 7s. 6d. per dozen pounds. If six months’ credit are given, 8s. They are made from sixteen to four in the pound. The common sizes for the Kitchen use are Tens and Eights: the latter size give rather most light, but do not burn much longer than the Tens, because the wick is larger in the pro- portion that the Candle is larger; it being the custom to put the same weight of Wick into the same weight of Tallow — and all Candles give Light in proportion that the Wick is large, and burn long in proportion that the Candle is large.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 253 One of the reasons that Mould Candles last longer than common Candles is, that their Wick is smaller; they are also made of better materials, and are formed wholly of Town-melted Tallow, and their Wick is of a superior kind of Cotton ; but being smaller in proportion than the Wick of common Candles, they do not give quite so strong a light, but burn much steadier and longer — therefore, although they are usually about three-halfpence in the pound dearer than the dipped Candles, yet, if they are to stand still, they are so much more durable, that they are quite as cheap. Moulds are made from eight to three in the Pound: those in general use for the Table are the Fours and Sixes — and the Short Fours for Reading and Working, with a Reading Candle- stick with a Shade. These give one of the best lights for Reading we know. WAX CANDLES. The best Wax Candles are now 3s. 1(M. per Pound, and the best are the Cheapest: the Common Wax are 3s. 6d., but these are not warranted to be all Wax — and arc frequently a composition of all kinds of materials.254 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE, AND Wax Candles are from eight to three in a pound. Fours and Sixes are the sizes in com- mon use. SPERMACETI CANDLES are the most elegant in their appearance of all Candles, and are now 2s. 10rf. per pound; but they do not last so long, nor give so much light, as wax of equal size. COMPOSITION CANDLES are the same price as the Spermaceti, but have neither the beautiful appearance of them, nor the durability of Wax Lights. WAXED WICKS were a few years ago the fashion for a little while, but not being of any real advantage, are now very seldom used. SNUFFING CANDLES. “ An ordinary Tallow Candle, of rather an inferior quality, having been just snuffed, and burning with its greatest brilliancy, its light was as 100; in 11 minutes it was but 39; after eight minutes more had elapsed, its lightECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 255 was reduced to 23; and in 10 minutes more, or 29 minutes after it had been snuffed, its light was reduced to 16. On being snuffed again, it recovered its original brilliancy, 100.” What is most extraordinary, the very same Candle, burning with a long Wick and a Dim Light, actually consumed more Tallow than when, being properly snuffed, it burned with a clear Bright Flame, and gave three times as much Light.”—See Count Rumford’s Method of mea- suring the comparative intensities of the Light emitted by Luminous Bodies, Phil. Trans, vol. lxxxiv. p. 67. The quantity of Candles made within the City and Suburbs of London, in the year 1727, amounted to 11,644,863 Pounds. — Mait- land’s Hist. London, p. 760. COALS. During several of our Winter months Fuel is as much a necessary of Life as Food. How- ever, Fuel is one of the articles about which those who consider themselves Cunning; Eco- nomists are commonly miserably parsimonious : How often have you shivered with cold in a fine dressed-up Dining or Drawing Room, by a Fire-place that holds about a Thimbleful of256 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Coals, and a Fire lighted about five minutes before the Company assemble, to be chilled by the cheerless dampness thereof! Nothing is more rare than to meet with people having any rational notions of the comfort, and indeed the circulation, of an agreeable Temperature, i. e. not less than 55 of Fahrenheit’s Thermometer. The judicious application of Fuel is an object of particular importance in Domestic Economy ; and the consumption of it in Cookery, with the smallest possible waste, is an object deserving the attention of every Family : there is hardly an Ironmonger in this Metropolis who does not claim the merit of possessing a patent for an apparatus of this description. The simplest and most economical employ- ment of Fuel for the purpose of cooking, in a Family not exceeding eight or ten persons, consists of a common fire-grate, fitted with a Boiler, placed either at one side of the grate for supplying hot water, and at the other side an oven (forming the other hob of the grate), to be heated by the ignited coals lying laterally against it in the grate. Such an apparatus appears to be one of the most eligible contri- vances of a cooking-grate for a moderate-sized family, where economy of coal is an object.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 257 Kitchen ranges of this kind may be seen in most of the Ironmongers’ Shops of this Metropolis. No less than seventy-seven kinds of Sea Coal are brought to the London Market, the value and prices of which vary from two to twelve shillings per chaldron. About forty-five of these various sorts are imported from Neiucastle, and the remainder from Sunderland; the whole of which may be divided into four Classes. Of the First Class — which are the best Coals to be recommended to Housekeepers, are the Stewart’s, Lambton’s, and Iietton’s Walls- end. In consequence of the high estimation which the Old Russell’s Wallsend maintained for so many years, many of the proprietors of the New Pits have called their Coal Wallsend — which, however, bearing this originally su- perlative name, are not all of superlative qua- lity, and, accordingly, vary in price from 4s. to 7s. per chaldron. The quality of Coals is not to be distin- guished by their appearance, even by the most experienced Coal Merchant. The size of the lumps is no criterion of their Goodness; for some of the inferior Coals come much larger258 the housekeeper’s oracle, and than the Best Coals do, the size of which is of no importance, as the quality of them is so rich, that they unite into a solid Cake as soon as they get hot. The Second Class.—Some of these run large, burn quick, and produce white ashes, and are sometimes mixed with the inferior kinds of the first and third Class, which run small and strong, in order to make them burn in a more lively manner. The Third Class. — These are strong Coals, but small, and are principally used by Smiths and Manufacturers. The Fourth Class. — Hartley’s, Elgin Main, &c. produce white ashes, are slaty, and very indifferent, and are from 2s. to 9s. per chaldron cheaper than the best Coals. Barrington sold at 28s. the same day that the Wallsend sold for 45s. 6d., as will be seen by the following Table :—ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 259 COAL EXCHANGE, Friday, October 15, 1824. NEWCASTLE. 9. d. Adair’s Main 36 6 Barrington 28 0 Beaumont 36 0 Burdon 41 0 Coxlodge 34 6 Cowper 34 6 Dean’s Primrose 36 6 Eighton 30 0 East Percy 31 0 Hartley 36 0 Hebburn Main 41 0 Heaton 41 0 Holywell • 39 6 Killingworth 42 0 Liddell's 34 6 Newcastle 29 0 Old Walker 32 0 Ord’s Redheugh 31 6 Pelaw 36 0 Pontop Windsor’s 35 0 Howard .. 32 6 Tanfield 37 0 Townley 37 6 Usworth 31 0 s. d. Wallsend 45 0 Wallsend, Bell’s 43 6 Wallsend, Bewick’s 44 6 Wallsend, Brown’s-. 42 0 Wallsend, Burraton 39 6 Wallsend, Ellison’s 39 0 Wallsend, Green’s 36 6 Wallsend, Newmarch 42 6 Wallsend, Northumb 41 6 Wallsend, Riddell’s 44 6 Willington 43 6 Wylam 35 0 SUNDERLAND. Durham Main 29 0 Eden Main 38 6 Fawcett Main 37 0 Hedworth 33 0 Nesham 37 6 Wallsend, Cleveland 31 0 Wallsend, Hetton’s 45 6 Wallsend, Stewart’s ......... 43 6 One hundred and thirty-eight Ships have arrived this week — four unsold. Delivered at 129. advance from the above prices.260 THE housekeeper’s oracle, and Number of Ships entered into the Port of Lon- don, with the quantities of Coals they deli- vered, and the average prices for the first nine months, from 1821 to 1824. Year. Ships. Chaldrons. Price of Wallsend. 1821 4034 880,485 £. s. d. 2 2 6 1822 4088 861,932 2 2 1 1823 4782 1,051,092 2 5 0 1824 5160 1,119,759 2 0 7 From the Morning Post for October 27, 1824. The Scotch and Staffordshire Coal, which is brought up by the Canals, is inferior both in durability and the heat it gives. Buchanan, in page 82 of his Economy of Fuel, 8vo. 1810, tells us, “ it has been calculated that the Scotch, or Staffordshire Coal, produces only three-fourths of the heat which is given by the Newcastle Coal.” “ Some are of opinion that it requires about double the quantity of Scotch Coal to produce the same heat as that of Newcastle.” P. 252.ECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 261 These Coals are sold by the Ton, which is only four-fifths of a Chaldron; this, added to their inferior quality, makes them come much dearer than the Newcastle Coals. The Kennel Coal is a beautiful bril- liant Fuel, and a lump, laid on the Dining Room Fire in very cold weathei', burns with such a bright and cheerful blaze, that it has been called “ Kindle” or “ Candle” Coal; but it has been objected to this Coal, that as it gets warm it splits, and will sometimes fly out of the Stove : however, it is said that this disagreeable property of it is entirely removed by putting the pieces in cold water for a few hours before they are laid on the fire : —this immersion does not diminish the brilliancy of its burning in the smallest degree. Cannel Coal is of an uniform and hard texture — easily turned in a Lathe, and takes a good polish — is used for making Snuff- boxes, &c. which appear almost as elegant as Jet. This Coal is sold at the Wharfs on the Thames which are parallel to the Strand ; and the present price of a Ton of it, which is one- fifth less than a Chaldron, is from about 3/. to 4/.262 the housekeeper’s oracle, and Charcoal is sold at five shillings per Sack, and retail about twenty-pence per bushel: it gives a clear and vivid heat, without either smoke or flame, and is therefore chosen by all curious and careful Cooks for broiling Chops, &c.; and those who are anxious to maintain their cha- racter of being good Friers, do not like to fry Fish with any other Fuel. The price of Coals fluctuates with their Quality, the quantity brought to Market, and the quickness of the demand for them. In long Frosts, especially if accompanied with strong easterly winds, they sometimes rise in the Winter months to 51. and 61. per Chaldron: they are cheapest in the Months of May and June; and may then generally be laid in at 20 per cent less than must be paid after Michaelmas. Filling the Coal Cellar is one of those dirty Jobs which, in many houses, is put off till the Family leaves town, and the months previous to that the Merchants have compara- tively little to do: this is, therefore, the cheap season ; when our advice is, that as there is no article in which more imposition may be prac- tised, that the Housekeeper should go to Mar- ket himself, and purchase of the respectableECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 263 Merchants who have Wharfs on the Thames. These are very easy of access, either down Beaufort Buildings or Salisbury Street, in the Strand. If you buy Five Chaldrons, you will have three Sacks given in : let one of your Servants see that the right number of Sacks is brought, and that they are properly filled. The Advertising Coal Dealers frequently offer to deliver to Housekeepers 13 Sacks of the best Coals for less money than 12 Sacks are sold to the Merchants at the Coal Exchange : however, the Reader will readily perceive that the variation of the quality and price, stated in the preceding pages, will partly account for this. The following is a striking instance of the great variation to be found in the Quality of Coal: in weighing different kinds of that Fossil, there was the surprising difference of 301bs. in the weight of two Sacks which were equally filled. Order your Servants never to fill a Coal-skuttle above three parts full, otherwise the Coals are apt to be dropped about the Room.264 the housekeeper’s oracle, and WOOD. The great Depots for the bundles of Wood which are now used for lighting of Fires, are at Deptford. These bundles of Fir are sold retail at the Coal-sheds, &c. either in halfpenny bundles, of which 14 are sold for Sixpence — or penny ones, of which 14 are sold for a Shilling: one of the latter is enough to light a Kitchen and a Parlour Fire. At the same shops are sold bundles of Oak for making a Kettle boil, and small Christmas Logs. These may be bought by the hundred, at Deptford, much cheaper than they are sold retail in London. Mem. — Let all the Wood be dried at the Fire the night before it is to be used : this will prevent that suffocating smoke which comes too plentifully from GreenWood. THE SELF-ACTING FIRE-LIGHTER is recommended to pei'sons residing in Cham- bers, and others, who have not the constant attendance of servants, as they may, by its use, have a Fire and Boiling Water provided for them at any hour they wish. It will also prove a great convenience toECONOMIST AND EPICURE’S CALENDAR. 265 those who require a fire in their Sleeping- rooms, which it will furnish without the aid of Domestics. The Apparatus is simple in its construction, and very safe and easy in its application. Can only be obtained of the sole Inventors, Paynter and Hawke, 178, Strand, (two doors from Norfolk Street); where may be had the New Invented Patent Fire-Feeder, which supplies Fires with Coal, or any other Fuel, for the whole of the day, without the use of the coal-scoop, or the attendance of Domes- tics, prevents dirt and dust, and also materially lessens the quantity of fuel which is required by the ordinary method. TO LAY FIRES IN THE WINTER. A Fire laid in the following manner will burn up freely without the use of Bellows: (the grate should be first cleared by taking the cinders out with the hand, so as not to break them, and raking out all the ashes). To lay the Fire a-fresh, a few middling-sized cinders should be spread at the bottom of the grate; on these should be placed a piece of paper; next over the paper some few shavings; over these some small sticks, such as the shav- N266 the housekeeper’s oracle. ings will kindle ; over these some larger sticks of different sizes, so as to fill the bosom of the grate; over the whole some of the smallest cinders should be strewed with the hand ; and next, the larger ones properly placed, so as to cover all. This done, some small round coals should be put in; and, last of all, a shovel or two of small ones. I say a shovel or two, for if too great a weight of coals is put on at top, when the wood burns freely, and gives way, the small coals, if too heavy, will break down before they are kindled, and put the fire out; but a fire laid as here directed, will burn up freely and well, without the trouble of attending it more than once to see the state of it, and add more Coals, if necessary. Fires so laid are soon lighted. When a Fire is lighted in the common way, if the window is not opened after the Fire is lighted, when you come down you must be content to breathe the Essence of Candle- snuffs, Matches, Brimstone, and a filthy con- gregation of all manner of pestilential vapours. Ten Minutes after you have lighted a fire, look at it to see if it is burning up.APPENDIX. GENERAL RECEIPTS. Pudding. The Head of Man is like a Pudding; and whence have all Rhymes, Poems, Plots, and Inventions sprang—but from that same Pud- ding? What is Poetry but a Pudding of Words ? The Physicians, though they cry out so much against Cooks and Cookery, yet are but Cooks themselves ; with this difference only— the Cook’s pudding lengthens life — the Phy- cian’s shortens it: so that we live and die by pudding—For what is a Clyster but a Rag Pudding — a Pill but a Dumpling— or a Bolus but a Tansy, though not altogether so tooth- some. In a word, Physic is only a Puddingizing, or Cookery of Drugs:—the law is but a Cookery of Quibbles. The Universe itself is but a Pudding of Ele-268 the housekeeper’s oracle. merits, — Empires, Kingdoms, States, and Re- publics, are but Puddings of People differently mixed up. The Celestial and Terrestial Orbs are deci- phered to us by a pair of Globes, or Mathe- matical Puddings. The success of War, and the fate of Mo- narchies, are entirely dependent on Puddings and Dumplings—for what else are Cannon- balls but Military Puddings, or Bullets but Dumplings — only with this difference, they do not sit so well on the stomach as a good Marrow Pudding or Bread Pudding. In short, there is nothing valuable in Nature but what more or less has an allusion to Puddino- or O Dumpling. Some swallow every thing whole and un- mixed, so that it may rather be called a Heap than a Pudding. Others are so squeamish, that the greatest mastership in Cookery is required to make the Pudding palatable:—the Suet, which others gape and swallow by gobs, must for these puny stomachs be minced to atoms, the Plumbs must be picked with the utmost care, and every ingredient proportioned to the greatest nicety, or it will never go down.— From a learned Dissertation on Dumplings. 8vo. 1726, p. 20.269 APPENDIX. Meditation on a Pudding. “ Let us seriously reflect what a pudding is composed of. It is composed of flour, that once waved in the golden grain, and drank the dews of the morning ; of milk, pressed from the swelling udder by the gentle hand of the beau- teous milk-maid, whose beauty and innocence might have recommended a worse draught; who, while she stroked the udder, indulged in no ambitious thoughts of wandering in palaces, formed no plans for the destruction of her fel- low-creatures—milk that is drawn from the cow, that useful animal that eats the grass of the field, and supplies us with that which made the greatest part of the food of mankind in the age which the poets have agreed to call golden. It is made with an egg, that miracle of nature, which the theoretical Burnet has compared to Creation. An egg contains water within its beautiful smooth surface; and an unformed mass, by the incubation of the parent, becomes a regular animal, furnished with bones and sinews, and covered with feathers. Let us consider — Can there be more wanting to com- plete the Meditation on a Pudding? If more be wanting more can be found — It contains270 the housekeeper’s oracle. salt, which keeps the sea from putrefaction — salt, which is made the image of intellectual excellence, contributes to the formation of a Pudding.”— Boswell’s Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides with Dr. Johnson. 8vo. 1785, p. 440. Omelette. Chop very fine as much Onion as will about half fill a Tea-spoon, and the same of Parsley ; put it into a Basin with a little salt — break six eggs, putting the yolks into the basin, (and the whites into a very cold dish); add a quarter of a pint of Cream, and mix all well together. Now beat the whites of the Eggs with a Knife into a very strong froth, and let it stand an hour, — then take it off the dish lightly, so as to leave the sediment behind; and, putting it into the Basin, beat all together. Put an ounce of Butter into an Omelette Pan : when this is melted, put in the contents of the Basin, and keep well stirring it about till it sets, then form it into an oval or round shape, and fry it of a delicate brown on one side only. Send it up to table with the browned side upwards, and in a little brown Gravy.APPENDIX. 271 Bread and Butter Pudding. Take a dish that will hold a Quart, and well butter it; have a quarter of a pound of Cur- rants, and strew some of them over the bottom of the dish; then cut nine pieces of bread and butter, and make three layers of them, strewing Currants between each layer; beat Jive eggs, leaving out the whites of two, and mix them, and half a drachm of nutmeg, and the same quantity ofGrated Lemon Peel, and three ounces of Moist Sugar, in a Pint of New Milk. This mixture to be poured over it before it is putin the oven. It should be baked one hour. A glass of white wine is considered by some a great improvement. Plumb Pudding, combining richness of Flavour with Eco- nomy. One Pound of Beef Suet, ~| To weiKh One Pound of Sun Raisins (stoned)i prepared. Four 7a/;/e-spoonsful of Flour. One 7'ea-spoonful of Salt. Six Ounces of Loaf Sugar, pounded. Half a moderate-sized Nutmeg, grated.272 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Five Eggs, yolks and whites, and no other liquid. Flour the Cloth well and boil it Six hours. N. B.—There should not be the smallest deviation from the above proportions. To make Orange Marmalade. Choose the largest Seville Oranges, as they usually contain the greatest quantity of juice, and choose them with clear skins, as the skins \ form the largest part of the Marmalade. Weigh the Oranges, and weigh also an equal quantity of loaf Sugar. Skin the Oranges, dividing the skins into quarters, and put them into a preserving pan; cover them well with water, and set them on the fire to boil: in the meantime prepare your Oranges; divide them into Gores, then scrape with a tea-spoon all the pulp from the white skin; or, instead of skin- ning the Oranges, cut a hole in the Orange and scoop out the pulp; remove carefully all the pips, of which there are innumerable small ones in the Seville Orange, which will escape obser- vation unless they are very minutely examined. Have a large basin near you, with some cold water in it, to throw the pips and skins into — a pint is sufficient for a dozen Oranges. A273 APPENDIX, o-reat deal of Mutinous matter adheres to them, which, when strained through a sieve, should be boiled with the other parts. When the skins have boiled till they are sufficiently tender to admit of a fork being stuck into them, strain them; some of which may be boiled with the other parts; scrape clean all the pith, or inside, from them; lay them in folds, and cut them into thin slices of about an inch long. Clarify your Sugar; then throw your skins and pulp into it, stir it well, and let it boil about half an hour.—If the Sugar is broken into small pieces, and boiled with the fruit, it will answer the purpose of clarifying, but it must be well skimmed when i it boils. Marmalade should be made at the end of March or the beginning of April, as Seville Oranges are then in their best state. Birch’s Receipt for Mock Cream. IMix half a table-spoonful of flour with a pint of new milk; let it simmer five minutes to take off the rawness of the flour; then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boiling, and run it through a fine sieve. n 2274 the housekeeper’s oracle JELLY REFINER. 11J ins. Diameter* Legs six inches High. B. To put in th Hot Water.appendix. 275 SOUPS. SOUP SUPERLATIVE. Meat and Drink. Take about nine pounds of the Leg-of- Mutton-piece of Beef, cut it into pieces of three or four ounces each; put four ounces of Beef Drippings, and a couple of large Onions, chopped very fine, into a large deep stew-pan, which must hold at least two gal- lons— and let them fry for about five minutes ; then put in your meat, and add, by degrees, three quarters of a pound of flour, and stir it well together for about five minutes — pour in about six quarts of boiling water, and keep stirring it till it boils — take all the scum carefully off; then put in two tea-spoonsful of ground black Pepper, and two of grouud Allspice, and Salt to your taste, and let it simmer together for three hours and a half.— Take the meat out, and when it is cold cut it into pieces about an inch by half an inch each.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. 276 This deserves to be called Soup Superlative, as it is both meat and drink. The above will make eight quarts, and will furnish a substantial meal for sixteen people, for six shillings. Cheap Soup. Among the variety of schemes that have been suggested for bettering the condition of the Poor, a more useful or extensive charity cannot be devised than that of instructing them in Economical Cookery. The best and cheapest method of making a nourishing Soup is least known to those who "have most need of it. It will enable those who have small incomes and large families, to make the most of whatever they possess, with- out pinching their children of that wholesome nourishment which is necessary for the purpose of rearing them up to maturity in health and strength. The labouring classes seldom purchase what are called the coarser pieces of meat, because they do not know how to dress them, but lay out their money in pieces for roasting, &c., of which the Bones, &c. enhance the price of the277 APPENDIX. actual meat to nearly a shilling per pound. This, for the sake of saving time, trouble, and fire, is generally sent to an oven to be baked, the nourishing parts are evaporated and dried up, and all that a poor man can afford to pur- chase with his week’s earnings perhaps does not half satisfy the appetites of himself and family for a couple of days. If a hard-working man cannot get a comfortable meal at home, he finds the way to the public-house, the woman contents herself with tea and bread and butter, and the children are little better than starved. By long-continued boiling, Broth may be made from mere bones, if they are pounded or ground : their solubility is as the surface acted on by the solvent. Without such division, the large and hard bones of adult animals yield but a small proportion of their Jelly. The following Receipt how to make a cheap, nutritive, and palatable Soup, fully adequate to satisfy appetite and support strength, will open a new source to those benevolent house- keepers who are disposed to relieve the Poor, and will shew the industrious classes how much they have it in their power to assist in and rescue themselves from being objects of charity, dependent on the precarious bounty of others,278 the housekeeper’s oracle. by teaching them how they may obtain a com- paratively cheap, abundant, salubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and families for Fivepence per Gallon. — For various " Economical Plans for Domestic Comfort,” see The Cook's Oracle. Printed for Cadell, Edinburgh. Distributing Soup does not answer half so well as teaching people how to make it, and improve their comfort at home; as the time lost in waiting at the Soup-house is seldom less than three hours, in which time, by any industrious occupation, however poorly paid, they could earn more money than the quart of Soup is worth. Receipt to make a Gallon of Barley Soup. Put four ounces of Scotch Barley (previously washed in cold water) and four ounces of sliced Onions into five quarts of water; boil gently for one hour, and pour it into a pan: then put into the Saucepan two ounces of clean beef or mutton Drippings, or melted Suet, or three ounces of fat bacon minced ; when melted, stir into it four ounces of Oat- meal, rub these together till you make a paste ;APPENDIX. 279 (if this be properly managed, the whole of the fat will combine with the Barley Broth, and not a particle appear on the surface to offend the most delicate stomach); now add the Barley Broth, at first a spoonful at a time, and then the rest, stirring it well together till it boils. Then, to season it, put a drachm of bruised celery seed, and a quarter of a drachm of Cayenne, or a drachm and a half of ground black pepper, or allspice, into a tea-cup, and mix it up with a little of the Soup, and then pour it into the rest; stir it thoroughly toge- ther, and let it boil a quarter of an hour longer, and it is ready. It will be much improved, if, instead of water, it be made with the liquor in which meat has been boiled: at tripe, cow-heel, and cook- shops, this may be had for little or nothing. This Soup has the advantage of being very easily and very soon made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room ; and those who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a savory and satisfying meal is produced by the combination of these cheap and homely ingre- dients. If the generally received opinion be true, that animal and vegetable foods afford nourish-280 the housekeeper’s oracle. ment in proportion to the quantity of oil, jelly, and mucilage, that can be extracted from them, this Soup has strong claims to the attention of Rational Economists. Observations on the Art of making Chinese Soup, i. e. Tea, and effects of different kinds of Tea- pots on the infusion of Tea. It has been long observed that the infusion of Tea made in Silver, or polished metal Tea- pots, is stronger than that which is produced in black, or other kinds of earthenware pots. This is explained on the principle, that polished surfaces retain heat much better than dark, rough surfaces, and that, consequently, the caloric being confined in the former case, must act more powerfully than in the latter. It is further certain, that the Silver or metal pot, when filled a second time, produces worse tea than the earthenware vessel; and that it is advisable to use the earthenware pot, unless a silver or metal one can be procured sufficiently large to contain at once all that may be re- quired. These facts are readily explained by considering, that the action of heat retained by the Silver vessel so far exhausts the herb as to leave very little soluble substance for aAPPENDIX. 281 second infusion; whereas the reduced tempe- rature of the water in the earthenware pot, by- extracting only a small proportion at first, leaves some soluble matter for the action of a subse- quent infusion. The reason for pouring boiling water into the tea-pot before the infusion of the tea is made, is, that the vessel being previously warm, may abstract less heat from the mixture, and thus admit a more powerful action. Neither is it difficult to explain the fact why the infusion of tea is stronger if only a small quantity of boil- ing water be first used, and more be added some time afterwards; for if we consider that only the water immediately in contact with the herb can act upon it, and that it cools very rapidly, especially in earthenware vessels, it is clear that the effect will be greater where the heat is kept up by additions of boiling water, than where the vessel is filled at once, and the fluid suffered gradually to cool. When the infusion has once been completed, it is found that any further addition of the herb only affords a very small increase in the strength, the water having cooled much below the boiling point, and, consequently, acting very slightly.282 the housekeeper’s oracle. GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Essence of Vinegar. During the intense frosts of winter, if some Vinegar be put into shallow dishes, the watery parts will be converted into Ice — while the Spirituous, or Acetous basis, remains in a fluid state: by repeating this process a pint of strong vinegar may, in very cold seasons, be reduced to a few table-spoonsful of the Es- sence. Receipt for Quin’s Sauce. A pint and a half of strong Walnut-liquor, A pound and a half of Anchovies, A quarter of an ounce each of Mace, Cloves, and Fine Jamaica pepper. Half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne, Twenty-four Eschallots, and Two ounces of scraped Horseradish. To be boiled together, and the liquor strained therefrom.283 APPENDIX. Soar Crout.* Take a dozen hard white Cabbages, trim, and divide them into quarters, take out all the stalks from the heart of the cabbage, cut it transversely with a knife or chaff-cutter into very small slips. Mix six pounds of salt with four ounces of juniper-berries, and an ounce of caraway seed; put the cabbage into a cask, first strewing the bottom with some of the mixture, then a layer of cabbage; take care that the head of the cask slips down within the staves, and fits closely to the sides; press the cover down, and lay a large stone on it. Set the cask in a shed or out-house for three months, it will then be coming ready for use. When you use it take care of the stone and cover, scrape aside some of the top, take out what you want, and replace what you scraped off the top, and cover down your cask as closely as before. Put the Crout into a stew-pan with a little cold water, simmer it for half an hour, drain in a colander; when done, put the meat you * Appears on the table in Germany as commonly as pota- toes in England, and takes its name from soeur, salt, and kraut, cabbage, which has been corrupted into sour crout.284 the housekeeper’s oracle. intend to dress into the stew-pan, and cover it over with the crout; put just water enough to stew the meat, and give gravy to serve up with it. When you dish up, put the crout and gravy first into the dish, and lay the meat on them. Obs.— Some Sour Crout is so juicy as not to require any water; the fatty materials em- ployed by the Germans to stew with it are generally sufficient. Mock Essence of Anchovies. Boil a quart of stale Ale for a quarter of an hour; let it stand till it is cold ; take five Dutch pickled Herrings, with their liquor, (take off the heads and roes,) pound or mince them fine, put them into the Beer, with a stick of horse- radish scraped fine ; let it boil twenty minutes; strain it. Hold a clean frying pan over the fire that it may be quite dry ; put a quarter of a pound of Flour in it; keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is the colour of Essence of Ancho- vies; put the liquor to it, and stir it together till it boils; let it boil a quarter of an hour; when cold, bottle it. If not of sufficient colour, put a little Bole Armenic to it. Obs.—This and the two following preparationsAPPENDIX. 285 (although bad enough, and inserted here merely for those Economists who have so addled their brains with Cocker's Arithmetic, that in the case of “ Purse versus Palate,” it is quite a forlorn hope that they will comprehend the “ Cook's Oracle,”) are among the best of the imitations of Anchovy, are frequently sold for it, and for common palates may do very well; but to im- part to Artificial Anchovies the delicious flavour of the Gorgona fish, so as to impose upon a well-educated Gourmand, we fear will still re- main in the catalogue of the Sauce-maker’s desiderata. Mock Anchovies. Take half a peck of fresh Sprats, do not wash them, only draw them at the gills, and put them into stone Jars, with the following mixture : — Two pounds of common salt, a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of white pepper, and the same quantity of lump Sugar, pound these all well together; put a layer of this at the bottom of the Jar, then a layer of Sprats, and so alter- nately till the Jar is full; tie them down close with a bladder, and keep them in a cold, dry place : they will be ready for use in six months.286 the housekeeper’s oracle. If you turn the Jar upside down twice a week, they will be ready in half that time. Obs. — Smelts are prepared in the same manner. Essence of Mock Anchovies. When the preceding preparation has been kept a year or more, it may be made into Essence by pounding the fish in a marble Mor- tar ; and, for further particulars about Ancho- vies, see “ Cook’s Oracle,” (No. 433). Italian Tamara. Coriander seed, one ounce ; Cinnamon, one ounce; Cloves, one ounce; Fennel seed, half an ounce ; Aniseed, half an ounce ; Beaten into a powder, used in the same way as curry powder. Mrs. Raffald’s Browning. Beat to powder four ounces of fine lump Su- gar ; put it into a clean iron frying-pan with one ounce of butter; set it over a clear fire, and mix it very well together; when it begins to be frothy, the sugar is dissolving; then hold it higher287 APPENDIX. over the fire, and have ready a pint of red wine. When the sugar and butter are of a deep brown, pour in a little of the wine, stir it thoroughly together, and gradually add the rest of the wine, and keep stirring it all the time; put in half an ounce of Allspice, six Cloves, four Es- chalots peeled, and two or three blades of mace, three table-spoonsful of mushroom catsup, a little salt, and the rind of a lemon, peeled as thin as possible; boil up slowly for ten mi- nutes; pour it into a basin; when cold, take off the scum very clean, and bottle it for use. Obs.—The above is a pleasant sauce; but the cook must remember it will alter the flavour as well as the colour of whatever it is added to. Mrs. Raffald’s Lemon Pickle. Take a dozen Lemons, grate off the outer rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave the bottoms whole; rub on them equally a pound of bay salt, spread them in a large pewter dish, and let them dry gradually by the fire till all the juice is dried into the peels ; then put them into a stone jar, with half an ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves beaten fine, half an ounce of nutmeg cut in thin288 the housekeeper’s oracle. slices, two ounces of Garlick peeled, a quarter of a pound of Mustard-seed bruised a little, and tied in a muslin bag; pour a quart of white wine Vinegar upon them, close the pitcher or jar well up, and let it stand five or six days by the fire: shake it well every day, then tie it up as close as possible, and let it stand for three months. When you bottle it, put the pickle and lemon into a hair sieve, and press them well to get out the liquor ; let it stand till next day ; then pour off the fine and bottle it; let the rest stand three or four days, and it will settle ; pour off the fine again, and let it settle till you have poured off all you can get fine. It may be put into any white sauce, and will not hurt the colour. It is very good for fish- sauce and made dishes, especially of veal : a tea-spoonful is enough for white, and two for brown sauce, for a fowl: it is a most useful pickle, and gives a pleasant flavour. Be sure you put it in before you thicken the sauce or put any cream in, lest the sharpness make it curdle. Mrs. Raffald says, “ I have given no direc- tions for cullis, as I have found, by experience, that lemon pickle and browning answer both289 APPENDIX. for beauty and taste (at a trifling expense), better than the most extravagant cullises. Had I known the use and value of these two receipts when I first took upon me the part and duty of a housekeeper, they would have saved me a great deal of trouble in making gravy, and those I served a great deal of expense.’ — See the Preface to Raffald’s Cookery. Lon- don, 8vo. 1806. Obs.—We suppose Mrs. R.’s praise of these two sauces to be well deserved, as they have been copied into almost every Cookery book that has been compiled since. White Catsup. To a pint of white wine vinegar put a dozen Anchovies; set them on a trivet by the side of the fire till they are dissolved, then strain it; when cold, add a pint of Sherry wine, the peel of a large lemon pared very thin, a dozen bay leaves, an ounce of scraped horseradish, two drachms of grated nutmeg, one of bruised cloves, the same of white pepper and ginger, and a dozen eschalots peeled and sliced; stop your jar very close; keep it in a warm situation for ten days, shaking it up every day, and then decant it for use. o290 the housekeeper’s oracle. Cucumber Catsup. Peel and slice large Cucumbers, add one fourth part of onions sliced, sprinkle them with salt, and let them stand for a couple of days, occasionally stirring them up; strain them through a hair sieve, and put to each quart of liquor a handful of scraped horseradish, the peel of a lemon, half an ounce of black pepper, and two drachms of mace bruised ; boil toge- ther for a quarter of an hour in a close covered vessel, and strain it: when cold bottle it, and put to each pint a large table-spoonful of good brandy, to preserve it from fermentation, de- composition, 8cc. This is a very good relish with salad. Obs. — Either of the preceding combinations will be found a very agreeable zest to most White Dishes, Salads, &c. To prepare Salt. Take a lump of Salt of the size you think proper, and if not quite dry, place it in a plate before the fire to make it so, then pound it in a Mortar till it is perfectly fine; this done, fill your Salt-cellars with it higher than the brim, and with the flat side of a knife that has a291 APPENDIX. smooth edge, take it off and press it down even with the top. If the Salt-cellars are not smooth on the top, but cut in notches, a Table-spoon is the best tool to press and smooth the salt in them — or it makes them look very neat, if the bottom of the Salt-cellar is ornamented, to place the bottom of one on the top of the other for the same purpose. The Salt should be in a lump that it may be free from dirt, and the knife must have a smooth edge — if it has the least ruggedness, it will leave the marks on the salt. Mustard. To eight Tea-spoonsful, or two ounces of Mustard, put two tea-spoonsful of Salt and nine of water — mix them well together; then add six spoonsful more of water, and again well mix it by rubbing it round the side of the cup, or other vessel, till it is of a nice smooth consistency, and free from any lumps.292 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. WINES AND LIQUEURS, &c. MILK PUNCH. The proportions. ] Quart of Brandy or Rum, 1 Quart of Water, 1 Quart of Milk, 6 Lemons, fib. Sugar. Method of Making. The day before the Milk Punch is made, put the Rinds of the Lemons, pared very thin, into a Gooseberry Bottle, and pour a Bottle of Brandy or Rum on them — save the juice, strain it, and put it into the Bottle that the Spirit was in. The next day strain off the Brandy from the Peel into a very large Bowl. Put the quart of water to them to get all the goodness of the Brandy remaining, and add it to the Brandy in the Bowl, also the Lemon- juice, and the Sugar pounded. Mix it all -well together, and then pour one quart of boiling milk, stirring it all the time the milk is pouring293 APPENDIX. in — cover it over with a cloth, and let it stand a few hours; then strain it through a Jelly bag. Let the whole quantity run through twice : by that time the curd will be fixed, and the third clearing a smaller proportion of the liquid may be put in at a time. It must be quite transparent. Directions jor making Dr. Kitchiner’s JEau-Douce. Cut with a very sharp knife the yellow peel (without any of the white) of nine middling- sized Lemons; put the peels into a Jar that will hold a Gallon, pour on them a pint of the strongest rectified Spirit of Wine, and shake them about; this will mix with their Essential Oil and render it easy to be extracted. After remaining twelve hours, add Three bottles of Rum; let them steep twelve hours longer, and then strain off. Now squeeze the Lemons, which should give about three quarters of a pint of Juice — pour a Quart of Boiling water upon the pulps, &c. of the squeezed Lemons; after five minutes strain it into an earthenware Barrel, with a spigot and faucet, and which holds four gal-294 the housekeeper’s oracle. Ions, (these are sold in Covent Garden Market,) then add the Lemon Juice, the Rum, Three bottles of Brandy, Two of Madeira, (or Sherry or Lisbon,) and one Quart of thick Syrup, which is to be made in the following manner: —• Break into bits four Pounds of good Lump Sugar, put it into a clean stewpan that is well tinned, with a Quart of cold spring-water; when the Sugar is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire: beat the white of an Egg, and put a quarter of it to the Sugar before it gets warm, stir it well together, watch it; when it boils take off the scum : keep it boiling till no Scum rises and its surface is perfectly clear, then run it through a clean napkin — pour it into the Barrel and stir till thoroughly mixed; add Four Quarts of Boiling Milk, stir all again thoroughly together, and bung it down tight till it is cold—then strain through a flannel Jelly bag till it is quite clear. These Ingredients should yield about fifteen common-sized Wine bottles : —295 APPENDIX. s. d. 0 Lemons 1 6 4 Quarts Milk 1 4 Pint of Spirit 3 6 Quart Syrup 4 0 3 Bottles Brandy 18 0 3 Ditto Rum 9 0 2 Ditto Wine 9 0 15)40 4 3 1 per bottle. This delicious Drink costs little more than Three Shillings a bottle — is made in Two days, is ready for the Mouth as soon as it is made, and will keep good for several Months : but Liquors impregnated with Lemon Peel do not improve with age — as the fine Zest given by the Lemon Peel flies, off, their flavour fades. It is a very nice thing for Evening Parties : — and a Wine-glass of it in a Tumbler of Water is an extremely agreeable and refresh- ing Beverage in Warm Weather. Punch Jelly. For a Mould that will contain one pint and a half of Jelly : half a pound of loaf Sugar, the Juice and peel of two Lemons, one oz. and a296 the housekeeper’s oracle. quarter of Isinglass, a quarter of a pint of Rum, the same quantity of Wine, and a quarter of a Gill of Brandy. Dissolve the Isinglass in half a pint of water, with a little Sugar and Lemon Peel, cleared with the white of an egg. The half pound of Sugar to be boiled in a small tea-cupful of water to candy height; the Lemon peel to be boiled in a little water. First put tbe Rum in a basin, then the Syrup: mix well, and add the brandy, wine, lemon-juice, and the water the peel was boiled in. Mix all well, and add the Isinglass. Put it in a Mould. Ginger Wine. Three pounds of moist Sugar to every gallon of water,* and one oz. of bruised Ginger to * “ Water,” says Dr. Darwin, “ must be considered as a part of our nutriment, because so mucb of it enters the com- position of our fluids ; and because vegetables are believed to draw almost the whole of their nourishment from this source.” It may, however, be questioned whether pure elementary water taken into the stomach acts upon the system as a nutri- mental matter, in any other mode than by procuring the solu- tion, and thus facilitating the assimilation, of solid aliment. Water is the natural and proper drink of man. It is the basis of all other liquids ; and tbe larger proportion of water that enters their composition, the more easily, in a state of297 APPENDIX. each Gallon; boil and skim them well one hour; when lukewarm, put a large yeast toast health, and provided proper food has been taken, are the solution and digestion of such food effected. This fluid, however, is seldom or never taken in a state of entire purity. Even in nature’s laboratory it is invariably im- pregnated with foreign substances ; and it is this admixture of extraneous matter which constitutes its varieties. Thus we have snow-water, rain-water, spring-water, river-water, and water from lakes, wells, and swamps, each possessing their individual characteristics. Spring-water is in general most free from impurities ; it is, however, less suited for drink than the water of rivers, as it almost constantly contains calcareous or saline ingredients. The calcareous earth dissolved in the water of many springs, has been supposed, indeed, by Dr. Darwin, to contribute to our nourishment in the manner that lime proves useful in agriculture. This principle, however, is not perhaps fully established; and we believe that too much stress has, by theorists in general, been laid on the specific qualities of water, as modifying both the bodily and intellectual character of in- dividuals and nations. The cretinism and fatuity of the Alpine valleys were formerly attributed to the waters of these countries, but are now more commonly, and we believe more justly, referred to constitutional propensity, innutritious food, and a humid, unhealthy atmosphere. That water, however, possesses great varieties, according to the nature of the soil and situation of the place in which it is produced or contained, is undeniable ; and we shall here extract part of what is observed on these varieties by an attentive and judicious observer. “ Spring-water’' says Dr. Willich, “ originates partly from o 2298 the housekeeper’s oracle. into the Barrel, and one Lemon sliced to each gallon, with a handful of Garden Balm to every that of the sea, which has been changed into vapours by sub- terraneous heat, and partly from the atmosphere. As it is dissolved and purified in a variety of ways before it becomes visible to us, it is lighter and purer than other waters. “ Well-water.—Wells opened in a sandy soil are the purest. The more frequently a well is used the better ; for the longer water stands unmoved the sooner it turns putrid. “ River-water is more pure and wholesome if it flows over a sandy and stony soil, than if it passes over muddy beds, or through towns, villages, and forests : water is rendered foul by fish, amphibious animals, and plants. “ Lake-ivater much resembles river-water, but being less agitated it is more impure. The water which, in cases of necessity, is obtained from swamps and ditches, is the worst of all; because a great variety of impurities are there collected, which, in a stagnated and soft soil, readily putrefy. “ Rain-water is also impure, as it contains many saline and oily particles, soon putrefies, and principally consists of the joint exhalations of animals, vegetables, and minerals, of an immense number and variety of small insects and their eggs, seeds of plants, and the like. Rain-water is particularly im- pure in places filled with many noxious vapours ; such as marshy countries, and large manufacturing towns, where the fumes of metallic and other substances are mixed with rain. In high and elevated situations, at a distance from impure exhalations, if no strong winds blow, and after a gentle shower, rain-water is then purest. In summer, however, on account of the copious exhalations, rain-water is most ob- jectionable. “ Snow-water possesses the same properties as rain-water,299 APPENDIX. six gallons; stir all together; put in a little Isinglass; and it will be fit to drink in two months. but is purer : both are soft, that is, without so many mineral and earthy particles as spring, well, and river-water. Hail- water being produced in the higher regions of the atmosphere, is still purer, from its congelations. Lastly, dew, as it arises from the evaporation of various bodies of the vegetable and animal kingdoms, is more or less impure according to the different regions and seasons.” On the different kinds and qualities of fermented and spi- rituous liquors, it does not fall within the compass of the present article to treat. They all consist of water as their basis or vehicle, of more or less alcohol or ardent spirit, according to their different degrees of strength, of sugar, and of the particular ingredient by which their nature is deter- mined; such as the grape in wine, the apple and pear in cider and perry, the malt and hop in beer, &c. It is only necessary here to observe, that, with few exceptions, fermented liquors, when immoderately taken, are more detrimental than elementary fluids, in proportion to the quantity that they contain of alcohol, or ardent spirit. With respect to the China tea and the coffee-berry, we believe them to be much less injurious to the animal economy than some theorists have been disposed to conjecture. In excess, however, and when indulged in as substitutes for, and, as is some times the case, almost to the exclusion of, nourish- ing diet, they are highly deleterious, as they tend to the in- duction of a morbidly irritable condition of the nervous system. It deserves to be remarked, that these stimuli do not, like alcohol, produce those formidable and often irremediable dis- orders, affections of the liver, dropsy, and apoplexy.300 the housekeeper’s oracle. I omitted the Balm and Isinglass, and put two oz. of Ginger to each Gallon of water. To make Nine Gallons of Orange Wine. First pare fifty-four Seville Oranges very thin, and put the rinds into hot water for a few hours, then throw the water away and put a similar quantity, say enough to cover them ; it being considered that the first water is apt to be too bitter. Let them stand two or three days, then strain it off, and reserve your Liquor to flavour the wine when in the Cask. Squeeze the fifty-four Seville Oranges, with fifty-four China Oranges, into a Receiver of any kind. Then cover the Pulp with two or three gal- lons of hot water for twenty-four hours, and strain the whole through a thick cloth. Put twenty-seven pounds of Lump Sugar into a Tub, and dissolve it with three or four Gallons of hot water, taking care that the juice and water before mentioned shall not exceed nine Gallons. Put the whole into a Cask, the Juice first, stirring it up well, and after it has done work- ing, add one pint of Brandy: it will be fit to bottle in nine months; but if kept longer it is supposed to improve.301 APPENDIX. Raisin Wine. Put two hundred weight of Raisins, with all their stalks, into a large Hogshead, and fill it up with water; let them steep a fortnight, stirring them every day; then pour off the liquor, and press the Raisins. Put both liquors together into a nice clean vessel that will just hold it, for remember it must be quite full; let it stand until it has done hissing, or making the least noise, then stop it close, and let it stand six months; then peg it, and if you find it quite clear, rack it off into another vessel. Stop it again close, and let it stand three months longer; then bottle it, and when wanted for use, rack it off into a decanter. Curratit Wine. Gather your Fruit on a fine dry day, and when they are quite ripe; strip them from the stalks, put them into a large pan, and bruise •them with a wooden pestle; let them lay twenty-four hours to ferment, then run the liquor through a hair sieve, but do not let your hands touch it. To every gallon of liquor put two pounds and a half of white Sugar, stir it well, together, and put it into your vessel. To302 the housekeeper’s oracle. every six Gallons put in a Quart of Brandy, and let it stand six weeks. If it is then fine, bottle it; but if not, draw it off as clear as you can into another vessel, or large bottles, and in a fortnight put it into smaller bottles, cork them close, and set it by for use. Gooseberry Wine. Gather your Gooseberries in dry weather, and at the time when they are about half ripe. Gather about a peck in quantity, and bruise them well in a clean tub ; then take a horse-hair cloth, and press them as much as possible without breaking the seeds. When you have squeezed out all the juice, put to every Gallon three pounds of fine dry powdered Sugar; stir all together till the Sugar is dis- solved, and then put it into a vessel or cask which must be quite filled. If the quantity is ten or twelve Gallons, let it stand a fort- night; but, if it is a twenty Gallon Cask, it must stand three weeks. Set it in a cool place, then draw it off from the lees, and pour in the clear liquor again. If it is a ten Gallon Cask, let it stand three months; if a twenty Gallon Cask, four months; then bottle it off', and it will draw clear and fine.303 APPENDIX. To make Trench and Dantzic Liqueurs without Distillation; viz. Creme de Citron. Take one Quart of Spirit of Wine 62° above proof, put into it sixty drops of Oil de Cedro; shake it well and put it aside. Put one quart of water into a Saucepan, let it boil; then take one pound of fine loaf Sugar, and drop in the lumps one after the other till all are in, then let it boil again; put it in a broad disli to cool; when quite cold, put it to the Spirit of wine, with oils, &c. then shake it well, and colour it with Saffron as follows :— Put one Saffron into a small phial, with two oz. of Spirit of wine ; when the colour is drawn out, which will be in twelve hours, put it toge- ther, and filter it through filtering paper. It will keep for years, though it may be used immediately. Creme de Clous de Girofle, or Pelhen Liqueur. Take one Quart of Spirit of Wine 62° above proof, put to it forty drops of Oil of Cloves, shake it well, and put it aside; then put one quart of water into a Saucepan, and drop in the Sugar by lumps; boil it well, and let it304 the housekeeper’s oracle. cool; when quite cold put it to the spirits and oil, shake it well, and colour it red as follows with Bilberries. Take one quart of Bilberries when ripe, clear them from the leaves, then put them into a Saucepan with as much water as will just cover them, boil them well, and, when cold, press them through a linen rag; take as much of this juice as of Spirit of Wine, and put them together, then filter it, and put it in bottles for use; put in as much juice as will give it a good red colour. The Liqueur must be filtered as usual. The other Liqueurs are prepared in the same manner, with the difference only, that you add more drops of oil or tincture to some, than to the others, as you will find.APPENDIX 305 Names of Liqueurs. 1 Quantity of| Spirit of | Wine. Quantity and Names of Oils. Quantity of Sugar-water. Colour. Arringette 1 Quart 20 Drops of Oil of Aniseed 1 Quart White. Wackholder 1 Do. • ■ 30 Ditto of Juniper 1 Do. • • Ditto. Klinmel 1 Do. • • 70 Ditto of Caraways • • • ■ 1 Do. • • Ditto. Peppermint • • • • 1 Do. • ■ 25 Ditto of Peppermint • • 1 Do. •. Ditto. Pomeranger 1 Do. • • 90 Ditto of Orange 1 Do. • • Ditto. Cr§me de Citron 1 Do. • • 60 Ditto of Cedro 1 Do. • • Yellow. Do. de Comelle 1 Do. • • 20 Ditto of Cinnamon • • • • 1 Do. -• Red. Do. de Vanelle- • 1 Do. .. 42 Ditto Tinct. of Vanelle 1 Do- • Brown. Do. de Rose • • • • I Do. • • 12 Ditto Oil of Roses 1 Do. • • Pink. Kransethutye • • 1 Do. • 25 Ditto of Mint 1 Do. • • Green. Curaso 1 Do. • • 120 Ditto of Bitter Oranges 1 Do. -• Brown. Clous de Girotie 1 Do. •• 40 Ditto of Cloves 1 Do. - • Red. REMARKS. The Pink is prepared with 2d. of Cochineal dissolved in Spirit of Wine, or green Vine leaves or Spinach, put for ten days in Spirit of Wine in a bottle, before the Sun: after the colour is drawn out, preserve it for use. If the Bilberries are not to begot, takfran oz. of Sandal Wood, put it for fourteen days in Spirit of Wine, and should it not be dark enough, put a little potash to it. Instead of 1 lb. of fine Sugar take 1 lb. of dark brown Sugar-candy, and in preference to the other. For Dark Drown, tile Sugar will produce the colour.306 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S ORACLE. Powder of Punch or Lemonade. Powder half an ounce (Apothecaries’ weight) of Citric (i. e. Crystallised Lemon) or Tartaric Acid, with three ounces of Loaf Sugar, and a few drops of Oil of Lemon-peel; rub these in- gredients thoroughly together in a marble or wedgewood mortar, and divide it into twelve parts: by dissolving one of which in half a pint of cold water, you will immediately obtain a very agreeable Lemonade. Mock Arrack. Dissolve two scruples of flowers of Benjamin in a quart of good Rum, and it will give it the flavour of the finest Arrack. Syrup of Nutmegs, Ginger, Sc. Nutmegs grated, two ounces, boiling-water a pint; digest in a close vessel for twenty-four hours, and add to it a pound of powdered Loat Sugar, and an Egg beat up with a little cold water; boil up together, skim carefully, and reduce it to a syrup : when cold, add a glass of Brandy to it. This Syrup is strongly impregnated with the Nutmeg, and an agreeable and convenient in307 APPENDIX. gredient in Puddings, &c. and all sweet dishes in which Nutmegs are used. Cloves, Cinnamon, and other Spices, may be prepared in the same manner. Syrup of Vinegar. Let two pints and a half of the best distilled Vinegar be boiled in three pounds and a half of Lump Sugar till a Syrup is formed : this solution is a pleasant and very cheap substitute for the Syrup of Lemons. The juice of Mulberries, Raspberries, and Black Currants, may be incorporated with syrup in a similar way ; and are cooling, plea- sant drinks, which may be advantageously em- ployed for mitigating thirst in Bilious and Inflammatory Disorders. Punch. The grand secret, or rather art, of making ge- nuine British Punch, consists in the preparation of a rich and delicate Sherbet: this being; ac- complished, with the addition of the best Ja- maica Rum or French Brandy, and pure hot or cold water; the mixture may be too strong or too weak, but cannot possibly prove bad Punch. In preparing Sherbet for Punch, the acids of308 the housekeeper’s oracle. cream of tartar, tamarinds, and various other prepared vegetable acids, as well as that par- ticularly denominated Citric Acid, are occa- sionally employed ; but perhaps, after all, the juices of Limes, Lemons, and Seville oranges,' expressed from the fresh fruits, when attain- able, make the sort of Sherbet which seems most congenial with the nature of good British Punch. Procure a couple of ripe, sound, and fresh Lemons or Limes, and a Seville Orange ; rub oft’ the yellow rind of one of the Lemons with lumps of fine Loaf Sugar, putting each lump into the bowl, as soon as it is saturated or clogged with the Essence or grated rind ; then thinly pare the other Lemon and Seville orange, and put those rinds also into the bowl, to which add plenty of sugar; pour a very small quan- tity of boiling water,* and immediately squeeze the juice of the fruit, followed by a little more hot water. Incorporate the whole well together with a punch ladle ; and, putting a little of the sherbet thus composed, try its richness and flavour by the palate. * The late Count Rumford recommended a table-spoonful of Rice to be boiled in each quart of water; it imparts a soft- ness almost equal to Jelly.APPENDIX. 309 If the fruit be good, a practised punch-maker will find little which requires to be regulated, and that little can soon be adjusted by supplying the aqueous, saccharine, or acid deficiencies, so as to produce a luscious and rich-bodied sherbet, fit for the reception of the spirit which is to give it animation. If straining should be found necessary, this is the period for using a lawn sieve, through which a little more hot water may afterwards be passed; and a few parings of the orange or lemon rind are gene- rally considered as having an agreeable appear- ance floating on the bowl. The Sherbet being thus prepared, to make it into genuine British Punch, spirit should be added in the proportions of a bottle of the best Jamaica rum to every pint of the finest Cognac brandy : the entire strength or weakness may be suited to the general inclination of the com- pany for which it is prepared. The above quantity of fruit, with about three quarters of a pound of sugar, will make suffi- cient sherbet for three quarts of punch. Pine-apple, rum, and capillaire syrup, instead of part of the sugar, may be used, if convenient, with considerable advantage to the flavour; though it will prove excellent punch without310 the housekeeper’s oracle. either of these auxiliaries, or even Seville Orange. The same sort of Sherbet may, of course, be used for brandy-punch, or rum-punch singly: but punch is seldom so made in England; most persons, indeed, mix equal parts of rum and brandy. Arrack Punch, however, is made with that spirit alone, and usually with a simple sherbet of lime or lemon juice, with sugar, as the flavour of the Seville Orange interferes too much with the peculiar flavour of the arrack, which proves so grateful to most tastes, though to many very unpleasant. Punch maybe immediately impregnated with the Arrack Flavour by a little of the Flower of Benjamin. When with the richest sherbet, sometimes rendered still richer by fruit Jellies, and even nutmeg, wine is mingled with the rum and brandy, instead of water, the liquor is called Punch Royal. The mixture of a small quantity of Ale or Porter, highly recommended by some in making- punch, seems only advisable when it is rum- punch, made without any brandy, and must, even then, be very sparingly introduced. ThisAPPENDIX. 311 article, whatever may appear its value, is fur- nished, with regard to its principles, by one of the first practical punch-makers in Europe, who could easily, by dwelling on minute cir- cumstances, have supplied matter for a small volume; the essence of which is, however, he freely confesses, here sufficiently concentrated for every useful purpose. With regard to the salubrity of punch, when drank in moderation, hot in winter, or cold, and even iced in summer, it affords a grateful beverage ; admirably allaying thirst, promoting the secretions, and conveying animation to the spirits. If, however, amid the hilarity excited by the tempting fragrance and luscious taste, which the balmy bowl seldom fails to inspire, it be too freely and too habitually drank, its power- ful combination of spirit and acid, instead of proving favourable to the constitution, will in- fallibly tend to bring on the gout, even sooner than most wines or strong cider, unless happily prevented by using a considerable deal of ex- ercise. Punch (like all the prime blessings of life) is excellent and salutary, when prudently en- joyed at proper seasons. We must not charge312 the housekeeper’s oracle. on them our own want of discretion, by which alone they are ever converted to evils. The apparently whimsical English name of Punch, like the liquor itself, is of West India origin, the word in the aboriginal language signifying simply Five, being the number of ingredients there used : viz. 1. acid, or lime, or lemon-juice; 2. sweetness, or sugar; 3. spirit, or rum, &c.; 4. water; and, 5. spicy flavour, or nutmeg, &c. It is singular, too, that punch, the word for five, consists of just five letters. From the opposite natures of the several in- gredients, punch has also been called the liquor of contradictions. Fine Red Ratifia. Mash together, in a tub or pan, three pounds of black Cherries, two of ripe red Gooseberries, and one of Raspberries; mix with these twenty- four cherry-kernels, previously pounded in a mortar, with a pint of syrup; put all into a Jar, stop it close, and keep it for twelve hours in a heat of about ninety degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer; then press it through a clean napkin, let it stand twelve hours longer; and then add to each quart of juice a pint of goodAPPENDIX. 313 brandy; next day strain it through a flannel bag till it is quite clear. Obs.—The French Liqueurs are in general very badly imitated in England, from our sub- stituting bitter Almonds for Peach and Apricot kernels, and common proof spirit for their fine Cognac brandy. To give British Spirit the Flavour of French Brandy. Various methods have been suggested for producing this—we have tried most of them, and they are all quite useless, except the fol- lowing, which certainly ameliorated the flavour of our proof spirit considerably. In a pint of proof spirit put about eight French plumbs; let them steep for ten days, and strain. Spirituous Syrup of Tea. Pour a quarter of a pint of boiling water on three ounces, avoirdupois weight, of fine young Hyson; let it stand an hour, and add to it a pint of brandy, or proof spirit; let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day; strain it, and sweeten it with clarified Syrup. Obs.—A tea-spoonful or two of this in a p314 the housekeeper’s oracle. tumbler of water, is a very refreshing beverage in summer. Lemon Juice for Shrub, Punch, Lemonade, Negus, and the various Purposes for which the Juice of the Lemon is used, such as Jellies, Sauces, Sc. Acid of Tartar, two ounces. Lump Sugar, one ounce. Essence of Lemon Peel, a few drops. The above has been sold as Lemon Juice for many years. About a tea-spoonful will make three pints of Sherbet. N.B. — The flavour of Citric Acid is much more agreeable than the Tartaric; and the aroma of the Lemon peel may be obtained by rubbing the Sugar on the rind of a Lemon. Essences of Orange. Citric Acid, siij. Tinct. Aurantii, siij. Syrup simp. 1 lb. Ginger Beer (immediately). Thirty Grains of Carbonate of Potash, finely pounded.APPENDIX. 315 Twenty-five grains of Citric Acid. Eight grains of Ginger, finely pounded, with Three drachms of Sugar, (all Apothecary’s weight); rub these thoroughly together in a Wedgewood’s ware Mortar. Stir this into half a pint of water; when the sugar is dissolved, add the Potash powder; and you have so much Ginger Beer. N.B. — This is an excellent beverage in hot weather, especially for those who eat a great deal of Fruit:—the flavour of it will be greatly improved by the addition of a few drops of Essence of Lemon Peel to the powder contain- ing the sugar, or rub the sugar on the rind of a Lemon. Instead of Ginger Powder, it may be fla- voured with “ Essence of Ginger,” and it will then be perfectly transparent. Sodaic Powders. Take five drachms of Citric or Tartaric Acid, pound it fine, and divide it into twelve parts, folding each in white paper. Take six drachms of Carbonate of Soda, pound it fine, and fold it in blue paper. Fill two half-pint tumbler glasses half-full of water; stir into one a powder from the white316 the housekeeper’s oracle. paper, in the other one from the blue; when the powders are quite dissolved, pour one to the other, and perfect Soda water will be in- stantaneously produced in its utmost per- fection. To make Ginger Beer. To eleven Gallons of Water put ten pounds of Loaf Sugar, half a pound of bruised Ginger, the rind of four Lemons, and the whites of four Eggs, beat into a strong froth; mix them all well together while cold, and put it into your Copper; as soon as it boils, skim it well, and then pour it into a Cooler, and put to it two ounces of Cream of Tartar, and the inside of six Lemons sliced and the pips taken out; when it is nearly cold, put into your cloth four table-spoonsful of yeast, and pour your liquor in upon it. When done working, bung it up, and let it stand a fortnight : then bottle it off, and it will be fit to drink in about ten days. Ginger Beer. Put into a pan three-fourths of a pound of Loaf Sugar, half an ounce of bruised Ginger, (Powder of Ginger makes the Beer thick); do317 APPENDIX. not bruise the Ginger till just before you use it — the aroma soon flies off—and an ounce of Cream of Tartar : pour over it four quarts of boiling water, let it stand till nearly cold, then put in a table-spoonful of thick yeast; stir it about, and when quite cold, put it into half- pint stone bottles, which take care to have quite clean and dry.—Cork them close, and tie them over with a string; set them in a cold but dry cellar. It will be ready in two or three days, and remain good for a fortnight. If you wish to keep it longer, add a quarter of an ounce more Ginger, and a quarter of a pound more Sugar. An ounce of fresh-cut Lemon-peel will greatly improve the flavour. Hippocrates' Sleeve, or Filtering Bag, Is very useful for fining fluids, and is made of flannel, not too fine or close, and in the form of a funnel; let it be thoroughly washed (im- mediately after being used) in three or four waters, that the dry flavour it may have im- bibed from what has passed through it may be entirely removed. Then hang it up to dry in an airy place, that it may not get musty. Before you strain any thing in it, pass318 the housekeeper’s oracle. some hot water through it, which will prevent wasting the fluid to be fined. VARIOUS USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. To prevent Beer becoming Flat after it is drawn. Put a piece ofToasted Bread into it, and it will preserve the spirit for twelve hours after,in a very considerable degree. To clean Plate. First.—Take care that your Plate is quite free from grease. Second. — Take some whitening mixed with water, and a sponge, rub it well on the Plate, which will take the tarnish off; if it is very bad, repeat the whitening and water several times, making use of a brush, not too hard, to clean the intricate parts. Third. — Take some rouge-powder, mix it with water to about the thickness of cream, and with a small piece of leather (which should be kept for that purpose only) apply the rouge, which, with the addition of a little “ Elbow319 APPENDIX. Grease,” will, in a short time, produce a most beautiful polish. N.B.—The Rouge-Powder maybe had at all the Silversmiths and Jewellers. Obs.—The above is the actual manner in which Silversmiths clean their Plate, and was given to me by a respectable Tradesman. The common Method of cleaning Plate. First wash it well with soap and warm water; when perfectly dry, mix together a little whitening and sweet oil, so as to make a soft paste; then take a piece of flannel, rub it on the Plate; then with a leather, and plenty of dry whitening, rub it clean off again ; then, with a clean leather and a brush, finish it. To loosen Glass Stoppers of Bottles. With a feather rub a drop or two of salad oil round the stopper, close to the mouth of the bottle or decanter, which must be then placed before the fire, at the distance of about eighteen inches; the heat will cause the oil to insinuate itself between the stopper and the neck. When the Bottle or Decanter has grown warm, gently strike the stopper on one side, %320 the housekeeper’s oracle. and then on the other, with any light wooden instrument; then try it with the hand: if it will not yet move, place it again before the fire, adding another drop of oil. After a while strike again as before; and by persevering in this process, however tightly it may be fastened in, you will at length succeed in loosening it. Varnish for Oil Paintings. According to the number of your Pictures, take the whites of the same number of Eggs, and an equal number of pieces of Sugar Candy, the size of a hazle nut, dissolved, and mix it with a tea-spoonful of Brandy; beat the whites of your Eggs to a froth, and let it settle; take the clear, put it to your Brandy and Sugar, mix them well together, and varnish over your Pictures with it. This is much better than any other Varnish, as it is easily washed off when your Pictures want cleaning again. Method of Cleaning Paper-Hangings. Cut into eight half quarters a quartern loaf, two days old; it must neither be newer nor staler. With one of these pieces, after having blown oft’ all the dust from the paper to beAPPENDIX. 321 cleaned, by the means of a good pair of bellows, begin at the top of the room, holding the crust in the hand, and wiping lightly downward with the crumb, about half a yard at each stroke, till the upper part of the hangings is completely cleaned all round. Then go round again, with the like sweeping stroke down- wards, always commencing each successive course a little higher than the upper stroke had extended, till the bottom be finished. This operation, if carefully performed, will frequently make very old paper look almost equal to new. Great caution must be used not by any means to rub the paper hard, nor to attempt cleaning it the cross, or horizontal way. The dirty part of the bread, too, must be each time cut away, and the pieces renewed as soon as it may become necessary. To prevent the Freezing of Water in Pipes in the Winter-time. By tying up the ball-cock during the frost, the freezing of Pipes will often be prevented : in fact, it will always be prevented where the main Pipe is higher than the Cistern, or other Reservoir, and the Pipe is laid in a regular inclination from one to the other, for then no322 the housekeeper’s oracle. water can remain in the Pipe; or if the Main is lower than the Cistern, and the Pipe regu- larly inclines, upon the supply ceasing, the Pipe will immediately exhaust itself into the Main. Where the water is in the Pipe, if each Cock is left a little dripping, this circu- lation of the water will frequently prevent the Pipes from being frozen. To make Wooden Stairs have the appearance of Stone. Paint the stairs, step by step, with white paint, mixed with strong drying oil. Strew it thick with silver sand. It ought to be thoroughly dry next morning, when the loose sand is to be swept off. The painting and sanding is to be repeated, and when dry, the surface is to be done over with pipe-clay, whiting, and water; which may be boiled in an old saucepan, and laid on with a bit of flannel, not too thick, otherwise it will be apt to scale off. A penny cake of pipe-clay, which must be scraped, is the common proportion to half a lump of whiting. The pipe-clay and whiting is generally applied once a week, but that might be done only as occasion requires.323 APPENDIX. French Polish. Take a quarter of an ounce of Gum Sandaric and a quarter of an ounce of Gum Mastic; pick the dirt and black lumps out very care- fully, and pound them in a Mortar quite fine ; put them into a bottle, and add to them a quartern (old measure) of strong spirit of wine; cork it down and put it in a warm place ; shake it frequently till the Gum is entirely dissolved, which will be in. about twenty-four hours. Before using it, be careful to ascertain that no grease is on the Furniture, as grease would prevent its receiving the polish. If the Furni- ture has been previously cleaned with Bees’- wax or oil, it must be got off by scraping, which is the best way, but difficult to those who do not perfectly understand it, because if you are not very careful, you may scratch the surface, and create more expense than a work- man would charge to do it properly at first. Or it may be done by scouring well with sand and water, and afterwards rubbed quite smooth with fine glass-paper, being careful to do it with the grain of the wood. To apply the Polish, you must have a piece of list or cloth '324 the housekeeper’s oracle. twisted, and tied round quite tight, and left even at one end, which should be covered with a piece of fine linen cloth ; then pour a little of the Polish on the Furniture, and rub it well all over till it is worked into the grain of the wood, and begins to look quite smooth; then take a soft fine cloth, or what is better, an old silk handkerchief, and keep rubbing lightly until the polish is complete, which will take two or three hours. It will greatly help the polish if it is done near a fire. If it does not look so smooth and clear as it should, a little sweet oil rubbed lightly over, and cleaned off directly, will greatly heighten it. If any part of the Furniture has carving about it, where it will be impossible to polish, it must be done with mastic varnish, and a camel’s hair brush, after the rest is finished. When the polish begins to look dull, it may be recovered with a little spirit of wine. Polish for Dining Tables, Is to rub them with cold-drawn Linseed Oil, thus:—put a little in the middle of a Table, and then with a piece of Linen (never use woollen) Cloth rub it well all over the Table; then take another piece of Linen, and rub it forAPPENDIX. 325 ten minutes, then rub it till quite dry with another Cloth. This must be done every day for several months, when you will find your mahogany acquire a permanent and beautiful lustre, unattainable by any other means, and equal to the finest French Polish; and if the Table is covered with the Tablecloth only, the hottest dishes will make no impression upon it: and when once this polish is produced, it will only require dry rubbing with a linen cloth for about ten minutes twice in a week, to pre- serve it in the highest perfection ; which never fails to please your employers; and remember, that to please others is always the surest way to profit yourself. If the appearance must be more immediately produced, take some Furniture Paste. To prevent disagreeable Smells from Sinks, Sc. The disgustful effluvia arising from Cabbage- water, and the various ungrateful odours which arise from the Sink of Kitchens, Drains, &c., are not only an unnecessary nuisance to the good folks of the second table, but we believe such miasm is not an uncommon cause of Putrid Fevers, &c. &c. It cannot be too generally known, that a326 the housekeeper’s oracle. cheap and simple apparatus has been con- trived for carrying off the waste water, &c. from Sinks, which at the same time effectually prevents any air returning back from thence, or from any Drain connected therewith. This is known by the name of Stink Trap, and costs about five Shillings. No Kitchen Sink shoidd be without it. Hints relative to Beds and Bed-clothes. Bed Furniture, Counterpanes, Blankets, Pil- lows, should at least once or twice a year be washed ; and Beds and Mattresses beat, carded, cleaned, and re-made. The purity of Feathers, Wool, Hair, &c. employed for the Mattresses or Cushions, is a first object of comfortable cleanliness and Health. Do not purchase Second-hand Beds, or Bed Furniture, as they may contain the seeds of infectious Fevers. Animal exhalations are always prejudicial to health; but wool, &c. impregnated with the perspiration, &c. &c. of people suffering putrid and infectious diseases, it is needless to insist upon the dangerous consequences that may arise from it.327 APPENDIX. Beds shut up in small closets, and Press Bedsteads, are extremely injurious, especially to young people and Invalids. When persons are from necessity obliged to sleep in them, it will be advisable every morning, immediately after rising, to displace all the Bed-clothes, nor should soiled linen be suffered to remain in an apartment where the purity of the air is of the first importance. If the sky be serene, open the door and windows, and let the room be thoroughly ven- tilated. It is a dangerous practice to sleep with open windows, either during the night or the day; nor should the Bedstead be placed near a wall, but stand free on all its sides, and, if possible, in the middle of the chamber, which is of consequence to those who tremble during the prevalence of a tempest or thunder-storm. We know from experience, that a flash of lightning, should it unfortunately strike a building, or enter through any of the windows, uniformly takes its direction along the walls, without injuring the Furniture in the centre of a room. Let the aspect of your Bed-room be towards the East, that it may receive the enlivening rays of the morning Sun.328 THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. Paste. To make Common Paste, mix one Table- spoonful of Flour with one of cold water, stir it well together, and add two more Table- spoonsful of Water; set it over the fire and give it a boil, stirring it all the time, or it will burn at the bottom of the Saucepan. To prevent Moths. In the month of April beat your fur gar- ments well with a small cane or elastic stick, then lap them up in linen without pressing the fur too hard, and put betwixt the folds some Camphor in small lumps; then put your furs in this state in boxes well closed. When the furs are wanted for use, beat them well as before, and expose them for twenty-four hours to the air, which will take away the smell of the Camphor. If the fur has long hair, as bear or fox, add to the Camphor an equal quantity of black pepper in powder. To prevent Hats being damaged after a Shower of Rain. If your hat is wet, shake it out as much as possible; then brush it with a soft brush asAPPEN D1X. 329 smooth as you can, or with a clean linen cloth or handkerchief; wipe it very carefully, keep the beaver flat and smooth, in the same di- rection as it was first placed, then with a small cane beat the nap gently up, and hang it up to dry in a cool place ; when it is dry, lay it on a table, and brush it round several times with a soft brush in the proper direction; and you will find your hat not the least injured by the rain. If the gloss is not quite so high as you wish, take a flat iron, moderately heated, and pass the same two or three times gently over the hat; brush it afterwards, and it will be- come nearly as handsome as when sent home from the Maker. How to Scour a Hat when the Nap is clotted, and to take Salt Water out. Get a hard brush, a basin of hot water, (boiling), and some yellow Soap; rub a little of the Soap lightly on the brush and dip it into the water, brush the Hat round with the nap; if you find the nap clotted, do not scrape it with your fingers, as that tears it off; but brush it until it is smooth, and the soap is thoroughly out; then take a piece of wood,THE HOUSEKEEPER’S ORACLE. or the back of a knife, and scrape it well round; you will find all the dirt come out; then beat it gently with a cane. See the preceding Receipt. A Hat will wear much longer if you change the side before, alternate days. To Clean Knives. They should be held in a straight position on the Knife-board, and should he moved back- wards and forwards in as direct a line as pos- sible— they will then be free from that scratchy appearance which makes knives look so badly. Forks should be rubbed very hard with a stick covered with buff leather; they will then have a much brighter polish, and be much sooner done, than if only lightly pressed on. Cosmetics. Many hasten the decay of their Beauty by their artifices to preserve it. Were it permitted us to penetrate the secret recesses of the Toilet, and to explore at leisure the nature of the mysterious articles which administer so conspicuously to Artificial Beauty, we should probably find that some of the most331 APPENDIX. celebrated Cosmetics consist of preparations of Lead, Mercury, or Bismuth. Carmine, or harmless rouge, (as the Ladies are pleased to term it,) is a preparation of Cochineal in nitrous acid, with some other ingredient which is kept a profound secret. This favourite composition, which gives the roseate bloom to the countenance, being pre- pared with a strong mineral acid, is, perhaps, not altogether so very innocent as they ima- gine : besides, its excessive dearness renders it an object for adulteration; and Vermilion, (a preparation of Mercury,) though a humble imitation, affords a cheap and inviting ingre- dient to mix with it. To this, in its simple or combined state, they are generally beholden for their Roses; while a calx of Lead, or what is equally per- nicious, the magic power of Bismuth, gives the last polish to the lily whiteness which so dazzles our eyes. This poisonous composition is generally dig- nified by the pompous title of Pearl-Powder> and sold as perfectly innocent : it has, how- ever, proved fatal to some, and ruined the health of many others, without being even suspected.332 the housekeeper’s oracle. I am credibly informed, that those Ladies who are in the habit of enamelling their faces, necks, and bosoms, with this White Paint, generally fall victims to their own indiscretion. It is thus our modern Hebes attempt to preserve a perpetual bloom, and to set Wrinkles and old age at defiance. But, alas! alas ! these pernicious ingredients, although only used externally, are liable to be imbibed at every pore, and thence convey a slow poison into the system, highly injurious to the health, and certainly destructive to Beauty. For, dis- mal to relate, the Cold-Cream, the Pommade- Divine, or whatever specious titles such com- positions may assume, at last betray their trust, and, instead of Beauty, produce real Deformity. The artificial roses soon fade, the angelic whiteness contracts a dingy brown, when the mask falls off, and the Spectre stands confessed. Strange, that British Ladies, to whom Nature has been so bountiful, should distrust their native charms, and have recourse to such wretched substitutes of art! Is it not truly mortifying, that they should thus stoop to adorn, or rather disguise their persons, at the expense of their Health !333 APPENDIX. But, to quit so humiliating a subject, if what has been offered be not sufficient to put them on their guard, more would be inef- fectual. However, before I conclude, there is one simple Cosmetic I can venture with confidence to recommend to the Ladies as a perfectly safe, cheap, and efficacious substitute for all the pernicious tribe above mentioned, and which may be freely used without any risk of detec- tion— a Cosmetic which boasts the highest antiquity, and is, perhaps, the only true one acknowledged by Nature; —it is not only innocent but highly conducive to Health;— it clears the Complexion far beyond the Milk of Roses; and when accompanied with early Hours and brisk Exercise in the Open Air, diffuses over the countenance a more ani- mated bloom than the finest Rouge. This grand Secret is no other than cold Spring Water. See Cautions to Heads of Families, by Dr. Fothergill, 8vo. p. 57. “ To the effects of the Sympathetic Powder, blazoned by Sir Ken elm Digby, who was unquestionably among the first Philosophers334 the housekeeper’s oracle. of his time, Surgeons are indebted for one of the chief improvements of their art; i. e. heal- ing wounds by what is technically termed the first intention. The Powder was applied to the weapon, by which the wound had been inflicted, covered with salve, and regularly dressed two or three times a day. The wound, meantime, was directed to be brought together and carefully bound up with clean linen rags, and let alone for seven days. At the end of that period the bandages were removed, and, to the glory of Sir Ken elm, and the astonish- ment of the Surgeons and by-standers, the wound was, in a great majority of instances, found perfectly united; and the cure was, with due solemnity, attributed to the powder and plasters which had, secundum artem, been daily applied to the innocent Sword or Dagger.— Vide of the Sympathetic Powder, a Discourse in a Solemn Assembly at Montpellier, by Sir Kenelm Digby, 1657.” Wounds on the Skin. Cuts and wounds inflicted by a sharp instru- ment heal with prodigious facility if the Con- stitution be sound and the Circulation suffi- cient ; — the inosculating vessels form such aAPPENDIX. 335 speedy and permanent union, if undisturbed by officious interference, as often to excite surprise. The inexperienced will scarcely believe what degree of improvement will be visible upon the removal of the first dressing: the Air is the great corrupter of Wounds. People in general have no idea what a healing process is pro- ceeding in large Wounds under a poultice unremoved for five or six days; and then the exclamation is, What a fine cure the Surgeon has made! The customary sticking-plaster is spread with a gum which does not suit an irritable Skin; the Gold-beater's Skin is pre- ferable for slight superficial Wounds.1INDEX A. PAGE Accum on Adulterations . 32 Achilles, what famous for . 3 Age, what testimonials re- quired in 12 Alexander the Great, who next to 20 Alum, why used in bread . 226 Amusement, what charged to 49 Anacreon, sons of, when con- sider themselves drunk . 37 Anchovies, mock essence of, 284 mock . . . 285 mock essence of, another way 286 Animals, flesh of young, to whom adapted .... 155 Animal food, effects of boil- ing 156 Appearance beyond your for- tune, what an evidence of 13 Appetites, the selfish, when most unmasked ... 76 April, what birds in season 174 Arcana of domestic affairs, how soon learnt ... 1 Arrack, mock 306 August, what birds in season 174 B. Bacon, what best .... 247 Bacchus, comparison with Neptune 39 Barbel, when in season . .185 Baking, why reprobated . 158 Bark, inner of the tree, what good for 160 PAGE Barrel, how to find dimen- sions of 215 Beef, piece of sir-loin, how to carve 91 brisket of, how to carve 92 buttock of, how to carve 93 edge-bone of, how to carve 94 when best and cheapest 164 ox do. do. . . ib. cow do. do. . . ib. bull do. do. . . ib. Bed, and bed-clothes, hints concerning 326 Beer, how long to be kept before drank . . . .211 how much to drink per head ib. where to get the best 212 to keep from getting stale 213 ginger immediately 315 Birds, when affording best food 171 Bleak, when in season . .185 Boileau, his observations on punctuality 66 Bons vivans, money of, where it goes .... 36 why loving sunrise ib. Bosville, anecdote of . . 59 — first covenant with his cook 60 Bottles, to loosen glass stop- pers from 31!) Bream, when in season . .185 U338 INDEX PAGE Bread, consumption of, an- nually 220 average consumption by adults per week . . ib. fresh baked . . . 221 crumbs, how useful ib. its appearance when adulterated 222 family, common way of making 224 as made by bakers . 225 household, as prac- tised by bakers .... 232 standard wheaten, to make 233 to make . . . . ib. present way of mak- ing 235 ginger, Scotch . . 238 Brewing, receipt for . . . 215 other rules for . 217 Brills, when in season . .185 Broth, the nature of . . .156 Butter, annual consumption of 239 Epping . . ... 240 fine Carlow . . .241 Dorset, salt . . . ib. how to be packed for a journey 242 salt, how sold . . 241 how to be kept . . 242 how to make salt, fresh ib. C. Calf’s-head, half of boiled, how to carve .... 95 j Candles, table of prices for 251 ! whentolayinstoreof 252 how their light is pro- portioned ib. best for reading . . 253 j wax ib. j spermaceti . . . — composition . • waxed wicks . . how to snuff . . PAGE Carver, a prudent, his busi- ness 81 Carving 74 Lord Chesterfield’s opinion of ib. Carp 189 Catsup, white 289 cucumber .... 290 Character, false one, forfeit for giving 137 written one . . ib. Charcoal, how sold . . . 262 Cheese, the best, bread sauce 243 monger, dialogue with ib. Cheshire, song on . 244 —.— Cheddar .... 245 Stilton, when it arrives at maturity ib. for toasting, what best ib. where to be kept . . 246 when damp or mouldy, directions for . . . . ib. cream, when ripe . . ib. Child, spoilt, anecdote of . 79 Children, four, cost of per week ib. how destroyed . 41 experiment on two ib. same experiment reversed 42 Chub 189 Church, the advantage of going to 148 the evil of non-at- I tendance at ib. Civility, rules of, quoted . 84 Coals 254 number of different kinds brought to London 256 : exchange, table of . . 259 Scotch and Stafford- shire 260 Kennel 261 ! hints on purchasing . 262 ] Cod “. . 189 versus worsted . . . ib. Comfort, real, what ... 48 Company that you love, how to treat ^INDEX. 339 PAGE Conscience, our, how judged of ........ 76 Consolation, how derived from a bad dinner ... 77 Consumption of moderate persons per week ... 10 Cooking, when too much is undertaken 50 Cook, first questions asked her 48 Cook’s Oracle, questions by 23 Cream, mock 273 Credit, how objectionable . 25 he that sells on, his price ib. Crout, sour 283 Custom, how drawn to some shops 30 Customs, established, when to comply with .... 71 what only censured 72 D. Dace 190 Darwin, Dr. quoted on . .109 Death, sudden, how brought on 39 December, birds in season . 174 Dine, when at home, what to be ordered .... 62 when out, what to be pleased with ib. Dinner-table, its size . . 35 how ordered . ib. custom of sit- ting at, why prejudicial . 38 a plain, when accept- able 36 after, what drink . 39 parties, common way . of persuasion .... 51 what it should be ib. when invited to old gentlemen’s, N. B. . . 64 next to giving a good one, what necessary . . 74 Difficulty, begins with what 65 PAGE Disbursements, how reduce 25 Discreet dinner-giver, how to obtain title of ... 68 Dishes made 48 not requisite . . . ib. those in Cook’s Oracle ib. what they all are . ib. who prepared for . 55 their effects on the stomach ib. on the pocket ib. Domestics, our, how depend- ing on them 122 Door, street, key of, where to be placed 61 Drunkenness, the virtue of, 76 E. Eating, of what .... 72 Economists, furious, their excuse for being late . . 65 and Epicure’s Calendar ... ... 150 Economy, golden rules of . 11 comfortable, first lesson in 33 Edifice, economical, on what built 25 Eels, when in season . . . 191 Emperor, a feast for ... 46 Eusebius, translation from . ib. Expenses, amount of a fa- mily’s 9 every day, how contrive them . . . . 21 • their limit with safety 20 what they ought not to exceed .... 22 F. Failings, when to make al- lowance for 132 Families, well governed, the plan of 147 1 Family, head of, the duty . 139INDEX. 340 PAGE Famine, different plans ^ against 159 Faults, servants’, what al- ways to be told . . .135 February, what birds in sea- son 173 Fire-lighter, self-acting . . 264 to lay in winter . . 265 Fish 176 scarcity of ... . 177 regulations respecting ib. number of entered at Custom-house, one year . 178 observations on, by Mr. Tucker 180 cm-ious account of its spawn 183 table of, when in season 184 Food, animal, consumption of, in London . . . .154 compared to vegetable ib. . its proportion- ate nourishment . . .155 its rank among solids 143 farinaceous. . . .158 Fools, what to leave them . 23 Fowl, how to carve . . .112 prime parts of . .114 Franklin, Dr., his advice on paying ready money . 26—28 Friend, our best, when we disappoint 67 Fruits 207 . order of their digesti- bility 209 table of, when best . 210 Future, the, how to be judged 72 G. Gentleman, who the greatest 52 Gifford, his translation of Juvenal 47 Gisbourne, quoted ... 32 quoted on custom 72 Ginger, syrup of... . 300 • PAGE Ginger beer 310 beer, another way . ib. Goose, to carve .... 107 what part of, to devil 108 green, to carve. .'I parts most >109 esteemed j Grant, Dr., quoted ... 39 Grayling, or Umber, when in season 191 Green, Captain, how to re- sist . 29 Grief, consequence of . . 39 Gudgeon, when in season . 191 Gurnet, do. do. . . ib. H. Habit of changing servants, evils of 134 Haddock, when in season . 191 Ham, how to carve ... 99 hints on purchasing . 247 which most preferable 247 how tasted .... 248 pie 249 Handel, story of .... 35 Happiest, who are the . . 20 Hare, how to carve . . .103 -* old one 105 Hats, directions for, after rain 329 Heads, old ones, old adage . 132 Hint, Lady Betty, not to be followed 129 Home, when not to be away from 104 Holydays, when some allow their servants . . . .143 Hosts, advice to all ... 43 how a prudent one should select his company 44 Howel’s letter quoted . . 36 Hospitality, what fatal to . ib. House-book 4 keeping, expenses . 18 maid, plan for one 125INDEX. 341 TAGE I. Ignorance, Sir Illbred, his answer . . .... 61 Income, how to manage . 8 what to lay by . . ib. annual, how much afford each week ... 9 Indulgences, occasional . . 138 occasional, how to admit 22 Invitation, a general, what it is 59 Intoxication, advice on . . 40 Irishman, his blanket . 30, 31 J. January, what birds in sea- son 173 Jellies 157 Jelly-refiner, plan of . . 274 John Dory, when in season 191 Johnson, Dr., his advice . 21 Journey, reasonable day’s, what is 59 July, what birds in season . 174 K. Kings, who were the first . 2 Kitchiner, Dr., his persua- ders 51 his Eau-Douce 293 Kitchen-stuff, what some al- low in place of .... 10 merchant, anecdote of Knives, to clean .... 330 L. Lacon, quotation from . . 23 Langton, Mr. Peregrine, his domestic economy . . . 145 Lamb, grass, when best . .166 house, why prized . ib. Larders, pantries, &c. . .167 Lemon-juice to flavour li- quors with 314 PAGE Life, Invigorating, Art of, quoted 40 j Ling, when in season . .192 | Lobster, do ib. anecdote of fishmonger 193 Liqueur, Felken, to make . 303 Liqueurs, French and Dant- zic, to make without dis- tillation 303 table of ... . 305 Luncheon, in serving, rules to be observed . . . .168 Luxury, its progress ... 71 M. Mackerel, when in season . 193 Man, cost of per week . . 18 a necessitous, when ri- diculed 69 March, what birds in season 173 Market, to go to, time best for 29 Marketing, best rules for . 163 Marmelade, orange, to make 272 Master, dialogue with his cook 131 Masters, bad, what they make 60 Manners, good, benefit of . 68 bad, consequences of ib. May, what birds in season . 174 Mean, the happy .... 45 Messenger, never send from one to another servant . 131 Meat, Table, (beef) . . .161 1 mutton) . .162 (veal) . . . ib. Million, the, what ignorant in 65 Milk, and its products . . 239 Morris, Captain, his verses on wine 44 Moths, to prevent . . . 328 Mullets, when in season . 194 Mutton, leg of, how to carve 84 shoulder of, how to carve 86, 7INDEX. 342 PAGE Mutton, saddle of, how to carve 88 when best and cheapest 165 when young and old 166 Mustard, to make .... 291 N. November, birds in season . 174 Nurse, the Good, quoted . 135 Nutmegs, syrup of . . . 306 Nuts, what only fit for . . 209 fatal case of eating . ib. O. October, what birds in sea- son 174 Omelet, how to make . .270 Opinions, difference of . .133 Opium, by whom frequently used 213 Opulence, affectation of, what produces .... 57 Orange, essence of . . .314 Order, in what recommended ^ Oysters, when in season . 194 PAGE Plebeian Polished, quoted . 83 Plate, parade of, useless . 45 Plenty, how to save . . . 17 Poet, a profligate maxim of 47 Polish, French .... 323 for dining-tables . 324 Potatoes, new, when worth eating 152 framed, their fla- vour, &c ib. Pope, his opinion .... 76 Pork, leg of, how to carve . 100 spare-rib of, how to carve 101 Poultry, quantity consumed in London 170 Pounders, description of . 58 Preparation, a prodigious, idea of what .... 49 Priestley, Dr., his cow . . 159 Procrastination, folly of . 53 Prior, Mr., verses quoted . 43 Prudence, lines on ... 45 Q. Quarl, Philip, his advice . . 28 Quin, his sauce .... 282 P. R. Paste, to make .... 328 Party, dinner, how many provide for 35 Parties, dinner . . . . ib. Partridge, how to carve . .111 Paul, Saint, his Epistle to Titus - 127 Peas, green, what paid for . 151 People, silly, what they eat with 57 young, what gene- rally ignorant of ... 75 Pigeon, how to carve • .116 Pig, roasted, how to carve . 102 Pigs, Guinea, who so pro- perly called 58 Pheasant, how to carve . .110 best parts of . . ib. Rabbit, how to cut up . . Raffald, Mrs., her brown- ing her lemon pickle Rakes, a set of, how useful. Rambler, quotation from . Ratafia, fine red, to make . Ready money, what rated as 106 286 287 128 21 312 25 267 Receipts, general Refused, how any tiling should be 62 Registry, free, for encourag- ing servants 120 what formed for 121 rule of Rich, how to grow . . Roach, when in season . Roasting versus Boiling ib. 20 196 157INDEX. 343 PAGE I Rolls, to make, as practised by bakers 230 French 231 Rule, old one, improvement of 38 S. Salmon, when in season . 197 Smelts, do. . • 198 Salt, to prepare .... 290 Sauce, what the best ... 72 Sauces, rich, consequences of 51 . and gravies . . . 282 Schools, charity .... 148 September, what birds in season 174 Servants, art of managing . 118 who to be recommend- ed by 119 number of, generally out of place ib. copy of advertisements for ib. . directions to tradespeo- ple respecting . . . . ib. temptations all are liable to 123 what to be required from 124 how to ensure their conduct ib. not to be hired without what qualifications . . 12G new, regulations for . ib. good,theirgreatestene- mies 127 how one should treat them 130 maid, their cost . . 133 man, what maintained for ib. discarded, story of . . 131 best way of encouraging 141 Shakespeare, how quoted . 13 Skate, when in season . .198 Skin, wounds on ... . 334 Smelts, when in season . . 199 Socrates, his opinion of hap- piness 20 PAGE Souchong, Mrs., her card of invitation 44 Soles, when in season . . 199 Soup, superlative . . . .275 cheap 276 barley 278 Chinese 280 Spectator, quotation from . 50 Spirit, British, to give the flavour of brandy to . .310 Stairs, wooden ones, to make like stone 322 Strawberries, variation in price of 207 Sturgeon, fresh, when in season 200 Sugar, how sold .... 31 Sums, little, how necessary to save 23 Supper, memorial of, against dinner 52 Swift, anecdote of, by Pope 55 T. Taste, Committee of, their circular 63 Tamera, Italian .... 286 Taylor, Mrs., her hints to young females . . . .133 Tea, spirituous syrup of . . 313 Tea-table, summons to . . 44 Teaser, a cook, what not to be trusted with . . .78 Tench, when in season . .186 ’Tis Buts, song of ... 24 Tongue, how to carve . .100 Tongues, pickled, their price 249 dried ib. directions for skinning 250 Tradespeople, how to choose 33 Trencher-friends, how to dis- tinguish 58 Trotter, Dr., quoted ... 39 his advice on wine . 41 Trout, when in season . . 202 Berwick, do. . . ib. Turbots, do. . . . . ib. Turkey, how to carve . .114 best parts of . . .115INDEX. 344 PAGE Turkey, how to truss . .114 what parts to devil . 115 V. Vamish for oil paintings . 320 Veal, knuckle of, how to carve 97 . breast of, roasted, how to carve 98 when best and cheapest 165 how to judge if fresh killed ib. Vegetables, money expended annually on .... 203 Cutler, Dr., his opinion on ib. table of, when best and cheapest . . . 205 price of during elections ib. Venison, haunch of, how to carve 89 Vinegar, essence of . . . 282 syrup of ... . 307 Virtue, public, how only supported 13 Virtuous, the, among whom will they seek society . • 73 W. Wages, servants’, when to pay 142 PAGE Wants, danger of creating . 13 true story .... 14 Warning, never to keep ser- vants after giving them . 140 Water, observations on, by Dr. Darwin 297 to prevent freezing in pipe 321 Welcome, a hearty, how to ensure 77 West Indies, slaves there . 142 anecdote of, by Thicknesse 141 Whitings, when in season . 202 Wife, cost of, per week . . 18 Wine, when it should recruit 37 diluted, curious anec- dote of ib. see Art of Invigorating Life, for observations on . 41 at what age requisite 40 when given to children, its effects ib. ginger 296 orange, to make . . 300 raisin 301 currant ib. gooseberry .... 302 Wines and liqueurs . . . 292 Wives, who make the best . 72 World, the, quoted . . .136 Worthy, Mrs., anecdote of. 130 Wood 264 THE END. Londoni i. MOVES, TOOK’S COURT, CHANCERY LANK.