'*i M'ti * *T t* '’•>! )< .- \» > > v. * *%» <i» »-.n „ . v r i if*. 7' . . • • - .... . mi .... . • • , ; ' <1 ’ • f; , - •>• •> \ • 1H> • - • 'itfC • • -j, , V'-V’V.*1 ‘ f*; * i:«x ' • - .... ’IT' »• i*» •»;. . . ‘ f\\ •' / “ - r . , ,, . UM!>il( V., ,*r '' t T • •• ** ‘ . V*. . * • “ • - * ■ ■ 41 * *- in s • tsr. t r . .V.! ••-in. 1 - i. •*’ I • *. • t* < ♦ «r * W. •!/.! *M .... * li i %•- ,. fc ' ’r - .* •* '••»*!« V.»* •• ***«.••»■*•’* . . • . *SII1«. » - * • ' 4I« I tllN. .,. .ilfJi,, T' 11 \T . ' * - •*» -1% 4 l* •* i-1 V, i i w 4 t • wi ; • | - '.r.«rV'k *v . '•*«»"V. 3 b«**i9 •*.«}! .... . i'-.' v * »: i »»■ *•... I!' * •** .>*• 4«' ?»• m ; * **»«v ? JS S*i -a i#ir% v t*yr m jAxJUBSFrf- t '/t'lfi*;r•>•«■..>». . , ... . ••; *'k ••■ y • • • ..»■* •*••• •• . s u* . - • ■;• •'• '• .r.*?./::. r ' . ♦»•*«••• • . , -'V*r mV«V. ‘.•.r ".V.V. ; * " .... .. f;. .Y' ‘ t v; ■... ••«; •tvjs’i-vri, »••’••■•' „ **;-.i.»*i .... • •* ! *■»-•'*.•• ... - . • . . , 4; *'■ i. .*• ■ 1 wvK'J..-' '? .*? ' - - • • , J 4 * * ... .. • *• . : * ‘**1 .1 > ;j I V , » - ■ ' ? V . . V> ‘ •> ' v 11 f *»».. i * • 1» • ' * •• • v »•- . .... - ■ : V' ' • ^ ^ • / •. " • ’■* - ..•: • • • . • - + - «... w - i *4 ^ *!.A 1 i. ,. . •] - Zt •• - \ . .1 !*■- ;.**' -4 . • ii;' ^ -•* • . ,it. ^.. 4V.w 4. 4. • ‘J ~ 1 »»MW ■, .v • - - • •’ '. '•. -* ** ' i.w» - -, 4S ■' . . • * 44 V 1 ’ - 1 - I • • ' ‘ 4 * *, ' . ? • - :;. * ^ ‘ * » ‘ «i... v ;. * - ■ -•-•*•. - ' • / , *j». -« M|. > * , . 4 % . , • ’ ** V ■ >' ■* 4-. , Z]''Kt V* .V. . *s.r,?y.\?'J' .■ »vi. JJ.T*T‘j*‘*u..•• * ^ . . . • . y . . .- . - A' tv , 1*1 * ’• ... . • ."V ■ : ■»i= •^ Z ( V . ' ? «•* •/ •'♦it* .4*44.. " •» •*« ' *«r V y ; » iVj f ,v k ' v •1 •* v 7 i . • ' V ‘ --s.it -J . *V 7 H i » * * 4»aV , . * * *■ • »* %»«.♦., . i.,^4,,, «^ • •’ " ..i •... U,!.V*’'.M* ’ • .. iV' >*•*»>t*• *« 4-iT*fi*- • * .*■ II. *.v,i nit wmuU.i>M i«)iVt4.V r*»». 1%\4The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: amu a m 3 0106 0 05 3302 COOKER/.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES OR THE ABSURDITIES OF ARTIFICIAL LIFE. SECOND EDITION, WITH ADDITIONS, TO WHICH IS ADDED, A SHORT CATECHISM OF COOKERY, FOUNDED ON THE FRINCIVLES OF CHEMISTRY. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY. 18(52.S. 14-4-0 Z.ADVERTISEMENT TO THE FIRST EDITION ♦ The three million seven hundred and FORTY-FIVE THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED AND SIXTY - THREE HOUSEWIVES OF ENGLAND AND Wales may read this book to their improvement, and although there are statements that may cause them to blush, there is nothing but what their daughters may read. The yachtsmen, the sportsmen, and the bachelors will find many rules for creature-comforts, and will learn how to avoid the evils that destroy the pleasures of life, and send them early to eternity. The Legislature will find suggestions worthy ofiv ADVERTISEMENT TO THE FIRST EDITION. January, 18G2. G. V. attention, although it may not think proper to return to the penalties of the statute of 22 Ilenry VIII., under which two cooks—viz. John Eoose and Margaret Davy—were boiled to death. The impostor dinner-givers have not been for- gotten ; their dinners and guests are described, their servants portrayed, and their hospitality commented on. The fallacy of the supposed fortunes of the English females is shown from the Government tables for the year 1858. The gentlewoman and her model kitchen are described—and ladies of neglected educa- tion MAY LEARN HOW TO COOK THEIR VICTUALS. The art of preserving life is shown, and instruc- tions given, for the choice of dinners which may be chosen in a few minutes at any season of the year.ADVERTISEMENT TO THE SECOND EDITION. ♦ The first edition having been disposed of, and a second demanded, the Author desires to say that it was written in truthfulness and charity to tiie FIVE MILLIONS OF UNMARRIED DAUGHTERS OF England and Wales, with a view of awakening the attention of their mothers, whom half a century of sleep and bad cookery have rendered so careless that they know not what they eat, nor of what their soup is composed; and what is worse, have so largely contributed to the frightful mor- tality of their infants, as shown in the returns of the Registrar-General. At page 186 of that Re- port are these words: “ The feeding of chil- dren, WHOSE MOTHERS DO NOT SUPPLY THEM WITH MILK, IS UNDOUBTEDLY DEFECTIVE, AND DESERVES THE ATTENTION WHICH IT IS NOW ATTRACTING FROM ENLIGHTENED PHILANTHRO- PISTS.”* The Author has given in the Catechism for Young Ladies (page 116) directions for feeding young children. False gallantry is out of the question. The time has arrived when young ladies, who hope to be wives and mothers, must be taught that badly-dressed food is the opiate of death, and that it is no credit * Deaths of Infants, 1859:—From want of breast-milk, 1017 ; Convulsions arising from improper food, 25,954; Atrophy, 27,990— Total 54,961.VI ADVERTISEMENT TO THE SECOND EDITION. G. Y. to be surpassed in the culinary art by every nation in Europe, the Esquimaux not excepted. It is most gratifying to the Author that the first edition should have called forth the attention of some of our English noblesse, although many (as will be found in the text) were already in the habit of paying daily visits to their kitchens; hut when the Author was writing the first edition, he did not know that her Majesty had from the beginning of her reign paid daily visits of inspection of her kitchen, her pastry, her confectionary, and still rooms. It is not the least of the Author’s gratification that the first edition has called forth the written opinion of a lady (moving in the higher circles) on her own sex, which the Author has, for the benefit of the young ladies, taken the liberty of inserting as the eighth chapter of this edition. The Author has also added a Catechism, founded on the principles of chemistry, so short, so simple, yet the basis of all cookery—calculated for the be- nefit of the whole human race—the knowledge of which is health to all, especially to those who hope to become wives and mothers; and the housewives of England will, by adopting it, promote the health of their household, and learn how to reign as queens of then’ kitchens. February, 1SG2.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. TAGE In Germany, Holland, France, and Spain, the Ladies of the Upper Class regulate the Menage 1 CHAPTER II. The Education of the Middle-Class English Women false . . 4 CHAPTER III. In England the Ladies are taught to despise the Art of Cookery. 10 CHAPTER IY. Misery of those that attempt to imitate Belgravia CHAPTER V. False notions of the Ladies of 1860 18 22 CHAPTER YI. Persons should be Educated or Instructed in the Preparation of Food in every Workhouse and all Schools; and, finally, Diplomas should be granted by the Educational Council . 29vi n CONTENTS CHAPTER VII. PAGE Dinner-Parties to be avoided 38 CHAPTER VIII. A Lady’s opinion of her own Sex suggested on reading the First Edition of “ Dinners and Dinner-Parties.” . . 48 CHAPTER IX. THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. The Gentlewoman and her Menage . . . . . . The Model Kitchen Importance of Cleanliness ....... Disadvantages of a Model Kitchen . . . . . The choosing a Dinner ........ Potage, Fish, Meats, Poultry, Game, Sweets, and Vegetables Each Dish should be brought in separately . . . . Never wait Dinner ......... Helping the Guests ........ Wine The Guests .......... A Continental Entertainment to Twelve Hundred Persons . . Specimen of a good Club Dinner: Two Potages, two Releves, two Flancs, four Entries, Piece de Milieu, two Rots, four Entremets, and Desserts Soups . . Pottages, or Soups ........ Stews Julienne Soup ......... A very old Cheshire Receipt, viz. of the Sixteenth Century, for a good and inexpensive Soup . . . . . . Hotch-Potch Irish Stew Hot-Pot .......... Stewed Mutton Cutlets ........ Curry 53 57 GO ib. 62 63 ib. 64 ib. ib. 65 66 67 68 60 70 ib. 71 ib. 74 ib.CONTENTS IX I'AGK Mutton Broth 75 t lbh . . 1 ■ . . • a a a , / () Melted Butter ib. A List of Fish to choose from ib. Sole au Gratin .... . ... 79 Turbot . . . 80 Sole a la maitre d’hotel ib. Salmon . . . . . . . . . . . 81 Matelote of Salmon ib. Oysters ib. Oyster Sauce 82 Fried Oysters . . ib. Red Mullet 83 Mussel Sauce . . . . . . . . . . ib. Poultry and Game ........ 84 List of Game and Poultry 85 Two Chickens for Eight Persons ...... ib. Pheasant . . . . . . . . . . 87 Poultry .......... 89 Game ib. Legs of Turkey . . . . . . . . .90 Beef, Mutton, or Lamb . . . . . . . ib. Veal or Pork 84 Boiling ........... 93 A Saucepan by which Meat, Fist, and Poultry may be steamed 95 Roasting a Haunch of Venison ...... ib. Beef 96 Mutton . . . . • • • . • .97 Veal ib. Beef-Steak, or Mutton or Pork Chops, &c ib. Sweets, Pastry, &c. 98 Sauce for Wild-Ducks ........ 99 Tomato Sauce.......... 100 Salad ........... ib. Beetroot 101 Mayonnaise ......... ib. Vegetables 102 Eggs jb- A Plain Omelette ib. bCONTENTS. X PAGE Omelette aux Fines Herbes ....... 103 Drinks ....... . . . . ib. Bottling .......... 104 Punch ........... ib. Cider-Cup . ib. A Cooling Drink . . . . . . . . . 105 Cherry Brandy ......... ib. To brew Pale Ale . . . . . . . . . ib. Preservation of Food ........ ib. Milk Preserving 107 Indian Curry Powder ........ ib. A Spanish Cook’s Receipt for boiling a Spanish Ham . . 108 CHAPTER X. Catechism for Young Ladies, being the whole Mystery of Cookery 109DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. CHAPTER I. IK GERMANY, HOLLAND, FRANCE, AND SPAIN, THE LADIES OF THE UPPER CLASS REGULATE THE MENAGE. Among the whole tribe of women called cooks, there are not ten that are worthy of their salt; there are plenty of hooks, hut they are too ignorant or too idle to look at one, and, unfortunately, the ladies that are educated at the superficial places called hoarding-schools or colleges are taught to helieye that the art of cookery, which is their first and paramount duty, is a degrading occupation. If a chapter of the introduction to Dr. Kit- chener’s u Cook’s Oracle” was daily read aloud at those places, every pupil would learn her duty, and the poor things that are turned into poor teachers, poor milliners, poor honnet-builders, and poor shirt- makers, would be enabled to satisfy their hunger by an useful occupation; they would earn the B Cooks not worthy their salt. Ladies taught to believe the art of cookery de- grading, although it is their paramount duty. Teachers, milliners, &c., if taught the art of cookery, would get a liveli- hood.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 2 Two-thirds of our food wasted. The me- nage regu- lated abroad hv the ladies of the upper class. The gentle- women study cooking as an intellec- tual em- ployment. They dis- dain the excessive desire of amusement. They avoid spiritless and crowd- ed societies. wages tliat are paid to the present class of cooks, -who destroy the health of their employers, and shorten their existence. It is a sad reflection on the women of England, that two-thirds of the food destined for the human stomach are utterly wasted, if not destroyed. In Germany, in Holland, in France, and even in Spain, the housewives of the upper classes regu- late the menage, in which they take pleasure, it having formed part of the education of their girl- hood. They have their model kitchens, where order, neatness, and cleanliness reign triumphant; where the bright cooking and porcelain saucepans attract the notice of the most superficial, and from whence is obtained, as if by magic, a prettily con- ceived dinner, fitted for the human stomach, in- creasing the gratification of the convives by the knowledge that the production is chemically clean, and perfect in its conception. The gentlewomen of those countries recognise the study of cookery with delight as an intellectual employment and refined pursuit, paramount to all their duties, more interesting than the study of chemistry. They disdain the excessive desire of amusement, which they know indisposes the mind to industry and is not favourable to civilisation; the gentlewomen of those countries know that every one of the great human family have their duties, and that the better educated are bound to set example to those below them. They avoid all the spiritless and crowded societies where a roundTHE GENTLEWOMEN AVOID LOW AMUSEMENTS. 3 of low and trifling amusements fill the hours of what are called entertainments. * In their model kitchen everything is chemically in the clean, nothing neglected or forgotten, economy kitchen studied, pretty and delicious dishes are conceived everything 7 1 J is clean. and made from what the English cook throws into her swill-tub.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 4 CHAPTER II. The middle class wo- men of England placed in a false posi- tion by their edu- cation. hoarding ^schools a reparation ofk1^ tyrdon.. THE EDUCATION OF THE MIDDLE-CLASS ENGLISH WOMEN FALSE. The middle-class women of England for tlie most part are by their education placed in a false position. The offshoots of nobility with only empty titles for their fortunes; baronets who never ought to have had the honour; knights without means; aspiring merchants ; aspiring barristers, who had been better with a trade; aspiring vulgarity of all sorts, ay, and all the other classes, jostle with the tradesman; they are all diseased with selfish vanity, and they all try to imitate the upper five thousand; consequently, they diverge from the natural path in the education of their daughters, who are sent to those equivocal places called boarding-schools or colleges, to be prepared for a future life of martyrdom; where what is drummed into them is artificial or of no use, and if not im- mediately abandoned, is on marriage; some are t'augit.^u Hjfnanee tiivTody, to curtsey to a mock queen, to enter a mock cajjage, to mount a mock horse, to be presented at a mock court; othersTHE END OF BOARDING-SCHOOL GIRLS. 5 learn tilings which it had been well for them they had never known; they are all, as it is called, edu- cated ; they are all dressed alike, and it is impos- sible to distinguish the one from the other, but if there is a preference, we should give it to the daughters of the tradesmen ; many of these super- ficially-educated girls have to seek their liveli- hoods, and of necessity fall into the hopeless con- dition of that spiritless and friendless class called teachers of the nonsense they have acquired, and so it circulates until you find a pianoforte in nearly every lodging-house kitchen. Many parents die, leaving their offspring with- out the means of subsistence; others become un- fortunate, and then the poor girls are awakened to their miserably mistaken education; they struggle to live, they fight with poverty, but with such an education they are helpless, and fall victims to their lives ending in misery. Who is to blame for this misery but the parents, who have kept up false appearances, probably under false hopes of getting their daughters married, and cheated their girls into stupid nonsense, fine sentiment, and non- sensical talking by the poor unfortunate creatures called governesses, who would be blessed if they had the happiness or the genuine sense of a milk- maid. When a young lady’s education is said to be finished, or what is called “come out,” she knows not her pence nor multiplication tables, but—reckons with her fingers. She is as regardless of how a A piano* in nearly every lodging- house kitchen. The result. When the young wo- men “come out.” Their ig- norance.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 6 Market over- stocked. Social evil supplied. Female education vicious. Sea-side indecency. Fredrika Bremer. dinner can be produced, as a horse is regardless of how the corn falls into his manger. Is it very strange that cooks are scarce, but that the market is overstocked with teachers, milliners, bonnet- builders, shirt-makers, and all other kinds of starv- ing creatures which such an education will pro- duce? The melancholy reflection is, that from this class the entire social evil is supplied. That the female education of the present day is not calculated to make home happy, but on the contrary is vicious and repugnant to the feelings of modesty, cannot be denied; it is shown by the conduct of the young women that go annually to the sea-side watering-places, where they revel in stand-up indecency, male and female dancing to- gether, so that the pickling is made the excuse for the exercise of the looseness of their morals; this is the result of their education. A clever authoress writes : u i Laziness is the devil’s cushion.’ Do not run much from home. One’s own health is of more worth than gold. Many a marriage begins like the rosy morning, and then falls away like a snow-wreath. And why? Because the married pair neglect to be as well pleasing to each other after marriage as before. Endeavour always to please one another; but, at the same time, keep God in your thoughts. Lavish not all your love on to-day, for remember that marriage has its to- morrow likewise, and its day after to-morrow too ! ‘ Spare,’ as one may say, ‘ fuel for the winter.’ Consider, my daughters, what the word ‘ wife’ ex-FRED RIKA BREMER’S ADVICE TO FEMALES. 7 presses. The married woman is the husband’s do- mestic faith ; in her hand he must be able to con- fide house and family; be able to entrust her with the key of his heart, as well as the key of his house. His honour and his home are under her keeping; his well-being is in her hand. Think of this!”— Fredrxka Bremer. The omissions in the education of boarding- school girls shorten their earthly existence; the very animals that have once been properly fed, re- fuse their food if not properly cooked; and the parrot, the cat, and the dog, are instances of intel- lect above the females educated at such schools, who if so ignorant can know nothing of comforts. A century ago the art of cookery was fashion- able among English girls and English wives, arithmetic was not despised, and every woman knew her pence and multiplication tables. The art of making wine, pickling, and preserving, were the gentlewoman’s morning amusements. Their evenings were passed in innocence, with the distaff, preparing the yarn for the linen of the family, and in the making of their shoes,* their dresses, their laces, and frills, whilst one of the family played on the spinet; sometimes the evening ended in an innocent country dance, or a round game— the county ball was only witnessed once a year— to which they went modestly and decently attired; and in those days, when a parent died ho was rc- * This continue* to be a fashionable amusement until the begin- ning of the present century. Employ- ment of English girls and wives a century ago.8 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Employ- ment now- a-clays. Smallness of the for- tunes of the females of the present day. gretted, and left a fortune, that, when divided, was a respectable maintenance for each child. Now-a-days, the piano mania and reception- rooms are all that are thought of ; cookery is out of use, and only practised by the lower orders; needles and thread are unknown, except in the hands of milliners and madames; horses and grooms are patronised by ladies, who have not two farthings to rub together for fortunes; fathers and mothers live at the very top of their incomes; the mornings of their daughters are wasted in insipid frivolity, the evenings are passed at balls and waltzing ex- posures, or in witnessing the indecent Opera nudities; and when the father dies he is not re- gretted—he leaves nothing to divide—the widow mostly goes into a lodging or an almshouse, and the young ladies are left with their faces only for their fortunes. Among the 10,302,873 women of England and Wales, there are not 100 whose estates or fortunes will exempt them from their household duties, and there are not 12,000 females whose fortunes amount to and exceed 10,000/. The statistics of the Prerogative Court and Bank of England are startling realities, and demonstrate how very small, how very insignificant, are the pittances of the re- mainder of those who assume the meretricious title of lady. The Registrar-General’s estimation for the year 1859 indicates how few fathers die worth a 1000/., and how very few worth 10,000/.9 THE DESTRUCTION OF FOOD. How frequently we hear people eloquently dis- cussing the losses and miseries of an occasional O bad harvest; but those losses and miseries are as nothing in comparison to the daily destruction of human food, occasioned by ignorance and pride in the process of its cookery: the confiscation amounts to six times the sum levied in the shape of poor- rates. There are 3,745,463 houses in England and Wales, consequently there are as many kitchens, and it is a very moderate calculation to average the waste and loss at 51. per house. In this sum no calculation is made for doctors and apothecaries’ bills, or the attendant expenses. Nor is the shortening of life, or the funeral ex- penses, taken into consideration. Theamount of food confiscated by igno- rance and pride.10 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Our middle class forget that health and happi- ness de- pend on the manner in which food is pre- pared. We con- sume 365 dinners yearly. Victuals should be cooked fit for the human stomach. Opinion of Dr. Ca- dogan. CHAPTER III. IN ENGLAND THE LADIES ARE TAUGHT TO DESPISE THE ART OF COOKERY. The middle-class English women forget that our o o health, our happiness, and our affairs depend on the manner in which our victuals is prepared, and they forget that each of us puts into his stomach three hundred and sixty-five dinners in the course of one revolution of the sun, and that it is important that such meals be free from the dirt, the verdigris, and the crock usually found in its cookery; and that it is of equal importance that our meats should he free from all kind of taint, and our vegetables free from decay. The celebrated Dr. Cadogan, a physician of the last century, condemned the cookery as creating disease, shortening life, and enabling doctors to ride in coaches. He says : “ A mistake many cooks fall into is, that the flesh meat they cook is always overdone; if boiled too much, the juices are lost; if over-roasted,THE OPINION OF DR. CADOGAN ON COOKERY. 11 fried, or broiled, the .action of the fire continued too long, changes the mild animal flesh into some- thing of another quality, the fat is made bitter and rancid, which, fire will always do by the sweetest oil, and the scorched outside of the lean (by and acrimonious. The less, therefore, all flesh meat undergoes the power of the fire the milder and wholesomer it is. I do not mean by this to recom- mend the customs of cannibals and Tartars, who eat raw flesh, or beasts of prey, that devour animals alive. We should learn that our meats cannot be wholesome for being, as some call it, thoroughly done; we should learn to like it with some of its red juices modified by the fire."’ The dame of a man of independence should be proud of her position; she should try and remedy the evil that drives her husband to his club. If she be unable to give instructions, or be unable to read a cookery book, let her employ some one above the woman she employs to clean her street- door steps—a woman born in a shed, or under the lee of a brick-kiln, who, most probably, never tasted meat in the hole from whence she came. Common sense dictates that such a person ought not to be entrusted to cook anything beyond what is fitted for the pigsty. A qualified person administers to health, to life, to pleasure, and economy, and is not a producer of insidious poisons, which undermine health and squanders property. Lord Karnes said that to The wife of a man of indepen- dence should be proud of her posi- tion. Drives him to his club. The cook should be some one above the woman who cleans the street-door steps. A qualified cook admi- nisters to health, life, and economy.12 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. The cook should be able to read. If lady not qualified, a man-cook should be employed. advance the luxury of the table to the acme of perfection there should be a cook for every dish, as there was in ancient Egypt a physician for every disease.* At all events, every cook should be educated so as to be able to read a book on cookery, and, instead of being at the bottom of the ladder, should take her place as the first person in the household. If the dame is incapable of giving instructions, let her employ a man-cook from Belgium. Al- though she will pay him 80/. a year,f she will save her husband at least 100/. a year in the food that will be saved; the doctor and apothecary’s bills will no longer be necessary, and life will be pro- longed. Such an example will be followed by other dames, and it will be the beginning of a new era, and save her daughter from the misery she herself has undergone: and above all let her teach her a little on the subject, and forbid her putting on a stupid face if a young man should ask her how long it took to boil an egg, and answer, “ Ileally I don’t know if it is one hour or two : which is it, ma V’ And, shocking as it may appear, let her tell her daughter the dreadful truth—viz. that there are upwards of half a million females in England more than males, consequently the largest half of the human food is consumed by the female * “ Sketches of the History of Man,” vol. ii. 103. f The highest wages known there.SUFFERINGS OF THE PRESENT GENERATION. 13 race, ancl that no woman should have the honour of becoming a housewife, or rising to the rank of a gentlewoman, until she made herself acquainted with the culinary art, so as to be able to explain it to those she may have the good fortune to employ. The present generation is suffering from the spoiled children—not to say neglected—of the last generation, and those sufferings will increase until the whole race are so enfeebled that there will not be a healthy woman in the kingdom; the vanity of the last generation has not only caused them to neglect their first duty to their children, but they have anatomically destroyed the shape of nearly all the females in Europe by the use of that rack of torture, called stays or corsets, which has so deformed the female figure that their waists are, or may be likened to, the shape of the wasp; and that deformity descends from the mother to her children, male and female. Anatomists tell us that, if we want to see a type as God made us, we must go to India, or some parts of Italy, where stays are unknown. There is truth in this; we need only look at the picture of “Venus and Adonis” in the National Gallery, and it will be seen that there is no such shape of the female of the present day; and if the neglect of the stomach is continued much longer, the race will not only be deformed, but disease will be added to the deformity.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 14 The Eng- lish no- blesse pay daily visits to their kitchens. i ' V *1 > i \r fr" *n Richard the Third and Na- poleon. Queen Victoria. The exclamation of u God sends the food and the Devil the cooks,” has been in use for the last fifty years; yet the females of the middle class would rather visit the ward of a lunatic asylum or the inside of a jail, than pay a visit of inspection to their kitchen. The evils of crock and verdigris are beginning to be known among the higher O O O ranks of our nobility, some of whom are taking the initiative. A duchess, whose name is connected with English history, and a marchioness, whose name is that of a celebrated Irish city, and a peeress, the wife of one of our ambassadors, whose name is that of a town in Warwickshire and a celebrated church in Bristol, pay daily visits of inspection to their regions below, thereby rendering it impossible for the imps of Satan to conceal the caldron in which, when left to them- selves, they concoct the “ hell-brewed opiate.” How can it be said that such visits are derogatory to a lady? History tells us that Richard the Third visited his patrols at night to satisfy himself that they were not sleeping at their posts; and we all know that the great Napoleon did the same, and vet the ladies of England neglect a higher duty. Emblems of weakness, false pride, and frivolity, listen ; and do not run away as if a bombshell had fallen amongst you. Your Queen pays a daily visit of inspection to the kitchen, the confectionary, pastry, and still rooms; and when illustrious vi-A LEGACY. 15 sitors are at the Castle, they invariably accom- pany her Majesty in her inspection of those apart- ments. Few ladies are aware that in the last century, Dr. Aikin and his daughter, Mi’s. Barbauld, died leaving a legacy to every child in England and their descendants. More than half a century, however, has elapsed since then, and strange to say, scarcely an applicant has applied for its benefit. Mothers and daughters of England, read the story of “ Eyes and No Eyes,” * and you will then learn how to obtain the bequest and share the legacy with your brothers and sisters. •/ Education has done nothing for the ladies of the present day, they need only be judged by the standard of their dress.f The women and girls that mount what are commonly called pork-pies, or things with feathers stuck in them, are looked on bv the men as fast young women, and not the images of modesty; the long gowns that trail up the filth of the pavement are taken to bespeak the dirtiness of the wearer; and the silly under-gear of iron and cane is said to be the sure sign of an indelicate and unchaste mind, because it is utterly impossible that any woman can be in ignorance of that which she exhibits when waltzing, stooping, mounting a staircase, getting into a carriage, or * Evenings at Home. Routledge, Warne, and Co. f Especially, as one of our best authors says: “ A want of decency is a want of sense.” Education has done nothing for the present race of women, who are shown by their dress to be fast, dirty, and indelicate in mind.Miss Nightin- gale on female dress. 1G DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. standing over tlie iron rails of fashionable shops. Florence Nightingale says : u It is, I think, alarm- ing, peculiarly at this time, when the female ink-bottles are perpetually impressing upon us 1 woman’s particular worth and general mission- ariness,’ to see that the dress of women is daily more and more unfitting them for any ‘ mission or usefulness at all. It is equally unfitted for all poetic and all domestic purposes. A man is now a more handy and far less objectionable being in a sick-room than a woman. Compelled by her dress, every woman now either shuffles or waddles; only a man can cross the floor of a sick-room without shaking it. What is become of woman’s light step—the firm, light, quick step we have been asking for ? A nurse who rustles (I am speaking of nurses professional and unprofessional) is the horror of a patient, though perhaps he does not know why. The fidget of silk and crinoline, the rattling of keys, the creaking of stays and of shoes, will do a patient more harm than all the medicines in the world will do him a'ood. The noiseless step of woman, the noiseless drapery of woman, are mere figures of speech in this day. Her skirts (and well if they do not throw down some piece of furniture) will at least brush against every article in the room as she moves. Fortunate it is if her skirts do not catch fire, and if the nurse does not give herself up a sacrifice, together with her patient, to be burnt in her own petticoats. IFLORENCE NIGHTINGALE ON CRINOLINE. 17 wish the Registrar-General would tell us the exact number of deaths by burning occasioned by this absurd and hideous custom. I wish, too, that people who wear crinoline could see the indecency of their own dress as other people see it. A re- spectable elderly woman stooping forward, invested in crinoline, exposes quite as much of her own person to the patient lying in the room as any opera dancer does on the stage. But no one will ever tell her this unpleasant truth.” c18 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Belgravia not to be copied. Rotten- row. Dinners in Bel- gravia are as unknown as at Maida-hill or St. J ohn’s- wood. CHAPTER IV. MISERY OF THOSE THAT ATTEMPT TO IMITATE BELGRAVIA. Misery is the doom of the middle-class ladies who try to imitate Belgravia, or the fashions of the women of the highest fortune; those people are a very small portion of the sex, and are entitled to the glory of their own follies. There is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Amazons at that rendezvous, Rotten-row, are deeply stained with impurity, and the assemblage is the same in profligacy as that of the race-course— both are equally vicious, and are only equalled by the stimulants of the Opera in the perpetration of licentiousness. In Belgravia hundreds live in a way quite incon- sistent with the idea of wealth. u It is not all gold that glittersthere is a great mixture among the inhabitants, there are many houses where a good dinner is as unknown as it is at Maida-hill or St. John’s-wood; and, like those places, has its full shareROTTEN-ROW AND BELGRAVIA. 19 of gamblers and loose fish. Many of the tenements are hired only for the season, in which great shifts are made for the sake of trying; to vie with the affluent. When the daughters are numerous, the skirt of one dress serves the several bodies of the family, enabling them to ring the changes, never appearing all in the same pattern, which is doffed the moment they arrive from any fete, and their uncomfortable scanty dinners are eaten in a five-and-sixpenny cotton. It is pitiable, although amusing, to see some of these attempts at greatness, riding hired screws, and followed by hired grooms, who are let out at lialf-a-crown an hour. They, like the nobility, mix with the gamblers and loose fish, and the three classes are jumbled together in the dissipated and fantastical pursuits of fashionable life. When the season is over a general migration takes place ; and, like Richardson’s show-women, the young ladies fly to the region where it is thought business may be done. A gentlewoman inquired of the daughter of a baronet where her father’s place was? (meaning his country mansion). She answered, u Wre have no regular place. We had a place last year in Scotland, but ma said there was no business to be done there, so we gave it up.” The gentlewoman replied, “I did not think that your father was in trade.” The young lady answered, “ I don’t mean that, I mean in the marriage line.” Mrs. Jamieson, an authoress much and de- servedly admired, writes: “ It appears to me that C 2 Tenements only hired for a sea- son. Migration when sea- son is over. Opinion of Mrs. Jamieson.DINNERS AND DINNER-I’ARTIES. 20 Great ex- cuse to be made in tlie fact that the gentle- women have not been pro- perly in- structed in their household duties, which they are taught to think offensive. If they had been, they would know how to avoid many of their mi- series. Careless in the cha- racter of servants. the condition of woman in society, as at present constituted, is false in itself, and injurious to them : that the education of woman, as at present conducted, is founded on mistaken principles, and tends to increase fearfully the sum of misery and error in both sexes.*’ Great excuse may he made for the women of England of the present century, in the fact that they have never been instructed, but, on the con- trary, taught to consider their household duties as an offensive occupation. The kitchens, for the most part, are dark and underground, the iron utensils generally furnished are black and dirty, not fit to be handled any more than they are fitted for the purpose they are used. If the middle-class women of England had been usefully educated, they would know how to avert many of the miseries of civilised life arising from bad and ignorant cooks, and they would have been spared many grievous trials and embarrassments of the most painful kind. The cook soon learns the extent of her mistress’s knowledge, and advantage is taken accordingly. The evil is increased by the ladies themselves, who are careless in the matter of “ character,” consequently bad servants are enabled to circulate from house to house; but if the mis- tress would only give the true reason why the cook was discharged, we should have better cooking, less dirt, less dyspepsia, and more civility.THE PAY OF A SOLDIER AND THAT OF A COOK. 21 The cooks are the sisters or cousins of the re- cruits of our army, who are paid one shilling per day, and no more, from which sevenpence is taken for their food. Not so with their sisters or cousins ; they are paid by a different scale, and unhappily there are no corporals to drill them, or occasionally they would be treated with a flogging, and a taste of solitary confinement, and a stoppage of their The pay of a soldier and that of his sister cook. pay. The banging of doors alone causes a frightful expenditure; the continual concussion cracks the windows, and loosens all the frames and fittings of the house, rendering repairs necessary in less than half the time that would otherwise be required. They are so clumsy and heavy-handed that there is not a thing in the house but what bears evidence of their violence ; and that is not all, they cannot leave the locks alone—their religion is that robberies are perquisites. No burglars ever make an attempt but by the aid of some of the inmates. Destruc- tion by banging. Burglary never at- tempted but by the aid of inmates.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 22 CHAPTER Y. FALSE NOTIONS OF THE LADIES OF 1860. There is a prevailing opinion among most females that they are exempt from household duties by reason of their property, and the smaller the property the stronger is the opinion. Let every female consider icliat fortune she her- self is entitled to, and then ponder over the tables of the spinsters, wives, and widows that died in the year 1858, and say how many of them could claim such an exemption ; and let every female bear in mind that of 108,923 women that died in that year ONLY 9112 OF THEM DIED LEAVING ANY PRO- PERTY AT ALL, AND THAT OF VERY SMALL AMOUNT. The Census of 1861, shows : The popu- lation of men and women above 21 years of age, 18G1. The population of females above 21 years of age in England and Wales 10,302,873 The population of males above 21 years of age in England and Wales 9,758,852 544,021FORTUNES OF FEMALES THAT DIED IN 1858. 23 Of tiie 9112 women that died in 1858, LEAVING FROPERTY, THERE WERE : Spinsters . . . 3371 Wives . . . 1202 Widows . . . 4539 9112 The property left by each class was as fol- lows : 3371 SPINSTERS DIED : 166 leaving property under the value of £20 698 n £20 and under 100 809 n 100 ii 300 481 11 300 ii 600 319 11 600 a 1000 308 n 1000 ii 2000 267 n 2000 ii 4000 108 n 4000 ii 6000 53 n 6000 ii 8000 47 a 8000 ii 10,000 66 ii 10,000 ii 20,000 21 ii 20,000 a 30,000 19 ii 30,000 a 50,090 8 ii 50,000 ii 100,000 1 ii 100,000 and upwards. The spin- sters, wives, and widows that died in 1858. The pro- perty that the spin- sters died worth.24 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 1202 WIVES DIED : The pro- perty the wives died 152 leaving 500 ; property under the „ £20 value of and under £20 100 worth. 307 100 V 300 118 300 V 600 44 600 V 1000 43 r> 1000 2000 23 5 > 2000 4000 6 4000 6000 3 V 6000 V 8000 2 5J 8000 10,000 3 10,000 V 20,000 1 20,000 5? 30,000 4539 widows died : The pro- 301 left property under the value of £20 perty the widows 1024 £20 and under 100 died worth. 1113 100 300 708 300 600 426 V 600 V 1000 411 1000 » 2000 284 2000 4000 93 4000 6000 42 6000 5? 8000 33 V 8000 10,000 65 V 10,000 JJ 20,000 20 20,000 30,000 13 30,000 5J 50,000 6 50,000 „ 100,000PROPERTY OE THE MALES THAT HIED IN 1858. 25 Let the wives and daughters ponder over the property left by the 20,867 fathers that died in the year 1858, and say when the same was divided among the widows, the sons and the daughters, whether any of them could claim exemption from household duties, and let no one forget tiie FEARFUL TRUTH THAT FOR ONE MAN THAT DIES LEAVING PROPERTY, FOUR MEN DIE LEAVING NO PROPERTY'. The first is the list of peers, and persons bearing title, who died in 1858. Of 90 PEERS OR PERSONS OF TITLE THAT DIED IN THAT Y'EAR : 4 died leaving property under the value of £20 The peers and persons 2 55 55 100 of title 3 55 55 oriA that died in 1858, 5 55 55 0QQ and amount of pro- 2 55 55 1000 perty they 10 died worth. 55 55 2000 7 55 55 4000 5 55 55 6000 3 55 55 8000 15 55 55 20,000 9 55 55 30,000 10 55 55 50,000 15 55 55 100,00026 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. The persons who died leaving property in 1858 without title—viz. 20,778 : The com- 1244 died leaving property under £20 moners that died 3636 V ?> 100 in 1858, and the 4562 V V 300 property they died 2205 V 600 worth. 1523 T) 1000 1572 V 2000 1269 » » 4000 500 V 6000 309 D u 8000 197 5) 5? 10,000 413 V V 20,000 203 » V 30,000 141 V 50,000 64 V V 100,000 50 V 5? 100,000 and upwards Let the wives and daughters of the persons who are chargeable with income-tax peruse and ponder over the following returns, and say how many are exempt from household duties. The per- A RETURN SHOWING THE NUMBER OF PERSONS sons that pay ill. CHARGED TO THE INCOME-TAX FOR THE YEAR andthe*’ ENDING 0N THE 5tH DAY OF APRIL, I860, UNDER amounts of SCHEDULE D. income they pay Number of persons in each class : upon. 16,978 under £100 a year 128,570 . . 100 and under £150 41,687 . . 150 „ 20027 INCOMES RETURNED TO PARLIAMENT. 36,535 . . £200 and under £300 16,608 . . 300 400 8130 . . 400 500 6073 . . 500 600 3468 . . 600 700 2295 . . 700 800 1965 . . 800 900 901 . . 900 V 1000 5932 . . 1000 2000 1768 . . 2000 V 3000 879 . . 3000 4000 498 . . 4000 5000 887 . . 5000 10,000 512 . 10,000 50,000 59 . 50,000 and upwards. A RETURN SHOWING THE NUMBER OF PERSONS CHARGED TO THE INCOME-TAX FOR THE YEAR ENDING ON THE OTII DAY OF APRIL, I860, UNDER SCHEDULE E. Number of persons in each class: 22,121 under o o ’-H a year. 38,519 . . 100 and under £150 12,917 . . 150 V 200 12,037 . . 200 V 300 5271 . . 300 V 400 2483 . . 400 J? 500 1475 . . 500 600 749 . . 600 V 700 574 . . 700 r> 800 382 . . 800 V 90028 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 234 . . £900 and under £1000 1380 . . 1000 „ 2000 151 . . 2000 „ 3000 53 . . 3000 „ 4000 20 . . 4000 „ 5000 71 . . 5000 and upwards. Advertis- ing genteel Beggars. Having perused these tables, let mothers and daughters consider whether any of them are exempt from their household duties. And let them also reflect how often is seen in print advertisements calling for charity on behalf of a widow and daughters, who strengthen their appeal by “who once were in affluenceand let the daughters con- sider the cause, and let the public refuse all such appeals as coming from persons who, if they had thought rightly would not have occasion to be- come genteel Beggars.DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 29 CHAPTER VI. PERSONS SHOULD BE EDUCATED OR INSTRUCTED IN THE PREPARATION OF FOOD IN EVERY WORK- HOUSE AND ALL SCHOOLS; AND, FINALLY, DI- PLOMAS SHOULD BE GRANTED BY THE EDUCA- TIONAL COUNCIL. The bane of a gentleman’s household is the want of educated domestic servants of character. There was a time when servants were devoted to their mistress, and lived their whole lives in one family. It used to be said that good mistresses made good servants. A good mistress meant one who understood her domestic duties, and was ca- pable of instructing a servant when such instruc- tion was required ; and then ladies of rank wore white muslin aprons, and nothing passed in the house unknown to them. Now-a-days the opposite is the rule. There are few housewives that know any- thing at all of domestic duty, and there are no female servants of character fitted for the duties, although The banc of a gentle- man’s household the want of respect- able ser- vants. Good mis- tresses, what ?30 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Half the married men wish themselves single. Why the bachelors prefer to be single. Every indi- vidual a victim to bad cookery. The class that go out as cooks not the proper class. the females above twenty-one years of age number nearly six hundred thousand more than the male population, but not one in a hundred knows how to cook a potato. Is it to be wondered that half the married men wish themselves single, and that the bachelors dread the expenses and disagreeables of a home of discomfort, and prefer bachelor’s comforts to the miseries of love in a cottage with a wife of fashion- able education, or rather no education, and babies and drabs of nursemaids in perspective ? There is scarcely an individual in the United Kingdom that is not the victim to dyspepsia, and, consequently, to misery and premature death, be- cause the deputies that are appointed by the house- wives are wholly incompetent to prepare any food, even for a hog. How can it be otherwise ? They are taken from the very dregs of society out of hovels and rookeries, probably from the workhouse. It is notorious that when these creatures enter your kitchen they know not the purpose of the different utensils, which they always misuse. These are not the class of women that are required; they are dirty in the extreme, and know not what cleanliness means. Wives may think cleanliness in a cook is of no importance, but the chemist would tell her that the food should be chemically clean, or it is changed in character, and rendered unfit for the human stomach; and as to children, he would tell her that millions have been diseased for life, and31 CHILDREN KILLED IN INFANCY. millions have been killed in infancy, by dirty and improperly prepared food. There is scarcely a mother in the United Kingdom that is free from this charge, either through her own ignorance or the persons she has employed, and most persons labouring under disease may safely attribute it to the food they have swallowed in infancy; badly dressed food shortens life, mid destroys more than all the other diseases put together. Not one in ten of the persons that go out as domestic servants knows her alphabet, and not one in twenty can read a book on cookery so as to understand it, but what they lack in reading they make up in impu- dence—sheer impudence; they are largely gifted with that commodity called brass, and will tell a lie and stick to it; they are artful and full of low cunning; and know that their mistresses are frightened, and at their mercy. Nearly every cook disputes the right of her mistress to enter her kitchen, and many a mistress has conceded the point for peace’ sake, and tried to coax the creature into good humour, although she knew her to be a thief. The present system is a national calamity to both man and woman. England produces the best of food, and is supplied with luxuries from every clime, and in unthankfulness the whole is nearly destroyed. Is it to be wondered at that the thoughtful man prefers his club, the yachtman his vessel, the sportsman his country box, and the Children poisoned. Cooks, their dirt. Their im- pudence. The pre- sent system is a national calamity. Is it to be wondered that single men prefer their club, yacht, and country boxes?32 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. The re- medy. The army. The educa- tional council. Where persons intended for cooks or nurses should be educated. idler to travel where his mind may lead him? What is the remedy for the calamity? The Le- gislature is as deeply concerned as any other body; there is an absolute want of fifty thousand Miss Nightingales, and half a million educated pre- parers of food fitted for the human stomach. All these might be provided, and above half a million of females raised to respectable occupations, without costing the country a farthing more than is now expended, which would be a blessing conferred on every class, who, for the last three generations, have degenerated in strength and health, and the calamity has extended itself even to our army. “ In the time of the greatest prince that ever ruled in England, the soldier could march from the Land’s End to John o’Groat’s without a death hap- pening from fatigue.” Now-a-days, a regiment cannot march a few miles without numbers of sol- diers falling, and many dying of exhaustion. It is not generally known that our Legislature, as early as the year 1834, set aside 20,000?. for the promotion of education, and that sum has annually increased until last year, when the sum actually voted for education for the year ending 31st of March, 1860, amounted to the enormous sum of 836,920?. This is the institution at which our nurses and our preparers of food should be educated ; an an- nual sum should be paid thereto by every lady keeping a cook, and none other should be employedOFFICERS OF TIIE EDUCATIONAL COUNCIL. 33 but those producing a diploma from the establish- ment, which is The Education Office, Privy Council Office, Downing-street, SW The following are the salaries of the officers of that institution :* 1 Vice-President ..... 1 Secretary . . . . . . 2 Assistant-Secretaries from 700/., rising- 50/. a year to . 7 Examiners 300/., rising 20/. a year to . 2 Clerks, vacancies not filled in, from 100/. to . 52 Assistant-Clerks from 100/., rising 5/. after a certain time, 10/. a year to . 1 Private Secretary to Vice-President . 1 Advising Counsel . . . . 1 Architect . . . . . . 59 Inspectors and Assistant-Inspectors of schools of 200/., rising to . £2000 1500 1000 600 The esta- blishment of the eclu' cational council. 300 300 150 300 400 600 As most probably there would be an increase of officers and persons qualified to lecture on the art of cooker}’, and as such an institution should be self-supporting, there might be levied upon every house rated to the poor at the value of 50/., the sum of 11. annually: How addi- tional means for the educa- tion of persons in- tending to be cooks should be raised. * All these officers claim a vested right in their appointments. D34 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Exemption to the gentle- woman. Some people argue that the money granted by Parlia- ment as at present is thrown away. The opi- nion of Sir Hum- phry Davy. £2 3 4 5 6 And every house above that value 10/. This would create a sufficient fund, and would justly be levied on those that have neglected their duty and caused so much misery. There should be no exemption except to the gentlewoman who should prove to the satisfaction of frhe inspector or tax-collector that she bond fide prepared or inspected the preparation of the food of the household. Some people argue that the money voted by Parliament for education is thrown away, that the teachers are overpaid and above their work, that it is monstrous that Euclid and algebra should be necessary acquirements for the teachers of little boys whose destiny is labour of the lowest order, or emigration. o Sir Humphry Davy, the great self-taught phi- losopher, who departed this life 29th of May, 1829, said, speaking on education, “ I am sorry to say I think the system carried too far in England. God forbid that any useful light should be extin- guished ! Let persons who wish for education re- ceive it; but it appears to me that in the great cities in England, it is, as it were, forced upon the ■ated at £100 — 150 200 — 250 — 300THE OriXION OF SIR II. DAVY ON EDUCATION. 35 population; and that sciences, which the lower classes can only very superficially acquire, are pre- sented to them, in consequence of which they often become idle and conceited, and above their usual laborious occupations. The unripe fruit of the tree of knowledge is, I believe, always bitter or sour; and scepticism and discontent—sickness of the mind—are often the results of devouring it.” Before sanctioning another grant, it is the duty of Parliament to ascertain how many have had the benefit of the millions already granted, and their present condition in life; how many young women teachers have broken down under their severe training for teachers, losing their health, and going into consumption, and to what end this has an- swered, and then the country can judge if it has got its money’s worth. If there is to be a national school education, it should be extended to the teaching of nurses and cooks, which is of greater importance than the teaching of the little boys who are to be labourers or emigrants, few of whom remain at school after they are of an age to earn a few shillings. When that time arrives, it is a well-known principle they turn their backs on schooling, and the few' that remain time enough to learn to read and write, be- come the leaders of strikes and factious rabble, Chartists, and delegates, of which we give an ex- ample from the Leeds Intelligencer: It is the duty of Parliament to inquire in what way and what be- nefit has arisen from the enormous sums already granted. The nurses and cooks should re- ceive the education, which is of greater importance than the little boys who go out as labourers or emi- grants.36 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. From the Times, Nov. 25, 1861. A cate- chism of cookery might be made and learned by every girl. “ The following is the copy of a letter which was delivered by one of the Leeds post-office letter- carriers to a respectable tradesman in this town. The writer doubtless thought he was addressing it to one of the secretaries of the Reform Conference, but he had not done so. It is needless to comment upon its contents, for they speak for themselves, and confirm the opinion, elsewhere expressed, that the conference was little else than a Chartist one under another name. We commend the epistle to the attention of all whom it may concern: ‘Barnsley, Nov. 18,1861. Dear Sir,—In answer to your com- munication, our deputation to the Reform Confer- ence will call upon you previous to the opening. We should require four beds. Our old and mutual friend, Frank Mirfield, will form one of the depu- tation. We intend to enjoy ourselves while in Leeds. We are all in favour of the six points of the Charter. I remain, yours, &c., Peter Hoey. P.S. Be sure and make the post-office order pay- able to me, at No. 1, Raywood-row, Barnsley. I have seen several of the Wakefield Chartists, but they decline attending unless the amount is made up to 25s. each.—P. H.’ ” It is not necessary that the persons lecturing on cookery should absolutely be cooks. A catechism of cookery might be formed* and learned by every girl as easily as the multiplication- table. Cleanliness should be the first rule, the * From Dr. Kitchener’s book, called “ The Cook's Oracle.”37 THE SIMPLICITY OF COOKING. errors of boiling should be known as spoiling, and roasting confiscation. Let these three errors be pointed out, and a few other simple rules be taught, and the supposed difficulties of cookery will vanish ; and what is now known and called as the art of a Ude or a Francatelli will come to the comprehen- sion and practice of every female as easily as the fashions and adornments of trimmino-s and ribbons O come to the mantua-maker. There was a time when trade was despised as much as the art of cookery is in the present day, but u a change has come over the spirit of the dream.” James Earl of Balcarras has his carts in the town of Liverpool the same as any other carter; Franees Anne Marchioness of Londonderry has the wisdom to revel in the delight of being in O O trade, and numerous are the other nobles that follow the example; and young honourables, in- stead of going into the army, are finding their way into the factories at Glasgow. c The sup- posed diffi- culties would vanish. The upper 5000 taking to trade.38 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. People that give dinner- parties should confine the attendance to their own house- hold. Those that hire mutes. Dining- rooms small and hot, everything cold but sherry and sloe-juice. CHAPTER VII. DINNER-PARTIES TO BE AVOIDED. The people that give what idiots call dinner- parties always exceed that which they can com- mand from their own establishment. Those people keep a debtor and creditor account of their dinners, and they pay them off in the cheapest possible manner. They have a large dinner one day, and the following they have a similar dinner-party, to lick up the scraps. They hire three or four waiters, dressed in black, who, in the morning, have been employed carrying the corpse, or pulling long faces at a funeral. The very look of these fellows takes away one's appetite, saying nothing of the heat of the dining-room, not larger than a horse-box, in which eighteen or twenty persons are crammed, where everything is cold except the stuff called sherry and the sloe-juice purchased at some advertising Jew wine-merchant’s. Such dinners are a mockery, and ought to be avoided. There is plenty of talk, but there is no conversation.DINNERS TO BE SHUNNED. 39 There are other dinners to be shunned—viz. where the dinner is half made-up at home and the remainder is sent in from a cheap second-rate pastrycook’s, where show and side-dishes are the order, and where the man that looks after the garden is dressed up, or the man that looks after the horse is brought in, smelling of the stable, to help the footman or the little boy with the rows of buttons. What is more disgusting than the every-day English dinners ? The soups thick and tasting of allspice and the essence of dirty saucepans; the thick lumps of clay which they dignify by the name of oyster or lobster-patties, which require powerful spectacles to discover either the oyster or the lobster; cod’s head and shoulders, badly cooked, surrounded with raw parsley, the oyster- sauce nothing more than bill-sticker’s paste, with a very sparing quantity of oysters with their beards on ; soles fried till they are black, or the colour of chocolate; the side dishes, at which every one shakes his head; the eternal vulgar logs of beef ' CD CD and mutton, badly cooked, with a slop of water from the pot in which the vegetables were boiled by way of gravy, and surrounded with raw garden- stuff as garnish; a pair of fowls, done to rags, covered with bill-sticker’s paste, and garnished, as they call it, with a barrowful of raw parsley; followed by jellies made from the gelatine manu- factured by the horse-knacker, and pastry not fit for the stomach of an ostrich. Other dinners to be avoided. The every- day dinner.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 40 The kind of people met at the every-day English dinners. The great person that keeps the dinner waiting. Sir Noodle, Knight. A German baron. The donor of a drink- ing foun- tain. At these sort of dinners you are sure to meet great people. You are sure to meet some great person that has kept the party waiting for an hour, who announces his arrival by a thundering knock of half an hour’s duration. You find his greatness is in his make-up—his shiny black sticking-plaster boots, his false hair, his false whiskers, his false everything. Most probably you may meet some noodle who has been knighted by mistake, or for services that nobody ever heard of, whilst governor of some uninhabited island, the Secretary for the Colonies thinking it the cheapest way of getting rid of him. He belongs to a club, which he is continually talking about, and sleeps in some street at the back of the Hay- market. And more than likely you may meet some German baron, from Saxe-sometliing, who is in- vited because he was once at the Queen’s con- cert, of which he never forgets to talk; and the hostess and her daughters think it so very grand, and connects them with the aristocracy. Pro- bably you may meet some person who has put up a drinking-fountain, who, in his humility, has not forgotten to emblazon it with his name and address at full length. As certain as eggs are eggs, you meet one of the six hundred and fifty-six that con- gregate at Westminster; and lucky if you don’t meet two of them, who, to show their importance, and that they belong to the Legislature, begin by talk of the Plouse and the lobby, and then get up41 STUCK-UP PEOPLE. the usual cross fire: the one will say how he received a deputation from the doctors and undertakers of Brighton claiming vested rights to all the cesspools ;* and the other will describe how Lord Palmerston held him by the button-hole, and told him that a strong mixture of sewage and sea-water was highly beneficial,! and exemplified his argument by saying that maggots were always found in good cheese, that flies invariably hover over a muck-heap, and that ac- counted for the swarms of Israelites at Brighton and other watering-places. As to females, you are sure to meet some fourth or fifth-rate women, pictures of awkwardness and ugliness, who have been to Coiu't, but who had no more right there than the animals they dignify by the name of cook, and, like the flies in amber, sets some people wondering how they got there. To a certainty, you meet stuck-up nobodies, that try to talk fine; they use large words to express small ideas. On one occa- sion the author heard a lady say u she could never depend on the integrity of her stomach.” These carrion, in general, live in obscure lodgings; if they hear mention made of a mutton-chop, express an affected oblivious doubt of its meaning, and, in a patronising way, suppose that it is a mutton cotelette. The author was, on one occasion, sitting Deputation from the doctors and under- takers of Brighton. Sewage and sea- water be- neficial. Shown by the flies and Is- raelites at Brighton. Ladies that have been to court. Stuck-up people who try to talk fine. * This property consists of typhus and typhoid fever, typhinia and erysipelas. f The 77,693 inhabitants of Brighton are all ready to affirm to the truth of this statement.42 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. December and May. Talking women. Their con- versation. The Opera and its vagrants. Morning employ- ment. Stuck-up women assuming titles to which they have no right. next an old beau of upwards of eighty, dressed juvenile, with a rose stuck in his bosom. The old fool asked the author’s opinion of a flirting, loqua- cious, over-dressed young woman, of about twenty- four. The author simply answered that he thought that she would sell herself for a settlement. It turned out that the lady was the old fellow’s wife, that she was penniless, and that the old fellow had made a settlement; but he no more required a wife than a pig requires a side-pocket. To a moral or immoral certainty, you meet a lot of women wish- ing you to think they belong to the blue-stocking tribe. They all talk at the same time, and mostly about the Opera, or the Italian vagrants with assumed names. These women, without under- standing a word of the language, express, in ecstasies of delight, their ere at admiration of a foreign corruption singing a profane song in a profane opera—harlots joining in chorus, and nude actresses indecently dancing amongst the grave- stones. It is fashionable, and these creatures affect the fashions of Belgravia, and, like them, waste their mornings in loud knockings at the doors of those they hope to find from home. The party may be adorned by some impudent, stuck-up women, who have had three or four hus- bands, the first being a penniless booby lord by courtesy, whose name they retain, although aware that they have no right to it. “ What is gained by marriage is lost by marriageand they know43 A GRAND VULGAR DINNER. that tlieir last husband’s name is the name by which they should be called.* You may, probably, meet some brazen-faced women who have the assurance to go to Court, and sometimes present two or three vermin like them- selves, who, if the Lord Chamberlain knew the character of either the one or the other, they most certainlv would not be allowed to sniff the air of %/ the palace. Avoid dining at a house where it is presided over by a female, who forgets that she has passed some forty summers since she was fifteen, and who puts on a juvenility of manner and dress, as if going to dance a Spanish fandango. Such a hos_ tess thinks little but talks much: her egotism makes you feel as if you were covered with pins and needles. In such a house all is discomfort. I once made a present of an extremely fine haunch of venison to the husband of such a lady. They lived in what the world calls good style, and if neighbourhood had anything to do with good eating, we might have expected a good dinner. The agreement with the husband was to have a party of four—viz. himself, a late distinguished Q.C., the Honourable Mr. , and myself. The haunch and a small chicken, turbot with crab- sauce, was to be the bill of fare, to be washed down * A peeress by marriage loses her dignity by marrying a com- moner, and after sucli marriage is not entitled to any privilege.— Co. Lit. 1G; 6 Co. 53; Dyer, 70. She must be called by her husband’s name, and if he be only a Master she is only Mistress. Brazen women who go to Court. A hostess to avoid. The de- scription of a very grand din- ner.44 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Vulgar dinners. with good wine. The wife, in her gentility, thought that this dinner was not grand enough : the idea of a haunch of venison and a small turbot did not coincide with the great ideas of the woman who had forgotten her age, so she set to work to spoil our dinner, and most effectually she did it. She invited some eighteen persons—u the shortness of the invitation to he excused, as it was to partake of a haunch of venison that would be in prime order on the day named.” Every one invited came; the dinner was put on the table at eight o’clock; and the very table must have felt the vulgarity of the load. There were two heavy thick soups, followed by a full-grown turbot, I should think measuring two feet across; at the other end of the table was half of a salmon, weigh- ing at least twenty pounds, with lobster and an- chovy sauces. There was also put on the table six silver side-dishes, containing—God and the cook only knew. Then there came the eternal boiled fowls and bill-sticker’s paste. I forget what was at the other end of the table, but in the middle was a horse’s tongue.* It was nine o’clock, if not past, when the haunch was brought in. I shall never forget its appearance ; at first I thought that they had placed on the dish, by way of joke, the saddle belonging to some postboy, who had rode on it as many years as the lady of the mansion was old. The poor host tried to carve it, but to cut it * There is not a horse that dies in London, or within reach of it, that the tongue is not pickled and dried and sold as a Russian rarity.IMPOSTOR DINNER-GIVERS. 45 was impossible. It was done, it was overdone, and was like cutting an old cable. What could be chopped or haggled off was sent round to the ladies, but they had all crammed. I had not tasted any of the dinner, having de- termined to dine, as I was engaged to do, off venison. It is needless to state I could not eat a morsel. The would-be juvenile asked me if it was to my liking; I answered that it was overdone. She replied that, to her mind, it was done to a turn. I repeat, avoid vulgar dinners, where the tables groan under a load of vulgarity and badly cooked food. Such dinners bring on disease, and shorten life. Never accept an invitation where you have a suspicion that the dinner is to be cooked by the wo- man that cleans the street-door steps. If the mis- tress (and there are thousands of them) of such a woman has the audacity to invite you, you may de- pend upon it that she is lower in intellect than the woman that cleans her steps. Beware how you accept invitations to cockney villas with romantic names, or you may find your- self in a den the size of a rat-trap, in some out-of- the-way Botany Bay place, miles from your home on a wet night, and your stomach grumbling and reminding you that the dinner was bad, and the stuff you drank was not wine. There are some hosts who are as great humbugs as their hostesses, who say that they cannot get good wine. If those impostors would only take the Never accept an invitation where the woman that pretends to cook the dinner cleans the street-door steps. Refuse invites to cockney villas. The hosts that pre- tend they cannot get good wine.46 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTTES. Preference to be given to herrings and po- tatoes and bread- and- cheese dinners. Impostor dinner- givers deal at cheap and infe- rior shops. trouble to put their lists into the right pocket, and go to the right man and pay the right price, they would get the right wine. O CD If the impostor dinner-givers would, instead of their dirty feast, only give a red-herring and a well-boiled potato, a bit of good bread from Le- mann’s in Threadneedle-street, a bit of good cheese from Cadbury’s in Bond-street, a drop of good stout from Meux’s brewery at the corner of Totten- ham-court-road, with a fresh-pulled onion, every guest would be contented, and go away satisfied that the feast had not driven a dozen nails into his coffin, and the host would be respected, more espe- cially if he gave some good gin-punch, but the gin must not be bought at the public-house, but at Anderson’s distillery in Holborn. These impostor dinner-givers invariably deal at cheap-bread bakers’ and other inferior shops. The bread they put on the table contains bone-dust, and a mixture of clay, alum, sulphurate of copper, and potatoes: as to the cruet-stand, never ask for it, the vinegar contains sulphuric acid, the pepper is composed of the dirt and sweepings of the floors of the pepper warehouses, ground rice, ground mustard-seed and linseed-meal; as to the cayenne, it is composed of red-lead, mustard-seed, brick- dust, salt, ground-rice, and deal sawdust.* These are not half of the poisons offered at these dinner- tables. Sometimes they bring out what you think * Report of tbe evidence on the adulteration of food, ordered to be printed July 2G, 185G.ADVICE TO AVOID THE STUFF CALLED WINE. 47 is a foaming glass of Barclay and Perkins; it is no sucli tiling, it is purchased at the first public-house. The publican invariably draws off one-third of a butt, and fills it up with water and the following mixture: Coculus Indicus and beans—as a stupifier. Quassia—as a bitter. Coriander-seeds, capsicums, caraway-seeds, gin- ger, grains of paradise, and pounded oyster-shells. This beautiful brew is set off with a fine head— not unlike a young widow's cap—which is produced by a mixture of green vitriol, alum, and salt. In most places these impostor dinner - givers begin by calling on the Deity to sanctify the filth they place upon the table, and end by turning up the whites of their eyes, calling upon the Lord to make them truly thankful for the stuff they have received. If you value your health, you will never accept an invite to any of these kind of parties; you will thereby avoid swallowing a conglomeration of filth, together with the poisonous Cape which they call sherry; sloe-juice, made in London, which they call port; and champagne, manufactured on the banks of the Thames, with fine silver labels, at fifteen shillings per dozen, bottles included. Avoid such parties and such people, and you will save many a headache, while you may reckon every refusal as a dozen nails from your coffin.48 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. CHAPTER VIII. a lady’s opinion of her own sex suggested ON READING THE FIRST EDITION OF u DINNERS AND DINNER-FARTIES.” There never will be comfort in domestic life while we are so dependent on servants. Ladies ought to wait more on themselves, and not ring continually for a servant to bring this, and another to bring that, and man-servants should be done away with inside a house. They do nothing that a woman cannot do just as well, indeed, a great deal better, and those lazy, lying, impudent rogues should be sent to do work better suited to them; but there must be a complete revolution in the present style of living; the late dinners at eight o’clock, evening parties at ten, balls at eleven or twelve, and supper after, at two in the morning —these fashions are demoralising to all classes. Everything is now too much left to servants to do, as being considered derogatory to ladies; the con- sequence is, that the most important parts of the household comfort and economy are neglected—a lady’s opinion of her own sex. 49 such as marking and mending, and counting cloths and household linen; the making pickles and pre- serving fruit is left to dirty cooks. The gathering and drying sweet herbs, the planting and attending to their culture, ought all to he done by the ladies of a family, and a very elegant, sweet, and inno- cent occupation it would be found, improving the mind as well as the health. The poultry in a country-house should always be attended to by the ladies of the family, and not delegated to servants, except the dirty work; ladies might make fortunes if tliev would but give their time and attention to the breeding and rearing of o o poultry for the table and market. This would be a useful occupation as well as an interesting one. An excellent book has lately appeared, which every lady ought to possess, called “ The Hen-wife,” by Mrs. Ferguson Blain, of Balthavock. It is lamentable to reflect on the shameful time spent by girls of ten years of age, till twenty-five or thirty-five, at the piano; many of them passing four, five, and six hours a day at this most unin- tellectual occupation—for what is the mind doing- while the fingers are running up and down the instrument ? It is running to waste. If this time was spent in mending their stockings, making their clothes, studying cooking, pickling, and all other household occupations, families would be happier than they now are. An effort must be made to elevate the character of women, who are now in a EDINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 50 state of disgraceful ignorance of their proper duties as wives and mothers. The prevailing anti all absorbing desire of girls, of all ranks, is the inordinate love of dress, and continual hankering after the excitement of public amusements. What are now called entertainments ought to be more simple and innocent, and less in the casino style. Dancing and balls, as at present managed, are highly indecent and improper for modest young women, and a very unfit prepara- tion for young housekeepers, as all young women hope to be. Balls never can be innocent until intoxicating beverages are excluded; only observe the quantity drank, and the rudeness and romping after supper. Allow me to quote a passage from a valuable work lately published: “ There is perhaps no lot in life with less dignity, liberty, or independence, than that of a young unmarried lady in the richer classes, especially after she has passed the first season of youth and finds how completely her happiness and liberty in life depend on her chance of marry- ing. What is open to the unfortunate in such a case ? she is sick of her frivolous accomplishments, which should form the ornaments, not the sub- stance of life. She has no field for the exercise of those transcendent natural powers, which, like the unruly spirits of old, are constantly crying out for ‘work, work!’ Within her she has no liberty ofA LADY’S OPINION OF HEPv own sex. 51 locomotion or action, and she is probably de- pendent for her subsistence on those around her, and dependent, too, for love, that great essential of human happiness, on our unpropitious fortune. “ The life of our young ladies now is most vapid and unnatural. They have no substantial occupa- tion, and their energies are frittered away upon trivial accomplishments. Very many of them feel this keenly, and desire nothing so eagerly as a suitable occupation to engage their often highly cultivated minds, and give them an independent position.’’ It is indispensable to the interests of mankind that the present system of educating young girls should be reformed or abolished. The Legislature is bound to give all attention to this subject. Schools for girls of all ranks should be put under the supervision of officers appointed for the pur- pose ; new books and catechisms should be written treating of household duties; and instead of young girls having to get by heart that “ the Laplanders eat train-oil and garbage,” and such like nonsense as may be found in school-books, they should have catechisms on the physical laws, the moral feelings, the importance of health, charity, benevolence, faith, truth, justice, kindness, generosity, mercy, honesty, gentleness, and obedience. If the moral feelings were better trained and cul- tivated, there would cease to be that idle gossipingDINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 52 The ball- room and conversa- tion. and backbiting in society; for these women, having their minds full of useful knowledge, would have something to talk about, and would compare notes about domestic affairs instead of the stupid com- pany notes about the size of their crinoline, and the last flounces and ribbons. The author may be allowed to add to the fore- going, that the dress, follies, and delusions of the ball-room are the certain results of a bad educa- tion. It is very pretty and very poetical for hobbe- dehoys and very young men to talk of “lilies and roses,” but lilies and roses were never met with in a ball-room, and were never known to re- quire the fashionable aid of pearl powder, or washes, or the perfumes called “ Kiss me quick,” “ Stolen kisses,” or “ Box his ears.” They are the talismans to the ball-room under-toned, lively, but doubtful conversation, and mothers ouo'lit not to be sur- prised that sensible men should think such lilies and such roses are nothing more than useless weeds, of which most mothers have an abundant crop.53 THE GENTLEWOMAN. CHAPTER IX. THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. THE GENTLEWOMAN AND HER MENAGE. The first glance of her is like the preface of a beautiful book—she presents a world of things, of mind and elegance. The botanist crosses moun- o tains and valleys before he meets with a rare «/ flower, and when he does, it may be likened to the gentlewoman. O “ She openeth her mouth with wisdom ; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. o u She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. u Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.” The gentlewoman exemplifies that her accom- plishments are not incompatible with her duty; she sitteth at the head of the table and distributes God’s bounties to her admiring guests. In her presence small indeed appear all other women. She is conscious of the millions of Avrongs that are The dis- tinction between a gentle- woman and a mo- dern lady.54 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. The call of hunger the compliance of an agreeable duty. The lady that looks after the cuisine a superior being. Her invita- tion not to be refused. Invitation to dine on board yachts not to be refused. Breakfasts on board yachts very superior. perpetrated by deputy, and she disdains claiming exemption from the duties that were imposed upon Eve. The gentlewoman is aware that the human frame is reminded of the loss which its vital mechanism has undergone by the call of hunger, and such loss must be replaced by good and suffi- cient food, or the vital flame will be enfeebled and ultimately extinguished. The compliance is the fulfilment of an agreeable duty, and ought to be a real enjoyment. If ever you get introduced into a house where the lady of the mansion looks to the cuisine, you need not be under the apprehension of poison. Be sure to treat her as (she is) a superior being; and should you be so fortunate as to receive an invita- tion, put off any and every engagement, even by command of Majesty. You will find yourself amply repaid. Neither refuse an invitation to dine on board a yacht. You are sure of a good dinner. In the little kitchens are composed the prettiest little dinners that can be conceived ; and it is wonderful that so many women as have partaken of the hospitality of those places should not have tried to follow the example. Again, where are such breakfasts to be had as on board a yacht? Fish hot every morning for breakfast, and the remainder of the various little dishes of the preceding day re-cooked and prettily55 ENJOYABLE DINNERS. put on the table, the very sight of them making you hungry. This is beneath the thought or dignity of an English lady, who thinks a cup of tea, badly made, and bread-and-butter, is sufficient breakfast, especially if enlivened by a hard-boiled egg, nearly cold. If it should be your good lot to meet with a man who has a wine-cellar, and who looks after it him- self, be assured that he is a man of sense, and ranks far above the every-day man. You may safely listen to his conversation, and you will under- stand it, although you mav have drank four bottles of his wine. Plow enjoyable is a dinner where all affectation is abandoned, where there is no competition in vanity, where the guests are all good temper and smiles, no smell of scents or filthy patchouli to disturb your digestion, where the convives give their attention to the dinner, knowing that each entree should be eaten at the moment it is in its highest perfection. At such a dinner you never hear senseless cackle, but a calm, quiet interchange of sentiments; the guests are all attention to each other, and pass the plates according to conve- nience (without waiting a servant), and enlivening the entertainment by expressions of appreciation. The French arc thoroughly alive to the art of dinner-giving, and they say good eating is favour- able to beauty, and keeps off the exterior appear- ance of old age. It gives brilliancy to the eyes, Not so the lady house- wife’s breakfasts. The man who lias a wine-cellar and looks after it is a man of sense. Enjoyable dinners. Good din- ners pro- mote the good looks of the females.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 56 A party of eight. freshness to the skin, and stays the depression of the muscles which cause the wrinkles that are the enemies of beauty; and that it is certain that those females who know how to eat are compara- tively ten years younger in appearance than those that know not the science; and that painters and sculptors are aware of the fact, for they never represent the half-starved, the bilious, or the pale, from the malady of badly-cooked food, their blotches, wrinkles, or decrepitude. A cUnner well chosen for a party of eight genial souls, four gentlewomen and four gentlemen, put on a snow-white table, and, to save the noise and trouble of servants brushing and disturbing the company, four knives and four forks to each guest; nothing else on the table, except the bill of fare, and a thick bit of bread to each guest, and the four glasses, and four wines necessary for such a party, every dish brought from the model kitchen and put on separately,* being timed to come on the table at the moment it is wanted, and eaten at the very moment it is in its highest perfection. Such a dinner is fit for the gods—it surpasses the * This is not a new fashion, the Romans had their different dishes served separately; it was the vanity of showing the plated side-dishes that brought in the punishment of the present fashion. Pepys, under date November 2,1668, says : “To Mr. Povy’s about a coach, but there I find my Lords Sandwich, Peterborough, and Hincliinbroke, Charles Harbord, and Sidney Montagu; and there I was stopped, and dined mighty nobly at a good table, with one little dish at a time u?on it, but mighty many.”57 THE MODEL KITCHEN. high-vaunted dinners of either the Goldsmiths’, Fishmongers’, or Merchant Taylors’; in fact, it cannot be surpassed. THE MODEL KITCHEN. The gentlewoman has her model kitchen as near as can be contrived to the salle-a-manger, and in the space of a few square feet will produce, without any apparent effort, a dinner for a dozen persons. There is no hurry, no flurry, no smell, which usually emanates from the cooking, to which most people are accustomed. All that the ignorant cook allows to escape by evaporation is preserved. All is delicately clean, the stew-pans bright, and the porcelain saucepans as clean as teacups; the very cloths are washed at home (in soda only) to avoid contact with soap, or, what is worse, being washed in the suds through which the laundress has passed all the dirty linen until she comes to the snuffy handkerchiefs, and then she thinks the suds will do for the cooking towels. To the mind accustomed to the expensive kitchen range, the destruction of tons upon tons of coals, its dirt, its soot, and its waste, it appears marvellous that a good dinner can be cooked to the moment it is wanted at the cost of a few pence. Every house has a room which, if occupied by a medical man, would be turned into what would be called his surgery. Let that room be fitted up58 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. with a china sink, lar^e enough to soak a ham, let water he laid on, and a tap to let it off. Let shelves be put up sufficient to hold a dozen china saucepans (Dresden*), from the size of the butter saucepan to the largest, which is the size to boil (simmer) an aitchbone of beef; there will be wanted a shelf on the floor for the bright stew-pans. There will also be required a glass case to lock up the necessary condiments, &c. &c. For these condiments, see Dr. Kitchener. Employ Mr. T. Phillips, of Skinner-street, Snow- hill, to put up a stove. T5 }! i'i Idffl h r i fj !■;; i! !:! Uu Turn the thing that now you ca by the mis- nomer of cook into the kitchen-maid of this place; let her hands, her cap, and apron always be clean. Her duty will be to keep everything chemically clean, to wash the towels at home in soda, and to do * Messrs. Powell, of the Whitefriars Glass Works, are agents to the manufacturers at Dresden.THE HEALTH OF THE COOK. 59 as you may direct. She will, of course, have to cook her own and fellow-servants’ victuals in her kitchen below; and inform her she must cease to use the cooking towels as her pocket-handkerchief; and if you find any long hairs or little animals, she must have her hair cropped if she is worth keeping. George the Third had this done, and which was the origin of cooks having their heads shaved, and wearing caps. Ascertain if she is healthy in body; her person ought to smell as sweet as a cow. If she has damp hands or a foul breath, or wears a seton, or has sore legs, get rid of her at once—or everything she touches will be tainted. The advantages of using gas for cooking pur- poses in preference to any other kind of fuel are so obvious as scarcely to require enumeration. A uniform and steady heat at any temperature can be maintained without any supervision throughout the whole process, and may be raised or lowered as re- quired at any moment. The heat need only be applied when the meat is fully prepared for dress- ing, and may be removed immediately it is done, or, when necessary, turned down so as only to keep the meat hot while other dishes are being got ready. The operation being carried on in a closed chamber, the meat is heated all over alike, and is found to be much better dressed than by either roasting or baking. There is no waste heat, and the tempera- ture of the room is but very slightly increased, so that large operations may be carried on without60 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. any inconvenience to the persons employed. In stewing, especially, where the heat is required to be maintained within the boiling point for a long- time, it answers to perfection. Several important experiments were made at Greenwich Hospital, by the late M. Soyer, upon apparatus constructed at that establishment, as to the comparative results of cooking by gas and by coal, when it was definitely settled that, besides being more cleanly, economical, and convenient, there was a saving in weight of 18 lbs. against 34 lbs. on 184 lbs. of meat in favour of gas. IMPORTANCE OF CLEANLINESS. Impress upon your servant its importance ; let him or her know that the smallest particle of dirt changes the character of a dish, and that the very touch of an unhealthy person will taint any joint of meat. Make him or her a present of a nail- brush, and tell him or her you will notice whether he or she uses it. Never admit a suspected person into your kitchen. There is an electricity in the human body which communicates with all bodies, and those persons that scent themselves or wear that disgusting stuff called patchouli, are especially to be excluded. DISADVANTAGES OF A MODEL KITCHEN. The disadvantages of the model kitchen are, that the cookery is so pure that the very eating creates an appetite. You are continually hungry;DISADVANTAGES OF THE MODEL KITCHEN. G1 the dinners are in such strong contrast that they give you a horror of the impostor dinners. You shrink at the thought—the very idea—of the usual sea-side trip, with all the dirt of sea-side lodging- houses, and greasy, dirty cookery. It produces a complete revolution in the family directly your daughters learn that a sweet or savoury omelette or other like delicacies are so easily made, and in less time than you can speak to the woman called cook; their delight is ungovernable; they are con- tinually in the kitchen. The piano, globes, Latin, and all other rubbish of the kind—Rotten-row and botanical fetes—all, all are abandoned. The disadvantages are more than counterba- lanced by the advantages. It teaches frugality and delight to be enabled to make something out of what your daughters have thought nothing, and the infinite variety surprises and surpasses their imagination. In a month they learn how to place a good and economical dinner on the table; in a twelvemonth they become the acme of perfection ; they declare that the art of cookery is not half as difficult as cookery books lead you to suppose; and the changes are easy and exhaustless. If you can attain perfection in one or two dishes, you can do what you please in the art. Their health is im- proved, they are no longer yellow or cadaverous with eating dirty and badly dressed food, they find their minds enlarged, and they are raised to an honourable position, and resolve “to be sought, and not unsought be won,” and instead of studyingG2 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. crochet or any other fancy sham of industry, they read— “Dr. Kitchener’s Cook’s Oracle. “ Le Cuisinier Royal,"’ par A iart. “ Francatelli’s Modern Cook. “ Miss Acton’s Modern Cookery.” When they appear in society, they are looked upon as somebody. Such women are soon found out; they have no occasion to ogle for husbands, or take indirect steps to obtain them. Men seek the girls that know something towards making home happy, knowing that the happiness of home depends upon the management and tact of the wife, which are the real charms and pleasures of a home. THE CHOOSING A DINNER. Remember that the year is divided into four seasons, and that the best dinner is that which is composed of everything in season; the females never forget to change their dress according to the different months, although they stick to the ever- lasting monotony of thick soups and cod’s-head and shoulders. In your choice of a dinner, do not forget that there should be no attempt at flourish; the dinner should be softened down as like as possible to the enjoyable entertainment of a yachtman ; to see such a dinner, it would be worth the time of any Amphitryon going to the Hotel de Flan- dres at Brussels, where he would see an admi-63 IIOW TO CIIOOSE A DINNER. ruble dinner; every disli brought on separately, and to resemble which it should not exceed six to eight dishes; such a variety, if well chosen and well cooked, will give greater satisfaction than a badly-cooked dinner of a hundred removes, more especially if each dish be timed to be brought sepa- rately on table at the moment it is cooked, which is the time it is in the highest perfection. For a party of eight or ten persons, there should be: POTAGE AND STEWS. To choose, see pages G9 to 75. FISH. To choose, see pages 76 to 83. MEATS. To choose, see pages 90 to 97. POULTRY and GAME. To choose, see pages 84 to 90. SWEETS. See page 98. VEGETABLES. See page 102. EACH DISH SHOULD BE BROUGHT IN SEPARATELY. As all the dishes cannot be partaken of at the same time, let them be brought in one at a time. You will save annoyance to the guests, and two ser- vants will suffice, and the dinner will be well served. How to choose a dinner.6 4 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. As to the laying of the table, see ante, page 56 ; but it is a very comfortable method to have the servants in the room only when they are rung for; in such case, each guest will pass the plate to his neighbour. NEVER WAIT DINNER. Have it up the moment it is ready ; if a male guest should not arrive in time he is not worth waiting for; if a female, it will teach her better manners. HELPING TIIE GUESTS. Do not imitate the would-be fine ladies who think they are doing gentility when they pull wry faces, asking if you will have a leg or wing, for- getting that a fowl has only two, and if all chose the same she could not supply them; and be sure you do not imitate her in waiting for the grave- digger, the mute, or the little boy to hand you your plate, although you are sitting next her. Help quickly, and pass on the plate. WINE. Let every guest help himself and challenge his neighbour to wine; it begets good fellowship, and avoids the annoyance of awkward servants slopping the wine into your glass. People forget that the good old fashion was abandoned on the Queen coming to the throne, who, as a girl, could not challenge her guests to take wine; and thus itTHE SELECTION OF THE GUESTS. G5 became the fashion to imitate her Majesty in that which to her was a matter of necessity. THE GUESTS. The selection of the guests should not be for- gotten. No Amphitryon neglects it; choose them for their good qualities, let them be amiable and sociable; do not invite those whose vanity would usurp the talk; such people are empty and dis- agreeable, and no more to be admired than the wasp’s-bite disposition of some other people: above all, never invite a garrulous woman; she will detain her soup-plate on the table talking nonsense until the fish is entirely spoiled. There is a class of woman that should be ex- cluded from every dinner. I mean the woman that takes a breakfast, and afterwards consumes a couple of mutton chops, or an omelette or sweet- bread, at her luncheon, and finishes at Gunter’s, or some other pastrycook’s. Such women never do credit to any dinner. A French author describes her under the head “ Des difficiles,” and gives the following conversation : u Madame, vous offrirai-je du salmis?” “ Je ne mange jamais de ragouts.” “ Accepterez-vous de ce vol-au-vent delaitances?” “ Je n’aime pas le poisson.” “ line tranche de chevreuil ? ” “ Le gibier m’incommode.” F Selection of guests.G6 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. u Que pourrai-je done vons servir ? ” 11 Je ne sais. J’attendrai. Je vais voir.” “ Oli, allez au diable, et n’approchez jamais de ma salle-^-manger!” A CONTINENTAL ENTERTAINMENT TO TWELVE HUNDRED PERSONS. The dif- ference be- tween a foreign and an English entertain- ment. That our English public dinners are little better than rabid entertainments is generally admitted, and will bear no comparison with an entertainment on the Continent. On the 18th of August, 18G1, there was an Artistic Congress at Antwerp, fol- lowed by a dinner: “ The guests, amounting to upwards of twelve hundred persons, took their places without the slightest confusion or crowding; and after the lapse of less than half an hour, the repast—a hot one, and really hot—was served with a promptness and precision which was perfectly marvellous; plates, &c., changed, and each dish handed round in its order, without any of that roaring and scrambling, and 1 Yes, sir! ’ ‘ Coming, sir! ’ which are uniformly the undignified characteristics of a so-called public dinner to some eighty or a hun- dred guests at an English dinner. All honour be given to the two houses of M. Allard, restaurant of Brussels, and Messrs. Lambo, freres et soeur, of Antwerp, who jointly provided this magnificent banquet.A CONTINENTAL DINNER. 67 u The following is the menu : o u Solennites Artistiques, 18th August, 1861. u Potage pate d’ltalie. “ Turbot, sauce aux capres. “ Roast-beef a la paysanne. “ Poularde au curry. “ Jambon et haricots verts. “ Pate Bretonne. u Ortolans. u Homards, sauce tart are. u Pudding, fromage, fruits. u Dessert. u Yins: St. Julien, 1848. “ Chateau Margaux, 1848. u Champagne: Moet et Chandon.” From the Illustrated Netcs, August 24, 1861. As a SPECI3IEN OF A GOOD CLUB DINNER, the following is a copy of the bill of fare of a dinner given at the Reform Club, May 20, 1861: TWO POTAGES. Printannier a la Colbert. Potage a la Reine. TWO RELEVES. Saumon a la Regence, sauce Genoise. Turbot, sauce Hollandaise et sauce liomard. TWO FLANCS. Selle d’Agneau a la Dauphine. Filet de bceuf Jardiniere. F 268 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. FOUR ENTRIES. Filets de volaille a la Villeroy. Ris de veau a la St. Cloud. Timbale de foie gras a la Perigueux. Aspic de filets de soles en belle vue. PIECE DE MILIEU. Hermitage de Sion (Suisse). TWO ROTS. Les cailles de vigne, bread sauce. Cannetons nouveaux au cresson. Punch a la Romaine. FOUR ENTREMETS. Asperges en branches, sauce au beurre. Petits pois a l’Anglaise. Franco-Beige glace. Gelee Californienne a l’eau-de-vie deDantzig Plovers’ eggs. DO DESSERTS. English pines, hot-house grapes, strawberries, lady apples, leiches. SOUPS. Thick soups are not to be tolerated; it is very well to give those kind of soups to cricketers, boatSOUPS. 69 rowers, and the like, hut it is not allowable to choke your guests off their dinner. If soup be de- sirable, let it be as the French have it—a potage ; and if it should happen that early in the season you should indulge in green peas or asparagus, do as the French do—boil them not in too much water, and only a little salt; save the water in which they have been boiled, and the following day you may add what has been left of the vegetable, and any little jelly or gravy you may have in the larder, which, with a little pepper, will make a delicious potage. The French reckon one hundred and one potages (vide u Le Cuisinier Royal,” par Viart), which is the best and most economical of all the cookery books ever published, and if you have a garden, nearly every one of the hundred and one may be put on the table at the cost of a few farthings. A turbot dressed as you -would cook a turtle, will make a soup which is preferred by many to turtle soup. TOTAGES, OR SOUPS. Julienne. How to make, see next page. Vegetable. Green peas. Carrot. Asparagus. Vermicelli. Giblet. The soup on the next page, may be turned intoDINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 70 any of these soups by adding the vegetables re- quired. Turtle (from the Ship and Turtle, Leadenhall-street). STEWS. Mutton broth and chops for eight persons. —See page 75. Hotch-potch for eight persons. Irish stew for eight persons. Hot-pot for eight persons.—See page 73. Most of the party will dine.—See page 73. Haricot mutton. Stewed beef and vegetables. Curry.—See page 74. Leg of mutton braised. Stewed mutton cutlets.—See page 74. JULIENNE SOUP Is made of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel, chervil, parsnips, haricots, and bruised peas, chopped up together. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan; when it begins to melt, add a spoonful of flour, and an onion chopped very fine ; stir together until it becomes quite red. You then put in the ve- getables : place the saucepan on your stove and let them simmer for an hour, stirring them very often to prevent burning, and when they become lightly brown, put in three quarts of veal broth; let it boil, and skim, afterwards add a bouquet of71 FOUNDATION OF SOUPS. thyme, bay-leaves, garlic, and parsley tied up to- gether, and let them remain. An hour before serving, add a puree of peas, half a spoonful of brown sugar, a little salt, and a pinch of pepper. Do not put in the stalks of the carrots, and use only the white part of the leeks, but plenty. A VERY OLD CHESHIRE RECEIPT, VIZ. OF THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY, FOR A GOOD AND INEXPENSIVE SOUP. Put a hock of beef into a gallon of cold water, simmer it gently for six hours, taking care that it is well skimmed. Put in some thyme, sweet margery, and celery, all tied in a bunch, as also a couple of onions cut fine. Skim off all fat, and season with pepper and salt, and a little catchup. OBSERVE Omitting the above seasoning, this soup may be turned into all kinds of soup, by adding the vegetables to give the flavour required. If you wish a white soup, order a knuckle of veal and calf’s foot, and proceed as above. noTCn-POTCH (for eight persons). This is a dish greatly liked, but is only to be obtained when peas are to be got, viz. May, June, and July. V Hotch- potch.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 72 Irish stew. Take three pounds of the best ribs of neck of mutton, cut into chops, with as little fat as pos- sible. One and a half breakfast-cupfuls of grated car- rots. Three ditto of carrots. Three ditto of turnips. Twelve young onions. The white part of two stock lettuces. Two cupfuls of green peas. To be cut into small pieces. Two table-spoons of flour. All these are to be put on the fire with two quarts of water, to simmer for two hours, the fat to be oc- casionally skimmed off, and, half an hour before serving, add a cupful of peas, also pepper and salt according to taste; if it should be too thick it may be thinned with a little hot water. Serve in a tureen. N.B. I have seen this put on the table in Scot- land with grouse soup, when every person refused the latter, but greedily partook of this. IRISH stew (for six or eight persons). From a fine neck of mutton cut off all the best chops, and trim as much of the fat as is necessary, and put them away; soak the remaining part of the neck in cold water, and wash clean; put the whole into a saucepan, with as little water as willHOT-rOT. 73 just cover it, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours; strain it into a basin, and when cold, skim off the fat. Take a pint of this stock, put it into a stewpan with five or six onions, lay the chops which you had put by over them, put in a dozen and a half of peeled potatoes, and pepper and salt according to taste, and let the whole simmer gently for two hours; if more potatoes are re- quired, not to be done so much, put them in half an hour before serving. It is an improvement to put in a little mushroom catchup, or a couple dozen oysters. nox-POT (for eight persons), A Lancashire dish, is much liked; so much so, that every one at table always partakes of it, and most persons make their dinner of it. This dish must be made in a fireproof pan, re- sembling in shape a turtle-mug or cheese-pan. Cut three pounds of rump-steak into square pieces, cut eight or ten potatoes in quarters, some whole small onions, and mushrooms if in season, all well-seasoned with cayenne black pepper and salt, together with half a dozen kidneys; place all in layers one on the other, pour over them three or four table-spoonfuls of mushroom catchup, and put six or eight dozen oysters at the top, cover it with a crust, and bake for two hours. Hot-pot.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 74 Stewed mutton chops. Curry. A few larks or snipes are a great addition to the above. STEWED MUTTON CUTLETS. Take the eight best chops of the fore-loin, trim them neatly of the fat, partly broil them on each side, and put them to drain off the fat. Take a Spanish onion, cut it up small, put it into a stew- pan with two ounces of butter, a little cayenne and salt to taste; stew gently until a complete pulp; half an horn- before you want it put in the broiled chops, and stew gently. On dishing up, add a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar at the bottom of the dish. CURRY. Cut up a large Spanish onion into very small pieces, put into the stewpan two ounces of butter, and stew until a complete pulp, when put in your meat: if you can obtain a few French or Flemish carrots, cut them up small, and put also into your stewpan. It is silly to suppose that any kind of meat will do for a curry; it is only the impostor dinner-giver that thinks so; a rabbit should not be used, it is in some seasons as strong in smell as a cat. The white meats are the best—xlz. chickens, pork, breast of veal, and the like. It is a very great mistake to boil the meat with the curry- powder ; the ingredients are extremely volatile, and fly off. You never hear of boiled tea or coffee for75 MUTTON BROTH. that very reason ; therefore, ten minutes before the curry be wanted, pour out of the stewpan into a basin as much of the gravy as you conveniently can get, add a couple of table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, and a table-spoonful of arrowroot, well mix, pour the same back again by the side of the stewpan, so that it may get underneath the meat, and let it simmer until it just comes to bubble; but if you let it boil, the aroma of the curry-powder will be gone; add the squeeze of half a lemon, and serve. A table-spoonful of chutney is not a bad addition. Curry-powder.—See page 107. MUTTON BROTH. The late Lord Abinger was very fond of this, and when in company always had it served at din- ner with a chop in each soup plate. From a fine neck of mutton cut off and trim eight of the best chops, soak the remaining part for half an hour in fresh cold water, then put the neck and trimmings into three quarts of cold water with a little salt; when the water boils skim it, and add half a pound of Scotch barley, one onion, four car- rots, four turnips, cut into small pieces the size of dice, skim the broth every quarter of an hour, and let simmer four horn’s. Take out the neck and the trimmings, put in a little pepper and the eight chops, with a small bunch of parsley and thyme, and simmer gently till served. Mutton broth.76 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Melted butter. May be turned into all kinds of sauces. Fish to choose. FISH. Always choose the freshest of the clay; never be persuaded into buying that which is stale, or has been in the ice-well; such fish is not worth the trouble of cooking, and frequently brings on dy- sentery. MELTED BUTTER, (Dutch fashion). Roll as much fresh butter as required in arrow- root, to give it a thickness and appearance of cream, then melt it in a Dresden pipkin or butter sauce- pan ; well beat up the yolk of one, two, or three eggs with a small quantity of water; stir the yolk, or yolks, and water carefully into the butter, to pre- vent the egg setting; warm it to a simmer, add a little pepper and salt. By adding anchovy, mushroom, capers, or parsley, or any other flavour to this mixture, you will have any sauce you may require: but if parsley, or capers and butter is required, simmer the parsley or capers in the small quantity of water directed to be stirred into the yolk. What is better or easier, there are all kinds of tinctures sold by the herbalist of Covent Garden, and the hostess can flavour in a moment this, as also all kinds of soups. A LIST OF FISH TO CHOOSE FROM. Salmon, boiled.—Anchovy sauce. Shrimp sauce.FISH. 77 Fried slices, with mayonnaise sauce See page 81. Matelote.—See page 81. Soles, fried.—Shrimp sauce. Boiled.—Mushroom sauce. Filleted.—See page 78. Filleted.—See page 80. Turbot, boiled.—Lobster or oyster sauce. See also page 80. Brill.—Same as turbot. Cod, boiled.—Oyster or anchovy sauce. Fried slices.—Ditto, ditto. Salt.—With ecrcr sauce. Mullet.—See page 83. Haddock.—Oyster or mushroom. Mackerel, broiled. —Sweet herbs. Sauce, maitre d’hdtel. Whiting, boiled.—Mushroom sauce. Fried.—Ditto. Eels, stewed. Boiled.—Sauce, maitre d’hdtel. Fried. John Dory, boiled.—Sauce, oyster or mushroom. Skate.—Anchovy sauce. Herrings, broiled.—Onions fried, and served on a separate dish. Smelts, fried.—Melted butter. Flounders, fried. Water souchet.78 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Soles stewed. How to be placed in cotelette- pan. Oysters, fried.—See page 82. Sauce.—See page 82. Mussel sauce.—See page 83. Soles may nearly always be got fresh; three filleted will be twelve pieces, and enough for eight persons. Have the heads and bones sent home; stew them in half a pint of water with some parsley, pepper, and salt; you will have a thick jelly, which, added to any other broth, will form a nice potage for the following day, or you may make a souchet with some small flounders, eels, or soles; if you do so, of course you will stew in this jelly the heads and fins of whatever fish you may choose for the purpose, which, with some brown bread and butter, will make a pretty dish, equal to anything you can get at Blackwall. The twelve fillets are to be prepared as follows, and if served three hundred and sixty-five times in a year, you will have the pleasure of seeing them eaten by every guest: Chop two shallots and three sprigs of parsley very fine, spread them over the bottom of your shallow copper cotelette-pan, double each fillet of sole and lay the pointed ends in the centre of the pan, and it will form something like a star; throw- over a glass of sherry, and stew tvTo and a half minutes on your gas stove or hot plate: turn the twelve pieces, have ready and pour into the centre of the pan the following mixture:79 fish. Two tea-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Three ditto of mushroom catchup. One ditto of sugar. One ditto of lemon juice. A quarter ditto of cayenne. When the fish comes to boil they are done, which will be in two minutes and a half. To eat this dish to perfection it should be served smoking in the pan as cooked. SOLE AU GRATIN. This is a favourite dish, but as only one sole can be cooked at a time, the guests should not exceed four, unless it should be a very large one. The French have an oblong metal dish, mostly in silver, for the purpose, so that it may be served in the dish in which it is cooked. Grease the bottom of the dish with butter to prevent it sticking, chop some parsley and a shallot, spread lightly, add some salt and pepper, a little wine or brandy, lay the sole upon it, spread over the same things on the top of the sole, and some lumps of butter with some button mushrooms, or a table-spoonful of catchup, and a little gravy that you may have by you; rasp over some bread- crumbs, and cook it gently in the oven; it will be done in about half an hour; if a thick fish, it will take longer. Soles filleted stewed. Sole au gratin.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 80 Turbot. Sole h, la malt re d’hotel. A turbot cooked in the same way is easier and liked better than boiling; but the articles above must be increased according; to size of the fish. It will take an hour or more cooking according to its size. Make a sauce to pour over it on going to table, as follows: A little white sauce. One table-spoonful of anchovy. Two ditto of mushrooms. Six table-spoonfuls of cream. One tea-spoonful of sugar. A little cayenne. Thicken with arrowroot. The last thing, add two dozen oysters without their beards; do not let them come to the boil; add the juice of a lemon, and serve. SOLE A LA MAITRE d’HOTEL. This is a pretty change, and much liked. Have two or three soles filleted, stew the heads and bones in about half a pint of water, place the fillets of the soles as before directed in a flat cotelette-pan in about a wine-glass of this water, simmer two and a half minutes each side, the remainder of the water turn into sauce by putting two ounces of butter, a little cayenne and salt, and chopped parsley, thickening with arrowroot; add a tea-spoonful of eschallot vinegar, or the squeeze of half a lemon, pour over, and serve.FISH. 81 SALMON. Friecl slices ancl served hot with the mayonnaise. It is a very nice dish. See page 101. MATELOTE OF SALMON. Take two or three slices of salmon, lay them in a small kettle with a strainer, stew them very gently in a quart of veal gravy, a gill of Harvey’s sauce, for twenty minutes; lift out the strainer with the fish, pour off the gravy into a stewpan, return the strainer with the fish to keep warm, thicken the gravy with arrowroot, season it with pepper and salt, add a quarter of a pint of sherry, a gill of capers, a dozen of pickled gherkins cut in slices; pour the whole back again over the salmon. Let them simmer five minutes, and serve, to be eaten without delay. OYSTERS should be obtained direct from their bed. No- thing can be worse than stale oysters; and it is a strange fact that there is not a shop between Cheap- side and Hyde Park where you can depend upon getting an oyster fresh from Billingsgate; all the shops keep them more or less fresh. A penny-post letter the previous evening to Pym of the Poultry, will ensure your having on the following morning, per Parcel Deliver)’ Company, as many as you may order. GDINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 82 Sauce. Fried. OYSTER SAUCE. Place a pint basin before you on the table in your parlour or model kitchen; open the oyster, pour the liquor into a Dresden porcelain saucepan, cut off the fat part of the oyster whilst on the shell into the basin, then cut off the beard and horny substance into the saucepan into which you drained the liquor, and so proceed until you have opened six or eight dozen; put away the basin with the ovsters until wanted. Place the saucepan with the beards and liquor on the stove to simmer for a quarter of an hour, strain off the liquor, and let it stand until it has settled, then strain it into the porcelain saucepan you intend to make the sauce in; put in a quarter to half a pound of sweet fresh butter, a little cayenne pepper, and thicken with arrowroot; keep it warm, and just before you want to serve up the sauce, pour in the oysters to plump, but do not let them come to the boil; if it be liked, you can squeeze in half a lemon. FRIED OYSTERS. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, and as much flour as the butter will bind; add the liquor of the oysters and some cream, and let it simmer until it becomes a substance like custard, when the butter will return like oil, which skim off and put83 FISH. in the oysters (best natives), bearded; add a little more cream and cayenne to taste. Have some bread-crumbs ready nicely browned, with a little butter, salt, and pepper; put the fried oysters into them the very last thing, or the crumbs will get moist; to be eaten to perfection should be eaten without delay. RED MULLET. This is not only a scarce fish, but seldom to be obtained quite fresh. Whenever they are of a bright pink colour, with bright eyes, buy them; you will never get them what some people call cheap. The scales, gills, and the sand-bag, as the fishmongers call it, is all that is to be taken from them; if they are properly cooked they are better eaten in their own sauce, which is as follows: Put about two ounces of butter at the bottom of the dish, melt it, put some cayenne pepper and a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce; lay the fish in it, then cover the fish with small bits of butter, put them into the oven, and in half an hour they will be done, which you may know from the colour of their eyes. They will require no other sauce. The fish should be served in the dish in which they were cooked. MUSSEL SAUCE. Like the oyster, the mussel should be quite fresh. Send to Billingsgate for four quarts of84 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. POULTRY AND GAME. To choose. fresli large mussels, liave them washed and brushed clean, put them into a pan with some salt and water and fine oatmeal for a day or so, and they will fatten and cleanse themselves; when wanted, put them into a saucepan and on the fire, and when they open pour them into a pan, pick them one by one, take out the small piece of weed in each fish and put them aside; let the liquor settle, strain off as much as you want, put in a quarter of a pound of butter with a little pepper, and thicken with arrowroot, and just before you want it, put in the mussels to warm, but not to boil. This is a very nice sauce, and may be used wherever oyster sauce is required, or eaten with sippets of toasted bread. Make it a rule to deal with a first-rate poulterer; it is better to pay a little more than to buy cheap poultry, which are lean and generally the produce of robbery. There is a first-rate and the largest poulterer in England in Leadenhall-market, Mr. Henry D. Brooke; where you will not only have the pick of nearly the whole of the poultry sent to London, but you will get it at the market price; a penny-post letter the evening before you want either poultry or game will secure wliat you want. For cold chickens and poultry use salad, page 100, or mayonnaise, page 101.85 GAME AND POULTRY. LIST OF GAME AND POULTRY'. January and February.—Pheasants, partridges, hares, wild-ducks, pin-tail, widgeon, teal, wood- cocks, snipes,golden plover, larks (roast and boned), capercailzie, and ptarmigan. Turkeys boil, capons roast, poulards boil, fowls roast, chickens boil. March and April.—Goslings, ducklings, spring- chickens (boil), poulards and capons, pea-fowls, and guinea-fowls. May and June.—Ortelans, quails, turkey poults, spring fowls (roast and boil), poulards, goslings and ducklings, plovers’ eggs. July and August.—Spring fowls, geese and ducks, grouse, leverets, turkey poults. September and October.—Partridges, leverets, and grouse, black game, pheasants, capons, poulards, fowls, larks. November and December.—Large turkeys (roast and boil), capons, poulards, fowls (boil), game, pheasants. TWO CHICKENS FOR EIGHT PERSONS. Abandon the boil-fowl fashion, and order a pair Two of fowls to be sent without being trussed, and let cluckens the heads and necks be sent with them. Cut up one of the fowls into pieces, the leg and thigh into two pieces, each wing into two pieces, the back into three pieces, and the breast into two pieces,86 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Chickens. Chicken and mush- rooms. which, with the merry-thouglit, will be fourteen pieces. Take a Spanish onion,* cut it up small, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and a little cayenne and salt; let it stew gently for about an hour, until it is in a complete pulp; half an hour before you want it put in the fourteen pieces of chicken, let them stew half an hour, and when done, put into your silver dish a tea-spoonful of Spanish or French garlic vinegar, or, if that is not liked, the squeeze of half a lemon, and you will never again want to taste insipid boiled fowl. Mind, it requires no water; the fowl will be done in its own gravy. Cut the other fowl the same way, viz. fourteen pieces. Let the heads and necks be picked and scalded, stew them in half a pint of water, and when all the goodness is extracted strain off the liquor, put it into stewpan with a pint of button mushrooms, a little pepper and salt, and put in the fourteen pieces of fowl, stew them until done, about half an hour, thicken with a little arrowroot; when you dish them up, put into your silver dish a table- spoonful of mushroom catchup. These two fowls will be a variety, and requires only the effort of serving, and will be enough for eiy'ht or ten O' o o * When not to be got, any other onion may be substituted.GAME AND POULTRY. 87 persons, and each convive will want to taste each dish. Pigeons, when in season, cooked in the same manner, are equally good, and make a change— such a change that those who taste never forget it. Grouse and partridges treated the same way are better than roasted. A young turkey poult dressed in the same way is a very inviting dish. PHEASANT. A pheasant cut up as above and stewed in two ounces of butter, the oyster liquor of a couple of dozen oysters, with cayenne and salt, thickened with a spoonful of arrowroot, the oysters thrown in just before serving merely to plump them, is a very nice dish, and much better than roasted. Roast fowl, chickens, partridges, grouse, and pheasants, are twice the size and better if stuffed with two ounces of butter, salt, and cayenne to taste, and as many mushrooms as you can put in ; baste well, and set a toast under, and when done, serve on the toast. The French say : “To the uninitiated this bird is as a sealed book; eaten after it has been lulled but three days it is insipid and bad, neither so deli- cate as a pullet, nor so odoriferous as quail. Cooked at the right moment, the flesh is tender and the flavour sublime, partaking equally the qualities of Pheasant stewed. Pheasant stuffed with wood- cocks.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 88 poultry and game. The moment so necessary to be known and seized on, is when decomposition is about to take place. A trifling odour and a change in the colour of the breast are manifested, and great care must be taken not to pluck the bird till it is to be larded and cooked, as the contact of the air will completely neutralise the aroma, consisting of a subtle oil, to which hydrogen is fatal. The bird being larded, the first thing to do is to stuff it, which is effected in the following manner : Provide two woodcocks, bone and divide them into two portions, the one being the flesh, and the other trail, brains, and livers. You then take the flesh and make a forcemeat by chopping it up with some beef-marrow cooked by steam, a little rasped bacon, pepper, salt, fine herbs, and so much of the best truffles as will, with the above, quite fill the interior of the pheasant. You must take care to secure this forcemeat in such a manner that it shall not escape, which is sometimes sufficiently difficult if the bird is in an advanced state; however, it is possible to do so in divers ways, one of which is by fitting a crust of bread and attaching it with a bit of ribbon. Take a slice of bread one-third of an inch thick and two inches wider on each side than the bird when laid on it; then take the livers, brains, and the trail of the woodcocks, pound them up with two large truffles, an anchovy, a little rasped bacon, and as much of the finest fresh89 GAME AND POULTRY. butter as may seem necessary. Spread, then, this paste on the toast equally, and let the pheasant, prepared as above, be roasted over it in such a manner as that the toast may be saturated with the juices that drop during the operation of roasting. When that is done, serve the pheasant gracefully laid on its bed (the toast); garnish with Seville orange, and be tranquil as to the result.”—Les Classiqnes de la Table, p. 129. poultry.—(Made dishes.) Fricasseed fowl. Capon with rice. „ plain. Fowl stewed a la Ma- rengo. Fowl with tarragon. O Hashed fowl. White fricassee of poultry. Scollop of poultry. Poultry salad. Mayonnaise of poultry. Duck with olives. „ with peas. Stewed pigeons. „ with peas. GAME. Partridges. „ hashed. Larks. Thrush. Teal. Woodcock. ,, hashed Wild-duck. „ hashed. Plover. Ragout of hare. Fricasseed rabbit. Filet of chevreuil. Yol-au-vent financiere. Poultry. Made dishes.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 90 Vol-au-ventof ox-palate. Vol-au-vent of brains. „ with vege- „ of turbot, tables. LEGS OF TURKEY. Spread small slices of bacon at the bottom of a closely-covered stewpan, spread a chopped escliallot and a little pepper and salt thereon, together with a quarter of a pound of nicely-prepared truffles in slices, and put in the legs, and gently stew until done. Beef, &c., BEEF. MUTTON OR LAMB. to choose. Sirloin. Haunch. Ribs rolled. Saddle. Rump. Leg. Round. Loin. Aitchbone. Neck. Brisket. Shoulder. Rump-steaks: Chops—sweet herbs. To be cut when the Lamb’s fry—ditto. butcher comes to the part Lamb’s head—ditto. weighing three-quarters to a pound weight. For cook- ing, see page 97. Accompaniments. — Oyster sauce, mushrooms stewed, roast Spanish onions,LIST OF MEATS TO CHOOSE FROM. 91 VEAL. PORK. Loin. Leg. Breast. Loin. Neck. Neck. Knuckle. Chops. Fillet. Tomato sauce. Cutlets. Accompaniments for Calf’s head. cold joints: Liver and bacon. See salad, pages 100 and 101. Liver and sliced sweet- Beetroot. bread and bacon. Mayonnaise. Tomato sauce. beef.—(Made dishes.) Beef, plain. Sirloin braise. „ with sharp sauce. Plain beef-steak. „ with tomato sauce. Beef-steak with potatoes. „ with cabbage. „ with anchovy butter. „ with sourkrout. „ with cresses. ,, with olives. Fillet of beef stewed in „ a la mode. gravy. „ provincial. „ with mushrooms. „ broiled. „ with olives. Ox tongue with sharp ,, with Madeira wine. sauce. Ox palate fricasseed. „ with sour- „ Italian. krout. „ Lyonnaise. „ with vege- Tripe fricasseed. tables. „ Lyonnaise. Made dishes to choose.92 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Made dishes. MUTTON. Mutton-chops. „ with vegetables. „ with sorrel. „ with endive. „ with spinage. „ with peas. Breast with crumbs and gravy. „ with Frenchbeans „ with tomato sauce. Boast leg of mutton and gravy. „ with spinage. „ with endive. „ with sorrel. Boast leg of mutton and gravy. „ with French beans. Mutton fillet. „ maitre-d’hotel. „ with bread-crumbs. „ venison. “ with mushrooms. Sheep’s trotters fricas- seed. „ fried. „ with vinegar and oil. Kidneys roasted. ,, stewed. VEAL. Sweetbread with gravy. „ with spinage. „ with endive. „ financiere. „ with sorrel. Fricandeau with gravy. „ with sorrel. „ with endive. „ with spinage. Fricandeau with vea'eta- u bles. „ with French beans. ,, with tomato sauce. Veal-cutlet plain. „ with small herbs. „ in paper.93 BOILING SHOULD BE BANISHED. Veal-cutlet financiere. Cutlet with vegetables. „ Milanaise. Calf’s brains fricasseed. „ scolloped. „ fried. „ tongue with sharp sauce. „ with vegetables. „ liver fried. „ fried. „ with small onions. „ with mushrooms. Roasted veal in its jelly. Veal tendons fricasseed. with endive. with spinage. V with sorrel. with peas. Calf’ s head. liver and bacon. fricasseed. feet with oil and vinegar. „ fricasseed. Kidneys stewed in wine and mushrooms. BOILING. This word should be banished by every cook. In the process of boiling, a change takes place according to the heat that is applied to the meat; the juices mix with the water and solids dissolve, and thus the water, containing the goodness of the meat, usually finds its way into the sink. Recollect that the more the meat is subjected to a boiling tempe- rature the more it becomes indigestible. The meat should be put into cold water and carefully watched until it comes to a gentle sim- mer, the temperature should not be raised beyond a simmer, and twenty minutes for each pound will be the best guess of its being sufficiently cooked. Boiling.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 94 A leg of mutton. Observe : You may take it as a certain rale that whenever you smell the oclour of cookery it is a sign of bad cooking—the juices are evaporating in air. That homely joint, the leg of mutton, may, by adopting a French refinement, be turned into a dinner fitted for the highest enjoyment. Make a bed, at the bottom of your ham saucepan, composed of— Some slices of ham or bacon. Bones of anything broken. Slices of mutton or beef. (These two are mostly thrown into the hog-tub.) Four carrots, six onions (cut up). Three bay-leaves. Some thyme. Three cloves. A bunch of parsley. Some leeks. Celery. Salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. A small quantity of any gravy or soup that you may have by you. Simmer gently for about five and a half hours. Lift it from its bed, strain as much of the gravy as is requisite, free from fat, and pour over and serve; put away the bed in a clean pan, and the following day make a potage, of course taking away the fat.A USEFUL SAUCEPAN. 95 Sometimes intelligence is buried in a bole, or little known. There is a brazier, residing in Shoemaker- row, Doctors’ Commons, who has invented a double saucepan, the space between the two being filled with water, and the meat in the inner saucepan is cooked without water. A leg of mutton, and a pair of fowls, and a knuckle of ham, may all be cooked at one and the same time, and to the mo- ment, by your first ascertaining their weight and calculating the time that each would take to cook, and putting them in according to the time they would require, and you have the advantage of saving all the gravy that escapes in the cooking, which remains at the bottom of the strainer. This saucepan will also do for cooking a turbot or other fish, and if you go to the expense of having one made to the size of your fish strainer, it may be lifted out on to the dish without the fish being broken, and may be cooked with the same appear- ance as it had on the fishmonger’s slab. This saucepan is excellent either on the gas- stove, or hot-plate, or on board a yacht, or on a turf-fire in the Highlands; and in boiling you cook the joint according to its weight, giving twenty minutes for every pound of meat. ROASTING A HAUNCH OF VENISON. The present vicious mode of roasting is that the greater part of the succulent juices are evaporated A saucepan by which meat, fish, and poultry may be steamed.96 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. A haunch of venison. Ribs of beef. and confiscated to the dripping-pan. Abandon the spit and the expensive kitchen roasting. If you have not a gas stove, order a cylinder high and broad enough to roast a haunch of venison; this to be surrounded within by a ring with perforations, with a plug to which a flexible tube may be attached when wanted, and so led to any convenient spot in the kitchen, or even in the library. No smoke or smell will come from it if only sufficient heat be turned on. If the haunch weighs twenty-five pounds, give it twenty minutes for each pound; and so you may cook any joint or turkey, taking care to roast it according to its weight, and it will be done to the moment you require it. Your reward will be, at the very first incision of the carving-knife, an inundation of gravy; and in the pan will be all the clean dripping, which, if you eat pies or puddings, is superior to butter or lard, and under the dripping will be found a jelly that will be a great addition to any delicate dish that you may wish to add to. BEEF. The neatest and easiest to carve is the wine-rib, and the two adjoining, boned and rolled, will weigh about ten pounds; and, if properly roasted, they will contain sufficient gravy, but if more be thought de- sirable, look under the dripping of a former cooked joint, put the jelly into the Dresden pipkin, warmDUTCH METHOD OF TREATING ROAST BEEF. ‘J7 it, and add a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, and pour over. The Dutch have excellent beef, and they always treat it as follows: Put a few cloves and salt and a little pepper in the crevices and over the beef, then put a sheet of paper steeped in vinegar over it, turn it over and do the same on the other side, let it remain four days, turning it every day. In choosing beef, the small Scotch heifer, four or five-year-old beef, is the best. MUTTON. The Welsh, Scotch, and Southdown are the best, and four or five-year-old, when they are to be ob- tained. VEAL. The white, with plenty of fat, is the preferable. BEEF-STEAJK, Oil MUTTON OR FORK CHOPS, ETC. The best of all methods is to cook them by the reflected heat of a gas stove, seven minutes on each side; the whole of the gravy remains in the meat, which is nicely browned. If you have not the advantage of a gas stove, make up the fire half an hour before the steak is wanted; put on some small pieces of coke, which will clear and make a bright fire; heat the gridiron and place it on the fire in as slanting a position as you can, and the fat will run down the bars and so II Beef- steak to cook.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 98 Sweets. prevent it making a flare; put on tlie steaks and turn them frequently with the steak-tongs; he sure not to stick the fork into them. Of course they will he browned and cooked according to the heat of the fire, which cannot he timed as it would by the gas stove. On hoard a yacht they must he done by hanging a double gridiron before the fire. SWEETS, PASTRY, ETC. It is strange to think how many persons make themselves ill by the thoughtless way in which they eat. If they would only consider their stomach as sensitive as their palate, they never would put sweets on the top of a good dinner. They ferment, and that is the cause of the disagreeable sensation known to all that eat unwisely. Such persons would do well to compose a dish of a little pot age, a little fish, a little poultry, a little game, a little of the joint of meat, and some of the sweets, and some of the other things, and mash them all up to- gether with a quantity of wine, equal to what they drink; this would make a dish like what they put into their stomachs ; then let them consider the verdigris, the dirt, and the crock, and try to eat it, and if their palate rejects it, how can they expect their stomach should make such a meal of such stuff without grumbling. O C1 The Amphitryon that gives sweets with first-classA CAPITAL SAUCE FOR WILD FOWL. 99 wines destroys the credit that is due to himself, and unintentionally aids the hypocritical purveyor of sloe-juice, who, by deceit, diverts attention from his wickedness, and covers his criminality with sweetmeats. Omelette with rum. „ soufflee. „ with sugar. ,, with apples. „ with sweetmeats Apple fritters. Peach fritters. Apricot fritters. Charlotte of apples. „ Russe. Plum - pudding with brandy. SAUCE FOR WILD-DUCKS. Many men have received the honour of a baro- netcy for services of far less importance than the invention of the following sauce. If the inventor had received what he was entitled to, we might look for him in the peerage : One salt-spoon of salt. Half to three-quarters of cayenne. One dessert-spoon of lemon-juice. One „ pounded sugar. One „ catchup. Plum-puddingwithrum. Cream meringos. with preserves, with lemon, with orange- flower water, with coffee. Croquettes of rice. „ Madeira. Meringo jelly. Charlotte jelly. r> Sweets choose.100 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. Two dessert-spoons of Harvey’s sauce. Three „ port wine. To be well mixed, heated, and poured over the bird, it having been previously sliced, so that the sauce may mix with its own gravy. The duck must not be too much roasted, and must be put in the dish without anything. TOMATO SAUCE is excellent with pork-chops, roast goose, and tame ducks, especially if you add to it a glass of claret, some white pepper, and sugar. The following are pretty additions to either hot or cold meats or fish. SALAD, For Eight Persons, should be as fresh as can be got, and well picked and cleaned; and, the very last thing, well cut up and drained, and dried in a clean cloth, and not to be put to the mixture until it is to be put on the table: The yolks of four new-laid eggs, well beaten. Three table-spoons of fresli salad oil, poured in drop by drop whilst stirring. Two ditto of French vinegar, to be gently stirred in. One ditto of anchovy sauce, to be gently stirred in. A tea-spoonful of pounded sugar.ADJUNCTS FOR COLD OR HOT DINNERS. 101 Some cayenne pepper. A tea-spoonful of garlic, or tarragon vinegar. A couple of escliallots, chopped very fine. Four table-spoonfuls of cream. BEETROOT. A fine head to be boiled until tender, and when cold, a few minutes before wanted to be cut in slices, and pour over the following sauce: Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard with two table-spoonfuls of salad oil; when well mixed, add a table-spoonful of French vinegar, and, last of all, three or four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little salt to taste. MAYONNAISE. The yolk of two eggs, well beaten; let fall drop by drop of fresh Florence oil until you think suffi- cient, then let fall drop by drop of French vinegar until it is to your taste; add salt and pepper; take care always to turn the same way. MAYONNAISE (Spanish fashion). Three yolks of eggs, six table-spoonfuls of fresh Florence oil, two table-spoonfuls and a half of French vinegar; let these ingredients be mixed, one at a time, with care until they look like cream, then chop some parsley and two escliallots as fine as possible, and stir them into the mayonnaise.102 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. V egetables to choose. Eggs. VEGETABLES. Celery in gravy. Broad Leans. Salsifis in gravy. „ fried. „ with juice. Asparagus with plain butter. „ with oil. „ with green- peas. Artichokes with sauce. Cauliflowers with sauce. ,, au gratin. Green-peas with sugar. ,, with ham. White French beans. „ maitre-d’hotel. „ with oil. „ stew’ed in butter. Green French beans. u stewed in butter. Potatoes maitre-d’hotel. „ fried. „ Hollandaise. ,, stewed in but- ter. Spinage with gravy. „ with sugar. Maccaroni au gratin. „ Italienne. EGGS. E^ffs fried in tomato Omelette with fine herbs. Ou sauce. „ with ham. ,, poached. A PLAIN OMELETTE. Three eggs, yolks and whites, well beat up with a whisk, one salt-spoonful of salt, mustard, and half a one of pepper, two or three table-spoonfuls of cream or milk; beat all well up together, and fry on a slow fire in a hot frying-pan, in butter or refined lard; as-soon as the omelette is set it isDRINKS. 103 done; it should ho rolled up like a jam-roller be- fore serving. O OMELETTE AUX FINES HERBES. As above, with the addition of very finely- chopped parsley. All kinds of savoury meats, mushrooms, or any description of game, chopped very fine, may be mixed with the omelette, and then the omelette is a savoury one. DRINKS.—(Malt Liquor.) Many a man is paralysed by the water he drinks in his tea. Look to your cistern, to your pump, and to your well; the water in your cistern takes up the lead, your pump may be rotten, and your well may receive poisonous drainings. Look to this : many lives have been lost by this want of thought; every cistern should be thoroughly cleaned every three months. Everybody likes a glass of malt liquor if it be good. The beer brewed in Bavaria is the plea- santest and most agreeable to any I have ever tasted, and the next to it is the beer called Indian Pale Ale, brewed by John Muir and Sons, of the Can- nongate, Edinburgh, a brewery established up- wards of two hundred years, who pursue the same process of brewing as was used at that period; it is very far superior to the modern process. The Drinks.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 104 beers called Bass and Allsopp’s cannot stand by the side of it, and it has this advantage, that the per- sons afflicted with stone may drink it with pleasure —with impunity—although probably the water from their cistern or pump might be forbidden. It was analysed by the late Dr. Prout, who told the patient that he might drink it with impunity. If this beer can be obtained of the October brew, it is the best of any, especially if brewed on a cold, clear, blowing day. From November to June, malt liquor, if sound, may be drunk; but from June to November, unless the beer be sound, weak sound claret, or claret-and-water, is to be preferred. BOTTLING. All kinds of malt liquors and wines should be bottled in bright clear weather, because in cloudy weather damp adheres to the bottle, and if bottled in such weather the beer or wine will never be bright. PUNCH Is all the better for keeping. To make thirty gallons : Brandy, two gallons ; rum, five gallons; sugar, thirty-six pounds; the peel of a hundred lemons cut extremely thin; two bottles of curacoa. This will take about twenty-two gallons of water. CIDER-CUP. Two bottles of cider, two glasses of sherry, one of liquor.105 PRESERVATION OF FOOD. The juice of one lemon and half of the peel cut thin, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and the white of an egg beaten to a froth and poured over it. To be well iced. A COOLING DRINK. Dissolve six table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar in a tumbler of water, pour it into a large jug with a bottle of claret; stir it, and add one bottle of champagne and two of soda-water, and well ice. CHERRY BRANDY. One quart of brandy, one pound of morella cherries (cut off half the stalks), half-pound of white sugar-candy. TO BREW PALE ALE (A HUNDRED GALLONS). Nine or ten bushels of malt; twenty-three to twenty-seven pounds of Kentish hops; three pounds of camomile flowers simmered in a jar (put in the camomiles and hops at the same time). Boil the malt until the liquor begins to fine itself, and this is the time to add the camomiles and hops. PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Meat, poultry, game, and fish, never recover their flavour after they have been frozen, and the fish that have been slouced in water, or, as the10G DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. cheats call it, preserved in ice, is not worth cook- ing, and if eaten, frequently brings on dysentery. There is an idea that charcoal will preserve meat, poultry, and game; it is a mistake; it may keep it from smelling, but whilst it draws away the taint, it draws away its goodness. The only way really to preserve animal food is to keep it in as low a temperature as possible, and constantly wiped, so that no moisture attaches to it.* New-laid eggs may be preserved by packing them in jars with their pointed ends downwards; cork the jars as nearly air-tight as possible; chickens have been hatched after a period of four months from eggs so preserved. Your larder should be placed as much out of the influence of the sun as possible, where it will get a current of air through it. Meat may be perfectly sweet and wholesome, but if placed near a drain or cesspool, or in the neigh- bourhood of meat already tainted, or touched by a woman out of health, will in forty-eight hours be- come unfit for the human stomach. u Nothing taints sound lungs sooner than the breath of consumptive lungs.”—Ilarvey on Consumption. * If meat, poultry, or game should become a little tainted, wipe immediately. Take a piece of clean rag dipped in pyroligneous acid, rub it wherever it be so, afterwards wash in clean water, dry it, and roast the same day.AX IMPORTANT CURRY POWDER. 107 It is a great pull for a yaclitman to know that stows or soups may be preserved by warming up occasionally, and if there be a suspicion that they are likely to go sour, throw in a glass of brandy oc- casionally, and they will keep good to Gibraltar. MILK PRESERVING. Sometimes it happens that the milk, although fresh, goes sour in the course of a night; conse- quently, if at sea, there is none for breakfast. Obtain as many quart bottles as will last the voyage, let them be chemically clean, fill them with pure milk, put in as many lumps of loaf- sugar as will not make your tea too sweet, put the bottles into a cold caldron of water, and just as it comes to the boil, take out the bottles, and cork and put them away in as cool a place as the yacht will afford, with the corks downwards. INDIAN CURRY POWDER is mostly compounded by Jews, and of the worst materials, and when brought to England has lost its flavour and not worth using, and if much eaten will cause paralysis. The following is a genuine receipt; get it made up at Hanburys’, chemists, Plough-court, Lombard-street; desire them to put it into six or eight small bottles, so that you may not have to expose it too often to the atmosphere ; The yaclitman.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 108 keep it from the light, or it loses its colour and quality: Twelve ounces of turmeric. Four ounces of dry ginger. Four ounces of white pepper. Four ounces of coriander seed. One ounce and a half of cayenne. Two ounces of cardamom seed. Two ounces of cummin seed. One ounce of fenugreak seed. A SPANISH cook’s RECEIPT FOR BOILING A SPANISH HAM. Put the ham into cold water to soak from six- teen to eighteen hours; scrape and trim it well, putting into cold water to simmer. Add to the water a tea-cupful of vinegar, and a large tea- cupful of hrown sugar: simmer five hours. A pint of sherry wine put into the water instead of the vinegar greatly improves the flavour of the ham.CATECHISM TO BE LEARNED BY ALL. 109 CHAPTER X. CATECHISM FOR YOUNG LADIES, BEING THE WHOLE MYSTERY OF COOKING. Question.—If your mother was ill, wliat would be ordered by the doctor ? Answer.—Gruel, or broth. Question.—How would you make them ? Answer.—For gruel, I would take some fresh groats or oatmeal, and the required quantity I would mix in a basin, and pour the same into a perfectly clean saucepan, placing it oil to a clear fire, carefully stirring so that it should not burn or be smoked. When it came just to the boil, I would pour it into a basin and sweeten, adding a little nutmeg; if wine was ordered, I would add a little. As to broth, I would turn to the best cookery- book, or page 75 of this book, and make it ac- cording to the direction. Question.—Is it essential that a cook should know the multiplication and pence tables, as also the avoirdupois table ? Gruel and broth. Multiplica- tion, pence, and avoir- dupois tables.110 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. An egg. Potatoes. Answer.—It is as necessary as it is to the chemist to know them, although he weighs by an- other standard, viz. apothecary’s weight. Question.—Why are those tables necessary to the cook ? Answer.—Because all cooks weigh everything. Question.—Why do you say all cooks ? Answer.—Because the persons who season or flavour by saying a pinch of this, or a handful of that, and guesses at time, are not cooks. A joint of meat cannot be cooked unless its weight is first ascertained. Question.—Why not ? Answer.—Because a cook roasts or simmers by first ascertaining its weight, calculating the time it requires according to its weight. An egg cannot be boiled without calculating the time; that is, if you want the white albumen to be set, boil it three minutes; if to be soft, then only two and a half minutes. Question.—How do you cook potatoes ? Answer.—I should put them in cold water to soak a few hours, I would then take a saucepan that I had ascertained to be clean, by wiping it with a white napkin, and if not perfectly clean, I should return it and the napkin to the person whose duty it is to clean it, and I should make her wash the saucepan and napkin in soda, because if washed with soap, the flavour is imparted to everythingIll CATECHISM. touched by it, more especially if a napkin should be placed on the saucepan to absorb the steam when keeping the potatoes warm. The potatoes should be put on in cold water, and when they have boiled five minutes, pour out a pint of the water, and then pour in a pint of cold water; place them on the fire until done, strain them dry thoroughly, throw in some salt, and cover the po- tatoes over with a clean towel and place them on the hob or hot-plate until wanted. Question. — If the doctor ordered a boiled chicken, how would you produce it ? Answer.—I would have the neck and head picked and washed delicately clean. I would have the two feet washed, and I would simmer the whole in half a pint of water, and in that water I would simmer the chicken; it would take half an hour to cook it. I would then take out the chicken, put away the liquor, which would be a strong jelly, to be reduced and flavoured, and served as occasion might require. Question.—What sauce would you send with it? Answer.—I would turn to page 7G of this book, and make the melted butter there designated, and flavour with parsley, or a tea-spoonful of essence of celery. Question.—How much jelly can be obtained from the four feet of two chickens % Boiled chicken. The sauce. The legs of chicken.112 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. An ome- lette. Boiling. Roasting. Saucepans. Answer.—Half a pint. Question.—Are you sure of this ? Answer.—Yes; but the legs are now always thrown away, or wasted by being cooked with the fowl; I would stew them with the necks and heads, to give substance to the broth. Question.—If your sick mother should fancy an omelette, how would you make it ? Answer.—According to the direction at page 102 of this book. Question.—How would you boil a leg of mut- ton ? Answer.—I would not boil it, but simmer it ac- cording to the directions at page 94 of this book. Question.—How would you roast a joint of meat ? Answer.—I would roast according to the direc- o tions given at page 9G of this book. Question.—What is meant by the term che- mically clean ? Answer.—That the utensil in which heat is ap- plied in cookery should be free from all dirt, for if the saucepan is not properly tinned, and any acid should come in conjunction with the copper, the chemical result is poison, the effect of which is the feeling frequently experienced after dinner- parties, of sudden acute shooting pains through the system, and sometimes a feeling of nausea; there is also another poison known by cooks by the termCATECHISM. 113 of crock, which is an accumulation of scum and black grease on the sides of the saucepan, which is as injurious as verdigris, and which can only be avoided by constant washing with hot water and soda. Question.—Why do they thicken and colour soups ? Answer.—To disguise the colour produced by the want of skimming off the scum as it rises, and the dirty colour produced by the crock which accu- mulates and hardens on the sides of the saucepan every time it is used. Question.—If soup was chemically cooked, what would be its colour? Answer.—It would partake of the colour of the material from which it was made, but it would be as clear as jelly. Question.—When your mother was approaching to convalescence, most likely she would fancy a nice mutton-chop, how would you do it ? Answer.—I would have the first long-bone chop of the loin, neatly trimmed—it is the most delicate of the whole loin—which I would broil according to the directions at page 97 of this book. Question.—Why is the term boiling, as applied to meat, called spoiling ? Answer.—Because chemists are all agreed that to cook meat to perfection it should never be allowed to boil, but the temperature kept down to I Why are soups thickened? Mutton- chop broiling, The che- mistry of boiling.DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. 114 Soup—the tempera- ture in which it should he made. 205 to 210 deg. of heat. Meat is composed of hone, flesh, muscle, fat, skin, and other substances, all more or less volatile; a right understanding of this is necessary, because if meat is made to boil at a heat of 212 deg., it is indigestible, and the suc- culent juices evaporate. The limit of 205 to 210 deg. affords the most wholesome as well as palatable meat; twenty minutes to each pound will be re- quired at the temperature of 210 deg. The rapid boiling at 212 deg. throws off in the steam all the savoury and volatile goodness of the meat, which is wastefully dissipated in air, and may be dis- covered by the smell of the savoury emanations from the kitchens of persons who do not under- stand the art. Question.—How should soup be made ? Answer.—The meat should be put in a chemi- cally clean saucepan, in cold water, as nearly air- tight as possible, and simmered at a temperature of 205 to 210 deg.: if the meat is suffered to boil at 212 deg., all the volatile goodness escapes, and the soup is often rendered both empyrumatic and arn- moniacal. It is important that the soup should be carefully skimmed during its cookery. Question.—Why is skimming necessary ? Answer.—Because the scum gives a dirty colour to the soup, and renders it necessary to thicken or colour it to disguise the neglect. Question.—In what way would you proceedCATECHISM. 115 after you hacl extracted the goodness from the meat. Answer.—I would strain the whole through a colander into a clean white pan, and the following morning take off the fat. I would then spoon the clear tremulous jelly into another clean pan, leav- ing the fibrous settlement at the bottom; and when the soup was wanted, I would warm and flavour it with the essence of celery or any other desired flavour. None of the cooks of France, Italy, or Spain, ever thicken, or put heavy or indigestible soups on table. Question.—How would you roast a joint? Answer.—If I had a gas stove I would time it as if for boiling. If to roast before a fire, I would place it at twelve inches distance from the fire and bring it an inch nearer the fire every time I judged it necessary, and when the calculated time had arrived, I would bring it close to the fire until it became of a tempting brown colour, and the result would be that when brought to table there would be an inundation of gravy in the joint. When a joint has been hung some time a portion of gravy will fall into the dripping-pan ; I would strain off the fat, and to the gravy I would add a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, and pour it over the joint when serving. Question.—Is it true, as stated at page 31 of this book, that millions of children die in infancy Roasting— how to cal- culate the time.If the young lady’s mo- ther should •lie. How she would feed the baby until iifteen months old. 11G DINNEKS AND DINNLK-PAKTIES. from bad and insufficient food, by reason of the ignorance of mothers and nurses. Answer.—It is so believed, and the Registrar- General’s return of the mortality among infants is frightful, and supports the supposition. Question.—If your mother died, how would you feed the baby Answer.—If it was possible, I would have, twice a day, a pint of fresh-milked asses’ milk, and if that did not agree with the child’s stomach, I would add from one to three drops of pure old Hollands every time the baby was fed, but I would cease to do so when I found that the baby did not require the spirit. Question.—If asses’ milk was not to be got, what would you do ? Answer.—If in London, I would go to the dairy in Hyde Park and engage for a morning and evening supply from the same cow, to be sent in a can with a lock, one key to be kept by the dairy-woman and the other by myself. If I was in the country, I would make the same engagement with a country dairy. I would, on feeding the child, reduce the cow’s milk by adding one-third of scalding water and a lump of sugar. If the milk disagreed, I would add from one drop to three drops of pure Hollands, but I would stop the spirit the moment I observed that the baby was quiet and the milk agreed with it.117 CATECHISM. Question.—How long would, you continue to feed the child in that way ? Answer.—Until I thought a change of food de- sirable, or the child required further sustenance; I would then make some gruel as I have before de- scribed (for my mother), free from every particle of dirt. Question.—Why do you so often refer to dirt ? Answer.—Because, to a baby, dirt is the opiate of death, and if a child has been neglected in its food, it would almost be as well that it died in infancy; because, if a child survives dirty or badly- cooked food, it is sure to be afflicted in after life, and to this neglect most diseases may be attri- buted. Question.—How long would you feed the child on gruel? Answer.—I would act according to circum- stances. At alternate meals change the food accord- ing as the child seemed to enjoy its food. I would feed it on farinaceous food, such as arrow root, rusks, and biscuit-flower, obtained from a known good shop, such as Lemann’s. When the child began teething, nature dictates that something more is required. I would then cut from the juicy breast of a chicken, pieces in shape like a finger, and let the baby suck them; and after a time I would cut like kind of pieces from the juicy long-bone mutton- chop, and if the child enjoyed it, I would get four K118 DINNERS AND DINNER-PARTIES. to six chickens’ feet, stew them in half a pint of water, thicken with biscuit-powder or arrowroot. This variety would suffice until twelve months of age. I would then add the meat of juicy chicken or mutton-chop, cut very fine, with mealy potato. Few babies fed in this way would ever require the aid of a doctor. THE END. C. WHITING, BEAUFORT HOUSE, STRAND.■ .RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date JuNC 3bOlf Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Q ? A o\ C-C VHA, 1—vcj‘ • ■« c4 Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks