UNIVERSITY LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: 3 0106 01105 6065Ijugbes’s (fctnicaticnal Course. LESSONS ON COOKERY, dfov Iconic anti £cfjool &sr. BY BARBARA WALLACE GOTHARD, Organising Cookery Lecturer at the Cheltenham School of Cookery, and Lilerary Institute, Hull. Hantoon: HUGHES & CO., TUNS PASSAGE, PATERNOSTER SQUARE. 1878.UNI'M- • Lld*>: till 6014111PREFACE. Though primarily written for Teachers ancl Students of Cookery, this little manual will be found thoroughly adapted for ordinary domestic use. Under the head “ Artizan Cookery” are re- cipes suitable both for the cottage home and the tables of the middle classes. A course of twelve lessons on “ Upper-class Cookery," containing many original recipes, has also been added. B. W. G. Sholing, Hants, September, 1878.I LESSONS ON COOKERY. CHAPTER I. Lesson I. The cleanliness of the kitchen and of the apparatus used therein is truly the foundation of good cookery. It is therefore of the utmost consequence that students should open their course of training by acquiring an intimate knowledge of the various methods of cleaning the kitchen and its furnishings, not only theoretically, but practically if possible. To Clean Silver.—This metal is usually cleaned with plate- powder applied with a piece of soft cloth, flannel, or a brush. After being moistened with water or spirit, it is then rubbed with a clean cloth and polished with a leather. Paraffin has also been used. The method is to take a piece of soft rag, drop on to it 2 or 3 (not more) drops of this mineral oil, rub the metal lightly and quickly till all stains are removed, then rub with a clean cloth of soft texture, and polish with a leather. This is particularly valuable for cleaning silver not required for immediate use; as stores of spoons, forks, silver candle- sticks, &c. Paraffin acts like a varnish and preserves the silver from tarnishing. Copper and Brass are best cleaned by the use of paraffin applied with flannel to the surface, and the addition of a little bathbrick or rottenstone, if very much stained. After rubbing well, polish with a soft cloth and a leather. Steel.—Knives are cleaned by machinery or on a board either with knife-powder or bathbrick ; the latter is most general. Fenders, &c., with turpentine and bathbrick, thus : scrape some of the bathbrick into an old saucer or plate, moisten it with a little turpentine, apply with flannel to the steel, rubbing vigorously ; polish off with a soft cloth. In cases where steel has become very much rusted, brush over with paraffin once or twice, and rub with emery-paper; polish after as above described. Steel knives, dipped in paraffin and dried, may be kept from rusting by placing them in well-dried sawdust. B2 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Should the handles of forks or knives become loose, they can easily be mended by mixing half a teaspoonful of finely pow- dered bathbrick dust, with one teaspoonful of powdered resin : fill the aperture in the handle, heat the portion of the knife or fork which is to be put into the handle to a red heat by holding it in the fire (by means of tongs or nippers), then force it well into the handle, and leave it to cool. Iron.—Saucepans are cleaned with silver-sand and vinegar Wash out the saucepan thoroughly with hot water and soda, then take a table-spoonful of silver-sand, throw it into the pot add a few drops of vinegar sufficient to moisten the sand, take a piece of coarse flannel, scour the pot or saucepan well, rinse in clean warm water and wipe dry with a clean cloth. The inside of all saucepans maybe treated in the same manner. If they are very dirty, boil several hours with a strong solution of common washing soda, then scour as before directed. No- thing is so highly injurious to the cause of cookery as dirty pots and pans. If the saucepans are copper, and tin-lined, clean the inside as above, and the outside as directed under the head of Copper and Brass. Tin is cleaned with Spanish-white or whiting (/.<?., chalk pulverized after being freed from grit and stones), moistened with a little water, rubbed on the article with a piece of flannel-, and when dry polished with a soft cloth. Paraffin and brick- dust can also be used. Pewter is cleaned by putting the articles into a copper with sufficient water to cover them, i lb. of silver-sand to the gallon of water and ^lb of soda, then boil for half-an-hour (or longer if very dirty). They are then taken out, rinsed in two waters, wiped, and placed in front of the fire to dry. Or they can be cleaned by placing in a saucer some silver-sand, moisten it with oil of tartar, apply with a flannel or soft rag, polish with clean cloth. The first method is the best, safest and simplest, and the result is excellent. Eritannia Metal can be cleaned with either rottenstone pulverized and moistened with a little sweet oil or paraffin, or bathbrick and leather. (See “ Steel.”) Earthenware.—Put 2 drops Spirit of Salt,* into any earthen- ware lined saucepan (or other vessel), which may have become discoloured, add 1 tea-cupful of water, rinse the mixture well * Spirit of Salt is a poison, and must be carefully used, and the bottle plainly labelled and put out of juvenile reach.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 3 round, either with an old scrubbing-brush or what is termed a “Tickler" /.<?., about 2 doz. pieces of heather or fine round whale- bone or cahair-broom tied together, and used for cleaning sauce- pans. Spirit of Salt also removes the fur or scales formed on the inside of kettles. Half-a-pint is poured into the kettle and emptied through the spout into the drains, direct; care being taken not to inhale any of the vapour which arises. The kettle is rinsed out twice, filled and put on to boil, the water after boiling is poured away, and the kettle is fit for use. This is a far better plan than sending the kettle to be scaled at a tin-shop, as it is liable in the latter process to be damaged. In a scientific journal lately, a receipt was given for using dense petroleum for loosening the scale on boilers, water pipes, *&c., and would no doubt be useful for coppers or boilers where the water it not required for the preparation of food. One quart is sufficient for a 125-gall, boiler, and is introduced with water. It is “ boiled out,” rinsed with a flush of cold water, and the boiler is then fit for use. Glass.—Wash in cold water, wipe with a clean glass cloth, and polish. If the tumbler or glass dish is greasy, wash in lukewarm water with a little soda as large as a walnut, rinse in cold water, and wipe dry. Stands for table and centre dishes, with looking-glass or mirror reflectors, may be cleaned by putting gin on the surface, rubbing with a soft cloth till all stains and spots are removed, then shake over a little powdered blue, rub and polish with an old silk handkerchief or soft cloth. Sieves.—Brass wire sieves are highly objectionable, the steel wire are preferable; to clean either, have a large tub full of hot soft water with a little soda ; take a sieve-brush, or very clean scrubbing-brush, dip it into the hot water and rub a little soap over the surface ; dip the brush into silver sand, take the sieve in the left hand, dip it into the hot water; now scrub the wire network, particularly round the edges, working out any particles that may have lodged between the woodwork and the wirework. Rinse in the hot water from time to time. Finish by putting the sieve under the tap. Let the water play on both sides to carry away loose sand, &c. Give the sieve some sharp light taps on the edge of the stone sink, wipe and place near (not too near) to the fire to dry. Eair Sieves are washed as above; only the sand is omitted. Tammy, Silk, and Lawn Sieves, require brushes to be kept b 24 WESSONS ON COOKERY, purposely for cleaning them and used for nothing else. They are cleaned with soda and hot water only, and if soap is re- quired to loosen any extra matter or stains, it must first be boiled down and used in a liquid form ; viz., 2 oz. of yellow soap, cut into small pieces, and put into a clean saucepan with i qt. of water. Put over the fire, stir frequently until the soap is quite dissolved, then pour into the vessel in which it is intended to wash the sieve; add soda, and scrub. Finish at the tap as for Brass Sieves. Before closing this chapter, I would urge on all students the necessity of clean cooking vessels. It is an economy of time and fuel to have bright stewpans, saucepans, and pots; those who have studied the science of Heat will see the theories there expounded to us, are (or ought to be) put into practice in cookery. It is on the principle of the radiation of heat. Bright and well-polished saucepans are bad radiators of heat, i.e., they retain well the heat they gain from coming in contact with the fire, gas, &c.; water will boil more quickly in them, and it will keep hot a much longer time than in a dull black soot- covered saucepan which permits the heat to fly rapidly off, con- suming more fuel and occupying time in waiting for the boiling, which might be better occupied. The dull black is a good absorber of heat. The deduction to be drawn from these heat principles is, that the part coming in contact with the heat- giving power should be dull black, as the (outside) bottom of the saucepan, and sides and lid bright. Again, on the same principle, a cook should always see that the meat, entree, and other covers are very bright, as it will materially assist her to keep up her good reputation if her dishes are “piping hot” when sent to table. Another point I would draw attention to is the purchase of saucepans. Always purchase from reliable dealers and pay a fair price, especially for saucepans which are tinned, as the cheaper kinds are often made with an alloy of lead (with the tin) which, being soluble in certain liquids and combinations or liquids, produce highly dangerous cases of mineral poisoning. Should the tinned interior surface shew signs of wearing off the copper stewpans, have them at once sent to be re-tinned. It will cost but a trifle, but will save those who eat food prepared in it from the chances of cancer, or more direct symptoms of poisoning.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 5 Lesson II. To clean stoves: The first, simplest, and most general stove is the open grate. Its management and cleaning are simple operations. The great drawback to these open ranges or grates is the quantity of fuel they require to attain the degree of heat which is to be had from some of the close ranges with about half the supply. But as the open grates are to be found in houses, and tenants are not always inclined to put in new ranges, so the student must learn the best method of econo- mising with the apparatus at command. If the oven is not in constant use, on the days when it is not required to be heated I should advise that a “ coal saver,” made either of clay or iron, be used. The former is preferable. They are very cheap, and can be had from 6d. each at the retail shops. They save the coal, and retain a great heat for a long time, and assist very much in the processes of roasting and boiling. In cleaning the stove, see that the chimney is swept frequently, and before the fire is lighted every morning an old sweeping brush with a long handle ought to be used, as far as it will go up the chimney; the grate must be well brushed down, the ashes raked out, the “ coal saver ” adjusted or removed, as may be required for the day’s cooking. A little piece of paper should be placed on the top of the cinders which have been swept from the hearth, riddled, and returned to the grate as a foundation to laying the fire. Then some pieces of dry sticks should be laid crosswise, leaving spaces for the air to pass between, and surmounted by little pieces of bright, gasy coal put on carefully with the hand, not shovelled pell-mell out of a coalscuttle, forming a weight and mass of coal it is perfectly impossible for the combustion to struggle against, an action novices in fire making are very apt to indulge in. It is always the best economy to use good brushes and the best black lead. I prefer Nixey's, it gives a high polish with little or no dust. The Close Ranges are most popular. The range which seems to have gained most ground, and is most frequently met with in large kitchens, is the “ Leamington Kitchener.” Its management and cleaning are very simple, the only thing that requires any attention is the cleaning of the flues. It has the double advantage of having both an open and close range roaster. The flue-brush should be used every morning, and, after sweeping up all dust, and clearing out the grate, clean6 LESSONS ON COOKERY, with black-lead for the iron portions, use bathbrick and turpen- tine for the steel and brass portions. Give a high polish to the whole range, both for economy and appearance’ sake. For Cottage Cookery, I should strongly advise some of the American makes of close ranges; they are splendid heat- givers, coal-savers, and time-savers; almost any kind of fuel may be used in them, coal, coke, peat, or wood, and they do the work well, only the flues must be kept clean, and really, it is a matter that entails very little trouble, yet it is astonishing how often it is neglected. To clean them, attend first to the flues, next the grate and ash pan, lay the fire as directed for open grates, and polish well with black lead the whole of the range and flues which are in the room; by this means you will not only have the room warmed at a less expense for fuel, but will acquire for cooking purposes a greater amount of heat than from a dull black. I have had many trials of various makers of gas cooking stoves : the best I have tried and used as yet was a Birmingham maker’s. It was not lined with fire clay, was cheap, easily worked, easily cleaned, and would cook for eighteen people with the ordinary supply from a five-light meter, hardly affect- ing the house supply, at a rate of 8d. per day. To clean, well wash all the oven trays in soda and water, also the interior reflectors (if any), and polish the latter’pvith bathbrick, wash off any grease which may have been spilt on the hot plate, dry, light the gas a few minutes to evaporate all the moisture, then black lead and polish in the usual manner. Mineral Oil Stoves.—The best makes are Rippingille’s and H. Jurd’s. The former is exceedingly well suited to lady students, “ the Pet,” as it is called, being easily regulated and cleaned. To clean, trim the wicks, and take a piece of old flannel, rub the brass and tin work till all the stains are removed, polish with a leather. Paper makes an excellent medium for scouring purposes, and if a little powdered bath- brick is added, all the apparatus can be kept clean. Mr. Jurd, of Woolstone, has produced an excellent (cottagers) half- guinea stove, which has ovens and all, for cooking for a whole family. It is very easily cleaned, and cooks well. Spirit Lamps.—The brass work can be cleaned as directed in the first lesson. The sides and top of the kettle, saucepans, pots, and frying-pans, &c., must be kept very bright. These stoves, when kept clean, although a little more expensive inFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 7 the matter of oil, are very useful in kitchens to boil small quantities of water rapidly, when the fire is otherwise in use, or not lit. Lesson III.—To Scrub Wood. I should advise the Scotch method of scrubbing to be followed, whether for deal tables, dressers, or floors. It is first to carefully sweep the floor, or dust the table. Have two buckets, one of hot and another of cold water. Take the flannel, wash over the wood to be scrubbed with the warm water, in which dip the brush, put a little soap over the bristles, which dip in silver-sand, or white-sand, scrub till all spots are removed, letting the brush move to and fro in the direction of the grain of the wood. Wipe over with the flannel, dip the wiping cloth in the bucket of cold water, wring it dry, and finish by wiping the table as dry as possible. The effect of the sand is to render the wood a beautiful colour, far superior to that washed with soap and soda, which in time gives the wood a dark dirty hue. It is proper to use plenty of clean water for scrubbing; whenever the water begins to look dingy and dark, change it, rinsing the flannel in clean cold water before immersing it in the new supply of hot water. Wood should be scrubbed with a hair brush. Bricks and Stone require cocoanut fibre, or some harder description of brush than bristles. A separate flannel should be used, and warm water and soda for both, but in washing brick, it is usual to have a piece of soft brick, and after washing and scrubbing the hard brick, to rub the soft brick on just as in cleaning hearthstones women use pipeclay, rubbingstone, &c., smoothing it over afterwards with the flannel. Stone is simply well washed, scrubbed, and wiped dry. If -greasy, make a little fuller’s earth into a paste with boiling water; lay it on quickly after making, whilst it .is still hot; let it stay for 12 hours, or longer, wash off with very hot water and soda, scrub- bing the spot with a little sand. It is dangerous as well as slovenly, to permit grease stains to remain on a kitchen floor. If there is no fuller’s earth at hand when grease is spilt, at once have it wiped up and sand strewn over. To Clean Oil Cloth.—Wash well with warm water (not too hot) and a flannel, taking care not to make the oil cloth too wet, wipe with a drying cloth ; then polish with paraffin,8 LESSONS ON COOKERY. or milk, or a mixture of beeswax and turpentine, thus: Scrape i oz. beeswax into an earthen pot, cover the wax with half-a- pint of turpentine and place in a cool oven or near the fire on the hot-plate to melt. When melted, stir up well with a stick, apply to the oilcloth with a soft cloth, and polish. Paraffin is cheaper, but if an extra gloss is required, spermaceti may be used instead of beeswax ; it is cleaner, but more expensive. To Clean Paint.—Wash with a soft flannel, tepid water k and soap ; wipe with a soft cloth. The more rapidly paint is dried after washing, the better. Use no brush. Varnished Woods are best cleaned by being wiped with a cloth wrung out of warm water and dried immediately, and then polished with the following mixture : 2 oz. beeswax, suffi- cient turpentine to moisten it, £ of an ounce powdered resin, form into a paste, add a little Indian Red, mix well and apply with a woollen cloth, and polish with a soft duster. This makes a fair furniture polish also. Wicker-work baskets, &c., when unvarnished, maybe washed in warm water with soap and a hair scrubbing-brush, rinse in cold water and hang up in the sun or place near the fire to dry. General Rules for Preparing Vegetables previous to cooking. All green vegetables should be well washed in two or three waters and allowed to lie in salt and water for an hour or so before cooking, when they should be thoroughly looked over. A little vinegar added to the soaking water assists in detaching larvae from cabbage, etc. Potatoes should be washed and scrubbed before peeling, so ought turnips, artichokes, and other similar roots. The rule for paring potatoes and turnips is to take a thin peel off the former, a thick off the latter. Carrots are first scraped and then washed. All vegetables are put into water whilst waiting to be cooked, after being cleaned and cut. If for garnishes or clear soups carrots and turnips must not be put into the same water, as the coloring matter in the carrot would stain the turnip.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 9 CHAPTER II. Lesson IV.—Sanitary Hints. Hygiene of the Kitchen. The sanitary state of the kitchen is of the most vital conse- quence to all the dwellers in the house. Carelessly managed kitchens, either in the cottage or the palace, will be and are more conducive to the spread of fevers and other dire diseases than anything else. The kitchen may be a pattern of cleanli- ness and tic i less, but if the disposal of the garbage and the refuse liquids be not attended to properly there will be atoms of disease and death floating round in the midst of apparent health and order. It is a well-known fact that, judging from the Registrar’s returns, one death in every five that takes place in England is the consequence of neglect of the sanitary laws which ought to govern the working of our households. A very able sanitary writer, lamenting the many deaths on this account, urges strict cleanliness, for, he writes, there are not only deaths, “ But an enormous and incalculable amount of sickness resulting—not in actual death, but only in severe present pain, and but too probably life-long debility—arising from the simple fact that our homes are not sweet homes!” Firstly, it is the duty of the cook to see that all solid kitchen garbage should be burnt, put on the back of the fire, and the refuse liquids rendered harmless by adding twenty grains of per- chloride of iron to every gallon of liquid before pouring it down the drains. Cabbage.—The act of boiling greens or cabbage is generally pretty well-known in the neighbourhood where it is performed. There is an aroma which greets the olfactory nerves during the process, and for a long time after greens are boiled, which is anything but agreeable or healthy. To obviate this there are some simpie methods. The first is to drain the juice expressed from the cabbage, after boiling, back into the pot in which it was cooked, to use a steel wire sieve for the operation of straining the water off, to do it as quickly and thoroughly as possible, and then put the lid on the pot. After putting a few drops of the perchloride into the pot, let it remain until cold, then pour the water down the drain, and let a bucket of clean cold water follow. Water in which fish (salt or fresh) has been boiled, if not required for fish stock, ought to be treated in aLESSONS ON COOKERY, 10 similar manner. The outer and waste leaves of vegetables and cabbage and the stumps ought to be burnt at once, together with turnip peelings, carrot scrapings, fish or any small bones, and in fact all the waste refuse of the kitchen, unless fowls, rabbits, or pigs are kept. With regard to the pigs’ tub versus health, I would only assure the student that they are most un- healthy things to have in close proximity to a house, and ought never to be kept in towns. Pigs themselves are even worse, and unless the creatures can be kept clean, as at the late Prince Consort’s Model Farm at Windsor, and other properly managed farms, or get their freedom in woods and pastures, there is danger of the effluvia from their dwellings affecting the health of those living near them, and when they are dead of bringing upon those who partake of the pork thus reared the most dreadful diseases. Fresh Air is an absolute requisite in the kitchen, not alone on account of health, but on account of the absorbing qualities of many liquids and other substances used in cooking. Meat left in an over-heated room, with poisonous gases flying about, will soon become tainted and rapidly add to the discomfort and unhealthiness of the apartment. To keep the kitchen in a perfect state of ventilation there should be a continuous and gentle current of fresh air passing through, and where a kitchen is badly ventilated it ought to be at once obviated by the use of some such apparatus as Boyle’s air-pump ventilation. Ash-heaps and Dustbins ought to be kept solely for ashes and dust; never throw vegetable matter, bones, herring-heads, etc., into either; if there is no other way of disposing of them except by the way of the ash-heap or dust-bin, burn them first; this will secure the health of your own family and that of your neighbours. If you doubt the purity of the drains or the ash-heap use “ Sanitas,” which is a mixture of water and turpentine exposed to a current of air. It is a powerful dis- infectant, and is not poisonous or injurious to textile fabrics. It also contains hydrogen, peroxide and camphoric acid. I would also call attention to the fact that a great deal of bad air might be absorbed by means of giant sunflowers grown in the back yards and gardens. Gas, which would be easily drawn into the kitchen when strong fires are burning, will thus be dis- posed of at the cost of a few pence, whilst the seeds of the sun- flower will serve' to feed the poultry.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. I 1 CHAPTER III. Food from a General Point of View. We eat food to supply the constant waste of the body. In fact, we eat that we may live. The human body has been repre- sented as a wonderfully constructed living machine, having an internal fire which requires feeding. Should that fire be extin- guished, then the life or cause of motion and warmth ceases, and the body is dead. If we lift our arm, bend the head, eat, talk, or walk, all these actions tend to wear out the machine, and food, as well as keeping the furnace of the body supplied with fuel, also repairs this waste. Looking at the object of food from a general point of view, we see, then, that it ought to be so eaten that there shall be a due admixture ; in fact, such an admixture as will best supply the waste, feed the body, and help it to perform its proper functions without creating too much work for the internal organs. By this I do not mean to say people are to diet themselves in a ridiculous manner, eating perhaps three or four set articles of diet and no others, because they contain all the requisites for the support of the body. No, God would never have sent on this earth all the bounteous store of fruits, vegetables, &c., if they were not for our use; but we must study their use and not abuse His precious gifts. The study of food is one of the most important sciences; it involves other sciences in its study, it is a harmless and pure recreation, and a good and useful task. Lesson V. We find temperance in eating and drinking is an absolute necessity. It is true, that rich delicious foods are made to be used, but it is not true that the more one gets of them the better. It is not always that which tastes like nectar that is best suited to digestion. In selecting our food, we must pre- viously study the component parts of our bodies, and then the component parts of the various foods. We shall then arrive at two important facts, viz., (i) what is necessary to supply the waste of the body, and (2) what foods will best do this. Thus we are led to the study of chemistry in some little degree.LESSONS ON COOKERY, 12 Upon analysis of the human body, we find Water, Albumen. Fibrin, Phosphates of Lime, Carbon, Silica, Keratin, Ossein. Nitrogen, Iron, various Sulphates, &c. Let us now look at. say, one grain of Wheat, and see what food elements we find there for the body. We find Water, Albumen, Fibrin, Carbon, Dextrin, Starch, Cellulose and Phosphate amongst the mineral matter; in fact, all that constitutes flesh, fat, bone, nerve, and tissue-forming elements—/.<?., when the flour is not separated from the bran. If the Wheat be ground, and the processes of bolting and sifting resorted to, before it is used as a food, the consumer is robbed of its chief elements of nutrition. I have heard it mentioned by eminent physicians, that people who use only fine flour at an early age lose their teeth and hair, these two elements of our body being supplied by some of the mineral constituents in the bran. The bran of wheat is rich in fat and fibrin, whilst the principle called cercalin found therein is a powerful digestive agent. It is fashionable now, in all well- regulated families, to have on the table loaves made from whole meal, which meal is generally ground at home in the steel mills sold for the purpose, or the bread is bought from “the whole meal bread supply company.” It is one of the best fashions our aristocracy have yet introduced, and is a step towards the cure of thousands of cases of dyspepsia arising from eating improper and badly cooked food. The next im- portant study will be how to dress our food. Again: at different periods of our lives, different foods are requisite. No one would dream of giving a baby the food set down for the full-grown man, or even giving a heavy meal to an old man in the decline of life. In cookery, it is essential that the student should be made acquainted with these matters. For a baby, there is no food so proper to give as the food nature has provided. But it is not at all times possible to give the child this. Then science steps in, and by her aid we analyse the food we wish to give the little creature, and the cook and chemist, acting in consort, will supply the want. In prepar- ing cow’s milk, so that it may be used instead of the mother’s milk, the following additions will be required to render it a per- fect substitute :—b pint of cow’s milk, £ pint tepid water, which has been boiled or filtered, one teaspoonful of best brown sugar, one teaspoonful of lime-water—the latter prepared as follows : Take one pound of unslacked lime, put it into an earthen pan, pour upon it one pint of boiled water; let it rest on the lime13 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 24 hours ; stir up with a stick, and when the lime has subsided to the bottom of the pan, and the liquid is pure and clear, it is ready for draining off and bottling ; let none of the white sedi- ment enter the bottle, the refuse to be thrown on the ash- heap. A teaspoonful of lime-water costs nothing but the trouble, and is invaluable as an adjunct to milk given to infants and delicate persons. If this receipt were more widely known and used, it would save the lives of hundreds of poor little infants who are killed through the want of knowledge on the part of their mothers. All corn flour and white farinas are simply so many sources of starvation to children. It is the milk which is mixed with them that feeds them; and even that is not perfect, as chemistry shows us it requires the additions above mentioned. Whole wheaten meal and oatmeal, ground to a fine flour and well cooked with milk, water, and lime, in the proportions already given, would form a perfect food. Babies should never be over-fed. Give them proper food at proper stated times, and you will have strong, healthy children. The over-feeding system is greatly in vogue amongst many classes of society. They gorge the child till it becomes like a young bear, sleeps heavily after its food, becomes hot, restless, bad-tempered, cross, and unhealthy ; the mother instantly offers it more food, the child takes it, is sick and ill, and the mother wonders, blames its teeth, anything but her own injudicious feeding. She has given the machine too much to do, and most likely bad material to work with, such as sweetmeats, biscuits, &c.; and Dame Nature rebels, speaking as loudly as she can. If, therefore, we would have our children healthy, select pure nourishing food, well and simply cooked ; let the vessels the child feeds from be clean, and the air it breathes pure. Food, in boyhood or youth, ought to be rich in nitrogen, with plenty of fruits and vegetables. In healthy boys and girls, getting plenty of employment and exercise for mind and body, the digestion is, or ought to be, strong and rapid. Their meals ought to be most carefully selected and prepared, and given at regular intervals; say, breakfast at 8 a.m., wholesome oatmeal porridge and milk, or whole wheaten meal prepared with milk carefully boiled, or rather stewed. N.B.—These dishes should be pre- pared with salt, and eaten with plenty of milk. Oatmeal is rather over-heating to the blood, and if eaten with sugar, golden syrup, &c., it becomes more so, and is rendered nauseous,LESSONS ON COOKERY, 14 nature rebelling against the too great supply of fuel. This is why the Scotch and Irish peasantry use sour or butter-milk with the oatmeal: it is a corrective to its heat-giving powers. Dinner at 12. Very little meat, plenty of vegetable soups, vegetables, and light fruit and other puddings made with milk. Plenty of apples when they are in season. In fact, children ought never to be hindered from eating ripe apples, they, like oatmeal, being good brain-feeders, as well as famous articles of diet. Apples contain phosphorus, besides being rich in certain acids which are useful as blood purifiers and digestive agents. By way of beverage, pure water or an orange should be given, or even weak coffee, slightly sweetened and plenty of skim milk added. But it is not good to let children drink too much liquid with their dinner; it weakens the digestive powers. Tea at 4 p.m. Boiled milk and bread, or weak tea with plenty of milk and a little sugar, together with whole meal bread, and pure butter, household dripping, or stewed fruits; and for Supper, at 8, a slice of bread and a baked apple, or an orange, or any fresh fruit that may be in season, stewed or fresh. Full-grown people do not require such frequent or bountiful meals as growing youths. Three full meals a day are found sufficient for most people. A carefully well-selected breakfast at eight in the morning, dinner or lunch in the middle of the day, and another meal about seven in the evening, will tend to keep the body in good health, if there is a due attention paid, 1st, to the selection of food; 2nd, to the cooking; 3rd, to the manner of eating ; 4th, to the quantity eaten. For old age, the food should be well cooked, the quantity eaten small (in comparison to boyhood and manhood), but containing every element of nourishment, so prepared and so selected that it is easy of digestion, whilst it repairs the waste of the body as the digestive faculties grow weaker with each succeeding year. In this case, as in infancy, light nourishing foods are required, so cooked and so prepared that as much strengthening and nourishing matter may be given in as small a compass as possible. Cookery is, in fact, used for the purpose of beginning and aiding the process of digestion.15 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. CHAPTER IV. The Chemical Composition of Food will be our next study; but before we enter into that, there are a few technical terms and their meanings with which the student must be acquainted. Lesson VI. Nitrogenous foods are those foods which contain a gas called Nitrogen, derived from two Greek words: tiitron, signifying nitre, and gennao, meaning I produce. This gas constitutes a large proportion of the air we breathe, being inodorous, without colour or taste. It is by itself fatal to animal life, and yet it is necessary in conjunction with other compounds. We find it in most animal substances, also in vegetable matters, but it pre- dominates in the former—nitrogenous foods are flesh- forming foods. Albumen, a viscous fluid, having neither taste nor smell, being transparent until subjected to heat, when it becomes coagulated and white in colour. It is found in the serum and blood of most animals, in nerves, milk, seeds, vegetable sub- stances, and it constitutes the white of egg, which is pure albumen. Albumen contains nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, and soda, There is a large percentage of carbon found in albumen; oxygen ranks next for quantity, and then nitrogen, but all albuminoids are called nitrogenous foods. The albumen of an egg in chemistry is represented thus : C72 Hm Na N,s SO-, H, O. Fibrin, a substance found in both vegetable and animal matter. Derived from the Latin fibra, a fibre. The chemical constituents are similar to albumen, but the quantities differ. For instance, we find that, although carbon predominates, there is rather less than in albumen, whilst the balance is made up in a larger supply of oxygen. The blood fibrin is a solution. When a sheep is being bled in a slaughter-house, the blood begins to coagulate ; this is the fibrin. Solid fibrin may be illustrated by a beefsteak when the juices are extracted, or rather evaporated; it is found to be long elastic fibres. In colour it is white. Fibrin comes under the class of nitrogenous foods. Casein, another of the same class of foods, from the Latin caseus, cheese, consisting of about 51 per cent, carbon; it16 LESSONS ON COOKERY, closely resembles fibrin and albumen in its component parts. It is found in vegetable as well as animal matter. It is represented by the curd of cheese. Gluten, the viscid substance found in flour. In its composi- tion it somewhat approaches animal matter. It is highly nitrogenous. The husk of wheat contains a large quantity. Gelatine, an animal substance found in bones. It is soluble in hot water, and takes its name from being a solid when cold, viz., gelatio, a freezing. It is described thus : C3Hs03. The purest form of gelatine is isinglass prepared from the swimming-bladder of the sturgeon. Chondrin, a substance closely resembling gelatine, and ob- tained from cartilage. Keratin, a substance found in small quantities in the juices of animals, C4H9N30i!, H20. Osmazone, that portion of muscular fibre which we extract for beef teas, soups, &c. It is applied more particularly to the red juices. The word is derived from the Greek ostne, odour, zomos, broth. Ossein, the substance in bone from which gelatine is ob- tained. Phosphorus, a substance found in bone and useful in food for building up bone and tissue, as phosphate of lime found in milk, Phosphorus is brain-feeding, but a too great quantity constantly used or even inhaled produces disease of the lower jaw, as in the match factories. The antidote is animal char- coal. Sulphur. The substance which turns a silver spoon black when dipped into a boiled egg. It is this substance in food which renders egg and vegetables so obnoxious to health if they are allowed to become putrid or decayed. Chloride of Sodium, common salt, Na. Cl. Useful as a digestive and preservative agent in conjunction with food. Potash Salts, found in vegetable and animal foods, very necessary to health. Oxide of iron, a mixture of oxygen and iron, found in the blood and muscle of animals, and most vegetable foods. A small quantity of this is found in milk. Starch, the most common vegetable principle ; in fact, it is the chief heat-giving power used in human food. It is de- scribed in chemistry thus : Ci2H20O10. Carbon. This substance abounds both in animal andFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 17 vegetable matter, and is also found in minerals. The chief carbonaceous foods are fat, starch, and sugar. Dextrin, a kind of gum-like substance, having the same chemical composition as starch. It derived its name on account of its effect on the plane of polarisation. Ci2H;0Oio. Sucrose, pure sugar, C^H^Oh. Dextrose, a form of grape sugar or glucose, found in honey and sweet fruits; forms into hard crystals when dried. C6H1;06, H20. Laevulose, a form of grape sugar or glucose, found in honey and acid fruits, does not, like dextrose, crystallize on drying. CsfdnOg. Maltose, a third form of glucose, found in malt. Lactose, or milk-sugar, found in milk. Inosite, muscle sugar, found in brains of animals and in meats. Mannite, manna, sugar found in mannas, etc. Oleaginous is the name applied to foods containing oil. Stcarine, one of the four proximate principles of oils and fats, Cs.-HhqOj ; derived from the Greek stear, fat. Glycerine, from the Greek glukus, sweet. It consists of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. It is the principal basis of fat, C3Hs03. Margarine, like Stearine, is the 3rd proximate principle in fat, C51H9806; derived from the Greek margarites, a pearl. Oleine, the 4th of the proximate principles in fat, differs from Stearine, Glycerine and Margarine in being a combination of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen without water C^H^Oe. Derives its name from the Latin word, oleum, oil. It is the thin oily part of fat. Mucilage, a gum-like substance which can be extracted from marshmallow roots, quince, and linseeds, on steeping them in water. Pectin or pectose, from the Greek pektos, signifying a sort of solid, is a gum-like principle found in certain vegetables and fruits, such as currants, pears, apples, peaches, damsons, etc. Cellulose, the principle of which the cell-membrane of plants is composed of. It is nearly allied to starch and dextrin, CisH30Oi5. Chyme, a fluid formed by the mixing of the gastric juice with food which we have eaten. Chyle, the food after becoming chyme, undergoes a still further process of digestion by the addition of fluid substances, when it is converted into a white milky fluid containing the nutritious portions of the food. C18 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Lacieals, little vessels which act as conductors for the food into the blood. Lesson VII.—Meats. Beef.—To choose good beef see that the grain is open, that the lean is juicy and of a rich full red colour, the fat firm (not hard), and creamy in colour. It is best when not too fat, but with an admixture here and there of fat with the lean. The lean should be of good depth from the bone. It should be tender and elastic to the touch. Beef is more tender if hung for a few days after being killed before it is cooked. To render coarse tough meat tender steep it in vinegar for 20 minutes before cooking; vinegar softens the fibres and renders the toughest meat tender and delicate, whilst if it be properly wiped and dried the flavour is in no way impaired. If it is wished to keep a joint fresh during the hot summer and autumn days and to prevent its being attacked by flies, brush it over thoroughly with pure acetic acid and hang it up in a draught; before cooking wash the joint in lukewarm water, and wipe dry. This will keep meat fresh for many days in the hottest weather, and is no detriment to the joint. Dr. Zoller tells us that “ 2 drops (not more) of disulphide of carbon allowed to evaporate spon- taneously in a closed vessel of the ordinary temperature will keep meat, fruit, vegetables, and bread perfectly fresh for several weeks,” and that “ the articles submitted to this process acquire neither smell nor taste, the carbon disulphide evaporating entirely when the foods are exposed to the air. The vapour of carbon disulphide being very inflammable, ex- periments should be performed in the daytime.” Beef is not so digestible as mutton, but in the juice there is more strengthening and nourishing properties. The analysis of a piece of beefsteak proved that nearly -i of its weight was water, with which was mixed certain substances which formed the principal nutritious elements of the article. Thus in 100 parts of beef we find the following analysis :— Water • • • 77'5 Fat ... • • • 2-8 Phosphates... • • • 'i Fibrine • • • I2'4 Albumen ... • • • 4'3 Organic extract • • • 2-9 ioo* In cooking, the juices must be carefully preserved.19 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. Mutton,—To choose mutton, see that the grain is fine and close, that it is juicy and rich in colour.. The fat a dull white and firm. The lean should, like beef, be elastic to the touch, and feel tender. Southdown and Portland mutton are con- sidered the best table mutton. The bones are small, the flesh juicy and tender. The Portland mutton owes a great deal of its good qualities to the pasturage. There are great varieties of grass found in the Dorset and Portland sheep pastures, also large numbers of very tiny snails which the sheep eat in con- junction with the grass; this latter portion of sheep diet an eminent cultivator of Portland mutton avers is the chief reason of the delicacy of this particular breed. The following is the analysis of a mutton chop :— Water ... ... ... 41*2 Fat ... ... ... ... 25’i Ossein and Phosphates ... 14^2 Fibrine ... ... ... io-3 Albumen ... ... ... 2’i Other substances ... ... yi IOO‘ Lamb is not so digestible as more full-grown meats and re- quires more cooking. To select lamb the flesh should be juicy, firm, and much paler in colour than mutton, the bones delicate and fine, the fat firm and white. Lamb is often tested by observing the vein in the fore-quarter, which should be a bright blue. To test if it is fresh, pass a clean knife between the loin and the kidney; on smelling the blade any trace of taint will rapidly be discovered. Veal, like lamb, requires much cooking to render it digestible. The flesh of good veal is smooth, juicy, and of a red colour. Very white and puffy veal shows that the calf has undergone great torture and cruelty, and ought never to be purchased by humane people. Veal, like lamb, should be cooked whilst it is freshly killed; if stale, it quickly changes colour, feels clammy, and has a faint, sickly, unwholesome smell. Pork is a meat which ought to be purchased and used with the greatest caution. Trichina are present in a great deal of pork. It has been found that cooking hardly kills them, and if once taken into the body there is no cure for these detest-20 LESSONS ON COOKERY, able flesh parasites. Pork is not so nutritious as beef or mutton and requires a greater amount of cooking. Never buy pork with a dark, clammy skin. If it is used at all, it should be delicate, tender, and juicy, with not too great a proportion of fat, the rind thin, the fat firm and white. Ham and Bacon are closely allied to pork. It is a universal household resource, and the chief of dried and salted meats. The following analysis of a slice of bacon will give the student some idea of its component parts, taking the various per- centages as— Water • • • 24‘6 Fat, chiefly Oleine • • • 58-3 Fibrine • • • 7*2 Albumen • •• 2-8 Scllt ••• • •• • •• • • • 5'1 Other Matter • •• 2 "O IOO’O Poultry may be classed in this descriptive and analytical cata- logue of meats. Poultry dealers generally judge by the beak of the birds, the spur, legs, and breast bone. The lower por- tion of the beaks of game and poultry when young are soft and pliable, the spur hardly formed, the legs and comb smooth, the skin thin. The flesh cf fowls having black legs is, as a rule, whitest when cooked. Geese and ducks may be tested by the lower part of the bill being pliable, the feet smooth, bright in colour and limber, i.e., easily bent to and fro. An old turkey has rough scales on the legs, callosities on the soles of the feet, the claws strong and long. In the male bird, when young, the tuft on the breast is just sprouting, the wattles on the neck small, smooth feet, and bill tender. Turkeys are best braised. Lesson VIII.—Fish as a Flesh-producer. Fish ranks next to beef. The herring is very valuable as an article of nutriment. The idea that eels, herrings, and mackerel are not nutritious or suitable as flesh foods has had its day, and careful analysis proves the new theory correct, and the old ideas the remnant of an exploded theory. It has been shown in aFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 21 recent article in Blackwood's Magazine that herrings are richer in nitrogen than beef, also that “ fish-eaters are spare, sinewy, and strong, and free from those mountains of flesh and masses of blubber which characterise the prosperous beef-eater.” Per- haps this is not as elegantly expressed as it might have been, but it conveys a good deal of truth. There is not the slightest doubt of the highly nutritious character, the easy digestibility, and the immense value of fish above many kinds of flesh foods. The coarser kinds of fish are, fortunately for the poor, richer in nourishment than that which we fre- quently meet with at the tables of their richer brethren. Skate, conger eel, dabs, haddock, plaice, together with her- rings, are among the cheapest fish, but they are popular and good articles of diet. A recent analysis of a skate gave the following returns:— ater ... ... 64*3 Fat ... ... ... 27 Fibrine ... ... ... 19-1 Albumen ... ... ... 7.4 Gelatine and other matters... 6-5 100.0 Shellfish, such as crabs, crayfish, lobsters, whelks, mussels, &c., are very often indigestible. Unlike their cousin, the land snail, a clean-feeding creature, the sea Crustacea are coarse feeders, not over particular in the kind of diet they indulge in. Still they have been pronounced good brain-feeders by some scientific men, and until some new theory is started we are bound to believe them. Tinned lobsters are very good if fresh, but are rendered poisonous to some constitutions by being placed in the shop windows, and the sun’s rays allowed to pour upon them all day. It has been found that they thus generate bad gases, which, when taken into the system, produce sensations of poisoning. Lesson IX. Vegetable Foods now claim the attention of the student. The most highly nitrogenous vegetable foods are dried haricot beans, peas, oats, whole wheaten meal, barley, Indian corn, &c. The following table of the average comparative value of driedLESSONS ON COOKERY, 22 foods, compiled from my own recent analyses, may be found useful to the student: Component Parts. Beans Peas Oats Whole Wheat’ll Meal Barley Indian Corn Rice Nitrogenous Matter... 33’° 24'5 24-2 210 I4'6 68-4 9'5 If'O Carbonaceous Matter Mineral and other 4t>-o 5«'2 623 60-2 78-2 727 Matter 5’2 3‘2 5-i 10-4 4-2 4'3 i-5 Water 13-8 141 8-4 8-1 12-8 80 108 Total IOO'O IOO'O IOO'O IOO 0 IOO'O IOO'O IOO 0 These foods, if properly prepared and eaten with certain proportions of oils and fats, form excellent substitutes for meat. Dried vegetables are far less used by people of all classes than they ought to be; less meat and more of this vege- table diet ought to be introduced, not alone on account of the economy, but for health’s sake. In fact, the nitrogenous qualities of beans, peas, and oatmeal are far greater than those of meat, whilst the cost is widely different. Vegetables, such as the potato, parsnip, carrot, onion, cabbage, turnip, and marrow or gourd plants, are very useful, especially some of the first named. The potato is a valuable antiscorbutic. Since its introduction into England, and by the more constant use of vegetables, that dire disease, leprosy, has disappeared ; and, no doubt if they were more freely used now, many skin diseases and some kinds of consumption, which are but forms of scrofula on the lungs, would also gradually die out. Component Parts. Snow flake Potato Carrot, Long Red Parsnip Onion White Cabb'ge Turnip Marrow Albuminoids 8'6 4'3 68 4'2 2'4 i "4 I "2 Carbonaceous Matter Mineral and other 131 5° i°'S 8'S 6’3 20 24 Matter 3'3 i°'5 8-5 •5 7*1 •6 20 Water 75*o So'2 74'2 S6'8 84'2 96'o 94'4 Total IOO'O IOO'O IOO'O IOO'O IOO 0 IOO'O IOO'O Besides the vegetables in general use, there are many kinds of vegetable products which are almost neglected, or used only23 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. by the poor, which are not only nourishing, but excellent for the blood. For instance, nettle tops, turnip greens, wood sorrel, the broad-leaved sorrel, young birch leaves, the young leaves of the dock, and ribbon grass, etc., all forming dishes, when cooked, more or less nutritious, and most of them costing little except the trouble of gathering. Of fruits, berries, and nuts, as they belong to the vegetable kingdom, a short average analysis may prove interesting : Component Parts. Apple Orange Peach Pear Goose- berry Straw- berry Albumen Carbonaceous Matter Mineral and other Matter ... Acids Water ... ... 3'° 120 3-6 40 77'4 2-5 IIO 1-4 5'o Sot I‘2 9 0 3‘4 5-i Si-3 2-8 14T 4-0 ro 78t i-3 75 2‘0 5'2 84-0 • r4 0 I'2 2*0 50 91'3 Total 100 0 100 0 1000 1000 IOOO IOOO Component Parts. Figs Dates . Bananas Filberts Cocoa-nuts Albuminoids Carbonaceous Matter ... Mineral and other do.... Water 80 64-4 5'2 22*4 9'5 603 7-8 22'4 IOO 39’1 37 47'2 6'0 54'2 4 I 357 9'° 51-2 1'3 38-5 Total IOOO roo’o 100-0 IOOO IOOO It will be seen by these analyses of fruits that they are in- valuable in summer, as supplying liquid combined with nutri- ment. Lesson X. Having given the analysis, the next subject for study will be the proper seasons during which we find the most general meats, fish, poultry, fruits, and vegetables in our markets and gardens; and after having proceeded thus far, we will turn our attention to the practical work of the preparing the food for table.24 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Seasons for Meat, Fish, Poultry, Vegetables, &c. meats. Beef All the year round House Lamb, December to February Mutton do. do. Grass Lamb March to August round. In perfection May to Buck Venison ...July to September September Doe Venison...October to December Pork October to April FISH. Brill September to November Cod October to April Codlings December to January Carp October to J une Dory February to July Dabs December to May Eels October to April Flounders January to April Gurnet November to May Gudgeon ...September to December Herrings March to September Haddock All the year round Lamprey January to May Mackerel March to July Mullets January to September Plaice December to May Perch August to June Pike October to April Soles All the year round Skate November to March SHELL Crabs January to April Cray Fish ... January to December Cockles September to November Lobsters All the year round Sprats November to January Smelts October to May Sturgeon, all the year round. Feb- ruary to June in perfection Salmon, Scotch... January to August Do. Irish January to July Do. Severn...December to June Do. Tweed...February to Sept. Trout (Salmon), Perth...May to July Trout (Salmon), North Scotland... June to July Trout (Salmon), Tweed...January to June Turbot, all the year round. Best October to April Trout, River May to August Tench October to April Whitebait April to July Whiting All the year rcund FISH. Mussels September to April Oysters August to April Prawns January to July Shrimps All the year round POULTRY. Chickens All the year round Capons do. do. Ducks April to December Ducklings April to June Fowls All the year round Geese September to January Green Geese March to August Larks December to March Pigeons March to September Quails May to July Turkeys December to MarchFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 25 GAME, ETC. Blackcock October to December Duck (Wild), September to January Leverets March to September Grouse August to Febiuary Hare September to March Ortolans December to February Partridges September to March Pheasants October to March Babbits (tame) ...February to June Do. (wild) July to February Snipes November to January Teal September to February Widgeon September to February Woodcock...November to December VEGETABLES. Asparagus March to July Artichokes June to September Do. Jerusalem...Nov. to April Beetroot January to June Beans (French) June to August Do. (Scarlet runners) June to September Beans (Windsor) June to Sept. Brocoli October to April Brussels Sprouts November to February Cabbage All the year round Carrots do. do. Cardoons November to January Cauliflower March to July Celery September to June Cucumbers April to September Cress March to September Endive March to November Greens October to March Haricot Beans ...All the year round Leeks May to November Mushrooms All the year round Do (Field), Sept, to October Mustard (for Salads) March to Sept- Nettles March to May Onions All the year round Do. (Spring) ... March to Sept. Potatoes, New April to July Pumpkins August to March Do All the year round Parsnips October to March Peas April to September Do (Dried) ... All the year round Radishes March to September Spinach November to July Sorrel June to September Salsify July to August Scotch Kale November to April Sea Do February to October Salads (Lettuces) ... March to Sept. Shalots March to September Turnips May to July Do. Tops... February to April Truffles August to November Tomatoes August to October Vegetable Marrow ... June to Sept. Watercress March to December Herbs. Basil Burnet Bay Leaves Chervil Celery Leaves Elderflowers Garlic Fennel Marjoram Mint Parsley Peppermint Sage Savoury Tarragon Thyme HERBS. When in Season. May to September May to September All the year round. January to September .September to June ,M\iy to June .March to September... .March to August .May to September April to September.... .All the year round May to Septeml er .All the year round .... .May to August January to September .May to September When to Dry, August July J uly Winter Early Jnne September July July July July August September August August July26 LESSONS ON COOKERY, FRUITS, Apples All the year round Apricots June to September Barberries July to October Bilberries August to October Blackberries July to October Bananas October to February Cherries July to September Currants June to September Cranberries July to October Citron August to December Cocoa-nuts August to January Cob-nuts October to November Chestnuts October to December Damsons August to November Dewberries August to October Dates August to January Elderberries...August to September Figs All the year round Filberts August to November Gooseberries ... June to September Greengages July to September ETC. Grapes November to April Hazel Nuts All the year round Lemons...- October to May Limes May to January Melons July to September Medlars July to October Mulberries July to September Nectarines June to September Oranges October to June Pears June to October Peaches July to September Plums July to October Pine Apples September to July Prunes All the year round Raspberries July to August Rhubarb January to June Raisins All the year round Strawberries June to September Walnuts July to December Do. Green May to June CHAPTER V. Receipts for Practice Classes. Meats. Roasting.—Have a clear fire towards the front bars of the grate. Pull the coal forward on the top from the back to the front with a shovel; add all fresh fuel at the back of the fire, and when you poke the fire do so at the bottom of the grate. Brush the grate and hobs. Place the hastener before the fire, and get the jack in order. If you have no hastener spread a cloth over the backs of two or three chairs to keep in the heat and prevent the cold draught rushing directly on to the meat. The want of a jack may be supplied by a long nail driven into the mantelpiece, a number of threads of worsted twisted together, and a hook fastened at the bottom, with a - dripping-pan placed under. N.B.—Should you require to poke the fire whilst any meat is roasting, always turn theFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 27 hastener round, so that the dust does not fly up and rest on the meat, or the ashes and cinders fall into the dripping-pan. 1. Leg of Mutton, to Roast.—Place the leg on the table; ex- amine it to see there are no flyblows or tainted portions; wipe it carefully; with a sharp knife cut the sinews near the knuckle- bone, bend it round, to give the joint a plump and elegant appearance. Put in the dripping-pan Mb. good dripping, and when it has melted, hang the leg with the knuckle end on the hook, and pour some of the hot dripping over the joint. Now move it close to the fire for the first five minutes, so as to let the heat contract the outer cuticle and preserve the osma- zone. After that time, draw it away about ten or twelve inches (according to the strength of the fire), and let it roast a quarter of an hour for every lb., and a quarter of an hour over if the joint is under io lbs. It must be well and frequently basted—much of the goodness of the meat will be lost if this is not attended to. Gravy.—Take some stock (say l pint), put it into a clean saucepan, with a teaspoonful of Worcester or similar sauce, one or two cloves, a small shalot (poeled, but not cut up), and a bunch of sweet herbs; season with salt, and put h teaspoon- ful of caramel, if necessary, to make it a rich colour. Place the saucepan on the hot plate, where it can have a gentle moderate heat without boiling, to extract the flavour from the herbs. When the joint is sufficiently cooked, have ready a little frill of white note-paper; join it round the shank : lay the joint on a hot dish, with the shank and paper frill resting on the broad brim of the dish. Let the gravy just boil up, and strain it round, not over, the meat. 2: Sirloin of Beef, or Loin of Mutton.—Put the meat before the fire by hanging it on the hook; do not pour dripping over, as this part of the beast is usually found to possess an abundance of fat. Place it close to the fire at first, as in No. i, basting continually during the process of roasting. Allow half-an-hour over the quarter given for each lb. of meat. Prepare the gravy as in No. i, remem- bering to pour it round the meat when dishing up. Five minutes before taking the joint from the fire, dredge it lightly over with flour, taking care not to put a thick coating, but simply a slight dusting. 3. Breast of Mutton, a la Golliard.—Take a breast of mutton ; remove the outer skin from the fat, or score it as you would aLESSONS ON COOKERY, 28 leg of pork with a sharp knife; turn it over, and bone it by taking a knife and cutting the membrane which covers the bone, pass the knife down the back of the bone and slip the bone out. Now trim the breast; put the pieces of fat aside for rendering down, and put the bones into the stock-pot. Take four dried sage leaves, crumble them through a fine strainer. Take 2 oz. onion, peel, and chop into small pieces ; put them into a basin with a teaspoonful of salt, pour boiling water upon them, and let them stay in the water five minutes. Whilst the strong flavour is being extracted from the onions pass 3 oz. of bread-crumbs through a wire sieve ; mix with the sage; add pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste. Now strain off the water from the onions, wash them in cold water, strain, and mix with the rest of the stuffing. Spread this mixture evenly over the inside of the breast, then take the narrow end in your hand, roll it tightly up, secure it with twine and skew’ers, and roast for one hour. Sauce.—Pare and core 1 lb. apples, put into a saucepan with 1 gill of water, 1 oz. sugar, and \ teaspoonful grated nutmeg; boil till the apples are tender, pass through a wire sieve, and serve hot. Gravy.—When the meat is roasted lift it on to a clean dish. After removing the skewers, string, &c., have the following gravy ready, to pour round, not over, the meat:—Take 1 teaspoonful of flour, mix it with a little cold water till it is thick batter, and add to it r gill of boiling stock ; stir for a few minutes, flavour to taste with sauce, &c., andbrown w’ith a teaspoonful of caramel. 4. Shoulder of Mutton a la Gothard.—This is a dish fit for an epicure, and yet it is so wholesome, nourishing and economical, that it is very suitable to a family where there are growin°- children. Put into a basin £ lb. coarse Scotch oatmeal, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, ± tea spoonful of pepper, mix well, and pour over it £ of a pint (= 1 teacupful) of water. Whilst the oat- meal is absorbing the water, put the hastener to the fire, and see that all is in good order for roasting. Shred an onion very finely and chop it; also 2 tablespoonfuls of mutton suet; mix these with the oatmeal in the basin. Take the shoulder of mutton, examine it to see that it is quite fit for cooking, turn it with the outer skin next the table ; raise a flap of meat which you will find on the inside, pass the knife down between the silk-like membrane or skin, and, having loosened it, com- mence to stuff the joint. When the aperture is filled (do not29 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. put too much in, as the oatmeal will swell), hang it on the jack the reverse way to a leg of mutton, viz., with the knuckle downwards and the hook through the thin end of the blade. Now form the rest of the stuffing into little balls. It is very nice if an egg is mixed with it before making-up into the balls. Put | oz. of dripping into a little dripping-tin, place the balls in the tin and put it into the oven to bake ; about { of an hour (or more, according to the heat of the oven) before the joint is done. Serve on a separate dish from the joint. Gravy (as in No. 3).—Use corn flour (instead of households), which will give a clear gravy. For all gravies use nicely flavoured and properly prepared stock, as directed under the head “ Soups.” Never put salt over the joint or pour hot water over it, for that is not gravy, and only renders the meat, if properly cooked at first, flabby, poor in taste, and absolutely nauseous after such an operation. It is a sure sign of a bad method of cookery and domestic arrangement. Pork.—Pork will require to be well cooked if it is used at all as an article of diet; but it is the author of so much sickness, that, if such a thing were possible, it ought to be banished from every well-regulated household. We have only to read the articles in the medical journals to find the harm it is working amongst pork-eaters. 5. Loin of Pork.—Prepare the following stuffing:—2 oz. bread- crumbs, 1 oz. of boiled onions, i a teaspoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and 1 teaspoonful powdered sage leaves (fresh minced). Mix well together ; season highly with pepper and salt. Take the pork, and with a sharp knife score the rind in narrow, even, regular lines. Make an incision between the kidney fat of the pork, and fill with stuffing. Roast in the usual way, previously pouring some melted dripping over the scored skin, and giving half an-hour longer than other joints to ensure the meat being thoroughly cooked, and rendered as digestible as pork can ever be made. Gravy as in No. 3. Roast pork is usually eaten with apple sauce (No. 3). In Yorkshire it is eaten with boiled apple pudding or baked apple dumplings, either of which forms a most agreeable accompaniment, besides being very economical, and especially suited for children, whom it is not wise to over-feed with meat, especially pork. Receipts for Roasting Veal, Lamb, &c., will be found in Part II.LESSONS ON COOKERY, 3° Lesson XI. To-day we will take examples of boiling. Food, to be nutritious, must be juicy, tender, and easily digested. There are more failures in boiling meat, perhaps, than any other method of cooking; and simply because people do not care to study the science, if I may so term it, of cause and effect. Put meat into a saucepan with cold water, apply heat to it, and you will find the juice gradually drawn out into the water, instead of being retained in the meat; let the liquid in the saucepan boil fast for an hour or so, and then examine the meat. It will be hard and horny almost in texture, the result of too great a force of long-continued heat, which has hardened the albumen in the juices and rendered the fibrine a dense indi- gestible mass of animal matter. Now, to prepare food for table, whether it be “ Fish, flesh, or fowl,” remember the great object in view, and think of the chemical work your cookery is to begin, viz., the process of digestion, and assist it as much as possible. First, see that the pot in which you are to boil the meat is thoroughly bright and clean. Second, that the fire is clear, not heavy, dull or smoky. Fill tire pot |-full of water, put it on the fire, and let it come to the boil. Now, if that boiling water in the pot were to be spilt over your hand by accident, you would find that the pores of the skin contracted, the skin thick- ened, and the serum, a white juice of the body, would collect under it, having no means of escape; so if you plunge the meat into boiling water, a case of contracted skin is formed round it, preventing the escape of the juices, the most valuable portion of the meat. Having put the meat into the boiling water, let it boil up quickly for two or three minutes ; then draw the saucepan to one side and let it boil gently—not exactly simmer; a rather more forcible movement of the water is required, allowing the same time per lb. for butcher’s meat as for roasting, i.e., i- hour to the lb., a quarter over where the joint is under io lbs. A superior method of treating meat to that of boiling, is by the use of Capt. Warren’s patent cooking-pot, which anyone who is possessed of any intelligence can use, although it is often put on one side and mismanaged by careless, idle, or ignorant people who try it. Leg of Afutton.—Cut the joint as for roasting, bending the knuckle round. Tie it up in a clean cloth, which has been well rinsed in cold water, to insure the absence of soap suds and31 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. soda, and dried again. Put an old plate at the bottom of the saucepan or pot to prevent the cloth burning, if you have not a perforated tray. Put into the water half a lemon or one table- spoonful of vinegar, if you think the fibre of the meat is likely to be tough. As soon as it boils, put in the meat, finish as directed above; when it is sufficiently cooked lift it out, and put on a clean hot dish, and have ready a little clear well-flavoured strong stock; pour round and garnish with turnips, boiled and mashed, the water thoroughly expressed,and the turnips seasoned. A little bit of butter added, and the whole warmed up in a saucepan, fill a buttered cup with the turnip; turn the little mould thus formed out on the dish, making similar moulds until the dish is properly decorated; a little speck of finely chop- ped parsley laid on the top of each little shape, which is round the meat, makes a neat finish. Caper Sauce is the usual accompaniment to this dish. Prepare a melted butter by putting into a saucepan two ounces of butter; let it melt by placing the saucepan over the fire for a few seconds ; it must not boil or froth up. When the butter is melted bring the saucepan to the table, rest it on a pot- stand, and stir in gradually one ounce and a half of fine flour; add a large cupful of milk at the rate of a teaspoonful at a time, carefully working it so that it does not become lumpy. When you have made it to the consistency of a Yorkshire pudding batter, pour in the rest of the milk; put the saucepan over a clear fire, stir rapidly and evenly over the surface of the bottom of the pan until the mixture thickens, add one table- spoonful of cream, if you have it to spare—it makes the sauce whiter; let it boil for three or four minutes to cook the flour; have ready a dessertspoonful of finely chopped capers, stir them in together with a dessertspoonful of white vinegar, add a little salt, and serve in a hot tureen. A cheaper sauce can be made by using half the quantity of butter, mixing the milk with water, and using pickled nasturtiums instead of capers. Fish. Cod's Head and Shoulders.—Put sufficient water in the fish-kettle to cover the fish well which you intend to boil, and keep the perforated tray out until the water boils. Put in 1 tablespoonful of salt, and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar; this will harden the albumen in the fish. Place the fish on the tray and drop the whole into the kettle of boiling water; let it32 LESSONS ON COOKERY, boil up again rapidly for a minute, skim it well and then draw the pan and let it simmer (not boil) slowly for 20 or 30 minutes. You will easily see when it is sufficiently cooked, as the flesh of the fish leaves the bones easily, or the fin-bones pull out with out dfficulty. When this is the case, lift the kettle off the fire and place it quite away from it on the floor on a pot-board, and let the fish rest in the water three minutes after it is cooked. It will then be quite firm and have no tendency to fall to pieces. In boiling all kinds of fish, this rule ought always to be observed, viz:—Never to attempt to lift fish from the water for three minutes after it has ceased boiling. Sauce.—Make a melted butter as page 3 x. Take 1 doz. tinned oysters (Crosse and Blackwell’s), warm them in a little of the liquor from the tin, season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and just about three drops of lemon-juice; when these are warm, stir into the melted butter, and serve in a hot tureen. Garnish for Fish Lemon.—Cut in thin slices, halved, and then almost quartered, and half a pickled walnut laid between the two quarters. Plain boiled fish should always be sent to table on a clean hot napkin. Lesson XII. Baking.—Many a good joint is spoilt by being put into a cool oven when it ought to have been kept out a few minutes longer, and the oven allowed to get properly hot. Putting % meat into a half-warm oven causes it to be flabby, tasteless, dry and insipid; there is no crispness about it, and the juices, which ought to have been found in the meat, are found in the dripping-tin. It is invariably the sign of bad cookery when any of the juices of the meat are allowed to escape. The dripping-tin, too, ought to be large enough to contain and receive all the fat likely to exude from the meat in the process of baking. If the fat runs over, or drops from the meat on to the oven-shelf, the consequence is that it burns, and the smell of the burning grease is not only disagreeable in the house, but it is absorbed by the meat and the dripping, and imparts to them a flavour which is far from agreeable. Let the oven be very hot, and then place the meat in it; about three minutes after it has been in, push in the dampers, so as to moderate the heat, and let it bake more slowly. Baked Silver side of Beef.—Prepare the following stuffing: Put into a basin 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. suet, a little lemonFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 33 rind (chop the two latter very finely), 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful each of thyme, marjoram, and chives (or shalot). Mix well with the bread crumbs, S:c.; break an egg into the basin, strew over the contents a little pepper, salt, and cayenne; mix all together, take out the bone carefully and put it aside for the stock-pot; fill the place where you have cut it out with stuffing, skewer it over, wind twine or tape round it to keep the meat in a good shape; now put the meat on a stand so that it may not touch the dripping, but remain above it; so that the hot air may reach every portion of the meat and produce the delicious crispness so much appreciated in properly baked meat. Meat sodden in the fat, or even in water which is sometimes introduced into the dripping-tins to make gravy (?) is very unpleasant to eat. Gravy.—Thick gravy may be served in a tureen, not on a dish, as in No. 3 (Lesson 9, on Roasting). Yorkshire Pudding is the usual accompaniment to baked beef. Take 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs ; drop the eggs into the basin with the flour ; mix a little, add the milk by degrees, beating the pudding up well, for on the light and thorough beating depends the success of the pudding. Grease the baking-tin, put about two tablespoonfuls of dripping from the meat into the tin, and put it into the oven to get thoroughly hot, then pour in the batter mixture. It will be ready in about a quarter of an hour. On Stock-making and Soups.—We will now take a general practical lesson. Stock, as I told you before, is the foundation of all soups and gravies. All liquor in which meat is boiled should be put into the stock-pot; Papin’s Digester, as a stock- pot, is one of the most useful purchases a housewife can make, also a bone-crushing machine. All bones that come into the house, whether butcher’s meat, ham, or fowl, should be crushed or broken with a hammer and put into the stock-pot, and boiled, or stewed rather, from morning till night, when it should be strained off, and the pot filled with cold water, and scoured out next day, before putting the stock back or making fresh. If the stock is permitted to remain in the pot all night, with the lid on, it will turn sour, and, even if the lid is off, it will acquire a taste of metal anything but pleasant. On putting the liquor, from meat, with any bones, spare pieces of meat, &c., into the stock-pot, fill it up with water. Peel a turnip, scrape and34 LESSONS ON COOKERY, wash a carrot, a small piece of the outer stalks of celery (or dried celery leaves or seed), and a bunch of sweet herbs (thyme, parsley, marjoram, or bay-leaves). Let the water come slowly to the boil, skim carefully, and, when it is just on the point of boiling, add i teaspoonful of salt, which will assist the scum to rise, clear it all off, and then put in the vegetables and spices, such as whole pepper, &c. Fasten the lid on the Digester, looking at the soup every couple of hours or more, and taking off the fat. Any kind of wholesome every-day soup may be made from such stock, also good gravies. For the more expen- sive stock, see under the head “Soups,” in High Class Cookery. Remember that in this process the very opposite results are required when boiling meat for table : the juices of meat are required to be extracted. There are also vegetable soups, such as— Potatoe Soup.—Peel and chop about 3 oz. of onion, peel 1 lb. of potatoes, slice them, put them (the potatoes) into a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of salt, and let them come to the boil, and then pour away all the water. Take 1 quart of stock, put it into a clean saucepan, with the onions and potatoes, add pepper and salt, stir frequently and let it boil about half an hour; pass through a wire sieve into a clean basin, and put into the saucepan again to keep warm on the hob till the mo- ment it is required for dinner; pour into a hot tureen and serve. Stewing.—This method of cooking meat requires careful preparation and plenty of time to cook. Stewed Rabbit.—Cut up the rabbit, after it has been properly cleaned, into nice joints; wipe them, dredge them over with flour, and fry in boiling dripping; place each joint, when it is nicely browned, on kitchen paper, so that any dripping may be absorbed; take a slice of turnip, fry it, also 3 or 4 slices of onion, and a carrot; when all the vegetables are nicely browned, drain them on the paper. Take a clean stewpan, put in the fried vegetables, a slice of lean ham, and then the rabbit, cover it well with stock, add 3 cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small portion of lemon-rind, 6 whole peppers, and salt to taste. Let it stew slowly by the side of the fire, with the lid on, for four hours ; if the stock evaporate, add more. Place the rabbit on a hot dish, pass the gravy, and rub the vegetables through a hair sieve; if it is too thick, add a little more stock ; pour this round the pieces of rabbit; garnish with croutons or toasted bread. The former are more elegant. Cut the bread into half moonsFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 35 (crescents) with a round, fluted cutter, fry them in the dripping before you fry the meat, and put them on one side till you begin to dish up. A properly stewed rabbit, and properly stewed meat, requires no artificial colouring or flavour from sauces. Lesson XIII. Broiling—Must be done over a clear fire. The gridiron ought to be kept scrupulously clean, and never put away dirty; a silver gridiron is considered the best, but it can only be had in the houses of the rich, in first-class hotels, and restaurants. Take the gridiron, place it over the fire to heat a little, rub the bars over with suet or a buttered paper, and place the meat on the grid; turn it every two or three minutes, so that none of the red juices escape. The process is simple, but it requires care and attention, together with the exercise of a little common sense. For instance, the grid should be put rather slantingly over the fire, so that the fat from the chops, or other meat, may not fall into the fire, and thus create, not only a smell of burning grease in the house, but make a flame rise which will cause the outside of the meat to have a charred, blackened appearance, and to taste of cinders and grease. Again, in broiling fish, such as Red Mullet, it is usual to wrap them in buttered paper, and to slightly chalk the bars of the grid. Never turn or liftrany meat which is cooking, especially when broiling or grilling, by sticking a fork into it; use a skewer, and, if it must be pierced, let it be inserted in the fat portion of the meat, and there will be then no great waste of nutriment. To Broil a Steak.—Take a steak which has been cut and hung up two or three days—if it is summer weather, and it has been brushed over with acetic acid to keep off the flies, wash it in warm water—wipe it dry, put it into a soup plate or dish, and cover it with salad oil. Let it remain in this about twenty minutes (or longer), then sprinkle a little pepper over, and broil as above directed, heating the gridiron, &c. A broiled steak requires no gravy; if properly managed, it will be full of delicious gravy, which will pour out as it is cut. When dishing sprinkle a tiny quantiny of salt o\er the meat, serve at once on a hot plate, and have ready fried potatoes,—dressed thus—peel the potatoes, cut them into small strips, or rings, or like new potatoes, but of an uniform size and thickness; put them on in a pan with cold water and plenty of salt, let them just come D 236 LESSONS ON COOKERY, to the boil, pour off the water, separate them out on a sieve to dry. Just before dishing the steak, have on the fire a frying- kettle, with boiling fat; put the potatoes in a wire frying-basket, plunge them into the boiling fat, let them become a golden brown (not too deep a colour), throw them on kitchen-paper, sprinkle salt over, and serve with the broiled steak as soon as possible. Frying.—It is a subject which, a few years ago, svas very , little understood, but the art is reviving amongst the people, and we have fried-fish shops in London and the provinces, where the poor man can, for a halfpenny, obtain a little piece of fried fish as well cooked as in any Ger- man, French, or American town, and infinitely superior to the fried fish one often meets with in houses which boast of a “ Good plain Cook.” In frying fish, or similarly cooking any article of diet, it is proper to use a frying-kettle, which is nothing more nor less than a large deep stewpan, oval or round, as the case may be, and according to the requirements of the family. For all general purposes an eight-inch wide stew-pan, at a cost of 2s. 6d., is sufficient, and a wire frying-basket to match, at is. 3d. ; the meshes not being too fine, or the wire too heavy and coarse. Into the frying-kettle is put about 2 lbs. of good dripping (bought lard should be avoided), which is suitable for all ordinary purposes. Oil may be used where it is preferred ; indeed, food cooked in oil is most wholesome, has a finer flavour, and is more crisp. Oil can attain greater degree of heat without burning than any other known fat, therefore it can be made hotter before the article to be cooked is placed in it. To Fry Fish.—Floimders.—Choose nice fresh, bright-look- ing fish. Wash and wipe them dry, dredge them with flour, dip in egg, and then toss in bread-crumbs. When the fat in the kettle is boiling, then place the fish in the basket, plunge it into the fat (or oil), and when the outside is a nice golden brown the fish will be ready. Drain it on kitchen paper and sprinkle with a little salt. The proper garnish to fried fish is fried parsley. It is simply ignorance, or, worse still, slovenliness when cooks do not fry the parsley, but dress fried fish, cutlets, rissols, &c., with uncooked parsley. To Fry Parsley. — Choose a few sprigs of well-curled, full- looking parsley. Put into a small saucepan some hot water, and a piece of soda as large as a hazel-nut; let it come to the boil, dip the parsley in for a second or two, take it out, dry it,FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 37 take off the long hard stalks and place in the frying-basket; plunge into boiling fat, holding the basket at arm’s length, as the moisture in the parsley will cause the fat to splutter. Let it remain for three or four seconds; feel if it is crisp—if not, put it back again for a short time ; then drain on kitchen-paper, and garnish the fish according to taste. Slices of lemon are a nice finish to fish-garnish, and are often very much liked as a relish by those who partake of fish at table. Braising and Larding go hand in hand. Most dishes that are braised are previously larded, so our example will be— Larded Capon.—Choose a good capon. Draw it in the ordinary manner, but before trussing, cut some slices of bacon into thin slices, and again into strips, which are a very little smaller in size than the end of the larding-needle. Then begin at the neck of the capon, and lard in regular, neat, alternate rows down the breast, /.<?., beginning the second row between the stitches of larding, and the third row on a level with the first; the fourth on a level with the second, and so on. When larded, stuff with sausage meat or lemon stuffing, truss, and put it into a braising-pan on the following vegetables : i small turnip peeled and cut into slices, i carrot scraped and sliced, half a leek (the white portion), a bunch of sweet herbs, 6 cloves, 6 whole peppers, and a blade of mace. Lay the capon on these, butter a piece of kitchen-paper cut round the size of the pan, and lay over the capon. Put sufficient stock in the pan to reach to the paper; put it over the fire and let it stew slowly for about one hour, then place hot coals on the top lid of the braising-pan, first removing the paper, until the surface is completely browned. Remove the capon on to a clean dish, reduce the gravy, melt some gelatine and mix with the gravy; boil to a glaze, and pour over the whole capon, so- that '“very portion is covered with the glaze. Garnish with friedpotatoe ribbons.—Cut a large round potatoe into three. After it has been washed and dried, peel the centre slice, and cut the ribbons off in very thin peels, going round and round the slice till you get a nice long ribbon, place them in water, and salt as you cut them, so that they may preserve the colour. Dry them carefully with a towel, tie into knots or form into long ties, put into the frying-basket, plunge into boiling fat, and fry a light golden brown. When properly cooked they should be crisp. Drain them on kitchen-paper, sprinkle over with salt, and use by placing round the dish. f vf•«%/c pc *! "3* LESSONS ON COOKERY, ARTIZAN COOKERY. The student, having seen the foregoing methods of cooking, must now follow practically through a class of artizan cookery, which is nothing more nor less than the A B C of cookery. The first thing we require are cooking utensils of the simplest, cheapest character, such as you would find in the working- man’s house, and of such a price that, if not actually to be found there, might be introduced at a moderate cost. I would say a word to landlords: if you are providing stoves, it is cheaper in every way to procure a'stove which will wear well, and keep the tenants or your work-people in good health, by as- sisting them to cook well. The Excelsior Stove (No. 112) made by R. Russell & Son, of the Peel Foundry, Derby, is the best stove I ever saw for either the artizan or middle-class kitchen, and the cost is small- It requires no setting, and will burn any kind of coal, while the consumption of fuel is smaller and more perfect than in any grate I have yet tested, and it has the advantage of an open fire. The implements required will be therefore—1 Kitchen range ; 1 ditto deal table with drawer; 1 pasteboard, is.; 1 rolling-pin, 4d.; 2 iron spoons, 2d.; 2 wooden do., 2d.; 1 steel wire sieve (instead of colander), is. 3d.; 6 basins, various sizes, at 2d., 3d., qd. (is. 6d.) ; 4 tin saucepans, 3d.,6d., is., 2s. (3s. nd.); 1 Rippingilles’ fryingpan, 6d., 1 large do. is. 6d.; 1 tin bowel, 7^d.; 6 pattypans, 6d.; 2 Baking tins, 6|d., and <^d. (is. 4d.) ; 2 tin pie-dishes, q^d., 6|d., (nd.); 2 earthenware do., 6d. and iod. (is. 4d.); 1 kettle is. nd.; 1 gridiron, id.; 1 American Egg-beater is. o|d.— Total 18s. o|d. Make your great motto in learning and teaching this branch (as in every other) of cookery “ waste not, want not,” even the liquor that vegetables are boiled in should never be thrown away—as they will make the foundation of good health-giving soupe. For example : According to Dr. Noad’s Analysis, water in which 1 lb. of potatoes had been boiled contained 17 grains of carbonate of potash, and, as you know, carbonate of potash is one of the greatest antiscorbutic principles we have in food and it also assists the oxidation of food in the body Scraps of bread and odd pieces of meat must not be thrown away —all will and must be utilized. Those are not the best or most useful kind of cooks who invent grand dishes at a great ex-FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 39 pense and waste of material, but those who can make into toothsome digestible compounds the scraps from the poor- man’s table. The Artizan receipts will now be given in al- phabetical order, and those selected day by day which are most likely to accord with the material at hand to practise upon. RECEIPTS, &c. A. Apples (Pyrus-Malus).—An agreeable, healthy fruit of therose order. It contains malic acid and phosphorus in large quan- tities. The apple is useful as an article of diet, either in a cooked or uncooked state. 1. Apples, Baked.—Select the apples of uniform size, put them into a tin or pie-dish and place in a moderate oven, where they can receive a slow but regular supply of heat. Apples must not be too quickly baked. It is better that they should be some two hours in cooking than done in twenty-minutes, and all the goodness, in the shape of the phosphorus and essential oils, permitted to escape through the too great force ot heat, turning the moisture in the fruit to too great a bulk of steam, causing the apple to burst, and the valuable portions to be lost. When sufficiently tender, place on a clean dish, and grate one lump of loaf sugar over them. This is an excellent supper for children, given in conjunction with a slice of brown bread (or, better still, whole meal bread) and a cup of milk (skim or fresh). 2. Apple Snowballs.—Wash and pick \ lb. of rice, put it into a saucepan with one pint of skim milk or water, one teaspoon- ful of moist sugar, and a small piece of lemon-rind. Place the pan near the edge of the hob, so that the rice may swell slowly. When the rice has absorbed all the milk, remove the lemon-peel and have ready peeled and cored four ordinary- sized apples. Dip a clean pudding-cloth in clean water and wring it out, dust it over with flour, spread a ring of rice, suffi- ciently to cover the apple, stand the apple on the rice, and tie that portion of the cloth up. If the cloth is a large one, the four apples may be tied up in the four corners. Plunge into a pot of boiling water, and boil for an hour-and A-half. Serve with moist sugar. 3. Apples and Rice.—Prepare 2 oz. of rice and £ pint of40 LESSONS ON COOKERY, milk as above directed in No. 2; peel, core, and slice six apples. Lay them in a quart basin with a little lemon-peel, one table- spoonful of moist sugar and a little nutmeg, or one or two cloves, according to taste. When the milk is absorbed by the rice in the saucepan, remove the peel and lay it into the basin, flour a cloth, and tie over; boil for two hours. This is a cheap and digestible summer dinner for children, far superior to using rich pastry, and it makes an excellent change. 4. Apple Dumplings.—Pare and scoop out the core of three apples, fill the centre with one clove and moist sugar, and then make the following paste : put into a basin i lb. of flour, rub into it 3 oz. of dripping, and when the lumps are all lightly rubbed into the flour, mix with it one teaspoonful of Borwick's baking-powder, and mix it well with the flour; then mix with the contents of the basin sufficient tepid water to make it into a light dough. Flour the paste-board, and, placing the dough on it, rollout, double it into three, give it another quick, even, regular roll, then cut it out into three parts. Place an apple in each of the pieces, wet the edges ; and roll round the apple, shaping into a ball with the hands, flour or grease a tin, and put them into it. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, or the dumpling may be boiled, first tying them up in floured cloths, and then placing them in a saucepan with plenty of boiling water. 5. Apple Pudding.—Line a basin, after greasing it, with paste made as directed in No. 4 ; peel, cut up, and core six apples. Put the cores and peels into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water ; let it boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. In the meantime, slice the apples; also mince very finely ^ oz. candied orange-peel. Add 1 oz. of moist sugar, ^ teaspoonful of ginger, and mix with the apples in the basin. Strain the liquor, which is boiling in the small saucepan, into the pudding ; cover with paste, tie a floured cloth over ; place in boiling water, and let it boil an hour and a half or two hours. 6. Apple Tart.— Rub into 1 lb. of flour 6 oz. of dripping ; add 2 lumps of white sugar grated ; mix into a paste with a knife, and roll out three times. Line the edge of the pie- dish with a strip of paste. Prepare 8 or 10 apples, as in No. 5, remembering to make the syrup from the boiled rinds and cores, for in these two portions of the apple lie some of its best qualities and essential properties, which are tco often wasted41 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. in English households, but which every Scotch housewife economises and knows the value of. Lay in the bottom of your pie dish 2 laurel or peach leaves. Pile the apples up in the dish, making them quite high and dome-shaped. Put the sugar in the middle of the pie, so as it may not burn at the bottom of the dish or render the paste sodden by melting ; brush the strips of paste over with water, roll out, and cover with the rest of the paste. Trim by taking the dish in your left hand, and a sharp knife in the right; cut in an opposite direction from yourself in trimming the tart. Crimp the edge with a knife, brush over with milk—do not make it sloppy, but just damp. Grate 1 lump of sugar over, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. 7. Apple Pudding Baked.—Put into a basin, J lb. stale crusts, broken up small, pour over them one pint skim milk ; let them soak an hour, and beat up with a fork, add one table- spoonful of sugar, and two of minced suet, with ^ lb. chopped apples, and one egg; grease a tin pie-dish, put the mixture in, bake one hour in a moderate oven, and serve with the follow- ing sauce :—Put the peel and cores into a saucepan, with sugar and water, as before directed in No. 5 ; when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, strain and put it back into the saucepan. Mix a tablespoonful of Johnston’s corn-flour, with one teacupful of milk; when the syrup in the pan boils, stir it in, add more milk if necessary; boil ten minutes, put into a basin or sauce-boat, and serve with the pudding. 8. Apple Pudding.—Grate 6 oz. bread crumbs; pare, core, and slice 6 ozs of apples, well grease a tin pie-dish, strew bread-crumbs over the bottom and sides of the dish, cut a thin slice of bread and lay in the bottom of the dish; over the strewing of crumbs put a layer of apples, and grate some nut- meg, and strew one tablespoonful of sugar over the apples ; next, a layer of bread-crumbs; then apples as before, finishing with crumbs. Mix one egg well beaten up with half-pint of skim milk, pour over the pudding, put a little bit of dripping on the top, and put it into a hot oven, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Turn out on to a clean hot dish. 9. Apples and Rice Baked.—Prepare the rice as in No. 2, grease a pie-dish, put alternate layers of prepared rice and apples, till the pie-dish is f full, pour over it a custard of one egg beaten up, and half a pint of milk; put a small piece of dripping on the top, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake one hour in a moderate oven.LESSONS ON COOKERY, 42 10. Apple Cake (Yorkshire farm receipt).—Cover a. plate with some nice flakey paste. Peel, core, and slice one or two apples in very fine shreds or slices, place them on the paste, strew one tablespoonful of moist sugar over, grate about a quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger, break apiece of butter the size of a walnut into little pieces, and put here and there over the apples, put paste on the top, clip the paste round the edge with a pair of scissors as a decoration, bake in the oven for half an hour, and when taken out grate one lump of sugar over. The round is generally cut into eight or ten pieces, and is eaten hot or cold. 11. Apple Cake (Hampshire receipt).—Put one lb. of flour into a large basin, rub 4 oz. of dripping into the flour, peel and core 1 lb. of apples, slice them into thin small slices, grate some nutmegs, and add a little spice (about one teaspoonful in all), and two tablespoonsful of sugar with a teaspoonful of ba- king powder, mix with the flour, then take sufficient cold water to make it into a dough, grease a tin pie-dish or baking-tin, and bake in the oven for one and a half or two hours. 12. Apples Stewed.—Take six or eight eating apples, peel and core them carefully, fill the centre where the cores have been withdrawn. Put them into a stewpan with six cloves and a bit of nutmeg as large as a pea, and a little bit of either lemon or orange rind, one tablespoonful of sugar, also three teaspoonfuls of water, boil till the apples are tender, lift them out on to a clean dish, reduce the syrup to about one cupful and strain over the apples. 13. Apple Fool.—Pare six nice cooking apples, put them into a saucepan with a lemon-rind and two tablespoonsful of sugar, also one teacupful of water, put them through a wire sieve when sufficiently cooked. Add to this one cupful of new milk. This is nice for children’s tea or supper. 14. Apple and Batter Pudding.—Peel, core, and cut in two four baking apples, place them in a greased baking-tin, put in a basin two tablespoonsful of flour, drop in an egg, mix it into a smooth batter with one pint of milk and pour over the apples, bake in quick oven for three quarters of an hour, strew sugar over, and serve hot. x5- Apple Roley-Poley.—Chop a quarter of a pound of suet very finely, and mix with 1 lb. of flour; add a pinch of salt and half a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix this into a paste; roll it out the width, length, and thickness you43 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. require for the pudding. Cut some peeled apples into very- thin transparent slices, lay them over the paste, strew sugar over, and add one or two drops of lemon juice. Roll the pudding up, tie in a floured cloth, and plunge it into boiling water. Let it boil about ii- hours. Serve with thickened milk; i tablespoonful of flour, mixed with 2 tablespoonsful of cold water. Put on the fire a saucepan, with half a pint of milk and 1 dessertspoonful of moist sugar. As soon as the milk appears to rise in the saucepan, pour in the batter; stir till the milk thickens ; let it boil for three minutes, to cook the flour; flavour with lemon, if you have any rind by you: put into a sauceboat or basin, and serve with the pudding. 16. Apple Black Cap.—Wipe carefully six or eight little apples, remove the stalks, and place the apples in a greased baking-dish. Prepare a batter of four tablespoonsful of flour, mix by degrees with 1 pint of milk, add a tiny pinch of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder; beat this up lightly, pour over the apples, and bake till it is brown on the top. Serve with sugar. This is an economical dish; but it must be eaten hot, and not be over-baked. 17. Apple and Bread Pudding.—Grease a pie-dish; put in slices of bread, slices of apples, and fat scraps or chopped suet, and sugar to taste, in rows or layers, until the pie-dish is three parts full. Pour over enough milk to fill the pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Excellent dinner for children. 18. Apple Marmalade.—When apples are cheap, this is one of the nicest jams that the cottager’s wife can make. Pare and core 7 lbs. of “windfalls,” cutting out any portions that are much bruised; cut them in halves, and put into a clean saucepan, with water enough to cover them; boil until they are tender, and then empty them into a basin. Take weight for weight with the apples, of Demerara sugar; put it into the saucepan, with about 1 pint of cold water; let it boil (skimming it carefully) till it is quite clear-looking; then add the apples and the juice of three lemons (add thin strips of the rinds also, if you like it). Boil for half an hour, till it jellies. Put into jars, and tie down with three or four thicknesses of brown paper. 19. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice six apples; put them into a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, 1 oz. moist sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 1 tea-44 LESSONS ON COOKERY, cupful of cold water. Boil till the apples are reduced to a pulp, if they do not fall well, pass them through a wire sieve. This sauce is eaten to Roast or Baked Goose, Duck, Pori Irish Goose, &c. 20. Apple Custard (German).—Grease a pie-dish ; pare, core, and slice in fine thin slices 2 apples ; put them into the pie-dish with a tablespoonful of sugar over and the juice from the boiled skins and cores. Place the pie-dish in a hot oven for quarter of an hour or less; if the oven is very hot, until the apples are tender. Beat up 1 egg with 1 pint of milk ; flavour and sweeten to taste, then pour over the apples and bake for three quarters of an hour at a moderate heat. 21. Apple Custard a la Watronsville (American).—Pare the apples, grease a pudding-basin, slice the apples into it till it is about a quarter full; break two eggs into a basin, with 1 tablespoonful of sugar and a few drops of lemon essence, whisk them up and add sufficient milk to fill the pudding-basin to within half an inch of the top. Butter a piece of wrapping paper and put it over the top of the basin. Place the basin in a saucepan, with sufficient boiling water to come within one inch from the top of the basin. Let it boil very slowly, in fact only simmer, for 1^ hours. If the pudding boils fast it will be quite like a honeycomb, and unfit to come to table. 22. Apple-water.—Slice a large, tart, cooking apple (without peeling it), also a small portion of the rind of a lemon. Put all into a saucepan, with six lumps of sugar and i£ pints of cold water. Let it come slowly to nearly boiling point; draw it back from the fire, and let it simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour ; strain into a jug. Useful during fevers, or for a summer beverage. 23. Apple Tea.—Slice apples (after peeling and coring) into a jug, also slice up half a lemon, first taking out the pips, add sugar to taste; pour 1 pint of boiling water on this and let it stand until cold. This makes a pleasant drink, little inferior to lemonade, but it is not so valuable from a medical point of view, as the rind of apple contains some valuable properties which are extracted by the process described in No. 22. 24. Apple Whip (German).—Peel and grate 3 large apples, add to them a quarter of a teaspoonful of mixed spice, and 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar. Take a spoon or fork of white metal (do not use steel) and whip it well up, add 3 tablespoonsful45 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. of bread crumbs passed through the wire sieve, whip the whole up, pile on a plate, and serve with new milk or custard. 25. Apple and Sago'Pudding.—Use the large sago. Take 2 oz. of the sago, and swell it in a saucepan over the fire in j? pint of milk. Pare, core, and slice 2 large-sized apples, put them into the oven, as in No. 20, till tender, then take the sago off the fire, when it has absorbed the milk. Beat up 1 egg with 1 pint of milk, mix with the sago, and add half teaspoonful grated ginger. When the apples are tender mix all up together, and put back into the pie-dish ; bake for half an hour. 26. Apples and Tapioca.—Take 1 oz. of tapioca, crush it, and put it in one pint of cold water, and let it soak for five or six hours; then put it on the fire to cree, as for sago, No. 25, stirring it, so that it may not burn ; pare 4 apples, take the cores out, stick a clove in each cavity, and fill up with sugar, lay them in a pie-dish, sweeten the tapioca, flavour with 2 or 3 drops of lemon essence, mix with x egg, and 1 pint of milk, pour over the apples, and bake for one and a-half hours. 27. Arrowroot.—A starch or carbonaceous food obtained from the root of certain foreign plants. West Indian Arrow- root is obtained from Maranta Armidinacea, East Indian Arrowroot from the Curcuma leucorhiza. A starch from the potatoe is very frequently sold instead of the pure arrowroot. In nearly every case Johnston’s corn-flour will answer as well as arrowroot. Arrowroot is also adulterated with sago meal ; to test if the arrowroot is pure, take a pinch between the finger and thumb ; if it makes a sort of crackling sound, it is pure. The roots of the M. Arundinacea are about one foot long, white and jointed, with a thin, filmy scale like covering. It is chiefly used for invalids, and is too dear for every-day use in houseswhere economy is a point to be observed. 28. Arrowroo! for the Sick.—Take 1 tablespoonful of arrow- root in a basin, mix it with a little milk as you would for starch ; put, in a saucepan, on the fire, half a pint of new milk, sweeten it a little. When it is quite boiling pour it on the arrowroot in the basin, stirring the whole time till it thickens a little ; now put it back into the saucepan, and add wine or essence of beef, as may be directed by the medical man, or simply let it boil without other addition.—Or another method is, to take 1 dessert-spoonful of arrowroot, put it into a cup with a table- spoonful of cold water ; have on the fire half a pint of water in a saucepan to boil, with 1 inch stick cinnamon, a little grated46 LESSONS ON COOKERY, nutmeg and sugar, to the patient’s taste (sick people, as a rule, do not like very sweet dishes). When these have boiled a little, stir in the arrowroot, stir quickly for a minute or so after it is in ; if too thick add more water; boil for three minutes and serve, when it is rather cold, in cases of diarrhoea. 29. Arrowroot and Beef-tea.—Put a teacupful of strong beef- lea over the fire, in a clean saucepan, to boil; add a little salt, take 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, moisten it with a little cold beef-tea, and when the beef-tea in the saucepan boils, stir in the arrowroot. As soon as it has boiled three or four minutes, to cook the arrowroot, it may be served with thin strips of dry toast. 30. Artichoke.—The Jerusalem Artichoke, Helianthus tube- rosns, is an edible root, a native of Southern Europe, like the Cynara Scolymus, the fleshy bases of the scales and blanched leaf of which are eaten. 31. Artichokes (Jerusalem) Boiled.—Wash, scrub, and scrape about 6 medium-sized artichokes, put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, boil till they are tender, try them with a skewer to test when they are sufficiently cooked. Pass them through a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt, add a little piece of good dripping ; serve in a hot vegetable-dish. 32. Another Method.—Clean and boil, as above, wipe each artichoke, as it comes out of the pot, in a clean cloth before laying them in the vegetable-dish. Make a little melted butter, as follows, and pour over the vegetables : ^ oz. of butter, melted in a clean pan; take the saucepan off the fire, stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour, add 1 teacupful (quarter pint) of cold milk by degrees, working the flour into a thin batter, then add the rest of the milk, put a little salt in, and place over the fire to thicken, stirring all the time. When it has thickened let it boil for a moment or two to cook the flour, and then serve. 33. Artichokes (Jerusalem) Baked.—Clean and pare evenly, and place in a dripping-tin, with some good dripping, and bake in a hot oven. Turn them now and then during the process of cooking, and serve with roast mutton. 34. Artichokes (Jerusalem) Fried.—Clean, pare, and slice the artichokes, put them into a saucepan with cold water and salt; let them just come to the boil and strain on the wire sieve, let them drain there, and put into the frying-pan two or 3 oz. of dripping. Dip the slices of artichoke in flour and place in theFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 47 lard when it is boiling. Fry a gold brown, sprinkle, salt and pepper over, and serve hot. 35. Artichoke Soup.—Clean and pare four artichokes and one onion, boil them in salt and water; when tender, pass through a wire sieve into a basin. Add one pint of skim or new milk, season with salt and pepper, and one teaspoonful of Yorkshire Relish. Stir till the mixture is smooth, put it back into the saucepan, and warm ; serve with toast cut into little squares. 36. Asparagus (Asparagus officinalis of the order Litiacece). —A plant indigenous to this coun try, found in a wild state by the seaside. It is cultivated, and the tender green portions of the young shoots eaten. It contains a principle called Asparagine, an alkaloid forming crystals. It is useful in cases of dropsy. 37. Asparagus Boiled.—Take the stalks carefully, wash and wipe with a cloth ; tie the asparagus in a little bundle, six or eight stalks in a bunch, put them into a stewpan (or saucepan large enough to let them lie flat, and be easily dished with- out breaking) with boiling water, salt, and a tiny piece of soda, when they are tender lift them up carefully, preserving the heads or buds from breaking. Have ready some nicely buttered toast, lay the asparagus on this, and pour melted butter over, or, if for an invalid, a little good stock gravy thickened with flour previously browned in the oven, and delicately seasoned. 38. Australian Meat.—This meat may be used with great benefit to many households—especially for people who reside in the country, and who cannot readily get supplies of fresh meat. As it is already cooked it requires careful manipulation, if it is to be served up hot. The following receipts may be found useful to those who require to use it: 39. Australian Meat Pie.—Cut the meat into neat delicate slices, dip in a seasoning of flour, pepper, and salt mixed, chop an onion and a few herbs, strew some of these in the bottom of the pie-dish, put a layer of meat and then a few herbs, and so on, till the pie-dish is full, not forgetting to use some of the jelly as well as the meat. Make a paste and cover the top, brush over with a little milk ; bake in a quick oven, and when the pastry is nicely browned the pie is ready for table, as it is only the paste that has to cook. 40. Australian Meat Toad-in-the-hole.—Choose some pieces of lean Australian meat, cut it into neat pieces and place in the bottom of a greased baking-tin, strew a seasoning of48 LESSONS ON COOKERY, chopped herbs, one teaspoonful of Yorkshire Relish, and pepper and salt over; make a light batter by putting in a basin two tablespoonsful of flour, drop an egg in, add a pinch of salt, and mix to a thin batter, with skim or new milk, pour the batter over the meat, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 41. Australian Mutton Balls.—Chop ^ lb. of Australian mutton very finely, also one small onion, soak any stale crusts in cold water for one hour, express the water from the bread, and mix it with the onion and meat, add a few dried or minced herbs, such as parsley and thyme, season with pepper and salt, mix two tablespoonsful of flour with this and form into balls ; dip in egg, and fry in boiling fat. 42. Australian Meat Soup.—This soup makes a famous dinner for a working man’s family. Take 1 lb. of meat from a tin and chop it a little, peel two onions and slice them, one carrot and one turnip, and 1 lb. of potatoes, all washed, scraped, or peeled, and cut into the thinest possible slices. Put all this into a large pot with two quarts of water, let it boil slowly for two hours, season with pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of sauce, and serve with bread. Crusts, cut up and put in five minutes before serving, give the soup a rich taste, and use up pieces which might be wasted. 43. Australian Mince.—This is one of the nicest methods of using this kind of meat. Boil a couple of onions in a little stock or water until they are tender, mince them, and reduce the stock they were boiled in to about one teacupful; mince 1 lb. of Australian meat, chop some herb, and mix with the onion, meat, and liquor, in a saucepan, add salt, and one tea- spoonful ofYorkshire relish ; let it become hot, and whilst it is heating make either a wall of potatoes, rice, or, better still, boiled haricot beans on a large meat-dish (see Haricot Beans), put the meat in the centre, and serve hot. 44. American Beef.—The pressed beef is very excellent, and is usually eaten just as it is sent over. It is an excellent relish to potatoes and other vegetables, and is nice if cut in thick slices and just warmed in a little good stock with a teaspoonful of some sauce. The American roast beef, too, at is. for two pounds is excellent, and only requires heating in the tin after it is opened to make a really good dish. Numerous excellent receipts are given on the tins, which answer very well if carefully worked out. 45. Artificial Asses’ Milk.—Where asses’ milk is orderedFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 40 by the doctor for a patient, and not obtainable, a good sub- stitute may be made by taking one pint of milk obtained from an Alderney cow, if possible, put it into a basin, with b oz. of gelatine, let it soak in the milk for two hours, then put it over the fire, and warm it to dissolve the gelatine; add half a pint of barley-water, i oz. loaf sugar, and i dessert-spoonful of lime- water. Stir and give to the patient lukewarm. 46. Artificial Goats’ Milk.—Boil slowly for half an hour, in a pint of new milk, 1 oz. of mutton suet, chopped and tied in a piece of muslin ; sweeten with three lumps of loat-sugar. Let it cool, skim the fat off, and give to the patient luke- warm. B. 47. Bacon.—Home-cured, and forest-fed, makes the best bacon. If you have to choose bacon, select that which has a thin rind, the fat firm, white, and tinged a little red toward the rind, by curing, and the flesh of a nice red colour. 48. Bacon Cake (Yorkshire).—Make some common paste, line a plate with it, cut the bacon into little pieces, an inch square, lay them evenly over the paste, dust a little pepper over, cover with paste, pinch the edges, brush over with egg, and bake in a quick oven. 49. Bacon Boiled.—Bacon, to be well and nicely boiled, should be put into cold water, and allowed to come slowly to the boil, so that the salt may be extracted. Let it boil very slowly, allowing a quarter of an hour for every pound of meat, and half an hour over; skim it well. The fat or grease rising to the top will be nice to clarify. When it is sufficiently cooked, lift it out, take a towel in your hand and pull the skin off, rasp some crumbs from the top of a well-browned loaf, with a bread or nutmeg-grater. It is a spoiling of good bacon and cabbage to boil both together. Boil each separately, and you will be able to save the fat for the children’s bread, or the fat-pot, and the greens will be a proper colour. 50. Bacon;Roley Poley.—Make a nice suet crust of 1 lb. of flour, put into a basin, mince very finely 4 oz. of mutton suet, add 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and mix with sufficient water to make it into a paste. Roll it out to a proper thickness, cut thin slices of bacon, and line the paste with it; season with pepper and 1 onion, and roll it up, flour a damp cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for one and a-half or two hours. ELESSONS ON COOKERY; 5° 51. Baked Ling.—Get two or three pounds of the middle cut of'ling. Grate 2 oz. bread crumbs, pass them through a wire sieve, put them into a basin with 2 oz. of chopped suet, a tea- spoonlul of minced parsley, a little salt and pepper, and a little piece of lemon-rind, finely shred, mix all well together, moisten with a little milk, and stuff the fish. Put it into a greased baking-tin, with a little piece of dripping, and about 0 or 8 (according to the requirements of the family) par-boiled pota- toes. Place the tin in the oven, and bake three quarters ot an hour, or less if the oven is very hot. 52. Baked Soup ( Yorkshire).—in Yorkshire everything that can be possibly cooked in the oven, is baked ; jam, soups, porridge, &c., are, in many Yorkshire villages, made in this useful portion of the range. For this purpose every house is supplied with an earthenware jar, of brown ware, covered Dy a lid. It must be understood that 1 am writing about the artizan and cottage homes. The kitchens of the upper classes are conducted according to modern principles. The soup is made by placing in the earthenware jar any bones and pieces of iean meat, covering them with water; say there is 1 lb of bones and meat, there would be three pints of cold water added, and a teaspoonful of salt; this would be put into the oven to stew for three or four hours, and then taken out, the lid removed, and put aside to prepare for soup the next day. The following day all the fat is carefully take?i of, a couple of onions are peeled and sliced, 2 carrots, and 1 turnip scraped or peeled, also sliced and put into the jar, with the stock and 2 oz. of rice pepper and salt to taste. The jar is then placed in the oven, couple of hours previous to the dinner hour, when it is served with either boiled potatoes or bread ; a sprig of parsley or a bit of celery is an improvement. 53. Barley Water.—Put 2 oz. of barley into an earthen jar, with a small piece of lemon-rind, and about three pints of water. Put it into the oven when it is not very hot, and let it simmer there for three or four hours. Strain it, and add sugar and lemon juice to taste. The barley will make a very delicious pudding. 54. Barley Pudding.—Take the barley prepared as above, add to it £ lb. sultana rasins, sugar to taste, and a few drops oi lemon juice, add one teacupful of milk, grease a dish, and bake it for half an hour. This pudding is excellent for sick people, leaving out the raisins and adding an egg and essence of lemon to flavour.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 5 r 55. Barley Tea.—Place in a jug 2 oz. of barley, the rind and juice of one lemon, and about four lumps of sugar. Pour over it one pint of boiling water, cover with a paper cap and let it cool, and strain into another jug. The barley may be afterwards put with milk into the oven to swell a little, and then made into a pudding as in No. 54. 56. Bath Chap to Boil.—These may be bought cheaper than almost any portion of the cured, dried, and smoked pig. And where people like pork and do not object to fat, they will be found economical. Soak the chap in water all night pre- vious to boiling. Take it out, scrape, and clean it well, and then put it into a pan with cold water, and allow it to boil gently for a quarter of an hour to the pound weight, and a quarter of an hour over. Take it up and remove the skin. Grate some brown bread-crust over. It is usual to serve boiled parsnips or greens with this dish whilst hot, but do not boil them with the meat as it will retain the flavour after, and it is no improvement to the vegetables. The liquor in which the chap is boiled will make excellent pea-soup or vegetable soup the next day. 57. Batter for frying fish, meat, or fruit.—Put into a basin £ lb. of flour, drop into it the yolk of an egg, put the white into a clean dry basin, add to the flour oz. of butter melted to an oil. Mix to a light batter (but not too thin) with tepid water, let it stand for an hour or so whilst you prepare the fish, meat, or fruit. Then put a frying-pan on the fire with \ lb. of dripping, let it get quite hot, test it with a piece of bread, if that browns quickly the fat is ready. Now whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir it thoroughly into the batter. Dip the fish or whatever you wish to fry into the batter, plunge into the boiling fat. When it is a rich brown it is sufficiently cooked; drain on a piece of paper, sprinkle over with salt or sugar according as the dish is savoury or sweet. Oil may be used instead of butter if it can be afforded; in fact it is preferable. 58. Batter Pudding boiled.— Put two heaped tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, drop in one egg, add a small pinch of salt; add by degrees a half pint of milk, working it into a smooth batter with a wooden spoon. The more it is worked the lighter the pudding will be. Grease a basin thoroughly, pour the batter in, grease a paper with a little dripping, put it over the top, place the basin in a pan with boiling water, e 252 LESSONS ON COOKERY, which will reach about one inch below the rim of the basin. If the water gets low in the pot add hot water from the kettle or boiler, pouring it down the side of the pot, not over the pudding, taking care when more water is added that it will not rise above the rim of the basin when it boils, or the pudding will be watersoaked. Boil slowly for ii hours. 59. Batter Pudding baked.—First prepare the oven and make it thoroughly hot; then mix the batter as in No. 57. Grease a tin dish or baking tin, pour the mixture in, place in the oven, and bake twenty minutes. Serve with meat, gravy, sugar, preserve, or treacle, and use while hot. 60. Beef to Roast.—The process of roasting, baking, and boiling have been described in the example lessons for students (10, xi, 12, etc.), and if read carefully over may be worked out with good results. Horse-radish sauce, and horse-radish scraped are sent to table with roast beef, and will be found under their respective heads. In Lesson 7, directions are given for choosing beef. 61. Beef Roley Foley.—Take 1 lb of the lean, fleshy part of beef, commonly called “sticking part;” cut it into nice, long, even slices; add the scraps to one end. Soak some crusts in a basin till they are soft, drain them, and mix with them a chopped onion, pepper, salt, and a dessertspoonful of parsley, also a quarter of a pound of suet, (minced finely) add two cloves; place this evenly over the meat, and roll it up, beginning at the end where you have patched the meat. Flour a cloth, roll the meat in it, secure at the ends with twine. Plunge it into a pot with boiling water, boil for about 10 minutes very rapidly, then draw to one side and let it boil gently for about four hours ; take it up, let it get set, remove the cloth, first dipping it in boiling water. This makes an excellent cold meat for a working-man to take out for his dinner, if cut in thin, delicate slices, wrapped in a clean cloth, and eaten with brown bread at the dinner hour. 62. Beef tea.—Take 1 -lb. of the sticking part of beef, take off all skin and fat, mince it very finely, and mix with 1 pint of cold water, till each little grain is separated; then put it in an earthen jar, into a cool oven for three hours, or into an enamelled saucepan, and place near (not on) the fire, so that the gradual application of the heat may extract the red juices. Do not add salt to any beef tea in serious cases without permission of the medical attendant. (See 54.)FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 53 63. Beef Tea (Hospital).—Half-chicken, 1 lb. of beef, 1 lb. mutton, remove all fat, sinew, skin, &c., from the butcher’s meat, mince it very finely, also remove the flesh from the chicken and mince it also. Take the bones, crush them, and remove the marrow from leg and wing bones and put it all into an earthen ware pot, put a paper cap over and place in a saucepan with sufficient water to come half-way up the pot containing the minced meat. Stew for four hours, keep the water up to this level by adding boiling water to that already in the saucepan. When the patient is extremely weak, this mixture will remain on the stomach when all other foods fail. Strain through muslin with a sheet of white blotting paper placed on it. (See 66.) 64. Beef Tea (raw).—One tablespoonful raw gravy beef minced fine, one tablespoonful of water added, stir well with silver spoon, let it stand ten minutes, strain, and serve to the patient in a covered medicine cup. This is used in the London Hospitals in cases of typhoid and smallpox. (See 66). 65. Beef (Essence).—Half-pound gravy beef freed from fat, minced finely, put into gallipot, covered with paper cap, and bake in a slow oven two hours. (See 66). Strain and serve. 66. Beef tea, how and when to administer.—The raw beef- tea is administered in cases of Gastric, Typhoid, and other malignant fevers, also during the earlier stage, till the height; of small-pox, three days after that period the essence No. 65 is generally substituted ; dose, from one teaspoonful every hour to one tablespoonful, No. 63. The Hospital beef-tea is given in cases of extreme weakness, dyspepsia, and consump- tion. No. 62 is used in general cases. 67. Beans, French, to boil.—Scarlet-runners or French beans, may be first wiped or washed to remove all grit; then take a small piece off the top, and the stripe of fibre that runs down the sides, cut the French beans in narrow fine strips lengthways and the scarlet-runners in slanting slices very fine, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with one dessert-spoonful of salt, and a little lump of washing soda as large as a pea; boil them in plenty of water, keeping the lid off the whole time; drain them on the wire sieve, serve with a small piece of butter stirred in amongst them. To test if they are cooked take a piece out with a fork, and if tender it is boiled enough. From ten to twenty minutes is the usual time which beans require to boil, varying with their age; a lump of sugar added to the beans if old or not freshly gathered is an improvement.54 LESSONS ON COOKERY, 68. Broad Beans.—Shell the beans either in the usual way, or by placing them in a bucket and pouring over them a kettle- ful of boiling water; This will greatly economise time, as the beans will soon slip out. Have ready a pot with boiling water, put in the beans, add an iron spoonful of salt, boil from a quarter of an hour to half an hour, according to the age of the beans. Test them as in No. 67; they are served with either chopped parsely strewed, and butter stirred in amongst them, or with melted butter and parsely in a sauce-boat. 69. Broad Beans, Scotch fashion.—The beans after being shelled are blanched, i.e., put into a saucepan, and allowed to boil in salt and water for one or two minutes and slipped out of the husk ; they are then put into a sauce- pan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, a tea- spoonful of salt and a piece of soda; in about ten minutes examine them, and if tender drain on the wire sieve, and when quite dry pulp them into a clean basin through the sieve. Mix with a tiny piece of good dripping, season with pepper and salt, grease a cup well, fill it, and turn the shape out on a vegetable dish, greasing and refilling till the whole of the beans are dished ; put into the oven, with a basin inverted over the dish, to warm the beans, and serve with or without melted butter and parsley over. This is much the most pleasant method of sending beans to table for the comfort of the diners. If the blanching process is too troublesome, the beans can be rubbed through the wire sieve after boiling in the shell, a few at a time, throwing away the husks as they become empty, but it is more wasteful, and the beans are never such a pretty colour as when dressed as directed in the first part of this receipt. 70. Bilberry Pudding.—Make a suet crust, grease and line basin, half fill it with fresh bilberries, strew 2 tablespoonsful of sugar over them, and continue to fill the basin till it is heaped up. Put the top crust on and flour a cloth, tie it over, and boil for 2 hours. Bilberries in any form, either uncooked, made into pies, puddings, jam, or syrup, are particularly good for people suffering from scrofula, whether of the lungs or however it may be developed. 71. Bilberry Jam.—Gather the berries on a fine dry day, and after the sun has had time to dry the dew or moisture off the berries ; weigh the fruit, put into a preserving pan with 1 pint of water, let it boil half an hour, and then add 6 pounds of sugar to every 7 pounds of fruit. Boil for three quarters ofFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 55 an hour; test it at the end of that time by putting a little in a saucer; put it out of doors to cool, and if it sets, it will be found to be sufficiently cooked. If not boiled enough it will not set firmly. Fill dry jam pots in the usual way, and cover down when cold with brown paper. 72. Bilberry Syrup.- Put 2^ lbs. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water; bet it boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. Put on the fire, in a saucepan, 3 lbs. of bilberries ; let them boil for half an hour, pass them through a jelly bag, and add the juice to the syrup. Clear with the white and shell of one egg, lightly whipped, and put into the syrup. Put it on the fire again, let it boil well up for three minutes ; lift it carefully to one side, skim all the froth off as gently as possible, then pour into bottles and cork for future use. 1 tablespoonful in a tumbler of water before breakfast is considered quite a heal-all by some of the people in the midland counties. It certainly contains some valuable acids, and is a refreshing beverage on a hot summer’s day. 73. Beetroot (Beta Valgaris).—Is rich in carbonaceous food. There are several varieties. The white sugar beet is grown largely on the Continent, and used in the manufacture of sugar; it is computed that over two million tons of this sugar are made annually. It may be known from cane t sugar by the peculiar whiteness of the moist sugar, and the softness of the crystals. It also produces, from the refuse of the sugar, molasses which yield from 25 to 30 per cent, of pure spirit, at about is. per gallon, used largely for the making of mock whiskies and brandies. From the further refuse left from distillation excel- lent potash is obtained, and from the refuse after the manu- facture of potash, pasteboard and brown paper; thus one beet- root contains substances from which sugar, spirit, potash, paper, and pasteboard can be successively obtained, without waste of material. 73A. Mangold Wurzel-—is another name under which we dis- cover the beet, and is cultivated principally for the use of cattle in this country. The red Garden Beet is the one with which we shall have to deal. It is richer and more juicy, and of a brilliant red colour; the fibrine, too, is finer. Beetroot bears the proportions of 35 parts cabonaceous to 1 part of nitrogenous matter. 74. Beetroot Salad.—Carefully raise a beetroot from the ground with a prong, being sure that it is not broken or the56 LESSONS ON COOKERY. skin disturbed ; put it, leaves and all, into cold water, and let it lie for a couple of hours to loosen the earth, wash it oft, but do not break the skin. Cut the leaves, leaving about two inches of them from the crown of the root. Put into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour and a-half or two hours ; take the root out, and let it become perfectly cold. Peel the skin off and slice in rings; add rings of hard boiled eggs, and 1 Spanish onion, boiled or raw, as preferred. Season some vinegar with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard, and pour over the salad. This is excellent with cold meat. 75. Beetroot Jam and Colouring.—Bake the roots as in No. 67 ; when they are cold, weigh and peel them. For every pound of beetroot, take the rind and juice of one lemon ; peel the rinds very thin, and strain the juice ; also use 6 pounds of sugar for every 7 of beet. Put the sugar into a saucepan with two pints of water, the rind and juice of the lemons (or oranges if they are preferred), stir till all the sugar is dissolved, let it boil whilst you cut the beetroot into slices, and put them into the syrup, let it boil for a half an hour and pour into pots, cover it up when it is cold. One teaspoonful of the syrup from this jam will colour any sweets most beautifully—a blanc- mange for instance—and be much more wholesome than bought colouring. 76. Bread, Home-made.—Take 7 lbs. of flour and put it into a clean dry earthenware pan ; mix one tablespoonful of salt well into the flour, put 2 oz. of fresh German yeast into a basin, mix into a smooth batter with ^ a teacupful of tepid water ; make a well in the centre of the Hour, pour this barm in, mix it up at once with tepid water into a nice stiff dough, kneading it well (the more it is kneaded the lighter and better it will be); leave it until it has well risen, then see that the oven is nice and hot; without working too much, fashion into loaves, flour the tins and place in each dough enough to half fill them, leave it a quarter of an hour in a warm place to rise, and then put into the oven and bake. Test with a bright skewer; if the skewer comes out bright and clean, the loaf is done ; if not, it must have more baking. There are many very good receipts for making bread, and every good housewife has her own way; for students the above method will be found to answer in every respect for practice. 77. Bread-pudding {cheap).—Soak about one pound of crustsFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 57 or pieces of bread in one quart of skim milk for three or four hours; chop ^ lb. mutton suet very finely, and when the bread is well soaked, beat it up with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, the suet, £ lb. of currants, and i packet of mixed spice ; grease a tin pie-dish, put the pudding in, lay one or two pieces of dripping here and there, put it into a moderate oven, and bake an hour. If the currants are left out, the pudding is very nice eaten with cheap home-made jam, such as Orange Marma- lade for the million.” 78. Bread-pudding (savoury).—Soak the crusts in skim milk as in No. 77, mince £ lb. of suet, one tablespoonful of parsley and thyme, mixed; beat these up with a fork in the bread, also season with pepper and salt; bake in a tin dish and serve with hot gravy. 79. Broth Kettle.—Cut up some crusts or a slice of bread into a basin, add a piece of dripping as large as a walnut, pour boiling water from the kettle upon the bread, and season with pepper and salt. So. Bone Broth.—Get 2d. or 3d. worth of bones, pound them with a hammer so that they are broken into small pieces; put them into a pot with two or three quarts of water, and let it boil five or six, or even eight hours, till reduced to about two quarts; skim and clear from all fat and grease whilst it is boiling; strain the liquor. When it is cold be sure to remove every particle of grease; add to the liquor, when you wish to use it for broth, one carrot scraped, washed and cut into rings, one turnip washed, peeled and cut into slices, one onion, peeled and sliced, ^ lb. of either Scotch barley or rice, a little chopped parsley, thyme, and savory should be added, together with pepper and salt, half an hour before serving ; but the broth must boil until the vegetables and barley are cooked —about one hour altogether. This will make a good, substantial dinner with bread. 81. Breast of Mutton.—(See Lesson xo, example 3.) 82. Brocoli, to boil.—Cut a brocoli, put it into salt and water sufficient to cover it, with the flower downwards, and let it remain for about an hour; rinse in cold water under the tap ; if it has been raining, put a little vinegar into the water, and it will bring out any slugs that may have taken refuge amongst the branches of the flower. Have ready a pot with boiling water in it, 1 tablespoonful of salt, and a little soda. After trimming the brocoli, put it in, flower downwards, so thatLESSONS ON COOKERY. 53 any scum which may arise will rest on the stalk, and not on the flower. Try it with a skewer at the end of a quarter of an hour, and if done, lift carefully out with a slice on to the wire sieve to drain ; then place in the vegetable dish, and serve melted butter in a sauce-boat, or good thick gravy. 83. Bullock's Heart, stuffed.—Put the heart into salt and water to soak for an hour; clean it thoroughly, and trim, cutting off the deaf ears. Make a stuffing of minced suet, parsley, and thyme, with a tiny bit of lemon-peel (if you have it), mix all well together, moisten with a little milk, stuff the heart, and skewer a piece of buttered paper over. Put it into a stew-pan with a carrot, turnip, and onion, all properly prepared. Stew it for an hour, turning it round, but not piercing it with a fork. Lift it out and place on a baking-dish, and bake in the oven for half an hour or more, according to the size, or roast in front of a bright fire ; in either case, baste well. Serve on a very hot dish ; reduce the liquor the heart was stewed in sufficiently to make gravy, and pour round the meat. 84. Bullock's Liver.—This is best larded, and as larding needles are not expensive it will not be out of place in Artizan Cookery, and make a nice relief to liver and bacon, which every cottager in the country knows. Cut the bacon and lard as directed in Lesson 19, practical illustrations; when the meat is neatly larded make a stuffing, as above directed, for the heart, No. 83, and spread over the bottom of a greased tin. Lay the liver on this, put into a quick oven, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Make a thick gravy from the stock-pot liquor, thickened with flour, and coloured with caramel or with bread sauce ; No. 86. 85. Take any cold cabbage and cold potatoes, rub both together through a wire sieve, or chop it very finely, mix ■well and season with pepper and salt. Put into a greased basin, with a bit of dripping on the top, place a pot on the top, and put it into the oven to warm. Fry some slices of cold meat in boiling lard or dripping, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Be careful not to fry the meat too hard, only just to warm it in the boiling fat, and lightly brown; when the meat is cooked turn the vegetable out of the basin on to a meat dish, and arrange the meat round. 86. Bread Sauce.—Make about half a pint of skim milk hot over the fire, with an onion in the pan as well. Pass through the wire sieve about or 2 oz. of breadcrumbs. RemoveFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 59 the onion after it has been in the milk 5 or 10 minutes. Put the milk over the fire again, and, when in begins to boil, take the crumbs in the left hand, and a wooden spoon in the right hand, stir the milk whilst you strew in the crumbs, and stir also whilst it boils for 3 or 4 minutes; season with pepper and salt, and add a bit of butter as large as a walnut. If it is too thick add more milk, and always remember it is a sauce, not a poultice, which is being made. 87. Blackberry and Plum Jam.—Open the plums and crack the stones. Let there be 1 lb. of plums to 3 of blackberries ; see that the blackberries have been gathered during dry weather. Put all into a large saucepan and boil for one hour, skim well and carefully. Then add six pounds of sugar to every seven pounds of fruit; boil it for half or three-quarters of an hour, fill the jars, and, when it is cold, tie down. Blackberry and apple jam, or plain backberry, may be made as above, leaving out the plums and substituting peeled, cored, and sliced apples, or by boiling the berries by themselves. C. 88. Cabbage. Brassica Olcracea—contains many valuable properties in scorbutic cases ; like the potato it contains a large percentage of potash. It was first introduced into this country from Holland. 89. Cabbage Soup.—Take 2 quarts of the liquor in which meat has been boiled; free it from fat. Cut up 1 or 2 heads of cabbage after it has been thoroughly soaked in salt and water, examined, and washed. Put it into the stock-liquor in the pot; wash and peel i lb. of potatoes, peel £ lb. of onions, slice these very finely, and put into the pot; also, £ lb. of liver, minced very finely, season with pepper and salt, and let it boil for two or three hours, stirring frequently from the bottom of the pan. Pass all through the wire sieve, mix thoroughly the liquor with the pulp, return to the sauce- pan, and keep warm; serve with either toast or crusts of bread, broken up into a basin, and the soup poured over. If there is no pot-liquor to use cut up lb. of green bacon, in dice, and boil with the soup. 90. Cabbage and Mince(Cologne recipe).—Choose a large, firm cow cabbage or savoy. Clean and boil it in the usual manner with the lid off, with soda and salt added to heighten the colour and make it savoury. Many Germans add a lump of6o LESSONS ON COOKERY. sugar. When it is well cooked, lift it on to the wire sieve and press all the water out, then place it on a hot dish, and cover with the following mince, which should have been prepared whilst the cabbage was boiling. Chop any cold meat very finely, season with pepper, salt, onions and herbs, chopped finely. Pass through the wire sieve 2 oz. (or more) breadcrumbs, so as to make the quantity, when mixed with the minced meat, sufficient to cover the cabbage. Cover the cabbage over with this mixture,'and bake it in the oven till it is quite brown on the top. Serve at once with gravy in sauce tureen. 91. Cabbage Stuffed.—Take a firm-hearted cabbage and cut out the stalk portion. Mince about four tablespoonsful of cold meat, also one onion, season this with pepper and salt, add one teaspoonful chopped parsley, stuff the cabbage, tie it in a flour-cloth, and boil for half or three-quarters of an hour, according to the size. Prepare a thick gravy. Take some stock from the stock-pot, put it into a clean saucepan, and put it over the fire to boil. Mix in a basin one tablespoonful of baked brown flour, season with pepper and salt, and mix with a little cold milk; when the stock boils, stir in the flour mixture, continue stirring till it thickens and boils, then pour into a hot sauce tureen and serve with the cabbage. 92. Choose full, firm Heads.—If white cabbage is used, the cow cabbage is best. Slice in fine delicate slices, place it on a dish or in an earthenware pan, cover it with salt, and let it remain on for twelve hours. Drain on a hair sieve or on a coarse towl, stretched and tied over the legs of an inverted chair, with a basin placed under to receive the salt water. When it is quite dry, loosely fill the bottles or jars. Put on the fire to boil 2\ quarts of vinegar with 2 oz. cloves, one tablespoonful of moist sugar, £ lb. of peppercorns, £ lb. bruised ginger, boil for half an hour, put it out into a basin or dish, and when quite cold pour over the cabbage. It will be ready for table in a week, and when thus treated the red cabbage retains its beautiful colour, whilst all the essence of the various spices are extracted by the vinegar in the process of boiling. Another Method is to slice the cabbage as before, and then put into a deep pan. Bake a beetroot; when cold, peel, slice, and add to the cabbage (some people prefer the beetroot raw). Put into a saucepan sufficient vinegar to cover the cabbage, add to it in the proportion of—1 oz. cloves, 1 oz. mace, peppercornsFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 61 c oz. to the quart of vinegar, also one tablespoonful of salt. Boil for ten minutes, and pour whilst at boiling heat over the cabbage. Next day drain off the vinegar, boil for half an hour and again pour over the cabbage ; repeat this operation on the third day. When it is quite cold, bottle, and it is ready for immediate use. 93. Cabbage Balls.—Mince some cold cabbage finely, mix it with equal part breadcrumbs, season with pepper and salt, bind with an egg. Form in large-sized balls, roll in flour, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on paper, sprinkle over with salt, pile in a pyramid, and serve hot with gravy. 94. Cabbage plain boiled with Egg Sauce.—Boil an egg hard, i.e., for half an hour, and place it in cold water at once on lifting it from the saucepan. Put some cabbage into a pan of clean water with a little salt and vinegar, let it lie an hour and then thoroughly examine it, cut each head in four, and rinse in clean water. Now place the cabbage in a saucepan over the fire with boiling water, a tablespoonful of salt, and a piece of soda as large as a hazle nut. Let. it boil until the cabbage is tender, drain on a wire sieve, and press the water thoroughly out. Make the sauce and have it ready to pour over. Shell the egg care- fully, remove the yolk, chop the white very finely, and stir it into some seasoned malted butter. Pour the sauce over the cabbage. Dry the sieve and press the yolk of the egg through it over the cabbage and sauce, and you will .have not only a tasty, but an elegant-looking dish. 95. Cabbage and Bacon baked. —Take any cold cabbage, chop it, and season with pepper only. Take some rashers of bacon, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with some of the slices of bacon. Add a layer of cabbage, and then bacon, until the pie-dish is full, putting a layer of bacon on the top. Mash, through a wire sieve, any cold potatoes with a bit of dripping, mix in also pepper and salt; put this as a crust over the cabbage and bacon. Place in a quick oven, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Slices of cold boiled bacon are nice re-w’armed in this manner. 96. Capers (Capparis Spinosa)—of the Capparidacece order of plants, chiefly grown in the southern parts of Europe. The unripe fruit, or flower-buds, are chiefly used ; they are prepared for the market by being pickled in white wine vinegar, and are often subject to poisonous colouring in the process. A few brands may he depended on, but very green capers are always objects of suspicion.62 LESSONS ON COOKERY. 97. Capers (Mock).—A preparation at once wholesome, cheap, and within the reach of the pocket of the working man’s family may be made by sowing in the spring, about the first week in May, 3 or 4 pennyworth of Major Nasturtiums (Tropceolum Majus), and gathering the young seeds or fruit as they appear. Choose a nice, fine day to pick the seeds, place them on a dish, strew salt over them for 24 hours, drain, and place in bottles. Boil for twenty minutes sufficient vinegar to cover them, with 2 oz. of 7vhite peppers to the pint of white vinegar, let it cool after boiling, and then pour over the capers, straining off the white peppers, which will do for other pickle after, or may be used for a second boiling of vinegar for mock capers. Green peas are sometimes pickled as above, a»d used for caper sauce. 98. Caper Sauce.—Take a tablespoonful of mock capers, chop them finely; prepare some melted butter, stir into it one tablespoonful of vinegar, add the mock capers, and serve in a tureen. This sauce is used with boiled mutton; it is nice with rabbit and fish. 99. Cake, Plain Seed.—Take 2 lbs. of flour, put it into a basin, rub into it 4 oz. of good dripping, mix £ lb. moist sugar, a heaped teaspoonful of baking powder, and 1 oz. of car- raway seed thoroughly with the flour and dripping. Take as much tepid water as will form it into a light dough. Mix well, but not too much, flour a baking-tin or tin pie-dish,and place in a hot oven and bake for about two hours, test with a skewer as in bread ; No. 76. When it is nearly done, brush over with a little milk or water, just to develop the dextrin and give the cake a glaze. Currant cake can be made in the same way, using \ lb. currants instead of the seeds. These are nice for children’s tea and supper, and will save butter in the winter season. 100. Cake for Family Use, a la Gothard.—lb. ground rice, ^ lb. Johnstone’s cornflour, 1 lb. households flour; mix well together. Rub lb. of dripping into the flour, &c., add ^ lb. moist sugar, one teaspoonful baking powder, half tea- spoonful carbonate of soda, and 1 lb. sultana rasins carefully picked ; mix all these dry ingredients well together, then drop in one egg, and sufficient water to make the dough, mix well and lightly, drop into a well-greased tin, but do not fill it. Let the dough fill about three-quarters of the tin, so that it may rise. Tie a band of greased paper, rising a couple of inches above the rim of the tin, place in a quick oven, bake for one and63 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. a-half or two hours, and test with a bright skewer. This is better two or three days after it is made. In fact, it improves by keeping. 101. Cake from Dough.—Take 2 lbs. of dough (see No. 76), put it into a large basin or pan, and place near the fire to keep it warm until you are ready to make the cake. Get •5- lb. of good dripping, lb. currants nicely washed, cleaned, and put down to the fire to plump, also 3 oz. of moist sugar. Put on the table a paste board, roll the dough out with a rolling-pin till it is quite thin, spread a third of the dripping, currants and sugar over the surface, fold in three, roll out again, repeat this operation twice more, work up lightly, fashion into rounds and place in well greased baking-tins. Bake from one and a-half to two hours, according to the quality of your fire and oven, and test as before. 102. Carraway Seeds (Carum Carvi).—A plant largely cultivated on the Continent, and in the South-Eastern Counties of England, for its seeds. It is very prolific. It is used as a sort of spice or flavourer. 103. Caramel, or Colouring for Soups, Gravies, &>c.—Put the sugar into an iron saucepan, stir it until it becomes perfectly black, add one quart of water, let it boil five minutes, strain, and bottle. A good colouring is made from chicory ; quarter of a pound put into a jug, and one pint of boiling water poured upon it. Strain when cold, and bottle. It is tasteless. 104. Coui’s-heel Stock.—Get a dressed cow’s heel from the butcher, i.e., a cow’s heel with the hair scraped off (not cooked in any way), wash it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and 1 tablespoonful of salt, let it come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully; when it has just boiled lift out the foot, scrape it and wash in cold water, and put on again in cold water (3 quarts); let this boil slowly for six or eight hours, stirring now and then, so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pot and burn ; skim all oil and fat off with an iron spoon into a clean jar, (the oil is useful foi domestic purposes.) Strain the liquor off the heel at the end of eight hours. (N.B. The heel will make excellent soup next day and the remains made up into collared meat, cow-heel pie, or savoury stew ; Nos. 106, 107, 108.) 105. Cow's-heel felly.—Take 1 quart of the stock, put it into a clean stew-pan, with 2 oz. lump sugar, the thin rind of the lemon and oranges, 1 inch of cinnamon, a lump of nutmegLESSONS ON COOKERY. <4 as large as a cherrystone, 12 coriander seeds, 6 cloves. Place the stewpan over the fire, so that the stock may dissolve whilst you wash and dry two eggs, and separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, keeping them in separate basins. Now crush the shells and put them into the basin containing the whites, beat them with a whisk a little, and add at once to the stock over the fire ; take your whisk, and after whisking for a minute, stir evenly the one way till the stock boils. Let it boil for two minutes, and lift carefully to one side to let it settle a little ; have ready the strainer as in No. 1 of this Series. Dip your moulds into cold water, turn them upside down for a moment, and then pour in the jelly that has been strained through the muslin. If the weather is hot, set in ice to cool. 106. Cow's-hcel Collard.—Take a cow’s heel after it has made either jelly or soup, cut the meat into dice and put bones and meat into a saucepan with three pints of water, season with pepper and salt, a little powdered nutmeg or mace (if liked), a bunch of sweet herbs, and let the whole stew slowly for three hours, stirring now and again in case it should burn. At the end of that time remove the bones. Have a hard boiled egg ready, shelled and cut into rings, place them as a sort of decoration in the basin, and after removing the bunch of sweet herbs, pour the whole into the mould or basin. Let set and then turn out on a clean plate, first dipping the mould into warm water for an instant. 107. Cow's-hecl Pie.—Slice the cow’s heel. Put on a plate one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful pepper, quarter teaspoonful nutmeg, mix well. Put the bones on to stew with an onion, some herbs and season- ing, let them stew whilst you finish the pie. Dip each slice of meat in the flour mixture, place it in even layers in the pie- dish, sprinkle dried herbs over and a little chopped onion. Pile the pieces up high in the centre. Now strain the gravy into the pie-dish. Make a cover for the pie of ordinary paste. Bake in a quick oven for an hour. 10S. Cow’s-heel Stew.—Cut the meat into neat slices, pare a small turnip and slice it, scrape, wash, and slice a carrot, peel an onion and slice it, put the vegetables in first, and the cow’s heel on the top, add sufficient water to keep the meat and bones well covered and slew for three hours, stirring now and again, adding more water if necessary. Quarter of an hour before serving add to the stew one tablespoonful of chopped65 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. parsley, also one teaspoonful of lemon thyme. Lay the meat on a hot dish when it is ready to serve. Pass the gravy through, and also the vegetables ; pour this over the meat, and garnish with fried crutons of bread or toast cut into triangles and place round, not sopped in the stew. 109. Cold's Heel Baked.—Cut the meat off the cow’s heel after it has been used for (105 or 106) soup or jelly; slice it. Peel and slice one onion, put a few slices in the bottom of a pie-dish, also a few bread crumbs. Lay the meat in season with pepper and salt, one or two cloves, the onion and bread crumbs being strewn over each layer. Put one or two pieces of butter or dripping over the top, add a teacupful of stock or water, and put into a moderate oven for half an hour. 1 ro. Cow's Heel Fried in Batter.—Prepare the batter as in No. 50, seasoning it with half teaspoonful of salt, and quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Boil the cow’s heel until it is quite tender, and whilst warm lift on to a dish. Cut in slices, dip into the batter, and fry in boiling fat until it is a bright golden brown, sprinkle over with salt when you dish it up. Fry some parsley and garnish ; send to table as hot as possible. nr. Carrots (Daucas Carota)—Is indigenous to this country ; in a wild state it is anything but the mild, agreeable food we find it when under cultivation. It is nutritious, but unless well mashed is not easy of digestion. It is rich in sacharine matter as well as in flesh formers. Long red carrots are best. 112. Carrots, Plain Boiled.—Wash and scrub 3 carrots. Put them into boiling water with salt and a piece of soda as large as a nut to heighten the colour. Boil with the lid off. Try whether the carrots are sufficiently cooked with a skewer, and, when done, take them up separately, rub the skin off, cut them even, and put into a saucepan with chopped parsley, and a bit of butter or dripping as large as a hazle nut. Toss them for a few minutes until warm and quite covered with the parsley and butter. Dish on a warm vegetable-dish. 113. Carrots mashed.—Boil the carrots as in No. 112; rub the skins off and pass through a wire sieve; mix a tiny bit of dripping with them, season with pepper and salt. Grease a cup and make little shapes of the carrot; place in a warm vegetable dish, and put into the oven a few minutes to warm. Serve hot. 114. Carrot-balls.—Boil three carrots as in No. 112, mash FLESSONS ON COOKERY. 66 them, and pass through a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt, add a little piece of dripping as large as a walnut; pass through a wire sieve about 2 oz. of bread crumbs, mix 1 oz. with the carrots, reserving the other ounce ; mince very finely 2 oz. of Australian or any cold meat; mix all well together ; break an egg into a basin, blend it a little, put one half to the carrot mixture; flour a board, and form into little balls, dip them into the egg. Have the spare bread crumbs in a piece of clean wrapping paper, toss the little balls in them, and fry a nice bright brown in boiling fat. 115. Carrot-pudding.—Scrape, wash and boil about i lb. carrots as in No. 112, pass them through a wire sieve into a basin, ■ add 1 tablespoonful of sugar, three drops of essence of lemon. Make a custard of 1 egg and a teacupful of milk; after blend- ing the two well together with the whisk, add to the carrots. Grease a pie-dish, pour in the mixture; place tiny pieces of dripping here and there over the top; bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 116. Carrot marmalade.—Scrape, wash and slice into thin rings, three pounds of bright red carrots; boil until they are quite tender ; mash them. Put into a large saucepan pints of water for every lb. of carrots. Slice on a plate, so as to save the juice, three oranges which have lain in strong brine for 12 hours; remove the pips, and add to the water in the saucepan; add the carrot, and boil for two hours, stirring every now and then to prevent its sticking to the pan. When the orange rind is tender, at the end of the two hours, add 1 lb. of sugar for every pint basinful of liquid in the pot. It must then boil for one hour, stirring the whole time with a wooden spoon. Put into jars, when cold, tie down with brown paper. Halfpenny oranges are best for this purpose, as the rinds, as a rule, are fine, and the flesh juicy. 117. Celery.—Apium gravelous.—Indigenous to this country and most parts of the Continent. Its natural habitation is near the sea-coast in sandy soil. Celery is usually sent to table in a raw state, and eaten as a relish, or dressed as a salad. It contains mannite, mucilage, starch, saccharine matter, and also an essential oil, which renders the plant useful when given in cases of dropsy. The seeds possess this oil in a greater degree than the other parts of the plant. Confections are made from the plant and the seeds on the Continent, and in this country both are used for savoury stews, soups, &c., as flavourers.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 67 118. Celery stewed.—Take a head of celery, steep it in salt and water for one hour; then thoroughly clean, trim the roots, take off and put on one side the outer stalks and leaves; cut the head in two (lengthwise), rinse in cold water; next put the celery into a pot with a little gravy, or stock and water, enough to cover it; add pepper, salt, and a bunch of herbs ; stew till it is tender; then lift carefully out of the pot and place it on a round of toast, cover with melted butter, and serve hot. The liquor in which the celery has been stewed must not be thrown away, add it to the stock-pot, and it will greatly improve the flavour of the soups or gravies which you will make from it. The outside leaves and trimmings ought also to be well washed, and added to the stock-pot; if not so used, they ought to be burnt in preference to being put into the dust- bin or ash-heap. 119. Celery soup.—Take the outer leaves and stalks of a head of celery, cleanse them well. Peel two onions, one carrot, half a turnip ; slice them, and put into a saucepan with one quart of stock, and one pint of water; add pepper and salt; let it all boil for one-and-a-half hours; pass through a wire sieve; mix it well with the liquor in which it has been boiled. There will now be about one quart. Put one table- spoonful of flour into a basin, mix with a little cold water until it is quite smooth, and sufficient water to make it into a thin batter. Put the soup back into the saucepan, taste it, and correct the seasoning, adding more salt if necessary. Let it come quite to the boil, and then stir up and pour in the flour mixture from the basin, stirring the soup during the time you are pouring it in. Boil for five or six minutes. Toast some bread in the meantime, cut it into dice, and serve on a separate plate, to be eaten with the soup. 120. Celery Syrup.—Take 1 oz. of celery seeds, put them into a brown earthenware jar with one pint of cold water, and place in a cool oven for two hours. Let it reduce to half a pint, strain it. Make a syrup of 1 lb. of loaf sugar by putting into a perfectly clean saucepan, with one teacupful of water. Let the sugar dissolve and come to the boil, skim and remove from the fire ; now add the decoction of celery seeds. A table- spoonful of this once or twice a day, if necessary, is given in cases of dropsy and heart disease, and is much in vogue amongst German medical men. 121. Charcoal is obtained from charred wood or bones.LESSONS ON COOKERY. 68 The former is called Vegetable Charcoal, the latter Animal Charcoal. Both are used as antiseptics and disinfectants. Slightly tainted meat may be restored by boiling it with char- coal in the pot. Cabbage when boiling may be divested of its disagreeable odours if charcoal be used in the preparation. It is used for filtering water, but must be frequently changed ; ' and in the sick room it is mixed with poultices, in cases of ,cancers, ulcers, &c., or laid over lints to prevent tendency to i proud flesh and gangrene; charcoal is also an antidote to several vegetable and other poisons. 122. Cheese: derived from the saxon word cyze. It is a highly nitrogenous food, and is made from milk-curd, which is separated from the milk by means of rennet, which turns the sugar of milk into lactic acid, and produces the same effect (only in a stronger degree) which you would obtain by pouring a wineglassful of vinegar into a pint of slightly-warmed new milk. The curd thus obtained is washed and pressed. The Dutch peasants’ cheese-making is the simplest process known. They collect the curd, place it in wooden bowls or shapes, and weight it down with heavy stones in lieu of the regular cheese press. This system of pressing causes the honeycomb appearance of the Dutch cheese. Cream cheese is made from the fresh curd of whole milk. Cohoick cheese is made from skim milk, is a good imitation of cream cheese, and costs about one-third of the money; it is a capital relish for supper when ripe. Cream Cheese is richer in fatty particles; skim milk is the most nourishing, and best fitted as an article of diet. Cheese is coloured principally with Annatto, and parti- cular kinds of cheese are coloured with sage leaves, parsley, marigold flowers, carrots, saffron, seaweed, &c.; and varieties of substances, such as potatoes, &c., are mixed with the curd to impart flavour, &c. 123. Cheese and toast.—Cut two rounds of bread from a stale loaf, toast it well and carefully; spread a little dripping over each slice whilst hot. Grate 2 oz. of American cheese, mix it with {- teaspoonful of black pepper and dry mustard mixed, spread evenly over the toast, put the slices one over the other on an old plate or baking-tin, and place in the oven ten minutes before you wish to use it. It must be eaten directly it is taken out of the oven. 124. Cheese Sauce for Toast (or bread.)—Take 2 oz. of American cheese (about one pennyworth), cut it into slices andFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 6 9 put into a clean saucepan with i dessert-spoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, and a mustard-spoonful of ready-made mustard, also half a teacupful of skim milk or small beer; toast some bread as in 123, stir the cheese in the saucepan over the fire, and when it is quite liquid pour over the slices of toast, which ought to be laid in a deep dish or soup plate. Eat whilst hot. 125. Cheese balls.—A nice little supper dish may be made from 2 oz. of cheese grated and mixed with any cold mashed potatoes, seasoned with pepper and salt and about 2 oz. of bread crumbs (or bread-crusts soaked in milk and squeezed dry); break an egg into a cup or basin, and whisk it for a minute, add half of it to the cheese, potatoes, and bread ; flour a board and form into little balls, dip in egg, and fry either in boiling fat or bake in a tin with dripping in the oven, turning the ball in the fat once or twice. 126. Take any cold potatoes that may be left from dinner (two or three), pass them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon. Grate the same weight of cheese, season it well with pepper and salt. Put the potatoes into a saucepan with about a teacupful of milk. Place the pan near the fire. Make a little plain, short crust; line well-greased patty-pans. Then take a wooden spoon, and, stirring the potatoes and milk over the fire, thoroughly mix them. They should not be sloppy, boil until it is thick, then stir in the seasoned cheese, lift at once off the fire, and fill each of the little patty-pans. Place a very tiny bit of dripping on the top of each, and bake till it is brown on the top. They must be eaten as soon as they are cooked. 127. Cheese and bread patties.—Soak the stale crusts in water till quite soft; squeeze them quite dry; beat them up in a little milk. Prepare the cheese as in No. 125, whip an egg and mix with bread, then add the cheese. Line some patty- pans with paste ; fill with this mixture, which ought to be about the consistency of bread-sauce ; bake for half-an-hour. 128. Cheese-cakes (Yorkshire).—These Cheese-cakes are to be found in every Yorkshire home, however poor. Farm labourers have them for breakfast and supper. They consist of curd, the great principle of which is cusein. It rapidly supplies the waste of muscular power, and is to them what Professor Buckman describes the Dorset cheese to be to his farming men. Recipe : get twopennyworth of nice freshLESSONS ON COOKERY. 70 curd, beat up two eggs and mix with it. Pick, wash, dry, and plump before the fire \ lb. of currants; mix them with the curd ; also two tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and about three drops of essence of lemon. (N.B. Twopennyworth of essence of lemon from the chemist will last a long time if properly used.) Line saucers or patty-pans with plain thick crust; put one tablespoonful into each patty ; bake in a quick oven for quarter of an hour. Curd is expensive to buy or make in the Southern Counties, although the milk can be turned by alum or rennet, bought from the druggist. 129. Castor Oil.—Ricinus Communis is obtained from the Palma CJiristi. It is cultivated in the South of Europe, West Indies, and United States. The oil is obtained from the seeds, which are bruised by means of heavy machinery and the juice expressed through bags. It is then exposed to the sun’s rays to bleach. The best quality is a pale light colour perfectly transparent. An inferior quality is extracted by subjecting the seeds to a stewing process and then resorting to pressure whilst the seeds are still warm. It is the safest medicine to administer to young children or delicate people. Castor Oil being difficult to administer, I will give two recipes which appeared in some of the medical journals, &c., and which I have proved of value. 130. Castor Oil for Children.—Take the prescribed quantity of oil, put it into a perfectly clean earthenware lined saucepan, drop in an egg, also one dessertspoonful of sugar, place the pan over the fire, add one teaspoonful of the strained juice of a lemon; stir rapidly until the egg and oil become perfectly blended, and the egg coagulated. Spread this on a plate, cover with plum jam and give to the child, either hot or cold. The former is best. 131. Castor Oil for Adults.—Dose, jounce. “Mix ina mortar ten grains of powdered tragacanth, with two and a half drachms of water (equal three teaspoonsful), pour upon this very slowly, drop by drop, | oz. of castor oil, stirring constantly with the pestal. When the mixture is complete, add three oz. of water, one oz. of syrup, and a few drops essence of almonds. This will form a white emulsion, pleasant to the taste, and superior to the method of giving castor oil in sherry, brandy, hot coffee, or milk.” This may be given with safety even in Enteritis. 132. Collops minced.—This is quite a national dish in Scot- land. Take about one lb. of juicy lean gravy beef, mince71 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. it extremely fine, put it into a basin with sufficient water to cover it, and beat it with a fork till all the little granules are separated; then put it into a saucepan with a small lump of butter as large as a walnut, season with pepper and salt; next place it over the fire, continue to stir it with the fork till it comes to the boil, being careful to keep the grains separate. Let it stew for twenty minutes, and serve with mashed potatoes. It is nutritious and digestible, and an excellent method of disposing of tough meat and obtaining a luxurious delicacy at little cost. 133. Cranberry (Oxycoccus palustris).—A fruit of the same order as the bilberry, and known in some countries as the mossberry, or moorberry. It is indigenous in bogs and marshy ground. They are valuable antiscorbutics. Large quantities are imported into this country from America and the Northern European countries. They make excellent preserves, delicious syrups and wines, and in cases of blood purifying they are found very useful. The fresh gathered Cranberries exposed for sale in our North and Scotch markets are preferable to those which are imported. 134. Cranberry tart.—Make a little short paste. Fill a pie- dish with freshly-gathered cranberries. Dissolve in a little water one tablespoonful of sugar, pour it over the fruit. Cover the pie-dish with paste, brush over lightly with milk, do not make the paste too wet, grate a lump of sugar over, and bake in a quick oven for half-an-hour. 135. —Cranberry jam.—Take 7 lbs. of freshly-gathered cranberries, put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of water • let it come to the boil, skim well; boil for half an hour; add 6 lbs. of sugar, and boil for three-quarters of an hour ; skim well, and then put into clean dry jars or bottles ; when cold, tie down with brown paper two or three thicknesses. 136. Cranberry syrup.—Boil 3 lbs. cranberries as in No. 135. Then put them into a bag made of a piece of white calico ; squeeze them till all the juice is expressed. Put into a saucepan 2 lbs. lump sugar ; add the juice you have taken from the cranberries; also one pint of cold water ; boil, and skim the dark brown froth off until the syrup is quite trans- parent ; bottle, cork, and seal the top of each cork. To cottagers whose children can gather the berries, this will be found an invaluable drink for them during the hot summer days, and costing only the sugar and the trouble of making.72 LESSONS ON COOKERY. 137. Cucumbers (Cucumis sativus).—Can be cultivated by cottagers in the South of England in the open air, with little trouble or expense. Three-pennyworth of seed and the trouble of making a bed, and covering up the young plants at night for fear of slugs, is all the trouble entailed, whilst the addition of a few jars of pickle, as a relish to bread and cheese, cold meat, &c., more than compensates for the time spent in their culture. Cucumbers may often be bought in the open markets at three a penny, but that is only when they are very abundant, and they are often more than over ripe. The skin is considered by some medical men as injurious, by others as simply indigestible, and some German doctor, writing on the subject about six years ago, expounded a theory in one of his country’s scientific journals, proving that cucumbers grown in green and hot-houses contained in the skin valuable elements, whilst those subjected to out-door cultivation contracted certain poisonous substances, which, however, like the poisons in the cassava, were dispersed by cooking. 138. Cucumber and Onion pickle.—Slice about 4 lbs. of cucumbers, and peel and slice the same weight of onions ; lay them on a large flat meat dish, cover them with i-^lbs. of crushed salt; let them remain on the dish twelve hours, drain and place in a large jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover the pickle (about two pints and <t-half will probably be ample), adding 2 oz. whole pepper, 1 oz. cloves, 1 oz. mace, 1 oz. bruised ginger. Let the whole boil for half-an-hour, strain and pour over the pickle in the jars whilst hot; repeat the same process, next pouring off the vinegar, and putting the spices to it again. After pouring the vinegar as hot as possible over the pickle, equally distribute the spices over the tops of the jars ; see that the pickle is well covered with vinegar, and, when cold, tie down with three or four thicknesses of brown paper. This will be ready for use in a week or ten days. 139. Cucumber Salad.—Peel and slice a cucumber, also an onion (parboiled if preferred). Mix in a teacup two table- spoonsful of vinegar, with one teaspoonful of salt, one ditto of sugar, one ditto of ready-made mustard, and a little pepper, also one tablespoonful of salad oil, if it is liked ; stir and mix well, then pour over the cucumber, &c. Garnish with cress and sliced radish.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 73 140. Cucumber Pickle.—If the cucumbers are old and likely to be tough-skinned, peel them, cut into lengths of about two inches, halve or quarter according to the size of the fruit. If the cucumbers are young, boil in water for quarter of an hour with 2 oz. of salt for every lb , and a piece of alum as large as a walnut to green them; then proceed to slice, &c. Put them into jars ; prepare a pickle as in No. 138. Let it become quite cold before adding to the cucumbers Cover the jars with brown paper. The pickle will be ready in three or four days. 141. Curry Powder.—It has been argued that the introduc- tion of curry powder into artizan cookery is a mistake, “no poor man could afford it.” I am quite certain that where they will eat it, the use of curry powder is an economy, and cheaper far than many of the sauces, mustard, and other condiments, which, although the rich may not always be aware of the fact, I frequently find used in cottages where one would least expect to see such aids to cookery. The use of curry is not at all hurtful if used in moderation, and will often make a dinner of vegetables as palatable as if meat were used. Indian curries are considered the best, and everyone who comes from India seems to have a different recipe. The recipe which I have found most successful was given me by a Singalese lady who was visiting in this country. The - curry powder I use for Class-teaching is Crosse & Blackwell’s, as I find it good, and of average strength. 142. Curried and Stuffed Eggs.—Put the eggs into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil a quarter of an hour; lift them at once into cold water, to preserve the colour of the yolk ; shell care- fully, cut a little lid off the broad end, scoop out all the yolk, and press it through a hair sieve ; crumble some dried herbs; on another plate mince of any cold meat, ham, beef or mutton, one tablespoonful; add to the herbs, season with pepper, salt (and chopped boiled onion if liked), mix with half the yolks, make into a paste, and stuff the eggs ; put a basin over the eggs, and put on a hot plate to keep warm a few minutes. Have ready the following mixture : 2 oz. apple, sliced; 1 oz. carrot, very thinly sliced ; one shalot stewed tender with cloves and mace, bayleaf, thyme, parsley. Press all through an hair sieve. Put this all into a saucepan with a little sauce, and the rest of the yolk of egg, and one dessert- spoonful curry powder, and stir till it thickens ; add one tea-LESSONS ON COOKERY, 74 spoonful of lemon juice. Arrange the eggs on a hot dish, standing on the cut open end, pour the sauce round, and serve, garnished with toasted bread. 143. Ciirried Fish.—Prepare a curry mixture as above (No. 142), leaving out the yolk of egg, and adding one table-spoon- ful of baked flour instead. Take any cold fish which may be left from any previous dinner, pull it into flakes and put it into the curry sauce. When quite warm, serve with toasted bread laid round the dish as a garnish. If the curry is liked very hot, add one tea-spoonful of white pepper to the above mixture. 144. Curried Meat.—Prepare the curry as for fish, cut the meat into small dice, stew for one hour in sufficient stock to keep the meat well covered, then add the curry mixture, stew for another half-hour, stirring well now and then to prevent the curry from burning. Dish and garnish with boiled rice. 145. Curried Rabbit.—The tinned Australian rabbits are delicious curried, and are much cheaper than the English rabbits. Prepare the curry as for fish (No. 143). When it is thoroughly cooked, open the tin and carefully lay the rabbit into the curry in the pan ; let it remain about ten minutes in the sauce at the side of the fire ; dish carefully. Garnish with a wall of mashed potatoes. 146. Currants.—Pass aloe Minores are a small seedless variety of grape dried in the sun. The berries are red or blue. They take their name from the Grecian City, where they were first known to be cultivated. They form a chief article of export from Greece and the Ionian Isles. Zante currants are sup- posed to be the best, but the island would not and could not grow all the Zante currants (?) offered for sale in the English markets alone. Currants when purchased ought always to be washed, picked, plumped, and dried before the fire, and then be carefully packed away in a box for use. If this were practised it would often save much time and labour. Currant is also the name applied to the fruit of the Ribes order, the size of the fruit being somewhat similar. They are the Ribes rub- rutn or red currant, of which the white is simply a variety • the Ribes nigrum and the Ribes sanguineum, or flowering currant, are all used in cookery. Especially excellent are the leaves of the latter as a flavourer, whilst the fruit supposed by the uneducated to be poisonous is really not so, but capable of being turned to very good account.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 75 147. Currant Dumplings.—Shred £ lb. of mutton suet, mix it well with i lb. of flour, add one tea-spoonful of baking powder, one table-spoonful of sugar, tea-spoonful grated nut- meg, £ lb. of currants. Mix well together and make into a light dough with tepid water. Form into dumplings, and either bake or boil. 148. Currant Cake (Yorkshire).—Cover a large plate with paste, and leave enough paste to make a cover. Put 2 oz. of washed and picked currants into the centre of the dish, strew over the top one table-spoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg; also one or two drops essence of lemon, a piece of butter as large as a nut placed in little specks here and there. Cover with the paste and bake for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. 149. Custard, Baked. Line a pie-dish with paste. Break an egg into a basin, blend it with the whisk, add £ pint of new milk, whisk it for a second or two to thoroughly mix, add one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two drops of lemon essence. Pour into the pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 150. Custard-pudding, boiled, prepare as in No. 149, only line a greased basin with the paste instead of a pie-dish ; put on a greased paper cup. Place the custard carefully into a sauce- pan with boiling water sufficient to reach within half-an-inch of the rim of the basin. Steam for i * hours. This pudding is delicious eaten with stewed fruit. 151. Coffee (Coffea Arabica).—In this country the seeds or berry of this plant are roasted or ground, and either an infusion or decoction made from them. The former is the proper method, as the valuable principle, the coffme, is lost in boiling. Coffee is good for people who suffer from sluggish action of the heart. It is a powerful brain-stimulator. In the East, the natives prefer the roasted leaves gathered just before the period of the flowering of the plant, but they lose their strength, fragrance, and most valuable properties in transit, therefore we still continue to use the seeds. 152. Coffee. Take two table-spoonsful of is. coffee, place it in a jug or coffee-pot, pour upon it one pint of boiling water, stir it and let it stand for ten minutes ; boil one pint of skim milk, add to the coffee in the pot, and serve at once. Coffee should never boil, or the essential oils will escape and its best proper- ties be lost. 153. Date Pudding. Chop a \ lb suet, very finely, put it into76 LESSONS ON COOKERY, a basin with ^ lb of flour and i table-spoonful of sugar ; stone and chop J lb of dates, mix with the flour and suet, drop in an egg, and add sufficient skim milk to work it up into a light batter; grease a pudding-basin and pour in the mixture. Steam for i\ hours. 154. Dates stewed.—Dates are almost as nice when stewed as primes; Take £ lb dates, put them into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of water, the juice and rind of half a lemon, about six cloves and a little lump of nutmeg. Stew slowly for half-an- hour; taste and see if the syrup is sweet enough; if not, add sugar to taste, lift out the dates, place them on a deep dish, and strain the syrup over. This should be eaten with boiled rice, corn-flour, &c. 155. Dory (Zensfaber).—This fish takes its name from the word Dor'ee, signifying golden or gilt, as it possesses a bright yellowish lustre. This fish was greatly esteemed by the ancient Normans, and at our own tables is considered a deli- cacy. John Dory is very plentiful on the Southern coast of England, and consequently very cheap, so it will not be out of place to give a few recipes for dressing it amongst the artizan cookery. If the fish is cheap you may safely buy a large quan- tity. Procure two-pennyworth of Acetic acid from the chemist, put it into a basin with a half-pint of vinegar, take a small brush and brush the fish you require to keep over with the mixture, lay on a clean dry dish so that the fish do not touch each other, sprinkle a little salt over, or hang them on a stick in a shady cool place without adding the salt, and the fish will keep some time. 156. Dory, Baked.—Clean the fish through the gills, trim the fins and spines, wipe the fish carefully ; make a stuffing of bread-crumbs, suet, parsley, thyme, and a little dried lemon rind. Moisten with milk, stuff the fish through the gills, put it into a tin pie-dish with sufficient stock to half cover it, place one or two pieces of dripping on the top, add three cloves, a blade of mace, pepper and salt; bake for twenty minutes, basting the fish every now and again. Strain the gravy before sending to table. Crusts are very nice put into the liquor, and baked in it with the fish, especially where there are children. 15 7; Dory,Grilled.—Have a clear cinder fire, grease a piece of white writing-paper for each fish, chop an onion, a little parsley, and thyme, and strew on the paper; clean and trim77 FOR TIIE USE OF SCHOOLS. the dory as in No. 156; rub the bars of the gridiron with chalk; place the fish on the greased paper; sprinkle with pepper and salt, fold it neatly up, folding the ends in tightly, place on the grid, and grill over or in front of the fire. Make a little thick gravy to serve with the fish ; be sure that it is nicely flavoured. When cooked, which will be in about ten minutes, take the fish up, send to table in the paper, and the sauce in a tureen. 158. Duck, to Bake or Roast.—I have seen cottagers treat themselves to a duck, and cook it in the most strange manner, and then declare that fat bacon was preferable. No wonder ! A clergyman of my acquaintance found one of his very poorest parishioners frying a duck for dinner in a dirty frying- pan, and loudly exclaiming because it was burning outside and not doing in. The simplest method for cottagers to try, is to bake or roast it. We will suppose the duck carefully plucked ; next cut the skin of the duck round near the head; remove the crop, and take off the neck close to the body; make an incision a little below the breastbone, and draw the bird. Take some salt and rub down the backbone; then pour boiling water from the neck through the body, letting it run along the back, the brown substance or sole will then be easily removed; wipe the duck dry inside ; steep the feet in boiling water, and remove the outer skin. 1 have seen some professed training cooks slovenly enough to stick the legs of fowls and ducks between the bars, but it is untidy and dirty, and ashes are not absolutely required as a coating to the breasts of poultry about to be cooked. Boiling water is the most correct method of freeing the skin from the flesh. Now light a piece of paper, hold the duck over the flame to singe off the hairs. Clean the giblets ; cut off the beak from the head, and plunge the latter into boiling water: skin it, and put all these on in a saucepan to stew. Prepare a stuffing of either— (A.) Three oz. bread-crumbs, one table-spoonful of chopped onion (put into a basin and scalded for ten minutes), one tea- spoonful crumbled sage-leaves. Drain the water off the onion ; mix the bread, &c., with them ; season with pepper and salt; moisten with milk, and stuff the duck. Truss carefully, turning the feet to rest on the back. Dust the bird over with flour; place it in a baking-tin ; it will be done in one hour in a smart oven. Or— (B.) Prepare the duck as above, and make the stuffing of7 8 LESSONS ON COOKERY, potatoes and onions, peeled, sliced, and boiled together till quite tender; drain and pass through a wire sieve, add minced or powdered sage-leaves and seasoning, mix well together with a fork, stuff the duck, truss and roast before a clear fire, basting well. Serve with good gravy made from the liquor in which the giblets have been boiled ; green gooseberry or apple sauce can be sent to table with duck. The giblets will make a nice pie with a little piece of coarse meat. 159. Dumplings, Suet.—Are a very nice addition to dinner, and can be either baked or boiled. Mince ^ lb. mutton suet, mix it with § lb. flour, add one tea-spoonful of baking powder, work into a light dough with water. Flour a board, form into balls, and either bake or boil as preferred. If boiled, flour cloths, tie the dumplings up, and have a pot on the fire with boiling water; plunge it in and boil for one hour. 160. Dumplings. Green Gooseberry (Nottingham recipe).— Pick 1 lb. of green gooseberries, make the suet dumplings as in No. 159, mixing the gooseberries and one table-spoonful of moist sugar, one tea-spoonful of ginger with it; tie up in a floured cloth and boil; serve with sugar and thickened milk as sauce. This makes a fine dinner for little people. Cherry dumplings, plum dumplings, &c., can be made in the same way and form; a nice change to boiled fruit puddings, besides being more substantial. 161. Dumplings, Norfolk,—Take 1 lb of flour, put it into a basin with 1 heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, mix well, add a little salt; make a dough of this with a little tepid water, have a pot on the fire with plenty of boiling water, form the dough into round balls, pop them into the pot, but be certain the water is boiling before they go in, close the lid down, and do not lift it for twenty-five minutes by the clock. Dinner ought to be quite ready then, and the dumplings served at once with gravy, stewed fruit, treacle or preserves ; they should be torn asunder with two forks; they will not be light if cut with a knife. 162. Drop Pudding.—Prepare a batter as in No. 52, grease a baking-tin and pour it in. Take any kind of ripe fruit, such as gooseberries, currants, damsons or plums, and drop them into the batter; bake as for ordinary batter, and serve with sugar and milk or thick milk for sauce. N.B.—In winter, raisins or currants can be substituted. 163. Dulse.—Rhcdomcnia falmata is a very common sea-79 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. weed used as food by the poor living near the coasts of Scot- land, Wales, and South-west of England, and I believe also in some parts of Ireland. It is said to be a great antiscor- butic, and to those who have much fish diet, especially salt fish, it is a wholesome and excellent corrective. In Scotland I have seen it used in the houses of the upper classes as a semi- medical resource, jelly being made from it, and the raw dulse being eaten at breakfast in the same way as mustard-and- cress or wTater-cress in England ; but it is an acquired taste. The jelly is made by stewing for a long time in milk, and treating it in a similar manner to Irish Moss. The per- fume of fresh dulse is very agreeable. 164. Destroying Flies.—Flies are particularly tormenting to cooks: the great question is, how to get rid of them, and better still, how to prevent them ? Flies, the large bluebottle especially, always indicate the presence of decaying or putrid matter, animal or vegetable. See that your dust-bins are really what they pretend to be, and not the receptacle for waste cabbage-leaves, pea-shells, radish-tops, turnip-tops, potatoes, and the like. Keep your sinks and drains sweet Look over the larder every day and turn out the corners. Let no little bits of meat lie about, and do not spoil ten or fifteen shillings’ worth of meat for the sake of three-pennyworth of lime or whitening to wash the walls of the kitchen or larder every four or six months. Brush all meat and fish and ducks over with acetic acid and vinegar mixed, during the very hot weather. This is the prevention. The cure is to boil 1 oz. of quassia chips in one quart of water till reduced to a \ pint, add one wine glass of old ale and one table-spoonful of treacle. Place it in saucers, and burn the flies as they are caught. This mixture is perfectly harmless. 165. Dock leaves as greens.—Gather the young tender leaves of the dock in the spring. Wash carefully in water, and put into a pot, with boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt and lump of soda as large as a pea. Cook with the lid off, pressing down the greens every now and then under the water; boil for twenty minutes. Drain on the steel wire sieve, press all the water thoroughly out and eat with roast meat, or give to the children with gravy. 166. Eels are not unlike serpents. They take their name from the Saxon cel; there are various species—sand eels, mud eels, conger eels, all good for table purposes ; the first are theSo LESSONS ON COOKERY, most delicate, the latter most nutritious, when fresh and not salted. 167. Eels (Sand), to fry.—Skin the eels by cutting the skin close round the head, and drawing it down over the body ; cut it into lengths of about 3 inches. Beat up an egg, grate some bread-crumbs, and dip each piece of the eel first in flour, then in the egg, and toss in the bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat till each piece is a delicate bright brown; drain on kitchen paper. Pile on a clean napkin, or white cloth, and serve quickly. 168. Eels (Mud) stewed.—Skin and cut the eels into lengths of about i i to 2 inches, wash thoroughly in salt, and water and drain. Put the pieces into a saucepan, cover with water or second stock, add six cloves, one onion finely minced, salt and pepper, stew slowly for hours. Then put into a basin, one table-spoonful of baked flour; moisten it with water, mince one table-spoonful of parsley, stir in the flour and water and parsley, let the stew boil for five minutes, stirring the whole time. Serve in a deep dish. 169. Eels (Conger), to boil.—This is quite a delicacy if pro- perly cooked. Soak a middle cut of conger eel in strong salt and water two hours, take it out, wash and clean; have a pot with boiling water on the fire, place an old plate in the bottom if you have not a perforated tray, and tie the fish in a clean cloth. Put one table-spoonful of vinegar into the water, and a lump of salt as large as a walnut. When the water quite boils again, put in the fish; boil gently till the flesh seems free from the bone, then lift the pot off the fire. Leave the fish in the water for two or three minutes, then lift carefully up, untie the cloth, and place on the dish for table. Serve with melted butter and parsley poured over. 170. Eel, Baked.—Conger eel may be baked as in No. 51, first soaking it in the salt and water, and then proceeding in every respect as for ling. 171. Eggs a?id Bacon.—Fry the slices of bacon first, then lift them out carefully on to thin, delicately-toasted squares of bread. Put this in the oven with the door open, or on the top, covered down with a plate ; break the eggs one by one into a tea-cup. Having broken the shell, be careful to slip it gently into the tea-cup, so as to preserve the yolk whole; next slip it from the cup into the boiling fat in the frying-pan ; cover the surface of the pan with eggs, and with an iron spoonSi FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. baste them well with the boiling fat. Take a penny egg-slice, and lift each egg carefully out on to the bacon. If properly basted, the surface of the egg will be quite white. 172. Eggs Poached.—Prepare some toast, and butter it, place it on a plate. Put on the fire a shallow saucepan with boiling water in it, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and a little bit of salt. Break an egg carefully into a cup, and slip it into the saucepan of boiling water, be careful not to drop from a great height, or the yolk will be broken ; boil for two minutes, then lift carefully on to the toast, dust a little white pepper on the top, and serve hot. 173. Egg Fritters.—Boil an egg hard (for half-an-hour), lift it out of the boiling water, and place it in a basin of cold water at once to preserve the golden colour of the yolk, and cause it to shell more readily. Prepare the batter as in No. 57, adding sugar, instead of savoury seasoning. Then shell the egg, cut it into thin rings, dip into the batter, fry in boiling fat, drain on thin wrapping paper (kitchen paper), and let them be eaten hot, with stewed fruit. One egg will make ten or twelve good-sized fritters. 174. Egg Salad.—Eggs boiled for half-an-hour or an hour are perfectly digestible. Therefore, all hard-boiled eggs should be given plenty of time to boil. Boil two eggs quite hard, slice them after steeping, as in No. 173, slice a Spanish onion in thin slices, place on a dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour a little vinegar over, to which has been added half a tea- spoonful of sugar. 175. Eggs in Cheese Sauce.—Boil the eggs as in No. 173, shell and slice them. Prepare the toast and sauce as in No. 124. Before pouring the sauce over the toast, lay in the slices of egg, let them remain in the hot sauce five minutes, lift each slice out with a spoon, lay on the toast, and pour the sauce over. To be eaten as soon after dishing as possible. N.B.—This applies to all dishes in which cheese is an ingredient. 176. Eggs Stewed and Cheese.—Boil the eggs hard, put them at once into cold water, after a few minutes shell them and put them into a stewpan with some good, well-seasoned stock ; let them boil quite twenty minutes ; lift the eggs on to a round of toast cut in half; boil the stock with a few pepper- corns, cloves, a tiny bit of lemon rind, until it is reduced; then strain over the eggs. Have ready grated 2 oz. dry GLESSONS ON COOKERY, S2 cheese, strew over the eggs, put pieces of butter here and there, and brown in the oven; serve hot. 177. Eggs Fried and Cheese.—Boil two eggs hard, shell, cut each egg into about six slices, fry a light brown, put on toast which has been buttered, grate 2 oz. cheese, season with pepper, pile over the eggs. Put pieces of butter or dripping in little tiny pieces here and there, brown before the fire or in the oven ; serve hot. 17S. Eggs and Spinach.—Boil and dress the spinach as directed under that head. Poach the eggs as in No. 172, and place carefully on the spinach. Eggs may be served on mock spinach by using lettuce, nettle tops, or cabbage sprouts, in either case very well boiled. 179. —Elder Flowers and Berries.—The elder tree (sam- bucus nigra), is one of the most useful wild products we have. Its flowers make most delicious wine and elder-flower water; they are also used for fomentations, ointment poultices. The leaves are used for ointments; from the inner bark is made a decoction ; cordials and syrups are made from the berries. 180. Elder-Flower Water is made by gathering about 7 lb. of the flowers, bruising them, and putting them into an earthen- ware pan; pour on them half-gallon of boiling water; cover tightly down so as to keep in all the steam or vapour ; stand the pan on the hob or near the fire so that it may cool gradually; when cool, filter through blotting paper. For the wine, see under head wine. 181. Elder-Flower Ointment.—This ointment is useful in cases of burns or scalds. Take 1 lb. of lard, beat it to a cream; add two-pennyworth oxide of zinc, and one-pennyworth glycerine, and 1 pint of hot (not boiling, however,) elder-flower water, mix it well with the lard, which should be slightly warmed; put it aside and let it stand till next day; pour off the water, warm it again and stir in about 1 tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. When required for use, spread on a little soft rag or lint. 182. Fat.—In many households there is a great waste of fat and grease; careless or dirty cooks will skim off the oil rising to the top of the soup and throw into the fire that which ought to be collected. Small bits of fat taken off mutton chops, left from breakfast bacon, or trimmed off a joint of cold meat when preparing to stew, &c., ought to be most carefully collected andFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 33 cut into tiny dice, put into a large saucepan, or, better still, stew-pan, covered an inch deep in water, and boiled well till the fat loses the muddy appearance and becomes quite golden, and the little scraps brown; then strained through the wire sieve into water. Even these scraps may not be wasted ; they make excellent little baked puddings and pies. 1 S3. Fat to Clarify.—In the above remarks, I gave you a recipe for rendering fat. To clarify, take any small quantities of dripping there may be collected together with the fat in your fish or frying stewpan or kettle, melt it, and strain through a wire sieve into a large clean pan, adding an equal quantity of cold water, and let it boil till all the water has evaporated; this you will know has been accomplished by the fat becoming perfectly still and the spluttering noise ceasing. Have ready a strong earthenware bowl half filled with water, strain the fat into the water through the wire sieve, let it stand till cold, remove the cake of fat, scrape the under side free from all black specks and impurities, and it will be fit for use. 184. Frying.—I would again remind the student that frying is nothing more nor less than boiling in fat, and that to fry properly no article of food to be so dressed ought to be put into the frying-kettle until the fat is thoroughly boiling; that is, when it is perfectly still, having neither noise nor movement. Always test the heat of the fat by a crumb of bread. After cooking, instantly remove the fat off the fire; do not leave it to burn and brown whilst you are dressing and garnishing the dish, or the fat will be spoilt by burning ; it might take fire, and so do great damage and mischief. Never pour water into boiling fat or the consequences caused by the act may be serious, as the fat will jump and splutter. 185. Frying Beefsteaks.—See that the beefsteak has hung for a day or two before cooking. If it is freshly killed place it in vinegar for twenty minutes to soften the fibre. At the end of that time wipe it carefully, dust it over with flour and pepper mixed, then see that the fat in the deep frying-pan is, first, suffi- cient to cover the steak; second, boiling. If so, put in the steak, fry till it is a nice brown on the outside, and have ready a couple of potatoes cut into thin rings. When the steak is done put the potatoes into the frying-basket, plunge them into the boil- ing fat, fry till they are a golden brown, drain them and sprinkle salt over, then place as a garnish round the steak. Chops should be fried in the same manner after removing the spare fat, boning, and trimmingLESSONS ON COOKERY, 84 186. Fig Pudding.—Chop very finely £ lb figs, also \ lb suet; put these into a basin with six ounces of breadcrumbs, one table-spoonful of flour, and one raw carrot grated ; moisten with a little milk, add a table-spoonful of sugar, grease a basin, put in the mixture, grease a paper and put over the top. Place this in a saucepan with sufficient water to come half way up the basin or within one inch of the top of the basin. Let it boil for two-and-a-half hours. Serve with thickened milk. 187. Fish to Fry.—Wipe the fish carefully, dip it into flour, and then in an egg broken into a plate and beaten up a little, toss in breadcrumbs, which should be placed in clean paper for the purpose, and put into boiling fat. Fry till they are a golden brown. Drain on paper, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a clean cloth. 188. Fish Cake.—Carefully separate into flakes any cold fish that may have been left from the previous day’s dinner free from bones ; if the pieces are very large, halve or quarter them, pass through a wire seive -i-lb of cold potatoes (if there are none left, boil ^-lb), season them with pepper and salt, add |-lb stale breadcrumbs or crusts that have been soaked in water. If the crusts are used wring them dry in a cloth and mix with the fish and potatoes; add 1 egg. Form into flat cakes, dip in flour, and fry a golden brown. If an egg can be spared for the outside so much the better; strew each cake over with a few breadcrumbs in this case. 189. Fish, Potted.—Take any cold fish, mince it very finely with a sharp knife, season it with pepper and salt, a little grate of nutmeg—only a suspicion of it—and a little powdered mace. Press it into a little glass butter-cooler or oval ware dish ; run a little clarified dripping or butter over the top. This is ex- cellent with bread for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish, or as a quickly-made extra dish for a meat tea. 190. Flummery.—This is a dish that is much appreciated in some of the North-west coast towns of England. The people consider it a good food for children or delicate people : ± lb of oatmeal is taken, put into a clean jar or basin, with one quart of cold water. It is placed on the hob near the fire and stirred frequently, until it has turned quite sour. It is then boiled like porridge, and eaten with new milk. 191. Frumety or Firmety.—Bruise 1 lb of wheat with a roll- ing-pin or wooden mallet to remove the outer husk, and slightly crush it. Put the wheat into a jar into the oven, withFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 85 three pints of skim milk, or one pint of milk and half-pint of water; let it cree for twelve hours, stirring now and then, and adding more water as the wheat may require it. This will keep a week or so. To use for table—Take three spoonsful of the cree, mix it with half-pint of new milk, add one table-spoonful of white moist sugar, half-tea-spoonful of mixed spice, and one > table-spoonful of raisins. This is delicious, made of new corn, [ and makes a capital dish, hot or cold, for summer use. In the ] North of England this is used as a Christmas dish. 192. Fruit Pies.—Fruit pies require careful preparation, so that the fruit may be thoroughly cooked as well as the pastry. Cottagers’ ovens are not always very good, and although the crust may be done to a turn, it is often found that the contents of the pies are half raw. This is particularly injurious to people of delicate constitution or weak digestion. If it is once found that the fruit will not cook in an oven, parboil it before putting into the pie-dish, and place a cup, tiny tumbler, or broken egg-cup in the centre so as to prevent the paste sinking in. 193. Fruit Puddings.—Soak ^ lb. stale crusts in cold water for two hours ; place a plate with a weight on the top of the crusts to keep them under. Whilst they are soaking, pick the fruit, and mince £ lb. mutton or beef suet. Wring the crusts dry in a clean cloth, put them into a basin with the chopped suet, two table-spoonsful of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and a pinch of salt. Mix well and lightly together, just adding enough water (if required) to make a nice light dough. Roll lightly and quickly out. Line a greased basin, half fill with fruit, then put in the necessary sugar, one or two table-spoonsful, according to the character of the fruit, i.e. whether sweet or acid ; pile the rest of the fruit well up, cover with the paste, grease a piece of clean wrapping paper, and put the basin into a pan with boiling water reaching to within one inch of the top of the basin. This crust is much lighter, more digestible, and cheaper than the ordinary pudding-crusts, be- sides being a method of using up old crusts—always a matter for the consideration of good housekeepers. 194. Fruit Staved for Children.—Take three or four pounds of fruit, place it in an earthenware jar with two table-spoonsful of sugar for every pound of fruit, pour over all the fruit one tea-cupful of water, put any crusts of bread on the top, place in a slow oven, and stew for three or four hours. Dish up byLESSONS ON COOKERY, 86 lifting out the bread first into a deep vegetable-dish or large pie-dish, then pour the fruit and syrup over. 195. Fruits, Mashed.—Strawberries, currants, plums, bil- berries, cranberries, &c., are often eaten abroad mashed with or without breadcrumbs for breakfast, and fruits like the apple grated and then whipped. Nothing can be more wholesome than this preparation of fruits, and the making gives no trouble. The fruit is generally passed through a wire sieve, a wooden spoon or presser being used for the purpose ; the penny- wooden potatoe-mashers used in the North and Midland Counties are just suited for sieve pressers. When the fruit is through, ^ lb. of breadcrumbs are lightly whisked in, a silver fork or wooden salad fork being used for the purpose (steel ought not to touch the fruit); then sugar is sprinkled over and the fruit piled high in a dish. This is eaten with bread or thin strips of toast, and is a fine cure for dyspepsia if used for breakfast with brown bread and a glass of fresh cow’s or goat’s milk. 196. Fruit Fritters.—A cheap and nice method of using large ripe fruits is by making fritters. Slice the fruit, such as pears, peaches, plums, oranges, apples, &c., into thin rinqs or slices, and lay on a plate so that the slices may be easily l fted out. Then make the batter of one table-spoonful of floi r made into a thickish batter with tepid water and milk in eqi al pro- portions, add one table-spoonful of crushed lump-sugar, whip the white only of an egg to a stiff froth and stir into the batter, dip the slices in, turn them in the batter and plunge into boiling fat; fry till they are a nice brown, lift out with the wire spoon, drain on kitchen paper, pile on a dish, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve hot. Strawberries are excellent cooked in this way. 197. Flour.—The flour in most general use in this country for making bread, pastry, &c., is wheaten flour. The great thing is to get the flour pure and free from such adulterations as plaster of paris, &c. The best method of obtaining pure flour is to grind the corn at home in your own mills; they cost from about 6s., and can be had at 429, Oxford-street, Lon- don. To test flour there are one or two easy methods: the first is, to take a handful of flour, squeeze it tightly in the hand, and then open out your hand; and if the impres- sion of the fingers is still on the flour, and it does not break or fall apart, that is a sign that it is tolerably freeFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 87 from foreign substances. Again, wet a small pinch of flour, take it between the finger and thumb, if it is glue-likc and will draw into a long thread, the flour is fair; a little practice with different kinds of flour will soon teach the student to apply this test with precision. Again, if the flour is adulterated with chalk, plaster of paris, whitening, &c., place one table-spoonful of the suspected flour in a tea-cup, pour in a few drops of acetic acid or strong vinegar; if it effervesces there is adul- terating matter in the flour. 198. Flour Porridge.—Take two tablespoonsful of flour, mix them into a smooth thin batter with a little cold water and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Have on the fire to boil one pint of skim milk ; just as it reaches boiling point, and begins to rise in the saucepan, pour in the flour mixture; stir well till it thickens. Let it boil for ten minutes to cook the flour ; pour on to plates and eat with sugar, treacle, new milk, or fresh fruit mashed as in No. 195. 199. French Beans, Italian fashion.—Prepare the beans as in No. 60, drain them on a wire sieve; put into a saucepan a lump of dripping as large as a walnut, a small onion chopped very finely, also minced thyme, and any other garden herbs that may be at hand, fry the herbs, &c., in the butter till they are cooked a little, then turn in the beans. Stir them round with a wooden spoon so that they become thoroughly mixed with the contents of the saucepan ; sprinkle over with pepper, salt and cayenne ; se ve on squares of buttered toast. This is eaten without meat, and forms an excellent method of dressing the vegetable for dinner or supper where meat is not required. 200. Fricasse of Beef.—Take half-a-pound of gravy beef from the neck (sticking part), cut it into neat slices, dip it into vinegar, and let it lie for 20 minutes. Then dry, flour the slices, taking care that every portion is well covered with the flour. Fry the meat in plenty of boiling fat until it is half done. Place the meat in a stew-pan with a small onion, two cloves, a little parsley, thyme; add one pint of second stock, or liquor in which meat or bones have been boiled, and let it stew for an hour-and-a-half. Thicken the gravy with baked flour, season with pepper and salt, and a little bit of lemon-rind. Arrange the beef neatly on a dish, strain, and pour the sauce over. N.B.-*-Cold beef may be used for this, but it must only simmer for about ten minutes or a quarter-of-an-hour in the gravy before it is thickened.LESSONS ON COOKERY, 88 2or. Fricasse of Rabbit.—Cut the rabbit into neat joints. I an old rabbit, lay it in vinegar for 20 minutes. Take it out, flour it well, and fry for about five minutes in boiling fat, drain and put it into a stew-pan with three cloves, six whole pepper- corns, salt, a small onion shred finely, thyme, majoram and parsley, about one teaspoonful when chopped, one small slice of carrot, and one of turnip, let it stew slowly in stock (on no account use water ; every careful housekeeper will have plenty of stock) sufficient to cover it for hour. When it is nice and tender strain off the stock, and put it into a clean saucepan to boil. There should be about two tea-cupsful of the gravy. Have ready mixed in a basin one table-spoonful of flour, and half ditto of cornflour mixed to a batter with a little milk ; pour this into the gravy, stirring the latter till it thickens, taste it and season properly; let it boil five minutes to cook the flour. Arrange the rabbit neatly on the dish ; pour the hot sauce over and serve at once. G. 202. Garlic.—The common garlic Allium sativum is the chief of our onion tribe, and the various species such as the onion, Allium Cepa; the leek, Allium Porrum ; the shalot, Allium Ascalonicum ; chives, Allium Schcenoprasum, are all more or less used in this country for cookery. The garlic itself is divided into cloves. It is very pungent. The aroma and flavour are imparted by an oil known as sulphide of allyle. The medicinal qualities of the bulb are well known, especially amongst Continental physicians. It is a powerful stimulant, diuretic, and tonic. Excellent in lung and dropsical diseases. Externally it acts as an irritant and resolvent. It is used in whooping-cough to produce counter irritation, and produce expectoration. Abroad the garlic is found in every savoury dish. 203. Garlic Mixture for Whooping-Cough.—One large gar- lic, minced very finely, and put into a bottle with one pint best rum; let it stand two days, when it will be fit for use. Rub the chest, back, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet well twice a clay with the rum, and give the marshmallow syrup, or linseed tea. If taken at an early stage this will save a doctor’s bill. 204. Garlic Vinegar.—This is much employed abroad, and for those who like the flavour of garlic it is an inexpensive and economical method of keeping garlic flavouring. TakeFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 8 9 one bulb of garlic, break it into cloves, peel them and cut each into two, put them into a perfectly clean, dry bottle, boil one pint of vinegar for ten minutes, or quarter-of-an-hour, pour it over the garlic, cork the bottle at once and seal it. It will be ready for use next day. One drop is sufficient to flavour a salad, and less will impart a delicate aroma to sauces where onion is liked. 205. Garlic Pickle.—Put into’a saucepan sufficient water to cover the quantity of bulbs you wish to pickle, add sufficient salt to make the water into a strong brine, in which an egg will float. Let it boil, and in the meantime place the bulbs into an earthenware pan, pour the boiling brine over; let it become quite cold and then peel them out of the brine and place them in dry bottles or jars. This method will greatly preserve the eyes during the operation of peeling. When the garlics have all been peeled see that each jar has about one inch from the neck free so that the vinegar may quite cover the cloves. Put into a saucepan sufficient vinegar to cover the pickle, and to every quart of vinegar add r oz. of whole black pepper, \ oz. pimento or long peppers, \ oz. horseradish, ^ oz. bruised ginger, \ oz. mustard seeds; boil for 20 minutes, strain over the garlic. The spices will do for other pickles if steeped in vinegar six hours and boiled as before directed. 206. Garnishes are always a subject of consideratioafor the good cook. Parsley is the most common form of garnish used, and is sent to table in its natural state for cold meats, butte r cheese, &c., but it must be fried when sent t© table with fried meats, and minced when intended to garnish hot vegetables, or any warm dish. It shows a great amount of ignorance on the part of a cook who either neglects this or really does not know it. It is as well in every house where there is a garden attached, or means to carry out the plan, to identify certain dishes with different garnishes. For instance, garnish cold fowl with watercress, cold ham with young carrot tops, which are feathery and light, cold fish with fennel or asparagus leaves. In fact there are multitudes of garnishes for cold dishes with- out always resorting to parsley. Sliced lemon cut in half, and almost quartered, is used as a garnish for hot or cold fish ; curries, veal, fowl, turkey, and all white meats. 207. Pickled Ora?iges and Lemons.—Put the lemons and oranges into separate brine pickles, strong enough to float an egg. Let them lie in it for three days ; drain and put into90 LESSONS ON COOKERY, dry bottles. Prepare a pickle of white wine vinegar in which has been boiled i oz. mustard seed, i oz. whole pepper (white), 2 oz. bruised ginger, i tablespoonful white sugar, strain and add to the lemons and oranges when quite cold, keep the fruit in separate and distinct bottles, so that the oranges may not colour the lemons—but serve together at table. Fit for use in six months. Currant jelly, mountain ashberries pre- served, and barberries, are used as garnish, and eaten with game. Sliced beetroot is used with cold boiled beef, and * forms a very pretty garnish if prettily cut out into shapes, &c., and contrasted with a little white turnip, and relieved with something green. The over-dressing of dishes is as much to be avoided as sending them to table without any decoration at all. 208. German Pancake.—Take any stale slices of bread, soak them in cold milk for ten minutes, put into the frying-pan one ounce of dripping, let it become boiling hot, beat up an egg, dip each slice of bread in the egg, or brush it over, cover it thoroughly, fry a golden brown in the fat, place it on a dish, spread some home-made preserves over, and it will be found to be a dish fit for a king, besides disposing of the stale bread-, The egg may be diluted with a dessert-spoonful of milk. 209. German Pudding.—Toast some slices of stale bread quite brown, say two, put them into a pie-dish with a layer of jam between, make a cold custard of one egg, well beaten, and sufficient milk to fill the pie-dish; also one tablespoonful of moist sugar, mix all well together, and pour over the toast in the pie-dish ; let it stand for twenty minutes or half-an-hour be- fore baking, then put a little piece of nice dripping on the top, and bake brown. 210. Giblet Soup.—Buy a set of nice giblets, wash them well, add 1 lb. of bones, and simmer for four hours with an onion, bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Remove the bones, which will do boiled again as second stock to use for pies, hash, or gravies, and is preferable to cold water. Cut the giblets into little dice. Mix in a basin one table-spoonful of baked flour, one tea-spoonful of caramel, and sufficient water to make it into a batter; put the soup and giblets back into the sauce-pan, let it come to the boil, stir in the thickening, stir till it again boils, taste, correct the seasoning by adding what may be deficient; serve with toasted bread on a separate plate.91 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 21 t. Giblet Pie.—With a set of giblets buy either x lb. of ox-cheek or i lb. of shin of beef. Clean the giblets thoroughly, and if they are goose giblets soak them in salt and water for half-an-hour; this will take away any strong taste. Cut the gizzard into four slices, the heart in two, plunge the pinions into boiling water and with a knife remove the pen feathers. If there is a head pour boiling water on it also, and skin it, then split it open, remove the eyes and take off the beak by chopping. Cut the ox-cheek or shin ot beef into neat little pieces the size of the slices of giblet, dip each piece in a mixture of one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. Put all the pieces into a stew-pan and stew slowly for two hours covered with second stock. Have ready a pie-dish and some plain dripping paste, and when the giblets and meat have stewed the proper time place all in the pie-dish, cover with paste, and bake for half-an- hour. 212. Ginger is the creeping stem, or rootstock, of the Zingiber officinale. The plant is reedlike in structure, possesses a powerful essential oil and a kind of resin, both of which are imbued with excellent qualities. Ginger is a strong stimulant, powerful sialogogue and stomachic. It is cultivated in the East and West Indies for market use, and is barked before being sent to market. 213. Ginger Cordial.—This is extremely useful for very young infants subject to colic or for grown-up people of dys- peptic habits of body. Take 1 lb of lump sugar, put it into a clean sauce-pan with half-a-pint of water, boil it to a syrup, skim, and when it is quite clear pour it upon \ lb. of bruised white ginger in a jar; fasten the jar down and let the syrup remain till next day, strain it off, heat it to boiling point and again pour over the ginger. Dose, one teaspoonful. Tie up the jar with thick brown paper. Method No. 2.—Prepare the syrup as above, No. 213, and add one dessert-spoonful of the strong tincture of ginger, which can be home-made by putting 3 oz. of powdered ginger (home-ground) into a pint bottle and filling it up with rectified spirits. Cork the bottles and seal. 214. Ginger Cakes.—Beat \ lb. dripping to a cream with a wooden spoon, beat in 1 oz. of ground ginger, and l lb. moist sugar ; add one egg and 1J- lb. of dried and sifted flour. The flour must be dried in the oven and passed through the wire sieve. If the flour is good, it will require no liquid inLESSONS ON COOKERY, 92 the mixing, but if it does, add a little water. Flour a baking- tin, and place the ginger cakes in little rough heaps. Put them into a very quick oven so that they may set at once, and not spread over the baking-tin. One tea-spoonful of baking powder makes the ginger cakes nice and light. 215. Ginger Piidding.—Four oz. of bread crumbs, 3 oz. of suet well chopped, one tablespoonful of ground ginger, two table-spoonsful of moist sugar. Mix all the dry ingredients well together. Beat up an egg with a cupful of milk, mix with the other ingredients, pour into a well greased basin, grease a piece of clean wrapping paper, place over the top, tuck in the edges of the paper, and put into a saucepan with boiling water sufficient to come within one inch of rim. Boil for two hours and serve with stewed fruit or thickened milk. 216. Gingerbread Squares (Scotch recipe).—Put 2 lbs. of coarse oatmeal into a basin, strew over it 4frd mix in one tea- spoonful of baking powder. Make a hole in the centre. With 1 lb. of treacle, mix £ oz. of ground ginger and one tea-spoonful of mixed spice, and-Hb. of melted dripping. Now pour it into the hole, and stir the whole into a stiff dough with a wooden spoon or round stick. Grease a baking-tin, flour a paste-board, place the dough on the board, and roll it out to half-an-inch in thickness ; brush it over with egg; cut into squares of three inches each way, lift carefully on to the tin, bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. This is a useful sweet- cake for children, as it may be made the vehicle for introdu- cing medicines, such as cod liver oil, simple aperients, etc., which are covered by the ginger. 217. Ginger beer Powders. — K J lb. of lump sugar reduced to a fine powder, i-oz. carbonate of soda, ■§• oz. pow- dered ginger; mix this well, and put it into 12 equal parts, in 12 separate papers, on which write at once the No. 1. Take 1 \ oz. tartaric or citric acid, divide it also into 12 equal parts, and number the papers 2. To use, dissolve the contents of No. 1 in a glass three parts full of water; then stir in No. 2, and drink whilst in a state of effervescence. 218. Gingerbeer (American recipe).—I have to thank Messrs. Collins, Bros., of New Jersey, for the following excellent recipe for ginger-beer. Put into an earthen pan 1 lb. of lump sugar, 12 oz. bruised ginger, lemon sliced and the pips extracted, also £ oz. of cream of tartar. Pour one gallon of boiling water over. When it is milk-warm take a whisk and beat in93 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. vigourously £ pint of brewers’ yeast, or i oz. German yeast mixed to a liquid with powdered sugar. Whisk it well, cover with a cloth, let it stand for 15 hours, skim off the top, strain through a piece of an old tablecloth or dinner-napkin, bottle. If it is liked, after skimming, merely stir and bottle without straining ; thus it can be either clear or with the ginger as preferred. In bottling, only half fill the bottles. 219. Goose, Roast.—Pluck the goose carefully, reserving the feathers for after picking and drying; singe carefully by ‘ lighting a piece of kitchen paper and holding the goose over it, then commence to draw, and prepare as in No. 151. Make a seasoning of 3-oz. stale bread-crumbs, half tea-spoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, i-oz. of parboiled onions, and one tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage leaves. Truss and place a greased paper over the breast. Roast for i i hours ; if the goose is large, serve with apple sauce. In Ireland they frequently stuff the goose with mashed potatoes and onions ; seasoned with salt and pepper it is excellent. P>aste well during the roasting, and prepare good brown gravy. 220. Goose, Irish.—See Chap. V., Lesson 10, Examp. 3. 221. Goose, Mock.—Take four fresh hocks of pork; the portion of the leg above the foot; they will be very cheap. Score them as you would a leg or loin of pork; next bone them with a sharp knife, or if you cannot find time to perfectly bone them loosen the flesh round the bone; prepare a nice stuffing as for goose, No. 219, press it well in between the meat and the bone, roast for about one hour, or bake for the same time in a quick oven, basting well. Serve with apple or gooseberry sauce. Even salted hocks are nice treated in this manner. 222. Gooseberry.—An indigenous plant in this country. Ribes Grossularia. It is the same genus of plant as the currant. Cultivation has wonderfully improved the fruit, of which there are many varieties. It is a very wholesome fruit and is largely employed in making preserves, mock champagnes, as well as for general domestic purposes. In fact, a great deal of sparkling gooseberry wine is sold in this country as cham- pagne at very high rates. 223. Gooseberry Fool.—Take 1^ lbs. of gooseberries, pick them, scald them by putting them into a saucepan with a little water, let them come to the boil. If green berries they must cook a few minutes; pass them through a wire sieve. Sweeten the pulp, and put on one side until they are a little cool, putLESSONS ON COOKERY, 94 a pint of new milk in a dean pan on the fire to boil with two lumps of sugar and a tiny lump of nutmeg as large as a cherry stone; when it has boiled, remove the nutmeg and mix gradually with the gooseberry pulp. Stir well, or rather beat well, until it is nearly cold; place in a glass dish for table. 224. Gooseberry Pudding.—Pick | lb. of green gooseberries, mince % lb. mutton suet, mix them both with 1 lb. of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder and one tea-spoonful of moist sugar; mix with enough water to form the whole into a firm dough; mix with a knife, do not touch with the fingers more than you can help. Grease a basin well with a piece of kitchen paper as a medium between the dripping and the fingers, drop in the dough; grease a piece of clean paper, place over the top of the pudding, and place the basin in a sauce-pan con- taining sufficient boiling water to reach within one inch of the top of the basin. Steam thus for one-and-a-half hours ; serve with thickened milk. 225. —Gooseberry Pudding.—When gooseberries are plentiful, a suet crust may be made of ^ lb. mutton suet minced finely, one teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with it, and a | lb. of flour. Form into a paste with tepid water; grease a basin, line it with the paste, reserving enough for a cover, half fill with gooseberries, then add one tablespoonful of sugar, put in the rest of the berries, cover with the paste, wetting the edges round first so as to make the paste adhere and prevent the syrup from boiling out. Grease a piece of clean paper and boil as directed in No. 224. 226. Gooseberry Drop Pudding.—Pick 4 lb. 0f ripe berries, make a batter pudding of two table-spoonsful of flour put into a basin, one egg dropped in and one tea-cupful of milk added by degrees until these ingredients are made into a smooth batter; now add another cupful of milk, one tea-spoonful of sugar. Have ready in the oven a dripping-tin with 1 oz. of good dripping melted in it, pour in the batter; drop in the berries quickly and place in the oven to bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. 227. Gooseberry Jam.—I have myself used this recipe for more than ten years and have always had excellent keeping jam. Pick the berries, weigh and put them into a preserving pan with one teacupful of cold water, let the fruit boil for one hour, skimming well and carefully. At the end of the hour add | lb. of sugar to every pound of fruit, boil for another hour,FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 93 then pour into clean dry pots, and when cold tie down with two or three thicknesses of brown paper. 22S. Gravy.—It is a general complaint that much otherwise good cooking is spoilt by the gravy sent to table. A leg of mutton or roast of beef is apt to sutler much from the hands of an incompetent cook when she sprinkles salt over the joint, saturates and washes it with warm water and calls that gravy ; or, when thick brown gravy is wanted, takes and washes out her not over-clean dripping-pan, mixes a little raw flour with it, burns some sugar in a spoon, and succeeds in spoiling sugar, spoon, and gravy by thrusting the ash-covered spoon into the mess ; covering all its defects by large quantities of salt, half bottles of sauces, and relishes! No wonder people suffer from indigestion and dyspepsia! A good housewife and cook will always have for her gravies, ist, some Second Stock (see Stock); 2nd, Baked flourfor thick browti gravies', 3rd, Boiled Flour for white gravies and sauces; and 4th, Caramel to use when colouring is necessary (see No. 95). Again I would impress upon the student that unless glaze is used, and glazing necessary, gravy should never be poured over a roast or baked joint, and a gravy of salt and hot water never sent to table. 229. Gravy, thick brown.—Take one pint of second stock, or the liquor in which bones have been boiled, place it in a clean sauce-pan over the fire, add a tiny bit of mace, season with salt and a little pepper, let it come to the boil, mix in a basin one table-spoonful of flour which has been baked in the oven a deep rich brown (a store of this should always be kept for brown gravies by putting 1 lb of flour on a flat tin in the oven, and baking it a rich nut brown, not black), passing it through a wire sieve and bottling for use ; it gives the gravies a rich taste, and the flour is already cooked. With half-a-teacupful of cold stock, stir this into the boiling stock, stir till it thickens, let it boil for one minute and serve. If the stock is very poor you may use a tea-spoonful of sauce. 230. Gravy, clear brown.—Take some second stock sufficient for your dish or joint; put it into a sauce-pan with a small bunch of sweet herbs and a bay leaf; season it with salt, add one tea-spoonful of sauce, and one or two drops of caramel if the colour is not deep enough; let it come to the boil, and strain round the meat, not over. 231. Gravy, white.—Abroad the most exquisite whitegravies or sauces are made for many of the entrees, and it is to the pro-LESSONS ON COOKERY, 96 per preparation of these I would specially in this example draw the attention of the student. For although entrees are not admissible in Artizan Cookery, yet where the materials cost little we may as well render the cottage home comfortable as not. To prepare the flour is the most important part of the whole secret; it is simply taking t lb of flour, or more if you use large quantities, press it tightly into a basin, pressing it down with the bowl of the spoon. When the basin is quite full, flour a cloth and tie it tightly over the basin. Have on the fire or stove a sauce-pan with boiling water, place the basin with the flour in this, and let it boil without ceasing for six or eight hours. Take out the basin, remove the cloth whilst it is hot, and then put the flour on one side to get quite cold. When it is cold, remove any portion that may look like paste, and rub the flour through a wire sieve, bottle for use. For the tv kite gravy take one table-spoonful of this boiled flour, put it into a basin and mix quite smoothly into a batter with a teacupful of cold stock ; put into a clean saucepan over the fire another teacupful of nicely flavoured white stock. Pour in the flour mixture when the stock in the saucepan comes to the boil, let them boil together for three minutes, stirring all the time, and then serve with whatever meat you wish, with or without garnish. Melted butter made with boiled flour is richer to the taste and requires less butter than that made with the raw material. 232. Gravy, clear white.—Is made from veal, rabbit, chicken, or any white stock ; it requires no colouring, and the flavouring must be simply sweet vegetables. To render it quite clear requires the white and shefH of an egg boiled up in it for three minutes and allowed to stand; carefully skim off the froth, or strain through a clean napkin or glass-towel. 233. Gruel, Scotch Oatmeal. — Put on the fire pints of water; when it boils add about one table-spoonful of the coarse Scotch oatmeal by taking the meal in the left hand, and a wooden spoon (or stick) in the right. Stir rapidly with the spoon whilst you let the little grains of meal fall in a thin shower from your clenched left hand until it is all in; then stir for a minute or so, and let it boil from 20 minutes to an hour. For serving, season with salt and butter, or sweeten with sugar, and add wine, nitre, or whatever the medical man orders. This gruel is aperient as well as healing. 234. Gruel, English Oatmeal.—The English meal as a ruleFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 97 is much adulterated with barley-flour, and if kept long becomes sour and bitter to the taste. It is well only to have small quantities at a time and to buy only from respectable corn- chandlers and dealers. Put f of a pint of water in a sauce-pan on the fire to boil, take one dessert-spoonful of the oatmeal flour, put it into a cup or basin, moisten it and render it like a smooth batter with a tea-cupful of cold water. Pour this into the boiling water over the fire, stir till it thickens, let it boil ten minutes or a quarter-of-an-hour. Sweeten and flavour, or season with salt, as the patient may require. 235. Gudgeon.—Many little boys in the country catch quanti- ties of these fish, and I have seen them thrown wastefully away where they might have made a wholesome supper or breakfast for the children, who, with once showing, could clean the fish themselves. Scrape off the scales, holding the fish by the tail, cut off the fins with an old pair of scissors, rip open the fish, clean, wash, and wipe dry. Dip each one in flour, plunge it into boiling fat, and let it remain there till it becomes a golden brown. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve hot. H. 236. Haddock, to boil.—If you have not a proper fish-kettle to permit the fish to be put in its whole length, boil it in an ordinary sauce-pan ; fix the fish’s tail in its mouth ; after clean- ing it thoroughly, tie it up in a clean cloth; place a plate in the bottom of the sauce-pan to prevent the cloth burning; put enough water in to well cover the fish, also a table-spoonful of salt, and one of vinegar ; let the water come quite to the boil, then put in the fish; in about ten or fifteen minutes you may try if the fins pull out easily, and if so the fish is done; lift the pan on to the hob; let the fish rest in the water for a couple of minutes, then lift it out carefully on to a dish, untie the cloth, and serve either on a clean hot napkin, with lemon garnish, or make a melted butter and pour over. 237. Haddock, baked.—Carefully clean the fish well, wash and wipe quite dry ; now rub well into the inside a mixture of salt, pepper, and flour; cut up a small onion, and mince some parsley and thyme, place in the fish; put it into a tin pie-dish with one tea-cupful of water, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, pepper, salt, one tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a bay or laurel-leaf. Bake in the oven for half-an-hour. 11LESSONS ON COOKERY, 98 238. Hake Cutlets.—Cut a nice fresh hake into thick slices after it has been well cleaned, wipe each cutlet quite. dry, flour it well all over; fry in plenty of boiling fat till quite brown. The great secret of having good fried-fish is to have the fat both plentiful and quite boiling. Fried parsley must be used as a garnish, and some good thick brown gravy with a table- spoonful of vinegar (see No. 229) makes a cheap and delicious sauce piquante. 239. Hake (dried), boiled— Soak the fish at least twenty- four hours before you use it, unless you prefer it very salt. Choose thick white-looking fish, which has not the appearance of having been turned rancid by exposure to the sun. Change the water at the end of twelve hours, scraping and cleaning the fish thoroughly; let it lie in the clear fresh water till you require to use it, then lift it out; dry it in a cloth. Have ready a sauce-pan with boiling water, to which add one table- spoonful of vinegar; place the fish in this, and boil from ten minutes to a quarter-of-an-hour. When thoroughly cooked lift it out, drain it, put a tiny piece of dripping or butter over, dust with pepper and serve hot, or with melted butter. 240. Hake (dried), fried.—Soak and dry the fish as in No. 239, and cut into neat pieces about three or four inches square. Prepare a batter as in No 57, flour the pieces of fish separately, cover with the batter, and fry in boiling fat. When a bright brown, drain on paper. 241. Hake Pie.—Cut a fresh hake into cutlets, and sub- divide each into two or three pieces according to its size. Put on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half-a-teaspoonful of pepper, mix well together; dip each piece of hake in the mixture, chop a small onion up very finely, strew it in the bottom of a pie-dish with 2 cloves and a little chopped thyme and parsley, place the pieces of hake in till the pie-dish is half full, then sprinkle more herbs ; add 2 bay-leaves, and then pile the rest of the pieces up, keeping them well raised in the centre; add 1 tea-cupful of second stock, make a little short crust, cover the pie, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. 242. Halibut Steaks—Are cheap and plentiful in the Northern and Midland counties, but they are often spoilt by bad cookery, and come to table tasting greasy and of burnt fat. They must be fresh, wiped dry, and dipped in flour; if it can be afforded to use an egg and some breadcrumbs as well as99 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. the flour, it is a great addition ; if not, they can be made to look and taste very nice with only the flour, ist, see that the fat is thoroughly boiling, that all the spluttering noise has ceased and is silent; 2nd, that there is enough to cover the steaks, and that it is sweet and fresh. When the steaks are a nice brown, lift them carefully on to a paper to drain before placing on the dish ; serve hot with good gravy or white sauce. 243. Halibut Marinade.—Melt a piece of dripping as large as an apple. Mix with it one table-spoonful of vinegar. Place the fish steaks on a flat plate, pour this mixture over, turn it , every 20 minutes or half-an-hour, and let it stay on the plate in a warm place for an hour-and-a-half, then dust it carefully over with flour, chalk the bars of the gridiron, and broil the fish over a clear cinder fire. 244. Ham Shank, to boil.—Very often a profitable little shank or knuckle of ham may be bought from grocers’ shops at a cheap rate, being the end of the ham, and not saleable as “ sliced ham.” If properly treated, three, or even four good dinners may be manufactured out of one of these, costing about is.3d., or is.8d. at the outside. Put the shank in soak for about twelve hours, scrape and clean it well, so that the water in which it is covered may be clean ; then place it in a large pot with sufficient water to cover it; let it come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully. When it is done, carefully remove the outer rind, which is perfectly indigestible, grate a few bread- crumbs from the top side of a well-browned loaf, serve with greens, or mashed turnips, but be sure that no vegetables are boiled with the ham, or it will taste of them, and spoil both ham and vegetables. 245. Ham Rissoles.—Mince ^ lb. cold ham, season with pepper, &c.; mince £ oz. onion, a little thyme, parsley, &c., also a tiny piece of lemon-rind, mix with the meat. Now grate £ lb. stale breadcrumbs, add to the meat; also one egg. Mix thoroughly, flour a board, form into little balls, dip each ball into a little egg, cover thoroughly with it, and then toss the ball in breadcrumbs. When they are all made up, have a quantity of fat at boiling point, test it with a piece of bread; if that browns quickly, the fat is ready : place the balls in a basket, and fry. Serve either on a napkin, or with some rich brown’gravy. 246. Ham Stew.—Cut the meat in nice slices, dip them in a mixture of flour and pepper. Cut up an onion, one carrot, h 2LESSONS ON COOKERY, IOO one turnip; put the meat and vegetables in a sauce-pan, with one pint of stock. Let it stew till the meat is tender, then thicken with baked brown flour; garnish it with toasted bread. 247. Ham Bone Soup.—Pound the bones with a large hammer until they are well broken up. Put them into a pot with 3 pints of cold water and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Whilst it is coming to the boil, skim well, and prepare the vegetables, ;viz:—One carrot, one turnip, two onions; cut them into | dice, and when the water in the pot fairly boils, add them, \) also a little pepper. Let it boil for four or five hours ; thicken with either oatmeal (coarse Scotch is the most nutritious), or Symington’s pea-flour, and boil till well cooked, say half-an- hour to one hour. 248. Heart Stewed a la Gothard.—Lay the heart in salt and water, cut off the deaf ears, scrape a carrot, peel a turnip, and wash them together with a leek (or a Portugal onion, if preferred). Chop them up, and place in the bottom of a stew-pan with 1 pint second stock, and a few herbs. Prepare a stuffing in the proportion of 1 table-spoonful coarse Scotch oatmeal, put into a basin with 2 table-spoonsful of water, and leave to soak whilst 1 oz. of mutton suet is minced, and b oz. onion. Now mix with the oatmeal, season with pepper and salt, and put into the heart tubes. Lay the heart on the vegetables, and stew for 1^ hours. If the heart is larded it is a great improvement. 249. Heart, to roast. — Parboil the heart, putting it into boiling water, and letting it boil for one hour. Then have ready a nicely prepared veal stuffing ; fill the heart tubes with this, put a greased paper round the heart, and have plenty of good dripping in the tin to baste the heart with. Keep it well basted for half-an-hour, then remove the paper and still keep the meat basted. Prepare a thick brown gravy, and put it into a hot tureen. Ten minutes before dishing the heart, ' dredge it over with flour. Dish every part of the dinner required to be served with the heart, and send it in before attempting to take it from the fire. Have the dishes and plates very hot, and serve on a dry hot dish. 250. Heart cold, to hash.—This may be prepared as in No. 251, but care must betaken to keep it well supplied with stock whilst cooking, and to serve very hot. 251. Hash d la Gothard.—After many trials to make a tender, palatable dish of hash, in contradistinction to theFOR THE USE CF SCHOOLS. IOI usual charming English composition of flour, water, leather, and onions, commonly receiving the cognomen of hash, success at last crowned my efforts, and the following is the result. If the dinner is at one o’clock, this hash must be prepared, and in a slow oven, by nine a.m. Pare all the meat off the bones in finely-shred slices, being careful to cut the way of the grain. Put on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful salt, £ ditto pepper, a little powdered mace, a little grated nutmeg (if liked); mix well. Take a small mushroom and one onion, shred finely, and strew in the bottom of the pie-dish ; dip each piece of meat in the mixture on the plate, and lay in the pie-dish in even rows. When the pie-dish is half-full, put two bay-leaves, a few mixed herbs (dried and passed through a strainer), and three bruised cloves; fill the dish till three-parts full, then take one tea-spoonful Worcester sauce, one pint of liquor from the stock-pot or stock jelly (on no account use water), strew 2 oz. bread crumbs passed through a wire sieve over the top, cover down with kitchen paper, and bake in slow oven four hours. 252. Haricot Beans.—Haricot beans may be soaked two hours before using, and a piece ot soda put into the water greatly assists in the process of rendering them ready for boiling. After soaking, drain and pick the beans over care- fully, removing withered or grub-eaten beans. Put them into a saucepan (say half-pint haricots for dish), with one dessert- spoonful of salt and cold water; let them boil at a moderate rate for about two hours, try them, and if tender, strain. Chop about two table-spoonsful of parsley very fine, and wring it in the corner of a towel after mincing. Now put the beans back into the saucepan with 1 oz. of butter, the parsley and the juice of half-a-lemon, saute them and put them into a hot dish and serve quickly. 253. Haricot Bean Soup.—Plain boil as in No. 252, drain and mash through a wire sieve, add to the pulp thus obtained one pint of good flavoured meat stock, and half pint-of milk; re-flavour with a little onion, season with pepper and salt, boil up, and serve with crutons of fried bread. 254. Haricot Beans and Mince.—Put the beans into a sauce- pan of cold water with a little piece of soda as large as a pea. The beans may be boiled at once without soaking, and if boiled rapidly for two-and-half hours, are quite as tender as if soaked all night; strain and dress as in No. 165, and make them102 LESSONS ON COOKERY, into a wall round a meat dish. Have ready some cold meat minced very finely, and mixed with a tea-cupful of bread- crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, &c., enough stock to make it moist, and seasoned with dried herbs. Put this over the fire, stir it until it is hot, then pour in the centre of the wall of haricot beans. This makes a cheap nutritious and tasty little dinner. 255. Haricot Beans, jried.—Cold haricot beans left at dinner may be most deliciously served up next day by simply frying them in boiling fat, sprinkling them with salt, and serving on dripping toast. 256. Herbs, to grow and dry.—Nothing is more easy than to have plenty of herbs for kitchen use, even in the heart of London and large cities. Get a few herring or soap boxes, bore some holes through the bottom, put a layer of small stones in the bottom to act as a drain ; fill the box with a mixture of silversand and soil. Place the boxes in the windows of the kitchens, where they can have light and heat. Sow the seeds of chervil, thyme, or whatever herbs you wish to grow, and you will always have plenty of nice fresh herbs with little expense, and only the trouble of watering now and again. To dry herbs, gather on fine bright days in dry weather, and just before the period of flowering. Wash them, and if it is wished to retain a very green colour (in parsley, for instance), just plunge them into boiling soda water, and then place them on clean paper in a cool oven, leave the door open, and let them dry very gradually indeed. Pound, and sift the leaves ; bottle and cork up for winter use. 257. Herb Pic.—Two table-spoonsful of parsley, thyme, mint, mustard and cress minced very finely, three leaves of borage, and asmall heart of lettuce shred up. Place in apie-dish, covered with well-seasoned stock ; let them stew for twenty minutes in the oven, and prepare an ordinary light batter, well seasoned. Pour off the stock, pour in the batter, cover with a crust, and bake for three-quarters-of an-hour. 258. Herrings, how to choose.—See that the flesh is firm, the eyes clear, the gills red. Never be persuaded to buy limp looking herrings, they are bad ; and stale fish, like putrid meat, is highly poisonous. 259. Herritigs, rolled.—Clean, remove the head, and bone the herrings, mince one shalot, a little parsley and thyme, grate some breadcrumbs (or soak the hard crust of a loaf, and whenI03 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. it is quite soft wring it as dry as possible in a cloth), mix with herbs, salt, and pepper; place a little of this inside each herring, roll them up, fasten each with a small piece of white sewing-cotton wound round, dip each little roll in flour, place in a pie-dish with some good stock, a few cloves, pepper, salt, one lump of sugar, and two table-spoonsful of vinegar; bake one hour. 260. Herrings, fried.—Wash and clean the herrings, wipe dry, dip in flour, fry in boiling fat till they are a good golden brown. They may be prepared as in No. 259, only, instead of baking, fry in plenty of fat after flouring. Drain on paper, pile on a dish, and send to table hot. The roes may be fried separately. 261. Herrings, baked.—Clean the herrings, carefully remove the heads, flour each herring, place them head to tail in a greased pie-dish till it is quite full; then put a cupful of stock in the dish and some bread-crumbs piled over the top, with little bits of dripping here and there. Bake in the oven for one hour, and serve to table in the same dish. 262. Herringsy potted.—Bone the herrings and put them into the oven to bake in a little stock ; remove the outer skin, place them in a wooden bowl or basin, pound them well with a wooden potato-masher, season with pepper, salt, mace, nut- meg, &c., when they are about half-done. When quite reduced to a pulp pass through the wire sieve, press intolittle oval pots, and run a little dripping or butter over the top. 263. Herrings, home-cured.—No. 1.—Foi quick consumption, clean, scale, and cut open each herring, wash and dry them ; rub salt thoroughly into each one, then dust pepper over, take a little stick and fasten or skewer each one open, string them on a line or on a stick through the eye and hang in the open air, and use as they are wanted. They will keep two or three weeks. No. 2.—Procure a good strong tub, butter-firkin, or a large barrel, if 'you wish to pickle a large quantity. Clean the herrings ; but do not wash them, lay them in regular rows in the barrel with layers of salt between, a layer of salt at the bottom of the barrel, and finish with salt at the top. They will keep as long as you like treated in this manner, and to cook simply require soaking in cold water a few hours before cooking. No. 3.—Make a brine of salt and saltpetre in the proportion of i oz. saltpetre to every 2 lbs. of salt used; this quantity is sufficient for 6 quarts of water. Put the water inLESSONS ON COOKERY, 104 a pan over the fire, let it boil five minutes, add 2 oz. of coarse moist sugar, skim carefully whilst boiling; when it is quite cold, pour over the herrings, which ought to be laid in regular rows in a pickling-tub or barrel kept purposely for fish. On no account wash the fish ; they must be cleaned and wiped dry, and the heads taken off or left on at will. Let the herrings lie in the brine twenty-four hours, then take them out and hangup to dry. If smoked herrings are liked, this can be done by taking a number of herrings on an iron rod or stout stick, fastening them to the inside bottom of a butter-tub or little barrel open at one end, and, with that exception, air-tight as possible. Light a little fire of oak-chips or any chips, so that you have oak sawdust to sprinkle on the top. When the fire has thoroughly kindled, place several handsful of oak-chips or sawdust on the top, invert the barrel over the fire, prop it up a little with a stone, so that there may be a draught of air. and let it remain in the smoke for two days; feeding the fire, of course, from time to time. This makes a nice change to the plain pickled herrings, and where herrings are cheap and plentiful the careful housewife cannot do better than provide for the home circle so wholesome and good a food in as many different ways as possible, especially in the present heavy price of meat. 264. Horse-radish, Armoraisia Rusticana.—It much re- sembles Aconite, as the leaves are somewhat similar ; but it may easily be distinguished, as the roots are larger, thicker, and have a strong pungent smell. The plant is found growing wild in the hedges and ditches, but it is only the cultivated roots which are used either as sauce, garnish, &c. The horse-radish contains a volatile oil, and all the most important principles of the plant depend on this oil being retained ; therefore, in pre- paring it for table, it should be scraped or grated only a few minutes before it is used, as the oil quickly evaporates and leaves the root useless. The qualities of horse-radish are dietetic, antiscorbutic, stimulative, diuretic, anti-rheumatic, diaphoretic, and cosmetic; the latter when used in conjunction with milk and outwardly applied. Eaten by itself it has the same effect as mustard on the stomach, producing nausea. Eaten with meat assists digestion by exciting the action of the gastric juices, like mustard. 265. Horse-radish Vinegar is best made in the autumn, about October. Wash the root quite clean, grate £ lb. mince, two orFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. three shalots, and put at once into a bottle ; cover with one quart of good vinegar, cork and seal, shake for a minute or two every day or so, and at the end of eight days it will be ready for use, and form a capital relish for roast meat. A few drops (15) in half a cup of water makes an excellent gargle for sore throat and in the early stages of diphtheria. 266. Hotch-Potch.—The most noted hotch-potch in the world is that made at the George the Fourth Hotel, in Edin- burgh. Epicures, statesmen, poor students, lawyers, men about town, ladies, all crowd thither in the sweet spring-time to taste this well-known dish at this well-known hotel. It was the fashion forty years ago, and the fashion has not worn out. The dish is made by carefully stewing a solid joint, say 2-lbs. of mutton or lamb neck chops (nicely trimmed), for about two or three hours. In another saucepan, in two quarts of good, well flavoured stock, made from bones and parings of meat, are stewed 4 oz. of young carrots, 2 oz. of turnips, \ oz. of onion, 2 oz. of young French beans; these stew till within a quarter-of-an-hour of the dish being required; then there is added seasoning of salt, pepper, &c., one head of blanched lettuce, shred fine, and the sprigs of a cauliflower. About one quart of peas are boiled in a separate saucepan. They are plunged into boiling water, with salt and soda, to make them an elegant green colour, and boiled for five minutes or less if the peas are quite fresh and very young. To each basin of hotch potch is put one chop from the stewed mutton, one measure (half-pint) of the vegetable stew, half a measure of peas, and one table-spoonful of very finely-chopped parsley. I. 267. Ice for the Sick Room.—The following, from the Lancet, may be of infinite use, not only to the student but the general reader in case of need :—“ It has been the practice of Mr. Sampson Gamgee to cut a piece of flannel about nine inches square, and secure it by a ligature round the mouth of an ordinary tumbler, so as to leave a cup-shaped depression of flannel within the tumbler to about half its depth. In the flannel cup so constructed pieces of ice may be preserved many hours—all the longer if a piece of flannel from four to five inches square be used as a loose cover to the ice-cup. Cheap flannel, with comparatively open meshes, is preferable, as the water easily drains through it, and the ice is thus kept quiteLESSONS ON COOKERY, io6 dry. When good flannel with close texture is employed, a small hole must be made in the bottom of the flannel cup ; otherwise it holds the water and facilitates the melting of the ice, which is nevertheless preserved much longer than in the naked cup or tumbler. A reserve supply outside the bed-room door can be secured by making a flannel cup, on the plan above described, in a jug, and filling it with little lumps of ice, care being taken that there is space enough below the bag to allow the water to collect and leave the ice dry. This provision will allow ice to be used during the hottest night without the supply failing or the patient being disturbed.” 268. Irish Moss (Chondrus Crispus) is a sea-weed much used as an article of diet amongst the poorer inhabitants on the North and West coast of Ireland. It is also used medicinally in this country in cases of chest disease. It is known also as carraigeen, and was what may be termed a “ fashionable remedy ” some thirty years ago for consumption. It is still used, however, and contains very valuable properties. 269. Irish Moss Blanc Mange.—Take 1 oz. of the moss, soak it in cold water over night; rinse it well; put it into a sauce- pan with i|- pints of new milk. Stir it frequently, and leave it simmering near the fire for two hours ; sweeten, and strain into a mould. 270. Iceland Moss.— People are very apt to confound these two mosses (Irish and Iceland), as both are used in cases of consumption ; but the Iceland Moss( Cetraria Islandica) is quite distinct in taste to the Irish moss. In fact, the former is a lichen. Its taste is almost identical with reindeer’s milk, having a sort of wild bitterness. In Russia and Lapland a strong spirit is made from it. In Iceland it is ground up and used somewhat like flour. It is rich in saccharine matter, and car- bonaceous food. It is this quality for which it is used for delicate people. It has also tonic properties. 271. Iceland Moss Jelly.—Take 1 oz. of Iceland moss, put it into an earthenware pan or basin with 1 gallon of cold water, in which is dissolved £ oz. carbonate of soda. Let it remain in this solution for two or more hours, to remove the bitter- ness. Wash it well in clear cold water twice. Next place it in a stewpan with 1 quart of cold water; let it stew slowly for three hours, keeping the moss covered ; strain and sweeten. Pour into a pint mould. The liquor should reduce to 1 pint in the process of cooking.FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 107 272. Isinglass.—I would say a word about isinglas. If you cannot afford to purchase the pure isinglass, which runs from 15s. to 18s. per oz., Nelson’s loose gelatine will answer the purpose quite as well, for most of the isinglass is simply a very pure gelatine, most frequently never made from fish gelatine at all. The best gelatine is supposed to be made from the swimming bladder and sounds of the sturgeon ; the second quality from fish bones, such as plaice, skate, soles, &c., after the fishmonger has filiated them. 273. Isinglass Jelly (savoury).—Take i oz. pure isinglass; put it into a saucepan with one quart of water, six peppercorns, six cloves, quarter salt-spoonful of salt, and a crust of bread from the top side of the loaf; stir till the isinglass is melted ; let the water simmer away to about one pint or rather less ; beat up the crust well so as to be equally mixed with the jelly; dip a mould into water; lift the saucepan with the jelly off the fire, pick out the cloves and peppercorns, pour in a small glass of port or sherry, mix and pour the whole into the mould. If stood in ice, this will be found an excellent sick- room food where it is necessary to feed and give cooling jellies to the patient. If isinglass cannot be had, Nelson’s gelatine (loose), will answer the purpose, using f instead of £ oz. J. 274. Jams.—General directions for making jam will be suffi- cient to guide the student. For instance, rhubarb, blackberries, and all fruits of a like wet nature, require to be boiled for an hour, or even two hours if it is a wet season, skimming well before adding the sugar, or the jam will not keep ; this is to evaporate the water, or over-supply of moisture. Weigh the fruit previous to boiling, and then add, after it has boiled a sufficiently long time, in the proportion of 5 lbs. of sugar to every 7 lbs of fruit; boil for three-quarters of an hour to an hour. All jams that are wished to keep are best boiled first and well skimmed before adding the sugar. 275. Jelly, Cow's Heel.—See No. 105. 276. Jelly Fruit are nearly all similar in their method of manufacture. The fruits, whether they be currants, bilberries, gooseberries, blackberries, &c., all require first boiling ancl stirring, with one quart of water added to the 7 lbs. or gallon of fruit. This must boil from three-quarters of an hour to an hour over a clear fire, being well and carefully skimmed the whole time. Then strain through a clean cloth, being careful not toI08 LESSONS ON COOKERY, press the fruit so as to render the juice muddy or thick ; then clean out the preserving pan, return the juice to it with i lb. of loaf sugar for every pint of liquid, skim well and let it boil rapidly for half-an-hour. Put into dry jars or moulds, and when cold tie down securely with brown paper. 277. Jelly Rusk.—This is a most useful jelly for the sick-room, and may be iced in summer. Take three rusks (cost id.), roll them into crumbs, place them in a sauce-pan with one quart of water, two or three pieces of lemon-peel, and a little sugar, let the whole boil, stirring frequently, until it is quite a stiff jelly; pour into a basin. The basin may be set in ice, and a spoonful of this administered alternately with other food. N.B.—It is not well to make food for the sick- room too sweet, rather let the patient ask for more sugar than give them a loathing for their food by supplying too much. 278. Jelly, strengthening.—One ounce sago (crushed), 1 oz. rice, 1 oz. best pearl barley, wash well in a sieve or strainer, and put into a sauce-pan with three pints of cold water. Stand the sauce-pan on the oven for one hour, so that just a gradual heat may come to the grains in it; then move it on to the fire and let it come to the boil, stirring the while. Now let it simmer for another hour, strain through a hair sieve, add a tea- spoonful of strong essence of beef or a glass of port, as maybe ordered by the medical man in attendance, and other season- ings as the case may permit. This jelly may be sweetened with sugar and eaten with milk. K. 279. Ketchup, Walnut.—Take 2 lbs. of the green shells of the walnuts (cost id.), put them into an earthen pan with 2 lbs. of salt; stir them frequently the first day; the second, take a wooden potato-masher, beat them well; the next day repeat the operation till they are quite like a pulp. Now drain off the liquor by pressing through a coarse towel; be careful not to squeeze the shells with your hands or they will be very much stained for some days; the shells may be returned to the pan; well beaten, another handful of salt sprinkled over and left till next day, then strained, the juice added to the rest. If the shells are fairly young and fresh gathered, there will be about three or four quarts of liquor; put this into a sauce-pan with £ oz. cloves, * oz. long pepper, 2 oz. ginger, 1 oz. whole pepper, 1 oz. mustard seeds, all well bruised,FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. ICQ and three shalots. Boil for two-and-a-half-hours very slowly, strain and bottle. Cork and seal the bottles ; it will be ready for use at once and will keep for years ; used for flavouring stews, hashes, steaks &c. 280. Knuckle of Mutton, Stewed.—A knuckle of mutton can often be made into a tasty little dinner, whilst it contains a good deal of bone and may be bought cheap. Plunge the \ knuckle into a sauce-pan, having sufficient boiling water to cover it; let it boil fast for five minutes, then pull it back from the fire and let it simmer for about four hours. As soon as the knuckle has boiled the five minutes, add the following vegetables, cleaned and cut into small dice, and let them stew for the four hours with the mutton :—1 oz. of carrot, 1 oz. turnip, ^ oz. onion, -l- oz. celery or a dozen celery seeds, six cloves, six peppercorns, one tea-spoonful of salt; now place 1 oz. of sago in half pint of cold water and let it soak. When the meat has stewed for the required length of time, lift it out and keep hot, pass the gravy through a sieve, passing the vegetables also through ; return it to the sauce-pan, let it come to the boil, stir in the sago, boil for five minutes, stirring the whole time ; flavour with sauce, season, and pour round the knuckle. L. 281. Liver Balls.—The German peasants make some of the nicest dishes possible out of liver; a few may be useful, and only require to be tasted to be thoroughly appreciated. Liver Balls are made by mincing finely 2 oz. of boiled liver. The water in which the liver is boiled is just sufficient to cover it, and, instead of being given to the pigs or thrown out in front of the house, is used for gravy. After mincing the liver, 2 oz. of breadcrumbs are taken (or even stale crusts soaked, in lieu) and mixed with about one tea-spoonful of finely chopped herbs, and an onion also minced. This is all seasoned with pepper and salt, bound together with an egg, formed into balls or flat cakes, egged over and fried in plenty of boiling fat. A thick gravy is made with the liquor and served round the balls. 282. Liver Pie.—Prepare a seasoning of an onion, parsley, and thyme, well minced. Soak any stale crusts in cold water and wring them dry ; mince 2 oz. of fat bacon. Mix all this well together. Mix on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half tea-spoonful of pepper; cut the liverLESSONS ON COOKERY, no into thin slices and dip each piece in seasoned flour. Put a layer of liver in the bottom of the pie-dish, then a layer of the seasoning, and so on alternate layers until the dish is full. Let the last layer be liver, and pile it well up in the centre of the dish; put half-pint of stock for gravy, cover with a short crust, brush over with milk, and bake in an ordinary oven one- and-a-halfi hours. 283. Liver, stewed.—Cut the liver into thick pieces, about three inches long and two thick. Mince some thyme, parsley, and an onion. Cut some thin slices of fat bacon. Dip each piece of liver in flour, lay it on a strip of bacon, sprinkle a few of the herbs on the liver, roll it tightly up in the bacon, dip it again in flour, and lay on a plate till all the other pieces are similarly rolled. Now in the bottom of the saucepan or stew- pan place some rings of carrot, turnip, onion, &c.; place the rolls of meat on this. Add sufficient stock, seasoned with salt and pepper, to cover the rolls, put on the lid, and let the •whole simmer, not boil, for one hour. Lift the rolls out care- fully on to a hot dish, pass the gravy through a wire sieve, heat in the pan for a minute, and pour round the meat. 284. Liver Mince and Potato.—Mince 1 lb. of bullock’s liver, also \ lb. mutton suet; put into a basin with half pint of cold water and beat up with a fork, season with pepper and salt. Put the whole into a sauce-pan over the fire, beat with the fork until it is quite hot and all separated into little grains, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for twenty minutes; peel, boil, and mash ii or 2 lbs. of potatoes, make them into a wall round a meat dish, put it in front of the fire to brown. Mince 1 tea-spoonful of parsley, and five minutes before serving stir it into the mince, pour the mince into the centre of a potato-wall, and serve hot. 285. Liver, stuffed.—Choose a call’s or sheep’s liver. Lard it carefully with little pieces of fat bacon. Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, thyme, parsley, a little piece of lemon-rind, 2 oz. suet; mix with a little milk. Grease a small baking-tin, spread the stuffing in the tin, lay the liver over, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 286. Linseed Tea.—Quarter-pound linseeds put into a jug with the rind of 2 oranges and juice strained, also 1 oz. lump sugar. Pour on i| pints of boiling water, stir frequently until it cools, when it will have the appearance of bright golden wine. This is an infusion. The decoction of linseed is pre-FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. Ill pared by boiling, but should not be given in cases of weak digestion. 287. Lemon Syrup.—One lb. lump sugar moistened with the juice of three lemons, and the grated rind added; one quart of water, bring to the boil, stirring with a wooden spoon all the time. Boil up twice, strain, cool a little, and bottle. Dose, 1 tea-spoonful to 1 gill of water. 288. Lemon Paste for Cheese Cakes.—Put 1 lb. of butter and 1 lb. of sugar into a clean sauce-pan, stir till the sugar is melted ; add the juice of 2 lemons; put the yolks of 8 eggs, and the whites of four, into a basin, blend well, add the grated rind of 2 lemons; now stir this into the mixture in the pan, let it boil gently (stirring the while) till it looks like honey ; pour into a dry pot when cool, cover as you would jam, and it will keep for twelve months or more in a cool dry place. N.B.—This paste is equally good without the butter, and will keep longer sweet. 289. Luncheon Cakes.—Put into the oven and dry r lb. of flour, when it has been in about ten minutes take it out and pass it through a wire sieve into a clean basin; add 1 tea- spoonful of baking powder, 4 lbs. of ground rice (it can be bought at 2d. per lb. and ground in the coffee-mill), also £ lb. Johnston’s corn-flour; with a clean wooden spoon beat 4 oz. of dripping to a cream, drop in i tea-spoonful essence of lemon, and add by degrees £ lb. moist sugar; either add Caraway seed at this point, if wished ; now add the flour mixture by degrees till the the whole is mixed thoroughly with the sugar and dripping. It will require very little more moisture, and that may be added in the shape of an egg, milk (sweet or buttermilk) or water. It is impossible to say the exact quantity, as flour differs so much, some qualities absorbing and requiring more liquid to moisten them than others. Beat the mixture up well with the spoon, grease a tin, tie a band of clean greased paper outside the tin, and reaching three inches above the top rim; pour in enough cake mixture to three parts fill the tin, bake for one-and-a-half hours in a moderate oven ; when it is done (test by a bright skewer) lift it carefully out of the tin and place it on the wire sieve till cool. M. 290. Macaroni.—There are two kinds of macaroni, theI 12 LESSONS ON COOKERY, expensive white coiled, and the Neapolitan, which is brown and in long sticks ; the price is about 46. per lb. This cheap brown macaroni is the true unadulterated macaroni, but the white is simply an imitation made in England from potato- starch and other ingredients to suit the English taste. 291. Macaroni, to dress.—Wash the sticks, say \ lb. for one person’s dinner, break them up into short lengths and put them to soak in a half-pint of milk or water for one hour, then boil till it has absorbed the milk, stirring so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pan. (x). If savoury macaroni is required, grate 2 oz. of strong cheese, season with a little pepper, add a bit of butter as large as a hazel nut, stir this in amongst the macaroni; have a little more grated cheese ready, dish up on a hot plate and serve at once with the grated cheese over. If it is preferred, put it into the oven or before the fire and brown the top ; it makes a change the browning of it, but abroad the peasantry mostly cook it as above, and eat it without putting it in the oven or browning. (2). For puddings, prepare as far as No. 1, and then take one egg, blend it, add one tea-cupful of milk, mix, sweeten to taste, flavour with a laurel-leaf or lemon- rind, &c., at pleasure; mix in the cold custard, strew some breadcrumbs over the top and bake half-an-hour to one hour according to the capability of your oven. 292. Marrow (vegetable) Squash or Pie (American recipe). —Choose a nice fresh pumpkin or vegetable marrow, peel, and boil about 1 lb. weight of it until it is quite soft and tender. Pass it through a wire sieve into a clean basin, having first removed the seeds. Mix with one gill of cold milk, beat it up well. Next add 2 oz. sugar, ^ oz. butter, lemon essence, or the rind and juice of a lemon. Line a pie-dish with paste, pour in the squash mixture, and bake in a slow oven one hour. 293. Marrow ( Vegetable), stuffed.—Choose a small pumpkin or vegetable marrow, peel it and hollow out the seeds with a sharp knife, mince up two table-spoonsful of cold meat, season with pepper, salt, a chopped onion, and mix with breadcrumbs sufficient to fill the marrow, stuff it, put the lid on the end, tie in a floured cloth, boil till tender, and in the meantime prepare some melted butter and parsley, dish up the marrow, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. N. 295. Norfolk Dumplings. - Put into a basin | lb. flour, oneFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 113 tea-spoonful of salt, and one tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Mix with tepid water into a dough, Hour a board, form into little balls, and put into a pot with boiling water, put the lid on, and let the dumplings boil for twenty minutes without lifting the pot-lid. Serve at once on taking out of the boiling water. Do not cut, but tear them open with two forks, and they will be deliciously light. O. 294. Oatmeal Porridge.—One pint of boiling water, a little salt. Take a wooden spoon in the right hand, and a handful of coarse Scotch oatmeal in the left; commence stirring the water with the spoon, and drop the grains of meal slowly from the left hand until it is emptied. Let the porridge boil slowly for half-an-hour at least, but an hour will greatly improve it. Eat with milk. Porridge is overheating to the system when eaten with sugar or treacle, and is quite spoilt as an article ot diet. 296. Ox Cheek.—Take three or four pounds of ox-cheek, wash it, and lay it out on a board. Prepare a stuffing, as for a heart, of breadcrumbs, suet, thyme, parsley, pepper, salt, &c. Roil the meat tightly up, bind with tape or tie with twine, and put it into a stew-pan with one pint of water, a turnip, carrot, &c., then stew for three or four hours ; strain the gravy and thicken. Serve in a tureen hot round the ox-cheek. Haricot beans and ox-cheek are delicious, the former making a pretty garnish to the dish. P. 297. Potato Croquets.—Boil 3 or 4 potatoes, mash them through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, add 1 oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, season with pepper and salt, whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir half of it in. Now form into balls, dip into an egg beaten up, roll in breadcrumbs. Have ready a pan of fat at boiling point, put the little balls into a frying-basket, so that they only just touch each other, plunge them into the fat, and let them stay until a golden brown colour (chopped chicken added to the potato makes croquets of chicken), and drain on kitchen paper and serve h*)t. 298. Poor Maris Plum Pudding.—lb. currants, washed and picked, £ lb. raisins stoned and picked, | lb. sugar (moist) J-lb. mutton suet, minced. Put into a basin with | lb. of 1LESSONS ON COOKERY, 114 breadcrumbs and £ lb. flour, 1 potato peeled and grated (this is superior to egg for binding), 1 carrot also grated, after being washed and scraped, and a ^d. packet of mixed spices. Mix all well together with a sufficient quantity of milk to make the pudding of a proper consistency. Put this into a quart basin, cover down, and boil four hours. 299. Pork Pie Crust.—8 lbs. of flour, 2lbs.of lard, Mb. of but- ter. Put the lard and butter into 3 pints of water, when itboilslet it simmer for five minutes, then stir it into the flour with a knife. You will not require all the liquor, half-a-pint or more will be left to make your crust of proper stiffness. It requires a very great amount of working ; these quantities are enough for six good-sized pies. R. 300. Rissoles of Cold Meat.—Make ashort crust, cut into circles with a fluted cutter, mince and season with pepper and salt and chopped onion any cold meat there may be at hand; mix a few breadcrumbs with it, and place a little of the mixture in the centre of each circle ; moisten the edges, fold the paste over the meat, brush with egg, and dip in breadcrumbs. Fry a golden brown in boiling fat, drain on kitchen paper, and send on a hot napkin to table. S. 301. Soup, Vegetable.—Take \ lb. potatoes, peel and slice them; scrape \ lb. carrots, 1 oz. of turnip, slice these, also 1 oz. of onion. Put all into a large sauce-pan, with 3 quarts of water. Boil for 1^ hours, and then pass through a wire seive; season with pepper and salt: add a tea-spoonful of Yorkshire relish. Boil for ten minutes, and serve with toasted bread. 302. Soiip,bo?ie.—Get from the butcher’s 2d. worth of bones; pound them with a large hammer until they are well broken up. Put them into a pot with 3 pints of cold water and 1 tea-spoon- ful of salt. Whilst it is coming to the boil, skim well, and prepare the vegetables, viz. :—1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions; cut them into dice, and when the water in the pot fairly boils, add them, also a little pepper. Let it boil for four or five hours ; strain and thicken with either rice or oatmeal. The latter (coarse Scotch), is the most nutritious. T. 303. Trifle, d la folmston.— Prepare a blanc-mange as follows :—Two ounces of Johnston’s corn-flour, and 1 quartFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. IT5 of milk, well mixed ; boil for ten minutes, and flavour to taste. Pour it whilst hot into a glass dish, spread four table-spoonsful of jam to the quart of blanc-mange over the top; soak in a glass of wine two penny queen or sponge cakes spread over jam; whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a dessert-spoonful of finely-crushed lump sugar, spread this over the contents of the glass dish, and just before serving to table, sprinkle with i oz. of hundreds and thousands (small comfits). W. 304. Wines, home-made.—These are simple enough, and no cottager need be without his home-made wines if he wish it. Bilberries, blackberries, elderberries, &c., cost nothing but the gathering, and sugar is not expensive. The proportions are 3 lbs. of sugar to every gallon of liquor. The fruit must be gathered in dry weather, and it ought to be ripe. Put it into a tub, and with a wooden potato-masher bruise the fruit well. Then quite cover with boiling water, throw a cloth over the tub, and let it stand for three weeks. Strain it through a flannel bag. Mix the liquor with sugar and put into the cask, leaving the bung out; let it work about ten days, filling up the cask with a little of the liquor, which must be kept back on purpose. AVhen it has done working bung it down, first putting in ^ oz. of isinglass and £ lb. raisins. In six months it may be bottled, and is ready for use. PART III. HIGH CLASS COOKERY. Practice Lesson I. Students please read the Recipes, and collect Materials, etc., before attempting to work. 1. Princess of Wales Pudding a la Gothard.— Utensils.—two basins, mould, small sauce-pan, pot with boiling-water to steam the pudding, knife, egg-whisk, gill measure, kitchen paper, mincing-board, two spoons, wire-sieve, pestle and mortar. Ingredients.—Osborne biscuits, Sultana raisins, suet, citronLESSONS ON COOKERY, 116 peel, bitter and sweet almonds, eggs, cream, corn-flour, sugar, noyeau, lemon, castor-sugar. Recipe.—Bruise in a mortar £lb. Osborne biscuits, pass through a wire sieve, put into a basin, and throw over the crumbs a wineglass of noyeau and let them soak. Blanch six bitter and about i oz. sweet almonds, bruise in the mortar with the white of an egg to prevent them oiling, add to the crumbs. Pick -J- lb. Sultana raisins, grate the rind of a lemon, mince i oz. citron peel, also \ lb. suet. Mix thoroughly with the crumbs which have been soaking in the liquor, and add 2 oz. castor-sugar. Prepare a cold custard of three eggs, well whisked, and 1 gill of cream. Fill a well- buttered mould and pour the custard over, cover down with paper, and steam for one-and-a-half hours. Sauce.—One table- spoonful Johnston’s corn-flour, moisten with a little cold milk. Put on the fire half-gill of water and the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, 1 tablespoonful castor-sugar, let it come to the boil, add the corn-flour ; Jet the whole boil three minutes. Now add the yolks of two eggs and one wineglass of noyeau. Strain round the pudding, cap it with castor- sugar, and serve. 2. Beaconsfield Soup.— Utensiis.—One vegetable knife, sharp knife, whisk, two wooden spoons, frying-pan, stewing-pan, three basins of water for vegetables, fluted cutter, sauce-pans. Ingredients.—Two pints of stock, seasoned with salt, &c., 2 oz. fresh butter, carrot, turnip, lettuce, cucumber, leek, chervil, taragon, celery, mushroom, sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, mace, soda, stale bread, eggs, milk, cream, cloves. Recipe. — Put the stock on the fire to boil. Shred very finely all the vege- tables, using only a little of the tender heart of the lettuce, viz.:—1 oz. carrot, \ oz. turnip, 1 oz. cucumber, a few leaves of chervil and tarragon, \ oz. button mushroom, \ oz. celery (if you cannot procure celery use celery seed tied up in muslin with the mace, cloves, nutmeg, &c., added to the stock). Put all the vegetables into water as they are cut; the leeks in a basin by themselves, and to be cooked by themselves as a sort of garnish. When they are all ready, put into a frying-pan 2 oz. of butter, dry the vegetables in a cloth, fry them a golden brown, and drain them on kitchen paper; place them next into a clean stewpan, pour on them the boiling stock and sim- mer for one hour until the vegetables are tender. Now place some water in a small sauce-pan to boil with a piece of soda as large as a pea and the shred leeks. Let it just come to thei*7 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. boil, strain at once, and put the leeks into a tureen ready for table. Cut some thin slices of stale bread into fancy shapes, fry in the butter in frying-pan a rich brown, and add them also to the leeks in the tureen. Take three eggs, separate the yolks from the white, put the yolks into a basin with one gill of cream and one gill of milk, whisk well together, remove the stew-pan to the side of the fire, take a gill of the liquor or soup, and add, by degrees, to the eggs, &c.; then pour the whole into the soup, stirring rapidly for three minutes, pour into the tureen, and serve at once. It must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle the soup. 3. Beef Olives a la Gothard.— Utensils.—Sharp knife, stew- pan, cutlet-bat (or rolling-pin), twine, chopping board. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean, beef, 2 oz. fat smoked bacon, flour, pepper, salt, sholot, cloves, nutmeg 1 oz., breadcrumbs, stock, mushrooms or mushroom powder, carrot, turnip, celery. Recipe.—Peel and mince very finely one or two shalots. Put on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one quarter tea-spoonful pepper, one tea-spoonful salt, one quarter tea-spoonful grated nutmeg ; mix well together. Place the breadcrumbs on another plate. Now examine the meat; if you think it is tough, steep it in vinegar for twenty minutes (there is no necessity to use beefsteak for olives, any coarse portion of the beast will answer as well), take it out of the vinegar, wipe it dry in a cloth, next dip each slice into the flour mixture on the plate. Cut it into neat little slices, about four inches long and three inches wide. Then take the 2 oz. of bacon, cut it into as many slices as you have slices of beef, and dip each into the breadcrumbs. Lay a slice of meat on your board, give it a sharp rap on each side with the cutlet-bat or rolling pin, place on it a piece of the bacon, one clove, and two or three pieces of the minced shalot, and one-quarter of a mushroom. Now roll this up tightly, secure with twine, dip once more in the flour mixture and place in a clean stevvpan, in the bottom of which are strewn some little pieces of carrot, turnip, and celery. As soon as all the rolls are made up and in the pan, put in sufficient stock to cover the olives; let them stew slowly for two hours, adding more stock as it evaporates: then lift them out of the liquor, take off the twine, strain the gravy and reduce to a glaze, pour over the olives, and send at once to table. 4. Stewed Orange for Tea or Dessert.—Cut an orange into about six or seven rings, put into a tea-cupful of water and 2 oz.ii8 LESSONS ON COOKERY, sugar, two cloves and a bit of lemon rind, stew till it is tender, serve in a glass dish. This is a cheap and nice looking dish. 5. Stewed Rabbit a la Gothard.— Utensils. — Brown stew- jar or deep pie-dish, knife, basin, wooden spoon, wire sieve. Ingredients.—Rabbit, bacon, flour, Spanish onion, pepper, salt, cloves, sauce, nutmeg, carrot, turnip. Recipe. — Mix on a plate one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, one- half-teaspoonful pepper, one quarter-teaspoonful grated nutmeg, Peel and slice half a Spanish onion, about \ oz. turnip and 1 oz. carrot. Cut some slices of smoked bacon ; cut the rabbit into neat pieces after having properly cleaned it. Dip each piece in the flour mixture. Lay one or two pieces of the bacon into the jar, then a layer of vegetables, then the rabbit, with six cloves, one tea-spoonful of sauce; put the rest of the vegetables and bacon on the top, cover down, and let it bake in a moderate oven for two hours. It does not require any water or stock; a chopped kidney is a great improvement. Serve the rabbit in a hot dish with the bacon, rub the vegetable through a wire sieve with the wooden spoon, mix with the gravy, pour over the rabbit, and serve. Lesson II. 6. Piquees a la Regence.— Utensils.—Sharp knife, cutlet- bat (or rolling-pin), larding needle, basins, copper stew-pan, two sauce-pans, vegetable cutter, hair sieve, wooden spoons. Ingredients.— 1 lb. best beafsteak, \ lb. fat bacon, one carrot, one turnip, celery (or celery seed), herbs, leek, £ oz. gelatine, peas, sherry, spices, sauce. Recipe.—Cut the beef into neat pieces, dividing it as equally as possible into five. Lay them into vinegar for twenty minutes, whilst you cut the bacon into strips about one inch long and the square of your needle in thickness. Put a strip into the needle. Take the meat out of the basin, wipe it quite dry from the vinegar, and begin to lard in nice even rows. When it is larded prepare the following vegetables :—one carrot scraped and washed, the red portion cut into little square or round pieces with the vegetable cutter and put into a basin of water, the pale yellow portion cut into thickish rings and laid into the stew-pan. Peel the turnip, cut a similiar number of pieces to the carrot, and the remainder into slices, and put this also into the stew-pan, and the pieces cut for decoration into separate basins of water. Wash and cut up the white portion of half a leek, and put it also into theFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. IIC) stewpan. Now lay the pieces of meat carefully in with the piquees uppermost. Take half a pint of good stock, and season with pepper and salt, add six cloves, a blade of mace, six allspice, put into the stewpan, and put the pan on the fire and let it stew for one-and-a half hours : as soon as the pan is on the fire put the gelatine in to soak. Shell about twenty or thirty peas (or use tin peas), boil them with a little salt and a bit of soda and sugar, drain, then cook the carrot with salt and a bit of soda to heighten the color, drain them and add to the peas when quite dry. Also boil the turnip in salt and water, drain, and add to the other vegetables. When the meat has been stewing the proper time, remove the lid, and place the pan into the oven, to brown the little pieces of fat (or put them on a baking-tin with a little of the liquor). Pass all the gravy through a wire sieve, rubbing the vegetables through. Also add a wine glass of sherry, a tea-spoonful of sauce (Worcester or Mellor’s), put it into a small sauce-pan with the soaked gelatine, stir a little till the gelatine melts, and reduce to a glaze by boiling till the gravy looks thick. When the meat is brown, lay it neatly in the dish, forming a circle, and one piece just overlapping the other; put the vegetables in the centre, make them hot by placing on the hot-plate a few minutes, with a plate over. Pour the gravy over each piece of meat, and if any is left, over the vegetables. Les Fillets de Veau are prepared in the same manner, only garnished with strips of raw potatoes fried in boiling fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and piled in the centre. In this case the glaze is poured only over the meat, and not over the garnish. Compote of Peaches.— Utensils—Stew-pan, or small pre- serving-pan, wooden spoon, kettle with boiling water, basins, glass dish. Ingredietits.—One small tin of peaches, £ lb. lump sugar, oz. bitter almonds, six pistachio nuts, angelica, half pint double cream, lemon, ratafia, castor sugar. Recipe.—■ Open the tin of peaches, drain the liquor into a clean stew-pan, add the lump sugar, the juice and rind of one lemon, the latter cut into thin strips; put over a clear fire to boil until it is quite transparent, reduce to a thick syrup. Pile the peaches up in a glass dish, blanch the almonds by putting into a basin and pouring boiling water on them ; lay in the peaches ; now pour the sugar glaze over. Whip the cream till it is thick, flavour with essence (very little), stir in one table-spoonful castor sugar, and pile over the compote; garnish with chopped pistachio nuts and angelica.120 LESSONS ON COOKERY, 8. Compote of Apples.— Utensils.—One stew-pan, glass dish, wooden spoon, knife. Ingredients.—1 lb. apples, lb. lump sugar, coriander seeds, cloves, nutmeg, red colouring (either beetroot syrup or cochineal (see No. 12), quarter-pint cream, claret, lemon. Recipe.—Pare the apples (take care that you have selected a kind that will not fall to pieces, but retain their shape whilst cooking), remove the little bud and stalk ; put into the stewpan the rind and juice of one lemon, one glass of claret, one tea-spoonful of colouring, the sugar, six coriander seeds, six cloves, and a little lump of nutmeg; put it over the fire ; melt the sugar, add half a tea-cupful of water, lay in the apples, stew till tender, turning them now and then that they may be evenly coloured ; when tender lay the apples in a glass dish ; reduce the liquid to a glaze, strain over the apples ; when this is a little cool, whip the cream and pour over the apples, or round, if you prefer the apples to be seen. 9. Egg Cheesecakes.—Ingredients.—Four eggs, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. lump sugar, 4 oz. currants, one lemon, nutmeg, brandy, butter, paste. Recipe.—Boil the eggs for halfan-hour, lift them out into cold water, let them stay in the cold water a few minutes whilst you clean the currants, crush the sugar ; press and strain the juice, and grate the rind of the lemon. Now peel the eggs, mince them very finely; put the butter into a small stew-pan, add the eggs, and other ingredients (except the brandy), with quarter spoonful of grated nutmeg; stir till it is warm. Have some patty pans lined with paste, pour the glass of brandy into the stewpan after you life it from the fire, mix well, fill the paste, and bake in a moderate oven. 10. Omelette Souffle.—The yolk of three eggs stirred up with one table-spoonful of sugar till quite smooth, six drops of lemon juice or essence of lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to the yolks. Butter a round tin dish or small frying pan very thoroughly with 1 oz. of butter (melted), pour the mixture into the frying-pan over the butter, place in a very hot oven for three minutes, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with jam laid over the top. Lesson III. 11. Consomme and Stock Clarifying, — Utensils. —Stock-pot, or large sauce-pan, iron spoon, basin, vegetable-knife, saw, chopper, meat knife. Ingredients.—Three lbs. shin of beef,FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. J2I 4 oz. carrot, i oz. turnip, 2 oz. celery, two or three button mushrooms, mace, cloves, allspice, long pepper, salt. Herbs : thyme, parsley, tarragon, bay-leaf. Recipe. —Weigh the meat, remove the marrow from the bones by means of your vegetable-knife, wipe out the inside of the bones with a clean cloth. Cut the meat off in neat little cubes, and saw the bones in two (if you have a bone-crusher, use it) ; put all into the pot with three quarts of water, one table- spoonful of salt, six long peppers (pimento) a blade of mace, six cloves, six allspice, the mushrooms (peeled), thyme, parsley, tarragon, and a bay-leaf; put on the fire to boil, skimming now and then, and prepare the vegetables—scrape and wash the carrots, peel the turnip, scrub the celery (do not cut them up), also quarter of a leek. When the water boils, add the vegetables, skim frequently, and let it boil for six or eight hours. As the water will evaporate, add cold water now and again—this will cause the scum to rise—and skim well after adding the water. When it has boiled the requisite length of time there should be 2 quarts good strong stock. Strain through a hair sieve or coarse towel. N.B.—For white stock, use knuckle of veal, and prepare as above. The marrow is used for toast or pate. To Clarify.—Put the stock into a clean stewpan or saucepan, with a scraped and washed carrot cut into four, a stalk of celery 3 inches long, washed and cleaned, also two button mushrooms. Chop £ lb. sticking part of beef (commonly called gravy beef) very finely, removing any fat ; put into a basin the white and shell of one egg, whisk it a little, add the minced beef to this, also add one gill (equal to £ pint) of cold water; whisk all well together, add to the stock and vegetables already in the pan, whisk or stir with a wire spoon until it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes and draw on one side; have ready tied over the legs of a chair yard of fine Indian mull muslin (kept for straining jellies and soups. It is similar to the muslin used by gentlemen for their hats in summer (cost is. 3d. per yard); under this, place a quart basin. When the soup has stood for three minutes on the hob, carefully pour it on to the straining cloth. If not quite clear, pour the first straining back into the bed and let it drip into another clean basin. The soup will be the colour of pale sherry. N.B.—I have to thank a celebrated London club Chef for teaching me this method of making and clearing.—B.W.G. To Garnish.—Cut vegetables into fancy devices, boil separatelyLESSONS ON COOKERY, 122 in salt and water, drain and add to the soup before serving. To Warm the Consomme, place in a jug, plunge the jug into boiling water till required for table (do not let the soup boil), pour into a hot tureen. Mushrooms a la Gothard.— Utensils.—Frying kettle, wire eggspoon, knife, plates, dish, napkin, kitchen paper.—Ingre- dients.—Flap mushrooms, flour, oil, egg, pepper, salt, lemon, cayenne, fat (2 lbs.).—Recipes.—Choose large flap mushrooms (.Agaricus Campestris), carefully peel, and remove the stems. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice on each mushroom, shake over a little pepper, cayenne, and salt, lay them on a plate back downwards. Now place on the fire a frying-kettle or stew-pan with 2 lbs. of fat to boil. (N.B.—Fat is quite still when boiling.) Whilst this is attaining the proper degree of heat (360? F.) prepare the following batter :—Put into a basin two table-spoonsful of flour, make a well in the centre of the flour, drop in the yolk of one egg, putting the white on a plate for future use; also one table-spoonful of salad oil and sufficient lukewarm water to make it into a thickish batter, add a grain of salt to the white of egg on the plate, whip it with a broad- bladed knife into a stiff froth, and stir into the batter gently. If the fat is hot enough, dip the mushrooms into the batter one at a time, lift carefully out, and plunge them into the boiling fat. When they are a bright golden colour lift out with a wire spoon, drain the mushroom on kitchen paper, sprinkle over with salt, serve on a hot napkin. N.B.—Be careful to clear the fat from time to time so that the pieces of batter floating about may not burn and spoil the fat. 13. Croustades de Veau.— Utensils.—Pasteboard, rolling pin, flour dredger, knife, fluted cutter, baking sheet, croustade tins or very small pattypans, mincing knife or machine, two wooden spoons, two saucepans, chopping board, nutmeg grater, strainer for herbs, gill measure. Ingredients.—Fillet of veal (J lb.), flour, eggs, cream, milk, butter, nutmeg, John- ston’s corn-flour, pepper, salt, powdered mace, mushroom, lemon, parsley, thyme, shalot. Recipe.—Make some short paste by rubbing in lightly 2 oz. butter into £ lb. of fine flour and mixing it with the yolk of an egg, and a little water into a firm, smooth paste. Roll it out evenly, brush over with a little lemon-juice, double into three, dredge the board lightly, roll out, and cut with a fluted cutter to the size of your croustade tins. Make some balls (of seconds flour and water)FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 123 and place in the centre of the tins and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. To prepare the veal take i lb. fillet of veal, mince extremely fine, add to it the grated rind of a lemon, a little nutmeg and powdered mace, salt, pepper to taste, a chopped button mushroom, half a shalot. Put all into a sauce-pan with 1 gill of new milk, keep it well stirred until the milk is absorbed and the veal has a dry, granulated appear- ance. Put it on the hot plate to keep warm whilst you make the sauce. Take 1 tablespoonful of Johnston's corn-flour, moisten it with a little milk; put on the fire one gill of nicely flavoured white stock. When it boils pour in the corn flour and add 1 table-spoonful of good cream, boil for three or four minutes. Fill the croustade cases with the veal, set on a warm dish for sending to table, pour the white sauce over the croustades and entirely cover them. Four or five make a dish. Sauce give sufficient for three. 14. Cafe a la Gothard.—Mix 1 lb. best Mocha, 1 lb. Java or West Indies, J lb. chicory (be sure that it is freshly ground), mix well; put into an ordinary jug two table-spoonsful of this mixture with about six raw or unroasted coffee-berries which have been bruised ; pour on this one pint of boiling water, cover the jug over after stirring well; boil one pint of new milk, strain the coffee in, put into the coffee-pot, and serve hot. N.B.—If the raw beans cannot be had, use fresh hazel nuts instead, which give the rich peculiar flavour. 15. Marrow patties.— Utensils.—Sauce-pan, knife, paste board, and rolling-pin, flour dredger (or French roll), instead of pastry. Hair sieve. Ingredients.—Marrow, lemon, pepper, salt, thyme, parsley, chives or shalot, one table-spoonful of cream. Recipe. —Take the marrow fresh from the bones, cut it into pieces as large as a walnut, put it into a small sauce-pan with cold water and one tea-spoonful of salt, and place over the fire. Let it just boil for one minute, and throw it at once on to the hair sieve. Make some light paste, line the patty pans. Chop a small piece of parsley, thyme, and chives, in all for six patties one tea-spoonful when the grated rind of quarter of a lemon is added; mix this with two table-spoonsful of cream, and one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, salt and pepper, divide the marrow between the patties, add a little of the savoury cream to each, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for quarter-of-an-hour. Another method.—Prepare the marrow as above with cream and herbs. Take a stale French roll,LESSONS ON COOKERY, 124 cut it into three, carefully remove the crumb, leaving a layer of crumb at the bottom (which must be kept whole), to form a case for the marrow. Put on the fire the frying kettle, when the fat is hot enough put the marrow cases in, and let them fry a light golden brown, drain them on kitchen paper, sprinkle a little salt on the inside of each; fill with marrow mixture, &c. Pass the crumbs through a wire sieve, pile them cone-shaped on the top with a tiny bit of butter here and there, and put into the oven to brown. Lesson IV. 16. Compote de Pigeon, Garni, a la Gotbard. Utensils.— A hot oven, stewpan, sauce-pan, sharp knife, pork pie moulder, two knives, paste cutters (oak leaves, &c.) Kettle of hot water, basins, gravy strainer (or sieve). /. Ingredients for Case.—Half oz. butter, \ lb. lard, 2 lbs. flour, \ spoonful salt, b teacupful water. II. Ingredients for Compote.—Half lb. best beefsteak, two woodpigeons, ^ oz. gelatine, six cloves, six allspice, three long peppers, one blade of mace, salt, pepper, flour, shalots, six cardamom seeds, six coriander ditto, lemon, 11 pints good stock, sherry sauce, lean ham stock. III. Ingredients for Garnish.—Aspic jelly as in No. 3, lemon, green peas (tinned or fresh), young cress. I.—Put the lard, butter and water into a sauce-pan, let them boil, draw to the edge of the fire-place and simmer for five minutes, then stir it (whilst hot) into the flour with a knife. It requires a very great amount of working. When it is sufficiently cold, stiff, and well worked, take your wooden mould and shape round it, taking care to leave an even thickness of paste all round. Fill with bran, make a cover of flour and water, fasten round the edge, brush the sides of the case over with egg, cut out leaves with the cutters, fasten on and brush over with egg, put into the oven and bake until of a beautiful deep brown. (N.B.—This is an excellent recipe for pork-pie case. Instead of bran, put in pieces of pork from spare-rib, cut into dice and seasoned with pepper, salt and a little powdered sage; also pint of stock made from the bones, a proper crust on the top). Having put the pie in the oven—II.—Mince the beef very finely, season wifh a small shalot, 1 tea-spoonful of sauce, pep- per and salt, and a little stock ; (half tea-cupful) put in a small sauce-pan near the fire, to stew for two hours. Prepare and dress the pigeons, cut off the feet, cut each pigeon in four, putFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 125 the pieces into a stew-pan, after dipping in flour, with i pint second stock, 6 cloves, 6 allspice, 3 long peppers, 1 blade of mace, salt, pepper, 3 shalots, 6 cardamom and 6 coriander seeds, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small piece of the rind (1 inch square), and a slice of lean ham. Stew for one and half hours, add ng more stock if necessary. Put the gelatine into half tea-cupful of water to soak. First take up the mince and chop it again, returning it to the pan to keep warm. Then take out the compote case, remove the lid and bran carefully, wipe out clean, place in the mince and stand on one side to cool. Now place the little claws in a basin, pour the boiling water over them, take a towel, skin and remove the nails, and put them in on the top of the pigeons to stew for five minutes. Then lift all carefully out on a plate, strain the gravy, and put back into the sauce-pan with one table-spoonful of sherry and the gelatine, stir till the latter melts, and then leave it to boil whilst you arrange the compote. Pile the pieces up like a pyramid over the mince, leaving the legs for the last (or out- side pieces), stick in the four claws as a trophy at the top, pour over the glaze and put on one side to cool. III.—Whilst the compote is cooling cut the jelly into dice, boil the peas, wash the cress and dry thoroughly ; then garnish—placing the compote on the dish for table, place round the dish alternate piles of aspic and green peas stewed with cress, and half-slices of lemon under the peas. Place jelly, cress, and lemon amongst the compote. 17. Jellies, Utensils.—Stock-pot or large sauce-pan, iron spoon, basin, knife, saw, chopper, clean straining cloth, blot- ting paper (white), two large basins, moulds. Ingredients (stock).—One cow’s-heel, or two calves’feet, salt, water. Ditto (Sweet Jelly).—One lemon, two oranges (or lemons), sugar, stick cinnamon, nutmeg, (not grated), coriander seeds, cloves, eggs, one quart stock. Ditto (Aspic or Savoury Jelly).—One quart stock, one lemon, tarragon, chervil, bay-leaf, celery, carrot, turnip, leek, thyme, parsley, vinegar, whole pepper, allspice, mace, capsicums. Recipe Jor stock.—Get a dressed cow-heel from the butcher—i.e., a cow-heel with the hair scraped off (not cooked in any way), wash it, and put it into a sauce-pan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and 1 table- spoonful of salt; let it come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully; when it has just boiled, lift out the foot, scrape it, and wash in cold w'ater, and put on again in cold water (three126 LESSONS ON COOKERY, quarts) ; let this boil slowly for six or eight hours, stirring now and then, so that it may not adhere to the bottom of the pot and burn ; skim all oil and fat off with an iron spoon into a clean jar (the oil is useful for domestic purposes). Strain the liquor off the heel at the end of eight hours. (N.B. the heel will make ecellent soup if put on and boiled with fresh cold water, vegetables, herbs, &c., the next day, and the remains made up into collard meat, cow-heel pie or savoury stew.) Sweet Jelly.—Take i quart of the stock, put it into a clean stew-pan with 2 oz. lump sugar, the thin rind of the lemon and oranges, one inch of cinnamon, a lump of nutmeg as large as a cherry stone, twelve coriander seeds, six cloves. Place the stew-pan over the fire, so that the stock may dissolve whilst you wash and dry the shells, and separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, keeping them in separate basins. Now crush the shells and put them into the basin containing the whites, beat them with a whisk a little, and add at once to the stock over the fire ; take your whisk, and after whisking for a minute, stir evenly the one way till the stock boils. Let it boil for two minutes, and lift carefully to one side to let it settle a little, have ready the strainer as in No. 1 of this Series. Dip your moulds into cold water, turn them upside down for a moment, and then pour in the jelly that has been strained through the muslin. If the weather is hot, set in ice to cool. For colour- ings, see No. 12. Aspic Jelly.—Take 1 quart of stock as above, and add to it the rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, a few tarragon, parsley, thyme, and chervil leaves, 2 bay leaves, 2 or 3 inches of celery (or celery seed | teaspoonful), oz. turnip, ^ leek, 12 whole peppers, 3 all- spice, 1 blade of mace, put on the fire, clear, and finish as in sweet jelly with eggs, &c. 18. Jam Croustades.—Cut a stale French roll in three, scoop out some of the crumb, and prepare as in No. 2 recipe for marrow patties; instead of marrow, put in each 2 tea- spoonsful of jam, and cover with the following white sauce : 1 table-spoonful of corn-flour mixed with a little cold milk, and added to 1 gill (|- pint) of boiling milk, which has been sweetened and flavoured with either lemon or almond ess. Let it boil a few minutes after it has thickened, to cook the corn-flour. Chop 1 oz. blanched almonds; mix with sauce ; pour a little over the top of each croustade. They may be eaten hot or cold.127 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. 19. Stewed Watercresses.—Pick, and place in a little vinegar and water for one hour 2d. worth of watercresses, drain them and place them in a stew-pan, with £ oz. butter, 1 table- spoonful of cream, pepper and salt; shake the pan from time to time, and prepare a slice of thin toast. In five minutes the cresses will be cooked ; lay them on the toast. This dish is good for delicate or consumptive persons. N.B.—The hearts of lettuce are excellent prepared as above. Lesson V. 20. Pouding de Pomme-de-terre.— Utensils.—Two sauce- pans, knife, scrubbing-brush, wire sieve, egg whisk, pie-dish, lemon squeezer, butter knife, wooden spoon, gill measure. Ingredients.—Potatoes, sugar, almonds, butter, eggs, lemon, sherry, milk. For artizan recipe leave out almonds and sherry. Recipe.—Scrub, wash and peel three large potatoes, put them into a sauce-pan with cold water, and a little salt, boil till they are cooked, strain and mash through a steel wire sieve into a clean basin. Warm | gill of milk to blood heat in a clean sauce-pan, stir it into the potatoes with a wooden spoon, drop in the yolks of one or two eggs, putting the whites into another basin, add two table-spoonsful of sugar and one table- spoonful cooking sherry, and one doz. almonds, blanched and chopped, the grated rind and juice of a small lemon, beat up well with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir this in gently, butter a pie dish, and pour in the mixture; bake in a moderate oven for one hour, sift white sugar over this, and serve. 21. Broculi au Parmesan.— Utensils.—Two sauce-pans (large and small), grater, knife, pot slice, sieve, frying-pan, and wire spoons. Ingredients.—Brocoli or cauliflower, parmesan cheese, butter, eggs, lemon juice, nutmeg, pepper, salt, flour, milk. Recipe.—After washing and steeping the vegetable in salt and water with the flower downwards, boil in the usual way. Take it up with a pot slice, dram on a wire sieve, trim and have ready to pour over it (when placed in the dish with the flowers uppermost) the following cheese sauce—2 ozs. flour, x oz. butter, warm the butter slightly in a small saucepan, and work the flour smoothly in, add by degrees 1 gill milk, and £ gill white stock; stir over the fire till it thickens, now stir in the yolk of one egg (taking the sauce-pan off the fire), also gradually the juice of half-a-lemon, pepper (white or cayenne), and 2 oz.LESSONS ON COOKERY, I 2 S of grated parmesan cheese. Place the pan over the fire, stir well and quickly until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan easily, pour it over the vegetable, shape it into a dome with a knife dipped into water, sprinkle 2 ozs. of grated cheese over the whole of the vegetable and sauce, put a little piece of butter here and there, put it into the oven or before the fire till it is a beautiful golden brown, then serve as quickly as possible. For garnish, cut potatoes in thin rings, place them in a frying- basket, and plunge them into boiling fat until of a golden colour, drain on kitchen paper, sprinkle with salt, and put round the dish when it comes out of the oven. 22. Beignetsa L’Espagnole.— Utensils.— Sauce-pan, wooden spoon, tea-spoon, wine glass, kitchen paper, frying kettle and basket. Ingredients.—Flour, butter, jam, almonds (bitter and sweet), syrup, noyeau, lemon, Johnston’s corn-flour, eggs, water (2 lbs. fat), castor sugar. Recipe.—Make a panada with 3 oz. self-raising flour, J oz. bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, 1 oz. Jordan almonds, also minced finely, £ oz. castor sugar; mix well together. Now put into a sauce-pan 1 oz. of fresh butter, let it melt, take the pan off the fire, and mix in the flour, almonds, &c. Place on the fire and make into a stiff paste with a little water-; let it be well-cooked, so as to leave the sides of the pan easily. Now the yolks of two eggs. Stir it well and put on a plate to cool. When cold form into little calls as large as a walnut: insert a little jam to each ball, dip in egg, roll in chopped almond, and put into boiling fat. Drain on kitchen paper. When they are fried a bright golden brown pile in pyramids on a clean napkin, dust with castor sugar and serve hot. Or they may be sent to table with the following sauce :—Moisten one table-spoonful of Johnston’s corn-flour with a little cold water. Place on the fire a small sauce-pan with 1 oz. lump sugar on which the rind of a lemon has been grated. Strain the juice over the sugar in the pan, add one glass of noyeau and one glass of water, stir till at boiling point, then pour in the corn-flour, stir till it thickens ; add more water if necessary, draw to one side, and add the yolks of two eggs. Pour round the balls on a very hot dish and dust them with castor sugar. 23. Turnip Glaces Blanc-et-Bnm.—Wash, peel, and boil in salt and water 5 turnips as nearly of one size as possible ; when they are done lift them carefully out on to a dish and pour over them the following white sauce which you have made129 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. whilst the turnips were cooking. Put 1 pint of new milk in a sauce-pan, with 1 lump sugar, season with pepper, salt, 2 cloves, a little mace, a little lemon-rind ; boil for 2 or 3 minutes, and then thicken with 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot or Johnston’s corn-flour, into which lias been rubbed -J oz. butter. After adding this, let it boil a few minutes to cook the corn-flour, pour over the turnips, and garnish to taste. 24. Brim.—Boil the turnips, as in first receipt, till they are half done, then lift out carefully and lay into some good rich brown stock. Let them finish cooking in this. Then lift out the turnips into a hot dish, reduce the stock to a glaze, adding 1 lump sugar and a little soaked gelatine if the stock is not strong enough to reduce quickly. When it is a thick glaze, pour over the turnips and send at once to table. 25. Soup jardiniere.— Utensils.—Kettle, knife, basin of water for cut vegetables, saucepan, frying-pan, and wire spoon. In- gredients.—Carrot, turnip, celery, green peas, asparagus, pot herbs, lump sugar, stale bread, frying butter, water. Recipe.— Put into a kettle 1 quart of water to boil. Cut a thin round of stale bread into triangles, fry them in a little butter a rich brown; after cleaning and scraping or peeling, &c., cut into dice 2 oz. carrots, 1 oz. turnip, 1 oz. celery, 4 oz. green peas, J- oz. shalot, 3 asparagus heads cut the size of the carrot, a few pot herbs tied in a little piece of muslin. Put all the vegetables into a sauce-pan with 4 oz. lump sugar and 1 quart boiling water. Cook until the vegetables are tender, season with pepper and salt, and 1 gill of cream, place the fried bread in the tureen, pour the hot soup over and serve quickly. N.B.—Do not add the asparagus and the green peas until ten minutes before dishing, as they do not require so long to cook as the carrot, celery, etc. Lesson VI. 26. Marmalade.—To every dozen of Seville oranges four lemons. All the fruit must be soaked in salt and water one night before preserving it. Slice your oranges thin, only taking out the pips. To every 1 lb. sliced fruit add 3 pints cold water; let them stand twenty-four hours. Boil till the chips are tender, set away till next day when it must be weighed, and to every 1 lb. of fruit i-^lbs. of loaf-sugar must be added. Boil nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour or less if it appears done enough. K130 LESSONS ON COOKERY, 27. Ground-rice Cheesecakes.—Utensils.—Basin, wooden spoon, rolling-pin, paste board, pattypans, wire sieve.—Ingre- dients.—Ground rice, crushed loaf sugar, four eggs, butter, baking powder. Recipe.—Make a litte short crust, grease and line the patty-pans with the paste, put into a basin £ lb. ground rice, mix £ lb. sugar with it when it is thoroughly crushed, and pass through the wire sieve ; add one tea-spoon- ful of baking powder, drop in the four eggs one by one, and mix them with the rice and sugar. Melt 6 oz. of butter to an oil; pour it in last; flavour to taste with a few drops of essence of lemon, fill the patty-pans with the mixture, and bake till quite brown. 28. Rice-cake.— Utensils.—egg-whisk, wooden spoon, small saucepan, cake-tin, wire sieve, cup. Ingredients.—Ground rice, four eggs, lb. butter, loaf-sugar (crushed), eggs. Recipes.—Butter the cake-tin, cut a round of white paper or kitchen paper, slightly grease it and lay it in the bottom of the tin, next butter a deep band of paper rising 3 inches above the tin; and place it round inside. Crush ^ lb. of lump sugar, pass it through the wire sieve into a basin, break the four eggs one by one into a cup, and then add to the sugar, beat for twenty minutes, and add ^ lb. ground rice by degrees. Oil the butter in the sauce-pan, flavour with essence of lemon, and stir in; pour the whole into the mould, and bake for i-£ hours in a slow oven. 29. Colourings.—Grec?i.—There are various preparations of green dyes to be purchased for cooking ; the best are home- made. Sap Green may be obtained from the fruit of the buckthorn bruised and mixed with sugar. Grass Green, Liquid\ is obtained from spinach or young beat leaves pounded in a mortar, pressed on a hair sieve over a cup, or squeezed in a coarse cloth. The juice, if required for immediate use, can at once be put into the cream, jelly, soup, or whatever you wish to colour, but never apply a strong heat after adding spinach juice, or it will turn olive colour. Grass Green, Dry. —Wash, dry, and pound the spinach as above, squeeze and let the juice fall into a brass pan, set it over a clear fire, stir till it curdles, then take it off at once or the colour will be lost (do not let it boil). Throw it on to a fine air sieve, dry it on the sieve, and rub through a lawn sieve ; bottle, and it will keep for some time. It is only fit for thick soups, ices, creams, or syrups; not for clear jellies. The Fashionable Green (pale131 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. yellowish green) is made from powdered gamboge and indigo. It may be very lovely, but is not healthy. Pink, Lake, and Carmine are obtained from cochineal: oz. cochineal pounded in a mortar, 3 oz. loaf sugar; put this into a brass pan with 1 tea-spoonful of potash, 1 tea-spoonful carbonate soda, 1 pint of soft water, let it boil for ten minutes, then add ^ oz. alum, x tea-spoonful cream of tartar; boil slowly twenty minutes, strain and bottle. Blue.—Very beautiful blue may be obtained from indigo. Brown.—Caramel may be used as directed in Series 1, No. 2, or dissolved chocolate. Blue-Black is powdered charcoal or ivory black. Yellow is made by an infusion of saffron in warm water (hay saffron is the best), or using the yolk of an egg where it is possible. Orange.—Mix yellow with a little red. Purple.—Cochineal and solution of indigo. N.B.—To none of these colourings must extreme heat be applied after mixing with the sugar, jellies, blanc-manges, &c. 30. Flavotirings.—For Sweets.—The leaves of the flowering currant will give any syrup or pie a delicious taste resembling a mixture of black and red currants. Orange, Citron, and Lemon leaves will answer as well as using the fruit. Almond essence is much more wholesome when obtained from either the leaves of the peach, almond, or laurel trees than that sup- plied in bottles, which is often composed of coal-tar refuse. Bay-leaves give nice flavour for either sweet or savoury dishes. For Savoury Dishes. — Carrot-tops or leaves give the same flavour as carrots; they may be dried, powdered, and used in soups, stews, and hashes. Celery leaves will bear drying and storing, being quite equal to the seed or stalk for kitchen use Cucumber.—The leaves of this plant will flavour salads, soups or any dishes where cucumber is required. Lesson VII. 31. Queen Cakes.— Utensils.—Basin, wooden spoon, hair sieve, plate, heart-shaped baking-tins. Ingredients.—Half-pound but- ter, castor sugar, currants, essence of lemon, dried flour, oil. Recipe.—Put into the oven to dry for a quarter-of-an-hour 7 oz. of flour; be careful that it does not burn or brown in any way; lift it through a hair sieve, beat the butter to a cream, until it is perfectly white, then add £ lb. of castor sugar, add one by one 4 eggs, beating well and lightly for twenty minutes, lift in the flour lightly, stir in 3 oz. of currants and essence of lemon to taste, oil the little tins, three quarters k 2LESSONS ON COOKERY, 132 fill each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter-of-an-hour. Test with a bright skewer as for bread. 32. Sponge Cakes.—Utensils.—Wire whisk, basins, cake moulds, sugar dredger, plate, hair sieve. Ingredients.—Castor- sugar, flour, eggs, oil. Recipe.—Put on a plate 6 oz. of flour, dry it in the oven and pass through a hair sieve ; separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs into large clean basins, beat the yolks with h lb. of castor-sugar for half-an-hour until it forms quite a stiff batter, using the old-fashioned wire whisk ; next stir in the flour very gently, flavour with essence of lemon ; lastly, with a Dover egg-whisk beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth sufficiently firm to rest another egg upon ; stir this in lightly, throughly mixing it with the batter. Oil the cake moulds, dust them over with finely-powdered castor-sugar, half fill each mould with the mixture, thickly coat the top with castor-sugar, bake in a moderate oven, and when firm, turn carefully out on sieves to dry. 33. Cyprus Pudding.— Utensils.—Rolling-pin, paste-board, tart-mould, pestle and mortar, basins, wooden spoons, kitchen paper, egg-whisks.—Ingredients.—Flour, butter, lemon, water, castor - sugar, almonds sweet and bitter, orange flour water, white wine, eggs, cream, conserves, Borwick’s baking and egg- powders. Recipe.—Take -J- lb. of flour, dry it in the oven without browning, pass it through a hair sieve on to the paste- board, mix thoroughly with it half-a-teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking-powder, and a quarter of a id. packet of Borwick’s egg-powder (other egg-powders will not answer this purpose), make a little well in the centre, into which drop the yolk of one egg, the juice of half a lemon, and one table-spoonful of water ; commence to mix this together delicately with the tips of the fingers, adding more water, if required, until the whole is in a firm smooth paste. Press £ lb. of butter lightly in a cloth, but do not pat or pound it, keep it as hard and firm as possible. Dredge the board and roll out the paste, lay the butter on one half and cover it over with the other, roll it out and fold it in three ; lightly flour a clean plate, lay the pastry on it, cover it with a lightly-buttered piece of kitchen paper, place it in a cool cellar for half-an-hour, or on rough ice for ten minutes to a quarter-of-an-hour. To ensure the success of well-made puff paste these directions must be rigidly adhered to : at the end of the time specified above, roll it out again on the board, fold it in three, turn it round and roll it out again the reverse way,FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. *33 fold it in three again and place in the cellar for another half- hour, or on the ice again for ten minutes; repeat this latter operation twice more, leaving the same interval between. It is then ready to line the tart dish ; brush it over with egg, and place a thin layer of some rich conserve at the bottom. Dur- ing the intervals of making the paste, prepare the following ingredients for the pudding :—Blanch and pound 2 oz. of sweet almonds, to which add six bitter almonds, also blanched and pounded, with a little castor-sugar to prevent oiling; beat them up with quarter-pint of cream, one table-spoonful of brandy, one table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff froth and stirred gently in ; pour this mixture into the paste-lined dish, bake for twenty minutes. With the yolks of the eggs prepare a wine sauce by placing them in a clean sauce-pan with two glasses of white wine and two table-spoonsful of crushed lump sugar; take a clean egg-whisk, and, placing the sauce-pan over the fire, stir rapidly without cessation till it thickens. When the pudding is quite done, serve on a folded napkin, with the sauce in a separate boat. Lesson VIII. 34. The Helen Faucit Gateau.— Utensils.—Sauce-pan, hair sieve, knives, wooden spoon, basin, mould, oil brush. Ingre- dients.—Cream, gelatine, dried fruits, almond essence, peaches. Recipe.—Place in a stewpan six peaches and one small tea-cupful of water over a moderate fire, where they will etew slowly until perfectly tender; add f lb. of castor sugar; about ten minutes before they are done, pass the whole through a hair sieve. Have ready 1 oz. of Nelson’s packet gelatine, which has been soaked for two hours in two table-spoonsful of cold water. Put this and the peaches back into the stewpan ; crack the kernels and add them also. Oil a mould. Now place the sauce-pan over the fire, stir the contents till the gelatine has dissolved ; remove it from the fire, put in one drop (not more) of almond essence. Stir it all up and pour it into the oiled mould; let it become quite cold before attempting to turn it out; in fact, it is better made the day before it is wanted. To serve—Place it on a handsome dish, cover neatly with double cream, well and carefully whipped. Decorate artistically with dried candied fruits, such as cherries, angelica, greengages, and other French bon-bons. (The dried fruits may be bought134 LESSONS ON COOKERY, in small boxes at 2s. 6d. each, mixed kinds sufficient for one pudding.) 35. The S. C. Hall Souffle.— Utensils.—Stew-pans, knives, souffle dish, wooden spoons, egg-whisk, basins, chopping-board. Ingredients—Cold roast or jugged hare, stock, herbs, eggs, pepper, salt, cayenne. Recipe.—Let the meat stew gently for two hours, remove from it the bones, chop it very finely or pass it through a mincing machine. Place it in a clean copper sauce-pan, season it with pepper and salt, add one table-spoon- ful of the liquor in which it is boiled, add a little cayenne, and half-a-teaspoonful of powdered herbs and two table-spoonsful of cream, half the rind of a lemon grated, a lump of butter as large as a walnut (about oz). Then separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, place the meat mixture over the fire, stir very rapidly until it boils ; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, adding the yolks of the eggs one by one, and stirring rapidly. Now thoroughly butter or oil the lining of a souffle dish; prepare a high band of buttered paper and fasten round it, securing it at the top by a tiny pin, and round the souffld case lining with twine or tape band. Now beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth ; give the mixture in the sauce-pan a thoroughly good stir, then mix in very lightly, but thoroughly, the whipped white of egg; hold high over the souffle lining and pour in. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour ; have the silver souffle case very hot, have a warm towel to throw round it, slip it, if possible, into the souffle case, and remove the band of paper without taking it out of the oven. Wrap the hot towel round, not over it, and convey with the utmost speed to the dining-room. Souffles are worth nothing when cold, and they fall and are spoilt in less than five minutes after leaving the oven unless the foregoing precautions are taken. To be eaten with red currant jelly. The Steward Ross Triumph.— Utensils.—Sauce-pans, knives, chopping-board, large grater, wooden spoons, basins, egg-whisk, wire sieve. Ingredients.—Sweetbreads, cold tongue or lean ham, small mushroom, eggs, breadcrumbs, parsley, thyme, lemon-rind, pepper, salt, cayenne. Recipe.—Choose two nice throat sweetbreads, place them in a stew-pan, cover with cold water, and allow them to come very slowly to the boil, skimming carefully from time to time. Lift them out, rinse in cold water, skin and cut each into three pieces, grate some lean cold boiled tongue or ham, peel, wipe and mince a smallFOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. i3S mushroom, add half-a-teaspoonful of finely-chopped thyme and parsley mixed, also a grated lemon-rind. Add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs to the grated ham or tongue, say 3 oz. of each. Season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Mix into a paste with the yolk of an egg, cover each sweetbread thoroughly with a slight coating of flour, make a case of the mixture round it, brush lightly and carefully every portion over with egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in a wire basket in plenty of boiling fat until it is a golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper, dust over with salt, garnish with fine parsley. Serve on a hot napkin with good oyster-sauce. Lesson IX. 37. “Our Boys” Cream.— Utensils.—Mould, basins, egg- whisk, sauce-pan. Ingredients.—Cherries (fresh or dried), white currants, gelatine, cream, pounded loaf sugar, wine, brandy, essence. Recipe.—If the cherries you are about to use are freshly gathered, let them be quite ripe. Stone them by taking the cherry in the left hand between the fore-finger and thumb, press lightly on the top of the stone, working it round a little, then take the stalk in the right hand, still holding the cherry in the left, above the stone, give the stalk a pull and the stone will come out. A little practice will soon render the student dexterous at this work. Stone sufficient cherries to completely line the mould. Pick sufficient white currants to form the words “Our Boys” on the side of the mould. Dissolve some gelatine (1 oz.) which has been previously soaked in white wine. Dip each white currant separately into the melted gelatine, and with the assistance of a larding needle form the words in white currants on the sides of the mould, allowing one side to set before it is turned over to decorate the other. N.B.—If white currants are not in season use blanched almonds, whole or chopped, according to fancy, and dipped in the gelatine. Next dip the cherries in the liquid gelatine and cover the remainder of the mould with them. Beat one pint or one quart (according to the size of the mould) of double cream, till it is thick; be careful not to turn it to butter. Stir in 6 oz. of castor-sugar, and 1 oz. of dissolved gelatine. Pour into the mould and allow it to set quite firm. Plunge the mould for an instant into hot water, wipe it and turn the cream ouc on a dish. 38. Beefsteak and Oyster Pie.— Utensils.—Paste-board,LESSONS ON COOKERY, 136 rolling-pin, pie-dish, sharp knife, paste-brush, paste-cutters, flour-dredger, cutlet, bat or steak-presser, plate. Ingredients.— Beefsteak, oysters, flour, butter, pepper, salt, herbs, stock, spices. Recipe.—Put on a plate one tablespoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, half-a-teaspoonful of black pepper (a small pinch of cayenne), six cloves ground to powder, a grate of nutmeg, and a suspicion of powdered mace. Cut lbs. of beefsteak into pieces (3 inches wide by 4 inches long), dip the cutlet-bat in cold water and beat the steak (or use the steak- pressers) to tender them. Dip each piece in the flour mixture on the plate, thoroughly covering it, and laying it on a clean dish until wanted. Now mince a teaspoonful each of thyme, marjoram, and basil. Open and beard two dozen oysters. If fresh oysters are not available, use the tinned oysters (Crosse and Blackwell’s brand are the best I have yet seen). Place an oyster at one end of a piece of steak, roll it up and place it in the pie-dish. Do all the other pieces in a similar manner, filling in the spaces between the rolls with oysters. Pile the pieces high up in the centre of the pie-dish, cover with flaky paste, brush over with an egg, decorate, and bake in a moderate oven for one-and-a-half hours. 39. Kidney Pudding.— Utensils.—Basins, paste-board, and rolling-pin, knife, kitchen paper, chopping-board. Ingredients. —Kidneys, bacon, herbs, lemon, beefsteak or gravy beef, vinegar, suet, flour, water, butter. Recipes.—Skin and slice nine sheep’s kidneys or two bullock’s kidneys, place them in a deep dish or soup-plate, melt 1 oz. of butter and pour over, also one table-spoonful of vinegar. (N.B.—The French use oil instead of butter.) Allow them to remain in this for one hour. Mince i£ lbs of gravy beef very finely, put it into a basin with a tea-cupful of water, and beat it up with a fork to separate the granules. Now cut two thin slices of gmoked bacon into small dice. Prepare the following pastry : Chop very finely 6 oz. of suet, mix with 1 lb. of fine flour, and sufficient cold water to make it into a light paste, roll it out lightly and quickly: the less it is touched the better. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with the paste, which should not be too thick, keeping back sufficient to form the top cover ; place in a layer of kidney, sprinkle over some dried herbs, then a few pieces of the bacon, next a layer of the minced beef, seasonings of pepper, salt, &c., a little cayenne, until the pudding basin is full. Now flavour a tea-cupful of nice stock, pour it over137 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. the whole, cover with a top crust, previously wetting the edges of the under crust; cover with a cap of buttered kitchen paper and steam for four hours. Lesson X. 40. PoundCake.— Utensils.—Basins, spoon, mould, kitchen paper. Ingredients. — Flour, sugar, eggs, rice, baking-powder, Sultana raisins, candied orange-peel, Vanilla essence. Recipe. —Mince 2 ozs. of orange-peel very finely, butter a cake mould, and line with buttered paper. Put 1 lb. of butter in a basin and reduce to a cream with a wooden spoon, add the sugar (1 lb.) by degrees, also 8 eggs, one by one ; a wine-glassful of brandy, a few drops of essence of Vanilla; then stir in fib. of dried flour, and j- lb. of ground rice, with which has been mixed a tea-spoonful of baking-powder; mix in 1 lb. of Sultana raisins and the mixed candied-peel, beat the whole for quarter-of-an- hour after all the ingredients have been added, put into the mould, and bake for an hour-and-a-half; test when done with a clean skewer. 41. Stewed Duck.— Utensils.—Knives, stew-pan, mincing board, basins, boiling water, skewers, sauce-pan. Ingredients.— Duck, butter, pepper, salt, onions, herbs, carrot, turnip, &c., stock. Recipe.—Clean and truss the duck, remembering to rub the inside well with salt, and pour boiling water through it to remove the sole. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in slices, place them in the bottom of the stew-pan, place the duck on them, and nearly cover it with strong stock, season with pepper and salt, place a buttered paper over the broad of the duck, put on the lid, and let it stew slowly for i£ hours. At the end of that time lift it out carefully on to a dish, dredge it over with flour, and place it in front of the fire to brown or use the salamander; next pass all the vegetables and gravy through a hair sieve, remove the fat with a spoon, and finally clear with kitchen paper ; place it over the fire and re- duce it almost to a glaze. When the duck is sufficiently brown place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with a wall of green peas round it, and send at once to table. N.B.— Pigeons and young fowls dressed in this manner are delicious. Hare (Field Fashion).— Utensils.—Needle and thread, skewers, small funnel, roasting-jack.—Ingredients.—Hare, veal- stuffing, port wine, dripping, ale or porter, fat bacon. Recipe. —Paunch the hare, saving the blood to make hare-soup with.138 LESSONS ON COOKERY, Wipe it thoroughly dry inside, previously having plucked off all the hair, as you would the feathers from a fowl; next pre- pare a veal stuffing, put it inside the hare, and stitch it up with needle and thread, truss it, open its mouth, and insert the funnel, pour in a glass of port wine, fasten the slices of bacon round the body, hang it on the jack and roast, baste it well with dripping for the first half-hour, then with porter or ale. Prepare a good brown gravy, well seasoned and flavoured, and serve with the hare when it has finished roasting. (A similar recipe to this appeared in the “ Field ” newspaper about the year 1866, and has been tried in my own family with great success ever since, the hare being more juicy and palatable than when skinned.) INVALID COOKERY. Lesson XI. 1. Mutton Broth.—Take 3 lbs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, wash it and wipe it, but do not let it soak in the water. Put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of cold water, let it come very slowly to the boil, skimming carefully all the time. When it is just on the point of boiling throw in a tea-spoonful of salt. Now remove all scum and oily particles. Draw the pan aside from the fire, so that it may simmer slowly. Wash 1 oz. of pearl barley in two or three waters, add it to the mutton broth, let it stew for five hours, strain it, put the meat into the general stock-pot, and when the broth is cold remove all fat. In serving for the patient, warm a small quantity at a time, season, and serve with toasted bread. 2. Rusk Pudding.—Take two flat rusks, place them in a buttered pie-dish, pour over them a glass of sherry, and whilst soaking beat up two eggs with one tea-cupful of milk, pour over the soaked rusks, and bake in a moderate oven for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Spongecake puddings are made in the same manner. 3. White Wine Whey.—Put 1 pint of new milk on the fire, let it boil; add pint of sherry, let it boil up again, and stand on one side till it cools and the curd subsides to the bottom of the pan. Pour off the clear whey, sweeten, and serve hot. The curd will make nice cheesecakes for those of the family who are well. 4. Lemonade.—The rind of three lemons and the strained139 FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. juice, with 2 oz. of loaf sugar, cover closely till quite cold. It may then be used. 5. Pgg Caudle. — Make a pint of thin gruel, flavour it with lemon-peel and sugar. Beat up an egg, remove the gruel off the fire, stir the egg in rapidly, and continue stirring for two or three minutes, add a wineglass of white wine or brandy, a few drops of lemon-juice, pour it into a hot basin, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. Lesson XII. 6. Strengthening Jelly.—Put 1 oz. of packet gelatine to soak in cold water for two hours, then put it into a sauce-pan with half-a-pint of water, the rind and juice of one lemon ; stir it well from the bottom of the pan until the gelatine is dissolved. Add 2 oz. of loaf sugar, and let that dissolve also, then draw the pan to one side. Beat up the yolks of six eggs, add them to the gelatine, and stir them very rapidly over the fire till it begins to thicken, but do not on any account let it boil. Add half-a-pint of sherry or cream, as may be ordered. Pour into a mould ; when it is set, give a spoonful at a time. 7. Boiled Custard Pudding.—Beat up three eggs, add half-a- pint of new milk, dissolve in a table-spoonful of boiling milk a table-spoonful of sugar, and mix gradually with the custard. Butter a basin, pour in the custard, place a buttered paper over the top, and steam it for one hour. A custard pudding should never boil, or it will become honeycombed. 8. Rabbit Steio.—Choose a young, tender rabbit, clean and truss it; place in a stew-pan carrots, turnips, &c., with a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it in milk. Let it stew very slowly indeed for two hours; in fact, hardly simmer. Lift it on to a dish; strain off the milk from the vegetables, thicken with a little of Johnston’s corn-flour, season, and pour over the rabbit; serve hot. 9. Drink used for Consumptive Patients on the Cojitincnt. —Blanch 2 oz. of Jordan almonds, and oz. of bitter almonds ; pound them in a mortar with 3 oz. of loaf sugar. Mince 1 oz. of raisins and £ lb. of figs, put the whole in a basin and cover with new milk; allow it to stand for two hours, stirring oc- casionally, strain it, and serve to the patient. In cases of fever the milk is omitted and water only used. Printed by Smyth & Yekyyokth, Holborn Buildings, E.O,INDEX. A. Aik, Fresh, for kitchen, 10 Air-pump, Boyles’, 10 Albumen, 15 Analysis of the Human Body, 12 of Foods, 18 Antiscorbutic principles of Food, 38 Apples, Baked, 39 Snowballs, 39 and Rice, boiled, 39 Dumplings, 40 Pudding, 40 Tart, 40 Baked Pudding, 41 Baked Pudding, anothor method, 41 and Rice, baked, 41 Cako, Yorkshire, 42 Cake, Hampshire, 42 Stewed, 42 Fool, 42 in Batter, baked, 42 Roley-poley, 42 Qualities of, as Food, 14 Black Cap, 43 Scrap pudding, 45 Marmalade, 43 Sauce, 43 Custard, 44 Custard, American, 44 Water, 44 Tea, 44 German whip, 44 and Sago, baked, 45 and Tapioca, baked, 45 Compote, 120 Arrowroot for the Sick, 45 and Beef Tea, 40 Artichoke, Jerusalem, boilod, 40 another method, 46 Baked, 40 Fried, 40 Soup,47 Artificial Asses’ Milk, 48 Goats’ Milk, 49 Artizan Cookery, 38 Receipts, 39 Ash heaps, their use, 10 Asparagus, boiled, 47 for Soups, 129 Aspic Jelly, 120 ; Australian Meat, 47 Pie, 47 Toad-in-tho-hole, 47 Balls, 48 Soup, 48 Mince, 48 B. Bacon, Analysis of, 49 Cake, 20 Boiled, 49 Roley-poley, 49 Baked Moats, 32 Bread, 50 Ling, 50 Soup, 50 Barley Water, 50 Pudding, 50 Tea, 51 Basket work, to clean, 8 Bath Chap, to boil, 51 Bath Brick, to use, 1 Batter for frying, 51 Pudding, boiled, 51 Pudding, baked, 52 Beaconsfiold Soup, 110INDEX. 142 Beans, French, to boil, 53 Broad, to boil, 54 Broad, Scotch fashion, 54 Haricot, 101 Beef, to select, 18 Analysis of, 18 American, 48 Sirloin, to roast, 27 Olives, 117 Piquees, 118 Steak Pie, 135 Silverside Baked, 32 Roley-poley, 52 Steak broiled, 35 Tea, 52 Hospital, 53 Raw, 53 Essence, 53 How to Administer, 53 Beet Root Salad, 55 Jam, 56 Colouring, 56 Beverages for Children, 14 Bilberry Pudding, 54 Jam, 54 Syrup, 55 Blackberry and Plum Jam, 5‘J Bone Broth, 57 Boiling, Captain Warron’s Method, 30 Brass to Clean, 1 Braising, 37 Bread, Home-made, 56 Pudding, 56 Do. Savoury, 57 Sauce, 58 Breast of Mutton, 27 Bricks to Clean, 7 Britannia Metal to Clean, 2 Brocoli to Boil, 57 Broiling, 35 Broiled Steak, 35 Broth Kettle, 57 Mutton, 138 Bono, 57 Bubble-and-Squeak (No. 85), 58 Bullock’s Heart stuffed, 58 Liver do. 58 C. Cabbage, 59 Balls, 61 Cabbage, Boiled, 61 and Bacon Baked, 61 to Clean, 8 Water, 9 and Mince (Cologne), 59 Pickle (No. 92), 60 Stuffed, 60 Soup, 59 Cake a la Gotbard, 62 Plain Seed, 62 Dough, 63 Rice, 130 Pound, 137 Queen, 131 Sponge, 132 Calve’s Feet Jelly, 125 Cancer, to Prevent, 4 Caramel, 63 Carrawav Seeds, 63 Carbon, 16 Carrots, 65 to Clean, 8 plain boiled, 65 Balls, 65 Marmalade, 66 Mashed, 65 Pudding, 66 Castor Oil, 70 to Administer to Children, 70 „ „ Adults, 70 Capers, 61 Mock, 62 Sauce, 62 Do. 31 Casein, 16 Cauliflower and Cheese, 127 Celery, 66 Stewed, 67 Soup, 67 Syrup, 67 Cellulose, 117 Charcoal, 67 Cheese, 68 Cakes, 130 Yorkshire, 69 Toast, 68 Balls, 69 Sauce, 68 Totatoo Patties, 69 Broad do. 69 Chemical Composition of Food, 15 Terms, 15M3 INDEX. Chemical Chloride of Sodium, 16 Chondrin, 16 Chyle, 17 Chyme, 17 Close Ranges, to clean, 5 Coal saver, 5 Coal stove, 38 Cod’s Head, &c., to boil, 31 Coffee a la Gothard, 123 Artizan, 75 Colourings, 130 Collops minced, 70 Compote of Peaches, 119 Apples, 120 Pigeons, 124 Consomme, 120 Consumption, c.ure of, 22 Drink for, 138 Cow’s Heel Jelly, 63, 125 Stock, 63 Baked, 65 Pie, 64 Stew, 64 With batter (No. 57), 65 Collared, 64 Cottage Stoves, 5 Copper to clean, 1 Copper Stewpans poisonous, 4 Cook, duties of, 9 Cornflower, 13 Cranberry Tart, 71 Jam, 71 Syrup, 71 Cream, -‘Our Boys,” 135 Cucumber and Onion Pickle, 72 Salad, 72 Pickle, 73 Curry Powder, 73 And Stuffed Eggs, 73 Curried Fish, 74 Meat, 74 Rabbit, 74 Currants, 74 Currant Dumplings, 75 Cake, Yorkshire, 75 Custard Baked, 75 Boiled, 75 Pudding (Sick Room), 138 Cyprus Pudding, 132 D. Date Pudding, 75 Dates Stowed, 76 Deodorisers, 10 Destroying flies, 79 Dextrin and Dextrose, 17 Diet for the masses, 11 For the young, 13 Adults, 14 Dory, Baked, 76 Grilled, 76 Dock-leaves, 79 Drop Pudding, 78 Duck Stewed, 137 Roast, 77 Dulce, 78 Dumplings, Green Gooseberry, 78 Suet, 78 Currant, 75 Norfolk, 78 Dust-bins, 10 Dyspepsia, Cure for, 12 E. Earthenware, to clean, 2 Economy of clean cooking vessels, 4 Fuel, 4 Time, 4 Food, 38 Eels, 79 To fry, 80 Stewed, 80 Boiled, 80 Baked, 80 Eggs and Bacon, 80 Egg Caudle, 138 Poached, 81 Fritters, 81 Salad, 81 and Cheese Sauce, 81 Stewed, and Cheese, 81 Fried, and Cheese, 82 and Spinach, 82 Elderflower Water, 82 Ointment, 82 Enamelled Saucepans, to clean, 2 Excelsior Stove, 38 F. Farinas, as Food for Infants, 13 I Fat, to render, 82 to clarify, 8.3 I Feeding Baby, 13144 INDEX. Fevers, to prevent, 9 Fibrino, 15 Fig Pudding, 84 Fish, as a diet, 20 when in Season, 24 to boil, 31 Water, to dispose of, 9 to fry, 3G Cakes, 84 Garnish, 32 Potted, 84 to fry (Artizan), 84 Flavourings, 131 Flounders, fried, 36 Flour Porridge, 87 baked, for Gravies, 95 boiled, for Gravies, 96 Food, use of, 10 for Boys and Girls, 13 Fowls, to choose, 20 to lard, 37 French Beans, 87 Fruit, Analysis of, 23 when in Season, 26 Pies, 85 Puddings, 85 Stewed, 85 Mashed. 86 Fritters, 86 Fricasse Beef, 87 Rabbit, 88 Frying 36, 83 Beef Steaks, 83 Batter, 86 Batter (high class), 122 G. Game, to choose, 20 when in season, 25 Garbage, the disposal of, 9 Garnishes, 89 Garnish of Potato, 37 Vegetables, 8 For soup, 121 For game, 90 Ga3 stoves to clean, 5 Garlic, for Whooping Cough, 88 Vinegar, 88 Pickle, 89 Gateau Helen Faucit, The, 133 Gelatine, 16 Geese, to select, 20 German pancake, 90 Pudding, 90 Custard, 44 Giblet soup, 90 Pie, 91 Ginger, cordial, 91 Cakes, 91 Pudding, 92 Squares, 92 Beer, 92 Beer powders, 92 Glass, to clean, 3 Glycerine, 17 Gluten, 16 Goose, Roast, 93 Irish (No. 3), 27 Mock, 93 Gooseberry fool, 93 Pudding, 94 Drop pudding, 94 Jam pudding, 94 Grape Sugar, 17 Gravy, Thick Brown, 95 Clear Brown, 95 Thick White, 95 Clear white, 96 Grease, to remove from stone, Greens, to boil. 9 Gruel, Scotch Oatmeal, 96 Gruel, English Oatmeal, 97 Gudgeon, to fry, 97 H. Haddock, to boil, 97 Baked, 97 Hake, Cutlets, 98 Pie, 98 Salt boiled, 98 Salt fried, 98 Halibut, Steaks, 98 Marinade, 99 Ham, 20 Shank, to boil, 99 Bone Soup, 100 Rissoles, 99 Stew, 99 Hare, to roast, 137 Haricot Beans, to boil, 101 Bean Soup, 101 Beans and Mince, 101 Beans, fried, 102 Hash, a la Gothard, 100145 INDEX. Heart, stowed, k la Gothard, 100 Roast, 100 Hashed, 100 Herbs, to grow and dry, 102 When in season, 25 When to dry, 25 Pie, 102 Herrings, how to choose, 102 Rolled, 102 Fried, 103 Baked, 103 Potted, 103 Ilome-cured (Nos. 1, 2, & 3), 103 Smoked, 104 Horse-radish, 104 Radish Vinegar, 104 Hotch-potch, 105 I. Ice for Sick Rooms, 105 Iceland Moss, 106 Moss Jelly, 106 Infants’ Food, 12 Irish Moss, 106 Moss Blanc Mango, 106 Isinglass, 107 Jelly, 107 J. Jams, 107 J Jam Croustades, 126 Jollies, 125 Fruit, 107 Sick Room, 138 Sick Room (Rusk), 108 Strengthening, 108 Cows’ Heel, 125 Orange, 125 K. Ketchup, Walnut, 108 Kettles, to remove fur from, 3 Keratin, 16 Kidney Pudding, 136 Kitchen management, 9 Requisites, 10 Knives, to clean, 1 Preserve from rust, 1 Mend loose handles, 2 Knuckle of mutton stewed, 109 L. Lactose, 17 Lacteals, 18 Lmvulose, 17 Lamb, to chooso, 1W Larding, 37 Lemon Syrup, 111 Cheese Cakes, 111 Lemonade, 138 Lime Water, 12 Linseed Tea, 110 Liver Balls, 109 Pie, 109 Stewed, 110 Mince, 110 Stuffed, 110 Luncheon Cake, 111 M. Macaroni, 111 to dress, 112 Marmalade, 129 Marrow Patties, 123 Vegetable Pie, 112 Vegetable, stuffed, 112 Meats, Baked, 32 Mushrooms, a la Gothard, 122 Mutton Broth, 138 Stewed, 109 To choose, 19 Portland, 19 Leg, to roast, 27 Loin, to roast, 27 it la Gothard, 27 Shoulder, a, la Gothard, 28 Leg, Boiled, 30 Chop, analysis of, 19 Moat, to tender, 18 to boil, 30 when in season, 24 to preserve from flies, 18 Mirrors, to clean, 3 Milk for Infants, 12 N. Nitrogen, 15 Noad’s Analysis, 38 Norfolk Dumplings, 112 O. Oatmeal as food, 13 Porridge, 113INDEX. Sanitary Hints, 9 when to cook, 19 ij/> Oleaginous, 17 Oil Cloth, to clean, 7 Oranges, stewed, 117 Osmazome, 16 Ossein, 16 “ Our Boys’ ” Cream, 135 Ox Cheek, 113 Oxide of Iron, 16 P. Paint, to clean, 7 Paraffin, to use, 1 Papin’s Digester, 33 Parsley, to fry, 36 Peach, Compote, 119 Gateau, 133 Pewter, to clean, 2 t Pigs’ Tubs, 10 Pickled Cabbage (No. 92), 60 Piquees, a la Rogonce, 118 Pigeon Compote, 124 Pork, 10 as food, 19 to choose, 20 to roast, 29 Pie Crust, 114 Poor man’s Plum Pudding, 113 Potato, Antiscorbutic, 22 to clean and peel, 28 Soup, 34 Ribbons, 37 Croquets, 113 Pudding, 127 Poultry, to select, 20 ■when in season, 24 Princess of Wales Pudding, 115 Pudding, “ Cyprus,” 132 Q. Queen Cakes, 131 R. Rabbit, Stewed, for Invalids, 138 Rissoles of Meat, 114 Roast, how to, 26 Hare, 137 Rusk Pudding, 138 S. Saucepans, to clean, 2 where to purchase, 5 Silver, to clean, 1 Sieves, to clean, 3 Skate, analysis of, 21 Soup, Biaconsfield. 116 Vegetable, 114 Jardiniere, 129 Bone, 114 Ham, 100 Giblet, 90 Potato, 34 Meat, 33 Shell Pish, 21 When in season, 24 Souffle, the “S. C. Hall,” 134 Spirits of Salt, to use, 2 Steel, to clean, 1 Spanish Fritters, 128 Starch, 16 Stearine, 17 Stock, to make, 33 Stewing, 34 Stewed Rabbit, 34 Rabbit, a la Gothard, 118 Stock making, 120 Clarifying, 121 Stoves, to clean, 5 Rippingille’s Oil, 5 Nock’s Gas, 5 Russel’s Coal, 38 Spirit, 5 Stone Floors, to clean, 7 Sweetbreads, to dross, 134 T. Temperance in Eating, 11 Tin, to clean, 2 Tinned Lobsters, 21 Turkey, to choose, 20 Turnips, to clean and peel, 8 Trifle, a la Johnston, 114 Triumph “Stewart Ross,” 134 V. Value of Pot Liquor, 38 Varnish to preserve silver, 1 Varnished Woods, to clean, 8 Veal, to select, 19 Croustades, 122index. 147 Vegetables, to clean, 8 Vegetable Foods, 21 „ Value of, 22 ,, Analysis of, 23 Products Wasted, 22 Marrow, to dress, 112 Vegetables, Cheap, 23 when in Season, 25 Wines, Home-mado, 115 Wine Whey (Whito), 138 Wood, to Scrub, 7 Y. Yorkshire Pudding, bakod, 33 Soup, baked, 50 Cheese Cakes, 69 Bacon Cake, 49 W. Z. Whole Wheaten Flour, 12 Wicker Work, to clean, 8 Zollek’s Method of Preserving Meat, Fruit, etc., 18HUGHES & CO.’S CATALOGUE OF SCHOOL PUBLICATIONS The various Publications in this Series have not only been specially recommended by Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, but are now used in the London and principal Board, Voluntary, and Practising Schools throughout the United Kingdom. Specimens of any works in this Catalogue will be forwarded by the publishers, POST FREE, on receipt of the published price in stamps. “ Excellent.” “ Admirable.” LONDON: HUGHES & C0.5 TUNS PASSAGE, PATERNOSTER SQUARE, E.C. 1878.Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. * 2 HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. SIXTH EDITION. BY JOSEPH HUGHES, F.R.G.S., Author of “Infant-School Arithmetic,” “ Easy Problems for Young Thinkers,” “A Series of Memory Cards," etc. Standards I. and II., each Id.; ill., IV,, V., and VI., each 2d., Answers 6d. each part. Exercises,!/-; complete with Answers, 2/6. OPINIONS. “These are admirable little books; the examples are well graduated, unusually numerous, and varied in every conceivable way, so that pupils who have worked through them may be presented for examination with the most perfect confidence. Some of our young friends have, for us, tested a large number of these examples, but have not found an incorrect answer!"—Teachers' Assistant. “The sums are judiciously graduated and deftly arranged for preventing the children from copying each other’s work. There are excellent batches of problems for testing the ability of the pupil to apply the rules taught him by the teachers.” —The School Boakd Chronicle. “New type has been used in the printing, and the work has been carefully graduated to meet every form of question likely to be propounded by H.M. Inspectors. Mr. Hughes has taken especial care with regard to the Answers—The Educational Guide. “ The volumes are handy in size, the exercises numerous and well-selected, and the price will suit the most scantily supplied pocket.’’—The Irish Teachers’ Journal. “They sustain the reputation which Mr. Hughes has already achieved, and we doubt not they will meet with the same reception at the hands of an appreciative public.” —The School Magazine. “We can recommend these little books to any teacher requiring a fresh set of Arithmetical Exercises. The examples are numerous, practical, and well graduated, and the Answers perfectly accurate. The arrangement adopted enables a teacher easily to give different work to each boy: so that a class may be at all times left to work by themselves without fear of copying taking place."—The Schoolmaster. “ I congratulate you on producing such admirable manuals. In type and arrangement, as in their graduation and general character, they seem to me all that could be desired.”—C. Mansford, Esq., B.A., Mathematical Lecturer Westminster Training College, S.W. “I find them admirably adapted for class and standard work."—Mr. Goodyear, Board School, Wakefield. “ By this simple expedient, the teacher is enabled to give to each boy a different letter, thus rendering copying in class well-nigh an impossibility. The examples are moreover carefully graduated and contain specimens of almost every kind of question proposed by Her Majesty’s Inspectors.”—The Educational Times. LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 3 Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT. COMPLETION AND RE-ISSUE OF HUGHES’S Graduated Exercises in Arithmetic In six 'packets for the six Standards. Price 1/- per packet. ADVANTAGES. 1. The clear and distinct type nsed. 2. One side of the card contains numerous carefully graduated, exercises in figures, and the other an examination in words. 3. They may be used as a test at any stage of a pupil’s progress. 4. As the work of each Standard is not limited to the bare requirements of the Code, a capital opportunity is afforded for acquiring a thorough knowledge of each rule. 5. No cards extant are so suitable for revising the Arithmetic of each class, and for securing rapidity in working. 6. The sums are so arranged that no change in the Code can affect the value of the cards. Teachers anxious to secure the best possible results at the Annual Inspection should adopt these Cards for ordinary daily class work. IS”They have been highly recommended by H.M.I. of Schools. Many hundreds of unsolicited Testimonials have been borne as to their excellence. The following are specimens of TEACHERS’ OPINTOHS. A London Master, writes: “ All the teachers to whom I have shown them agree with mo that they aro undoubtedly the best that have appeared. The arrangement throughout is excellent." A Scotch Master, writes : “ I have great hopes of profiting much by using your valuable educational aids. The Fifeshire teachers speak highly of your works.” A Welsh Master, writes: “ They surpass anything that I have seen in the course of thirty-two years’ experience.” A Clergyman, writes : “ A friend has strongly recommended them to me.” Another Master, writes : “ Eminently suited for the object intended.” Another Master, writes: “I have examined them thoroughly, and can truly say that I have seen nothing lately that has afforded me so much gratification.” Another Master, writes : “lam very much pleased with them—they are excellent.” Another Master, writes: “ The most sensible and useful cards I have ever seen.5’ A Mistress, writes: “ I have always passed 97 and 98 per cent.; and I attribute the success greatly to your cards.” Another Master, writes (June 4th, 1878): “ Ever since I used your cards, which I consider excellent, I never gained such high results before. Last year I got 100 per cent., this year 97; and this I owe in a great measure to your cards, which I find very valuable.” LONDON : HUGHES & CO.,*• HUGHES’S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. HUG-HES’S INSPECTION QUESTIONS IN Gp P IQ A P TT y Jca U lx Jcrl Xx Jtr Jcl X Adapted to the Latest Requirements of the New Code. In Five Packets, for Standards II., III., IV., V. and VI. Price One Shilling per Packet. THE BOOK OF HUGHES’S INSPECTION QUESTIONS IN GEOGRAPHY CONTAINS THE WHOLE OF THE FIVE STANDARDS. Price Two Shilling's. HUGHES’S INSPECTION QUESTIONS IN GRAMMAR and ANALYSIS Adapted to the Latest Requirements of the New Code. In Five Packets, for Standards II., III., IV., V. and VI. Price 1/- per pkt. THE BOOK OF HUGHES’S INSPECTION QUESTIONS IN GRAMMAR and ANALYSIS CONTAINS THE WHOLE OF THE FIVE STANDARDS. Price Two Shillings. have LONDON : HUGHES & CO., Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. * For Home Exercises, occasional written or oral Examinations, and for 1 familiarizing children with the various questions proposed by H.M. Inspectors, the above Grammatical and Geographical Test Cards are unequalled. A Teacher ivrites: “ I can only say they are excellent, and that I introduced them into several large schools in the neighbourhood.”HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 5 LEWIS’S ANSWEES TO Hughes’s Inspection Questions in Geography. Price 7wo Shillings and Sixpence each. LEWIS’S ANSWEES TO Hughes’s Inspection Questions in Grammar and Analysis. Price 2/6 each. The above series of Answers have been compiled for the use of Teachers, to save time, and facilitate the work of Examination. HUGHE S’ S HANDBOOK OF EXAMINATION QUESTIONS For the use of Teachers. Contains, complete in one book,— (a) Hughes’s Inspectors’ Test Sums, for the six Standards, complete, with Answers. (b) Hughes’s Easy Problems for Young Thinkers, for the six Standards, complete, with Answers. (c) Hughes’s Inspection Questions in Geography, for the five Standards II. to VI. (<i) Hughes’s Inspection Questions in Grammar and Analysis, for the five Standards II. to VI. its* Price 5/-, strongly bound in Extra Cloth. LONDON : HUGHES & CO., Tuns Passage, Paternoster.Square, E.C. * *6 HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. THE BOOK OF HUGHES’S SECOND SERIES OF INSPECTORS’ TEST SUMS Contains the whole six Standards, with Ansvjers, complete, price 2/- Hughess Inspectors' Test Sums. In six packets for the six Standa/rds, price 1/- per packet. *** Many of Her Majesty’s Inspectors and their Assistants recommend this Series of Cards. OPINIONS. “ I shall have much pleasure in recommending your excellent series of ‘ Test Sums ’ to my professional brethren, because I believe them to he the best I have seen, and that is saying a good deal in their favour.”—Mr. J. Brown, Public School, Lumsden, Aberdeen. “ I think them admirable. They are, I believe, the best in the market.”— Mr. A. Kay, St. John’s National School, Bootle, Liverpool. “ I am pleased to tell you that I find the Cards excellent.”—Mr. H. J. Thrower, Holy Trinity Schools, Hoxton, London. “I think your Arithmetical Cards are the best in the market.”—Mr.Walter, Cathedral Boys’ School, Ripon. IS" Very many hundreds of unsolicited Testimonials from all classes of Teachers have been received by the Author, stating that incomparably better results are obtained at the Inspection by using these Cards, than any other. The Book of Hughes's INSPECTORS’ TEST SUMS Contains the whole six Standards, with Answers, complete, price 2/- * LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,HUGHES'S ED UCATIONAL COURSE. 7 Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. HUGHES’S SECOND SERIES OF INSPECTORS’ TEST SUMS In six packets for the six Standards. PRICE ONE SHILLING PER PACKET. This New Series of Cards has been prepared from genuine Inspectors’ Test Sums collected from all parts of Great Britain. It is believed that euery sum has been set under the present Code, and has never before been published. EACH PACKET CONTAINS FORTY DIFFERENT CARDS, AND TWO COPIES OF ANSWERS. To distinguish the Second Series from the First Series, grey wrappers will be used. fUfi" BOTH Series are adapted to the latest requirements of the New Code, 1878. LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. SPECIMEN PAGE. 38 THE YOUNG STUDENT'S PRIMER. fine kite ripe ride fire vine bite wipe side hire mine smite stripe wide wire James is nine. I am not quite five. I will strive to be as wise as lie. I like him: he smiles so. London : HUGHES & CO., Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square. Jane, Frank, James, and six more be-side my- self, had a game at hide-and-seek. We ten had fine fun : it kept us quite a-live. We like a game at hide-and-seek.9 HUGHES’S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. “ The best Tablet Lessons we bave seen.” Adopted by the London and other principal School Boards. Just Published, in a New and Superior Type, the Seventh Edition of LAUGLEB’S READING SHEETS. Price 71&; or the 28 Lessons mounted on 14 hoards, 15/- E3’ The Series includes the Roman and Script Alphabets. The New Edition of this well-known Series of Reading Lessons is issued in an attractive form, on very good paper, and in a clear, bold, distinct type. The carefully graduated system on which these Lessons are constructed has secured the highest commendation from practical educationists. LANGLER & HUGHES’S YOUNG STUDENTS READERS. Primer—Part I paper, 2d. .. cloth, 3d. >> II >> 2d* .. ,, i,d. Complete Primer—very strongly bound, cased 6d. First Reader (Standard I.) ,, . 6d. ADOPTED BY THE LONDON AND PRINCIPAL SCHOOL BOARDS. The remaining Books of the Series will be issued with as little delay as possible. OPINIONS. “This Primer has been prepared with exceptional pains. It is an admirable specimen of letter-building, and leads the pupil by very easy and ingenious stages towards a knowledge of reading.”—The Schoolmaster. “They perfectly harmonize with the principles of the Kinder Garten. I always recommend your Reading Sheets and Books.”—Fraulein Heerwart, Stockwell Kinder Garten Training College. “ If we are asked what is the best ‘First Reading-Book,’ we shall say, Langler’s.”—The School and Teacher. “Quite a boon to the little folks.”—Journal of Education. “An excellent little book.”—Educational Report. “Excellent. Admirably adapted to interest children.”—Recorder. “ Rarely is a class-book so carefully graduated, and so clearly and boldly printed. The lessons are equally adapted to the analytic and synthetic method. We strongly recommend them.” — Papers for the Schoolmaster. LONDON : HUGHES & CO.,10 HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR PUPIL TEACHERS. Ready September ist, 1878. LESSONS ON COOKERY, By BARBARA WALLACE GOTHARD, Late Organising Cookery Lecturer at the Cheltenham School of Cookery, and Literary Institute, Charlotte Street, Hull, &c. jgST A specimen copy will be sent to any Teacher on receipt of One Shilling in Half-penny Stamps. L-^LItTGrljIEIR/S INFANTS’ SPELLING BOOK Part I., Id.; Part II., Id. iff SPELLING BOOKS for the various Sta?idards are in preparation. MEMORY CARDS. LANCtLER’S JUNIOR TABLE-OARD, for St. I., II. and III. ANALYSIS—for Standards V. and VI., on one Card. GRAMMATICAL DEFINITIONS, for St. II. & III., on one Card. GEOGRAPHICAL DEFINITIONS, for Standard II. GEOGRAPHY OF YORKSHIRE, for Standard III. GEOGRAPHY OF LANCASHIRE, for Standard III. MENTAL ARITHMETIC CARD, for any of the Higher Standards. Each of the above, price One Shilling per packet of Twenty-four. MUSICAL DEFINITIONS Price One Shilling per packet of Twelve. LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. *' : * HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 11 NO"W READY.—Price Three Shillings and Sixpence. A SYSTEM OF itata fax fjttpl fodjm BASED UPON GRAMMATICAL ANALYSIS: WITH COPIOUS EXTRACTS FROM THE BEST AUTHORS. By W. S. ROSS, Author of “ The Book of English Literature,” etc. This work is not more especially intended for a manual of Elocution proper, than as an Advanced Reading Book. While it embraces all the better features of every system of Elocution extant, it is at the same time boldly and intelligently original. The fundamental principles of the system are entirely new. The principle of every mode of utterance, from the easiest colloquy to the sublimest eloquence, is deduced from concise reason- ing and common sense. The publishers leave the book with confidence to the appreciation of all those who desire to speak their mother-tongue naturally and well. It is the production of an author not only of high general attainments, but a most successful practical teacher of Elocution. OPIKIOHS, “It seems to me that your fundamental principle is right, and that all real grace and propriety of utterance must be founded on a perception of the logical relations of the successive sentences, and of their several parts.”—Professor Fitch, M.A., one of H.M. Inspectors of Schools. “ I can also testify to the complete success of your System of Elocution by the excellent practical results produced by it in this establishment.”— Rev. J. M. Pollock, M.A., LL.D., Clare College, Scorton. “ I have examined your new work on Elocution, and heartily recommend the work to the attention of teachers and advanced students.”—The Head Master, Royal Academy, Inverness. LONDON : HUGHES & CO.,HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. I 12 Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. NOW READY.—PRICE ONE SHILLING, EXTRA CLOTH. HUGHES’S EASY LESSONS ON THE MECHANICAL POWERS, With, COPIOUS EXERCISES. BY ONE OF H.M. INSPECTORS OF SCHOOLS. “ An effort has been made in this little manual to place the study of the Mechanical Powers within the grasp of any hoy of average ability. It is hoped that, apart from its use in preparing for examinations, the clear arrange- ment of the work, together with the thoroughly interesting nature of the subject, will induce many a young student to master its contents.”—Extract from Preface. Fifth Edition.—Crown 6mo., Price One Shilling. HUGHES’S GUIDE TO MAPPING. For the use of Pupil Teachers, Students in Training, and Candidates for Examinations generally. CONTAINING FULL DIRECTIONS FOR PROJECTING THE PARALLELS OF LATITUDE (EITHER STRAIGHT OR CURVED,) AND THE MERIDIANS OF LONGITUDE, By a simple and easy method, together with hints on Drawing and Colouring, on the shading of Coast-lines, and the representation of Mountains, &c. &c., with complete Alphabets for Plain and Ornamental Lettering. Illustrated by Plates, Diagrams, and three Fac-Simile Maps. LONDON : HUGHES & CO.,Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. * HUGHES’S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 13 (just issued.) LANGLER & HUGHES’S STANDARD GEOGRAPHIES Standard II. and III., each Id.; IV., V. and VI., October, 1878. These little Manuals are not hasty compilations, but have been prepared with the utmost care, and fully meet, in every respect, the requirements of the New Code, 1878. Teachers desirous of using books combining scientific accuracy with an arrangement of the text which reduces to a minimum the labour of committing to memory, are confidently invited to examine this series. New Book for Pupil Teachers, Students in Training Colleges, &c. Suitable also as a Reading-Book in the Upper Classes of Public Elementary Schools. 1 2mo. THREE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE, EXTRA CLOTH, LETTERED. HARMONIZED AND ARRANGED IN SHORT READINGS. By Rev. EDMUND FOWLE, AUTHOR OF “EASY LATIN AND GREEK BOOKS,” ETC. The Schoolmaster, says : “ It has been most carefully prepared, and must commend itself to everyone engaged in teaching Scriptural facts. It is an excellent aid to the young student of the Gospels. Teachers will find their labours lightened by the tabular arrangement of parables, miracles, discourses, &c. We heartily commend the book.” The School Guardian, says : “ Mr. Fowle has the happy art of producing books that are useable, books that one can teach from. Himself a teacher, he has found by experience what boys can learn, how they can learn, and how far it is expedient that their teacher should help them, or how far the books they use should be suggestive of help. He has utilized this insight in the preparation of the Gospels Harmonized, and has succeeded, perhaps as far as any one ever can, in harmonizing the facts and dates of the four evangelical narratives. We think it will make a capital class-book for the hotter kind of schools, and will be, as it is designed to be, exceedingly useful to teachers, pupil-teachers, and for family reading.” TESTIMONIALS. LONDON : HUGHES & CO.,HUGHES'S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 14 Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. (New Edition.) HUGHES’S EASY PROBLEMS FOR YOUNG THINKERS. In six packets for the six Standards. Price One Shilling per packet. The very rapid sale of the first editions of these popular ‘ Easy Problems ’ proves that they supply a want long felt by teachers. They are designed as a connecting link between the purely mechanical exercises and the somewhat difficult problems usually proposed by H.M. Inspectors of Schools. The earlier letters in each Standard, while calling into play the reasoning faculties, require but little real thought. The School Board Chronicle says : “ They are well constructed for making the child think, and are carefully adapted to the exercise of the pupil in the work of the respective Standards.” (FOR THE USE OF TEACHERS.) The Book of Hughes’s Easy Problems for Young Thinkers Contains the vjhole six Standards, with Answers, complete, price 2/- (Third Edition.) INFANT-SCHOOL ARITHMETIC. Price One Penny; Cloth, Twopence; Answers, strongly bound in Extra Cloth, Sixpence. This little Manual, which has been expressly written for Infants, •is the only one of its kind extant. It contains a large collection of examples thoroughly suited to the capacities of very young children. V Several well-known Infant Mistresses have adopted this little Book, and speak of it in most gratifying terms. “Invaluable to Infant Mistresses.” “Capital.” “Just the thing I have been looking for.” LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,HUGHES’S EDUCATIONAL COURSE. 15 Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. EDUCATIONAL WORKS by W. J. DICKINSON, Formerly Normal Master and Lecturer on Grammar and Analysis at the Battersea Training College. JUST ISSUED. PRACTICAL STANDARD GRAMMARS With copious carefully-graduated EXERCISES. Standards II., id-.; III., 2d.; IV., V. and VI., each T,d.; Complete, in one volume, strongly bound, i/- Tlie distinguishing features of these Grammars are,— (a) The clearness of definition and simplicity of arrangement. At the end of each standard there is a summary for memory work. (h) The gradual introduction of the difficulties of our language, with numerous exercises thereon. (c) The abundant practice afforded for the construction of sentences, thus enabling the pupil to acquire with ease the art of expressing himself in writing. (d) The chapters on the “Parsing of Difficult Words” and “Hints on Composition,” in Standard VI. Noil) Ready.—Price i/- Extra doth gilt. HOW TO TEACH THE RUDIMENTS OF GRAMMAR AND ANALYSIS SUCCESSFULLY, Being a Series of Model Lessons for Teachers. In the Press—Ready October ist, 1878. The Difficulties of ENGLISH GRAMMAR and ANALYSIS SIMPLIFIED, WITH A COURSE OF EXAMINATION QUESTIONS. Teachers have long felt the need of a manual of this kind, as the ordinary Grammars which the student consults with a view to clear up some difficulty, are silent on the very points upon which he most needs help. Many knotty questions—similar to those set by the various public examining bodies—are here fully discussed and explained. It will thus be seen that the volume may be used with advantage as a companion to any text book on Grammar and Analysis. The Examination Questions are selected from the Pupil Teachers, Queen’s Scholarship, Certificate, College of Preceptors (diploma), Oxford and Cambridge (senior), and the London Matriculation Papers. LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,16 HUGHES'S PUPIL TEACHERS' SERIES. Tuns Passage, Paternoster Square, E.C. A New History of the British Empire. By J. M. D. Meiklejohn, M.A., Professor of Education in the University of St. Andrews. Price 3/6. This work has been written specially for pupil teachers, and contains sufficient matter for either the Scholarship or Matriculation examination. “A very excellent History.”—Teachers' Assistant. MENSURATION FOR PUPIL TEACHERS, Copious Examination Exercises. By Professor Elliot. Price 2/-; Key 3/6. This work exactly covers the Government syllabus for Pupil Teachers’, Scholarship, and Certificate examination. “ Professor Elliot is specially happy with his ‘Definitions and Explanations,' smoothing the pupil’s path over many a difficulty that might otherwise puzzle him greatly. We have great confidence in recommending this work.”—School Board Chronicle. MATHEMATICAL GEOGRAPHY. By John R. Langler, B.A., F.R.G.S., of the Westminster College, one of the Examiners to the College of Preceptors. Price 2/- A HARMONY OF THE GOSPELS. By Rev. Edmund Fowle. Price 3/6. HUGHES’S GUIDE TO MAPPING. By A. Gardiner. Invaluable to Pupil Teachers. Price 1/- HUGHES’S Easy Lessons on the Mechanical Powers. By one of H.M. Inspectors of Schools. Extra cloth, 1/- May be used with advantage as a supplementary reader. Pupil teachers will also find much valuable information in this little Manual for the preparation of their oral lessons. ELOCUTION FOR PUPIL TEACHERS. By W. S. Ross. Price 3/6. HOW TO TEACH GRAMMAR AND ANALYSIS. By W. J. Dickinson. Price 1/- HUGHES’S PRACTICAL COURSE OF ARITHMETIC. Complete with Answers. 2/G. This Manual contains a very large number of questions set at the Pupil Teachers’ Queen Scholarship, Certificate, College of Preceptors, and Oxford and Cambridge Local Examinations. Ready September 1st, 1878. Mrs. GOTHARD’S LESSONS on COOKERY. Ready October 1st, 1878. The DIFFICULTIES of ENGLISH GRAMMAR Simplified, By W. J. Dickinson. LONDON: HUGHES & CO.,RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 1312. Microfilm No: Date Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification 5orccc, 6'MC Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks