THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: mi (\ | EMC T ( Theodore ancis ) Classmark okery 5 92V ‘Si.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530348_0007i. vae iiWm fuj. ■6. ' i; sc Attest &tur (jfo. t|„ & v.« £mn& j&m sq, % The Arrow-heap. 5. The Boat. 6. The Booksllde, ?. The Doobi,e-f®iote® Fan, 8. The Butterfly. • 9. The Crown. lo. The Bishop’s Mitre,18. The Note. 9. The Watkr-ijly (No. 2). 16 ARTISTIC SERVIETTES, ... j 10. Tf . 11. Tae ' • i The 7. The Mitre 8. The Four.pointed Fan.Sole Agent: A W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C. THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF A Complete Dictionary of all pertaining to the Art of Cookery and Table Service. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD EURNISS, GEORGE CRUIKS HANK, W. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “The Chef's Memoranda," “ Plain and Artistic Cookery" “Little-known Foods," “ Ice and Ice-Making“The Manufacture of British Wines, &Jlc.,” '‘'Ball Suppers and their Service,” Wine Adulteration," “Savoury Suppers “Muffins and Crumpets," “Sandwiches“American Drinks," “Confectionery," "‘Notes on Curries," “I.oving-Cups" “Antiquity of Cheese," “Good Coffee" “Lives of Famous Cooks',' and numerous other Serial and Special Papers iti Tedmical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets ; Sec. of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); And, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. CORBLET, Chef de Cuisine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887; 1st Gold Medal of 1st Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. Fiorillo, Chef de Cuisine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 , ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal. 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; 1st Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cuisine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Harewood ; Silver Medal, Exposition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cuisine to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889 ; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889 ; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cuisine, Great Eastern Hotel, London. C. Willin, Chef de Cuisine, late of the Grand Hotel Bristol ; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division VII.—Sha to Tut. LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL.LONDON I A. BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY l FFOS (4 33 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. SHADS (Fr. Aloses; Ger. Alsen).—These fish have been described as fresh-water herrings. They migrate from the sea to the river like salmon, and at certain times of the year may be canglit in great quantities in most of the European and some of the American rivers. Of the European variety (Clupea alosa) the finest are caught in rivers in France and Germany; but, according to the most reliable accounts, the American Shad is far and away the superior. Mr. Frederick Wliymper, who has travelled for many years in America, says of it: “ The American Shad is believed to be by all true Americans a much finer fish than the European variety. That may be or may not be, but the form of cooking called a ‘ planked ’ Shad has been admitted to be, by all who have tasted it, as good as anything can be in the way of a grill. The fish, which runs to 18in. long, and often to a greater length, is split and cleaned. It is then cooked on a shingle, i.e., a small thin plank of fresh-cut pine wood. To begin, it is put near and before the fire; when the top side has been browned it is put on the grill, and the wood allowed to burn slowly round it. That the civilized American invented this is doubtful; it came from the poor Indian, and was one of the greatest efforts of his mind. In those of the New England States where it is known it is always served on the plank.” The shape of the Shad (see Fig. 550) is not unlike that of the herring, but it grows to a weight of some 101b. The body is compressed, the back rounded, and the skin is silvery with a reddish tinge. Extensive Shad fisheries are carried on along the Rhine and Loire, the fish being usually caught in May, hence the Germans call it Mai-fisch. The following receipts are for the most part French and German: Baked Shad.—(1) Pare and scale a small Shad, put it on a well-buttered, deep baking-dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper, adding two finely-chopped shallots and J wineglassful of white wine. Cover the whole with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, pour the liquor into a saucepan, add J pint of German sauce, a pinch of finely-chopped chervil, and a little spinach green; cook for three minutes longer, pour a little of it through a strainer over the fish, and serve the rest in a sauceboat. (2) Split a Shad down the back, wash and wipe it well, and rub it inside and out with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Prepare a stuffing with breadcrumbs and a little chopped onion, parsley, eelery-seed, salt, pepper, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Stuff the fish with it, tie it round, put it in a baking-dish with 1 pint of water and a lump of butter, dredge it with flour, and bake it in a slow oven for 1 i hours, basting it occasionally with the butter in the dish. When cooked, put the Shad on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) American Style.—Clean a Shad by drawing the entrails through the gills, and wash and dry it. Prepare a stuffing with breadcrumbs, butter, salt, and pepper, moisten with egg to bind and stuff the fish with it; place it in a baking-dish over slices of uncooked potatoes, pour in sufficient fish broth to moisten, cover with buttered paper, and bake. Serve with rich sauce or thickened stock in a sauceboat. Shads—continued. Boiled Shad.—(1) Scale and clean the fish, make incisions down the back with a knife, put it in a fish-kettle, cover with boiling water, and boil gently till done. When cooked, put the Shad on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a dish of potatoes. (2) Clean and scale a Shad, cut it across in pieces, rub them with salt, and let them macerate for ten minutes. Put some chopped vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, &c., in a saucepan with 2qts. of water, 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, and a small quantity of salt; boil them for ten minutes, then put in the Shad. Place the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for eight or ten minutes. When cooked, drain the pieces of fish, put them on a hot dish, pour some caper sauce over them, and serve. (3) Clean and wasli five or six Shad, stuff them with fish forcemeat mixed with a small quantity of lobster butter, tie them into shape so that the forcemeat will not drop out, put them into a fish-kettle of salted water, and boil slowly for thirty or forty minutes, according to the size of the fish. Take them out, put them on a dish, mask them with lobster sauce, having the lobster- meat cut up into small pieces, and serve with boiled potatoes. Broiled Shad.—(1) Scale and clean a large Shad, remove the fins, and score it on both sides. Put the fish in a deep dish with some chopped shallots, parsley, salt, and oil, and let it macerate for one hour. Grease a gridiron, warm it, and lay the fish on it; broil the Shad over a clear fire, turning it occasionally and basting with oil. The Shad will take from half-an-hour to three-quarters-of-an- hour to cook, according to its size. When ready, put the fish on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of maitre d’hotel sauce. (2) The fish is split so as not to come in halves, and made to lie flat on the gridiron, which must be previously greased and heated. Sprinkle the fish plentifully with pepper and salt, and when it is put upon the dish, pour over it a little warmed butter, and garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 551). Broiled Shad with Sorrel.—Scale and draw a Shad, one with a soft roe, cut off the fins, wipe it, and make incisions on both sides. Put the Shad in a deep dish, baste it with oil, season well with salt and pepper, and let it macerate for one hour. Broil the fish over a clear fire, turning and basting it occasionally with the oil in which it is soaked. Boil some sorrel as for a garnish, make a border of it on a hot dish, put the Shad in the centre, pour a little parsley sauce over, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Fried Shad.—After the Shad is cleaned and washed, split it down the back, cut out the back-bone, divide the fish into pieces about Sin. or 4in. square, and lay them on a clean dry cloth. Have ready a dripping-pan or large frying- pan containing hot fat Jin. deep, roll the fish in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, put it into the fat when smoking hot, and fry it brown on both sides; use a broad spatula or cake-turner to turn over the pieces in order to keep them entire. As fast as the pieces brown lift them out of the pan, lay them for a moment on brown paper to free them from fat, and then put them on a hot dish. Serve with lemons, pickles, or cucumbers. Potted Shad.—Cut a Shad into pieces, pack it in a stone jar with layers of mixed spices and a little salt, fill the jar with vinegar, and tie a cloth tightly over it. Put the jar in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, and VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. PTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 434 Shad s—con tinned. boil the fish till cooked. The above makes a nice relish for breakfast or lunch. Roasted Shad.—Scale and clean a Shad and stuff it with forcemeat. Mask the fish with warmed butter, dust over some pepper and salt, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When cooked, put the Shad on a hot dish, and serve it with drawn butter and parsley. Shad a la Prau9aise.—Select six Shads with soft roes, scale and clean them without damaging the roes, but remove all the blood vessels. Put the roes, together with six pickled carps’ roes, into a bowl of cold water, and let them soak. Wash the Shads thoroughly, dry them on a cloth, and with a sharp knife make several incisions along the sides or down the backs; put them into a fish marinade, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet-oil, and let them remain in it for two hours, rubbing frequently. Take them out, drain, stuff them with fish forcemeat mixed up with 1 table-spoonful of Soubise sauce, tie them up to prevent the forcemeat coming out, put them on an oiled gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Take the fish off when done, put them on a dish, mask them with French sauce seasoned with mushrooms, crayfish tails, and oysters, and serve the roes, which can be cooked in any desired way, as a garnish. Fish sauce should always be served separately in a sauceboat. Shad Pudding.—Take about Jib. of cold boiled Shad, mince it finely, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Take the boiled roe, see that it is quite dry, and work into it loz. of butter, and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Cut the whites of the hard-boiled eggs into lings. Mash some boiled floury potatoes, and have ready J pint of butter sauce, with a beaten egg mixed with it, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Butter a baking-dish, put a layer of mashed potatoes at the bottom, and over this alternate layers of fish, butter sauce (in this lay rings of white of egg), and roe; on top of all put another layer of mashed potato. Cover the dish, and put it into a moderately hot oven ; when it bubbles and steams, take the cover off, shut the oven door, and let it brown. Serve it in the dish it was baked in, with pickles. Shad Salad.—Remove the backbone from half a Shad, put the fish in a deep dish, moisten with plenty of lemon- juice, and let it stand all night. The object of soaking the fish in lemon-juice is that it softens the small bones so that they can be removed easier, otherwise they are very troublesome. Drain, broil the Shad over a clear fire, then tear it into pieces with two forks, and put it into a salad-bowl with plenty of crisp lettuce-leaves. Pour a remoulade dressing over the salad, and serve. Another way of preparing the fish is to soak it in lime-juice for twelve hours, then tearing it into pieces, and mixing it in a salad-bowl with some finely-shredded cabbage-palm ; dilute it with a plain dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve it. The fish will require ■no other cooking, the action of the lime-juice being sufficient. Stewed Shad with Sorrel.—Select a small fine Shad, pare and scale it, and let it steep as long as possible in a marinade composed of 1 table-spoonful of oil, half a sliced lemon, a quarter of a bunch of parsley, and half a sliced onion. When ready, place it in a buttered stewpan with £ wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, also a bunch of sweet herbs. Take two handfuls of picked and washed sorrel, mince it very fine, put it in the stewpan with the fish, adding a good pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper; cover the pan, cook over a slow fire for at least two hours, arrange the Shad on a dish, and keep it hot. Add 1 table-spoonful of white roux to the liquor, remove the bunch of herbs, thicken well, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve with some more of any desired sauce in a sauceboat. Shad’s Roes.—As Shad are usually caught on their journey up rivers to spawn, they are mostly full of roe. When prepared as follows the roes are considered a delicacy: Shads—co n tinned. Broiled Shad’s Roe.—Well wash a Shad’s Roe in cold water, wipe it quite dry on a clean towel, put it between the bars of a double wire gridiron thickly buttered, and broil brown on both sides. When cooked, serve it with butter, lemon-juice, and parsley, or with plain butter, pepper, and salt. A garnish of sliced cucumbers (see Fig. 552), or tomatoes, or a little watercress, may be served with the broiled roe. A dish of mashed potatoes should be sent to table with it. Broiled Shad’s Roe with Bacon.—Well wash six pieces of fresh Shad’s Roe, wipe them thoroughly with a towel, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 good pinch of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Roll them gently to avoid breaking, arrange them on a broiler, and broil for six minutes on each side. Take them off the fire, lay them on a hot dish, and pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’iiotel butter; garnish with six slices of broiled bacon and six quarters of lemon, and serve. Tried Shad’s Roe.—(1) Steep the roe in cold water; care should be taken in removing it from the fish, not to break it. Wipe the roe dry, put it in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry it till nicely browned. When cooked, put the roe on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Wash "the roes and dry them well with a soft cloth. If they are very large, cut them in two. Have 1 pint of boiling water on the fire, with a little salt and pepper in it and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, put the roes into this, and let them boil for ten minutes; take them out, put them immediately into very cold water, in which a little salt has been dissolved, let them remain in this about two minutes, and then wipe them dry again. Brush them all over with beaten egg and roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in boiling lard. Serve them hot, together with \ pint of butter sauce, with a small quantity of cayenne pepper, a little chopped parsley, the strained juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce mixed in it and boiled up once. This sauce should be served in a sauce-tureen. Shad’s-Roe Croquettes.—(1) Boil the roe for a-quarter-of- an-hour in salted water, then drain and mash it. Boil 1 pint of cream; mix 4 table-spoonfuls of cornflour with Jib. of butter and stir it into the boiling cream; add the strained juice of two lemons, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and grated nutmeg, and the roe. Boil all together, then take the saucepan off the fire and leave the contents till cool. Shape the mixture into croquettes, dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, repeating the operation twice. Put the croquettes into a frying-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and brown them quickly. When cooked, drain the croquettes, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Put six medium-sized Shad’s Roes into a saucepan of boil- ing water and boil them for twenty minutes. Drain and separate them with a wooden spoon, put them in a basin, and season with salt, pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and three peeled and boiled potatoes through a fine wire sieve and mix them with the Shad’s Roes; finely chop the whites of the eggs, add them, also the juice of half a lemon. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir them over the fire till well blended, then pour in gradually 1 h teacupfuls of cold water, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. Pour the sauce in with the ingredients in the basin, and stir them For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 435 Shads—continued. until thoroughly mixed. Divide the mixture into small equal quantities, which shape as nearly as possible like miniature Shad’s Roes; dip them in well-beaten eggs, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard into a frying-pan, place it over the fire till blue smoke arises, then put in the croquettes and fry them for two or three minutes, or until they are lightly browned. When cooked Fig. 553. Shad’s-Rof, Croquettes. take the croquettes out of the fat with a slice and put them on a piece of paper to drain. Put an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the croquettes on it, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 553), and serve. Shad’s-Roe Salad.—Boil three Shad’s Roes in salted water for twenty minutes; when cooked drain them and leave till cold. Cut the cold roes into thin slices, put them in a deep dish with some salt, pepper, vinegar, and lemon juice, and let them macerate for two or three hours in a cold place. Well wash one or two lettuces, put a border of the leaves round the dish, and cut the remainder into small pieces, which place in the centre of the dish. Arrange the slices of roe on the top, and pour over them 1 breakfast-cupful of French or mayonnaise dressing; sprinkle over some chopped pickled beetroot, put a thin slice of lemon on each leaf of lettuce, and serve. Stewed Shad’s Roe.—Wash some roes and dry them well with a soft cloth. Have 1 pint of boiling water on the fire with a little salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar in it, put the roes into this, and let them boil very gently for five minutes, then take them out anil put them immediately into very cold.water in which a little salt has been dissolved; let them remain in this for two minutes, take them out, and put them in a jar with sufficient warmed butter to half cover them; cover the jar well, put it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it stew gently for ten minutes. In the meantime, for the sauce, blend 2 teaspoonfuls of cornflour in a little cold water, pour over and mix smoothly with it 4 pint of boiling water, put it in a stewpan over the fire and stir till it thickens well, then add loz. of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste; when these are well mixed in add the strained juice of half a lemon, and either 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or 1 teaspoonful of ketchup; draw it from the fire, and place it where it will only just simmer. Next putin the roes and let them remain for eight minutes, then take them out, lay them on a hot dish, add to the sauce the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir it well over the fire for two minutes, pour it over the roes, and serve. SHADDOCKS (Fr. Pamplemousses).—The fruit (see Fig. 554) of a tree of that name (Citrus decumana), so called after a Captain Shaddock, who introduced it from China into the West Indies. Some varieties, called Pompoleons, grow to a great size, often weighing from 101b. to 201b. The smaller kind are known as the “for- bidden fruit,” and resemble large oranges, with a smooth, thin, pale yellow rind. The pulp is either white or reddish, of a pleasant sub-acid flavour. Dried Shaddock.—(1) Cut the fruit into six or eight pieces lengthwise, pick out the pips, put the fruit into a sauce- pan with plenty of water, and boil until it becomes soft. Put the pieces on a sieve and drain them well, then put them into a pan with some syrup at 28deg., and let them simmer for ten minutes. Turn the fruit with the syrup into a basin and leave them. On the following Shaddocks—continued. day strain the syrup oft' the fruit, boil it up again, and pour it over the fruit; repeat this operation on the three following days. On the fourth day, arrange the pieces of fruit on a wire tray and place tliem in the screen to dry. Dip the pieces of fruit in some semi-grained sugar, arrange them a short distance from each other on the tray, and put them again in the screen. When quite dry, lift the fruit from the tray by pushing the fingers through underneath, for by doing it in this way it is not so likely to break the sugar. Pack the fruit for keeping between layers of paper in cardboard boxes. (2) Peel the fruit, divide the sections from one another, and take them one at a time and break them open, hold- ing them by the ends. Tear the pulp in small pieces out of its white envelope, being careful to completely free the pulp from this, as it is very bitter; put the pulp into a deep dish, sprinkle over it plenty of finely-powdered white sugar, and let it stand all night in a cool place. It is a very good dish for breakfast, being extremely wholesome. Fig. 554. Shaddock. Shaddock Jam.—Cut the fruit into halves, and squeeze the juice into a basin; then put the rinds, having first removed the pips, into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them till soft; then drain and steep them in cold water for several hours. Next drain all the water off the rinds, scrape the insides to remove all the white pith, and cut them into fine shreds. For each pound of fruit put into a pan 111), of sugar, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar boiling) ; then put in the shred peel and the juice strained through a fine hair sieve. Boil the fruit for twenty minutes, stirring it all the time, and then turn it into jars. When the jam is cold, dip some round pieces of paper, cut to the size of the jars, in brandy, put them over the fruit, then cover each jar with parchment, and tie them down. SHALLOTS or ESCHALOTS (Fr. Eschalotes; Ger. Eschallotten). In French cookery the Shallot (Allium ascalonicum) is considered almost invaluable, but in England it is somewhat disregarded, although there can be no doubt that it possesses a delicacy of flavour which none other of the onion tribe can boast. Several varieties of the Shallot are mentioned by some writers, but these are supposed to be conditional differences, with the exception of the Jersey or Russian Shallot (see Fig. 555), which is red and smooth like a tulip bulb, and the common Shallot (see Fig. 556), which grows almost every- where in cloves like garlic. Another name for these is Scallions. When taken from the ground Shallots should be put in a net and hung up near the ceiling of the scullery or For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i'c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 f 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 436 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Shallots or Eschalots—continued. out-house, where they can get air without mating anything else taste or smell of them. Shallot Gravy.—Put six peeled Shallots into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar, pepper and salt, and boil for eight minutes; then add 1 teacupful of brown gravy, and boil them for a few minutes longer. Before serving, the gravy should be strained through a sieve. Fig. 555. Jersey Shallots. Shallot Omelet.—Put into a basin 1 table-spoonful of cream, several small pieces of butter, some chopped parsley, and three eggs, seasoning with pepper and salt; peel and chop three or four Shallots, mix them with the above ingre- dients, and beat well. Put a lump of butter into a fry- ing-pan, and when melted, pour in the omelet mixture. When set, roll the omelet round, brown it on one side, turn it on to a hot dish, pour a little sauce or rich gravy over it, and serve. Shallot Sauce.—(1) Peel and slice about a dozen Shallots, put them into a small saucepan with one bay-leaf and a small piece of thyme and parsley tied together, and a little more than 1 teacupful of white broth. Boil the liquor until it lias reduced to a glaze, then pour in H pints of clear meat gravy, and leave it over the lire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine hair or silk sieve, and serve it. (2) For Mutton.—Finely chop a dozen Shallots, season them with pepper and salt, put them over the fire in \ pint of gravy and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil for twenty minutes or so. Shallot Vinegar.—Peel and bruise |lb. of Shallots, put them into a jar with 2qts. of best white vinegar, and add 2oz. of chillies. Cover the jar, and set it in a warm place for forty-eight hours; then stand it in a cold place Shallots or Eschalots—continued. for two days. Strain the vinegar, bottle it, and cork tightly. Shallot Wine.—Peel four Shallots, chop them, put them in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth. Put them in a bottle with 1 pint of sherry, and let them stand for ten days. At the end of that time strain off the sherry, mix with it three or four more pounded Shallots, and leave it for another ten days. Strain the wine into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. This preparation can be used to flavour soups and sauces, &e., and imparts a most pleasant flavour without leaving any unpleasant taste. SHANE.—That part of the leg which extends from the knee to the foot. SHARE.—A certain authority informs us that a steak of Shark-flesh can be converted into a most delicious salad, but, as freshly-gathered lettuces must be rather scarce on board ship where Sharks are likely to be caught, the receipt lacks something of practical interest. It is given for what it is worth. Cut the steak lin. thick across the fish, and boil it slowly for an hour, changing the water twice. When cooked, drain the steak, put it in another saucepan with a small quantity of oil, a small piece of onion, season it with salt and pepper, and fry it till browned; then move it off the fire and leave it till cool. When cold, flake the fish with two forks, put it in a bowl with a highly- seasoned marinade, and leave it for two hours. Put two well-washed and shred hearts of lettuces in a salad-bowl, drain the fish, put it in with the lettuces, pour a mayonnaise dressing over it, and serve. SHARK-RAY.—See Angel-fish. SHARP SAUCE.—See Sauces. SHCHI.—This is a great favourite in all parts of Russia, and may be said to be the national dish, for it is common to high and low. It is prepared as follows : Cut some cabbage into shreds, and pack it away in barrels with vinegar and salt, until it has gone through a stage of fermentation but has not come to putrefaction, for then it would be spoiled. Then rub it through a wire sieve to form a puree, and boil it in prepared soup. It has a sub-acid flavour, and is usually served with clotted sour cream. It may be incorporated in the soup with other vegetables, and can be made to have the appearance of either green-pea soup or cock-a-leekie, although its sub- acid taste is sure to be prevalent in greater or less force. SHEEP.—All that it is necessary to say of this animal is recorded under Mutton and Lamb. We have to deal here with what is known as, or included in, the offal. Sheep’s Brains.—In order to remove these the skull must he cloven in twain, and then they can easily he taken out and soaked in cold salted water until the blood in them is disgorged. They can then be cooked and served as follow: Boiled Sheep’s Brains on Toast.—Drain and boil them until done. Put Joz. of butter into a stewpan with i table- Fig. 557 Boiled Sheep’s Brains on Toast. spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; then stir in 1 teacupful of milk, and stir until boiling, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Cut one or two slices of bread, toast them, trimTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 437 Sheep—continued. off their crusts, butter them, and lay them on a hot dish. When the brains are cooked put them on the toast, pour the sauce over them (see Fig. 557), and serve while hot. Tried Marinaded Sheep’s Brains.—Well wash and clean a Sheep’s Brains, soak them in water for half-an-hour or so, take them out, drain, and dry them. Put them into a pickle comjsosed of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, onions, oil, vinegar, white wine, and salt, and let them marinade for fully one hour. Take them out, dry them, and dust over with flour. Cut a few onions into slices, and fry them in oil or lai'd; then take them out, put in the bi-ains, and fry them. Serve hot. Fried Sheep’s Brains.—(1) Clean the brains, dry them, brush them over with egg, then dip them in breadcrumbs seasoned with a little sage and pepper to taste; put them into a deep stewpan with plenty of boiling fat, and cook them to a light brown coloui-. Take them out, pour a little lemon-juice over each, and serve hot. (2) Thoroughly wash the brains, dry them well, then put them in a stewpan with a little good brown gravy, and boil very quickly to make them hard. Take them out, let them get quite cool, ami divide each piece or lobe down the centre; then dip them in egg and roll in breadcrumbs. Fry several pieces of bacon very gently but not enough to make them haul; then put the brains in the fat (a little butter may be added if not sufficient fat), and fry them. Dish them up, and pour the liquor round. (3) Pour boiling water over the brains to set them, and when cold divide them into lobes; then dip them in beaten egg and coat them thickly with breadcrambs. Melt a lump of butter or lard in a frying-pan, put in the brains, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides; fry also a few thin rashers of bacon. Put the brains on a hot dish, garnish them witli the bacon, and serve. Roasted Sheep's Brains.—Clean some brains by placing them in hot water and then in cold, dry them well, and cook them either before the fire or in the oven. When they are quite warmed through and begin to colour a little, dust them over with fine breadcrumbs and put them under a salamander. Dish them up with a few forcemeat balls, that have been cooked with the brains, made of mutton sausage-meat, seasoned with finely- powdered sweet herbs, salt anil pepper, and sufficient breadcrumbs and egg to make the mixture bind together, and pour some rich brown gravy over them all. Sheep’s Brains en Matelote.—Place the brains from about eight heads into lukewarm water, and let them remain for two hours with the skin previously takexx off, or until they become white; then put them into boiling water, vinegar, and a little salt to blanch, and let them remain till they are firm. Take them out, and put them into cold water. Take a moderate-sized stewpan lai’ge enough to hold the brains, put some layers of bacon round it, and add 1 small handful of parsley, onion, and cloves, seasoning with a little salt. Place in the brains, put some more bacon over the top, and then a round of paper. To keep the brains white, a little broth and a few slices of lemon should be added. Boil them for twenty minutes first, and before wanted to serve they must be boiled for two hours longer to acquire a flavoui'. Have ready an equal quantity of crumbs of bread lightly fried, and place them on the dish alternately with the brains. Mask all with a matelote sauce of small onions and mushrooms. Sheep’s Brains a la Poulette —Cleanse the brains by put- ting them into boiling water, wash them well in cold water, and let them drain. Prepare in a stewpan some sauce with a little stock thickened with the yolk of an egg, a little butter, cream, and flour, also two or three small onions finely minced, boiled, and mashed, a few small mushrooms, a little lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice over each brain, sprinkle a little powdered marjoianx and sage over them, then put the brains into the sauce, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take them out when done, and put them on a dish. Boil up the sauce, pour it over them, and sei ve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sheep—continued. Sheep’s Brains with Remoulade Sauce.—Steep four or five Sheep’s Brains in cold water, remove the skin, and place them in fresh cold water for an hour. Put some vege- tables cut in pieces in a saucepan of water, and add a sprig of parsley, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or white wine, and 1 pinch of salt. Boil for a few minutes, then put in the brains, and boil again for ten minutes; take out the brains, drain them, place them on a dish, and mask with hot remoulade sauce. Sheep’s Ears.—These are generally cut off when skinning the head, but they can be made into such vei-y nice dishes that they should be carefully collected when the heads ai’e skinned. Boiled Sheep’s Ears served with White Sauce.—Take fifteen ears, boil them, put them on a strainer to drain, and put them into a covered saucepan to keep warm. In the meantime, put 2 table-spoonfuls of onion finely chopped into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry, but not enough to let them coloui'. Put in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and fry two minutes longer, adding gradually 1 \ pints of good broth. Stir well until it boils, add 1 hand- ful of mushroom trimmings and a little parsley, put the pan on the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for fifteen minutes. Remove the fat, and pass the liquor through a sti'ainer into another saucepan. Add two dozen large mushrooms cut into quarters, and boil quickly for eight or ten minutes; then put in the ears, and remove the pan to a moderate fire and boil gently for a few minutes; add three yolks of eggs, beaten with a little water, and remove the pan to the side of the fire that the yolks may be cooked without boiling; lastly, add a little parsley finely minced and a little lemon-juice. Place the ears on a dish, pour the sauce over them (see Fjg. 558), serve. Fried Sheep’s Ears.—Take fifteen ears, soak them, and plunge them into boiling water, but do not let them boil; drain them, put a skewer through each, and singe them. Dip them into cold water to refresh them, remove c very hair inside, wipe them dry on a cloth, and put them into a saucepan with a few sprigs of sweet herbs, pepper- corns, cloves, a carrot, one onion, and a little salt. Dust them over with a little flour, and add sufficient water to cover them. Put the pan on the fire, and let it boil up once; then remove it to the side of the lire to complete the cooking. When they are done let them rgmain in the stock to cool; then take them out, wipe them dry, and remove the inner membranes with a tin biscuit-cutter. Make a salpifon of mushrooms, Sheep’s brains, and pickled ox-tongues, add 2 table-spoonfuls of raw forcemeat to thicken it, and also a little reduced brown or white sauce. Stuff the ears with this mixture, dust them over with Hour, dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or dripping, and fry them. When they are done, take them out, drain them, put them on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it, and garnish with fried parsley. Sheep’s Feet.—Hei'e, accoi’ding to the British cook, the pig has the advantage of the Sheep. But the French cook appears to entertain a different opinion, or, at any rate, believes that the “ trotter,” as the Britisher contemptuously styles it, is capable of great culinary results. It would almost seem as though the prime desire of the artistic Continental cook is to convert into dainty moi-sels what other less skilled cooks would disregard. The following receipts are vei'y characteristic of the culinary ingenuity referred to: •Sauces, <fcc., referred to% see under their special heads.the encyclopaedia of practical cookery. 438 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heuds. Sheep—con tinned. Casserole of Sheep’s Feet with Rice.—Blanch some small Sheep’s Feet, remove the long hone, and split each foot in two lengthwise. Put two chopped onions, a carrot, a turnip, three bay-leaves, a small bunch of thyme, and a few cloves into a stewpan with a little dripping or chopped suet, and fry them over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mix it well, pour in gradually 2qts. of white stock, add the feet with a small lump of salt, and let the whole simmer by the side of the fire till the feet are tender; then drain them on a cloth. Pour lqt. of white sauce and l pint of the strained cooking-liquor of the feet into a stewpan, and boil it quickly till reduced to a thick cream, then put in the feet with twenty button-mushrooms, and about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt, and let them simmer for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, mix them with the above ingredients, and stir them by the side of the fire, but do not let them boil after the eggs are added; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the above mixture, turn it into a casserole, and serve. Fried Sheep’s Feet.—(1) Scald some Sheep’s Feet, wash them, and steep them in warm water to disgorge the blood. Put some slices of vegetables in a deep dish. Boil some spices in vinegar, and pour it over the vegetables. When tlie marinade is cold, place the feet in it, and steep them for some hours. When ready, drain the feet, dip them in frying-batter, put them in a deep frying-pan with some Fig. 559. Fried Sheep’s Feet. boiling fat, and fry them till brown. Drain the feet, anange them in a circle on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley (see Fig. 559), and serve. (2) Scald and wash the feet, and let them soak in warm water until all the blood lias left them and they are quite white. Put -Jib. each of chopped beef-suet and chopped bacon, and 4oz. of butter, into a stewpan, with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, and a small quantity each of mace and allspice; pour in as much water as will cover the feet, and boil the whole for an hour. Strain the prepared liquor, and return it to the stewpan; then drain the feet, put them in it, and boil until tender. In the meantime, prepare the following pickle: Peel and slice three shallots, one onion, and a carrot, and put them into a stewpan with 2cz. of butter, two or three sprigs and roots of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, a clove, and a small quantity of spice. Stir the vegetables over the fire until lightly frowned, then pour in about f pint of vinegar and water in equal quantities, and boil it for a few minutes. This pickle should be highly seasoned. When sufficiently cooked drain the feet, put them in a basin, pour the pickle over them, and let them steep for an hour or two. Make a good batter for frying, put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire till blue smoke rises; then dip the feet in the batter, put them in the fat, and fry them until nicely browned. When taken out of the fat, lay them on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute or two to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the feet in a circle on it, put a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Fried Stuffed Sheep’s Feet.—Wash, scald, and steep the feet in warm water until well disgorged; then put them in a saucepan, cover them with white stock, and boil until tender. When sufficiently cooked (they must not be done too much), drain and bone the feet, season them Sheep—continued. well inside with salt and pepper, and stuff them with a veal quenelle forcemeat. Put 1 teacupful of hour into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and stir in sufficient beer to make a rather thick batter. Beat the whites of two eggs well, and add them to the batter. Place the feet in the batter. Put a large lump of clarified fat or butter into a hat stewpan, and put it on the fire; when it boils, which may be known by the blue smoke which rises, put in the feet, and fry them slowly until well browned. When taken out of the fat, drain them for two or three seconds on a sheet of kitchen- paper, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour a Spanish sauce over them, and serve. Sheep's Feet a la Poulette.—(1) Put a dozen Sheep’s Feet in water the day before they are wanted. Split the hoof in two, take out the woolly tuft, trim them neatly, tie them together in fours, scald them, and put them into a saucepan with two or three carrots, turnips, and onions, peeled but not cut into pieces, and season with cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. Mix 1 table-spoonful of Hour with a little water, pour it in the saucepan, cover the feet with cold water, stand the saucepan over a moderate fire, and let the water boil for six hours. Take the feet out, drain them, remove the shank-bone, put the feet in an empty saucepan, and leave them with the lid on. Fry a large chopped onion in butter, with J teacupful of Hour, till nicely browned. Put lqt. of broth into another saucepan, and drop in a bunch of parsley and a few mushroom trimmings; stir in the flour and onions, and continue stirring over the fire till the broth boils; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for a quarter-of-an hour. Skim it clear of fat, and pass it through a conical strainer into the saucepan containing the feet; then add 2oz. of button-mushrooms, peeled and trimmed, and a pinch of pepper. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a little milk, and in twenty minutes’ time stir them into the broth, with five or six small pieces of butter, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice. When cooked sufficiently, arrange the feet upon a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and they are then ready to be served. (2) Scald the feet, wash them well, and steep them in warm water until disgorged and very white. Drain them, put them in a saucepan with a blanc prepared as for calf’s head, and boil them until tender. Mix with some tournee sauce \ table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon, and boil it until thickly reduced. Drain the feet, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Sheep’s Feet a la Vinaigrette.—Trim a dozen Sheep’s Feet, split their hoofs, and take out the tuft that is found between the toes; tie them together in fours, put them in a saucepan with cold water, and stand it over the fire till the water boils; then take the feet out, rinse them in a little cold water, put them in the saucepan with fresh water, add two or three carrots and turnips, one large onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, and some salt and peppercorns, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for five hours. When done, take the feet out, untie them, remove the shank-bone carefully so as not to tear the flesh, lay them on a plate, sprinkle over them some chopped paisley, salt and pepper, and let them cool. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, dip the feet in it, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear cinder fire, turning till browned on both sides. Baste with a little butter, dish, and serve with either tartar or mayonnaise sauce. Sheep's-Feet Pie.—Wash and clean four feet, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt, sufficient water to cover them, and boil till tender. Drain the feet, separate the meat from the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Roll out thinly ten pieces of paste, making each the same size as the small baking-tin in which it is to be baked. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, make it very hot, then dip in the pieces of paste separately, and place them upon a sieve to drain. When well freed from fat,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 439 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. lay half of them in the baking-tin, which should he rather deep, placing them one over the other and moistening each with a small quantity of the liquor in which the feet were boiled. Lay the pieces of meat on the pastry, and cover it with the remaining pieces of pastry, pro- ceeding as before. Put the pie in the oven, and bake it till nicely browned. When cooked, place the pie on a dish, and serve it. Stewed Sheep’s Feet.—(1) Boil for two hours three or font Sheep’s Feet that have been soaked in salted water, drain them, split them in halves, and remove the large bone. Put 3oz. of butter and I A- table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; then stir in gradually nearly 1 pint of boiling water, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the feet into the sauce with a quantity of button-mushrooms, and boil them very gently at the side of the fire for about four hours. At the end of that tune, stir in the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with the juice of a large lemon and strained; also add a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Arrange the feet on a hot dish, with the sauce and mushrooms over them, and serve. (2) Prepare and cook a few small Sheep’s Feet. Peel four large onions and chop them, put them into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, and place them over the fire, tossing them about until tender; then sift in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir in gradually 1 pint of milk and 1 teacupful of broth, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Stew the onions until tender. When cooked, divide each foot into halves lengthwise, put them in with the onions, and let the sauce simmer at the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls Fig. 560. Stewed Sheep’s Feet. of cream, and stir them in quickly with the feet and onions. Do not boil the sauce again, but stir it close to the fire until thickened; then turn the whole on to a hot metal dish (see Fig. 560), and serve. (3) Scald and scrape six Sheep’s Feet, put them into a saucepan of cold water, and put them over the fire until the water reaches boiling point; then strain it ofl the feet, cover them with fresh boiling water, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire. When the flesh is tender, drain, and bone the feet, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put the pieces of meat into a clean saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of their cooking liquor, and place it over the fire until boiling; then remove any scum that may have formed on the top of the liquor, pour in l wineglassful of sherry, season to taste with salt and pepper, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs. At the end of the twenty minutes, take the saucepan right away from the fire, let the contents cool a little, then stir in quickly the beaten yolks and 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. A small quantity of grated nutmeg may be added, if liked. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (4) Boil about 1 dozen Sheep’s Feet in salted water until the meat is tender, drain them, take out the large bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Peel three cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar with a small quantity of salt, and pound them till quite smooth; then mix with them the juice of four lemons or 1 wineglassful of malt vinegar, and stir the mixture well; then pour it into a saucepan, add the feet, and boil them for five minutes, stirring at the same time. Cut four rather thin slices of bread, toast them, and lay them at the bottom of a dish, Sheep—continued. arrange the pieces of feet on them, and pour over a little of the liquor in which they were boiled ; then place it in a slow oven until the liquor is almost soaked up. Beat the yolks of three eggs with the juice of a lemon and about 1 teacupful of the cooking liquor of the feet, turn them into a saucepan, stand them at the edge of the fire, and stir the sauce with a wooden spoon until thick, with- out allowing it to boil; then move it away from the fire. Pour the sauce over the feet, dust them over with a small quantity of pepper and powdered cinnamon, and serve while very hot. Stewed Stuffed Sheep’s Feet.—Scald and wash the feet, and leave them in warm water until all the blood has disgorged. Chop lib. each of beef-suet and fat bacon, put them in a saucepan with Jib. of butter, a bunch of thyme and parsley, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, two bay-leaves, the juice of a lemon, and a small quantity each of mace and allspice; pour in as much water as will cover the feet well, and boil the whole for an hour. Put the feet in the saucepan with the other ingredients, and boil them until tender but not overdone. Prepare sufficient quenelle forcemeat to stuff the feet, drain them, and stuff them in the hollow left by the bones. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put in the feet, cover them with some more bacon, pour over the liquor in which they were first cooked, ami stew them gently for half-an-hour. Prepare a brown sauce, which season to taste. At the end of the half hour, drain the feet, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Sheep’s Head.—It must be acknowledged that a Sheep’s Head fresh from the shambles is a most un- sightly object; hut, in spite of that, with its tongue and brains, it is capable of being converted into some very savoury dishes. For every purpose the head should be carefully skinned, cleaned, and scalded, the nose cut off, and the eyes removed from their sockets. In Scotland, the Sheep’s Head may be considered a national dish, especially in the form of the inimitable Sheep’s Head broth. Boiled Sheep’s Head.—(1) When the head has been nicely prepared, remove the brains and steep it in cold salted water for half-an-hour or longer. Next trim it neatly, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover, and leave it on the fire until boiling; move it to the side, skim it well, and let it simmer gently until tender. Steep the brains in salt and water for about half-an-hour, then tie them up in a piece of muslin, and boil them for fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the brains into a basin, season them with salt and pepper, and beat them up with a fork ; put a plate over the top of the basin, and keep the brains hot. Put 1 scant table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and stir them over the tire until mixed ; then stir in smoothly J pint of milk. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and move it to the side. When the head is cooked, drain it, and cut out the tongue, which skin and cut into slices. Slice and fry about Jib. of calf's liver. Place the two halves of the head, with the cheeks up, in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with the tongue and liver, pour the sauce over (see Fig. 561), and serve with the brains in a sauceboat. (2) Cover the head with water, and leave it for two or three hours, then drain, split it open, and remove theTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 440 For detail* rexpecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. brains and tongue. Put it in a saucepan with a few prepared vegetables, such as carrots, onions, celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns, and salt to taste. Pour in sufficient water to cover, and boil it gently for three hours. Tie the brains in a piece of muslin and boil them. Mince the liver and lights, and fry them in butter, and boil the tongue. When cooked, drain the head, strew plenty of breadcrumbs over it, and brown it in a brisk oven. Spread the mince of liver and lights on a hot dish, lay the head open on it, garnish round with slices of the tongue and brains, and serve. (3) Clean a Sheep’s Head, take out the tongue and brains, and put the head in a basin of tepid water to soak. Break all the small bones in the inside with a knife, and clean it thoroughly. Put it in a saucepan, cover it over with water, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and let it boil in this for five minutes; then pour off the liquor, and add Jgall. of water, two carrots and turnips, six onions, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil gently until the meat will readily come from the bones, which will be after three or four hours cooking. Put the meat on a hot dish, and pour over a little sauce, either parsley, onion, or caper; or the cooked vegetables may be passed through a fine sieve and mixed with a little butter sauce made with milk and poured over the head. The broth may be flavoured with a few sticks of celery and a little parsley, as well as the cooked vegetables, and served separately. Cook the brains and tongue, put them on separate dishes, and serve. (4) Scotch Style.—Prepare and boil a Sheep's Head, as for No 3, only it will require another hour, remove the bones, lay it on a dish, and garnish it with slices of lemon anti bunches of fried parsley. Put the brains in a saucepan of salted water, and boil them witli an onion for fifteen minutes; take them out, chop them up small, mix them with 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix them up in 1 gill of butter sauce, warm them without boiling, and serve as a sauce in a boat. Boil the tongue separately with a few drops of vinegar, a clove, and a peppercorn, and serve on the same dish as the head. Fried Sheep’s Head.—Parboil a split Sheep’s Head, cut all the meat from the bone, season it, cover over the slices with a thick layer of chopped herbs, roll them up, tie them round, brush them over with yolk of egg, cover over with breadcrumbs, and fry in fat. Prepare a rich gravy with the bones, and serve both together. Sheep’s Head a la Russe.—Take all the meat off a Sheep’s Head after it has been boiled, put it on a dish, and brush it over with egg and a mixture of breadcrumbs, raspings, a little flour, dried and powdered parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Place it in the Dutch oven in front of the fire, baste it with loz. of butter, and serve with a little caper sauce or good brown gravy. The broth may be used by adding a few sticks of celery, boil- ing it, skimming, and pouring it into a tureen with 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley scattered at the bottom. Sheep’s Head Cheese.—Boil a Sheep’s Head in water with salt in it and a few peppercorns till the meat separates from the bones; then cut it into small pieces, season them, and mix with them cayenne pepper, salt, chopped onion, chopped parsley, and about £lb. of ham cut up into small pieces. Take four hard-boiled eggs, cut them in slices, and put them in a well-buttered earthenware mould, over them lay the meat of the head and ham with its seasonings, put the mould in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Soak a small quantity of gelatine in some of the liquor the head was boiled in, and after soaking, dissolve it in enough of the liquor to fill the mould. Pour it over the meat as soon as it is taken from the oven, and let it stand till next day; then turn it out on to a flat dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. Sheep’s Head and Feet Broth.—Singe a Sheep’s Head and four feet, split the head into halves, remove the brains, and wash it well inside and out. Pierce the eyes, and wash the skin with the liquor that comes from them ; Sheep—continued. scrape out the eye cavities with a sharp knife, put the head with the feet into a bowl of water, add a little salt and cooking soda, and let them soak all the night or for twelve, hours. Take them out and scrape them well, put them into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of split peas and three-parts of a teacupful of pearl barley, pour over lgall. of water, and boil for forty-five minutes; now add half a turnip cut into slices, and the other half cut up small with a carrot, a parsnip, and cabbage. Boil for an hour longer, add one or two leeks, a few sticks of celery, and a little parsley also cut up small, and boil for another hour. Take out the head and feet, put them on a dish with the slices of turnip for a garnish, and serve the broth in a tureen. Sheep’s Head Soup.—(1) Wash and clean a Sheep’s Head and pluck; cut the lights, liver, and heart into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with 4,1b. of pearl barley, a few turnips and onions, and 4qts. of water. When the water boils move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the pluck is cooked; then put in the head, and stew it gently until tender. Take the head out, strain the liquor, and when cold skim off the fat. Season the liquor to taste with salt and pepper, colour it with a little browning, add 1 small table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, pour it into a saucepan, and place it over the fire. Cut the meat off the head into pieces about I tin. square, and put them in the soup, with a few egg balls, some powdered sweet herbs, and 2 vine- glassfuls of sherry. When boiling again, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Clean and trim the head ready for cooking, remove the brains, and steep it for nearly an hour in cold salted water; next put the head into a saucepan with several onions, a few carrots and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, 4oz. of pearl barley, and 3qts. of water, and put in 1 teaspoonful of cloves and peppercorns. When the liquor boils move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim it well, and let it boil very gently for about four hours. Take the head out, and strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, nibbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. Leave the soup until quite cold, then skim off all the fat, and pour it into a saucepan. Cut the meat off the head, divide it into small pieces, and put them in with the soup. Warm the whole gently over the fire, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add loz. of butter that has been kneaded with a small quantity of flour. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (3) Wash the head well; peel and wash 311). of potatoes, and put them with the head in a saucepan over the fire in 7qts. of water, together with a stick of celery, two onions, two turnips, 1 pint of split peas, and salt and pepper to taste; boil all together for six hours, skimming frequently. Take up the head, cut all the meat off the bones, put them in another saucepan over the fire in as much of the soup as can be poured clear off the vege- tables, and boil them six hours longer, letting the meat and the thick part of the soup cool. After the bones have been boiled take them out, and add to the liquor the rest of the soup with the vegetables and meat, and warm all up together. (4) Clean a Sheep’s Head, prepare it for soup as a calf’s head, with the skin on, and split it in such a way that the tongue and brains can be taken out. Break the bone of the head, wash it thoroughly in several waters, and let it soak in salted water for half-an-bour. Put it into a soup kettle (first taking out the tongue and brains, and laying them aside to be cooked separately), cover it with cold water, and let it gradually come to a boil; then drain the water oft', and throw it away. Well wash and trim two heads of celery, scrape two carrots, peel two turnips and one onion, chop them all into small pieces, and put them into the pan with the Sheep’s Head, together with a bunch of sweet herbs and lgall. of cold water.441 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. Let it boil slowly five or six hours, then strain it into a basin, pressing all the gravy out of the meat, ami put it away till quite cold. Rub the vegetables through a coarse sieve and put them away. When the tongue and brains have been sufficiently boiled, chop them fine, and mix them into a paste with an equal quantity of bread- crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and a beaten egg. Roll this paste into balls, and dip them in flour. Lay them on a tin, being careful not to let them touch each other, bake them in a quick oven till a crust is formed on the tops, then take them out and let them cool. Put the cold broth (first skimming the fat off) into a saucepan with the vegetables and boil up quickly; take off any scum that rises, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, thickened with cornflour, and let it simmer for two or three minutes after it boils, stir- ring all the time. Lay the forcemeat balls in a soup tureen, and pour the soup very gently over them, taking care not to break them. Sheep’s Hearts. — Before cooking, these must be trimmed of all tough parts and large tubes, and then thoroughly washed, and all the blood contained in the cavities disgorged. It is advisable to let them soak some hours in cold salted water. Baked Sheep’s Hearts.—Put the hearts in a saucepan , of boiling water for five minutes, then drain them. Pre- pare a sufficient quantity of stuffing for the hearts with grated breadcrumbs and chopped suet, seasoning to taste with sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper, and bind it with beaten egg. Stuff the hearts, secure them with small skewers to prevent the stuffing coming out, lay them on a baking-dish, and bake them for an hour in a good oven, keeping them well basted with butter. Cut as many slices of bread as there are hearts, about Jin. thick, and trim them to a round shape, removing all the crusts, and toast them a nice brown on both sides. When the hearts are cooked, put them on a hot dish -with a round of toast under each, pour a rich brown gravy round them, and serve while very hot. Boasted Sheep’s Hearts.—(1) Mix a table-spoonful each of finely-chopped suet and finely-chopped fat bacon with a teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and bind it with beaten yolk of egg. This quantity is for each heart. Stuff the hearts, sew up with thread, and fix on a spit. Roast in front of a clear fire, Fig. 562. Roasted Sheep’s Hearts. keeping them continually basted. When cooked, place the hearts on a hot dish, garnish it with potato croquettes (see Fig. 562), and serve red currant jelly in a glass dish separately, with a sauceboatful of clear rich gravy. (2) Wash the hearts and stuff them with sage and onion stuffing, tie a piece of white paper round the tops of each to keep the stuffing in, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting them frequently. When they are cooked, take the papers off to finish browning them at the top, put them on a hot dish, pour over a brown gravy, and serve. Stewed Sheep’s Hearts.—Wash and dry the required quantity of Sheep’s Hearts, make a stuffing with sifted breadcrumbs, two-thirds of the quantity of beef-suet, a table-spoonful of flour, a little chopped parsley and sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Stuff the hearts with this mixture, dip them in milk, roll them in flour, and put them broad end downwards in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown all over; then pour in 1 pint of stock, and simmer till the hearts are tender, which will take Sheep—continued. about one-hour-and-a-half. Take the hearts out, drain, and put them on a dish, keeping them hot while the gravy is prepared. Skim the fat off the gravy, thicken it with a small quantity of flour, mix with it 1 wineglassful of claret and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, pour it over the hearts, and serve them with currant jelly. Sheep’s Kidneys.—These are par excellence the only kidneys, excepting lambs’ kidneys, which are of much culinary value. Unfortunately, a single sheep lias but two, hence they are exceedingly scarce; but from America and New Zealand, where Sheep’s Kidneys appear to be more plentiful and not so much in demand, we have sent to us kidneys preserved in tins. It need scarcely be observed that they are only fit for stewing, and not very good at that. They are best freshly cut out of the animal. Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys.—Take some Sheep’s Kidneys, trim them carefully, and lay them in a little warm, not hot, butter, rolling them over and over in it for ten minutes. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear hot fire, turning them constantly. If small, they will not take much more than ten minutes to cook. When done, lay them on a hot Fig. 563. Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys. dish, round a pile of browned mashed potatoes (see Fig 563), dust a little salt and pepper over them, put a little bit of butter on each, and serve very hot. These may be served without the potatoes. Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—(1) Put some Sheep’s Kidneys in boiling water to soak for a few minutes, take them out, dry, skin, and cut them down the centre. Fasten them open with skewers, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, dip them into warmed butter, place them on a gridiron with the opened side down, and broil them thoroughly. Place them on a dish with a mixture of minced parsley, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, and maitre-d'hotel butter in the centre of each, and serve A ery hot. (2) Wash the kidneys, peel off the outer skin, and split them open down the back, but without quite cutting them through; dip them in warmed butter, then roll them in grated breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating, and pass a skewer through each side of the kidneys. Lay them on a gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. Put 2oz. of butter on a plate, with 1 scant table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, and work the butter well with the point of a knife. Make two or three slices of toast, trim away the crusts, butter them well, and lay them flat on a hot dish. When the kidneys are cooked, lay them on the toast, season with a small quantity of salt and pepper, spread the maitre-d’hotel butter over them, and serve. Curried Sheep’s Kidneys.—Put 1 wineglassful of rich gravy or brown sauce into a saucepan with 1 table-spoon- ful of butter well kneaded with curry powder, and boil until it is rather thick. In the meantime, cut two or three onions in rings, fry them over a moderate fire to colour them slightly, sprinkle them over with a little salt, and drain them. Put a dozen Sheep’s Kidneys, skinned and minced very fine, in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until done. Put them on a strainer to remove all the fat, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and decorate witli the ringsi of fried onions and potato croquettes. Fried Sheep’s Kidneys.—(1) Take three large Sheep’s Kidneys, skin them, cut them crosswise into slices aboutTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 442 Fur details respecting Culinarg Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. I in. thick, and flour them well. Put 3oz. of flutter over the fire in a small frying-pan, shake into it a moderate quantity of pepper and salt, 1 saltspoonful of chopped onion, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; when this begins to simmer, fry the floured slices of kidney in it till they are nicely browned on both sides. As soon as they are done, take them from the pan, and put them on a hot dish. Mix 1 dessert spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of good gravy, pour it into the frying-pan as soon as the kidneys are taken out, and stir it a few minutes over the fire. Pour it over the kidneys, and serve at once. (2) Trim off the thin outer skin of the kidneys, split them lengthwise down the middle, but without entirely separating them, dust over with salt and pepper, and flour them lightly. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, then put in the kidneys, the cut side first, place them over the fire, and when done on one side, turn and cook the other. If cooked too long, the kidneys will be shrivelled up. Place the kidneys on a hot dish. Break eight or ten eggs in the pan with the gravy and fat from the kidneys, and fry them. Garnish the dish of kidneys with the fried eggs, and serve very hot. Fried Sheep’s Kidneys with Curry Sauce.—Trim four kidneys, cut them across in fine pieces, fry them in butter till nicely cooked, and season them with salt and pepper. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful each of curry-powder and flour, and a moderate quantity of salt, and stir them over the fire until mixed; then pour in gradually § breakfast-cupful of clear broth, and con- tinue stirring until boiling. A small quantity of finely- chopped onion may be used to flavour the sauce, or the stewpan may be first rubbed over with garlic. When ready put the kidneys on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with sippits of toast or small croutons of bread that have been lightly fried in butter, and serve. Roasted Sheep’s Kidneys.—Trim off the skin of the kidneys, split them lengthwise without entirely separating them, season with salt and pepper, and fix them in a Dutch oven; put a thick slice of toasted bread at the bottom of the oven. Work in with about 2oz. of butter a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, chervil, and chives. When the kidneys are cooked, place the toast on a hot dish, and put the kidneys on it; put a small piece of the butter in the centre of each kidney, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys en Bordure.—Mould a border of chicken forcemeat or potato, and turn it on to a hot broad round dish. Fill the centre with sliced Sheep’s Kidneys prepared by stewing in Madeira, and then masking half of the slices with Spanish sauce, and the remaining half with veloute. This gives a very pretty and artistic effect, the slices of kidney partaking of two colours, brown and white. Great care is re- quired in arranging the slices, to give them the appearance of being loosely tossed together. Prepare a sauce from the wine stock by thickening with roux, and seasoning with salt and pepper, and serve separately in a boat. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Brochette.—(1) Take off the skin and remove the sinews from a few kidneys, and cut them in halves lengthwise and then each half again in two. Put them on a plate, season them with salt and pepper, and brush them over with a little oil. Cut some thin slices of fat bacon up in pieces the same size as the quarters of kidneys, place them on skewers alternately, dip them into breadcrumbs, and broil them over a quick fire until they are cooked. Put them on a dish, and serve hot. (2) First make a stuffing by mixing together 1 table- spoonful of very fine breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 1 dessert-spoonful of minced onion, and a little pepper and salt, and make it into a paste by working into it 3 dessert-spoonfuls of butter. Split six Sheep’s Kidneys lengthwise, but do not cut them right through, leaving enough meat and skin uncut at one side to form a kind of hinge. Warm a little butter in front of the fire, and when it is melted rub the insides of the kidneys well with it. Lay the kidneys open, back downwards, on a greased hot gridiron over a clear hot I Sheep—continued. fire. They will take about eight minutes to cook. Turn them frequently. Put the stuffing over the fire in a small saucepan, stir it until it is very hot, and add the strained juice of half a lemon. Lay the kidneys, backs downwards, on a hot dish, put some of the stuffing inside each, close the two sides of the kidneys on it, shake a little pepper over them, lay a small bit of butter on each, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Franqaise.—Skin the kidneys, cut them into quarters, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter and fry them, dredging them lightly over with flour. When the kidneys are nearly cooked, put in with them a few chopped mushrooms, some chopped shallots and parsley, and a small wineglassful of sherry or French white wine, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and finish frying them, stirring them constantly at the same time. When cooked, turn the kidneys on to a hot dish, garnish them with slices of lemons, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys d, la Tartare.—Remove the skin from eight kidneys and cut them lengthwise, but not to sever them. Melt Hoz. of butter in a saucepan, and when it is lightly browned put in the kidneys, sprinkling them over with salt and pepper and a little flour, and adding 1 teacupful of gravy or broth and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Put the pan on a slow fire, and simmer gently for five minutes, when they should be done. Put some pieces of toast without crusts on a dish, place the kidneys on them, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Kidneys en Terrine.—Put some Sheep’s Kidneys into a frying-pan with a little butter and fry them slightly. They should not be cut open for this. Place them in an earthenware terrine, with a few slices of onions, also browned in butter, and add a slice of lean bacon, two potatoes, and two carrots also cut in slices; pour over 1 pint of stock or water, put on the lid, set the Fig. 564. Sheep's Kidneys en Terrine. terrine in the oven, and cook gently for about three hours. When done, take them out, put the terrine on a dish covered by a folded napkin (see Fig. 564), and serve very hot. Sheep’s Kidneys with Macaroni.—Break 41b. of macaroni into moderate sized lengths, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them until tender. Trim off the skin and fat from three or four Sheep’s Kidneys, cut them into slices, and rub them over with salt and pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, and powdered sweet herbs. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and melt it; then put in the kidneys, and fry them until half cooked. Pour the butter off the kidneys, moisten them to height with nicely flavoured gravy and tomato sauce, and stew them gently until quite tender. When cooked, place the kidneys443 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. on a silver dish, strain the macaroni and lay it over them, pour the gravy from the kidneys round, strew grated Parmesan cheese on the top, dust over with salt and pepper, brown under a salamander, and serve on a flat dish covered by a folded napkin (see Fig. 565). Sheep’s-Kidney Omelet.—Cut three or four Sheep’s Kidneys into eight pieces each, and roll each piece in flour. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until hot, then put in the pieces of kidney, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Pour about f of a breakfast-cupful of brown stock over the kidneys, also 4 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them slowly at the side of the fire for an hour. Beat six eggs thoroughly, and season them with salt and pepper. Put a lump of butter in an omelet-pan, place it over the fire until the blue smoke arises, then pour in half of the beaten egg. When the omelet is nearly firm, pour half of the stewed kidney over it, and fold the omelet over so that the outer edges meet. Turn the omelet on to a hot dish, proceed as before with the remaining egg and kidney, then turn the omelet on to the dish with the other one, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sheep’s-Kidney Sautes.—(1) Skin the kidneys, partially boil them, and cut them into slices. Put a lump of butter into a saute-pan, and place it over the fire; when it has melted, put in the kidneys, and fry them for a few minutes, seasoning them with salt and pepper. Put loz. of blitter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned; 'then stir in 1 teacupful of stock and 1 teacupful of sherry. Boil for two or three minutes, then put in the kidneys with a small quantity of chopped parsley. Leave the kidneys at the side.of the fire until very hot, but do not let the liquor boil again; then turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Take off the skin from six kidneys, and cut them into slices or pieces the size of a florin. In the meantime, put a few thin slices of bacon in an omelet-pan with a little butter and fry them. When they are done, add the pieces of kidney, tossing the pan frequently so as to cook the kidney equally. When they are cooked, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and strew over them a little finely-minced parsley and shallot, and a little flour. Mix them well with a spoon, and add I wineglassful of white champagne, made very hot but not boiling, or the kidney will be uneatable. Bust over a little cayenne, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. (3) Pare well twelve Sheep’s Kidneys, and cut them into slices. Put them into a frying-pan -with loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and toss them over the fire for six minutes. Add 1 pint of Madeira sauce, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add another small piece of fresh butter, toss well again without boiling, and serve. Sheep s-Kidney Soup.—Take oft the skin from four Sheep’s ' Kidneys, chop them up with an equal bulk of beef kidneys, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and fry them in a little butter for ten minutes. Strain off the fat, add 3 pints of brown stock and 2 table-spoonfuls of washed lice, and .boil until the rice is quite cooked. Strain, and put the rice and meat in a mortar, pound it well, and pass it through a fine sieve. Add this to the stock, warm it up without letting it boil, and serve with some fried pieces of bread in it. Sheep’s-Kidney Toasts.—(1) Mince two or three Sheep’s Kidneys, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and toss them about over the fire until cooked. Cut some slices of bread off a tin loaf, toast them a golden brown, butter them, and trim off all the crusts. Move the kidneys to the side of the fire, and stir in with them the beaten yolk of an egg and the strained juice of half a small lemon. Spread the mixture over the pieces of toast, put them on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Chop four Sheep’s Kidneys, put £ table-spoonful of chopped parsley in a stewpan with two finely chopped Sheep—continued. shallots and a lump of butter, and fry them two or three minutes; then put in the kidneys, and fry them till tender. When cooked, dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, add J table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, and stir it over the fire until the flour is cooked, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Cut two slices of bread about tin. thick, trim off the crusts, and toast them a delicate brown; then butter them, spread the above mixture on them, cover them with fried breadcrumbs, and strew them thickly over with grated Parmesan cheese. Brown them under a salamander, and dust them over with a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, put the toasts on it, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Stewed Sheep’s Kidneys.—(1) Skin and cut four kidneys into three pieces each lengthwise, wash them, and wipe them dry. Put jll> butter into a saucepan, and as soon as it is warm put in the sliced kidneys, with a little grated lemon-peel, pepper and salt -to taste, a very little mace, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, and 1 breakfast-cupful of good brown gravy. Close the lid of the saucepan, let the contents simmer for ten or twelve minutes, and add the strained juice of half a lemon Have some toast or fried bread laid on a hot dish, take the kidneys from the sauce- pan, and lay them on it. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, let it boil a minute or two, pour it over the kidneys, and serve at once. (2) Put some Sheep’s Kidneys into a pan with a little salted water, and let them soak for a few hours. Take them out, dry them, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil until tender. Take them out of the water, drain, and roll them in flour; then put them in a stewpan with a little butter and a few table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and cook them until done. Dust them over with a little salt and pepper, and serve. (3) Skin the kidneys and partially boil them, cut them into slices, and dredge them over with flour, salt, and pepper. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when it has melted, put in the slices of kidney, and toss them about for a few minutes. Pour in with tlie kidneys a moderate quantity of broth, 1 wine- glassful of sherry, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and add a small quantity of minced parsley. Boil the kidneys very gently at the edge of the lire for about ten minutes, then put them on a hot dish, pour their gravy over, and serve them. (4) Remove the skin and sinewy parts from eight kidneys, split them into halves, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter and a small quantity of minced shallots, and fry them quickly. When they are set, sprinkle them over with a little salt and cayenne, take them out with a strainer, and put them in a basin. Add | wineglassful of Madeira to the pan, let it reduce to half its original quantity, pour in its equal bulk of melted glaze, and thicken with a little butter rolled in flour. As soon as it boils, put in the kidneys, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced Fig. 566. Stewed Sheep's Kidneys. cooked lean ham, and a little tarragon, also chopped very fine. Take out the kidneys, arrange them very tastefully on a dish, pour over the sauce, and garnish with sprigs of fried parsley (see Fig. 566). Toasted Sheep’s Kidneys.—Take three Sheep’s Kidneys, Skin them, cut them lengthwise into three, and lay them on a very hot tin dish close in front of a clear hot fire. I hen take jib. of salted pork cut into thin slices, and444 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. toast them on a fork, one at a time, holding it so that all that drips from the pork will fall upon the slices of kidney. As the slices of pork are done, lay them on another hot tin dish. When all are done, put the dish of pork in the place of the dish of kidneys, and toast the slices of kidneys so that all that falls from them drips on to the pork, turning them often and taking care to lose none of the gravy. When no more gravy drips, they are done. Toast, trim into shape, and cut the crust oil' a slice or two of bread, butter it, put it on a hot dish, and lay the slices of kidney on it; cut the pork into strips and lay it round them, pour the gravy over, shake a little salt and pepper over them, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Liver.—Although sheep have the best of calves and pigs in the matter of kidneys, it can never he said that Sheep’s Liver in any way equals the liver of those animals. Nevertheless it is sometimes used, and can be made very nice if prepared as follows: Pried Sheep’s Liver.—(1) Cut a Sheep’s Liver into dice, having previously washed it, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, season with pepper, salt, and a laurel - leaf, and fry it. When the liver is cooked, take it out of the frying-pan, and keep it warm in a moderate oven. Chop some onions, and fry them in the remainder of the butter; when brown, stir in a little stock and flour; when boiling, put the pieces of liver in again, add a liaison of eggs, and a few drops of lemon-juice, and stir it over the fire till thick; then pour it on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Cut the liver into slices, lay them on a deep dish, pour over sufficient fresh milk to cover them, and let them soak. Afterwards drain the slices of liver, and dust them over with flour. Peel and slice an onion, put it into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter or lard, and fry it until somewhat browned. Next put in the slices of liver, season them with pepper, but not salt, and fry them brown. Mix about 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour smoothly with f pint of cold water, pour it over the slices of liver when they are brown, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, put the liver and onions on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Sheep’s Liver.—Cut an equal quantity of Sheep’s Liver and fat bacon into nice slices, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with some of the bacon, then put in a layer of the liver, next the remainder of the bacon, and lastly the liver: season with salt and pepper, and strew over the top some chopped apple and onion in equal quantities. Cover the whole with a plate or flat dish, put it in a moderate oven, and stew until tender. No other moisture but that which comes from the liver will be required. When the liver is cooked, stand the pie-disli on a flat dish, and serve. Sheep’s Milk. —At one time in the history of this country the milk of the ewe was greatly prized. It contains a much larger proportion of fat and caseine in its constitution, and a smaller proportion of sugar than that of either goats or cows. In all culinary respects it may be treated as if it were cow’s milk. Sheep’s Pluck.—Amongst certain classes this is a favourite and inexpensive food. A Sheep’s “ Pluck and Jemmy” can be bought cheaply enough of any offal merchant, and whilst the head (jemmy) makes a sound stock for Scotch broth, the pluck (consisting of lungs and heart), after careful cleaning, can be converted into a nice stew as follows : Put the lights and heart of a Sheep’s Pluck in a bowl of water, and leave them for about one-hour-and-a-half, until all the blood has disgorged. Drain the heart and lights, and cut them into small pieces, as near one size as possible. Put two chopped onions in a saucepan with a small lump of dripping, and toss them about over a brisk fire until nicely browned ; then put in the pieces of heart and lights, with a small quantity of powdered marjoram, and 1 pint of water, and keep them simmering at the side of the fire for two hours. In the meantime, Sheep—contimoed. cook a sufficient quantity of rice and potatoes. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve it with the rice and potatoes in separate dishes. Sheep’s Tails.—Every epicure recognises the tail of the sheep as a dainty not to be overlooked. When cooked with the haunch or leg it is eagerly coveted, the fat being particularly soft and mellow. When they can be obtained separately and in sufficient quantities, they may be cooked as follows: Braised Sheep’s Tails with Green Peas Puree.—Steep the tails in warm water to disgorge the blood. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, carrots, turnips, and onions; drain and put the tails in with a bunch of sweet herbs, season them with salt, pepper, and small quantities each of mace and allspice, cover them with two or three slices of fat bacon, and moisten them with a little broth. Put the lid on the stewpan, and braise the tails over a slow fire. When cooked, drain and glaze the tails, and put them in a slow oven to dry. Arrange them on a hot dish with a puree of green peas under them, and serve very hot. Broiled Sheep’s Tails.—Clean the tails and lay them in a basin, cover them well with warm water, and leave them until all the blood has disgorged. Braise the tails until tender, then drain them. When nearly cold, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in finely-grated stale breadcrumbs; next roll them in warmed butter, and breadcrumb them again. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, Fig. 567. Broiled Sheep’s Tails. turning them to brown equally. Put the tails on a hot disli that has been covered with a fancy-edged dish- paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve them with a sauceboatful of rich gravy in the centre. (See Fig. 567). Stewed Sheep’s Tails and Tongues.—Clean the tails and tongues of three Sheep, cut the tails in halves and split the tongues, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew till tender. Skim off all the fat, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, three onions, and 1 teaspoonful each of mixed spice and salt. When done, take out the tails and tongues, dip them in butter warmed to melting, then dip them in sifted bread- crumbs, and leave them for a few minutes; cover with more butter and crumbs, smoothing them on with a knife, and brown them before the fire. Strain the gravy, pour it into a dish, put in the tongues and tails, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Tongues.—In order to prepare these nicely they should be supplied to the cook quite freshly removed from the sheep’s head. It is customary for butchers to nearly cook them in order to get off the skin, and then they are apt to be hard and tough. It should be observed that by itself the Sheep’s Tongue has not much flavour, consequently it merely forms the basis for other tasty preparations, and at all times requires much artistic handling. Braised Larded Sheep’s Tongues.—Put three or'four Sheep's Tongues into a saucepan of water, and boil them for about two hours; then take them out, skin and lard them Put a few slices of bacon and beef cut about tin. thick into a braising-pan, add a seasoning of mixed herbs, thyme, laurel-leaves, onions, carrots, grated nutmeg, mixed spice, salt and pepper to taste; place the tongues over these and cover over with a similar seasoning, moistening withTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 445 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. a little stock. Put the cover on the pan, set it on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the tongues are quite tender. Put them on a dish, pass the vegetables and liquor through a sieve over them, and serve with capers or gherkins for a garnish. Braised Sheep’s Tongues.—Well wash five or six Sheep’s Tongues, dust them over with salt and flour, put them into a saucepan with a little salt pork fat, add a couple of chopped onions, and brown them over the fire. Pour in sufficient stock or water to half cover them, add a little parsley, salt, and pepper to taste, cover over the pan, and cook for about two hours with hot ashes on the lid. Take them out, skin, and trim them. Put a pile of boiled spinach in the centre of a dish, place the tongues round, and serve with a garnish of fried pieces of bread cut in shapes. Braised Sheep’s Tongues with Lettuces.—Steep the tongues in warm water with a little flour in it, until the blood has soaked out of them, and blanch them; then put the tongues in a stewpan with a good braise, and cook them slowly. Wasli and blanch as many cabbage lettuces as there are tongxres, drain them as free as possible of water, open them and cut out the stalks, dust them over with small quantities of salt and pepper, and tie them in their original form. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put in the lettuces, moisten to height with broth, and stew them until tender. When cooked, peel the tongues, drain the lettuces, and squeeze them in a cloth to extract the grease. Arrange the tongues and lettuces alternately on a hot dish, pour a Spanish sauce over them, and serve. Broiled Sheep’s Tongues.—Put two or three Sheep’s Tongues into a basin, sprinkle them over with salt, and let them remain for a day or so. Mix in a basin 1 tea- spoonful of saltpetre, 1 table-spoonful of salt, half that quantity of bay-salt, and a little black pepper and allspice, Take out the tongues, drain them, put them into a jar, cover over with the salt pickle, let them remain for a couple of days, add 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and let them remain for live days longer. Take them out, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for about two hours or until they are perfectly tender. Take them out, skin, and cut them in halves lengthwise; dip them first into warmed butter and then into breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and cook them until they are browned. Put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. If required to be eaten cold, they should be glazed and not dipped in butter and crumbs. Grilled Sheep’s Tongues.—Boil the required quantity of Sheep’s Tongues, skin them, and cut them into slices: spread over each a mixture of pepper, salt, mustard, and curry-powder, roll them up, fasten then with skewers, wrap them in paper, put them on a gridiron, over a clear ■fire, and grill them. Serve hot. Pickled Sheep’s Tongues.—Well wash and clean the re- quired quantity of Sheep’s Tongues, put them into a bowl of spring water, and leave them for half-an-hour. Make a mixture of lib. of salt, 4oz. of saltpetre, and 4oz. of treacle. Rub the tongues well with this, and leave them for a week or ten days, and they will then be ready for use. Sheep’s Tongues a la Macedoine.—Scald and skin a dozen Sheep’s Tongues, put them in a braising-pan over a few slices of vegetables and bacon, add a little stock, and braise Sheep—continued. them. Take them out when done, put them between two boards with a weight on the top, trim them when cold, and afterwards glaze them with their own liquor. Fill a border-mould with mashed baked potatoes, put it in the oven to dry, turn it out on to a dish, and arrange the tongues round it with the root ends on the top and the tips touching on the dish. Glaze the tongues with a paste- brush dipped in glaze, and set the dish at the oven-door for a few minutes. Fill the centre with finely-chopped cooked vegetables thickened with bechamel sauce (see Fig. 568), baste with melted glaze, and serve with brown sauce reduced with wine poured round. Sheep’s Tongues en Papillote.—Wash the tongues and blanch them until the skins can be easily removed, when peel them off. Put them in a stewpan, cover with nicely flavoured stock, and boil them gently until tender. Butter as many sheets of paper as there are tongues, and over each spread a mixture of finely-chopped mushrooms and sweet herbs that have been worked up in a lump of butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Drain the tongues, lay them on the pieces of paper, and wrap them up well, so that none of the seasoning can escape. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the tongues in the papers on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sheep’s Tongues a la Soubise.—Blanch the tongues in boiling water, and leave them for twenty-minutes. Line a stewpan with slices of carrots, turnips, and onions. Drain the tongues, put them on the vegetables, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and pour in 1 pint of broth. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and braise the contents for an hour. At the end of that time, take the tongues out and skin them; strain their cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, put in the tongues again, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Put about ‘2oz. of butter into a small saucepan, with two or three finely- chopped onions, and cook them lightly till tender ; then dust 1 table-spoonful of flour over them, season with i tea- spoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper, pour in \ pint of milk, and stir them over the fire till boiling. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir them for a few minutes. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Arrange the tongues in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. Sheep’s Tongues and Brains au Gratin.—Remove the tongues and brains from two sheep’s heads, wash the tongues thoroughly in salted water, and put the brains in a basin of cold water to soak. Put them all into a sauce- pan, cover them over with salted water, and boil for about two minutes. Take them all out, put the tongues into another saucepan with lqt. of water, and add two onions, one bay-leaf, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a very little saltpetre. Set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for three hours, or till they are so tender that they will hardly bear the touch of a fork. Leave them in the saucepan to cool; take them out, skin them, and let them get quite cold. Put the brains into a saucepan with a little rich stock to moisten, and boil quickly for ten minutes ; take them out, let them get cold, cut each lobe into slices, and cover them with egg and sifted breadcrumbs. Trim the tongues, cut each of them into four slices, dip them in egg, and cover them also with sifted breadcrumbs. Put loz. of butter into a frying-pan on the fire, and as soon as it froths add the tongues and brains, and brown them well on both sides. Put them on a dish, pour round a little rich gravy, well flavoured with lemon-juice or mushrooms, and serve. Stewed Larded Sheep’s Tongues.—Put three Sheep’s Tongues into a saucepan of water, and boil them for about two hours; then take them out, skin, and lard them, and put them into a saucepan with a little gravy and a seasoning of mushrooms, shallot, parsley, salt, and pepper; place the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the tongues are quite tender. Put them on a dish, strain the liquor446 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c. referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. and pour it round them, and serve with onion sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Sheep’s Tongues.—(1) Put two or three Sheep’s Tongues into a saucepan with water, and boil them until the skin can easily be removed, which will take about two hours. Skin them, cut lengthwise into halves, and put them into a saucepan with a little each of parsley, mushrooms, chopped shallot, butter, salt and pepper, and pour over sufiieient gravy to moisten. Put the saucepan on the fire, and cook gently until the tongues are tender. Put them on a dish, strain the gravy over them, and serve. (2) Put the tongues in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and boil them gently until the skin will peel off easily. Split the tongues lengthwise, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, a few finely-chopped mushrooms and shallots, some choj>ped parsley, and a sufficient quantity of clear rich gravy to cover them. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew them until tender. When oooked, lay the slices of tongue on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a small quantity of flour kneaded in butter, and when ready, pour it over the tongues. Garnish them with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. SHEEP’S TROTTERS.—See Sheep’s Feet. SHEEP’S-HEAD PISH.—This is a large and valuable food fish (Diplodus, probatocephalus) which is caught along the Atlantic coasts of America. The head with its teeth is supposed to have some sort of resemb- lance to a sheep’s head, hence its name. The flesh is white and flaky, and the body thick and ckumpy, so that a fish weighing 81b. or 101b. yields a very large propor- tion of boneless meat. It is highly esteemed wherever it can be obtained, and constitutes an important item in the American fish-market. Boiled Sheep’s-head Pish.—Thoroughly clean and wash the fish, mb it over with dry salt, and soak it in cold water for one hour. Remove it from the water, wipe it dry, score it several times across both sides, and rub it with a lemon cut into halves. Lay the fish on a drainer on a fish- kettle, cover it with cold water and milk equally mixed, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, let it gradually boil, and Fig. 569. Boiled Sheep’s-head Fish. then gently simmer for lialf-an-hour. In dishing the fish, be careful to transfer it from the kettle to a dish without breaking it. Pour a little of the cooking liquor round (see Fig. 569), and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Sheep’s-head-Fish Salad.—Pick the flesh off a cold boiled Sheep’s-head Fish, and cut it into small pieces. Put some crisp cabbage lettuce-leaves into a salad-bowl, put in the fish, strew some minced capers over it, and about 1 tea- spoonful of Worcester sauce. Pour a mayonnaise dress- ing over the salad, garnish it with small squares of beetroot and slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. Stewed Sheep's-head Pish a la Croole.—Put one chopped onion and one very finely-chopped green chilli, with the seed extracted, into a stewpan, and brown them in | gill of oil for five minutes; add one tomato cut in pieces, four sliced mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic. Season well with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, then moisten with 4 pint of Spanish sauce. Cut Sheep’s-head Fish—continued. a fish weighing 31b. into six slices, lay them flat in the stewpan, pour over 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and cook for one hour over a very slow fire. When ready to serve, sprinkle over with a pinch of chopped parsley, and decorate with six pieces of heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. The fish can be left whole instead of dividing it into slices, if desired. Serve the sauce in a sauceboat. SHELLS.—See Coquilles. SHELL BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. SHELL-FISH.—This term is applied to any kind of aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell. These may be either testaceous, as oysters, clams, cockles, scallops, and other molluscs; or crustaceous, as lobsters, prawns, shrimps, crayfish, or crabs. All these are described under their own headings. SHEPHERD’S PIE.—See Pies. ( SHERBET (TV. Sorbet; Ger. Sorbet; Ital. Sorbetto; Sp. Sorbete).—This is described as a refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit diluted, sweetened, and flavoured in various ways. From this it will be seen that an immense number of these delicious drinks might be manufactured, each fruit admitting of several varieties and combinations. In Turkey Sherbet is frequently flavoured with flowers, and Professor Simmonds informs us that in 1662 an adver- tisement appeared in the London papers that among the beverages sold at a certain confectioner’s was to be found “ Sherbet made in Turkie, of lemons, roses, and violets.” A decoction of barley-meal and sugar, perfumed with roses, orange-flowers, violets, or citron forms a pleasant Sherbet. The following are also good receipts: (1) Put 21b. of sugar and lqt. of water into a sauce- pan and boil it to a syrup. Put 4oz. of stoned raisins into a basin with 4oz. of chopped figs, six cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon. Pour the syrup over the above articles, and leave it till cool. Strain and colour the syrup a delicate pink with a little prepared cochineal, add the juice of six oranges, two lemons, and a small quantity of cinnamon, three or four cloves, and lqt. nf port wine. Turn the mixture into the freezer, and freeze it. When frozen, take the cloves and cinnamon out of the mixture, add the scalded raisins and figs, 1-lb. of muscatel grapes, and Jib. of blanched almonds. When well mixed, the Sherbet is ready for use. (2) Put two pounds of coarsely crushed loaf'sugar into a preserving-pan with f of a pint of cold water and the beaten white and shell of one egg, and stir the whole over the fire until the sugar has dissolved; then remove the spoon. When the syrup boils fast, pour in J pint of water, and remove the scum which it will send to the top. When it again boils, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it settle; then remove any more scum that may have risen to the top. Boil the syrup again and skim it. When cold, flavour the syrup with 11 drachms of essence of almonds, and bottle it for use. Keep it well corked and in a dry cupboard. Next make the Sherbet, allowing eight moderate sized sticks of rhubarb for every quart of water, cut it up into small pieces, put them in a pan with the water, and boil for ten minutes. Strain the liquor from the rhubarb, and mix with it a few drops of essence of lemon. When cold, pour the rhubarb liquor into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. When serving, sweeten some of the rhubarb liquor with some of the clarified syrup. The rhubarb pulp can be sweetened and used for making tarts. (3) Put 21b. of moist sugar in a pan with lqt. of cold water and the beaten whites of two eggs, and boil them till reduced to a somewhat thick syrup. Next mix with it 1 pint of the best vinegar and a small bunch of freshly- gathered mint tied in a small piece of muslin. Boil the whole for fifteen minutes longer, then strain the Sherbet and leave it until cool. Pour it into bottles and cork them well. This Sherbet should be taken mixed with447 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sherbet—continued. cold water, and is a very refreshing beverage in the summer time. Several other Sherbets are described under special headings. The word Sherbet is derived from the Armenian Sherbet, Shorbet, or Sharbat, which signifies properly one drink or sip, a single draught. Eastern fruit drinks are called Sherbets when they are sweet, and Bosas when they are acid. At all the street corners of the Turkish cities men are found selling syrups of apricots, cherries, or lemons, and iced water, which they serve in small drinking cups with covers. London Sherbet is a sort of lemon-kali made as follows: Mix 5oz. each of tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda with lib. of caster sugar, all separately dried and pounded. Add a drachm of essence of lemon to the sugar, rub the whole through a fine sieve in a dry place, put it in bottles, and it is ready for use. 2 table-spoonfuls in a tumblerful of water is sufficient to use at a time. SHERRY (Fr. YindeXeres; Ger. Xereswein ; Ital. Vino Bianco; Sp. Vino de Xerez).—A Spanish light coloured wine, made in the district of Xerez, from which it takes its name, in Andalusia. It varies very consider- ably in quality, some of the best ranking very high in the world of wines; but, on the other hand, the British markets are so over-run with an inferior or doctored pro- duce that it is difficult to say whether what is sometimes called Sherry has ever been in Spain at all. A very good imitation Sherry for cooking purposes is made as follows: (1) Rub some lump sugar over the peel of six lemons, then scrape it off, and put this zest in a basin; squeeze in the juice of twelve lemons, sweeten it with sugar, and pour in sufficient cold clear water, which, with the addition of a bottle of lemonade, will make the requisite quantity. Pass the mixture through a silk sieve, turn it into a large jug, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In an hour or two the Sherry will be found a most refreshing drink. (2) Pour 5galls. of sweet cider into a cask with 21b. of glucose; then add Igall. of hot white elder-flower wine with |oz. of citric acid dissolved in it, and mix well with an agitator; then add |oz. of blanched bitter almonds, toz. of red rose-leaves, and lastly 1 J2oz. of gelatine soaked and dissolved in a little of the cider. Whisk the whole well, bung up, let the wine clear, and bottle in three months’ time. Ever since Great Britain first opened up a wine com- merce with Spain, Sherry has been established as one of the standards. It is not only an excellent dinner wine, but can be used in the manufacture of numerous sauces and other culinary preparations. Sherry Cobbler.—(1) Sweeten the Sherry to taste, and mix with it some broken ice. Serve it in glasses, with straw or glass tubes to suck it through. (2) Mix together h pint of Sherry, two slices of lemon, a little mint, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and some finely broken ice, and stir till the sugar has dissolved; then pour in a bottle of soda water, and serve. (3) Put 2 wineglassfuls of Sherry into a pint tumbler, add \ wineglassful each of maraschino and Jamaica rum, and mix well. Float on the top half an orange cut in thin slices, put in as much crashed ice as required, and drink through straws. Sherry Cobbler Syrup.—Cut a lemon into thin slices, put them in a vessel, pour over 1 pint each of simple syrup and Sherry wine, and let them macerate for twelve hours. Strain, and bottle. Sherry Granito.—Mix a bottle of Sherry in 2qts. of lemonade, and stir it over ice in jugs till frozen; then serve. Sherry Jelly.—(1) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with £lb. of sugar, add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two Sherry—continued. eggs, and add them to the other ingredients; grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves and one bay- leaf, and beat well with a whisp for one minute. Have ready a seamless jelly bag, and let it lie on a jelly stand, or, if none be handy, two kitchen chairs, one turned over the other, will answer the purpose. Stir the preparation, and when coming to a boil, set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding to it \ pint of Sherry and 1 teaspoonful of browned sugar. Let it drain into the vessel, then return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours; then pack it in ice to harden for two hours longer. Prepare a cold dish, and after dipping the mould lightly and carefully to near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately and turn it on to the dish, wiping the dish well before sending to the table. (2) Soak loz. of gelatine until soft in 1 teacupful of cold water, then put it in a saucepan with \ pint of boiling water, and place it over the fire until dissolved. Beat the whites of two eggs with their shells, then mix them in with the gelatine liquor; add also the juice of three lemons, the thinly pared rind of one, and Jib. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until it boils, then take the spoon out and let it boil gently for five minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and leave it for a few minutes with a cover over it. Mix with it 3 wineglassfuls of Sherry and 1 wine- glassful of brandy. Strain the jelly through a jelly bag until clear, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. Leave the jelly packed in ice if pos- sible for two or three hours until quite cold and set. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a dish. Sherry Sponge Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish, and put into it two sponge cakes and 1 wineglassful of Sherry. Boil h pint of milk with three lumps of sugar, then beat two eggs up with it; when the wine is absorbed, pour the custard over the cakes, and bake it in a slow oven. When set, turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve. SHIRAZ.—A Pei •sian wine, so named from the neighbourhood in which it is prepared. SHORTBREAD.—A delicious kind of cake origi- nally manufactured in Scotland. The following receipts for its preparation are authentic and reliable : English Shortbread.—(1) Put |lb. each of sugar and butter into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and work in two eggs and lib. of flour. Cut the dough into either round or square shapes, decorate the tops with cut preserved lemon-peel and caraway comfits, place them on dry tins, and bake in a moderate oven until done. (2) Work lib. of butter in 31b. of flour till quite smooth, then mix in 1 Jjb. of caster sugar. Beat two eggs with 1 teacupful of milk and 1 teacupful of honey water, then stir the above mixture to a paste with it. Roll the paste out, and with a round fluted tin-cutter, about Sin. in diameter, stamp the paste out, or it may be cut into oval shapes if preferred. Place them a short distance from each other on bright baking sheets, not buttered, put a strip of candied citron-peel on the top of each, and bake them in a moderate oven. (3) Sift Gib. of flour and 1 piled teaspoonful of baking powder on a table or board. Work 8oz. of butter to a cream, mix in 8oz. of crashed loaf sugar, and beat well until it has a whitish appearance; then add a little essence of lemon, three eggs, and the flour and baking powder, form- ing the whole into a stiffish dough. Make it into cakes about 1 loz. each in weight, form them round, then roll them to an oval shape, pinching them round the edges, place a few small pieces of candied lemon-peel on the tops, and bake slowly in a very moderate oven. Take them out when done, and serve when cold.448 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Shortbread—continued. (4) Put into a large earthen bowl 3 breakfast-cupfuls of light bread dough, add to it three eggs beaten for two minutes with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and 3 table-spoon- fuls of slightly warmed butter, and knead all these ingre- dients together with the hand until the dough is soft and smooth. Put it into buttered baking-pans, cover the pans with a folded towel, and set them for fifteen minutes to rise near the stove, where a gentle heat will strike them; then bake the Shortcakes in a moderate oven until a small knife or fork thrust into them does not show any sign of moisture. When the Shortcakes are baked, tear them open, first breaking the edges apart with a fork, butter them, put fruit or preserves over them, with sugar to taste, and serve them either hot or cold. French Shortbread.—Run 12oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, make a cavity in the centre, and add four eggs, 12oz. of sugar, and Joz. of ammonia. Beat these together first with the hand, and gradually work in the flour and butter, making the whole into a stiffish dough. Weigh off about 12oz. at a time, roll or flatten them, mark them into eight, put a little candied peel in the centre of each, and bake in a quick oven. Divide the pieces with a knife, and serve cold. Scotch Shortbread.—(1) Put 21b. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon; add slowly 20oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, stirring well to obtain a white appearance, add a little lemon-zest and •a small quantity of milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a short paste, taking care not to have it too stiff. Divide it into pieces, roll them out to about Jin. in thickness, forming them square or oval as desired, pinch the edges all round with the finger, dock the surfaces with a biscuit docker, put a few caraway comfits on the tops (see Fig. 570), put them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out, and use when cold. (2) Rub lib. of fresh butter in 21b. of flour until perfectly smooth; then add Jib. of sugar and a small quantity of salt, and moisten with water to a stiff paste. Dredge a little flour over a table or paste board, put the paste on it, and roll it out to about Jin. thick. Cut the paste into squares or oval-shaped pieces, and dock them over with a biscuit-docker. Dredge them over with caster sugar, lay them on a baking sheet that has been covered with buttered paper, and put them in a slow oven. In about twenty minutes dredge the pieces of cake over with more caster sugar, and bake them for ten minutes longer. (3) Mix with lflb. of finely sifted white flour Jib. of ground rice, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of blanched and finely- chopped sweet almonds, and Jib. of finely chopped candied orange and lemon peel. Take 1 Jib. of fresh butter, keep it in a block, and work in the above ingredients. When they are well mixed with the butter, almost forming a dough, cut it in halves, and mould each into a square cake about 1 in. in thickness, pinching them round the edges with the fingers, and pricking over the top with a skewer. Ornament the top with comfits. Lay the Shortbread on baking tins, and bake it about an hour in a moderately hot oven. SHORT-CAKES.—See Cakes. SHORT-CRUST.—See Pastes. SHOULDERS.—The bladebones with the forelegs ; usually applied in cookery to lamb, mutton, and veal. SHOWBREAD.—Loaves made of the finest flour, unleavened, which the Jewish priests place upon the altar of the Synagogue, and change once a week. They are twelve in number, representing the twelve tribes of Israel. They are eaten by the priests, and in holy places only. SHREDDING.—A term applied to the cutting or tearing up of vegetables and other things, such as lettuces, almonds, &c., into long thin shreds. SHREWSBURY CAKES.-See Cakes. SHRIMPS {Ft. Crevettes; Ger. Krabben; Ital. Sqiiille; Sp. Camarones)—These peculiar little shell-fish derive their name from a habit they have of curling up or shrinking when caught. There are several kinds, amongst which are the brown or hornless Shrimp (Crangon vulyaris) and horned Shrimp or prawn. This latter is treated under its own heading. Buttered Shrimps.—Shell some Shrimps and put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, a little pepper and salt, and stir them over the fire until hot. Fry some thin slices of bread in butter, drain them when a golden brown, and put them on a hot dish; pile the buttered Shrimps on the bread, and serve. Forcemeat of Shrimps.—Take about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Shrimps, remove the shells, chop them up into very fine pieces, and add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, a little mace, and salt and pepper. Put them into a mortar, and pound together with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a firm paste. Add the yolk of an egg to form the mixture into a smooth paste, and use it for stuffing a fish to be baked. Potted Shrimps.—Pick some Shrimps from their shells, season them to taste with salt and cayenne, and pack them tightly into pots. Have some butter in a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils pour it over the Shrimps till they are quite covered and the pots almost filled; let them get quite cold, then pour over the top boiling butter and lard mixed, so that the air cannot reach the butter first poured in. The shrimps may also be pounded and softened with butter, then pressed into a shallow jar and covered with oiled butter. Salpipon of Shrimps.—Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from a dozen large Shrimps, all chopped up small. Thicken well, and let it cook for five minutes, then serve. Scalloped Shrimps.—(1) Prepare J pint of tomato sauce and put in with it J pint of picked Shrimps and 1 wineglass- ful of wine, either red or white. Stir the above ingredients in a saucepan over the fire till hot, then turn them into a scallop-dish; cover the top with finely-grated breadcrumbs, put three or four lumps of butter over them, and bake till browned. When well coloured take the dish out of the oven, and serve the Shrimps while hot. (2) Shell 1 pint of fresh Shrimps, and put them in some metal scallop shells with a small piece of butter in each shell. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; then pour in gradually 1 scant breakfast-cupful of milk, and season with a few drops of anchovy sauce and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until tliickened, then pour a little of it over the Shrimps in each shell; strew grated breadcrumbs on the top, and brown them under a salamander, or put them for a few minutes in a brisk oven. Set these on a hot dish, and serve. Shrimps a la Normandie.—Skin and remove the heads from 1 pint of fresh Shrimps; put loz. of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until melted, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of ground rice; mix in smoothly | pint of new milk, and continue stirring until it is thickened and boiling. Next put in the Shrimps, and leave them until quite hot. When ready turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 449 Shrimps—continued. Shrimps and Boiled Rice.—Make a thick white sauce of 1 heaped table spoonful of flour, loz. of butter, and J pint of milk ■ flavour it sparingly with mace, cayenne, and salt. Stir into the sauce 1 pint of shelled Shrimps; when they are thoroughly hot, pour them on a hot dish, arrange round them a border of boiled rice, and serve. Shrimp Bouchees.—See Shrimp Patties. Shrimp Butter.—Pick and shell lib. of Shrimps, put them in a mortar, and pound them; add Jib. butter, and when well mixed pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. The Shrimp butter is then ready for use. Shrimp Cromeskies.—Shell some Shrimps and cut them into small pieces. Prepare some veloute sauce maigre, and reduce it to half its original quantity; move the sauce to the side of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of butter divided into small pieces, continue stirring the sauce by the side of the fire, adding, when thick, the Shrimps. Leave the above mixture until cold, then divide it into equal parts, and wrap each one separately in squares of udder; roll the cromeskies to the shape of a cork, dip them in frying-batter, then plunge them into boiling fat, and fry till crisp and nicely browned. When cooked, drain the cromeskies, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Shrimp Omelet.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 dessert-spoonful each of flour and finely-chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a very small quantity of mixed herbs, and a seasoning of pepper, then mix in very gradually 1 teacupful of milk. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs. Have ready shelled J pint of Shrimps, turn them into a shallow baking-dish, and put them into the oven for a minute or two to get warm. Add the frothed white of egg quickly to the batter, beat it in lightly, and pour it over the Shrimps. Bake for twenty minutes, and serve hot. Shrimp Patties or Bouchees.—(1) Remove the shells from about 3 pints of fresh Shrimps; bone and finely chop three anchovies, mix them with the Shrimps, and season to taste with pounded mace and cloves. Moisten the mixture with about 1J wineglassfuls of white wine. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, cut the paste into rounds with a 2in. tin cutter, then with a tin. cutter cut half-way through the middle of each round of paste. Brush the rounds over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a quick oven. Heat the Shrimp mixture in a saucepan over the fire, and when the patties are cooked lift off the piece marked with the cutter, scoop out the soft inside, fill them with the mixture, cover with the small rounds of paste, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Roll out some puff paste at six turns and cut out of it eighteen bouchees with a 2in. fluted cutter; stand them on a sheet of tin and place it upon ice for ten minutes. Brush the pieces of paste over with beaten egg,' and with a ljin. cutter cut through one-third of the thickness of each bouchde (the cutter should be dipped in hot water Fig. 571. Shrimp Patties or Bouchees. before using); bake the bouchdes in a brisk oven. Shell and cut into pieces lib. of Shrimps, put them in some Shrimp sauce, and stir them over the fire till hot. When baked, lift off the pieces of paste that have been cut round to form the covers, scoop out the soft paste, fill the cavity left with the Shrimp mixture, and put the covers Shrimps—continued. on again. Arrange the bouchees on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 571), and serve them. Shrimp Pie.—(1) Line the edges of a pie-dish with puff paste, put some lumps of butter at the bottom, then put in lqt. of shelled Shrimps with two minced anchovies, half a blade of mace, two or three more lumps of butter, a dust of pounded cloves, and 1 wineglassful of white vine. Cover the pie with puff paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Serve the pie while hot. (2) Pick the shells off 2qts. of boiled Shrimps, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 1J table-spoon- fuls of essence of anchovies, moderate quantities each of pepper and pounded mace, and a small quantity of salt. Butter and line the sides of a pie-dish with puff paste, place a few small pieces of butter at the bottom, put in the Shrimps, and moisten them with § breakfast-cupful of clear gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Cover the pie with puff paste, trim it off round the edges, moisten- ing and pinching them together. Bake it in a moderate oven until the paste is cooked, when the pie will be suffi- ciently done. Shrimp Rolls.—Procure some very fresh Shrimps and remove their skins and heads; cut some thin slices of bread oft’ a tin-loaf a day old, butter them, and trim off all the crusts; Fig. 572. Shrimp Rolls. strew some of the Shrimps over each slice, roll them up as evenly as possible, pile the rolls up on a bread-and- butter dish, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parslev (see Fig. 572), and serve. Shrimp Salad.—(1) Take lqt. of boiled and skinned Shrimps, lay them in a deep dish, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and adding a few branches of white celery, also cut up. Mix well together, then transfer it to a salad-bowl, and pour over J breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise dressing; decorate with two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, six leaves of lettuce, twelve stoned olives, and 1 table-spoon-ful of capers. The salad is then ready to serve. (2) Prepare lqt. of Shrimps; wash two heads of fresh lettuce, shake the water from the leaves, and arrange them in a salad-bowl; put the Shrimps in a little heap in the centre of the lettuce, and pour over them a mayonnaise made without mustard as follows : Put the yolk of an egg into a bowl, stir it with a fork, and mix oil with it, a few drops at a time, until quite a thick paste is formed; next add, a little at a time, enough vinegar to thin it, then again add oil and vinegar, stirring the dressing gently and constantly until the desired quantity of mayonnaise is made, using one third as much vinegar as oil; season to taste with salt and pepper, and use it with the salad. (3) Shell 1 pint of Shrimps, and put them into a basin with some French dressing. Stand the basin with the Shrimps on ice till just before serving. Prepare a mayon- naise dressing, and mix half of it with the Shrimps. Cut the centres out of some cabbage lettuces, and trim off the discoloured leaves, leaving the other part to form cups ; chop the centres of the lettuces, and mix them with the Shrimps. Put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture into each of the lettuce-cups, with 1 table-spoonful of mayonnaise on the top of each, then sprinkle over them some capers and pounded coral. Arrange the cups of salad on a dish, put some small sprays of well-washed parsley round the edge, and serve. (4) Tinned Shrimps.—Trim off the outside leaves of two or three lettuces, wash them in plenty of water, then VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. GTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 450 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Shrimps—continued. dry them on a towel (taking care not to crush the leaves); prill the leaves apart and cut them into moderate-sized pieces. Put the lettuce in a salad-bowl, turn the Shrimps out of the tin, remove any pieces of shell, and pile them high in the centre of the bowl on the top of the lettuce. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, pour in gradually 1 teacupful of salad-oil, and heat them to a thick cream; then pour in 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, season with about 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, and continue the heating until all the ingredients are well blended. Pour the dress- ing over the Shrimps, garnish them with a few of the youngest leaves of the lettuce, which should have been reserved for the purpose, and serve without delay. Shrimp Sandwiches.—Pick \ pint of Shrimps, put them in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, season with a little salt and cayenne pepper, and pound them to a paste; moisten it with a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Cut some rather thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread half of them with the paste, fold the remaining half over these, and press them lightly together. Cut the sandwiches into fingers or quarters, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Shrimp Sauce.—(1) Put 1 pint each of white poivrade sauce and butter sauce into a saucepan, and boil them till some- what reduced. Thicken the sauce with 2oz. of lobster butter. Pick I b pints of Shrimps, put them into the sauce with a little lemon-juice, stir the sauce by the side of the fire for a few minutes, then serve it. (2) Make about J pint of butter sauce, and while it is in the saucepan mix with it 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small lump of lobster butter, and b saltspoonful of cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire till the butter has dissolved, then put in 1 teacupful of picked Shrimps. Serve the sauce while hot. (3) Pick the meat out of the tails of 1 pint of Shrimps; put the trimmings in a mortar with loz. of butter and the juice of a lemon, and pound them till smooth; then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with 1 pint of milk in a small stewpan, put in 3oz. of butter in small bits, season to taste until salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened. Put in the tails of the Shrimps with a small quantity of cayenne pepper, boil them for two or three minutes, then stir in the pounded Shrimps with b teacupful of cream; the sauce is then ready for serving. (4) Pick 1 pint of Shrimps out of their shells, put them into 1 pint of butter sauce, mix in a small quantity of cream, let them boil up, add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve in a sauce-tureen. (5) Tinned Shrimps.—Put a lump of butter the size of an egg and 1 table-spoonful of Hour into a saucepan and stir them over the fire till the butter begins to bubble, then mix in 1 pint of clear broth and stir till thick. Drop the yolk of one egg into the sauce and beat it, then add a small piece of butter and stir it till melted; after the egg is added the sauce should not be allowed to boil. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Add a tin of preserved Shrimps to the sauce, stir it for a few minutes, then serve. Shrimp Soup.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the meat of Shrimps into a mortar and pound them well, adding gra- dually the strained juice of half a lemon and a lump of butter the weight of the Shrimps. Pound well until perfectly smooth, rub the whole through a fine sieve, and season to taste with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put a lum]j of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a thicken- ing of flour, and stir well, but without allowing it to obtain too much colour; put in the Shrimp paste, together with an equal bulk of breadcrumbs soaked in stock, pour in sufficient rich stock to give the soup the required con- sistency, stir well until it boils, remove the pan from the fire, skim off all the fat, pass it through a sieve into another saucepan, rubbing through as much as possible, boil up once more, remove the pan from the fire, add a liaison of the yolk of egg beaten up with cream or milk, pour the soup) into a tureen, and serve immediately. Toasted pieces of bread should be floated in the soup. Shrimps—continued. (2) Shell H- pints of Shrimps and put them into a mortar with Jib. of butter, and pound them. Boil the shells in a little more than 1 teacupful of vinegar and water. Put the pounded Shrimps into a saucepan with lqt. of fish stock, two penny rolls, and the vinegar strained in which the shells have been boiled. Let the soup) simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour, but do not let it boil. Pass the soup through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and put in a few peeled whole Shrimps. When on the point of boiling, turn the soup into a hot soup turcen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Shrimp Toast.—(1) Fry some slices of crumb of bread in butter, then cut them into rounds with a plain 2in. cutter. When cold, mask the fried rounds with Shrimp butter, arrange a star of trimmed Shrimp’s tails on the top of each, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre. Arrange the toast on a dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 573), and serve. (2) Shell the Shrimps, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste; mix with it 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, a small lump of fresh butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Toast some slices of bread, butter them while hot, and spread with the Shrimp paste. Put the toast on a hot dish, and serve. Shrimp toast prepared in the above way makes a very tasty disli for breakfast or luncheon. (3) Peel lqt. of Shrimps ; put the heads in a saucepan with 1 b breakfast-cupfuls of water and boil for fifteen minutes. Put about ljoz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till melted and well mixed; then strain in gradually the above liquor in which the heads were boiled, and season the sauce with cayenne. When on the point of boiling, put the Shrimps in with the sauce. Cut a slice of bread I Jin. thick from the bottom of a loaf, scoop it out slightly in the centre, and fry till nicely browned in clarified butter. Beat two yolks of eggs with a little milk, pour them gradually in with the sauce, and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let the sauce boil again, and season with cayenne pepper. Pour the above mixture on to the bread, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and serve. (4) Peel b pint of Shrimps, put a quarter of them into a mortar, and pound to a paste; then mix \ teacupful of fresh butter with it. Make three or four thin slices of toast and spread them with the paste. Put b teacupful of fresh butter into a frying-pan with 1 teacupful of picked Shrimps, and fry them. Trim the edges neatly round the toast, put it on a hot dish, pile the fried Shrimps on it, and serve while hot. (5) Pick the meat out of the shells of lqt. of fine Shrimps, and put it into a mortar with loz. of butter and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream; bone an anchovy, wash and chop it, and put it in the mortar with the Shrimps; season to taste with pepper, and pound the whole till quite smooth. Cut some rounds of bread with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter and toast them, then butter them. Mix some finely-chopped watercress with the above paste, and spread a layer of it over each round of toast; strew grated breadcrumb over the tops, and brown them in a brisk oven. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, put the pieces of toast on it, arrange some well-washed sprays of watercress neatly round them, and serve. (6) Pick the shells off 1 pint of very fresh Shrimps. Cut about one dozen rounds of bread 2in. in diameter and Jin. in thickness; melt a lump of butter in a stewpan,451 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Shrimps—continued. then put in the rounds of bread, and fry them a pale golden colour. As they are fried take them out of the fat and place them |on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain. Put the Shrimps into a small saucepan with a lump of butter and fry them for a minute or two. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with \ teacupful of milk and pour it over the Shrimps, season to taste with a few drops of anchovy sauce and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir the whole over the fire until the flour is cooked. Pile the Shrimp mixture on the pieces of bread, put them on a hot dish, garnish with a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and serve. Stewed Shrimps.—Pick lqt. of Shrimps, reserve their tails, and put the remainder into a stewpan with £ pint of water with a little vinegar and half a blade of mace in it; let them simmer at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of- an-hour, stirring them occasionally. Strain the above liquor into another saucepan, add the tails, half a grated nutmeg, a little salt, and 2oz. of butter that has been worked with 2 table-spoonfuls of Horn-, and stir them over the fire for about fifteen minutes. Toast a thin slice of bread, cut it into strips, put them at the bottom of a hot dish, pour the stew over them, garnish round with small sprigs of parsley and picked Shrimps, and serve. SHROPSHIRE PIE.—See Pies. SHRUB.—This word is evidently a corruption of the Arabic Shirb, or Shurb, and therefore akin to sherbet. It is a drink made of sugar, fruit acid, flavours, and spirits. In Jamaica it is made with rum, syrups, and oranges, and called “ Santa.” In this country it is some- times made of the juice of fruits, and receipts for making this variety are given under the headings of the fruits used. The following are a few good receipts for prepar- ing Shrub in English fashion: (1) Squeeze the juice from sufficient Seville oranges to make 1 pint, strain it into a bowl, and mix with it 21b. of crushed white sugar and 3 pints of brandy. Stir the above ingredients till the sugar has dissolved, then strain them through a silk or fine hair sieve, and bottle the Shrub for use. (2) Grate the peel of five large Seville oranges and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle with the thinly-peeled rinds of six lemons and 1 pint of rum; put a cover on the top of the bottle, and leave the contents to steep for three or four days. At the end of that time, boil 31b. of crushed loaf sugar in 3 pints of water. When a thin syrup, stand the sugar on one side till cool. Strain the rum from the peels, and put it into a bowl with 2qts. of pure ruin, the syrup and the strained juice of six lemons. When well mixed bottle the Shrub for use. (3) Mix one minim of pine-apple ether with two fluid ounces of acetic acid; then add two fluid ounces of lemon tincture, one drachm of sugar colouring, four fluid ounces of tincture of bitter orange made from the fresh peel, and pour over lgall. of simple syrup at 42deg. by the hydrometer. When well mixed, should the liquor not be perfectly clear, lilter through a jelly-bag lined with paper pulp, ami bottle. (4) Dissolve 21b. of loaf sugar in a bottle with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Seville-orange juice and three times the quantity of rum or brandy. Strain the liquor through a cloth or jelly-bag, bottle, and use as required. SIBERIAN CRABS.—Small apples (see Fig. 574), about the size of cherries, which grow on a tree (Pyrus prunifolia) originally imported from Siberia. They are sometimes found growing in our shrubberies, and are very nice, and make a pretty garnish preserved as follows: (1) Put into a preserving-pan 2lb. of loaf sugar, the peel of half a lemon, or a small whole one, and lqt. of water, and boil the mixture till it becomes a thin syrup. Prick some red crab apples with a needle, leaving their stalks on, and put them into the syrup. When the skins begin to crack, lift the apples carefully out, drain, and lay them on a dish. Put another Jib. of loaf sugar in Siberian Crabs—continued. the syrup and boil it up again, then remove it from the fire and leave till cool. Put the apples into wide-mouthed glass bottles, pour the syrup over them, and tie the bottles tightly over with paper. Apples preserved as above will keep some time. Fig. 574. Siberian Crabs. (2) Weigh some crab apples and allow an equal weight of finely-powdered sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving- pan, with a small quantity of apple syrup and the juice of one lemon for each pound of sugar; stir with a wooden spoon until dissolved, then boil and skim until clear. Prick the apples, put them into the syrup, move the pan to the side of the fire, and boil gently until they are tender, which may be ascertained by running a straw through them. Put them into jars, pour the syrup over them, seeing that they are well covered with it, and tie over with stout paper. Dried Siberian Crabs.—Pierce a number of holes in each crab apple, put them into jars, and bake in a moderate oven until tender. When ready, dust them over with plenty of caster sugar, lay them on a sheet of paper with the stalks upwards, and dry them in a cool oven. Repeat the opera- tion of dipping them in sugar and drying them two or three times more, then move them to a very warm place until thoroughly dried, when they will be ready for serving. SICILIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. SIDE-BOARDS.—Articles of furniture usually found in English dining-rooms. They are useful to hold various articles of table service, and to display fruits and viands. When backed with mirror-glass the effect is very striking. See Buffets. SIEVES.—Several kinds of Sieves are used by cooks; some are coarse, made of wire or cane, and others fine, made of hair or silk, much depending upon the use for which it is destined. French cooks call them tamis. SILLABUB.—See Syllabub. SILLERY.—A kind of non-sparkling champagne, of an amber colour, and possessing a very fine bouquet. SILVER CAKE.—See Cakes SILVERSIDES.—The name given to a fish of the Atherinidse family. They are commonly found along the coasts of America. The flesh is very delicate and spoils if not cooked soon after catching. For suitable receipts see Smelts. SIMGO.—A native African drink made from the sap of the Sagus. It is very strong, dark coloured, and ' excessively intoxicating. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 G o452 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. SIMMER.—The British cook has the advantage of this word over the French cook, who has nothing better than “ boil slowly ” wherewith to express it. The term is very useful as signifying a condition that is at almost boiling heat, but not quite boiling. SIMNEL CAKE.—The name given to a sweet, rich, flat cake (see Fig. 575) made chiefly in Lancashire, to be Fig. 575. Simnel Cake. eaten on Mid-Lent Sunday. The name Simnel is derived from the Low Latin siminellus—bread made from simila wheat-flour. The following is a good receipt for its manufacture: Beat lib. of butter with the hand till creamy, then add the well-whipped whites of six eggs; beat these together for a minute, then mix in the beaten yolks of the six eggs, fib. of caster sugar, 1 Jib. of flour, Alb. of well-washed and dried currants, fib. of finely-shred candied citron- and lemon-peels, Jib. of blanched and chopped almonds, 2oz. of orange-sugar, and Joz. of pounded nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice. When the above ingredients are well mixed, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy and a little water, and beat them for some time. Gather the paste into a lump, then roll it out, double it over, put it into a cloth that has been wrung out in hot water and floured, tie it up, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. Take the cloth off the cake at the end of the three hours, stand the cake on a tin, the smooth surface upwards, and leave it till cool. Brush the cake over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a slow oven till the outer crust is hard and lightly browned. Take the cake out, and leave it till cold. SINEWS.—Tough tendinous parts of an animal or bird that are unfit for food, although they may be boiled down to form a gelatine or glue. SINGEING.—Some poultry are peculiar for the long hair-like appendages that protrude plentifully from the skin. These require singeing, and nothing can be better for that purpose than the instrument invented by Messrs. Fletcher and Co. (see Fig. 576). One end is con- Fig. 576. Poultry-singer (Thos. Fletcher and Co.). nected by means of a flexible pipe to the gas-pipe, and the burner consists of a capacious tube so arranged as to admit a plentiful supply of atmospheric air with the streaming gas. SINKS.—In every scullery, or other convenient part of the kitchen premises, it is usual to erect one or more Sinks or troughs fitted with drain-pipes and taps for hot and cold water. Sometimes these Sinks are of lead or zinc, in which case they are difficult to keep clean. Earthenware Sinks are better, but even they are liable to coat with grease from greasy water thrown into it, unless kept scrupulously clean. The Sink should only be used upon an emergency, all waste and soiled water being poured down a drain specially provided for the purpose. SIPPETS. —Small pieces of bread usually toasted or fried in butter, cut into shapes, and used to garnish dishes of hash or ragout. See Croutons. SIRLOIN.—The famous story of the knighting of this famous joint of beef by King Henry YIII. has long since been disproved by historical data, which go to show that this particular part was known as Sir or Sur-loin a long time before the reign of this jovial monarch, and it was also known as Surlonge to French cooks some time before that. In Johnson’s Dictionary we read that “ Sirloin is a title given to the loin of beef which one of our kings knighted in a fit of good humour.” Another authority observes—“ The joint has, in fact, attained to the dignity of a British institution, the theory of which even dyspeptic patriots are bound to honour. As a ruin lends itself to the ivy, so does an institution demand a tradition. The Sirloin had been long admir- ably fitted ; but a too literal inquirer, some years ago, cut down to the bone, and left nothing in the way of romance that should serve even a daw to peck at.” Another authority attributes the knighting to Charles II., but as he was born in 1630 this statement is at once refuted, for in one of the “Altliorp Household Books,” under date of January, 1623, occurs this entry: “ For a Sr. Loin, a rumpe, two necks, and a round of beefe,” &c. Then we have another version, which attributes the knighting to James I., as follows : “ During one of his royal progresses, James paid a visit to Hoghton Tower, near Blackburn in Lancashire. Struck with the size and excellence of a choice loin of beef served for his special entertainment, the King drew his sword and cried, ‘ By my troth. I’ll knight thee, Sir-loin! ’ ” But here again the historiographer comes to the rescue, for James I. was born in 1566, and in a certain old book of accounts is the bill of “ a dinner given to my Lord Treasurer on March 31st, 1573,” one of the items was “ a Sorloine of Byfe Vis.” James was only seven years old at that time. Another explanation is that the word thus written Sr. Loin and Sorloine did not necessarily show that Sirloin was intended. It is likely that Surloin is the proper form, and that it is derived from Surlonge; but another writer attributes once again the conversion to Sir-loin by knighting to King James, whose passion for weak puns is historical. “While the King sat at meat, casting his eyes upon a noble Surloin at the lower end of the table, he cried out, ‘Bring hither that Surloin, sirrah; for ’tis worthy a more honourable post, being, as I may say, not Surloin but Sirloin, the noblest joint of all.’” Fig. 577. Sirloin of Bf.f.f dressed for Roasting. The Sirloin consists of the whole meat and bone of one side, between the fore-ribs and the rump (see Fig. 577.) Two of these together—that is one whole loin of both sides—is called a baron. See Beef. SKATE (FV. Raie; Ger. Meer-Rochen).—The Skate {Raid batis) is a somewhat coarse-fleshed fish ; there are several varieties, known as Thornbacks, Tinkers, Rays and Maids, all frequenting the British coasts. Thornbacks are considered the best, and are at their prime during the autumn and winter. The Skate is a hideous, uncouth- looking fish (see Fig. 578), for which reason it is rarely offered for sale in its natural state, being mostly cut into pieces and crimped before being exposed on the fish- monger’s slab.453 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Skate—continued. Kettner speaks very highly of this fish, and wrote of it: “ To do him honour at the table there should be music with the Skate, for he loves it. One way of catching him used to be by playing on a fiddle. His love of melody was such that he came to the boat ” to he caught. Skate should always be served with some of its liver cooked separately in salted water, or mashed and passed through Fig. 578. Skate. a sieve and blended with an anchovy-flavoured butter sauce. Skate is crimped by merely cutting it into strips and notching them. The following are favourite receipts for cooking Skate: Baked Fillets of Skate.—Skin the fish, divide it into fillets, and dry them on a cloth. Put the fillets into a saucepan with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, two slices of lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs; dredge over them a little flour, then pour in 1 pint of milk. Add a small lump of salt. When three parts cooked, drain the fillets, put them on a baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven till nicely browned. Put the fillets on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with filed parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of mixed herb sauce. Baked Skate.—Procure one or two rather thick slices of Skate ; butter a baking-dish, arrange on the bottom some scalded and finely-chopped onion and parsley, lay the fish on it, and strew it over with more onion and parsley ; cover it well with grated breadcrumb, and pour round it a little clear stock that has been flavoured with mushroom ketchup. Bake it for about a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, pour its cooking-liquor round it, garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Boiled Crimped Skate.—(1) Clean, skin, and cut the Skate into slices, roll the slices up separately, and tie them with string. Boil them in salted water. About twenty minutes boiling will be sufficient. Drain them well, remove the string, lay them on a hot dish, pour anchovy sauce over them, and serve hot. _ (2) Crimp the Skate, put it in a fish-kettle with suffi- cient water to cover, a lump of salt, and a small quantity of vinegar, and boil it. Put a large piece of butter in a saucepan, and brown it over the fire, but take care it does not burn. Next put in with the butter 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and 2 table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; season to’ taste with salt and pepper. When the Skate is cooked, drain it carefully Skate—continued. and lay it on a hot dish, garnish with neat sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 579), and serve while very hot with the butter sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Clean the Skate and cut it into strips; curl each strip, and put a piece of liver in the centre. Boil the Skate in slightly-salted water. When cooked, put the Skate on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown butter sauce. Boiled Fillets of Skate.—Boil two fillets of Skate in salted water; blanch and pound the liver of the Skate, put it in a saucepan with § pint of butter sauce, 1 tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. When cooked, drain the fillets and put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Boiled Skate.—Pare and cut off the fins from about 4lb. of Skate, divide it into six square pieces, wash them well, being very careful to scrape them with a sharp knife so as to remove the mucus adhering to it, and put the pieces into a saucepan in which has been already placed one sliced carrot, one onion, half a bunch of parsley, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, b handful of whole peppers, plenty of salt (at least 1 handful), and | break- fast- cupful of 'vinegar. Cover the fish well with water, boil it over a moderate fire for forty-five minutes, take it off, and lift out the pieces of Skate with a skimmer; lay them on a table, remove the skin from both sides, place them on a deep dish, slowly strain over the stock, and serve with any kind of sauce desired. Boiled Skate with Black Butter.—Boil the Skate till tender with a little onion, parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, pepper, salt, and vinegar in the water. Put some fried parsley in the centre of a hot dish, and place some black butter round it. Divide the Skate into kite-shaped pieces, put them on the butter, and serve. Fricasseed Skate.—Put a cleaned Skate into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, a little grated nutmeg, and a lump of salt; cover the fish with boiling water, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time, remove the herbs from the liquor, add 1 teacupful of cream, loz. of butter rolled in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Stir the fricassee over the fire till thick and smooth, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemons, and serve. Fried Skate.—(1) Cut some pieces of Skate of a convenient size, sprinkle a little salt over them, brush them over with the yolk of an egg beaten quite light, roll them in Fig. 580. Fried Skate. a paper of breadcrumbs, and fry them a nice brown in boiling lard. Serve on a napkin folded on a hot dish, with shrimp sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut the Skate into square pieces, dip them in beaten egg, and then roll them about in a mixture of finely- chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and sifted breadcrumbs, so that they are completely covered with it. Fry them to a golden brown in boiling lard, and serve with a rich brown gravy. (3) Blanch and divide into fillets a large piece of Skate; put them into a basin with some chopped sweet herbs, pepper, and salt, cover with vinegar and warmed butter, anil leave them to steep for five hours. At the end of that time drain and dry the fillets on a cloth, dip them in milk, then in flour, and fry them in boiling fat over a quick fire. When nicely browned, drain the Skate, put it on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin, garnish with fried celery-leaves (see Fig. 580), and serve.454 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces, iCc., referred to. see under their special heads. Skate—continued. (4) Small.—Put the Skates in a basin with some slices of onion, a bunch of parsley, a little lemon-juice, salt, and pepper; cover them with vinegar, and leave them to pickle for an hour. Drain the Skates from the pickle, dip them in frying-batter, then in dry flour, and fry them in hot lard. Drain the fish when nicely browned, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried paisley, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of any kind of sauce preferred. Skate a l’ltalienne.—Prepare the Skate and put it into a saucepan with a clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, one or two sprigs of thyme, two cloves, pepper, salt, and a small lump of butter; dredge in a little flour and cover the fish with milk. Boil gently until the Skate is cooked, then take it out and drain. Put in with the cooking- stock a few boiled button-onions, and boil it quickly for a few minutes. Sprinkle some grated cheese at the bottom of a deep dish, put the Skate on it, place the onions and some fried sippets of bread round it, and strain the sauce over ; cover the top with grated cheese, and bake it for about fifteen minutes in a quick oven. When ready, serve the Skate in the same dish. Skate a la Maitre d’Hotel.—When cleaned put the Skate in boiling salted water and boil it till cooked. Turn 3 tea- cupfuls of white sauce into a small saucepan, and when boiling mix with it Jib. of maitre-d’hotel butter, and stir it till the butter lias dissolved. Drain the fish, put it on to a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over it, and serve. Skate ala Russe.—Skin a large Skate, cut it into strips about 24 in. wide, roll and tie them up, put them into a sauce- pan of fish stock slightly salted, and cook them. When done, remove the pan from the fire, and in two or three minutes’ time take out the fish; put them on a dish, arrange a few chopped cooked vegetables round them, and serve with tartar sauce. Skate a la Ste. Meneliould.—Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, then add two or three slices of onion, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little parsley, 1 saltspoonful of mixed spice, and 1 pint of milk. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till on the point of boiling, then put in the Skate, which should have been prepared and cut into slices, and let it simmer gently till cooked. When tender, drain the Skate, dip each slice into warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. Put some remoulade sauce on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of fish on it, and serve. Skate Salad.—Cut the fish into moderate-sized pieces, wash it well in plenty of water, then put it in a basin with salted water to cover, and let it steep all night. On the fol- lowing day boil the fish slowly till tender, then drain it, peel off the skin, and break the flesh into small pieces. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover it with oil and vinegar in equal quantities, and let it macerate for an hour or two. Wash a nice white head of celery, cut it into small pieces, and put them in a salad-bowl. Drain the fish, put it in with the celery, and pour over it a remoulade dressing. Garnish the salad with picked shrimps, hard-boiled eggs sliced or in quarters, and spiced oysters, and serve the salad without delay. Skate Soup.—Put 31b. or 41b. of Skate into a saucepan, pour over it 2qts. of fish stock, and let it simmer gently till the fish breaks. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in it loz. of vermicelli, boil for fifteen minutes, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with \ pint of cream, mix them with the soup, and stir it till thick. Put some slices of hot roll in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. Stewed Skate.—(1) Skin a Skate and cut it into square pieces. Boil the skin and trimmings in 3 pints of water with an onion and some pepper and salt. When these are sufficiently boiled, strain the liquor and add to it some finely-chopped chives and parsley and ioz. of butter with nearly 1 table-spoonful of flour rubbed into it, and let it boil for ten or fifteen minutes till it thickens, stirring con- Skate— continued. stantly. Five minutes before serving add 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup, vinegar, and Harvey’s sauce. Fry the pieces of Skate in butter till they are nicely browned, and add them also to the sauce five minutes before serving. (2) Wash a piece of Skate, put it into a stewpan with two or three slices of onion, a bunch of parsley, a small lump of salt, 1 teacupful of vinegar, and cover with water. When boiling, move the saucepan containing the fish to the side of the fire and let it simmer for ten minutes. Put the liver of the Skate into a saucepan with a little of the cook- ing-liquor of the Skate, and boil it for five minutes. Drain the liver of the Skate. Drain the Skate, trim and remove all the skin, put it on a hot dish with the liver, dust over a little pepper and salt, pour 1 pint of brown sauce over, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Stewed Skate with Caper Sauce.—Wash and clean a Skate, put it in a saucepan with one sliced onion, a bunch of green onions, two bay-leaves, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; cover the fish with water, add a little vinegar, season with pepper and salt, and stew it gently till tender. When cooked, drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, cover with caper sauce, and serve. Stewed Skate with Tomatoes.—Wash the Skate, dredge flour over it, and fry in boiling fat till lightly browned. Put the fried Skate into a stewpan; fry a thinly-sliced onion and some tomatoes in the same fat, then put them in the stewpan over the Skate, pour in a little water, and season with salt and pepper. When cooked, put the Skate on a hot dish, thicken the liquor with a little flour, pour it over the Skate, and serve. Skate’s Liver.—This is too often the perquisite of the fishmonger, who adds it to the liver of the cod for other purposes, unless the purchaser of the fish demands a portion of him. They make a good sauce for Skate, or a nice dish by themselves. Skate's Livers in Croustades.—Put the livers of two or three Skates into a basin of cold water and steep them for an hour or two. When ready, put the livers into a stewpan with a finely-chopped onion, two or three sprigs of parsley, and a little salt; cover the livers with water and a little vinegar, and place them over the fire till boiling. Kemove the livers from the fire, and leave them in their cooking stock till cold. Put two or three chopped onions and shallots into a saucepan with a small lump of butter and fry them; pour in 1 breakfast cupful of veloutd sauce and 4 breakfast-cupful of white wine. BoiJ the sauce till slightly thickened, then mix with it, 4 teacupful of chopped capers, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the same quantity of chopped tarragon, a small pat of anchovy butter, and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Put the pieces of liver in the sauce and keep the stewpan in a bain-marie. Cut some slices of bread 4in. thick and trim them into oval-shaped pieces. Make a circular incision with the point of a knife on one side only of the pieces of bread, fry them in butter till of a light golden colour, then drain and hollow them out on the marked sides. Fill the croustades with the liver mixture, bringing it to a dome, and smooth it over with the blade of a knife. Cover the tops of the croustade with grated breadcrumb, baste each with a little warmed butter, and brown them under a salamander. Arrange the croustade on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Skate-Liver Sauce—Boil the-liver of a Skate in strong salted water till quite firm, then cut it into small pieces; put it into a saucepan with 4 pint of butter sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a dash of vinegar, boil quickly, and serve very hot. SXEEL.-Tlie name given in certain parts of Eng- land and Scotland to a shallow wooden vessel used for holding milk. SKEWERS—The origin of this word is in doubt, although its original use suggests the idea of secure;THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 455 For details respectin'i Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under the.ir special heads. Skewers—co ntinued. for they were splints of wood used to fasten small joints or birds to the spit. The variety of Skewers in kit- chen use depends mainly upon a difference of size and material, being made of both wood and iron. Wooden Skewers should not he used a second time, or the meat may he spoiled. Wire Skewers are more serviceable for trussing and fixing meat, birds, or fish, and they can be easily cleaned. Orna- mental electroplated or silver Skewers, called attelettes and brochettes, are much used by artistic cooks. The ordinary cook may be contented with a set (see Fig. 581) consisting of different-sized Skewers on a frame. SKIM MILK.—See Milk. SKIMMERS.—Sometimes a large spoon answers very well the purpose of Fig. 582. Skimmer. skimming, but although such utensils are joi indispensable, another kind (see Fig. 582) SetofSkewers is to be found in many kitchens, used princi- 0N Frame- pally for skimming the fat off cold broth. It is a slightly-hollowed perforated round sheet of tin, with sharp edges and a handle that curves over its edge into the hollow surface. These are, perhaps, the most effective Skimmers ever invented. SKIN.—The outside covering as of an animal or fruit. As it forms a protective casing to some delicate material beneath it, cooks usually disregard the probabi- lity of its containing important nutritive elements. From the Skin of an animal valuable gelatine is obtained. SKIRRETS (Fr. Chervis; Ger. Zucker wurzeln; Ital. Sisari; Sp. Chirivias).—An umbelliferous plant (Siu/in, Sisarum), a native of China, introduced into this country about the middle of the sixteenth century. The roots (see Fig 583), for the sake of which this plant is culti- vated, consist of small fleshy tubers about the size of the little finger. They are very white and sweet, and con- sidered by some to be the most delicious of all root vegetables. Skirrets make a good winter vegetable, Skirrets—continued. being in their prime after the plants have completed their summer growth; if left in the ground during the winter they become hard and woody. Continental cooks use them for garnishing. Prepared as follows they are very nice: Boiled Skirrets.—When thoroughly washed and cleaned, young Skirrets may be boiled in salted water until tender and then served on a hot dish with white or bechamel sauce over them. Braised Skirrets.—Pick over some Skirrets, cut them into slices, and then into half rounds. Wash them thoroughly in water, take them out, dry them, and put them in a covered earthenware baking-dish, with a piece of fresh butter at the bottom. Seal the edge of the baking-disli with a paste made of flour and water. Put them in the oven for a couple of hours or so, turn them out on to a hot dish, and sprinkle with minced fine herbs. Fried Skirrets.—(1) Partly boil the well-washed roots in salted water, then cut them in slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip them in frying-batter, and drop them, one by one, in boiling fat in a stewpan. When they are of a golden colour, drain them on a cloth, pile them on a folded napkin, and garnish the disli with filed parsley. (2) Take some Skirret-roots, wash, scrape, and plunge into boiling water, and let them boil for ten minutes; drain them in a colander, and then fry them in a little butter till brown. SLAPJACKS—The name given in the United States to some very delicious cakes, which are made as follows: (1) Pour over 1 pint of cornflour sufficient hot milk to moisten it, and let it stand until cool, then add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, two eggs beaten to a froth, and sufficient cold milk to make a batter thick enough to keep its form on the griddle oY in a frying-pan; newly-fallen snow may be substituted for eggs, 1 table-spoonful for an egg, or if neither milk nor eggs are available the same process may be followed by using water, and beating the batter > steadily until enough air is beaten into it to make it foamy. It must be baked directly or the air will escape, and the Slapjacks will be heavy. Put the hatter on the pan by the spoonful, and when the upper part of the Slap- jack is full of holes and the under part brown, turn it. Serve the Slapjacks with sugar, molasses, butter, or salted pork drippings. (2) Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of salt in 1 pint of cold water; mix the water smoothly with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and beat the mixture until it foams, then stir into it enough flour to make a rather thin batter. Fry the Slapjacks in a hot frying-pan rubbed with a piece of raw fat salted pork or with a small piece of butter tied in a piece of clean cloth. If the frying-pan is not smooth, the cakes will stick to it, therefore clean it by washing and wiping it thoroughly, and then rubbing it hard with dry salt. SLAW.—See Cabbages. SLICE (Fr. Tranche).—A broad flat piece cut off any material, and thus the term has come to be used for the instrument employed in cutting it. See Slicers. SLICERS.—Almost any kind of knife can be used for cutting slices, but in cases where it is desirable that the . -J Fig. 584. Meat-carvers slices should be cut with mathematical precision, various kinds of apparatus have been invented for performing the operation.456 THE EE C YC LOP JED I A OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fco., referred to, see under their special headb. Slicers—continued. For slicing meat, such as ham, a long thin-bladed knife is used (see Fig. 584); for slicing cucumber with precision a three-bladed knife has been invented (see Fig. 585), but this is m a measure superseded by the very clever vege- FlG. 585. CUCUMBER-SL1CER. table-slicer (see Fig. 586) that is supplied to cooks by Mr. Marshall. A round plate fitted with four adjustable knives revolves by the turning of the handle. The vegetable to be sliced is laid in a groove along the shaft or axle, and Fig. 586. Vegetable-slicer. pressed against the plate, which takes off four slices of equal thickness at one revolution. Bread-slicers (see Figs. 587 and 588) are occasionally of great use where large quantities of bread have to be cut Fig. 587. Bread-cutter (Adams and Son). up either for spreading with butter, sandwiches, or what not. The illustrations supplied are of two of the best bread- slicers invented. Other Slicers for various purposes have been invented, but do not require any special notice here. SLIPCOAT CHEESE.—A variety of white cheese, something resembling butter in consistency. See Cheese. SLOES.—The fruit of the Blackthorn (Primus spinosa), whose white blossoms enliven our hedges in March and April. The leaves are said to be sometimes used for adulterating tea. The little dark purple Sloes, so sour and rough in taste, render a good account of themselves in a liqueur called Sloe-gin, which is made as follows: Sloes—continued. Put 3 pints of Sloes into lgall. jar with |oz. of chopped or pounded bitter almonds, l|lb. of loaf sugar, and pour in lgall. of gin. Shake the jar every three days for three months, strain off the liquor, bottle, and seal the corks; the gin is then ready for use or may be kept for several years, improving all the time it is kept in bottles. Sugar candy in equal quantity may be used for the loaf sugar if preferred. SLOUK.—See ALGiE. SMELTS (Fr. Eperlans; Ger. Stinte).—These very delicate-looking silvery fish (Osmerus eperlans) have a very elegant and almost spiritual appearance, being semi- transparent in structure and covered with beautiful scales. There are several kinds of Smelts, all possessing, how- ever, the distinctive smell and taste of cucumbers,, some say of violets. The smaller kinds (Dutch) are considered the best. The Smelts caught in the St. George’s Channel are large, but not so finely flavoured as those caught along the eastern coast of Great Britain. A distinct variety (see Atherine) are caught along the south coast. Smelts are in season from October til May, and on account of their delicate nature are sent to market packed in small shallow baskets (see Fig. 589). They are sure to be appreciated cooked according to any of the following receipts : Attelettes of Smelts.—(1) Clean the Smelts, dredge flour over them, and put them on silver skewers, about ten on each skewer; lay the fish on a greased gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire for about ten minutes, turning them when browned on one side. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish ; beat some pepper, salt, and lemon-juice with a little warmed butter, pour it over the Smelts, and serve at once. (2) When the fish are clean and fresh they .may be wiped with a wet towel (for some epicures think that their delicate flavour is injured by washing them), and then dried upon a clean one. The frying-kettle, partly filled with fat, should be heating, and a dish of beaten eggs and another of fine breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ready near the fire. First dip the Smelts in milk, 4hen lay them in the crumbs, covering every part of them; from the crumbs remove them to the beaten egg, immers- ing them entirely, and then again lay them in the crumbs. While they are still in the crumbs, run a Sharp thin plated or silver skewer through the eyes or gills of four^ (D > K* o <1 © CD - J1 P" H cd £ ^ P-1B © ° ^9 M. P" O B ® ct- g. R p^ P- R 75 22 ^ O 3 a) i—i g P- O M, _ ocT gT CD © P CD PJ c+->73 J12 © p-Q €'© “ 5 O l-ts *—' o ©3 © « P5 go CD 72 PS ^ O O' OQ o - P O 2. 9 ^^9 S- : cr tr 0 w i: cd » O o ^ a £ S- B £ ^ p cd ;=: p~- CD 2. 2 Pa e H O CD go ^ 2- 2 Pr £ rt CD J» ►£ * tT M P5 go © S' © “ 2. ^ Q 2D CD >—■1 CO ct- O *r rn r-h « &- 9 ° h! CD 72 i-i CD > 3 ^ 0*9 © Oj P * ^ S§ 1 CD 3 <rh H & P" ~■ cr §5 & ej* H hj Pa ^ to /-» ^ i-i 8® ZZ u p-1 CD P3 g g 3 aq go ° c+- : CD © O 1 P-* P- 05 • o ■ » B p g, S e 2 crw CD © *0 go O 89 ^ c+- go PP <5 CD CD Pa 8® P 72 g. Pi 72 2 S’S 72 O ** P W H3 co i—i Q H3 P> td tr1 H Q tr< O i-3 W CD457 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Smelts—continued. or six, according to their size, taking care not to brush oft' the crumbs. When the fat is smoking hot, put in one skewer full of Smelts, and fry them a golden brown. Take them out with a skimmer when done, lay them on brown paper in a dripping-pan, and keep them hot until all are fried; then arrange them on a dish with fried parsley and lemons as a garnish, and serve. Baked Smelts.—(1) Thoroughly clean and wash the Smelts, and lay them in a baking-dish with some warmed butter, dried sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with grated breadcrumb, moisten them with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine. Bake the Smelts hi a slow oven till the liquor has somewhat reduced. \\ hen cooked, brown the top over with a salamander, and serve. (2) Coat the bottom of a dish with butter ; mix some chopped shallots, parsley, pepper, and salt, with some finely-grated breadcrumb, and sprinkle some of them over the dish. Wipe the Smelts and arrange them in a row on the top of the breadcrumbs; pour over them a little anchovy sauce, sprinkle the remainder of the seasoned breadcrumbs on the top, and put a few small lumps of butter over them. Bake the Smelts from fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, serve the Smelts on the same dish while hot. Boiled Smelts.—(1) Clean the Smelts by drawing them through the gills, then wash and wipe them well. Arrange the fish on a fish-drainer the size of the stewpan, placing them with their heads turned to the outside and resting on their stomachs. Pour some fish broth into the stewpan, put in the drainer containing the Smelts, and place the lid on. When on the point of boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire so that the Smelts may cook gently for eight or nine minutes. Lift the drainer out carefully with the fish, drain them well, and put them on a hot dish; pour over some plain butter sauce, squeeze a little lemon juice, and sift over some chopped parsley and a little salt. Serve the Smelts while very hot. (2) Scale and clean the required number of Smelts, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan ; add 2 table- spoonfuls of olive-oil, three or four slices of lemon freed of the rind, and a little salt and pepper. Cover the fish with white wine and water mixed in equal quantities, and boil them gently till done. Put 1 pint of white wine in a small saucepan with one head of garlic blanched and pounded, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and chives, and loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table- spoonful of flour; season with salt and pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire till cooked. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve while hot. (3) Boil the Smelts in 4 pint of white wine, \ pint of water, and two table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, together with a very little fennel, a little salt, and a couple of slices of lemon. When the fish are done add a liaison made of yolks of eggs and finely-shred chervil. Serve the Smelts with the sauce they have been boiled in. Pried Smelts.—(1) Clean and dry the fish, roll them in beaten egg, and then in finely-grated breadcrumb; dredge a little flour and salt over them. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a frying-pan, and when hot put in the Smelts and fry them quickly. Drain the fish when richly browned, put them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean and cut oft' the fins of a few fresh Smelts, dry tlmm well, and dredge them over with flour. Beat \oz. of warmed butter with the yolks of two eggs, dip the Smelts into it, and then in finely-grated breadcrumb. Fry the Smelts till nicely browned in boiling fat, then drain them; arrange them in the form of a star on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce- boatful of shrimp sauce in the centre (see Fig. 590). (3) Wash well and thoroughly dry eighteen fresh Smelts. Split them right along the backbone in the centre, remove the backbones, season with 1 pinch of salt and 4 pinch of pepper, sprinkle them with 4oz. of flour, place them in a pan with loz. of butter on the hot range, and fry for Smelts—continued. two minutes on each side, or until they obtain a light brown colour; then dress them on a hot dish. Place in a pan loz. of butter, and fry it until it becomes of a nut-brown colour; add to it 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, pour it over the Smelts, decorate the dish all round with parsley, and serve. Fig. 590. Fiued Smelts. (4) Wash the fish well but do not empty them; dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, and fry in plenty of boiling lard. When lightly browned they are done enough. Serve them very hot, garnished with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and accompanied with thin slices of brown bread-and-butter. Potted Smelts.—(1) Clean three dozen Smelts and pack them tightly into small earthenware pots. Mix together 4oz. each of whole cloves, peppercorns, and whole allspice. Divide the spices into as many parts as their are jars, tie each part in a piece of muslin, and put one in each jar together with 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Cover the fish with vinegar, pour a little olive-oil in each jar, using 1 pint in all. Put some plates on the top of the jars, stand them in a moderate oven, and bake the fish for four hours. At the end of that time take the jars out, and when cold keep them in a cool dry cupboard. The Smelts will keep for five or six months, and are almost as nice as sardines. The quantity of oil can be varied according to taste. (2) Scale and draw the Smelts, but leave the roes in Dry them well, put them in a jar, season with salt, pepper, and mace, put in some pieces of butter, and tie the jars over with paper. Bake the Smelts for three-quarters-of-an- hour, then take them out of the oven and leave till cold. Take the Smelts out of the liquor, pack them tightly down in oval pots, and cover until clarified butter. Smelts a la Bearnaise.—Split twelve good-sized or eighteen medium-sized Smelts down the backs, remove the back- bones, rub them with 1 table-spoonful of oil, and season, with 4 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Broil them in a double broiler for two minutes on each side, pour a little more than 1 gill of good bearnaise sauce on a dish, arrange the Smelts carefully on top, ganishing with a very little demi-glaze sauce poured round the dish, and serve. Smelts a la Boulangere.—Clean and dry the fish on a cloth, dip them into very thick cream, and then dredge them thickly over with flour, torming a paste round them. Put some lard in a frying-pan and when very hot put the fish in and fry them till a light golden brown. Arrange the fish on a dish-paper or folded napkin placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Smelts au Gratin.—(1) Clean eighteen Smelts, wipe them very dry, and put them on a baking-dish with 2 table- spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs, 4 wineglassful of white wine, 4 pinch of salt, and 4 pinch of pepper. Cover with six whole mushrooms and 4 pint of Spanish sauce. Sprinkle lightly with breadcrumbs and a little warmed butter, place the dish in a hot oven for ten minutes, and serve with the juice of half a lemon, also 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. The Smelts can be boned if desired. (2) Clean and wash the Smelts. Coat the inside of an oval gratin-disli with loz. of butter, then put in the Smelts ; dust a little pepper and salt over them, pour in \ pint of French white wine and § pint of Italian sauce, cover the top thickly with grated breadcrumb, and boil for five minutes. Put the gratin-disli in the oven and finish cooking the Smelts (they will take about fifteen458 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Smoke-jack—continued. Smelts—continued. minutes). When cooked, serve the fish in the same dish, and while very hot. Smelts en Matelote.—Put a chopped onion, two or three mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, and a small piece of garlic into a saucepan; pour a little oil over them, and season with pepper and salt. Clean the Smelts, put them into the stewpan, pour over 1 teacupful of champagne, and let them simmer gently until cooked. Put the Smelts on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and serve. Smelts a la Toulouse.—Take twelve large or eighteen medium-sized Smelts, hone them, and then close them up again. Put them in a stewpan with J- Avineglassful of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor; season with \ pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, and cook over a moderate fire for six minutes. Arrange the Smelts on a dish. Add to the sauce twelve button-mush- rooms, two sliced truffles, six fish quenelles, and moisten with | pint of German sauce. Thicken with 1 table-spoon ful of butter, and pour the sauce over the Smelts. Neatly dress the garnishing round the dish, and serve with croutons of fiied bread (see Fig. 591). Smelts as Garnish..—Clean and draw the Smelts, fasten the tails in the openings at the gills with small wooden skewers so as to form rings, dip them in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb or cracke-rcrumb, put them into a frying-basket, and plunge them into boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the fish, remove the skewers, and they will retain their ring shape. Smelt Salad.—Put some Smelts into a saucepan of water and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then drain and leave them till cold. Split the Smelts into halves length- wise, remove the bones, and cut the fish into pieces about lin. long. Wash and drain two lettuces, pull the leaves asunder, and place them in a salad-bowl; then put in the fish, strew it with finely-chopped anchovies, and pour a remoulade dressing over the salad. Garnish it to taste with beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, &c., and serve. Smelts Sautes in Brown Butter.—Remove the gills, clean and wash the Smelts, and when well dried roll them in flour. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put in the Smelts and brown them, turning them when done on one side, and cook them on the other. Arrange some slices of hot buttered toast on a hot dish, put the fish on them, and serve at once. Stewed Smelts.—Clean the Smelts and arrange them in a pie-dish; sprinkle over some chopped onions, capers, mixed herbs, and a little salt ; pour in 1 wineglassful of chablis wine, and cover the fish with v eal or fish stock, and stew them in a moderate oven till tender. The Smelts should be served while hot, and in the same dish. Stuffed Smelts.—Cut oil' the fins of eighteen fresh, medium- sized Long Island Smelts, and wash and dry well with a towel; remove the insides without splitting the stomachs open, then stuff them with a fish forcemeat, using a paper cornet for the purpose. Lay the Smelts on a well-buttered baking-dish (silver if possible), and cover them with 1 pint of Italian sauce. Put them in a hot oven and bake for eight minutes; remove them, squeeze over the juice of a large lemon, and serve in the same dish. SMOKE-JACK.—A contrivance for turning roasting- spits by means of a fly-wheel worked by the current of hot air ascending the chimney. This wheel is so arranged that, as the current flows up, it presses upon the slanting fans of the wheel, and causes it to spin round; the vertical axle of the wheel is fitted with a shoulder cog-wheel that acts upon another fitted upon a long rod, which turns the wheel that works the spit. SMOKING.—See Curing. SNAILS (Fr. Escargots; Ger. Schnecken; Ital. Lumaclie; Sp. Limazas).—History does not inform us who first ventured upon eating Snails. He must have been a hungry man indeed ! History does, however, tell us that Snails were held in the very highest esteem as a food amongst the ancient Greeks and Romans ; the latter regarded them in the light of the most luxurious delicacies, large sums of money being spent for breeding and fattening them. The edible snail (Helix pomatia) is a member of a large family, nearly if not quite all of whom would probably be edible provided they fed only on non-poisonous herbs. In France the vinery and apple-orchard Snail is eaten; it is very large growing, well-formed, handsome, pinky, whitey-brown shell and mottled body (see Fig. 592). Those caught in the vineyards of Bourgoyne are con- Fig. 592. Edible Snail. sidered the best. They are imported into this country from France, although some are to be found at a certain spot in the neighbourhood of Sevenoaks, where it is asserted a large vineyard once stood. The nutritive value of Snails is greatly exaggerated, being far below that of the oyster; and as cases of poisoning through eating Snails are not unknown, due, no doubt, to the Snail feed- ing on a poisonous plant, they are not likely to become a favourite food in this country until we have vineyards of our own wherein to feed them, and perhaps not then. Snails should be collected in the winter time, if they can be found, as they purify themselves of noxious matters by a long fast. They should be kept until the Spring time, and then fed on freshly-gathered sweet herbs; in this way they acquire exceptional value. The following receipts have been contributed by our French chefs, one Fig. 593. Snail-fork. of whom is said to be the inventor of a fork (see Fig. 593) for removing the cooked Snails from their shells. Such an instrument might be of service to periwinkle eaters if it were made somewhat small. Snails are cleaned by putting them in boiling water with some wood ashes, and leaving them until they have thrown their cover wide open, which will take about a- quarter-of-an-hour; they should then be taken out and picked carefully out of their shells with a fork. Put them in a basin of tepid water and leave for two or three hours.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 459 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Snails—continued. Afterwards rub them well in the hands, and wash in several lots of cold water. The shells are put in warm water, scrubbed with a brush, and then wiped dry. Baked Snails.—Work 1 table spoonful of chopped parsley into 2oz. of butter, and season with 1 saltspoonful of salt, % saltspoonful of pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a piece of the prepared butter into each of the shells (there should be two dozen shells for the above quantity of butter), then put a Snail into each of the shells, and a piece more butter on the top. Lay the Snails Pig. 594. Baked Snails. close together in a cast-iron pan, the mouths of the Snails upward, and not one upon the other; cover the pan so as render it air-tight, and put it into a moderate oven. When the parsley begins to look dark as if fried, the Snails will be sufficiently cooked. Arrange the Snails on a hot dish with a folded napkin, leaving them in their shells, and serve as hot as possible (see Fig. 594). Snails a la Bourguignonne.—Have some fine Bourgoyne Snails, disgorge them well with a little salt for two or three days, wash them several times in cold water, strain, and place them in a stewpan, covering them with water. Add a bunch of sweet herbs, some cloves and whole pepper tied in a cloth, and salt to taste; cook until the Snails fall from their shells, empty them, clipping off their tails, and clean the shells well. Mix together some hutter, shallots, parsley, and chervil, chopped very fine; put the mass into a bowl with an equal quantity of sifted breadcrumbs and 1 wineglassful of white wine, season to taste with salt and pepper, and knead well. Partly fill the shells with this mixture, replace the snails, and finish filling with more of the kneaded butter; spread breadcrumbs over, and lay them on a baking-dish, the opened part on the top. Brown in the oven for four minutes, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Snails a l’ltalienne.—Prepare the Snails as for Snails a la BOUKGUIGNONNE, leaving them in their shells ; drain, and put them in a deep pan with white wine and a little strong Spanish sauce, a few chopped, fried onions, and finely-minced mushrooms. Season well with a pinch of salt, cook for a few minutes in the oven, and serve. Snails a la Proven?ale.—Prepare the Snails as for Snails a la BourguignoNNe. Fry a little chopped onion with oil, add the Snails taken from their shells, a little white wine, two cloves of chopped garlic, and a little fresh breadcrumbs and chopped parsley. Return the mixture to the shells, bake for a few minutes, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and serve. Snail-and-Frog Broth.—This is a concoction described by the famous Careme. Put four dozen frog's thighs and twelve Snails taken fresh from the vineyards into a sauce- pan, sweat them over the five for a few minutes, take them out, pound them in a mortar, put them into a sauce- pan with 2 table spoonfuls of pearl barley, the white parts of four leeks, and six turnips cut into pieces; pour over lqt. of water, bring it to the boil, skim well, and boil until the liquor is reduced to one-third its original bulk. Strain it through a cloth and it is ready for use. Stewed Snails.—Select four dozen large-sized Snails, and clean them. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until melted, then stir in gradually 1 teaspoon- ful each of flour, finely-chopped parsley, and thyme, and half a bay-leaf. Pour in 1 pint of white wine and season with a small quantity of salt and pepper. Put the Snails back in their shells, which should have been well scrubbed, then place them in the stewpan with the other ingredients ; pour in some warm broth, if there is not sufficient liquor Snails—continued. to cover them. Place them over the fire until boiling, then move them to the side where they may simmer gently until cooked. Arrange the Snails on a hot dish, their mouths upwards, pour the remainder of their cooking- liquor over them, and serve. SNAPDRAGON.—A famous Christmas game con- sisting of snatching, with the fingers, raisins out of a dish of flaming spirit. The spirit should be brandy, and the dish of metal, lest it crack with the heat. Sometimes called Flapdragon. SNIPES (TV. Becassines; Ger. Schnepfen; Ital. Beccaccini; Sp. Zopencos).—“ The French call it little woodcock, whereas the English would be rather disposed to call the woodcock a large Snipe. The generic name in England is Snipe.” There are several varieties, the more common being the Jack-Snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula) which delights in an assortment of synonyms, such as Judcock, Jedcock, Juddock, Jed, and Half-Snipe. It is a small brown-grey bird, differing from the common Snipe (Gallinago ccelestis) and the great or double Snipe (Galli- nago major) in the length of the bill and size. The Dowitcher or red-breasted Snipe is another well-known variety. All these are esteemed by epicures as the finest of game birds, excepting only the woodcock to which it is akin (see Woodcocks). They are in season from November throughout the winter months, and are cooked without being drawn. Snipes are trussed for roasting, broiling, or baking, by pressing the legs on to the thighs and fastening them close to the body of the bird. The head and neck should be skinned, and the beak tucked and secured under a wing, being careful to truss the heads all one way, or in such a manner that they can be arranged symmetrically when serving. French cooks sometimes truss a Snipe by Fig. 595 Snipe Trussed in French Style. crossing his legs, and then drawing the head along to the thigh, forcing the beak through the body of the bird under the thighs (see Fig. 595). This gives a very jaunty appearance to the bird. Boudins of Snipe.—(1) Butter some dariole-moulds, and line them thickly with Snipe forcemeat; fill them with chopped fillets of Snipe and truffles, pour in a little stiffly-reduced Spanish sauce, and cover the tops with a layer of the forcemeat. Poach the boudins in a bain-marie. Fix a socle of fried bread on a hot dish, turn the boudins out of the moulds, arrange them on the socle, and serve. (2) Remove all the skin and bones from an equal quantity of Snipe and chicken ; chop the flesh and pound it together in a mortar. Put a piece of crumb of bread in some clear stock, stir it over the fire till stiffly reduced, then turn it on to a plate and leave till cool. Chop and pound some boiled veal udder, mix it with the other pounded meats, and pass the whole through a tine hair sieve; add the prepared bread panada, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix the whole thoroughly with 1 teacupful of essence of Snipe that has been stiffly reduced with some Spanish sauce. Try the consistency of the forcemeat by poaching a small quantity of it in water, and if too stiff', thin it with a little cream or some more sauce. Butter some dariole-moulds and line them thickly with the forcemeat, prepare a salpif.on of fillets of Snipe460 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Snipes—continued. and truffles, fill the hollow of the moulds with it, and pour in a little stiffly-reduced Spanish sauce; hide the salpif on completely by placing a layer of the forcemeat on the top. Stand the moulds in a flat stewpan or a bain-marie, surround them with boiling water, and steam. Cut a block of bread in such a way as to receive three tiers of the boudins, one above the other, and fry it. When lightly coloured, fix the bread on a hot dish. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to the bread support, and serve. Broiled Snipes.—(1) Pick, singe, draw, and dry well six fine Snipes, remove the skin from the heads, split them into halves without detaching the parts, and put them on a dish. Season with 1 pinch of salt, | a pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil; put them to broil (with the bills stuck into the breasts), and let them cook for four minutes on each side. Place six slices of toast on a hot dish, arrange the Snipes on them, spread 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter on top, decorate the dish with a little watercress (see Fig. 596), and serve. (2) Pluck and singe the birds, brush them over with butter that has been melted and seasoned with pepper and salt, place them over a hot fire, and broil for three minutes on each side. This length of time will cook them well, but about fifteen minutes over a hot fire will be required to cook them thoroughly. Serve the birds as soon as they are done. Chaudfroid of Snipes.—Singe and draw ten Snipes, bone them, season them inwardly, then put on one side with their heads. Cut into thin slices lib. of calf’s liver, and put them in a frying-pan with a little lard ; toss them about over the fire for a few minutes, then put in with them the trails of the Snipes, 1 pinch of chopped onions, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, and some trimmings of truffles; dust over them plenty of pepper and salt. When cooked, leave the liver and trails till cool, then put them into a mortar with half their quantity of chopped fresh bacon, and pound them. Add to the forcemeat two or three truffles cut into small pieces. Stuff the Snipes with the liver mixture, roll them into oval shapes, sew them up, and fasten a strip of buttered paper round each. Line the bottom of a stewpan with some trimmings of bacon, put in the Snipes, moisten them to half their height with white wine and gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the Snipes, put a sheet of paper on the top, place the lid on, Avith some hot ashes on it, and braise the Snipes for tAventy minutes over a sIoav fire. When cooked, take the Snipes out and alloAV them to cool, then remove the paper and strings and trim them neatly. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, mix Avith it I pint of brown sauce, and boil for fifteen minutes, skimming occasionally, then mix Avith it half its quantity of aspic jelly. When the sauce is thick and smooth, strain it through a sieve into another stewpan, and leave it until nearly cool, then set the stewpan on ice and stir it for a feAV minutes. Dip the Snipes in the sauce and cover them Avell Avith it; then arrange them on a baking-sheet and leave till the sauce has set. In the meantime cook the heads of the birds, trim them, and glaze them Avith a paste-brash dipped in melted glaze. Take the Snipes off the baking-dish, using a fork for the purpose, cut off all the superfluous sauce, and arrange them dome like on a small stand. Put one of the heads betAveen each of the birds, supporting them Avith chopped aspic jelly. The chaudfroid is then ready for serving. Snipes—continued. Fillets of Snipes in Cases.—Detach the fillets from the bones of some Snipes, trim them nicely, and lay them in a buttered saute-pan. Prepare a puree Avith the legs of the Snipes, a feAV poultry livers, some game giblets, boiled rice, stock, and butter. Procure as many paper cases as there are fillets and brush over the inside Avith oil. Fry the fillets over a brisk fire, turning them Avlien cooked on one side. Fill the cases Avith the puree, then put a fillet of Snipe in each case. Coat the top of each Avith some broAvn sauce that has been reduced Avith essence of game, stand the cases on a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven for a feAV minutes to glaze. Arrange the cases piled up on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Snipes.—Prepare the birds as for roasting, and roll them in flour or corn-meal seasoned Avith salt and pepper _ or bread them by dipping them first in fine crumbs,’ then in beaten egg, and again in crumbs; or put them plain into hot oil. When the birds are crisp and light brown, they are done. Care must be taken not to cook them sloAvly and long, for they Avill be dried and hardened by so doing. If the oil is smoking hot about a couple of minutes Avill be long enough to fry the Snipes. When they are broAvn, lay them on paper for a feAV moments to free them from grease, and serve hot. A little Avatercress and some sour oranges sliced and dressed Avith salad oil and cayenne Avill form a good garnish for the dish (see Fig. 597). Galantines of Snipes.—Pluck and bone the Snipes, prepare some game forcemeat, and mix some chopped truffles Avith it. Place the birds on the table, spread a thick layer of the mixture over them, then roll them to an oval shape, and Avrap each bird separately in a sheet of buttered paper. Put the birds in a saucepan Avith a small quantity of stock and steAV them gently; Avhen cooked, move them from the fire and leave till cold. When cold take the paper off the birds, trim them, and coat them Avith some broAvn chaudfroid sauce. When the sauce is cold on the birds decorate them Avith some calf’s udder, then coat them Avith lialf-set aspic jelly. Fix a pain-vert on a dish, and mask it Avith paper; in the centre place a support, on Avhich fix a model of Minerva cast in fat. Put the cooked heads of the Snipes at the base of the support on a string of chopped aspic jelly, stand the galantines on the pain-vert, leaning them against the support. Garnish the base of the pain-vert Avith truffles in cases, and serve. Ragoftt of Snipe.—(1) Pluck and draAV half-a-dozen Snipes, but do not wash them ; roast them, and AA’iien cooked, cut the meat off the breasts in thin slices. Put the bones, together Avith the legs and backs, in a mortar and pound them, place them in a stewpan, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, dredge in a moderate quantity of flour, and moisten Avith clear, nicely-flavoured gravy. Boil the Avliole gently until thick, then strain it through a fine hair sieAre. Put about loz. of butter into a stewpan Avith ilb. of thinly-sliced lean ham and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and toss it over the fire for a feAV minutes; then put in the breasts of the Snipes Avith the strained gravy, and simmer at the edge of the fire. Cut some thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them. Put the trails of the birds in a mortar Avith salt to taste, and pound them until smooth, then spread them over the pieces of toast, and pass a hot salamander oA'ei them. Turn the ragout in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round Avith the pieces of toast, and serve.461 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Snipes—continued. (2) Split the Snipes lengthwise, but do not take out the insides ; put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, 1- teacupful of mushroom ketchup, and a little pepper and salt, and cook the Snipes over a clear fire. When done, put the birds on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Boasted Snipes.—(1) Pluck, singe, and draw some Snipes, and remove the backbones. Finely chop some fresh pork, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped raw mush- rooms, 1 pinch of shallot, some parsley and pepper. Fill the birds with the above mixture, sew them up, and truss them; fix the Snipes on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting them continually with butter. Place some slices of bread underneath the birds in the dripping- pan. Put two sliced onions into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, season them with pepper and salt, and fry till nicely browned ; then dredge in a little Hour, and stir in gradually about h pint of stock, and boil it gently till the onions are cooked. Fry the trails of the Snipes with three chicken’s livers, season them, pound, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree of trails into a saucepan with a little white wine and the onions, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, but do not allow them to boil. When cooked, remove the Snipes from the fire, brush them over with melted glaze, put the pieces of bread from the dripping-pan on a hot dish, stand the Snipes on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Pluck and singe the Snipes, but do not draw them; pick out their gizzards, truss, and cover them with fat bacon, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire for ten or twelve minutes, with slices of toast under them. When cooked, dredge some salt over the birds, arrange the pieces of toast on a hot dish, put the birds on < them, garnish with watercress, and serve with a sauce- boatful of rich gravy. (3) Procure six fine Snipes, and pick, singe, draw, and wipe them (reserving the hearts and livers for further use); pick out the eyes, remove the skin from the heads, truss the legs, skewer them with the bills, tie a thin slice of larding-pork round each bird, and put them in a roasting- pan, sprinkling over 1 pinch of salt. Set the pan in the oven and roast the birds for eight minutes. Chop up very fine the hearts and livers, together with 1 teaspoonful j each of chives and warmed butter, seasoning with \ pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Cover six bread canapes with this mixture, sprinkling a few sifted breadcrumbs on top. Spread a very little butter over all, and put them on a tin plate in the oven for two minutes. Arrange the canapes on a hot dish, place the Snipes over, decorate with a little watercress, and strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, serving it separately. (4) Wipe the Snipes when plucked with a soft cloth, truss them with their heads under their wings, but do not draw them. Put them on a spit before the fire, feet downwards, flour them well, and baste with hot butter. Lay a thick piece of light-browned toast, buttered well on both sides, under the birds that the juice may drip on it. Twenty minutes ought to be long enough to roast the birds. Lay the toast on a hot dish, cut it into as many pieces as there are Snipes, lay a bird on each piece of toast, and serve hot. Salmi of Snipes.—(1) Divide eight cold roasted Snipes into two pieces each, trim off the necks, skin, and feet, and put the bodies into a saute-pan. Place the bones and trimmings in a mortar and pound them, then put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, two shallots, three cloves, and J pint of claret. Boil quickly . till the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity, then pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for half-an-hour, skimming off the scum as it rises to the top. Strain the sauce through a silk sieve into another saucepan, and boil it quickly till reduced to a thick cream. Pour a little of the sauce into the saute-pan with the Snipes, and warm them without boiling. Put the pieces of Snipe on a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. I Snipes—continued. (2) Singe, draw, and wipe six fine, fat Snipes, chop off the legs, stuff the insides with a little game forcemeat, using a paper cornet, fill the cavity of the eyes with a little more of the forcemeat, and cover each eye right over the forcemeat with a small bit of truffle, cut with a tube. Insert the bills in the breasts, and lay the birds in a roasting-pan with a little butter; then place them in the hot oven to roast for six minutes. Take them out of the oven, lay each one on a square piece of bread fried in a little clarified butter, pour over 1 pint of hot salmi sauce, to which has been added twelve whole mushrooms, and serve. Snipe Crusts.—(1) Cut some slices of bread about Jin. in thickness oft' a household loaf, and shape them into long squares; put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry till lightly browned on one side, then take them out and drain. Put the intestines of two raw Snipes into a stewpan with a little chopped bacon and a piece of butter, toss them about over the fire for a minute or two, then add a few poultry livers, two or three thin slices of calf’s liver, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Fry the livers &c., over a quick fire, turning them frequently till well cooked; let them cool, then pound them in a mortar and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the puree J teacupful of brown sauce that has been reduced with a little meat glaze and Madeira; turn the mixture into a saucepan, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then add the beaten yolks of three eggs and 1 pinch of nutmeg. Cover the browned sides of the pieces of bread with the Fig. 598. Snipe Crust. Snipe mixture (see Fig. 598), then put them back in the sauffi-pan with the butter, and stand it in a slack oven for a few minutes. Arrange the crusts on a hot dish, and serve while hot. (2) Remove the trails and partially roast the Snipes; when cold cut the meat oft' them in small pieces, put it in a mortar, and pound. Season the meat with finely- grated lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and moisten with beaten yolk of egg. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds in a stewpan with a small quantity of brown stock, and stew them at the side of the fire for about half-an- hour. Mix loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in another stewpan, put in the trails of the birds, first bruising them, and strain in the liquor from the bones. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then strain again and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Spread the pounded meat over some thin slices of hot buttered toast, place them in the oven until the meat is hot, then cut them into lengths; arrange them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Snipe Pie.—(1) For a good-sized pie about six brace of birds will be required; cut eacli bird into four pieces. Prepare a sufficient quantity of forcemeat with cold ham, tongue, or chicken, a third of the quantity of finely-grated bread- crumb, a few minced mushrooms, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, and bind it with beaten yolks of eggs. Butter and line the edges of a pie-dish with a good paste, put in a layer of the birds, breast downwards, dust them over with salt and pepper, next put in a layer of the forcemeat, and proceed in this way until all is used. Pour in some rich brown gravy, cover with a flat of the paste, and moisten and trim it round the edges. Make a small hole in the top of the paste, bake the pie in a moderate oven, and serve when cold. (2) Pluck and singe about twelve Snipes, bone the backs, and season them. Fry the trails in a little bacon-fat, pound them, season with salt and pepper, and pass themTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 462 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saxices, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Snipes—continued. through a hue hair sieve; mix with the pounded trails an equal quantity of raw quenelle forcemeat and 1 teacupful of cooked fine herbs. Stull' the Snipes with the above mixture, sew them with thread, trussing their legs. Melt some fat bacon in a stewpan, put in the Snipes, with |lb. of streaky bacon cut into small pieces, set the stewpan over a sharp fire, and stir the contents about for a few minutes; then put in sixteen or eighteen raw mushrooms, and place the lid on the stewpan. In seven minutes’ time take the stewpan off the fire, and when the Snipes have slightly cooled remove the thread. Butter the inside of a shallow hot pie-mould, stand it on a baking-sheet on which a sheet of paper has been laid, line the mould with short-paste, coat it thickly with forcemeat, and fill it with alternate layers of Snipe and forcemeat, sprinkling in at the same time the bacon and mushrooms, and bringing it to a dome shape. Put some slices of fat bacon on the top, and cover the pie with a flat round of paste, moistening and pressing the edges together. Ornament the pie with leaves cut out of the paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oven, covering lightly with a sheet of paper after the first ten minutes. When cooked, lift the cover off the pie, remove the bacon, and pour in some brown sauce that has been reduced with some gravy made from the bones and backs of the Snipes. Put the cover on the pie again, stand it on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Prepare 21b. of common short-paste and leave it for two hours. Bone and skin seven or eight Snipes, put them into a basin with lib. of raw truffles cut into dice, and pour over 1 teacupful of Madeira. Turn the livers and trails of the Snipes into a frying-pan with three or four raw poultry livers and a little bacon-fat, fry them over a brisk fire, season them, and when cooked leave till cool. When cold pound the livers and trails in a mortar and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Cut the meat off four hare’s legs, pick out the toughest part, and chop the remainder into small pieces; put them into a frying-pan with a little bacon-fat, season, and fry them; then pound the meat, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with the liver puree. Prepare a mince with some lean veal and bacon mixed in equal quantities. Sprinkle some salt and pepper over the mince, pound it, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with the puree. Butter the inside of an oval shaped channelled pie-mould and line it with the paste; spread over a thick layer of the force- meat, fill the hollow with alternate layers of forcemeat, Snipes, and truffles, raising it in a dome above the edges. Put a round flat of paste on top of the pie, moisten and press the edges together, put a Snipe’s head and beak made of paste on the top of the crust, brush it over with beaten eggs, and put it into a moderate oven. In ten minutes’ time cover the pie with a sheet of paper and finish cooking it. When the pie is cooked and has cooled a little, pour in through the top a few table- spoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly mixed with a little Madeira. When cold serve the pie on a folded napkin with sprays of parsley tucked in the folds on a dish (see Fig. 599). (4) Divide six Snipes into halves lengthwise. Line a Snipes—contin ued. buttered mould with a rich short paste, coat it inside with a thin layer of Snipe forcemeat, then fill it with alternate layers of Snipe and forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre, and finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Cut a block of bread Xo lit the hollow left in the centre, wrap a slice of bacon round it, and fix it in the mould. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, moisten and press the edges together, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the top paste off the pie, remove the block of bread, and fill the cavity with chopped truffles that have been mixed with reduced Spanish sauce and essence of Snipe; arrange some sliced truffles on the top of the forcemeat, put a cock’s kernel in the middle, and serve the pie. Snipe Pie with Truffles.—Pluck, singe, and draw seven or eight Snipes, chop off their heads and claws, separate them into halves down the backs, and remove as many bones as possible. Put the pieces of meat into a frying- pan with about 4oz. of butter and cook them, adding l table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles, a little shallot, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook all these for about twenty minutes over a slow fire and let them cool. Chop up the entrails of the birds, put them into a mortar with 4 table-spoonfuls of game forcemeat, and season with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped sweet herbs and a very little nutmeg. Have ready a mould about 7in. wide and 4in. high, line it with short-paste, and fill it with the mixture, keeping the pieces of birds apart by placing slices of truffles between them. Pour over the butter in which the birds were partly cooked, cover with two bay-leaves and slices of fat bacon, put a crust of paste over, decorate it as desired, brush the surface with egg and flour, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, remove the paste cover, the bacon, and bay-leaves, skim off all the fat, replace the cover, brush over the surface with thick Spanish sauce, and serve cold. Stewed Snipe.—Pluck the birds carefully, cut off the heads and feet, remove the gizzards only, and wipe the birds on a clean towel. For a dozen Snipes, put 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, and let it get smoking hot, then put in the Snipes and quickly brown them. When they are browned, dust over them 1 table-spoonful of dry flour, and stir them about until the flour is browned. When it is brown, cover the birds with boiling water, season them with salt and pepper, and let them cook gently for fifteen minutes. Mean- time toast a dozen small slices of bread, put one bird on each slice, and pour a little of the sauce in which they were cooked over them. Serve the rest of the sauce in a sauceboat. SNOW CAKES.—See Cakes. SNOWBALL CAKES.—See Cakes. SNOWBALL PUDDING.—See Puddings. SNOWDEN PUDDING.—See Puddings. SNOWFLAKE CAKE—See Cakes. SNOW PUDDING.—See Puddings. SOCLES.—A French word signifying pedestals, fre- quently used in artistic cookery. They are made of compressed rice, fat, paste, or any other serviceable material, and offer great scope for the exhibition of talent. The instructions given under Gum Paste will apply to the construction of Socles. SODA.—The bicarbonate of Soda sold by chemists is frequently used in cookery and confectionery. Combined with an acid and a powdered farina it makes a good leaven (see Baking-Powder), giving off an amount of carbonic acid gas as the acid and alkali neutralise each other. Unfortunately the salt thus formed (tartrate or citrate of soda, depending upon whether tartaric or citric acid are used) remains in the food it is used to lighten.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 463 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Soda—continu ed. Soda is often used without acids, its effect being to render cakes “ short ” and floury. It is used in the following receipts: Soda Batter Cakes.—(1) Beat three eggs well together with 1J breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, add 1 heaped teaspoon- ful of bicarbonate of Soda, and stir in gradually a suffi- cient quantity of Hour to make a stiff hatter. When quite smooth let the batter rise, then divide it into equal portions. Lay them on a floured baking-sheet a short distance from each other, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked put the cakes on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve without delay. They are very nice cut open and eaten with butter. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-sifted flour into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of Soda. Stir in gradually as much butter-milk as will make a stiff batter. Let the dough rise, then divide it into small cakes; put a lump of lard or butter into a stewpan, and when it boils put in the cakes and fry them until nicely and lightly browned. Drain and serve them at once on a folded napkin placed over a hot dish. Soda Cream.—(1) Dissolve 5lb. of loaf sugar, loz. each of cream of tartar and Ejrsoin salts, and 5oz. of tartaric acid in igall. of water, and heat it till it boils, skimming if necessary. When cool put the syrup in bottles, and set them in a cool place. To prepare the drink, put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of syrup into a tumbler two-thirds full of water, and \ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, stir briskly, and the effervescence will be equal to bottled soda water. (2) Put ljlb. of loaf sugar in a jug with loz. of tar- taric acid, and pour in 1 pint of hot water. Stir it until dissolved, then leave it until cold. Stir in with the mix- ture the well-whisked whites of two eggs and flavour it to taste with any kind of essence liked. Strain the mixture and keep it tightly corked in a bottle. When using put 1 wineglassful of it in a tumbler, till it up with water, and stir in J small saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Soda-and-Cream-of-Tartar Biscuits.—Sift into a basin lqt. of flour, and add 1 teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Sift all together twice. Rub in 1 table-spoonful of butter with the fingers until there are no large lumps; mix in about 1 pint of milk adding it gradually, using a broad knife and taking only a small portion of the flour with each addition of the milk. When stiff enough to be handled, not kneaded, cut it through and through with the knjfe. It should look springy in the cuts and seem full of air, Turn it out on a well-floured board, toss with the knife till well floured, touching it with the hands as little as possible; pat it with the rolling-pin, which must be lifted quickly that it may not stick, and when the dough is about Jin. thick cut it into rounds and bake at once. To make thin biscuits roll the dough out less than Jin. thick, cut it into rounds, spread with softened butter, put two together, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. Soda Scones.—Mix with lib. of flour 1 teaspoonful each of cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda and J saltspoonful of salt. When wrell mixed make the above ingredients into a paste with J pint of sour milk. Knead the paste for a few minutes on a floured board with floured hands, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, and divide it into equal- sized pieces. Cook them on a baking-sheet over the fire, turning when browned on one side and browning the other. Wrap the scones in a cloth till ready to serve. SODA-WATER.—According to modern customs of manufacturing this useful beverage, the term soda-water is a glaring misnomer, the soda being conspicuous by its absence. A more fitting title would be carbonated water, the rule being amongst aerated water makers to sell under the name of soda-water, plain water injected with carbonic acid gas. Soda-water—continued. Soda-water is generally supplied in long, spindle-shaped bottles that have no stands to them, and are, therefore, by necessity, stocked in a horizontal position, this being desirable when corks are used, bringing the water next the cork instead of the gas which would probably escape thi-ough it. When a bottle is opened for use and only a part poured out at a time, a very con- venient support for the bottle will be found in a stand (see Fig. 600), which is not only useful, but ornamental. See Aerated Waters. SOLES (Fr. Soles, Ger. Seezungen).—Of all the fish that come to our markets there are none so commonly used or stand so high in favour as this fish (Solea vulgaris). It is of a convenient size, and the flesh both sweet and digestible. The name refers to the peculiar shape of the fish, something resembling the sole of the foot. Soles are taken in great numbers out of the English Channel and along the eastern coast of Great Britain, and are in season all the year round. There are two or three varieties, of which tjie French or Lemon Sole is one. It differs from the true Sole in the colour of the upper skin, which, in this case, is of a pale dusky red. The under skins are white, or nearly so, in both kinds, but the upper skin of the true Sole is dark and rough. A Sole may be cleaned and skinned for cooking by cut- ting away the gills and running the point of a knife into the belly, and making a small opening through which the gut is drawn, leaving the roe entire. The skin is next dissected off the head, and then stripped off by pulling it with one hand whilst holding the fish with the other. The fins require cutting off with a pair of scissors or a sharp knife, and the fish washed. When it is desir- able to remove the under skin, this is done in the same way as the upper or dark skin. Soles are filleted by passing the blade of a knife between the bone and the flesh, after cutting round the edge of the fish next the fins, and making a long deep incision down the centre of the back (see Fig. 601). See Boning. Aspic of Billets of Soles.—(1) Fillet the Soles, butter a baking-dish, put in the fillets, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and season with salt and pepper; cover the fillets with a sheet of buttered paper and bake them for ten minutes in the oven. When cooked, press the Soles between two plates till cold. Put a layer of pale aspic jelly in a plain mould and leave it till set. Cut the fillets of Soles into small equal-sized rounds, and arrange them tastefully with some fillets of anchovies on the set aspic jelly. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over and cover them with another layer of aspic. Proceed in this manner, putting in alternate layers of Sole and aspic till the mould is full, then pack it in pounded ice. Turn the aspic out of the A Fig. 600. Soda-water stand (Adams and Son).464 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. mould on to a dish, stick some slices of hard-boiled eggs on it with ravigote butter, and serve. (2) Trim the fillets of one pair of Soles, saute them in a saute-pan with some fresh butter, a little pepper, and the juice of a lemon; when done press them between two dishes, anti when cold trim and cut each fillet into two collops and ornament each with lobster coral, hard-boiled yolks of eggs nibbed through a wire sieve, and some finely-chopped black truffles. Pack a mould in ice, put in a little liquid jelly, and let this set. Decorate the mould with the boiled whites of eggs and truffles, cut up into thin slices, and stamped or cut out in different shapes; having done this put in a little more jelly, and when set arrange the fillets of Soles round the mould. This should be done very carefully so as not to disturb the decorations. Fill the mould up by degrees with aspic jelly and when set and ready for use dip the mould in hot water and turn the contents out in the usual way. Ornament the base of the mould with picked prawns and croutons of coloured aspic jelly. (3) Separate the fillets from the bones of one or two pairs of Soles; put a lump of butter in a stewpan with a few drops of lemon-juice, melt it, put in the fillets, dust them over with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire. When the fillets are cooked, drain and press them between two plates until cold. Next divide each fillet into three pieces, put them in a basin, dust them over with salt and pepper, baste them with oil and vinegar, and let them macerate for an hour or two. Cut into fancy shapes some hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles, and arrange them in a border-mould, fixing them in with liquid aspic jelly; then fill up the mould with the jelly and stand it in a cool place until set. Wash and dry two or three lettuces and cut them into fine shreds. Turn the border out of the mould on to a dish, and put some of the lettuce in the centre; drain the fillets, pile them up high on the lettuce, arrange the remainder of the lettuce as a garnish round the outside of the jelly border, pour some mayonnaise sauce over the fish, and serve. (4) Separate the fillets from the bones of two large pairs of Soles, cut the fillets into pieces 2in. long, and trim them to an oval shape. Butter a baking-dish, put in the fillets, dust over a little pepper and salt, squeeze in some lemon-juice, and bake them. When cooked, drain the fillets and press them between two plates till cold. Mix a little white aspic jelly with some green mayonnaise sauce, then dip the fillets in it, and lay them on a dish till the sauce is cold. Mask the bottom of a plain cylinder-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, ornament it tastefully with slices of truffles and tongue, then pour in some more aspic jelly to about Jin. in thickness, and leave it till set. Arrange a circle of fillets of Soles on the set jelly, pour in some more jelly, and leave that also till set; then put on a reverse circle of the fillets, and continue as before till the mould is full. Pack the mould in ice and leave it for two hours. Prepare a socle of rice on a dish, and coat it with lobster butter. Dip the mould into hot water, then wipe it, and turn the contents out on to the socle, garnish round with chopped aspic and croutons of aspic, and serve. Baked Fillets of Soles.—Butter a plate, lay the fillets of two Soles on it, and sprinkle them with a few drops of lemon-juice; butter a piece of thin white paper, lay it over them, and put them in a hot oven for ten minutes or a-quarter-of-an-hour, according to size. Have ready a sauce made of |oz. of flour mixed quite smooth with Soles—continued. 1 table-spoonful of cream or milk, and a little fish liquor made by stewing the bones and skins of the Soles, some chopped parsley, and |oz. of butter boiled together for ten minutes. When the fillets are done, put them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Strew chopped parsley over the fish, and garnish with button mushrooms, placing a little lobster coral, if handy, on each mush- room top (see Fig. 602), and serve. Baked Fillets of Soles with Forcemeat.—Skin the Soles, and divide each one into four fillets, by passing the knife Vic tween the flesh and backbone; spread some fish force- meat over the fillets and roll them. Put a thin layer of the forcemeat in a baking-dish, and place in the fillets, filling up the spaces between each with more forcemeat; sprinkle finely-grated breadcrumb over them, put some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the Soles in the same dish. Baked Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms.—(1) Lift the fdlets carefully off the bones of the Soles and roll them up, tying them with a thread ; lay them side by side in a buttered pie-dish, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Place the trim- mings of the Soles in a stewpan with a sliced carrot, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, and sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in a little less than 1 pint of clear stock, and boil gently for an hour. Put loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire till mixed but not browned, then strain in the above liquor and stir until boiling again, then put in eighteen preserved button-mushrooms. Bake the fillets of Soles in a good oven, beat the yolk of an egg with a small quantity of milk, and stir it into the sauce, moving the saucepan off the fire. When the fillets are cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce and mushrooms in the centre, and serve. (2) Lift the fillets off the bones of three Soles, divide each fillet into halves, and trim them all to a like shape. Thickly butter a baking-tin, put in the fillets, dust them over with salt and white pepper, and covei them with a ■* sheet of buttered paper. Cut about If,lb. of large mush- rooms into four pieces each, rubbing each one with lemon as it is done. Put them in a saucepan with salted water to cover, and boil them until tender. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it until well mixed, then pour in as much of the cooking-water of the mushrooms as will bring the sauce to the proper con- sistency. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the fire. Put the dish with the fillets of Soles in a brisk oven, and cook them for about twenty minutes. When baked, arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, and put the mushrooms in the centre. Strain the butter from the baking-tin into the sauce, stir it well, and pour it over the mushrooms, but not round the fillets. Serve while hot. Baked Fillets of Soles -with. Tarragon Sauce.—Separate the fillets from the bones of the Soles, divide them length- wise into strips, and twist them into knots ; butter a baking- dish, lay the fillets in it, cover them 'with a sheet of buttered paper, ami bake in a moderate oven. Put about 1-joz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed, then work in smoothly \ pint of milk, and stir it until boiling. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, and put in plenty of finely- chopped tarragon-leaves; let it simmer at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Baked Larded Fillets of Soles with Forcemeat.—Remove the fillets from some Soles and lard them ; put some thin slices of bacon in a deep pan, and stick a large truffle in the centre. Lay the larded fillets of Soles in the saucepan, with alternate layers of fillets of mullet, and filling up all the spaces left with some fish quenelle forcemeat, putting a thick layer of the forcemeat on the top. Place some finely-minced ham and onions in a saucepan with a lump of butter, stir- over the fire for a few minutes, then addTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 465 Soles—continued. some finely-chopped truffles, mushrooms, and sweetbreads; pour in a little stock and boil them for a few minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Fill the pan containing the fillets, &c., with the above mince, cover it with puff paste, and bake it. When cooked, turn the mixture out of the pan on to a drainer on a hot dish, remove the paste and slices of bacon, and serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce and stock mixed in equal quantities. Baked Soles with Mushrooms.—Clean and pare off the dark skin of a thick pair of soles, split them in the middle, and lay them in a buttered baking-dish, Blanch twenty four oysters, strain their liquor, pour it over the Soles together with 1 wineglassful of white wine, season with pepper and salt, and bake in the oven. When cooked, drain the liquor off the Soles into a saucepan, and mix with it a chopped onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the lid on the saucepan, and boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity ; strain it, mix with it twelve raw button-mushrooms cut into halves, and an equal quantity of brown sauce. Boil the sauce again till reduced to a thick creamy consistency, then move it from the fire; mix with it |lb. of butter broken into small pieces, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the strained juice of a lemon. Stir the sauce till the butter has dissolved. Put the Soles on to a hot dish, garnish them with the oysters and mushrooms, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Baked Soles with Ravigote Sauce.—Clean and wash a pair of plump Soles, lay them in a thickly-buttered baking- dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover witli a sheet of buttered paper. Rub a stewpan over with garlic and put in it loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour; mix them over the fire, and pour in a sufficient quantity of stock to make the sauce, with 1 wineglassful of sherry. Add to the sauce some finely minced tarragon, parsley, and garden cress in equal quantities, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil for a few minutes. Bake the Soles in the oven, place them on a hot dish when cooked, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the sauce, and put in ^oz. of butter broken into small bits. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Baked Sole with Wine Sauce.—Clean, trim off the gills and dark skin, and scrape the white side of a large Sole; make a deep incision each side of the backbone, and cut off the fins. Thickly butter the inside of a gratin-pan, and put in the sole ; season with a little pepper and salt, pour over it 1 pint of French white wine, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Put about loz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and stir them over the fire till well mixed, then add I h breakfast-cupfuls of water and a little pepper and salt; stir the sauce over the fire till boiling. When cooked, strain the liquor off the Sole into the sauce, boil all up together, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire; put in loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and stir it till the butter has melted. Put the Sole on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Boiled Soles.—Clean the Soles without skinning, trim off the fins, and put them in a fish-kettle with plenty of water and a lump of salt. When boiling, move the fish- Fig. 603. Boiled Soles. kettle to the side of the fire and let the liquor simmer gently till the Soles are done. When cooked, put the Soles on a hot dish, the dark sides downwards. Garnish the Soles with fried parsley and slices of lemon (see Fig. 603), Soles—continued. and serve them with a sauceboatful of shrimp sauce. Anchovy sauce may be used in place of the shrimp sauce, if desired. Boiled Stuffed Soles.—The Soles must be skinned and opened down the back, and a good-sized piece of the back- bone taken out; put the fish in a fish-kettle with a little white wine, and partially boil them. Drain the fish and leave them till cold. Chop a few chives, mushrooms, and parsley, mix them together with a little butter, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Soles with the above forcemeat, and finish cooking them in a little stock. Put the Soles on a hot dish, squeeze over some lemon-juice, and pour the white wine, in which they were first boiled, over them. Serve the Soles while hot. Bouchees of Sole.—Wash and clean a fine Sole, and separate the fillets from the bones. Put the fillets in a saute-pan with a lump of butter, a little salt, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and saut6 them. When cooked, drain the fillets and place them between two plates till cold. Prepare some puff paste, giving it six turns, roll it out, then with a fluted cutter *2in. in diameter cut out eighteen rounds; put them on a slightly buttered baking-sheet, and leave them in a cold place for ten minutes. With a plain ljin. tin-cutter, cut through the centre of each bouchee one- third of the thickness of the paste, dipping the cutter in hot water occasionally ; this will form the lid of the bouchee. Brush the bouchees over with beaten egg and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, take off the covers of the bouchees, and scoop out some of the soft paste, smoothing it over with the handle of a knife. Cut the cold fillets of Sole into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with some German sauce, and warm them. Fill the bouchees with the salpicon, replace their covers, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Broiled Sole.—Skin anil clean a Sole, dust it on both sides with pepper and salt, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over it; dip the Sole in warmed butter, cover it well with finely-grated breadcrumbs, put it on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when brown on one side, and finishing it the other. Bone an anchovy, put the flesh into a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound it, then place it in a small saucepan, with 1 wineglassful of dry white wine and the strained juice of half a lemon, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. When cooked put the Sole on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Consomme of Sole.—Pick the flesh carefully off the bones of a pair of Soles, and cut it into small equal-sized pieces; put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan with a bunch of parsley, a stick of celery, one onion, half a blade of mace, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Poul- in with the above articles lqt. of white stock and boil it, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the stock simmering gently for four hours. Skim and strain the stock, return it to the saucepan, and when it boils up again put in the pieces of Sole and boil them gently till tender. Turn the consomme, when cooked into a large soup-tureen, sprinkle in it a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve with a plateful of sippets of toast. Curried Soles.—Bone two Soles and cut them into small neat pieces. Finely chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it till brown; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder, and stir it till well mixed. Put the Soles into the stewpan with the onions, cover them with stock, and boil quickly for ten or twelve minutes. When cooked, turn the Soles and their sauce on to a hot dish, and serve with a separate dish of boiled rice. Billets of Sole aux Anchois (with Anchovies).—Fry the fillets of a Sole in a little salad-oil, season them with salt and pepper, and press them between two dishes till cold. Bone and clean four anchovies, and divide each one into four fillets. Cut the fillets of Sole into pieces, about the same size as the anchovy fillets, mix them together, and pile them on a dish (see Fig. 604). Mix with a VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. H466 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY Soles—continued. teacupful of salad oil 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and one chopped capsicum. Pour the dressing over the fish, and serve it. Fillets of Soles a l’Aurore.—Skin two pairs of Soles and fillet them. Prepare some quenelle forcemeat of whiting, and colour it with pounded lobster spawn. Spread some of the forcemeat over each fillet, and roll them up; skewer them with silver skewers, putting three fillets on each. Dust the fdlets over with pepper and salt, put them in a baking-dish, cover with slices of bacon, and bake them. When cooked, take the fillets off the skewers, trim off all the superfluous forcemeat, and place them on a hot dish. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sauce tournee in a saucepan with some pounded lobster spawn and a lump of fresh butter, and stir them over the fire till hot; strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, season it with a little essence of anchovies, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and boil it up again. Pour the sauce over the fillets of Soles, which should have been kept hot while it was being made, and serve at once. Fillets of Soles a la Bohemienne.—Skin a pair of thick Soles, and fillet them. Butter a baking-tin, fold the fillets over, put them on the tin, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them. Put a small lump of butter in a saucepan with 2 table spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then pour in slowly 1 teacupful of fish stock, and continue stirring till the hour is cooked. Mix with the sauce J teacupful of cream, salt, and a little cayenne pepper, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Finely chop three truffles, two hard-boiled eggs, and a few sprigs of parsley; mix them together, then add 1 table- spoonful of lobster coral that has been pounded and passed through a fine hair sieve. Put the fillets of Soles on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, then sprinkle over the egg mixture, and serve. Fillets of Sole a la Chef de Cuisine.—(1) Separate the fillets from the bones of a thick Sole, put them side by side in a buttered saute-pan, dust over a little pepper and salt, pour in a wineglassful of sherry, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the saute-pan in the oven and bake the fish for about ten minutes. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish in a saucepan with | pint of water, and boil them till the liquor has reduced to one-third its original quantity. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, and prepare a little butter sauce with it. Mix with the sauce 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, the liquor in which the fillets were cooked, and loz. of butter. Stir the sauce over the fire till of the consistency of cream. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Skin a pair of Soles and fillet them, cutting the flesh into pieces about 2in. long. Finely grate some stale bread, and mix with it some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Dip the fillets of Soles in beaten egg, and then roll For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Soles—continued. them well in the seasoned breadcrumbs ; put them into a frying-pan with some hot fat and fry till nicely browned. Put the trimmings of the Soles and a piece of beef into a saucepan with some water and boil them for half-an-hour. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, add a lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and stir it over the fire till thick; then add a few drops of essence of anchovies, and a wineglassful of sherry. Put the pieces of Soles in the sauce and stir it by the side of the fire till they are hot again, but do not let it boil. Pour all on to a hot dish (see Fig. 605), and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Flamande.—Trim the fillets of a pair of Soles, beat them slightly, and season with salt and pepper. Mix the roes of two or three red herrings with some raw forcemeat, and coat the fillets of Soles with it. Roll them round, fasten with skewers, and put them in a braising-pan with some butter and white wine. ’ Cook the Soles till the moisture is somewhat reduced, then move them from the fire, and leave them till cold in their cooking-stock. Prepare a salad of vegetables, put them in the centre of a dish, cut the rolls of Soles transversely into slices, arrange them in a circle round the salad, and serve. Fillets of Soles an Gratin.—(1) Clean and peel cff the dark skins of three fresh Soles, cut off the fillets, and divide them into equal sized pieces; beat them lightly, and season with salt and pepper. Prepare Jib. of short-paste, and roll it out on a floured table into a flat round. Lay the paste on a buttered baking-sheet, and cover it with a thick layer of whiting forcemeat. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs with a chopped onion and mushroom and a few table-spoonfuls of the same forcemeat; coat the fillets with it on one side, and double the two ends to the centre. Arrange the fillets in a circle on the paste, spread them with forcemeat, bind a strip of buttered paper round the edges, and fill the hollow with a block of crumb of bread, first covering it and the fillets with thin slices of bacon, and bake them in the oven for half-an-hour. When cooked, remove the paper, bacon, and bread, mop up the fat, and slip the flat of paste with the fish on to a hot dish. Fill the centre of the circle with some small poached quenelles made with the same kind of forcemeat, pour a little mussel sauce over the fish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of the same. (2) Detach the fillets from the bones of two Soles, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter. Put 1J breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce into a stewpan, boil it up, then add two or three chopped mush- rooms, and a few drops each of anchovy essence and Harvey’s sauce. Boil the sauce for five minutes longer, add 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, ami stir in very quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Lay the fillets on a bed of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle some grated breadcrumbs on the top, and brown them under a salamander. Serve while very hot. (3) Remove the fillets from the bones of the Soles, and trim them to an equal size. Prepare a whiting quenelle forcemeat, mix with it some D’Uxelles sauce, and cover the skinned side of the fillets with it. Fold the fillets in two and press them slightly to stick them together. Spread a layer of the same forcemeat upon a silver dish, fix a block of crumb of bread covered with buttered paper in the centre, put half of the fillets round the bread, making them overlap each other and sticking them together with a little forcemeat, then dress the remaining fillets round on these, only reversing the order of them; put a sheet of buttered paper over the fillets, and bake them in the oven. When the fillets are cooked, remove the bread and paper, pour some Italian sauce over them, and serve. (4) Separate the fillets from the bones of a large Sole; rub a gratin-dish over with garlic, butter it thickly, and lay tbe fillets of Sole in it. Strew over them a few mushrooms, one shallot, and a small quantity of parsley, also finely-chopped; season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the fillets, and moisten to height with white wine. Cover the whole with a layer of Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads.467 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Soles —continued. grated breadcrumbs, and put a few pieces of butter on them. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake for about twenty minutes. Serve the fillets while very hot on the same dish. Fillets of Soles a la Joinville.—(1) Cut the fillets off three Soles, fold them, and lay them in a circle in a buttered flat stewpan, moistening with \ wineglassful of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Season with J pinch each of salt and pepper, and cook them over a moderate fire for six minutes. Arrange the fillets on a dish and keep them hot at the side of the stove. Reduce the gravy to half, adding one cooked lobster claw, one truffle, and three mushrooms, all cut julienne shaped. Add 4 pint of German sauce, stir well, pour it over the Soles/ place a piece of truffle and a button-mushroom on each fillet, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets olf the bones, put them in a stew- pan with a lump of butter and toss about over the fire till cooked. Arrange the fillets round a hot dish, fill the middle with finely-chopped truffles and shrimps, poui- over them some German sauce in which has been mixed a little shrimp butter, and serve. Fillets of Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skin a Sole, cut off the fillets, and divide them into small pieces. Put the bones and trimmings of the Sole in a saucepan with an onion and 1 pint of water, and boil them for half- an-hour. Strain the above liquor, put it back in the saucepan, season it with salt and pepper, add the fillets of Sole, and boil them for ten minutes. When cooked, take the Soles out and boil the liquor quickly till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in a little cold water, and when quite smooth stir it in with the sauce; continue stirring it over the fire till thick, then put the fillets in again, season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley, and boil altogether for a minute or two. Turn the fish and sauce on to a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve. Fillets of Soles en Matelote.—Separate the fillets from the bones of two Soles. Cut each fillet into halves, dredge them over with flour, roll them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs. Pour a small quantity of salad-oil into a fry- ing-pan, bring it to the required heat, then put in the fillets and fry them. Before the fillets are cooked, the following sauce should be prepared: Put about three dozen peeled button-onions into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and place them over the fire till lightly browned, then pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil. Pour lqt. of brown sauce and J2 pint of stock in with the onions, and boil them by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim the sauce, mix in it some heads of mushrooms, an equal quantity of quenelles, 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey’s sauce, mushroom ketchup, and anchovy essence, and add a pinch of cayenne pepper. When cooked and nicely browned, drain the fillets, arrange them on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. Fillets of Sole en Mayonnaise.—Put the fillets of a Sole into a baking-dish with a lump of butter, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and season with salt and pepper. Bake them, and when cooked press them between two plates until cold. Cut the fillets into strips and dip them in some mayonnaise sauce. Put a border of white aspic jelly on a dish, ornament it with hard-boiled eggs, cabbage lettuces, slices of beetroot, and crayfish-tails ; arrange the fillets in reverse circles inside the border, building them dome shaped, and pour over them some mayonnaise sauce. Scoop the yolk carefully out of a hard boiled egg, leaving the white to form a cup, in which stick the heart of a cabbage lettuce, fix it on the top of the mayonnaise, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Normande.—Take the fillets from three fine Soles after they have been skinned, fold them in two, and lay them in a flat buttered saucepan, with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a small pinch each of salt and pepper. Cover over the pan, cook for six minutes, take them out, Soles—continued. drain, and arrange them on a dish. Reduce the gravy to one half, add twelve blanched oysters and six sliced mushrooms, moistening with \ pint of German sauce. Thicken the sauce with 1 table-spoonful of butter, tossing well till dissolved, and add lastly the juice of half a lemon. Garnish the sides of the dish with the oysters and mushrooms, and pour the sauce over the fish. Garnish with three small cooked crayfish, three fried smelts, and three small round potato croquettes, and serve. Fillets of Soles a l’Orly.—(1) Remove the fillets from the Soles, put them in a dish, with pepper, salt, and plenty of lemon-juice over them, and let them soak for half-an-hour. Put the trimmings of the fish into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs and h pint of white wine, season with salt and pepper, and boil the sauce till somewhat reduced. Rub some flour over the fillets, and fry them in boiling fat. When cooked, drain the fillets, put them on a dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Bone the Soles and place the fillets into a deep dish, put in with them some slices of onion and sprigs of parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, season with pepper and salt, and let them macerate for one hour. Drain the Soles, dredge them well with flour, and fry them in boiling fat. Make some thick tomato sauce, and pour it on to a hot dish. Drain the Soles, arrange them on the tomato sauce, and serve. (3) Skin and bone the Soles, cut the fillets first across, then each piece lengthwise, into three strips, put them into a deep dish, with some slices of onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and some lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and let them steep for two hours. Drain the fillets, wipe them with a cloth, and dip them in frying batter. Have some hot lard in a frying-pan, put the fillets in, and fry them till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the fillets, put them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange some sprigs of fried parsley round them, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. (4) Put 2oz. of flour into a basin, dust in a little salt, and mix it smoothly with 1 table-spoonful of milk ; then stir in lightly the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, and the well-whipped white of one egg. Separate the flesh from the bones of the Sole, having- first skinned it, cut each fillet into halves, and lay them in a basin. Mix together 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, 1 teaspoonful each of tarragon and chilli vinegar, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped onion, and the same of chopped parsley; season with salt and pepper, pour the mixture over the fillets of Sole, and leave them steeping for fifteen minutes. Dip the pieces of Sole in the above batter, and fry them in boiling fat. When of a nice golden ln-own, drain the pieces of Sole, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Farisienne.—Put the fillets of two * Soles into a saucepan with a finely-chopped onion, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and cover them with butter that has been melted, seasoning with pepper and salt. Toss the Soles about over a moderate fire till cooked, Fig. 606. Fillets of Soles X la Parisienne. taking care not to let them burn. When done, arrange the fillets on a hot dish, pour over them some Italian sauce, garnish with lemon and parsley (see Fig. 606), and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Portugaise.—Clean a pair of Soles, bone them, cut the flesh into four fillets, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter and lemon-juice, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads 2 H 2 UNIVt.lk'df y LIBRARY468 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. and fry them slightly. Now put them on the table or hoard, cover them over with any kind of forcemeat, roll them up, and fasten them with skewers. Put 1 table- spoonful of the liquor from capers into a dish, together with a boned and chopped anchovy, chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful or so of meat gravy, and a \ raw egg. Dip the rolls in egg, then in breadcrumbs, place them in the dish, cover over, and bake slowly. Serve hot with the gravy poured over. Fillets of Soles a, la Prince.—Carefully separate the fillets from the bones of the Soles, trim them nicely, spread them over on one side with a coating of raw quenelle force- meat, then fold them together; ornament each at the tail end with a crayfish claw m its shell, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and moisten them with white wine. Boil some rice, press it into a flat-shaped mould, and leave it till cold; then turn it on to a dish. Mask the rice with fish forcemeat, and bake it in the oven. Cook the fillets over a brisk fire, then drain, and arrange them in a circle on the rice. Garnish the dish with groups of oysters blanched in wine, white mushroom heads, and black truffles, and garnish the centre with small quenelles and crayfish tails. Have ready some veloute sauce that has been reduced with some fish stock, a little oyster liquor, and some heads of mushrooms. Finish the sauce with some crayfish butter and some fresh butter. Serve it in a sauceboat with the fillets of Soles. Fillets of Soles a, la Provenqale.—Fillet a pair of Soles and put them in a stewpan with a teacupful of white wine and a small quantity of olive oil; add a little chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, garlic, salt and pepper, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for half-an- hour. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a hot dish, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, garnish round with slices of fried onions, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Heine.—Skin a pair of thick Soles, cut off the fins, separate the flesh from the bones with a sharp knife, and cut it into small equal sized pieces. Grate the crumb of some stale bread, and mix with it some finely- chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. Dip the pieces of Sole first in beaten egg and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan in which a lump of butter has been melted, and fry them till well and equally browned. Reduce some beef gravy with the trimmings of Soles, thicken it with a little butter that has been worked with some flour, and season it with essence of anchovies and a few drops of sherry. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Rouennaise.—Skin a pair of Soles and separate the fillets from the bones, spread them with lobster butter, and double them over. Butter a baking- sheet, put the fillets on it, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. They will take about ten minutes to cook. Put foz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually a teacupful of fish stock, and continue stirring it over the fire till boiling. Mix with the sauce l teacupful of cream, a little lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, and salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles. Arrange the Soles on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Soles en Turban.—(1) Skin and fillet a pair of thick Soles. Cut a piece of crumb of bread the shape of a pyramid, fasten it on a tin dish, the pointed end down- wards, cover it with slices of bacon, then a layer of fish forcemeat, and stick the fillets on the forcemeat in such a way as to form a turban. Cut some truffles into small rounds, stick them in the spaces between the fillets, squeeze over them some lemon-juice, and pour over some warmed butter; then stick some thin slices of bacon round, and cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake the fillets, and when cooked take off the paper and bacon, remove the piece of bread from the centre, place the turban on a hot dish, fill the hollow left by the bread with tomato sauce, and serve it. Soles—continued. (2) Take off the fillets from three small Soles, having first skinned them; turn them neatly, season, and ornament half of them with pieces of truffles cut in various shapes, making slight incisions in the fillets at a short distance from each other to fix them in. Prepare some quenelle forcemeat with the trimmings of the Soles and an equal quantity of pike flesh. Butter a border-mould, fill it with some of the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain marie. Prepare a flat of short-paste, and bake it; when done, put it on an entree dish, cutting it to the same size, and cover with a thin layer of forcemeat, bringing it in the centre to the same height as the border, which should be turned out on the dish. Lean the fillets of Soles slanting against the border, alternating them one plain and one ’decorated, having a block of bread covered with buttered paper in the centre to support them, bind a strip of buttered paper round the fillets, and fasten it with a string. Bake the turban in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. When cooked, remove the paper and bread support from the turban, drain off all the fat, then slip it on to a round dish. Fill the hollow centre of the turban with another block of bread the same height that has been fried in butter, fix a pewter cup covered with nouille paste in the centre, and fill it with some little rounds of truffles. Garnish the base of the turban with a border of nouille paste (see Fig. 607), and pour over it some veloute sauce that has been reduced. Serve the turban with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. Fillets of Soles a la Turque.—Skin the Soles, pick off the fillets carefully, and fry them in butter. Boil some well- washed rice in broth till tender, then drain it quite dry, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot bechamel sauce. Pile the rice, pyramid fashion, in the centre of a hot dish. Mix Jib. of butter and a little pepper and salt with 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and when it is hot, mask the fillets of Soles with it. Lean the fillets round the rice, and serve them. Fillets of Soles A la Venetienne.—(1) Lift the fillets off the bones of a pair of Soles, divide them lengthwise into strips, and twist them into knots; lay them in a thickly- buttered .baking-tin, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the bones and trimmings of the Soles into a saucepan with an onion, half a blade of mace, two or three mush- rooms, salt and pepper to taste, a bunch of parsley, and about H pints of white stock, and boil gently for an hour. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan, and wlien it has melted, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour; then strain in the above liquor, and stir it over the fire until thickened ; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add plenty of finely-minced parsley, and enough parsley-juice to make the sauce green. Bake the fillets in a quick oven, and when cooked place them on a hot dish; stir the sauce well, pour it over them, and serve. (2) Put fifteen nicely-trimmed »fillets of Soles into a saute - pan with a piece of butter and a little white wine, and cook them over a clear fire. Cover a dish with a layer of poached fish forcemeat, drain the Soles when cooked, and arrange them in a circle on it, cover them withTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 469 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. veloute sauce that has been mixed with a little lobster butter, and dust a little cayenne pepper over; fill the centre with a group of prawns, put a slice of black truffle between each fillet, and serve them with a sauceboatful of prawns and veloute sauce. Fillets of Soles in Cases.—Put 1 teacupful of finely-minced mushrooms into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, add a lump of butter, and season with pepper and salt. Toss the above ingredients over the fire till cooked, then put them by till cold. Fillet the Soles, mask one side of them with the above mixture, roll them up, secure them with a piece of thread, put them between two buttered plates, and bake them. Prepare some white sauce. Put each fillet into a small paper case, put a small mushroom on the top of each, fill up the cases with the hot sauce, and serve them at once. Fillets of Sole with Crayfish and Truffles.—Skin the fillets and remove them from the bones, fold them in two, and fix a crayfish-claw in the top of each fillet. Butter a saute-pan, put in the fillets, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them. When cooked, arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, and fill the centre with sliced truffles and picked prawns; pour over the prawns and truffles some German sauce that has been finished with crayfish butter, and serve them with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Fillets of Soles with Oysters.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some Soles, trim them, and fry them in a little butter. Fix a bread croustade on a hot dish, and fill it with oysters mixed in German sauce. When cooked, arrange the fillets round the croustade, pour a little German sauce over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Fillets of Soles with Ravigote Sauce.—(1) Put some fillets of Soles into a saute-pan with a lump of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt, and cook them over a slow fire, but do not brown them. Put 2A teacupfuls of white sauce into a saucepan with 1 h teacup- fuls of white broth, and boil for three or four minutes, keeping it well stirred. Mix a little chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon with 2oz. of fresh butter, and stir it into the sauce, with 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, seasoning with pepper and salt, and keep it stirred over the fire for a minute longer. Put the fillets on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve them. (2) Skin and wash the Soles, but do not empty them, remove the fillets with a knife, cut them into two pieces each, put them in a saute-pan with some warmed butter, and dust pepper and salt over them. Put 3 table-spoon- fuls of thick bechamel sauce into a saucepan with 1 tea- spoonful each of elder and ravigote vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of caviare, and Jib. of butter, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then add 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley that has been steeped in salt and water to keep it very green, and 1 table-spoonful of cream. Saute the Soles, and when cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour the ravigote sauce over, and serve. Fricandeau of Soles.—Boil a thick pah- of Soles till cooked ; drain, and leave them till cool, then skin and bone them, and chop the flesh finely with about twenty washed and bearded oysters and two filleted anchovies, seasoning to taste with a little grated nutmeg, cayenne, and pounded mace. Soak two penny rolls in a little over 1 teacupful of white wine, then mix with them the yolks of three well-beaten eggs; put them into a saucepan with the minced fish and \ teacupful of cream. Stir the above ingredients over a very slow fire till hot, then turn them into a buttered mould, cover them thickly with breadcrumbs, stand the mould in a Dutch oven, and brown the contents in front of a quick clear fire. When done, turn the fricandeau carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve it. Fricassee of Soles.—Remove the fillets carefully from a pair of Soles, and put the bones and trimmings into a lined saucepan with a bunch of parsley and thyme, half a blade Soles—continued. of mace, a little thinly-peeled lemon-rind, and 1 pint of water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently from tliree- quarters-of-an-hour to an hour. Roll the fillets up and tie each one separately with a piece of thread, put them into a stewpan, and strain the liquor from the bones over them. Cook the fillets gently for twenty minutes, then stir into the sauce £ table-spoonful of flour that has been mixed smooth with a little water, and continue stirring it over the fire till thick; then pour in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 1 teacupful of cream and the juice of half a lemon. Move the saucepan off the fire when the sauce is on the point of boiling again, as it must not boil after the eggs are added. Season the whole with a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, turn it on to a hot dish, put a border of potato croquettes round, and serve. Fried Fillets of Sole.—Put a Sole in a deep dish, season it with chopped sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, cover it with white wine, and leave it to soak for half-an-hour. A few minutes before serving fillet the Sole, dip the fillets in milk, dredge them well with flour, and fry them in lard. When nicely browned, put the fillets on a folded napkin placed on a hot dish, and garnish them with fried parsley and slices of lemon. Fried Soles.—(1) Skin 2 pairs of Soles on both sides, empty them carefully so as not to injure the flesh, and make an incision in the back of each. Fry the Soles in boiling fat, drain them, open the places where the incisions have been made, cut the bone near the head and tail, and draw it out. Make some steward’s sauce and stuff the Soles with it, then stick down the openings again with a little yolk of egg, dip the Soles into beaten eggs, and cover them thickly with breadcrumbs. Put a lump of dripping into a frying-pan, and when it is hot put the Soles in and fry them till nicely browned. Arrange the Soles on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean the Soles well, skin them, dry thoroughly with a soft cloth, brush them over with beaten egg, and then dip them in finely-sifted breadcrumbs. It improves their appearance to let them stand five or six minutes, and then egg-and-breadcrumb them a second time. Fry them in boiling lard or oil, and serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. Fried Soles with Colbert Sauce.—Select six small Soles, cut off' their heads, and make an incision down the back- bone of each. Season with 1 pinch of salt, A- pinch of pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, roll in fresh breadcrumbs and beaten eggs, flatten them well, and leave them to drip for a few minutes. Fry them for three minutes in very hot fat, drain, add another l pinch of salt, and arrange them on a folded napkin placed on a dish, garnish with a small bunch of fried parsley, and serve with \ pint of Colbert sauce in a tureen. Fried Sole Cutlets.—Clean the Soles and cut the fillets into narrow pieces crossways, dust some flour over them, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or butter into a frying-pan, and when it is Fig. 608. Fried Sole Cutlets. hot put the pieces of Sole in and fry them. When nicely browned, drain, and arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish covered by an ornamental paper, fill the centre with fried parsley (see Fig. C08), and serve them. Grenade of Sole —Clean a large Sole, split it down the back, and bone it, and lard it inwardly with thin strips ofTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 470 ior details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. truffles and gherkins. Prepare a forcemeat with any cooked fish, breadcrumbs, yolk of hard-boiled egg, boiled celery, anchovy, parsley, and chervil, all very finely minced, butter or bacon-fat, salt and pepper. Mask one-half of the Sole over with this, cover with the other half, fasten it up in its original shape with skewers, put it in a flat dish, pour over 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of fish broth, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot. Mayonnaise of Soles.—Put the Soles into boiling salted water with a little lemon juice in it, and boil them. When tender drain the Soles, lift the fillets carefully off the bones, and place them between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Next cut the fillets into as many small cutlets as possible. Wash and bone some anchovies, and cut them into small strips. Wash and remove the outer leaves of a large cabbage lettuce, cut the heart and remaining leaves into fine shreds, pile them on a dish, and pour some nice mayonnaise sauce over it; over this arrange a circle of the fillets of Soles, next a circle of the anchovies, and then a circle of stoned olives. Fill up the space in the centre with finely-minced hard-boiled eggs, capers, and anchovies, and serve. Paupiettes of Soles.—Skin the Soles, then lift the fillets carefully from the bones, and trim them. Prepare some whiting forcemeat, spread a layer of it on each fillet, roll them, and wrap each one in a separate sheet of buttered paper, keeping them in shape by tying string round them. Bake the paupiettes in the oven. When cooked, take the paper off them, put them on a hot dish, with a turned mushroom on each, pour over them some German sauce that has been finished with crayfish butter, and serve. Roulettes of Soles.—(1) Remove the heads, fins, and tails from some plump Soles, separate the flesh from the bones, and cut it into oblong fillets. Lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, moisten them with lemon-juice, and leave them for an hour. Roll the fillets to the shape of an egg, and bind them round with thread. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and make it hot; then pack the fillets in closely, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and pour in sufficient water to cook them. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents slowly at the side of the fire. When cooked, arrange the roulettes tastefully on a hot dish, pour their cooking-liquor over them, and serve. (2) Separate the fillets of the Soles, and trim them neatly. Chop some mushrooms, half their quantity of shallots, and half their quantity of parsley, and mix them together. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted put in the above mixture, and toss it over the fixe for a few minutes, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Let the herb mixture get cold, then spread some of it over each fillet, roll them up, lay them on a buttered tin dish, cover with another dish, and bake them about twenty minutes in a brisk oven. When cooked, lay the rolls on a hot dish, garnish them with button- mushrooms, pour a white sauce round them, and serve. Salad of Fillets of Sole.—Prepare the fish as for Fillets of Sole en Mayonnaise. Fill the centre of a flat dish with finely-shredded lettuce or other kind of salad in season, lay the fillets of Sole round the dish, and serve with a mayonnaise dressing poured over. Any kind of salad garnishing may be used to ornament the dish. Sa/valada (Spanish).—Clean and fillet a pair of Soles, and fry fr|em 'u salad-oil; when lightly browned, take the fillets out of the pan, and put in two Spanish onions that have been sliced, and a little more oil. Toss the onions over the fire till cooked, taking care not to brown them; then poui in 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, add some slices of tomatoes freed from skin and pips and the fried Soles, season with pepper and salt, and stir the mixture oyer the fire till boiling. Turn the savalada on to a hot dish, and serve it. Scalloped Soles in Shells.—Put some fillets of Soles into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, squeeze a little lemon- ]nice and dust a little salt over them, and fry them. When cooked, press them between two plates till cold. Soles—continued. Boil some veloute sauce with essence of mushroom till re- duced, then stir in a lump of butter. Cut the fillets of Soles into pieces about iin. wide, and put them into the sauce. Put the above mixture into shells, cover the tops with breadcrumbs that have been fried in butter, and stand them in the oven for a few minutes. Put the coquilles on a dish, and serve them while hot. Soles a l’Anglaise.—Clean two or three Soles, put- them into a fish-kettle with a good supply of slightly-salted water, and boil for thirty-five minutes. Take them out, drain, place them on a dish, garnish with boiled pota- toes cut into shapes and a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with lobster sauce, with butter, glaze, lemon- juice, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. This may be sewed with Dutch sauce, if preferred. Sole a l’Aurore.—Clean a Sole, put it into a buttered baking-dish, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it for ten minutes in the oven. Take it out, lift the top fillets off, carefully take out the backbone, fill the cavity with a little chopped onion and parsley, put the fillets on again, cover the Sole with white sauce, and bake it a few minutes longer. Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and pass them through a wire sieve ; cut the whites into quarters. Put the Sole on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, sprinkle the yolk of the egg on the top, put the white round the sides, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 609), and serve. Soles a la Colbert.—(1) Skin and trim the Soles, and boil them. Blanch the hearts of four heads of endive, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and stir them over the fire till hot; then pour over them 1 pint of stock that has been thickened with yolk of egg beaten with a little cream, and add three or four poached eggs. Put the Soles on a hot deep dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Skin and clean two large Soles, chop off the fins, and cut off the heads in a slanting direction. Put the Soles into a flat bowl, dust them over with salt and pepper, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and add a seasoning of slices of onion, a bay-leaf cut into quarters, and a few sprigs each of parsley and thyme. Rub them every quarter-of-an-hour for an hour-and-a-half with this marinade. Take them out, remove every particle of the marinade, and with a knife make a cut from head to tail on both sides of them. Dip them into a basin of milk, flour them well, mask well with beaten egg, and cover them with breadcrumbs mixed up with grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready on the fire a pan of boiling fat, put the Soles into a frying-basket, and plunge them into the fat; as soon as they begin to colour remove the pan to the side of the fire, so that they may cook gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Put them back on the fire for twelve minutes longer so as to make them crisp, take them out, drain oft' all the fat, and carefully remove the fillets. Put the bottom or underneath fillets on a dish, and mask them copiously with maitre d’hotel butter; over these put the top fillets so as to give the fish its original shape, pour round any thick fish sauce, and serve maitre-d’hotel butter in a sauceboat. Sole St la Creme d’Anchois (with Anchovy Cream).—Clean and boil a Sole in salted water till tender. Put U teacupfuls of white sauce in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of white broth, and boil for a few minutes to slightly reduce it; then stir in ] table-spoonful of anchovy butter and 2 tablespoonfulsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 471 For details respectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. of whipped cream, and mix them well. Put the Sole on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Soles aux Fines Herbes.—Put 1 oz. of butter with 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped shallots rubbed into it into a saute-pan, and pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry ; then put in a Sole well washed, dried, and skinned, pour over it 4 table-spoonfuls of water, gravy, or butter sauce, sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and put it into a moderate oven for lialf-an-hour. Lay the Sole on a hot dish; put the liquor it was cooked in over the fire, and let it boil quickly for two or three minutes; then add a small quantity each of anchovy and Harvey’s sauce, pour it over the Sole, and serve immediately. Sole au Gratin.—(1) Clean a Sole, and season it on both sides udth salt and pepper. Thickly butter a baking-dish, strew in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, lay the Sole in it, strew some more Parmesan over, and then a thin layer of finely-grated and baked breadcrumbs. Bake the Sole in a quick oven, and when cooked serve it in the same dish. (2) Skin, clean, and wipe a large thick Sole, dip it in beaten egg, then cover it well with finely-grated bread- crumb that has been mixed with chopped parsley. Put Jib. of butter in a baking-dish, and melt it in the oven, then lay the Sole carefully in, and bake it for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Put 1 teacupful of rich brown gravy into a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little lemon-juice. Put the Sole on to a hot dish ; pour the butter in with the above ingredients and stir them all together over the fire for a few minutes, adding either some mushrooms, oysters, or mussels, or some of each, if desired. Pour the sauce round the fish, and serve. (3) Scrape a pair of Soles, and steep them in vinegar for an hour. Grease a baking-dish with butter, put the fish in it, laying them on their dark-skinned side, pour over them 1 wineglassful of white wine, 2 teaspoonfuls of mushroom vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and one minced shallot, not covering the fish but leaving the white side clean. Brush the Soles over -with warmed butter, sift some bread - crumbs over them, and bake for lialf-an-hour. When cooked, take the Soles out of the baking-dish, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (4) Thickly butter a gratin-dish, and strew over it some finely-chopped onion and parsley; lay the Sole on this, and season with salt and pepper. Finely chop the contents of a large tin of mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter about 2oz. in weight, a small quantity each of finely-minced onion and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. Spread the above mixture over the fish, pour 1 wineglassful of sherry over, spread a thin layer of grated breadcrumb over the top, and dust them over with salt and pepper; put a few small lumps of butter here and Fig. 610. Sole au Gratin. there over the breadcrumbs. Place the dish in a quick oven until lightly browned at the top. The Sole should be served while hot in the same dish placed on a second one (see Fig. 610). Sole a la Hollandaise.—Skin and trim a large thick Sole. Put lqt. of water in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, a few peppercorns, one onion, a small piece of mace, and a little salt, and let them boil for an hour. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and put in the Sole. Place the lid on the saucepan, and let it simmer gently for lialf-an-hour. Drain the Sole when cooked, put it on a Soles—continued. hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, cover with parsley sauce, and serve. Sole a l’ltalienne.—Clean and boil a Sole in plain salted water till cooked. Put \ table-spoonful of chopped shallots in a saucepan with a little salad oil, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown them. Drain the oil off the shallots, put in with them 24 tea- cupfuls of white sauce, 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. Skim it well, mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of chopped mushrooms and parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and the juice of half a lemon. When well mixed, taste the sauce to see if it is seasoned enough, adding more seasoning if required. Drain, put the Sole on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve it. Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Boil a Sole till tender in salted water. Put 1 teacupful of melted butter sauce into a saucepan with 1 teacupful each of bechamel sauce and broth, and when boiling mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, season- ing with pepper and salt. When cooked, drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, ami serve. Soles a la Marechal.—Skin, clean, and marinade two Soles, and fry them plain without previously dipping them in egg and breadcrumbs. Let them get cold, trim them, brush over with warmed butter mixed with beaten yolks of eggs and salt, cover them with fine breadcrumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, pour a little more warmed butter over, lay them on an oiled gridiron over a clear slow fire, and broil for about twenty minutes, turning them over so as to colour both sides equally. When done, put them on a dish, pour round some rich maitre-d’hotel or any other desired sauce, and serve. Soles a la Mongolfier.—Skin and clean two good-sized Soles, marinade them thoroughly, clear them of the marinade, put them on a drainer in a fish-kettle large enough to hold them without touching one another, and mask them to about lin. in thickness with fish forcemeat seasoned with essence of mushrooms; over this place eight or nine dry crayfish-tails, so as to form rosettes or any other designs, pour round lqt. of white wine, and 8oz. of butter seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, place buttered paper over the fish, and boil very slowly, basting frequently. In about half-an-hour’s time take them out, and keep them hot. Skim the liquor, reduce it to half glaze, and mix half of it in with about h pint of boiling French sauce. Serve this in a sauceboat, and pour the remaining liquor over the fish. Fillets of whitings, contised with truffles and cooked, make a handsome garnish. The French sauce may have mushrooms and crayfish butter mixed up and cooked in it to taste. Sole a la Normande.—(1) Lay a thick-skinned Sole in the bottom of a buttered stewpan, and put in with it about twelve mussels that have been blanched in boiling water, seventeen or eighteen oysters, a chopped onion, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, some trimmings of truffles, and a few pieces of butter. Pour in 1 teacupful each of cliablis and broth, season with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer till nearly done. Put into a stewpan some trimmings of veal and bacon with some chopped vegetables, pour in 4 pint of broth, mix in a lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and boil the sauce for twenty minutes. When three parts done, put the Sole in a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, mix its cooking-liquor with the sauce, and strain them both into a clean stewpan; then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. Pour the sauce over the Sole, put the mussels, oysters, and some sauted mushrooms on the top, and garnish round the sides with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Cover the dish with a sheet of buttered paper, and finish cooking the contents in the oven. When cooked, serve the fish in the same dish placed on a larger flat dish covered by a folded napkin (see Fig. 611).472 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. (2) Lay a large plump Sole perfectly flat in a fish-kettle, strew over it in moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley and onion, and season it with salt and pepper and a small quantity of mace, also a little chopped thyme. Beard about a dozen oysters and clean an equal Fig. 611. Sole A la Normande. quantity of mussels, lay them on the Sole, moisten to height with equal quantities of white wine and water, put the lid on the kettle, and stew the contents gently at the side of the fire. When cooked, strain the liquor off the Sole into a saucepan, and boil it up; then move it off the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Lay the Sole on a deep dish, arrange the oysters and mussels round it, and pour the sauce over it; put the disli into the oven for a few minutes, hut take it out before the con- tents begin to brown. Fry a dozen smelts in butter; cook some slices of truffle in white wine, and some mushrooms in lemon-juice; also cut out of a French roll as many small various-shaped pieces as possible, and fry them a delicate brown in butter. Garnish the dish containing the Sole with the smelts, truffles, mushrooms, and croutons of roll, arranging them as tastefully as possible, and serve. (3) Clean the Soles, and peel and slice one or two onions. Butter a baking-dish, lay the slices of onion in the bottom and the Soles on the top, strew in moderate quantities of minced parsley, sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and moisten to height with white wine. Put the tin in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, during which time baste the Soles frequently with their cooking-liquor, and add more butter if necessary. When cooked, lay the Soles on a hot dish with the onions, pour their sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Soles a la Parisienne.- Skin the Soles, clean them, and trim off their heads and rails. Put a lump of butter into a saute -pan; when it has melted, put in the Soles, sprinkle over them some chopped chives and parsley, and season them with salt and pepper. Saute the fish over a clear fire. Cover a hot dish with Italian sauce, and when cooked, put the Soles on it, and serve them. Soles a la Perigord.—Skin and clean two Soles, and marinade them for an hour. When ready, dry them on a cloth, cover them to about lin. in thickness with whiting or other fish forcemeat mixed up with a finely- chopped black truffle, brush over the surface with white of egg, and sprinkle over another finely-chopped black truffle; place the fish on a thicldy-buttered drainer in a large fish-kettle, add 8oz. of butter, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, pour in 1 pint of champagne, and cook gently but without ceasing for half-an-hour, basting them frequently. Take them out and keep them hot. Skim the liquor and reduce it to half glaze ; pour one-third of it into a sauceboat and the remainder into a saucepan con- taining a pint of regency sauce, work into this Jib. of butter and a few chopped truffles, and cook until done. Pour this over the Soles, and serve with any desired garnish. Sole a la Portugaise.—Skin and clean a thick Sole, and make a deep incision in the back. Mix with loz. of butter one finely-chopped shallot, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Stuff the fish with this, and put it in a buttered gratin-dish. Put alternately some slices of onions and tomatoes over the Sole, using in all one Spanish onion and four tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, put a few small pieces of butter about, then cover all with brown breadcrumbs Soles—continued. that have been mixed with grated Parmesan cheese. Pom- in a little tomato sauce, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes. When cooked, serve the Sole while hot. Soles au Supreme.—Skin, clean, and prepare two Soles as for Soles a la Colbert, marinading them. Take' them out and drain them, rub well with oil, put them on an oiled gridiron over a clear fire, and cook for half- an-hour, turning them so as to equally colour them. When done, put them on a dish, pour over supreme sauce, and serve with more in a sauceboat. Soles a la Trouville.—Trim the dark skin off the Soles, and cut each one into three pieces. Coat the inside of a gratin-dish with butter, then sprinkle thickly over it some grated breadcrumb and some finely-chopped onions; brown the breadcrumbs in the oven, then pour in 1 wineglassful of boiling cider. Put the pieces of Soles in the gratin-dish, and bake them for ten minutes. Work a lump of butter with some flour and chopped parsley, then spread it over the Soles, and finish baking till quite cooked. The Soles should be served in the dish in which they were baked. Sole Croquettes.—Cut into small pieces the remains of some cooked fillets of Sole. Boil some veloute sauce maigre with some fish broth or the cooking-liquor of the Soles till reduced, thicken it with egg, put the pieces of Sole in it, and leave till cold. Cut the above mixture into small equal-sized portions, which shape into corks or balls, dip them in eggs that have been beaten up with a small quantity of olive oil, salt, and pepper, then roll them well in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put the cro- quettes in a frying-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them till brown. Drain the croquettes when they are nicely coloured, dust some salt over, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Sole Pie.—(1) Use the remains of some Soles that have been previously cooked, pick the flesh off the bones, cut it into small pieces, put it in a mortar with a few mushrooms and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs, and pound them, moistening with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Boil and mash 21b. or 31b. of potatoes, butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff paste, and fill it with alternate layers of fish and potatoes; pour some tomato or bechamel sauce over the whole, cover with puff paste, trim and press the edges together, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the pie while hot, standing the pie-dish on a flat plate. (2) Bone a boiled eel, put the bones in the water in which it was cooked, dust in a little salt, and boil the liquor quickly till reduced to \ pint- With the flesh of the eel prepare a forcemeat by chopping and mixing it with some parsley, lemon-peel, and one anchovy, all chopped; mix them well with some grated breadcrumb and loz. of butter, seasoning with salt and pepper. Line a buttered pie-dish with a good short-paste, sjwead the forcemeat at the bottom of it, and fill it up with pieces of Sole flesh. Strain the reduced sauce, pour it in the pie, put a paste cover on, damping and pressing the edges together. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve while hot. (3) With Oysters.—Pick the meat carefully from the bones of a thick pair of Soles, divide it into moderately small pieces, and dust some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over them. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, put a strip of puff paste round it, and fill the dish with alter- nate layers of Sole and bearded oysters. Strain the oyster liquor, pour it into the dish with a little broth, and put in a few pieces of butter. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moisten and press the edges together, and brush it over with beaten egg, making a hole in the top. Bake the pie for about half-an-hour. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of cream, and stir it over the fire till cooked. When done, take the pie out of the oven, pour the hot cream in through a funnel placed in the hole at the top, and serve while hot.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 473 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. Sole Salad.—(1) Pick the hones out of some cold cooked Sole, chop the flesh into small pieces, put it into a basin with some slices of onion and a few sprigs of thyme, basil, and chervil, cover them with tarragon vinegar, and leave them to steep for two hours. When ready to serve, drain the vinegar off the Soles, and mix with them some chopped lettuce and watercress. Prepare a dressing by beating together the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, 2 table-spoon fuls of the vinegar that was strained off the Soles, J teacupful of salad-oil, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, seasoning with pepper and salt. When well mixed, pour the dressing over the salad, and serve it. (2) Skin and clean two pairs of Soles, make a slight incision on one side, and put them into a stewpan with water and white wine mixed in equal quantities and a lump of salt. Boil the Soles gently till cooked, then leave them in the liquor till cold. Cut the flesh into pieces of equal size, put them on a dish,* dust a little pepper and salt over them, and cover with oil and vinegar. Prepare a salad of chopped vegetables, season it, and thicken it with a mayonnaise that has been prepared with aspic. Fill a paper cornet with the salad mixture, stand it up- right in the cylinder of a mould, and set it on ice till firm. Fix a pain-vert on a round dish, dip the cornet containing the salad into hot water, and turn the contents on to the pain-vert; cut off the point of the pyramid, coat it with a layer of mayonnaise prepared with aspic, then lean the fillets of Sole against it, making them slightly overlap each other, and brash them over with half- set aspic. Hollow out a small artichoke-bottom, and fill it with some chopped vegetables that have been glazed with aspic. Fix the artichoke-bottom on the top of the pyramid, garnish round the bottom with halves of egg filled with the same kind of vegetables, also glazed. Serve the salad with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. Sole Sandwich.—Skin and take the fillets of the Soles off the bones, put them in a baking-dish with a little butter, dust some pepper and salt over them, and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked but not overdone, drain the fillets and cut them into thin slices. Cut some thin slices of French bread, butter them, lay the fillets on them, and cover with more thin slices of bread-and-butter. Arrange the sandwiches on a folded napkin or dish-paper placed on a dish, and serve them. Stewed Fillets of Soles with White Sauce.—(1) Separate the fillets from the bones of a pair of fine Soles. Divide them and tie them into knots, put them in a stewpan with half a blade of mace, a small onion, a few peppercorns and salt to taste, pour in sufficient milk to cover them, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a hot dish. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then strain in gradually the milk in which the fillets were boiled. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling and thickened, then pour it over the fish, and serve. (2) Skin a large pair of Soles, cut the flesh off in long fillets, and boil them for a few minutes in salted water, taking care to keep them quite straight. Make f pint of white sauce, put into it 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls eacli of capers and picked shrimps, ten or twelve oysters, and the fillets of the Soles, and stew them for five minutes in the sauce. Serve them with the sauce poured over them. Stewed Soles.—(1) Put three onions cut into slices in a stewpan with a piece of butter, dust in a little pepper and salt, and fry them for a few minutes; then cover them with a little water, and stew them gently till nearly cooked; lastly put in the Soles, cleaned and cut into pieces, and boil them gently till done. Put the Soles and onions on a dish. Stir in with the cooking-liquor the beaten yolks of three eggs and the juice of one lemon, and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Pour the sauce over the fish and onions, sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley on the top, and serve when cold. (2) Put a pair of Soles into a stewpan with fifteen allspice, fifteen black peppercorns, four cloves, and a Soles—continued. good-sized onion; pour over them sufficient boiling water to cover them, add a little salt, and let them boil very gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes, according to the size of the fish. When the fish are sufficiently cooked, pour off the liquor into another saucepan, leaving the fish in the stewpan to keep hot while the sauce is made. Add to the fish liquor as much flour and butter rubbed together as will make it as thick as double cream, and to 1 pint of this sauce add 2 table-spoonfuls of wine, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne, and let it boil three or four minutes. Lay the Soles in a deep dish, strain the sauce over them, and garnish with sippets of fried or toasted bread. (3) Jewish Style.—Peel and slice three moderate-sized onions, put them in a flat stewpan with a small lump of butter and sufficient water to cover them, season with salt and pepper, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. Cut a pair of Soles into nice-shaped pieces, lay them on the top of the onions, and let them simmer gently until cooked. Strain the liquor off the Soles and onions, and when it has cooled mix with it the strained juice of a large lemon and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pour the sauce over the Soles and onions, and let it get slowly hot again, but on no account must it boil. Arrange the fish and onions on a dish, strew minced parsley on the top of them, ami pour the sauce round. Stand the dish in a cool place until the contents are cold, when they may be served. Stewed Soles with Oyster Sauce.—Scrape a pair of thick Soles, leaving the skins on, and steep them for an hour or two in a little vinegar, with a dust of pepper and salt over them. Put the Soles in a fish-kettle with the vinegar and 1 pint of boiling fish stock, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour over them some oyster sauce, and serve. Stewed Soles with Wine Sauce.—Skin and cut the Soles into pieces, and lay them side by side in a fish-kettle; add 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions, three heads of garlic, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and a laurel-leaf ; cover them with white wine and season with salt and coarsely-ground black pepper. Let the fish simmer by the side of the fire till cooked; then take them out, and put them in a stewpan. Mix 4oz. of butter in a saucepan with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, then mix with it the cook- ing liquor of the fish, and stir it over the fire for twenty minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, pour it over the fish in the stewpan, sift in some finely-chopped parsley, and stew them for a few minutes. Put the fish on a Hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve them. Timbales of Soles.—Skin some cold cooked Soles, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with Jib. of fresh butter, a little finely-chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of caviare, and \ teaspoonful of elder vinegar. Stir the above ingre- dients over the fire till hot, but they must not boil, then add the pieces of fish, and season it with pepper and salt. Have ready some timbales of forcemeat that have been made in cup moulds, fill them with the mixture, set them on a dish covered with an ornamental paper, garnish round with parsley (see Fig. 612), and serve while very hot. Vol -au-Vent of Soles.—Peel off the skin and cut the flesh off some cold cooked Soles into small round pieces. Put 1 teacupful of cream sauce into a saucepan with Jib. of butter, and stir it over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil; season the sauce with salt and pepper, and put474 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. the pieces of Soles in. Turn the mixture into a volau- vent of paste, and serve while hot. Water Souchet of Soles.—(1) Separate the lillets from the hones of several small Soles, and divide each fillet into halves. Put the bones and trimmings of the Soles in a stewpan with a few shred parsley-roots, some chopped parsley-leaves, a blade of mace, about a dozen pepper- corns, cold water to cover, and salt to taste. When the water boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for two hours or two-hours-and-a-half. Put the fillets of Sole in a stewpan, strain the above liquor over them, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley-leaves and a few thinly shred roots of parsley, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Place the fish on a hot dish with the liquor over it, garnish with cut lemon, and serve. (2) Clean and wash the Soles well, peeling off the black skin and scaling the white side. Put some thinly-shred roots of parsley into a saucepan with a bunch of green onions and parsley, a lump of salt, and some water, and boil them gently for an hour; then put the Soles in, and let them simmer till cooked. Pick some leaves of paisley, and blanch them in salted water. When cooked, drain the Soles, put them in a deep hot dish, strain over them a little of their cooking-liquor, sprinkle the paisley-leaves and root over them, ami serve with a plateful of rye bread-and -butter. SOLFERINO.—A brilliant deep pink colour with a purplish tinge, so-called from Solferino in Italy, where a battle was fought about the time of its discovery. A mixture of it prepared as follows is sometimes used for colouring confectionery: Mix ioz. of Solferino in lqt. of over-proof plain spirit, and let it remain for a day, giving the jar a shake every now and then. Strain through filtering-paper before bottling. SOLFERINO SOUP.—See Soups. SOMERSET SYLLABUBS.—See Syllabubs. SOF.—Anything dipped in liquid food and intended to be eaten. SOPSAVINE.—A corruption of “ sops of wine,” an old-fashioned name given to an apple of a yellow and red colour, shading to deep red, as though dipped in dark red wine. SORBET.—Fr. for sherbet. A name given to a variety of drinks, of which the following are samples, several others being described under the headings of special fruits: American Sorbet.—Procure some tin moulds to imitate high-shaped wineglasses, fill them with pure water, close them securely, and pack them in pounded ice. Meanwhile mix in equal quantities some fruit syrup, wine, and orange- or lemon-juice; almost any kind of fruit syrup can be used. Pour the mixture into a freezing-pot, and work it well until frozen. The Sorbet or syrup mixture must not be frozen too firm, yet it must be consistent enough to be piled up in a pyramid in the ice glasses. When the water has frozen sufficiently to take the form of the moulds, turn it out carefully, drain off any liquid that has not frozen, and fill up the ice glasses with the frozen syrup, piling it up high. Stand the glasses on a fancy dish, and hand them round. If liked, the water may be coloured before being frozen in the moulds, and a different colour can be used in almost every mould; this will have a very pretty effect when served. Sorbets with Champagne.—Mix pint of. champagne with 1 pint of syrup, and add the juice of two oranges and one lemon, also the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon. In a-quarter-of-an-hour strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and give it 18deg. at the syrup scale (see SUGAR-BOILING). Turn the Sorbet into the freezing-pot, and work it with a spatula till set; then mix with it Sorbet—con tinned. gradually l pint more of champagne that has been mixed with a little syrup. Serve the Sorbet in ice glasses. Kirschenwasser, Madeira, or malaga may be used in the place of the champagne, if preferred. Sorbet with Rum (au Rhum.)—Mix with lqt. of clrablis lqt. of syrup at 35deg., and \ pint of lemon-juice. When well mixed, strain the Sorbet through a silk sieve into a freezing-pot, pack it in pounded ice, and work it with a spatula till frozen. Mix 1 wineglassful of rum with the Sorbet, and serve it in ice glasses. SORREL {Fr. Oseille; Ger. Sauerampfer; Ital. Acetosa; Sp. Acedera).—Sorrel was at one time cultivated in our gardens for its leaves, which were used as spinach or in salads ; but the English variety is so inferior to the large succulent leaves of the French Sorrel (see Fig. 613) Fig. 613. French Sorrel. that it is no longer cultivated. On the Continent Sorrel is most extensively used, hence it is not surprising that the majority of the receipts given for its prepara- tion are foreign. Cream of Sorrel.—(1) Steam 3 good handfuls of well- washed Sorrel with loz. of butter. After cooking for ten minutes, rub through a sieve into a saucepan, add lqt. of white broth and 1 pint of bechamel sauce, season with h table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. Thicken the soup with 1 teacupful of cream and the yolks of two raw eggs well beaten together, and serve with slices of bread or toast. (2) The same as No. 1, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of raw rice, and cooking for twenty minutes longer. (3) Steam 3 good handfuls of well-washed Sorrel with loz. of butter for ten minutes, and then strain it. Moisten with 3 pints of broth, add loz. more of butter, one sliced raw potato, two leeks cut in small squares, half an onion also cut, \ table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook well for thirty minutes, and serve with slices of bread, but do not thicken the soup. Puree of Sorrel.—(1) Wash and chop 31b. or 41b. of Sorrel, put it into a saucepan with some chopped lettuce, chervil- leaves, and a little white beetroot, and stir over the fire for a few minutes to evaporate the moisture ; then add a lump of butter, the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, and season with pepper and salt. Stir the puree over the fire till hot, then turn it into a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick and wash the Sorrel-leaves, and blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, stirring them all the time; then drain them, and when cold put them into a saucepan with some stock and brown thickening. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the Sorrel is done. Skim off all the fat, and pass the Sorrel through a fine hair sieve. The puree is then ready for serving. Puree of Sorrel -with Hard-boiled Eggs.—Wash the Sorrel well and boil it, changing the water twice during475 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sorrel—continued. the boiling. When cooked, drain the Sorrel and chop it, pass it through a line hair sieve into a saucepan, mix with it a little flour and milk, season with pepper and salt, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Mix a lump of butter with the Sorrel, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Puree of Sorrel with. Tench.—Wash and pick the Sorrel, put it into a stewpan with a little water, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes, then drain it, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put two carrots, one onion, one leek, and a piece of eelery-root, all finely minced, into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire ; when lightly browned, pour in. with them 3 pints of boiling water, add some trimmings of mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, a few cloves, a little salt, and two moderately large tench that have been cleaned and cut into pieces. Boil the fish gently till cooked, then drain them and strain the broth. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and Jib. of butter into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then put in the puree of Sorrel, and continue stirring it for a few minutes; then pour in gradually the cooking- liquor of the fish, continue stirring it till it boils, and move the stewpan to the side of the fire. Bone and skin the tench, put the fillets into the soup, and thicken it with a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs with broth. After the eggs are added, the liquor should not boil up again, but should be stirred by the side of the fire till thick. Turn the puree into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Sorrel au Gras.—Prepare and cook the Sorrel as for Sorrel au Maigre, adding enough butter to form it into a perfect pulp (14oz. should be sufficient). Stir it until it begins to bubble, then moisten it with J pint of gravy, stock, or reduced broth. Cook it for five minutes, and use the puree as a sauce. Sorrel au Maigre.—Pick off the stems from \ peck of Sorrel, wash it in several waters, drain, and chop it up with a well-cleaned head of lettuce ; then add half a bunch of chervil, and chop all together very fine. Place all in a saucepan, stir well together on the hot stove for three minutes, and place it in the oven until the vegetables are tender; then add ljoz. of butter, and stir again for about ten minutes, or until the Sorrel is reduced to a pulp. Season with 1 pinch of salt and t pinch of pepper, pour into it a thickening of two yolks of eggs and h breakfast- cupful of cream, stir well without boiling, and serve. Sorrel-and-Lentil Soup.—Pick a few leaves of Sorrel and wash them well, chop them, put them into a saucepan in which a pat of butter has been melted and stew them for about half-an-hour. Boil tlb. of lentils in plenty of water, then strain the water into the saucepan with the Sorrel; add nearly a teacupful of well-washed rice and a little essence of beef. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for two or three hours, stirring them occasionally. Season the soup to taste with pepper and salt, pour it into a tureen, and serve it. Sorrel Salad.—Procure some Sorrel, wash it well in several waters, then put it on a sieve to drain; if the leaves are Fig. 614. Sorrel Salad. large, break them in halves; but if small, they can be left whole. Put the Sorrel in a bowl with a variety of whatever other salad plants are in season (see. Fig 614), the Sorrel—continued. Sorrel being too acid to be eaten alone, cover it with a salad dressing in which vinegar is omitted, and serve. Common field Sorrel is excellent in vegetable salads, mixed with leaves of dandelions, and served with a bacon dressing. Sorrel Sauce.—(1) Mix together \ pint of green goose- berries well scalded, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, loz. of butter, and J pint of Sorrel-juice. Give all a boil together, and serve. (2) Carefully wash lqt. of fresh green Sorrel-leaves, put them over the fire in plenty of boiling salted water, and boil them fast for about five minutes, or until they are tender. Drain them, and throw them into cold water until they are cold; drain again, rub them through a sieve with a masher, and put them into a porcelain-lined sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of white sugar, and enough brown gravy made from the drippings of a goose to make the sauce of the proper consistency. Serve it as soon as it is hot. It is usually served with roasted or baked goose. (3) Pick about 2 handfuls of Sorrel-leaves, wash them well, drain, and chop them. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire till well mixed ; then pour in l pint of cream and a little stock. When boiling, add the Sorrel, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Boil the sauce for two or three minutes, and it will then be ready for serving. Sorrel Soup.—(1) Thoroughly wash Jib. of Sorrel, and cut it into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and make it hot; then put in the Sorrel, and toss it about over the fire for a few minutes. Pour 1 pint of bdchamel sauce over the Sorrel, and stew it gently for fifteen minutes, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and any kind of herbs liked. Cut some moderately thick slices of bread oil' a tin-loaf, toast or fry them in butter till lightly browned, and cut them into small squares; then put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and sen e. (2) Cut up tlb. of well-washed and picked Sorrel, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter (about 2oz.), and stir it over the lire for a few minutes. Dredge in with the Sorrel 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix it well ; then pour in gradually, while stirring, \ pint of white stock. Let the soup simmer gently by the side of the lire for half an-hour, skimming it occasionally; then stir in the yolks of three eggs and h pint of milk that have been beaten together. Stir the soup by the side of the fire till thick, but it must not boil after the eggs are added. Mix in loz. of butter, and when this has dissolved pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast. (3) Cold.—Wash a quantity of Sorrel, drain it, and put it in a stewpan with some chervil, beet tops, and several crisp lettuces; put in also a bunch of parsley and a few finely-chopped button-onions, pour in a small quantity of water (just sufficient to keep them from burning), and let them simmer gently until nearly cooked ; then pour in some good broth that has been strained and well freed from fat. Boil the soup for a few minutes, then strain it into a basin and leave it until quite cold. Season the soup to taste with salt and pepper, pour it into a soup- tureen, put in some very thin slices of lemon, and serve. Stewed Sorrel.—(1) Put some Sorrel that has been washed in several waters into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and stir it over the fire till it has melted. Drain the Sorrel, finely chop it with some trimmings of mushrooms, put the mixture into a stewpan with some little pieces of ham and a small lump of butter, and fry it. Next mix with them 1 teacupful of Spanish sauce, and leave it to stew gently by the side of the fire for an hour. Pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and put it in the saucepan again with a little stock broth, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and a little glaze. When hot, turn the Sorrel on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Wash the Sorrel well, put it into a stone jar with the water that clings to the leaves after the washing, set476 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sce., referred to, see under their special heads. Sorrel—continued. the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the Sorrel stew as slowly as possible. When sufficiently cooked, beat a small quantity of butter into it, and serve hot. (3) Pick and well wash some Sorrel leaves, changing the water several times to free the leaves from all grit. Put it into a saucepan with a little water, and boil it till it loses its green colour. Drain the Sorrel on a sieve; when freed of all the water, chop it, put it into a stewpan, pour in a little gravy, add a little salt and pepper, and boil gently for half-an-liour, adding more gravy to keep up the same quantity. When cooked, turn the Sorrel on to a hot dish, and serve it. Stewed Sorrel in Cream.—Pick the Sorrel, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Drain the Sorrel and chop it very finely, put it into a stewpan with a large lump of butter, and stew it over a very slow fire for half-an-hour. At the end of that time drain as much of the moisture as possible off the Sorrel, dredge it with flour, and pour in 2 2>int or 1 pint of boiling cream, according to the quantity of Sorrel. Let it simmer gently at the edge of the fire for an hour, then season it to taste with salt, and if the Sorrel is acid, a small quantity of sugar may be added. Beat the yolks of four eggs, pour them over the Sorrel, and stir until thickened. Serve while hot. SORREL BOUNCE. —A once famous drink made by soaking the leaves and flowers of the Hibiscus subdariffa in rum, and sweetening to taste. The flavour is acid and pleasant. SOT-Xj’Y-LAXSSE.—A French term for the tail or “ parson’s nose ” of poultry, so-called because, in their opinion, none but a fool would leave it. SOUBISE.—This was the name of a celebrated Prince who had extraordinary faith in his cook, who, in return, named after him a very fine sauce made chiefly with onions. See Sauces and Soups. SOUCHET.—See Water-Souchet. SOUCHONG.—See Tea. SOUFFLES.—These are described as dinner side dishes served hot from the oven, made of eggs, milk, and flour, or other farinaceous substances, beaten till very light, and flavoured with fruits, liqueurs, or essences. A Very fair all-round description, but quite inadequate to depict the many varieties that this modern French delicacy may be made to assume. They may be either sweet or savoury, and partake of various shapes, according to the utensil employed for baking it in, as will be seen from the following receipts, which are, to an extent, typical of others described under special headings, such as Apples, Apricots, Arrowroot, Fowls, &c. Souffles are usually cooked in flat metal dishes, round tins, or fluted moulds, according to the style, a very useful Fig. 615. SoufflE-dish with Loose Lining (Adams and Son). flat dish being one with a loose lining (see Fig. 615), the Souffle being kept delightfully warm by hot water in the larger vessel. (1) Mix in a saucepan 2oz. of potato-flour, 2 table-spoon- fuls of caster sugar, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, and 1 teacupful of milk, and stir them over the fire till boil- ing; then put in loz. of butter, and continue stirring till the flour is cooked. When the mixture is cool, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, stir them quickly, and then Souffles—continued. add the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Butter a Souffle-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake it for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Serve the Souffle directly it is cooked. See Fig. 616. Fig. 616. Souffle. (2) Slightly warm 8oz. of butter, beat it to a creamy consistency, and then add 8oz. of flour and 4oz. of caster sugar. Beat the yolks of six eggs, then add them to the above ingredients with 1 table-spoonful of orange-juice, and stir all together till well mixed and smooth; then stir in gradually the whites of six eggs that have been whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a Souffle-dish, pom the Souffle mixture in it, allowing plenty of room for it to rise, and bake it in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour or a little more. Serve the Souffle at once when cooked. (3) Put 3 teacupfuls of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it commences to boil stir in 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour worked to a smooth paste with a little milk, and let it all boil once more. Pour it into a basin to cool, then stir in the well-whisked yolks of three eggs, and lastly the whites whipped to a froth. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking-dish, put it in a sharp oven, and bake for half-an hour. Take it out, and serve. (4) Put a little more than til), of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding an equal quantity of flour and 5oz. of crushed loaf sugar beaten up with the yolks of seven eggs and a little lemon-juice to flavour. Beat the mixture until it is quite smooth, then add the whites of seven eggs whipped to a froth. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, half fill it only, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for a little more than half-an-hour. Take it out when done, and serve. (5) Put the peel of half a lemon into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, boil them, and add gradually 5oz. of butter rubbed into 6oz. of flour. Let this mixture boil up again, then remove the lemon-peel, and add half- a-dozen eggs beaten up with 3oz. of caster sugar. Turn it out into a basin, and when it is cold beat in the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Butter a Souffle - mould, arrange small pieces of candied peel or dried fruit at the bottom, pour in the mixture, cover the mould over with a piece of greased paper, put it in a quick oven for thirty or forty minutes, and serve it in the mould with a cloth round it (see Fig. 617). Serve a little sweet or brandy sauce in a sauceboat.477 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Souffles—continued. (6) Boil J pint of thin cream with a flavouring of cinnamon and lemon-peel, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Put Jib. of fresh butter over the fire in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir them well together; then strain the cream, and stir it in. Stir in next the beaten yolks of four eggs, and mix well over the fire, but do not let it boil again. Take it from the fire when all the yolks are well mixed, and stir in lightly the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Butter a mould well, stick dried fruit over the inside, pour the pudding in, lay a piece of buttered paper on top of it, tie a cloth over it, and boil for an-hour-and a-lialf. Take the pudding out of the saucepan five minutes before turning it out of the mould. (7) Stir into J pint of boiling milk as much ground rice as will make it into a stiff paste, and continue stirring till the ground rice is well boiled. Take it from the fire, add a very little salt, sugar to taste, and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Then beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff' froth, and mix it in. Bake for fifteen minutes in a hot oven, glaze with caster sugar, and serve immediately. (8) Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, then sift in gradually a little over Jib. of caster sugar and Fig. 618. Souffles in Small Round Cases. 2 table-spoonfuls of bruised candied orange-flowers. Three parts fill some Souffle-cases with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked the Souffles should be served at once. See Fig. 618. Iced Souffle (Savoury).—Cut up either some lobster, crab, or chicken-flesh into small pieces, put it into a basin with a little salad-oil, vinegar, and mayonnaise sauce, season it with salt and pepper, and let it macerate for two hours. Whip some liquid aspic jelly to a stiff froth, and mask the bottom of a silver Souffle-dish with some of it; then put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of aspic, and so on until the dish is nearly full. Put a strip of thick paper round the rim of the dish, fasten it round securely, then fill up the dish with whipped aspic. Pack the Souffle in pounded ice till ready to serve, then remove the strip of paper. Iced Souffle (Sweet).—(1) Stand a large bowl in hot water, and put into it the yolks of fifteen eggs, 1 pint of 32deg. syrup, J pint each of strained strawberry-juice and maraschino, and a little salt. Beat the above ingredients lightly till creamy and well mixed; then take the basin out of the hot water, and continue the whipping for a few minutes longer. Stir in gently with the above mixture f pint of whipped cream, then turn all into a sou (116-case; fix a 2in. wide strip of cartridge-paper round the rim of the case and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, remove the band of paper, and sprinkle some finely-powdered brown- baked savoy biscuits on the top. (2) Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and whisk them over the fire till on the point of boiling; then take it oft’ at once, and continue whipping till nearly cold. Mix with the above ingredients 1 qt. of whipped cream and 1 wineglassful of rum. Stand the Souffle-mould on ice for a few minutes to get thoroughly cold, then fasten round it a strip of cartridge paper, allowing it to come 1 Jin. above the rim. Pour the mixture into the mould, pack it in pounded ice and salt, and freeze it for about two hours. Remove the strip of paper from the mould, sprinkle powdered biscuit over it, and serve. (3) Put the yolks of ten eggs and J pint of cold water into a stewpan, stand it in a larger one containing boiling For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Souffles—continued. water, and whisk the ingredients till light and hot; then take the little stewpan out of the big one, stand it on ice, and whisk till the contents are cold. Whip J pint of cream to a stiff froth, then mix with it an equal quantity of syrup, and flavour it to taste with liqueur. Soak some slices of sponge cake in wine, put them at the bottom of a Souffle-mould, pour the above mixture over them, and fasten a band of paper round the mould. Set the Souffle in a freezing-box, and pack it in ice mixed with salt and saltpetre. When ready to serve, remove the paper, put the mould on a folded napkin, and sprinkle crushed ratafia biscuits over the top. (4) Pour into a stewpan nearly J pint of syrup at 38deg., and put in with it half a stick of vanilla. Put the yolks of seven eggs into a sugar-pan. Place the syrup over the fire, and when it begins to bubble move it off and pour it gradually into the eggs, beating them well at the same time with a whisk; place them over the fire, and whip them for two minutes, then take them off’, and continue to whip them till cool. Place the pan on ice, and beat in 1 breakfast-cupful of whipped cream that has been sweetened with caster sugar and flavoured with vanilla. Fill about fifteen small folded paper cases with the Souffle mixture, then arrange them in a freezing-box, close it, and pack it again in ice. When ready to serve the Souffles (they should not be taken out of the ice under half-an-hour), sprinkle each one with biscuit powder that has been mixed with a small quantity of vanilla sugar, and arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper placed on a glass dish. They should be served at once when taken out of the ice, or they null soon spoil. (5) Put in a large basin the yolks of fifteen eggs, 1 pint of syrup at 32deg., 2 wineglassfuls of curacoa, and 1 wineglassful each of orange-juice and orange-flower water. Stand the basin in a larger one containing boiling water, and whip the contents till creamy and jixst warm; then take the basin out of the water, whip the mixture a few minutes longer, and mix in J pint of whipped cream. Fasten a wide strip of cartridge-paper round the edge of a Souffle-mould, turn the mixture into it, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve the Souffle, remove the paper from the case, and sprinkle some powdered brown biscuits over it. (6) Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with 1 pint of syrup at 32deg.; then stand the basin in a larger one containing boiling water, add a small quantity of noyau and J pint of strained cherry-juice, and whip them all together till frothy; then take the basin out of the water, whip the contents for a few minutes longer, and mix in J pint of well- whipped cream. Bind a strip of paper round a Souffle- mould, letting it rise 2in. above the rim, pour the above mixture into it, and pack it in ice till frozen. Remove the strip of paper from the Souffle-mould, sprinkle some crushed macaroons over the top of the Souffle, and serve it. (7) Mix together the yolks of fifteen eggs, 1 pint of 32deg. syrup, f pint of filtered raspberry-juice, 2 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and the strained juice of one lemon. Proceed as for Iced Souffle No. 2, adding at the last 2oz. of chocolate drops and J pint of whipped cream. Turn the mixture into a Souffle-case round which a broad band of cartridge-paper has been fastened to prevent the Souffle rising over the^edges. Pack the Souffle in pounded ice, and leave it to freeze for two hours. Remove the band ot paper from the Souffle-case, sprinkle powdered baked savoy biscuits over the Souffle’ and serve it at once. (8) Put lib. of caster sugar into a lined stewpan with 1 pint of water and the well-beaten white of an e^ and boil it over a slow fire; skim the syrup until no" scum remains, then strain it through muslin until quite clear Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of the syrup up witli the yolks of seven eggs, the white of one, and J wineglassful of maraschino. Pour the mixture in a basin that has been stood m a saucepan with warm water round it, stand it near the fire, and whisk the contents briskly until thev are of the consistency of a light batter. Fix a thick band ol white paper round a Souffle mould in such a way that Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.478 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred tot see under their special heads. Souffles—continued. it rises 2in. higher than the rim of the dish, pour in the mixture, and pack it in pounded ice and salt for about three hours. When ready, remove the paper from the dish, dust the Souffle over with macaroon biscuit powder, and serve it. Imperial Souffle.—Slightly warm tlb. of butter, beat it till creamy, then beat in gradually the yolks of ten eggs anti h pint of cream. Blanch and cut into thin strips 2oz. of almonds, and finely grate the peel of half a lemon; mix them with 1 teacupful of flour and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then pour in slowly the beaten mixture, stirring it at the same time to keep it smooth. Butter the interior of a Souffle-mould, strew in breadcrumbs, and shake out those that do not stick to the butter. Pour Fig. 619. Imperial Souffle with Biscuits or Confectionery. the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the Sou (lie on a stand garnished with sweet biscuits or confectionery (see Fig. 619). Milan Souffle.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of caster sugar, and whip them over a slow fire till thick, but do not let them boil. Mix with the eggs the juice and grated peel of four lemons, and let them stand till cold. Add nearly h pint of whipped cream in which loz. of isinglass has been dissolved. Serve the Souffle directly it is ready, piling round it in the dish the well whipped whites of the six eggs, and a little whipped cream. Souffle d. la Paysanne.—Prepare a chestnut puree, and mix with it a little cream. Put a puree of apples in the bottom of a dish, place the chestnut puree on the top, and cover all with white of egg Italian meringue. Bake the Souffle in the oven till the meringue is slightly coloured. When cooked, the Souffle should be served at once. Souffles Fritters.—(1) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan, boil it up, and add 2oz. of butter or lard ; when the latter is dissolved put in 4oz. of flour in one lump, and not sprinkled, and work the paste with a spoon until it is smooth and cooked. Remove the pan from the fire, and add five eggs, beating one well in before another is added, and working the paste well against the sides of the saucepan. Have ready a deep frying-pan with a good supply of boiling fat in it, and drop in the mixture in lumps about the size of an egg; as soon as they swell and become hollow and light, take them out, drain, put them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, and serve. Only a few of them should be cooked at a time, as they require a lot of room to swell. (2) Pour 1 breakfast cupful of water into a saucepan on the fire, add J toz. each of crushed loaf sugar and butter, and a little grated lemon rind. When the liquor boils, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and mix in 4oz. of flour. Put the pan back again on the fire, stir well Souffles—continued. while the mixture boils for a few minutes, and by this time it should be quite stiff. Turn it out into a basin, and when it is cool but not cold, work in three eggs, beating one well in for about four minutes before another is added. Set the basin in a rather warm place, and let it remain for three hours or so. Drop the paste from a teaspoon, half filling it, into a frying-pan of boiling fat, frying a few of the lumps at a time; when they are swollen and light, take them out, drain, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with caster sugar sprinkled over them. The teaspoon should be dipped each time in the boiling fat, as it assists the paste to fall from it. Spanish Souffle.—Make a round sponge cake about 4in. in height, cut it when cold into thin slices, mask them, with the exception of the top one, with any kind of jam, soak each one with lemon or other fruit syrup, or milk or cream, and replace them in their original positions. Spread over the sides the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of sugar, sprinkle over a little more sugar, and set it in a slow oven to harden, taking care that, while it may become yellow, it must not be allowed to get brown. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with \ table-spoonful of sugar and a little of any kind of flavouring, and pour over 1 teacupful of boiling milk, stirring all the while; put this into a saucepan on the fire, and stir until it thickens. Put the Souffl6 on a dish, pour round the custard, and serve either hot or cold, as desired. York Souffle.—Beat five eggs with Mb. of caster sugar, then mix with them the juice and grated peel of two lemons. Melt 2oz. of butter, and stir it in with the above ingredients. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a rich puff paste, pour the above mixture into it, and bake it. When cooked, serve the Souffle at once. Zephyr Souffles.—Put the whites of two eggs and |lb. of caster sugar into a sugar-boiler, and whisk them over a very slow fire till frothy; then put in |lb. of finely- chopped almonds and a few drops of essence of pepper- mint. Spread some sheets of white wafer-paper upon some baking-tins, and lay on them the above mixture in small equal quantities, using a dessert spoon for the purpose, and leaving a small space between each. Bake the zephyrs in a moderate oven till very lightly coloured. SOUPS (Fr. Potages; Ger. Suppen).—Some observa- tions have been made under the headings Broth and Consomme, showing the distinction that may be drawn between these two and Soups, a classification that is nevertheless almost impossible. Supposing a broth to be a light kind of liquid food, more famous for its delicate flavour than for nutritive qualities, consomme would be broth double-distilled, so to speak, and considerably added to and strengthened by other foods, which generally impart to it a name. Soup is the happy medium, neither one nor the other, and yet both, and consequently highly prized by heavy eaters. Kettner writes of Soup, “ There has been a good deal of needless controversy about Soup ’’—(under this name, be it observed, Kettner appears to class all manner of savoury liquid foods, including broths and consommes)— “ some people finding in it a dinner of itself, and some refusing it as a weak wash fit only for babies and invalids. Grimod de la Reyniere said that Soup is to a dinner what a portico is to a palace, or an overture to an opera. It is not only the commencement of the feast, but should give an idea of what is to follow.” Another epicure, no less than the Marquis de Cussy, dubs Soup a sort of preface to the dinner, and expresses his opinion that a good work can do without a preface. Undoubtedly the majority of opinions would be against the Marquis, for with the Soup not only does the feast begin, but the stomach receives a little encouraging stimulation, which prepares it for the more elaborate task about to follow. Admitting this, Kettner continues, “ It is quite true, however, that to serve a purpose (stomach stimulating) we do not require much weight of matter, and the plain479 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. ces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Soups—continued. rule to follow is: for a great dinner the Soups should be as light as possible, just enough to give a fillip ; for a little dinner, with one or two dishes, they may be as rich and satisfying as you please. De Cussy is quite in accord here with Thomas Walker (of the Original), who Fig. -620. Soot-tureen. maintained that if he gave turtle Soup to his guests they would want little else—whitebait and a grouse.” Soup should always be sent to table in a metal or earthenware tureen (see Fig. 620) fitted with a tight- fitting cover. A metal ladle is best for serving, and it should be distinct from the tureen. Those tureens with holes cut in the lids for the ladle handle let out the heat and steam. The following directions may be of value to the Soup- maker, who, be it remembered, has an extraordinary array before him: Bring the cold water in the stockpot with the meat and bones to the boil slowly, and then let it simmer with merely a ripple on the surface for hours, never boiling and Fig. 621. Stockpot. never ceasing to simmer. Skim off every particle of scum and fat, for which purpose it is as well to use a stockpot with a tap at the bottom (see Fig. 621). Beware of using too much salt; a little is advisable, as it causes the scum to rise; but as the liquid boils down, the proportion of salt is increased in consequence, because the water flies off in steam, but the salt remains. Soft water is best for making Soup. Meat used for Soup-making should not have been cooked before, and although a Soup of fair quality may be made from some kind, as a rule it will be found to give a vapid taste to the stock, which seasoning cannot disguise. The sediments of gravies that have stood to be cold should likewise be avoided, as they are apt to make the Soup cloudy. Raw vegetables, with the exception of onions, should not be put on at the same time as the meat, or their Soups—continued. flavour will boil away. Onions, either whole or sliced and fried, may go in at the first; potherbs, carrots, and celery, after three hours’ simmering; turnips, vegetable- marrows, asparagus-tops, and other delicate vegetables, should go in only a short time before serving. Boil the stock, if possible, the day before it is wanted for the Soup, and when cold skim off the fat, if a stock- pot without a tap is used, such as Papin’s digester (see Figs. 622 and 623). When broth or stock is put away to cool, Fig. 622. Papin’s Digester. it should be poured into a freshly-scalded and thoroughly- dried earthenware pan, which is preferable to any metal; and if it is necessary to keep the Soup for more than a day or two, it should be occasionally simmered up over the fire and then returned to the pan, which has been scalded and dried. See Colourings, Herbs, Liaison, &c. For further information see Broths. Fig. 623. Section of Papin’s Digester. Albert Victor Soup.—Finely mince jib. of lean veal, season with pepper and sait, put it into a mortar, and pound it well, adding gradually the yolk of an egg and 1 table-spoonful of flour. Have ready Jib. or so of flaky paste, roll it out thin, cut it into triangular-shaped pieces,480 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads, Soups—continued. put a little of the veal on each, moisten with cream sauce, and fold the paste over. Brush them over with egg, and fry to a golden colour in fat; drain them, and keep them hot. Put Jgall. of white stock into a sauce- pan with Jib. of lean beef and a bunch of sweet herbs, place the saucepan on the fire, anti whisk until the liquor boils and there is a good froth on the top. Clarify with white of egg and shells, strain through a cloth into the tureen over the veal rissoles, and serve. American Soup (a l’Americaine).—Put lib. of neck of mutton into a saucepan with fib. of split peas that have been soaked and 5 pints of water, and place it over the fire; when boiling, put into the saucepan one large chopped onion, half a carrot, half a turnip, and a stick of celery cut up into small pieces, also J teaspoonful of sugar, and boil gently for two hours. Cut lib. of tomatoes up into small pieces, put them into the Soup, and boil it half-an-hour longer. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, put it back into the saucepan again, season it with pepper and salt, and boil it up once more. Turn the Soup into a Soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Andalusian Soup (a l’Andalusie).— Keep simmering gently by the side of the fire 3qts. of stock, prepared as for thick Soup with clarified fish broth. Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of soubise puree the yolks of four raw eggs. Mix 6 table- spoonful of tomato puree with 1 breakfast-cupful of pike quenelle forcemeat, and season it with a little mild Spanish pepper. Shape it into quenelles, and poach them. Add the soubise preparation with the Soup, and stir it well; then skim all the fat off the Soup. Put the quenelles into a Soup-tureen, strain the Soup over them, and serve with a dish of poached eggs. Bagration Soup (a la Bagration).—Mix with some clear fish Soup half its quantity of reduced stock, boil it gently for twenty minutes, and skim oft’ all the fat. Mix a little curry powder to a smooth paste with a little milk, then stir it into the Soup, add the beaten yolk of two eggs, and \ pint of cream. Move the Soup to the side of the fire, and stir it for a few minutes, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Fry some fillets of sole and chopped vegetables in a little butter till nicely browned, then drain them, put them in a Soup-tureen, with a few crayfish-tails and bread fried separately and cut into small pieces, pour the Soup over them, and serve it. Baked Cottage Soup.—Cut lib. of any kind of meat into slices and put it in an earthenware jar, with alternate layers of slices of carrots.and onions; then put in 1 pint of split peas that have been soaked for one night, cover all with lgall. of water, season to taste with pepper and salt, and bake for three or four hours in a moderate oven. Strain the Soup into a Soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast, or if preferred, croutons of fried bread. Baked Soup.—Cut 21b. of lean beef into pieces as small as dice; chop up into pieces about the same size one onion, one carrot, one head of celery, two turnips, and four tomatoes; add 3 teacupfuls of boiled rice, 1 teacupful of chopped cabbage, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and put all into a large earthen- ware jar; mix all well together, and pour over them 5 pints of cold water. Cover the jar closely, and put it in a hot oven in a pan of boiling water for six hours. Do not uncover the jar till the Soup is cooked. Bonne Femme Soup (a la Bonne Femme).—Wash four lettuces, chop them finely, and put them into a saucepan with one finely-chopped cucumber, 1 teacupful of chopped chervil-leaves, and a small lump of butter, with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste; put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents cook quickly for ten minutes; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in gradually 3 pints of veal stock, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the Soup simmer gently for half-an-hour. Beat the yolks of six eggs with h pint of cream and 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar, then stir them gradually into the Soup. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with either sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Soups—continued. Brisse Soup (a la Brisse).—Boil a few heads of asparagus till tender, then drain and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Beat two eggs with 1 teacupful of chicken stock and 1 pinch of grated nutmeg; add the asparagus, mix them well, and then pass all through the sieve again. Butter a plain mould, pour in the puree, stand the mould in a saucepan, surround it with hot water, and steam it till set. Make hot the desired quantity of chicken stock. Turn the cream out of the mould, cut it into small equal- sized pieces, put them into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or toast. The vegetables used for the cream may be varied and cooked in separate moulds, thus obtaining a variety of different colours. Brunoise Soup (a la Brunoise).—Put into a saucepan an equal quantity of sliced carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery, with a lump of butter, and fry the vegetables till brown ; then pour in a little stock, and boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze. Pour in the desired quantity of clear Soup and boil. Prepare some Italian paste, boil it separately, then mix it with the Soup. Turn the Soup into a Soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or toast. If desired, boiled rice can be substituted for the Italian paste, and rings of turnips fried in butter. Calia Cold Soup (Russian).—Peel, wash, and cut some carrots, parsley, and celery-roots into pieces lin. long, and at the end of each piece make an incision in the shape of a cross. Boil the vegetables in water for five minutes, then drain them, put them into a saucepan with a little broth, and boil gently till cooked. Clean and put three chickens into a saucepan with a small quantity of minced veget- ables, a bunch of parsley and fennel, and 1 wineglassful of the juice that has been obtained from some gherkins, and pour in 4qts. of broth. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently till the chickens are tender. Take the birds out, pass the broth through a fine hair sieve, and leave it till nearly cold. Skim the fat off the Soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, put in the cooked vegetables, the breasts of the chickens cut into collops, and 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley and green fennel, and serve it. Camerani Soup.—Finely mince a sheep’s liver and the giblets of two or three chickens; put them into a saucepan with a few carrots, turnips, leeks, parsnips, celery-sticks, and heads of lettuce, all finely chopped, add a lump of butter, and place the saucepan on the fire until all the contents are cooked. In the meantime, blanch Jib. or so of macaroni, by boiling it gently, skimming, pouring off the water, and rinsing with cold water. Put the macaroni at the bottom of the tureen, cover with the veget- ables and meat, dust over with grated Parmesan cheese, pour over sufficient brown stock, set the tureen in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and continue to cook until the macaroni is quite tender. Serve hot. Canneloni Soup.—Prepare some rich broth, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato puree. Boil some macaroni in salted water till tender, then drain it, put it in a soup-tureen, pour the boiling Soup on it, and serve with a plateful of grated Parmesan cheese. In Naples, where this dish is generally eaten on Christmas Day, very large macaroni is used, channelled on the outside and pointed at both ends, and these are called “canneloni.” Cappelletti Soup.—Put in a large saucepan 21b. of beef, lib. of fresh pork, the knuckle-bone of some raw ham, a fowl, and a calf’s udder ; add some carrots, turnips, and onions, put in a lump of salt, fill the saucepan with water, put the lid on, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire. When the fowl and udder are cooked, take them out of the saucepan, and leave them till cool; then cut the meat off the breast of the fowl, put it into a mortar with half its quantity of the udder, a piece of beef marrow, and the quarter of a boiled calf’s brain, and pound them ; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Bind the forcemeat with the beaten yolks of twoTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 481 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. eggs, and divide it into halves. Roll out one half into a thin flat, and cut it into ‘2in. oblong squares; fill a paper cornet with part of the other half, and squeeze out a small ball on each square ; moisten each on one side with a paste-brush dipped in water, and turn it up over the edges, so as to form a sort of triangle. Press the paste with the fingers, join the two extremities of the triangle together by bending them round, then turn them over to give them the shape of little hats (cappelletti). Put the shapes on a sheet of paper, and cover them over with another sheet of paper. Strain the broth into another saucepan, and boil it up ; then put in the cappelletti, boil them for six minutes, move the saucepan to the side of fire, and let the Soup simmer a few minutes longer. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of grated Parmesan cheese. Carmelite Soup (a la Carmelite).—Soak 1 pint of lentils in water for two hours; then drain them, and stew till tender in a little water; when cooked, pound them, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Mix in a saucepan with some rich broth a little veal gravy, add the puree of lentils, boil it up, and skim well. Fry some slices of bread in boiling fat; when nicely browned, drain them, cut them into small squares, and throw them into the Soup. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Cheap Soup.—Prepare lqt. of stock with some bones. Chop the remains of some cold roasted poultry, rabbit, or game, pound it in a mortar, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Strain the stock, mix the pounded meat with it, and let it simmer gently for one hour, skimming off the fat as it rises to the top. When cooked, turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, ami serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Chinese Soup (a la Chinoise).—Put Jib. of butter and 6oz. of flour in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till cooked but not browned; then mix in gradually 2qts. each of white broth and milk. Boil the above mixture, then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, 2 table- spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, and a bunch of sweet herbs, seasoning with pepper, salt, sugar, and cayenne pepper. Clean and cut the soft roes of three mackerels into small equal-sized pieces, and fry them lightly in butter. Prepare and cook some small quenelles of whiting forcemeat, and mix with them a little maitre-d’hotel butter and some chopped tarragon. Strain the Soup, return it to the sauce- pan, put in the fish-roes and quenelles, and let it boil seven or eight minutes longer. Pour the Soup into a soup- tureen, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve it with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Clear Soup.—Skim off all the fat from 2qts. of stock, put it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of prepared carrots, turnips, leeks, and celery, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, Jib. of scraped beef, a few peppercorns, a lump of salt, and the whites ami shells of two eggs. Stand the saucepan over the fire, whip the contents till boiling, then leave off whipping, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes. Strain the Soup, first through a fine hair sieve then two or three times through a jelly-bag, till quite clear. Wine may be added to the Soup before serving, if liked. Clear Soup with Asparagus.—Cut up into pieces about the size of peas the edible portion of twenty-four or thirty sticks of small asparagus, and boil them in salted water. Have ready prepared the following Soup: Put the remains and bones of two cold roast fowls, all cut up into small pieces, into a saucepan, with 1 pinch of salt and water to cover’ and place the saucepan over the lire; when the water commences to bubble, skim it well, and put in two or three carrots and onions, a head of celery, all cut into convenient-sized pieces, and a bunch of sweet herbs including a few sprigs of parsley and a bay-leaf; also put in a few cloves and peppercorns. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently for three or four hours. Afterwards skim off all the fat and strain the Soup into a clean saucepan, put in the pieces of asparagus, and boil it up once; then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Soups—continued. Clear Soup with Nudels.—Prepare the desired quantity of clear broth from beef, and skim it well. Peel and slice some carrots, turnips, and green leeks, put them into a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter and one or two young cabbages cut into thin shreds, cover them with the lid, and put them over a very slow fire where they may stew gently until quite tender, shaking the pan occasion- ally. When the vegetables are cooked, put them into the Soup, and boil the whole gently for about lialf-an-hour. Make the nudels as follow : Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy, then work in slowly and smoothly with it three heaped table-spoonfuls of flour and three well- beaten eggs. Strain the Soup, and return it to the sauce- pan ; when it boils up again, put in small quantities of the paste, moulding them into round balls with hands that should be constantly dipped in water, and let it simmer for a-quarter-of-an-liour longer. When ready, pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve. Clear Soup with Poached Eggs.—Put into a large sauce- pan lib. of lean veal cut up into small pieces, two or three peeled onions and carrots, and a head of celery, cut up into moderate sized pieces; then put in a lump of butter, and toss the ingredients over the fire until they are lightly browned; next put in a few small pieces of ham and 1 breakfast-cupful of hot common stock. Stir the whole for some time longer over the fire, then move the saucepan off and leave the contents until cold. Chop a knuckle of veal with its bones into small pieces, put these in the saucepan with the other ingredients, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices. Fill up the saucepan with cold common stock, and when it boils move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours. Afterwards strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve into a basin, leave it until cold, and then skim off all the fat. Pour the Soup into a saucepan without disturbing the sediment at the bottom, mix with it the whites of two eggs that have been whisked to a froth, and place it over the fire until boiling, whisking it occasionally; then strain it through a broth-napkin, return it to the saucepan again, and keep it hot at the edge of the fire. Pour some boiling water into a deep frying-pan, put in a lump of salt, a few leaves of parsley, and a small quantity of vinegar, and poach in it as many eggs as will be required; when the eggs are sufficiently cooked, take them out carefully, and cut them all to one size with a fluted tin cutter about 2in. in diameter. Pour the boiling Soup into a soup-tureen, place the eggs care fully in it, and serve. A few leaves of tarragon or chervil would be an improvement. Coburg Soup (4 la Saxe Coburg).—Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with one thinly-sliced onion and Jib. of lean ham, and fry them over a clear fire for ten minutes. Finely chop about 21b. of boiled Brussels sprouts, put them in with the onions, and fry them for six or seven minutes; dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it till well mixed; then pour in gradually 4qts. of clear Soup and 1 pint of boiled milk, season the Soup with pepper, salt, and 1 teaspoonfnl of sugar, stir it over the fire, and boil quickly for ten minutes; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Strain the Soup through a silk sieve, return it to the saucepan, skim off all the fat, and boil it up again. Put some small poached veal forcemeat quenelles in a soup-tureen with some croutons of fried bread, pour in the Soup, and serve it. Colbert Soup (a la Colbert).—(1) Cut the hearts from five heads of celery, blanch them well, put them into a sauce- pan with a lump of butter, and fry them. Pour in some clear Soup, and boil it. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 teacupful of cream. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in the eggs and the cream quickly. Poach some eggs, put them into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Conde Soup (ala Conde).—(1) Wash and soak 1 pint of red beans in water for two hours. Put into a saucepan a knuckle of veal, lib. of the breast of bacon, and some bones and trimmings of roast fowl if handy; add oneTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 482 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. onion with two cloves stuck in it, one carrot, two leeks, a bunch of green onions, sweet herbs, parsley, two bay- leaves, and the soaked beans; season with pepper and salt, and pour in plenty of cold water. Let the above ingredients simmer gently till the beans are tender; then take them out with a strainer, pound them, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Boil the Soup an hour longer, skimming often till all the scum is removed. Strain the Soup, return it to the saucepan with the puree of beans, and let it boil up again. Put some croutons of fried bread in a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, and serve it while very hot. (2) Remove the skins from 1 pint of cold boiled haricot beans, pound them to a paste with a little parsley sauce, mix gradually with it lqt. of well-seasoned stock, and give it a boil. Fry a few croutons of bread in butter, put them into the tureen, and pour the boiling Soup over them. Conti Soup.—A probable corruption of the word Conde, which Soup it resembles in every particular. Cottage Soup.—Put Jib. of any kind of meat cut into small pieces into a saucepan with 2oz. of dripping, one large onion also cut into small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and stir over the fire till lightly browned; then put in two turnips, a stick of celery, and 21b. of leeks, all cut into small pieces, and stir over the fire for a few minutes longer; then add Jib. of well-washed rice, 5qts. of water, and season to taste with pepper and salt. When boiling, move the Soup to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for three-hours-and-a-half, stirring occasionally. When ready to serve, turn the Soup into a soup-tureen. Countess Soup (d la Comtesse).—Put a little more than Jib. of butter into a saucepan and melt it; then put in Jib. of chopped lean ham, one sliced onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and fry the contents of the saucepan over a moderate fire for ten minutes. Blanch and cut half- a-dozen throat sweetbreads into slices, put them in the saucepan with the butter, &c., pour in 1 pint of clear broth, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for half- an-hour. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of flour in with the sweet- breads, stir it over the fire to cook, then turn all in a mortar and pound them. Pour 4qts. of veal stock into a saucepan, put in the pounded mixture, and boil it over a quick fire. Season the Soup with a little sugar, salt, and pepper, pass it through a silk sieve, return it to the saucepan, and boil up again. Put some small round croutons of fried bread into a soup-tureen, with 1 teacup- ful of oil, then pour in the Soup, and serve it while very hot. More veal stock can be added if the Soup be too thick. Crecy Soup (a la Crecy).—(1) Scrape and wash two good- sized carrots, peel and wash two medium-sized turnips, wash and trim a small head of celery, peel a medium-sized onion, and cut them all into slices; put them into hot water, and let them steep for fifteen minutes; then drain them, and put them in a saucepan over the fire with about 2oz. of butter, a couple of ham rashers nicely trimmed, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Pour over them sufficient beef stock to cover. When all the ingredients are well cooked, take the vegetables out, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Strain the broth, put the pulped vegetables into it, return it to the fire, and let it simmer for two hours. Fry a few crusts of bread in butter, and put them into the tureen. Skim the Soup, pour it over the crusts of bread, and serve. (2) Peel and wash some young carrots, chop them, and put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter and a pinch of sugar. Put the lid on the saucepan, and cook the contents slowly, stirring them occasionally. Peel a raw potato, slice it, and put it in with the carrots, adding a little stock, pepper, and salt. Let the vegetables simmer gently till tender, then pass all through a fine hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, pour in a sufficient quantity of stock, and boil it. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast. (3) Scrape and wash two dozen good bright-coloured carrots, not very large ones, and boil them quite soft in lgall. of water. Peel and slice a dozen large onions, and Soups—continued. fry them brown in Jib. of butter. Pound the carrots in a mortar, then mix the fried onions with them, and add them to the water they were boiled in, together with salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four cloves, and a blade of mace. Let all boil together for an hour, and then strain through a hair sieve, rubbing the vegetables through; put the soup again over the fire, and let it boil fast until it is as thick as cream. Put a little dry boiled rice (boiled as for curry) in a tureen, and pour the Soup over. (4) Peel and wash eight turnips, scrape and wash eight carrots, wash and trim three heads of celery, peel six onions, and cut all up small. Put them into a saucepan with Jib. of butter and a slice of ham, and let them stew gently for an hour, stirring them frequently. When they commence to brown, add as much gravy or broth as will fill the tureen, and let it boil till the vegetables are quite soft. Strain them out, and with the back of a wooden spoon rub them through a sieve; then return the vegetable puree to the Soup, season it with salt and pepper, and let it boil for lialf-an-hour, skimming off any scum that rises. Pour it into a tureen, and serve hot. Crofites-au-Pot Soup.—Remove the bone from a piece of leg of beef, truss the meat, and put it in the stockpot with a few slices of blanched streaky bacon, a little salt, and 6qts. of water. When the water boils, move the stockpot to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for lialf-an-hour; then put in the stockpot a knuckle of veal, three leeks, two carrots, one turnip, a head of celery, an onion that has been burnt brown, 1 pinch of chervil, and J table-spoonful of peppercorns and cloves. Blanch a small savoy-cabbage and three large lettuces, and tie them up separately; add them to the other ingredients, and let them boil gently for an hour. At the end of that tune, put in the stockpot two backs of roasted fowls, and ’ let it simmer for three hours longer. Take the vegetables out of the Soup, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a soup-tureen. Skim the fat off the Soup, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the vegetables, and serve while hot. Crown Prince’s Soup.—Rub 4Jlb. of fresh or bottled cherries through a fine sieve into a basin, put a quarter of the kernels into a mortar, bruise them, put them into a cup or bowl, cover with J bottle of red wine, and let them stand for an hour. Mix lib. of sugar with the cherries, pour over another J bottle of red wine, strain the wine from the kernels, and mix it in. Have ready in a bain-marie about lqt. of rich Soup, put in the cherries, &c., make it hot without boiling, pour it into a tureen over a dozen or so of small hard biscuits, and serve. Crupnic Soup (Polish).—Put about lib. of well-washed pearl-barley into a stewpan, pour over it lqt. of water, and drop in 1 dessert spoonful of kitchen-salt. Let this cook slowlv until the pearl-barley is done. In the mean- time, whilst the pearl-barley is cooking, make about lgall. of strong chicken broth. Drain the pearl-barley and work it against the sides of the stewpan with a spoon, adding a small piece of butter now and again, until the barley is white in colour and creamy in consistence. Drain the chicken broth and stir it into the barley. Put this in a tureen, adding the finely-minced flesh of the chickens used in making the broth, cold vegetables cut into patterns or little dice, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley or fennel, or both. Serve as hot as possible. Cussy Soup (a, la Cussy).—Peel seventeen or eighteen small white onions, cut them into very thin slices, put then into a stewpan with a large lump of butter and 1 table-spoon- ful of moist sugar, and toss them about over the fire until nicely browned. Afterwards pour over them a sufficient quantity of hot stock to make the Soup. When boiling, mix in "with it 2 wineglassfuls of the best French brandy, and season with salt and pepper, but not too highly. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, cut them into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the pieces of bread,' put them in a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, sprinkle in some grated Parmesan cheese, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 483 Soups—continued. Diplomatic Soup (a la Diplomate).—Blanch a beef palate for two minutes in boiling water, then scrape it well, drain, cook for one hour, and then cut it up into dice. Place it in a stewpan with 1 pint ot consomme, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; cover the stewpan, and cook the contents for half-an-liour. Put in another stewpan lqt. of stock, add the beef palates and twelve chicken quenelles or forcemeat balls, boil up, and serve. D’Orsay Soup (a la d’Orsay).—Place in a saucepan 1 pint each of bechamel sauce and broth, \ table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the lire for fifteen minutes. Add to this \ pint of cream of asparagus and loz. of butter. When finished boil- ing, put in a hot soup-tureen six soft-boiled and well pared pigeon-eggs, and the breast of one pigeon cut into small pieces; pour the Soup over, and serve. Dry Soup (Sopa Seca) (Portuguese).—Put as much stock as is required into a saucepan, then add slices of bread to make the stock thick with them; season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs (using plenty of mint), and add a very little butter. Bring the SoufJ slowly to the boil, remove the herbs (which sliould be tied up in a bunch), turn the Soup into a dish, and bake in a moderate oven until a brown crust is formed on the top. Serve hot. Duchess Soup (a la Duchesse).—(1) Put two large sliced onions into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, ami fry them for eight minutes. Sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and fry it for two minutes, stirring well to prevent it burning; then pour in gradually lqt. of boiling milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the tire for fifteen minutes. Strain the above mixture, put it back in the saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and set it over the fire. Beat three eggs with a little salt and pepper, then pour them through a strainer into the Soup. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the contents for a few minutes. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Chop into small pieces 61b. of veal, lib. of lean ham, and a calf’s foot. Put a small lump of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; then put in the meat, two sliced onions, and the peel of half a lemon ; pour in \ pint of broth, and stir all over a quick fire till a jelly forms at the bottom of the saucepan. Pour in h pint of rich brown gravy and 7qts. of water, and boil up; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmer- ing for two hours. Skim the Soup, and pass it through a silk sieve into another saucepan. Mix 2oz. of arrowroot till quite smooth with \ pint of cold water, then pour it into the Soup, stir it till boiling, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Cut the meat off a small cold braised chicken, trim it into small nice-shaped pieces, put them into the Soup with some veal forcemeat quenelles, and boil them; then turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Duke of Connaught Soup.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely-ground linseed-meal into a tin and bake in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, but without burn- ing. Cut off sufficient meat from a cold boiled fowl to fill a teacup. Put lqt. of brown stock and 11 pints of vegetable broth into a saucepan, add a bunch of sweet herbs and a few slices of carrot, and boil for a few minutes; strain into another saucepan, and keep it hot. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with the meal, stir it over the fire, add 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, and stir in the stock, adding it gradually. Put in the pieces of fowl, simmer for half-an-liour, and serve hot. Family Soup.—Thoroughly clean an ox-liead, break the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put them in a large pan with a peck of potatoes, 31b. each of turnips and onions, and 21b. of carrots, all peeled and cut down lengthwise ; also put in 3 pints of coarse oatmeal and a few pieces of parsley and celery. Pour over these in- gredients 5galls. of water, put the lid closely on the pan, and keep the contents simmering for eight or ten hours. It is well to make this Soup the day before serving it, Soups —continued. and, if possible, to keep it stewing all night. On the following day, replace with hot water the quantity that has been wasted in boiling, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep it stewing until ready to serve. This Soup makes a cheap but very good family dinner. Farmer's Soup.—Peel and finely chop two onions and one leek, put them into a stewpan with some bacon-fat, and fry them till lightly browned. Finely chop two carrots, one turnip, a root of celery, two lettuces, a few French beans, and half a cabbage; put them in with the onions and leek, and cook them over a slow fire till the moisture has evaporated. Blanch lib. of raw ham, then put it in with the vegetables, and pour in some broth. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the broth simmer for half-an-liour; then put in 1 breakfast- cupful of minced potatoes, and boil them gently till nearly cooked, when put in two shred lettuces, 1 handful of shred sorrel, and 1 pinch of chopped chervil. Finish cooking the Soup, then take out the ham. Put some slices of toasted bread into a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, and serve. Fisherman’s Soup.—Same as Fisherman’s Wife’s Soup, with the exception of the roux used being brown instead of white. Fisherman’s Wife’s Soup (d, la Poissonniere).—Put Jib. of butter and 6oz. of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till well mixed and cooked but not browned, thus making a white roux; then take it off the fire, and leave it till cool. Blanch and beard four dozen mussels and two dozen oysters. Stir in gradually at first with the roux 2qts. of clear broth and lqt. of milk, add the bones of a sole, the liquor of the mussels and oysters, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, a blade of mace, and I table-spoonful each of sugar and salt. Boil the Soup for an hour, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Put some thin slices of salmon in the Soup with the fillets of a sole, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and 1 teacupful of cream; keep it simmering by the side of the lire till the fish is done. Put the blanched oysters and mussels in a soup- tureen, and when ready pour the Soup over them, and serve. Flemish Soup (a la Flamande).—(1) Put an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, anil onions cut into small pieces in a saucepan, with one head of lettuce, one head of endive, two leeks, a little chervil, a small lump of butter, and \ pint of either mutton or beef broth ; boil them gently until tender, stirring them occasionally, then pour in 2qts. of boiling broth, season it with pepper, salt, and sugar, and let it simmer for two hours. Beat the yolks of three eggs with h pint of cream, stir them in with the Soup, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (2) Peel lib. each of potatoes and turnips, put them into a saucepan with an onion and a head of celery, cover them with water, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the vegetables are quite tender, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, return the Soup to the saucepan, add some finely-minced parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves, and loz. of butter, and boil the Soup up again. Toast some slices of bread, cut them into squares or triangles, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over, and serve. (3) Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with four or five sliced onions and two heads of celery cut into small pieces, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in as much broth that has been skimmed as will be re- quired for the Soup. When the broth boils, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an hour. Peel some large potatoes, and boil them in salted water; when tender, put them in the Soup, and leave them till dissolved. Season the Soup with salt and pepper, pass it through a wir» sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and boil up again. Put some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Fou-Fou Soup.—Boil twelve plantains, and when cooked drain them and place them on a dish till cold. Put the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 I484 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. plantains in a mortar and pound them, dipping the pestle in cold water occasionally to prevent it sticking. When a smooth mass, take it out of the mortar with a spoon that has been moistened with water and place it on a dish. Take off the heads of some ochras, cut them into slices, Vasli them, and put them in a saucepan with an equal quantity each of salt pork and salt beef, a few small fresh fish, a small piece of salt fish, a handful of shrimps, one chopped onion, two fresh peppers, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in as much water as is required for Soup, put the lid on the saucepan, and place it over the fire. When boiling move the Soup to the side, and let it simmer for an hour or more. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with the fou fou or plantain on a separate dish. French Soup (a la Franqaise).—Prepare a sheep’s head and pluck, put it in a saucepan over the fire in 4qts. of water, and let it boil gently, skimming frequently till reduced to 2qts.; then add half-a-dozen peeled onions, a carrot scraped, washed, and sliced, a turnip peeled, washed, and sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 4 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley; add also two or three cloves and a few peppercorns, with salt to taste. When the head is tender, take it up, cut the meat off it in small square pieces, and lay it aside till the Soup is finished. Pick out the herbs and the pluck, add 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine, the meat of the head, a very small quantity of sugar, and a little mushroom ketchup. Serve with forcemeat balls in it. German Imperial Soup.—Mix five well-bsaten eggs with 1 pint of rich clear Soup, and season it with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Thickly mask the interior of a pudding-basin with butter, pour the Soup into it, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and boil it for an hour. Great care must be taken that the water does not get in the basin. Boil in another saucepan 2qts. of clear Soup. When cooked, turn the Soup custard out of the basin, cut it into thin slices, put them in a soup tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. German Soup (a l’Allemande).—(1) Make some nouille- paste, cut it into small squares, blanch and drain them, and leave them till cool. Put the nouilles in a saucepan, cover with broth, and boil them till done. When cooked, drain the nouilles, put them into a soup-tureen, pour in some boiling chicken broth, and serve it. (2) Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, and when it is melted put in loz. of cumin-seeds and fry them; then pour in 3qts. of chicken broth, and when boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering for an hour. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (3) Make the required quantity of clear Soup, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. Cut two stale French rolls into moderately thick slices, trim off all the crust, and cut them into small squares. Thoroughly beat three eggs with a table-spoonful of minced chives and parsley, and season them with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the squares of bread in the beaten egg, and leave them till well soaked. Throw the pieces of bread lightly into the Soup, and boil it until they rise to the top. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, ami serve. Gourmet’s Soup (a la Gourmet).—Put a large knuckle of veal into a saucepan or stockpot, together with two roasted fowls and any beef-bones that may be at hand, pour in 10 pints of beef stock, and boil for a few minutes ; carefully remove all the scum, prepare and add the desired quantity of any vegetables that are in season and a little pepper, and boil for five hours, by which time the liquor should be reduced to about 7J pints; then skim off the fat, remove the meat and bones, clarify with the white of egg beaten up with a small quantity of beef stock, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Strain through a cloth into another saucepan, and add the red part of a carrot and a turnip cut with a vegetable-cutter into columns and afterwards into slices about Jin. in thickness, also two heads of celery and two leeks in slices, all these being Soups—continued. previously blanched; add also a small portion each of sorrel and chervil, and two lettuces cut up into pieces, and boil for an hour longer; then put in a little sugar, and lastly about 3 table-spoonfuls of blanched asparagus- points. Put some small croutons of fried bread or toast at the bottom of a soup-tureen, pour over the boiling Soup, and serve. Green Soup (Russian).—Chop fine 2 table-spoonfuls of onion, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and fry them, but without allowing them to take colour. Sprinkle in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, cook for a few minutes, remove the saucepan from the fire, and pour in slowly JgalL of rich broth. Set the saucepan on the fire again, stir well until the liquor boils, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the liquor is moderately thick. Now add two prepared and trussed young fowls, and continue to cook for about forty-five minutes. Take out the fowls when done, drain them, skim off the fat from the liquor, and pass it through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Stir in a few table-spoonfuls of boiled sour-crout, and cook for about fifteen minutes longer. Cut off all the flesh from the fowls, put it in the Soup, boil for another ten minutes, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of nettle-leaves, boiled and passed through a sieve, or the same of sorrel, stir for a few minutes, turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve. Hasty Soup (a la Minute).—Cut 1 Jib. or 21b. of meat into small pieces; put loz. of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until it has melted, then put in the pieces of meat, and fry them until nicely browned, dredging them occasionally with flour. Peel and thinly slice an onion, put it into the saucepan, with a head of celery that has been cleaned and cut into small pieces, and one grated carrot. Put the lid on the saucepan, and leave it at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes; then pour in lqt. or more of hot water, and boil it for twenty minutes. Put croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast in a soup-tureen; season the Soup to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour it over the fried bread or toast, and serve. Holstein Soup.—Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan over a fire, and when hot put in 1 teacupful of well-washed pearl-barley, and stir it for a few minutes; then pour in gradually 3 pints of hot water, season with salt, and con- tinue stirring until the water begins to boil; then put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer gently for an hour, adding from time to time a small quantity of hot clear broth or water to keep up the original quantity of Soup. A few fresh morels or mushrooms may be cooked with the Soup. At the end of that time, mash the barley by working it against the sides of the saucepan with a wooden spoon, pour in 2qts. of white broth, add a lump of salt and a small lump of sugar, and boil the Soup up again. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, and stir in with the Soup, but not letting it boil after they are added. Cook a small quantity of sprue-asparagus and cauliflowers, then drain them and put them in the soup-tureen. Get some crayfish shells from which the bodies have been extracted. Make a stuffing of breadcrumbs, chopped hard- boiled eggs, and parsley, season it with salt and pepper, and moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and stuff the shells with it. Then place them in the soup-tureen with the Soup, or the mixture may be made into balls, fried in a basket, and put into the Soup just before serving. Hunter’s Soup (a la Chasseur).—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices an equal quantity of carrots and onions, put them into a saucepan with a head of celery that has been washed and cut into small pieces, about 2oz. of rather lean ham or bacon, a bunch of parsley, and a small lump of butter. Fry the above ingredients till lightly browned, then dredge in plenty of flour, and fry that also until lightly browned. Stir in 1 pint of red wine and 2qts. of broth, leave it over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer. Clean and fix three partridges on to a spit, and roast them before a good fire, basting them well with butter. When the parti'idges are cooked,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 485 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads Soups—continued. cut the flesh off the bones into nice equal-sized pieces. Break the bones into small pieces, put them in the Soup, boil it quickly for twenty minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Season the Soup with salt and pepper, return it to the saucepan with the pieces of partridge-meat, and leave it at the side of the fire to get thoroughly hot, but without letting it boil again; then turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Blanch an equal quantity of bacon and smoked ham, drain them, and put them into a large saucepan with two partridges, two partially roasted legs of hare, two or three backs of roasted pheasant or chicken, three smoked sausages, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of lentils, a few fresh vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of dry Genoa mushrooms that have been soaked in water. Cover the above ingredients with broth, and when boiling, skim off all the fat, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents cook gently till done. When tender, take the meat out of the saucepan, strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, mix with it 1 wine- glassful of marsala wine, and boil it gently over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Cut the fillets off the partridges, cut the sausages and lean bacon into small pieces, and put all into a soup-tureen; skim the fat off the Soup, pour it over the meat, and serve with a plateful of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Invalid's Digestive Soup.—Lay at the bottom of a stew- pan seven or eight slices of lean ham, over them a few slices of beef, over the beef some veal, together with some chicken, moor game, or partridge legs; put in also some salt, whole pepper, one clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and four or five cloves ; add 3oz. of butter, and let all this stew till it is nicely browned. Then add three small heads of celery washed and trimmed, three large peeled onions, two scraped and washed carrots, two peeled and washed turnips, a small bunch of well-washed parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, and a small bunch of winter savory, and fill up the stewpan with equal proportions of good beef stock and water. When both meat and vegetables are thoroughly done, strain the Soup through a sieve into a basin. Wash and trim three large leeks, peel and wash two rather large turnips, cut both turnips and leeks into pieces about 1 fin. long and about the thickness of macaroni, and fry them brown in a little butter or dripping. Wash and cut into shreds two cabbage lettuces, a head of celery, a head of endive, some sorrel and chervil, and stew them over a slow fire in a little butter; when they are done, lay them on a sieve to drain with the fried turnips and leeks; then put them into a soup-pot or a stewpan, pour over them the strained Soup, and put it over the fire; as soon as it boils, skim it, draw it to one side of the stove, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Cut the crumb of a French roll into round slices, brown them in the oven, put them into the tureen, and pour the Soup over them. Italian Soup (a l’ltalienne).—(1) After a cow-heel has been used for making jelly, cut the flesh off into small pieces. Put h teacupful of sago in a stewpan with water sufficient to cook it, and boil until dissolved. Take a sufficient quantity of clear stock to make the Soup, and place it in a saucepan over the fire until boiling. Warm the pieces of meat in the Soup, put the sago at the bottom of a soup-tureen with loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, pour the hot Soup over them, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (2) Peel some carrots, turnips, and leeks; thoroughly wash some cabbage and heads of celery, trimming off the outside leaves, &e., and boil them all' separately. When cooked, drain the vegetables, cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them lightly over a slow fire. Chop some fowl’s livers, put them in with the vegetables, then pour in the desired quantity of stock, and boil it. Boil some macaroni, and when tender, drain, and put it into the Soup, adding some grated Parmesan cheese. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it. Soups—continued. (3) Peel and cut 21b. or 31b. of young carrots into very small squares, allow an equal quantity of marrow fat peas, and boil the vegetables separately in salted water; also boil about j^lb. of well-washed rice in salted water. When all the ingredients are tender, drain them well. Boil as much common stock, that has been well freed from fat, as will make the desired amount of Soup, mix with it plenty of tomato sauce and the above ingredients, and boil the whole for five minutes; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (4) Cut up all together into fine pieces two carrots, half a turnip, two leeks, a quarter of a cabbage, half an onion, and one stalk of celery, and steam them in 2oz. of butter for about ten minutes in a covered saucepan ; then moisten it with 3 pints of white broth, adding 1 table-spoonful of washed rice, a bouquet of sweet herbs, table- spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil well for half-an hour, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese separately for each person. (5) Put 1 pint each of marrow fat peas and chopped carrots into a saucepan with some water, and boil them till tender. When cooked, strain the water off the vege- tables, put in with them Alb. of washed and boiled rice, 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, and lqt. of stock. Stir the above mixture over the fire till boiling, then turn it into a soup-tureen, grate some Parmesan cheese over it, and serve at once. Jardiniere Soup (a la Jardiniere).—The same as for Julienne, only the vegetables are cut larger and in patterns (see Fig. 624) if preferred, and omit the cabbage. Add 1 handful of chiffonade five minutes before serving. A chiffonade is a mince of vegetables and sweet herbs, which are described under that heading. Jenny Lind’s Soup.—Wash 2oz. of the best pearl sago in several waters till the water poured from it is quite clear, and simmer it in 1 pint of water or stock till it is quite soft; then add to it gradually 4 pint of boiling cream. Take it from the fire, stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and lastly stir in lqt. of strong beef or veal stock. Jugged Soup.—Peel and slice one onion, grate one carrot, slice six tomatoes, and mix onion, carrot, and tomatoes with 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas. Peel about 111), of parboiled potatoes, cut them into slices, and put a layer of these at the bottom of an earthenware jar; lay two or three thin slices of streaky salt pork on this, cover over with some of the mixed vegetables, and on these a layer of raw rice, shaking in a little pepper and salt. Again put a layer of slices of potatoes, over them two or three slices of pork, a layer of mixed vegetables, and a layer of raw rice. It is an improvement to shake in with the pepper and salt a little mixed herbs. Pour over all this 2qts. of stock. Put the lid on the jar, fasten it down with a paste of Hour and water to keep it air-tight, set it in a pan of boiling water, and keep it in a moderate oven for at least four hours. Julienne Soup (a la Julienne).—(1) Peel some carrots, onions, turnips, and leeks, and cut them into thin strips of an equal size and length, either straight or scalloped (see Fig. 625); cut some heads of celery into pieces the same size. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, place in the pre- pared vegetables, and toss them over a slow fire for a few minutes. Other vegetables may be added, such as cauli- flowers, asparagus, or peas, when in season. Pour in overTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 486 Soups—continued. the vegetables as much clear chicken-broth as may be desired for the Soup, and put in any nice pieces of cold roasted chicken that are available. When boiling, move the Soup to the side of the fire, and let it simmer till the vegetables are tender. Put some thin sippets of toast or crouto is of bread into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over, and serve it. Fig. 625. Vegetables for Julienne Soup. (2) Cut into fine long shreds two carrots, half a turnip, two stalks of celery, one leek, an eighth of a cabbage, and half an onion, and brown them in a saucepan with loz. of butter; moisten with lqt. of white broth or consommt;, and season with h table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for half-an-liour, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas and 1 table spoonful of cooked string beans, boil up again, and serve. (3) Peel an equal quantity each of carrots, turnips, and onions, and cut them into narrow strips; also cut into fine shreds some leeks and celery. Boil the two latter vege- tables in salted water until tender. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the carrots and turnips, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in the onions, and fry the whole until lightly coloured, stirring at the same time. Drain off tiie butter, moisten the vegetables with 1 tea- cupful of clear stock, and boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze. Next pour in with the vegetables a sufficient quantity of clear stock to make the Soup, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then put in the leeks and celery, with a moderate quantity each of chopped tarragon and chervil leaves, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of sugar. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. Julienne Soup with Poached Eggs.—Cut into small thin shreds of an equal length a few carrots, turnips, a piece of celery-root, an onion, the heart of a lettuce, and the white of half a leek. Put the onion and leek into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and toss them for a few minutes over a moderate fire without browning them, then put in the remainder of the vegetables, and toss also for a few minutes over the fire. Mix 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt with the vegetables, pour over them 1 teacupful of broth, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Pour in 34 pints of strained and skimmed brotb, and keep it over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently. In fifteen minutes’ tune add half of a crisped colewort that has been scalded first in hot water then refreshed with cold water, drained, and chopped. When the vegetables are nearly done, mix some sorrel-leaves and blanched lettuce-leaves with the Soup. Poach in water that has been slightly acidulated with lemon-juice or vinegar as many fresh eggs as will be required; when cooked, trim the eggs, put them on a hot dish, and baste them with a little broth. Skim all the fat off the Soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with the eggs. Left-Over Soup.—Put the bones and trimmings of some cold roast beef into a large saucepan, with the flank end of a sirloin steak uncooked, and two cold mutton chops, all cut up in small pieces; add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled and chopped onions, two sticks of celery, two baked apples, one fried egg, 1 table-spoonful each of mixed herbs and salt, \ table-spoonful of cloves and peppercorns mixed, and 4qts. of cold water. Boil the above ingredients till the meat is in rags and the water reduced to one half; then strain the Soup, and leave it till the next day. Skim the fat off the Soup, put in with it 1 breakfast-cupful For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Soups—continued. of either cold cooked tomatoes or macaroni, and some more seasoning if required. Boil the Soup up, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Lent Soup.—(1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour to a smooth paste with 1 teacupful of milk, put it in a saucepan, pour in gradually 1J pints of veal stock, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked; then move the saucepan to the side. But the yolks of two eggs into a cup, just break them with a spoon, then put them into the Soup by degrees, and stir it well. The Soup must not boil after the eggs are added. Dissolve a lump of butter in the Soup, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (2) Clean and skin three smelts, curl them round, and fix them by putting the tails in their mouths; dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, fry them in fat or oil to a golden colour, take them out, and drain them on paper. In the meantime, hard boil six or eight plover’s eggs, peel them, and cut them into quarters. Have ready a hot tureen, arrange the eggs and smelts in it, pour over the required quantity of boiling fish broth or consommt, and serve with croutons of fried bread. Lorraine Soup (a la Lorraine).—Put over the fire in a saucepan lib. each of lean beef and mutton, a knuckle of veal, one peeled and washed turnip, one scraped and washed carrot, a small bunch of parsley, and a sprig or two of lemon thyme, with 4qts. of water and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Let it boil till the liquor is reduced to 3qts., then strain it. Boil in milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound it in a mortar with Jib. of blanched sweet almonds, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and the white meat of a good-sized roasted fowl. Mix this paste with the Soup after it is strained, and boil it gently for ten minutes; then pour it into the tureen, and serve. Macdonald Soup.—Pound a cooked calf’s brain in a mortar, add two cooked onions, three raw yolks of eggs, and 1 tea- spoonful of curry-powder, and rub well through a fine sieve. When ready to serve, put it into 3 pints of broth in a saucepan, add a peeled and baked cucumber cut in slices, and boil up. Macedonian Soup (a la Macedoine).—Line the bottom of a saucepan with thin slices of ham, then put in an equal quan- tity of carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onions, about three of each and all cut up very small; pour in some stock, season it with pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently till cooked to a pulp. Pass the Soup and vegetables through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, pour in 1 pint of cream, and stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve, pour the Soup into a tureen. Meg Merrilies Soup.—(1) Skin and clean a hare, and cut it into pieces, saving the blood; cut off some of the flesh, which with the liver put on one side for making force- meat balls. Put the remainder of the hare into a sauce- pan, with a few small peeled onions and a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in 5qts. of water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently for two hours. Put 1 teacupful of ground lice in a large saucepan, mix it smooth with the blood of the hare and some warm water, stir it in a saucepan over the fire until boiling, and then stiain in the above stock. Peel, cut into small pieces, and partially boil llli. each of carrots and turnips, then strain and add them to the Soup. Skin two fresh partridges, divide into quarters, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them; when nicely browned, put the pieces of partridges into the Soup. Mince the reserved meat and liver, and mix with it half its quantity of chopped fat bacon, one anchovy that has been skinned, boned, and chopped (or failing that, use 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy paste), and a few table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Season the mixture with moderate quantities of grated lemon-peel, lemon-thyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; bind the whole with a well-beaten egg, and make it into small balls about the size of a walnut. Melt a lump of clarified fat or butter in a flat stewpan, put in the balls, and toss them about over the fire until nicely and equally Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 487 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. browned ; then drain them before the fire on a sheet of kitchen- paper. Half-an-hour before serving the Soup put in the forcemeat balls. Turn the Soup when ready into a soup- tureen, and serve it while very hot. (2) Wash a grouse and a hare, and put them into a saucepan with 6qts. of cold water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the liquor, and let it simmer for an hour; then take out the hare and grouse, and cut all the meat from the bones. Return the bones to the Soup, and simmer for two hours longer. Cut the flesh of the grouse and hare into nice-sized pieces, and fry them in butter till well browned; then take them out of the pan, drain, and put them on a plate. Slice four onions, put them in the pan in which the meat was fried, adding more butter if necessary, and fry them till nicely browned; then put them in the Soup. With the livers of the hare and grouse, 1 teacupful of stale crumb of bread, one egg, and 1 teacupful of milk, prepare a quenelle forcemeat, first mashing the livers, then mixing with them the bread and milk, which should have been boiled together and the egg unbeaten ; add a little lemon- juice, season to taste with pepper and salt, and shape the mixture into small equal-sized balls. Fry the balls in boiling butter till nicely and equally browned. In two hours’ time strain the Soup, put it again in the saucepan, and put in the fried meat and some small pieces of carrot and turnip that have been cooked in clear water. Mix 3' table-spoonfuls of ground rice with 1 breakfast-cupful of water to a smooth paste, then mix it gradually in with the Soup, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Ad d the forcemeat balls to the Soup, and boil it gently for twenty minutes longer. When ready to serve, turn the Soup into a tureen. Mikado Soup.—Cut half a small breast of chicken, jib. of very lean veal, and Jib. of lean mutton into small equal- sized dice, put them into a saucepan on the hot stove with 2oz. of butter, and cook for five minutes, stirring with the spatula; then moisten with 2qts. of broth, adding a finely chopped medium-sized onion, a bunch of sweet heths, and the same of green pepper. After cooking for lialf-an-hour add 3 table-spoonfuls of raw rice, and cook again for half-an-hour. Remove the herbs, skim thoroughly, and pour the Soup into a hot soup-tureen. Milanese Soup (a la Milanaise).—Put a piece of raw ham into a stewpan with |lb. of chopped bacon and about H breakfast-cupfuls of haricot beans. Wash a savoy cabbage and cut it into fine shreds, and put it in with the above articles; then pour in 3qts. of broth, and set the stewpan over a clear lire. Cut up sufficient celery-roots into small pieces to fill a breakfast-cup, and after the broth has boiled for ten minutes, put them in with it. Next put in the stewpan 1 breakfast-cupful of broad beans, an equal quantity of green peas and asparagus-heads, fib. of un- washed unbroken rice, two smoked Milan sausages, and one chopped tomato. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the rice is done. When the rice is soft, mix in the Soup a small plateful of finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Take out the ham and sausages, cut the sausages into small pieces, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup and vegetables over them, and serve it, sending up at the same time a plateful of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Mille Fanti Soup (Italian).—Put Ih breakfast-cupfuls of freshly-grated breadcrumb into a basin, with a little more than 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, season with grated nutmeg, then stir in four beaten eggs. Put 2qts. of clarified broth into a saucepan, and set it over the fire; when it boils, move it to the side. Put the cheese mixture into the Soup, and leave it for fifteen minutes. Stir the Soup with a whisk, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Mock Bisk.—Empty a quart tin of tomatoes into a sauce- pan, and put them on the fire to stew. Mix 1 large table-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of milk to a smooth cream, stir it gradually into a saucepan with 3 pints of boiling milk, then stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Mix 1 small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with the Soups—continued. tomatoes, then pass them through a silk sieve into the milk; add a small lump of butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve the Soup at once. Monaco Soup.—(1) Cut three or four slices of bread all one size and shape, sprinkle them well with powdered white sugar, and grill them till lightly browned. Put 1 i pints of cream or milk, or cream and milk mixed, over the fire; when it comes to the boil, take it from the fire and mix in it the beaten yolks of four eggs. Put the grilled bread into a tureen, pour the milk and eggs over it, and serve hot. (2) Put some nicely-shaped pieces of bread into a frying- pan with a little butter and a dust of pepper and salt, and fry them till well and equally browned. Drain the pieces of bread, and put them in the bottom of a tureen. Boil lqt. of either cream or milk, or both mixed, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till tliiek. Pom- the milk over the sippets, and serve while very hot. Mullagatawny Soup.—(1) Put jib. of butter into a saucepan, add three or four sliced onions, and fry them till brown. Cut two rabbits into nice-sized pieces, put them in with the onions, and fry them for a few minutes ; then pour in 3 pints of clear broth, and let it boil gently for an hour. Take the rabbit out of the saucepan, pass the liquor and onions through a fine hair sieve, return them to the stew- pan, pour in lqt. of broth, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry it until nicely browned. Then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and stir in gradually sufficient broth or water to make a smooth paste. Stir the curry into the Soup, add a small quantity of lemon pickle, and simmer gently for half- an-hour, stirring often to prevent the flour sticking at the bottom of the saucepan. Turn the Soup into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a dish of plain boiled rice. (2) Put some beef or veal into a saucepan, and pour in 1 pint of water for every pound of meat. When boiling, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, so that the liquor may simmer gently for two hours. Brown two or three sliced onions and a clove of garlic in a little butter over a fierce fire, then drain them and put them into the Soup. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder to a smooth paste with a little water, stir it into the Soup, and boil it gently over a slow fire for a-quarter-of- an-hour. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, taking care not to let the pips go in, and serve the Soup. (3) Put one dozen small sliced onions in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown; then sprinkle over them 1 table spoonful of curry powder. Put 2qts. of veal stock into a saucepan, and when it boils put in the onions, a blade of mace, and 1 teacupful of Hour that has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little water. Let the Soup simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour, then strain it through a fine hail- sieve, returning it to the saucepan. Cut the flesh off the bones of a cold boiled chicken, trim it into small pieces, put it in with the Soup, add a teacupful of cream, and boil it up. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve while very hot. (4) Thoroughly wash a calf’s head, cut it into halves, put it into a saucepan over the fire with a cow-heel, anil pour in 4qts. of thin veal broth. When the liquor is boil- ing move the saucepan a little to die side of the fire, and let it simmer gently till the meat is cooked. Take the head and heel out of the saucepan, and separate the meat from the bones. Put the bones into the saucepan again with the broth, and fry the meat in butter till well browned. When the bones have been boiling for half-an- hour, strain the Soup into a basin, and leave it till cold, when the fat may be easily removed. Slice two large onions, dust a little flour over them, put them in the pan in which the meat was fried, with a little more butter, and fry them till nicely browned ; then stir in IA table- spoonfuls of curry powder. Stir the meat, onions, and curry powder into the soup. Let the Soup simmer forTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 488 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. half-an-hour, then season it with a little Harvey’s sauce, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it. (5) Cut a quarter of a medium-sized raw chicken into pieces, and chop up half a green pepper, £oz. of lean raw ham, and half an onion. Brown the whole for five minutes in a saucepan with a little butter, moisten with lqt. of white broth, add J pint of finely-cut vegetables, 1 tea- spoonful of curry, half a green apple cut into small pieces, one slice of egg-plant cut into small pieces, and 1 table- spoonful of uncooked rice. Season with l table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, boil for twenty-five minutes, and serve. At Delmonico’s, in New York, twice the quantity of rice is used, and to the above quantity of Soup twelve large oysters would be added. (6) Take Gib. of knuckle of veal, put it over the fire in sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it simmer gently till about half done; then take it up, remove the liquor from the fire, and pour it into a basin to cool. Cut the veal into slices, and put them away also. Next day take the fat off the soup, trim off any fat there may be on the meat, and fry the meat in a little butter. But the Soup in a saucepan over the fire, then put the meat in, together with a small quantity of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and four onions sliced and fried brown, and let all simmer very gently for two hours. If at the end of an hour-and-a-half the Soup does not seem thick enough, add a thickening of flour and butter. Serve boiled rice with this Soup in a separate dish. (7) Take 31b. or 41b. of knuckle of veal, 41b. of beef, 21b. of ham, and Hlb. of scrag of mutton. Chop the bones and cut the meat small, put it all in a saucepan over the fire, pour in 4qts. of cold water, add 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and let the meat boil gently till the liquor is reduced to 2qts.; then add eight scraped and washed carrots, four peeled and washed turnips, and two onions, and let it stew till the vegetables are tender. Strain it and let it cool. When quite cold, skim off the fat, put the Soup in the saucepan again, and boil three or four sticks of celery in it. Next rub it through a sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, and put it again over the fire; add to it 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, a small quantity of cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and the strained juice of a lemon. Serve rice boiled as for curry in a separate dish. (8) Have some good stock ready made of the bones of roasted beef, mutton, and fowls. Put into the soup-kettle eight large peeled and sliced onions, 2qts. of scraped, washed, and chopped-up carrots, 3qts. of peeled and sliced turnips, and 6oz. of butter, and let them stew till tender. Strain the stock, and pour 3qts. of it, or 1 pint of good beef gravy and 5 pints of the stock, over the stewed vege- tables in the soup-kettle, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and either a large slice of crumb of bread or else some rice, either whole or ground, and let all this boil gently for five hours. Strain it through a tammy-cloth, squeezing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. If the Soup be too thick to be forced through the cloth, mix some more strained stock or gravy with it. Cut a fowl into pieces, and brown them in butter in a frying- pan ; then add them to the Soup, let it boil for a short time, and then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer while the fat is skimmed off. (9) Put Jib. of butter into a stewpan, then put in a knuckle of veal cut into pieces, six apples, a turnip, carrot, two or three onions, and h pint of water. Glaze the above ingredients over a quick fire, turning them frequently; then sift in 3 table-spoonfuls of curry that has been mixed with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 1 table-spoonful of curry paste. When quite smooth, fill the stewpan with water, add a lump of sugar and salt to taste, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for two hours, removing all the scum that lises to the top. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, and boil it up again; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a dish of boiled rice. (10) Peel and slice an onion, put it into a stewpan with Jib. of butter, and fry it until crisp; then take it out, and stir in with the butter 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, 1 table-spoonful of ground onion, and b teaspoonful of finely - Sonps—continued. chopped clove of garlic. Sprinkle a few drops of water over the ingredients, and fry them well. Cut a young fowl into several pieces, put them in with the curry, &c., and fry them until browned ; next add the fried onion, and pour in 2qts. of beef stock. Put the lid on the stew- pan, and keep the contents simmering gently at the side of the fire until the fowl is tender. When cooked, pour the Soup and fowl into a soup-tureen that has been warmed, and serve it while very hot with a dish of plain boiled rice. Musketeer’s Soup (a la Mousquetaire).—Put a neck of mutton into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it for three hours. Put 1 pint of peas into another saucepan with a few sorrel-leaves and 1 pint of beef stock, and boil them till cooked. Mix the peas and stock with the soup, glaze the neck of mutton as for fricandeau, and serve it in the Soup. Neapolitan Soup (a la Napolitaine).—Cut into pieces a quarter of a raw chicken, put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, loz. of lean raw ham, half a green pepper, half a sliced onion, and one sliced carrot, and steam for ten minutes; then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, season with | table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful of raw rice. Let it sim- mer until half cooked (about fifteen minutes), then throw in loz. of pieces of macaroni and half a tomato. Boil again for ten minutes, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese separately. Palestine Soup (a la Palestine).—(1) Put 2qts. of white stock into a saucepan with 2Jlb. of Jerusalem artichokes, four or five onions, and a stick of celery, all nicely prepared, and a lump of sugar. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the vegetables are quite tender. Pass the Soup and vege- tables through a fine hair sieve, return them to the sauce- pan again, and mix with them b pint of cream and loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir the Soup over the fire for a-quarterofan-hour, season with cayenne pepper and salt, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Peel and wash 2lb. of Jerusalem artichokes, and put them into a saucepan with four large sliced potatoes, two chopped onions, and 2qts. of broth. Boil the above vege- tables till tender, then pass all through a fine hair sieve; return the puree to the saucepan, season it with salt and cayenne pepper, anil stir it over the fire till very hot. Add h pint of cream, taking care not to let the Soup boil after- wards. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread. Parisian Soup (a la Parisienne).—Cut four leeks into strips, fry them in a little butter at the bottom of a stew- pan, pour over them lqt. of well-seasoned mutton stock, add six or eight boiled potatoes cut into slices, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil all together till the leeks are thoroughly done. Fry a few crusts of bread, put them in the tureen, and pour the Soup over them. Pasha Soup.—Put into a stewpan half a leg of mutton, a knuckle of veal, and the bones and trimmings of a chicken ; pour in plenty of water, and boil the meat till tender. When cooked, strain the liquor off the meat, and put 2qts. of it into another stewpan. Mix 1 teacupful of ground rice to a smooth paste, put in the Soup, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then move the stewpan to the side. Chop and mix together an equal quantity of bacon, ham, and mutton, season them with salt, pepper, and 1 pinch of parsley, and add 5oz. of blanched rice. Divide the mixture into small equal quantities, wrap each one up in a tender blanched cabbage-leaf, truss them, and lay them side by side in a flat stewpan; cover with fat broth, put the lid on the stewpan with hot ashes on it, and braise the contents over a moderate fire. Skim the fat ofl the Soup, mix with it a piece of butter that has been worked with a little curry powder, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Drain the “dolmas” in the cabbage-leaves, untie them, put them in a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, and serve it.FANCY CONFECTIONERY. 1. —Boat formed of cardboard, covered with satin; gold paddles; contains nougats, liqueurs, sugar-almonds, cream tablets, &c. 2. —Gilt Basket, containing walnuts, filberts, almonds, and Spanish nuts, made in sugar, chocolate, &e. 3. —Presentation Box, on plaque of real roses, filled with all kinds of fancy sweets. 4. —Glass Bowl, containing nougat cards, almonds, chocolate balls, bonbons, &c. 5. —Satin Bags, supported on gilt twigs, filled with sweets.489 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respectinq Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces. &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Soups—continued. Fassa Soup.—A Spanish provincial Soup made of any kind of small birds. They are plucked, cleaned, and boiled in water with any vegetables that are available. The receipt depends upon the resources of the individual concerned. Feasant’s Soup (a la Faysanne).—Cut into square-shaped pieces two carrots, half a turnip, an eighth of a cabbage, half an onion, one potato, and two leaves of celery. Steam them for ten minutes with ‘2oz. of butter in a saucepan, then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and season with J table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for lialf-anhour; when ready to serve add six thin slices of bread. Fenelope Soup.—Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in 31b. or 411). of knuckle of liam and Jib. of lean ham cut into small pieces ; add a few peeled and sliced carrots, turnips, and onions, and J pint of broth. Stir the above ingredients over a brisk fire till a thick glaze forms, then pour in 4qts. of water. When the liquor boils, move the saucepan to the side of the lire, and let the contents simmer for an hour. Thoroughly wash three cab- bage lettuces, one large lettuce, and a small quantity of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil; drain all the water out of them, cut them up, and mix with them one large peeled and thinly-sliced cucumber. Put a lump of butter weighing about 2oz. into a stewpan, put in the above mixture, and stir it over the fire till nearly all the moisture has eva- porated; then dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it till well mixed. Strain the stock of the meat through a fine hair sieve, and pour it gradually over the vege- tables; put in lqt. of fresh young peas, and boil it gently for lialf-an hour. Season the Soup with 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar and salt to taste, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Piedmont Soup (a la Piedmontese).—Thoroughly wash Jib. of rice, cover it with boiling water, and soak it for an hour. Wash a cabbage, trim off the outside leaves, break the remainder into pieces, and steep them in boiling salted water. Put a chopped onion into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry it for a few minutes. Drain the rice and cabbage, put them in with the onion, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, pour in either some stock, gravy, or water, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour, stirring them occasionally. When ready to serve, mix some finely grated Parmesan cheese with the Soup. Plain Soup.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of broken bread in a saucepan, and pour over it 3 pints of clear broth (chicken, veal, or mutton will do); when it boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for twenty minutes, stirring continually. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it. Polish Julienne Soup (a la Polonaise).—Cook altogether in a saucepan in 4qts. of water 1 breakfast-cupful of dry mushrooms, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of preserved peas, a carrot, and a piece of celery-root. Cut into fine shreds one onion, one leek, a piece of raw beetroot, and a root each of celery and parsley. Put the leek and onion into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in the other vegetables, and fry them for ten minutes. Strain the water in which the peas, &c., have been cooked into the saucepan containing the fried vegetables, and boil it up again; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Wash and blanch half a small cabbage, and cut it into fine shreds ; also shred a small portion of the cooked mushrooms, put them into the Soup, and let it simmer for half-an-hour longer. Thicken the Soup with about 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and add a little chopped fennel. Pour the Soup into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a dish of fried rissoles garnished with a cooked salpipon of mushrooms. Polish Soup (a la Polonaise).—Put a roasted fowl in a stockpot with a knuckle of veal, a marrow bone, lib. of bacon cut from the breast, a head of celery, two carrots, two onions stuck with six cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and loz. of pepper. Previously prepare Soups—continued. some beetroot liquor as follows: Put about two dozen fresh beetroots into an earthenware pan with about lgall. of river or soft water, add six small loaves of bread made of rye-flour, cover over the pan, and hermeti- cally seal it; put it in a warm place, and allow the con- tents to ferment. In ten days’ time, remove the cover from the pan, and the liquor or vinegar, which will be found very red and sour, will be ready for use. About three parts fill the stockpot with this liquor, and boil for about an hour, skimming frequently; then add to the stockpot a young duck, a half-roasted fowl, and six large sausages, taking them out as well as the bacon, as each one individually is done. Cut up a beetroot into pieces, put them in a frying-pan with an equal quantity of celery and onions also cut up, add a little butter, and cook them gently in this; then pour in about 1 breakfast- cupful of stock, and reduce to a glaze. Chop up 4oz. each of beef and beef-suet, and mix them up with the yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and with part of this form about two dozen and a half small quenelles, poaching them in consomme for about ten minutes; with the remainder form some quenelles about the size of filberts, frying them for a few minutes lief ore serving in butter. Have ready three hard-boiled eggs, cut them lengthwise into halves, take out the yolks, put these into a mortar with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, add a little grated horseradish and chopped parsley, and pound them well together. Refill the whites -with the mixture, fix the eggs hack in their original shape, dip them into beaten raw egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter for a few minutes before serving. When the Soup has boiled for about five hours, skim it, strain it through a cloth into another saucepan, and reduce it. Put a braised ox-tail at the bottom of a soup-tureen, over this put the bacon cut into square pieces, the fillets cut from the fowl and duck, the sausages cut into quarters, and over these put the quenelles and eggs, then the chopped and fried vegetables, with a little blanched parsley; cover over the tureen, and set it away in the oven or hot closet to keep warm. Scrape a beetroot into a mortar, pound it to a pulp, and rub it through a cloth into a saucepan, so as to obtain a red juice ; bring this to the boil, pour in a little of the Soup, mix thoroughly, pour it back in with the remainder of the Soup, strain the whole into the tureen, and serve as hot as possible. The marrow from the bone may be served on toast, or the bone may be put as it is on a dish, and served. Pomeranian Soup.—Put lqt. of red haricot beans in a saucepan of water with a lump of salt, and boil them till soft. Drain the beans, put half of them on a wire sieve, and rub them through with the back of a wooden spoon. Put the mashed beans in a saucepan, and stir in gradually sufficient broth to make the Soup, say 3 pints. A head of celery cut small and previously boiled in the Soup will greatly improve the flavour. Put in a small bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and the whole beans, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil all for fifteen minutes. Take the bunch of herbs out of the Soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Poor Man’s Soup.—Put Jib. of beef-dripping and 2 table- spoonfuls of butter into a large saucepan with lib. of raw potatoes cut into slices, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in 2qts. of boiling water, and boil them for one hour. Pull the heart of a well-washed cabbage into pieces, put them in the saucepan with the above ingredients, and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes. Season the Soup to taste with salt and pepper. Put some thin slices of bread into a soup-turren, pour in the Soup, and serve it. Portable Soup.—(1) Free 101b. of shin of beef from all fat and skin, and put it in a pan with 5lb. or 61b. of knuckle of veal and two fowls, all cut into small pieces and the bones broken. Pour over these ingredients 4galls. of water, and season with loz. of whole black pepper and J table- spoonful each of Jamaica pepper and mace. When boiling,490 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensile, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Scnps—continued. move the pan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor simmering gently for twelve hours. Strain the Soup through a fine sieve into a large howl. On the following day, skim oil' the fat, turn the Soup (which will have jellied) out of the hasin, and scrape the sediment off at the bottom. Put the jelly into a saucepan, and stir and hoil it very gently until thickly reduced. Put small quanti- ties of the Soup into saucers, and leave it until quite cold and set. Afterwards lay the cakes on flannel in front of the fire or in the sun to dry. When ready, pack the cakes of Soup in a tin box between layers of white paper. They will keep for some considerable time. About loz. of the cake will make 1 pint of rich Soup. Pour boiling water on it, season with a small quantity of salt, stir it well, and when it dissolves, serve it with sippets of toast. (2) Put some skin and trimmings of beef into a saucepan, with water in proportion to the quantity of meat. No fat should be put in. Let the liquor simmer till it is reduced to the consistency of thin syrup. Pour the Soup into small jelly-pots, leave it till dry and set, then cork the pots, and tie them over with parchment paper. (3) Put two legs of veal, half a leg of beef, and the lean part of a leg of ham, all cut into small pieces, in a large saucepan, putting first at the bottom Jib. of butter, 3oz. of anchovies, and 1 Joz. of mace. Wash four heads of celery, trim off the green leaves, cut them into small pieces, and put them in the saucepan with the meat; add also five large chopped carrots. Put the lid on the sauce- pan, and stand it over a moderate fire. When the gravy begins to draw, keep draining it oil’ till it is all extracted. Cover the meat with water, and stand the saucepan over the fire till it boils; then move it to the side, and keep it simmering for five hours. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, anil boil it quickly till it is reduced to one-third. Stiain the gravy that was extracted from the meat into the Soup, hoil it gently till it will jelly, season it with cayenne pepper, then pour it in thin layers on plates, and dry in the sun or a warm place. When dry and set, cut the Soup into cakes, and keep them tightly packed in boxes. Portuguese Soup (A la Portugaise).—Put 4lb. of lean beef and 21b. of pickled pork into a saucepan, with three carrots, three onions, three turnips, six tomatoes, a stick of celery, half a large white cabbage, and the trimmings of six small ! green cabbages, having first removed the hearts; add also about 61b. of pumpkin. All the vegetables should be cut up into small pieces. Pour in plenty of cold water, and season with some mace, cloves, salt, and pepper. Boil the above ingredients gently for four-hours-and-a half; then take out the meat, put in about 31b. more of pumpkin that has been cut into pieces five inches long and two square, also the hearts of the cabbages, and boil the ; bread syrup for half an-hour longer. Break some slices of bread into pieces and put them into a soup-tureen, then put in the vegetables, keeping the hearts of the cabbages for the top, and strain the Soup over these. Sift thickly over some grated Parmesan cheese, and serve the Soup at once. Prince’s Soup (a la Prince).—Melt a lump of butter in a saucepan, then put in 61b. of veal, lib. of ham, one calf’s foot, and a few trimmings of game or poultry; or if these are not available, a little more veal should he added. The meat should all he cut up. Put in four or five Jerusalem artichokes, two leeks, two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in 1 pint of broth, and stand the saucepan over the fire till a thick white glaze has formed at the bottom; then pour in 5qts. of light broth, and hoil the liquor gently for an hour; then add three moderate-sized peeled and cored apples, and two well- washed anchovies, stand the saucepan at the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Strain the liquor through a broth-napkin and clarify it. Cut eight long narrow fillets off the breast of a braised fowl, cover them with a layer of chicken forcemeat, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg. Arrange the fillets side by side in a saute- pan, cover them with a little chicken broth, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Thoroughly wash and cut Soups—continued. into thin slices some fresh lamb’s brains, put them in a saute-pan in which a lump of butter has been melted, season them with a little pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, and cook them over a moderate fire till firnr; then leave them till cold. Beat six eggs with 1 teacupful of broth, and season them with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Pour a layer of the beaten egg about Jin. thick in a flat mould, stand it over the fire in a saucepan containing boiling water, and steam it for two or three minutes. Put a layer of brains over the custard, pour in the remainder of the custard, and steam it over a clear fire for half-an-hour. Take the mould out of the water, leave it till the custard is cool, then turn it out. Cut the custard and fillets of fowl into small diamond- shaped pieces, then put them in a soup-tureen with some boiled asparagus-points ; mix 1 teaspoonful of sugar in with the Soup, pour it into the tureen, and serve. Princess Soup (a la Frincesse).—Separate the meat from the hones of a cold roasted fowl, ishop the meat, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Put the bones and trimmings of the fowl in a saucepan with f pint of boiling veal stock, and boil them for half-an-hour. Peel and cut into thin slices four large cucumbers. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, and melt it; then put in two sliced onions, Jib. of lean ham, one or two sprigs of basil, two bay- leaves, and the sliced cucumbers. Fry them over a quick fire for a few minutes, then pour in 1 pint of broth, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; add the pounded fowl, 4 table-spoonfuls of sago, and 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them till well mixed; pour in the broth from the chicken bones, and boil the whole gently for twenty minutes. Pass the Soup through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and stir it over the fire till boiling; pour in lqt. of boiling milk, skim it, and season with salt and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Put the slices of cucum- ber in a soup-tureen with J pint of boiled green peas and 1 teacupful of thick cream, pour in the Soup, stir it till well mixed, then serve it. Should the Soup be too thick, add a little more milk or broth before turning it into the tureen. Fuchero Soup (Spanish).—Put 21b. of beef steak in a large earthenware jar, cover it with 4qts. of water, put the jar in the oven, anil let the contents stew for an hour, skimming the liquor occasionally. At the end of that time, put in with the Soup 1 teacupful of dried chick peas that were put to soak in water the night before. Let the Soup simmer for another hour, then put into it a small piece of salted pork that has been well washed, six carrots, a bunch of parsley and chervil-leaves, a head of garlic, and one leek, season- ing with pepper and salt. In an hour’s time, add to the Soup a small piece of pumpkin and a slice of ham. Cook these for three-quarters-of-an-liour. Put some thinly-cut slices of toast into a soup-tureen, and soak them with a small quantity of the Soup. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve into the soup-tureen, put the steak, pork, and carrots on to a hot dish, and serve them with the Soup. Queen Soup (a la Heine).—(1) Draw, skin, and wash three fowls, put them in a saucepan with a hunch of parsley, cover them with rich veal broth, and boil them till tender. When cooked, take out the fowls, cut the meat off, and trim, chop, and pound it in a mortar with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and a piece of crumb of bread that has been soaked for a few minutes in a little of the liquor. Put lqt. of cream in a saucepan with the strained veal broth; when it is boiling, add the above mixture of meat, &c. Pass all through a fine hair sieve, and serve the Soup in a soup-tureen, with a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Put a large fowl into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil it gently till tender. Take the fowl out, skim the fat off' the liquor, then put in 1 teacupful of well- washed rice, one onion, a slice each of carrot and turnip, and a small piece of celery, all of which have been fried for a few minutes in butter. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into the pan in which the vegetables were fried, and stir it over the fire with the butter till smooth, but do not brown it; then mix it in with the Soup, add a small piece ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 491 tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads, Soups—continued. mace, cinnamon, anti three or four cloves, and let the above ingredients simmer by the side of the fire for two hours. Cut the flesh off the breast of the fowl, chop it, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste. Pass the Soup through a fine hair sieve, mix the pounded meat with it, then pass all through the sieve again. Return the Soup to the saucepan, mix 1 pint of cream with it, season it with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve it while very hot. (3) Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan with two onions, one turnip, one carrot, four artichokes, Jib. of lean ham, all chopped, a bunch of parsley, three cloves, and a small piece of mace, and stir them over a slow fire for fifteen minutes, but do not brown them. Put in with the vege- tables 1 pint of well-washed rice and 3qts. of veal broth, and boil gently by the side of the fire till the rice is tender. Chop and pound the flesh of a roast fowl in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with 2qts. of veal stock, and boil them for twenty minutes. Strain the broth from the rice and vegetables, pound them, then return them to the stewpan, with the pounded meat and all the liquor, including that strained from the bones of the fowl. Boil the Soup a few minutes longer, then skim it, season with 1 table-spoonful of sugar, mix in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten in J pint of cream, and stir it quickly. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it very hot, with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Racines Soup.—Cut the red part of four carrots, an equal quantity of parsley-roots, and the white part of celery into thin pieces, lin. long. Blanch and drain the vegetables, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly browned. Pour f pint of broth in with the vegetables, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Blanch Jib. of nouilles, drain and cut them into small pieces, and put them in a soup-tureen with the glazed vege- tables ; pour in 3qts. of boiling clear veal soup, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Red Soup (a l’Ecarlate).—(1) Pour Jgall. of water into a saucepan over the fire, and put in about Soz. of red haricot beans that have been soaked in cold water for a day ; then add loz. or so of butter, and a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, and let the whole boil up. Put in a beetroot divested of its peel and cut into thin slices, also two or three tomatoes^ two medium-sized onions, and a small quantity of parsnip or celery, all of these cut into small pieces ; boil slowly for two hours-and-a-half, pour it on to a strainer placed over the tureen, and rub as much through as possible. Season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve hot, warming it up again if it be cooled in strain- ing. (2) Cut into small pieces two carrots, half a turnip, half an onion, two leaves of celery, and two leeks; steam them well for ten minutes in a saucepan with loz. of butter, then moisten with 3 pints of consomme, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of rice and J pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook thoroughly for half an-hour, and five minutes be- fore serving put in one cut up raw tomato, half the breast of a cooked grouse, cut into small pieces, and twelve game forcemeat quenelles. Rich. Man’s Soup.—Singe, draw, and partly roast a turkey so as to brown it. Put two slices of ham at the bottom of a saucepan, then lay the turkey on it with a knuckle of veal and a partridge. Cover the above ingredients with stock, and boil them gently for an hour. Skim the stock, and put into it some peeled and sliced vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, three or four leeks, two laurel-leaves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put in two or three cloves, and season to taste with pepper and salt, adding a little cayenne if liked. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for five hours. At the end of that time strain the Soup into a clean saucepan, beat the whites of three eggs togethei with 1 wineglassful of Rhenish wine, mix it with the Soup, and boil up again. Let it simmer for Soups—continued. fifteen minutes, then pass it through a broth-napkin. Prepare and poach a few chicken forcemeat quenelles, put them in a soup-tureen with some button-mushrooms, pour the boil- ing Soup over, and serve at once. Rich White Soup.—Put 61b. of lean gravy beef into a saucepan with Jgall. of water and stew it gently until all the goodness is "extracted, then take the beef out. Put into the saucepan with the liquor 61b. of knuckle of veal, Jib. of ham, four oni ms, and four heads of celery all cut up, a few peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew the above ingredients gently for seven or eight hours, skimming oil’ all the fat as it rises to the top. Mix with the crumb of two French rolls 2oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream and a little of the stock, boil them for ten minutes, then nib them through a silk sieve with a wooden spoon. Mix the cream and almonds with the Soup, and boil it up again, then turn it into a soup-tureen and serve. Rotterdam Soup.—Prepare about 2qts. of rich Soup. Put Jib. of potato-flour into a basin and mix it very thin with cold stock. Put the strained Soup into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, stir in with a spoon the potato-flour thickening, add a little each of chopped chervil and sorrel and the white parts of four leeks cut up small and blanched. Continue to boil until the whole is cooked. Cut two lampreys in short pieces and salt them, let them stand for an hour, wash ofl' all the salt, and boil them in plain water until done ; take them out and set them aside to keep warm. Cut oft' the heads and tails from about two dozen smelts, split them into halves, put them in a sautApan with a little butter, and cook them. Put the lampreys and smelts at the bottom of a tureen, add to the Soup 1 teacupful of double cream and Jib. of butter, stir well off the fire until mixed, pour it over the fish, and serve. Russian Julienne Soup (a la Russe).—Cut into strips or julienne one celery.root, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, two onions, and a small cabbage, and have ready also cut up a quantity of mushrooms, equal in bulk to all the other vegetables. Put the leek and onions into a saucepan with a little butter, fry them, but without letting them take colour, add the other vegetables together with the mush- rooms, and cook gently until the moisture of the latter is reduced. Pour over sufficient rich broth to moisten, reduce this to a glaze, pour in 3qts. or 4qts. of boiling rich broth, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Skim well, stir in a little finely- chopped fennel, and strain in a little sour cream to thicken. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve with rissoles, croquettes, or meat patties. This latter is strictly the Russian way of serving this Soup. Russian Soup (a la Russe).—Cut into pieces loz. each of lean raw ham, mutton, beef, and veal; brown them well in loz. of butter with the half of a finely-sliredded onion for five minutes. Moisten with lqt. of white broth, then throw in J pint of finely-chopped vegetables and 1 table- spoonful of raw rice. Boil thoroughly for half-an-hour, season with 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, and five minutes before serving add 1 handful of cliiffonade, described under that head. Sanitary Soup.—Trim off the outside leaves of three large lettuces, wash the remainder, and cut them into fine shreds; wash and shred a small quantity of beetroot- leaves, 2 handfuls of sorrel-leaves, and about 1 handful each of chervil and celery-leaves. Put two leeks and one onion sliced into a saucepan with a little butter, and toss them over the fire till the butter has melted and began to boil: then put in the beetroot, celery, and lettuce-leaves, and fry them for ten minutes; add the chervil and sorrel, pour in 2qts. of broth, boil it for fifteen minutes, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and skim • oft' all the fat. Put some thin slices of bread into a soup-tureen, soak them with a little of the Soup for a few minutes, then pour in the remainder, and serve. Savoyard Soup (ala Savoyarde).—Make some vegetable Soup as described for Vegetable Soup. Cut some slices of492 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, *kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. stale bread, soak them for a few minutes in boiling stock, then put them in a dish ; cover thickly with grated Par- mesan cheese, and bake them in a quick oven till nicely browned. Put the bread in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Sea Soup (a la Mer).—Clean and cut about 21b. of whiting, haddock, or flounder into small pieces, and put them into a large saucepan with lqt. of white stock and an equal quantity of water, and put it on the fire to boil. When boiling, put in with the fish one washed lettuce, a few sorrel-leaves, a stick of celery, a little garlic, two tomatoes, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, and a little parsley-root. Let the above ingredients simmer by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half, then strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a clean saucepan; mix with the Soup loz. of butter that has been worked with loz. of flour, and boil it for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 teacupful of cream, mix a little of the hot Soup with it first, then mix all together, taking the saucepan off the fire when the eggs are added. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Sevigny Soup (a la Sevigne).—Prepare a rich fowl Soup. In the meantime cut up a roasted fowl, put it into a saucepan with about 1 pint of rich consomme, and boil for an hour. Skim off all the fat, pass the liquor through a cloth, let it get cold, mix in gradually the yolks of eight or nine eggs, with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, and strain again. With this mixture fill a dozen or so small buttered timbale-moulds, put them in a saute-pan with boiling water, and cook them over a slow fire, taking- care that the water does not boil, or the timbales will be full of air-bubbles and spoil. Two hours should be suffi- cient to cook them; turn them out in the tureen, pour the Soup over, and serve at once. Skink or Hoch Soup.—In Scotland this Soup, which is a favourite, is usually prepared the day before it is wanted and warmed up before serving. Break up a shin of beef into as small pieces as possible, put them into a saucepan with Ingalls, of boiling water, and boil for fully two hours. Take out the meat and remove the bones, return the bones to the liquor, boil for about four hours longer, strain the Soup, add any vegetables, cut into pieces, as may be required, warm them up with the Soup, and serve. Solferino Soup.—Put into a saucepan with some clear stock an equal quantity each of new potatoes, French and haricot beans, young carrots, and green peas; add a little chopped celery, parsley, and chives. Let the Soup simmer by the side of the fire till the vegetables are cooked, then put in 1 teacupful of tomato puree, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Put some croutons of fried or toasted bread in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Soubise Soup (a la Soubise).—Put in a saucepan two thinly- sliced onions, four thin slices of bread, \ pint of milk, and lb pints of water. When boiling, mix with the above ingre- dients ljoz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Stew them slowly by the side of the fire till the onions will mash to a pulp. Pass the Soup through a fine hair- sieve, return it to the saucepan, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Soup with Gnocchi.—Put loz. of butter and 1 pint of water in a saucepan, place it over the fire, and when the water boils stir in as much flour as will make a stiff paste ; add a small quantity of salt, and continue stirring the paste until it ceases to stick to the spoon. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and mix in gradually 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and two or three well-beaten eggs. Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer, work it through, cutting it off in pieces about lin. long, and letting it drop into some well-flavoured boiling stock that should be in readi- ness over the fire. A few minutes will suffice to cook the gnocchi. When ready turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve. Soups—continued. Soup for Invalids.— Take 31b. of any white meat and 31b. of lean beef cut off the leg; chop it small, or gash it well, and put it into a stone jar together with a seasoning of salt and spice, and, if liked, an onion. Cover the jar with bladder and tie it firmly on. Stand the jar in a large saucepan, set it over the fire, fill up the saucepan with water, and let it boil for twelve hours. Uncover the jar then, and strain off the Soup. Soup without Meat (Maigre).—(1) Cut four large onions into slices, put them in a saucepan with 1,11). of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Put in with the onions some celery cut into small pieces, a bunch of chopped parsley, and some finely-shred cabbage lettuces; stir the ingredients over the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of crashed dry biscuits and 2qts. of boiling milk and water mixed in equal quantities. Season the Soup to taste with pepper and salt, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for an hour. Beat two eggs well, and stir them into the Soup when taken off the fire; turn it into a soup tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Cut an onion into thin slices. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan, and when it has melted add the sliced onion; fry it a little but do not let it brown, add 2 bandfuls of sorrel cut into shreds, and 1 dessert-spoonful of flour. Mix it well, add 1 pint of water and £ pint of milk, and boil for three minutes, stirring it con- stantly, then take it from the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up with J pint of cream. Serve it quite hot, but do not let it boil after the egg and cream are added. (3) Prepare a parsnip, a carrot, a turnip, four onions, and the outer stalks of a head of celery, and cut them into slices; add to them lqt. of green peas, flour the peas and sliced vegetables, and fry them in butter. Put them into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, let it simmer till the vegetables are quite soft, then pass all through a sieve; return to the saucepan, and boil in it the rest of the head of celery cut small. (4) Melt Jib. of butter in a stewpan ; slice three medium- sized onions and add them when the butter is melted. Cover the pan, and let the onions cook for two or three minutes, shaking the pan well; then add 1 handful of washed spinach, three small heads of celery, one cabbage lettuce cut small, and a few sprigs of parsley, and shake the pan over the fire for ten minutes. Pour in lqt. of water, add a few crusts of bread, nearly 1 saltspoonful of pepper, a blade of mace, and a few white beetroot-leaves cut up small; cover the pan again, and boil the contents gently for an hour. Before serving, mix with it 1 dessert- spoonful of vinegar and the yolk of an egg. (5) Peel and cut into small pieces three potatoes, three onions, two carrots, and one turnip; put them in a sauce- pan with a lump of butter, a few pieces of celery, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and salt to taste. Toss the contents of the saucepan over a gentle fire for fifteen minutes, then pour in lqt. of cold water; add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and boil gently for two-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time pass the Soup through a fine hair sieve, skim off the butter at the top, season with more salt and pepper if required, and boil up again. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with it a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter. (6) Peel four or five large potatoes and three onions, and cut each into four; put them into a saucepan with 2qts. of boiling water, about 3oz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil gently until the vegetables are soft, then strain the liquor and rub them through a fine sieve. Return the Soup to the saucepan with 1 pint of milk, boil it up again, then sprinkle in slowly 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of crashed tapioca, and keep it simmering at the side of the fire until dissolved. When ready, turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate, of small squares of toast. (7) Cut a few thin slices of bread, put them into a stewpan, cover with water, add Jib. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt, place it over a moderate493 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. lor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. fire, and let it stew gently, stirring constantly till the bread is well mixed. Add then the yolks of four eggs beaten up with lqt. of cream; stir till quite hot but not boiling, pour it into the tureen, and serve. Soup with Noques.—Put 4oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then add 4oz. of flour and stir it over the fire till nicely browned. Pour in gradually with the flour 3qts. of rich broth, continue stirring over the fire till the broth boils, then move the stewpan a little to the side of the fire. Warm till, of butter in a basin, and work it wife a spoon till creamy ; then mix with it, one at a time, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two. Beat the butter and eggs till light and frothy, then sift in gradually 6oz. of flour; work the whole to a smooth paste, season it with grated nutmeg and salt, and add the whipped 'whites of two more eggs. Try the consistency of the above mixture by poaching a small quantity of it in boiling water; stir in a little flour if too light, or if too consistent a little butter. Divide the mixture into small equal portions and shape them into round balls. Drop the noques into a saucepan of boiling salted water, give them one boil up, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and boil them gently till firm. Beat the yolks of four eggs with a little cream, skim the fat off the Soup, pour in the beaten eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. The Soup should not boil after the eggs are added. Drain the noques, put them into a soup-tureen, strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve over them, ami serve. Soup without Water.—Cut about 21b. of gravy beef into small pieces, and put them into an earthenware jar with an equal quantity of small carrots, turnips, and onions, two heads of celery, and 1 handful of spinach leaves. Put a plate on the top of the jar, and stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the water boil gently for two hours. Strain the gravy that has come from the meat into a saucepan, mix 1 teacupful of cream with it, season to taste with pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Serve the Soup in a soup-tureen. Spring Soup (a la Frintaniere).—(1) Boil one small cauli- flower, three young carrots, the same of turnips, a stick or two of celery, and J pint of asparagus-heads till tender. Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of flour and butter into a frying- pan and stir it over the fire till quite smooth, but do not let it brown. Put 2qts. of Soup stock into a saucepan, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then stir in the cooked flour and 1 teacupful of tomatoes; let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Ileturn the Soup to the saucepan, put in the cooked vegetables and h pint of green peas, stand the pan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an-hour. When ready, turn the Soup into a soup- tureen, and serve with it a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Put 21b. of the scrag end of neck of veal into a saucepan with 2qts. of cold water and boil it, adding a small lump of salt. When boiling, put into the water two large onions, two turnips, one carrot, half a blade of mace, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a few peppercorns. Let the Soup simmer gently by the side of the fire for three hours, adding occasionally a little more water and skimming off all the fat. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, boil it up again, and skim well. Put some spring onions, asparagus, cabbage, and lettuce, that have been boiled separately and cut into small pieces, into a soup-tureen; pour the Soup over them, dust in a little salt and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast, or, if preferred, croutons of fried bread. In both the foregoing receipts the vegetables should be cut into thin slices and stamped out into ornamental shapes. Summer Soup.—(1) Cut Jib. of salt pork into thin slices, put them in a saucepan, and fry them over a slow fire. Cut into small pieces three large onions, half a carrot, half a turnip, and half a small head of cabbage. Put the vegetables hi with the pork, place the lid on the sauce- pan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents Soups—continued. cook slowly for an hour, stirring them frequently to prevent burning. At the end of that time, pour in with the above ingredients 2qts. of boiling water, let it simmer for an hour, then add three potatoes cut into slices, and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour that has been mixed into a smooth paste with a little cold water; season the Soup to taste with salt and pepper, and leave it to cook slowly for an hour longer, adding at the end of the first half-hour 1 pint of green peas. Cut six large slices of bread, toast them nicely, then put them in a soup-tureen. Pour the Soup over the toast, and serve. (2) Maigre.—Boil 2qts. of green peas in lgall. of water, and when tender pass them through a fine hair sieve; then put them back, with the water in which they were boiled, into the saucepan. Wash four large lettuces, trim off the outside leaves, and cut the hearts into small pieces; put them in a saucepan with three peeled and sliced cucumbers and two whole onions. Cover the vegetables with water, and boil them till tender; strain the vegetables, put them into the saucepan with the peas, and add two or three lumps of loaf sugar and a little finely-chopped parsley. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an hour, then put in 1 pint more of green peas, and let them simmer half-an-hour longer. When cooked, take the onions out of the Soup, put in Jib. of butter, and stir it till it has dissolved. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Supper Soup.—Put into a saucepan 1 pint of cream, loz. of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, a piece of lemon-peel, a small quantity of coriander-seeds, and two laurel-leaves; add lqt. of milk, let all boil together for a few minutes, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds and 3oz. of bitter almonds, pound them in a mortar to a fine paste, adding a little water to prevent them oiling. When the boiled milk and cream has cooled, strain it, mix in the pounded almonds, stir in the beaten yolks of ten eggs, put the mixture in a saucepan over a slow fire, and stir it without letting it boil, till it thickens. Cut some thin slices of French roll, lay them in the tureen, and pour the Soup over them. Uka Soup (German).—Skin and wash two small eels, two perch, and two small tench, and cut the fish into thick pieces; put the heads and trimmings into a saucepan with some mixed vegetables, and a little over 2qts. of wine and water, mixed in equal quantities. Season the above ingre dients with salt and spices to taste, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for two hours. Put a chopped carrot, onion, and a piece of celery-root in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them. Strain the prepared broth in with the fried carrot and onion, add the pieces of fish and a little more wine, and seasoning if required. Cook the fish slowly by the side of the fire, then drain the broth, skim off the fat, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put 3oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till lightly browned; mix in gradually the strained fish broth, and continue stirring it over the fire till boiling, then move the sauce- pan to the side and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Pass the broth again through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in it some finely-shred raw mushrooms, the liquor from thirty-six oysters that have been blanched in white wine and drained, and let it simmer for ten minutes; then mix in the Soup the yolks of four eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick, not allowing it to boil again. Put the oysters in the Soup with the pieces of fish that have been trimmed and freed from all bone, and add a pinch each of chopped parsley and cayenne pepper. Pour the Soup and fish into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot. Victoria Soup.—Place a small lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in 411). of veal, 21b. of the scrag end of neck of lamb, and Jib. of lean ham, all cut up; stir the meat over the fire for a few minutes, then add two carrots, two onions, one turnip, half a head of celery, two or three bay-leaves, and a small bunch of parsley. Stir all over a slow fire till the bottom of the pan is covered with a light glaze, then pour in a little494 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Soups—continued. over 4qts. of water, and season with salt. When the liquor boils, stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for an hour. At the end of that time, put in three peeled apples, six peeled artichokes, and one anchovy that has been skinned and washed. Let the Soup simmer for an hour longer, then strain it through a silk sieve into another stewpan; put in with it \ pint of washed pearl-barley, and boil gently till cooked. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a paste with a little cold water, then add it to the Soup, and stir it over the fire till thick. Pot 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar in with the Soup, adding a little boiling milk or broth if it be too thick. Have ready dressed twenty cocks’ combs and a few sprigs of blanched parsley. Put 1 tea- cupful of cream, the cocks’ combs, and parsley into a sc.up- tureen, pour in the boiling Soup, and serve. Vocalist’s Soup.—Wash 3oz. of sago in boiling water and put it into a large saucepan with 2qts. of boiling stock. Boil it very gently for half-an-hour, stirring it occasionally. Beat up the yolks of three eggs together with £ pint of boiling cream, and stir them quickly into the Soup, which must not be allowed to boil again or the eggs will curdle. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. Westmoreland Soup.—Put 2qts. of rich clear broth into a stewpan, and when boiling, mix in with it 2 table-spoon- fuls of arrowroot that has been mixed to a paste with a little cold water; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side. Boil half a calf’s head in a mire- poix, and when it is cooked cut it into small pieces, and put it in with the Soup; add 1 breakfast-cupful of the stock in which the calf’s head was cooked, h breakfast-cupful of Madeira wine, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and boil the Soup up again. Put in a soup-tureen some poached chicken forcemeat quenelles, 1 teacupful of cooked and chopped truffles, and half that quantity of chopped raw gherkins. Pour in the boiling Soup, and serve it. White Soup.—(1) Take the bony end of a knuckle of veal, and chop the bones, breaking them very small; put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of whole pepper, both black and White, slightly bruised, a very little mace, bruised also, a bit of carrot, a bit of turnip, a small onion, and a stick of celery; pour in lqt. of water, and let it boil very gently for three hours. Add boiling water as the liquor reduces to keep the quantity to lqt. When it has boiled for three hours, strain it, thicken with flour and butter, and add to it J pint of cream; add also the crumb of a roll soaked till soft in a little of the Soup and rubbed through a sieve, give it a boil, pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Cut the flesh off the remains of two or three cold boiled fowls, trim off all the fat, cut the meat into small pieces, put it in a mortar with half its bulk of stale breadcrumbs that have been soaked in a small quantity of clear broth, ar.d pound them until quite smooth. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir in a sufficient quantity of clear stock that has been well freed from fat to make the Soup. Leave it on the fire till very hot but not quite boiling, then move it to the side. Beat tire yolks of two eggs together with a teacupful of cream, strain them, and stir them into the Soup. Have ready boiled in separate saucepans, equal quantities of young carrots cut into small squares and green peas. Drain the vegetables, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter. Windsor Soup.—Boil three calf’s feet for one hour in 2qts. of broth and lqt. of water; when done and cold, bone and cut them into pieces, moisten with 3 pints of their own broth, adding a bouquet garni, J wineglassful of Madeira wine, \ table-spoonful of salt, and a very little cayenne pepper. Boil again for ten minutes, then strain through a fine sieve ; darken the Soup with a little caramel browning, and when serving add 12 crayfish quenelles. SOUR BEATEF.—The literal meaning of this German dish is a sour bake, roast, or broil. In many parts of Germany it is a national dish, and prepared as follows: Steep a piece of beef in vinegar for two days, turning it occasionally. Wipe the beef, make some holes in it with a skewer, and stick in it some little pieces of bacon that have been rolled in pounded cloves, pepper, and salt. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan, and when melted put in the beef and brown it on both sides over a brisk fire, dredging it occa- sionally with a little flour. When the beef is well browned, put in with it two carrots cut in quarters, two small sliced onions, two or three bay-leaves, a little lemon-peel, mace, seven or eight peppercorns, a small quantity of salt, and 1 pint of water; put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents stew slowly for two or three hours. When cooked, take out the meat and unbroken carrots, and keep them hot. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it, thicken it with a little flour, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Put the meat on a hot dish, garnish round with carrots, pour the gravy over, and serve. SOUR-CROUT (Fr. Choucroute; Ger. Sauerkraut). —This is a variety of pickled cabbage so dear to many of our travelling classes. Cold meat and pickled cabbage are usually considered quite good enough for a wayside luncheon, just as in Germany Sour-crout is esteemed as an appetising accompaniment to plain food. Sour-crout has been pronounced very wholesome by experienced chemists. It may be made and prepared for the table in several ways. Sour-crout, ready made, can be purchased at most Italian warehouses. (1) Finely shred some white-hearted cabbages, put them in a jar, and place over them 1 handful of salt, £ table- spoonful of cream of tartar, and a little water. Put some of the big outside leaves of the cabbage on the top, place a cover on the jar with a weight on it, and keep it in a warm temperature. In a week or two the Sour-crout will be ready for use. (2) Trim off the defective and tough outer leaves of a white cabbage, wash it thoroughly in cold salted water, and shred it finely with a cutter, throwing away the tough stalks. To each peck of cabbage allow 1 pint of salt; wash the outer green leaves of the cabbage in cold salted water and use them to line a wooden tub or firkin; put the cabbage into the firkin in layers with the salt, pressing the layers of cabbage with a potato-masher until all of it is tightly packed down. Put a board over with a heavy stone on it, and let it stand for at least six weeks, when it will be ready for use. (3) Choose large firm heads of white cabbage, cut them into quarters, then slice them into thin strips; wash and drain them dry. Put a layer of this cabbage into a tub, place over it a layer of salt, then a little pounded and sifted coriander-seeds, another layer of cabbage, salt, coriander- seeds, and so on, until the tub is nearly full; then put a weight on the cabbage to press it well, cover with a coarse cloth, and set it in a cool dry place. (4) Cut some white-hearted cabbages into fine shreds, put them in a saucepan with some boiling water, double the quantity of vinegar, some caraway-seeds, and a piece of fat bacon. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till done. Strain the Sour-crout, put it on a hot dish, and serve. (5) Blanch 21b. of Sour-crout in boiling water for ten minutes, then drain it, press the water out, and leave till cold. Put the Sour-crout into a stewpan with lqt. of broth, 1 pint of toppings from the stockpot, and a little pepper. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for eight hours, the stewpan being tightly closed. Turn the Sour- crout into a bowl, and tie the paper over. It is then ready for use. Boiled Sour-crout.—To prepare the Sour-crou-t for boiling, soak it in plenty of cold water until it is only palatably salt; put it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water or in the same pot in which bacon, pickled pork, or smoked sausage are boiling, and boil until it is tender.495 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sour-crout—continued. To serve the Sour-crout, drain it, put it on a dish, lay the meat on it, and serve them together. When it is cooked without meat it is simply served as a vegetable. \\ lien cold it may be chopped and fried in butter, or heated in a white sauce or some gravy. Sour-crout with Apples.—Finely shred some white hearted cabbages, peel half the quantity of apples, and cut them into thin slices, ltub the inside of a saucepan over with butter; put at tlie bottom a piece of fat bacon, then a layer of the cabbage, a small lump of butter, four slices of lemon, a small quantity of ground mace and pepper, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, then the apples, some slices of ham, and more cabbage, in alternate layers. When the stewpan is full, put a layer of veal-fat on the top and bake the contents for three hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the mixture on to a hot dish, and serve. Sour-crout with Goose (Roumanian).—Draw and wash a fat goose, and season the inside of it with salt and pepper and any other kind of seasoning desired. Cut one large or two small cabbages into very thin shreds, and mix eighteen or twenty peppercorns with them. Put it in a baking- dish, and place the goose on the top. Place in a moderate Sour-crout—continued. Let it cook slowly for three hours, drain the Sour-crout, and dish it up with the pork on top; the pork may either be served in one piece or divided into six slices, arranging the sausages round. Sour-crout with Sausages and Bacon.—Blanch 21b. of Sour-crout in boiling water for a few minutes, then drain it, press all the moisture out, and leave it till cold. Put the Sour-crout in a stewpan with Hb. each of German sausage and streaky bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two or three cloves, and sufficient broth to cook them in. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer till half done, then put in seven or eight pork sausages, and finish cooking. Fig. 627. Sour-crout with Sausages and Bacon. Fig. 626. Sour-crout with Goose. oven and bake it, basting occasionally with butter. When cooked, put the goose on a hot dish, garnish it with the Sour-crout (see Fig. 626), and serve with a sauceboatful of good gravy. Sour-crout with Oysters.—Put 61b. of Sour-crout into a saucepan with plenty of water and ^lb. each of butter and lard, and boil until the Sour-crout is quite tender. An earthenware or porcelain-lined pot closely covered is better for this purpose than a saucepan, and a sheet of buttered paper should be laid over the Sour-crout before the lid is put on. Take it out when done, and drain it thoroughly on a sieve or strainer. In the meantime put into a sauce- pan 4oz. of butter, 1 table spoonful of flour, and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of cream; stir well over the fire until it boils, pour it at once over the Sour-crout, and shake well. Have ready opened about twelve dozen oysters, put them into a saucepan with their liquor, add a little pepper, and stew them. Put a layer of the Sour-crout at the bottom of a deep dish, cover with a layer of oysters and their juice, and serve as hot as possible. Pike and carp may be used together with the oysters, using less of the latter. The fish must first be boiled, bones and skin removed, and pulled into flakes or pieces before using. Sour-crout Pate.—Put l|lb. of Sour-crout in a saucepan with a piece of bacon and sufficient broth to cover it, and let it cook gently for three hours. Line a buttered pie-mould with a rich short-paste, strain the Sour-crout, put a layer of it at the bottom of the pie, then some slices of pork, and a few truffles. Spread over these some finely-minced meat, any kind will do, then the flesh of two pigeons, another layer of Sour-crout, and then a covering of paste, making a hole in the top. Bake the pie, and while cooking prepare some gravy and flavour it with truffles and olives. When cooked, pour the gravy through the hole at the top of the pie, and serve. Sour-crout with Pork and Sausages.—Well wash 3 pints of Sour-crout in several waters, drain it well, and put it in a saucepan with a large piece of well-washed salt pork, three smoked sausages, two carrots, two whole onions, \ breakfast-cupful of roasted meat fat, six juniper-berries, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 1 pint of white broth. When done, drain the Sour-crout, put it on a hot dish, place the sausages on the top, cut the bacon and German sausage into slices, arrange them round the Sour-crout (see Fig. 627), and serve. Sour-crout with Tinned Meat.—Put as much Sour-crout as wanted in a saucepan of boiling water, let it boil for five minutes, then strain it; put it into a stewpan with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a couple of small onions cut into thin slices; tie some allspice, whole pepper, and mace in a muslin bag, and put them in also. When this has stewed for twenty minutes, add 21b. of tinned beef or mutton, first scraping the fat off. As soon as the meat is hot, serve it with some nicely-fried slices of onion. SOUBiSOF.—The fruit of a West Indian shrub or small tree (Anona muricata) closely allied to the custard- apple. The pulp is whitish, and has a pleasant sub-acid taste that is reckoned very grateful. It is greenish and Fig. 628. Soursop. covered with prickles, and often weighs as much as 21b. or 31b. The natives of the districts in which it grows believe it to be very wholesome, and a preservative against all sorts of evils (see Fig. 628). SOUSE.—The term is probably a corruption of the French saucer—to sauce, or steep in sauce. By EnglishTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 496 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Souse—continued. cooks it is understood to mean a sort of marinading applied to pig’s head, fish, and other things. SOUTERAGE.—The technical term given by wine- blenders to a mixture of two or more sorts. SOUTHDOWN MUTTON.—See Mutton. SOWANS—This is a Scotch dish made from the inner husks of the oat grain, prepared by putting them into a wooden tub having a narrow mouth, and mixing in with them a small quantity of water. The sids, as they are called, rise to the surface, and must be stirred down with a spatula or spoon until all of them are wet. Afterwards they are covered with more water and allowed to remain for a week or so imtil they are quite sour, then turn them out on a fine sieve placed over a jar, and let as much of the liquid as possible run through; pour a little more cold water over the sids so that all the goodness may be extracted, and the liquor is then set to become clear. When required for use the clear liquor is poiu-ed off, and some of the sediment put into a saucepan with a little water and boiled for half-an-hour; it should then be poured out into plates, and served with milk; separately. SOY.—The name given to a sauce which is a sort of ketchup made from the Soy bean (Soya hispida), a native of China, Japan, and the Moluccas. “We have got into the way,” says Kettner, “of calling it Indian Soy because it comes to us from India, but ail the best is made in Japan and China by a process which is perfectly well understood.” This process is given as follows: Take 1 gall, of the seed of Soya hispida (white haricots or kidney-beans may be used instead), boil them in water until quite soft and the water almost evaporated, then add lgall. of bruised wheat. Keep the mixture in a warm place for twenty-four hours, and then stir in lgall. of common salt dissolved in 2galls. of warm water. Put this into a stone jar and bung it loosely, leaving it thus for 8 or 10 weeks, giving it an occasional stir up. At the expiration of that time, squeeze out by pressure all the liquor and bottle it for use. The residue may be salted and soaked again for a further supply, which would not be so good as the first. Kettner further observes:—“ It is not quite clear, how- ever, why, since we might import though we cannot grow the Soy bean, which is like a kidney bean, we cannot produce the sauce for ourselves ; and this mystery has led to a wide-spread superstition that the Soy must be made from some of the horrors with which the Chinese at least are known to indulge their appetites. The bean suggests a black beetle, and there are numbers of people who seemingly believe that from black beetle the Soy is made. Another point is not clear. From every account of the process of making Soy we should expect a sauce as salt as anchovy sauce—it is said to be used like salt at Oriental tables—but the Soy with which we are familiar in Europe is not only as black as treacle, but also as sweet.” Cooley informs us that the Soy of the shops is, in nine cases out of ten, a spurious article, made in this country by simply saturating molasses or common treacle with salt. Evidently this is the British-made Soy with which Kettner appears to have been familiar. A better plan of making an imitation Soy is as follows: Mix together by means of a gentle heat, lgall. of malt syrup, 2|lb. of treacle, 21b. of salt, and 1 pint of mushroom - juice. Stir steadily until the ingredients are well incorporated ; set to stand in a large jar, and in two or three weeks’ time draw off the clear liquid for use. Soy Sauce for Fish.—Put 2oz. of butter in a lined sauce- pan with 2 table spoonfuls of flour and stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of strained and cooled fish broth. Continue stirring it over the fire Soy —continued. until thickened and boiling, then move it to the side, mix in | teacupful of Soy and Jib. of butter, breaking it into small pieces. When the butter has dissolved, the sauce is ready for serving; it is a very good accompaniment to boiled pike. SPAGHETTI.—A variety of macaroni which has given its name to various dishes prepared with it; of these the following rank very high : Spaghetti au Gratin.—Boil fib. of Spaghetti, place it in a saucepan, moistening it with | pint each of German and bechamel sauce. Season with 1 pinch of pepper and J pinch of nutmeg, adding fib. of grated cheese. Toss well, put it in a baking-dish, sprinkle the top with grated cheese and breadcrumbs, pour over a very little clarified butter, and place it in the oven. When of a line golden colour, after about fifteen minutes, take from the oven, and serve. Spaghetti a l’ltalienne.—Put fib. of boiled Spaghetti in a saucepan, add 1 pint of tomato sauce and fib. of grated Parmesan cheese, and season with b pinch of pepper and | pinch of nutmeg; cook for ten minutes, tossing well, and serving with more cheese. Spaghetti a la Napolitaine.—Boil fib. of fine Spaghetti, drain it, and put it back into the saucepan with b pint each of tomato and Spanish sauce, six mushrooms, two truffles, and a small piece of cooked, smoked, red beef tongue, all cut up dice-shaped; season with \ pinch of pepper and b pinch of nutmeg, and add fib. of grated Parmesan cheese. Cook for ten minutes, tossing well, and serve with a little cheese separately. Spaghetti with Cheese.—Put fib. of Spaghetti broken into small pieces in a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Drain the Spaghetti, and place it in a buttered baking-dish. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of grated cheese into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk and a lump of butter about the size of an egg, and stir over the fire till the cheese is nearly melted. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 tea- cupful of milk, then stir them in with the cheese, and pour the whole over the Spaghetti, and bake in a quick oven till of a rich yellow colour. If cooked too long, the cheese will be rendered tough. The Spaghetti should be served while very hot. Spaghetti with Cream Sauce.—Take 1 handful of the stick macaroni without breaking, plunge it into boiling salted 'water, and boil till tender. As the sticks soften, bend and coil them in the water, but be careful not to break them. When cooked, drain the Spaghetti, and pour cold water through it. Serve with cream sauce. SPANISH BLANC-MANGE.—See Blanc mange. SPANISH BUNS.—See Buns. SPANISH BUTTER.—See Butter. SPANISH CAKES.—See Cakes. SPANISH COMPOTE.—See Compotes. SPANISH CREAM.—See Cream. SPANISH CUSTARD.—See Custards. SPANISH FRITTERS. —See Fritters. SPANISH LIQUORICE.—See Liquorice. SPANISH MACAROONS.—See Macaroons. SPANISH MACKEREL.-See Mackerel. SPANISH NUTS.—The name by which small nuts of the filbert kind imported from Spain and principally from Barcelona are known. They are sometimes used in confectionery. Spanish-Nut Bonbons.—Crack some Spanish Nuts, and when free from their shells weigh them; boil lib. of them,497 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Spanish Nuts—continued. and remove their skins. Grate the nuts very fine. Put lib. of powdered white sugar in a sugar-pan over the fire, and stir it constantly till it is all melted; add the grated nuts, and work them well into the sugar. When nuts and sugar are thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture on to a tin sheet and roll it out very quickly with a rolling-pin; let it cool, and cut it into any shape desired. Spanish-Nut Cream Ice.—Break and remove the shells of 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish Nuts, place them in the oven to loosen their skins, which afterwards rub off; put them into a mortar and pound them to a paste with a small quantity of milk. Turn this into a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and mix in the yolks of five eggs and 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Stir well over the fire to form a custard, pass it through a fine sieve into a freezer, freeze, and it is then ready for use and may be moulded if desired. Spanish Nuts Pralines.—Put lib. of shelled Spanish Nuts into a pan over the fire with a little water and lib. of loaf sugar, and let them boil till they begin to sparkle, then take the pan from the fire, and with a wooden spoon stir the nuts well till the sugar begins to feel gritty; put them over a slow fire to dissolve the sugar again, continue to stir that the nuts may get well covered with sugar, and when they turn reddish and are sufficiently covered with sugar take them from the fire, pour them on to a sieve, cover the sieve with a clean cloth, and set it in a stove; this will dry the sugar on the nuts and make them look glossy. SPANISH ONIONS.—Nee Onions. SPANISH PUFFS— Nee Puffs. SPANISH SALAD.—Nee Salads. SPANISH SAUCE (&, l’Espagnole).—The cele- brated Kettner, in his “Book of the Table,” makes the following observations concerning this famous standard sauce : “ Spanish Sauce has, for more than a century, been the chief sauce in Europe. The name is rather absurd, and now means no more than brown sauce of the finest quality. For centuries there were Spanish Sauces of one kind or another adopted in France, but it was a new thing for the French in the last century to give the name of the Spaniard to their most elaborate gravy. The great cooking authority, in the middle of the last century, when Louis Y. reigned in all his glory, was Menon, and his books clearly show what the sauce was intended to be. Its grand peculiarity was to have a double supply of ham, which predominated over every other ingredient. These were days when it was supposed that no sauce could be made good without ham. In Menon’s receipts for family use nearly all the sauces have for their foundation one slice of ham and one slice of veal boiled down in broth. The Spanish Sauce had two slices of ham, and grew into such favour that it seemed to eclipse all the other brown sauces, and to be worthy of the most lavish adornment. In later days, when this system of adorn- ment was at its height, one of the receipts for it, already quoted, begins with the direction: Take twelve ducks, a ham, two bottles of old Madeira, and 61b. of fine truffles. While the ham was the chief thing in the sauce, there was reason for calling it Spanish, but gradually the influence of the ham has been diminished. The share of it allowed to Spanish Sauce is allowed to other sauces, and the quantity has been so much reduced in proportion to beef and veal that it is doubtful whether it has any^ effect worth aiming at. Spanish Sauce has no longer a Spanish characteristic—save its brownness; and at last a great cook (Gouffe) has been bold enough to strike the ham wholly out of the sauce, which is in his receipt, but a good gravy of beef and veal finished with roux.” For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II Spanish Sauce—continued. The history of Spanish Sauce is so well told in the foregoing quotation that it is unnecessary to add to it, except to state that some of the best receipts for its preparation will be found under Sauces. SPANISH SOUFFLES.—Nee Souffles. SPANISH WINES.—Spain has ever been famous for its wines, made from the grapes which ripen so lusciously in the vineyards planted along its sunny mountain slopes. Xeres, Malaga, Rota, Montilla, Carig- uena, Val de Penas, Sitges, Piralta, and numerous other localities, produce excellent wines, celebrated all over the world for their delightful aroma and bouquet. The wines of Old Castile are very good and strong, and those of Aragon are deep in colour and flavour. Catalonia, Barcelona, and Tarragona, are all good, the three latter passing through the “ rectifying ” houses of France before they reach us, and suffering some sort of modification of the original. Of the sherries Amontillado is a pale dry variety. Manzanilla is also a light pale wine, possessing a peculiar bitter taste resembling chamomile, from which it derives its name. Malaga wines are all sweet, luscious, dark brown, and very heavy. The import of Spanish wines to this country stands second in importance to Portuguese, and third as regards France, all three being exceptionally high. SPARE-RIBS.—The breast ribs of pork from which the shoulder has been cut. SPARROWS.—It is only in England that these birds of the Fringillidx family are eaten under their own name. As larks it is possible that many are invested with a nominal value that can scarcely be said to belong to them. Sparrow Dumpling.—Clean the birds, and put a lump of butter rolled in pepper and salt into each one. Beat three eggs with h pint of milk and a little salt, then mix in sufficient flour to make a rather stiff batter. Put the Sparrows in a basin, pour the batter over them, tie a cloth over, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil the dumpling for half-an-hour. Prepare a butter sauce. When cooked, turn the dumpling on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Sparrow Fie.—Pluck, singe, and clean twelve Sparrows. Soak a slice of crumb of bread in 1 teacupful of milk, then beat it up and mix with it the finely-minced peel of half a lemon, a small bunch of finely-chopped sweet herbs; 2oz. of butter, and a seasoning to taste of salt and pepper. Put the above mixture into a saucepan and stir it over a slow fire till it becomes firm, then stuff the Sparrows with it. Butter the edge of a pie-dish, and put a strip of puff paste round it. Line the bottom of the dish with rump steak that has been lightly fried, and season with pepper and salt; cover the meat with slices of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, then put the birds on it; cover them with some more slices of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and pour in a little rich gravy. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moistening and pressing the edges together; brush it over with a paste brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and make a bole in the top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-hour and a half. Sparrows in Potatoes.—(1) Dress as many birds as are required, stuff them with any kind of plain forcemeat, brush them over with egg, cover with finely-sifted bread- crumbs, plunge them into sufficient boiling fat to cover, and fry them. Take them out and drain thoroughly. Cut as many large potatoes as there are birds into halves; after peeling them, scoop out part of the inside from each of the halves sufficiently deep to admit the birds, brush the halves with white of egg, place a bird between two, as for SURPRISE POTATOES (see Fig. 629), fasten with string, put on a baking-sheet, baste with butter or bacon fat, put in the oven until cooked a light golden colour, take them out, and wipe dry. Place them on a dish, garnish until i any desired garnish, and serve with white cream sauce. Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 K498 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Sparrows—continued. (2) Skin, draw, and truss as many birds as required, and stuff each with a very little oyster forcemeat wrapped up in a thin slice of lean cold boiled ham, and wrap each bird round with a vine-leaf. Peel as many large potatoes as birds, cut them into halves, scoop out a hollow in each, put a bird between two, previously -wetting the edges with white of egg, tie round with broad tape, and Fig. 629. Sparrow in Fotato. bake to a chestnut brown in a moderate oven. About an hour will be quite sufficient. When done, glaze them with raw egg; after removing the tape, and when the glaze is dry, tie round with different coloured ribbons. Place them on a hot dish covered with a napkin, and serve with gravy and wine sauce in a sauce-tureen and red-currant jelly on a separate dish. Sparrow Pudding-.—Mix 6oz. of finely-chopped suet with All), of flour, then add an egg and sufficient water to form a light paste, and with this line a greased mould. Clean about eight Sparrows, cut them into halves, divide Alb. of truffles and ham forcemeat between them, and stuff them. Cut Alb. of beef steak into strips, beat them slightly, put a little grated cocoa-nut on each, roll them up, put them intermixed with the Sparrows into the mould, place a few lumps of butter on the top, pour in sufficient stock to cover, lay on a top of paste, tie over with a cloth, and steam for two-hours and a half. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon on a dish, turn out the pudding on top, and serve immediately. SPARROW-GRASS.—See Asparagus. SPATCHCOCK or SPITCHCOCK.—This term is applied to a process of splitting open and grilling or broiling, such as an eel or fowl. The word is a compound of spit and cock, or cook, as denoting the mode of trussing by means of small spits or skewers. Some ingenious persons have endeavoured to draw a distinction between Spatchcock and Spitchcock, believing that the former applies to fowls or other birds and the latter to eels. Doubtless they are one and the same, the former Spatchcock or Spitchcock—continued. being more generally used in cookery, whereas the latter is the more correct. Receipts for spitchcocking will be found under eels. The following is a good receipt for Spatchcock: Split a fowl in halves right down the breast and back, and pass the skewers through the bird as shown in the illustra- tion (see Fig. 630); sprinkle a little salt and plenty of pepper over it, nib butter all over, lay it on a hot well- greased gridiron, and broil over a clear brisk fire. Put a lump of butter on a hot dish, set it in front of the fire till the butter is melted, then lay on it a nicely-toasted round of bread without crust. Dish the Spatchcock or Spitchcock on the toast, and serve hot. SPATULA (Fr. Spatule; Ger. Spatel).—A long flat knife with two edges and a round point (see Fig. 631), r Fig. 631. Spatula used by Confectioners. commonly used by confectioners, and sometimes called a palette-knife. In this country the name has suffered corruption, and has become “ spaddle ” or “ spattle ” Fig. 632. Spatula used in Ice-making. amongst British confectioners, especially when referring to the Spatula used in ice-making (see Fig. 632). SPEARMINT.—See Mint. / SPICE (Fr. Epice; Ger. Gewiirz; Ital. Spezie; Sp. Especial.—There seems to be some little difficulty about the interpretation of this word. Taken generically, it signifies a species or kind of substances which have similar properties, and are used for similar purposes. Thus, Spice, as we understand in the kitchen, signifies aromatic vegetable substances used for flavouring or Fig. 633. Spice-box (Adams and Son). seasoning, therefore all vegetable substances possessing these qualities are Spice, and of these we have a very extensive assortment, which are treated under their own headings. Separate Spices ready for use are usually kept in a metal Spice-box (see Fig. 633) divided into compart- ments, the centre being a nutmeg-box and grater. The following receipts for the preparation of various mixtures of Spice will be found useful: Extract of Spices for Mulling- Wine.—Put a nutmeg into a mortar with ten or twelve cloves and a piece of ginger and bruise them finely; put the mixture into a A pint bottle, fill it up with unsweetened gin, and cork it down tightly. Shake the mixture occasionally for twelve or fourteen days, then let it stand until the Spices have499 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. l) 2 K Spice—continued. settled at the bottom, leaving it clear and bright. Strain it carefully off into another bottle, and keep it tightly corked till required for use. This also makes an excellent flavouring for gruel. French Sausage Spice.—Mix together in a mortar 5lb. of ground black pepper, 2Jlb. of ground ginger, lib. each of ground cloves and nutmegs, and Jib. each of ground aniseed and coriander seeds. Preserve in a stoppered bottle. French Spice.—Mix together Joz. each of thyme and bay- leaves, and Joz. each of marjoram and rosemary; place the herbs on a sheet of paper, and put them in a slow oven. When very dry, put the herbs in a mortar with loz. eacli of nutmeg and cloves, Joz. of peppercorns, and Joz. of cayenne pepper, and pound until very line, then sift them through a tine hair sieve. Put the Spice into bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Kitchen Spice.—Mix together 21b. of ground black pepper, lib. of ground ginger, 4oz. each of ground cinnamon, allspice, and nutmegs, Joz. of ground cloves, and 31b. of salt. This is very useful for seasoning sauces, soups, and gravies, and should be preserved in a stoppered bottle. Illixed Spice.—Pound 2oz. each of allspice, cloves, and cinna mon, Joz. each of nutmeg and ginger, anil 2oz. of coriander- seeds. When they are well powdered they must be kept in a well stoppered bottle. Ragoht Spice (Kitchener's).—Rub together in a mortar lib. of salt, Jib. each of ground mustard, ground black peppier, and grated lemon peel, loz. each of ground all- spice and ginger, 2oz. of cayenne pepper, and Joz. of grated nutmeg. Preserve in a stoppered bottle. Savoury Spice (Kidder’s).—Mix together equal parts of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, all finely ground beforehand. Put in a stoppered bottle. Spice Cakes.—(1) Put 1 Jib. of flour in a basin, and rub in lib. of butter with the hands until smooth; mix in lib. of well-washed currants, Jib. of moist sugar, J table-spoonful of pounded Spice, J table-spoonful of yeast that has been dissolved in a little warm water, the beaten yolks of two, and the white of one egg, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Stir the ingredients until well incorporated, and stand the mixture close to the tire where it will rise for half-an- hour. Divide the cake mixture into small portions, mould these into nice-shaped cakes, put them on baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. Leave the cakes until cold, then pile them on a dish, and serve. (2) Take one egg, § breakfast-cupful of molasses, § break- fast-cupful of sugar, § breakfast-cupful of butter warmed to melting, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 2J breakfast cupfuls of flour, 1 heaped teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 even teaspoonful of crenn of tartar, 1 table-spoonful of mixed Spice, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Mix in the order given, and bake in small tins. A table spoonful of lemon juice may be substituted for the vinegar and Spice. Spice Conserve (Indian).—Put five or six blanched sweet almonds into a mortar together with a few cobnuts, about lib. of shelled monkey-nuts (sometimes called ground nuts), and two dozen peeled and blanched walnuts, and pound them coarsely. Prepare a syrup by boiling ljlb. of moist sugar with J pint of water, strain it into another saucepan, put in the nuts, season with about Joz. each of black pepper, cinnamon, cloves, and ginger all ground, and about Joz. of ground allspice ; set the saucepan on the fire, and boil the contents for thirty minutes, stirring continually. Add two large hard biscuits broken up very small, boil for fifteen minutes longer, turn the mixture into small cups or glasses, and let it get cold. Dust over powdered cinnamon to taste, and serve. Spice Lozenges.—Clarify 31b. of loaf sugar, boil it to the degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped in cold water then into the boiling sugar, and instantly into the cold water again, the sugar will roll in a ball from the finger in the water and if bitten will stick to the teeth (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is boiled to this degree,add to it loz. of finely-powdered cloves, loz. of powdered Spic e—continued. cinnamon, Jib. each of candied orange-peel and candied lemon-peel chopped fine (or, if preferred, Jib. of pistachio- nuts blanched may be substituted for the candied lemon- peel). Stir these gently into the sugar, and continue to boil till it is at the degree when if a skimmerful of sugar be taken up and the skimmer given one good shake large sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar-boiling). When it has boiled to this degree beat it up and pour it Jin. thick into paper cases. While it is still warm, mark it into lozenges with a fork, and afterwards deepen some of these lines with the point of a knife. When quite cold, take them out of the cases and break them apart at the deepened lines. Keep them in a warm dry place. Spice Nuts.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter until smooth into 1 Jib. of flour; mix in Jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel, 1 table-spoonful of powdered allspice, J table-spoonful of powdered ginger, Joz. of caraway-seeds, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix these ingre- dients, work in gradually 1 Jib. of treacle in which has been mixed Joz. of pearl ash and Joz. of alum, and work the whole to a smooth paste. Lay a sheet of white paper over Fig. 634. Spice Nuts. a baking-slab, drop the mixture on it in small quantities, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cold, pack the nuts (see Fig. 634) in biscuit-tins till required for use. (2) Put four eggs in a basin with lib. of moist sugar, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, the finely-shred peel of one lemon, anil a small quantity of powdered cloves. Beat the mixture for about twenty minutes, then mix in gradually lib. of finely-sifted flour and 2oz. of chopped mixed candied peel. Butter a baking-sheet, drop the mixture on it in small quantities, brush them over with milk, and bake them in a moderate oven. When the nuts are cooked, take them off the tin, lay them on a dish, bottom side upwards, and leave them until cold. Spiced Salt.—Put in a mortar 4oz. of common salt, 2oz. of celery-salt, loz. each of white pepper and ground thyme, loz. each of marjoram and summer savory, Joz. of sage, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and J teaspoonful each of cloves, mace, and allspice. Pound all these ingredients together, then sift them through a very fine wire sieve. Keep the 8pice closely covered in jars. Sweet Spice (Kidder's).—Mix together equal parts of cinnamon, cloves, mace, nutmegs, and white sugar, all previously ground. Preserve for use in stoppered bottles. SPICED APPLES.—See Apples. SPICED BEEF.—See Beef. SPICED LOAF.—A North Britain cake made of bread dough, with a very large proportion of mixed spice, and a little sugar. SPIGOLA.—A famous fish of Italy, a species of bar, held in great esteem. It is caught amongst.the rocks along the shores, and sometimes weighs 201b. or more. The flesh is very white and delicate. The Spigola is cooked in a variety of ways, according to its size. The following is an excellent receipt given by Dubois : Spigola of Rome with Oyster Sauce.—Prepare the fish, and boil it in court bouillon; prepare as for garnish some truffles, quenelles, and mushrooms. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, lay it on a hot dish, garnish it on both sides with the truffles, quenelles, and mushrooms, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 500 SPINACH (Fr. Epinard; Ger. Spinat; Ital. Spinace; Sp. Espinaca).—In Turner’s Herbal, published in 1568, Spinach is mentioned as “an herb lately found and not much in use.” Lindley informs us that “the common Spinach (Spinacia oJeracea) is a hardy annual whose native country is unknown, though generally supposed to be Western Asia.” There are several varieties of Spinach (sometimes spelled Spinage) cultivated in this country, chief of which are the winter and summer kinds; the former is known as prickly or winter Spinach and the latter as round-seeded or summer Spinach (see Fig. 635). * Fig. 635 round-seeded on Summer Spinach. The leaves are fleshy and succulent, and when thoroughly washed by passing through several supplies of water they may be cooked or prepared according to the following receipts. The juice of the leaves is used to colour confectionery. (1) Blanch a peck of well-washed Spinach and drain it; put it into a saucepan with 4 breakfast-cupful of veal stock (either the reduced gravy of a fricandeau, or a glaze), and cook for ten minutes. When ready to serve, add loz. of butter, melt well together, and serve garnished with croii tons of fried bread. (2) Pick and wash some freshly-cut leaves of Spinach, and cook it in boiling salted water for fifteen minutes. Drain the Spinach, press out all the water, chop it, then put it into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and stir it over a brisk fire for a few minutes. Mix some stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce with the Spinach, and season with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. It is then ready for serving, and makes a good garnish. (3) Wash and pick the Spinach very carefully, put it into a saucepan only just large enough to hold it, add 1 teacupful of water, and sprinkle over it a small quantity of salt; close the lid tightly, put the saucepan on the fire, and shake it frequently. When the Spinach is done, mix a small quantity of butter with it; 1 teaspoonful of cream is also an improvement. The butter and cream should be well beaten into it and the Spinach squeezed pretty dry before serving. (4) Pick the Spinach nicely, removing the stalk from each leaf, and rejecting all leaves that are old or discoloured, and wash it in several waters. Put it in a saucepan in plenty of water with about 1 dessert-spoonful of salt in it, press it down, and let it boil fast without a lid for ten or For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Spinach—continued. twelve minutes; then drain it, pressing all the water out of it, chop it fine, and put it in a stewpan over the fire with about 2oz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, | salt- spoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, and stir it for six or seven minutes. Lay it on a dish, smooth it over with the blade of a knife, cut it across in diamonds, and garnish with triangular-shaped pieces of bread fried in oil or butter. (5) Trim off the roots and tough stalks of \ peck of Spinach, wash it in plenty of cold salted water until quite free from sand, put it in a saucepan over the fire with sufficient boiling salted water to cover it, and boil fast for three minutes or until it is just tender, but do not allow it to become soft and watery. Drain the Spinach, and throw it into a large pan of cold water until it is cool; then drain again, chop it very line, or rub it through a colander with a masher; put it again in the saucepan over the fire to heat, with a seasoning of butter, salt, and pepper. In the meantime poach half-a- dozen eggs soft, lay the Spinach upon a hot dish, take the shells off the eggs, and lay them on the Spinach, and serve hot. Boiled Spinach with Sardines.—Wash the Spinach in several waters to thoroughly remove all the grit, then put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water and boil it gently for eight or ten minutes. A finely-chopped onion may be boiled with the Spinach if desired. Refresh the Spinach in. cold water, then drain and press it well to get it as dry as possible. Scrape the skins off a few sardines, remove the bones, and mince the flesh. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with about 1 teacupful of finely-grated bread- crumb, and stir it over the fire until hot, then put in the Spinach and sardines, and stir the mixture well. Or, instead of the breadcrumbs, flour may be dredged in with the butter and well stirred until mixed, then a small quantity of broth or water poured in. Season with salt and pepper, and stir it until boiling. When the mixture is very hot, turn it on to a dish, form it into an oblong, gar- nish with slices of hard boiled eggs, lay six cleaned sardines over the Spinach mixture (see Fig. 636), and serve. Minced Spinach.—Boil the Spinach in plenty of salted water. When cooked, drain off all the water, chop it very fine, and season well with pepper and salt. For each pint of minced Spinach put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1,- table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until smooth and cooked. Put the Spinach in with the cooked flour before it has become brown, adding for each pint l teacupful of cream or milk, and stir it for a few minutes longer. Press the Spinach in a basin, then turn it out in shape on to a hot dish. Put a circle of slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top of the Spinach, put another circle of sliced eggs at the bottom, and serve. Spinach a la Pranpaise.—Pick the Spinach carefully oyer, wash it in several waters, as it is very gritty, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain the Spinach as free from water as possible, chop it fine, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Make a saucepan hot, put in the Spinach, with 1 teacupful each of gravy and cream and a small quantity of salt, and stew tiie whole gently for ten minutes. Grate 4oz. of cooked ham, and mix with it one well-beaten egg, loz. of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of cream. Stir this mixture over the fire until hot. Cut some slices of bread about J,in. thick, trim them to a round shape, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely Sauces, d-c., referred to, sec under their special heads.-501 the encyclopedia of practical cookery. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Spinach—continued. browned on both sides. Drain the pieces of bread, spread the ham mixture over them, place them on a hot dish, pour the Spinach over, and serve while very hot. Spinach a la Mode.—Blanch 1 peck of Spinach, cutting off the stalks and well washing it ; chop it up, and put it into a saucepan with loz. of butter and J pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir with a wooden spoon, and cook for live minutes, adding loz. of butter kneaded with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and A pint of milk. Stir frequently, and cook for ten minutes; then serve, garnished with six sippets of bread fried in butter. Spinach Consomme.—Pick the Spinach, wash it in plenty of water, put it into a saucepan full of boiling water with a lump of salt, and press it down constantly till cooked. Drain through a colander, then throw it into a tub of cold water to preserve its green colour. When cold press out all the moisture from the Spinach and chop it. Place a lump of butter in a saucepan, put in the Spinach, and stir it over the lire till the moisture lias evaporated; then sift in 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in 1 teacupful of broth, and boil quickly to prevent its turning yellow. A little glaze may be mixed with the Spinach and grated nutmeg if desired. Serve while very hot. Spinach Cream.—Put the yolks of nine eggs into a lined saucepan with 8oz. of moist sugar, and beat them well; then add 1 pint each of cream and milk and a stick of cinnamon, and beat till well mixed; pour in 1 tea- cupful of Spinach-juice, stand the saucepan over a clear fire, and stir the mixture one way till very thick. Put some quarters of preserved oranges in a glass dish, and pour the cream over them when it has cooled a little. Stand the disli containing the cream on ice till it is cold, when it will be ready for serving. Spinach with Cream.—Pick and thoroughly wash the Spinach, and boil it in plenty of boiling salted water. When tender, drain it, and put it into cold water for a few minutes. Press all the moisture out of the Spinach, then put it into a saucepan with a little butter, and stir it over a slow fire till dry. Dredge a little flour over the Spinach, pour in J pint of boiling cream, and season with a little grated nutmeg, sugar, and salt. Turn it into a hot dish, garnish it with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Spinach Croquettes.—Carefully look over the Spinach and remove all the dead leaves; wash it well, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for five minutes. Drain it, refresh it in cold water, place it in a colander, put a plate over the top, press it well to extract as much of the water as possible, and chop it fine. Put a large lump of butter into a saucepan, and stand it over the fire; when melted, put in the Spinach, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss it about for a few minutes. Dredge lightly with flour, popr in about 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it until reduced to a thick paste; then move it to the edge of the fire, mix in 2 table-spoon- fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, Jib. of butter broken into small bits, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and lastly the well-whipped whites of two. Stir and mix well. Half fill a shallow baking-dish with hot clarified butter, and Fig. 637. Spinach Croquettes. with a table-spoon drop in small quantities of the above mixture, and put it into a brisk oven. When firm cut the croquettes out with a round tin cutter, and turn them over to brown on the other side. Drain them, arrange on a hot dish, garnish them with slices of lemon and tufts of fried parsley (see Pig. 637), and serve. Spinach— continued. Spinach Croustades.—Cut some heart-shaped bread crous- tades, fry them till nicely browned, and then scoop out the crumb from the middle. Prepare some Spinach as for Spinach with Cream, and when ready fill the croustades with it. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Spinach Custard.—Wash lib. of freshly-picked Spinach in several waters, and blanch it in boiling salted water for five or six minutes. Drain the Spinach, press out all the moisture, chop it, and put it in a saucepan with a small lump of butter. Dredge in a little flour, and stir the whole over the fire for three or four minutes. Mix with the Spinach a teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, and suffi- cient cream to make it a nice consistency; stir the mixture over the fire, and boil it for a few minutes; season to taste with sugar, take it oft' the fire, and when a little cooled add the beaten yolks of seven eggs and the whites of three. Butter a timbale-mould, and pour the above mixture into it; stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the custard out on to a fancy dish, pour a little sweet sauce over it, and serve. Spinach and Eggs.—Pick the Spinach over carefully, wash it in several waters, and then let it soak in cold water for a few minutes. Put the Spinach into a sauce- panful of boiling water with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda or ammonia to preserve its green colour, and boil for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the Spinach in a colander, mix a little butter, salt, and pepper with it, and then chop it up. Chop some hard-boiled eggs, anil mix them with the Spinach. Put the mixture in a sauce- pan and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot again; turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Spinach Fritters.—Thoroughly wash the Spinach in plenty of water, pick it carefully over to remove any dead leaves, put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until tender. When ready, refresh the Spinach in cold water and drain it thoroughly. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the Spinach, first chopping it, with a moderate quantity of finely-chopped marjoram, the chopped peel of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Pour in A pint of milk, and stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon until somewhat thickly reduced; then move it to the side, and stir in three well-beaten eggs. When sufficiently thickened, turn the mixture on to a dish and leave it until cold. Prepare a good frying-batter. When the mixture is cold, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, which mould to an egg shape. Put a large lump of lard or dripping into a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire until boiling. Dip the fritters in the batter, coating them well with it, then put them in the boiling fat, and fry them a bright crisp brown. Take each fritter out of the fat as it is done, and drain it, either on a fine sieve or a sheet of paper, in front of the fire. When all are cooked, pile them in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Spinach in German Style.—Wash the required quantity of Spinach in several waters to thoroughly remove all the grit, then drain it, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for eight or ten minutes; refresh it in cold water, drain it, press it tightly to squeeze out as much of the water as possible, and chop it fine. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with about 1 teacupful of grated bread- crumb and one finely-minced onion, stir them over the fire until hot, then put in the Spinach and make it hot again. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 638), and serve. Spinach-green for Colouring.—(1) Well wash Jib. of Spinach, remove all the stalks, and put it into a porcelain- lined saucepan, with J teaspoonful of salt and A teacup- ful of water, and boil for ten minutes with the cover on the pan. Squeeze out as much of the liquor as possible, and bottle for future use. (2) Wash lib. of Spinach, remove all the stalks, dry it slightly, and mince it very fine; bruise it in a mortar,502 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Spinach—continued. put it into a cloth, and squeeze out as much juice as possible. Turn it into a glass bottle, set this in a saucepan with several thicknesses of brown paper under it, to pre- vent the bottle breaking, pour in cold water to about half the height of the bottle, and make the Spinach juice quite hot. Take out the bottle, cork it when cold, and set it aside. Spinach colouring prepared in this way will not keep very long. A cheese-cloth should be used for straining it if possible. Fig. 638. Spinach in German Style. (3) Wash 1 peck of Spinach in several waters, and put it while wet into a mortar. Pound the Spinach well, then put it into a coarse towel, and wring out all the juice into an untinned copper pan. Two persons can perform this opera- tion better than one. Stir the juice over the fire till it begins to thicken and curdle, then turn it on to a fine hair sieve, and leave it to drain. Scrape the thick part off the sieve, and mix with it an equal quantity of sugar, 1 pinch of powdered alum, and J wineglassful of spirits of wine. Put the greening mixture into a glass-stoppered bottle, and keep it in a cool dark place. (4) Put a quantity of freshly-gathered Spinach in a mortar, and pound it well; then turn it on to a cloth and twisting it round squeeze out all the juice into a basin. To every pint of juice mix jib. of loaf sugar, stand it in a double boiler or bain-marie, and leave until reduced to half its original quantity. Leave the greening until cold, then put it into small bottles, and cork them down. Spinach Omelet.—(1) Thoroughly Awash jib. of Spinach, drain it, and chop it up; then mix \\ ith it an equal quantity of chopped beetroot, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, chopped leeks, and dried Hour, 2 table-spoonfuls of Avarmed butter, four Avell-beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of milk. Season the Avliole Avith pepper, salt, and lemon thyme, and stir them till thoroughly mixed. Put the mix- ture into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven for tAventy minutes. When cooked, turn the omelet out on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick over the Spinach carefully, Avasli it in plenty of AA'ater, then plunge it into a saucepan of boiling salted Avater, and boil for two minutes. Turn the Spinach on to a colander, pour some cold AA’ater over it, and then press it AAell to squeeze out the Avater. Put a large piece of butter in a stewpan, and melt it ; chop and put in the Spinach, dredge it OArer Avith 1 table-spoonful of flour, salt, and pepper to taste, moisten slightly Avith milk, and let it boil gently, stirring occasionally. In about half-an- hour, draAv the steAvpan to the edge of the fire, mix in the beaten yolks of tAvo eggs, and stir at the side of the fire for a feAv minutes longer, but it should not boil after the eggs are added. Meanwhile, prepare a plain omelet, turn it on to a hot dish, pile the Spinach on the top, and serve. Spinach Ravioli.—Wash and boil in salted Avater for ten minutes about 4 handfuls of freshly-picked Spinach. Drain it, chop it, put it into a saucepan Avith a lump of butter, and stir over the fire till the moisture has re- duced. Mix Avith the Spinach 1 teacupful of finely-grated stale breadcrumb, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and 1 teacupful of rich brown gravy. Stir this mixture over the fire, and let it boil for a ferv minutes longer; then move the saucepan to the side, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir till thick. Prepare and roll out flat some nouille paste. When cool, divide the Spinach mixture into pieces the size of a walnut, and place them a short distance from each other on the flat of paste. Damp the spaces with a paste-brash dipped in water, put another flat of Spinach—con tinned. the paste on the top, and press it doAvn betAveen the spaces. Cut the ravioli out AA’ith a round tin cutter, plunge them into boiling salted Avater, and boil gently for thiee or four minutes; then drain them, and arrange them in layers on a hot dish. Sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese OA er them, and pour 0A-er some tomato sauce that has been mixed AA’ith a little nut broAvn clarified butter. Serve the ravioli Avhile hot. Spinach Salad.—Pick out about lqt. of the youngest and tenderest leaves of Spinach; Avash them in several Avaters to thoroughly remove the grit, then drain and put them in a salad-bowl. Cut some spring onions into small pieces, put them in Avith the Spinach, and strew over it some finely-chopped mint-leaves. Mix some oil and vinegar together, vinegar predominating, season Avith salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. The mint- leaves can be omitted if not desired, but by many they are considered an improvement. Spinach Soup.—(1) Cut into shreds 4 handfuls of AAell- Avashed Spinach, four carrots, two turnips, tAAO heads of celery, and a small quantity of parsley and thyme ; put them in a saucepan over the fire Avith jib. of butter, and let them steAA’ till tender, then rub them through a sieve with the back of a Avooden spoon. Return the pulped vegetables to the saucepan, place it over the lire, pour in 2qts. of cold Avater Avith a seasoning of salt and pepper, and boil all together. Make some small suet dumplings not larger than a good- sized greengage, boil them, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup in over them. (2) Peel and slice three good sized onions and boil them in 4gall. of Avater. Pick and Avasli sufficient Spinach for tAAO good dishes, parboil it, and drain aAvay the bitter Avater from it in a colander; run cold Avater oArer it for a minute or two, and press it Avell out of it. Rub 3 dessert- spoonfuls of flour into 2oz. of butter, and mix it with the Spinach. Put the Spinach into the saucepan that the onions are boiling in, and let it boil Avith them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; if green peas are to be had lqt. of them may be added to the onions Avhen the parboiled Spinach is added, When they have boiled for fifteen minutes, add 1 pint of cream or neAV milk and a seasoning of salt and pepper. (3) Thoroughly Avash some Spinach-leaves, shred them, and put them into a saucepan Avith tAvo carrots, tAvo turnips, two onions, and a head of celery, all chopped; add a bunch of parsley and thyme, a small lump of butter, and 1 pint of either beef or mutton broth. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer sloAvly till the vegetables are tender. When cooked, pass all through a fine hair sieve, using a spoon to rub the vegetables through. Put the mixture into the saucepan again Avith lqt. of cold Avater, season to taste AA’itli pepper and salt, and boil the soup. Put some boiled suet dumplings into a soup-tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. (4) Wash a heap of Spinach thoroughly in plenty of Avater, first picking out all the yelloAV leaves; put it into a saucepan of boiling salted AA ater, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain the Spinach and press it as dry as possible. Pass it through a fine hair sieve into a sauce- pan, moisten it gradually with a sufficient quantity of clear nicely-flavoured stock to make the soup, and place it over the fire, until boiling. Dust in a small quantity of pepper, and add loz. of butter broken into small bits. Turn the soil]) into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread fried broAvn in butter. (5) Pick over a quantity of Spinach and Avash it thoroughly; also pick and Avasli a moderate-sized bunch of parsley and a feAv green onions; put all into a large enamelled saucepan in Avliich jib. of butter has been melted, add also a feAv green peas if in season, 3 pints of water, 1 table-spoonful of salt, j table-spoonful of caster sugar, and a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda. Boil the vegetables quickly until tender, then rub them through a fine hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, stir it over the fire for a feAv minutes, then put in 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, loz. of glaze, and the beaten yolks of tAvo eggs. Stir the soup near the fire for a feAv minutesTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 503 bor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Spinach—coni inued. longer, taking great care not to let it 1 toil; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried lightly in butter. Spinach Tart.—(1) Pick the Spinach off the stalks, wash it in plenty of water, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and leave for live minutes; then drain and finely chop it. Butter a deep circular baking-dish, line it with puff paste at five turns, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then lay the Spinach on the top. Put four eggs in a basin with ilb. of finely-grated cheese and beat them well together. Turn the mixture over the Spinach, and put it into a quick oven. When nicely browned, cut the pastry across in four, and serve it. (2) Thoroughly wash the Spinach, and cook it in boil- ing water; when tender, drain all the moisture off, and chop it finely. Put the Spinach in a saucepan with a lump of butter, some sugar, 2oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, and 1 pinch of salt, and stir over the fire till they form a paste. Butter a tart-dish, line it with a rich short paste, and turn the Spinach mixture into it, smoothing it carefully over the surface. Bake the tart in a quick oven till the paste is cooked. When ready, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve. Spinach. Toasts.—Pick and wash some Spinach, boil it for fifteen minutes, drain it in a colander squeezing the water well out, put it into a mortar, and pound together with two hard biscuits soaked in cre.un, the yolks of four hard- boiled eggs, the yolks of three raw eggs, 3 or 4 table- Fig. 639. Spinach Toasts. spoonfuls of apple marmalade, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When well mixed and pounded to a paste put it into a dish or basin and mix with it a few washed and dried currants and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of dissolved butter. Cut some slices of bread |in. thick, trim them into oblong pieces about 4in. long and 2in. broad, toast them a light brown on both sides, and spread the paste thickly over them. Brush each one over with the beaten white of an egg. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the pieces of toast on it, and bake them for half-an-hour. Grate nutmeg over them, and squeeze a little orange juice over just before serving. Set them on a dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 639). Stewed Spinach with Anchovy Sauce.—Well wash the Spinach in plenty of water, drain it, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil until tender. Drain and finely chop the Spinach, put it into a stewpan, and stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until dry, taking care not to burn it. Put in 2oz. of butter, and continue stirring it until the butter has dissolved; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of creim and 1 table-spoon- ful of anchovy sauce. In five minutes’ tune take it off the fire and stir in loz. of butter. Turn the Spinach on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread and halves of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Sweet Spinach.—(1) Blanch a peck of Spinach, season with a very little salt, three lumps of sugar, a little crashed lemon-peel, and two pulverised macaroons. Cook slowly all together for ten minutes, and serve surrounded by six lady finger cakes. (2) Thoroughly wash the Spinach, blanch it in boiling salted water, drain free of moisture, put it in a saucepan with a little fresh butter, and stir over the fire till cooked. When cooked, mix some pounded macaroons, grated lemon peel, sugar, and a pinch of salt with it. Stir the above ingredients till well mixed, then form the Spinach—continued. mixture into little mounds by pressing it in egg-cups, and turning them out on a dish. Serve with a dish of sponge finger biscuits. SPIRITS.—Under this heading it is customary in this country to include all the inflammable and intoxicat- ing liquors obtained by distillation and used as beverages, such as Brandy, Gin, Rum, and Whisky, to which headings special reference may be made. Professor Simmonds, in his book on “ Popular Beverages,” observes : “ Wherever we go—whether the country be civilised or savage—ardent Spirits seem to be in favour; and if they cannot be obtained by importation, they manage to concoct some intoxicating liquor from their native roots, seeds, or vegetable juices. It is astonishing from what a number of vegetable substances, fruits, &c., Spirits may be distilled. In the United States the tomato has even been subjected to distillation, and a Spirit obtained from it of the most delicate and pleasant flavour, superior to, but strongly resembling in taste, the finest Scotch Whisky. The natives of Africa, of the Far East, of the Pacific Islands, of Mexico, and parts of South America, have their favourite strong drinks, although the modes of preparing these are not very fascinating.” Concerning the consumption of Spirits in England it is satisfactory to learn that we are amongst the most moderate as compared with other countries. This may be due, in a measure, to the efforts of total abstainers; but the greater probability is that the propensity for drinking strong liquors is less developed in the average Englishman. See Alcohol. SPITS (Fr. Broches; Ger. Bratspiesse; Ital. Spiedi; Sp. Asadors).—Modern invention has discovered a substitute for the Spit, which is now no longer seen in any but very large kitchens. Under the heading of Roasting these matters are duly explained; but, so far as conve- nience and perfection in manipulation are concerned, the Spit has not been in anywise superseded. The ordinary Spit (see Fig. 640) consists of a long sharp-pointed iron rod, fixed at the end opposite the point into a small grooved wheel. Sometimes it is found useful to fix the roast by means of a movable holdfast as shewn in Fig. 641, and some cooks prefer a cradle Spit for almost all purposes, arguing correctly that by piercing a joint the juice of the Fig. 641. Holdfast spit (Adams and Son). meat is apt to escape. There are two or three kinds of cradle Spits, of which the cages or cradle are fixtures ; and then there are cradle Spits, the one (see Fig. 642) having two bars Fig. 642. Ciiadle Spit. fixed and two rods at the top and two at the bottom, which unite and form an eye, working up and down over a screw- pin, and these are held fast, fixed, and adjusted by means of single thumb screws. The working of this is shown in the next engraving (see Fig. 643). Small Spits are some-504 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensil6, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Spits—continued. times used, in which case they are thrust through the bird or small animal, and then tied at each end to the larger Spit (see Fig. 644); but this system of roasting is not often resorted to. A double set of holdfasts at right angles to each other will carry four small birds very nicely, or even two of the holdfast Spits working in reverse directions may be found very serviceable in some cases. SFITCHCOCK.—See Spatchcock. SPLEEN.—A gland-like organ found near the stomach of almost every animal. It is usually known as the milt, and sometimes eaten when fried or boiled. SPLIT-PEAS.—See Peas. SPONGE CAKE.—The name given to a kind of light cake that is made with eggs, sugar, and flour. Several receipts are given for its preparation under Cakes, and the following receipts for its use in forming other dishes will be found reliable: Almond Sponge Cake.—See Almonds. Sponge-Cake Fritters.—Cut a stale Sponge Cake into small rounds or fingers; put a lump of butter into a flat stew- pan, and place it over the fire. When blue smoke rises from the butter dip the pieces of cake into thick cream and drop them in the stewpan. Fry them until lightly browned, then lift them out of the fat with a strainer, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute or two to drain. Mask each fritter with any kind of jam liked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 645), and serve. Sponge-Cake Pudding.—(1) Soak six Sponge Cakes in new milk; beat four eggs with a pint of cream, then pour them over the cakes, and beat all well together. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add a few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon ; ornament the interior of a mould with crystallised cherries and orange chips, and pour in the mixture. Pack the mould in pounded ice, and leave it for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (2) Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire; when it boils, stir in {.lb. of finely-crumbled stale Sponge Cake, and whisk it over the fire to a batter; then stir in loz. Sponge Cake—continued. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, and 2 table spoonfuls of self-raising flour blended with a little cold milk. Take it from the fire, pour it into a basin, and let it cool. When the pudding is almost cold, stir in {lb. of currants, well washed, dried, and dredged with flour, and a flavouring of ratafia; beat up well, then stir in the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for half or three quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven. If served hot, send cream sauce with it; if cold, whisk very stiff { pint of cream, the whites of three eggs, 2oz. of powdered white sugar, and 2 table- spoonfuls of sherry, and pile high over it. (3) Wash well and dry {lb. of currants ; blanch and chop {lh. of sweet almonds, and chop fine 4oz. of citron. Take a dozen small Sponge Cakes and soak them in sherry, (they will take nearly { pint). Butter a good-sized pudding- tin, line it well with currants, quite covering the inside, and put a layer of soaked cake at the bottom. Have ready a raw custard of three eggs and 3 yolks beaten up with {lb. of sugar and 1 pint of milk. Strew over the soaked cake some chopped almonds and citron, and pour in a few spoonfuls of the custard; go on adding alternately soaked cake, chopped almonds, and citron till the tin is nearly full (the pudding will swell a little), then fit on the cover and boil for an hour. If served hot, send jelly sauce with it; if cold, let it stand all night in the pudding- tin, uncovered, and turn it out next day. Pile a border of whipped cream round it, and strew the top of the pudding with powdered white sugar. (4) Cut two stale penny Sponge Cakes into small pieces or crumble them. Pare and core a large juicy cooking apple (or two moderate sized ones), and cut it into thin slices. Spread a thick layer of butter over the interior of { pint mould. Put a layer of the Sponge-Cake crumbs at the bottom, next put in a layer of the apple slices, and over that strew about { table-spoonful of sugar. Put the remainder of the apple and cake in alternate layers in the mould, with sugar over the top of each layer of apple, and making the last layer of cake. Put one or two very small bits of butter on the top, place the mould in a brisk oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream over five or six Sponge Cakes, and beat them to a smooth paste; beat the yolks of eight eggs with 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar and mix them with the sponge batter; then whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them lightly in with the other ingredients. Butter a dome-shaped mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, put it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and steam. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with chocolate sauce. (6) Make some rich puff paste and line a pie-dish with it. Take four small Sponge Cakes, pour 1 wineglassful of sherry over them, and let them soak while the puff paste is being made. When the dish is lined with paste, lay the Sponge Cakes in it. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar and mix with them by degrees 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; pour this over the soaked cakes, then put the pie-dish in the oven and bake for an hour. Beat the whites of three eggs to a very stiff froth with 3 table spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. When the pudding is baked, heap this froth as lightly and ruggedly as possible over it, and put it back in the oven to set and lightly brown. Put it in a cool place till quite cold and then serve. (7) Stone some raisins, and arrange them in a pattern on the inside of a buttered mould ; then line the mould completely with Sponge Cakes, and fill it with more Sponge Cakes and ratafias. Pour in a rich custard, and let it stand for two hours, constantly adding more custard as it soaks into the cakes. Then tie a cloth over it, and steam for an hour. (8) Beat up four eggs with 2oz. of sugar, and then mix with them by degrees 1 pint of milk in which 1 table- spoonful of cornflour has been boiled and a flavouring ofTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 505 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauas, .kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sponge Cake—continued. lemon and vanilla or lemon only. Cut one stale Sponge Cake in slices. Butter a pudding-dish, put one layer of sliced cake at the bottom, pour some of the custard over them, then add another layer of cake, and pour in more custard, and so on alternately cake and custard till the dish is full. Cover the dish, put it in a rather hot oven, and bake for half-an hour; then take the cover off and bake it for two or three minutes longer to brown. Sponge-Cake Shape.—Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for four hours; then pour over it 1 pint of boiling water and stir till the gelatine is quite dissolved; add the grated rind of half a lemon, the strained juice of one lemon, and 11b. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture in a stewpan over the lire till quite clear, and then pour it in an earthenware pan and let it cool. Mix together in a saucepan and stir over the fire till thick lqt. of milk, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and lib. of sugar; as soon as it thickens take it from the fire without letting it boil, and let it cool. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and whip them into the cooled gelatine. Cut some slices of stale Sponge Cake, cut them the size and shape to fit a cylinder-mould, lay them on a flat dish, and pour tea- spoonfuls of sherry over them till they are pretty well soaked. Wet the inside of the mould with cold water, put a thick layer of the gelatine at the bottom pressing it down well, then a layer of the soaked Sponge Cake, fitting it in neatly, then a layer of gelatine, pressing and smoothing it in, and so on gelatine and cake alternately. Fig. 646. Sponge-Cake Shape. Let the last layer added be soaked cake. When the gelatine is quite set, turn the shape out on a glass dish, pour some of the custard round it (see Fig. 646), and serve the rest with it in a silver cream-jug. Sponge-Cake Souffle.—(1) Butter a pudding-dish, lay twelve stale penny Sponge Cakes at the bottom of it, pour 2 glasses of sherry over them, cover the dish, and let them soak. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar; make 4 pint of milk hot, and mix it gradually with them. Set the mixture in a stewpan on the fire, and stir it till it begins to thicken ; then pour it on the soaked Sponge Cake a little at a time so that they will not rise to the top, and set the dish in the oven. When it is very hot spread over it the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 2oz. of powdered white sugar ; put it into the oven again, and bake till the meringue is firm and lightly browned. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Split into halves eight penny stale Sponge Cakes, and spread each with a layer of raspberry jam, or rasp- berry-and-currant jam may be used. Put them in a souffle-dish, and pour three wineglassfuls of sherry over them. Put the whites of six eggs in a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and whip them to a stiff snow. Pile the beaten eggs over the cakes, and put them in the oven. Bake the souffle for half-an-hour, then take it out and serve it im- mediately in the same dish. Sponge-Cake Trifle.—(1) Put | tin of grated pine apple at the bottom of a glass dish, cover with ilb. of Sponge- Cake crumbs, and pour over 1 pint of calfs-foot jelly, melted and coloured a deep green with spinach-juice or Sponge Cake—continued. other colouring. Pour another pint of coloured melted calf’s- foot jelly into a soup-plate, and let it set firm. Whip 1 pint of lemon cream to a stiff froth, pile it up over the cake crumbs, cut the jelly in the plate into fancy shapes for decorating, also use candied dried fruits, and serve. (2) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked hominy into a deep basin, and pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling sweetened milk; return to the saucepan, and cook for five minutes longer. Fill six circular-bottomed tins with the mixture, forming hollows in the centres like birds’ nests, and set them away to cool. Put |lb. of Sponge-Cake crumbs at the bottom of a glass dish, pour over 1 wineglassful of lemon syrup, and let them soak ; then pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of warm cocoa jelly and set away to cool. When firm, sprinkle over with loz. of ground popcorns which will give it a snowy appearance. Place the shapes of hominy on the jelly, fill with greengage jam (without any stones), and serve. (3) Put a large, ball-shaped, stale Sponge Cake into a deep glass dish ; sprinkle round the base two small rice cakes broken up to crumbs, and prick the cake from top to bottom. Prepare 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cocoa or chocolate, stir in foz. of gelatine dissolved in milk, pour this over the cake only, and let it soak in. Cover the crumbs with jam, pour over this a cornflour blancmange, over this 2 breakfast cupfuls of well flavoured custard, fill up the holes in the cake with small coloured comfits, dust over all with crushed Indian popcorn, and serve. (4) Procure a pretty fancy-shaped Sponge Cake, make several holes in it by running a long skewer down it, and soak it well in cowslip wine. Open a tin of lemon sponge and melt it. Blanch and finely mince some pis- tachio-nuts. Whip the lemon sponge well, and spread it over the top of the cake, levelling it smoothly over with the flat blade of a knife. Arrange in a fancy design on the top of the cake the pistachio-nuts and some pome- granate-seeds, put a sprig of myrtle in the centre, place the cake on a fancy dish, and serve. (5) Take a stale Sponge Cake, cut the top off it, and scoop out the inside, leaving a crust at the bottom and sides about lin. thick. Put 1 pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire ami scald it, then stir into it three eggs beaten very light with 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Crumble the cake that was scooped from the centre of the Sponge Cake, beat it well into the hot custard, put it over the fire again, and stir till very hot; then mix in 1 teaspoonful of cornflour blended in a little cold milk, stir it over the fire for another minute, and then take it off ami let it stand till cold. Coat the inside of the cake well with crab apple or some other sweet fruit jelly or jam, and as soon as the thickened custard is cold or nearly so, flavour it to taste with vanilla, almond, or lemon essence, and pour it into it; cover the inside of the top with some of the same jam or jelly used to coat the inside, and fit it neatly on. Brash beaten white of egg all over the outside of the cake, dredge powdered white sugar thickly over it, and let it stand in a cool place till time to serve. (6) Get two large Sponge Cakes, and sloping off to a point at the top. Stand one in a tall glass dish and pour 1 pint of Madeira wine over it. Cut the other cake length- wise into quarters, level off the inside edge of each quarter so as to make them fiat, and stand them close up against the cake in the glass dish. Make a custard with l pint of milk and four eggs, sweetening it to taste with loaf sugar; let it cool, then pour it round the cakes. Make a rather thin blancmange with arrowroot and milk, sweeten it to taste with loaf sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon; pour 2 table-spoonfuls of it while hot over the cakes, giving them the appearance of snow mountains. Grind about 3oz. of Indian popcorn; whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth with some caster sugar, colour one third of them brown, another third green, and the remainder leave white. Poach 2 table- spoonfuls of the white foam in milk, and poach the green and brown foam in sweetened water, dropping it in with a table-spoon as before; but the different colours must not be poached in the same water. Take the poached eggs out with a table-spoon, drain them well, and trim them to aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 506 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sponge Cake—continued. nice sliap? with a knife. Arrange the poached eggs round the dish with the cakes, alternating the colours, then sift some powdered sweet biscuits over and round the snow cakes, and next over all strew the ground popcorn. SPOONS (Fr. Cuillers; Ger. Loffel).-These are implements consisting of small bowls with a handle. From, what can be gathered of their history, the first Spoons used were probably shells without handles, this very convenient elongation of the holding part following as a matter of course, prompted by personal ex- perience. The Spoons most interesting to the cook are those used in the kitchen, and these are sufficiently numerous to be worthy of special description. Dippers and ladles are Spoons on a large scale; but the Spoon proper was usually an egg-shaped, or round, shallow bowl. They may be of metal, wood, or horn, the latter being useful only for dealing with cold dry food, such as sugar, Hour, or spices. Ingenious cooks have invented for their own use, and others after, special combinations merely for the sake of convenience. Thus they have a Spoon and fork (see Fig. 647a), a Spoon and slice (see Fig. 647b), two Spoons of different sizes (see Fig. 647c), and a perforated Spoon (see Fig. 647d), for taking solids out of liquids. Wooden Spoons in all sizes are used for many purposes, such as preserving fruit and mixing acid sauces, &c., because they are not affected by acid; but since the introduction of electro-plate, nickel, and some other metals which are not affected by acid either, the wooden Spoon, at all times very ungainly, has been, to a very great extent, supplanted. Metal is certainly much easier to clean, and not so likely to retain odours or flavours. A recent invention is the chef’s Spoon (see Fig. 648), invented by Tessier, a very eminent chef practising in this country. The rounded end and deep bowl render it very useful for tasting purposes. The manufacturers (Messrs. Temple and Crook) make three of various sizes, Fig. 648. Chef’s SrooN. increasing by inches from 6in. long to 16in. To the same firm we are indebted for the introduction of a new metal for Spoons, which is cheap and durable, besides being unaffected by acids. It is described as a “ composite aluminium,” and is stated to be “ better than silver.” It does not discolour by use, and being a bad conductor of heat, remains comparatively cool when being used even in boiling sauces. It is as hard as steel, and Spoons—continued. needs no electro-plating or turning to improve it, either for appearance or utility. Of the Spoons used at table it is almost unnecessary to give any details, as they are all too numerous and varied Fig. 649. Spoon-warmer (Adams and Son). in workmanship and design. There are, however, certain standard sizes which require special mention, as they are used to measure ingredients in cookery. There are the saltspoon, teaspoon, dessert-spoon, table-spoon, and some- times a gravy-spoon or small ladle. The relative capacities are: 1 saltspoonful equals \ teaspoonful 1 teaspoonful ,, ), dessert spoonful 1 dessert spoonful ,, h table spoonful 1 table-spoonful ,, 4 gravy-spoonful 4 table-spoonfuls equal 1 gill. These relative quantities refer chiefly to liquid measure; in dry measure some differences would occur, according to the peculiarities of the ingredient so measured. Under certain conditions of table-service it is considered im- portant that the Spoons used should be warmed. Some gourmets regard such a provision as an important part of the routine ; and, although the condition might be brought about by standing the Spoons in a jug of warm water, some of our table-ware manufacturers have contrived Spoon-warmers of a very ornamental character (see Fig. 649). See Weights and Measures. SPOT.—The name of an American fish (Liostomus xanthurus) caught along the coast of the United States. It is a deep-bodied fish, averaging 9in. or so in length, and remarkable for a black spot behind the shoulder, and fifteen oblique dark bars on the sides. Some- times it is called Goody, or Old Wife amongst other popular names. The flesh is delicate, white, and well flavoured, being delicious when broiled, stewed, or baked. Fig. 650. Sprat. J SPRATS (Fr. Sprats; Ger. Sprotten).—A great deal of very natural confusion has been incurred concern- ing the identity, or rather distinction from others, of this fish. The Sprat proper (Clupea sprattus) is a small fish (see Fig. 650) of the herring species, and, like that fish, teems with a strongly-flavoured oil. It differs from the sardine more in this matter of flavour than other characteristics, and is therefore a convenient substitute for them. When used to impersonate anchovies, as it is understood Sprats sometimes do, especially in the manu- facture of cheap “ anchovy essence, or sauce,” the taste of the oil would be sure to betray their presence.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 507 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, sec under their special heads. Sprats—continued. Sprats are in season from November to March; they are much relished by the poorer classes in spite of their strong oily nature, which, according to some authori- ties, renders them unfit for delicate stomachs. Fresh ! Sprats are bright and silvery, and red about the eyes; \ stale Sprats are said to be poisonous, although reckoned j excellent manure for horticultural purposes. Baked Sprats.—(1) Clean the Sprats, take off the heads, j lay them in a deep dish, and pour over them sufficient j vinegar and water, in equal quantities, to cover them. To | each quart of vinegar and water put a little allspice, toz. of whole black pepper, a little salt, two or three bay leaves, and an onion peeled and sliced. Cover the disli (paper tied over it will do), and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Clean the fish, put them in a pie-dish with two or three bay leaves, a few peppercorns, and a little salt; put a plate over the dish, and bake the Sprats in a moderate oven. When cooked, let them stand in the disli till cold, then cover them with vinegar, and serve. Broiled Sprats.—Clean the Sprats, fix them through the gills in rows on skewers, put them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire. When nicely browned on botli sides, put them out on to a hot disli, and serve with a plate of lemons. Fried Sprats.—Wash the Sprats, dry them with a cloth, and lay them on a dish; sprinkle salt over them, and let ; them remain for an hour or two. Roll the Sprats in Hour, and when well covered with it put them into a wire basket. Plunge the basket into a pan of boiling fat, and toss the fish gently about till equally browned and crisped. When cooked, drain the Sprats, and put them on a sheet Fig. 651. Fried Sprats. of paper to absorb the moisture; then arrange them on a hot dish, dust over them a little cayenne pepper, garnish with fried parsley and slices of lemon, and serve with a plate of brown bread-and-butter (see Fig. 651). Pickled Sprats.—Clean the Sprats, which should be perfectly fresh and unsalted, cut off their heads, and wash them, using plenty of water. When well drained, pack them in layers in earthenware crocks, strewing between each layer moderate quantities of chilli-pods, whole pepper, allspice, and one or two bay-leaves. Dissolve a moderate-sized lump of salt in warm water, say about h table-spoonful of the former to 1 pint of the latter, pour it over the fish, then pour in sufficient vinegar to completely cover them. Cover the crocks, put them in a rather slow oven, and bake till the fish are cooked. Afterwards let the fish cool with the covers oil' the crocks. The Sprats should be served in the crocks in which they are pickled. If the flavour be desired, a few sliced onions or shallots may lie added previous to baking them. After they are cooked, if they are rather dry, moisten them with a iittle cold vinegar. Potted Sprats.- -Cut the heads and tails off the Sprats; wash them well, and blanch them in slight ly-salted water till the meat can be easily removed from the bones. Mash the flesh of the Sprats, having freed it from the bones, and season it with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Rub the interior of some jars with clarified butter, fill them with the fish, pressing it tightly down, and bake for about three-quarters-of-an-hour in a slow oven; and when cooked, take it out and leave till cold. Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of clarified butter into each jar, and leave them till it has set, then tie them over with paper. If kept in a cool place the fish will keep well for at least two or three weeks. Sprats—continued. Salted Sprats.—The largest Sprats are the best to use for this purpose. Wash them thoroughly in salted water, then drain them well. Prepare a brine strong enough to float an egg, and soak the fish in it for six hours; after- wards let them drain well. Fix them on frames, piercing the nails through the eyes, and smoke them for twelve- hours-and-a-half, but for the first half-hour using only a gentle heat. At the end of that time, the fish may at once be prepared for serving, but if they are to be kept for any length of time they should be smoked for thirty hours, or until they are a very dark brown colour. Smoked Sprats.—Bundles of these may be bought in any fish-sliop. They are first salted and dried in the usual way (see Curing), and may be toasted before the fire, or warmed up in a frying-pan. In Germany they are usually eaten raw. Soused Sprats.—Wash the Sprats well, and dry them in a cloth ; put a layer of them in a pie-dish, dust over with salt and pepper, put in another layer, season as before, and so on until the dish is nearly full; then pour over sufficient vinegar and water to cover, using three parts of the former to one of the latter. Cover the dish, and bake the Sprats in a slow oven for about two hours, taking care not to let them burn. Serve hot or cold as desired. Sprats in Imitation of Anchovies.—Procure \ peck of Sprats as soon as possible after they have been caught, and do not wash .or wipe them. Put in a stone mortar lib. of common salt, 2oz. of bay-salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, loz. of prunella salt, and a small quantity of cochineal; pound the mixture thoroughly. Fill a large stone jar with alternate layers of Sprats and the pounded mixture, pressing them down tightly; cover the jar so that it is perfectly air-tight, and stand it in a dry cupboard. In six months’ time the Sprats will be ready for use. Sprat Patties.—(1) Clean the Sprats, season them with salt and pepper, and let them marinade in vinegar for a little while. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with puff paste, and fill them with the fish. Finely grate some stale bread, sprinkle the crumbs over the fish, put a small lump of butter in each pan, and bake them in a quick oven. When nicely browned, take the patties out, and serve them with a plate of cut lemons. (2) Clean a sufficient quantity of unsalted Sprats and remove their heads and tails; scald them with boiling salted water until tender, then pick all the flesh off the bones. Put the flesh in a mortar, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and pound it until smooth. Moisten the paste with a small quantity of vinegar. Butter some patty-pans, line them with a good paste, and fill them with the pounded fish. Strew finely-grated breadcrumb over the top, and put a thin slice of butter on each. Place them in a brisk oven, and bake until nicely browned over the top. When the patties are cooked take them out of their tins, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Sprat Fie.—(1) Clean and cut off the heads and tails of the Sprats, put them in layers in a pie-dish, with pepper and salt sprinkled over them, add a few peppercorns, and pour in about f teacupful of cold water. Butter the edge of the pie clish, and put round it a strip of puff paste. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moistening and pressing the edges together; make a slight incision in the top of the crust. Bake the pie in a quick oven, ami serve when cold. (2) Clean the Sprats, blanch them in boiling water, then remove the bones, and mash the flesh. Boil some floury potatoes, and mash them with a little milk and salt. Butter a deep baking-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of potato and fish, sprinkling a little chopped onion, pepper, and salt between each layer, and finishing with a layer of potatoes. Pour over the pie one or two well- beaten eggs, and bake it in a quick oven. When cooked, brown the top of the pie under a salamander, and serve. Sprat Rissoles.—Cut the heads off the Sprats; clean them, and blanch them in boiling salted water till the meat508 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Sprats—continued. can be easily removed from the bones. Pick the flesh carefully off, pound it, and season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Mix an equal quantity of breadcrumbs* with the pounded fish, and bind it with beaten eggs. Shape the mixture into small equal proportions, flatten them, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned on both sides, drain the rissoles, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. These may lie egg-and-bread-crumbed pre- vious to frying, if desired. Sprat Toasts.—(1) Chop off the heads and tails of the Sprats, wash them, take out the bones, dry, and chop them up. Put the fish in a shallow baking-dish with a few cleaned and chopped anchovies, and bake them in a quick oven for a fei\- minutes. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick off a tin loaf, or the bottom of a household loaf, toast them, butter them, and put them on a hot dish. Drain the oil off the fish, put a small quantity on each piece of toast, arrange them on the dish, and garnish with cut- lemon and fried parsley (see Fig. 052). (2) Clean and remove the tails from some fresh Sprats, scald them until somewhat tender, then separate the flesh from the bones. Wash and bone three or four anchovies, put them in a mortar with the fish, season with pepper and a small quantity of cayenne, and pound them until smooth. Moisten the fish paste with a small quantity of vinegar, put- it into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire until hot. Cut some slices off a tin loaf about £in. in thickness, trim off the crusts, toast them, and butter them slightly while hot. Spread each piece of toast with the fish mixture, and cut them into fingers. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the pieces of toast on it, putting here and there a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Stewed Sprats. -Wash the Sprats, dry them thoroughly, and lay them evenly in layers in a stewpan; between the layers put in three peppercorns, the same quantity of all- spice, and a very little salt; pour over them only just sufficient vinegar to cover them, and put them over a slow fire. A bay-leaf may be added with the vinegar. Let them simmer for one hour; they should not boil. SPRING SOUP.—See Soup. SPRING WATER—See Water. SPROUTS.—Young shoots springing from the leaf axils of the stalks or stems of some varieties of the cabbage tribe. Those best known under this name will be now described under Brussels Sprouts. SPRUCE.—Another and more common name for this is Black Beer. It is a beverage prepared from a decoction of the leaves and branches of the Spruce fir, mixed with treacle or molasses, and fermented with yeast. The variety called Dantzic Spruce is considered the best, but some very good Spruce is manufactured in this country. Mum is a variety of Spruce made chiefly in Germany. It can be manufactured as follows: Spruce Beer.—(1) The essence of Spruce for making this is obtained by boiling in water the tops of the young shoots, and most especially the young cones of the Spruce fir-tree, and then subjecting the liquor to evaporation until it has the consistence of treacle. Dissolve 7 lb. of loaf sugar in 4Agalls. Spruce—continued. of boiling water, and when the temperature falls to lOOdeg. Fahr. mix in 4oz. of the essence, mixing well to make them all amalgamate. Add | pint of fresh yeast, and let the liquor ferment, which will soon commence in summer and must be assisted by artificial heat in winter; when the fermentation is nearly complete the liquor must lie drawn off and the cask cleaned before it is returned. A second fermentation will take place but will soon subside, and the beer should then be bottled, corked, wired, or strung and placed on their sides in the cellar. As soon as a sufficient amount of pressure is assumed to be present, a bottle should be opened and all the remainder stood upon their bottoms and used as soon as possible. (2) Put 4galls. of cold water into a barrel with its head taken out; pour in 4galls. more boiling water, and mix well; add 2qts. of molasses, or sufficient to sweeten to taste, and 1 wineglassful of the essence of Spruce, stirring them well together for several minutes. When about blood-warm, add 1 pint of yeast-, the whole being well stirred together again. Cover the barrel with the head, leave the beer to work, and in two days it will be fit to bottle. By packing the bottles away in sand in a cellar, or a cool place, they will be kept from bursting, and in two or three days the beer will be ripe for drinking. White Spruce.—Mix together 31b. of loaf sugar, 5galls. of water, enough of essence of Spruce to give it a flavour, a teacupful of good yeast, and a little lemon-peel. When fermented, bottle it up close. It- is a delightful beverage in warm weather. SPUN SUGAR.—See Sugar-Boiling. SQUABS. —This name is given generally to the nest- lings of pigeons, or other birds of a similar character. As they admit of special culinary treatment the following receipts are appended: Broiled Squabs.—Singe and pluck a couple of Squabs, cut off the feet and the head, and wipe them with a wet cloth. Butter a double gridiron, lay the birds between the bars, and brown them quickly on both sides over a clear sharp fire. Shake a little pepper and salt over them, put them on a dish, lay slices of orange round, and serve. Broiled Squabs on Toast with Bacon.—Singe, draw, cut the necks off, and wipe three good sized Squabs; split them without detaching them, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt, h pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil; roll them in well, and broil them for six minutes on each side. Prepare a dish with six toasts, arrange the Squabs over, and spread 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter on top. Decorate the dish with six slices of broiled bacon, and serve. Compote of Squabs.—Singe, draw, and trass with their legs thrust inside, six fine, fat Squabs: lay them in a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, an onion and a carrot both chopped. Season with 1 pinch of salt, put the lid on the pan, and cook on a good fire for ten minutes. Put in a sauce- pan six small glazed onions, one medium-sized carrot cut with a vegetable-scoop (blanching the latter for two minutes), loz. of salt pork cut into small pieces, and six cut-up mush- rooms; moisten them with 1 pint of Spanish sauce, and cook together for thirty minutes. Transfer the Squabs to this mixture, and cook again for five minutes; dress the garnishing on a hot dish, arrange the Squabs on top, and serve. Roasted Boned Squabs.—When the Squabs are carefully plucked, cut off the head, wings, and legs, near the body, cut through the skin down the middle of the back, and then, keeping the knife pressed flat against the carcase of the bird, cut the flesh away from it until the joints of the wings and legs are reached; unjoint these, and continue cutting until the ridge of the breast bone is reached: it is here that there is most danger of cutting or tearing the skin, so that great care must be exercised to prevent it. When the entire flesh has been freed from the carcase, lay it skin down on the table, take out the wing and leg bones from the inside, and replace the carcase with anyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 509 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc,, referred, to. see under their special heads. Squabs -+conti nued. good forcemeat or stuffing. Well-seasoned sausage-meat will be good for this purpose. Fold the skin over the forcemeat, secure it in place with a needle and thread, and round the bikls in good shape. Roast the boned Squabs, and serve them either with aspic jelly or a salad, after removing the string used to confine the forcemeat. Orange salad is good with cold birds. The Squabs may be served hot, or they may be drawn carefully and either roasted with or without stuffing, and served with a brown gravy. Boasted Squabs.—Singe, draw, cut off the necks, wipe neatly, and truss six fine, small Squabs ; put them in a roasting-pan with A pinch of salt, evenly distributed, and a very little butter spread over. Put the pan into a brisk oven to cook the birds for twelve minutes; then remove from the oven, untruss, and dress them on a hot dish on which have been previously placed six small canapes of game, one on each canape. Neatly decorate the dish with fresh watercress. Skim the fat from the gravy, and add to it 1 gill of white broth; let it just come to a boil, strain it into a sauce-bowl, and serve. Squabs a, l’Americaine.—Singe, draw, and truss six fine fat Squabs, stuff them with American forcemeat, and place them in a roasting pan with 1 pinch of salt, evenly distri- buted, and Aoz. of butter well spread over. Place them in a hot oven, and roast for eighteen minutes. Take out of the oven, untruss, and dress them on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, add to it 1 gill of rich broth, let it come to the boil, and strain into a sauce-bowl. Decorate the dish with a little fresh watercress; arrange a slice of broiled bacon over each bird, and serve. Squabs a la Chipolata.—Prepare and roast six Squabs, and serve them with 1 pint of hot chipolata garnishing on a hot dish, with the Squabs arranged over. Squabs a la Crapaudine.—Singe, draw, and split six Squabs through the back without entirely dividing them; break the bones of the legs and wings, flatten them well, and lay them on a dish; season with ] pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of oil; roll them in well, then dip them in breadcrumbs, and broil them slowly for seven minutes on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with A pint of hot Robert sauce, to which add three chopped mushrooms. Serve the sauce on a dish with the Squabs on top. Squab Ballotines.—Singe, draw, and bone six tender Squabs, stuff them with a good chicken forcemeat, and leave on one leg to decorate later with a truffle. Form each Squab to a round shape, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper, anil cover with a piece of buttered paper. Put the pan in the Fig. 653. Squab Ballotines. oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, serve with A pint of hot Italian sauce, the Squabs laid on top, with a paper ruffle fastened on to each leg; garnish with watercress. See Fig. 653. Squab Pie.—Make a rich paste, and line a deep earthen ware dish with it. Cut lib. of tender breast of veal into slices Ain. thick, after first taking out the bones, and put a layer of the meat round the sides and on the bottom of the dish. Carefully pluck six Squabs, cut off the heads and feet, singe and draw them, and wipe them with a wet towel; chop the livers and gizzards finely together with an equal weight of fat salted pork or bacon, add to them then an equal measure of fine breadcrumbs, one egg, and a seasoning of salt and pepper, and use this forcemeat to stuff the Squabs; lay them in the disli prepared as above, and cover with some slices of veal. Put over the fire in a frying- the Indian ctsq, plural asquash. The following are favourite American receipts for their preparation for the table, and apply to any Squash, unless the kind is specified; Baked Squash.—If the vegetable be very young, it may be washed and cooked without peeling or removing the seeds, but if it bo ripe, both seeds and peel must be taken away, and the Squash cut into |in. slices. Put it into a baking- dish, place it in a moderate oven, and bake until it is tender enough to be easily broken with a fork; the length of time required depending upon the maturity of the vege- table. A large, rip>e Squash will bake in about an hour. When the Squash is cooked, put with it 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and I teaspoon- ful of pepper; mash the Squash and mix the seasoning well up in it, return it to the oven to heat, and then serve Aery hot. Squash may be fried like egg-plant fruit. Boiled Squash.—(1) Peel a large winter or summer Squash, or tAvo small ones, cut them into pieces about lin. square, put them over the fire in a saucepan of boiling salted Avater, and boil them until they are tender. In the mean- time for 3 pints of Squash mix together in a stewpan over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until they are broAvn; gradually add 1 pint of boiling Avater and a high seasoning of salt and pepper, and Avhen it boils set it aside until the Squash is done. After the Squash is drained from the Avater in Avliich it Avas boiled, put it into the hot brown sauce, and serve it at once; or simply mash the boiled Squash through a colander, beat it together Avith salt, pepper, and butter, and serve. Squabs—continued. pan 1 dessert spoonful each of flour and butter, stir them until they are broAvn, then mix Avith them 1A breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water and a seasoning of salt and pepper. When this sauce boils pour it into the pie, and cover Avith an upper crust of paste, Avetting the edges to make them adhere; cut several slits in the upper crust, and brush it over Avith beaten egg. Bake the pie for tAvo hours in a moderate oven, taking care that it does not burn; if the crust broAvns too quickly, cover it Avith buttered paper, and moderate the heat of the oven. Serve the pie hot or cold as desired. SQUASH.—A fancy name given to a class of American drinks which will be found described under special head- ings. The name mostly adopted for the same drink is Smash. SQUASHES. —In America the fruit of certain plants of the gourd tribe (Cucurbita) are known by this name. They are of various kinds, usually distinguished as Winter and Summer Squashes, and these again being made up of numerous varieties, such as the Crook-neck Squash (see Fig. 654), Hulbard Squash (see Fig. 655), Barbary or China Squash, Cymlings, and some others of which the distinctions are not clear. The word itself is taken from Fig. 654. Crook-neck Squash. Fig. 655. Hulbard Squash.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 510 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Squashes—continued. (2) Squashes, if very young, may be boiled-whole; if not they should be pared, quartered, and the seeds taken out. When boiled very tender, take them up, put them in a strong cloth, press out all the water, mash them, adding salt and butter to taste. Cut it in narrow strips, take oft' the rind, and boil the Squash in water till tender; then drain off the water, and let the Squash steam over a moderate fire for ten or twelve minutes. It is good mashed with a little butter. (3) Peel the Squash if the shell be soft, and remove the seeds; put it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil it. When cooked, strain all the water off the Squash, and for each pint mix with it loz. of butter and \ teaspoonful of sugar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir it over the fire until the butter has dissolved, then turn it on to a hot dish and serve. If the shell of the Squash be hard, split the Squash, remove the seeds, and steam or boil until soft; then scrape on t the soft part from the shell, mash it, return it to the saucepan, and season as above. Mashed Squashes.—(1) Wash the Squashes and cut them into small pieces without removing the skin and seeds. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil them until soft, which will take nearly half an- hour. Then turn the Squash into a cloth, mash it, and squeeze it until all the moisture is extracted; return the Squash to the saucepan with A teacupful of cream for each pint, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until thoroughly hot again. Turn the Squash on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Choose white cymlings that may be easily cut with the thumb-nail. Cut them in pieces, boil Them for about three-quarters-of-an hour or till soft enough to Mash, rub them through a colander or coarse sieve, then put them in the saucepan over the fire again, with a small lump of butter, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of cream. Serve very hot. , Squash. Pie.—Peel a Squash, cut it into pieces about 2in. square, remove the seeds without taking away any of the substance of the Squash, and put it to steam in a colander closely covered and set over a saucepan of boiling water; or place it in a porcelain-lined saucepan without water, and set it over a gentle fire where it will soften slowly without burning, stirring it occasionally to prevent this; or boil it until tender in sufficient water to cover it. When the Squash is tender, drain it until it is quite free from water, and rub it through a sieve or a fine colander with the back of a wooden spoon or a vegetable-masher. Mix lqt. of the Squash so prepared with lqt. of milk, four well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of mixed ground cinna- mon, mace, and ginger, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and use it to fill two large pie- dishes lined with a good plain paste. Do not cover the pies with pastry, but grate a little nutmeg over the top, or sprinkle over them the grated yellow rind of a lemon, and bake. Squash. Pudding.—Take a good-sized Squash, stew it, bruise it well, and mix with it the pulp of six large apples, stewed tender. Add 7 table-spoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs and a small grated nutmeg, mix these well with the fruit, and add salt and sugar to taste. Beat up and add six eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and 2 table- spoonfuls of red wine. Beat this mixture together till quite smooth, and bake it for three quarters-of-an-hour in a dish lined with puff' paste. Stewed Squash.—(1) Peel a Squash, cut it into small pieces, and boil it in boiling salted water until it is tender. Drain it, put it into a clean towel, and wring out all the water; put it again into a saucepan over the fire with 2 piled table spoonfuls of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper; stir it until it is hot, and serve. (2) If the skin of the Squash be tough, peel it; other wise slice the vegetable, after first washing it in cold water; put it over the fire in a saucepan with just enough boiling water to cover it, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until it is tender enough to mash through a colander. When the Squash is drained and mashed, to each pint of it add a gill of cream and the beaten yolk Squashes—continued. of 1 egg, season it with salt and pepper, return it to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire just long enough to heat it thoroughly. Serve it hot; or scallop the Squash with the addition of breadcrumbs and salt, pepper, and butter, and brown it in the oven. SQUIRRELS .—America seems to be largely infested by these animals, the woods teeming with many varieties, such as the Black Squirrel, Red Squirrel, Grey Squirrel, and others. As they are exceptionally select in their food, living principally upon nuts and grain, they have been accepted as food animals, and are greatly sought after by those who have tasted them cooked after any of the following receipts : Barbecued Squirrel.—Put slices of fat bacon in a baking- dish. Skin and wash a Squirrel, wipe it dry, lay it on the bacon, and put two slices of fat bacon on the top. Bake in a moderate oven, and when cooked lay it on a hot dish and keep it in front of the fire until wanted to serve. Take the bacon out of the baking-dish, dredge into the gravy 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until brown. Pour into the gravy 1 teacupful of brown stock, a little walnut ketchup or tomato sauce, and a Fig. 656. Bariiecved Squirrel. small lump of butter; Stir the above mixture over the fire till the butter has dissolved, then take it off, cool it a little, pour it over the Squirrel, garnish with stewed corn-and-potato balls (see Fig 656), and serve. Broiled Squirrel.—Wash a Squirrel, wipe it dry, brush it over with warmed bacon-fat or butter, and broil it over a clear fire for about ten minutes. When cooked, put the Squirrel on a hot dish, place some slices of broiled salt pork on the top of it, and pour over some rich brown gravy; garnish round with nicely boiled potatoes, and serve. Squirrel Pie.—Skin a pair of Squirrels, wipe them all over with a wet cloth to remove the hairs, and cut them in joints, saving the blood and removing the entrails. The liver, heart, and kidneys may be used in the pie if desired. Chop lib. of beef-suet as fine as possible, rejecting all the membrane; mix it with lAlb. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Butter an earthenware baking-dish. Add enough cold water to the suet and flour to make a crust J-in. thick. Line the dish with the crust, put in the Squirrel meat and blood, adding enough cold water to half fill the pie-dish; season highly with salt and pepper, cover with the crust, wetting all the edges to make them adhere so closely that the gravy cannot escape. In the middle of the top crust, cut a little slit to permit the escape of the steam while the pie is being baked. Bake the pic in a moderate oven for about two hours. When the crust is nearly brown enough cover it with buttered paper, and when quite done serve it hot in the dish in which it was baked. Stewed Squirrels.—Skin two pairs of fat Squirrels, wash them quickly in cold water, or carefully wipe them with a wet cloth to remove the hail's, and cut them into quarters, rejecting the intestines. Put a layer of slices of fat salt pork into a saucepan, then place the Squirrels on the top with a seasoning of salt anil pepper, and either a little more salt pork or Jib. of good beef or veal dripping, or butter; add enough water to prevent burning, cover the saucepan, and cook the Squirrels gently until they are tender. When they are nearly done, uncover the sauce- pan, so that the water in which they were cooked can evaporate, put in enough cream or good milk to moistenTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 511 Squirrels—continued. them, let them heat again, see that they are well seasoned, and serve hot. STARCH (Fr. Arnidon ; Ger. Starke ; Ital. Amido; Sp. Aimidon).—Blyth, in his “ Dictionary of Hygiene,” describes Starch as an organic substance occurring in rounded or oval grains in the cellular tissue of certain parts of plants. The seeds of the cerealia contain it in large quantity, and it is also present in great abun- dance in leguminous plants, such as beans, peas, lentils. &c. Wheat contains 75 per cent., and the potato 15 per- cent. of this substance. Starch, as a food, is useful for its carbonaceous properties, hut it does not contain any nitrogen. “ All Starches,” says Blyth, “ have the same nutritive value, hut they differ in digestibility.” The following Starches are well-known to us : arrowroot, barley, maize, potato, rice, rye, sago, tapioca, tous-les-mois, and wheat. See Amydon. STCHI.—A Russian soup very commonly in use amongst all classes. The following is an excellent re- ceipt for its preparation in this country: Put 311). of uncooked brisket of beef cut up into moderate- sized pieces in a stockpot, pour in 4qts. of water, and add a little salt. When the water boils skim it, move the stockpot to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an hour. Wash and blanch a small cabbage, put it in the liquor with ilb. of streaky bacon, one large carrot, and a piece of celery-root. Let the liquor simmer gently till the meat is cooked. Chop one small onion, put it in a stewpan, and fry it in a little butter till well coloured; dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in gradually the broth from the stockpot. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, boil it up again, then move it to the side. Trim the beef and bacon, and cut them into small squares; shred the cabbage, but not too fine, then put all in the soup. In half-an-hour’s time put 1 teaspoonful of chopped fennel in the soup, and a small quantity of pepper; add 1 teacupful of strained sour cream, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. STEAK.-The name is closely allied to stick, the meat being originally broiled on a piece of wood, and latterly on a spit. The oi-igin of the term is probably the Icelandic steikja—to roast, in which case the stick refers to the mode of cooking, and not to the apparatus. Any piece of meat cut as for broiling may he a Steak, even though it be used in a pie or pudding. For special Steaks see special headings. Fig. 657. Steak-tongs. STEAK-TONGS.—A kind of tongs used by cooks for the purposes of grilling or pot-boiling steaks of any kind. As it is important that the steak should be turned frequently, and not pierced by a fork, their use of them is essential to good cooking. There are two kinds specially recommended; those generally employed by most of our professional grill-cooks For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, S Steak-Tongs—continued. are joined together by a steel spring (see Fig. 657), and a more ornamental pair (see Fig. 658) for the use of private families. These latter resemble two scooped forks riveted together in the centre of the handles, and fitted just beyond the hinge with an elastic ring. STEAMING.—A mode of cooking that is very suc- cessful in many cases where it is advisable that a food should have the advantages of boiling without coming into contact with water. Potatoes cooked by steaming are Fig. 659. Steamer (Adatus and Son). considered to preserve their flavour better, and for this purpose a saucepan is fitted with a second chamber (see Fig. 659) which fits into the saucepan top. This second chamber, super, or steamer, has a perforated bottom. The saucepan contains the water, and the steamer the article or articles to be steamed. As the water in the under vessel boils the steam enters the upper chamber in a state of condensation and speedily operates upon the articles to Fig. 660. “Rapid” Patent Steamer (S. C. Shewell and Co.). be cooked. In this way a pudding may be boiled in the saucepan and potatoes or other vegetables cooked above. A very ingenious invention (see Fig. 660) by which food can be steamed in an ordinary saucepan consists of a flat cone under which the water boils, and upon which a stand is fixed that supports the food to be steamed out of the water. The term steamed is erroneously applied sometimes to food that is cooked by standing the vessel containing it in hot water. STEINWEIN.—A wine of Rhenish Bavaria. STELVIO.—A Yaltenisse liqueur made in Grosetta. STERLET.—See Sturgeon. STEWING.—The easiest of all processes of cooking, and one that is frequently resorted to by inexperienced cooks, the results being usually satisfactory, so long as care and discretion are shown in the choice of herbs, vegetables, meat, and seasonings. Stewing may be regarded as intermediary between braising and boiling, requiring very little above 170deg. of temperature. This low degree is somewhat difficult to regulate on an open stove; blit by means of a closed kitchen range, or a gas- ?s, efcc., referred to, see under their special heads.512 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Stewing—continued. stove, the heat can be regulated to a nicety, and the stew thoroughly cooked without running the risk of hardening by cooking too fast. Numerous receipts will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia for preparing various stews which may be cooked in a pan specially made for the purpose, or in an ordinary saucepan. See Irish Stew. STEWPANS (Fr. Casseroles).—These cooking- vessels form an essential part of the French cook’s culinary utensils (batterie de cuisine). In an English private kitchen they are usually substituted by the iron saucepan ; but in all large establishments they are growing in favour, not only on account of their valuable assistance in prepar- ing stews, their convenient shapes, and close-fitting lids preventing the escape of steam, but because, being made of copper, silvered or tinned on the inside, they add materially to the business-like appearance of the kitchen. Fig. 662. Round Stf.wpan (Still and Co.). A French cook writes of them :—“ The Stewpan adds to the ornamentation of the kitchen, giving to the walls by their diverse forms and brilliancy an appearance which denotes luxury, cleanliness, wealth, and the civilisation of those who live upon the foods prepared in them.” Fig. 663. Stewpan with Cutlet-pan Cover (Still and Co.). Stewpans are made all shapes and sizes, the more com- mon being flat and deep ovals (see Fig. 661), and round (see Fig. 662). The lids should be flat and fit closely all round. Stewpans—continued. Another kind of Stewpan is compounded with a cutlet- pan (see Fig. 663), the latter serving as a tight-fitting cover. There is no particular advantage in this arrange- ment, excepting economy. STILIiEiOOM.—A department of the house in which liquors, preserves, and such like comestibles are kept. The term is nearly obsolete, having been supplanted by the butler’s pantry. STOCK.—A liquid or jelly containing the juices and soluble parts of meat and certain vegetables extracted by cooking, for the purpose of making soups, gravies, or sauces. Such a broad definition leaves much to the dis- cretion of the cook, and it is not therefore surprising to know that Stock is as varied as the purposes for which it is used, and even more so, every cook having a fancy in the preparation of Stock, and many being compelled to use whatever they may have at hand. Bones and trimmings of meat make good Stock, and as these require a prolonged cooking, they should be set near the fire after once boil- ing up, in a stockpot, the better kind being fitted with a tap (see Fig. 664) so that any quantity can be drawn off at a time free from the fat which naturally floats on the Fig. 664. Stockpot. top. When the Stock is cold a cake of fat will be found to have formed on the top, which can be removed by pass- ing a knife round between it and the side of the stock- pot. It can then be lifted off and cleared carefully of the jelly, and the jelly wiped over with a cloth wrung out in hot water. If the Stock be wanted before it has time to cool, and the stockpot has no tap, then most of the fat can be removed by straining the Stock several times through a fine napkin dipped repeatedly in cold water. In the following receipts full particulars will be found: Cheap Stock.—After a good-sized piece of mutton or beef lias been boiled, the liquor can be used for making a very good Stock; but after salted beef has been boiled in it, it should be first tasted, for if too salt it cannot be used. Put any bones, trimmings of meat, poultry, or game that may be available, into a stockpot, with a few peeled vegetables composed of onions, carrots, turnips, and celery, the onions having two or three cloves stuck in them and the celery cut into small lengths; also add a bunch of sweet herbs with' a few sprigs of parsley mixed with them, two blades of mace, five or six peppercorns, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour in the liquor, put the lid on the stockpot, stand it at the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for six or seven hours. Skim the Stock constantly; it should be kept quite clear from any scum. When suffi- ciently stewed, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and keep it in the larder for use. Clear Stock a la Framjaise.—Cut up 61b. of beef, put it in a st. A pot with some crushed bones and a few peeled carrots, turnips, parsnips, and one broiled onion, a bunch of parsley and a laurel leaf, two cloves, a lump of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in 3qts. of water, place the stockpot over the fire until the liquor boils, then skim it well; move it to the side, and let it simmerCENTRE DISH — LE COQ GALLANT, (avotre service ate'ndSjTn aCSki dfctof anTham XTde' "TT'™11 ^ m0tt° ^ Penda^ • spurs .etc •». - jei'y. ,Aoi :f ^ 'Crd; • °r' . *513 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 L Stock—continued. for six or seven hours. At the end of that time, skim the Stock again, then strain it through a tammy into a basin. When it is cold, remove all the fat off the top, and it is ready for use. Sark Stock.—Procure a piece from the shin or lower part of a round of beef with an equal weight of bones, and put the bones in a stockpot. Wipe the meat over with a cloth dipped in cold water, and cut it into nice-sized pieces. Peel the required quantity of onions, and fry them in butter until darkly browned ; then put in the pieces of meat, and brown them also. Put the meat in the stock- pot with the bones, add any other trimmings of meat that may be handy, fill up with cold water, and place it over the fire. When the liquor boils, take the stockpot off the fire, remove the scum, put in the browned onions with some prepared carrots and turnips, celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a flavouring of allspice, ground pepper, cloves, celery-seeds, and salt; add also 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar colouring or caramel. Keep the Stock simmer- ing slowly at the edge of the fire until the meat is in rags, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a large basin. The Stock should never be allowed to remain in an iron kettle or stockpot after it is made. Set the basin in a cool place, keeping it uncovered. Leave the fat which forms at the top of the Stock in a thick cake until the Stock is needed, as it excludes the air and thus helps to keep the Stock. It will keep at least a week longer in the winter if it be made without vegetables. A little fresh charcoal tied in a muslin bag and boiled in the Stock is said to restore it when only slightly changed. In very warm weather, only a sufficient quantity for each day should be made, as it sometimes spoils in one night. Pir&t Stock. —Procure a piece of beef, the breast part will do, put it into a stockpot with some trimmings of beef, pour in a sufficient quantity of cold water, allowing about 2 pints to lib. of meat, and place it over the fire. Keep it well skimmed, removing the scum directly it rises to the top, and pouring in occasionally a little cold water to send up the scum. When quite clear put in a few pre- pared vegetables such as carrots, turnips, onions stuck with cloves, celery, and leeks. Add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, move the stockpot to the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for five hours. Skim off all the fat, and strain the broth through a fine hair sieve into a basin. When using the broth, pour it out carefully so as not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. This broth is used for making any other kind of broth. General Stock.—(1) Take 4lb. of any fresh trimmings of lean meat and bones, cut the meat off the bones and break them ; put them into a stockpot together with the meat a small quantity of salt, and 5qts. of water ; place the stock- pot over the fire and let the contents boil. Skim the stock, then add some scraped and washed carrot, a peeled onion or two, and one or two trimmed and washed leeks; cover the pot close, and let the contents boil gently for five hours. Strain the Stock, pour it into a bowl, and let it stand in a cold place till required for use. (2) Any meat or bones and trimmings of any kind of poultry, game, ham, and bacon can be used to make Stock. They should be put in the stockpot with plenty of sliced vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions; pieces of celery also are a great improvement to the flavour of the Stock. A bunch of sweet herbs should be added, with pepper, salt, and spices to taste. Pour in the water, judging the amount by the quantity of ingredients in the pot, then put the lid on, and leave it at the edge of the fire, where the Stock may simmer, but not boil, for several hours, until all the goodness is extracted from the meat, &c. When sufficiently stewed, strain the liquor off into a large bowl, and let it stand until quite cold. When the soup is wanted for use, all the fat should be skimmed off the top, and all the sediment that has settled at the bottom should be removed. It may then be warmed up again, with any addition required. Medium Stock.—Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and melt it; then put in 41b. of shin of beef cut into small pieces, a ham-bone, about 21b. of any other kind of meat bones, For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. VOL II. Stock—continued. two carrots, one turnip, and one large onion, all peeled, and with four cloves stuck in the onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few sticks of celery cut into small pieces, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in about 11 breakfast- cupfuls of water, put the saucepan over the lire, and stir the contents until the moisture is reduced to a glaze. The fire should be a brisk one. When reduced, pour in 2f,qts. of water, and leave it over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for four or five hours. Keep the Stock well skimmed. W hen sufficiently boiled, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a basin ; leave it until quite cold, the better to enable skimming off the fat. It is then ready for use. Mixed Stock.—Put the trimmings and bones of any kind of meat into a stockpot with lqt. of water for every 21b. of meat and bones, and place it over the fire until the contents come to the boil; skim the stock, move it to the side, and let it simmer very slowly for six hours. At the end of that time, put into the stockpot a bunch of sweet herbs, a moderate-sized onion with six cloves stuck in it, and 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns. Keep the Stock simmering for two hours longer, removing the scum occasionally; then strain it through a tine hair sieve into a large bowl, and set it away in a cool place. On the following morning skim off the fat. Second Stock.—This is made with the bones, meat, vege- tables, &c., that have been previously boiled in the first Stock. After the liquor has been drained off them, pour in about 3qts. of water, and let it simmer for a few hours. Afterwards strain it off into a basin, and keep it in the larder for making sauces, purees, &c., or it may have another quart of water added to it, and boiled until reduced to 1 pint. Then strain it off into a basin. When cold, it will be very stiff, and can be used for glaze. Stock for Vegetable Soups. —Put lib. of wheat bran in a saucepan with lgall. of cold water, place it over a gentle fire, and stir it slowly until it reaches boiling-point. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an-hour-and a-half; then season the Stock with a few peppercorns and a small quantity of salt, and let it simmer for half an hour longer. Strain the Stock, and keep it in a cool larder for use. This Stock will form the foundation for a great variety of vegetable soups. White Stock.—(1) Dissolve in a saucepan on the hot range loz. of very good, finely-shred salt pork, previously well washed, and the same quantity of beef-suet. Add one carrot, one onion, a bouquet of aromatic herbs, twelve whole peppers, and four cloves. Brown these well on a moderate fire for four minutes. Add 4oz. of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of white wine and 3qts. of plain broth. Add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and stir until it comes to the boil; then let it cook thoroughly for an hour. Strain through a fine sieve. This Stock should be used without any further thickening. (2) Break up a knuckle of veal, and put it in a stock- pot with any trimmings of white meat, such as fowl or rabbit, or both; put in also lib. of ham or bacon, three or four peeled carrots and turnips, two or three small sticks of celery, a bunch of thyme, parsley, and a bay- leaf, a few mushrooms, and a good seasoning of mace, cloves, white peppercorns, and salt. Fill the pot up with water, and stew the contents gently at the side of the fire for five hours. Keep it well skimmed, throwing in a small quantity of cold water occasionally to send the scum to the top. At the end of that time, strain the Stock through a fine hair sieve into a large bowl, and when nearly cold skim off the fat at the top; when using the Stock be careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. (3) Wash 61b. of shin of veal and a fowl, and cut them into small pieces. Put Jib. of butter into a stockpot ; when it has melted put in the meats, and cook them over a slow fire for half-an-hour, stirring them occasionally to keep them from burning. Pour in 8qts. of cold water, leave it over the fire until it comes to the boil, then skim it well; move it to the side, and let it simmer gently for six hours. At the end of that time, put in two peeled Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 514 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Stock—continued. onions, four sticks of celery, a blade of mace, and a piece of stick cinnamon ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer for an hour longer. Strain the Stock through a line hair sieve into a large bowl, and leave it in a cool place until the morning. Skim the fat off the Stock, which will be a stiff jelly, then turn it gently into a deep dish, anti with a knife scrape off the sediment which will have settled at the bottom. Keep the jelly in a stone jar in a cool temperature. It will keep for a week or more if the weather be cold; but as it will not keep so long in the hot weather, it can be made in smaller quantities than the above mentioned if desired. STOCKFISH.—A name given to salted, dried, and cured fish, they being especially suited to keeping in stock. STOMACHIC LIQUEUR—-See Cordials and Liqueurs. STONE CREAM.—See Cream. STOPPERS.—These are usually made of glass, and are fitted to bottles by grinding the outside of the Stopper plug and the inside of the neck which receives it. Be- cause of their accurate fitting it is not unusual for them to get fixed, or stuck, and then considerable patience and ingenuity is required to move them. Pressing the thumb against one side of the handle of the Stopper, and tapping the opposite side with a piece of hard wood will sometimes have the desired effect. A little spirit or oil may be set to soak in between the Stopper and the neck, requiring some little time to do so, and then considerable force may be used to turn the Stopper. Heating the neck, and then directly twisting the Stopper, will some- times succeed when other methods fail. See Corks, Decanters, &c. STORE-ROOM.—Every good housekeeper will have a room in which stores for the household can be kept under lock and key. Groceries should always, if possible, be bought in quantity, and it is well to remember that at certain times of the year some goods are cheaper than at other times; all these details should be carefully notified, and a book kept to enter dates of purchase, quantities, and price paid. A dry room should be selected for keeping stores, and this should be amply fitted with drawers, shelves, and nails or hooks. There should be earthenware jars for sugar, tins for tea, coffee, cocoa, biscuits, and loaf sugar, and a net for lemons. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room. Tallow candles can be hung to the ceiling, and wax or paraffin candles are best kept in a box. Soap should be cut up and stood with spaces between the pieces, being turned at regular intervals of time. Starch must be kept very dry. Rice, tapioca, and sago must be kept in covered vessels, or they will get insects in them. Flour is usually kept in the pantry, in a tub. Onions, shallots, and garlic should not be kept in a Store-room for obvious reasons. Dried herbs in separate paper bags may be conveniently suspended from the walls. Apples must be stored in a convenient out- house, and vegetables are best on a stone floor. Other goods may be stored according to the facilities at disposal. Remember that scrupulous cleanliness is of the first consideration; to ensure this the walls and ceiling should be white-washed occasionally, and the floor thoroughly washed over once now and again, care being taken to air the room as it dries. STOUT.—A strong black or brown beer, the colour being due to the use of malt that has been dried almost to burning in a kiln. See Beer. Mulled Stout.—(1) Sweeten the Stout to taste with brown sugar, and flavour it with small quantities of grated nutmeg and ginger, and for each pint allow 1 wineglassful of gin. Stout—co n tinned. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, and place it over the fire. Put some thin slices of slightly-browned toast in a large jug, pour in the Stout when it is quite hot, and serve. (2) Boil in \ pint of water for nearly fifteen minutes 2oz. of brown sugar and a small quantity each of cinnamon, bruised cloves, and powdered ginger; then mix in 1 pint of Stout and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When nearly boiling, add 1 wineglassful of whisky, pour it into a jug, and serve it with sippets of toast in the jug. STOVES AND RANGES.—If the art of cooking advanced as rapidly in this country as do improvements in Stoves and Ranges, there would be some foundation for hoping that sooner or later this would become the most expert of cooking countries; for in no other part of the world have such vast strides been made, or such clever inventions been placed before the public, as have happened in Great Britain during the past half or quarter of a century. The excellence of style and perfec- tion of utility gained by our Stove and Range makers have created for them a well-merited demand in all civilised parts of the world. In France, which may be considered the queen of cooking countries, British Stoves are pre- ferred to all others, not only on account of their superior metal and manufacture, but because they do their work best. In Italy, Spain, Germany, Russia, and their dependencies, British-made Stoves and Ranges rank highest by far, surpassing even those of American manu- facture, which fact is, to say the least, a grand tribute to British workmanship and industry. With such Stoves and Ranges at hand it is surprising that British cooks take so little pains to perfect themselves in the use of them. We are known to possess the best apparatus, and to grow the largest and finest assortment of ingredients—what more can be required then than their skilful application; and this the “ Encyclopaedia of Practical Cookery ” is well calculated to bring about amongst those who read and accept its instructions. In many parts of the world the most skilful cooks have to make shift with inferior Fig. 665. Modern Close Range, on Kitchener. cooking Stoves and utensils. In England the very best are at their disposal. What wonder then that foreign cooks, who understand so well the full value of a good Stove, should surpass British cooks, who, familiar with perfect Stoves, take no trouble to understand them, but expect them to make up by their goodness for a defi- ciency in their own learning, intelligence, or training. In the construction of a kitchen Range—that is, one intended for cooking—it is necessary to consider whether it be advisable or not to erect a Stove for each515 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 L Stoves and Ranges—continued. particular process, or whether a Stove can be constructed so that all the processes can be conducted upon it at one time, or independently. The old-fashioned open Stove, with boiler and oven attached, permitted the carrying-out of more processes at once than any other, such as roasting, baking, boiling, stewing, frying, and at the same time keeping up a supply of hot water for any other purpose re- quired. But for the perfection of modern cooking some- thing further is required in the way of a hot plate, upon which the contents of saucepans and other vessels can be kept simmering or fast boiling at the cook’s discretion; and this is met with in the close-fire Range, or kitchener as it is called, probably after the celebrated physician of that name, who made himself so famous in the days when scientific cookery was none too well understood. The evils of the open Range may be described as very great; the vessels used being exposed to the open fire become dirty with soot, there is a great loss of heat, and the kitchen itself gets more than a fair share, necessitat- ing the use of a screen, such as by our improved methods would only be required for a roasting-grate. Then, again, it is difficult on an open Range to modify the heat according to certain requirements, and the chimney wants sweeping frequently. The principle of the modern close Range, or kitchener, is shown in the accompanying illustration (see Pig. 665). The fuel is contained in the small furnace (a), and the heat can be so directed that it may either affect the boiler (b) or the oven (c), by opening or closing the dampers (ddd)—metal plates that slide in and out to shut off or open the Hues. When heat is not required for either the boiler or the oven, it can be directed up the chimney. In the sectional illustration (see Fig. 666) the direction of the heat is shown, and by this it will be seen that the oven (c) is completely enveloped by the heat over all sides, excepting the front where the door is situated. The boiler (b) is almost wholly enveloped. The smoke-laden heat-streams, divided into three, ascend through the Stove to the chimney by the routes indicated (ddd). The hot-plate (e), fitted with convenient lids, receives the stream as it leaves the fire, and the heat under it is regulated by the oven-damper. This arrangement for heating the oven is known as the Leamington. The fines are cleaned by means of a long wire brush (see Pig. 667), not unlike a monster bottle-brush, about 4in. in diameter at the hair, with a 3ft. 6in. or 4ft. handle, which is passed into the flues through apertures in the front (see Pig. 665, ffff) provided for the purpose, and closed with Stoves and Ranges—continued. removable doors. The sides of the oven and boiler are cleaned through traps in the hot plate, and the soot is raked out by a piece of iron bent at right angles to form a Fig. 667. Wire Brush for Cleaning Flues. scraper (see Fig. 668) from the lower doors (see Fig. 665, ff). Upon the principle described most of the present kitchen Ranges are founded, there being numerous modifications and improvements which cannot be explained and described Fig. 668. Soot-remover. in detail. A glance through the numerous catalogues of various Stove and Range manufacturers will give more information than it would be possible to supply in an Encyclopaedic article. STRADELLA.—A wine prepared in Lombardy. STRAINERS AND STRAINING-.—See Colan- ders, Sieves, &c. STRASBOURG PIES.—See Goose’s Fat Liver (Pate de Foies Gras). STRAWBERRIES (Ft. Fraises; Ger. Erdbeeren; Ital. Fragole; Sp. Fresas).—“ Physicians concur in placing Strawberries in their small catalogue of pleasant remedies. They dissolve the tartarous incrustations of the teeth (so does the acid juice of any other fruit). They promote perspiration. Persons afflicted with gout have found relief from using them; so have patients in cases of the stone ; and Hoffman states that he has known consump- tive people cured by them.”—Abercrombie. It needed not the foregoing eulogy to excite an interest in one of the most delicious fruits grown in this or any other country. The botanical name for the genus is Fragaria (Old Latin Fraga, from the same root as fragrans), so-called on account of the delicate perfume that pervades the fruit of them all. The name Strawberry is said to have been given to the plant because of the practice followed by gardeners of laying straw round the plants to prevent the fruit getting soiled in wet or dusty weather. Another suggestion is that the name should be strewed or strawed berry, in allusion to their peculiar mode of growing all over the ground. There are several kinds of Strawberries, to which belong the Wood or Wild Strawberry, which bears a very small but well-flavoured fruit (see Fig. 669). They are very common in the hedges and woods of many parts of England. In Lindley’s “Treasury of Botany” we are informed that previous to 1629, the date assigned to the introduction of the Scarlet Strawberry from Virginia, the Wood Strawberry must have been the sort generally for sale in this country. “ Straw- berry ripe,” together with “ Gode Peascode ” and “ Cherrys in the ryse ” were mentioned as some of the London cries by Lidgate in a poem which he wrote probably more than 400 years ago (he died in 1483). Peas must have been cultivated for sale; Strawberries may have been partially so, or they may have been chiefly gathered for the purpose when found growing in their wild state. But Hollinshed mentions the fact that Gloucester asked Fig. 669. Wild Straw- berry. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tic., referred to, see under their special heads. o516 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fig. 675. Pour- Season Strawberry. Fig. 676. Long Alpine. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. the Bishop of Ely for Strawberries when contemplating the death of Hastings, and the circumstance has been dramatised by Shakespeare. “ My Lord of Ely, when I was last in Holborn, I saw good Strawberries in your garden there. Tbe palace and garden of the Bishop were situated in that part of London now called Ely Place, and the grounds sloping to the then open stream or rivulet of Holborn must have been well adapted for the growth of Strawberries.” Several kinds of Strawberries are mentioned by Lindley —the Green Strawberry having a small, abundant, roundish fruit, with the flesh of a greenish tinge, and something of the flavour of the pine-apple. The Hautbois is a native of England and the Continent of Europe; the fruit is large and plentiful, and possesses a musky flavour that is highly appreciated. The Virginian or Scarlet Strawberry is most commonly cultivated in this country, and abounds in variety of shape, flavour, and horticultural qualities. Pine Strawberries (see Eig. 670) are special Fig. 670. Pine Strawberry. Fig. 671. Chilian Strawberry. favourites, supposed to have been imported from Surinam, but the best variety known as Old Pine came from Cai-olina. The fruit is very solid and juicy. The Chilian Strawberry (see Fig. 671) is peculiar, because the whole plant is covered with silky hairs. It does not succeed well in this climate. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” gives the following list of Strawberries that are chiefly cultivated, many of them attaining enormous sizes without loss of flavour: Bitton Pine, creamy-white, sometimes tinged with red where exposed to the sun, large; flesh white, juicy, of fairly good flavour; mid-season. Black Prince, dark red, shining, almost black when quite ripe, small. British Queen (see Fig. 672), light scarlet, but not always uniform in colour, frequently very large, often flattened; flesh white, very juicy and richly flavoured; a late variety. Dr. Hogg, light red, even in outline; flesh solid, and richly flavoured; mid- season or rather early. Vicomtesse Hericart de Thury, bright red, medium sized, conical; flesh pale red, solid, brisk and richly flavoured. The May Queen (see Fig. 673) is a small but excellent variety of the British Queen, and is largely grown upon the Continent, where other fine varieties such as the Veillard (see Fig. 674), Four-Season Strawberry (see Fig. 675), and especially the Long Alpine (see Fig. 676) are prime favourites. The following receipts are compiled from a variety of sources and apply to all kinds of Strawberries: Bottled Strawberries.—Remove the stalks from some freshly-gathered, ripe Strawberries,put them in wide-mouthed glass bottles, and fill them up with syrup that has been boiled to 26deg. (see Sugar-boiling) ; put the bottles, without cork- ing them, into a large saucepan, pour in cold water to half Strawberries—continued. ripens about the same tune as Elton, and is of better flavour than that variety. James Veitch, bright vermilion, very large and handsome; flesh solid, rich and juicy; mid- season variety. Keen’s Seedling, dark crimson next the sun, large, roundish; flesh scarlet, rich and agreeably flavoured. Fig. 673. May Queen. Fig 674. Veillard. La Constante, bright crimson, large, conical; flesh white, tinged red, juicy, briskly flavoured ; rather late. La Grosse Sucree, dark red, medium or large; flesh pale red; flavour slightly acid. Loxford Hall Seedling, bright crimson where exposed, large, handsome, conical; flesh red, solid, of excel- lent flavour; an invaluable variety, the latest of all. Lucas, deep scarlet or crimson, large, conical, handsome; flesh solid, highly flavoured; mid-season or rather early. Marguerite, bright red, very large, flesh juicy and tender; early. Pauline, deep red, large, with smooth neck; flesh firm, richly flavoured; very early. Pioneer, very dark red, medium- sized; flesh solid, bright red, of rich, brisk flavour; one of the earliest. President, fruit bright red, often very large and handsome; flesh light red, solid, highly flavoured. Sir Charles Napier, clear light scarlet, large and handsome; flesh pale, firm, briskly flavoured. Sir Harry, dark red or crimson, very large; flesh dark red, very juicy, of excel- lent flavour. Sir Joseph Paxton, bright crimson, large, very large; flesh pale pinkish-white, solid, very rich. Elton, dark red or crimson, large ; flesh red throughout, firm, briskly acid; a valuable late variety, specially adapted for pre serving. Frogmore Late Pine, dark red, very large; this Fig. 672. British Queen.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 517 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. Strawberries—continued. their height, and stand the saucepan over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan with the bottles off the fire, and leave them till a little cooled. Strain the syrup off the Strawberries into a preserving-pan, adding a quarter of the quantity of strained red-currant juice; boil it up and skim it. Quite fill up the bottles of fruit by emptying one bottle into another, then fill them up with the syrup. Cork the bottles, tie them down, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. Compote of Strawberries.—(1) Select some fine ripe Strawberries, carefully pick off the stalks, drop the fruit one by one in some syrup boiled to 22deg., and let them just simmer; then pour them carefully into a basin, and leave till cold. Arrange the Strawberries in the form of an elevated cone in a compote-dish, pour the syrup round, and serve them. (2) Remove the tops from the Strawberries, pick out about a third of the best ones, put them in a glass dish, strew them thickly with crushed loaf sugar, and keep them in a cool place. Mash the remaining Strawberries with 4oz. or more of the sugar and the juice of one lemon. Mix 1 pint of white wine with the Strawberry pulp, then strain it through a fine wire sieve over the whole Straw- berries. Serve the compote with sweet biscuits on a second dish. See Fig. 677. (3) Iced.—Select some large ripe Strawberries, and arrange them in a compote-dish. Put 1 pint of marsala and 1 teacupful of syrup, hoiled to 32deg., in a freezing-pot and freeze it. When it has frozen till it forms icicles, pour it over the Strawberries, and serve. Frozen Strawberries and Whipped Cream.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them together for lialf an-hour. Put 2qts. of picked ripe Strawberries into the syrup, and boil it for fifteen minutes longer. Let the Strawberries and syrup cool, then turn them into the freezing-pot, and work them till frozen. Mix in with the frozen Straw- berries 1 pint of whipped cream, and serve them. Iced Strawberries.—Take off the hulls from some Straw- berries, and see that they are quite clean and free from grit. Weigh them, and allow to every pound of Strawberries fib. of white powdered sugar. Lay them in a deep glass dish, a layer of sugar between every layer of fruit, and for Hlb. of sugar pour over 1 wineglassful of any fruit juice" or fruit wine that may be preferred. Put the dish into a refrigerator and let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out of the refrigerator, sprinkle the to]) of the Strawberries with finely-pounded ice, and then with pow- dered white sugar, and serve immediately. Preserved Strawberries.—(1) Put 21b. of Strawberries at the bottom of a preserving-pan, pour over 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of red or white currant-juice, cover with finely- crushed loaf sugar, and again with a sheet of paper; set the pan at the side of the fire and let it remain until the Strawberries are slightly warm. Remove the pan from the fire, take the Strawberries out carefully with a spoon, and put them on a sieve to drain. Add a little more sugar to the Syrup, boil it to the pearl degree (see Sugar boiling), put back the fruit, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Take out the Strawberries, put them carefully into a basin, pour over the syrup, and let them remain for a couple of days. Take them out again, drain them, put the syrup back in the pan, add a little more sugar and a small quantity of currant-juice, boil again to the pearl degree (see Sugar boiling), put in the Strawberries, simmer lor a few minutes, put them carefully into jars, pour the syrup in so as not to quite fill the jars, let them get cold, cover over first with paper soaked in brandy then with thick paper or bladder, put the jars into a cool place, and let them remain until wanted. For preserving Strawberries only the largest should be used such as Carolina or Hanoverian. (2) Put 61b. of the finest lump sugar in a copper pre- serving-pan, pour in 3 pints of the juice of fresh red currants, and boil the sugar till thick, skimming it often. Pick the stalks off 61b. of freshly-gathered Strawberries, then put them carefully into the syrup, and boil them gently for fifteen minutes. Turn the syrup and Straw- berries into a basin, taking care not to break them, and let them stand till the next day. Strain the juice off the Strawberries into the preserving-pan, and boil it till reduced to a jelly, skimming it occasionally; then put in the Strawberries, anti boil them for a few minutes. Turn the Strawberries carefully, so as to keep them whole, into glass jars, and leave them uncovered for a week. Tie papers dipped in beaten white of egg over the jars, and keep them in a dry store-closet. (3) Strawberries for preserving ought to be large, of rather an acid flavour, and firm and Meshy. Take off the hulls from the Strawberries, and see that they are quite clean and free from grit; if they should be at all gritty wash and drain them; then weigh them, and to lib. of Straw- berries allow lib. of sugar. At the bottom of a preserving- pan put a layer of sugar, fill with alternate layers of Strawberries and sugar (let the top one be a thick layer of sugar), cover the preserving-pan, and let the fruit stand ali night in the sugar. Next morning set the pan on the stove without disturbing the contents, and let it gradually come to the boil; let it boil gently till the Strawberries look clear, being careful not to let them break, and skimming off the scum as fast as it rises. When the Strawberries look clear, take the pan off the stove, cover it while the fruit cools a little, then put the preserve into jars. When quite cold put a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on the top of the preserve in each jar, and cover so as completely to exclude the air. (4) Well wash lOqts. of ripe Strawberries, and drain them ; then put them into ten jars, each holding lqt., pour into each 1 pint of hot syrup, and put on the covers very tightly. Place the jars in a large saucepan, seeing that they do not touch each other, otherwise they might break, and stuff in between a little hay or straw. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, place it on the hot stove, and boil for five minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying them in a dry but not cool place. Let them stand until thoroughly cold, then put them away until wanted. Preserved Strawberry Pulp.—Use in equal quantities some Strawberries called scarlets and seedlings. Pick the fruit carefully over, and press it through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Weigh the pulp, and for every pound mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar. Fill some bottles with the pulp, cork, and fasten them down with wire. Stand the bottles upright in a saucepan with water a little more than half their height, and boil for eight minutes. Leave the bottles till cold in the saucepan, then wipe them, and store them in a dry cupboard. Preserved Tinned Strawberries.—Pick the stalks off the Strawberries, and look them carefully over to see that they are all sound, as any rotten ones would spoil the lot. For every 4lb. of fruit allow lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with just sufficient cold water to keep it from burning, and boil for seven or eight minutes; then put in the Strawberries, boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon, and being very careful not to break them more than possible. Have the jars or bottles ready heated at the side of the fire, and ladle the fruit out into them. Cover each jar with three rounds of white paper, pasting each round down separately with boiled nour-and-water paste. The paper rounds should be cut larger than the tops of the jars, so to overlap the brim. Keep them in a dry store-cupboard.518 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—conti nued. Strawberry Acid Royal.—Melt 2oz. of citric acid in Iqt. of water, then pour it on as large a quantity of ripe freshly- gathered, well flavoured Strawberries, picked from then- stalks, as it will cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Drain the liquor off, again pour it over as many Strawberries as it will cover, and again let it stand for twenty-four hours, not more. Re careful that the fruit is kept in a cool place while it is steeping. Drain the liquor well from the fruit on the second day, add to it its own weight of loaf sugar, and when this is quite dissolved put it in an enamelled saucepan over the fire and boil gently for three or four minutes. When quite cold, bottle it in small bottles (take care that they are perfectly dry), cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry, cool place. Strawberry Bavaroise.—(1) Take lqt. of freshly picked, thoroughly ripe Strawberries, mash with 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-powdered white sugar, and rub through a small meshed sieve. Put this puree into a china basin till wanted. Now dissolve 1 hr/., of fine isinglass in a pan with a tumbler of warm water, add Jib. of caster sugar, and when this is all dissolved add the juice of an orange and 20 drops of good essence of lemon. Pass through a sieve, and continue to stir it as it gets cold, adding the puree of Strawberries by degrees. Set on the ice, and as it thickens mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Pour it into a full sized dome-shaped mould previously packed in ice. Cut a slice of Genoa cake lin. thick the shape of the dish, and cover it smootlily with vanilla-flavoured icing. Set this, and turn out the bavaroise on to an ice-cold dish, taking care to place it in the centre. Ornament with a large Strawberry and angelica-leaves on the top, and set Strawberries with angelica-leaves round the base of the dome (see Fig. 678). (2) Put Joz. of gelatine in a basin, pour over it 1 teacup- ful of cold water, and leave it to soak for two hours. Pick the tops oft' lqt. of Strawberries, mash them with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and let them stand for an hour. Pass the juice of the Strawberries through a fine hair sieve, pressing through at the same time as much of the pulp as possible without the seeds. Dissolve the gelatine in 1 teacupful of boiling water, and strain it into the Strawberry-juice. Stand the basin on ice, beat the contents till they begin to thicken, then pour in 1 pint of whipped cream, and mix it well. Turn the above mixture into a mould, and leave it till set. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a fancy dish, garnish it with whipped cream, and serve. Strawberry Blanc-mange.—Pick the tops from lqt. of ripe Strawberries; put the fruit into a basin, and crush it with a wooden spoon, sprinkling Jib. of caster sugar over it at the same time. Let the Strawberries stand for a few hours. Put Jib. of caster sugar and 2oz. of isinglass in a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the milk through muslin, mix with it 1J pints of cream, and stir it till cold. Pour the cream and milk over the Strawberries, beating them at Strawberries—continued. the same time, then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, but gradually, to prevent curdling. Turn the above mixture into an ornamental mould, pack it in ice, and leave it till set. Turn the blanc mange out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and serve. Strawberry Bouchees.—Mix Jib. of caster sugar with the yolks of six eggs, and beat them together, sifting in gradu- ally Jib. of dried flour; add the well whipped whites of the six eggs, and stir all till quite smooth. Put the paste into a paper funnel, and press it in rounds of equal quantities on sheets of paper. Bake the rounds in the oven, and when they are cooked remove them from the paper. Coat the surface of half the biscuits with Strawberry jam, then put the others on top, thus making a houchee. Boil some syrup to 36deg., add sufficient juice pressed from Strawberries to bring the syrup down to 38deg., then take it off the fire. When cool work the syrup with the spatula till smooth. Put this icing into a basin and melt again, adding a few drops of cochineal. Stick a skewer through each houchee separately, and dip them, one at a time, in the icing, taking care to cover them completely. Arrange the bouchees on a wire sieve to drain, then dry them in the oven for a few minutes. When cold, they are ready to be served. Strawberry Charlottes.—Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs witli 3 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of cold water for ten minutes, then stir in gradually 4 break - fastcupfuls of sifted flour, and mix it well, adding at the last the well whipped whites of the fifteen eggs. Spread the above mixture in thin layers on sheets of paper, and bake it in a quick oven for about six minutes. The papers should not be greased. When cooked, brush underneath the paper with water, so that it can be easily removed from the cakes. Make fifty small paper cases; cut out the pieces of cake by the same pattern the cases were cut out by, but making them slightly shorter; line the paper cases with the cake at the sides, and, if liked, push some square pieces down inside. Fill the Charlottes with whipped Strawberry cream, and serve them. Strawberry Chartreuse.—Pick oft' the tops of 21b. of ripe Strawberries, and cut them in halves lengthwise. Prepare Iqt. of calf’s-foot jelly, flavour it well with lemon, and leave it till a little cooled. Pour a thin layer of the jelly in the bottom of a large mould, then arrange a layer of Strawberries on the top, cover them with a little jelly, and leave it till set. When the jelly in the large mould is quite firm, stand a smaller mould inside. Fill the space between the moulds with Strawberries, filling up the cavi- ties with jelly, then set the mould on ice. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a little water, then mix with it J pint of Strawberry-juice, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whip 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth, then mix gradually with it the Strawberry -juice. When the jelly has set, pour a little warm water in the smallest mould to loosen it, then take it carefully out of the large one. Fill the hollow with the cream, and leave the mould in the ice till the cream has set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the chartreuse out on to a fancy dish. Strawberry Cheese (Pain).—(1) Carefully pick over Jib. of ripe Strawberries, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and mix with them the strained juice of two oranges, 1 pint of clear sweetened jelly, and a little finely-grated orange-peel. When well mixed, put the above ingredients in a sugar-pan, and stir them on ice till thick. Mask the interior of a fancy jelly-mould with clear sweet jelly, stand it in pounded ice, and leave for a few minutes. Fill the mould with the Strawberry mixture, and leave it in the ice for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Prepare some small bouchees, half of them white and the rest pink, and glaze them. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cheese out on to a glass dish with a stand, garnish with the bouchees (see Fig. 673), and serve. (2) Pick over about lib. of Strawberries, put them in a mortar with some caster sugar, and pound them ; next mix a small quantity of melted isinglass and 1 pint of well-whippedTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 519 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. cream with, the puree. Whip the mixture over ice till the isinglass is well blended with the mixture, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice and salt. When ready to Fig. 679. Strawberry Cheese. serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. If in the winter a pot of Strawberry jam can he used in place of fresh Strawberries. Strawberry Conserve.—Take some freshly-gathered very ripe Strawberries, pick them, crush them in a cloth, and wring out the juice. To each dessert spoonful of juice allow 6oz. of sugar. Boil the sugar to the pearl (see Sugar-boiling), then take it off the fire and pour the juice into it, and, if it requires it, a little carmine. Stir with a wooden spoon till the conserve begins to get dry and white, and put it into moulds or paper cases. Strawberry Cordial.—Put some ripe Strawberries in a large earthenware vessel, cover them with proof spirit, and let them macerate for two days. Drain the spirit off into another bowl, cover the Strawberries with fresh spirit, and let them stand for the same time. When the last lot of spirit is drained off, cover the Strawberries with water. Drain the water, mix all the liquors together, measure them, and for every gallon mix in 31b. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 teacupful of orange-flower water. When the sugar has dissolved, filter the cordial, bottle it, and cork the bottles down tightly. Strawberry Cream.—(1) Remove the stalks from ljlb. of ripe Strawberries, pass them through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix 1 heaped teacupful of caster sugar with them, and stir continually till the sugar has dissolved. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk, then pour on it gradually lqt. of boiling cream; turn the cream into a saucepan, and boil it for a minute or two, stirring all the time, rut the puree of Strawberries into a trifle- dish, and when slightly cooled pour the cream over them. Stand the dish in a cold place till the cream has set. Whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth; put half of the beaten egg over the Strawberries, colour the remainder with a little prepared cochineal, and fleck it about on the top. It is then ready for serving. Spinach- greening may be used in place of the cochineal if desired. (2) Pick the stalks from lib. of sound ripe Strawberries, bruise them in a basin, and add sufficient sugar to sweeten them ; rah the pulp through a sieve into a basin, and pour over it 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of isinglass pre- viously dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of warm water. Pour this cream into a mould, and put it upon the ice to set; when quite firm, turn it out in the usual way. If fresh Strawberries are out of season bottled Strawberry pulp or Strawberry jam may be used instead; but this cream is best made from the fresh fruit. Raspberries, currants, and mulberries can be used in the same way. Strawberry Cream without Cream.—Put 11b. of Straw- berry jam into a basin and beat it well with Jib. of Strawberries—continued. caster sugar; then put in the whites of six eggs that have been well separated from the yolks, and beat the whole for twenty minutes. Drop the mixture in spoonfuls into a glass dish, and serve. Strawberry Cream Ice.—(1) Put lilt, of Strawberries into a basin with sufficient sifted crashed loaf sugar to sweeten, add the strained juice of a lemon and a half, and pass the whole through a sieve into another basin. Add a little cochineal to colour, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and more sifted sugar if required. Turn the preparation into the freezer, work it well, put it into a mould packed in ice, let it set, turn it out, and it is ready for use. (2) Put 21b. of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with four eggs and a vanilla bean broken in small pieces; whisk well, and add lgall. of rich cream. Stir well until the liquor is about to boil, strain the whole through a fine sieve into a basin, let it cool, pour it into a freezer, work it well until frozen, then add 1 pint of ripe Strawberries to each quart of the vanilla mixture. Work well until the whole is frozen, put it into a mould packed in ice, turn it out when set, and serve. (3) Pick the tops off lib. of ripe Strawberries, mix them with lib. of Strawberry jam, lib. of caster sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, 1 teacupful of milk, and 1 pint of cream. When thoroughly mixed, turn the whole into a freezing-pot and freeze it. The ice-cream can be either served in glasses, or, when frozen, turned into a fancy mould, which should be covered and packed in the pounded ice ami salt. When ready to serve the cream, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (4) Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, and stand it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Mix 1 breakfast-cup- ful of sugar with 1 teacupful of flour, then beat in two eggs. Pour the boiling milk gradually over the eggs and flour, stirring all the time, then turn the whole back into the saucepan, and stir it by the side of a moderate fire for twenty minutes.* Allow it to cool a little, then turn it into the freezing-pot. Work it till partially frozen, then mix in with it 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, lqt. of cream, and lqt. of Strawberries with their stalks picked off, and finish freezing the cream. When frozen, turn the cream into a fancy mould, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, then turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. (5) Put into a vessel Jib. of powdered sugar and six yolks of eggs, and mix well with the spatula for ten minutes; add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for ten minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin; then place it on the hot stove, and with the spatula stir gently at the bottom until well heated, but it must not boil. Take off the fire, set it on a table, immediately add 1 pint of sweet cream, and mix again for two minutes; return the basin to the stove, beat the contents up again with a whisk, and place it on the table once more. When cool, add J pint of well-picked and cleaned Strawberries, and mix well with the spatula for two minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, pressing the Strawberries through with a wooden spoon, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish, with a folded napkin placed over it. (6) Beat 21b. of Strawberry jam up with about J teacupful of water, mix a small quantity of lemon-juice with it, and strain it through a cloth. Whip to a stiff froth as much cream as there is juice, mix them together, and freeze in a freezing-machine. When sufficiently frozen, turn the cream into a mould, close it tightly, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In about a couple of hours’ time, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the ice on to a dish, and serve. Strawberry Cream Ice en Surprise.—Pick the tops off 3 pints of Strawberries, and put them into a deep dish with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Mix with 3 pints of cream 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and 1 wineglassful of wine. Put the cream in the freezing-pot, and when it is frozen make a hollow in the centre by beating the cream to the side; fill the hollow with the Strawberries and sugar, put some of the cream on the top, place the520 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. cover on the freezing-pot, and keep it packed in ice for an hour or so. Turn tlje cream on to a fancy dish, and put some large ripe Strawberries round the base and on the top (see Fig. 680). Strawberry Crusts (Crofttes aux Praises).—Prepare some small round buns, which can be split into halves, buttered, and warmed in the oven. Sprinkle powdered sugar over some Strawberries, braise them slightly, and let them stand for some time. Mix the fruit and sugar, cover the hot buns with this, let them get cold, and serve in a glass dish. Strawberry Drops.—Pass some ripe Strawberries through a line hair sieve, and mix with the puree some coarsely-sifted sugar. Put the paste into a sugar boiler with a lip to it, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then let the drops fall slowly from the lip of the pan on to a baking-sheet, leaving a small space between each. When cold, put the drops on to a sieve, and dry them in a hot closet. Keep them packed in canisters. Strawberry Plawn.—Butter a fiawn-circle, and line it with a good tart-paste. Cover the paste with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it in a slack oven. When cooked, remove the paper, and cover the paste with a thin coating of apricot marmalade. When cold, fill the hollow of the paste with some fine ripe, freshly-gathered Strawberries, putting them in in close layers; pour over them a little thick syrup. Whip £ pint of thick cream to a firm froth, adding caster sugar and flavouring to taste. Pour the cream over the Strawberries, raising it in a dome, and smoothing the surface with the blade of a knife. Put the flawn on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Strawberry Pool.—Pass lib. of Strawberry jam through a fine hair sieve, using the back of a wooden spoon to rub it through. Beat the yolks of two eggs, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and stir them over the fire until thickened and boiling. Leave the milk until cool, then mix it with the jam. Turn the whole on to a glass dish, and leave it until quite cold. Whip \ pint of thick cream to a stiff’ froth, pile it on the top of the fool, and serve. Strawberry Fritters.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil with the grated peel of half a lemon and a little flour; when smooth add the wrtdl whisked wdiites of three eggs and a little white wine. The mixture should be of the consistency of thick cream. Pick the tops off' some large ripe Strawberries, and put the fruit in the prepared batter. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying-pan, and when it is boiling drop the batter with the Straw - berries from a table-spoon into the fat. When nicely cooked, take the fritters carefully out, drain them on a sieve, then arrange them on a hot dish; sift some caster sugar over, and serve them. Strawberry Jam.—(1) Take small or even crushed Straw- berries, being careful to reject all decayed ones, remove the hulls, and take care that the fruit is clean. Weigh it, and to every 21b. of fruit add 1 ill), of sugar; put both fruit and sugar into a preserving-pan, and crash it slightly wdtli Strawberries—continued. a masher or a wooden spoon. Then put the pan on the stove, let it get hot gradually, and boil till a little of the jam put to cool on a saucer jellies as it cools. It ought to be stirred occasionally during the boiling, and any scum that rises must be taken off’. When the jam is done, remove the pan from the stove, let it cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, lay a piece of white paper soaked in brandy on the top of the jam in each jar, and fasten them with a cover of paper dipped in white of egg slightly beaten, but not to a froth. Keep in a cool dry place. (2) Pick 61b. or 81b. of ripe Strawberries, put them into a preserving-pan with 2 or 3 breakfast-cupfuls of red-currant juice and an equal weight of Strawberries in crashed loaf sugar, set the pan on a clear fire, and boil. Let it boil for about ten minutes; try a little to see if the jam be done, put it into jars when quite ready, cover them wflien cold with paper soaked in brandy, and then with thick paper or bladder, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Strawberry Jelly.—(1) Pick the stalks from l^lb. of Straw- berries, put them in a basin, pour over them lqt. of syrup at 30deg. (see Sugar boiling) that has cooled a little, and let them steep for an hour. Whisk over the fire, in a stewpan, 3ioz. of gelatine, the whites of three eggs, the juice of one lemon, and lqt. of water; when it boils, take it off. Strain the Strawberries through a jelly- bag, and mix the syrup with the gelatine. Pour the mixture in a mould, pack it in ice, cover with a baking- sheet, put ice on the top, and let it set for two hours. When ready to serve, turn the jelly on to a dish. (2) Put some ripe Strawberries in a mortar, and pound them; then pour off’ the juice and strain it through a silk sieve into a preserving-pan. Mix with the juice an equal weight of finely-pounded loaf sugar; stir it over a clear fire, and let it boil for half-an-hour, removing all the scum as it rises to the top. Put the jelly into glass jars, leave it till cold, then cover it, first with rounds of paper dipped in brandy then with paper brushed over with white of egg. Tie the jars down securely, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (3) Put fib. ot crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil it gently for twenty minutes. Pick lqt. of ripe Strawberries, put them in a basin, pour the syrup over them, and let them stand for twelve hours. Clarify 1£ oz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water. Strain the liquor from the Strawberries, mix with it \ pint of red-currant juice, the juice of one lemon, the isinglass, and more sugar if required. Turn the above mixture into a jelly-mould, and pack it in ice till firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. Fig. 681. Strawberry Jelly. (4) Press the juice from sufficient Strawberries to make 1 pint. Strain it into a preserving-pan, mix with it 1 pint of water, the juice of one lemon, 3 table-spoonfuls of raspberry-juice, 3 teacupfuls of crashed loaf sugar, and loz. of dissolved gelatine. Stir the contents of the preserving- pan over the fire till boiling, then strain it through a jelly-bag into a mould, and leave till set. W hen ready to serve, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish. (5) Soak 1 ioz. of geiatine in \ pint of cold water. Take 21b. of Strawberries, hull them, mash them well, and strain521 tee encyclopaedia of practical cookery. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jic., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—coniin ued. the juice through coarse muslin, squeezing and wringing it well. Add to the soaked gelatine the juice of a lemon and ilb. of powdered white sugar, stir them well together, and then add 1 pint of boiling water; continue to stir till the mixture becomes clear, then strain it through a flannel bag. Add the juice of the Strawberries, and strain it again, without either shaking or pressing the bag. Wet the inside of a cylinder-mould, pour in the jelly, and set it on ice till quite firm. Then turn it out on a glass dish, fill the centre and round the dish with whipped cream (see Fig. 681) sweetened with powdered white sugar, and serve at once. (6) Remove the stalks from 21b. of freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries, and cut 11,1b. of young pink rhubarb stalks into small lengths, removing any stringy peel. Put the fruit into a large jar, cover it with a plate, stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water to about half its height, and keep it at the side, not on the fire. Press the fruit down from time to time by putting a small cup or saucer inside the jar, and drain off the juice as it is extracted into a basin. When all the juice is drawn, strain it through muslin into a lined stewpan. For each pint of juice mix in 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, the whites and shells of two eggs, and loz. of gelatine, which should have been soaked for an hour in § breakfast-cupful of cold water. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer at the side of the fire for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Arrange tastefully in it a few ripe Strawberries cut lengthwise in halves and a few blanched and split pistachio-nuts. Pour the jelly gradually into the mould, it still being in a liquid state but not hot. Cover the mould, and bury it in pounded ice and salt for two or three hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a glass dish, and pile round it some well-whipped cream. (7) Make lqt. of calf’s-foot jelly, clear it with the beaten whites and shells of three eggs, and sweeten with 4oz. of crashed loaf sugar. Mix with it the strained juice of three lemons, 1 wineglassful of maraschino, and 1 wine- glassful of white wine. Keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes, and skim it well. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag, and should it not be sufficiently stiff mix with it a small quantity of isinglass that has been dissolved in sufficient water to cover it. Select some large, ripe, and perfectly sound Strawberries, and pick the stalks off them; ornament the bottom of a mould with some of the fruit, and pour in a layer of the jelly. Fill the mould with alternate layers of the jelly anil fruit, letting each layer of jelly set before another is added. Pack the mould in pounded ice and salt, and leave it for several hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, taking it out again quickly, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (8) Press the juice from a sufficient quantity of ripe Strawberries to fill a quart measure. Put 2oz. of isinglass into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water and the beaten white of one egg, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; next strain it through a silk sieve and leave it until cool. Boil fib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar in 1 pint of water until reduced to a syrup, and when somewhat cooled mix it with the dissolved isinglass and the juice from the Strawberries; squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice, being very careful to keep back the pips. Rinse a mould out with cold water, and fill it with the above mixture. Keep it on ice or in a cold place until quite firm, when the jelly may be turned on a dish and served. Strawberries in Jelly with Whipped Cream.—Press a sufficient quantity of red currants to obtain 3 breakfast- cupfuls of juice. Strain the juice into a saucepan, put in with it 3 breakfast-cupfuls of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil it for twenty minutes, stirring in loz. of isinglass. Pick out lib. of fine ripe Strawberries all perfectly whole, remove their stalks, drop them gently into the syrup, anil boil them up at once; then move them off' the fire. Turn the fruit with the syrup carefully into a mould, and stand Strawberries—continued. it in a cold place. When cold and firm turn it out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pile some stiffly-whipped cream round it, and serve. Strawberry Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Strawberry cordial into a large glass, mix in a little lime-juice, fill up with ice, arrange a few Strawberries on top, and serve. Strawberry Liqueur.—Gather the Strawberries when quite ripe and full flavoured, put them into a large bottle with an equal quantity of sugar candy broken into small pieces, and fill the bottle with pure spirits. Cork the bottle tightly, and keep it in the sun or in a warm temperature for a month. At the end of that time, strain the liqueur through fine flannel, pour it into smaller bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry cool store-cupboard till required for use. Strawberry Marzipan.—Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, and boil 1 jib. of powdered white sugar to the ball (see Sugar-boiling) ; put the blanched almonds into a mortar, and pound them to a fine paste, mixing them with the sugar. Crush in a cloth 1,1b. of picked Strawberries, squeeze out the juice, and add it to the paste of almonds and syrup; mix it well together, put the mixture in a pan, and set it on hot ashes. Keep on stirring it till the paste is sufficiently done, that is when a little piece laid on the back of the hand may be taken off again without sticking. Spread it on a slab, and when perfectly cold cut it into any desired shapes. Strawberry Meringue.—Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar with five eggs for a few minutes, then add Jib. of warmed butter and 1 teacupful of milk ; mix 1 teaspoon- ful of baking-powder with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, then sift it gradually into tlie above ingredients, and stir till smooth. Turn the mixture into a large shallow baking- pan, spreading it thinly, but making it thicker round the edges than in the middle, as the paste is liable to rise in the middle. Bake the cake, and when it is cooked put a layer of freshly-picked raw Strawberries on the top; cover them with meringue, then put the cake in the oven for a minute or two. When lightly coloured on the top, take the cake out of the oven, cut it into squares, and serve. Strawberry Mousse.—Pick the tops off' lib. of freshly - gatliered ripe Strawberries, then pass the fruit through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan; mix with the puree a few table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar, and set the pan on the fire, stirring continually till the puree is well mixed. Move the pan off the fire, set it on pounded ice, and stir the contents till cold. Mix a few table spoonfuls of caster sugar with H pints of cream, flavour it with a little essence of vanilla, and whip it well. Mix the cream with the ] hi roe. Line a dome-shaped mould with white paper, fill it with the above mixture, put a round of paper on the top, and place the lid on the mould; solder the openings with butter, and pack the mould in pounded ice. When ready to serve the mousse, dip the mould in cold water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a folded napkin on a dish. Strawberry Pudding.—(1) Spread a layer of Strawberry jam at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish, and cover it thickly with breadcrumbs. Beat four eggs with 2oz. of caster sugar, then put them in a saucepan with lqt. of milk, season with a little grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till thick. Four the above mixture slowly into the pie-dish with the crumbs, put the pudding in a moderate oven, and bake for half an hour. When cooked serve either hot or cold. (2) Mix fib. of caster sugar with 24 pints of Strawberry puree. Melt lfoz. of gelatine in a breakfast-cupful of hot water; when cold, strain it through a silk sieve, and mix it with the puree. Stick some almonds round the inside of a plain cylinder mould with a little melted gelatine, fill it with the puree, put a baking-sheet on the top, pack it in ice, with ice on the top, and let it freeze for two hours. When ready to serve, turn the ice out of the mould on to a dish.522 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. (3) Put 41b. of ripe Strawberries and Jib. of raspberries into a saucepan on the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon until the fruit is pulpy. Mash them up, strain the juice into another saucepan, bring it to the boil, and add 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 6oz. of arrowroot or corn- flour and boil for about ten minutes, stirring continually. Pour this into a damped mould, let it set, turn it out when cold, and serve with sugar and milk separately. To 1 breakfast cupful of the juice 4oz. of arrowroot or cornflour should be sufficient. Strawberry Pulp for Ices.—Pick 111), of Strawberries, pound them well in a mortar with a little water, rub them through a line sieve into a basin, and add 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar to each pound of pulp. Stir well, put the preparation into bottles, cork and fasten them down, stand them in a saucepan with water to about half their height, and let them cook slowly for about ten minutes. Hay or straw should always be put between the bottles to prevent them knocking together. Remove the saucepan from the lire, let the bottles cool in the liquor, take them out, wax the corks, and put them in a cool dry place until wanted. Strawberry Punch.—Pick the stalks off 1£ pints of freshly- gathered ripe Strawberries, put the fruit into a deep dish, cover them with 2| breakfast-cupfuls ef caster sugar, and leave them till a thick red syrup has formed. Pass the Strawberries and syrup through a fine hair sieve into a freezer, and mix with them 1 teacupful of sweet wine and IA breakfast-cupfuls of water; stir them till mixed, and leave them till frozen. Serve the punch in small glasses. Strawberry-and-Raspberry Jam.—Carefully pick over the Strawberries and half the quantity of raspberries; put the fruit in a preserving-pan, and boil it for a quarter-of-an- liour. Skim the fruit, and mix with it some coarsely- crushed loaf sugar, using fib. of the sugar for every pound of fruit. Roil the mixture for an hour, or until it coats the spoon, stirring it all the time, and skimming when required. Fill some jam-pots with the jam, and leave it till cold. Cover the jars with paper, the inner side of which has been brushed over with whipped white of egg. Keep the jam in a dry store-cupboard. Strawberry-and-Raspberry Whipped Cream.—Carefully pick over 411'. each of Strawberries and raspberries, mash them, and strain the juice. Sweeten the juice with caster sugar. Whip lqt. of cream to a stiff froth, then mix the sweetened juice with it. Put the mashed fruit on a glass dish, pour the whipped cream over it, and serve. Strawberry Salad.—Pick carefully over the Strawberries, and arrange the finest in a compote dish ; sift caster sugar over them, and then a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix together 1 wineglassful of maraschino and 1 wine-glass- Fig. 682. Compote of Strawberry Salad. ful of white curapoa, pour the mixture over the Strawberries, and serve them with as little delay as possible. Another way: Cover the bottom of a compote-dish with slices of oranges, then build the Strawberries on the top of them (see Fig. 682). Garnish round with sections of oranges, sift some caster sugar over, moisten with 1 teacupful of brandy and water, mixed in equal quantities, and stand the dish in the ice-box. In about half an hour’s time the Straw- berries will be very cold, and ready for serving. Strawberry Sherbet.—Remove the tops off lib. of Strawberries, mash the fruit, mix with it the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and 3 pints Strawberries —continued. of water. In four hours’ time strain the juice off the Strawberries into another basin, pressing them to extract as much as possible. Mix with the juice lib. of double refined sugar, and stir it till the sugar has dissolved; then strain it and pack it in ice for an hour. Serve the sherbet in small tumblers. Strawberry Shortbread.--Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 saltspoonful of salt with lib. of flour, and sift the whole through a fine hair sieve. Rub ooz. of lard smoothly into the flour, then mix in a sufficient quantity of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, to make the whole into a smooth dough. Divide this into four equal portions, and roll them out to the same thickness and size. Grease two flat tins with lard or butter, and put two pieces of the paste on each, one on the top of the other. Trim them evenly round the edges, and bake them in a brisk oven. Mash some freshly gathered ripe Strawberries, and sift some caster sugar over them. When the paste is cooked, lift the two top pieces off, and spread some butter over them all. Put a layer of the Strawberries on each of the under pieces of paste, and cover again with the top pieces. Cover the tops with Strawberries, sift plenty of caster sugar over them, put them on a dish, pour a thick rich cream round, and serve. Strawberry Shortcake.—(1) Sift l^lb. of flour and 3 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking-powder through a fine hair sieve on to a marble slab, then rub in until perfectly smooth 3oz. of butter; add 1 saltspoonful of salt, a little more than 4 teacupful of sugar, and sufficient milk to form the whole into a still' paste. Mix well, dredge the paste lightly over with flour, and roll it out very thin. Divide the paste into six equal-sized squares. Rutter a shallow baking-dish, put in one square of the paste, spread a small quantity of butter over it, and dredge it lightly over with flour; put another square of paste over the other one, flour and butter that also, and proceed the same with the remainder. Put the cake into a brisk oven, and bake it for about twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin, lift off the top layer, lay it on a dish, and put over it as many whole Strawberries as will cover it, then strew over some caster sugar and cover with another layer of cake. Finish with alternate layers of Strawberries and cake, making the last layer of Strawberries, over which sift more caster sugar. Whip about 1 pint of rich cream to a stiff snow, pile it all round the cake, and serve. (2) Mix 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour to a dough with a little salt and water and 1 table-spoonful of yeast, and set it to rise. When the dough is well risen, divide it in three parts, and put it into three very shallow tin pans. Set them in the oven, and bake the three pieces of short- bread. Pick and cut up lqt. of Strawberries, and mix with them 111), of powdered white sugar. When the cakes are baked” take them out of the oven, butter one of them, and lay on it one half of the Strawberries; place on top another cake buttered, and lay on this the other half of the Strawberries, lay the third cake on top, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sour milk into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and stir it until dis- solved; then mix in 4oz. of butter that has been warmed, and sufficient flour to make a soft dough, and mix it until quite smooth. Divide the dough into thin cakes about the size of a small dinner-plate. Dust a frying-pan over with flour, put in a cake, and bake it over a gentle fire, turning it when done on one side. Proceed the same with the other cakes, dusting the pan over with flour each tune. Split the cakes and thickly butter them; spread between each cake a layer of sweetened Strawberries, and pile them, one on the other, on a round dish. Sift caster sugar over, and serve. (4) Put into a basin Alb. of powdered sugar with Alb. of well washed butter ; grate in the rind of half a lemon, and mix well for ten minutes with the hand. Break in five eggs, one at a time, meanwhile mixing for ten minutes longer, always with the hand. Then add gradually Alb. of well-sifted flour, and mix for three minutes. Cover a baking-sheet with brown paper, and place on top three tin cake-ringsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 523 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec. , referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. Din. in diameter and lin. high. Divide the preparation equally into the three rings, and place them in a moderate oven to hake for thirty minutes. Remove, and allow the cakes thirty minutes more to cool. Lift up the paper with the cakes, turn it upside-down on the table, remove the paper, and detach the cakes from the rings by passing a knife all round. Pick and clean thoroughly 3 pints of ripe Strawberries. Have a dessert-dish with a fancy paper over, lay one of the cakes on top of this, spread over evenly 2 table spoonfuls of whipped cream, and cover with half the Strawberries, evenly divided. Sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, and cover with another cake; spread over the same quantity of cream as before, arrange the other half of the Strawberries on top, dredge again with powdered sugar, and lay the last cake over all, sprinkling with more sugar. Slide down a tube into a pastry-bag, put into it 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped vanilla cream, with it decorate the top of the cake in an artistic manner, and serve. (5) Warm loz. of butter on a -plate, then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat it to a cream; acid one well-beaten egg. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Hour, and add it to the beaten butter, &c. ; then stir them all together with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda has been dissolved. Turn the mixture into a buttered baking dish, and bake it in a quick oven. When the cake is cooked, leave it till cold. Put 3 table-spoon- fuls of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with 14 table- spoonfuls of water, and boil it to a syrup. Pick the tops off some ripe Strawberries, put them in the syrup, crush them, and leave till cold. Cut the cake into three pieces. Cover one layer of cake with Strawberries, put a layer of cake on the top, cover that also with Strawberries, then cover with the remaining piece of cake. Put the cake on a glass oi fancy dish, dust some caster sugar over, and serve. Strawberry Shrub.—(1) Hull 12lb. of ripe Strawberries, crush and mash them, and squeeze the juice from them through a cloth. Put the juice in a pan over the fire together with the strained juice of six lemons, bring it quickly to the boil, and let it boil fast for five minutes ; then add Gib. of loaf sugar, and when this has melted let it boil for five minutes longer. Take it from the fire, let it cool, skimming it as it cools, and when it is quite cold mix in 14 pints of brandy or whisky. Bottle it, being particularly careful that the bottles are perfectly clean. They should first be well washed in soda and water, and then rinsed out with boiling water. Cork the bottles with new corks soaked in cold water. Cut them off even with the top, seal them with beeswax and rosin melted together in equal quantities, and lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. (2) Mix h pint of Strawberry-juice with \ pint of orange-juice, and add sugar and crushed ice to taste. Strawberry Souffle.—(1) Pick the tops off 31b. of ripe Strawberries; put them in a saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon and 1 teacupful of crashed loaf sugar, Fig. 683. Strawberry Souffle. and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of four eggs in 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, stand the basin in a saucepan contain- ing hot water, and stir the custard mixture over the fire Strawberries—continued. till thick. Put the Strawberries round a glass dish, forming a high wall and leaving a hollow in the centre, and fill the hollow with the custard; whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff' froth, pour them over the sou Ilk', cover the top with caster sugar, and serve. (See Pig. 683.) (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs, then pour over them \ pint of boiling cream; turn all into a saucepan, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick, taking care not to let it boil. Sweeten the custard to taste with caster sugar, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of almonds. Turn a small pot of Strawberry jam into a deep dish, smooth it over, then pour the custard on it. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff' froth, spread them on the top of the souffle, sift some caster sugar over, and bake it in a slow oven till lightly browned. Serve the souffle when cold. (3) Pick off all the stalks from lib. of ripe Strawberries, and mash them with 1 teacupful of cream and 1 break- fast-cupful of sugar. Put 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a saucepan, pour in slowly 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it over the fire till thick. Beat the yolks of four eggs, stir them in with the thickened milk, add the Strawberry pur6e, move the saucepan off the fire, and stir the contents till quite smooth; then mix in quickly the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Lightly grease the inside of a plain mould with butter, pour in the mixture, and bake it for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, serve the souffle at once. (4) Pick the tops off some Strawberries, and put them in a saucepan with a small piece of lemon-peel and a little sugar; stir them over the fire till thick and consistent. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, flavour with cinnamon, and stir it in a pan over the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil. Put the Strawberries in a circle round a deep dish, and pour the custard in the middle. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a firm froth, then spread them over the whole; sift plenty of caster sugar over it, and brown it in the oven or under a salamander. Serve the souffle while hot. (5) Whisk the whites of fifteen eggs to a stiff'froth, and mix them lightly with 1 breakfast-cupful of Strawberry jam and the strained juice of one lemon. Butter a souffle-mould, and pour the mixture into it, which should only three parts fill it, leaving room for the souffle to rise. Bake it in a moderate oven for about ten or fifteen minutes. When nicely risen and lightly browned over the top, serve the souffle without delay in the same dish. (6) Mix 14 table spoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly with f breakfast-cupful of cold milk, and stir it over the tire in a saucepan until thickened and boiling. Pass the contents of a small jar of Strawberry jam through a fine hair sieve, and stir it into the thickened milk. Beat the mixture until perfectly smooth and almost cold, then beat in one at a time the yolks of six eggs. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff foam, and stir them in lightly with the mixture. Turn it into a souffle-mould, and bake it in a brisk oven. When well risen and nicely browned on the top, dust some caster sugar over the souffle, and serve at once in the same mould. Strawberry Soup.—(1) Pick the tops off' lib. or 21b. of ripe Strawberries, put them in a saucepan with four or five rusks and sufficient water to cover, and boil them until dissolved. Pass the fruit through a fine wire sieve, and return it to the saucepan, with lqt. of wine. Mix 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water, then mix it with the soup, sweeten to taste with sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put 4-lb. of ripe Strawberries in a soup-tureen, and dust them well with caster sugar. When ready, pour the soup in the tureen and serve it with a plate of sponge cakes. (2) Procure plenty of ripe but not on any account rotten Strawberries, put them in a stewpan with a few rusks and a small quantity of water, stew them over a gentle fire until dissolved, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put 2 heaped table spoonfuls of arrowroot in the stewpan, and mix in smoothly 14 pints of white wine; stir it overTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 524 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. the fire until boiling, then put in the puree of Strawberries, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and let it simmer for ten minutes Put a few ripe Strawberries in a soup-tureen, sift some caster sugar over, pour the soup in with them, and serve with a plate of macaroons. Strawberry Sponge.—Pick the tops off lqt. of Strawberries, mash them, and mix 1 teacupful of caster sugar with them. Put 1 teacupful of crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with J pint of water, and boil it gently for twenty minutes, then mix with it loz. of fine gelatine that has been soaked for two hours in 1 teacupful of water, and remove it from the fire at once. Pass the Strawberries through a fine hair sieve, and mix them with the syrup. Stand the bowl containing the above mixture on ice, and beat it for five minutes, then add the whipped whites of four eggs and con- tinue beating till the mixture begins to thicken. Pour the sponge into moulds, and leave it till set. Turn the sponge out of the moulds on to fancy dishes, dust a little caster sugar on the top, pour a little whipped cream round, and serve. Strawberry Syrup.—(1) Put 61b. of perfectly dry and ripe Strawberries into a bowl, pour over them 6qts. of cold water in which 2Joz. of tartaric acid has been mixed, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. Strain the liquor carefully off the fruit, measure it, and for each pint use lib. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. Pour the syrup into bottles, cork them, tie them down with twine, and dip the nozzles in melted rosin. Keep the syrup in a dry store- cupboard. (2) Mash the required quantity of ripe sound Strawberries in a vessel and let the pulp remain for twelve or twenty- four hours at a temperature between 70deg. and SOdeg. Stir frequently, press out all the juice, let this stand for about twelve hours, and add to each pound avoirdupois of the juice loz. avoirdupois of Cologne spirit or deodorized alcohol. Mix well, let this stand for twelve hours longer, and then filter through paper. To each pound of the filtered juice add ljlb. of best sugar, heat it to boiling-point, remove at once from the fire, skim well, and pour it when cool into bottles rinsed with a little of the Cologne spirit. Strawberry Tablets.—Boil 71b. of sugar, Joz. of cream of tartar, and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water for about ten minutes; then put in lib. of warmed butter, let the sugar come to a froth, and continue to boil to a weak crack. Pour in a little red colouring, turn the mass on to an oiled slab, add a little essence of Strawberries and a small quantity of tartaric acid, and when cool enough pull it over a hook fixed in the wall until it is quite springy; cut it into tablet shapes, and when it is cold it is ready for use. In summer it should not be exposed to the air, otherwise it will become stick}-. Strawberry Tart.—(1) Turn lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a preserving-pan with j pint of water, and boil it to a syrup. Put the whites of two eggs into the syrup and remove the scum otf the top till only the foam rises. Pick the tops off lqt. of Strawberries, put them in the syrup, and boil till they look clear. Butter a tart-dish, line it with short- paste, and bake it. When the paste is cooked, pour the stewed Strawberries into it, and serve. (2) Put 2qts. of picked Strawberries into a basin, add J pint of cold clarified sugar, the same quantity of Madeira wine, and the juice of two lemons; mix all well without breaking the Strawberries. Put the mixture into a shape of puff paste, previously baked, and serve. (3) Have a flat pie-dish lined with paste, spread in fib. of apple sauce, arrange a strip round the dish, and place it in the oven for thirty minutes only; remove to the oven door, dredge the strip profusely with powdered sugar, return it to the oven, close the door, and leave it for two minutes for the sugar to melt. Take it out, let it get thoroughly cold, then, with a spoon, remove half the apple sauce, and fill the interior with 1J pints of well picked and cleaned Strawberries mixed with 2oz. of pow- dered sugar. Spread 2oz. of apple jelly evenly over the Strawberries, and serve. Strawberry Tartlets.—(1) Put lib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar in a saucepan with a small quantity of water Strawberries—continued. and boil until reduced to a syrup, then take it off the fire and mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy or sherry. Pick the stalks off some freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries, and put them in the syrup. Butter some small patty pans, and line them with a good short-paste, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them. When the tartlets are cooked, turn the rice out, fill them with the Strawberries and syrup, and put them in the oven for ten minutes. Spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the tartlets on it, and serve them, accompanied with cream in a jug, if desired (see Fig. 684). (2) Line six tart-moulds with Jib. of puff paste, divide into them evenly 8oz. of apple marmalade, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; bring them to the door, sprinkle the edges with powdered sugar, return them to the oven, and close the door for two minutes so that the sugar melts thoroughly ; lift them out, put them to cool for twenty minutes, and take out half the marmalade. Pick and wash 1 pint of ripe Strawberries, put them in a basin with 2oz. of powdered sugar, mix well for one minute, divide them equally into six tarts, spread over IJoz. of apple jelly, dress them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (3) Warm 2oz. of butter, whip it to a cream with 2oz. of caster sugar, then beat in four eggs, a little water, 1 pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. When smooth roll the paste out on a floured table Jin. thick. Butter some patty pans, line them with the paste, fill them with raw rice, and bake. Pick the stalks off some freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries, and make some syrup, mixing with it a little sherry. When cooked, empty the rice out of the crusts, fill them with the Strawberries, pour a little of the syrup over each, and stand them in the oven to warm. Arrange the tartlets on a dish, and serve them. Strawberry Trifle.—(1) Put lqt. of milk and Jib. of sugar in a saucepan over the fire. Beat the yolks of five eggs, and when the milk is on the point of boiling work them in and continue to stir till the milk begins to thicken; then, without letting it boil, take it from the fire and put it away till cold. Cut some slices of stale sponge cake and line the bottom of a trifle-dish with them, moisten them well with cream, over this put a layer of fine ripe Strawberries cut in halves and well sprinkled with powdered white sugar, then a layer of sponge cake soaked with cream, and so on, Strawberries halved and well sweetened and slices of stale sponge cake soaked with cream alternately till the dish is about three parts full, then pour over the custard. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth with some well-sweetened Strawberry- juice, pile it high over the trifle, and put small red Strawberries here and there among the froth. (2) Select some nice ripe Strawberries, and remove all the blemished ones; free them of their stalks, put them in a basin, strew caster sugar over, and leave them for a couple of hours. Soak a few sponge cakes in sherry, and cover the bottom of a glass dish with them; mash the Strawberries through a fine hair sieve, and spread them over the cakes. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, and whisk it to a stiff froth, which skim off as it rises and put on to a fine sieve to drain. Pile the froth high on the top of the Strawberries, and stand the dish in a cool place until the time of serving. Strawberry Vinegar.—Put 41b. of freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries into a large stone or earthenware jar, pour inTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 525 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. 3qts. of wine vinegar, tie a thick sheet of brown paper over, and leave them for four days. Drain the vinegar off the Strawberries, turn the Strawberries out of the jar, put in 4lb. of fresh ones, and pour back the vinegar. After three days drain off the vinegar again, pour it over 41b. more fresh fruit, and leave it for another three days. Drain the vinegar, measure it, and for each pint mix in lib. of crashed loaf sugar. Stir the vinegar in a pan over the fire till the sugar has dissolved, then skim it; pour it into a large jar, cover, and leave till the follow- ing day. Bottle the vinegar and cork it down, putting the cork in loosely for the first few days. Strawberry Water-Ice.—(1) Pick ljlb. of Strawberries, put them into a basin with a little sifted crashed loaf sugar and the juice of a lemon, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into another basin, mix in 3 teacupfuls of syrup and a few drops of cochineal to colour, turn the preparation into the freezer, work it well, and it is ready for use. (2) Pass sufficient freshly-gathered Strawberries through a fine hair sieve to fill two breakfast-cups. Put the puree into a basin, mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, the strained juice of three lemons and two oranges, the grated peel of one and a half lemons and one orange, and 1 teacupful of water. Mix the above ingredi- ents well together, then pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve; place it in a freezer, and work it occasionally till frozen. Put about two or three dozen large, ripe Strawberries into a mould, sprinkle caster sugar over them, and pack the mould in pounded ice. When ready, pile the frozen ice like rocks on a folded napkin on a very cold dish, arrange the glazed Strawberries over it, and serve. (3) This is prepared as for water-ice, using lib. of Straw- berry jam, the juice of two lemons, both rubbed through a sieve, a little syrup and water, and colouring with cochineal. Tinned-Strawberry Blanc-mange.—Put 1 pint of milk into a stewpan and place it over the fire to boil. Mix \ breakfast-cupful of cornflour until smooth with a little cold water, then stir it into the boiling milk, sweeten to taste with white sugar, and continue stirring it over the fire until thick and cooked. Rinse out a mould with cold water, put a layer of well-drained tinned Strawberries at the bottom, then pour in carefully a layer of the cornflour ; cover with a layer of Strawberries, then a layer of cornflour, and so on until the mould is full. Stand it in a cold place, and leave it for an hour or so. When the blanc- mange is firm, it may be turned out of the mould on to a dish and served. Tinned-Strawberries and Cream.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls each of condensed milk and fresh milk with 1 breakfast- cupful of tinned Strawberries. Put a few sponge or queen cakes in a fancy dish, pour the cream over them, and serve. The cakes can be varied according to fancy. Another way is to soak some small croutons of bread in some of the juice of the fruit, drain them, crisp them in a brisk oven, leave them until cold, then put them in the dish and pour the fruit cream over. Tinned-Strawberry Jelly.—Soak loz. of gelatine in water for an hour, then strain it, put it into a lined saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil it until dissolved. Mix 11 breakfast-cupfuls of tinned Strawberries and their juice in with the dissolved gelatine, and boil for two or three minutes longer. Rinse out a jelly-mould with cold water, turn the jelly into it, and set it in a cool place. When set and cold turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pour well whipped and sweetened cream over it, and serve. Tinned-Strawberries and Whipped Cream.—First take off the hulls of the Strawberries and see that they are clean and sound. Arrange them in a glass or china dessert-dish, put a layer of powdered white sugar between the layers of Strawberries, and place the dish away in a cool place. Take 1 pint of cream, add to it the whites of three eggs and 4oz. of powdered white sugar, whip this mixture till it froths, then let it stand for a minute; take off the froth as it forms, and lay it on a sieve standing in a basin, so that Strawberries—continued. any cream that drains from the froth will not be wasted, then whip the cream again till it froths and take off the froth; lay it on the sieve and proceed as before, from time to time turning back into the whipping-bowl any cream Fig. 685. Tinned Strawberries and Whipped Cream. that has drained from the froth. Keep the whipped cream very cold and separate from the Strawberries until a minute before serving, when it should be lightly laid round them, piling it as high as possible (see Fig. 685). STRUDELS.—A kind of pancake or fritter made in Germany and very highly esteemed amongst all classes. Made as follows they are exceedingly nice: (1) Dissolve nearly 8oz. of butter in 1 teacupful of warm water, then mix it with lib. of Hour; add 1 pincli of salt and four well-beaten eggs, and at the last when quite smooth mix in the well-beaten white of one egg. Work the paste till very elastic, then let it remain for ten minutes in a warm temperature. Dredge some flour over a clean cloth, put the paste on it, and spread it out as thinly as possible, drawing it along with the fingers over the cloth in the shape of an oblong rectangle. Peel, core, and cut into small pieces about l|lb. of apples; put them in a basin, cover with caster sugar, and leave for twenty minutes. Strain the juice off the apples and mix with them 1 breakfast- cupful of well-washed currants, 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped sweet almonds, and | teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Spread the apple mixture thinly over the paste, then roll it up in the way that jam rolls are done; in rolling the paste should be moistened here and there with warmed butter. Butter a baking-sheet, then place the cake care- fully on it, giving it a spiral shape, not unlike that of a snail shell; brash it over with a paste-brash dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for tliree- quarters-of an hour. When cooked, dust some caster sugar over the Strudel, cut it into pieces, put them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two; mix in loz. of warmed butter and a small quantity of salt. Work in gradually with the above ingredients sufficient flour to form a stiff dough, knead it well, cut it into small equal sized portions, and roll them out as thinly as possible to an oval shape. They should then be covered with a mince of meat, fruit, or preserves. Arrange them side by side on a buttered baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When the Strudels have risen, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of hot milk, and bake them until lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put the yolks of two and the whites of four eggs in a basin, beat them well, then add a piece of warmed butter about the size of an egg and 1 pinch of salt; beat in sufficient flour to form a stiff paste, knead it, roll it out very thin, and cut it into rounds about 3in. in diame- ter. Mix some ground almonds and vanilla chocolate with the yolks of two or three eggs, whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the chocolate, &c. Spread hot butter over the Strudels, and then a thin layer of the chocolate. Roll them up, lay them on a well-buttered baking- sheet a short distance from each other, sift a little grated chocolate and sugar over them, cover, and bake them in526 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Strudels—continued. the oven. When they rise pour some hot milk over them, replace the cover, and hake to a golden brown colour. (4) Warm a small lump of butter, then beat it well, adding gradually the yolks of four eggs; heat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and beat them in with the others. Add a small quantity of salt, and work in by degrees sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Knead the dough well, divide it into small equal sized quantities, and roll them out into very thin cakes. Grate 4oz. of chocolate, blanch and pound in a mortar 4oz. of almonds, and mix them together with the yolks of three eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them with the others; spread warmed butter over the Strudels, then spread a thin layer of the chocolate mixture over, and roll them up. Butter a dish on which the Strudels can be served, and one that will bear the heat of the oven, lay the Strudels on it side by side, dust caster sugar and grated chocolate over them, and put them in a moderate oven. When nearly cooked, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of cream and finish baking. When cooked and lightly browned, take the Strudels out of the oven and serve them. STUFFING.—The more artistic term for this is force- meat, but as that savours very much of the foreign kitchen British cooks persist in retaining the old name for the seasoning used to stuff poultry, meat, &c. The following receipts are those generally in use, and others will be found under special headings : Stuffing for Birds.—Peel two large onions, parboil them, then drain and finely chop them. Soak 1 breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb without becoming too soft. Put 4oz. of butter in a stew- pan, place it over the fire, and when the butter is melted put in the onions, breadcrumbs, l table spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs and stir the mixture over the fire until reduced to a paste without letting it boil. The Stuffing is fhen ready. It can be made in larger or smaller quantities, according to the size or number of birds to be stuffed. Stuffing for Ducks.—(1) Peel a moderate-sized onion and a sour cooking apple, chop them both very finely, and mix with them 6oz. of finely-grated stale breadcrumb, 1 scant table-spoonful of sage leaves, either powdered or finely minced, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Bind the whole together with a beaten egg, and it is then ready for the ducks. (2) Peel and boil until nearly tender two moderate-sized onions; drain and chop them, put them in a basin with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of chopped or powdered sage. Bind the mixture with a well-beaten egg, and use it. Stuffing for Fish.—(1) Weigh 21b. of crumb of bread with- out the crust, and cut it into small squares; mix with them J table-spoonful of powdered herbs and plenty of salt and pepper. Dissolve 6oz. of butter or lard in J pint of warm water, and beat in the yolk« of four eggs. Pour the liquid mixture over the bread and stir it well, but with- out mashing it; it is then ready for use. (2) Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, and chop it finely; mix it with 1 lb. of finely- grated breadcrumb, season it with h table-spoonful of minced parsley, half that quantity of thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Work well until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended, adding gradually the beaten yolks of two eggs and the white of one. When thoroughly mixed the Stuffing is ready for use. (3) Mix together in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs, 1 teaspoonful each of finely-chopped onion, parsley, capers, and pickles, h teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. When well mixed the Stuffing is ready for use. Should a moist Stuff- ing be required, bind the ingredients together with one egg well beaten with the butter. Stuffing for Fowls.—Trim off all the crust from 21b. of bread ; put the crumb into a basin of cold water, soak it For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Stuffing—continued. for five minutes, then turn it on to a colander and drain well, pressing out the water with a plate. When almost dry, cut the bread into small squares, and season it well with powdered sage, salt, and black pepper. Warm 1 breakfast-cupful of butter or the fat from fried sausages, beat in an egg and 3 teacupfuls of warm water, and pour it over the bread, stirring it lightly but not mashing it. Let it soak for ten minutes, and the Stuffing will then be ready for use. Stuffing for Goose.—Roast fifty chestnuts, taking care not to let them burn; peel them, removing both inner and outer peels, and chop them. Chop the goose’s liver, put it in a saucepan with J table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, chives, shallots, and a small clove of chopped garlic, and about 2oz. of butter; fry them for a few minutes, then put in the chopped chestnuts with lib. of sausage-meat and fry the whole for fifteen minutes longer. The Stuffing is then ready for the goose. Stuffing for Hare.—Partially boil the liver of a hare, finely chop it, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped fat hacon, a small quantity of chopped suet, and a boned, washed, and chopped anchovy; season it with moderate quantities of parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, shallot, and chives, all finely chopped, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Put the whole in the mortar with about J of the quantity of grated breadcrumb and pound it until smooth; bind it with beaten egg, and stuff the hare with it. Stuffing for Poultry Galantines.—Cut into very small squares about 3lb. of the cooked flesh of either ducks or fowls; peel and chop two hard-boiled eggs and one small onion. Mix all these ingredients together with 3 break- fast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs, three well-beaten eggs, and J breakfast-cupful of poultry-fat that has been warmed. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and chopped sage. After the forcemeat has been spread in the boned duck or other bird, about 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped aspic jelly strewn over will be an improvement and it will set in the forcemeat. Stuffing for Rabbits.—(1) Peel two moderate-sized onions and boil them; when tender, drain and mince them. Chop Jib. of pickled pork and a few fine herbs, mix them with the onions, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and add a sufficient quantity of breadcrumbs to make it consistent. Season to taste with pepper and salt, using a very small quantity of the latter on account of the salt in the pork. The Stuffing is then ready for use. (2) Place in a saucepan on the hot range half a good- sized chopped onion with 1 table-spoonful of butter; cook for one minute, then add 2oz. of sausage-meat, six chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and season with J pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Cook all together for six minutes and then let it cool. Peel four fine apples, cut each into six equal parts, remove the cores, place them in a pan on the fire with J wineglassful of white wine or cider, boil for five minutes, place this with the forcemeat, mix all well together, and it is ready for use when cold. Stuffing for Sucking-pig.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of oil. Toss them over the fire for about five minutes, add 8oz. of rice boiled in stock, an equal quantity of sausage-meat, 4oz. of butter, a little minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the mixture into a basin and add three eggs to make the whole into a stiff paste. It is then ready for use. Stuffing for a Turkey (Boiled) or Rabbit.—Remove the outer peel of lib. of chestnuts, put them in boiling water until the inner skins can be easily removed, then trim them off and put the chestnuts into a small lined sauce- pan ; cover with broth and boil them till a pulp and the broth has reduced. Pass the chestnuts through a fine wire sieve. Chop fine Jib. of cold boiled fat bacon, and mix it with the chestnut puree; season to taste with salt, pepper, and minced lemon-peel. The Stuffing is then ready for use. Stuffing for Turkey (Roasted).—To lib. of sifted bread- crumbs add 41b. of butter, lib. of boiled and mashed Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads.527 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Stuffing—continued. potatoes, an<l a little sweet marjoram anil summer savory nibbed to a fine powder; add sufficient eggs to moisten, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. A little sausage-meat, grated ham, and a few oysters or chopped mushrooms may be added, and are quite an improvement, also a few walnuts, filberts, and roasted chestnuts, all reduced to a paste, and the grated rind of a lemon. A few cooked truffles also improve it, and some may also be served in the gravy with the bird. Stuffing for Veal.—(1) Trim off the skin, and finely mince Jib. of beef-suet; mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced ham, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the grated peel of a lemon. Season the Stuffing to taste with salt and pepper, and bind it with one beaten egg. It is then ready for use. (2) Skin and finely chop lib. of beef suet, and mix it with lib. of stale breadcrumbs and fib. of boiled ham that has been cut up into very small squares. Season the mixture with grated lemon-peel, pepper, and a very small quantity of salt, as the ham will make it nearly salt enough. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, and use it when well mixed. Turkish Stuffing for Poultry.—Put 2 handfuls of rice into a saucepan of water and parboil it; mix in ten or twelve chestnuts peeled and cut into small pieces, 1 handful of currants, and the same of pistachio-nuts ; put the mixture into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, stir well over the fire till thoroughly mixed, seasoning with salt and pepper, and if desired a little ground cinnamon, and it is ready for use. This Stuffing is used for turkeys, other birds, and mutton, or anything else when to be roasted whole. STURGEON (Fr. Esturgeon; Ger. Stor; Ital. Storione; Sp. Esturion).—This “royal” fish (Acipenser sturio) is found along the coast of North America, Europe, and Asia, frequenting river mouths, where it finds plenty of congenial food. Towards the time for spawning it finds its way up rivers, and some very fine specimens have been caught in the Thames. The custom of presenting those caught in British rivers to the reigning monarch has gained for this ungainly monster a regal dignity. Fig. 686. Sturgeon. The Sturgeon (see Fig. 686) has all the peculiarities of the shark except teeth; the snout is long and pointed, and the body protected by five rows of prominent bony plates, one passing down the centre of the back, and the others two on each side. They grow to an enoivmous size, some having been caught measuring from the tip of the snout to the point of its shark-like tail upwards of eighteen feet. The flesh is hard and indigestible; that of the back resembling veal in flavour, and the belly being likened to pork. The female when full of roe assumes an extraordinary weight, it being estimated that the roe itself weighs two-thirds of the entire fish. This is made into caviare, and the bladders into isinglass. For culinary purposes the young Sturgeon, called sterlet, is preferable, but some cooks can render a very good account of the flesh of the fully-grown fish; whichever it may be, the treatment is very much the same. The dis- tinction being merely in size, that is, whether a part or whole fish is to be cooked at once. When preparing the fish for cooking, the inside must be carefully removed, and the skin stripped from the larger fish, the very small fish merely require the trimming away of the sharp scales, and the scraping of the skin. The flesh Sturgeon—continued. of the sterlet is yellow. The large cord that is found ad- hering to the gristly parts of the interior, and answering to the backbone, must be carefully removed. Baked Sturgeon.—(1) Cut the fish into slices about lin. in thickness, place them in a baking-dish, put over them some chopped mixed herbs, salt and pepper, a little olive oil and the juice of one lemon, and bake the fish. When cooked, arrange the slices of Sturgeon on a hot dish, pass their cooking-liquor through a silk sieve, pour it over the fish, and serve with a sauceboatful of remoulade sauce. (2) Clean the piece of fish, and let it marinade in cold salted water for an hour or so before cooking. Put some water in a fish-kettle with an onion and 1 table spoonful of vinegar; when boiling, put in the Sturgeon and boil it for half an-hour. Take the fish out, being careful not to break it, brush it over with beaten egg, and cover thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb; put it in a baking- dish with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled, and place it in the oven until the surface has become hot enough to set the breadcrumbs; then put in a lump of butter, and baste it continually until brown. Boil some potatoes, and when cooked mash them with butter, pepper, and salt. Put the fish on a hot dish, arrange the potatoes round it, having made them into small halls, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (3) Thoroughly wash a piece of the fish and skin it; put it in a baking-disli and bake it for a-quarter-of-an- hour. At the end of that time take the fish out of the baking-dish, and pierce it with a knife in several places. Prepare a stuffing with some meat out of the stockpot, some breadcrumbs, onions, parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, all chopped up and mixed together. Fill the hole in the fish with the mixture, put what is left over in the bottom of the baking-dish, put in the fish, and hake it till done. When cooked, put the Sturgeon on a hot dish, garnish round with the forcemeat in the pan, and serve while hot. Blanquette of Sturgeon with Green Peas.—The follow- ing is an excellent way to use up the cold remains of roasted Sturgeon. Simmer 1 teacupful of peas till tender in ) h teacupfuls of broth, then put in 3 table-spoonfuls of sauce tournee, add a small lump of sugar, anil boil the mixture till reduced to a thick creamy consist- ency; move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Cut the pieces of Sturgeon into small round pieces, put them in the sauce, and heat gently. Put a border of potatoes on to a hot dish, turn the blan- quette into the centre, and serve. Braised Sturgeon.—Put some bacon-fat, chopped carrots, parsnips, and slices of onion in a braising-pan. Lard a thick slice of Sturgeon, put it in the pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, pepper, and mixed spice, pour in some white wine, and braise it over a quick clear fire. When cooked, drain the fish and put it on a hot dish; strain some of the cooking-stock and mix it with some piquant sauce. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Broiled Sturgeon.—(1) Skin and cut into thin slices a piece of Sturgeon; beat them lightly, trim and put them on a dish, spread 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped carrots and onions over them, three or four sprigs of parsley, a Fig. 687. Broiled Sturgeon. few slices of lemon, and pepper and salt to taste. Baste the fish with a little oil, and let it marinade for a few hours. Drain the slices of Sturgeon, roll them well in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, brushing them over occasionally with a paste-brush dipped in the oil in which they were steeped. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley and potato528 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sturgeon—continued. croquettes (see Fig. 687), and serve with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce. (2) Cut about lib. or more of Sturgeon into slices lin. thick, season them with salt and pepper, and rub them well over with salad-oil. Broil the fish over a clear fire, turning it when browned on one side to brown the other. Mix about loz. of butter and a little anchovy essence with some boiling piquant sauce, and stir it till the butter has dissolved. But the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Take oft' the skin of a Sturgeon, and cut from the tail-piece slices Jin. thick ; rub them with salt, and broil over a hot fire. Butter them and sprinkle over cayenne pepper; or they may be dipped in beaten yolk of egg and breadcrumbs, wrapped up in buttered papers, and broiled over a clear fire. Send to table without the papers; any fish sauce may accompany it. Croquettes of Sturgeon.—Cut some cold remains of Stur- geon into small pieces; mix some mushrooms cut in the same way with them, put them in a saucepan with some stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till boiling; add a lump of butter, and season with salt. Turn the above mixture on to a dish, and when cold shape it into croquettes; dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat till nicely browned. Drain the croquettes, put them in a circle on a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve. Fricandeau of Sturgeon.—Cut the desired quantity of Sturgeon into slices about 4in. in thickness, lard them with fillets of bacon, and dredge them well with flour. Put some scraped bacon-fat into a flat stewpan, and when it has melted put in the fish, the larded side downwards, and fry them slightly. Put some chopped mushrooms in a tin baking-dish with some essence of ham, lay the slices of Sturgeon on this, but with the larded side upwards this time, cover the dish, and put it in a slow oven. In an hour’s time arrange the slices of Sturgeon on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of any kind of sauce preferred. Fricandeau of Sturgeon with Olives.—Skin a slice of Sturgeon, beat it slightly, and lard it with bacon. Blanch and drain it, season with salt and pepper, and place it in a flat stewpan. Put in with the fish some vegetables and trimmings of ham, pour in broth to the height of the fish, and boil it till the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity. Pour a little white wine in with the fish, put a sheet of white paper over the top, and place the stewpan in a moderate oven; baste the fish continually while baking. When cooked, drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, mix a little Madeira with it, skim off the fat, and boil it. Thicken the sauce with a piece of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and add about forty Provence olives that have been freed of stones and blanched, but not boiled. Pour the fricandeau over the fish, and serve. Fricassee of Sturgeon.—Trim and cut into small equal- sized round pieces some cold roasted Sturgeon; put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of one lemon, and some sauce tournee. When hot, turn the above mixture into a casserole of rice that has been put on a dish, and serve. Fried Sturgeon.—Wash and dry three thin slices of Sturgeon and dust them well with flour. Mix a little chopped thyme and parsley with some finely-grated breadcrumb, and season with salt and pepper. Brash the fish over with beaten egg, cover them well with the breadcrumbs, and fry in butter. Wlien cooked and nicely browned, drain the slices of Sturgeon, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Mayonnaise of Sturgeon.—Cut a thick slice out of the biggest part of a large Sturgeon, boil it in fish broth till cooked, then take it off the fire and let it cool in its own cooking-liquor. Drain the slice of Sturgeon, skin it, and Sturgeon—continued. brash it oyer with half-set aspic jelly. Pour a thick layer of aspic on a round dish, and when it has set put the fish on it. Cut some hard-boiled eggs lengthwise into Fig. 688. Mayonnaise of Sturgeon. halves, and stand them upright round the Sturgeon, the yolks showing outwards. Garnish between with sprigs of watercress (see Fig. 688). Serve the fish with a sauceboat- ful of mayonnaise sauce with eggs. Quenelles of Sturgeon.—Pick the flesh off the bones of some Sturgeon, chop it, then pound it in a mortar with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs and a lump of butter. Season the mixture with some mixed spice, chopped mixed herbs that have been warmed in butter, and a little salt. Stir in sufficient beaten egg to bind it, then shape it into quenelles with table-spoons. Poach the quenelles in boiling water, and serve them. Roasted Sturgeon.—(1) Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon carefully. Fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it occasionally with a lump of butter that should be placed in a dish underneath. When cooked, put the Sturgeon on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce- boatful of any piquant sauce or any other kind preferred. (2) Skin and bone the tail-end of a Sturgeon, wash it well, and fill the hollow left by the bone with a highly-seasoned veal stuffing. Wrap the fish in a thick sheet of buttered paper, and fasten it round to look like a fillet of veal; fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, bast- ing it frequently with butter. Put J pint of rich beef gravy in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine and a little lemon juice, and stir it over the fire till hot. When cooked, remove the paper from the Sturgeon, put it on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. (3) Cut a piece lOin. long from the middle of a Sturgeon, season it with salt and pepper, and tie some thin rashers of bacon round it. Butter a large sheet of stiff paper, cover it with thin slices of onions and carrots, also some thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf; put the fish on the paper, roll it round, fasten it with and fix it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. When cooked, take the fish off the spit, remove the paper, put it on a hot dish, and brush over with melted glaze. Pour some hot matelote sauce over the fish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Stewed Sturgeon.—(1) Place some slices of Sturgeon in a baking-dish, season them with salt and pepper, and put in two or three small lumps of butter ; bake the fish for a-quarter-of-an-hour, turning it at the end of seven minutes. Take the fish out of the baking-dish, mix a little flour with the butter, season with chopped shallots, chives, and parsley, then turn it into a stewpan; pour in 1 pint of red wine and boil for fifteen minutes. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the fish to warm again, but do not boil it. Turn the fish and cook- ing-liquor on to a hot dish, sprinkle some capers over it, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Cut a Sturgeon measuring 4ft. or 5ft. into halves, clean, wash, and drain the head half, tie up the jaws, put it into a saucepan with sufficient fish broth to nearly cover, and stew until done. Take it out carefully, remove the skin, glaze it, and put it on a dish. In the meantime, prepare a matelote of eels with claret, add 1 pint of boiled mushrooms and their liquor and a very small quantity of anchovy butter; when ready, pour a part of it round the fish and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. The remain-529 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERV. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sturgeon—continued. ing half of the Sturgeon may he cooked in any other convenient way described under this heading. (3) Clean the fish, and cut some fillets from it about l^in. in thickness. Put them in a saucepan with some rich stock, and stew them gently until done. When cooked, drain the fillets of Sturgeon, put them on a hot dish, pour some piquant sauce round, and serve. (4) Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, and rub them over with a little lemon-juice. Roll the pieces of fish in flour, and broil them over a clear fire. When half cooked, flour the pieces again, put them in a saucepan, cover with broth, and let them simmer gently till finished cooking. Take the pieces of fish out when cooked and put them on a hot dish; boil the liquor till somewhat reduced, then mix with it 1 wineglassful each of white wine and cream, and 1 table- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce. Pour the sauce over the fish, garnish with slices of lemon, sprinkle some chopped capers over it, and serve. Sturgeon d la Cardinal.—Wash and skin a piece of Stur geon weighing about 21b., tie it round with a piece of string, put it in a saucepan with a carrot and onion, both sliced, one bay-leaf, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, cloves, salt, and mace, and 2 table spoonfuls of vinegar. Cover the fish with water, and boil it gently till cooked. Make some quenelles of whiting forcemeat and poach them. Drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the quenelles, cover with cardinal sauce, and serve. Sturgeon a la Gouffe.—Clean and scale a thick slice of Stur- geon that has been cut from the middle of the back. Let the fish steep for some time in cold water, then drain, and bind some thin slices of fat bacon round it. Put the fish in a fish-kettle, cover it with mirepoix and French white wine mixed in equal quantities, and cook it gently over a slow fire. Cut the fillets off six soles, skin and trim them neatly, cover each fillet of sole with a layer of fish forcemeat, roll them round, and wrap each in buttered paper. Put the fillets in a buttered saute pan, Fig. 689. Sturgeon A la Gouffe. pour in some mirepoix to half their height, and put them in the oven. When the forcemeat is cooked, take the paupiettes out and remove the paper. When the Sturgeon is cooked, trim off the skin, glaze the fish, put it on a hot dish, arrange the paupiettes round it, and put a turned mush- room on each (see Fig. 689). Pass the cooking-stock of the Sturgeon through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze, then mix it with 1 pint of Spanish sauce and boil till of a thick creamy consistency. Strain the sauce through a silk sieve, pour some of it round the fish, and put the rest in a sauceboat; serve while very hot. Sturgeon au Gratin.—Clean and wash a small Sturgeon, skin it, cut off a piece of the belly part, cut it up, and sprinkle over with salt; let all remain for an hour, wash off the salt, and dry on a cloth. Put the fish into a braising-pan together with the cut-up pieces, cover with lib. of butter in pieces, add also 4qts. of minced mush- rooms, two blanched and chopped shallots, 4 table spoon fills of chopped parsley, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and add, tied up in two muslin bags, four cloves, 1 bay-leaf, two cloves of garlic, and a small quan- tity each of thyme and basil. Pour in lqt. of champagne, put the pan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, anil cook for about two hours, basting the fish frequently with its own liquor. About fifteen minutes before serving Sturgeon—continued. cover the fish with rasped bread mixed with grated Par- mesan cheese; pour over a few table spoonfuls of warmed butter, place the fish on a hot dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of fried parsley, strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. Tomato sauce may also be served with it. Sturgeon a la Hollandaise.—Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon, put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, with suffi- cient slightly salted boiling water to cover, and boil slowly for an hour-and-a half. Take out the fish carefully, skin and trim it, put it on a dish, pour over Dutch sauce, and serve at once. Sturgeon a l’Indienne.—Prepare and boil a part of a Sturgeon and serve it marinaded with a ragout of oysters, mushrooms, crayfish-tails, and mussels, prepared in curry sauce. Garnish the dish with croquettes of Sturgeon cooked in broth and mixed up with ground allspice and a small quantity of anchovy butter, and serve. Sturgeon a la Provenqale.—Cut a slice of Sturgeon about 4in. thick, and lard it with strips of streaky bacon and eel. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in the fish with some finely-chopped sweet herbs and parsley, a clove of garlic, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. Put three bay-leaves over the fish, place the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on it, and stand it over a slow fire. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of any sauce. Sturgeon a la Roi.—Cut some cutlets off a Sturgeon, lard them with thin strips of bacon, put them into a ma’inade of oil, white wine, and vinegar in equal parts, and let them remain for an hour or so. Place them in a steamer and steam until the fish will easily leave the bones. Take them out carefully, bone, and fill the cavities with lobster forcemeat; brown the cutlets with a salamander, put them on a dish, sprinkle a few cranberries ibetween them, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. The forcemeat should be composed of lobster-meat, truffles, butter, and yolk of egg- Sturgeon a la Romaine.—Carefully remove the skin with- out injuring the flesh of a good-sized piece of Sturgeon, sprinkle it well with salt, ami in an hour’s time wash it. Wipe it on a cloth, tie it up into shape, put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, and prepare the following flavour- ings. Cut into slices four onions and carrots, 2qts. of mushrooms, and put them into a frying-pan with a season- ing of parsley, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, basil, cloves, mace, salt, and pepper, using a little of each; pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sweet-oil, and let then cook slightly, stirring continually with a wooden spoon. Pour in ] pint of rich stock or broth, and simmer gently for an-hour-and- a half. Strain it over the fish, season this with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, place over it two lemons cut in slices and freed from pips, pour over lqt. of champagne, bring the liquor quickly to the boil, remove the kettle to a slack fire, cover with hot ashes, and simmer gently for two hours, basting frequently with the liquor. Take out the fish, strain the liquor through a cloth or fine sieve, taking care that none of the fat passes through, reduce it to half-glaze, and mask the fish with half of it; put the other half into a saucepan, add to it as much Roman sauce as required, bring it to the boil, and stir in 6oz. or 8oz. of butter. When smooth, pour some of it round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Sturgeon a la Russe.—Thoroughly wash and clean a piece of Sturgeon, and let it steep for twelve hours in salted water. Drain the water off the fish, pour some strong vinegar over it, and leave for two hours. Put it in a fish-kettle with two onions, a few sprays of sweet marjoram, and 1 table-spoonful of bay-salt; cover it well with boiling water, and let it simmer gently till cooked. When cooked, take the fish out, peel the skin off, dredge it well with flour, and brown it in front of a clear fire, hasting it con- tinually with butter. Put two anchovies, a piece of onion and lemon-peel, all chopped up, into a saucepan, and pour in 4 pint of white wine and 1 teacupful of rich broth. 2 M VOL. II.530 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sturgeon—co ntinued. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then put in loz. of butter that has been rolled in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; stir it till thick, then add h teacupful of cream. Put the fish on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Sturgeon a la Ude.—Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon, put it in a fish-kettle with a lump of salt, cover with boiling water, and boil till cooked. Put 1 teacupful of elder vinegar into a saucepan, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of veloute sauce in with the vinegar, and add 1 teaspoonful of caviare. When boiling, move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in Jib. of butter broken into small pieces, and the beaten yolks of six eggs; season with salt and pepper. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Sturgeon Patty.—Oil 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in sufficient dried flour to make a stiff paste, then stir in gradually the beaten yolk of one egg and the strained juice of an orange. Continue stirring the paste until it leaves, the sides of the pan, then spread it out thinly on a dish and set it to cool. Finely chop a piece of cold roasted Sturgeon, moistening it with a few drops of white wine; season to taste with salt and pepper, add 1 or 2 table spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and bind the mixture with the beaten yolk of one or two eggs. Butter some small dariole moulds, line them with the paste, half fill each with the mixture, then fill them nearly to the top with scalded cream. Spread layers of the paste over the top, and brush then lightly with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. Place tiie moulds on a bed of rice on a baking- sheet, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, place them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sturgeon Rocolnic Soup.—Clean a piece of fresh Sturgeon, blanch it, and put it in a basin with a few slices of carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery; season it with salt and pepper, moisten with white wine, and let it soak for a few hours. Line a stewpan with trimmings of ham and vegetables; truss the Sturgeon and put it in, place a few slices of ham and vegetables on the top, moisten to height with broth, and braise it. When cooked, move the Sturgeon away from the fire and leave it in its cooking- liquor until cool. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, fry it until browned, mix in loz. of flour, and fry for a few minutes longer; then stir in gradually 5 pints of stock. Skim the fat off the cook- ing-liquor of the Sturgeon, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and put it in with the stock. Continue stirring the soup over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for an-liour-and-a-half, keeping it well skimmed. Cut a few small salted cucumbers into halves, scoop out the centres, peel them, and cut them into small strips; also cut some parsley-roots into pieces the same size and length. Boil the parsley-roots in salted water until tender, and blanch the strips of cucumber. When ready, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, mix with it the pieces of parsley-roots and cucumbers and 1 teacupful of the cucumber-juice, and boil for five minutes. Cut the Sturgeon into small pieces, put them in the soup with 1 teacupful of thick sour cream and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Sturgeon Soup with Curry.—Skin 141b. of fresh Sturgeon, wash it, put it in a stewpan with some sliced vegetables and a small quantity of salt and pepper, cover with wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and braise. Finely chop one large onion, one leek, and a piece of celery-root; put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry. When cooked, strain the liquor off the Sturgeon into the saucepan containing the minced vegetables, adding also 3qts. of fish broth. Stir the liquor over the fire till boil- ing, then move it to the side and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of curry powder and ground rice into a basin, mix them to a Sturgeon—continued. smooth paste with a little cold broth, stir the mixture into the soup, and stir it gently for half-an-hour. Boil 1 teacupful of well-washed rice. Cut the Sturgeon into small-sized pieces. Skim the fat off the soup, put in the rice and fish, and boil it up again. Thicken the soup with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Sterlets.—These are the young of the Sturgeon, and those considered to be available for the kitchen vary in size from 1ft. to 3ft. or 4ft. in length, and may be dressed as follows : Braised Stuffed Sterlet.—Clean and wash a Sterlet, remove all the skin, trim it, sprinkle it well with salt, and let it stand for an hour. Wash off all the salt, stuff it with whiting or other fish forcemeat, wrap it round with slices of fat bacon, tying them on; put it in a braising-pan, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put over it lib. of butter in small pieces, pour over 2qts. of cham- pagne or other wine, add two small hunches of sweet herbs, cover the pan, set it on a rather slow fire with ashes on the lid, and let it cook for two hours and a-quarter, bast- ing it every fifteen minutes with the liquor. Take out the fish if done, remove the bacon, glaze it with fish glaze, return it to the pan, or put it in the oven and let it cook for fifteen minutes. Put the Sterlet on a dish, strain the liquor, add to half of it turtle or Italian sauce to taste, serve this in a sauceboat, and pour the remain- ing half round the fish. Roasted Sterlet.—Clean and wash a Sterlet, carefully raise the skin, and trim the fish. Decorate it with studs of truffles (cloute), making holes to push them in, and tie round slices of fat bacon. Lay two pieces of thick paper one upon the other, and mask over the top sheet with very thick mirepoix; push a small spit through the fish from end to end, and lay it on top of the mirepoix. Pull up the sides of tlie first sheet of paper so as to cover the fish with the mirepoix, then lift up the bottom sheet, fastening them round with thread; wrap round the top of the fish two more sheets of paper, securing them in the same way. Place the fish along a large spit, securing it by tying both ends of the small spit to the large spit, and roast before a clear gentle fire for about two hours, basting frequently. Remove the coverings of paper and bacon as well as every particle of the mirepoix, and place the Sturgeon on a dish. Ornament it with attelettes garnished with fish quenelles breaded and fried, and truffles cooked in Madeira wine. Prepare a sauce by stewing the trimmings of the Sterlet with a little water and Madeira wine, mixing in a little butter and fish glaze. In this stew lib. of truffles cut with a vegetal)le-cutter into small cylinders, place the Fig. 690. Roasted sterlet. truffles round the fish, together with any other desirable garnish, such as cravfish-tails and fish quenelles (see Fig. 690), pour part of the sauce over, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Sterlet a l’Imperiale.—Clean and wash a Sterlet, and cut oft a part of the flesh from the belly so that when cooked it will remain in an upright position on the dish. Tie or sew it up, put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, add a mirepoix moistened with 1 pint each of hock and Madeiia and 2 pints or so of consomme or fish stock; put a piece of buttered paper over the fish, and boil slowly for an hour. Let it cool in the liquor, take it out, remove the skin531 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sterlets—continued. carefully, mask it with a fish glaze mixed up with a little crayfish butter, place it on a napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley and crayfish-tails, ornament with decorated attehttes, and serve cold with a white mayonnaise sauce. Sterlet Pie.—Clean the Sterlet, cut it across into pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, £ pint of white wine, a few trimmings of truffles, and a hunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Boil the fish for a few minutes, then put the lid on the stewpan; move it to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for ten minutes. When cooked, take out the pieces of fish, cut them in halves lengthwise, and remove all the bones and hard parts. Put the pieces of fish in a deep dish, with ljlb. of peeled raw truffles cut into quarters, a little mixed spice, chopped parsley, and salt, and a small quantity of sherry; put a plate over the dish, and let the fish soak for an hour. Prepare some forcemeat with an equal quantity of eel- and pike-flesh, the fillets of six anchovies, 11b. of fresh fat bacon, two raw truffles, and 1 teacupful of crumb of bread soaked in milk. Chop, pound, and mix the above ingredients together, season them well with salt and spices, and stir them into the strained cooking-liquor of the fish. Butter the interior of a pie-mould, and line it with short-paste, cover it with a layer of the forcemeat, then fill the hollow with the pieces of fish, truffles, and some forcemeat, putting them in in alternate layers. Cover the pie with a flat of short-paste, and make an incision in the top. Bake the pie; when it is cooked take it out of the oven, and leave it to cool for half-an-hour. Melt 1 teacupful of aspic jelly with an infusion of sweet herbs and half its quantity of sherry, then pour it in at the top of the pie, and serve when cold. Sterlet in Russian Style (Cucha).—(1) This dish is served in Russia on State occasions, and is prepared by making a highly-seasoned fish or chicken broth, flavoured with nutmeg, and clarified with white of egg before straining. Into tiiis put a Sterlet cut up into suitable pieces, pour in a little cold water, and cook over a moderate fire until the fish is done, taking care to remove any scum that may rise. Turn the whole into a pan in which it is to be stewed, having placed slices of lemon without pips or peel at the bottom; pour in champagne to taste, boil up once more, and serve. Chopped parsley and fennel may be added to flavour when the champagne is poured in. Caviare may be used in clarifying instead of the white of egg. In large households silver • saucepans are sometimes used for the finishing of the cooking. (2) When ready cleaned lay the fish in a fish-kettle, pour in enough white wine to cover, boil it until tender, then leave it in its cooking liquor until cold. Afterwards drain it well. Spread a folded napkin .or an ornamental dish-paper over a long oval dish, lay the fish on it, being- careful not to break it, garnish with a string of chopped aspic jelly and jelly croutons, and serve. Sterlet Stewed in Chablis Wine.—(1) Cut the Sterlet slantingly across into eight or nine pieces, and put them in a buttered stewpan; put in a few parsley-roots cut into thin slices, a bay-leaf, an unpeeled clove of garlic, the juice of two lemons, a little salt, and sufficient chablis wine to moisten to three-parts the height of the fish. Place the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents quickly till the fish is tender and the wine reduced to half it's original quantity. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish and set it near the fire. Stir in a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze with the cooking liquor, boil it, then poui- in 1 teacupful of brown sauce and the juice of a lemon. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick. The fish should be put on the dish in its original shape; garnish with groups of prepared truffles, olives, mushrooms, and quenelles, pour a little of the sauce over it, put the remainder in a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Clean and rinse a fish, and cut it slantingly into slices about 2in. thick. Melt loz. of butter iu a stewpan, putin a few slices of parsley-roots, a bay-leaf, an unpeeled clove of garlic, and the pieces of fish; pour in chablis wine to three-parts the height of the fish, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, season with salt, put the lid on the Sterlets—continued. stewpan, and boil the fish over a brisk fire. When the fish is cooked, drain, ami put it back in its original shape on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, which should be reduced to half its former quantity, mix 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze with it, and boil it up again. Put loz. of butter and I table-spoonful of flour in a frying- pan, and stir over the fire till brown; then mix it in the sauce together with the juice of a lemon, and strain the whole through a fine hair sieve. Garnish the fish with truffles, olives, quenelles, and mushrooms, previously prepared as for garnish, arranging them in groups along the sides; pour part of the sauce over it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Stewed Sterlet.—Clean a Sterlet, put it in a fish-kettle, cover with broth, and boil it gently till cooked, putting red hot coals on the lid of the kettle. When the fish is cooked put it on a hot dish. Mix a small quantity of the cooking-liquor with some Italian sauce, add 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, pour it over the fish, anil serve. SUBUREK.—This is the name of a famous Turkish dish, of which there are several varieties prepared by Turkish cooks. The following receipt is considered to be one of the best: Put 1 teaspoonful of salt in lib. of flour and mix it to a thick paste with a small quantity of .water. Divide the paste into three equal parts, two of which roll out thinly. Beat up eight eggs and work them in with the third portion of paste, roll it out very thinly, cut it into eight strips, .and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water. Spread one of the remaining pieces of paste in a rather shallow pie-dish, and when the above strips are three-parts cooked lay four of them on the paste. Season well some finely-minced cold mutton or beef, mix a small quantity of chopped parsley with it, and brown it in butter. Spread the mince in the dish, lay the other four strips of boiled paste over it, and cover with the remaining portion of uncooked paste. Put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan and brown it, then pour it over the paste and bake in a good oven. Serve hot. SUCCOTASH.—This word is derived from the Narra- gansett Indian m sickquatash—signifying corn boiled whole. Although this dish is taken from the native Indian, it is none the worse for that, but forms a very favourite dish with beans. The following receipts are supplied by an American chef : (1) Place six medium-sized, freshly-cooked, and scraped ears of green corn (a tin of canned corn will answer the purpose) in a saucepan with J pint of Lima beans, adding about loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, \ pinch of pepper, J pinch of grated nutmeg, and | pint of milk. Heat it well for five minutes, add 2 table-spoonfuls of hot bechamel sauce, stir thoroughly, and serve. (2) LTse lqt. each of corn cut from the col) and shelled Lima beans; put them in a saucepan over the fire in just sufficient boiling water to cover them, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and h salt-spoonful of pepper, and boil them for about half an hour or until tire beans are tender. In the mean- time rub to a smooth paste 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table spoonful of flour, and when the beans are nearly done stir the paste into the mixture; season to taste, and finish cooking. The flour may be omitted if a thick sauce is not desired. Sometimes a piece of salted pork is boiled with the corn and beans, and sent on a dish to the table. In place of the flour or salted pork, two eggs beaten smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk may be added to the mixture just before serving, lint it must not be allowed to boil again, or the eggs will harden. (3) Use dried samp and Lima beans for this dish. Soak the samp and beans overnight in cold water, in separate bowls. In the morning boil the samp, put an equal quan- tity of the beans over the fire in fresh cold water in another saucepan, and let them boil gently until they are tender, but not at all broken. Place the saucepan con- taining them where they will keep hot without boiling until the samp is done. When both samp and beans 2 M For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. o-532 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Succotash—continued. are tender, drain them nearly dry, put them together in a saucepan over the fire, season with salt and pepper, add I piled teaspoonful of butter to each quart of mixture, heat it, and serve hot. (4) Pick over 1 pint each of dried sweet corn and small white dried beans, and soak them overnight in separate howls of water, putting the water upon the vegetables while it is quite warm. The next morning wash lib. of salted pork in cold water, place it over the fire in a sauce pan in 2qts. of cold water with the beans, and boil slowly for an hour; then add the corn and continue the boiling until both vegetables are tender. When done, take out the pork and put it on a dish, drain off nearly all the water from the vegetables, add 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar, milk enough to cover them, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; heat it, and serve with the pork. SUEDOISE.—The literal meaning of this term is Swedish, being applied to a mode of preparing dishes of fruit according to the highest arts of confectionery. Receipts are given under special headings, such as Apples, Apricots, Salads, &c. SUET (Fr. Graise; Gcr. Nierenfett'i.—As far as cooks are concerned this is the fat from round the kidneys of any animal, especially from the bullock, calf, sheep, and lamb. In a literal sense the term has a wider signification, being applied to almost any kind of fat from which tallow is made. For most purposes beef-suet is considered pre- ferable. Large quantities of beef-suet are used in this and other countries for the production of margarine or artificial butter, but the Continental cook prefers veal- suet as being harder and less strongly and characteristi- cally flavoured. Mutton-suet, mixed with a certain pro- portion of white wax is much used by artistic cooks for moulding. Suet should be quite fresh when used; but it may be preserved for twelve months or more by removing all the membrane and veins, and melting down gradually at a slow heat, then pouring it into a large basin of cold water, when it should set hard and firm, requiring to be scraped for use. It may either be run into jars or simply left in the lump wrapped up in waxed paper. When required for use, Suet is usually chopped small after shredding it carefully, using plenty of flour in the operation. Baked Suet Pudding.—(1) Finely chop fib. of Suet and mix with it 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants, 4oz. of finely-grated breadcrumb, loz. of flour, 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and 1 pint of boiling milk. Beat four eggs well, stir them in with the above ingredients, and leave them until quite cold. Butter a dish, pour the mix- ture into it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve the pudding while hot. (2) Finely chop 2oz. of Suet and put it in a basin with an equal weight of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a small quantity of finely- slued candied peel, and spice to taste. Mix these ingre- dients with 1 pint of milk, pour them into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. Boiled Suet Pudding.—(1) Take Jib. of Suet, skin it, and chop it as fine as possible. Whisk three eggs and beat in with them by degrees 1 gill of milk. Mix together very thoroughly as much grated nutmeg as will lie on a slab ling and 2oz. of moist sugar, and stir this into the eggs and milk till the sugar is quite dissolved. Add then Jib. of flour and stir it in quite smooth ; next mix in the chopped Suet and 3oz. of sifted breadcrumbs. Let it stand for half-an-hour or longer. Butter an earthenware pudding- mould, put the pudding into it, tie a floured cloth tightly over it, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for three hours. (2) Skin and chop as fine as possible Jib. of Suet; put it on a paste-board, and with a rolling-pin roll into it six table-spoonfuls of flour with a little grated ginger. Beat up four eggs and mix with them 1 pint of milk; then Suet—continued. stir the eggs and milk into the Suet and flour. Dip a cloth into boiling water, flour it well, put the pudding into it, tie it loosely but firmly, allowing it room to swell, anil plunge it into boiling water and boil for an-hour-and-a quarter; do not let the water cease boiling even for an instant till the pudding is taken out (see Fig. 691). Serve with meat or fruit sauce. Fried Suet Pudding.—Put fib. of flour into a basin, mix into it 1 salt-spoonful of salt, 1J teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, and 6oz. of beef-suet skinned and chopped very fine. Mix to a paste quickly with cold water. Dip a cloth in boiling water, flour it well, and tie the pudding in it; plunge it immediately into boiling water and boil it constantly for two hours. Let the pudding get cold, cut it into slices, and brown them in a frying-pan. Serve hot for breakfast. Suet Crust.—(1) Remove all the skin from some veal or beef-kidney Suet, chop it, put it into a mortar with a small quantity of lard or butter, and pound it perfectly smooth. It may be used for crust in the same way that butter is used in making puff paste; and in this form will be found an excellent substitute for it, in making hot pies or tarts. It is not quite as good for those pies or tarts which are to be served cold. Eight ounces of Suet pounded with 2oz. of lard or butter, and worked with the fingers into lib. of flour, will make a good short- crust, but for a very rich one the proportion must be in- creased. In making good short-crust, lib. of flour, 8oz. of Suet, 2oz. of butter, and J teaspoonful of salt, will be sufficient, but if a richer crust be required 16oz. of Suet, 4oz. of butter, ljlb. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of salt will be required. (2) Trim off all the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, then chop it very fine, dredging a small quantity of flour over it occasionally to prevent it stick- ing to the chopper. Roll the Suet out together with Jib. of flour till both are well mixed ; add a small pinch of salt to it, and make it into a smooth paste with as small a quantity of water as possible. It is then ready for use. This crust requires quick baking; when properly made it will be found excellent. Suet Dumplings.—Trim off the skin and discoloured pieces from Jib. of beef-suet, and chop the remainder very fine; mix with it fib. each of flour and stale bread- crumbs, add 1 pinch of salt, and mix the whole to a Fig. 692. Suet Dumplings. smooth paste with about J teacupful of milk. Divide the mixture into portions a little larger than an egg, roll them into balls with floured hands, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water. When the dumplings are cooked, they should be served hot, with either butter and sugar or jam (see Fig. 692). They may be served with boiled beef, in that case they should he cooked in the same saucepan as the meat.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 533 Suet—continued. Suet Milk for Invalids.—Skin loz. of fresh beef-suet, cut it into extremely line shavings, and put it into a sauce- pan over the fire in 1 pint of milk with a piece of cinna- mon and lemon-peel in it; let it dissolve very slowly, and when quite melted take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon and sweeten to taste with powdered white sugar. This drink must be taken warm. SUGAR and SUGAR-WORKING (Fr. Sucre; Ger. Zucker ; Hal. Zucchero ; Sp. Azucan).—In an article on Sugar written for cooks or confectioners the source from which the Sugar is obtained would appear to be a matter of very little interest to them, provided it is of suitable quality. Before the introduction of Sugar into England the only sweetener available was honey, but in one form or another Sugar has been brought to this country for so many years that the use of honey has been almost entirely superseded. At one time it was the perquisite of the apothecary to sell Sugar, together with his spices and other medicaments, which would lead one to suppose that neither Sugar nor spice was regarded as a domestic necessity. Times have changed, and Sugar, from whatever source it may be obtained, is now numbered amongst the most important of our culinary ingredients. Until recently our supplies of Sugar came in a raw state from the West Indies, South America, and the Mauritius, and it was formerly believed that only one sort of Sugar was obtainable for commercial purposes. Now we are in receipt of large consignments of Sugar from the Continent pre- pared chiefly from the white beet. From whichever source it may be derived, after its “ refining” it is simply Sugar, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to detect any distinction of source. Thus we have Beet Sugar, Cane Sugar, Maple Sugar, Melon Sugar, Milk Sugar, Palm Sugar, Sorghum Sugar, and Maize Sugar, all of one quality, and Starch Sugar, with other glucoses of a low sweetening power, and there- fore not much used, excepting for purposes of doubtful economy. The art of Sugar-refining, as practised in this and other countries, is far too elaborate and extensive to find a place in this Encyclopaedia. It will be sufficient for our purpose to explain that the five conditions in which it is familiar to us are raw, moist, crystallised, loaf, and powdered as prepared for icing and piping. With these Sugars more or less glucose is occasionally added; but by purchasing the best of the best makers, the quality should be ensured. At one time Sugar was very liable to adulterations: chalk, plaster, sand, potato-flour, and other starchy matters being of frequent occurrence. Competition and a stringent Adulteration Act have, however, reduced such additions almost to a nullity. Common raw, or “ foots ” Sugar, as it is called, containing a large proportion of molasses, finds its way occasionally into the kitchen, but cannot be recommended for any purpose, as it is almost always infested by an insect called the Sugar-Mite (Acarus Sacchari) which disappears in the process of refining. Publicans use this foots Sugar for reducing black or cheap beers. Amongst what may be termed “ fancy ” Sugars the famous American Maple Sugar ranks high. It is obtained from the juice of the Maple-tree, and Is much used for making confectionery. Melon Sugar, obtained from the juice of the melon, is also of American production; and Palm Sugar, or Sugar made from the juice of certain palms, is greatly prized in the East. The.Sugar of commerce, as indicated above, is classified as white, granulated, loaf, and raw, of which the former may be considered the most highly refined, being some- times sold in the form of a powder as “ caster Sugar,” or still more finely powdered, as “ icing Sugar,” a Sugar used by confectioners for ornamentation. Loaf Sugar, so-called from the conical loaf shapes into which it is moulded, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, S, Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. has to be broken up for domestic use, and then becomes more properly what is termed “ lump Sugar.” A process by which this Sugar is moulded into uniform-sized lumps or “ cubes ” seems to be rapidly gaining favour. Loaf Sugar has to be broken up by the grocer, and is especially liable to partial conversion into Sugar “ dust.” As this dust may be used in place of caster Sugar the stock of lump Sugar should be stored in a tin with a perforated Fig. 693. Sugar-box (Adams and Son). bottom, under which there should be a drawer (see Fig. 693). In this way the lump Sugar is kept clean and free from flies, and a very useful Sugar dust is collected at the same time. It is useful to the cook at times to have coloured and flavoured Sugars at hand for the construction of sweet- meats. They may be prepared as follow: Coloured Sugars.—Bub the required quantity of powdered Sugar through a fine sieve on to a sheet of paper, turn it into a round-bottomed pan, set on the stove to warm, stir it well with a whisk, then add whatever colouring is required, and stir well until the Sugar is nearly dry; turn it out, and it is ready for use. A list of harmless colouring in- gredients will be found under Colourings. Flavoured Sugars.—Instead of using colourings use flavour- ing essences, sometimes colourings being used as well, as rose-pink for rose flavouring, lemon-yellow for lemon flavouring, and so on, proceeding the same as for Coloured Sugars. Sugar forms a very important part in the nourishment of the body, and contributes in a marked degree to the enjoyments of life. It enters into a large number of the foods described in the pages of this Encyclopedia. Continental cooks use the terms Sweets and Sweetmeats in their most extended sense, including cakes, jellies, preserves, and all kinds of bonbons, ices, compotes, and other entremets. The following article and receipts refer almost exclu- sively to the sweets and sweetmeats prepared from Sugar, flavoured, coloured, and so manufactured as to produce an enormous variety of sweet delicacies. When subjected to heat, with more or less moisture, Sugar undergoes some remarkable changes which render it amenable to so many purposes and uses that its manipulation, elaboration, and application have assumed all the characteristics of high art. Sugar-Boiling.—This being the foundation of Sugar- working, the confectioner must first perfect himself in the changes that take place in Sugar at different degrees of heat. The expressions, “ boil to the crack,” “ to the pearl,” “ to the thread,” “ to the blow,” &c., must be thoroughly understood, and a simple method of detecting these conditions learned by heart. Before explaining the “ degrees ” of Sugar-boiling, it will be desirable to describe suitable vessels for holding the Sugar, and stoves for supplying the heat. Sugar- tees, iSee., referred to, see under their special heads.534 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. boilers or pans are made in several shapes, from tlie old-fashioned Scotch-saucepan or “ Goblet ” to the deep round pan (see Fig. 694), which finds most favour amongst confectioners, whether for large or for small Fig. 694. Sugar-boiler or Pan. quantities, the pan being large or small accordingly. The stove used for receiving the pan should be fitted with a ring for the round dome-bottom of the pan to rest in, and the heat supply may then be derived from either fuel or gas. Mr. E. Skuse, one of our most famous Sugar-boilers, re- commends a stove constructed as follows (see Fig. 695) for simplicity and effective convenience. About one hundred Fig. 695. Stove for Sugar-boiling (E. Skuse). common bricks and a dozen fire-bricks, a cast-iron stove- top having a round hole in the centre fitted with rings to regulate the size of the opening, a small flat grate, and a piece of iron llin. long 3in. wide and Jin. thick are required. If on a stone floor the building may commence forthwith. If the floor be of wood, then stone, gravel, or sand will be necessary to form a bed for the stove to stand on. First form the ashpit (a), by erecting the pillars (b b) four bricks high and three bricks from back to front, and 9in. between the two. Lay the flat piece of iron over the pillars so as to support the next course of bricks, and then go on building the outside wall to make a square, arranging the fire-bricks vertically at the back to Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. form a compartment to receive the heat of the small grate, which can next be set in the space left (a), so that the fire, when lighted, will be immediately under the opening in the top plate. Pack the spaces behind the fire-bricks with rubble, and plaster all round with fire-clay. Half of one of the fire-bricks may be left out, the hole thus formed doing duty for a little flue, through which the smoke may be readily conducted by means of a pipe into a chimney. An iron or marble pouring-plate (see Fig. 696), laid on a table, and supplied with different-sized frames, is another necessary implement, and the Sugar-boiler may then*’proceed to an almost unlimited manufacture. All skilled Sugar-boilers' advise the use of a thermometer graduated from 50deg. to 350deg. Fahr. (see Fig. 697), but very few skilled boilers use them; they are accus- tomed to judge of the degree to which the Sugar has arrived by very simple tests which will be described further on. Mr. Skuse, in his “Confectioners’ Hand-book,” observes: “ While the Sugar is undergoing the process of boiling, it is almost impossible for a learner to determine the exact degree which the Sugar has attained without its (the ther- mometer’s) aid, and even the journeyman (confectioner) finds it so useful that you will find very few indeed who boil Sugar without it; in fact, many of the large shops will not allow a Sugar-boiler to work without one.” This statement is not altogether in accord with experience, but is reasonable, nevertheless, and forms a sound prelude for the following description of Sugar-boiling degrees. Put into the pan 71b. of loaf Sugar, bro- ken into small pieces (or white crystallised Sugar will serve the same purpose), and j hlrmometer moisten this with lqt. of water. Set the pan Sugar-boiling. on the fire and let the contents boil. Directly bubbles show on the surface, lift the pan off the fire and examine the contents to see if all the Sugar is dis- solved. Stir with a spatula (a piece of wood about 2in. wide and 2ft. long) and crush any lumps that may remain. Set again on the fire, put a cover over the pan, and in ten minutes’ time take off the cover and put in the ther- mometer, being careful that the lower part shall be thoroughly immersed in the Sugar. When the thermometer registers 215deg. to 220deg., the degree called smooth is reached, and the Sugar is suitable for crystallising and making gum goods and liqueurs. At 230deg. to 235deg. (thread) it is used for liqueurs. 240deg. to 245deg. (feather or blow) quickly follows, requiring close attention to the pan so that the Sugar shall not boil over; this condition is suitable for can- dying fruits, and for making fondants and creams. 250deg. to 255deg. (ball or pearl) serves for cocoa-nut and other candies, cocoa-nut ice, and grain Sugars generally. 310deg. to 315deg. (crack) is required for all kinds of drops, rocks, toffies, and clear goods. The hand-test for these degrees is. not so satisfactory, although it is marvellous with what accuracy an expe- rienced confectioner will judge of their arrival. He dips a clay-pipe stem in the Sugar when it is boiling and draws it between the finger and thumb. If the Sugar feels oily it has reached the smooth degree (215deg. to 220deg.). When the Sugar forms small threads between the finger and thumb as they are opened out, it has reached the thread degree (230deg. to 235deg.), which maybe either small or large. The feather degree (240deg. to 245deg.) so quickly follows the thread that no test is necessary, although a toss of a little of the Sugar in the air will show the feathered appearance. The hall degree (250deg. to Fig. 697.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 535 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-'Working— continued. 255deg.) is tested by dipping tlie sugar on the pipe-stem into a jug of cold water; when you withdraw it the Sugar should work up like putty. The crack (310deg. to 315deg.) is the most important degree, as it is much more generally wanted. When the pipe-stem is withdrawn from the Sugar, as in testing for the ball, the Sugar should harden readily, and snap off when bitten by the teeth. The next degree is called caramel, and means that the Sugar is on the point of burning (see Caramel). Fig. 698. Machine for Drops, Lozenges, and Balls (E. Skuse). Before proceeding further some reference is necessary to what confectioners call “ cutting the grain ” of Sugar, and this is well described by Mr. Skuse : “Refined Sugars, whether lump or crystallised, when boiled to any degree above the ball, or 250deg. by the thermometer, are graining, and would, if turned out of the pan, become a solid lump of hard candied Sugar. To prevent this the grain must be cut by the addition of cream of tartar, which, in its action, will cause the Sugar to be pliable while hot, and transparent when cold; therefore it is necessary to use cream of tartar with all Sugars intended for drops, rocks, toffies, and clear goods.” Some Sugar- workers prefer to use crystallised acetic, or citric acid, but Skuse says: “Experience has taught me that cream . Fig. b‘99. Pulling Sugar. of tartar is the best, safest, and most to be relied on.” The quantity of cream of tartar to be used varies from 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls for a 71b. boil. Sugar can be grained by boiling to the ball degree, then, without adding cream of tartar or other acid, work- ing with the spatula against the side of the boiler until the Sugar becomes opaque. This sometimes takes consider- Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. able perseverance to bring to a satisfactory state of grain —a condition required for certain kinds of candied sweet- meats. With the foregoing knowledge of Sugar-boiling the confectioner should be quite prepared to commence manufacturing, and here his personal ingenuity must serve him in good stead. The following receipts should be of some service as a guide to the production of many others. Several receipts are given under special head- ings, such as Barley Sugar, Caraway Comfits, Toffy, &c. Rock is made by pouring the Sugar into flat, rectangular, round, or oval tins. Drops, Balls, and Lozenges can be made by passing the cooling Sugar through a machine with cutting-rollers (see Big. 698), or by pulling it into long rods over a hook (see Fig. 699), and then cutting pieces off with scissors in such a manner that the edges formed cross or lie horizontal as in cushions. By means of the scissors numerous shapes can be cut, such as squares, triangles, wedges, &c. Acid Drops.—Put 31b. of loaf Sugar in a Sugar-boiler with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil them to the crack. When the pan is removed from the fire, stir in a few drops of essence of lemon, pour the Sugar on to an oiled marble slab, sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of powdered tartaric acid, and work it well in. Put it on an oiled tin sheet to keep warm ; take a small quantity at a time, roll it out to the shape of a pipe-stem, cut it into small pieces with a pair of scissors, roll them round in the hands, or the paste may be passed through a drop machine; dust over with line Sugar, and put them away in boxes or tins. American Candy.—Pour 1 pint of water and )- pint of vinegar over 61b. of Sugar, and leave it till quite dissolved. Put the Sugar-pan over the fire, and let the contents boil fast till thick enough to pull into ropes; mix in then ^lb. of butter and boil hard for two minutes. Stir in 1 tea- spoonful of dry soda, and take the candy from the fire. Let it stand till the effervescence ceases, and then stir in a flavouring of vanilla. Turn it on to greased dishes, and with the tips of the fingers pull it till it is white. Boston Chips.—Boil the required quantity of Sugar to the crack, flavouring and colouring as required; turn it on to a greased marble slab, and let it cool. Turn in the edges, and with a hook fastened in the wall, pull the mass until it is quite light in appearance. Run it through a machine set close so that it comes out as thin as a wafer. Cut it into fancy shapes, wind them round an oiled stick, and let them get cold before packing in boxes. Brandy Balls.—Put 71b. of loaf Sugar and lqt. of water into a Sugar-boiler with -Joz. of cream of tartar and boil to the crack degree. Turn the whole out on to a warmed oiled slab or board, cut off a portion, and pull it over a hook until perfectly white. Divide this into smaller pieces, pull them into strips, lay them over the remainder of the Sugar into which a little essence of lemon and tartaric acid have been well worked, mix thoroughly, run the mixture through a drop machine, or form it into strips or rods, and cut them into shapes ; roll them round, let them get cold, and they are then ready. Bull’s Eyes.—Put 7lb. of moist Sugar and lqt. of water into a Sugar-boiler, boil it to the crack, remove the boiler from the fire, stir in slowly sufficient oil of peppermint to flavour, and pour the whole out on to an oiled slab. Cut off a piece from the mass, pull it over a hook fastened in the wall until it becomes a light brown, pull it into lengths about |in. in thickness, lay them on the remainder of the Sugar, then fold the whole over and commence working it, slightly rolling it, and bringing the two ends together each time. Run it through a ball-machine or form it into ball shapes, and when quite cold bottle or pack away in tins. The slab must be kept warm during the operation of working, and should a slab not be at hand the Sugar mass may be turned out on to a board, when it will keep warm for a long time without additional heat.536 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. Butter-scotch..—(1) Mix together \ salt spoonful of cream of tartar and lib. of the best Sugar; pour over it J pint of water, and let it stand for a short time to allow the Sugar to dissolve. Put it in a pan over a moderate fire, and let it cook, keeping the pan closely covered, till if a spoon be dipped into it it hardens on the spoon. Add 2oz. of butter and a flavouring of vanilla, pour the butter- scotch into tins, and when cool cut it into oblong pieces; wrap them separately in oiled papers, and keep them in a cool place. (2) Beat Jflb. of butter to a cream, then mix into it lib. of moist Sugar, 1 dessert-spoonful each of cornflour and ground ginger, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of maple syrup and water; beat all well together, set it over a moderate fire in a pan, and let it cook, keeping the pan covered, till a little of it put into cold water becomes brittle. Pour it into buttered tins, and when cold cut it into oblong pieces; wrap them separately in oiled papers, and keep them in a cool place. (3) Put Jib. of good fresh butter in a pan, set it over a moderate fire, and when quite melted stir into it 21b. of brown Sugar and the grated rind of a lemon. Let it boil, stirring it constantly, till a little of it put into cold water becomes brittle; then pour it on a well oiled marble slab,and when cool enough cut it into oblong pieces ; wrap them separately in oiled papers, and keep in a cool place. Cough Drops.—Prepare a decoction or tea of 2oz. of dried horehound, half the quantity of camomile, the same of boneset, and 2oz. of mullein-flowers, by putting them all into a saucepan, covering them with water, and boiling for ten minutes. Turn the whole into an earthenware or porcelain bowl, cover closely, and let them remain until cold; Strain and pass the liquor through a hair sieve, measure it, and to each pint allow 21b. of Sugar. Put the Sugar and liquor into a saucepan, boil them to the crack degree, let it cool, pour it on to a greased marble slab, turn it at the edges, and cut it into tablets or pass it through a drop-machine ; dust them over with fine Sugar, put them in boxes, and keep in a cool place. Dragees or French Sugar Plums.—(1) Soak Jib. of stick cinnamon in water for twelve hours, then cut it in strips about lin. long; lay them on a sieve, set it in a warm place, and leave for some days. When the cinnamon is quite dry and hard, boil 6lb. of white Sugar with lqt. of water to the ball degree. Put the pan of syrup where it will keep warm, and have ready a mixture of flour and starch powder. Put the strips of cinnamon into a French Sugar pan with a longisli handle called a tossing pan, pour over them 2 table spoonfuls of syrup, and so shake and toss them that they will be thoroughly wetted with the syrup, then strew them with the flour and starch powder, shake and toss them again, that this may adhere evenly all over them, and swing the pan backwards and forwards till they become dry, keeping the bits of cinna- mon well in motion. When they are dry, moisten them again with the syrup, shaking them about till all are wet; then powder them, and swing them about till dry. Repeat this process of shaking them first in a little syrup and then in powder till they are of the required size, then pour syrup over them for the last time, swing them till thoroughly dry without powdering them, take them out of the pan, and leave on sieves in a warm place for a short time, that they may be perfectly dry before they are packed away. Be careful to clear and clean the tossing- pan from any crust of powder and syrup that may form at the bottom of it during the process of tossing and shak- ing. The dragees in course of being made should be carefully removed with an iron spatula, and the pan well washed and dried each time after the flour and powder are added. The dragees may then be put back in the pan and the process continued. (2) Soak Jib. of gum dragon in just sirfficient water to cover it. The following day put this gum into a mortar and stir it well with the pestle for fifteen or twenty minutes (the longer it is stirred the whiter it will be). When the stirring is finished add to it the caked Sugar removed from the tossing-pan during the manufacture of Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. any other dragdes (see No. 1). This Sugar being well pounded and sifted, add also lib. of finely-powdered white Sugar, 1 table spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and shake in by degrees 21b. or 31b. of flour, moistening the whole occasionally with water till the paste is of the proper con sistency. Put this on the slab or paste board, knead it well, roll it out in sheets not thicker than Jin., and cut it into narrow strips about lin. long. Lay these on a sieve or on paper and leave them in a warm place for several days. Boil some Sugar to the ball degree. Put the dried strips of paste into a tossing-pan, pour over them a small quantity of the syrup, and so shake and toss them that they shall be thoroughly wetted with it, then strew them with flour, and shake and toss them again that this may adhere evenly all over them. Swing the pan backwards and forwards till they are dry, keep- ing them all well in motion. Proceed in this manner, alternately adding syrup and flour, till they are of the required size; the last time and the last but one that flour is added to them it should be mixed with starch powder to give them whiteness. Lay them on sieves to dry thoroughly. Ban Sucre.-A famous French drink, made by dissolving one or two lumps of white Sugar in 1 tumblerful of cold or warm water. Sometimes Sugar that has been flavoured with some essence, such as 2 or 3 drops of vanilla, rose, or lemon, is preferred. English. Rock. -Put 71b. of moist Sugar and lqt. of water into a Sugar-boiler, boil it to the crack, turn it out on to an oiled slab, and spread over and work in thoroughly 41b. of sweet almonds, not blanched; form the mass into a roll, and let it get cool. Cut it into slices about Jin. in thick- ness, and when perfectly cold it should be packed away in tins. French Rock.—Boil to the crack, as already described, 7lb. of loaf Sugar, Joz. of cream of tartar, and lqt. of water; stir in 4lb. of blanched sweet almonds and let them remain on the fire or stove, stirring continually with the spatula until the Sugar boils again. Pour the mixture on to greased square tins, let it get cold, and it is ready for use. Hardbake.—Blanch and split into halves the required quan- tity of sweet almonds, lay them flat side downwards on an oiled slab, and pour over them loaf or moist Sugar boiled to the crack so as to give them a coating of about Jin. Great care must be taken not to disturb the almonds, otherwise they will be unevenly distributed. When cool, mark the surface into squares, and as soon as it is cold it may be broken up at the indentations, and packed away till required for use. Harlequin Balls.—Boil 71b. of loaf Sugar, lqt. of water, and Joz. of cream of tartar to the crack, pour it out on to a warmed slab or board, and divide it into three parts. One part must be coloured red with cochineal, another yellow, and the third pulled white over a hook. Place the white Sugar between the yellow and red, pass it through a drop machine, or cut it into cushions, keeping the three colours distinct; when cold, pack them away and use as required. Honeycomb.—Have ready a wooden frame about 8in. square, and place it on a moistened marble pouring-slab. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted crashed loaf Sugar into a basin with the white of an egg, and mix them together. Put 411). of loaf Sugar and 1 pint of water into a Sugar- boiler, boil it to the crack, then remove the boiler at once from the fire; pour in the Sugar-and-egg mixture, stir well until it rises, let it subside, stir again until it com- mences to rise a second time, pour it at once into the wooden frame, and let it cool. It may now be cut into shapes or not, as desired, but must be quite cold before being removed from the slab. Any desired flavouring or colouring may be added at the same time as the Sugar- and egg mixture. Honey Drops (Imitation).—Put 14lb. of lump Sugar broken up small into a copper Sugar-pan with 4oz. of cream of tartar; set the pan on the fire, pour in 3 pints of water,HOME-MADE PAPER FRILLS AND CASES.537 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. an<l stir until it boils. Remove the pan from the lire, and with a spoon or spatula see that all the lumps are dissolved; put the pan hack on the fire, cover it, and boil the Sugar i to the crack degree. Take the pan from the fire, pour the contents on to an oiled slab, spread over it 3oz. of tartaric acid and essence of lemon to taste, say about 4oz., let it cool, and work it in the same way as dough, taking care that the lemon essence and acid are thoroughly incor- porated. When sufficiently stiff, pass it through a drop- machine, or cut it into cushion shapes; let them get quite cold, and put them into tins or bottles till required for use. Millefleur Drops.—For all Sugar drops the Sugar should first be sifted through a moderately fine sieve, and then through a very fine one to sift out all the powder that is not required in making them. Put the required quantity of Sugar into a basin, and mix in gradually with a spoon sufficient water to make the paste of such a consistency that it will easily drop from the spoon and leave none sticking to it. Pour the paste into a bright Sugar- pan, set it on the stove, and with a spatula stir until the Sugar is dissolved and on the point of boiling. Remove it immediately, stir in a sufficient quantity of essence of millefleur to flavour it, and with a wire in the right and the pan (which must have a lip) in the left hand, drop off small pieces, cutting them with the wire and letting them fall on thick cartridge-paper, a marble slab, or a tin or copper plate. This is the old-fashioned and homely style of making drops. Set the drops away to cool for an-hour and a-half or two hours, remove them from the paper or plate by draining the former, and by using a thin spatula for the latter ; pack them away in bottles or boxes, and keep them in a cool, dry place until wanted. Potatoes (Imitation). — Blanch 1 breakfast-cupful of almonds, and when quite dry grate them. Mix together 41b. of Sugar, barely 1 salt-spoonful of cream of tartar, and just enough water to dissolve the Sugar; let it stand for a short time, stir it well, and then boil it over a moderate fire till when a drop or two of it is put into cold water it forms a thin jelly ; take it from the fire then and beat it to a cream. Mix the grated almonds into this cream, and before it hardens shape it into pieces like small potatoes, roll them in Ipowdered cinnamon, and stick in here and there little bits of blanched almonds cut so as to look like potato sprouts. Rock Candy.—See Candy. Rose Buds.—Put 7lb. of loaf Sugar, lqt. of water, and \ oz. of cream of tartar into a Sugar boiler, and boil to the crack degree. Remove the boiler from the fire, stir in some rose flavouring, and turn it out on to an oiled slab. Cut off a small portion of it, and pull it over a hook fixed in the wall until it is quite white and spongy; colour the remainder with cochineal, making it rather a deep tint, and mixing it well in. Put the pulled Sugar on the top of the red, draw it out, and run it through a drop machine or form it into any desired shape. When quite cold they should be packed away in tins or boxes. A small quantity of citric acid added will greatly improve the flavour. Simple Candy.—rut over the fire together in a pan 141b. of treacle, fib. of brown Sugar, and 6oz. of butter. Boil until if a drop or two is thrown into a cup of cold water it will harden by the time it reaches the bottom. Have buttered dishes ready, pour a thin layer of the candy into each, and let it cool. It is better to make this candy on a cold winter’s day, as the colder the weather the better it hardens. Sour Drops.—Pour 4 pint °f water on 14lb. of Sugar, stir it well, and let it stand for half an hour; then stir it again, and boil it to the crack degree. Pour it on a fluttered or oiled marble slab, sprinkle it with citric acid or tartaric acid, fold it evenly in two, mix it well, and cut it into small pieces with scissors. Sugar Candy.—This is technically known as Rock Candy. See Candy. Sugar Favours.—Put lib. of finely broken loaf Sugar into a Sugar boiler with 1 breakfast cupful of water and 2 table- Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. spoonfuls of lemon-juice; skim frequently, and boil to the ball degree. Put in a few pieces of lemon-peel tied together (or stir in 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon when cooling), and continue to boil until the syrup is quite brittle when tested ; pour it out without the peel on to an oiled marble slab, spread- ing it well so that it will cool all over at the same time. Pull it by the aid of a hook fastened in the wall as described above, or on a board, flatten it out, cut it up into shapes, and let them get quite cold before pack- ing away. A slight colouring of red may be added to a little of the Sugar and boiled separately, working it in only a few minutes before cutting, so as to give a variety to the sweets. Sugared Flowers.—Boil some sugar to the crack degree. If when a fork is dipped in the pan it throws oft" the Sugar as fine as threads when taken out, it is ready, and the flowers may be put in. Rub the inside of some teacups with salad-oil, and put into each cup 4 table- spoonfuls of the flowers and Sugar; let them stand till cold, turn them out, and serve piled one on top of the other. Sugar Plums.—These are described under Caraway Comfits, a more elaborate variety of them being known as Dragees or French Sugar Plums. Sugar Ribbon.—Boil 71b. of Sugar and lqt. of water to the crack degree. When cooling, flavour the Sugar with any kind of essence preferred, and dissolve in it 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and stand the pan in a little cold water for the Sugar to set. Oil a marble slab, and ■when the Sugar has ceased bubbling pour it on the slab. When the Sugar has cooled sufficiently, turn the edges over to the middle, fold it, and work it with the hands till it looks white and has a shiny, silvery appearance. Divide the Sugar into halves, one of which colour with a little dry powdered carmine, leaving the other white. Work and twist them till quite bright, then put them together and roll the whole into a ball. Flatten the ball, and roll it out on some long rollers that are thicker at one end than at the other. Take the ribbon carefully off the rollers so as not to break it, and form it into knots and rings, &c. The shapes should be dried before putting them away. Sugar Tablets.—Beat up the whites of six eggs. Blanch 6oz. of bitter almonds, put them into a mortar, pound very fine, and add the whites of the eggs. When this is beaten quite smooth, add by degrees 141b. of powdered white Sugar and eight or nine more beaten whites of eggs, and stir all well together till it is thick enough to be worked with the hands without sticking to them. Divide this paste into two equal parts. Grate the yellow rinds of three lemons on a piece of loaf Sugar, scraping oft' the surface of the Sugar as it becomes yellow; when all the rinds are grated and the yellow Sugar scraped off" the lump, put this yellowed sugar into a mortar and pound it very line, then work it into one of the portions of paste. Colour the other portion red with cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of bergamot or roses. Then roll out each portion of paste separately on a slab sprinkled with powdered white Sugar, roll them to about tbi. thick, cut them with a paste-cutter into pieces about 2in. square, lay them on white paper on a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When they are cold take them off" the paper. Sugar - moulding, Sugar - spinning, and Sugar- piping.—These three processes might have been in- cluded under one head, as Sugar-working, if it were not that they differ from each other in many particulars, and especially from those which have been described under Sugar-boiling. The term Sugar-boiler is applied to the manufacturer of sweets such as are commonly sold in shops, under the various names of Drops, Bull’s-eyes, Cushions, Sticks, Balls, Candy, Paste, Toffy, Hardbake, &c.; but the Sugar-moulder, piper, and spinner is an artist in Sugar-working, and leaves the production of the popular delectables before-named to the journeymen of the trade.538 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working— continued. Sugar-moulding requires more than a superficial know- ledge of Sugar-boiling, as it may be desirable to employ the Sugar when it has reached either of three degrees— ball, feather, or crack—the results varying in appearance in each case. Thus we may have clear and grained (white) mouldings, the graining usually following as a natural course when cooling upon contact with the moulds. For hollow mouldings, Sugar at this degree (ball or pearl) is indispensable. For clear moulded sweets the Sugar may be boiled to the crack, or “ hard crack ” as it is styled in the workshops. At one time Sugar flowers were made by moulding, each leaf being prepared separately, and a number of these, sufficient to make up the flower, fas- tened together with workable Sugar. The Sugar-piper is now responsible for what few flowers are required for Sugar-ornamentation. Sugar fruit may be made by pressing a shape—the real or imitation fruit—halfway deep into a bed of starch powder, filling the mould thus made, leaving the Sugar to set, then joining the two halves with Sugar, trimming the join smoothly, and colouring with harmless paint. When metal moulds are used it is customary, after filling them, as soon as the Sugar sets round the sides, to empty out the loose melted Sugar, and then make the figures hollow. This does not detract from the appearance, but lessens the prime cost of production. Before pouring the hot Sugar into the metal mould (which can be purchased of any confectionery-utensil salesmen) it is advisable to wipe the parts inside with a piece of cloth or sponge dipped in almond oil. Then stand the mould upright in a bed of Sugar or starch, so that it can be filled conveniently from a small Sugar- boiler, fitted with a lip and handle. In a few minutes after filling, the fluid Sugar in the centre may be poured out; but great care must be taken to ensure that there shall be a sufficient thickness of Sugar in the mould to prevent the probability of the figure falling to pieces when the mould is unfastened for its removal. Considerable skill may be exercised after the shapes are moulded in applying colours with a brush (see Colourings). The best mode of preparing colours for painting moulded Sugar is to mix the colouring matter with thin gum, in which case a glaze will be given that niay be advantageous; but plain water is sufficient for most purposes. When it is desirable to colour the sub- stance of the Sugar the dry colour should be first mixed up into a paste with syrup, and then stirred into the boil just before moulding. For moulding flat shapes, such as stars, leaves, rosettes, and other similar articles, a flat tray of starch powder should be prepared, and the surface carefully smoothed, as for liqueur bonbons, fondants, &c. Depressions may then be made by pressing a model moulded in plaster of Paris, or any other material, at convenient intervals, into the starch powder. The Sugar is then poured from a small boiler into these depressions (see Fig. 700), and when cold and hard the sweets may be removed one at a time by inserting Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. the point of a knife or spatula under each, and the starch powder can then be easily dusted off with a fine-haired brush. Before painting, let the Sugar get quite cold, and trim off, with the edge of a knife, any irregularities caused in the moulding. Continental confectioners practise Sugar - moulding (which they term Sugar - casting) very extensively, and provide themselves with moulds or casts of a very elabo- rate character. Sugar bird-cages were at one time fre- quently used to ornament the table, but the average Englishman is not enraptured with pieces set on for show, unless they are edible and to be eaten. The bird-cage being constructed of Sugar—barley Sugar as it was called —was eminently edible, but as plain barley Sugar costing infinitely less would be quite as delectable and the cage was costly in its manufacture, it is not surprising that bird-cages, however artistically prepared, are no longer approved for the table. The Sultane and Croquenbouche, with their luscious contents and edible decorations, have en- tirely superseded the bird-cage, and hold a high position amongst useful and ornamental table-dishes, especially in Italy, France, and Austria. The construction of these and their mode of fitting up, contents, &c., will be considered under their own heading. The moulding or casting of the Sultane is done as follows : The confectioner provides himself with a mould grooved to form a lattice or net, which may be coarse or fine meshed, and fills the grooves with Sugar boiled to the crack —31b. of Sugar, moistened with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and 1 teaspoonful of ci-eam of tartar stirred in—pouring it from a boat-shaped or pear-shaped vessel with a long lip and handle (see Fig. 701). Before the invention of these moulds, all sorts of shapes and designs were prepared by ingenious Sugar-workers, by marking out a pattern on a marble slab. Whilst some very clever work has been pro- duced in this way, it had the disadvantage of having one side flat and the other rounded—by using the grooved mould, both sides of the moulded threads are round, and the work is proportionately stronger. Supposing the mould be used, the process is very much the same as when executed on the marble slab. First wipe the mould all over the inner surface with- an oiled rag, then I partly fill the pear-shaped boiler, and commence by layingTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 539 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. two long threads of Sugar to form the top and bottom boun- daries of the work. Then fill in this latticing as shown in the illustration. The ends are not to be united by a boundary thread, as they must remain open so as to form a neat join. For the better handling of the Sugar when set, a boundary line at each end, or at one end, may be added if desired, and snipped off with a pair of scissors when the join is made; or left on and the join con- cealed with some sort of ornamentation such as a trail of flowers. When the moulding is set nearly hard it may be removed from the mould by winding round a wooden block or large glass bottle (see Fig. 702). The ends Fig. 703. Top of Sultane. should then be fixed and the bottle stood on end with the Sugar lattice round it. Put it at once in a cool place, and let it set quite hard before proceeding to make up the sultane. The top is easily rounded by marking a circle on a slab the size required, and running Sugar round this; when set, lift it up, put it on the lattice mould, and fill in the usual way, or complete the latticing on the marble slab (see Fig. 703). Ingenuity will teach the Sugar-worker to utilise the processes described in the formation of many other contrivances for preparing and constructing artistic Sugar designs, especially with the aid of the next two processes to be described. Sugar - spinning or Drawing is usually associated with Sugar-moulding, but admits of so many artistic applications that it deserves special mention. Spun or drawn Sugar (sucre file) re- sembles spun glass in some particulars, especially in appearance and adaptability to purposes of ornamentation. The Sugar production is, however, much more diffi- cult to handle owing to its sticky charac- ter when in the least degree warm or softened in the making, keeping, or handling. Confectioners vary in their modes of spinning Sugar. The following has been practised for many years : Tie two forks together back to back (see Fig. 704), and dip them in a bowl of Sugar boiled to crack. Work them quickly backwards and forwards and fine threads of Sugar will fly from them. To collect these threads as they fall, lay the bowl of a wooden spoon on the table so that the handle projects over the edge of the table ; place a heavy weight on the bowl of the spoon (see Fig. 705), and with the boiler of Sugar in one hand and the two-fork -arrangement in the other the threads may be readily spun backwards and for- wards over the spoon handle, which will then receive and hold them, enabling the confectioner .to collect them into bundles for further working—making tufts and other pretty ornaments for his Avork. _ A famous chef named Alphonse Landry invented a Sugar-spinner (see Fig. 706) which is worthy of special mention. It consists of a wedge-shaped box with a sliding lid to which the handle is affixed. The thin edge of the wedge is fitted with several grooved tongues guarding Fig. 704. Forks tied for Sugar-spinning. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. openings communicating with the interior of the box. The hot Sugar is poured into the box, and the lid quickly adjusted and secured. The Sugar in fine streams runs out of the opening along the grooved tongues,* and by a rapid backward and forward swing of the box fine threads are spun at the same time over a spoon-handle or stick, fixed as described above. In the illustration the machine is shoAvn empty, and at work. Where a quantity of spun Sugar is wanted for any purpose Mr. Landry’s machine would be exceptionally useful; in the ordinary way the tAvo forks will be found to answer every purpose, and some confectioners prefer to use only one fork in their spinning. Fig. 705. AVeigiit on Spoon for Sugar-spinning. Fig. 706. Sugar-Spinning. Sugar-piping occupies attention next, and although left to the last it is by no means the least—rather the greatest of all ornamental Sugar-Avorking jirocesses. Every confectioner professes Sugar-piping, and some are cei’tainly more proficient than others in an art in which all should excel, or they are not practical confectioners.540 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. Sugar-piping, like all other high arts, requires con- siderable practice before the piper can bring work to per- fection. Not only is a thorough appreciation of the laws of design necessary, but manual dexterity in their application. It follows then as a matter of course, that the Sugar-piper must be educated in the art, practised, and experienced. Unfortunately, every confectioner believes in his Sugar- piping accomplishments, even though his artistic ideas and practical experience are of the very shallowest. What wonder, then, that so much of our Sugar-piping, as dis- played in the cakes in pastrycooks’ shops, is utterly devoid of artistic design or good taste! Without commenting further on the failures of Sugar- pipers, it may be stated broadly that there are few persons incapable of the art when wisely and intelligently in- structed. A very little teaching will do to begin with, the piper’s skill and ability improving with practice. The first step in the work is to see that your piping Sugar (sometimes called icing, or glazing, from the French glace) is properly made; if it is too stilt' it works badly, and if too thin it cannot be worked at all. More- over it should be perfectly smooth, as the least bit of grit or unevenness will block up a bag, and cost waste, loss of the bag, and delay. The double name for the Sugar suggests that it answers two purposes, those of icing the Fig. 708. Spatula, or Spatel. cake and piping its ornamentation. It is used also for moulding dowers and figures just as plaster of Paris might be used for plaster work. Icing or piping is prepared by beating up freely a very finely-powered white Sugar with some adhesive substance, such as white of egg, dissolved gelatine, gum water, thin starch, ora solution of French glue. Concerning the Sugar it may be observed that it should be the very whitest, purest, and most dnely powdered possible. For this reason it should be of the best quality, and specially prepared for this use. It is always advisable before beating up the Sugar with the adhesive liquid to pass it through a dne sieve. Some- times the Sugar cakes a little from exposure or storage; it may then be crushed out afresh by rolling with a pastrycook’s rolling-pin. When the Sugar is ready for use put it into a bowl, and proceed to work into it the whites of eggs, or other adhesive duid, until the icing is strong enough to stand up Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. in mountain-tops (see Fig. 707), as it is lifted by the spatula, spaddle, or “spatel,” as it is called. The spatel may be a new wooden spoon, or a piece of wood or metal, shaped like a large paper-knife (see Fig. 708). Beat the Sugar freely Fig. 709. Iron Rotary Cake-Stand. with the spatel as the adhesive fluid of whatever kind is added, until it is thoroughly incorporated and the Sugar stands well. When it is apt to sink and go back the French confectioner terms it retourne, and adds more Sugar. As to the proportions of Sugar and adhesive duid, it is only necessary to quote the words of a famous Sugar- piper, Herr T. Willy. He says: “ For my own part I can Fig. 710. Wooden Rotary Cake-Stand. say that during my thirty years’ experience I have never weighed Sugar for icing, nor have I ever seen it done by any other confectioner. Measuring the quantity of the whites, or weighing the icing Sugar, is quite unnecessary.” When mixing an icing, if it is found to be too thick, add a small quantity more white, and if too thin, add Sugar. There is no better rule to lie given, nor is there any necessity for any other if the confectioner is careful to carry this out until he has formed his icing or piping (for Fig. 711. Smoothing Icing. the same Sugar answers both purposes) to his satisfaction. Whilst beating the icing a small quantity of acetic acid should be added, for this gives the icing a. stiffness that it would not otherwise possess ; but this acid must be addedTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 541 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. drop by drop only, lest the icing should become acid also in taste. Lemon-juice and a strong solution of tartaric acid are sometimes used effectively, so also is cornflour occasionally added to the Sugar, gum Arabic, and other substitutes for the real thing (see Icing). The condensed whites of eggs used as gelatine, make good icing, and gelatine itself in solution produces a very strong icing that does not easily break. For dummy bride-cakes, flowers, and hard sweets, gelatine icing is perhaps better than that made from whites of eggs; but that it is less friable also signifies that it would be harder in the mouth —a quality by no means desirable. Fig. "12. Paper Cornet. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. that is set also, you may prepare for the piping and other ornamentation. Square or oblong cakes do not require a rotary stand for the glazing; much will then depend upon the confec- Piping is by no means confined to working with icing Sugar, for artistic cooks and others are accustomed to apply the art to other things, such as fat and paste, which are often made to serve exquisite purposes in the decoration of special dishes (see Fat). Under this heading, however, the directions given apply strictly speaking to Sugar- piping, but by their very nature they apply also to all manner of piping, as will be readily understood further on— and Sugar-piping is best de- scribed as applied to cakes. Before starting to pipe it should be seen that the surface of the cake is smoothly and evenly iced over, otherwise much of the piping ornamentation will be unnecessarily uneven, losing greatly thereby in effect. The cake should lie neatly trimmed with a sharp knife—some con- fectioners say not, but that the irregularities of sui-face should be filled in with almond or other icing, thereby creating an un- evenness of distribution of that pronounced delicacy : this is not to be recommended. Trim the cake evenly, and then, if a round cake, stand it on an iron (see Fig. 709) or wooden (see Fig. 710) rotary stand, the table of which shall be smaller than the bottom of the cake, and have the basin of ready-prepared icing close at hand. When almond icing is used it should be laid on some days before the Sugar- icing, and allowed to get firm and well set. Spread'the icing carefully over the top of the cake and then smooth it by turning the cake quickly whilst a broad stiff-bladed knife is held on it lightly with its point in the centre (see Fig. 711). As soon as the top is done, proceed to plaster the side, and then smooth that also with the knife held vertically against the side. When this is satisfac- torily accomplished, smooth off the top edge, and then set the cake by for the icing to harden. Sometimes a second icing is advisable, in which case it must not be applied until the first is well hardened, which will be in the course of twenty-four hours or so. When Fig. 713. Paper Cornet, FITTED WITH TUBE, AND FILLED READY FOR USE. tioner’s skill in plastering. A broad flat knife should be used, such as a glazier’s putty-knife, and then some excellent effects may be secured. Cakes built in grades or stages should each be iced separately, and the lower cake may be ornamented in advance. When required, these grades or layers are fixed one upon the other by spreading a little icing beneath them. The upper layers of the cake can be ornamented when they are set firm. Coloured icings are frequently used, and these are pre- pared by making a paste of the colour (see Colour- ings) with some of the Sugar, and working it in with the other. Flavourings are not usually added to icing, but foreign confectioners advocate the use of vanilla flavouring in small quantities when the icing is intended for pastry or inferior cakes, and lemon oil is often used almost to nauseating. None of these should enter the icing of a wedding-cake, which depends upon its whiteness for its quality. This whiteness is greatly increased by the addition to the icing, whilst making, of a few drops of liquid indigo. The next thing to do is to make a cornet or bag to hold the icing and enable the piper to lay it over the surface to be piped in some sort of fancy or artistic design. The simplest of all these is the paper cornet (see Fig. 712), which is made by twisting up a half sheet of note-paper into a cone (see Cornets). A specially pre- Fig 715. Silk Piping-Bag, fitted with Screw Nozzle for Tubes. pared paper is also made for the construction of cornets, which is tough, thin, and water-proof ; it has this advan- tage, that it can be filled several times without bursting or breaking away, and will stand considerable pressure, which would be necessary with stiff icing. When filled, the paper cornet is turned in at the top as shown in Fig. 713, and the fold is held in its place byTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 542 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. the pressure of the thumb (see Fig. 714), whilst the index finger guides the direction, and the other fingers curl under to give support. Into the paper cornet orna- menting-tubes are generally inserted for the purpose of producing at one action a variety of patterns, ropes, bands, or tapes, and other designs. These piping- tubes are of great variety and style, some confectioners claiming merits for one kind and some for another. When pipes fitted with screws are rased, the nozzle into which they are to be screwed should be fastened into something stronger than a paper bag—one of silk (see Fig. 715) is preferable. A very useful instrument has been made in the form of a forcing-syringe (see Fig. 716). The first and second fingers are inserted in the side rings, and the . thumb presses in the J . N'\ piston at the same ■; ( A 'i;—i-Ap time. These syringes V \ are also fitted with A-\ screw pipes; but, al- / if • \ though their action is /•' J i , to be recommended for A / Asl cleanliness and neat- ness of execution, they are not considered to be so tractable as the ordinary cornet. In order to give some idea of the exquisite pat- terns yielded by the great variety of piping- tubes in use, a few de- signs, representing the mouths of the tubes in action, are shown in Fig. 717. Sugar-piping is an art, and, like all arts, is not easily acquired. It takes years of steady and persevering prac- tice to become a master of the art; but even a beginner, with any ideas of design what- ever, may, with the as- sistance of the tools already described, and by following the in- structions, create such pleasing effects as to encourage him or her to further attainments. Let it be remembered that Fig. 716. Forcing-Syringe for Piping. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. their first efforts that the Sugar is drawn from the tube, like a length of thread, whereas no thread of Sugar will emerge without pressure on the bag. Once get over this, and Sugar-piping will be comparatively easy. Fig. 717. Piping-Tubes in Action, showing Sugar as it Issues. As for designs, they are innumerable, varying from simple threads to combinations of patterns of the highest and most artistic quality. It is, however, always advisable, that before commencing on the cake the design should be decided upon, and then carried out; some little improve- ments may occur as the piper proceeds. In framing artists, Art hath thus decreed, To make some good, but others to exceed. Wherefore the degree of artistic perfection to which Sugar-pipers may attain depends very much upon the natural talents of the individuals, and the ability they display to grasp the ideas of others. As a sample of what can be done in piping, reference should be made to the Plate of designs executed by Mr. C. Norwak, a member of the Encyclopaedia staff, whose marvellous productions have gained for him a gold medal. See Bridecakes. Before trying to pipe a cake it would be advisable for the beginner to practise a little on a piece of glass, on the back of which has been gummed a sheet of paper, bearing a series of patterns. In this way he will get accustomed to the use of the bag, which requires even and continued pressure to keep up an unbroken cord or pipe; the hand being drawn along in the direction indicated by the desired pattern in exact proportion to the pres- sure. Herein lies much of the difficulty experienced by unpractised pipers; the notion seeming to prevail with Fig. 718. Broad-headed Nail For Piping Flowers. Ornaments in piping should be worked on glass, tin, or marble, the surface having been previously wiped lightly with a rag soaked in almond oil. They must be prepared a day or two before being required, and they can then be lifted off with a knife, and stuck on the cake with icing. Any piping required to finish can be laid on after- wards.543 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads, Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. The class of ornaments that can be manufactured in this way are very numerous, and more or less elaborate— stars, crescents, rosettes, flowers, leaves, &c. Roses, and some other flowers, can be better piped on a “ broad-headed nail,” as it is called (see Fig. 718), several of which can be worked at the same time, bit by bit. The nail stem is held between the forefinger and thumb of the left hand, whilst the bag, with appropriate tube, is held in the right. By a dexterous rotary movement the nail is made to receive the piping, and, as each distinct part is laid on, the nail is stood up in a flat tray containing powdered Sugar, that being least liable to injure the roses as they are formed, until the work is dry ; and then the next row of petals is laid on by a dexterous working of the left hand, and a convenient tube. The centre is first crowned with a coil from a small star tube (see Fig. 719), and the petals are then made by different sized curved tape-tubes, increasing in size as the rows of petals approach the out- side edge. When dry and set hard these roses are easily transferred to the cake, or can be made up into wreaths with piped leaves laid on a slab. Adhesion is secured with icing Sugar (that being used throughout) which is Fig. 719. Method of Piping Flowers. somewhat stiffer than usual, or made with gelatine, gum, or French glue. This kind of icing dries sooner and sets harder, and is consequently easier to handle in trans- ferring and fixing. SUGAR) CANDY.—This is nothing more than a refined saturated syrup set to cool with sticks or strings laid through the pan, and upon these crystallisation takes place. Brown Sugar Candy is prepared in this way from raw sugar, white from loaf sugar, and red from colouring the syrup with cochineal. SUGAR PLUMS.—See Dragees, Caraway Com- fits, &c. SULPHURIC ACID.—To the aerated-water manu- facturer this acid, under the name of white vitriol, is important as providing a powerful agent to act upon certain combinations of carbonic acid and earthy matter (such as lime in marble), and free the carbonic acid gas used for aerating water and other beverages. Sulphuric Acid is not used in cookery excepting as an adultera- tion. SULTANAS.—See Raisins. SULTANES.—These artistic constructions can be made either by moulding a lattice (see Sugar-Moulding) with sugar boiled to the crack (see Sugar-Boiling), or with stiff icing made with gelatine or French glue They represent chiefly hollow columns formed of latticed sugar, or a sort of fret-work prepared by piping on a tapering cylinder mould, such as would be used for form- ing a croquenbouche (see Fig. 720). When the sugar lattice is used it is made in a mould as shown under Sugar-moulding, and after being duly rolled round and the ends carefully joined, the next step is to set it on an ornamental gum paste, or china stand, and then proceed to its further ornamentation. After the top round (see Sugar-moulding) has been accurately laid on and fixed with sugar boiled to the crack, a vase of flowers may be stood on this, and wreaths of coloured sugar- flowers fastened round the edges, top and bottom. The rest of the ornamentation must depend upon the taste of the confectioner. Sultanes in icing sugar are constructed by means of the piping-tube. The cylinder-mould is heated and then rubbed lightly over with stearine (fat) or paraffin wax. A design may then be traced upon it by means of a stout needle, and after securing the ends, top and bottom, with a strong tape or a band of icing, the pattern can be worked out, great care being taken to make the threads join in as many places as possible, so as to give strength to the work. When completed the Sultane should be set aside to dry, and in two or three days’ time the mould may be warmed so as to melt the fat, and then the Sultane can be lifted off and made up after the style of those already described. A very beautiful design for a Sultane is shown in one of the Plates, the decorations being principally tufts of spun sugar set in crescents of sugar or marzipan, and fastened on to the Sultane by means of Sugar boiled to the crack. These exquisite creations of the confectioner’s art may be used to grace a royal table. They take the place of the old-fashioned sugar bird-cage that enchanted our youth- ful days, and the centres may be further filled with aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 544 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Sultanes—continued. slender column of cake, or biscuits fastened together, and iced over with a coloured icing that shows up the open- work column of the Sultane. Ornamented biscuits, bon-bons, and crystallised fruits form excellent garnishes for Sultanes. SUMMER SALAD.—See Salads. SUMMER SOUP.—See Soups. SUNDAY PUDDING—See Puddings. SUNSHINE CAKE.—See Cakes. SUPPERS {Fr. Soupes; Ger. Abendessen).—The German abend-essen, signifying evening-meal, much defined the class of feeding times to which our word “ Supper ” refers. The English term seems to infer that the last meal of the day was, in some way or another, associated with drinking, and such has been doubtless the case, those who partook of it frequently spending some time afterwards in Bacchanalian indulgences. But there are other forms of Supper known to us, such as might be provided for the refreshment of dancers (see Balls), and others, all having the same characteristics in their way. Considered generally, Suppers should be light, whole- some, and attractive; and given these qualities little further remains to be said. Fish, meat, game, poultry, made-up dishes of almost any kind, are all available, winding up with the inevitable cheese, and probably celery or salad. Opinions concerning dishes suitable for Suppers differ so much that it may be roughly stated that there is no limitation. SUPREME SAUCE (a la Supreme).—See Sauces. BURN.—A kind of sweet palm wine made in the Antilles. SWARTZAIN.—This is a famous Dutch dish pre- pared as follows: Carefully save the blood running from a fowl or duck in its slaughtering, and stir it with a little vinegar and salt until it is quite cold. Cut up the bird, and season and stew it in a little water. When partly cooked, add the blood, and stir it into the water to make a gravy. The giblets added also make it very nice. SWEDES.—See Turnips. SWEDISH ROLLS.—See Bread. SWEDISH SALAD.—-See Salads. SWEETS.—-See Sugar. SWEETBREADS {Fr. Ris de Yean, or d’agneau; Ger. Broschen).—There are two kinds of Sweetbreads, known respectively as throat Sweetbread and ordi- nary or heart Sweetbread, the former being a large Sweetbreads—continued. gland (thymus) situated round and along the windpipe, and the latter (see Fig. 721) is anatomically the pancreas. Either may be used in the following receipts, but the throat Sweetbread is reckoned the more dainty, and the Sweetbread of calves and lambs are best of all. Before using, the Sweetbread should be trimmed, and all fibrous skin removed. It should then be steeped in a basin of cold water and parboiled or blanched as follows: Clean and neatly trim some Sweetbreads. Soak them for three hours in three different fresh waters, one hour in each, with 1 pinch of salt in each water. Drain, place them in a pan of cold water, and cook until the water comes to the boil. Then drain and freshen them in cold water. Cover with a napkin, lay them aside in a cool place, and they will be ready for general use. When they are to be used in moulds, they should be gently pressed down with a weight. Attelettes of Sweetbreads a, l’ltalienne.—(1) Blanch some Sweetbreads, then stew them in a well-seasoned broth made from meat and vegetables. When nicely done, take them from the pan and let them cool. Make a sauce of 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped mushrooms, shallots, and parsley, fried in a little butter, then dredge a little Hour into the pan and mix it with the fried mush- rooms, &c. ; moisten with some good stock, add a little seasoning of pepper and salt, boil it till it thickens, stir- ring constantly, take it from the fire, and add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir them well in. When the Sweetbreads are quite cold, cut them into pieces of about lin. square; take also some cooked calf’s udder and cut it into pieces of the same size, dipj all these pieces in the sauce, and then thread them on a silver skewer (attelette). Moisten them with the sauce, cover with sifted bread- crumbs, then dip them into well-beaten yolks of eggs and again cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, pressing them smooth with a knife and fry in butter to a nice golden brown. Serve Italian sauce with them. (2) Soak some Sweetbreads in water to disgorge the blood, then blanch them till quite firm. Butter a stewpan, put in a layer of finely-sliced carrots and onions, and a layer of fat bacon; put in the Sweetbreads, season them with salt and pepper, place the lid on the stewpan with hot ashes on it, and cook over a very slow fire. When cooked, Fig. 722. Attelettes of Sweetbreads (No. 2). drain the Sweetbreads and leave them till cold, then cut them into lin. squares. Dip the squares into reduced German sauce, and leave them till the sauce cools on them ; put the squares alternately with round pieces of cooked calf’s udder on silver skewers (see Fig. 722). Mask them again with the sauce, and cover with breadcrumbs ; dip them in beaten egg, breadcrumb them again, and smooth over the surface with the blade of a knife. But a lump of putter in a frying-pan, melt it, then sprinkle in some breadcrumbs; put in the Sweetbreads and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Put the attelettes on a hot dish, cover them with either brown or white Italian sauce, and serve. Attereaux of Sweetbreads.—Boil two large Sweetbreads until done ; let them cool, and divide them into slices. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and range them round the bottom of a sautd-pan in which some butter has been spread. Fry over a sharp fire; take them out and set them on a slab to cool, with a light weight on them to make them flat. M hen these slices are quite cold, cut them round with a cutter, and put them into a basin with an equal quantity of similar rounds of boiled tongue and mushrooms, all cut with the same cutter, so as to be exactly the same size as the rounds of Sweet- bread. Pour over them in the basin a little reduced brownTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 545 Sweetbreads—continued. sauce, roll them in this sauce, and then string them alternately on little wooden skewers. Have ready some villeroy sauce made by heating some yolks of egg up in a mortar with butter divided into little pieces; add this to the usual white sauce, reduced and made consistent, and boil up. Dip the attereaux in the sauce, made at the same time as they are preparing, and range them on a baking-sheet, at a little distance from one another, to let the sauce cool. Next take them out one by one, trim off superfluous sauce, and roll them in breadcrumbs; dip into beaten egg, and again roll in breadcrumbs ; then plunge them into boiling fat until a good colour. Drain them, remove the wooden skewer, put them on ornamental metal attelettes, and dish on a folded napkin or dish-paper. No sauce is necessary for these. Baked Sweetbreads.—Wash the Sweetbreads, put them into a saucepan with salted water, and partially boil them. Drain and dry the Sweetbreads, split them into halves, rub them over with butter, and season with pepper and salt. Beat an egg on a plate to a stiff froth, dip the slices of Sweetbreads in it, and roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Butter a baking-dish, put in the Sweet- breads, and bake them in a hot oven. When nicely browned put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. .Blanquette of Sweetbreads.—Wash and partially boil four throat Sweetbreads, put them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and some onions, cover them with chicken broth, and boil gently for half-an-hour. When cooked, leave the Sweetbreads till cold in the cooking-liquor, then dry and cut them into collops a little over lin. in diameter. Put the collops into a saucepan with some slices of truffles and some German sauce, and boil them up. Fix a paste eroustade 2in. high on a dish that fits it, pour in the above mixture, and serve. Bouchees of Sweetbreads.—Steep two Sweetbreads in cold water till all the blood is removed, then blanch them in boiling water till firm. Cut the Sweetbreads in slices, season them with salt and pepper, and fry them in boiling butter till nicely browned on both sides; drain them, ami when cool cut them in nice squares. Put the pieces of Sweetbreads in a saucepan with half their quantity of cooked mushrooms and a quarter the quantity of ox-tongue, both cut into small pieces. Boil some bechamel sauce Fig. 723. Bouchees of Sweetbreads. with the liquor of the mushrooms till reduced to a creamy consistency, then mix a little melted glaze with it and stir it in with the salpicon of Sweetbreads, &c. Stand the stewpan in a bain-marie. Make a puff paste with lib. each of butter and flour, give it five-and-a-half turns, then leave it for a few minutes. Roll the paste on a floured table into a thin square, then with a plain tin cutter, ‘2in. in diameter, cut out thirty rounds. Sprinkle a little water on a baking-sheet, lay half the rounds on it, putting them a short distance from each other, and brush them over with a paste brush dipped in water. With a tin cutter, lin. in diameter, cut the centres out of the other flats of paste; put the rings that will be left one on each of the flats (see A, Fig. 723) on the baking-sheet. Prick the flats and small rounds here and there, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake them in a quick oven for nearly twenty minutes. When nicely and lightly browned take the _ bouchees out of the oven, remove them from the baking-sheet, fill them with the Sweetbread mixture, and Sweetbreads—continued. lay the small rounds on top (see B, Fig. 723). Arrange the bouchees on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once. Braised Sweetbreads.—(1) Take six blanched heart Sweet- breads, lard the upper parts slightly, and put them in a braising-pan with some slices of fat pork. Add half a sliced carrot, half a sliced onion, and a bouquet garni. Sprinkle over them 1 pinch of salt, and cover with buttered paper. Cook them to a golden colour on the fire, and moisten with J pint of strong white broth; remove the pan to the oven, and bake the Sweetbreads for forty minutes, basting occasionally with the gravy, lifting the buttered paper, and replacing it each time in the same position. The Sweetbreads will now be ready to serve with any kind of sauce or garnishing required. Always place the sauce or garnishing on a hot dish and lay the Sweetbreads over it, then send to the table. (2) Wash the Sweetbreads, lard them with thin strips of bacon, and boil them for twenty minutes. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with some slices of onion and chopped parsley, and fry them. Drain the Sweetbreads, and put them in with the fried onions and parsley; tie 1 tea- spoonful of sweet herbs in a little muslin, add them to the Sweetbreads, and pour in stock to half their height. Place the lid on the stewpan, put it in the oven, and bake the contents for about forty minutes. When cooked, put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Braised Sweetbreads a la Montglas.—Place six braised Sweetbreads in six small, buttered paper cases, having cooked fine herbs strewn over the bottom. Heat in the oven for five minutes, then pour 1 table-spoonful of hot montglas sauce over each, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Braised Sweetbreads a la Pompadour.—Braise six Sweet- breads; pour i pint of hot bearnaise sauce on a dish, and sprinkle with two truffles cut into small square pieces ; place six artichoke-bottoms over the sauce, put a Sweet bread on each, with a thin slice of truffle on top, and serve. Broiled Sweetbreads a la Colbert.—Cut into halves three fine blanched Sweetbreads; season them with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, and pour over 1 table- spoonful of sweet-oil; mix them v eil, and broil them over a brisk fire for live minutes on each side. Dress on a hot dish, and serve with 1 pint of hot colbert sauce poured over. Broiled Sweetbreads a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Split the Sweetbreads into flat slices, dust them with pepper and salt, and rub them well over with flour. Broil the Sweet- breads over a clear fire, turning them frequently, and hasting them with warmed butter. Put jib. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and water, the juice of a lemon, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, and garnish them with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads.—Cut into jin. cubes lib. of uncooked veal, and cook them in a saucepan with one slice of onion and a good supply of boiling salted water; take them out when tender, and put into cold water to whiten. Prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce, and season with 1 saltspoonful each of salt and celery salt, and i saltspoonful of pepper. Put the veal and \ breakfast cupful of mushrooms cut into quarters into the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. NTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 546 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. sauce, place it over a bowl of hot water for five minutes, or until the meat and mushrooms are hot. Remove from the fire, and add quickly I teaspoonful of lemon juice and one well-beaten egg. Turn the whole on to a dish, and serve with a moulded potato border (see Fig. 724). Chartreuse of Sweetbreads.—Wash three Sweetbreads and blanch them till firm, then lard them with bacon. Put them in a saucepan with some slices of bacon, carrots, turnips, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with broth, and braise them; when cooked, glaze them till nicely browned. Boil some carrots and turnips in salted water, but keep them firm; when cooked, drain and cut them into pieces a little over lin. in length. When cold, cut the boiled carrots and turnips slantwise at both ex- tremities, and arrange them against the sides of a buttered border mould, reversing the rows and putting one strip of carrot to two strips of turnip. Fill the mould with mashed potatoes that have been beaten together with yolks of eggs and butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and poach in a bain-marie. When firm turn the border on to a hot dish, fill the centre with cooked mush- rooms, and arrange the Sweetbreads on the top. Garnish an attelette-skewer with a button-mushroom and a large quenelle that has been studded with squares of truttles and poached; fix the skewer in the centre of the Sweet- breads. Mix a little of the strained and skimmed cooking- liquor of the Sweetbreads with some tomato sauce,-boil it up, then serve it in a sauceboat with the chartreuse. Collops of Sweetbreads with Green Peas.—Soak four large Sweetbreads in warm water to remove all the blood, then blanch them till firm. Cut the Sweetbreads into large collops, put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and fry over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, drain the butter oft’ the Sweetbreads, put a little glaze in the pan, and stir them till well glazed. Arrange the collops in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with boiled green peas, and serve. Creamed Sweetbreads.—Wash and boil the required number of Sweetbreads for twenty minutes, then drain and chop them into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with some white sauce, and boil for a few minutes. Toast some slices of bread from a tin-loaf, remove the crusts, butter them, cut them into halves or quarters, and put them on a hot dish. Pour the creamed Sweetbreads over the toast, and serve while very hot. Curried Sweetbreads.—Take two veal Sweetbreads and cut them into pieces about 2in. square. Put in a pan over the fire f pint of good veal stock, an onion sliced and fried, 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and vinegar, salt to taste, and loz. of butter with sufficient flour rubbed into it to thicken the gravy; stir till it boils, then put in the Sweetbreads, and let them simmer for half-an-hour or longer. Fricandeau of Sweetbreads.—Skin and wash some Sweet- breads, blanch, and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon and beef, put in some slices of carrots and onions, thyme, laurel-leaves, and season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and mixed spices; then put in the Sweetbreads, cover them well with some of the same seasoning, and moisten with a little broth. Fix the lid on tightly, solder the edges with hot- water paste so that no air can be admitted, put some live embers on the lid, set the pan over a slow fire, and cook the contents for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, add 1 pinch of caster sugar to it, and boil till reduced. Glaze the Sweet- breads with the reduced sauce. Put the Sweetbreads on a pur4e of chicory that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with stewed cucumbers, and serve. Fried Sweetbreads.—(1) Having trimmed the Sweetbreads, steep them in cold water until they have disgorged their blood, then blanch them for five minutes in boiling saited water and drain them. Line the bottom of a stewpan with pieces of fat bacon, onions, and carrots; put in the Sweetbreads with a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices; moisten with Sweetbreads—continued. a small quantity of clear stock, and braise them over a gentle fire. When tender, drain the Sweetbreads, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them until cold. When ready cut the Sweetbreads into slices of a moderate thickness. Warm 3oz. of butter, ami beat it up well with the yolks of two eggs and about 1 breakfast-cupful of warm water; add salt to taste, and beat in gradually a sufficient quantity of flour to bring the latter to the proper consistency; continue beating it until perfectly smooth, then mix in the whites of two eggs that have been whisked to a stiff froth. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises dip the slices of Sveetbreail in the batter, coating them well, then put them nto the boiling lard, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As each slice is cooked, take it out of the fat and drain it on paper. Arrange the slices on a hot dish, garnish them with a thick border of fried parsley and some lemon quarters ; serve while hot. (2) Trim a veal Sweetbread, soak it for a short time, and scald it; then stew it in milk for half-an-hour. Let it cool, then brash it over with beaten egg; roll it in a paper of breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping. Serve hot with some good gravy and button-mushrooms for garnish. Fried Sweetbreads a l’ltalienne.—Wash and boil some Sweetbreads, then drain and leave them till cold. Cut the Sweetbreads into three slices each, season them with pepper and salt, and dredge them well with flour. Put a teacupful of finely-chopped fine herbs in a basin, break Fig. 725. Fried Sweethreads a l’Itai.ienne. in two eggs, and beat them well. Dip the pieces of Sweetbread in the above mixture, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Fry the Sweetbreads in boiling lard till nicely browned on both sides, then drain them, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 725), and serve. Fried Sweetbreads with Ferigueux Sauce.—Boil the Sweetbreads, leave them till cold, then cut them into slices. Melt a little butter in a flat stewpan, put in the slices of Sweetbreads, dust a little pepper and salt over them, and fry on both sides; add 41b. of truffles cut in small pieces and a small quantity of white wine. Put the lid on the stewpan, cook the contents till the moisture has reduced to a glaze, then pour in a little biown sauce and stand the stewpan in a bain-marie. Butter a border- mould, fill it with veal quenelle forcemeat, and poach it in a bain-marie. When firm, turn the forcemeat out of the mould on to a hot dish, put the ragout in the centre, and serve. Larded Sweetbreads.—(1) Partially boil the Sweetbreads, then drain and leave them till cold. Lard the Sweetbreads with strips of bacon and lemon peel, putting the bacon in the centre and the peel down the sides. Place them n a stewpan with brown gravy to a little more than half their height, and let them simmer gently for half-an-hour. Arrange the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a little flour, season it to taste with lemon-juice and ketchup, and pour it over the Sweetbreads. The Sweet breads should be served while very hot. (2) Boil the Sweetbreads till cooked, then drain and leave them till cold. Cut the Sweetbreads into slices, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Put the Sweet- breads in a baking-dish, sprinkle finely-chopped onions and a small quantity of mixed herbs over them, and pour in, but only to the height of the Sweetbreads, some brown gravy and stiffly-reduced soup mixed in equal proportions. Bake the Sweetbreads till brown on the top, basting themTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 547 Sweetbreads—continued. frequently with the cooking-liquor. When cooked, drain the Sweetbreads, and put them on a hot dish. Warm some olives in the gravy, then arrange round the dish with some lemons cut into small pieces; pour the gravy over the Sweetbreads, and serve. (3) Clean the Sweetbreads and lard them with thin strips of pork. Steep them in cold water for a-quarter-of- an-hour, then put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil them for twenty minutes. Drain the Sweetbreads, leave them till a little cooled, then brush them over with slightly-warmed butter and dredge them with pepper, salt, and flour; put them iu a baking-dish, and bake them in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Boil some green peas; when cooked, drain them well and season with salt, pepper, and butter. Arrange the Sweetbreads in a circle on a Dot dish, put the peas in the centre, pour some cream sauce round them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Boil some Sweetbreads till partially cooked, then drain, trim, and press them. When cold, divide each Sweet- bread into bal.es, shaping them like cutlets, and glaze slightly. Cut some truffles into slices lengthwise, then cut them into strips; with a larding-needle pull the truffles through the Sweetbreads, leaving pieces of the truffles about Jin. long sticking up. Put the Sweetbreads in a stewpan, cover with clear brown stock, and keep them simmering gently till cooked. Put the Sweetbreads on a j hot dish. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold water, stir it into the cooking-liquor of the Sweet breads, season with pepper and salt, and stir it over the tire till cooked. Pour the sauce over the Sweetbreads and serve them. Mock Sweetbreads.— (1) Take some sheep’s brains, wash them, and fry well. Boil them well in some nicely-seasoned gravy till they are firm, but do not let them break. Remove from the fire, and let the brains get quite cold. Divide the lobes, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and fry in butter or else toast them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve hot with a little good brown gravy poured over. (2) Beat fine in a mortar about Jib. of veal, together with 2oz. or 3oz. of suet or fat bacon. Mix in 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, a seasoning of powdered mace, pepper, and salt, and mix to a paste with the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of cream. Form this paste into the shape of Sweetbreads, and cook them brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve them on a hot dish with a little good gravy poured over. Ragout of Sweetbreads.—(1) Wash and partially boil the ! required quantity of Sweetbreads, then dry them. Mix a little finely-chopped thyme, parsley, and marjoram with some finely-grated breadcrumb, and season with pepper and salt. Dip the Sweetbreads in beaten egg, then in the seasoned breadcrumbs. Shape a piece of veal force- meat like a Sweetbread, wrap it in a veabeaul, and roast it with the Sweetbreads in front of a clear fire. Put a little more than J pint of rich brown gravy in a sauce- pan with I table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and lemon pickle, and boil it. Arrange the Sweetbreads in a circle on a hot dish, put the forcemeat in the centre, pour the gravy over, and serve. (2) Boil three large Sweetbreads, and when cooked leave them till cold, then cut them into large square pieces. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions and a slice of ham. Cook the above ingredients over a clear fire for a few minutes, then mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour and stir till it begins to brown. Pour in gradually the liquor from half a can of mushrooms and the cooking-liquor of the Sweetbreads, and stir it over the fire till boiling and very thick. Put a small lump of lmtter in a frying-pan, and when it has melted put in the Sweetbreads and the half tin of mushrooms. Toss them over the fire till they begin to brown, then take the pan olF, squeeze in the juice of one lemon, and add the sauce, straining it through a fine hair sieve. Turn the ragout on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Sweetbreads—con ti nued. Rissoles of Sweetbreads.—(1) Wash and boil two Sweetbreads for twenty minutes ; drain, and leave them till cool. Cut the Sweetbreads into slices, then into small squares. Place a chopped onion in a saucepan with a little butter and fry it, then put in |lb. of ham and the same quantity of raw mushrooms, all cut into small pieces. Fry the above mixture till the moisture has evaporated, put in the pieces of Sweetbread, season them with salt and pepper, stir them about over the fire for a minute, then pour in J teacupful of stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce ; take it off the fire, and leave till cool. Roll lib. of puff paste out on a floured board to a thin square, divide the Sweetbread mixture into small equal quantities, put them on the paste a little apart from each other, damp the paste with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold the edges over the Sweetbread mixture, pressing them down with the lingers, then cut the rissoles with a plain half-moon-shaped tin cutter. Arrange the rissoles on a baking-tin, , brush them Fig. 726. Rissoles op Sweetbueads. over with beaten egg, sprinkle with crashed vermicelli, and bake. When cooked, pile the rissoles on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish (see Fig. 726), and serve. (2) Boil the Sweetbreads, then drain them and leave till cold. Put an equal quantity of veal and lean ham, about lib. of each, in a saucepan with a lump of butter, half a blade of mace, a large piece of celery, a finely-chopped shallot, and 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup and flour. Stand the saucepan over the fire, and stir the contents for eight or ten minutes, then pour in 1J pints of broth and 1 pint of cream, and continue stirring it over the fire till boiling. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till reduced to just sufficient to moisten the Sweetbreads. Mince the Sweetbreads very fine, put them in the reduced liquor, and boil for five minutes, then turn them on a dish and leave till cold. Divide the above mixture into small equal portions, and shape them into balls. Egg and breadcrumb the balls well, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the rissoles, put them in a circle on a hot dish, place a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Roasted Sweetbreads.—(1) Trim the Sweetbreads and wash them well, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour. Place the Sweetbreads in cold water, then wipe them on a cloth, dip them in beaten yolk of egg, then in breadcrumbs, and afterwards brush them over with clarified butter, and breadcrumb them again. Run a skewer through the Sweetbreads, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. When nicely browned, take the Sweetbreads oft' the skewers and put them on a hot dish. Put a lump of butter in a small saucepan, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire till hot. Pour the bulk over the Sweetbreads, garnish them with fried parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Put the Sweetbreads into lukewarm water, and let them steep for half-an-hour; place them over the fire in a saucepan of hot water and boil for ten minutes, then take them up and plunge them immediately into cold water. W hen well cooled, wfipe them dry, and brush over with beaten egg. Roll them in a paper of sifted bread- crumbs, let them stand awhile till the crumbs adhere pretty firmly, then brush over again with egg, and roll them in the paper of crumbs, repeating it again if necessary, till they are closely covered with breadcrumbs; then put them in a baking-tin, melt 2oz. of butter at the fire, and pour it over them a little at a time, so that it may soak into the breadcrumbs. Cover with another tin, and bake in the oven, keeping them covered, and basting occasionally For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads 2 n 2548 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. with a little brown veal gravy seasoned with onion. Good- sized Sweetbreads will require baking for three-quarters-of- an-hour in a moderate oven. Have nearly A pint of good brown veal gravy flavoured with onion in a small saucepan over the fire, add to it 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or tomato ketchup and 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sherry, and give it one boil. Place some pieces of toast or fried bread on a hot dish, lay the Sweetbreads on them, pour the gravy over, and serve hot. (3) Parboil a couple of large Sweetbreads, let them get cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Put them on a hot dish and poui- over 1 dessert spoonful of mushroom ketchup, made quite hot over the fire, with a bit of butter in it. Serve very hot. Scalloped Sweetbreads a la Richelieu.—Take four blanched Sweetbreads, cut them into slices, and stew them in a saucepan with loz. of butter and \ wineglassful of white wine. Season with 1 table spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and A teaspoonful of nutmeg. Cook for six minutes, moistening it with 1 gill of thick German sauce, and add two sliced truffles and four sliced mushrooms. Fill six scallop shells with the preparation, sprinkle the tops over with breadcmmbs, pour a few drops of clarified butter over all, and brown slightly in the oven for about five minutes. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Scrambled Sweetbreads.—Cut some small Sweetbreads into square pieces, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, eggs, pepper, and salt, and proceed as for Scrambled Eggs, not too dry. Mix with the Sweetbreads a little lemon- juice and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. These may be served plain or in a paste border thus: Roll out some short-paste and cut it with a scalloped cake tin cutter into crescent-shaped pieces, and bake them. Put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish round with the paste crescents (see Fig. 727), and serve. Stewed Sweetbreads.—(1) Trim the Sweetbreads, steep them in -warm water for an hour to disgorge, and partially boil them, then drain and leave them in cold water till quite cold. Dry the Sweetbreads thoroughly on a cloth, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Line a stewpan with a slice of bacon and a few slices of carrots and onions, put in the Sweetbreads with a bunch of sweet herbs, season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and moisten to height with clear stock. Stew the Sweetbreads gently until tender, and when they are cooked strain their liquor through a fine hair sieve into a smaller stewpan, skim off all the fat, and boil it until reduced almost to a glaze. Brown the larded sides of the Sweetbreads under a salamander, arrange them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve while hot. (2) Trim and blanch one or two large Sweetbreads, cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a piece of bacon, an onion, a blade of mace, a small quantity of whole black pepper, a little salt, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and barely enough water to cover, and let them stew very gently. When the Sweetbreads are done, take them out, strain the liquor, thicken it with a little flour and the yolks of two eggs, pour it hot over the Sweet- breads, and serve. (3) Blanch two Sweetbreads and plunge them into cold water. Put them in a stewpan with 1 pint or so of broth, season with pepper and salt, and add a few small onions, boiled asparagus, tops, and a blade or so of mace; boil for a few minutes, then stir in a liaison of flour and butter, and stew for fully thirty minutes. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs in 1 teacupful of cream, sprinkle in a little Sweetbreads—continued. chopped parsley, and grate over a little nutmeg. Add the cream to the Sweetbreads, warm up without boiling, and stir well, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Serve hot on a dish with peas or young French beans for garnish. (4) Wash and trim off the skin, lard the Sweetbreads with some fillets of fresh bacon, and three parts boil them. Line a deep earthenware dish thickly with butter, slice a carrot and onion, and put them in the dish. Drain the Sweetbreads, put them in the dish, moisten with 1 teacup- ful of broth, dust in some salt and pepper, and put them in a good oven. When of a rich brown colour, take the Sweetbreads out and place them on a hot dish; strain the gravy into a saucepan, and boil it up with a small quantity of rich veal broth. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon in the sauce, pour it over the Sweetbreads, and serve. (5) Disgorge the blood out of two or three Sweetbreads, then boil them for twenty minutes. Cover the Sweet- breads with veal forcemeat, then roll and fasten them with wooden skewers. Place some thin slices of bacon in the bottom of a flat stewpan, put in the Sweetbreads, season them with a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, put some slices of veal on the top, pour in 1 pint of brown stock, and cook them gently by the side of the fire for a little over half-an-hour. Place the Sweetbreads on a dish with the veal and bacon ; mix a lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour in the cooking- liquor, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked, then pour the gravy over the Sweetbreads, and serve. (6) Put the Sweetbreads over the fire with barely enough white stock to cover them. Let them stew gently from thirty to forty-five minutes. Add a seasoning of white pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of mace, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, add a little cream and cucumber ketchup, and serve all together. (7) Scald the Sweetbreads, and then put them in a saucepan on the fire with barely enough good brown gravy to cover them, and stew gently from thirty to forty-five minutes. Add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of mace, thicken the gravy with browned flour and butter, and add a little mushroom ketchup. (8) Lard and parboil the Sweetbreads, brush them over with beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs mixed with a little salt and pepper and plenty of chopped parsley and marjoram, and brown them in front of the fire in a Dutch oven ; then put them in a saucepan over the fire with a small quantity of good brown gravy, barely enough to cover them, and let them simmer for twenty minutes, adding a little mushroom ketchup, and serve in the gravy. (9) Having prepared the Sweetbreads, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and dredge some flour over them; add a bunch of parsley, salt and pepper, moisten them with water, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire. Cook separately some small onions and some button-mushrooms. When cooked, put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish them with the mushrooms and onions, thicken the cooking-liquor of the Sweetbreads with the beaten yolks of two eggs, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, pour it over the Sweetbreads, and serve at once. Stewed Sweetbreads a la Catalane.—Cut four blanched Sweetbreads into slices, put them in a saute-pan with A gill of sweet-oil, 1 table spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, two well chopped shallots, and half a sliced green pepper. Cook to a good golden colour for about six minutes, and add two peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, 1 gill of Spanish sauce, and a crushed clove of garlic. Cook for ten minutes longer, arrange the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, and serve at once. Sweetbreads a l’Anglaise.—Wash the Sweetbreads and par- boil them. Put them in a saucepan over the fire with barely enough white stock to cover, and let them stew gently for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Add a seasoning of white pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of mace, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and add a little cream and cucumber ketchup. Pour the gravy over the Sweetbreads and serve young peas or French beans with them.549 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. Sweetbreads en Coquilles.—Cut four blanched Sweetbreads into small slices, and stew them in a saucepan with Aoz. of butter, A- wineglassful of white wine, and 3 table-spoon- fuls of mushroom liquor. Cook for ten minutes, then add 1 gill of veloute sauce, six minced mushrooms, and two trutiles also finely chopped. Season with A table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and | teaspoonful of nut- meg, and finish by adding 2 table spoonfuls of cream, or £oz. of butter. Fill eight table-shells with this, sprinkle them with sifted breadcrumbs, pour over a few drops of clarified butter, and put them in the oven to brown slightly for six minutes longer Serve on a hot dish with an ornamental paper over them, and garnish with fried parsley. Sweetbreads a la Finanqiere.—(1) Wash and blanch the Sweetbreads, then drain and press them between two plates till cold. Trim and season them with pepper and salt. Butter the bottom of a saute pan, put in the Sweet- breads, and fry them over the fire till set on both sides, then pour in 1 teacupful of clear broth, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Turn the Sweetbreads, pour in another teacupful of clear broth, and reduce that also to a glaze. When well glazed, put the Sweetbreads on a dish and keep) them hot while the following garnish is being pre- pared : Pour A pint of wine in the stewpan that the Sweetbreads were cooked in, and when boiling strain the wine through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity. Peel four raw truffles, cut them in quarters, put them in the wine with l teacupful of brown sauce, and boil for five minutes. Put eighteen or twenty button-mushrooms in the sauce, with the same quantity of small poached quen- elles and a dust of cayenne pepiper. Pour the garnish all round the Sweetbreads, and serve them while very hot. (2) Lard and fry four heart Sweetbreads. Fix a bread croustade on a dish, and when the Sweetbreads are nicely browned lean them against it, and put a cock's comb and Fig. 728. Sweetbreads a la Financiere. truffle between each space. Fill the croustade with some financiere ragout. Garnish over the top with cocks’ combs, and truffles that have been turned to an olive shape, and put the largest cock’s comb in the centre (see Fig. 728). Brush the Sweetbreads over with a brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. If liked, the croustade can be filled with green peas, mixed with a little butter, pepper, and salt, instead of the financiere ragout; in that case, peas must be put in piles on the dish between the Sweetbreads. Sweetbreads a la Parisienne.—Wash four nice Sweet- breads and boil them for twenty minutes, then drain and soak them in cold water. Lard two of the Sweetbreads with bacon, and stud the other two with fillets of raw truffles, pointed at one end. Place some slices of carrots, turnips, and onions in a stewpan with some thin rashers of bacon, put in the Sweetbreads, season them with a little salt, and pour in some good broth to about three- parts their height. Put a sheet of buttered paper over the Sweetbreads, and boil them gently till the liquor is reduced one-third, then place the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes upon it and finish cooking them. Ornament a border mould with truffles, fill it with veal forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie. When cooked, turn the border of forcemeat on to a hot dish, fix a piece of fried bread in the centre masked with forcemeat, and fill the Sweetbreads—continued. hollow with cooked sliced truffles and mushrooms. Brush the Sweetbreads over with melted glaze, and stand them on the border, resting them against the block of bread. Put three button-mushrooms and a truffle between each Sweet- bread, garnish an attelette-skewer with a cock’s comb and a truffle, and fix it in the top of the bread support. Pour round the dish a little brown sauce that has been re- duced with a little wine, trimmings of mushrooms, and truffles. Serve the Sweetbread with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Sweetbreads a la Piedmontese.—Boil two or three Sweet- breads, drain, and leave them till cold, then cut them into slices broadwise. Season the slices of Sweetbreads, put them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them till lightly browned on both sides. Drain the butter off the Sweetbreads, pour in a little white wine, and boil it till reduced; add a small quantity of white sauce, keep the pan over the fire for a few minutes, then put in about ten thinly-sliced raw white truffles, and move the sauce pan to the side of the fire and keep it covered. Boil fib. of well-washed rice, turn it into a buttered border-mould, and keep it in a hot closet for ten minutes. When set, turn the border of rice out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the Sweetbread mixture in the centre, and serve it while very hot. Sweetbreads a la Toulouse.—Steep the Sweetbreads till all the blood is drawn out, then blanch them in boiling water for five minutes or till they are firm. Drain the Sweet- breads and leave them till cool, then trim and lard them thickly. Put a layer of sliced onion, carrot, and celery at the bottom of a saute-pan, put in the cutlets of Sweet- breads, and pour in a little stock, but not enough to cover them. Glaze the Sweetbreads in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, basting them occasionally with their cooking-liquor. Cook some asparagus peas and make a bed of them on a hot dish. When nicely browned and glazed, drain the Sweetbreads and pile them on the aspar- agus. Pass the cooking-liquor through a silk sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it over the Sweetbreads, and serve. Sweetbread Balls.—Finely chop some cooked Sweetbreads, mix with them half the quantity of breadcrumbs, a little chopped shallot, parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Stir sufficient beaten eggs into the above ingredients to bind them together, then divide the mixture into small equal portions and shape it into balls. Dip the balls in beaten egg, cover them with the finely-grated crust of bread, and fry them in butter. When nicely and equally browned put the balls on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. Sweetbreads with Black Butter (au Beurre Noir).— Boil the Sweetbreads, then press them between two plates, and leave them till cold. Cut the Sweetbreads into thin slices, and rub them in plenty of flour. Put Alb. of butter into a frying-pan, and stir it over the fire till frothy and brown, then put in the Sweetbreads, and brown them nicely on both sides. When cooked, put the Sweet- breads on a hot dish, garnish them with a few olives and • slices of lemon, put a little of the browned butter over them, and serve. Sweetbreads in Brown Sauce.—Put two Sweetbreads into a bowl of salted water, and let them soak for several hours; wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about five minutes, then take them out, plunge them into cold water, and let them remain for a few minutes. Cut off the skin and fat, remove the gristle, trim them, and cut each one up into three pieces; put them on a well-buttered tin, and bake them in the oven for about twenty minutes. In the meantime, put 1 teaspoonful of sugar and loz. of butter into a saucepan and brown them; add a finely- chopped onion, and brown this also; then add loz. of flour, and cook until this has a yellowish appearance; then sprinkle in a little each of cayenne, salt, and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and add l teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water. StirTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 550 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. well over tlie lire for about ten minutes, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add the Sweetbreads and half-a- dozen mushrooms, and cook slowly for about half an-hour. Turn the whole out on to a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Sweetbreads in Cases.—Boil the Sweetbreads, then drain and cut them into small pieces, put them in some cream sauce, and season it with salt and pepper. Fill some paper cases with the above mixture, cover them with breadcrumbs, put 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter in each, and set them in the oven. When the mixture is nicely browned on the top, take the cases out of the oven, arrange them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Sweetbread Cromeskies.—Boil an udder of veal in a stock- pot, and when done leave it till cool, then trim and cut into thin slices the whole length of the piece. Blanch some throat Sweetbreads, trim, and cut them into small square pieces; cut an equal quantity of mushrooms in the same way, and mix them together in some stiffly-reduced German sauce. When cold, put portions of the Sweet- bread mixture on the slices of udder, wrap the udder round them, and roll them to the shape of corks. Dip the cromeskies in frying-batter, and fry them in a deep pan in plenty of fat till crisp and lightly browned. Drain the cromeskies, put them on a hot dish, garnish them with Med parsley, and serve. Sweetbread Croquettes.—(1) Blanch the Sweetbreads by soaking them in cold salted water for an hour, bring them to the boiling-point in more cold salted water, then lay them in cold water to cool; afterwards trim off all the flesh and surrounding membrane. Have ready an equal quantity of cold tongue or ham. For 1 pint of this mixture, put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of grated onion, and let them begin to colour; then stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flour and | pint of boiling water, and let the sauce thus made boil. In the meantime, chop or grate the Sweetbreads and tongue or ham, add them to the sauce, and let the mixture boil, stirring it all the time. When the croquette mixture boils, draw it to the side of the fire, stir in the yolks of three raw eggs, and pour it on an oiled dish to cool. Have ready a frying-pan half full of fat over the fire, a dish containing two or three eggs beaten smooth, and a large platter full of cracker-dust or breadcrumbs. Dip the hands in cold water, and make the croquette mixture up in small cork-shaped rolls; put them first in the cracker-dust, then in the beaten egg, and again in the cracker-dust; smooth them on the outside, and fry them golden brown in the hot fat. When they are nicely browned, put them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, then pile them on a dish covered by a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them hot. (2) Chop the remains of some cold Sweetbreads, and mix with them one-third of their quantity of finely-grated bread- crumbs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity each of chopped lemon-peel and thyme; if the flavour is liked a small quantity of finely-minced onion can also be added. Put the mixture into tlie stew- pan with ^oz. of butter and £ teacupful of cream. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, being very careful not to let it burn, then move it to the side, and when slightly cooled stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. When quite cold, divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, which roll into balls. Egg and breadcrumb them, let them rest awhile, then egg and breadcrumb them again. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the croquettes and fry them a delicate brown When cooked, drain and pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Take a parboiled Sweetbread, half a can of mush- rooms finely chopped, and put them into a saucepan with a teacupful of rice, boiled and added whilst warm; season ■with salt and pepper, and moisten with thick cream sauce made hot, until the mixture is thick enough to be handled. Let it cool, shape it, and roll it first in crumhs then in Sweetbreads—continued. egg, and then in crumbs again, plunge it into a frying-pan of hot fat, fry to a fine brown colour, and serve. (4) Cut some cold cooked Sweetbreads into small pieces; any cold remains will do for this purpose. Make some veiouto sauce, boil it till stiffly reduced, then put in the pieces of Sweetbreads and boil them for two or three minutes. Turn the Sweetbreads on to a dish, and when cold roll them into round or long shapes. Dip the croquettes in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat till nicely browned. Drain the croquettes, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with bunches of fried parsley, and serve. Sweetbread Cutlets.—Cut some cold cooked Sweetbreads into round pieces, brush them over with beaten egg, then coat them well with finely-grated breadcrumb that has been seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little dried parsley. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it has melted put in the cutlets and fry them till nicely browned. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, with a small crouton of fried bread between each, pour a little thick brown gravy in the centre, and serve. Sweetbread Fricassee.—(1) Cut some cold cooked Sweetbreads into small pieces, put them into a saucepan over the fire, with a small quantity of good well-seasoned gravy, ami let it just come to the boil, then pour it into a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Cut the required quantity of Sweetbreads into small pieces, and flour and fry them in butter. When of a good brown colour, pour over them 1 pint of rich beef gravy highly seasoned, and stew gently until the Sweet- breads are tender; add a little flour and butter to thicken, a little mushroom ketchup to flavour, and serve. Chopped mushrooms may be substituted for the ketchup, and should be cooked with the Sweetbreads. (3) Steep the Sweetbreads for an hour in very cold water, then drain, and put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover; place them over the fire, and boil for five minutes. Throw the Sweetbreads into a basin of cold water to whiten, drain them, peel oft' the outer skin, and cut them into slices. For two Sweetbreads, put into a saucepan 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire till well blended, then pour in a teacupful of stock. Continue stirring the mixture until boiling, then put in the slices of Sweetbreads, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for tliree- quarters-of-an-hour. Beat one egg well with 1 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, then pour this mixture in with the Sweetbreads, and stir the whole at the edge of the fire for two or three minutes; do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. (4) Partially boil the Sweetbreads and cut them into slices. Put H- pints of veal broth into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of mushroom powder and loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir the gravy over the fire for ten minutes, then add the grated peel of half a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of pepper; put in the slices of Sweetbreads and keep them simmering for twenty minutes. Place the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve them with a plate of quarters of lemons. Sweetbreads with Mushrooms.—Boil the Sweetbreads for twenty minutes, then cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with an equal amount of chopped mushrooms, cover with a cream sauce, and boil them for a few minutes. Turn the mixture on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Sweetbread-and-Mushroom Patties.—Soak a Sweetbread in cold water, blanch it in boiling water, take it out, drain, trim it, and remove the skin, fat, and gristle. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about three-quarters-of-an-hour, then take it out, drain, and cut it up into pieces about Jin. thick. Well551 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sweetbreads—continued. wash eight or nine large mushrooms, peel them, put them into a saucepan with Joz. of butter, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice and a little salt and pepper, cover over the saucepan, and cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, mix thoroughly, pour in 1 teacupful of rich stock, and boil for a few minutes, stirring continually. Now add 1 table- spoonful of cream, also the mushrooms and Sweetbread, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and turn the mixture out to cool. Have ready twelve small patty-pans, well buttered and lined with thin puff paste, fill them with the Sweetbread mixture, cover with more of the paste, brush the top Over with well-beaten egg, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes ; take them out and serve at once. Sweetbreads with. Mushroom Sauce.—Wash the Sweet- breads and boil them for half-an-hour; when done, drain and leave them till cold. Trim the Sweetbreads, cut off all the fat, and put them in a flat stewpan; cover them with white stock, and let them simmer by the side of the fire till tender. Boil some potatoes, mash them, and put them on a dish. When cooked, drain the Sweetbreads, place them on the mound of potatoes, pour some white mushroom sauce over, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Sweetbread Pie.—(1) Disgorge all the blood from the Sweetbreads, boil them for twenty minutes, then cut them into small pieces. Butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a thick layer of puff paste, and line the sides of the dish with veal forcemeat. Fill the pie-dish with the pieces of Sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, asparagus peas, small forcemeat balls, artichoke bottoms cut in quarters, and the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs; dust in plenty of salt and pepper while filling the pie. Put a strip of puff paste round the edge of the dish, pour in A pint of broth, cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, damp and press the edges together, ornament the top with leaves and flowers cut out of the paste, and make a hole in the centre. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. Before the pie is quite done boil some rich veal gravy, and thicken it with £ table-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little cream. When cooked, pour the thickened gravy in the hole at the top of the pie, and serve. (2) Select two large calf’s Sweetbreads; clean, blanch, and parboil them, and when set cut them into slices. Cut up also a few small slices of cold lamb (say Jib.), the same quantity of streaky bacon, and a blanched ox palate. Fill up a pie-dish with these pieces, adding here and there a large oyster to the extent of a dozen, sprinkle in about 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped roast -chestnuts (not burnt), 1 salt- spoonful each of grated nutmeg and ground mace, and salt to taste. Put a few lumps of butter the size of a wal- nut over the top, and cover with a good crust. Ornament the top, and brush the paste over with a beaten egg. Bake slowly in a steady oven, and when the crust is com- pletely browned all over, lift up the crust from the pie-dish and pour in the following gravy, which has been prepared whilst the pie was baking: Put a basin in a larger one containing hot water, and into the inner basiD drop a pat of butter; when this has melted, beat into it four eggs, blend thoroughly, pour in the strained juice of a lemon, and 1 wineglassful of Madeira or other white wine, and mix well. This pie is difficult to surpass as a prime dish for a luncheon or small wedding-breakfast. (3) Boil two Sweetbreads until set, then lay them in cold water, and drain and skin them ; finely mince a few shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them about fora few minutes. Next put in the Sweetbreads and fiy them until nicely browned. Cut the Sweetbreads into small pieces. Soak some breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb, then beat up with them the yolks of three eggs, a few blanched andchopjied oysters, four boned and chopped sardines, the juice and peel of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Mould the mixture into balls. Butter a pie-dish and line it with Sweetbreads—continued. a thin paste, put in a layer of Sweetbreads, then a layer of the balls, and so on until the dish is full. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, moisten round the edges, and press them together. Brush the pie over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for an hour. Serve while hot. Sweetbread Ragoftt.—Cut the Sweetbreads in pieces about 1 Jin. square ami fry them nice and brown in butter; pour over them a small quantity of good gravy with a seasoning of pepper, allspice, salt, and mushroom ketchup, and stew them for twenty minutes or so. This gravy must be strained and thickened with flour and butter. A few morels, mushrooms, and truffles may be added. m Sweetbread Salad.—(1) Blanch and boil the Sweetbreads for fifteen minutes, then cool and slice them, and for every two Sweetbreads wash a head of lettuce in plenty of cold salted water, and dry them on a clean towel. Put the yolk of an egg into a bowl, add to it 1 teaspoonful each of dry mustard and salt, j; saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and mix these ingredients to a smooth cream; then stir in, drop by drop, enough oil to form a thick paste, add a little vinegar to liquefy it, then, alternately, more oil and vinegar, until there is enough dressing for the salad Arrange the lettuce on a salad- dish, put the Sweetbreads on it, and pour the dressing over them. Serve the salad as soon as it is made. (2) Before boiling, the Sweetbreads should be first steeped in cold water for two or three hours, then drained ami blanched. Leave the Sweetbreads till cold, then remove the sinews, and cut them into thin slices. Bub the slices over with flour, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, and fry them till nicely browned. When cold, cut each slice into halves, and arrange them in the centre of a dish. Garnish the Sweetbreads with a border of lettuces, radishes, and beetroot; other salad vegetables can also be used if liked. Pour a mayonnaise dressing over the Sweet- breads, and serve them. Sweetbread Saute.—Wash and boil a Sweetbread, then drain, and leave it till cool. Split the Sweetbread into halves, cut it in four pieces, and season them well with salt and pepper. Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour in a frying-pan and stir it over the fire till well mixed, then put in the pieces of Sweetbread, and toss them about constantly till lightly and equally browned ; they will take about eight minutes to do. Put the pieces on a hot dish, pour some tomato sauce over, and serve. Sweetbread Saute with Wine (au Vin).—Put some Sweetbreads in a saucepan over the fire in hot water, keep it quickly boiling for five minutes, then take the Sweetbreads out, plunge them immediately into very cold water with a little salt in it, and let them get quite cold. Dry well, and cut them into slices length- wise about ^in. thick. Put loz. or rather more of butter into a frying-pan, and when quite hot put in the slices of Sweetbreads, fry them for ten minutes, constantly turning and shaking them about; then add J pint of good veal or fowl gravy, 1 dessert-spoonful each of chopped parsley and finely-chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or tomato ketchup; pour all these into the frying-pan hot; they should be all warmed in a small saucepan over the fire before frying the Sweetbreads and kept covered on the . stove, so that they shall be almost boiling when required. Cook the Sweetbreads in this five minutes longer, con- tinually moving them about and shaking the pan, then pour in 1 teacupful of brown sherry or freshly-opened champagne, boil it up again, put it on a hot dish, and serve. Sweetbreads with Sorrel.—Steep two fresh heart Sweet- breads in cold water for several hours, changing the water occasionally. Boil the Sweetbreads, drain, let them cool, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Put the Sweetbreads in a small stewpan, pour in J pint of rich brown gravy, add 1 pinch of salt, and boil until the gravy is thick. Pour another A pint of gravy in with the Sweetbreads, put the cover on the stewpan with552 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. some live embers on the top, and glaze the Sweetbreads over a moderate lire, basting them occasionally with the cooking-liquor. Pick the stalks off 3lb. of sorrel, wash it in several waters, then drain and put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water and a little salt. Boil the sorrel for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring it at the same time to prevent it from burning, then drain it well through a fine hair sieve. Turn the sorrel on to the table and chop it fine, then put it in a stewpan with 1 Joz. of butter and loz. of flour ; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of broth and stir it over the fire for twenty minutes. Beat three eggs with \ teacupful of milk, then mix them with the sorrel, and stir it very quickly over the fire for five minutes. Turn the sorrel on to a hot dish and smooth it over. When lightly browned, drain the Sweetbreads and arrange them on the dish of sorrel. If too thick, mix a little more broth with the gravy; boil it up again, then serve it in a sauceboat with the Sweetbreads. Sweetbread. Soup.—(l)Puta large Sweetbread in a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient cold water to cover it; place it over the lire until warm, then strain the water off and pour in some cold. Repeat this five or six times, pouring the water off directly it becomes warm and adding more cold water, or until the Sweetbread is very white, then take off the outer skin and cut the meat into small pieces. Put 3 pints of clear white soup into a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the pieces of Sweetbread and boil them for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Steep a Sweetbread in cold water till all the blood is washed out, then put it in a saucepan of boiling water and boil for about fifteen minutes. Take the outside skin off the Sweetbread, cut the meat into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and fry till just lightly coloured, then drain off the butter and pour in the desired quantity of white veal soup. When boiling, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of fried bread croutons or sippets of toast. Sweetbread Tart (Tourte).—Prepare some veal quenelle forcemeat, and mix a few table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs with it, after it has been passed through a fine hair sieve. Blanch four Sweetbreads, drain them, and leave till cool; then cut them into thick slices. Put a lump of butter in a frying- or sautd-pan, melt it, put in the slices of Sweetbreads, dust some pepper and salt over them, and fry on both sides. When the Sweetbreads have set, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira; boil it quickly till the moisture has somewhat evaporated. Put in with the Sweetbreads 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, onions, and shallots, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then move the frying-pan back. Butter a baking- sheet, put a flat round of short-paste on it, spread a layer of the veal forcemeat in the centre, then arrange the Sweetbreads, herbs, and a few slices of raw ham on it, building it in a dome shape. Cover the whole with a thin layer of forcemeat, and cut a strip of paste Hin. wide and long enough to surround the dome. Roll the remainder out into a thin flat, cover the dome with it, press it to the under flat of paste, leaving a narrow edge all round, which moisten and fix with the strip of paste on it in an upright position, forming a sort of wall round the tourte. Brash the tourte over with beaten egg and bake in a • moderate oven. When cooked, slip the tourte off the baking-sheet on to a hot dish, cut a round hole in the top, put in it some small mushrooms cooked as for garnish, cover again, and serve the tourte. Sweetbread in White Sauce.—Put a Sweetbread in a bowl, cover it with cold water, and let it steep for an hour or two. Drain the Sweetbread, put it in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, move the saucepan a little off the lire so that the Sweetbread may cook slowly for half-an - hour. At the end of that time plunge the Sweetbread into a basin of cold water, then drain it, trim off the fat, and cut it into small pieces. Put \ table-spoonful of Sweetbreads—continued. arrowroot into a basin and mix it smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; turn it into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till boiling, then put in the Sweetbread, season to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer gently at the edge of the fire for ten minutes. At the end of that time, turn the Sweetbread and sauce on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve hot. Timbale of Sweetbread.—(1) Wash some Sweetbreads, put them in a saucepan with cold water and a lump of salt, and boil for ten minutes; next put them into cold water, leave them until quite cold, then lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Put the Sweetbreads in a stewpan with some well-flavoured stock, which should reach to a little above half their height, and stew them gently for an hour, basting them frequently. When cooked, leave them until cold, then cut them into thin slices. Butter a timbale-mould and line it with short-paste about J-in. in thickness, fill it with alternate layers of Sweetbread, nicely-flavoured forcemeat, and mushrooms, seasoning between each layer with salt and pepper. Strain the cooking-liquor of the Sweetbreads, skim it well, and pour it over the contents of the mould. Cover the timbale with paste and put it in the oven, fixing it in position with ashes heaped up on both sides. When baked, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, garnish with mushroom-tops and parsley, and serve. (2) Blanch three Sweetbreads, press them between two plates till cold, then cut them into collops. Mince about Jib. of fresh pork, and mix with it a few chopped truffles. Chop three or four onions, shallots, and mushrooms, and fry them in a little bacon-fat; when their moisture has evaporated somewhat put in 6 table-spoonfuls of raw ham that has been cut into small pieces and the collops of Sweetbreads, dust some salt and pepper over them, and fry for a few minutes over a brisk fire. When the Sweet- breads are set, pour in a little more than \ teacupful of white wine, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and fry them for a few minutes longer; take them off the fire and leave till cold. Prepare some rich short-paste, roll it out, and cut it into long strips, which roll into strings the size of macaroni. Butter the inside of a dome-shaped mould, then line it with the strips of paste, beginning from the centre. Cover the paste with a thin layer of the minced pork and truffles, then fill the mould with alternate layers of the ragout of ham and Sweetbreads, and blanched calf’s brains, cut into pieces like the Sweet- breads. Put a flat round of paste on the top of the timbale, moisten the edges with a little water, and press them together. Stand the mould on a baking-sheet, surround it with ashes, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When cooked, make a small hole in the cover of the timbale, and pour in 1 large teacupful of rather thick brown sauce. Turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, put a small mushroom on the top, and serve. Vol-au-Vent of Sweetbreads.—Clean and wash the required number of Sweetbreads, cover them with water, and boil for twenty minutes. Roll a piece of putt paste out at four turns to a 7in. square, keep it in the ice-chest for lialf-an- hour, then roll it into a lOin. square. Place the square of paste on a plate about 9|in. in diameter, and cut round the edge with a sharp knife. Put a plate about 7in. in diameter over the paste and cut round it, allowing the knife to go two-thirds through the paste. Lay the paste on a baking-sheet, put it in a hot oven, but afterwards slackening the heat a little, and cook it for about forty minutes. When cooked, lift the centre piece out of the vol-au-vent, and scrape out the soft inside paste. Cut the Sweetbreads into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with some cream sauce, boil them up, then turn all into the vol-au-vent; put the cover on, and serve. SWEET HERBS.—Sec Herbs. SWEETMEATS.—See Sugar. SWEET SAUCE.—See Sauces.ARTISTIC 1'12. Croutons and Shapes in Aspic Jelly. 13-19.—Ornamental Quenelles. 20-27.—Various Croquettes. 28. —Hale-Egg with Chopped Yolk. 29. —Game Timbale. 30. —Slice op Galantine. 31. Croustade with Forcemeat. GARNISHES. ; 32-35.—Timbales of Aspic Jelly. i 36.—Vol-au-Vent with Chicken or other i Puree. i 37-38.—Calf’s Ears. : 39.—Lark in Paper Case. 10.—Hale-Truffle with Puree. 41.—Truffle in Paper Case.553 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. SWEET SOP.—The fruit of a plant (Anona squa- mosa) (see Fig. 729), of the same species as the custard apple and Sour-Sop. It is extensively cultivated in the East and West Indies, and held in great esteem by the natives, who use it for making drinks, pies, and px-eserves. SWISS MACAROONS.—See Macaroons. SWISS PUDDING.—See Puddings. SWISS ROLL—If we are indebted to Switzerland for this delicious pastry (see Fig. 730), then that country Fig. 730. Swiss Boll. is entitled to our gratitude, for rarely has a more excellent combination been devised. The following receipts for its manufacture will be found very good: (1) Allow three eggs and an equal weight of butter, caster sugar, and flour. Separate the whites and the yolks of the eggs, beat the yolks, warm the butter, mix the sugar with it, and beat until creamy ; then mix in the yolks, whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly with the mixture, and sift in the flour by degrees. Add a small quantity of lemon-juice, and mix the whole thoroughly. Butter a baking-dish, pour in the above mixture, making it about Jin. deep, and bake it for eight minutes in a quick oven. Spread a sheet of white paper on the table and strew plenty of caster sugar over it. When the cake is cooked, turn it on to the paper, sprea1 a layer of any kind of jam over it, and roll it up. This must be done very quickly while the cake is hot or it will break. (2) Line a mould 2in. deep with white paper, allowing it to appear about lin. above the edge of the tin, then brush the paper over with a paste brush dipped in warm butter. Put 6oz. of caster sugar in a basin and break over it seven eggs. Stand the basin in a stewpan that has a little boiling water at the bottom and place it over the fire; the top of the basin should be a little larger than the top of the stewpan, so that it will not touch the water at the Swiss Roll—continued. bottom. Whisk the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes, then move the basin away from the fire and mix in 6oz. each of warmed butter and the best white flour. The latter ingredients should be sifted and mixed in very slowly to avoid lumps. Pour the mixture into the papered tin and bake it for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. Open the oven door frequently so that some of the heat may escape. When cooked, turn it upside down on to a hair sieve, remove the tin, and leave it until cool. Spread a thin layer of any kind of jam over the paste, roll it uq> firmly, and dust it over with broken sugar. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and baking-powder. Beat two eggs well and stir them into the mixture. Butter a long-shaped shallow tin, pour the mixture into it to nearly -Jin. in thickness, put it in a brisk oven, and bake for seven minutes. Turn 1 teacupful of any kind of jam into a small saucepan and stir it over the fire until hot. When cooked, take the pastry out of the oven, spread the jam over it, and roll it up. Sift caster sugar over, and serve. SWISS RUSKS.—See Rusks. SWISS SAUCE.—See Sauces. SWISS WINES.—These are not well known out of Switzerland, the production being infinitely below the local demand. SWORD-FISH {Ft. Espadon; Ger. Schwei’tfisch).— Improbable as it would seem, the flesh of this fish (Xiphias gladius) is exceedingly delicate, flaky, and tender. It is found in almost every sea, and grows to a great size. The following receipt for cooking it is given by one who has frequently used it: Cut a piece of Sword-fish into moderate-sized slices, wash them in tepid water, then dry and rub them well with salt. Dip the slices first in flour, then in beaten egg, and fry them till nicely browned in butter or olive oil, whichever is preferred. Pick some parsley off the stems, put it in a stewpan with four or five cloves of garlic, place the pieces of fish on it, and spread the same quantity of parsley and garlic on the top of it; season with salt and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and moisten with | pint of water and the strained juice of two lemons. Put the lid on the pan, and boil the contents gently at the side of the fire until the fish is tender and the moisture has almost entirely evaporated. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, and serve. SYLLABUB.—-Some authorities prefer to spell this word Sillabub, and if the derivation given by Webster is correct (site—to strain, and bub—a drink), then the latter would be more accurate. In common parlance it is spelled as in the heading. It is described as a dish made by mixing wine or cider with milk, and thus forming a soft curd; also sweetened cream, flavoured with wine and beaten to a stiff froth. The following are good receipts for its preparation in various forms : (1) Put 1 pint each of beer and cider into a punch-bowl, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with grated nutmeg. If possible stand the bowl under a cow and milk in about 3 pints of milk, failing that, pour the milk gradually in from as great a height as possible, so that it may froth up. Wash some currants and put them in a warm oven till swollen, then strew them over the Syllabub, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of cream in a punch-bowl with 3 teacupfuls of white wine, the juice of two Seville oranges and one lemon, and caster sugar to taste. Beat the mixture, skim off the froth as it rises, and put it into glasses. When finished, serve. (3) Put 2oz. of loaf sugar into a china punch-bowl, pour in | pint each of sherry and cider, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Stir the above ingredients till the sugar has dissolved, then place the bowl under a cow and have it milked into, filling the bowl as full as possible; grateTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 554 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tec., referred to, see under their special heads. Syllabub—continued. some nutmeg over it, and keep the bowl in a cool place for one night. (4) Grate the rinds of two lemons in a basin, squeeze in the juice of three, add 1 pint of cream, caster sugar to taste, and not quite 1 breakfast-cupful of sherry. Whisk the above mixture to a still' froth, turn it into glasses, and serve. Lemon Syllabub.—Grate the peel of two lemons into a large bowl, add the strained juice of the lemons, jib. of sugar, 1 pint of white wine, and lastly 1 pint of cream. Let all these stand in the bowl for three or four hours, then whisk it well, and carefully lift the froth off as it forms on the top, and lay it on a sieve. Pour that part of the mixture which remains in the basin into glasses and pile some of the froth on each. This lemon Syllabub will keep for four or even five days. London Syllabub.—Stir 2oz. of loaf sugar in 1J pints of sherry till dissolved, then mix with it 2qts. of milk, and serve. Old English Syllabub.—Mix together in a china punch-bowl h pint each of port and sherry and J pint of brandy. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and milk the cow if possible into the bowl to three parts fill it. Leave the Syllabub for half-an-hour, then pile it high with clotted cream. Dust a small quantity of grated nutmeg over the top, and serve. Solid Syllabubs.—(1) Sweeten § pint of cream with caster sugar to taste, and flavour it with the juice of a lemon and a little wine or brandy. Put loz. of isinglass into a sauce- pan with a small piece of lemon-peel and 4 pint of water. Boil it slowly till the isinglass is dissolved, then mix it in with the other ingredients and stir them well for a few minutes. Strain the above mixture through a fine hair sieve, pour it into moulds, and leave till cold and stiff. Turn the Syllabubs out of the moulds on to a glass dish (see Fig. 731), and serve. (2) Mix together 1 gill of white wine, 1 gill of Burgundy or other rich wine, the strained juice of one and the grated rinds of two lemons; sweeten it well, and add Iqt. of cream. Whisk it with an egg-whisk for an hour, then put it into glasses and serve. In cold weather it will keep nearly a week. Americans make this with Catawba wine. Solid Syllabub for Trifle.—Mix with 1 pint of thick cream 1 wineglassful of raisin wine, £ wineglassful of brandy, and the juice of one lemon. B.ub wo or three lumps of sugar over tiie peel of the lemon, put it into the mixture, adding more sugar to suveeten it to taste. Whip it to a stiff froth; it is then ready for the trifle. Somerset Syllabub.—Put 1 pint each of port and sherry into a bowl with jib. of sugar, then milk about 3 pints of milk from the cow into it. In half-an-hour’s time pour 1 pint of clotted cream on the top of the Syllabub, flavour it with grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, cover it thickly with comfits, and serve. Staffordshire Syllabub.—(1) Put 1 pint of cider and 1 wine- glassful of brandy into a large bowl, sweeten to taste, and grate a little nutmeg into it; then either milk from the cow or pour warm milk into it slowly from a jug held very high over the bowl, and serve. (2) Mix together in a china punch-bowl \ pint each of cider and claret and J pint of brandy, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and mix a small quantity of nutmeg with Syllabub—continued. it. Milk the cow into the bowl until it is full. If not convenient to draw milk straight from the cow warm a sufficient quantity to fill the bowl, turn it into a teapot or a similar vessel with a spout, then pour it slowly into the bowl from a great height, and serve while the milk is still frothed. Whip Syllabub.—(1) Put 1 pint of cream in a basin with 4 wineglassfuls of sherry, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice; sweeten to taste with Fig. 732. Whip Syllabub. caster sugar, and whisk it to a stiff froth. Then, mix § breakfast-cupful of milk with the cream and whisk it again. Serve the Syllabub in glasses (see Fig. 732.) (2) Put in a large basin Jib. of caster sugar, a little finely-grated lemon-peel, the juice of one lemon, 1 wine- glassful each of brandy and sweet wine, and 1 h pints of cream. Whisk the above mixture well, taking off. the froth as it rises with a skimmer and putting it on a sieve; continue the whipping till sufficient froth is obtained, then set the sieve in a cold place and leave it for a few hours. Mix together 1 pint of cream, 4 pint of wine, 1 wineglass- ful of pale brandy, the juice of one lemon, 6oz. of caster sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. When well mixed, nearly fill some custard-glasses with the Syllabub, put 1 table-spoonful of the whipped froth on each, then serve. SYPHONS.—Bottles for holding aerated waters, having an automatic action (see Fig. 733). They are ex- ceedingly useful when only small quantities of an aerated water are wanted. SYRA.—A sour drink prepared from milk-whey in Iceland and Norway. SYRACUSE WINE.—A Sicilian wine somewhat resembling Chablis. SYRUP (Fr. Sirop ; Ger. Syrup; Ital. Siroppo; Sp. Xarabe).— This word is probably derived from the Arabic Sharab—a drink. In this country we have two meanings for the same word; one is a saturated solution of sugar in water, and the other the juices of fruits boiled with sugar. Of the first named this article treats chiefly, fruit syrups appearing under the headings of the fruits which give to them their distinctive characters. The very best sugar only should be used for making Syrup, and as little heat used as is consistent with the proper dissolving of the sugar. Taking water as the unit, the proportion of sugar to water may vary from the unit until such a degree is reached that the water cannot possibly take up or hold any more sugar. Starting from the unit, the degrees are divided by the use of a saccharo- meter or hydrometer, as it is sometimes called, which gives the intermediary degrees. To produce a strong simple Syrup, about 21b. of loaf sugar should be dissolved in 1 pint of water. Fig. 733. Syphon.555 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <£•(!., referred to, see under their special heads. Syrup—continued. Syrup makers generally use Baume’s Saccliarometer or Hydrometer, and where Syrup of any degree is specified in this Encyclopaedia, reference is made to the indications of this instrument. The following receipts will be found useful for most purposes: Excelsior Syrup. —Put 1 pint of plain Syrup into a bottle, and add 4oz. each of Syrup of wild cherry bark and port wine. Mix well, and use as required. Fancy Syrup.—This is obtained by mixing 1 pint of vanilla Syrup in a bottle or jar with 4oz. each of pine apple and raspberry Syrups. Corking and using as required. Golden Syrup.—Put 5lb. of preserving-sugar in a sugar- boiler with lqt. of water. Stir the sugar till dissolved, then boil it for two or three minutes. Mix 21b. of strained honey with the Syrup, and turn it into the jars. Indian Syrup.—Dissolve 241b. of loaf sugar and loz. of citric acid in Jgall. of boiling water; leave it until cold, then mix in 4 drachm of essence of lemon and half that quantity of spirits of wine. Stir until all the ingredients are well mixed, then pour the Syrup into a bottle and keep it tightly corked. A teacupful of this Syrup mixed in 1 pint of cold water will make a very refreshing summer drink. Maple Syrup.—This is obtained by reducing maple sugar and water to a Syrup, using 41b. of tire former to 2 pints of the latter. Simple or Plain Syrup for Cordials or Liqueurs.— Put 7H>. of sugar into a vessel with bgall. of water, close the vessel securely, and dissolve the sugar by gentle heat. Strain it and use as required. Using sugar and water in these proportions will produce a Syrup 58deg. of Twaddell’s hydrometer, and will contain 741b. of sugar per gallon. Stock or Store Syrup.—Put 14lb. of loaf sugar (or beet- root sugar may be used) into a preserving-pan with 2qts. of cold water, set the pan on the fire, and stir in the whites and shells of three eggs. Whisk well until about to boil, let it rise in the pan, and at once remove it from the heat. A gas-stove is best for this as it can be turned off immediately. Pour the Syrup into a jelly-bag pre-' viously dipped in boiling water and wrung out, and filter until perfectly clear, repeating the process if necessary until a pale straw colour is obtained. Reduce the Syrup over the fire, and bottle off for use. Syrup for Compotes.—Put some loaf sugar in a sugar- boiler, cover it with water, stir it till dissolved, then boil quickly. Skim the Syrup, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and boil it till thick, so that it can be drawn in threads between the finger and thumb. Flavour the Syrup, and use it for the compote for which it has been prepared. Syrup of Gum.—Thoroughly wash Jib. of gum, and soak it in 1 pint of water till it has dissolved. Strain the water through a piece of linen, wringing it so that none of the gum shall be wasted. Stir lib. of sugar in the water till dissolved, then mix it with the gum water, flavour with a little orange-flower water, and bottle. Syrup for Ices.—Put the required quantity of loaf sugar in a sugar-boiler, just cover it with water, and stir it by the side of the fire till dissolved; then put it over the fire and boil quickly till it is of the consistency of rather thin gum. The Syrup is then ready for the ices. Syrup for Lemonade.—Boil 141b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of water, mix in it 4oz. of tartaric acid, and leave it till cold. ^ Flavour the Syrup with essence of lemon, and bottle it. When ready to make the lemonade, use 1 teacupful of the Syrup for every pint of water. Syrup for Preserving Fruits.—Put 7lb. of granulated sugar into a sugar-pan, add 5 pints of cold water, and when on the hot stove stir with the spatula until thoroughly heated, but without boiling. Remove the Syrup from the fire, put it aside, and use when needed. The above quantity will produce 5qts. at 30deg. Fahr. Thin Stock or Drinking-Syrup.—Pour 2qts. of boiling water over lqt. of stock Syrup and use as required. It is ■ For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Syrup—continued. best kept in a jar with a tap to it so that it can lie easily drawn off. -Cold distilled water may be substituted for the boiling water. TABLES.—Derived from the Latin tabula—a flat board, or slab of any kind. From a teclmical point of j view there is little that needs to be inserted in an Ency- \ clopsedia of Cookery concerning Tables, beyond a description of those most useful for kitchen and serving purposes. The dining-table, or board upon which viands are spread for consumption, leads up to an extensive and interesting subject, which must be dealt with hereafter. A very important piece of furniture is the kitchen-' table. There may be dresser-boards, shelves, and flaps, but ail are useless to the cook as compared with a Table. Upon the kitchen-table meats are prepared, seasoned, and dished, sauces mixed and blended, and many other culi- nary acts performed. It should be made, therefore, of stout deal, as large as the size of the kitchen will permit, fitted with convenient drawer for holding knives, forks, spoons, clean kitchen cloths, and other requisites. Not only should the Table be the most prominent piece of i furniture in the kitchen, to which all other fittings must play a supernumerary or supplemental part, but it should be kept at all times ready for immediate use, uncovered, and scrupulously clean. The practice of using the Table for a chopping-board, trimming-board, pot-board, or for making paste, cannot be too strongly condemned; the sur- face becomes in such cases scratched and unsightly. Dining- or eating-tables have for centuries past occu- pied a good deal of attention, opinions varying greatly as to what the shape and size should be. The first idea of a Table possibly originated in the use of a flat rock as a resting-place for food. In later years eating-tables were made round or oval, and only large enough to accommo- date two guests (a custom that might be encouraged in these times when a plentiful supply of neatly-laid gipsy- tables might be used for drawing-room teas). The modern dining-table is either round, rectangular, or rectangular with rounded corners, and made large enough to dine several persons at the same time. Round Tables are not patronised so much in this country as formerly, but they still find favour in several parts of America, where some of them are so large in diameter that the centres are quite beyond reach. Long rectangular Tables, j with more or less rounded corners, are generally pre- ferred. The size of the Table will very much depend upon the number of guests it is intended to entertain, and j the area of the room. According to a famous classic the number of guests should not exceed that of the Muses, nor be less than the Graces. The size of the Table, then, j should be based upon those numbers, allowing 30in. of space in width for each person, or a trifle more for ladies. Behind the chairs, between them and the wall, there should not be less than 6ft. in any part. As regards the proportion of length to breadth, the length may exceed the breadth by a quarter, one-third, one-half, and, in rare cases, by three-quarters. Anything beyond that would enter the list of Tables described under Banquets, and of which the subjoined engraving (see Fig. 734) is a superior arrangement. A writer on dining observes that “ generally the modern dining-table errs on the side of too great solidity. The first quality of a Table obviously is that it should be firm on its legs, but there is no reason for exaggerating its strength into clumsiness. Furthermore, the dining- table of richly-carved oak, walnut, rosewood, or mahogany, is a useless luxury ; the ornamentation is misplaced, ancl often fatal to knees ; the richness of the material itself is lost, inasmuch as the Table is always covered with a cloth.” A French writer of the latter part of the eighteenth century, writing on cabinet-making and furniture, says that “ eating-tables are not susceptible of any decoration;THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 556 For detals respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tables —continued. they consist simply of several planks of pine, or some other light wood joined together with tongue and groove, and bound with oak at the ends. These Tables, or rather these Table-tops, are almost all of one shape—that is to say, a parallelogram, larger or smaller, according to the number of covers.” The writer of the above calculates that at least 2ft. should be allowed to each cover, or, better still, 3ft. when there are ladies, because of the' room their dresses take up. Fig. 731. Plan of Banqueting-tables. a, Chair; b, Vice-chair. Horse-shoe Tables were at one time greatly in vogue, the guests sitting at the outside curve, and the service being from within. These Tables were never more than 3ft. wide, which enabled the waiters to reach the guests without difficulty. A certain Frenchman named Gilliers, chei-d’office (head butler) to King Stanislaus, in a very rare work printed and published by him in the year 1761, gives a number of engravings of quaint Table arrangements. Not only does the writer give a full description of the shape, but he also gives ample directions for constructing it. In a valuable little book on delicate dining, the author (Mr. Theodore Child) has gone extensively into the subject of dining- or eating-tables, and to him the credit of much of this information is due. He informs us that, “ In the Middle Ages, which were far more refined in manners than most people believe, the general disposi- tion of the dining-table was borrowed from the usage of the abbeys and convents, and it was precisely the disposition still maintained in the English universities at the present day. The principal Table was laid on a raised platform or floor, at the upper end of the dining- hall, and received the name of high-table, a term still in use at Oxford and Cambridge. The guests sat on one side of the Table only; the place of honour was in the centre, and the principal personage sat under a canopy or cloth of state, hung up for the occasion, or under a permanent panelled canopy curving outwards.” The picture of the “ Last Supper,” by Leonardo da Vinci, represents the guests seated on one side and at both ends. This coincides with the arrangement of the guests in Pinturrichio’s pictures of “ The Story of Griseldis ” in the National Gallery (London). Another arrangement, shown in a picture by Botticelli, is that of the women on one side of one Table and the men on the outer side of another Table, the two Tables being arranged parallel. Benvenuto Cellini, in his entertaining autobiography, gives an account of a supper party, which Mr. Theodore Child has translated for us thus: “ When the banquet was served and ready, and we were going to sit down to Table, Giulio asked leave to be allowed to place us. This being granted, he took the women by one hand, and arranged them all upon the inner side with my Tables—continued. belle in the centre; then he placed all the men on the outside, and me in the middle. As a background to the women there was spread an espalier of jasmines in full beauty, which set off their charms to such great advan- tage that words would fail to describe the effect.” Tables that appeared mysteriously ready laden with the repast will be mentioned under Table Service. TABLE CUSTOMS.—As regards the term Table in its gastronomic sense, to do it full justice the whole of this Encyclopaedia must be included. Every item that treats of food, drink, earthenware, china, plated goods, silver, cutlery, linen, their preparation and arrangement, appertains to the Table. The host and his guests seated round the festive or social board are part and parcel of the Table, just as King Arthur and his knights were part and parcel of the historical Round Table—what would the Table be with- out them ! Cookery books in numbers have been written for the direction of those who serve the godlike Table; but there are few worthy of the name of text books, giving either too much or too little, and so unintelligibly arranged as to be little else than deceivers. Names of dishes and modes of their preparation are undefined, varying con- siderably in every case; so much so that the menu (which should grace every spread Table) is no longer an indication of what is to come. It has been said that there are no less than five hundred receipts for soup; but these are probably diversions of a few that are standard, either in the ingredients, mode of preparation, serving, or name. Apropos of this subject, Kettner observes that: “ In the whole range of literature and science there is nothing to be found comparable to the inaccuracy and corruption of culinary language. It is something astounding. It seems as if all the ignorance in the world had conspired together to darken speech and to stupefy cooks. There is no science of cookery possible without a correct phrase- ology. Science is but another name for clear and classified knowledge, and the first step to it is precision of speech. At the present moment the vocabulary of the Table (dinner, in text) is a mass of confusion and ridicu- lous mistakes, which is every day becoming worse and worse through ignorant importation of French names (originally themselves bad enough) into English bills of fare.” “ It comes of abominable pretension,” continues this entertaining author, and he might have added, “ and an insane notion that no cookery but French can possibly be delectable.” He gives us the following examples, to which many more might be added that are familiar to us : “ A leg of good English mutton—the best in the world—will be entered as Gigot of Pre Sale. What on earth has become of the English Soutlidowns that they should be described as a French Salt Marsh ? I have seen a fillet- steak served with tomatoes, entered as ‘ Filet de Boeuf a l’Orientale,’ under a notion that tomatoes came originally from the East and not from the West, and that the people of the East are given to eating beef. This is not merely pretension, it is perfidy. You order the Oriental fillet expecting one thing, and you get something quite different.” The ignorance of the English cook in culinary nomen- clature is remarkable, hence we find in a modern menu Jambon d’Ham, the word jambon being a ham, making the translation therefor “ a ham of ham.” The French cook will speak of a Biftek de Mouton, a Rosbif dAgneau—signifying a mutton beef steak, and roast beef of lamb. The very first chefs in the land are apt to make some such blunders, due, in a great measure, to a mad desire to use a language that they do not understand. These are customs which originate in the kitchen, but affect the Table, and, therefore, as a stepping-stone toTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 557 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dbe., referred to, see under their special heads Table Customs—continued. the very interesting subject of Table Customs as practised in all ages, of which some mention is clue to the Encyclo- paedia. Some of this might have been reserved for another heading (Table Service), but it is advisable to deal only with modern matters under headings that convey a strictly practical intention. History reveals to us some amusing stories of the Table Customs that have prevailed during one age or another. Many of these were simply barbaric, indicative of a low order of morality and ignorance. Others, on the contrary, have been preserved through many generations to be observed in the present period, and held sacred. Drinking healths (see Toasts) is one of these customs that hails from the Dark Ages ; undergoing almost impercep- tible modifications in manner, but remaining the same in substance and fact. The Loving Cup, in which guests pledge each other, is an example, and so also the High and Low Tables, originally described as above and below the salt. Forming processions, headed by the host and his most honoured lady guest, is of ancient origin, and probably descended from a Roman custom of each noble guest selecting for himself the damsel he desired to dally with as she filled his cup with wine. Whole volumes might be filled with interesting details of a similar character, but the practical intention of this Encyclo- paedia recalls attention to matters more modern, impelling us to confine further remarks to what may be called the “ Art of Eating at Table.” That fingers were made before forks is a well-known maxim, for forks were not introduced to Table until the seventeenth century. Prior to that plates were at a discount, so that one plate had to serve two persons; which led to the drawing up of a code of etiquette, containing amongst its precepts directions not to dip more than two or three fingers in the plate, and not to select the best portions for your own delectation. The mouth was to be continually wiped on the table-cloth, and the fingers also, and a special warning is given against picking your teeth with the fingers used for feeding. Napkins and finger-bowls must have been a great boon, if they were not invented too late. Erasmus of Rotterdam wrote, in 1530, a treatise in Latin, on Table manners, for the young Prince Henry of Burgundy. From its wise teachings we select the following: “ Do not pick your teeth with the point of your knife (forks not yet invented), nor with jour finger-nails, as dogs and cats do, nor with your napkin ; make use of a splinter of lentiscus wood, or a quill, or of those small bones which are found :n the legs of fowls.” Concerning the frame of mind for eating, Erasmus says : “ Gaiety is oecoming at Table, but not effrontery ”; and there is an old saying that a meal chatted over is half digested. Royal and noble personages believed some time back in a good temper whilst eating, and provided jesters for the amusement of themselves and guests. “ Do not sit down without having washed your hands and cleaned your nails ” sounds like good advice. “ When you wipe your hands drive away all morose thoughts ” is wisdom itself, for “ at meals you ought not to seem sad yourself nor to sadden others.” This urbane writer advises children not to put their elbows on the Table, nor to wriggle about; and that “ To lick your greasy fingers, or to wipe them on your clothes, is equally bad manners ; it is better to make use of the table-cloth or of your napkin.” This shows us that table- napkins were used in the early part of the sixteenth century. “ Do not gnaw bones with your teeth, like a dog; pick them clean with the aid of a knife (no fork).” It is unnecessary to comment upon the foregoing, excepting to remark that they were considered very excel- lent rules in those days, and might be applied to present Table Customs—continued. use with certain modifications, without detracting from the customs that prevail in many families and nations. Urbain-Dubois, the renowned chef, whose knowledge of Table manners and customs must have been very extended, observes in his book on “ Cosmopolitan Cookery ” that: “ No doubt it would require a long study to write on the art of eating as exercised by the variety of civilised nations. The investigations requisite for that purpose, if judiciously conducted and co-ordinated, might be not uninteresting even for the learned.” Further he says: “ Without entering on critical appreciations, I cannot abstain from stating that the art of eating at Table, according to the principles admitted in well-bred circles, is much less advanced than it ought to be, in the actual condition of national intercourse. All who have travelled over Europe, and have been present at dinners, whether great or little, all those who have seen many persons at Table, know perfectly well that this assertion is by no means exaggerated. Would it, then, be displaying too much presumption to endeavour, on the one hand, to set aside superannuated customs, which, at bottom, are defective, and, on the other hand, to pro- pagate the method more in harmony with good taste and the best traditions of gastronomy.” Society, as it is called, has its etiquette and Table observances; these may be convenient or inconvenient. In either case they are founded for the most part on appearances and good taste. Dubois speaks very highly of English customs at Table. He says that “ the English method (of Table conduct), if not the most disseminated, is, at least, the one most observed and practised in the higher circles of society, the English enjoying, in this respect, a European reputation; they both eat at their ease themselves, and do not inconvenience their neigh- bours at Table; these are two points which, in my opinion,.. give to their method an incontestable supe- riority.” Praise from such a source is praise indeed, and this he emphasises by observing “ what appears difficult, incon- venient, and impossible, is ” not to follow the English rules, but “not to eat” according to them. “ In order to eat at one’s ease, and without automatic stiffness,” says Dubois, “ one must first be seated commo- cliously and perpendicularly, neither too high nor too low; the chest upright, at an equal distance from the back of the chair and from the Table. On the left of the plate there should be a solid fork, rather heavy than light; on the right the spoon and knife, the latter having a broad blade rounded at the extremity.” One of the peculiarities of Continental Table service is the paucity of tools supplied to the diner. The same knife and fork is expected to go through several courses, and is changed only for sweets after being used for savouries. “ When the hands are not occupied with carving (that is cutting) or conveying the food to the mouth, they may be reposing on the edge of the table, but only as far as the wrist. “ When about to eat (with the exception of soup, which is always absorbed by holding the spoon with the right hand), or to cut the food that is on the plate, the fork ought to be used with the left hand, the points or prongs turned downwards, and pressed on with the extended fore- finger, to maintain it in an almost horizontal, and not a perpendicular position. “ The knife is then taken with the right hand, and with the aid of its rounded blade the piece cut is covered, either with sauce or with the garnishes that are served with the meat, to raise it to the mouth, but solely with the help of the fork, and consequently with the left hand; the knife ought never, to be raised to the mouth.” At. this point Urbain-Dubois deplores the fact that English epicures declined to use a knife with fish. ThisTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 558 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Customs—continued. originated from a good cause, as the steel blade was supposed to impart a metallic taste to fish. The intro- duction of silver or plated fish-knives has set the matter at rest. “ When one ceases to cut or eat—whether it be to join in the conversation, or while waiting for another dish—the knife and fork ought to be laid on the plate, the handle of the one turned to the right and the handle of the other turned to the left; in other words the two extremities pointing inwards, so as to be able to remove them at once when required to be used again.” In France it is usual, as before observed, to use the same knife and fork throughout the savouries, the attendant wiping the blade of the knife and returning it; but in England a fresh knife and fork are used with every dish, so that the Englishman puts his knife and fork on his plate parallel to each other, inclined to the left for the convenience of the waiter, who seizes them with his thumb, thus preventing the possibility of them slipping and falling on to the guest, Table, or floor. It is only necessary to add one more suggestion, and the rest may then be left to the good taste and social experience of the individual. Never touch the blade of a knife, fork, or spoon with the fingers, and never put the hand, or any part of it, inside a drinking-vessel. The finger-bowl is provided for that purpose. In many parts of the Continent saltspoons are not used ; the custom there is to wipe the blade of the knife on a piece of bread and help yourself to salt with its point. TABLE DECORATIONS.—Under the heading of Appearances, Mr. Corblet, one of the chefs engaged upon the staff of this Encyclopaedia, points out very forcibly the value of pleasing the eye as well as the palate. The viands provided at a banquet may be very delicious, but will only seem to be so in proportion to their tempting appearance. The value of Table Decora- tions can scarcely be over-estimated; their entire absence would detract fatally from the enjoyment of the feast. The subject to be considered, under the heading of Table Decorations, does not apply to the dishes nor their garnishing, but to the display on the Table before the guests take their seats. Under Table Service will be described all that is necessary for the laying of the Table, so far as the facilities for eating and drinking ai’e concerned; but here we have to deal with supplementary or subsidiary decoration only, such as glass, china, silver, gold, and plated goods, ornamental centres, illumination, and flowers. Although fruit, jellies, cakes, and a variety of other comestibles perform an important part of the Table Decoration, they will be more fitly described under Table Service. By glancing carefully through the Plates with which this Encyclopedia is freely illustrated, some very beautiful designs will be found for centre pieces, all of which are not only practicable, but simple in their construction to anyone taking the trouble to study the art. These centre pieces, or grosses pieces, as French cooks style them, are usually contrived to suit the occasion of the feast they are destined to grace. A military banquet would be marked by a central design or trophy emblematic of war; cannons, piles of cannon-balls, helmets, arms of various sorts, drums, and other instruments, some of which might well be constructed out of cakes, jellies, fruit, or ices, and mould- ings in sugar, paste, or fat. Designs will be found in the Plates suitable for any purpose—naval, military, hunting, sporting, theatrical, dancing, musical, and others. The centre piece is the first consideration in decorating a Table; decide upon that, and then all other decorations can be made to harmonise, adding to the effect without detract- ing from it, and not eclipsing it by greater magnificence. All artists in Table Decoration admit the importance of a centre piece—it is the jewel around which they can arrange a suitable setting, and may therefore be anything Table Decorations—continued. from a fern, or vase of flowers, to the gorgeous fountain of scented water depicted in one of the coloured Plates. At first sight such an elaborate Table Decoration would appear to be an almost impossible construction, but this is not so, as will be seen and understood by reading carefully, and following the description of its details. The design is a central fountain of scented water, with figures bearing shells of candied fruits or bonbons. This stands in a lake of real water in which small gold fish are swimming, and upon which boats, swans, and other fanciful things are floating. The bank is of cork, made up with dried moss and artificial flowers, and here and there a pedestal of gum paste, supporting a vase or pot of real flowers. An arrangement of electric lights renders the appearance perfect. With regard to the fountain, it may be said such things can be obtained of any maker of ordinary garden foun- tains. The mode of working is precisely the same. Should the skill of the operator go so far as moulding, for which full directions are given in this Encyclo- paedia, the fountain could be specially constructed out of gum paste, and then varnished twice after one coat of size. In this way delicate colouring might be introduced; but, as a matter of high art, pure white would be more suit- able to the coloured surroundings. The supply to the fountain is connected from under the Table, then under the floor, and up the wall, to a tank, either in the same room on a high shelf or cabinet, or outside, or in the room above, either of the latter being preferable to the tank in the room, as it enables the waste to be returned to the tank without the knowledge of the party. The lake consists of a well-made zinc or tin tray with upright sides, not less than 3in. deep, shaped to suit the tastes of the constructor. The plan given (see Fig. 735) is a very good one, a space being left in the centre to allow the fountain pipes to pass. Before proceeding with the- construction of the lake, it is necessary to explain how the fountain-pipes may be conveyed through the Table. If it be a plain deal Table top on trestles, a hole can be cut in the wood and the difficulty is at an end. But if the Table be made of mahogany, walnut, or some other valuable wood, then the ingenuity of the operator must be exercised. Almost all dining-tables are telescopic, and furnished with leaves to be let in as occasion may require. If the Table is not telescopic, then the workable fountain is better not attempted. The falling of water must be imitated by an arrangement of spun glass. But when the telescope Table is opened as wide as necessary to receive all the leaves required, it will be observed that before tightening up there is a space between the leaves. Now, by having two strips of wood about 2in. wide, cut and shaped to fit in as if they wei’e a leaf, but not meeting in the centre (see Fig. 736), the difficulty of fountain communication with the tank is removed at once without injury to the Table.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 559 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Decorations—continued. Of course these two strips must be fitted with pegs and sockets, precisely the same as the leaves of the Table, and as they will be covered with the lake and cloth the colour of the wood does not signify, although that might be Fig. 736. Arrangement for Passing Fountain-pipe through Table. got over by using the same kind of wood as the Table top, or staining it. Before fixing the tin tray for the lake in its place, the bottom should be painted dark blue, or blue green, and the sides inside should be painted brown. Aspinal’s enamel will answer admirably, but it must be painted some days before it is wanted for use, so that the enamel may harden thoroughly and not taint the water. Indeed, it would be advisable to let water stand in it some time before fitting up the lake, taking care to empty the first water out, and refill. When all the materials are ready and the Table pre- pared, the tin tray is first placed in position, and the cloth Fig. 737. Arranging Tablecloths for Fountain. arranged under it. Two long and two short strips answer very well, and can be joined at the corners, as shown in the drawing (see Fig. 737). A few stitches are all that will he necessary to keep them together. If one large cloth is used, the centre must be sacrificed to the fountain. Under the lake tin a piece of white or marbled American cloth, cut 3in. or 4in. larger than the tin, so as to project that distance all round, might be laid so as to protect the cloth from the banks which have now to be built. Table Decorations—continued. At each point of the lake set a white pedestal—these pedestals need only be inverted boxes, or square blocks of wood ornamented according to taste with gum paste —then build up between them with bits of virgin cork a rustic bank completely covering the tin edge of the lake. Fix the pieces together with glue, and insert here and there tufts of different dried mosses, grasses, and artifi- cial flowers (see Coloured Plate). Having built the bank to your satisfaction, take the pagodas, boats, swans, ducks, lilies, or whatever you propose to float on the lake, and to the bottom of each fix, with sealing or cobbler’s wax, a piece of black thread, to the other end of which should be attached a little weight of some kind, coloured same as bottom of lake. In this way the floating objects are lightly anchored, having, at the same time, a very realistic freedom of motion. Fasten the threads to the centres of boats’ keels, so as not to give the idea of being anchored at either end. Place everything in position, and then begin to fill up with water, taking the greatest care not to wet the cloth. When you have about 2|in. of water in the lake, put in a number of small fish—gold and silver, and stickle- backs, minnows, small tench, or any other kind that are available, but do not make up the aquarium effect with toads, lizards, water-snails, tortoises, or any other such horrors. Fig. 738. floral Table Decoration—Scallop Pattern. When the electric light is available, small coil burners may be set here and there on the cork bank, in bunches at the corners of the Tables, and in the fountain; these latter might have the glass coloured variously so as to brighten the falling water, and the base be green. The effect would then be positively fairy-like and charming. If electricity be not to hand, coloured fairy lamps may be used, with which an effect very nearly as good can be attained. From the foregoing, we come down to Table Decorations of a simpler character. The centre may represent an Indian scene—groups of tall palms, rocks, sand, and figures. The lake tin may be partly filled with fine sand, and an Arab camp, or village, tastefully arranged. In short, the way should now be open to all to produce some extraordinary effects in the way of Table Decoration. The cook who considers the most attractive thing on the board should be the viands themselves, would much prefer that the subsidiary decorations should be of a very simple character—confined chiefly to a display of pretty china, silver, glass, and flowers, and with these some exquisite effects can be produced suitable for all sorts of occasions. It will be observed, upon a further reference to the Coloured Plate with the lake and fountain, that the side decorations do not, or should not, obstruct the view of the persons sitting opposite. With elaborate centre pieces, I obstruction is almost imperative; but with floral decorationtee encyclopedia of practical cookery. 560 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Decorations—continued. it can be so arranged as not to rise more than a few inches from the Table, or in such places only as shall not come between opposite guests. For tall vases, the corners are best suited, but these should be so situated that the host will not be required to bend forward uncomfortably in order to converse with the right or left hand guest. When the Table is illuminated by candles or electric branches, these usually occupy the corners, and should be so arranged that the branching is above the line of vision between host or hostess and corner guests. A very pretty floral arrangement is that of the wreath, consisting of a continuous flat string of flowers fastened together and laid upon the cloth in some tasteful design, dividing ornamentally that part of the Table where the dishes stand from the covers. These wreaths may be made up of any flowers that stand well, orange blossoms prevailing for a wedding breakfast; roses, violets, lilies, and other white flowers for a christening lunch; holly and mistletoe with evergreens for a Christmas or New Year’s dinner. Evergreens alone, with here and there an artificial flower, makes a good show. Scallops (see Fig. 738) and scrolls (see Fig. 739) give the best effect, relieved here and there at symmetrical distances by a tuft of flowers, with scrolls embracing the stands of raised dishes, especially those containing fruit, ornamental cakes, and bonbons. If a central piece be used—and it adds greatly to the effect —it should be an arrangement of a tall palm, or tree-fern, with small ferns or pot flowers, such as tulips, gloxinias, primulas, or whatever dwarf free-flowering plant is in season. Artificial flowers are frequently used, and with splendid effect. They do not wither or droop, nor do they fill the atmosphere with a sickly scent, even though used in any quantity; and so beautifully are they made now that they can scarcely be detected from real growths, especially by gas or candle- light. When pots containing flowers are set on the Table, the pots should be concealed by an ornamental vase (see Fig. 740). Some of these are very beautiful, and look neat, Fig. 740. flower-pot Vase. clean, and ornamental. When cut flowers are used, the ends should be kept damp if possible. Several plans have been suggested for this purpose—covering the ends with a little wet clay, and wrapping up the clay in cotton wool. Damp cotton wool answers very well, provided that the wool is not made so Table Decorations—continued. wet that the water runs over the cloth. When tufts of 1 flowers are required, they can be kept in good shape and ' quite fresh by cutting a turnip in halves, and sticking the flower stems in the round part, first boring holes with a stout iron skewer, or any other convenient weapon. The turnip may be stood in an inverted lid of a tin canister (see Fig. 741), plate, or saucer, and a little water poured in the vessel if it be desired to keep the flowers fresh for hours. Vases containing water are to be avoided as much as possible, unless they are placed beyond reach of guests, attendants, and servers. The upsetting of one will entirely spoil the appearance of the Table. When moss is used it should be dried, for when wet it has a most de- appetising smell of the grave. As soon as the scroll system is understood, it will take the pride of place in floral Table Decoration, and ladies interested in the art will easily contrive designs to suit circumstances and other conditions, probably introducing inscriptions betokening welcome to the guest, or good wishes of some kind. The use of one kind of flower only has been advocated recently; a lady of rank giving rose dinners, violet dinners, and so on, each guest being presented with a button-hole or bouquet, and the Table being simply one massive bed of the particular flower in question. As an extravagant waste of floral wealth these beds of flowers, with the dishes rising through them, are unequalled; by scrolls and wreaths a much more tasteful effect can be produced at infinitely less cost. When fairy lamps are used as a partial illuminant, the stands are sometimes so constructed as to hold a small bunch of flowers on each side, and a menu card at the back. These give an excellent effect if placed between two guests; but the light is, to say the best of it, very weak, although the colouring is effective. Gas overhead gives a bad effect to the Table, casting uncanny shadows over the white cloth ; candles, from tall branches, have not yet been excelled, even by electricity, the effect of the latter being somewhat too white and silvery. From some of the Plates given in this Encyclopedia, floral and other arrangements are shown; one, especially, of suspended wreaths, showing the guests under, and, as it were, in frames of flowers. They are bad for a dinner at which speeches are expected to be made. The fashion becoming prevalent of arranging the cloth or cloths in ornamental style, will be described under Table Linen. TABLE D’HOTE.—Literally, the host’s table. In some of the large hotels it is usual to hold a set meal at a certain hour, at which a full menu is served. At this table it is usual for the landlord or manager to preside. TABLE LINEN.—This consists chiefly of table- cloths and napkins or serviettes, with sideboard cloths, and smaller cloths for small side tables, dinner waggons, and carving-cloths. Of all these, with the exception of561 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Table Linen—continued. serviettes, there is little advice to be given, excepting that they should be of good linen (or damask, as this particular kind is called), perfectly white and scrupulously clean, evenly folded, soft, and quite free from artificial stiffening. A writer observes that “ the cloth should be spotlessly clean, and if this condition exist much will be pardoned; it may be of pure white linen or damask, or it may have a coloured pattern woven or embroidered along the edges. The use of colour in the pattern of Table Linen is by no means novel. In the miniatures of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the table-cloths and dresser-cloths are constantly represented with rose or blue stripes and borders. Some luxurious table-cloths, nowadays, are not only richly embroidered, but also adorned with inserted bands of lace, which give you the sensation of dining off a petticoat.” The foregoing remai’ks may be sufficiently accurate to pass muster under ordinary circumstances, but there are occasions when some such designs as those shown in a Plate of Artistic Table-cloths are not only feasible, but exceedingly tasty, No special instructions for their preparation are necessary beyond advising a free use of safety-pins, or strong thread tacking. Two cloths are sometimes used, the under-cloth being embroidered, and the upper looped up with silver cords and tassels, or bunches of flowers, ribbons, bows, or rosettes. Table-cloths should be most accurately folded when removed from the Table, folded over and upon it, so that each crease may be used again, thus avoiding crump- ling ; and the cloth when folded should be placed un- der a linen-press (see Fig. 742) arranged very evenly, and kept quite flat and pressed down. Five o’clock cloths, and cloths for side tables, boards, or dinner-waggons, are some- times embroidered in colour; for a sideboard, the part of the cloth that falls over would look well if a trail of vine, grapes, and corn were embroidered along it. The first use of the table- cloth was not only to cover the Table, but for the diners to wipe their fingers upon, at a time when forks were unknown; and the custom was to dip the fingers in the plate, and then wipe them and the mouth on the cloth. Fashion and civilisation have together substituted for the cloth a simple napkin, which has since been improved into one of the chief features of ornamentation in the service of the Table. Poets, historians, and authentic chroniclers have been strangely silent touching the beauties of the “ snowy ” table-cloth ; but they have waxed eloquent concerning the napkin and its folding, until the latter has become an absorbing art. See Serviettes. TABLE SERVICE.—To Careme the following is attributed : “ France is the mother country of hospitality; her cookery and her wines assure for her a triumph in gastronomy. She is the only country in the world famous for good cheer; strangers are quickly convinced of this by experience.” The probability is that it emanated from Brillat-Savarin, and underwent a little alteration of sense and meaning by Careme, for every gourmet that ever lived has given to England the chaplet for hospitality. France may excel in French cookery, and France may excel in wines, but English cooks are not altogether insensible to Table Service—continued. the art of cooking English dinners, and the best French cooks in the world come to England to practise. Urbain-Dubois, who has probably been quite as expert a cook as Careme, says, in his standard work on “ Artistic Cookery ”: “ As respects England, those who have studied its development cannot fail to have observed that the art of eating, in the highest sense of the word, has undergone notoriously progressive transformations. All classes of society furnish their contingent of expert and well-trained epicures; but it is in the higher circles more especially that the taste for gastronomy is the most widely diffused and the most highly cultivated. English cookery, con- sidered in its practical results and its rich splendour, stands much higher than its former reputation, and it has in every respect improved, and advanced towards perfection. The tables of the nobility and gentry are served with uncommon opulence, but above all with the nicest care and attention. The viands are varied, abundant, luxurious, and delicate. The kitchens are admirably organised and richly stored ; they are, in fact, permanent and thriving schools, whence good traditions are con- tinually spreading. If the tables of the middle classes be still deficient as regards variety, yet it may be said that the care bestowed on the details and the manifest character of real comfort presiding at their repasts, make amends for this defect; and besides, here, as everywhere else, improvement becomes every day more visible.” The same author further adds : “ It is a fact worthy of notice that, in England, culinary art is more cultivated (encouraged) than in any other country.” It should be if it is not, for no country in the world offers such grand facilities for cooking. English cooks should be further stimulated to great efforts by the following : “ Formerly the science of good living, the research after delicate viands, were the privileges of the few; nowadays epicures may be counted by legions. In all countries, among developed nations, and those that seek after the benefits of modern civilisation, the most enlightened minds are the most fervent worshippers at the shrine of good taste.” Good cooks deserve good service; this should be borne in mind, as also that upon this service much of the success of the entertainment will depend. Never was a greater mistake made than to proclaim, as a maxim, that the flavour of the viand depends in no wise upon the service. A very observant writer expresses himself thus : “ Let the plates and dishes off which we eat be as fine as our purses can afford. One of the great errors made at some of the best Parisian restaurants is to serve fine food on comparatively coarse plates.” Before proceeding to a detailed description of the art of Table Service, it should be observed that the host is supposed to give a hearty welcome to those who are about to partake with him as his family or guests. His motto should be: Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table; and for the sake of good-fellowship, the guest should accept the invitation with becoming courtesy, and re-echo the words of Crabbe: To the house of a friend, if you’re pleased to retire, You must all things admit, you must all tilings admire; You must pay with observance the price of your treat, You must eat what is praised, and must praise what you eat. Amongst all classes, and in all parts of the world, there is no ceremony so enticing as that associated with a festive board; no family gathering so auspicious as a homely dinner. The well-spring of charity responds with redoubled enthusiasm to A rat-tat-too o’ knives an’ forks, a clinkety-elink o’ glasses; and not only are the hearts moved, but the purses are opened by a good dinner well served. Upon Table Service so much of the social success of a meal depends that some considerable time and Fig. 742. Linen-press (Adams and Son). VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see tinder their special heads. 2 oTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 562 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Service—continued. attention should be devoted to its proper understand- ing. The desire to please one’s guests and place them entirely at their ease should prevail throughout, wherefore it is advisable to dispense with those forms and formalities that have no beneficial bearing upon the sociability of the service, employing such forms only as by their general observance contribute to the comfort of the individual. See, in the first instance, then, that ample room at table is provided for each guest, and that the chairs are roomy and comfortable. The Romans reclined at table on softly-cushioned couches ; but it is not to be supposed that this was the most convenient or luxurious mode of eating. After a full dinner the reclining would be acceptable, especially as the custom was, after feeding, to drink freely of wine. A comfortable chair is all that the modern banqueter need desire. See Banquets. Of the utensils displayed in modern Table Service, it may be surmised that in England we are apt to use knives and forks if anything a trifle heavier than comfort or necessity requires. Frenchmen use knives and forks of a small calibre, consonant with the delicacy of their made dishes. The largest knife should not exceed 9|in. in length, the small knife 7Jin. in length, and the largest fork 8jin. Mr. Theodore Child, in a work entitled “ Delicate Dining” (which he has dedicated to his friend P. Z. Didsbury), makes some remarks on Table Service, amongst much other excellent matter, from a gourmet’s point of view, which are so very reasonable, shrewd, and practical, that this shall be the excuse for reproducing them here. He says, “ Simple knives and forks seem to me to be desirable, and all heavy and elaborate ornamentation should be avoided, especially ornamentation in high relief, which is irritating to the touch. On the other hand, variety may be charming. At a dainty dinner, I would have knives and forks of a different pattern with every dish (meaning course, probably). “ The glasses that figure on a table ”—adding so much to its attractive appearance—“ will depend on the wines served; they should be convenient and elegant in form, and owe their charm simply to the purity of the crystal and the beauty of their silhouette. Engraved glass, cut glass, and coloured glass is used very sparingly by people of taste. Bordeaux, Burgundy, and Champagne wines should be drunk out of nothing but the purest crystal glass, which conceals none of their qualities of colour or scintillation. It is the common custom to drink German wines out of coloured glasses; liqueur glasses are often coloured also; but it seems absurd to mask the purity and delicate hues of whatever nectar we may be drinking by serving it in obfuscating glasses of green, blue, red, or any other colour. For my part, I would admit to the gourmet’s table only pure and very simply decorated crystal glass.” Concerning this service of glass, some further obser- vations will be found under Wines, and some very fine designs will be found depicted on one of the Plates of this Encyclopaedia, entitled “ Drinking Glasses.” Of Decanters it is not necessary to say very much ; no gourmet would permit real wine to be decanted, however ornamental the decanters may be (see Wines). Child says: “ If the wine served is not real wine, you may decant it, and do whatever you please with it, except sei’ve it to your guests,” which saying, although something of a bull, deserves to be recorded. Explaining the difference between French and English Table Service, the same author finds fault with the “ multiplicity of special apparatus ” to be found on an English table. “ In a French house,” he observes, “ the ai-ticles for Table Service are knives, forks, spoons, soup-ladles, salad-spoon and fork, a manche a gigot (or handle to screw on to the knuckle-bone of a leg of mutton, so that the carver my hold it while he cuts), a hors-d’oeuvre service, sauce-bottle stands, oil-and- yinegar stands, salt-cellars, pepper-mills, mustard-pots, hot- Table Service—continued. water dishes, oyster-forks, asparagus-servers, ice-pails, nut-crackers, grape-scissors, crumb-brush and tray, a salver or tray, with a sugar-basin, &c., for tea, and there will be an end of the silver articles. With this apparatus, and the necessary supply of plates, dishes, crockery, glass, and linen, the most delicate and complicated repast may be perfectly served.” With regard to gold and silver plate, he observes that it “ is very little used, except in a few princely houses,” and adds that “ its absence from table is not to be regretted ; the noise made by the knife and fork coming in contact with gold or silver ware is irritating to the nerves; the glare and reflections cast upon the face of the diner by his gold or silver plate are disagreeable to the eyes.” The only use for this kind of ware is “ limited to candle- sticks, dessert-stands, and centre ornaments, if such are used.” And “ if we are the lucky possessors of fine silver soupi'eres, by Pierre Germain, or ewers by Froment Meurice or the Foumieres, exhibit them on the buffet or dresser (sideboard), rather than on the table.” Enough has been said concerning the utensils used in feasting; the selection is not material, provided good taste be displayed in their use. It is quite possible to serve a magnificent epicurean meal on an ordinary service of glass and crockery, only omitting a cruet-stand, of which the French diner has an innate horror. A few flowers go a long way towards rendering the cloth attractive, and the rest will depend upon the cook. General rules only can be given for Table Service; their utility will depend upon the adaptive faculties of the reader. Some further suggestions will be found under special headings, such as Banquets, Breakfasts, Glass, Luncheons, Plates, &c. Have the room thoroughly swept and dusted before laying the cloth. Spread the cloth evenly, taking pains to have the central crease exactly in the middle. A sideboard cloth should be laid for breakfast, upon which may be placed ham, tongue, or other cold viands, with carvers, plates, and knives and forks. Always put a table-spoon in front or at the side of the dish it is intended to serve. Lay covers, with the handles of all knives and forks exactly even, and one inch from the edge of the table, and one foot of clear space between. See that all cruets are freshly filled. Place the serviette (napkin) between the knives and forks, and a manchet, or piece of bread, in the napkin where it can be seen. Let the services of plates and dishes be of one pattern and size, if possible, excepting metal or plated dishes, but even these should match. The sideboard should perform a very prominent part in the provisions of a breakfast or luncheon, but not so much at a dinner, when a dinner-wagon is always found to be more convenient. Servants do not generally wait at luncheon, the meal being essentially homely, domestic, and informal. Tumblers are placed on the luncheon-table, but not on the dinner-table, excepting beer be supplied. Ale may be placed on the table at luncheon or supper, or on the sideboard, but never on the table at dinner. When pouring out bottled ale or stout, pour very slowly with the glass inclined towards the bottle. Let the ale or stout flow down the side of the tumbler, and in this way the excessive frothing will be avoided. Do not quite empty the ale bottle, or the contents of the glass will be cloudy, if not thick. Fresh fruits are often supplied at luncheon; the neces- sary plates, knives, forks, &c., should be left on the sideboard or dinner-wagon, ready for use if desired. For dessert after dinner, the fruit should be set on the table. Finger-bowls are used at dinner only. When laying a cover for dinner, put two large knives and a spoon on the right, and two large forks on the left.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 563 Table Service—continued. At the top, just to the right of the end of the outside large knife, put your tallest and largest wineglass, and then group the others below, but always slanting a little towards the right, and close together. Place sherry, hock, claret, and champagne glasses, or glasses suitable to the wines to be served, in this way. For every-day dinners, sherry and claret glasses are generally sufficient, or sherry, hock, and claret; but if there is to be champagne, hock may not be needed (see Wines). Port wine glasses are not used for late dinners. Never turn glasses upside down on a table. Set close together, but not piled, on your sideboard all forks, spoons, ladles, knives, slices, and other articles that are likely to be required during the service. Fig. 743. Butler’s Tray or Stand (Adams and Son). Do not lay a soup-ladle, gravy-spoon, or fish-slice on the table—keep them on the sideboard until they are wanted. Carving-knives and forks should be laid with their handles in line with other knives and forks, and iheir tips on rests. No rule can be given for the laying of salt-cellars or cruets—much depends upon the facilities at hand. A very handy adjunct to a small dinner is the butler’s tray (see Fig. 743). Let this, when used, be covered by a white cloth. It is useful to hold glasses, spoons, forks, and the utensils for the cheese course. For small luncheons and suppers a folding tray (see Fig. 744) is very useful, as it can be laid with a cloth, loaded, and the ends of the cloth folded over the contents. Fig. 744. Folding Luncheon or Supper Tray (Adams and Son). It is placed on the table, the flaps are let down by releasing some bolts, and the cloth is spread from it. When it is time for the cheese course, lay a small knife and fork, and a small plate to each guest. A dinner-wagon should be used for holding the plates, spoons, knives, forks, finger-glass, and d’oyleys for dessert. Spare dishes also of dried fruits, biscuits, compotes, wines, &c. Strawberries, cherries, and fresh fruits generally should be garnished with fresh leaves. Never use artificial Table Service—continued. leaves for this purpose. Bon-bons, crystallised fruits, cakes, and biscuits look best served on ornamental dish- papers. Fig. 745. Wooden Knife Tray (Adams and Son). As a supplement to the foregoing, it may be observed that the attendants or waiters at a table should be thoroughly instructed and conversant with the details of service it is their duty to carry out. When taking a charged plate from the carver, another should be at hand to replace the one removed. For handling these a napkin or white cloth is advisable; but, under no circumstances, except at a restaurant, should the waiter carry a cloth. A supply for unforeseen use should be at hand, neatly folded, and laid on a side-table; but it is only in extreme cases, such as accidents, that they should be required. Plates, knives, and other articles should be thoroughly dusted and quite clean ready for use, before being brought into the dining-room. Everything cold, except change plates, should be brought to table on a salver, with a small fringed cloth laid on but not over it. Dirty knives and forks should be collected in a tray, having compartments for each. It may be made of Fig. 746. Wicker Tin-lined Knife Tray (Adams and Son). wood (see Fig. 745), or of wicker lined with tin (see Fig. 746). Dirty plates should be put into a convenient plate basket (see Fig. 747) and taken out of the room to be emptied after each change. The foregoing hints and instructions do not by any means constitute all that might be written on the subject. Many pages might be filled with ease, but it is doubtful whether more valuable instruction could be given to those who are supposed to have some know- ledge of the fashions governing the tasks they have undertaken to fulfil. What further space can be devoted to the subject of Table Service must be used to treat of the higher branches, embraced by the national titles of Ser- vice a la Frangaise, Service a la Russe, and Service a l’Anglaise, the latter being virtually a happy combination of the two former. Urbain-Dubois—one who should know—tells us that “ The two courses of a dinner a la Frangaise are founded on rules which cannot be infringed without prejudicing the harmony of the dinner. Thus, when the first course is composed of two removes and four entrees, the second course requires two roasts and four en- tremets.” The first course of a dinner a la Frangaise consists of all the dishes served from the soups to the roasts; the second course includes the roasts and en- tremets, to the sweets, which may be said to constitute a third course, and includes cheese and dessert. Fig. 747. Tin-lined Wicker Plate Basket (Adams and Son). For details respecting Culinary Proce$ses} Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 o 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 564 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special tirade. Table Service—continued. Of the dessert, Dubois remarks that “the sphere of action is greater, and in some sort optional. ... In regard to the entrees and entremets, the rules of sym- metry are against their being in odd numbers, for they are destined to be placed parallel on the table facing one another.” Plats volants (flying dishes) may be handed round without finding a place on the table at all. In the first course of a dinner a la Framyaise the dishes belonging to the same series—that is, the hors d’oeuvres, the entrees, and the removes—are symmetrically placed in pairs on each side of the table, and the large dishes at each end. The first course is always set on the table before the guests enter the room; the second course follows, also in symmetrical order; and then, after all traces of these two courses are cleared away, the third course takes their place, also arranged in exact symmetry. Concerning the dinner served a la Francaise, Urbain- Dubois, as a cook, expresses his opinion that the only objection to this method of service is that “ the luxury of the table is obtained, in some sort, at the expense of the quality. The reason thereof being that, in a complicated course, the dishes placed before the guests, especially those to be eaten last—the hot entrees, for instance— scarcely remain sufficiently hot to be enjoyed in a state of perfection, for they are handed to the guests too long after being dished up.” To remedy this, he advises a partial adoption of the service a la Russe, in which the hot dishes are not placed on the table, but are “ carved in the kitchen, dished up, and then sent into the dining-room, to be handed at once to the guests.” What is lost to the eye is thus gained in the quality. In concluding bis remarks on this subject, Dubois wrote: “ The adoption of the service it la Russe is, nowadays, a settled matter. At first it may seem that a dinner served by handing the dishes to the guests must leave the table empty, and consequently destitute of the tempting appearance one likes to find on the occasion of a good dinner. This supposition is, however, not well foimded, since the cold dishes, the cold entremets, the pieces of pastry, and the dessert can be placed symmetri- cally on the table from the beginning of the dinner, and for the most part can remain there as long as it lasts. In this way great scope is given to cooks and butlers in adorning the table, and showing their ability, particularly with regard to dishes best adapted for ornament.” This matter is thoroughly treated under Table Decoration. A very practical English writer on the subject of Table Service advocates the French system modified to what we may term service a l’Anglaise, and this he describes in the following words : “ The table being spread, and the dinner announced by the butler or principal waiting-servant, the lady of the house must quietly indicate the arrangement of her guests according to rank, age, or any local or occasional distinction, the master of the house leading out the first lady, and the mistress following last with the- most dis- tinguished gentleman, who, seated at her right hand, is her assistant in the duties of the table. “ The soup and fish are usually placed on the table together, and the covers removed at once; the soup to the lady, the fish before the master; or if two soups, and one should be turtle, that must be at the head. Soup is sent round without inquiry to everybody, to be accepted or rejected at pleasure. Sauterne, sherry, or madeira may be offered after the soup (see Wines). After turtle soup, punch is the correct liquor. The fish is carved and served round in the same way as the soup, if only one kind of fish be served, if more, the choice must be left to the guests. “ After the soup and fish are served, the removes (releves), as they are generally termed, that is the pieces i de resistance, the stronghold of the dinner, are brought j Table Service—continued. in; but before they are carved two or more entrees are usually handed round, and if champagne be introduced this is the time for it to be offered. “In carving the removes, a servant must be at the side of the carver with the plates, which he must as quickly as possible pass to the guest (having put another in the place of the one he has removed) for whom it is intended, another servant following with the vegetables or sauces. If only one servant be employed, the vegetables should be on the table, that the guests may help themselves, for nothing can be more vexatious than to have to wait for them for a-quarter-of-an-hour after you have been served with the meat. The same may be said of the sauces, so often, at a scantily-attended table, withheld until you no longer care for them.” With the foregoing practical observations this article may be closed. For information on any special subjects the reader is referred to the particular headings. TABLETS (Fr. Tablettes). —Sweetmeats made in the shape of flat squares. TAFIA.—The Spanish name for spirit or rum. TAGLIARIHT.—A kind of short-paste much used in almost every part of Italy. The following is a good receipt for its preparation and use: Sift lOoz. of flour on to a table, make a hollow in the centre, add a little salt, five or six eggs, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of lukewarm water. Crush or break the eggs with a spoon, and gradually work in the flour, leaving none on the table after the paste is mixed smooth. Make it into a lump, cover this with a basin, and let it remain for six minutes or so. Divide it in halves, roll them both out very thin and of an equal size, put them on cloths, and let them dry for about fifteen minutes. The board or table should be floured when the paste is being rolled out. Cut the paste into strips about 2in. in width, dredge over a little flour, put one strip on the top of another, and cut them transversely into shreds. When they are cut, spread them out on sheets of paper, keeping them well apart, and let them dry for about an hour. Take them all up, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two minutes; remove the saucepan from the fire, let them remain for two minutes longer, turn out on to a sieve, drain them, place in the saucepan, add (,1b. of butter in small lumps, and stir the Tagliarini well with a fork, sprinkling over a little grated Parmesan cheese, and salt and grated nutmeg to taste. Put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, cover with tomato sauce mixed with a little rich gravy or melted glaze, and continue in this way till all are used up Serve as soon as completed. TAILLI-KATAIF.—The name of a very delicious dish prepared in Turkey, and specially favoured by the ladies of the harem. Sift lib. of flour mixed up with a little salt and sugar into a basin, and mix in four ounces of rectified butter or oil, and a small quantity of water, working well into a smooth frying paste or batter. Have ready several cornets made with stiff paper, put the paste in them, and squeeze it out about the size of vermicelli on to a well-buttered pan or sheet, taking great care not to let the strips touch one another. Put the pan or sheet on a trivet over a moderate fire and let them set; or as they are squeezed out they may fall upon the pan or sheet on the trivet over the fire, removing them when set to make room for others. Let them all get cold. Well butter a flat biscuit-mould, place the strips of paste in it, pour over clarified butter, and bake in a slack oven for about twenty minutes. Take out the mould, turn the contents out on to a dish, pour over an orange-flavoured syrup, and serve TAILS (Fr. Queues). —These are treated under the names of the different animals to which they belong. They are considered luxuries, especially the tails of birds, commonly known as the Pope’s nose, or in France as Sot-l'y-laisse.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 566 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, sec under their special heads. TAMARA.—In Italian kitchens it is usual to keep a stock of mixed spice under this name. It is prepared as follows: Mix in a mortar, grinding thoroughly, 2oz. each of cinnamon, cloves, and coriander-seeds, and loz. each of aniseed and fennel-seed. Some add loz. of celery-seed to this. TAMARINDS (Fr. Tamarins; Ger. Tamarinden; Ital. Tamarindi; Sp. Tamarindos).—The fruit of the Tama- rind tree (Tamarindus indica) is usually imported into this country preserved in syrup. It grows in the form of a bean (see a, Pig. 748) from very beautiful bunches of flowers set amongst elegant pinnate leaves (see b, Fig. 748). The calyx of the flower is yellow, the petals yellow streaked with red, the filaments purple, and the anthers brown. Added to this the flower yields a delicious perfume. The Fig. 748. Tamarinds. fruit, or bean, consists of a brittle brown shell, within which is a soft acid brown pulp, traversed by strong woody fibres. Before preserving Tamarinds the outer skins are removed. Preserved Tamarinds.—Put a layer of sugar at the bottom of a wide-mouthed jar or bottle, cover over with a layer of stoned Tamarinds, and continue in this way until the jar or bottle is full, having the top layer of sugar rather thick. Cover over the jar or bottle with oiled bladder, tying it down securely, put it in a cool dry place, and it will keep good for years. Tamarind Chutney (Indian).—Put 41b. of stoned ripe Tamarinds into a glazed earthenware pan, and mix in 2lb. of ground cinnamon, 4,1b. each of well-washed and dried currants and stoned raisins, 21b. of moist sugar, and 4oz. each of salt, ground garlic, chillies, and ginger. Pour over sufficient vinegar (about lqt.) to cover, and simmer over a quick tire till all the liquor is absorbed and the chutney is sufficiently thick, stirring continually. Remove the pan from the fire, let the contents get cold, put it into bottles, and the chutney is then ready for use. If preferred, the sugar and vinegar may he boiled to a syrup before being added. Tamarind Cup.—Put 14oz. of Tamarinds in a saucepan with 3oz. of well-washed currants, and 2oz. of raisins, pour in 3 pints of water, and boil them. When the liquor is well flavoured with the Tamarinds, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, put in a piece of lemon-peel, and leave it until cold. Before serving, the lemon-peel should be removed. This makes a very refresh- ing drink in the summer, especially when iced. Tamarind Drink.—Put 2oz. of Tamarinds into a saucepan with f qt. of cold milk, and let them simmer at the side of the fire for an hour. At the end of that time stir the liquid well, sweeten it to taste with sugar, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Or the Tamarinds may be boiled in water for an hour-and-a-half, then strained, and sweetened with treacle. Tamarind Fish.—(1) Remove all the scales and fins from two fresh hilsa fish or herrings, which should have good | Tamarinds - continued. roes, chop off the heads and tails, take out the roes, wash the fish inwardly, and cut them up into slices about lin. in thickness. In the meantime, prepare a thick pickle with ripe Tamarinds, vinegar, and salt, straining it to exclude all the stones and fibres. Lay the slices of fish and roes on a dish, cover with salt, and let them remain for four or five hours. Wash off all the salt with a little vinegar, put a layer of the pickle at the bottom of a wide mouthed bottle or jar, put in the fish, covering each piece with the pickle, cork up the bottle, tying it over with bladder to exclude the air, let it remain for about three weeks, and it will be ready for use. The bottle or jar should be of the size to just contain the fish, as it must be quite full. This preparation will remain good for months. (2) Put lqt. of vinegar and 21b. of Tamarinds into a sauce- pan, boil well until the latter are cooked and the seeds and stalks leave the pulp, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Cut up into |in. pieces any fish, such as herring, mackerel, or cod, rub them with salt, and leave them to pickle for two days; then dip the pieces of fish into the Tamarind pickle. When cold pack the fish in large jars, and cover the top well over with the Tamarind pulp. Let them remain in this for a few days, when they are ready for use, but should be well drained before serving. Anglo- Indians are exceedingly fond of this dish served in the centre of a curry. Tamarind Sauce for Game, Cutlets, &c.—Peel and slice 1 onion, put it in an enamelled stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry over a moderate fire until cooked and nicely browned, hut not burnt. Put in with the onions, 4oz. of Tamarinds, 1 bay-leaf, and a few cloves, moisten them with 1 pint of clear beef gravy and 1 wineglassful of claret, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the sauce boil gently for half-an-hour at the side of the fire. Colour the sauce a rich dark brown with burnt sugar, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve it either hot or cold. Tamarind Syrup.—Put 6oz. of Tamarinds into an earthen stewpan, pour in 2 pints and 1 teacupful of water, place it over the fire, and boil it until reduced to 14 pints. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan without the Tamarinds, mix in 31b. of sugar, stir it for a few minutes, then boil it for half a minute. Leave the syrup until nearly cold, then pass it through a silk sieve, or a piece of clean cloth, bottle it, and cork securely. Tamarind Water.—Put 2oz. of Tamarinds and 4oz. of stoned raisins into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil for an hour. Strain the liquor into a basin, let it cool, and it is ready for use. TAMMY (Fr. Tamis; Ger. Stamin).—A kind of woollen cloth, also known as taminy, used for straining fruit syrups, liquid jellies, etc. The French cook uses the term “ tamis ” for a fine meshed sieve of any kind, the word having originated from the cloth used at one time to form the sieve or strainer. TANGERINES.—See Oranges. TANKARDS.—The origin of this historical term is doubtful, unless it can be in some way associated with the English word tank, signifying a vessel for holding liquid. At one time wooden tubs bound together with iron hoops, and used for carrying water, were known as Tankards; but, as drinking-vessels, the first we read of them in history is about the middle of the sixteenth century, although, according to Arbuthnot, “ Marius, a Roman general and consul, was the first who drank out of a silver Tankard after the manner of Bacchus.” Vessels remarkably like Tankards have been found in Pompeian, Trojan, and other excavations, excepting as regards the lid, which seems to have been an important feature of what we now know as Tankards, although more modern Tankards are not so fitted. One of the earliest Tankards known is preserved at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and bears the date 1571. It isTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 566 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tankards—continued. elaborately ornamented with arabesques, bands of repousse, and engraved work. The celebrated “ Poison- cup ” (see Fig. 749), which some Italian ladies in the seventeenth century used to poison their husbands, was a glass Tankard enclosed in silver filigree casing. The poison employed to effect their base purpose was known as aqua togana, so-called because prepared by a woman named Togania. As arsenic was probably the active agent, a glass vessel was used as less likely to leave traces of the poison. Tankards of a later date were tall, upright, and straight-sided (see Fig. 750), often beautifully orna- mented, some of which were used in the reigns of James I. and Charles I. Towards the middle of the seventeenth century Tankards were in common use, and are frequently mentioned in inventories taken at that time. According to Griggs (“ Old English Plate ”) a splendid pair of Tan- kards, of one of which a drawing is given (see Fig. 751), came into the possession of the Merchant Taylors’ Com- pany in London, reverting to them on the dissolution of a Fig. 751. Broad Tankard. Dublin Guild. They show, round the lower part of the drum, the acanthus-leaf ornament, which is so charac- teristic of the seventeenth century—the time at which they were made. From an early account-book of the Clockmakers’ Company it may be mentioned that a pair of Tankards were ordered to be made, weighing together 100oz., and costing £31 19s. 5d. Every great company or guild lias its Tankards, more or less chaste and beautiful in their execution; some of ancient record, and others of more modern origin. Tankards—continued. The same authority as previously quoted informs us that “ These domestic Tankards of the second half of this (seventeenth) century are very plain, often of very great diameter in proportion to their depth, and have hat lids and very massive handles, the lower part of the latter often being notched to form them into whistles. They came in at the Restoration, and are found till about 1710 or 1720, when a pot with swelling drum and dome-shaped lid, with or without a knob, was introduced, of a fashion so well known at the present day, both in silver and pewter, that it is unnecessary to describe it more fully.” The Tankards of the last century are as often found with lids as without them, a good example being seen in the three-handled loving-cup (see Fig. 752), which has crowned many a goodly feast in the present and past generation. TANSY (Fr. Tanaisie ; Ger. Ramfarn).—An aro- matic bitter-tasting plant (Tanacetum vulgare), at one time much used in English cookery to flavour puddings, cakes, and omelets. The plant grows from 1ft. to 2ft. high, with repeatedly divided, deeply-cut leaves, and a yellow flower. A variety with curled leaves is sometimes cultivated as a garnish for dishes. Essence of Tansy.—Put a pressed down quart of dry Tansy leaves into a half-gallon jar, fill up with gin, and let it stand for six days; then filter and bottle. Should the leaves be fresh, about two-thirds of the quantity will be sufficient. Tansy Julep.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in 1 wineglassful of syrup at the bottom of a large glass, pour in 1 wineglassful of gin with a little vinegar, fill up the glass with crushed ice, arrange six or seven freshly gathered Tansy leaves on top, put in a few cherries, currants, or any like fruit, mb the rim of the glass with lemon, and serve. Tansy Pudding.—(1) Pour 3 table-spoonfuls of the juice of Tansy, obtained by bruising, over sufficient breadcrumbs to absorb it, and mix in 3oz. of blanched sweet almonds, pounded with 2oz. of loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful of grated orange-peel, and 2oz. of butter; pour in six eggs beaten up with 2 breakfast-capfuls of cream, mix thoroughly, put the mixture into a basin, and boil in a saucepan of water until done. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over melted butter sauce, sweetened to taste and flavoured with lemon-juice, and serve. The pudding may also be baked, and in that case the sauce will not be required. (2) Put a small piece of lemon-peel and two laurel- leaves in ]qt. of milk, and boil it. Break up Jib. of maple biscuits into a basin, strain the boiling milk over them, and stir in the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the567 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tansy—continued. whites of four. Put a handful of Tansy leaves and double that quantity of spinach in a mortar, and pound them ; strain their juice through a piece of muslin, mix it with the above ingredients, and add J2lb. of caster sugar that has been well beaten with Jib. of warmed butter, and grate in half a nutmeg. Pour the mixture into a lined sauce- pan, and stir it over a very slow fire until thick, but do not let it boil; leave it until cool, then mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy. Butter the edges of a deep dish and border it with a good puff paste, pour in the mixture, arrange tastefully over the top some candied sweetmeats, and bake the pudding for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Tansy and Spinach Pudding.—Cut off a very thick slice of crumb of bread, lay it in a basin, pour over it lqt. of boiling milk, put a cover over the basin, and let it stand till cold. Beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Pound some leaves of spinach with some Tansy, strain the juice, and add sufficient of it to the eggs to make the pudding a good green colour ; add also 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, sugar to taste, half a grated nutmeg, and Jib. of fresh butter. Mix all these with the bread and milk, put all into a saucepan, and stir it over the lire till hot. Pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. Dredge white sugar over the top, and serve. TAO-FOO CHEESE.—See Cheese. TAPS and TAPPING.—To enter very largely upon this subject would be somewhat out of the line of the intentions of this Encyclopaedia. The word itself is probably of the same origin as tap—a light blow, in allusion to the mode of affixing Taps in the cask or other vessel. From this has been derived the word “ Tap ” as applied to the quality of a beer, and so on to the place where beer is supplied and consumed. A large variety of Taps have been invented and manu- factured for use principally in cellars; so large a variety, indeed, that they may be counted by hundreds. Those of most service to the butler, as having stood the test of generations, are the plain beer Tap, with removable key, for beer, the wooden Tap for cider, and the long-nosed Tap for wines that will require bottling. The mode of tapping is very simple : a long strip of brown paper is bound tightly round the root of the Tap, care being taken that it shall not cover the perforations through which the liquor should flow. The cask is put into position, and the Tap held in one band with the end against the Tap-cork; then, with a strong mallet, a few light taps are given to drive the cork a little way into the head of the cask, until it is sufficiently forced in to ensure the Tap being sent home by one vigorous blow of the mallet. All Taps should be thoroughly cleaned before inserting, and care taken to ascertain that the tube is quite free. It is generally advisable to put the key, when removable, into the Tap before driving it into the barrel. TAPIOCA (Fr. Tapioca; Ger. Tapioka).—A starch or fecula obtained from the root of the Janipha Manihot, a tropical American plant (see Fig. 753), which is prepared for the market by washing, and then drying on hot plates, when it assumes a wart-like appearance. In its natural state it is stated to be poisonous, losing these qualities by the preparation it undergoes before exporta- tion. See also Cassareep and Cassava. Pure Tapioca is insipid, inodorous, and only slightly soluble in cold water, but quite soluble in boiling water, with which it forms a beautiful and nutritious jelly. Tapioca and Apple Pudding.—(1) Put f breakfast-cupful of well-washed pearl tapioca into a double boiler, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and boil well until the liquor is quite transparent. Add a little salt, stir well, and remove the pan from the fire. Pare and core seven or eight apples, fill the cavity with sugar flavoured with lemon-juice, arrange them in a baking-dish, pour the Tapioca over them, Tapioca—continued. and bake until the apples are quite soft. Take out the pudding when done, and serve either hot or cold with cream and sugar-. Pears or quinces may be served in the same way. (2) Core and peel half a dozen large apples, stuff them with sugar flavoured with cinnamon, cover this over with butter, arrange them on a baking-dish, and sprinkle round 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca mixed with sugar to taste, and a flavouring of grated lemon rind. Pour in sufficient water to cover the whole, put the dish in a slow oven, and cook until the pudding is done and both Tapioca and apples are soft. Serve hot. Tapioca Broth.—Put a chicken and a knuckle of veal into a saucepan with a few vegetables previously cooked in white broth, and pour over lgall. of cold water, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil gently until the meat is done. Strain the broth through a cloth into another sauce- pan, remove the fat, and boil up once more; then add as much Tapioca as required, letting it fall into the soup like rain. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and cook gently for twenty minutes. Thicken if desired with yolks of eggs. Turn the soup into the tureen, and serve very hot. Tapioca Cream.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of pearl Tapioca into the double boiler, pour over sufficient hot water to cover, and let it remain at the side of the fire or the back of the stove until all the water is absorbed. Pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and cook gently until the Tapioca is soft and quite transparent. In the meantime, beat the yolks of two eggs in a saucepan, mix in 1 salt- spoonful of salt and J breakfast-cupful of sugar, pour over the boiling Tapioca, and cook for two or three minutes, or until the preparation is quite thick. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Let all cool, flavour to taste, turn it into a dish, and serve. It should not be put into moulds, as it is far better when served quite soft. (2) Put lqt. of white stock into a stewpan, and place it over the fire until boiling. Bruise 2oz. of Tapioca in a mortar, stir it gradually into the boiling stock, and con- tinue stirring it over the fire till the Tapioca has dissolved ; then move it to the side, and let it cool a little. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls each of cream and milk, strain them, and stir them in with the Tapioca. Move the stewpan nearer the lire, and stir the contents till the eggs are cooked, but without letting them boil, or they will curdle. Turn the cream into a deep bowl, and serve it while hot. (3) Pound in a mortar 1 heaped table-spoonful of Tapioca, then put it into a lined stewpan with a bay-leaf, two or three pieces of thinly-shred lemon-peel, and 1 pint of milk. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and keep it simmering5 63 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tapioca—continued. gently at the side of the fire until dissolved, stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When sufficiently stewed turn the Tapioca into a basin, remove the hay- leaf and lemon peel, and leave it until cold. Sweeten 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream with caster sugar, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and whisk it to a stiff froth. Mix the cream gradually with the Tapioca, being very careful to leave no lumps, then pile it on a glass dish, and serve. (4) Boil 2oz. of Tapioca in water till reduced to a jelly. Put a thick layer of any kind of jam at the bottom of a glass dish, pour the Tapioca over it, and set it on ice or m a cool larder. Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, and Sweeten it to taste with caster sugar. When the Tapioca is cold and firm, pile the cream on the top of it, and serve. (5) Put 1 teacupful of sago into an enamelled saucepan, with lqt. of fresh milk and loaf sugar to taste, and let it boil gently until tender, stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When cooked, flavour it with vanilla, and leave it until cold. Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, mix it with the sago, and serve. (6) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca into a saucepan with some cold water, and boil it until dissolved. Put lqt. of new milk into a lined saucepan with two laurel leaves and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and boil it until flavoured. Strain the boiling milk over the Tapioca, mixing it well, and add three beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Pour the whole back into the lined saucepan, and stir it at the edge of the fire until thickened (but do not boil it again), then pour it into a glass dish. When cold, ice it over with an icing made of white of egg and caster sugar, and serve. This dish may be accompanied with stewed fruits Or preserves, if liked. Tapioca Cream Soup.—(1) Put a large slice of ham into a saucepan with jib. of butter, sprinkle in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then pour in a little thick soup, and stir well until the liquor is quite thick. Put 3qts. each of milk and rich stock into a saucepan, strain the thickening into it, add a blade of mace, 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-chopped onion, half that quantity each of turnips and carrots, also finely chopped, and lastly a little more than 1 teacupful of Tapioca. Boil very slowly until the grains of Tapioca are quite transparent, add 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve. (2) Wash and soak j breakfast-cupful of Tapioca, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of rich white stock, and boil for about an hour. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or cream into a saucepan, add a little mace, and one onion and two stalks of celery cut up into small pieces, and boil for about twenty minutes. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve into the saucepan with the stock and Tapioca, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, stir well o'er the fire for a minute or two, turn the soup into the tureen, and serve. Tapioca Custard.—Steep 7oz. of Tapioca in lqt. of cold milk, and set it in a warm place. Put into a saucepan 2qts. of milk with 2oz. of sugar; when boiling, add the steeped Tapioca, and cook for a quarter-of-an-hour. Stir in 2oz. of butter, then the yolks of twelve eggs well beaten, and remove the pan at once from the fire. Let the custard cool, flavour it with vanilla or lemon, and pour it into the freezer; when nearly frozen, add 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream whipped to a froth, and beat well before using. Tapioca Custard Pudding.—Take 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca, pour over it just sufficient water to cover it, and let it steep all night. Beat up the yolks of five eggs quite light. Pour lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when warm stir in the beaten yolks, and jib. of powdered white sugar. Sprinkle a little salt, about as much as would lie on a threepenny piece, over the soaked Tapioca, take the milk and eggs from the fire before they boil, and beat into it. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, stir them quickly and lightly into the pudding, Tapioca—continued. pour it into a buttered pudding basin, stand it in a pan of boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven with a dish turned down over it to cover till the custard thickens; then take it out of the oven, take the cover off, lift it out of the hot water, and put it in the hot part of the oven to brown. Serve either hot or cold. Tapioca Drink.—Well wash loz. of Tapioca in a good supply of cold water, put it when drained into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it gently until it is dissolved, stirring frequently. Flavour to taste, and it is ready for use. Water may be substituted for the milk, but the latter is most nourishing. Tapioca Gratine.—(1) Put 1 qt. of milk into an enamelled saucepan with the finely-grated rind of a lemon, and boil it for a few minutes ; next take out the lemon-peel, sprinkle in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Tapioca, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until tender, keeping it well stirred with a wooden spoon. When cooked, let the Tapioca get cool, then stir in with it four well-beaten eggs. Thickly butter a plain mould, strew in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs, pour the mixture into it, and bake until nicely browned. When ready, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Well wash and pick over 2oz. of Tapioca, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity each of sugar and salt, hut letting the former predominate, add a laurel-leaf, and pour over lqt. of boiling milk. Set the saucepan over a slow fire, and let the liquor boil until the Tapioca is soft and quite done. Turn the whole into a gratin-dish, and cook it over the fire until it is gratined, letting it stick well to the bottom. Remove the laurel-leaf, cover over the dish, and serve. Tapioca Jelly.—(1) Put j teacupful of Tapioca into a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, and let it steep for two hours, putting the basin in a warm place. Put 2 more breakfast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan, add 6oz. of sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon cut up into very small pieces or shreds, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Boil for a few minutes, pour in the Tapioca and water, and cook gently for about twenty minutes on the side of the fire, by which time the Tapioca should be quite transparent. Add a little syrup of cranberries or burnt sugar to colour, pour the jelly into a mould, let it set, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with sweet cream. The colouring may be dispensed with. Fio. 754. Tapioca Jelly. (2) "Well wash and soak 2oz. of pearl Tapioca, put it into a jar, add the grated rind of a lemon, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Put the jar into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and continue the cooking until the mixture begins to thicken. Add 1 breakfast-cupful more of water, and let it boil for half-an-hour, stirring569 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tapioca—continued. frequently. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour the jelly when cool into a mould, turn it out when firm, and garnish with preserved fruit (see Fig. 754). A wine- glassful of sherry or brandy may he added during the cooking, using less water. (3) Wash 1 h teacupfuls of Tapioca, drain it, put it into a double boiler with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, and boil for an hour, by which time the Tapioca should be soft and transparent. It will require to be stirred frequently. Add 1 saltspoonful of salt, | teacupful of sugar, and a little more than a teacupful of currant jelly. Stir well over the tire until the jelly is dissolved, remove the pan from the fire, let the preparation cool, turn it into a glass dish, and serve when cold. Cream and sugar should accompany this. A pint of any small ripe fruit or berries may be substituted for the jelly, adding more or less sugar to taste. Tapioca in Milk.—Put 6oz. of well-washed Tapioca into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, and stir well over the fire for a few minutes; remove the pan to the side of the fire, add a little seasoning, and cook until the Tapioca is done. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs in a little cream, stir them into the soup to thicken, remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in a small lump of butter, pour the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve. Tapioca Puddings.—(1) Boil in a saucepan lqt. of milk, add jib of Tapioca, stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes with a wire whisk. Take it from the fire, let it cool, add 4oz. of powdered sugar, and mix well for one minute. Break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, and with a ladle fill up with the Tapioca, place them in a tin pan, filling it to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, put them in the oven, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Remove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel and with a thin knife detach them, turn them out on to a hot dish (see Fig. 755), and serve with the following sauce: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a basin two eggs, add loz. of flour, toz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. When the milk is boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes. Return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it comes to the boil; then remove, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Put loz. of Tapioca into lqt. of cold fresh milk, and let it steep four hours; add to it then 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a very little grated lemon-peel, and two beaten eggs. Put all together in a saucepan over the fire, stir it till it conies to a boil, then pour the pudding into a dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca into a basin with lqt. of water, and let it soak all night. Strain off the water, put the Tapioca into a double-boiler, pour over 5 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil slowly for about three- quarters of-au-liour. Sprinkle in 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir well, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Turn it out into a basin or mould, let it get cold and set, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with cream and sugar. Tapioca—continued. (4) Pour 1 pint of milk over 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca, and let it steep for an hour; then pour it into a jar with another pint of milk, set it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it cook till the Tapioca is quite soft; then take it from the fire, and let it cool a little. Beat up five eggs with 1 pint of milk; and rub 2oz. of butter into tlb. of sugar. Stir eggs, milk, butter, and sugar into the Tapioca ; then stir in the grated rind of half a lemon and 41b. of raisins, stoned and cut in halves. Butter a pudding-dish, pour the pudding into it, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. (5) Put 1 teacupful of Tapioca into a bowl with h pint of milk, and leave it until it has absorbed all the milk. Put 1 pint of milk into a lined stewpan with 1 heaped table- spoonful of caster sugar and a small quantity of saffron; when the milk boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and leave it for a short time. When well coloured with the saffron, strain the milk, mix it slowly with the Tapioca, return the whole to the stewpan, and boil it gently until quite cooked. Beat two eggs well, and stir them in with the Tapioca. Butter a pie- dish, pour the Tapioca into it, put a few small pieces of butter about on the top, and bake it in a quick oven for about ten minutes or until lightly browned on the top. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (6) Put ‘2oz. of Tapioca into an earthenware jar, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, stand the jar in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the Tapioca swell. Turn it out of the jar into a saucepan, add the milk, and boil for an hour, or until it is quite soft. Prepare a custard with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, two eggs, 2oz. of sugar, and a small quantity of grateil rind of lemon to flavour. Beat in with the Tapioca 2oz. of butter, turn it into a dish, pour over the custard, set the dish in a slow oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a half. Take out the pudding when done, and serve. (7) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca into a basin with sufficient water to cover, and let it soak for two or three hours. Take it out, drain, put it into another basin, and pour over lqt. of boiling milk. Let this get cool, and add 1 table-spoonful of sugar, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, the whites of two, and a little flavour- ing of essence of lemon or rose-water. Turn the mixture into a dish, put it in the oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, let it cool, then pour over the whites of two eggs beaten up with 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and serve. (8) Put five eggs into a basin, beat them well, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of essence of lemon. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca into a dish, pour over lqt. of milk, add 1 teacupful of butter pulled in pieces, and, lastly, the beaten eggs. Set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Take it out when done, and serve. (9) Well clean 2oz. of Tapioca, put it at the bottom of a pie-dish, add loz. of finely-shred beef-suet or butter pulled in lumps, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, set the dish in a moderate oven, and let it remain for half- an-hour. Beat in 1 teacupful of milk, and let it remain for fifteen minutes longer. In the meantime, prepare a custard with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, a slight flavouring of grated nutmeg or any other that is desired, and add sufficient sugar to taste. Pour this into the dish with the pudding, and bake slowly for about an hour. Take it out when done, and serve hot. (10) Wash £ teacupful of Tapioca, and soak it for a couple of hours in warm water. Drain the water off the Tapioca, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, lqt. of fresh milk, two- wineglassfuls of white wine, brown sugar to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. (11) French.—Put 2oz. of Tapioca into a saucepan, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil slowly until the Tapioca begins to swell; then pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, and stir well until the whole is quite thick. Remove the pan from the fire, add one well-beaten egg.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 570 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tapioca—continued. sugar to taste, and a little grated nutmeg or other flavouring. Turn the pudding into a dish, put it into a slow oven, and bake for about three-quarters of-an-hour. Take it out, and serve. (12) Iced.—Soak 1 heaped table-spoonful of Tapioca in cold water until dissolved. Put 1 pint of milk in a stew- pan with the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and boil it for a few minutes. Strain the milk while boiling over the Tapioca, and when properly mixed, turn the whole into the stewpan and stir it over the fire until thickened. Move the Tapioca to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, sweetening to taste. When somewhat cooled, pile the Tapioca on a glass dish, and stand it on ice until quite cold. Ice the top of the pudding over with a white sugar icing (see Fig. 756), and serve. (13) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca in a basin with l breakfast-cupful of milk, and let it soak for two hours in a warm place. Pour 2 more breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, and boil for a few minutes; then add the Tapioca and milk, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Stir in ltoz. of butter and two eggs, remove the saucepan from the fire, and let it cool; add a little lemon or vanilla flavouring, turn it all into a freezer, work it well, add 1 teacupful of cream whipped to a stiff froth, put the whole into a mould packed in ice, and turn it out on to a dish when it is firm. (14) Savoury.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock and 2oz. of Tapioca into a dish, and set it in a slow oven for an hour to let the Tapioca swell. Stir in a couple of boiled onions nibbed through a fine sieve, pom; in 1 break- fast-cupful of gravy or rich soup, and bake gently for an hour longer. Take out the pudding when done, garnish the dish with pieces of fried bread or toast, and serve. Tapioca Rock.—Boil 4oz. of Tapioca in a lined saucepan with 1 pint of water until well cooked; boil lib. of sugar to the crack degree, and split 6oz. of pistachio-kernels length- wise into thin fillets. Mix these ingredients with the Tapioca when it is sufficiently cooked, also 7 table-spoon ful of vanilla sugar, and sufficient cochineal to give it a nice colour. Mix the whole thoroughly. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and stand it in a cool place. When quite cold and firm, turn the contents of the mould on to a dish. Whip 7 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, flick it over the Tapioca to give it the appearance of snow, and serve. Tapioca Snow.—Put 3 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca into a saucepan, with ^oz. of butter and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil quickly until the liquor is quite clear; then add the well-whipped yolks of two eggs, pour it into a dish, flavour with a little grated nutmeg, and cover over with the whites of the two eggs, beaten to a stiff' froth with a pinch of salt and mixed up with 3oz. of finely- sifted crushed loaf sugar. Serve either hot or cold. Tapioca Souffle.—(1) Put 1 tablespoonful of Tapioca into a basin with water, and let it soak for a couple of hours. Strain off the water, put the Tapioca into a saucepan, sweeten to taste, and add sufficient milk to give the Tapioca the consistency of porridge when done. Remove Tapioca—continued. the saucepan from the fire when the Tapioca is cooked, and let the mixture get cold; then mix in a little flavour- ing of grated lemon rind, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of five whipped to a stiff' froth. Turn the prepara- tion at once into a souffle mould, put it into a moderate oven, and bake until the souffle has well risen and is quite done. Take it out, and serve at once in the mould with a napkin pinned round it. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of cream and milk into a saucepan, sweeten with sugar, and stir in a little salt. Boil for a few minutes, add a little flavouring of vanilla, lemon, or any other desired, stir in 4oz. of Tapioca, and boil very slowly until the latter is done. Add a small lump of butter and the beaten yolks of six eggs, let them cook, remove the pan from the fire, beat in' the whites of six eggs whipped to a froth, pour the whole into a souffle-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out when done, and serve. Or the preparation may be mixed with some currants or dried cherries, turned into a well- buttered mould, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and then baked. The latter would require to be turned out of the mould before being served. Tapioca Soup.—(1) Cut up about 31b. of shin of beef, put it into a stewpan with a large piece of salt and 3qts. of water, and place it over the fire; when boiling, skim the liquor, move it to the side, and put in a couple of carrots, the same of onions, and one turnip, all peeled and cut up; also two or three pieces of celery, one dozen peppercorns, and four or five cloves. Boil the whole gently for four hours, keeping it well skimmed; then strain it through a broth napkin into a basin, and leave it until cool. Cut 71 b. of lean uncooked beef, with any cold remains of fowl or veal, into small pieces, put them in a mortar with a chopped carrot, onion, and a piece of celery, and pound them all together. Work in one beaten egg. Skim the fat off' the liquor, pour it into a clean saucepan, add the pounded mixture, and boil it for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor again through a broth-napkin, return it to the saucepan with § teacupful of Tapioca, and boil it gently between twenty minutes and half an-hour, stirring con- stantly. When the Tapioca is cooked, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve without delay. (2) Feel and chop two onions finely, and fry them in butter until lightly browned; then season them with salt and pepper, anil pour lqt. of water over them. When the water boils strain it, pour it into a clean saucepan, mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca, and boil it gently at the edge of the fire until almost dissolved. Serve when ready. Tapioca Soup with Tomatoes.—Put 6oz. of Tapioca into a saucepan, pour over igall. of rich strained broth, boil for a minute-or two, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently. Take out the seeds from four or five large tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with a small onion, a little sprig of parsley and a bay-leaf tied up with it, a few peppercorns, and salt to taste. Put the sauce- pan on the fire, reduce the moisture of the tomatoes, rub the whole through a fine sieve into the soup, and serve when the Tapioca is thoroughly done and dissolved. Tapioca and Tomatoes.—Soak about h teacupful of Tapioca in water for a few hours; put it into a saucepan with more water if necessary, and boil it until thick; then mix a small lump of fresh butter with it, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut four tomatoes in halves, scoop out the seeds and watery substance, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Fill the hollows of the tomatoes with the Tapioca, levelling them smoothly over the top, strew a layer of grated Parmesan cheese and grated breadcrumb over them, lay them side by side in a baking- dish, and bake them for about twenty minutes in a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top, arrange the tomatoes on a hot dish, garnish them with neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. TAR.—A liquid bitumen prepared from the wood of Pinus sylvestris, and other species of pine. Also as a bye- product of gas-making from coal. Sometimes usedTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 571 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tar—continued. medicinally, especially for relaxed throats, in the form of sugar drops, thus prepared: Mix together 21b. of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bone black, 2 table-spoonfuls of prepared Tar water, and £ pint of cold water. Set the mixture over a moderate fire, and let it boil till a little tried in cold water is brittle; then pour it on a buttered or oiled marble slab, and when cold cut it into drops. TARO.—A plant (Colocasia esculenta) with large arrow- head shaped leaves and fleshy rootstocks, which is culti- vated for food in India and the Sandwich Islands. The leaves are cooked and eaten like spinach, and the roots as potatoes. The common name for the vegetable is Tara. See Fig. 757. TARRAGON (Fr. Estragon; Ger. Shlangen-Kraut; Ital. Serpentaria; Sp. Estragon).—An aromatic plant (Artemisia Dracunculus), originally brought to Europe from Siberia. It has long narrow leaves (see Fig. 758) of a bright green colour when freshly gathered, and possess- ing a peculiar aromatic taste, which is much approved by cooks for flavouring, especially vinegar for salads. The following preparations are in common use: Tarragon Butter.—Mince some Tarragon leaves very small, put 1 table-spoonful into a mortar, pound them well, and work in lib. of butter, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Rub the preparation through a fine hair sieve and it is ready for use, and should be served with soles and mackerel. Tarragon Sauce. -(1) Put a few branches of green Tarragon and 1 wineglassful of white wine vinegar into a saucepan, and boil for about ten minutes; then add 4 table-spoon- fuls of veloute sauce and the yolks of two eggs to thicken. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into a basin, add a few leaves of Tarragon, blanch them and cut them up Tarragon—continued. rather small, a flavouring of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. The sauce is then ready for use, and should accompany boiled fowl. (2) Put jflb. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and mix them well, letting the flour colour; pour over 1 pint of chicken stock or broth, and stir well until it boils; add a small bunch of Tarragon leaves, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Skim off' the fat if any, pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, reduce it, thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and it is ready for use. (3) Put a bunch of Tarragon-leaves into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock, add the white of an egg whisked in a little cold water and 1 teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar, and beat well with a whisk over the fire until the liquor boils. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, ami let it remain until the egg is set firm and the liquor bright. Strain it through a cloth into another saucepan, reduce to half glaze, and it is ready for use. (4) Put ^ pint of velvet sauce (veloutd) to boil in a saucepan on the hot stove ; add \ break fast-cupful of white broth and two sprigs of Tarragon, season with a very little salt, and cook for ten minutes. Cut up very fine twelve blanched Tarragon-leaves, and add to the sauce when serving. (5) Prepare 1 pint of white sauce, and mix with it some blanched and chopped Tarragon. It is then ready for serving. Tarragon Vinegar.—(1) Gather the shoots of Tarragon (they should be full grown) the day before they are wanted. Put into a gallon jar as many as it will hold without pressing them down, add the thinly-pared rind of two lemons, also half-a-dozen cloves, fill the jar with white wine vinegar, cork it tightly, and let it stand in the sun for a fortnight or three weeks. Strain the vinegar through a cloth, squeezing the Tarragon-leaves well and wringing them in the cloth, filter it through paper, and then bottle it. (2) Put 51b. or 61b. of Tarragon leaves into an earthenware jar and pour over lgall. of white wine vinegar to each pound of leaves. Strain it into another jar through a jelly-bag, and add a little more than ioz. of gelatine dissolved in a small quantity of cider. Stir well, pour the vinegar into bottles, cork them down, and put them in a cool place till wanted. The leaves should be picked off just before the plant blossoms. A little thin rind of lemon and three or four cloves may be added to give a flavour. (3) Fill a large bottle with the leaves of Tarragon when it is in flower, pour vinegar over them, and let them stand for a fortnight. Strain through flannel, put it in small bottles, and cork them well. (4) Eastern Fashion.—Put into a glass jar 3oz. of elder-flowers, Hoz. of mint, 3oz. each of small onions and shallots, one head of garlic, 14oz. of salt, a large bunch of Tarragon, one cut lemon, and 1 teaspoonful each of pounded cloves and cayenne pepper. Pour over these ingre- dients 6qts. of wine vinegar, cork the jar, and stand it in a warm temperature for three months. The stopper must be occasionally taken out of the jar, and the contents shaken. At the end of the three months, filter the vinegar, pour it into small bottles, and cork them tightly. TARTAR.—See Cream op Tartar. TARTAR SAUCE (TARTARE).—See Sauces. TARTARIC ACID.—An acid obtained in crystals from cream of tartar by an elaborate chemical process. It is very soluble in water, and usually sold in a powder, which renders it exceedingly liable to adultera- tion. It is sometimes used in conjunction with bicar- bonate of soda to make baking-powder. Tartaric Acid is a bad culinary substitute for citric acid or lemon- juice. See Cream of Tartar. TARTS and TARTLETS.—Kettner makes the fol- lowing observations and comments. He tells us that many persons associate these words with the adjective “ tart,”—TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 572 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tarts and Tartlets —continued. sour, believing that there nmst be some connection, because a fruit pie is generally tart. “ Under this hallucination, they cease to speak of an apple pie. They insist upon calling it an apple Tart. A pie in their view is always for meat—a tart for fruit; and some of the most popular cookery books have caught the delusion and done their best to spread it.” The word “ Tart,” in a culinary sense, has nothing whatever to do with acidity, but is a corruption of the French “ tourte,” derived from tartine—a slice of bread. It comes from the Latin torque—to twist, hence the word torta, a twist or roll of bread. “ Our forefathers,” con- tinues Kettner, “ were, in the middle ages, deficient in plates, and it is curious to read of the little odd contri- vances by which at grand feasts they tried to supply the want, and to make one plate do for two or three guests. Some genius discovered that an undercrust of bread might serve for a plate, and for a long period in France the under-crust of the “tourte” or “tarte” was the most common of dinner plates, at which period a family were wont, after eating their dinner, to eat their dinner plates. These dinner plates, made of dinner rolls, were in course of time specially prepared, were made more cake-like, were filled with dainty food, and were called, according to their size, Tarts or Tartlets.” In England the cook seems to consider that a Tart should consist essentially of something sweet, whereas the con- tents may be sweet or savoury without being antagonistic to the meaning of a Tart. Tarts and Tartlets are made in flat dishes, resembling tin dishes themselves, being in reality paste dishes to be Fig. 759. Tartlet-pans. eaten with the contents. Any flat dish will do for a Tart, but the diminutive Tartlets require special pans (see Fig. 759); these answer also for patties, which are merely covered Tarts. A great variety of Tarts and Tartlets will be found under special headings, such as Anchovies, Apples, Apricots, &c. The following receipts have certain peculiarities, that can only be described under this heading: French Tart (Tourte aux Fruits).—Mix together Jib. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and J saltspoonful of salt, then sift them all through a fine wire sieve. Beat Jib. of fresh butter to free it from water, then work it into the flour, rubbing it till quite smooth Avitli the fingers. Beat the yolks of two eggs and mix them in with the flour, adding a small quantity of water to make a smooth stiff paste. Dredge flour over the table or paste board, and roll the paste out on it, making it about Jin. in thickness. Butter a Tart tin, line it with the paste, trimming it off evenly round the edge, fill it with flour, and bake it. With the trimmings of paste shape some flowers and leaves, which lay on a buttered baking-sheet, and serve them separately. When cooked, shake the flour out of the crust, turn the crust out of the tin on to a dish, fill it with any kind of fruit compote, ornament it with the pastry flowers and leaves, and serve. German Iced Tart.—Put Jib. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar slightly flavoured with orange into a basin, and work in with a spoon seven eggs, beating one well in before another is added. When the mixture is frothy, put the basin on the stove or side of the fire, and whisk well for about twelve minutes. Add lib. of potato flour, the well- whipped whites of six eggs, and lastly Jib. of warm clarified butter. Roll the paste into round flats about Jin. in thickness, and bake them on a baking sheet in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, and let them cool. There should be three or four of these rounds. Cover Tarts and Tartlets—continued. the upper surface of these with apricot or other marma- lade, put one over the other, mask the sides after trimming them with more marmalade, cover the whole over with rum or maraschino flavoured icing, and let it set. Decorate the Tart with coloured jelly and small, preserved fruits, and serve. Marlborough Tart.—Prepare about lib. of good puff paste. Butter a shallow Tart dish, line it with the paste, and bake it until half cooked in a brisk oven. Beat three eggs well with 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of sugar, and mix with them 4oz. or 5oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel. Pour this mixture into the paste, and finish baking it. When cooked, take the Tart out of the oven, and serve it when cold. Portuguese Tart.—Have ready one dozen or so golden pippins, pared, cored, and cut into quarters, put them at the bottom of a Tart dish lined with rich puff paste, and cover them over with a layer of apricot or other jam. In the meantime, put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of sugar, four bitter almonds, blanched and cut up small, and a little ground cinnamon, and boil for a few minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, let the mixture cool, stir in the well beaten yolks of one dozen eggs, pour the whole over the jam, put the Tart in a moderate oven, and hake for about half-an-hour. Take it out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Royal Berlin Tart.—Pour boiling water over Jib. of sweet almonds, slip them out of their skins, put them into a mortar, and pound them with six beaten eggs and Jib. of powdered white sugar, beating them to a fine paste; add and beat in the grated rind of two lemons and lib. of fresh butter. Turn about lib. of sifted flour on to a paste- board, put the almond paste into it, and knead them well together, working the flour well in. Divide the paste into pieces, and roll them out to Jin. in thickness; from these pieces cut about twelve or fifteen circular pieces, the largest about 7in. in diameter, the next one about Jin. smaller, the next about Jin. smaller than the last, and so on, each piece being about Jin. smaller in diameter than the previous one. When all the pieces are cut, lay them on pieces of white paper, put them on tin baking-sheets, and bake them a nice brown in a moderate oven. Take them out of the oven and put them away till they are cold. Lay the largest flat on a dish or plate large enough lo hold it, spread over this piece of paste some preserved fruit, lay over this the second size piece of paste, and spread over it more preserved fruit, and continue laying the pieces of paste in proper order, one over the other, with a layer of preserved fruit between, so that the Tart is in the shape of a cone, the smallest piece of paste forming the top. When the Tart is built up, ornament it with candied orange and lemon peel cut in the shape of leaves, and arranged in garlands round Fig. 760. Royal Berlin Tart. the Tart, with some small preserved fruit introduced here and there among the leaves (see Fig. 760). When quite finished, put it in the oven for a minute or two to dry, and then serve. Sand Tart.—(1) Slightly warm Jib. of fresh butter, and beat it for twenty minutes or more with Jib. of moist sugar. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, and beat the yolks up v eil with the butter, adding them one at a time; then mix in Jib. of finely-powdered starch- flour and a few drops of essence of lemon. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow and stir them573 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Tarts and Tartlets—continued. lightly in with the above mixture. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, strew in plenty of fine breadcrumbs, three-parts fill it with the mixture, and bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the Tart in the mould until cold, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it for about twenty minutes with Jib. of caster sugar and the grated rind of two lemons. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of two, and when they are ready stir them into Jib. of finely-sifted flour; when quite smooth, mix in the butter, &c., and beat the whole together for a few minutes. Turn it into a thickly-buttered mould that will just contain it, strew plenty of finely-chopped almonds over the top, and bake for an hour in a good oven. If it begins to colour too much on the top, cover it with a sheet of paper. When cooked, turn the Tart on to a dish, and serve. Chelsea Tartlets or Chelsea Hats.—Boll out 1 Jib. of good putt paste to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 2Jin. in diameter. Moisten the edges of the paste with a paste-brush dipped in water, and pinch it up into the form of three-cornered hats. Fill the interior of the paste with uncooked rice, to keep it in shape, and bake it. When cooked, turn the rice out of the hats, brush them over with the beaten white of egg, and put in the oven to glaze. Pipe the rims inside and out with white sugar icing, put a layer of red-currant Fig. 761. CHELSEA Taktlets. jelly inside, and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream. Make a lattice across the cream of sugar piping, place the Tartlets on a dish that has been garnished with a lace- edged dish-paper (see Fig. 761), and'serve. Fancy Tartlets.—Peel and core six large cooking apples, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with 6 table- spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar, half a stick of cinnamon, three or four cloves, a thin piece of lemon-peel, and a small quantity of water. Stew the apples over a gentle fire till tender. When cooked, pulp the apples through a fine hair sieve. Whisk three fresh eggs well, mix with them four crushed penny stale sponge-cakes, 2 table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and 3oz. of warmed butter, and beat the mixture well. Butter and line some patty-pans with a rich tart-paste, half fill each with the apple pulp, spread the cake mixture on the top, and bake the tarts in a moderate oven until nicely browned. When cooked, take them out of--their tins, arrange them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or lace-edged dish- paper, and serve. Genoa Tartlets.—Blanch lib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding from time to time a drop of water alternately with a little white of egg; squeeze a little lemon-juice over the almonds, and continue pounding them to a smooth paste, then mix fib. of caster sugar with them. Put the paste in a copper pan, set it over the fire, and stir it until it does not adhere to the fingers when tried. Roll the paste out on a table over which caster sugar has been strewn. The bottom of the Tartlets should be as thin as a sheet of cardboard, and the bands must be fin. broad and high. Cut them to the size of half-crown pieces, moisten the edges of the Tartlets with a little beaten white of egg, and fix the bands on them, tailing care that the joins are not visible; then lay them on a sheet of white paper and let them dry. Make a flat of almond paste nearly the size of the dish on which the Tartlets are to be served, giving it any shape fancied, and fix a border the same height as For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Tarts and Tartlets—continued. the Tartlets round it. Put the Tartlets and piece of paste in the oven for a few minutes to dry them thoroughly, then put the small Tartlets in the big one on a dish, fill them with different-coloured sweetmeats and preserves, and serve them. Indian Tartlets.—Put ljoz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a minced shallot, and cook it to a good colour; then add 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, half that quantity each of flour and lemon juice, a little cayenne pepper, and the liquor from twelve oysters. Stir well over the fire until the whole is done, add a cooked carrot cut up in small pieces, and J teacupful of cream. In the meantime, line twelve Tartlet-pans with puff paste, keep ing it very thin, fill them with rice, and bake them for about ten minutes. Take them out when done, remove the rice, turn the paste cases out of the pans, fill them with the mixture, put an oyster that has been bearded on the top of each, place the Tartlets on a baking-sheet, cover them with paper, and make them hot in the oven. Take them out and serve at once. Paganini Tartlets.—Put the whites of three eggs into a basin, beat them to a froth, and add gradually 5oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Have ready some Tartlet- or patty pans lined with puff paste, put a little apricot or orange marmalade in the centre of each, and bake them in a moderate oven for about a-quarter-of-an hour. Take them out when done, heap the egg mixture on the top of them, and serve either hot or cold. Piedmontese Tartlets.—Put loz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work in 2oz. of flour; then add the yolk of an egg, a sprinkling of salt, and a little water should the paste be too thick. Put it on a floured table, fold it over three times, rolling it out each time, and the last time rolling it out to about Jin. thick. In the meantime, grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese into a basin, beat in the yolks of two eggs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg and cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste, and lastly 3 table- spoonfuls of cream. Line some patty- or Tartlet-pans with the paste, put a little of the mixture in each, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for about half an-hour. Take them out when done, and serve either hot or cold, but the latter for preference. Homan Tartlets.—Put the whites of six eggs into a whip- ping-bowl, and beat them to a fioth ; add gradually Jib. of caster sugar, and after this is worked in add 1 dessert- spoonful of cornflour. Great care must be taken in adding the latter, otherwise the pastry will be tough and useless ; the beating must stop and the cornflour only stirred in. Cover a tin or baking sheet with oiled paper, on this place as many small rings as will be required, also lined with oiled paper, make them quite hot, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture into each ring, put them into a moderate oven, and as they are baking make an indent in each with the back of a spoon. When done, take them out, pile upon them whipped cream, decorate with small pieces of different-coloured jellies, and serve. Three-cornered Tartlets.—Roll out about Jib. of rich puff paste to a thin sheet, cut it into squares about 2Jin. wide, put a little jam or marmalade in the centre, fold Fig. 762. Three-cornered Tartlets. the paste over so as to make it three-cornered, and secure the edges by pinching them; place the Tartlets on a slightly- buttered baking sheet, brush them over with egg beaten in a little water, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, Sauces, ibc., referred to, see under their special heads.574 THE ENCYCLOFMDTA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Tarts and Tartlets—continued. and bake in a slack oven. Take them out when done, and serve either hot or cold (see Fig. 762). These are more correctly puff's, or pufflets if such a word were used. TARTINES.—Literally this is the French for slices of bread-and-butter, of which, as may be supposed, several varieties are known, according to the nature of the bread, and additional matter spread over them. Several of them will be found described under various headings. The following are great favourites: Munster Tartines.—Cut some slices about 1th inch in thickness from a loaf of brown Westphalian bread (Pumper- nickel), and the same from a household loaf of white bread, and cut them into rectangular shapes about 3in. in width. Spread a piece of the brown bread well with butter, cover over with a piece of white bread, cover this again with butter, and put another piece of brown bread on the top. Press them slightly together, cut them into squares or oblong- shapes, and they are ready to be served. They are very good served with tea, and caster sugar may be dusted over the layers of butter. TARTLETS.—See Takts and Tartlets. TASTE.—This head might apply to a faculty quite distinct from the appreciation of flavours, such as Taste in decoration and dress, but in this case it is only necessary to refer to that which the French term gout. Other senses, such as smell and sight, work in harmony, and may therefore claim a proportionate consideration under this heading, although under Appearances one part has been already treated. Kettner assures us that Taste is separated from the other senses by a curious difference. The others flourish by themselves alone, and often attain their highest perfec- tion when deprived of companionship. Hearing will become more accurate with the loss of sight, and touch more sensitive with deafness. But the Taste is made for marriage, and smell is its better half. It loses all its delicacy when it cannot mate with a fine olfactory nerve. Though thus deficient, it is by common consent chosen as the type of all that is most refined in human enjoyment, the worship of the beautiful. This is a feather in the cook’s cap. It is the business of his life to minister to the sense of Taste, and Taste is at once so fine and so perfect that it is selected from all the senses to designate the standard of art and the power of detecting all that is loveliest in heaven and earth. We have one and the same name for the facility which comprehends a sucking-pig and for that which delights in Beethoven, for the appreciation alike of a Strasbourg pie and of the Elgin marbles. The Greeks gave the same name to Taste, or the palate, and heaven, and that name is “ Uranus.” Tastes differ in persons, and greatly; some will almost swear by the flavour of garlic, whereas another cannot sit in a room when the slightest suspicion of it is about. Kettner amusingly observes of this difference, “ Philoso- phers have never adequately explained, and it will probably remain a mystery to the end of time, how it comes that, as in religion, the wider differences of dogma seldom excite wrath, while the earth is devastated by controver- sies about the smallest details. That an Eskimo should eat tallow candles; that the Dutch should eat their pickled herring raw; that the astronomer Salande should enjoy the nutty taste of spiders; that the Australian savage should stock his larder with his dog and his wife; that widows in the Adaman Islands should have the skulls of their late husbands nicely mounted, wear them dangling round their necks, and use them as an English lady uses her bag, are matters of Taste that do not rouse in us a tenth part of the emotion produced by the suspicion of garlic in a puree, by the use of a spoon instead of a fork, steel instead of silver.” To understand the full signification of this sense of Taste, which plays so important a part in the cook’s prac- Taste—co ntinued. tice, we must go to a refined epicure, or gourmet, and study his experiences and practices philosophically. The greatest modern writer on the subject is Brillat Savarin, from whose book, entitled “ Physiologie du Gout,” the following paragraphs have been translated : “Power op Taste.—We have seen that physical love has invaded all the sciences; it acts in this with the tyranny that characterises it always. Taste—a more prudent faculty, more measured, although not less active—has arrived at the same goal with a deliberation which assures the duration of its success. “We will occupy ourselves elsewhere in considering its progress, but here we will observe that he who has sat down to a sumptuous repast, in a room decorated with mirrors, pictures, sculptures, and flowers; the air laden with sweet perfumes, the company enriched with the pre- sence of beautiful women, and the chamber filled with soft strains of beautiful music; that man, we say, would not require a very great effort to convince himself that all the sciences have been taxed to increase and conveniently con- centrate the delights of Taste. “Deprivation of the Faculty of Taste.—Taste is that sense which we place in contact with sapid bodies, by means of the sensation which it causes to the organ destined to appreciate the same. Taste, which is excited by appetite, hunger, and thirst, is the base of several processes which result in the individual increasing, developing, preserving, and repairing losses caused by vital activity. “ All organised bodies do not nourish themselves in the same way. The Creator, variable in His means and results, has devised several modes of conservation. The vegetable kingdom, which is at the lowest rung of the ladder of living things, nourishes itself by roots, which planted in their native soil, select, by the working of a peculiar mechanism, the different materials which contribute to their growth and maintenance. Go a stage higher, and we find bodies endowed with animal life, but without the power of loco- motion. They are born in a locality which favours their existence, and special organs extract from the surroundings all that is necessary to support that term of life that has been appointed to them. They cannot go and seek their nourishment, but the nourishment must be brought to them. Another method of feeding is provided for the conservation of animals which move about over the face of the universe, and of which mankind is the most perfect. A kind of instinct warns him that he wants repairing; he fetches it; he selects those materials which are suitable for his requirements ; he eats ; he is invigorated, and then continues the course of life assigned to him. “ Taste can be treated under three headings. Physically, it is the organ by which man appreciates savours. Morally, it is the sensation which excites, in the common centre, the organ affected by ’savoury bodies. Materially, Taste is the faculty which has the power of affecting an organ and raising the appropriate sensation. “ Taste appears to have two principal uses. 1st. It in- vites us, by pleasurable sensations, to repair the continual losses that active life entails. 2nd. It assists us to select, from amongst the different materials that Nature provides, those which are suitable for food. In this choice, Taste is assisted by the sense of smell, as we shall see later on ; for it can be clearly shown that nutritious substances are not repulsive either to taste or smell. “ Mechanism of Taste.—It is not easy to define pre- cisely of what the organ of Taste consists. It is more complicated than it at first appears to be. It is quite cer- tain that the tongue plays an important part in the mechanism of tasting, for, when possessed of sufficient muscular power, it seems to mix, turn about, press, and swallow the foods brought into contact with it in the mouth. Moreover, by means of numerous papillae by which it is strewed, it impregnates itself with the tasty and soluble particles of the bodies with which it comes into contact. But this is not sufficient; for several other parts in the575 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Taste—continued. same locality co-operate to complete the sensation of Taste—the cheeks, the palate, and above all the nasal passage. Upon this latter physiologists have not laid sufficient stress. The cheeks supply saliva necessary for mastication and the formation of the alimentary mass. They are, as well as the palate, endowed with the nervous faculty of appreciating flavours, and it is not quite certain whether the gums do not partake of this faculty in a measure. Without the sense of smell situated at the back of the mouth, the sensation of Taste would be blunted and imperfect. Persons born without tongues, or deprived of them by an operation, have still the sense of Taste. “We have seen that the sensation of Taste resides prin- cipally in the papillae of the tongue. But anatomy teaches us that all tongues are not equally furnished with papillae ; in some cases the difference being as three to one. This explains why two guests may be seated at a banquet, one being greatly delighted with the viands before him, whereas the other seems merely to eat because he is obliged to. This latter has the tongue scantily provided with papillae, showing plainly that the kingdom of Taste has its deaf and dumb. “Sensation oe Taste.—Some five or six opinions are current as to the mode by which the sensation of Taste is brought about. I also have mine, and they are these: The sensation of Taste is a chemical operation, brought about by moisture; that is to say, it is necessary that sapid molecules should be dissolved in some fluid, which is after- wards absorbed by nervous tufts, papillae, or absorbents, which line the apparatus of Taste. This idea, new or not, is capable of physical proof, and is almost apparent. Pure water creates no sensation of Taste, because it contains no tasty particles. Dissolve a grain of salt, or a few drops of vinegar, in it, and the sensation of Taste follows. Other drinks cause a sensation of Taste, because they are solu- tions more or less charged with particles that can be tasted. It is useless to fill the mouth with finely-divided particles of insoluble matter; the tongue feels them, but 'there is no Taste. “ Flavours.—The number of these is infinite, for every soluble body has a flavour of its own, which does not exactly resemble any other. In spite of this we have but few general terms to express flavours, and these are sweet, sour, bitter, and fragrant, which may be classified still further as agreeable and disagreeable.” To the foregoing quotation Brillat Savarin adduced more that is not needful for the purpose of understanding the definition of Taste. By a series of experiments he shows that the assistance of the nerves of the nose is of the first importance, and that there are several stages of tasting, one of which is a decided reaction. For instance, the re- actionary Taste of sweet would be bitter, and so on, each flavour having a reaction when continued an unreasonable length of time; and thus it comes to pass that the indi- vidual sickens of a monotony in diet. The nerves of Taste like change and must have it, even though the change were under ordinary circumstances less agreeable than the original. Brillat Savarin further protests that Taste procures for human beings a greater proportion of enjoyment than any other sense. 1st. Because the pleasure of eating is the only pleasure, taken with moderation, which is not fol- lowed by fatigue. 2nd. Because it is everlasting throughout all ages and all conditions. 3rd. Because it returns at least once in the day, and might be repeated without inconvenience two or three times in the same space of time. 4th. Because it can associate itself with other senses, and even console us for their absence. 5tli. Because the impressions received in this way are at once more durable, and dependent upon the will of the indivi- dual. 6th. Because whilst eating we experience an indefinable happiness which comes upon us instinctively, perhaps because whilst eating we are conscious of repair- ing loss and prolonging life. Taste—continued. Man is better pi’ovided with the sense of Taste than any other animal, and that this is so should fill the hearts of all cooks with a grand desire to administer to this great passion accordingly. TAWNTATALET.—This is a famous Turkish dish that deserves special notice. Put 1J pints of cream into a basin, mix in Jib. of rice- flour, and mb the whole through a fine sieve into a sauce- pan. Set the saucepan over the fire, and stir well until the whole is smooth ; as soon as it begins to bubble add Jib. of sifted crashed loaf sugar, and then cook for twenty minutes. The fire should be a very moderate one, other- wise the mixture would be liable to bum. Cut oft all the white meat from the breasts of two young fowls, cut it up very small, pound it in a mortar, and mix in the grated rind of half a lemon and the yolks of seven or eight eggs. Rub this mixture through a fine sieve into a saucepan, pour over the contents of the other sauce- pan, working well with a spoon as it is being added; boil up once more, then turn the whole into a deep dish. Let fall on the surface a few drops of caramel, stir them gently with a knife to give an appearance of marbling, and serve. TEA (Fr. The; Ger. Tliee; Ital. Te; Sp. Te).—Tea originated, or was discovered, according to the Chinese legend, by Darma, the son of an Indian king, who paid a semi-religious visit to China about a.d. 519. In order to prove his religious fervour, he led a very austere life, “ eating only vegetables, and spending most of his time in contemplation of the Deity.” He made a vow against sleep, to enable him the more faithfully to perform the duties he had imposed upon himself; but unfortunately, “ after continual watchings for several years,” sleep over- came him. On his awakening, “ such was his remorse for having broken his vow,” that in order to prevent a relapse he cut off his eyelids and threw them indignantly upon the ground. “ Next morning” (the legend speaks of the morning as though he had spent the night in sleep again) “ he found them metamorphosed into two shrubs, which have ever since been known by the name of Chaa,” the Chinese for eyelids. The moral of this story is that Darma chewed some of the leaves and thus learned their invigorating and arousing properties, so that “ henceforth his meditations became more fluent, pithy, and exalted.’’ In the year 1639 the Chinese presented some Tea-leaves to a Russian ambassador as a present for the Czar, but he did not sufficiently esteem the infusion of Tea with which he had been regaled at the court of the Mogul to consider the leaves worthy of transport. A few years after that date, an advertisement appeared in the London Gazette (Sept. 2nd, 1658) to the following effect: “That excellent, and by all pliysitians approved, China drink, called by the Chinese ‘ Tcha,’ by other nations Tay alias Tee, is sold at the Sultaness Head, a cophee-liouse in Sweeting’s Rents, by the Royal Exchange, London.” A year or two later, a rival handbill was distributed about the City of London, setting forth how Thomas Garway, of Exchange Alley, sold Tea. The wording was as follows: “ That the virtues and excellencies of this Leaf and drink are many and great, is manifest by the high esteem and use of it (especially of late years) among the physicians and knowing men in France, Italy, Holland, and other parts of Christendom ; and in England it hath been sold in the Leaf for £6 and sometimes £10 the pound weight; and in respect of its former scarceness and dear- ness, it has been used only as a Regalia in high Treatments and Entertainments, and Presents made thereof to Princes and Grandees till the year 1657. The said Thomas Garway did purchase a quantity thereof, and first publicly sold the said Tea in Leaf and Drink, made according to the direc- tions of the most knowing Merchants and Travellers into those Eastern countries; and upon knowledge and experi- ence of the said Garway’s continued care and industry in576 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tea—continued. obtaining the best Tea, and making drink thereof, very many Noblemen, Physicians, Merchants, and Gentlemen of quality have ever since sent to him for the said Leaf, and daily resort to his house to drink thereof. He sells Tea from 16s. to 50s. a pound.” In “Rugge’s Diurnal” (1659) it is reported that “Coffee, Chocolate, and a kind of drink called Tea, is sold in almost every street ”; and in 1660 it is further reported that Charles II. imposed a tax upon it of 8d. for every gallon of “chocolate, sherbert, or Tea,” whilst upon “coffee and spirits ” the impost amounted to 4d. per gallon only. The famous Pepys, in his “ Diary,” writes of Tea in 1661, “ Did send for a cup of Tea (a Chinese drink), of which I never had drunk before ”; but he makes no further mention of Tea-drinking until 1667, when he records that upon returning home one day “There find my wife making of Tea, a drink which Mr. Pelling, the poticary, tells her is good for a cold.” Since the days of Pepys, Teas have been cultivated and imported from other parts of the world, notably India and Ceylon, hence, as a beverage, it loses individuality; but of Teas that are specially Chinese, there are a few kinds that deserve mention. Brick Tea is a Tea that is largely exported, principally to Siberia, Tartary, and Russia, whence it is conveyed on the backs of camels, being compressed into slabs or cakes for the purpose of facilitating its transport. It is used by rubbing the “ brick ” into a fine powder, and boiling it with alkaline steppewater, to which salt and fat have been added, the decoction being carefully decanted. Of this liquid, the wandering tribes drink from twenty to forty cups per day, mixing it first with milk, butter, and a little roasted meal. It is generally prepared according to the following process : The Tea being covered with boiling water, a ladle of ghee (Indian butter) is put in, and 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of salt added; then follows much stir- ring and mixing with a cliurning-stick, until it becomes smooth, oily, and of an untempting chocolate-brown colour. Lie Tea is made from the sweepings of the Chinese Tea-packing houses, and may consist of a variety of dust and dirt besides damaged leaves. This conglomeration is cemented together with strong rice-water, rolled into grains or small balls, dried, and sold. China Loulca is the name given to first-class green Teas, which are exceedingly expensive, and find a ready sale amongst the wealthy merchants of Bokhara. Caper, Pekoe, and Souchong, are also familiar names, but these are applied to other Teas, and are therefore common property. Several curious Teas are made up in China in the shape of balls, faggots, and cigars, under the name of Cumshaw Tea, but they are intended only as presents, or fancy goods, just as figures are made with chocolate. Physic, or medicinal Teas, are very Common in China, all being, more or less, blendings of medicinal herbs with Tea. For some years past the greatest interest has been taken in Tea growing, owing to many of our Anglo-Indian land proprietors planting gardens for its growth, and our supplies of Tea from Assam, India, and Ceylon, are rapidly rivalling the cultivation which belonged previously to China as a monopoly. Europeans have an extraordi- nary aptitude for reducing art down to set rules for its safe conduct, and thus have they formed rules for the growing and manufacturing of Tea, adopting the trade classification that originally existed, and working their crops to produce them. The result of our Tea-growing system is that a very superior article is produced with certainty, and although the first attempts produced Tea of a somewhat strong characteristic flavour, advances are being so rapidly made that in the course of a little time it is more than probable that Indian and Cingalese Tea will be superior in aroma and flavour to the best China can produce. Tea—continued. The value of Tea depends upon the succulence of the leaves, and this succulence is in proportion to their age, the youngest being best. As shown in the drawing (see Fig. 763), the smallest leaves and buds (a) give Flowery Fig. 763. Spray op Tea Plant Showing Various Grades of Quality. Pekoe; (b) Orange Pekoe; (c) Pekoe; (d) First Souchong; (e) Second Souchong; (/) Congou; (a b c) mixed Pekoe of a superior class; (abed e) mixed Pekoe Souchong; and any leaves picked below/, such as g, h, Boliea. Tea is divided into two great classes, known as Black and Green Teas, this colour depending upon the mode of manufacture; Black Tea being allowed to turn colour in the sun before it is curled and dried, and Green Tea being dried in its freshly-picked state. Amongst the Chinese colourings are used for both kinds, more or less of a noxious character, but amongst our own manufacturers we are protected by law from such iniquitous adulterations. However interesting the subject of Tea-growing and manufacturing may be, there is not room in this Encyclo- pedia for its further description; we must be content herein to take these matters for granted, and consider Tea as we buy it at the grocer’s. In addition to the foregoing classification, Black Tea is further known as Broken Pekoe, Pekoe Dust, Broken Mixed Tea, Broken Souchong, Broken Leaf, Fannings, and Dust, these latter being much less costly than the superior kinds, some of which are almost fabulous in price. The characters of the different kinds mentioned are: Flowery Pekoe.—Greenish-gray or silver tint, the leaf turning green on infusing. Orange Pekoe.—Orange coloured ends to leaves. Ordinary Pekoe. — Blackish or grayish-black dotted throughout with grayish or yellowish leaves, having a downy appearance. Pekoe Souchong.—Deficient in Pekoe ends. Souchong. —The medium quality Tea, even, straight, or slightly-curled leaves, fin. to If in. long. Congou.—Larger leaf than Souchong. Bohea.—Largest leaf, brownish or pale yellowish in hue. Broken Teas, Fannings, or Dust may have the same qualities as the sound samples, but they are liable to be mixed with dirt, and other sweepings. There are other Black Teas, such as Namuna, Oolong, Oopack, &c., but they resemble in one or other particular the standards already described. Of Green Teas, Gunpowder is the most valuable, having the appearance of little balls. Imperial is the next in size, being larger than Gun- powder. Hyson is the medium Green Tea. Young Hyson is a smaller variety of Hyson. Hyson Skin is broken Hyson and young Hyson mixedTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 577 P Tea—continued. One other Tea of importance is Caver, this being a link j between Black and Green Teas; the colour of the leaf is very dark green, and in form it is rounded similar to Gunpowder. Tea-tasting in blending is considered a great art amongst merchants in large cities, the taster having to decide upon the following- characters, and so arrange them that without losing any particular flavour none shall so predominate as to be displeasing to the palate. In the course of their duties they have to remember that burntness either destroys the strength and flavour altogether, or adds an unpleasant flavour rendering the Tea “' smoky,” or “ smoke burnt,” this being known as “fresh burnt,” “brisk burnt,” “malty j burnt.” Do not condemn the Tea. “ Malty” means full of j rich flavour, “ Full-” applied to the infusion has the same meaning as if applied to wine. “ Chaffy ” is generally used for Bohea and other brown-leaf classes. Then Tea is “ well made ” or “ fairly made,” “ straighty,” “ curled,” “twisted,” “wiry,” “ flattish,” according to the correctness of its manufacture. Tea is said to be adulterated with leaves that do not belong to this plant (see Fig. 764), such as Chlorantlius Tea—continued. (a), Willow (b), sloe (c), hawthorn id), and other Teas or Tea substitutes that do not grow in this country, such as the leaves of the Amazon, Birch, and Bencoolen trees. But recent examination shows that these adulterations are very rarely met with now, if ever, owing in a great measure to the Adulteration Act and commercial competition. When making Tea it is of the first importance that the water should boil, but the infusion itself must not be boiled, or a larger proportion of the tannin contained in t he leaves would be extracted than would be either pleasant or desirable. For the purpose of supplying the Tea-pot an urn (see Fig. 765) fitted with a metallic cylinder inside passing through the body of the water, and containing a Fig. 766. Rustic Swing Kettle with Spirit-lamp (Adams and Son). red hot iron, is a contrivance that answers well. A very useful urn also is one fitted with a small spirit-lamp under it (see Fig. 766), these being pr-oduced in a multitude of designs. See Tea-pots. The following receipts show that Tea can be used for other purposes than as a simple beverage served with milk or cream and sugar : Essence of Tea.—Put 2oz. of Gunpowder Tea in a bottle, pour in 1 pint of rectified spirits of wine, cork the bottle tightly, and keep it in a warm temperature for ten days. When ready, filter the essence, and keep it in small well- stoppered bottles. Iced Tea (The Glace) a la Eran^aise.—Place in a Tea- pot 3 table-spoonfuls or lioz. of Tea, pour over 5 pints of boiling water, and turn it into a freezer. Sweeten with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, tightly cover the freezer, place it in a tub containing broken ice and rock-salt a little higher than the height of the Tea, sharply turn it by the handle in different directions lor five or six minutes, wipe the cover of the freezer all round to avoid any ice falling in, and, with the aid of a ladle, pour it into a cold pitcher or jar. Send to the table in glasses, with slices of lemon and sugar separately. Iced Tea a la Russe.—Half fill some tumblers with strong cold Tea without cream or milk, add to each the strained juice of half a lemon, sweeten well, and fill each glass with broken ice. Tea, Caramel Tablets.—Boil Hb. of sugar with 1 teacupful of water to the crack {see Sugar-boiling) ; put in with it 1 table-spoonful of strong infusion of Tea and <4 table- Fnr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c„ referred to, see under their special heads, VOL. II.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 578 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &>c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tea—continued. spoonfuls of double cream, and boil it again to the crack. Oil a marble slab by wiping over carefully with a piece of rag, or cotton waste, dipped in olive oil, and when the sugar is cooling pour it on to the slab. Score the surface with the point of a knife into lin. squares, and when the caramel is cold break it asunder. Or if you have a lin. square sugar-cutter, cut the tablets with it before the caramel is quite cold, put them on a sieve, and leave them in a dry place for a short time to harden. Tea Cream.—(1) Take loz. of good Black Tea, put it into a, stewpan with J pint of boiling cream, and let it stand for some time so as to get all the flavour out of the Tea- leaves; strain it through a napkin with pressure bv wring- ing it both ends into a basin, add ^ pint of good whipped cream, loz. of isinglass, and sweetening to taste. Mix well together, pour it into a mould, let it set, and it is ready for use. (2) Put 1J pints of milk into a lined saucepan with Joz. of Green Tea and lioz. of isinglass, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and boil the whole until the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the Tea through muslin into a mould, and set it on ice or in a cool temperature until quite cold. Prepare a nicely-flavoured and sweetened custard, and leave that also until cold. When ready to serve, turn the Tea cream out of its mould on to a fancy dish and pour the custard over it. Tea Cream Ice.—Prepare a little strong decoction of Tea, put it into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream and the yolks of eight eggs, and with these form a custard. Turn it out into a basin, let it get cold, and add 1 wine- glassful of brandy and sufficient syrup or sugar to sweeten; freeze in a freezer, and mould or not as required. Tea Cream Jelly (Creme du The).— Put 2£oz. of gelatine, fib. of loaf sugar, and 2h pints of water into a stewpan; beat the whites of two eggs with the juice of one lemon, mix them with the gelatine, and whisk them over the .fire till on the point of boiling. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag two or three times until it is quite clear. When quite cold, add 1 breakfast-cupful of Tea cream to the above mixture, stir it well, then put it into a mould and pack it in ice. In about two hours’ time, or when ready to serve, dip the mould into tepid water to loosen the jelly from the sides, then turn it quickly on to a dish. Tea Cup.—Infuse 1 table-spoonful of Tea in lqt. of boiling water for a few minutes, then strain and leave it until cold. Cut a large lemon into thin slices, put it into the Tea, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, stir until the sugar has dissolved, then mix in £ pint of brandy. Pour the mixture into a glass jug, and stand it on ice until very cold. The Tea cup must not be left until it is frozen before it is served. Tea in Dutch Style.—Put 4 teaspoonfuls of Green Tea in a Tea-pot, and add about J teacupful of pearl barley, a small piece of stick cinnamon, three or four bruised cloves, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and \ salt- spoonful of saffron. Fill the Tea-pot with boiling water, and close up the spout with paper or a cork; stand it by the side of the fire, and let the contents infuse for nearly an hour. Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan and place it over the fire until boiling; beat two or three yolks of eggs, mix them with the boiling milk, then pour in the Tea infusion, and serve while very hot. Tea Jelly.—(1) Make an infusion of toz. of Black Tea in lqt. of water, strain, and mix a small quantity of brandy with it. Wash a set of calf’s feet, put them in a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and boil it till reduced to 2qts. Strain the liquid through a line hair sieve into a basin, leave it till cold, then skim off the grease, and pour it very gently into a saucepan, so as not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. Mix the infusion of Tea with the jelly, add the whites of eight eggs well whisked, 21b. of loaf sugar, and the juice of four lemons. Stir the mixture with a whisk till boiling, and Alter it through a tine flannel bag. When quite clear turn the jelly into jelly moulds and leave till firm. (2) Infuse ioz. of Green Tea in lqt. of water. Put a set of calf’s feet in 4qts. of water, and boil till reduced Tea—continued. to 2qts.; strain the liquid through a fine hair sieve, leave it till cold and settled, then skim oft' the fat and put it into a saucepan. Add the whites of twelve eggs to the jelly, the Tea (which Should be strained), 2lb. of loaf sugar, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and the juice of four lemons. Stir the jelly well and boil it, then filter it through a line flannel bag till quite char. Turn the jelly into glass moulds, and leave it till firm. Tea Milk Punch.—Beat the yolk of an egg very light with 1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar; stir in gradu- ally 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh milk, and then stir in a cup of very hot Tea. The white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth may be added if desired. Tea milk punch is very useful to invalids suffering from weakness. Tea in Kussian Style.—(1) Put 3 teaspoonfuls of Green Tea in a saucepan with a small piece of stick cinnamon, pour in lqt. of milk, and let it simmer over a slow fire for five minutes. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar that has been rubbed on the yellow rind of a lemon, and keep it hot. Whisk the yolks of five eggs to a stiff froth, then pour the boiling milk gradually into them, whisking at the same time. Serve the Tea while very hot. This is a very pleasant drink in the winter. (2) Place in a Tea-pot 3 table spoonfuls of Tea; pour over just sufficient boiling water to cover it, say about 3 table-spoonfuls, let it infuse for one minute, draw off the water, but do not use it. Pour in \ liqueur-glass- ful of rum and 3 pints of boiling water, let it infuse for four minutes, and serve in cups with rum, thin slices of lemon, and powdered sugar separately. (3) Slice some fresh juicy lemons, pare them or not according to taste (some people liking the bitter flavour of the rind and some preferring the juice without it), and lay a slice at the bottom of each cup. Sweeten with white sugar, and pour the Tea, hot and strong, over it. Tea Souffle.—Infuse some orange-flavoured Pekoe Tea in \ pint of boiling milk for an hour. At the end of that time strain the milk and mix smoothly with it | table- spoonful of potato Hour. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling and thickened, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs and whisk the whites of six to a stiff froth ; add the yolks to the above mixture and lastly the whites, stirring lightly at the same time. Pour the whole into a souffle mould, leaving room for it to rise, and put it into a quick oven. In about Fig. 767. Tea Souitlis. twenty minutes’ time, take the souffle out of the oven, dust over with caster sugar, and serve in the mould with a napkin folded round it, as for tapioca and other souffles (see Fig. 767). TEA-CAKES.—Tliere is no meal in the world so exceedingly sociable as the old-fashioned homely tea. Nor is there any dish served at these teas so pleasing as a hot Tea-cake. They can be made according to the following579 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. P Tea-Cakes—continued. receipts, and should be served up on a very hot plate with a cover made to fit (see Fig. 768). iSee also Sally Ltjnns. Fig. 768. Tea-Cakes. (1) Sift lib. of flour on to a paste-board, make a well in the centre of it, in which put 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and Alb. of slightly-warmed butter; mix all well together, then stir in four well- beaten eggs and sufficient cold water to form a stiff paste. Knead the paste well with the hands, then roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter about 4in. in diameter, butter a baking- sheet, lay the pieces of paste on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in water, and sift a small quantity of caster sugar over the top of them. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven, and serve them when cold. (2) Rub into 24 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour 1 table-spoonful of butter warmed to melting; then add J Fig. 769. Rings for Tea-Cakes teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teasjoonful of cream of tartar, A teacupful of sugar, and A teaspoonful of salt. Mix in one egg and A pint of milk, and bake in round tins (see Fig. 769). (3) Rub in 2qts. of flour 1 small teacupful of lard and 1 small teacupful of butter; when quite smooth, add 2 small teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, one grated nutmeg, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream. Mix well together, roll out to about Jm- in thickness, cut into oblongs, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Take 2 table-spoonfuls of dissolved German yeast and mix it into 21b. of flour ; pour in while mixing three whipped eggs. Then add 2oz. of butter melted in 1 pint of hot milk. Beat all together to a batter, and put it before the fire to rise. Butter several saucers or patty- pans, fill them with the paste, and bake in a quick oven. NVhen the top side is done, turn them over, and let the under-side get brown also. (5) Melt 4oz. of butter in 1 pint of hot milk, and add loz. of German yeast, two well-beaten eggs, and a little salt. Then work 2lb. of flour well in. Put the dough in a warm place to rise for about three-quarters-of an-hour. Knead it well and put it into buttered shallow tins. Let the cakes rise well, put them in a quick oven, and bake until done. Tea-Cakes—continued. (6) Put lib. of sifted sugar into a warmed pan, break eight eggs into it, and continue to beat until they are thick, then stir in gradually lib. of dried flour. Fill a biscuit-bag with the mixture, and drop it into biscuit shapes about ] Ain. in diameter on a sheet of white paper. Let them be quite lin. apart. Sprinkle a little pounded sugar over them, put them on to baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely coloured. Damp the paper and remove it from the cakes. TEA-&ETTX»E BXbOTH.—A fancy name applied to a thin broth that is supposed to be greatly in favour amongst invalids. As may be seen from the following receipts the tea-kettle plays an important part in its manufacture. (1) Toast some thin slices of bread, cut them into pieces, and put them in a basin; dust over salt and pepper to taste, drop a piece of butter the size of a walnut on to the toast, pour on A teacupful of cream, and follow that with 1 pint of boiling water. (2) Cut some slices of crumb of bread into dice, put them in a basin, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped parsley and salt to taste. Pour over this 1 pint of boiling- water and 1 teacupful of milk. (3) Boil one dozen pea-pods and a leaf of mint in ! pint of water, and use this instead of the water as described in both Nos. 1 and 2. A teaspoonful of bovril or other concentrated beef tea may be added to either of the foregoing if desired. TEA-POTS.—A long list of designs and novel inven- tions for these vessels might be given, but experience tells us that the old-fashioned Britannia metal, electro-plated, or silver Tea-pot (see Fig. 770) has not yet been effec- tually superceded. Many people assert that for drawing Fig. 771. Furniss’ Patent Porcelain-lined Tea-pot, cut open to show interior. tea, there is no pot equal to those made of china or earthenware; and as this seems to be the opinion of the Chinese, to whom we are indebted for our earliest For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sattces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. o oTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 580 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sguces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tea-Pots—continued. acquaintance with the making of tea, it is deserving of considerable attention. Nevertheless, there are not want- ing those who declare in favour of a bright metallic exterior, for reasons that are of a purely scientific character, and presumably correct. To meet these two views a very ingenious combination has been patented by a Mr. Furniss, which consists of a metal Tea-pot lined bodily with porcelain (see Fig. 771). The result is exceed- ingly satisfactory, and proclaims an advance upon the productions of the Chinese, who excel in quaintness of design if not in scientific construction. TEAL (Fr. Cercelles or Sarcelles ; Ger. Kriekente ; Ital. Farchetole ; Sp. Cercetas).—Of all wild fowl there is none that the thoroughbred gourmet prefers to this, unless it be the canvas-back duck. There are varieties of Teal to be met with in almost every part of the world, mostly included in the genus Anas, those better known to us being the com- mon European Teal (Anas crecca) and the blue-winged Teal or Glarganey (A. circia or querquedula). In America there are the Blue-winged, Green-winged, and Cinnamon Teal. As in the case of our domestic brown ducks the male is handsomely plumaged, whereas the female partakes of a plain brown colour only, having very little diversity throughout all the varieties. Teal is best during the winter months, large numbers being shot in the fens of Lincolnshire. The legs should be soft and pliable, indicating freshness. Teal should be trussed for roasting as follows Pluck, draw, and singe a Teal: wash and wipe it well inside. Give each leg a twist at the knuckle, bring the claw to each side, letting them rest on the breast, and keep them in their place by passing a skewer through the thighs and wing pinions. Broiled Teal.—(1) Select three fine, fat Teal; pick, singe, and dry them, cut off their heads, and split the birds into halves without separating the parts. Lay them on a dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil. Roll them well in it, and put them to broil over a moderate fire for seven minutes on each side. Have ready a hot dish with six large slices of toasted bread, divide the Teal, and lay one-half on the top of each. Spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, garnish with a little watercress (see Fig. 772), and serve. (2) Pick and singe two or three Teal, draw them, wipe them on a cloth, and split down the back. Flatten them slightly, sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush over with butter, put them on a gridiron with their inside nearest to the fire, and broil for about fifteen minutes. Put them on a dish, garnish with pieces of toast or with filed potato chips, and serve with orange sauce in a sauceboat, and red-currant jelly and quarters of lemon on separate dishes. Devilled Teal.—Cut up in small pieces two or three large onions, put them into a mortar, add a small piece of green ginger and six or eight chillies, and pound them to a pulp. Add 2 teaspoonfuls each of mustard and chutney and a little each of cayenne, salt, and pepper: put the mixture into a saucepan, and pour in 1- pint of claret. Cut a Teal in pieces, put them in the saucepan, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is done; it will take a long time. Arrange the pieces of Teal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Teal —continued. Fillets of Teal with Anchovies.—Cut off the fillets from two or three Teal that have been partly roasted, and put them on a well-buttered dish sprinkled over with grated Parmesan cheese; on each of the fillets place a fillet of anchovy. Pour in sufficient stock to moisten, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, put the dish in the oven, and bake. Take it out when done, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve. Fillets of Teal with Orange Sauce.—Take four Teal, draw and truss them, put a skewer through them, and roast before a good fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, basting with a brash dipped in a little 11. When they are done, salt them a little, slip the fillets out, and put them into a fiat stewpan with a little glaze at the bottom. Place them over a brisk fire for a minute so that the moisture of the fillets will evaporate, then arrange them on a dish in a circle, pour orange sauce over them, and serve. Boasted Teal.—(1) Pick, singe, draw, wipe, and truss three fine Teal, place them in a roasting-pan, season with 1 pinch of salt, and put them in a brisk oven to roast for fourteen minutes. Untruss them, arrange them on a hot dish, decorate with six slices of fried hominy and a little watercress, and serve. (2) Pluck and singe a pair of Teal, wipe them with a wet towel, cut off the heads and feet, and draw them without breaking the entrails. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper in each bird, and lay them in a dripping-pan; peel an onion, put it into t he pan with the Teal, set the birds in a very hot oven, and bake them for twenty minutes, or roast before the fire for fifteen minutes. In either case baste them every five minutes, adding more butter if it is required for basting. Just before serving the birds season them with salt, and serve with a sauce made as follows while they are being cooked: Peel and chop fine a shallot or small onion, put it over the fire with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and when the butter begins to brown stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour ; when the flour is brown add l pint each of port wine and boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and one grate of nutmeg. Stir the sauce until it boils, and then keep it hot. When the birds are done, pour the drippings from them into the sauce, mix them well with it, anil serve hot. (3) Prepare nicely a couple of Teal. Rub the breasts with the livers till quite red, and roast them in front of a very hot fire, basting them frequently and plentifully with butter for a-quarter-of-an-hour or half-an-hour according to the size of the birds. Melt in a pan over the fire loz. of fresh butter, and mix with it the strained juice of two lemons and a very little cayenne. When the birds are done, put them on a hot dish, score the breasts down to the bone, making the cuts only jin. apart, pour the hot butter and lemon-juice over them, and serve hot. Boasted Teal with Cardoons.—Singe, draw, and trass the required number of birds, wrap them separately in buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast before a clear brisk fire. When all but done remove the paper from the Teal so that they may brown, then put them into a stewpan with 1 teacupful each of white wine and melted glaze, put the stewpan over the fire, and boil the moisture till reduced to half. Remove the strings from the birds, put them on a hot dish, garnish with cardoons, and pour the reduced liquor over them. Serve while very hot. Boasted Teal with Olives.—Draw, clean, and well wash two or three Teal; wipe them inside with a cloth, and insert in the hollow a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Tie several strips of bacon over their breasts, or cover them with greased paper, run them through with a skewer, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear lire for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take them off when done, remove the skewers and bacon or paper, and cut each one into quarters. Arrange them on a dish, pour over hot brown sauce mixed with stoned and blanched olives, and serve very hot. Salmis of Teal a la Begence.—Singe, draw, and wipe two Teal; cut off the legs, wings, anil breasts, put the581 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Teal —continued. carcases and trimmings into a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and cook in the oven for six minutes. Take them out and break or chop them up. Return them to the saucepan with 1 pint of rich broth, add a small bouquet garni, and cook over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Put Ioz. of butter into a saute-pan, place in the legs, wings, and breasts, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cook them on each side for three minutes, pour in h wine- glassful of Madeira wine and 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, add the zest of a lemon, strain over the liquor from the bones, cook for fifteen minutes longer, and add 4 pint of Regence garnishing. Arrange the salmi on a dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish. Teal a la Gourmet.—When the bird has been plucked, singed, and drawn, split it open down the back with a knife but do not divide it; pour boiling water over it, and remove the pink substance that will be found to line the Fig. 773. Teal a la Gourmet. back. Season it interiorly with spices, and brown it in a brisk oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Afterwards place the bird on a gridiron, the inside next the fire, and broil it for five minutes. Make some rich brown gravy, thickening it with baked flour. Lay the bird on a large slice of toasted bread on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, garnish with groups of vegetables, slices of beetroot, and quarters of oranges and lemons, or bits of orange and lemon pickles, and serve with red-currant jelly on a small glass dish. A fringe of watercress should also be arranged round the dish (see Fig. 773). TED J.—A honey drink or beer made in Abyssinia from honeycomb fermented in water with the bark and leaves of a bitter shrub called guecho. The manufacture of this being a royal monopoly it is very valuable, and appre- ciated according to its price by the Ethiopians who are wealthy enough to obtain it. Sometimes spelled Taidge, the pronunciation being the same. TENAKEZE.—The ninth class of French brandy. TENCH (Fr. Tanche ; Ger. Schleihe ; Ital. Tinea ; Sp. Tenca).—A European fresh-water fish (Tinea tinea) (see Fig. 774), allied to the carp. When caught in fresh Fig. 774. Tench. clear water it is a very good fish for eating, but when it has had the opportunity of revelling in mud and impuri- ties it is not of much value. Tench are prepared for cook- ing as follow : * Tench—con t in ned. Wipe off the slime with a cloth, put them in boiling water to soak for a few minutes, take them out, then with the back of an oyster-knife scrape them from the belly to the back, instead of from tail to head, as the scales lay downwards. Remove the gills, cut open the belly, remove the entrails, wash the fish well, and dry it. Truss the Tench in the shape of the letter S. Aspic of Tench.—Clean and scale a large-sized Tench, put it into a saucepan with a small bunch of parsley and marjoram, a few peppercorns, and the peel of half a lemon ; pour in sufficient veal broth and red wine in equal parts to a little more than cover the fish, boil up quickly, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the fish is done. Take it out, let it get quite cold, and put it into a deep pie-dish on top of a little set clear aspic jelly made either with pig’s or calf’s feet. Boil the liquor in which the fish was stewed until when cold it will jelly; turn it out into a basin and let it set. Break it ujr into rather small lumps, put them on top and round the fish, pour over a little more of the aspic jelly, which must be very slightly warmed, and set the fish in a cold place until the whole is firm. Turn it out on to a dish, garnish with parsley and chopped jelly, and serve. The fish must be set on the first jelly belly up- wards, so as Lo take its correct position when turned out. Boiled Tench.—Clean a Tench, plunge it into boiling water for a few minutes, take it out, and scale; gut it by cutting along the belly, and put it into a fish-kettle with a little more boiling water than will cover it; add t tea- cupful of vinegar and a little salt, and boil for about fifteen minutes or a little less. When the fish is done, take it out, drain, put it on a dish with a garnish of fried parsley, and serve with anchovy sauce in a sauce- boat. Broiled Tench.—(1) Clean ami wash three Tench, soak them in boiling water for a few minutes, take them out, scale them, taking, care not to injure their skins, gut them, and wipe dry. Rut them in a dish, and pour over Fig. 775. Broiled Tench. a mixture of olive oil, laurel leaves, parsley, shallot, thyme, chives, salt, and pepper; let the fish soak in this for about an hour, put them each on two sheets of paper well soaked in oil, cover them thickly with the mixture, fold the paper round, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Remove the paper when the fish are done, put them on a dish with the mixture, pour over piquant sauce, garnish freely with fried parsley (see Fig. 775), and serve. (2) Clean three or four Tench, plunge them into boiling water for two or three minutes, take them out, and scrape. Wash and wipe them, fill them with a mixture of fine herbs, chopped garlic and butter, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear tire. Put them on a dish when done, and serve with tomato sauce slightly flavoured with essence of anchovies poured over. (3) Clean and scale three or four Tench, score them slightly, sprinkle well with salt, dip them in oil, and cover with breadcrumbs. Put them on a slightly-oiled and warmed gridiron over a slow clear fire, and broil them, basting frequently with oil or butter and turning them so as to equally cook both sides. Put them when done on a dish, pour over some hot or devil sauce, and serve. (4) Wipe off the slime from four Tench, put them into hot water for a few minutes, take them out, scale, and gut them. Place them on a dish on top of a folded paper soaked in oil, cover with fine herbs, wrap the paper round582 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tench.—continued. them, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Take them off when done, remove the paper, put the fish on a dish, pour over hot caper or piquant sauce, and serve. Curried Tench.—Clean off the slime from three or four Tench, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them remain for two or three minutes; take out, scale and gut them, chop off the fins, and cut into small pieces. Put them into a basin of cold water, and let them remain for an hour. Cut up an onion in slices, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry. Take out the pieces of fish, drain and dry them, put them in the pan with the onion, toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, so that the fish will he firm and dry, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder mixed up with a little flour. Cook for two minutes longer, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, sufficient boiling water to cover, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a few peppercorns and cloves, and a little more salt if required. Cover the pan, boil for about ten minutes, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and in two or three minutes’ time carefully take out the pieces of fish with a fork, and put them on a dish. Boil the liquor to reduce it, thicken with the yolks of two or three eggs mixed with a little cream, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire so that the sauce will cook without boil ing, add the juice of a lemon, pour it over the Tench, and serve very hot. Pried Pillets of Tench.—Clean and gut four or five Tench, cut them up into fillets, and remove the skin and all the bones; dust them over with salt, then with flour, dip them into egg beaten up with fine herbs either cooked or raw, and lastly roll them in breadcrumbs. Put them into a baking-dish with a little warmed butter, keeping the fillets as close together as possible; prat the dish in the oven, and let it remain until the fillets are well coloured on both sides. Put them on a dish, pour over the liquor, if any, or baste them with more hot butter, garnish the dish with slices of lemon, and serve. Fried Tench.—(1) Scale and clean a Tench, split it down the back, taking care not to injure the belly part, lay the fish open in a flat dish, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover it, and sprinkle over a little chopped onion, a few stalks of parsley, and salt and pepper. Let it remain like this for :bout three hours, then take it out, drain, dip it in flour, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry it. Take it out, drain it, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. (2) Put a couple of Tench into a saucepan of boiling water for a few minutes, take them out when they have been in long enough for the skin to be easily raised, cut off the fins and gills, gut, and wash them well. Slit them down the back to take out the bones, dust them over with flour and salt, sprinkle over a little lemon-juice, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry them for about twenty minutes, or accord- ing to their size. Take them out, drain off all the fat, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Scale and clean as many Tench as required, wash them well, slit them along the backs, lift the flesh from the bone, cut the skin at the tail and across the head, and strip off all the flesh with the skin, leaving the bones bare, and having the flesh all in one piece. Chop the flesh of one of the fish fine and mix it up with a sprig of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few chives, and two or three mushrooms, all finely minced; sprinkle in salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and powdered mace to taste, put this mixture into a mortar, pound it well, add a few bread- crumbs soaked in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, a small lump of butter, and the yolk of an egg. Stuff the remain- ing fish with this forcemeat, dredge them over with flour, put them, one at a time, into a frying-pan, and fry them, keeping hot those that are cooked until the others are done. The fat that has come from them should be thrown away, and 4oz. of butter with sufficient Hour to make it thick added; brown the flour, and add first 1 breakfast- cupful of white wine and afterwards a similar quantity of Tench—continued. boiling water. Add an onion stuck with cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover the pan, and cook for about fifteen minutes on a very slow fire. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup, loz. of truffles or morels boiled until tender in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, a couple of dozen oysters and their liquor, and a few mushrooms. Make this sauce hot, put in the fish until they get hot, place them carefully on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Slices of lemon should be served either as a garnish or on a small plate. Roasted Tench.—Draw the fish, remove the gills and spawn, and wash them without scaling. Prepare a sufficient quantity of stuffing with grated breadcrumb, almond paste, well- waslied currants, and finely-shred candied peel; moisten the whole with beaten yolks of eggs and cream, keeping it rather stiff, and season the mixture with salt, grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stuff the fish with the mixture; lay two or three sticks across a baking-dish, place the fish on them, and bake in the oven, turning when done on one side. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish. Mix with the gravy that will have dropped into the tin the strained juice of an orange, loz. of butter, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon; place it over the fire until boiling, then pour it over the fish, garnish them with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve at once. Stewed Tench.—(1) Clean and scale a Tench, put it in a saucepan with sufficient veal broth and red wine in equal parts to cover it, add a sprig of parsley and marjoram, the rind of half a lemon, and five or six peppercorns.. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil the contents up quickly, remove it to the side, and simmer slowly until the fish is done. Take the fish out carefully, place it on a dish, remove the herbs and lemon-peel from the liquor, add a small lump of butter rolled in flour to thicken, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and add a little salt or anchovy sauce. Boil this up once more, pour it over the Tench, and serve. (2) Scale, gut, and well wash two or three Tench, sprinkle them over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, dripping, or beef-suet, and brown them. Place them in a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls each of port wine and water, and add 1 table- spoonful each of browning, walnut ketchup, and lemon pickle, an onion stuck with cloves, one stick of horse- radish, and a seasoning of cayenne. Set the saucepan over a slow fire, cover with the lid, and cook gently until there is only sufficient of the liquor left to cover the fish when dished. Take out the Tench, and put them on a dish ; thicken the gravy with butter and flour, boil it up once more, pour it through a sieve over the fish, and serve. (3) Clean and scale two Tench, cut them up, put them in a saucepan over a few carrots, turnips, onions, and sticks of celery all cut up in pieces and blanched ; add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, and cover with white wine. Set the saucepan on a clear fire and boil the contents for about ten minutes; remove the pan to a moderate fire, thicken the liquor with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it remain until the fish are done, /bake, them out carefully, and put them on a dish. Take out the bunch of parsley from the sauce, and add a few yolks of egg; after it is reduced, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, add the juice of a lemon and a little minced parsley, pour the whole over the Tench, and serve. (4) Clean and scale two or three Tench, put them into a dish with a handful of salt, and let them remain for about fifteen minutes ; then take them out and wipe on a cloth. Put into a saucepan a large onion, a stick of celery, and a carrot all chopped up, and cook them in a little oil or butter; add a clove of garlic, with the peel on and not chopped, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a few mushrooms or trimmings, three or four cloves, and pepper to taste. Place the fish on these, pour in white wine to about three-parts their height, boil for five minutes, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover the lid with hot ashes, and cook for about twenty-five minutes. Take out the fish, put them on a dish, thicken the liquor with butter kneaded in flour, and boil for a few minutes.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 583 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tench—continued. Sprinkle a little cayenne and chopped parsley over the fish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, strain the sauce over all, and serve. (5) Scale and clean three or four Tench, dry them well, hold them in front of a fire for a few minutes, sprinkle with flour, put them in a frying-pan, and let them brown ; transfer them to a saucepan, pour over sufficient wine and water in equal parts to cover, add a small quantity each of walnut ketchup, lemon pickle, mushroom powder, and browning, a little horseradish, an onion stuck with two cloves, and cayenne to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, cover it with the lid, and cook the contents gently for about an-hour-and-a-half, or until the liquor has nearly boiled away. Put the fish carefully on a dish, thicken the liquor with a small piece of butter kneaded with flour, boil up once more, pour it through a sieve over the fish, and serve at once. (6) Clean and dry three or four Tench, put them into a saucepan with igall. of water, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stick of horse- radish, two onions, a little mace and whole pepper, and salt to taste. Set the saucepan on a slow fire, cover it with the lid, and cook the contents gently for about an- hour-and-a-half. Bone and pound two anchovies, put them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 4oz. of butter rolled in flour; a little lemon-peel, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and 1 gill of the liquor from the fish. Mix well, and boil for a few minutes. Put the fish on a dish ; pour the two liquors into one saucepan, add the juice of a lemon, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little more cream, and boil up; pour this while hot over the Tench, and serve. Stewed Tench a la S?oulette.—Remove the gills from about ljlb. of Tench, clean the fish, plunge it into boil- ing water for a few minutes, then take it out and skin. Wipe the fish on a cloth, cut it into pieces about 2in. long, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Put 2oz. of butter and lioz. of flour into another sauce- pan over the fire, stir well for two or three minutes, pour in lqt. of light wine, and boil for about ten minutes, stirring continually; pour this into the saucepan with the fish, fimmer gently at the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes, add a thickening of the yolks of three eggs and ^oz. of butter, and cook for a few minutes longer; remove the faggot and clove of garlic, sprinkle in a little fi nely - chopped parsley, take out the pieces of fish, heap them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Tench au Gratin.—Chop fine a few onions, shallots, mush- rooms, and a little parsley; sprinkle a gratin-dish with a small quantity of it, then put in two large cleaned Tench, and cover them with the remainder of the fine herbs. Add salt to taste, and moisten with oil or hot butter and i wineglassful of white wine. Set the dish on the fire, boil up, remove it to a moderate oven, and let it remain for fifteen minutes. Take out the fish, put them on a dish, and cover with the fine herbs; pour 1 teacupful of brown sauce into the gratin-dish, let it remain in the oven for about ten minutes, pour the contents over the Tench, garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve (see Fig. 776). Tench Fie.—Sprinkle over the bottom of a well-buttered dish with grated nutmeg, ground mace, salt, and pepper; over these lay three or four cleaned and dried Tench, put a few small lumps of butter on them, and pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of red wine and a little water. Cover Tench—continued. the dish with puff paste, making a small hole at the top, set the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for about an hour. Take out the pie when done, pour a little hot rich gravy into it through the hole at the top, and serve. TENDERING-.—See Tough Meat. TENDONS {Fr. Tendons).—The long, tough, inelastic sinews or thews into which the fibres of muscles are inserted are usually known by this name, but the French cook extends the signification to the cartilages at the end of the ribs of a breast of veal. They are to be cut out before the meat is cooked by laying the breast on the table with the bony surface upwards, then with a sharp knife cut the Tendons off the ribs, the junction of the Tendons and bones being shown by a line of white gristle. For modes of cooking them, see Veal. TERCE.—See Tierce. TERRAPIN.—A kind of tortoise that lives on the sea-shore or in the salt marshes of America. It is sup- posed to be a cross between the turtle and the land tortoise, and its flesh is highly esteemed as a food. The principal varieties are the Yellow-bellied Terrapin [Pseudernys scabra) of the Southern United States, the Red- bellied Terrapin (P. rugosa) of Chesapeake Bay, and the Diamond-back or Salt-marsh Terrapin (Malaclemmys palustris) caught along nearly the whole of the Atlantic coast. When full grown they measure about a foot long and are supposed to be in season all the year round. When caught they can be kept alive for a long, time in tubs of salt water, and their condition im- proved by feeding with vegetable peelings. To kill the Terrapin it is necessary to have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, one that will hold the Terrapin easily, and to plunge the creature into it, head first, putting on the lid immediately and leaving it in the water for ten or fifteen minutes. Then take it out and peel off the black skin from the shell, and the nails from the claws. Wash them thoroughly in warm water, and remove the under- shell by chipping through the thinnest parts, where the back shell joins. Cut close to the shell so as not to lose any meat, pour away the water, but keep the blood which will be found in the deep or top shell. Take out the dark green gall-bladder, which is the size of a cherry, and will be found near the centre at the side of the liver, and also the sand-bag and entrail, and preserve the eggs if there be any. Loosen the meat from the top shell, cutting through the spine-bone just above the tail, where it is attached to the shell, turn the Terrapin into a flat pan, and cut off the head. This, with the shell, can be used for soup. Separate the two fore and two hind legs, so as to have four pieces, trim off the claws, and scrape off the thin outside covering. In the female Terrapin will be found rich fat at the shoulders. This should be taken off, as it does not require so much cooking as the other parts, and should only be added when they are nearly done. It is of a dark green colour. All the pieces of meat, together with the fat and eggs, should be kept in water until wanted for use. Only the flesh, eggs, and liver of the Terrapin are ordinarily used, but sometimes the intes- tines are scalded and scraped, and added to stewed Terrapin. When there are no eggs in the Terrapin, egg balls are made to accompany it. Baked Terrapin.—Cut off the head of a Terrapin, put it in a saucepan or pot with the shell on, and let it boil till the under shell can be removed easily. Take it out, pull out all the meat, cleaning the upper shell thoroughly; pick the meat to pieces, and mix it up with a few crackers and chopped onions, a small quantity each of all- spice, black pepper, chopped parsley and butter, and pour over a little wine. Put this mixture into the top shell, place a few slices of lemon on the top, set it in the oven, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve.584 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Terrapin—continued. Baked Terrapins in Maryland Style.- -Half fill a baking- pan with dry gravel or sand, put it into an oven, and make it quite hot; well wash three Terrapins that have been killed, remove their heads, put them with the top shell downwards in the sand, and bake in the oven for an hour. Take them out, remove the under shell, gall-bag, and entrails, and loosen the meat without taking it out of the back shell. Full off the legs, skin them, and lay them on top. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of butter in a basin, soften it, mix in 1 teacupful of flour, 1 teaspoonful each of black pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon. Put Fio. 777. Baked Terrapins in Maryland Style. a little more than 1 table-spoonful of this into each Terrapin, place them back in the oven for a few minutes, take them out, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 777). Boiled Terrapin. -Put the heads, shells, and any small pieces into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover them, and boil slowly for two or three hours, skimming constantly as required; strain the liquor into another saucepan, add the tough pieces of meat and the blood, and boil for three-quarters-of an-lmur; then add the fat, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Take out the pieces of meat and fat, put them in a tureen, pour over the liquor through a fine sieve, and serve. Fricassee of Terrapin.—Put the meat of two or three Terrapins into a saucepan with a little butter and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs; cook until it is slightly coloured, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste and 1 table-spoonful cf flour, and pour in gradually sufficient cream to nearly cover. Boil without stirring for four minutes, then add l wineglassful of sherry; boil again for ten minutes, take the saucepan from the tire, thicken with the beaten yolks of four eggs, remove the bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, add 5oz. of butter pulled in small pieces, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with minced paisley sprinkled over. Mock Terrapin- Soup.—Chop into small pieces 21b. of roasted or boiled beef, put it into a saucepan, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of wine and milk, and add Hoz. of butter rolled in flour, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of made mustard, and a little grated nutmeg. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil for about a-quarter-of-an-hour, turn it into a tureen, and serve. Stewed Terrapins.—(1) Cut the flesh off some Terrapins in small pieces, and put them over the fire in a stewpan together with a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, and a piece of butter. Let them stew in the butter for a short time, add 1 wineglassful of water for each Terrapin, and put in at the same time a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew for ten minutes, add for each Terrapin 1 wineglassful of white v ine, and let them stew for another five minutes; then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and stir in some beaten yolks of eggs, allowing one yolk to two Terrapins. Cover the pan tightly and let it stand for five minutes. Then pour the Terrapins, sauce and all, into a tureen, and serve. (2) To the meat of about two large or four small Terrapins, add 1 teacupful of sherry and 1 breakfast- cupful of port, 1 teacupful each of butter and currant or similar fruit jelly, I dessert-spoonful nearly full of Worcestershire sauce, a little cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Stew all these together, and just as the meat is cooked, stir well in 1 breakfast-cupful of pure fresh cream; as soon as the cream gets hot and well mixed with the dressing, serve it. For this purpose a regular metal or silver stew-dish is to be preferred, with an Terrapin—continued. alcohol lamp attached. Use mustard to taste, but take care not to let it predominate. (3) Put lgall. of the liquor in which six Terrapins were boiled into a saucepan, add a small quantity of water to make up for what will boil away, and add also 1 table- spoonful of crushed peppercorns, a little root of parsley, a bunch of the same and green thyme, a blade of mace, eight cloves, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion. Put 6oz. of butter and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire to colour, put them into the saucepan with tne liquor when it boils, and add 1 table-spoonful of salt. Cut out the meat from the six cooked Terrapins, trimming off all the projecting bones, and forming the pieces into smooth and well-shaped joints; put these into the saucepan with the liquor, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until they are quite hot. Add the eggs, if any, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, as well as any pieces of fat, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (4) For 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Terrapin-meat, put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table spoonful of flour, and stir them together over the fire until they are delicately browned; then stir in 1 pint of the second water in which the Terrapin was boiled or 1 pint of boiling water. When the sauce is stirred quite smooth, season it with 1 teaspoonful of salt, J saltspopnful each of pepper and grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne. Put the Terrapin meat into the sauce, and heat it till scalding hot; then draw it to the side of the fire, add the yolks of four eggs beaten smooth, and serve the Terrapin in a tureen containing 1 gill of Madeira and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice. (5) Cut the meat and liver into pieces, and put them into a lined kettle, together with the eggs and whatever blood or juice has been taken out. When cutting up, season well with cayenne and powdered mace. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan on the fire, and when melted and quite hot add 1 gill of rich cream ; stir well, add the meat and eggs, together with the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs rubbed fine, pour in a little Madeira wine, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Potatoes baked in their skins should accompany this dish. Stewed Terrapin in Baltimore Style.—Prepare two medium-sized Terrapins. Make \ pint of mirepoix sauce, add to it 1 table-spoonful of flour, and cook for fifteen minutes; moisten with | wineglassful of Madeira wine and 1 breakfast-cupful of strong broth. Stir well and constantly, season with J pinch of salt and a very little cayenne pepper, and reduce the liquor to half. Cut the Terrapins into small pieces, throwing the ends of the claws away ; put them in a stewpan, straining the sauce over, and finish with loz. of fresh butter, also the juice of a lemon. Dish up, and serve. Stewed Terrapin with Cream. - For 1 pint of Terrapin meat, use 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir them over the fire in a thick saucepan until they bubble, then gradually stir in 1 pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of salt, J saltspoonful each of white pepper and grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne; next put the Terrapin into the saucepan, and stir it until it is scalding hot; draw the saucepan to the side of the fire where its contents will not boil, and stir in the yolks of four eggs previously beaten smooth. Do not allow the Terrapin to boil after adding the eggs, but pour it at once into a tureen con- taining I gill of Madeira and 1 table-spoonful of lemon- juice, and serve. Stewed Terrapin in Maryland Style. —Carefully cut up two Terrapins, place them in a saucepan with \ wine- glassful of good Madeira wine, £ pinch of salt, a very little cayenne pepper, and loz. of good butter. Mix well 1 breakfast-cupful of good sweet cream with the yolks of three boiled eggs, and add it to the Terrapin, briskly and constantly stirring while thoroughly heating, but without letting it'come to a boil. Turn the whole into a hot tureen, and serve very hot. Terrapin Salad.—Cut out the meat from three boiled Terrapins, chop it up small, and mix it with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, pounded in a mortar with 1.1b. ofI585 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces% etc., referred to see under their special heads. Terrapin — continued. butter, and 1 teaspoonful of flour added when the mixture is light and creamy, l'ut the preparation into a saucepan, sprinkle over cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste, and cook Fig. 778. Terrapin Salad. for two or three minutes; remove the pan from the lire, pour in a little wine, and turn the whole on to a dish covered with shredded lettuce. Garnish with slices of beetroot and hard-boiled eggs cut into halves (see Fig. 778). Terrapin Soup.—(1) Put the shells, heads, and trimmings of three Terrapins into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them gently for two or three hours, skimming it well at the first bubbling. When all the good has been ex tracted from the shells, &c., strain the liquor into a clean saucepan, put in the pieces of Terrapin-meat, and boil for an hour; the fat should be added after the meat has boiled a little time. At the end of that time, take out the pieces of Terrapin, and put them on a dish to cool. Strain the liquor into a bowl. Boil the bones that have been separated from the meat in ‘2qts. of water till all the gelatine has dissolved, then add the strained liquor, a bunch of thyme and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of bruised pepper- corns, two cloves, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, and half a blade of mace, and let it boil for half an hour longer. Cut the cold meat of the Terrapin into small square pieces, strain the soup into a clean saucepan, throw in the meat, and boil it up. Boil lqt. of cream in another saucepan. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and a piece of butter the size of a hen’s egg into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in the boiling cream ; strain this through a strainer into the soup. The soup should be served directly the cream is mixed with it. (2) Save the water used in boiling the Terrapin, and after they are dressed put their shells broken up into the water, and boil them for six hours; add stock or consomme to twice their height, and agaiu boil them until they begin to soften. Cool and clarify the broth thus made, season with salt, cayenne, and Madeira wine, and serve. (3) Put in a saucepan 1 pint of Spanish sauce and J pint of consomme ; add a faggot of sweet herbs, 1 table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a very little red pepper, the same of nutmeg, and \ wineglassful of Madeira wine. Boil for twenty minutes, being careful to remove the fat, if any, add £ pint of Terrapin, prepared as described, and boil for ten minutes longer. Remove the faggot of herbs, then serve with a few slices of lemon. Terrapin Steaks.—Cut the meat of a Terrapin into slices or steaks, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, place a few lumps of butter on them, and either fry them in a frying-pan or broil on a gridiron. Put them on a dish when done, and serve very hot; or they may be dipped in batter before being salted and peppered, covered with melted butter and breadcrumbs, and then cooked. Vol-au-Vent of Terrapin.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Terrapin stock into a saucepan with two cloves and a little mace or parsley, and boil it up ; add 1 table-spoonful of browned flour mixed up with an equal quantity of butter to thicken it, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry wine, and strain the liquor into another saucepan. Add 2 breakfast- cupfuls of Terrapin-meat cut up in small pieces, sprinkle in a little each of salt and cayenne, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the preparation is done. Have ready eight vol-au-vent cases lined with puff paste and baked, fill them with the Terrapin mixture, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. TERMITES, or TERRENES.—Vessels made of earthenware that will stand heat. They are fitted with Terrines, or Terrenes—continued. lids (see Fig-. 779), and much used by Continental chefs fox- cooking vai-ious meats in the oven with a minimum of moisture. The edges of the lid are sometimes hermeti- cally sealed with flour-and-water paste, thus preventing the escape of steam. The process resembles braising, Fig. 779. Terrine. with the exception that the food is oftentimes seiwed in the Terrine in which it was baked. TESTE.—A beverage prepared by the natives of Nicax-agua, composed of pounded l-oasted Indian-corn, moistened with water, flavoured with chocolate, and sweetened. THEXNE.—The active principle of tea. THCERX</E0METER8.—Without the means of measur- ing heat it is of little use to mention the number of degrees i-equired for any specific purpose in cooking, fermenting, or any other px-ocess depending upon, or dii-ectly affecting, heat or temperature. Happily the ingenuity of scientific manufacturers has provided instru- ments whereby we are enabled to specify degrees of heat, and rely upon the results. Although rarely used by the cook, a Thermometer is of the first importance to ensure perfection in all sorts of culinary operations, especially those relating to baking and frying. Water always boils at an ascertained tenx- perature (212deg. Fahr.), and no Thermometer is necessai-y to ascertain this, sufficient evidence being given by the bubbling activity. Roasting inquires a vax-iety of degi’ees of heat, which the cook regulates according to the effect upon the meat being roasted, moving it nearer to the fir-e or farther fi-om it, according to circumstances. Grilling does not require a Thermometer to measure the heat; but baking requires the utmost care in regulating the degrees of heat, and no better method of effecting this can be found than by using an oven Thermometer, such as that invented and made by Messrs. Joseph, Davis, and Co., which has been favourably l-eceived in most large kitchens. Oven Thennometers ai-e of two kinds, those which stand in the oven (see Fig. 780) and those which ax-e affixed to the door or side of the oven, the bulb entex-ing the oven through a hole exit for its x-eception, and the index being oxxtside. The faces of these Thermometers not oixly indicate degrees of temperature, bxxt the degrees required to cook varioixs articles. The oven Thermometers hex-e specially referx-ed to as beixxg possibly the best in the world, are described by the manufacturers as having improved chambered unburst- able tubes, nxoxxnted on a copper, or copper and silvered, | scale. Soxxie of them show on one side the correct tem- perature at which food should be put in the oven, and on the other side the eox-rect tenxperatux-e at which food should be kept in to cook it, thus forming at once a lesson in, and guide to perfection in cookery. Much difficulty is generally experienced by cooks in frying; they cannot easily gauge the heat of the fat, as it gives such very indefinite indications, even when boiling. It bubbles before it boils, and smokes when tooTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 586 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Thermometers —continued. Thermometers—continued. hot. The heat necessary for frying to perfection can only be ascertained by using a frying-thermometer, or “ fryometer ” as Messrs. Joseph, Davis, and Co. have styled them. These are of two kinds: one (see Fig. 781) that will stand in a shallow frying-pan, indicating the heat of the merest layer of fat, and another that rests on the side of the pan, the bulb being immersed in the fat or oil. Both give the accepted degrees of heat required for cooking various foods. The uses of Thermometers in cellars, for brewing, wine-making, sugar-boiling, butter-making, and other manufactures, have been described under their specific headings. Thermometers operate upon the principle of matter expanding when exposed to heat in exact proportion to the degrees of heat applied. Spirits of wine and mercury have been found to expand with the greatest uniformity between certain points. Spirits of wine, which will not freeze at the lowest temperature to which it can be subjected, answers best for indicating low temperatures, although it boils at a much lower degree than water. A little carmine is usually added to give the spirit a con- spicuous colour. Mercury requires an exceedingly high degree of heat to boil it, therefore it is considered the best agent for culinary Thermometers. The “ fixed points ” of Thermometers are made to coincide witli the temperature of melting ice for the zero, and boiling water for the higher point. Fahrenheit divided the degrees between these two fixed points into The use of two such different and distinct scales causes much confusion; one or the other should be adopted. Until that is done it is advisable to understand Fig. 780. Oven Thermometer. 180 degrees, commencing at melting ice or freezing-point, 32deg., and continuing to boiling water, 212deg. Another system, called the Centigrade, which is much used on the Continent, commences at Odeg., and makes boiling water lOOdeg.; anything below the freezing-point of water (Odeg.) is preceded by the minus sign ; thus—6deg. signifies 6 degrees below zero. how to ascertain what are the equivalents in each case, which can be easily accomplished as follows : To ascertain the Fahrenheit equivalent for 20deg. Centi- grade, multiply 20 by 9, which gives 180, and divide that by 5, giving 36; to this add 32, and the Fahrenheit equivalent of 20deg. Centigrade is found to be 68deg. To convert Fahrenheit into Centigi-ade the operation is reversed. Thus, from 68deg. Fahrenheit subtract 32, and the sum is 36; multiply this by 5, making 180, and divide that by 9, which gives 20deg. It is advisable to commit this system to memory, as the two scales are used in this country somewhat indiscriminately. The graduation known as Reaumur’s system, makes Odeg. zero, and 80deg. boiling point of water. Delille’s system commences at boiling point (ldeg.), and graduates downwards to ISOdeg. zero. These two latter are not used in cookery. THICKENING.—See Liaisons. THISTLE-HEADS.—See Cardoons. THORN-BACK.-See Skate. THRUSHES (Fr. drives; Gcr. Di-osseln; Ital. Tordi).—Any bird of the genus Tardus would be accepted by the British cook, whereas the Continental chef con- fines his selection to those birds that frequent vineyards, living on grapes and juniper-berries. It is easy to con- ceive that such a bird, fat and plump as it would be in autumn, would be very delicate and tasty, and “ un gibier parfait,” or a perfect game bird, as it is styled by a famous French gourmet. For those who prefer to taste the tiesh rather than hear the song of the “ melancholy throstle,” the following receipts are recommended: Chaudfroid of Thrushes.—Pluck, singe, and draw one dozen thrushes; bone them, sprinkle over insides with salt and pepper, and till them up with game forcemeat mixed with a few chopped truffles. Roll the birds up, giving them a round shape, tie round with strips of paper, and put them close together in a saucepan. Sprinkle them well with salt, pour in sufficient gravy with the fat on it to nearly cover, place the lid on the saucepan with hot ashes on the top, and braise in a slow oven for about twenty minutes.587 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Thrushes—continued. Remove the pan from the oven, take off the lid, and let the Thrushes cool. Take them out, drain, trim, and remove the paper; dip them into hot chaudfroid sauce, place them on a baking-sheet, let the sauce get quite cold on them, put the birds carefully on a dish, piling them up, garnish with croutons of jelly, and serve. Crepinettes of Thrushes.—Cut the fillets off nine or ten Thrushes, remove the skin, cut them in halves, put them into a basin with an equal bulk of blanched fat bacon and raw truffles also cut up into pieces, season well, and pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of white wine or brandy. Put the intestines and livers of the Thrushes, together with a few fowl’s livers, into a saucepan, add a little rasped bacon, a little chopped onion, and the trimmings of the truffles, and cook quickly until the whole is done. Let it cool, put it into a mortar and pound it; mix in lib. of pork that has also been pounded, put the mixture into a basin, and pour over the liquor from the marinaded fillets of Thrushes. Beat the thick end of a pig’s caul with a knife to flatten it, cut it into small squares, put a layer of the liver forcemeat on each one, and over that the fillets of Thrushes, inter- mixed with the bacon and truffles. Cover with another layer of the forcemeat, making the crepinettes into a flat oblong square, and cover with the pig’s caul, taking care to have no opening. Put these crepinettes on a grid- iron over a clear fire, and broil them for about seventeen minutes; put them on a dish when done, pour round a gravy made with the bones of the Thrushes and a few of the trimmings of the truffles, and serve. Puree of Thrushes with Rice.—Pluck, singe, and draw six or eight Thrashes; put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of butter, salt, and pepper to taste, and cook them until quite tender. Take them out, pull off all the meat, let it get cool, and pound it well in a mortar, adding gradually 4 table-spoonfuls of rice boiled in rich broth, and add also the yolks of three eggs. Put a little butter and Hour into a saucepan, cook gently for a few minutes, without the Hour being allowed to colour, pour in some broth, sufficient to make the required quantity of soup, boil up once, stir well, remove the saucepan to the side of the Hre, and let the liquor simmer for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim well, pour a little of the liquor in with the pounded birds, rub through a fine sieve into the soup, turn it into a tureen, and serve. Roasted Thrushes.—Pluck and singe the required number of Thrushes, blanch them, but do not draw them. Cover over with vine leaves and thin slices of bacon, tying them round; run a skewer lengthwise through the body (see Fig. 782), fasten the Thrushes to a spit by this means, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with their Fig. 782. Boasted Thrushes. drippings and butter. When they are done, put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and sprinkle with a little white pepper; brown some pieces of bread in the dripping pan, and serve as a garnish. Salmis of Thrushes.—Pluck and singe eight Thrashes and roast them without drawing. Take them off the spit when done, chop each one in halves, trim and place them in a saucepan without their intestines, pour over a little gravy, and glaze them. Put the saucepan in a bain-marie and keep the birds hot. Put the trimmings into a sauce- pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, and pour over a little white wine and gravy to moisten; cover the pan, boil the contents for a few minutes, strain the liquor into a basin, and keep it hot likewise. Put H teacupfuls of brown Thrushes—continued. sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, stirring occasionally; add slowly the liquor from the trimmings, and when the whole is thick pour it over the Thrushes. Put the livers and intestines of the Thrashes into a frying-pan, add two or three fowl’s livers and a little bacon cut up small, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and fry them until they are all done over a quick fire; turn them into a mortar, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve into a basin. Have ready ten or twelve small slices of bread, cut either round or oblong and fried in butter, mask them with the liver puree, curving or arching the mixture over a little; glaze them with butter, and keep them hot at the entrance of the oven. Put them round the dish, and serve. Stewed Thrushes.—Pluck and singe one dozen Thrashes, remove the pouches and gizzards, push the heads into the bodies, and cross the legs; place them in a saucepan with a little butter and a few slices of fat bacon, sprinkle them over with a little salt, and cook over a brisk fire, turning them so as to do both sides. When they are nearly done, sprinkle with a few juniper-berries' mixed up with 1 tea- cupful of breadcrumbs; put the saucepan in the oven, and let it remain until the birds are quite done. Put them with the contents of the saucepan on a dish, turn 2 table- spoonfuls of rich gravy into the saucepan, boil it up, add a little glaze to strengthen the gravy, pour this round the dish, and serve very hot. Thrushes au aG-ratin.—Pluck, draw, and bone seven or eight Thrushes, cover with game forcemeat, and roll up, giving them as long a form as possible. Cover the birds with paper, put them in a saucepan, keeping them close together, pour over a little rich gravy to moisten them, put a piece of paper over the lot, place the lid on the pan, cover with hot ashes, and braise on a moderate fire for about twelve minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the Thrushes cool in the liquor, and split them lengthwise. Put a flat of paste at the bottom of a gratin-dish, cover with a layer of cooked chicken forcemeat, put the halves of Thrushes on the top in a circle, with a little of the forcemeat in the centre to raise the ends of the halves of Thrushes, fill the centre with a piece of bread masked with strips of fat bacon, put a piece of paper round the outer ends of the halves of birds, tie it with string to keep it in its proper position, and cover the birds with thin slices of fat bacon. Put the gratin-dish into a moderate oven, and cook the.contents for about twenty-five minutes. Take it out when done, remove the paper and piece of bread, take off the fat very carefully, slip the gratin on a dish, mask the birds with a little hot brown sauce, and serve with cooked button- mushrooms in the centre. Thrushes a la Paysanne. -Pluck and singe half-a-dozen or so Thrushes, trass, and fasten them to a spit. Roast them in front of a clear fire, and when well done set fire to a lump of fat bacon tied up in a sheet of paper, and baste the Thrushes with the drippings. Chop fine a few shallots, put them on a dish, and mix in a small piece of butter, the juice of one lemon, a few drops of vinegar, and a small quantity of water or weak gravy; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put the birds on this, and serve at once. Thrushes in Cases served with Truffles.—Bone one dozen Thrashes ; prepare a galantine of forcemeat with the flesh of the legs, some game-flesh, and an equal quantity of fresh bacon, season it well, and mix with it four peeled and chopped truffles. Season the birds, stuff them with the prepared mixture, and sew them up, making one end pointed and the other end round. Wrap the birds separ- ately in cloths, tie them with string, and cook in some good stock. When the galantines are cooked, remove the cloths and bind them up in fresh ones to keep them a good shape while getting cold. Cook some truffles, leave them till cold, then dip them in melted meat glaze. Take the galantines out of the cloths, trim and brush them over with glaze, rising a paste-brush for the purpose, then coat them thinly with some chaudfroid sauce. Pro- cure one dozen plaited paper cases, the same shape as the galantines, and put a small quantity of chopped aspic and a bird in each. Place round fried bread croutons,TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 588 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Thrushes—continued. and then arrange the cooked truffles in the centre; surround the base of them with chopped aspic jelly, Fig. 783. Thrushes in Cases served with Truffles. then stand the cases of birds all round it, the pointed ends up (see Fig. 783); they are then ready for serving. Thrushes Cooked in Brandy.—Pluck and singe a couple of dozen Thrushes, truss, and slightly flatten them. Put them into a saucepan with a little lard or melted bacon-fat, and add a bunch of sweet herbs and two or three onions, mushrooms, and truffles cut in small slices or pieces, and cook over a moderate fire until the birds begin to colour. Pour in 2 tumblerfuls of brandy, light it and toss over the fire until it is burnt out: add sufficient rich gravy to moisten, and simmer gently over a slack fire until the birds are done and tender. Put them on a dish, skim off all the fat from the liquor, add a little salt and pepper if required and the juice of a lemon, pour it over the birds, and serve. Thrush Puree Soup.—(1) Put |gall. of rich game stock into a saucepan and let it simmer at the side of the fire. Pluck and singe twenty-four Thrushes, roast them, and let them get cold. Cue up the fillets of half, and put them into a small saucepan to warm. Turn all the livers and intestines into a mortar, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve. Put the remaining dozen Thrushes, as well as the bones of the other dozen, into a mortar, pound them well with fifteen or sixteen boiled chestnuts, and moisten with the warm game stock. Return this to the saucepan, boil up once, anil remove the pan to the side of the fire. Add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, let it remain for about twenty-five minutes to clarify, skim off the fat, strain it into another saucepan, and keep it warm. Mix a little of this soup with the pounded livers, put the puree into the saucepan with the remaining soup, thicken with the yolks of six eggs, warm it up without boiling, strain into the tureen, add the fillets of Thrushes, anil serve. The livers and intestines should be pounded separ- ately and then mixed, using only a part of the latter; if the whole were used they would make the soup too bitter. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw a dozen Thrushes, put them into a baking-dish with a little butter to baste them, and bake until done; take them out and let them cool. The intestines should also be cooked in a little butter, and afterwards chopped very fine. Take off the legs of the birds, pound them in a mortar to a paste, and mix in an equal bulk of thin slices of bread browned in the oven. When these are all well pounded put them into a sauce- pan, and pour over 3 pints of rich broth. Set the sauce- pan on the fire, boil up once, remove it to the side, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Skim off all the fat, strain the soup through a fine sieve into a tureen, add Mb. of well boiled rice and 1 table- spoonful of the chopped intestines passed through a fine sieve, stir well, and serve. Timbale of Thrushes with Truffled Macaroni and Garnished with Mushrooms.—Cut off the fillets from twelve Thrushes, remove the skins, beat them slightly, and fry with butter in a frying-pan over a clear fire, turning them so as to cook both sides. Add f ib. of truffles cut in pieces, and salt and ground allspice to taste : toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, remove it, add 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce reduced with the trimmings of the truffles, and a small quantity of wine, and let the mixture cool. Boil 5oz. of large whole macaroni in a Thrushes—continued. saucepan of salted water, take them out when done, drain on a cloth, and cut them into pieces about Jin. in length. Fill the hollow of each with a small piece of truffle, and arrange them in a timbale mould, having the end with tlie truffle placed against the sides of the mould. Cover these with a layer of quenelle forcemeat, fill the cavity with the Thrush mixture, cover over with raw force- meat, put the mould into the bain-marie or a saucepan of boiling water, and poach for about forty-five minutes. Turn it out carefully on to a warmed dish, garnish the base with cooked mushrooms, and the top with an attelette skewer run through a truffle, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce, reduced with truffle trimmings and wine. THUMB-BITS.—This name is given to what may be termed tasty little mouthfuls, such as pieces of bread or toast (see Fig. 784) upon which 1ms been spread a savoury paste of some kind. They are greatly appre- Fig. 784. Thumb-bit. dated when provided at hotel bars and restaurants, and form useful little side-dishes at a hot or cold luncheon, answering in some respects to the hors d’ceuvres of a fashionable dinner. They should not be longer than Fig. 785. Form of Sandwich Thumb-bit. 2in., nor wider than lin., corresponding, in a sense, to the size of a thumb, from which they take their name. Made in the style of diminutive sandwiches (see Fig. 785) is a convenient form to serve them. They should then be set on the table or sideboard enclosed in serviettes folded in the shape of a cornucopia (see Fig. 786), gar- nished with parsley, and labelled with the name. A pair of asparagus-tongs will be found convenient for serving them. The following receipts can be recommended, and may suggest others: Fish Thumb-bits.—Any kind of cold fish can be made up into a paste and delicately seasoned. It should be spread on slices of bread or toast previously buttered with anchovy butter. Shrimps, lobster, crab, bloater, and haddock can all be made up in the same manner. Game Thumb-bits.—^Auy kind of cold game made into a paste and worked up on a plate that has been well rubbed with a clove of garlic can be spread on buttered bread, and served as above described. Meat Thumb-bits.—Any kind of cold meat can be made into a paste, seasoned tastily, spread on slices of buttered bread, and covered with another.589 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Thumb-bits—continued. Mock-Crab Tliumb-bits.—Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg into a smooth paste with a little salad-oil, adding, one at a time, and to taste, salt, caster sugar, made mustard, a few drops of onion vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped cold fowl. When these are incorporated, work in 1 table-spoonful of grated cheese. Spread this paste, and serve as already described. Mock-Game Thumb-bits.—Take equal quantities of butter and grated cheese, and beat them up in a mortar with a little made mustard, salt, and-cayenne or white pepper. Spread this on one slice of bread, and on the other spread a paste made by beating up any kind of cold meat and flavouring it with a trifle of jiowdered mace and salt. Proceed as before described. Oyster Thumb-bits.—Trim ofF the beards of as many oysters, either fresh or tinned, as may be required, and pound the bodies in a mortar together with a little cayenne pepper and lemon juice to taste. Butter some thin slices of brown bread, and finish as before described. Poultry Thumb-bits.—Any kind of cold poultry made into a paste and daintily seasoned can be spread on bread or toast, and made up as already described. Tomato-and-Sardine Thumb-bits. —Clean, bone, and smash up the flesh of a fewsardines together with a little butter, sea- soning nicely with cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Skin as many tomatoes as may be required, cut them into very thin slices, and sprinkle over them a dust of caster sugar. Cut some very thin slices off a tinned loaf of bread and spread them with soft butter; cover one slice with the sardine paste, and lay the slices of tomato on the other. Take up the sardine slice and turn it over on to the tomatoes. Press down with the flat of a knife and then cut the slices into small sandwiches, 2in. by 1 in. in size. Pile them on a plate, and garnish with parsley. THUNNY.—See Tunny. THYME (Fr. Tliym ; Ger. Thymian; Ital. Timo ; Sp. Tomillo).—According to some of our botanical authorities there are as many as fifty varieties of Thyme; but according to the cook there are but two, these, however, being of the greatest importance—the common or garden Thyme (Thymus vulgaris) and lemon-scented Thyme (T. citrio- dorus);' the latter having, as its name suggests, a strong lemon-like odour that rather limits its use as a seasoning. The common Thyme (see Fig. 787) grows in large masses Thyme—continued. or stools, the leaves being very small and the stems fine and woody, and covered with hoary down. In the South of France an essential oil distilled from it is imported into this country, and sold as marjoram oil, for which it is substituted. From the “ Treasury of Botany ” we gather that Thyme— “ a native of Spain and Italy—is recorded as having been introduced into this country about a.d. 1548, or perhaps earlier. Its uses are well known The leaves, both in a green or dried state, are employed for seasoning soups, stews, sauces, and stuffings, to which they give an agreeable and highly aromatic flavour. Before the introduction of the Eastern species (lemon-scented) this plant was in great repute. According to Evelyn, it was extensively cultivated in the neighbourhood of Sandwich and Deal for medicinal purposes. It yields a species of camphor by distillation with water, and in Spain they infuse it in the pickle with which they preserve their olives. The Romans were well acquainted with Thyme, which was one of the plants re- commended to be grown for the sake of bees.” (Sec Herbs.) T ID-BITS.—This is sometimes spelled Tit-bits, an evident corruption of the Anglo-Saxon tydere, signifying tender, soft, or nice, and bit, or bite. Every dish may be said to have its specially nice or Tid-bits, which it is important for the server or carver to understand, as they are generally reserved for the most honoured guest. In some respects they answer to the French bonnes bouches. Of roasted fowl the breast is the best part; of boiled fowl the leg is preferred. The liver and gizzard are Tid- bits. The shoulder of a rabbit is the best part, and the brain is a Tid-bit. The sounds of codfish ; the thin or fat of salmon ; the thick and fins of turbot, liver and roe; the fat of venison, lamb, or veal kidney ; the long cuts and gravy from the “ Alderman’s walk ” of a haunch of veni- son or mutton; the pope’s eye in a leg of mutton; the oyster cut of a shoulder of mutton; the ribs and neck of a sucking-pig; the small bones of a breast of lamb, and the rib cartilages of a breast of veal; the back pieces, ears, and brain of a hare ; the breast and thighs of turkey and goose; the legs and breast of a duck, the tails and little pieces from the loin or back being especially select; the wings, breast, and back of game birds; the bits under the ears, next the eyes, and side next the cheek, and the “ sweet tooth ” of a calf’s head, are all recognised as Tid-bits. Others are very much according to individual taste. TIERCE—The name of a cask which represents one- third of a pipe of wine—that is, having a capacity of 42 wine or 35 Imperial gallons. The term is derived from the Latin tertius—a third. Casks of the same name, larger than barrels, but smaller than hogsheads, are used for packing salted provisions, rice, and other foods for shipment. TIGER’S MILK—This is the eccentric name given to an American concoction that is greatly in vogue amongst a certain class of full-grown drinkers. It is mixed as follows : (1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup into a basin, add 3 drops each of the tinctures of cloves, orange, nutmeg, and cinnamon, then 1 wineglassful of peach liquor (or brandy), and double the quantity of brandy (cognac), and lastly stir in Iqt. of sweet cider. When thoroughly incorporated, stir in lqt. of new milk and the white of an egg whipped to a froth, and serve. (2) Put 1 teacupful of peach brandy and 1 teacupful of applejack, or cider and brandy, into a large bowl, add 4 drops each of oil of cloves, essence of orange, and essence of cinnamon, and 2qts of milk, sweetening to taste with white powdered sugar; heat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir it into the Tiger’s • Milk, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve immediately.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 590 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. TIMBALES.—The literal translation of this French word would be “Kettledrums,” the original dishes so named partaking of tlie shape peculiar to those instruments. Custom has, however, extended the adaptation to a variety of shapes, all partaking more or less of a bell-like conforma- tion (see Fig. 788), though in some rare cases the sides and top are Hat and angular. Timbales may be either sweet or savoury, large ones con- stituting dishes by themselves, and small ones being used as garnishes for more important preparations. They should be sufficiently firm when cooked to maintain their distinctive shapes after leaving the mould, whilst being tender and tasty to the palate. Numerous receipts for the preparation of Timbales will be found under special headings, such as Apples, Aiuour- ettes, Brioches, Cabbages, &c. The following are good examples of how Timbales should be made : Fig. 788. Timbale-moulds (Adams and Son). Savoury Timbales. (1) Sift lib. of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt on to a board, make a bay in the cent,re, add the yolks of fourteen eggs, and make the whole into a stiff paste, giving it five or six turns, and working it well with the wrists. Have ready some small well-buttered timbale-moulds, line them with the paste rolled out very thin, taking care that no air bubbles are between the moulds and paste, and that the paste does not get folded or doubled. Fill the bottoms with slices of bacon and finely-chopped beef-suet, cover with more of the paste, fastening the edges securely by wetting them; wet this paste, and put on a cover the same size as the moulds. Brush them over slightly with egg, make a small hole in the centre, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Take them out, and turn out of the moulds; cut a circular piece out of the top of each, which will serve as a cover, and remove the suet and bacon. Fill them with a rich thick fricassee made of chicken, partridge, sweetbreads, truffles, mush- rooms, &c., put on the covers, brush them over with beaten egg or warmed meat glaze, and serve at once. These Timbales may be filled with any kind of rich ragout, and served very hot. (2) Sift I pint of flour on to a table, make a well in the centre, in which put loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a little water; work the ingredients together till thoroughly incorporated. Dredge a little more flour over the table and roll the paste out on it; fold it over and roll it out again. Cut the paste into pieces 2in. long, dredge them over with flour, then cut each piece into very fine strips. Arrange the strips on a sheet of paper, and dry them for an hour, turn- ing occasionally, then poach them in boiling salted water for eight minutes. Drain the paste, leave it till quite dry, then put it in a saucepan of boiling water with an onion stuck with two cloves, a small piece of carrot, and a little salt, and boil. When cooked, drain the paste, and mix with it in the saucepan a small quantity of good gravy, some grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheese in equal quantities, a small quantity of grated household cheese, and some finely-minced breast of roasted chicken. Warm all together; line a buttered timbale-mould with a light paste, fill it with the mixture, and cover with a flat of the same paste, moistening and pressing the edges together; make a small bole in the centre, and bake it. When cooked, turn the Timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour a little rich gravy round, and serve. (3) Butter well six small timbale-moulds, and line them with strips of plain unsweetened pancake. Take a preparation of puree of chicken, and the same quantity of raw forcemeat, add to it a reduced salpicon, and with this fill the moulds. Cover with small round pieces of the pancake, then steam them in the oven for about eight minutes. Turn them out of the moulds, arrange them on a hot dish, pour 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce over them, and serve. Timbales—continued. (4) Butter six timbale-moulds I-) in. high by 2Jin. in diameter. Arrange them on a dessert-dish covered with a folded napkin, and lay them in a cool place until wanted. Put into a china bowl half a fine, well cleaned, sound Camembert cheese, mash it thoroughly with a fork, and drop on to it very gradually \\ liqueur-glassfuls of old brandy. Cut into small pieces two medium-sized, cooked, throat sweetbreads, and add them to the cheese, mixing all thoroughly. Season with \ teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and the same quantity of grated nutmeg, stirring well for a minute longer. Then add four medium-sized, chopped truffles, and mix again. Divide the above preparation equally into the six timbale moulds, cover each with a thin slice of truffle previously dipped in brandy, and send to table. Sweet Timbale.—(1) Put 6oz. of flour in a basin, add a little salt, and mix it till quite smooth with 14 pints of milk; put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, then pour in the batter through a sieve. Stir the mixture over the tire and boil it for a few minutes. Pour the mixture into a plain timbale-mould and bake it. When cooked, turn the Timbale out of the mould and leave it to cool. Level it off straight on the top, then turn it over and hollow out the interior. Coat the sides with orange-icing sugar, and decorate them with preserved fruits. Place the Timbale on a dish, fill the hollow with an orange- flavoured ploinbiere and minced preserved fruit, piling it above the Timbale. Garnish the base with small jam tarts, put a circle of preserved greengages on the top of the Timbale, and serve. (2) Line a timbale-mould with Genoese paste and stand it on ice. Clarify 2oz. of gelatine by whisking it in a stewpan over the fire, with fib. of caster sugar, the juice of one lemon, the whipped whites of three eggs and lqt. of water. When it boils take it off the fire, strain it two or three times (till clear) through a jelly-bag, let it get cold, then add 1 pint of champagne. Cut some pears and apples that have been boiled in syrup, some dried cherries, preserved apricots and greengages, to an olive shape, mix the 1 jelly and fruits together, and stand it on ice in a saute- pan; when nearly set, fill the lined pudding-mould with 1 it, and stand it on ice for two hours. Moisten some apricot jam with a little syrup, and mask the Timbale with it when turned out of the mould. (3) Line a timbale mould with Genoese paste. Cook four large apples, each peeled and cut into eight pieces, in syrup, drain them, and when they are cold mix with them some kirschenwasser jelly. Boil lib. of stoned cherries for five minutes in syrup at 30deg.; drain them, crack forty of the stones, and blanch and peel the kernels. V hen t he jelly is partly set, fill the Timbale with layers of that and the fruit, strewing in some of the cherry-kernels while filling. Stand it on ice and let it freeze for two hours. When ready to serve turn it out of the mould, and glaze with some of the syrup in which the cherries were boiled, having previously reduced it. (4) Mix in a bowl 4lb. of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and four eggs; when well mixed, add |lb. of melted butter, spread the paste on a well buttered baking-sheet) and bake in a moderate oven until it is a pale golden colour. Line a plain timbale-mould with this paste, having first put a round of paper at the bottom, and then stand it on ice. Take fib. of pineapple, pre- viously cooked in syrup, and cut in small dice. Stand it in a saute pan on ice till nearly set, then fill the Timbale with it. Pack the mould in ice and freeze the Timbale for two hours. Turn it out of the mould on to a dish, moisten a little apricot jam with syrup, and use it to glaze the Timbale. # TINCTURES.—Alcoholic essences obtained by maceration or percolation, and sometimes used as a flavouring. TINNED FRUITS—See Fruit. TINNED MEATS.—See Australian Meat. TINNED VEGETABLES.—See Vegetables.591 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <5cc.r referred to, see render their special heads. TINTA.—A Madeira wine, of a dark colour, resembling Burgundy. It is prime when about two years old. TIFPAREES.—A name given by Anglo-Indians to the fruit of the Cape gooseberry (Physalis pubescens). It is a plant allied to the winter cherry, the fruit having a slightly acid taste. In Arabia, Germany, and Spain the fruit are sometimes eaten at dessert, or prepared as follows: Tipparee Cheese or Marmalade.—This can be prepared with the pulp of the Tipparees after the liquor has been strained for making Tipparee jelly, or fresh f"uit may be used and served in the same way. Rub the pulp through a line sieve, rejecting the skins; add a few more cleaned and pricked Tipparees, put the whole into a preserving- pan with sufficient sugar to sweeten, and simmer gently until the preparation is of such consistency that it will remain stiff in the spoon. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in a few table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, pour the cheese into buttered-moulds, let them get cold and the cheese set, turn them out on to a dish, and serve. Tipparee Jelly.—Remove the pods of some Tipparees, wipe them clean on a cloth, put them into a tinned saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil until all the juice is extracted. Strain the liquor into a preserving-pan, taking care not to injure the fruit, simmer gently for a little while, removing the scum as it rises, add gradually sufficient sugar to taste, and when it is nearly ready add the strained juice of two lemons; remove the pan from the fire when the jelly is clear and no more scum rises, put it while warm into bottles, cork them up when cold, and the jelly is then ready for use. Tipparee Preserve.—Remove the pods of some Tipparees (commonly called Cape Gooseberries), wipe them free from dust, prick them with a skewer, put them in layers into a preserving-pan, sprinkle over with sugar, and cover the last layer with an extra quantity of sugar. Simmer gently until all the juice is extracted and the syrup of such a consistency that if dropped on to a cold plate it will con- geal. Remove the pan from the fire, let the preserve cool, -put it into bottles, cork them down when cold, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted. TIPSY CAKE.—If a cake saturated in wine can be said to be tipsy, then the following delicacies are entitled to the cognomen: Stand a large sponge vor Savoy cake in a glass dish, and cut out a small cone-shaped piece from the centre, form- | ing a plug, which can presently be returned. Pour into Fig. 789. Tipsy Cake. this hole and over the cake generally sherry or raisin wine, in which 1 wineglassful of brandy and the juice of half a lemon have been mixed. Whilst this is soaking, blanch 2oz. or 3oz. of sweet almonds, and cut them into long Tipsy Cake—continued. shreds; stick them into the cake so as to resemble a porcupine. Then having made sure that the cake is thoroughly soaked with the wine, restore the conical plug, pour 1 teaspoonful or so of wine over it, and then, just before serving, garnish round the cake with jam, and over that lay custard or whipped cream (see Fig. 789). Some cooks perforate the cake all over with a clean skewer, sticking the shredded almonds into the holes when the cake is soaked. Any wine that drains into the dish should be ladled out and poured over again. Custard or whipped cream may be thrown all over the cake, and the jam or marmalade may be omitted, or dropped on top of the cake as well as round the base. Fruits preserved whole in syrup may be used as a garnish instead of the jam. For other receipts, see CAKES. TIPSY PUDDING.—See Puddings. TISANES.—The name given in France- to farina- ceous drinks, ma.de by slightly medicating barley or rice with tamarind water or lemonade. Sometimes spelled Ptisan, as derived from the Latin ptisanci, signifying peeled barley. TIS WEXN.—A drink prepared by the Mexicans from the fruit of the giant cactus (Cereus giganteus). The fresh pulp, with its syrupy juice, is mixed in earthen vessels, with an equal quantity of water, and then exposed to the sun whilst it ferments. It is then fit for drinking, and is said to be highly intoxicating. The colour should be a delicate amber, and the smell and flavour are said to resemble those of sour beer. TIT-BITS.—See Tid-Bits. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE.—A more enticing name for this dish would be Savoury Batter Pie, but under its familiar title it is sufficiently well known in this country to overcome any scruples that might arise from its title The following are excellent receipts for its production : (1) Any meat may be used, but rump steak is the best. Chop lib. of the meat into small pieces. Beat an egg very light, stir in I pint of milk and 1 saltspoon- ful of salt, pour it into a basin over 1 breakfastcup- ful of flour, and beat until it is light and smooth. Put the meat into a buttered deep dish, that will hold about 4gall., sprinkle it well with salt and pepper, pour over the batter, bake in a moderate oven for an hour, and serve hot. (2) Prick 1 fib. of pork or beef sausages over with a fork, put them on a pie-dish, and bake for fifteen minutes in a brisk oven. Put 1 heaped teacupful of flour in a basin with 2 saltspoonfuls of salt and I saltspoonful of pepper, make a well in the centre, in which put the yolks of two eggs, then stir in gradually sufficient milk to make a rather stiff paste. Beat it well until small bubbles arise, using a wooden spoon for the purpose; then mix in suffi- cient milk to make a light batter, and stir well together. Whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff snow, then mix them lightly in with the batter. At the end of the quarter-of-an-hour allowed for baking the sausages, take tlie tin out of the oven and pour the batter over them, return the tin to the oven, and bake for fifteen minutes longer. When cooked, slip a knife between the Toad-in-the- Hoic and the tin to separate them, then turn it out, cut it into nice-sized pieces, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Mix gradually with fib. of flour three well-beaten eggs, 14 pints of milk, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Butter a pie-dish, also the outside of a jam jar, which stand in the middle of the dish. Pour the batter round it, and bake in a brisk oven for an hour. Meanwhile prepare the follow- ing : Put 1 teacupful of the jelly from a tin of meat into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of water, a few finely-minced vegetables, 4 table-spoonful of flour that has been kneaded with a small lump of fat, 4 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir this mixture over the fire and boil it for ten minutes, then put in fib.592 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, >fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Toad-in-the-Hole—continued. of any kind of finely chopped tinned meat, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until thoroughly hot. When the batter is cooked, take the jar out of the hole, and pour the meat mixture in its place. Serve while hot. TOAST.—See Bread. TOAST-RACK.—A small rack or stand (see Fig. 790) for the table, having partitions, between which slices of toast are placed in such a manner that their surfaces are sufficiently far from each other to prevent one slice from being affected by the steam of another. TOASTS.—A variety of savoury meats spread or laid upon pieces of toasted bread. Several of these are des- cribed under special head- ings, such as Anchovies, Apricots, &c. TOASTS and TOAST- MASTERS.—The custom of drinking to healths and Fig. 790. Toast-Rack (Adams anti Son). success to undertakings at banquets dates back in this country to the invasion of the Romans, they bringing these customs with them. The seed fell upon very fertile soil, and the more refined art of “ toasting ” followed the rude Saxon “ Waes had,” or Wassail, which consisted generally of bands of merry- makers carrying about with them a huge bowl of a drink comprising ale, spices, apples, honey, and other ingre- dients, their object being to compel all with whom they had even a passing acquaintance to drink of it, they shouting loudly the while “Waes hael.” See Wassail. The Greeks and Romans drank to their friends’ healths and enterprises, and had a trick of “ toasting ” an honoured guest as many times as he had letters in his name and title. This would naturally admit of some con- siderable latitude, and require much restriction in the case of royal or noble guests in the present day. A writer on “ Drinks and Drinking Customs” says: “ Then the guests round would drink to the gods and goddesses, each individually, and without counting any but those in the top class, such as Jupiter and his wife, Pluto and his wife, Mars and Venus, Mercury, Bacchus, Ceres, Diana, Flora, and a hundred or so more; and then they ‘ toasted ’ the less-honom-ed guests and themselves, so that it is not surprising that they managed to consume a matter of 600 glasses or so at one sitting. The Romans introduced the practice to their British entertainers, who were not slow to take up the trick, and thus it was common to hear all round the salutation ‘ bene mild,’ or ‘ bene vobis,’ and a variety of other genial exclamations which favoured the drinking of just another glass.” Toastmasters were introduced by the Romans, and a very great honour it was considered to hold the post; so much so, indeed, that the guests threw with dice for the honour of regulating the Toasts as arbiter bibendi (Ruler of the Drinking). The post of Toastmaster is considered one of great importance, if not honour, in these days, especially that of Toastmaster to royalty on State occasions, and to the Lord Mayor of London. The duties consist chiefly of arranging the Toasts to be drunk, and announcing them in due order, together with the person called upon to respond. Happily the custom is dying out, so also is that of guests drinking to the host or hostess, and to each other. The word “ Toast ” appears to have originated from a practice of putting bits of toast in the wine, the guest partaking of such a sippet with the draught of wine as soon as the felicitation had passed the lips. From this the subject of the Toast took the name, as we find in Fielding’s “Tom Jones”: “It now came to the time of Toasts and Toastmasters—continued. Mr. Jones to give a Toast .... who could not refrain from mentioning his dear Sophia.” Toasts may be divided into two classes, those that are permanent or standing Toasts, and those that suit the occasion. The Greeks and Romans had standing Toasts, which were Jupiter, Caesar, and the Graces; the toasting of the Graces being a tribute to the fair sex, and answer- ing to our “ The Ladies.” The British standing Toasts are “The Queen and Royal Family,” “The Houses of Parliament,” and “The Army, Navy, and Volunteers;” whilst “ Our Guests,” “ Absent Friends,” and some others of a similar character may be regarded as incidental. A very solemn Toast in military and naval circles is to the well-being of those brave fellows who have fallen in battle; a very ancient Toast, and one practised by the Romans, who drank to it out of golden cups used only for this purpose. See Loving-Cups. TODDY.—A term supposed to be slang, given to a mixture of spirit and hot water. It differs from grog in having a less proportion of spirit. The term is a corruption of todc, the juice of certain palms, extracted for the purpose of converting it into a spirituous liquor. TOFFY.—Sometimes spelled Taffy or Toffee. A popular English sweetmeat that requires little or no des- cription, being sufficiently familiar to us from babyhood. The origin of the term seems to be doubtful, but is probably a corruption of tafia, a variety of rum made from molasses, as Toffy was originally made from treacle, and perhaps flavoured with rum. The following receipts give a useful variety : (1) Put 111), of crushed loaf sugar into a brass pan with d pint of water, and place it over the fire; warm £lb. of butter, beat it until creamy, and when the sugar has dis- solved mix it in. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiled to the right degree, which may be known by pour- ing a little on a buttered plate; just before moving the Toffy off the fire, mix in a few drops of essence of lemon. Butter a shallow tin dish, pour in the Toffy, and set it away to cool. When about half cold, mark the Toffy across in squares (see Fig. 791), which may he easily broken asunder when it is quite cold. (2) Put ilb. of butter into a saucepan with Hlb. of Demerara sugar and i teacupful of water. Stir the whole over the fire for twenty minutes or half an hour; just before moving the Toffy from the fire, add a few drops of essence of lemon. Try the Toffy by dropping a small Fig. 791. Toffy. quantity of it occasionally into a cup of cold water. When it snaps it is ready; remove it at once from the fire or it will spoil, and pour it into a well buttered shallow tin dish. When somewhat cooled, mark the Toffy across with a knife in any shape desired: when quite cold, take it out of the tin and break it asunder where marked. Butterscotch.- This is made according to the receipts given for Everton Toffy, the difference being that butterscotch is divided into small equal sized pieces, wrapped in tin- foil, and packed in boxes. Doncaster butterscotch is made chiefly according to the receipts numbered 1 and 4. Everton Toffy.—(1) Warm and beat to a cream 3oz. of butter; dissolve 31b. of loaf sugar in H teacupfuls of water593 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Toffy—continued. and beat it into the butter. Continue beating till the mixture is quite light and the sugar completely dissolved. Pour it into a pan, wiping the edges carefully with a damp cloth or sponge, lit the lid on the pan, set it over a mo- derate fire, and let it cook gently till it begins to thicken. Stir into it then li teaspoonful of essence of lemon or vanilla. Put a little of the Toffy into cold water to try if it is brittle; if it is, pour it on a buttered slab or dish, let it get quite cold, and then break it into pieces of a con- venient size; lay them on oiled paper and keep them in a cool place. (2) Put 3oz. of butter into a small lined pan and place it over the fire; when it has dissolved, put in lib. of brown sugar and stir them for a quarter of-an-hour, or until a small portion, when tried between the teeth, after having been dropped into cold water, will break without sticking to them. Pour it out at once into a buttered shallow tin. The grated rind of a lemon or 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, added when the Toffy is about half done, is a great improvement. (3) Warm a pan and rub it over with butter; put in lib. of brown sugar with 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and stir it over a slow fire until boiled to a smooth thick syrup, then put in Jib. of butter broken into small pieces, and stir it well. Try the syrup occasionally by dropping a little of it on a plate, and when it becomes hard and leaves the plate clean it is done enough. Butter a shallow tin, and pour the Toffy in it about 1-in. thick. Flavour it with essence of lemon if liked. When partly cold, mark it across into the size required with the back of a knife, and when quite cold break them asunder in the places marked. (4) Put 101b. of lump sugar broken up small and 41b. of raw or moist sugar into a copper sugar-pan; set it on the fire, boil it to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), remove the pan from the fire, pour in 21b. of melted butter and a little flavouring of essence of lemon, boil up again, turn it out into a frame on an oiled slab, let it cool, and mark it into shapes. When cold, break into pieces and pack away in tins or boxes. The quality of the Toffy depends upon the amount of butter used. The lemon flavouring may be omitted if objected to. Indian Toffy.—Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and stir in gradually an equal weight of sifted flour. Fry until lightly browned, then add gradually 4oz. each of sultana raisins and blanched almonds, and lastly a simple thick syrup made with 4oz. of sugar. Continue to stir over the fire until cooked, turn it into buttered moulds or shapes, let it get cold, and it is ready for use. Sponge Toffy.—(1) Mix together Jib. each of molasses and brown sugar, J teaspoonful of gelatine dissolved in J tea- cupful of hot water, 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and h teacupful of cold water. Let all this stand till the sugar is completely dissolved, then put it in a pan over a moderate fire, cover the pan, and let the contents boil till when a little of it is tried in cold water it is quite brittle. Stir into it then 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dis- solved in a little hot water; a little vanilla, lemon, or any other flavouring may also be added. Take the pan from the fire, pour the Toffy on a well-oiled slab, and let it cool. (2) Pour f teacupful of cold water over 1 til), of sugar in a pan, let it stand for half-an-hour, then put it over a moderate fire, and let it boil till when a little of it is tried in cold water it will be brittle. Stir in then 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, and pour it immediately into buttered tins. A layer of grated cocoanut may be added if desired; let it stand till cool, then cut it into squares. (3) Mix well together in a pan 21b. each of molasses and brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 4 pint of cold water, and let it stand till the sugar is quite dis- solved : stir it well, and put it over the fire. Boil it till a little tried in cold water is brittle. Stir in then 1 dessert- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 dessert- spoonful of hot water, and pour it out at once on a well- oiled slab. Let it cool, and then cut it into square pieces. White Toffy.—Put 21b. of moist sugar into a preserving- pan with k teacupful of water and 1 teaspoonful of citric Toffy —continued. • acid. Place the pan over the fire, and boil the contents for half-an-hour, keeping them well stirred with a wooden spoon. Soak 2oz. of gelatine in cold water, then put it in with the syrup, and continue boiling and stirring until reduced to a gummy thickness. Pour the Toffy out on to a board that lias been damped with water, and draw it backwards and forwards with a spoon until it is milk white and nearly cold. Cut it into fancy shapes, and put them on a dish until cold and dry. This Toffy will keep for a length of time in tins without getting sticky. TOGUS BREAD.—See Bread. TOKAY.—The chief of the Hungarian wines, which has been praised by epicure and poet. Imperial Tokay— a wine fit for an Emperor. According to Simmonds it is made from over-ripe grapes, carefully picked, piled together in tubs pierced at the bottoms with holes, from which the mere weight of the grapes upon one another causes a thick syrup to drop slowly without other pres- sure. This thick syrup is kept from five to thirty years in wood before bottling, and then a considerable time longer in bottle, undergoing meanwhile a slow alcoholic fermentation. The colour of Tokay is silvery opal, for which reason it is sold in white glass bottles. It is pungent, soft, and not over sweet, with a peculiar earthy flavour. See Wines. TOMATOES (IV. Tomates ; Ger. Liebesapfel; Sp. Tomates).—There is a botanical order of plants known as Solanacese, to which the potato, deadly nightshade, and Tomato belong, besides numerous other very well-known plants, yielding a most remarkable assortment of poisonous and edible fruits. The Tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum) is called also in France, Love Apple, and in Germany, Apple of Paradise, the former name suggesting that it was beloved of Yenus, and the latter attributing to it the downfall of our first parents. It is a native of the warm parts of America, but has long been grown in this and other countries, having been introduced as early as the beginning of the sixteenth century. Several varieties are known to liorti- Fig. 792. Ham Green Favourite Tomato. culturists, differing in size, shape, and colour (red or yellow), those of the cherry and pear shapes being regarded by botanists as distinct. The common Tomato bears a large, irregularly-shaped furrowed fruit, this irregularity sometimes being due, in a measure, to two or more flowers producing one fruit between them. They grow to a large size, and lose much of their irregularity of form by cultivation, as shown by the highly improved For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Q594 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. • Tomato christened the Ham Green Favourite (see Fig. 792). The small ribbed Tomato, which, in its unculti- vated state (see Fig. 793), is exceedingly irregular in shape, assumes a very even and shapely appearance (see Fig. 794) after being subject to the care of the expert grower. In the “ Treasury of Botany ” we read, “ Tomatoes are much more commonly used for food in the South of Europe and other parts of the Continent than they are in this country. Near Rome and Naples whole fields are covered with them, the fruit being one of the most com- mon articles used in Italian cookery. Now that their agreeable qualities are better known, they are beginning to be more generally appreciated with us, and, in addition to those grown in this country, considerable quantities are imported from the Continent.” Fig. 793. Ribbed Tomato Fig. 791 Ribbed Tomato (Inferior Type). (Improved Type). Tomatoes, although associated in kind with poisonous plants, are perfectly wholesome as food, and may be eaten freely without fear of injury ; indeed, they are believed to exercise a healthful influence over the liver and other organs of the body. The word Tomato is derived from the Spanish-American Tomate. For some preparations it is ordered that the Tomatoes shall be peeled. This can be effected by dipping them into boiling water, and leaving them there for two or three minutes. Then the outside skin can be easily removed. The seeds, which are very plentiful, can be removed by passing the pulp through a sieve. Baked Tomatoes.—(1) Peel lqt. of Tomatoes without scald- ing them, cut them up into slices, and remove the seeds. Put a layer of these at the bottom of an earthenware pie-dish, sprinkle over 1 teacupful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and the crumb of half a French roll pulled in small bits and intermixed with a few small lumps of butter. Put another layer of all of these in the same order, first Tomatoes and then the seasoning, cover with grated crackers or hard brown biscuits, make the surface brown in a moderate oven, and serve. (2) Cut oil' a small piece from the tops of half -a-dozen Toma- toes, scoop out some of the inside, and insert a little butter, salt, and pepper. Put the Tomatoes into a baking-dish, set it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take out the Tomatoes when done, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve. (3) Procure six large ripe Tomatoes and plunge them for a minute into boiling water; take them out, remove the thin skin, divide them in halves, and squeeze out the seeds. Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt, f saltspoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg into ‘2oz. of fresh butter. Arrange the Tomatoes in a single layer on a baking-dish, the cut side upwards, put an equal portion of the seasoned butter on each, and bake in a brisk oven. When done, pour the juice of a lemon over them, lay them upon hot buttered toast, and pour over the gravy which is in the dish with them. Serve very hot. , (4) Fry jib. of sausages or sausage-meat. Wash a dozen ripe firm Tomatoes of medium size, cut a small slice from the stem end of each one, and scoop out the interior with a teaspoon. Chop this very fine, mix it thoroughly with the fried sausage, season with salt and pepper, and then use it to stuff the Tomatoes. Set the stuffed Tomatoes in a dripping-pan just large enough to hold them, dust cracker- or bread-crumbs over the tops, put a very small I Tomatoes—continued. bit of butter on each, and then bake them for half-an- hour in a hot oven. Remove them from the dripping-pan to a hot dish without breaking them, and serve quickly with a gravy made as follows: After dishing the Toma- toes, set the dripping-pan in which they were baked over the fire, stir into it 1 table-spoonful of dry flour, and let it brown; then stir in 1 pint of boiling water, season highly with salt and pepper, let it boil for A minute, and it is ready for use. (5) Cut the desired quantity of Tomatoes into slices; butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a layer of bread- crumbs, then put in a layer of Tomatoes, and season with salt and pepper. Put in the ingredients in alternate layers until the dish is full, making the last layer of bread- crumbs ; put a few lumps of butter on the top, and bake until nicely browned. Serve the Tomatoes while hot in the same dish. (6) Rutter a pie-dish. Scald in boiling water as many Tomatoes as will fill it. Cut them in thick slices, and lay them in the dish; season with salt and pepper anil 1 dessert-spoonful of Yorkshire Relish, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, stick small bits of butter over the top, and bake for half-an-hour. (7) Take five or six Tomatoes of an equal size, cut them in halves, scrape out the pips, and fill the insides with finely-sifted breadcrumbs seasoned with pepper and salt. Put a little piece of butter on each half Tomato, lay them close together in a well-buttered tin, put them in a slow oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. (8) On Toast.—Cut the Tomatoes in halves, dust them over with salt and pepper, lay them on a baking-disli, the cut side upwards, and bake in a brisk oven. Cut as many rounds of bread as there are halves of Tomatoes, toast them a nice golden brown on both sides, and butter them Fig. 795. Baked Tomatoes. while hot. When the Tomatoes are cooked, put a half on each round of toast. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the toast on it, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 795), and serve. Bottled Tomato Juice.—Put lqt. or so of Tomatoes into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them gently until they are quite soft. Rub them through a fine sieve, taking care not to let the skins or seeds go through, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and a little sugar. Put the liquor back into the saucepan, and boil well until it thickens. Let it cool, pour it into wide-mouthed jars, cover with hot beef suet, tie them over securely, and they arp ready for use. They will keep for years if unopened and put in a dry place. Broiled Tomatoes.—(1) Cut in halves six large Tomatoes, scoop out the seeds, sprinkle them over inwardly with seasoned breadcrumbs, put them in the double broiler over the fire with the skin side downwards, and broil them for about ten minutes. When done, put them carefully on a dish, with small lumps of butter placed here and there, push the dish in the oven, and cook for ten minutes. Serve very hot. (2) Take six good-sized, firm, red, fresh Tomatoes, pare the under parts in case anything adheres, wipe them, and cut them in halves. Lay them on a dish, season with a pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil, mixed well together. Keep the Tomatoes in as good shape as when cut, then arrange them in a double broiler, put them on a moderate fire, and cook for eight minutes on each side. Place in a hot dish, spread over them 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve. (3) Choose large, firm Tomatoes; wash them in cold water, and wipe them dry Have ready a double wireTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 595 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes —continued. gridiron well buttered, a plate containing 4 table-spoonfuls of flour seasoned highly with salt and pepper, and 2 table- spoonfuls of butter melted by a gentle heat. See that the tire is very hot and clear. Cut the Tomatoes into slices tin. thick, dip them first into the melted butter, then into the flour, lay them between the bars of the buttered gridiron, and brown them quickly on both sides. Serve on a hot dish as soon as they are done, putting a small bit of butter on each slice. Candied Tomatoes.—Scald and peel 4lb. of small Tomatoes. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a little water, boil well, and add the Tomatoes. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently until the Tomatoes appear clear; then take them out, and drain on a sieve. Boil the syrup again, add the Tomatoes, simmer for an hour, and drain again; boil the syrup for an hour, put in the Tomatoes, simmer for half-an-hour longer, take them out, flatten, and dry them in the hot closet. Put them into jars, cover, and let them remain until wanted. To improve the flavour, two lemons boiled until they are tender and cut into slices should be added to the Tomatoes. Devilled Tomatoes.—Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; mix with them 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sugar and made mustard, as much cayenne pepper as will lie on a tli reepenny -piece, and rub in 3oz. of butter warmed till very soft; when this is well mixed, stir in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, put the mixture in a pan over the fire, and let it get almost boiling hot; take it from the fire, stir in two beaten eggs, return it to the fire, and stir till it begins to thicken, then stand it in hot water near the fire to keep hot. Take about lqt. of firm, ripe Tomatoes, cut them in slices not quite 4in. thick, broil them over a clear fire, lay them on a hot chafing-dish, pour the hot sauce over them, and serve. Dressed Tomatoes.—Plunge the Tomatoes into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil for ten minutes; drain them, and serve either whole or mashed with a small quantity of pepper and salt. Or they may be roasted in a Dutch oven in front of the fire ; if roasted they must be frequently turned. Pried Tomatoes.—(1) Cut half-a-dozen or so large Tomatoes into thick slices, dip them into egg well beaten with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and sugar, and cover them with bread- or cracker-crumbs. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter to melt in a frying-pan; when it is quite hot, cover the bottom of the pan with the slices of Tomatoes, and fry | for about ten minutes, turning so as to cook them equally on both sides. Put them on pieces of toast on a dish, and serve. (2) Choose very firm ripe Tomatoes, wipe them with a wet cloth, slice them 4in. thick, and cover with flour f seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a dripping-pan over the fire with enough lard to be 4in. deep when melted; when it is smoking hot, put into it as many Tomatoes as will lie flat in the pan, and quickly brown them on both sides, turning carefully without breaking them. When they are done, transfer them to a hot dish, and fry more in the same way. When all the Tomatoes are fried, pour out of the pan all the lard, saving it for frying Tomatoes again, and put in 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter; stir them over the fire until they are brown, then gradually stir in 1 pint of boiling water, season with salt and pepper, and let it boil for two minutes. Pour it in a deep dish, lay the fried Tomatoes on it without breaking them, and serve hot. Qreen Tomato Chutney.—Cut sixty unripe Tomatoes into slices and boil them until tender in sufficient vinegar to cover, then let them get cold. Peel and chop Jib. each of onion and garlic ; put them in a mortar with fib. each of ginger and mustard-seed, and pound them until smooth, moistening occasionally with a little cold vinegar. Dry the pounded mixture in a warm temperature—the sun is the best. Make a syrup with 141b. of sugar, and mix all the ingredients together, adding 2oz. of dried chillies, fib. of stoned raisins, and another pint of vinegar. Stir Tomatoes—continued. the whole together until thoroughly blended, then turn the pickle into jars or pickle bottles. Cork them tightly, tie wet bladder over, and put them in a dry store cup- board. Green Tomatoes with Cream.—Trim the stalks off the Tomatoes, which should be gathered just before they begin to ripen, cut them in halves, put them into a stewpan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew them slowly until very tender. When cooked, leave the Tomatoes until cold, then turn them on to a glass dish, pile some whipped cream over and round them (see Fig. 796), and serve. Green Tomato Jam.—(1) Pick off the stalks from 81b. of Tomatoes, put them in a preserving-pan with the thinly- pared yellow rind and the juice of four lemons and 2oz. of ginger, and boil them until tender. Then put in with the Tomatoes 7lb. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar, and boil the whole quickly, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When reduced to the proper consistency, remove the ginger, and put the jam into jars, leaving it until cold, when cover with parchment; tie the jars down, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. (2) Cut 2lb. of Tomatoes into quarters and take out the seeds. Put 141b. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a little water, let it dissolve, add loz. of ginger cut up small, set the saucepan on a slow fire, and simmer gently for about five minutes. Add the quarters of Tomatoes, boil until clear, put the preserve into jars, cover them, and keep in a dry place until wanted. This preserve has a greengage flavour and colour. (3) Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow fib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 4oz. of ginger cut into small pieces. Cut the fruit into moderate-sized pieces, put the sugar and ginger into a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire until the sugar has dissolved; then put in the Tomatoes, and boil them gently until clear and the seeds look white. When ready, turn the preserve into jars; and when cold, cover and tie tightly down. Keep in a cool dry store-cupboard till required for use. Green Tomato Pickle.—(1) Procure fully-grown green Tomatoes just before they begin to ripen, slice them, and put them in layers in large jars, strewing plenty of salt over each layer. Let them remain for ten or twelve hours, then put them in a preserving-pan, adding for every five pounds of Tomatoes lib. of brown sugar, 4lb. of sliced small onions, two sliced green pepper pods, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, half a stick of cinnamon, and f teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, also lqt. of vinegar. Drain the Tomatoes, put them in with the above ingredients, and let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the Tomatoes are tender, turn them with their pickling ingredients into jars, leave them until cold, then paste stout paper over the top of each jar. The pickle will preserve better if the jars are small. Pack them away for use in a cool, dry store-cupboard. This is an excellent relish with cold meat or cheese. (2) Cut the Tomatoes into slices, lay tjiem on a dish, strew thickly with salt, and let them remain all night in a cool place. On the following morning wash the Tomatoes in plenty of warm water to remove the salt as much as possible, put them in a stewpan with fresh water, and partially boil them. Put 31b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of vinegar, 4oz. of - Q 2596 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces. dec., referred to. see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. cinnamon, and \07.. of cloves, and boil until reduced to a syrup. Drain the Tomatoes, put them into the syrup, and stew gently until quite tender. Next take them carefully out of the pan, and put them into jars; boil the syrup until thickly reduced, then pour it over the Tomatoes. In two days’ time strain oft" the syrup and boil it up again. Pour it while boiling over the Tomatoes, leave them until cold, then cover and tie down. (3) Take 4 peck of green Tomatoes, cut them in slices, sprinkle with salt, and let them lie in this salt for twelve hours, then put them into a colander to drain. Stir together loz. of ground mustard, mixed as if for the dinner-table, Joz. of allspice, Aoz. each of black pepper, ground ginger, and cloves, 2oz. of white mustard-seed, and four onions peeled and cut in slices. Put a layer of the sliced Tomatoes into a pan, cover with a layer of the mixed spices and onions, then a layer of Tomatoes, and next a layer of spices, and so on alternately till all are in the pan; cover them with vinegar, set the pan on the lire, and let the pickle simmer till the Tomatoes look clear. Put them into jars, and when cold tie them down. They are fit for use at once. (4) Cut 4 bushel of green Tomatoes into thin slices, spread them on a dish, lightly sprinkling them on both sides with salt, and let them drain all night. Next day pour off all the liquor that has drained from them, and put them in a pan over the fire with vinegar enough to cover them completely. Add 5 table-spoonfuls of powdered mustard, 5 gills of whole mustard-seed, 2 table-spoonfuls each of allspice, ground pepper, and cloves, 3 pints of onions, peeled and chopped, 4lb. of brown sugar, and 1 gill of salt, and let all boil together till the Tomatoes are tolerably tender and look clear. Then put the pickle into jars, and when cold tie them down air-tight. (5) Mix 1 gall, of chopped Tomatoes and twelve large onions in a basin, sprinkle them over with 4 table-spoon- fuls of salt, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours. Drain off the liquor, put the mixture into a lined sauce- pan with 21b. of sugar, spices and pepper to taste, pour in lqt. of vinegar, and boil for half-an-hour. Turn the pickle into a jar, let it remain for four days, boil it again for a few minutes, return it to the jar, cover when cold, and the pickle is then ready for use. Green Tomato Sauce.—(1) Gather 2qts. of Tomatoes 'when they are just beginning to ripen. Cut them into slices, lay them in a large pan with two or three peeled and sliced onions, and sufficient vinegar to cover. Tie in a piece of muslin a moderate quantity of peppercorns, cloves, bruised ginger, and a few chillies; put them in 'with the Tomatoes and stew them gently until very tender. When cooked, turn the Tomatoes on to a coarse wire sieve, let them drain well, and rub through with a wooden spoon. Put 2 heaped table-spoonfuls each of arrowroot and dry mustard into a basin, and mix them smoothly with cold vinegar; turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it on the fire until boiling; then put in the mashed Tomatoes with a sufficient quantity of the vinegar in which they were boiled to bring them to the consistency of thick cream. Stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and season to taste with salt and a moderate quantity of cayenne pepper; it may be sweetened with moist sugar if liked. When the sauce is ready, turn it into bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a cool dry store-cupboard till required for use. (2) Procure the required quantity of green Tomatoes, slice them, lay them in a deep dish, dust over with a small quantity of salt, moisten slightly with water, and leave them for a couple of days. At the end of that time drain and scald them with boiling water. Put them into a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, and simmer slowly at the edge of the fire for an hour. Take sufficient vinegar to cover the Tomatoes, and for every pint allow Joz. each of powdered allspice, cloves, and mace, 2oz. of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of mustard-seed, and a small sliced onion. Mix these ingredients with the Tomatoes, and boil them for three-quarters-of-an-hour longer. Turn the sauce into wide-mouthed bottles, and when cold, cork them. Mashed Tomatoes.—(1) Cut several ripe Tomatoes into quar- ters and remove their pips and the watery substance; put them into a stewpan with a large lump of butter, an onion, laurel leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme tied together; season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a small quantity of clear gravy. Stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until quite soft, then remove the onion, thyme, amd laurel- leaf, and mash the Tomatoes. Put 14 table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed and slightly Fig. 797. Mashed Tomatoes. browned, then stir in the Tomatoes. When thickened turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 797), and serve without delay. (2) Put one dozen or so Tomatoes into a moderate oven and bake until the skins crack. Bruise them in a basin, adding a little ginger and ground chillies, salt to taste, and 4 teaspoonful of mustard-oil. Place the mixture on a dish, and serve. A little lemon-juice, if added, is an im- provement. Pickled Tomatoes.—(1) Put sufficient vinegar to cover a peck of Tomatoes into a saucepan with loz. each of cloves and black pepper, and 2oz. of mustard-seed. Prick 1 peck of Tomatoes all over, and let as much of the juice as possible drop into the saucepan with the vinegar; boil well, stirring frequently, and let the liquor get quite cold.. Put the Tomatoes in layers in a deep pan with salt sprinkled over them, and in three days’ time wash off all the salt. Place them back into the deep pan or a jar, pour over the vinegar, taking care that it is quite cold, cover, and in ten or twelve days’ time the pickle will be ready for use. (2) Have small yellow Tomatoes, button-onions, and very small dwarf red peppers, using ^ breakfast-cupful of red peppers to 3qts. of Tomatoes and lqt. of onions. Prick the Tomatoes with a needle, put them into enough cold brine to cover them, the brine being made by dissolving as much salt in cold water as the water will receive, and let them stand for a week. On the fifth day peel the onions, taking care not to cut them too closely at the root and top, and let them stand for two days in the same kind of brine. At the end of the week, drain the Tomatoes and onions, wipe them on a clean cloth, and put them into four large glass or earthenware jars with the peppers. Fill one jar with cold vinegar, and pour it out again in order to ascertain the quantity required, using four times that quantity. Put the vinegar into a saute pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar, 1 table- spoonful each of whole allspice, cloves, and cinnamon, and heat it over the fire until it is scalding hot; then let it cool and pour it into the jars, dividing the spices among them ; seal the jars, and keep them in a cool dark place. (3) Put a layer of Tomatoes that are barely ripe into an earthenware jar, and sprinkle over a little mustard seed, grated horseradish, garlic, and any other spices desired, intermixing them with a little salt, and continue in this way until the jar is full; pour over sufficient strong cider vinegar to cover, cork tightly to exclude the air, and in a few weeks’ time the pickle will be ready for use. (4) Choose firm, small, round, ripe Tomatoes; wash them, prick them with a large needle, and let them stand for a week in cold water containing as much salt as it will dissolve. Then wash them in cold water and drain them. Put them into an earthenware jar, sprinkling among them ^ breakfast cupful of mustard-seed and two chopped red pepper-pods for each gallon of Tomatoes, cover them v ith cold vinegar, put a close cover on the jar, and keep them in a cool, dark place. Tomatoes—continued.TTTE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 55)7 For details respecting Culinary Processes, (Jtensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. (5) Wash and braise some Tomatoes, put them into a pan over a moderate fire, and boil them for half-an hour. Strain and press the Tomatoes on a fine wire sieve to extract as much of the juice as possible, which return to the pan, and boil until reduced to one-half its original quantity. Pour it into jars or bottles, leave them until cool, then cork them tightly. Stand them in a saucepan half-full of cold water, placing straw or rags between them to prevent them knocking together and breaking, and boil for twenty minutes. Take the pan off the tire anil leave the jars in it until cold; then take them out of the water, and store them away in a cool dark cellar till required for use. Preserved Tomatoes.—(1) Choose perfectly ripe sound Tomatoes ; three bushels will fill about four dozen glass jars; those with porcelain-lined tops and rubber hands for excluding the air are the best, and each jar should contain about lqt. The Tomatoes should first he put into boiling water for about two minutes, or long enough to remove the skins, and then skimmed out of the hot water and drained as fast as they are peeled. They should he cut in halves and laid on a hair sieve to drain, and when the sieve is full they should he lightly pressed to force out the juice, and then transferred to an earthenware howl. When all the Tomatoes are peeled and drained, put them over the fire in a porcelain-lined kettle or a new tin boiler, and stir them until they boil thoroughly; then commence to put them into the glass jars as follows, hut keep them boiling until they are all filled. Place the jars close by the stove on a table covered with a wet cloth; have a pan by the side of the saucepan, with a little hot water in it, and on the table another pan containing hot water. First roll a jar in the pan of hot water on the table, then set it in the pan of hot water on the stove, and fill it to overflowing with the boiling Tomatoes; at once put on the rubber, and screw down the cover. Place the jar on the table, and fill and cover another, until all are closed. When the jars are cold, the covers should again be screwed tight. The Tomatoes will keep best in a cool, dark place, and it is well to wrap each jar in paper to exclude the light. (2) Three-parts fill a stone or glazed earthenware jar with water, and dissolve salt in it till an egg will float. Put some perfectly ripe and sound Tomatoes into the jar, and cover them with a deep plate so that it presses them down, and keeps them from rising to the surface; in this simple way the Tomatoes may be preserved for at least a year, and will not require any attention. But before they are cooked, they should be soaked for some hours in fresh water. (3) Put a layer of Tomatoes at the bottom of an earthenware jar, cover with a layer of dry sand, and con- tinue in this way until the jar is full; cover closely to exclude the air, keep the jar in a dry cellar, and the Tomatoes will remain fresh for a long time. (4) Select the Tomatoes of a moderate size, and see that their skins are perfectly intact, for if there are any cracks in the fruit they will not keep so well. Put them care- fully into stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles, cover with vinegar, and cork them down tightly. Tomatoes preserved in this manner will keep good for three months or more. Before using them they should be steeped in boiling water for one minute. (5) Get some small-sized, quite ripe, and perfectly sound yellow Tomatoes, peel them carefully so as neither to break them nor spoil their shape, first pouring boiling water over them; then weigh them, and allow to each pound of Tomatoes lib. of sugar, and to every 2lb. of sugar one lemon. Slice the lemons very thin, and take out all the pips. Put the lemons and sugar into a preserving-pan with a little water, only enough to moisten the' sugar, and let it get gradually warm while it dissolves; when quite melted, let it boil till it is clear, taking off any scum that rises; when clear, put in the Tomatoes and let them boil slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Then take the pan off the stove, let it cool a little, and put the preserve into jars; when quite cold, lay a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on top of the preserve in each jar, Tomatoes—continued. and cover so as to exclude the air with a piece of paper dipped in slightly-beaten white of egg. (0) Select perfectly sound and ripe Tomatoes, cut off the stalks and the green part that surrounds them, and throw them out of hand into boiling salted water. Next drain the water off them and scoop out the seeds through the hollow left by the stalks. Pack them closely in tins, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top, and solder the lids on at once. Stand the tins in a saucepan of water and boil for half an-hour. At the end of that tune take the tins out, and when cold pack them away till required for use. (7) Well wash some large, ripe Tomatoes, drain them, cut them transversely across, put them in an earthenware vessel with the skin side downwards, and sprinkle over some salt. Continue in this way with the layers until the vessel is full or all the Tomatoes used up. Let them remain for twelve or fifteen hours, pour off the juice and as many of the seeds as possible, and throw them away. Put the Tomatoes into a saucepan with the skin side downwards, and boil them very slowly until they are re- duced to a pulp. Bub them through a sieve to remove the skins, put the pulp back into the saucepan, season well with cayenne and a little more salt, if required, set the pan on a slow fire, and cook for about two hours, or until quite thick, stirring well to prevent their burning. Turn the pulp out on to fiat dishes, let it get cold, then dry it either in the sun or in a very slack oven; put it when very dry into jars, cork them down securely to ex- clude the air, and put them away in a dry place to prevent the pulp from getting mouldy. It will keep good for a year or more, and a piece about Jin. thick and 3in. square will be sufficient to flavour lgall. of soup. Should it be required for sauce, it will have to be soaked in warm water, and mixed up with breadcrumbs rubbed in butter, and will only require a few minutes’ cooking. (8) SWEET.—Scald and peel 3111). of Tomatoes, put them into a jar with an equal weight of sugar, and let them remain for twelve or fifteen hours. Take out the Tomatoes, put the sugar into the sugar-boiler, and boil to a syrup (see Sugar-boiling), skimming as required; put the Tomatoes in, boil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, take them out, put them into jars or wide-moutlied bottles, boil the syrup until it is thick, pour it over the Tomatoes, place a few slices of lemon on the top, and let the preserve remain in a cool, dry place until wanted. Preserved Tomato Juice.—Slice the Tomatoes, put them into a stewpan, and let them simmer over a slow fire until reduced to a thick pulp. Turn them on to a fine silk sieve, and press all the juice from them into a bowl; put the juice in the stewpan, and boil it over a gentle fire until it thickens. Next pour it into small bottles, stand them in a stewpan with cold water to their necks, and put them over the fire. When the water has boiled for about five minutes, move the stewpan off, and let the bottles stand in it until cold. ■* Afterwards cork the bottles down tightly, seal them, and keep them in a dry store- cupboard. Savoury Tomatoes.—Cut six large Tomatoes into halves, scoop out their pulp, which put in a basin, mix with it 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs and 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, season the mixture with salt, 1 scant teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, but do not make it too liquid. Fill the halves of Tomatoes with the mixture, stand them in a baking-dish, and put a thin round of unsmoked bacon on the top of each. Put598 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, a-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. them in a brisk oven for fifteen or twenty -minutes. When cooked, stand the Tomatoes still covered with the bacon on a hot dish, garnish them with groups of fried parsley (see Fig. 798), and serve. Scalloped Tomatoes.—(1) Scald and peei lqt. of Tomatoes, put them into a bowl, bruise them, and mix them up with 1 teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and a little onion-juice. Sprinkle the sides and bottom of a well buttered, deep hr king-dish with sifted breadcrumbs, pour in the Tomato mixture, and cover the top with 1 breakfast-cupful of cracker-or bread crumbs mixed up with 1 teacupful of warmed butter. Smooth over the top, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until the surface is well browned. Take it out and serve very hot. (2) Add to the pulp of nine large Tomatoes 3 table- spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, lAoz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Bake for half-an hour in buttered scallop tins. (3) Rub one dozen Tomatoes through a sieve, mix with the pulp 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, Jib. of butter, and Alb. of breadcrumbs. Butter a scallop dish, pour the mixture in, and bake it in a quick oven. Spiced Tomatoes.—For 211). of ripe Tomatoes allow lib. of brown sugar, A pint of cider vinegar, and Joz. each of cloves and cinnamon. Put all these ingredients in a pan, and let them simmer slowly at the edge of the fire until the Tomatoes are cooked. When ready, take the Tomatoes out and put them on a dish, leaving the syrup to go on simmering. When the Tomatoes are quite cold, return them to the syrup and boil them gently for ten minutes longer. Afterwards put them into jars, let the syrup continue boiling until thickly reduced, then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Pour the cold syrup over the Tomatoes, cover the jars with parchment, tie them down, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. Steamed Tomatoes.—Select one dozen or so large Tomatoes, cut off the stalks to within lin. of the fruit, put them into a flat-bottomed basin slightly rubbed with butter, place it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, cover the pan, and let the Tomatoes steam until they are quite soft, which will take about ten minutes. Put them carefully on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. The flavour is well preserved by this means. Stewed Tomatoes.—(1) Scald and peel the required quantity of Tomatoes, cut them in halves or quarters, put them into a lined saucepan, and stew them for a quarter-of-an- hour, when the juice will be partly boiled away. If desired the Tomatoes may be thickened with a little corn- flour moistened with cold water or with cracker- or bread- crumbs. Turn the stew out on to a dish, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put a few lumps of butter on the top, let it melt, and serve. A little sugar may also be sprinkled over if desired. (2) Put 21b. of fresh Tomatoes into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil until the skins begin to crack and curl. Drain the Tomatoes, rub them through a coarse wire sieve, return them to the saucepan with their cooking-liquor, and stew for an hour. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of crushed milk biscuits in with the Tomatoes, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir until the butter has dissolved, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. (3) Plunge six good-sized, fresh Tomatoes into boiling water for half a minute; drain, peel them, cut each one into six pieces, put them into a saucepan with 1 Aoz. of butter, and season with A pinch each of salt and pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg. Cook slowly for twenty minutes, and add A teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Stir well and cook for two minutes longer, then place in a hot, deep dish, and } serve. (4) Cut the Tomatoes into quarters, and scoop out the pips and watery parts ; thinly slice a moderate-sized onion, ! put it in a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, and shake them over the fire until cooked, but not browned. Put the quarters of Tomatoes in with the onions, season to ' Tomatoes—continued. taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire until tender. When cooked, turn the Tomatoes on to a hot dish, garnish them with sippets of toasts or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (5) Sweet.—Scald and peel one dozen or so Tomatoes, put them into a baking-dish, and cover them with sugar; put the disli in a slack oven, and bake the contents until the sugar has melted and dried down to a syrup. Take tfiem out and serve. □ tewed Tomatoes with Indian Corn.—Scald, peel, and cut into pieces sufficient Tomatoes to fill 3 breakfast-cups; put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and let them simmer at the side of the fire until they are reduced to two break- fast cupfuls. Put twelve tender roasting ears of corn into a saucepan of water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour ; then cut the corn from the cob, when there should be about 2 breakfast-cupfuls. Add them to the Tomatoes, cook slowly for two or three minutes, turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve at once. Stuffed Tomatoes.—(l) Wipe four large Tomatoes with a soft cloth, cut a small round off the top of each with a sharp knife, and scoop out as much of the inside as can be taken out without spoiling the shape of the Tomato. Mix with the scoopedout centre part of the Tomatoes about Jib. of finely-minced ham, I teaspoonful of sugar, three small onions chopped very fine, a sprig of thyme, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and a seasoning of cayenne, black peppei’j and salt. Put all these together into a small frying-pan over the fire, and stir the mixture till the liquid is somewhat reduced—about ten or fifteen minutes will be long enough. Then rub it through a hair sieve and fill the emptied Tomatoes with it. Bake them for a short time in a hot oven. Lay a bit of butter on top of the mixture in each Tomato when they are put in the oven. Serve them very hot on the dish in which they were baked. (2) Either ripe or unripe Tomatoes may be used. Cut off the tops of six, but without quite separating them, and scoop out all the seeds, taking care not to break the skin of the Tomatoes. Finely mince enough raw mutton to stuff the Tomatoes with, and mix with it a few table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions, and 3oz. or 4oz. of well- washed rice; season with salt and pepper, and stir the mixture to a stiffish paste with a small quantity of water. Fill the Tomatoes with the stuffing, pressing it in tightly, then fix on their tops. Lay the Tomatoes gently in a saucepan, their tops upwards; moisten them to height with Fig. 799. Stuffed Tomatoes. clear broth, and boil them slowly at the side of the fire until the liquor has reduced to a thick consistency. Drain the Tomatoes, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish (see Fig. 799), and serve. (3) Wash and dry well six fine, sound, red Tomatoes. Cut the top of each, without detaching, so that it will serve as a cover. Scoop out the inside of each with a vegetable-scoop, and place on a plate for further use. Season the inside of the six emptied Tomatoes with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper. Chop very fine one medium sized peeled onion, place it in a saucepan with Aoz of butter, and cook for three minutes on a brisk fire, being careful not to let it get brown. Add six chopped mush- rooms and loz. of sausage-meat. Season with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper, and cook for three minutes, stirring once "in a while. Add now the insides of the Tomatoes, with A breakfast-cupful of fresh breadcrumbs and 1 tea- spoonful of fresh chopped parsley. Mix well together and599 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. Tomatoes—continued. cook for two minutes longer or until it comes to a boil, then place in a bowl to cool. Stuff the emptied Toma- toes with the preparation, close down the covers, lay them gently on a tin plate or dish, cover with buttered paper, cook in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes, and serve. Stuffed tomatoes are served as a garnishing in several ways. (4) Cut off a slice from the stalk end of half-a-dozen or so large Tomatoes, and scoop out the seeds. Have ready a forcemeat made of chopped ham, mushrooms, and shallots, seasoned with minced parsley and sweet herbs, and cayenne and salt to taste. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, add the forcemeat, and cook gently until all the ingredients are cooked. Let the forcemeat cool, and mix in breadcrumbs and well-beaten yolks of eggs. Stuff the Tomatoes with this mixture, dredge over a few bread- crumbs, pour over a little warm butter, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake to a good brown. Take them out when done, and serve hot. (5) Cut off a thin slice from the stalk end of six large, smooth Tomatoes, and scoop out the seeds and pulp. Sepa- rate the seeds from the pulp, and mix the latter with buttered cracker-crumbs, sugar, onion-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Stuff the Tomatoes with this mixture, place them close together on a baking-sheet, put the sheet in a moderate oven, and let the Tomatoes remain until the crumbs are brown. Take them out carefully, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. A little finely- chopped meat may be mixed with the crumbs if desired. (b) Scald the Tomatoes, peel them, cut them into halves, and remove the seeds. Rub a baking-dish over with shallot, and butter it thickly. Finely grate some stale bread, and mix with it half its quantity of minced ham. Season to taste with chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and salt anil pepper. Stuff the halves of Tomatoes with the mixture, and lay them on the dish; put a small lump of butter on each, and bake them for a-quarter-of-an-liour. Cut as many round pieces of bread as there are halves of Tomatoes, and fry them a golden brown in butter or toast, and butter them afterwards. Put the rounds of fried bread on a hot dish, with half a Tomato on each, and serve. (7) Empty the required number of Tomatoes, making as small an incision as possible in them. Heat two or three eggs up with some highly-seasoned Tomato sauce, and stir in sufficient grated crumb of stale bread to make it con- sistent. Stuff the Tomatoes with this mixture, put them in a baking-dish with a few small bits of butter, and bake them. W hen cooked, place the Tomatoes on a hot dish, and serve. (8) Cut a thin slice ofi the top of each Tomato, and with an egg-spoon scoop out all the seeds. For every five Tomatoes allow live shallots and Jib. of mushrooms. Mince the shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, anil fry them ; when they are cooked, cut the mushrooms into small pieces, and put them in with 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, the juice of the Tomatoes, which should be obtained by squeezing the pulp and pips, and a sufficient quantity of breadcrumbs to make a thick paste, and stir them well over the fire; stuff the Tomatoes with the mixture, and replace the slices that were cut off the top. Put them side by side in a baking-dish, pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and bake them for half-an- hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, place the Toma- toes on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. This is a very tasty way of cooking Tomatoes. (9) Soak 1 teacupful of tapioca in water for several hours, then boil it until quite dissolved; mix with it a small quantity of fresh butter, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Cut the Tomatoes into halves, scoop out the pips anil watei\ substance, and dust them over Avith salt and pepper. Fill each half of Tomato Avith the tapioca, strew some grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs over the top, lay them side by side in a buttered baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for tAventy mfnutes! Serve Avliile hot. (10) Cut the Tomatoes in halves, remove their seeds, put them on a dish that Avill bear the heat of the oven, and pour round them a feAV table-spoonfuls of olive oil. Mix Avith some breadcrumbs half their quantity of finely-chopped ham, and season them moderately Avith salt and pepper, chopped parsley, basil, marjoram, thyme, and a small quan- tity of garlic. StreAV this mixture ewer the Tomatoes so as almost to cover them, pour 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of oil o\rer the top, and bake them for a feAV minutes in a brisk oven. Serve the Tomatoes on the same dish, and Avhile very hot. (11) Procure the Tomatoes as nearly as possible of one size, remove the stalks, and scoop out the pulp; then turn the Tomatoes on a sieve, and let them drain. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, which place over the fire until melted, then put in a finely-chopped onion, and fry it for a feAV minutes. Add the pulp of the Tomatoes to the onion, a: so a very small quantity of finely-chopped garlic, and season to taste AA’itli salt and pepper. Stir this mixture o\rer the fire until reduced to a stiff paste, then mix Avith it one-third of the quantity of grated breadcrumbs. Stuff the Tomatoes Avith the mixture, arrange them side by side on a baking-dish, the cut side upAvards, streAV sifted raspings over them, put a feAV small lumps of butter on the top, and bake them in a brisk oAren. The Tomatoes should be basted occasionally with the butter in the tin. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (12) Select some Tomatoes of an equal size, cut a round out of the stalk end, then scoop out the seeds and juice Avith a spoon, but leave the pulp ; place them on a sieve, the open part doAvmvards, and let them drain. Chop some lean, tender beef with half its quantity of suet, using sufficient to stuff the Tomatoes with. When quite fine, season the chopped meat and suet with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it Avitli the beaten Avhite of egg. Stuff the Tomatoes Avith the mixture, arrange them on a baking-tin, the open part upAvards, put a feAV lumps of butter over them, and Fig. 80u. Stuffed Tomatoes. bake, basting them occasionally Avith the butter in the tin. When cooked, pile them on a hot dish, pour the butter out of the baking-pan ewer them, garnish Avith fried parsley (see Fig. 800), and serve. Tomatoes a l'Anclalouse.—Iloil together in a saucepan 1 pint of Tomato sauce and 3 pints of consommd. Add b table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of tapioca, stirring it Avell all the time. Cook for fifteen minutes, add tAvelve chicken quenelles, then serve. Tomatoes a la Bock. -Wipe and peel eight fine, fresh Tomatoes, cut each one into six equal-sized pieces, and place them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter; season Avith 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg. Cover the pan, and place it on the hot stove to cook the contents for fifteen minutes. Take off the fire, pour the Tomatoes into a deep hot vegetable-dish, and send them to table A'ery hot. Tomatoes au Gratin.—(1) Cut some ripe Tomatoes in halves, put them in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle Avith plenty of sifted breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, stick bits of butter o\rer the top, and bake them till the to]is are slightly broAvned. (2) Pour some hot Avater OA^er the required number of Tomatoes, then take them out and peel them, divide them in halves, and pick out the seeds. Mix Avith some grated breadcrumbs half their quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms, a small quantity of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Rub a baking-disli over Avith600 THE ENCYCLOPjEHIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. garlic, butter it well, then lay the Tomatoes in it side bv side, the cut part upwards, and fill them with the breadcrumb mixture; put a small lump of butter on each half, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Arrange the Tomatoes on a hot dish, garnish them with fried paisley, and serve. Tomatoes a la Marseillaise.—Take six good-sized firm red Tomatoes, wipe, and cut them into halves through the sides. Place £ gill of sweet oil in a frying-pan, let it heat well, lay in it the Tomatoes on the sides which were cut, and cook briskly for one minute. Putter well a tin baking-dish, lay the Tomatoes in this on the uncooked sides, and season with £ pinch each of salt and pepper. Make a stuffing with the shallot, finely chopped, two cloves of crushed garlic, two hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, the same of parsley, two medium-sized finely-chopped anchovies, and loz. of butter. Mix well together in a bowl, and cover the tops of the Tomatoes with the stuffing, dividing it equally. Sprinkle a Fig. 801. Tomatoes k la Marseillaise. little fresh breadcrumbs over them, drop 3 or 4 drops of clarified flutter over each Tomato, and put them in a j very hot oven for eight minutes. Place them on a hot dish, and serve (see Fig. 801). Tomato-ancl-Artichoke Salad.—Prepare a mixture or dressing of olive oil, vinegar, chervil, tarragon, salt and pepper. Have ready some boiled artichokes, cut them in slices, using the underneath part only, and also cut off an equal number of slices of Tomatoes. Dip them into the dressing, arrange them in a salad-bowl, pour over the dressing, and serve. Tomatoes and Cauliflower.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and mix them over the fire ; then pour in £ pint of clear stock, and continue stirring until boiling. Put six or seven sliced Tomatoes in the sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire. Trim off all the outside leaves of a firm white cauliflower, and cut off the stalk as close to the flower as possible. Put the cauliflower upside down in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt and a small lump of butter, and boil it gently until tender. When cooked, lift the cauliflower out of the saucepan, and place it on a fine sieve to drain, being very careful not to break it. Beat the yolk of an egg with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, strain it, and Fig. 802. Tomatoes and Cauliflower. stir it in with the Tomatoes, moving the saucepan away from the fire. Turn the Tomatoes on to a hot dish, stand the cauliflower in the centre of them (see Fig. 802), and serve without delay. Tomato Chutney.—(1) Pick and wipe on a cloth 51b. of ripe Tomatoes, put them in an earthenware jar with 1 breakfast-cupful of salt and 4 pint of vinegar, cover the jar to exclude the air, place it in a saucepan of boiling Tomatoes—continued. water, and let it remain for six hours. Turn the contents of the jar out on to a sieve, and rub it through, taking care not to have any of the seeds or skin. Put 2oz. each of shred garlic and red chillies into a saucepan, add 2oz. of ginger also cut up small, and 21b. of sugar made into a syrup with lqt. of vinegar; add the Tomatoes, and bring the whole gently to the boil. Kemove the pan, let the chutney cool, put it into bottles, cork them down, and put them in a warm place until wanted. (2) Put one hundred large, ripe Tomatoes into a large pan with lqt. of vinegar, parboil them, remove the saucepan from the fire, and mix in 4oz. each of stoned raisins, sugar, and ground garlic, 7oz. each of ground mustard- seed and salt, and 8oz. of finely-sliced chillies. Let these stand for ten or twelve hours, boil slowly for twenty or thirty minutes, let the preparation get cold, put it into bottles, cork them down, and the chutney is then ready for use, and will keep good for a long time. (3) Skin the required quantity of Tomatoes, cut them in pieces, and remove the seeds and watery substance. Put what remains of the pulp into a basin, and mix with it half its quantity of finely-chopped onions, a little finely-chopped celery, a few green chillies, and salt to taste. Moisten the whole with a small quantity of tarragon vinegar, work the mixture until all the ingredients are veil incorporated, then turn it into small jars, and cork them tightly. (4) Peel tlie required number of Tomatoes, cut them imto halves or slices, remove the seeds, squeeze out all the juice, and pound the remainder to a pulp. Put it into a basin, and beat it up lightly with finely-chopped onion, chives, shallots, and some green chillies, seasoning with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar or lemon-juice. Put the chutney imto bottles, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for use. (5) Peel about two dozen ripe Tomatoes, cut them into slices, put them in a preserving-pan, and stew them. Peel, core, and chop eight or ten large apples, boil them in 1 pint of vinegar for a few minutes, then turn them with the vinegar in with the Tomatoes. Pound two heads of garlic, put them in with the other ingredients, adding also lib. of sultana raisins, Jib. of brown sugar, Jib. of mustard-seed, fourteen capsicums, and a small quantity of thinly-shred ginger. Let the above ingre- dients simmer gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour; at the end of that time let them cool a little, then turn them into small glass bottles. The bottles must be kept tightly stoppered. ((j) Remove the stalks from fill), of ripe Tomatoes, and wipe the fruit over with a piece of dry flannel. A large earthenware or stone jar with a lid will be required. Put in the Tomatoes with 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of salt and \ pint of vinegar, put the lid on the jar, and solder round the edges with a stiff flour-and-water paste to keep it perfectly air-tight. Stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling gently for six hours. At the end of that time pass the pulp of the fruit through a sieve to remove all the skins and cores. Put 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in lqt. of vinegar, and boil it till reduced to a syrup ; then mix the Tomatoes with it, and add 2oz. each of chopped red chillies, garlic, and ginger. Place the pan over a slow fire, and stir the con- tents until they come to the boil, then take it off. W hen the chutney is cold, turn it into bottles, and cork them tightly. It should be kept in a warm, dry place. Tomato Conserve.—Cut off the stalks and green part from 41b. or 51b. of sound Tomatoes, divide them into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with two onions, two bay-leaves, three or four cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil them, stirring at the same time until tender, then turn the pulp on to a fine hair sieve with a basin under- neath to catch the liquor as it runs through. When all the juice has drained from the Tomatoes, put it in the stewpan, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity. Pass the pulp through a sieve, but do not let the onions or bay-leaves go through, and mix it with the reduced liquor. Turn the conserve into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them, and tie down. Stand the bottles in a sauce'601 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. pan wit'n some straw placed between them to prevent their knocking together and breaking, and cold water up to their necks, and boil them for half-an hour. After- wards leave them in the water oft the fire until cold. Wipe them, dip their nozzles in bottle-wax, and stow them away for use in a dry store-cupboard. Tomato-and-Cornflour Pudding.—(1) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a stewpan with lqt. of new milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; this latter ingre lient may he omitted if desired. Slice some Tomatoes, cut them into small squares, mix them with the cornflour, and add a beaten egg. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the mixture into it, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and stexm for an hour-and-a-half. Care must he taken not to let the water enter the top of the basin. Mix 1 teaspoonful of arrow- root smooth in 4 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, seasoning it nicely hut not too highly. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Gravy may he thickened and seasoned instead of the milk, if pre- ferred. (2) Put 111), of sliced Tomatoes in a stewpan with 1 pint of mutton broth. Stew the Tomatoes till very tender, then pass them with their liquor through a fine wire sieve. Stir li table-spoonfuls of cornflour into the puree, and mix in one beaten egg. Butter a pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water to two-thirds of its height, and steam for an hour. Make a sauce with Tomato liquor and plain stock, and season it nicely. \\ hen cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (3) Line the bottom of a pie-dish with slices of Tomatoes, season them with salt and pepper, and put in a small, thin slice of Spanish onion. Make 1 pint of beef-tea hot, and stir it into 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour. Beat two eggs well, mix them with the beef-tea, pour it over the Tomatoes, and bake. Serve while hot. Tomato-Cream Soup.—Peel and slice lqt. of fresh Tomatoes, pick over 4 breakfast-cupful of rice, and wash it well in cold water; mb 2 table-spoonfuls of butter to a smooth paste with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put the Tomatoes over the fire in a soup kettle, with lqt. of cold water, and let them heat gradually. When they are hot, add another quart of cold water, and when this boils put in the rice, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and con- tinue the boiling until the rice is tender, but not broken: then stir in the paste of butter and flour, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 pint of milk, or enough to make the soup as thick as cream. Let the soup boil for a few minutes to thoroughly cook the flour, and then serve it at once in a tureen. Tomato-and-Cucumber Salad. -Line the bottom of a salad- dish with lettuce, put a layer of slices of cucumber on the top, cover with a layer of slices of peeled Tomatoes, pour over salad dressing or mayonnaise sauce (see Fig. 803), and serve. Tomatoes and Eggs.—Put half-a-dozen ripe Tomatoes into a saucepan with a very little water to prevent their burn- ing, and boil them ; rub them through a fine sieve, and mix in a little chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and two or three eggs. Turn the mixture into a frying- pan with a little butter, fry until done, and serve on a Tomatoes—continued. dish. Finely-chopped ham or cold boiled potato, if added, is an improvement. Tomato Figs.—(1) The small yellow Tomatoes are the proper kind to use. After scalding them, take oft' the skins very carefully so as not in any way to break or injure the fruit. When the Tomatoes are peeled, weigh them, and to every pound allow Mb. of sugar. Pack the Tomatoes in layers in earthenware jars, with a layer of sugar between. Let them stand for twenty-four hours, then drain off the juice, and measure and add to each pint fib. of sugar. Put the juice and sugar in a preserving- pan on the stove, and let it boil; when it boils, put in the Tomatoes, and continue boiling, taking off all scum as it rises till they look clear; then pour into earthenware jars, and leave them for two days. Drain off the syrup, put it on the stove, and let it boil up ; pour it again over the Tomatoes, and leave them for another two days ; then take them out of the syrup and lay them on sieves to dry. They should be put in the sun all day for a week, and turned twice every day; if the weather be damp, tliey will have to be dried in a warm room. When perfectly dry, put them in layers in wooden boxes, with dry sugar between the layers, and store in a dry place. (2) Pour boiling water on the Tomatoes, so as to remove the skins easily, then weigh and place them in a stone jar with as much sugar as Tomatoes, and let them remain for two days; then pour off the syrup, and boil and skim till the scum ceases to rise. After this is re- peated three times they are fit to dry, provided the weather is good ; if not, let them remain in the syrup until good drying weather. Then place in earthenware plates or dishes, put them in the sun, .arid they will be dry in almost a week; after which, pack them in small wooden boxes, with white sugar between each layer. Tomatoes for Garnishing.—Put half-a-dozen large Tomatoes at the bottom of a saucepan, laying them flat and not one on top of the other, and pour over sufficient gravy to cover them. Cook gently for about twenty-five minutes, turning them so as to have them equally done, but taking care not to injure them. Thicken the liquor with a little butter rolled in flour, season with a little cayenne and salt, boil up once, remove the pan from the fire, take out the Tomatoes, and they are ready for use. | Tomatoes and Indian Corn.—Scald and peel half-a-dozen large Tomatoes, cut them in slices, and remove the seeds. Put an equal bulk of Indian corn or maize into a sauce- pan, with sufficient water to cover, and simmer gently until it is quite soft; drain it quite dry, put it into a saucepan with the Tomatoes, and cook gently for half- an-hour. Add a very small quantity of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste; cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer, add a large piece of butter, stir well over the fire for five minutes, turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Tomato Jam.—(1) The Tomatoes must be sound and ripe. Scald, peel, and put them in a preserving-pan on the stove, and let them simmer till they are perfectly soft, then rub them through a sieve with a vegetable-masher or the back of a wooden spoon. Weigh this pulp, and to each pound allow lib. of sugar and the grated rind and juice of two lemons; boil all these together till the jam looks clear. When a little put in a saucer thickens as it cools it is done, and the pan may be removed from the stove, and the jam allowed to cool. Pour it into jars, taking care when it is quite cold to cover it so as to exclude the air. (2) Scald and peel 41b. of Tomatoes, cut them in halves, and scoop out the seeds, taking care not to injure the fruit more than possible. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the water in which the Tomatoes were scalded into a saucepan with the skins, seeds, and juice ; boil slowly for thirty minutes, and strain into a preserving-pan. Add 61b. of sugar, let the liquor boil, put in the Tomatoes, and boil for forty-five minutes or so, or until the liquor jellies. Let it cool, pour it into jars, cover them, and put them in a cool, dry place until wanted. (3) Kemove the green stalks, cut the Tomatoes into halves, put them in a stewpan with a very small602 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes« UtensilSy Sauves, tfcc., referred tot see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. quantity of water, and boil until they will niasli to a pulp. Rub them through a fine hair sieve, weigh the pulp, and for each pound allow fib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar. Put pulp and sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil it gently for one hour. For each pound of pulp, mix with it before boiling hoz. of ground ginger. When ready, turn the preserve into small jars, leave it until cold, then put a brandied paper in each, cover with parchment, and tie down. This preserve is a very good accompaniment for roast mutton. Tomato Jelly.—(1) Soak 2oz. of gelatine, then put it into a stewpan with 1A pints of Tomato-juice, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, A teaspoonful of citric acid, A saltspoonful each of powdered mace and nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Rinse a fluted mould with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and put it away in a cool place. When the jelly has quite set, it may be turned out of the mould and served. (2) Take a couple of quarts of Tomatoes, put them into a saucepan on the fire, and let them simmer, adding salt and pepper according to taste, till they become a perfectly soft pulp; strain this pulp through a tine sieve or coarse jelly- bag. Add white sugar in the proportion of 1 breakfast-cupful j of sugar to 4 breakfast-cupfuls of the strained Tomatoes, and allow to eacli break fast-cupful of sugar 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour mixed in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Put all these in a saucepan on the fire together, and keep stirring till it boils, and a'hnv it to boil for one minute. It is good served with annost any roasted or baked meat. (3) Procure the required quantity of ripe Tomatoes, cut them in pieces, and put them in a preserving-pan with just sufficient water to prevent their sticking to the bottom and burning. Let them simmer gently until very tender, then turn the whole into a jelly-bag, and let the juice run slowly through with a basin underneath to catch it. Measure the juice, and for each pint allow lib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar; put them together in a preserving-pan, colour with a few drops of cochineal, and boil quickly until reduced to a thick jelly, keeping it well skimmed. When ready, turn the jelly into small jars, and leave it until the following day; then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, tie them down, and pack them away in a cool, dry store- cupboard. Tomato Ketchup.—(1) Cut some Tomatoes into slices, put them in a deep earthenware pan in layers, sprinkle each layer with salt, and let them remain in the salt for twelve hours. Put them over the fire in a preserving- kettle, and let them boil till they are quite soft; then strain and squeeze the juice from them in a thin linen cloth. Put the strained juice over the fire with grated horse-radish, garlic, cloves, and mace to taste, and let it boil fast for half-an-hour. Take it from the fire, let it get cold, and then bottle it, corking the bottles well and dividing the spice equally among the bottles. The addition of a little salicylic acid will effectually prevent ferinenta- tio l and mould. Eight grains stirred in after or while boiling will be sufficient for lqt. A piece of blotting- paper made to fit tightly over the ketchup, saturated with a concentrated solution of salicylic acid in alcohol, brandy, or rum, placed on the top of the ketchup, will assist in keeping it good. The acid is perfectly harmless, with no taste or smell, and can lie obtained in powder or crystals, the latter being preferred. Care must be taken when this is employed never to use tin or metallic vessels, as when it comes in contact with metal it turns dark. Porcelain- lined vessels are best to use. (2) Well wash the required quantity of Tomatoes with- out skinning them, cook them for half-an-hour, and rub them through a fine sieve. To each quart of pulp add 1 tab,e-spoonful each of ground mustard, black pepper, and cinnamon, A teaspoonful of cayenne, half a grated nutmeg, and A teacupful of salt. Boil these together for two hours, stirring constantly to prevent burning ; then to each quart of the mixture add 1 pint of cider vinegar, and boil for thirty minutes longer. Pour the ketchup hot into bottles and seal them. Tomatoes—continued. (3) Cut into halves'a peck of Tomatoes, and boil them in a porcelain-lined pan till dissolved to a pulp; strain, and press them through a sieve into a saucepan, and place it on the fire to boil, adding loz. each of salt and ground mace, 1 table-spoonful of black pepper, 1 teaspoonful each of cayenne and ground cloves, and loz. of ground mustard. Boil slowly for five hours, stirring constantly to prevent burning; remove it from the fire, and set it in a cool place for five or six hours. Stir in lqt. of Rhine wine or 1 pint of wine vinegar, put it into bottles, cork them down, and keep in a cool place until wanted. (4) Cut into halves \ bushel of ripe Tomatoes, put them in a saucepan, and boil until the pulp has boiled two-thirds away; add loz. each of ground cloves, mace, and ginger, half the quantity of cayenne, and A teacupful of salt, and boil for twenty minutes longer, stirring constantly. Pour the ketchup into bottles, seal them, and use as required. (5) Take the required number of Tomatoes when fully ripe, and bake them in a jar till tender; strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice add 1 pint of vinegar, Aoz. of garlic sliced, and loz. each of salt and white pepper finely powdered; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it again through the sieve, and to every pound add the juice of three lemons; boil it again to the consistency of cream. When cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over the mouths of the bottles, and keep in a cool, dry place. (6) Scald and peel 1 peck of Tomatoes and two onions, boil them with 1 pint of vinegar in a preserving-kettle until they are tender enough to rub through a sieve with a masher, then add to them 1 breakfast-cupful of salt, 1 teacupful of mustard mixed with the same quantity of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of powdered cloves, mace, allspice, and black pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil all these ingredients together again for an hour, and then put the hot ketchup into bottles heated in hot water; cork and seal the bottles while hot. (7) Put 4 peck or so of ripe Tomatoes into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them well for about one hour, stirring frequently so that they will not adhere to the bottom. Turn tire whole out on to a tray, let them cool, and rub them through a fine sieve, taking care not to let any seeds or skins pass through. Measure the pulp, put it back in the saucepan, and boil until it is quite thick; add to every 5 pints 1 table-spoonful each of grated horseradish, crushed mustard, celery-seeds, and black pepper, a little well-beaten ginger and garlic, half a grated nutmeg, two finely minced onions, and sugar and salt to taste. Stir well, boil for a few minutes, add lqt. of cider, boil up once more, let the liquor cool, pour it into bottles, cork and seal them up, and keep them in a cool, dry place until wanted. It will keep good for a long time. (8) Rub several pounds of Tomatoes through a fine sieve, but prevent the skins or seeds going through; put the liquor into a flannel or cotton bag, and let it strain into a basin. Add sufficient vinegar to make the liquor thin, a little seasoning of garlic, allspice, salt, and pepper, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and the ketchup is then ready for use. (9) Sweet.—Put 41b. of sugar into a copper pan with 2qts. of water, and boil it to the ball degree (see Sugar- boiling). Pour it into a pan over 4galls. of Tomato ketchup, stir well over the fire until thoroughly incorpora- ted, remove from the fire, pour it into earthenware or wooden vessels, let it cool, pour it into bottles, and cork closely. It is then ready for use. Tomatoes with Macaroni.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Tomatoes, peeled and cut in pieces, into a saucepan, and cook slowly until they are reduced to half the quantity, and are quite thick. ‘ Put 4oz. of macaroni, broken into 3in. lengths, into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Take it out, drain it, put it into a baking dish, and mix in the Tomatoes loz. of grated cheese, 1 teacupful of brown gravy, and salt and pepper to taste. A little butter may also be added if desired. Simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour, turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve. CaroTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. (303 tur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. must be taken not to have more than the quantity of cooked Tomatoes, and that the preparation is not too salty, otherwise the whole will be spoilt as regards the flavour. (2) Boil Jib. of macaroni in milk and water till tender, having more than half milk. Put 1 pint of rich cream into a saucepan over the lire, and when it boils add to it lOoz. of cooking-cheese cut in very thin pieces and a small quantity of salt, and stir until the cheese is melted; mix in then 2oz. of fresh butter and a seasoning of cayenne. Arrange the macaroni on a hot dish round four or five baked Tomatoes, pour the cheese mixture carefully over the Tomatoes and macaroni (see Fig. 804), and serve very hot. Tomato Marmalade.—(1) Select some large, ripe Tomatoes, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice. Put them ! in a preserving-pan with three or four peach-leaves, a j clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, and a small sliced onion, and stew them until reduced to a pulp. Pass the Tomatoes through a fine wire sieve, return them to the preserving-pan with a lump of salt, and stir over the fire until reduced to a thick marmalade. Turn the marmalade into small jars, pepper the tops, and pour clarified butter I over. Cover the jars with paper and tie them down. This j marmalade can be eaten with fish or used for flavouring gravies, stews, and fricassees. (2) Scald and peel 121b. of ripe Tomatoes, cut them in j halves if large ones are used, and put them into a sauce- pan with 61b. of sugar and 1 table-spoonful each of ground j cinnamon, allspice, and cloves. Place the saucepan on the fire, and boil the contents slowly until the liquor attains ! the consistency of molasses; add 1 qt.. of strong vinegar, 1 boil for ten minutes longer, remove the saucepan from the j fire, let the liquor cool, put it away in jars, and cover till required for use. Tomatoes with Mayonnaise.—Raw Tomatoes, peeled and ] sliced, are delicious with mayonnaise, which is made by J slowly mixing three parts of oil and one of vinegar with j the yolk of an egg, and adding a seasoning of salt and j pepper. The addition of mustard to mayonnaise is a matter of taste. The egg and seasoning are put in the bottom of a bowl, with a very little vinegar, and mixed to a smooth cream; the oil and vinegar are then added alternately, a few drops at a time, until the desired quantity of mayonnaise is made. It must be kept in a cool place until wanted. Tomato-and-Meat Pudding.—Sprinkle over the bottom of a dish with sifted breadcrumbs, cover them with a layer of thin slices of underdone meat, and over this a layer of peeled Tomatoes cut in slices; sprinkle with a little sugar, salt, and pepper, put a few small lumps of butter here I and there, and continue in this way until the dish is full. Cover lastly with breadcrumbs, set the dish in a moderate oven, take it out when well browned, and serve at once. j Tomato Omelet.—(1) Scald and skin a large Tomato, chop it up, and mix in a little minced shallot. Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs separately; then mix the beaten yolks with the Tomato and shallot, adding salt and pepper to taste. Put IJoz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is quite hot add the whites of the eggs to the other mixture, turn it into the pan, and cook for two or three minutes, stirring frequently. When done, put the omelet on a dish, and serve. (2) Cut two onions into small pieces, put them into a fry- ing-pan with a little oil or butter, and fry them to a yellow colour; add three or four ripe Tomatoes, also cut Tomatoes—continued. up small, and cook until the water has evaporated from the Tomatoes; then mix in a little minced parsley. Beat four eggs in a basin, add some more parsley, and beat for a little while longer. Put ljoz. of butter into an omelet- pan, make it quite hot, pour in the omelet, cook it for a minute or two, put the Tomato mixture in the centre, double it up, put it on a dish, and serve. (3) Scald and pare six ripe Tomatoes, and remove the seeds; put the former into a saucepan, anti cook them until quite soft; then beat them to a pulp, rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in four well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of grated breadcrumb, 4 table-spoonfuls of milk, and salt anti pepper to taste. Stir well, turn the prt par vtion into a well-buttered dish, place it in the oven, ana bake. When done, take it out, and serve with butter sauce. (4) Put four eggs into a basin, and beat them well; season with minced parsley, salt, and pepper, and beat well for a little while longer. Turn the mixture into a frying- pan with ljoz. of warmed butter, and fry over a clear fire. When done, pour over a few table-spoonfuls of thick Tomato sauce, turn the omelet over, and serve on a hot dish. (5) Peel a medium-sized onion and chop it up fine, place it in a sautii-pan on the hot stove with loz. of butter in it, and let it get to a golden colour, adding J pint of stewed Tomatoes, or two good-sized, peeled, raw Tomatoes, cut into small pieces, a crushed clove of garlic, and season, if the Tomatoes are raw, with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, adding 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Let the whole cook together for ten minutes, then dross it on a hot dish. (6) Break twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, season them with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, and beat them up thoroughly for four minutes. Place 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, let it heat well without browning, then pour into it J pint of freshly-cooked stewed Tomatoes, strained from their juice. Cook these for two minutes, turn the beaten eggs over them, and with a fork mix the whole gently for three minutes; let them rest for one minute longer. Fold over the two opposite sides, turn the omelet carefully on to a hot dish, and serve. Tomato-and-Onion Pie.—Peel two Spanish onions the night before they are wanted, put them in a basin with boiling water to cover, and let them soak until morning. Dry the onions, and cut them into slices. Put loz. of butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in the slices of onion and fry them till brown on both sides. Cut about 211). of Tomatoes in slices, put a layer of them in a deep dish, then a layer of the fried onions, strew breadcrumbs over, and season with small quantities of salt and pepper. Fill the dish with the Tomatoes and onions, proceeding as before described, and covering the last layer with breadcrumbs. Place a few small pieces of butter on the top, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When cooked, stand the dish on a flat dish, and serve while very hot. Tomato Paste.—(1) Procure some ripe Tomatoes, cut them into quarters, and put them in a stewpan with two or three cloves of garlic, a handful of basil, and a lump of salt; pour in just sufficient water to keep them from burning, and stew gently. When cooked, turn the Tomatoes on to a fine hair sieve, leave them until all the water has run from them, then pass their pulp through the sieve into a lined saucepan. Season the pulp to taste with pepper, and boil it until reduced to a thick paste. It must be con- stantly stirred with a wooden spoon. When ready, turn the paste into small jars, leave it until cool, then tie them over with stout paper, and put them away for use. This paste makes a very good sauce, and in Italy, where it is much used, it is called Conserva. (2) Put the Tomatoes in a lined pan with a small quantity of garlic, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and boil them until they will mash. Pass the Tomatoes through a fine hair sieve, then return the pulp to the pan, and stir it over the fire until reduced to a stiff consistency. Turn the paste into plates, spread it out, keep it in the sun for several days, and stir it frequently. When stiff, divide the paste into small cakes, and wrap them ujj in fig-604 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. leaves. Pack them away in a box, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Tomato Piccalilli.—Chop fine 4 bushel of Tomatoes, and squeeze them dry; put them into a large bowl, and mix in a couple of dozen minced onions, twelve chopped green peppers, 4oz. of mustard, a little less than 1 pint of salt, a large root of horseradish finely grated, and 4 table- spoonfuls each of powdered allspice and cloves. When thoroughly macerated, put the mixture into a stone jar, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, making a slight hollow in the mixture to enable the liquor to get to the bottom of the jar, cover it over, and let it remain until all the ingredients are well saturated. It is then ready for use. Tomato Pickle.—The Tomatoes should be gathered when just commencing to ripen. Take, say, four dozen, put them in a vessel with sufficient salted water to cover, and steep them for two days, changing the water twice. At the end of that time drain the Tomatoes, rub them on a coarse cloth, and put them in a large stone or earthenware jar. Strew over the Tomatoes 4 pint of mustard seed, 4oz. of finely-shred ginger, loz. of garlic, the same of chopped shallots, 4oz. of peppercorns, Joz. of cloves, 1 table-spoonful each of flower of mustard, turmeric, and curry-powder, 4oz. of bay-salt, and a small quantity of common salt. Put in a pan lgall. of vinegar, with an equal quantity of the above-named spices, and boil it. Pour the boiling vinegar over the Tomatoes, cover the jar with a plate, and stand it on the corner of the hob, not too near the fire, and leave it there for two days. Boil the vinegar up again, pour it over the Tomatoes, and leave them for two days longer. Reboil the vinegar at the end of that time, adding more vinegar to it so that the Tomatoes will be completely covered, and pour it over them. When quite cold, cover the jar with bladder, and tie it down securely. Keep the pickle in a dry store- cupboard. It will be found an excellent relish with cold meat. Tomato Pie.—(1) The Tomatoes should be gathered in the autumn before they are ripe, and the large ones only used; peel them, weigh them, and for every four pounds allow 141 h. of sugar and 1 teacupful of molasses. Put all together into a lined pan, and boil them slowly for three or four hours. When cooked, turn them into jars, leave them until cold, then cover them with parchment, and tie down. To make a pie with the Tomatoes pre- pared as above, a buttered pie dish should be lined with a good crust, then the dish filled with the Tomatoes, three or four slices of lemon laid on the top, and a cover of the crust put on, moistening and pinching the edges together in the usual way. The pie should then be baked until the crust is done. (2) Procure the requisite quantity of green Tomatoes, put them in a basin, cover with boiling water, and leave them for ten minutes. Drain the Tomatoes, skin them, and cut them into slices. Butter a pie-dish, line it with short paste, put in the Tomatoes, dusting grated ginger, lemon-peel, and moist sugar between each layer, squeeze in the juice of one lemon, and cover the pie with a crust. Put it in a slow oven, and bake for an hour. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the top of the pie, and serve. (3) Skin 2lb. of Tomatoes, cut them into thin slices, lay them in a pie-dish, and dust a small quantity of salt over them. Beat two eggs well with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, Jib. of caster sugar, and the strained juice of small lemon. Pour the custard over the Tomatoes, cover the pie with a fiat of puff paste, put it in a brisk oven, and bake it for a little more than lialf-an-hour. When cooked, dust caster sugar over the pie, and serve. Tomato Pilau.—Put 141b. of ripe Tomatoes in a mortar, and press them well to extract their juice, which pass through a line hair sieve; then pour it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of broth. Peel and chop two onions, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned; drain the onions, put them in with the Tomato juice, add a lump of salt, and place Tomatoes—continued. the saucepan over the fire. When the liquor boils, put in lll>. of well-washed rice, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until all the moisture is absorbed. Make 4oz. of butter hot, then stir it in with the rice; put the lid again on the saucepan, and let it stand on the stove for twenty minutes. Turn the pilau on to a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pepper over it, and serve while very hot. Tomato Preserve.—Procure 81b. of perfectly sound green Tomatoes, and put them in a preserving-pan with the thinly- pared rind and strained juice of four lemons and 2oz. of whole ginger. Place them over a brisk fire until tender, then put in 81b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil the whole quickly until thickly reduced, stirring it often and keeping it well skimmed. When the preserve is suffi- ciently cooked, remove the ginger, turn it into jars, and when cold cover and tie for use. Tomato-and-Pumpkin Soup.—Cut up lib. of ripe Tomatoes and lib. of pumpkin; put them in a saucepan with a chopped onion 'and lqt. of water, and stew gently to a pulp. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 1 teacupful each of milk and thick cream, and loz. of butter, and place it over the lire until boiling; season to taste with salt and peppei, and a small quantity of spice, if liked. Cut some small squares or three cornered pieces of bread ; melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the pieces of bread, and fry them a pale golden brown on both sides. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with the pieces of bread. Tomato Puree.—(1) Cut lib. of small ripe Tomatoes into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and salt and pepper to taste ; set the pan on the fire, and stir well until the Tomatoes are quite soft. Put loz. each of butter and Hour into a sauce- pan over the fire, and stir well for five minutes; rub the Tomato mixture through a fine sieve, having taken out the bunch of herbs and onion, add it to the fiour-and- butter roux, as well as 2oz. of meat glaze, set the sauce- pan on the fire again, stir well for five minutes, rub the mixture through a sieve, and it is ready for use. (2) Empty the contents of a large bottle of French Tomato sauce into a stewpan, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Mix 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour smoothly with 1 teacupful of cold water, and stir it in with the Tomato sauce; add loz. of butter, and stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens. It is then ready for serving. (3) Peel and chop very fine a small onion, put it with a dozen red Tomatoes cut into slices in a stewpan over the fire, and pour over them 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Let them boil for half-an-hour, strain them from the water, and rub them through a coarse sieve. Boil 1 pint of milk, and stir into it 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; rub 1 table-spoonful of flour into 2oz. of butter, stir it into the milk, let it boil once, and draw it from the fire, but put it where it will keep hot. Turn the Tomato pulp in a stewpan over the fire with 1 heaped teaspoonful of sugar and a moderate quantity of pepper and salt, and let them boil very gently for five minutes; pour them into a tureen, stir in 1 teacupful of dry breadcrumbs, and next the thickened milk. Serve directly. (4) Put 14oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; next add the contents of a large bottle of Tomato conserve, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir well. Tie together in a bundle a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and marjoram, a clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf; put the bundle in with the puree, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire. When ready to serve the puree, remove the bundle. Tomatoes with Rice.—(1) Wash six large Tomatoes, wipe them dry, cut off the top of each, remove the seeds with a vegetable scoop, and season the insides of each with pepper and salt. Put them in a well buttered pan. Place 2oz of well warned rice in a cup or dish, add to it 1 tea- spoonful of warmed butter, half a medium-sized peeled and finely-chopped shallot, and season with salt. Mix well. Put into each Tomato 1 teaspoonful of the rice mixture, placeTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL C0QKER7. 605 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see tender their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. the tops on as a cover, sprinkle over a little clarified butte]', and cover with a well-buttered paper. Bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Thoroughly wash six large, fresh mushrooms, and cut off the stalks; chop up very fine half a peeled shallot, as well as the mushroom stalks, and place them in a pan with 1 table-spoonful of Fig. 805. Tomatoes with Rice. butter and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Season with salt and pepper, and cook for five minutes without browning; add the mushroom tops, with 4 wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for two minutes, add £ gill of half glaze, and cook for five minutes longer. Dress the Tomatoes on a hot dish, place one head of mushroom on top of each Tomato, upside down, pour a little of the sauce over the mushrooms, and the rest on the dish round the Tomatoes; arrange a thin slice of truffle on top of each head of mushroom, garnish with fried paisley (see Fig. 805), and send to table. (2) Cut the Tomatoes into halves, and carefully scoop out their insides. Fill them with well-seasoned boiled rice, put them in a stewpan that has been lined with slices of bacon, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, moisten with stock, and stew them gently until done. When cooked, take the Tomatoes carefully out, and place them on a dish. Skim their cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve while very hot. Tomatoes with Sago.—Boil 1 pint of Tomato sauce and 3 pints of consomme for ten minutes in a saucepan, season- ing with h pinch each of salt and pepper; add 2 table- spoonfuls of sago, cook again for fifteen minutes, gently stirring, and serve. Tomato Salad.—(1) Pour boiling water over the required number of Tomatoes, then drain them and remove the skins; leave till quite cold, then divide them into sections. Put the Tomatoes in a salad-bowl, garnish with chopped tarragon- leaves, pour a plain dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, over them, and serve. A mayonnaise dressing can be used instead of a plain dressing if preferred, but it is not advisable. (2) Scald, peel, and cut into slices eight large Tomatoes; place them on a dish, and keep them very cold. Put the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs into a mortar, pound them smooth, add 1 table-spoonful each of made mustard and olive oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne. Work in one well-beaten egg, and lastly § teacupful of vinegar. Put this dressing also in a cold place, sprinkle the Tomatoes with finely-powdered ice and a little salt, pour the dressing over, and serve. (3) Cut some large Tomatoes into halves crosswise, put in each a small quantity of salt, cayenne pepper, and plenty of celery salt. Baste them with a small quantity of tarragon vinegar, prick the mixture inside with a fork, and leave the Tomatoes for twenty or thirty minutes. When ready, • arrange them on a disli and serve. (4) Peel the Tomatoes, then slice and put them in a salad-bowl; cover them with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and season with salt and pepper. Moisten the Tomatoes with 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil and 1 wine- glassful of Rhine wine, and serve them. (5) Well wipe six fine, firm, led Tomatoes, plunge them into a bowl of boiling water for one minute, take them out, drain, and peel them. Put them in a cool place, and when quite cold cut them up into slices; arrange them on a dish, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, pour over come vinegar, and serve as a side dish. Tomatoes—continued. (6) Rub a little garlic over a flat dish, pour 1 teaspoon- ful of vinegar over it, and on this arrange three Tomatoes cut in slices; sprinkle over salt and pepper, pour a little vinegar and salad oil over each slice, and serve. This salad is better for being made an hour or so before serving, and may be varied to suit the taste. The dish should only be rubbed once over with the garlic. Tomato Sandwiches.—Cut some ripe Tomatoes into slices about £in. thick; also cut some thin slices of bread-and- butter ; cover half of them with the slices of Tomatoes, strew over some chopped cress, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of freshly-niade mustard, and cover with the remaining slices of bread-and-butter; press them tightly together, trim them neatly round the edges with a sharp knife, and cut them into halves. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, arrange the sandwiches on it, garnish them nicely with freshly- gathered and well washed parsley (see Fig. 806), and serve. A little chopped lettuce as well as the cress is also very nice with the Tomatoes. Tomato Sauce.—(1) Cut six shallots into slices ; put them into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar, add a little thyme and a bay-leaf, and cook gently for about five minutes. Mix in 4oz. of Tomato pulp, a little sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and loz. of glaze ; stir well over the fire for five minutes, strain the sauce, and it is ready for use. (2) Place 2 table-spoonfuls of raw mirepoix in a saucepan with loz. of butter, cook over a moderate fire for five minutes, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; brown all well. Select lqt. of well-washed, ripe, fresh Tomatoes, cut them into quarters, and plunge them into the saucepan with the rest, stirring briskly with a wooden spoon until they, boil. Season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and £ teaspoonful each of pepper and powdered sugar. Boil the whole for forty-five minutes ; then strain through a sieve into a jar for use. (3) Put 1 table spoonful each of butter, sugar, and flour into a basin, and beat them to a cream. Scald and peel half-a-dozen large Tomatoes, mince them, put them into a saucepan, and cook. When they are thoroughly done and beaten to a pulp in the saucepan, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, add the butter and flour mixture, stir well, boil for a few minutes, turn the sauce into a tureen, and serve. (4) Cut a dozen Tomatoes in halves, squeeze out the seeds and water, put the Tomatoes into a saucepan, and add a faggot, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water ; cover the saucepan, set it on the fire, and boil the contents for about three-quarters-of-an-liour, stirring fre- quently. Put loz. of butter and 4oz. of flour into a sauce- pan, stir well over the fire for three minutes, take the pan from the fire, and add the pulp from the Tomatoes, passed through a sieve. The pulp should be added a little at a time, and well stirred in. Pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of rich broth, and boil for twenty minutes. Should the sauce be too thick, a little more broth may be added; it is then ready for use. If preserved Tomatoes are used, they must be mixed with the butter and flour in the same way as the Tomato pulp. (5) Cut 31b. of Tomatoes in slices, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of chablis, one faggot, and two onions, one stuck with two cloves. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put the saucepan on the fire, and cook the contents for about forty minutes, stirring frequently. When the Tomatoes are done and pulpy, pour in 1 breakfast cupful each of Spanish and veloute sauce and 3 teacupfuls606 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. of chicken consomme. Place the saucepan hack on the fire, and boil for a quarter-of -an-hour longer ; strain the sauce, put it into bottles, and when cold cork them down, and the sauce is then ready for use. (6) Peel lib. of Tomatoes, put them into a saucepan with lib. of moist sugar, and add a seasoning of ginger, cloves, mace, and allspice. Place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently until the Tomhtoes are done, taking care not to let them break. Put them into a stone jar, pour over 1 pint of vinegar, fasten down so as to exclude the air, and the sauce will keep good for years. (7) Well wash several pounds of Tomatoes, put them into an earthenware bowl, and mash them well; turn the pulp into a saucepan, warm it, put a colander into the saucepan, press it down, and with a spoon take out as much juice as possible. Boil well for a short time, strain through a sieve only sufficiently fine to prevent the skins going through, put the pulp back again into the - saucepan, boil until it is pretty thick, add sugar to taste, and a seasoning of ground spices. Pour the sauce while still boiling into hot bottles, cork them down at once, let them cool, and the sauce is ready for use. It will keep i good for a year or more. (8) Cut some Tomatoes in slices, and put them in a jar, with a sprinkling of Worcestershire sauce between each layer. Stand the jar in a warm place by the fire ; stir the I contents pretty often for three days, and let it afterwards I remain untouched for twelve days. At the end of that tune squeeze the juice out of the Tomatoes into a lined pan, and season with small quantities of ginger, allspice, mace, cloves, and pepper; there should be ‘2oz. of spice in all to every quart of juice, the pepper and allspice greatly predominating. Boil the juice until well flavoured with the spices, then strain it into a bottle, and cork it. In three months’ time boil the juice up again with fresh spice, strain, and return to the bottle. (9) Cut an onion and a carrot in slices, put them into a saucepan with a clove of garlic, a little thyme, and a few peppercorns ; add 2 table spoonfuls of lard, and cook until the onion and carrot are done. Cut six Tomatoes in halves, remove the seeds, cut them into slices, and add them to the ingredients in the saucepan; pour over suffi cient broth to moisten, place the iaucepan back on the fire, and reduce the liquor without stirring. Turn the whole out on to a sieve, and rub it through into another saucepan. Boil quickly, thicken with a little flour, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fire. Put 5oz. of ham, cut up small, into a saucepan, with a little lard or butter, make it lmt over the fire, stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, add this mixture to the Tomatoes, warm with- out boiling, and the sauce is ready for use. (10) Put 31b. of tamarinds into a basin 114111 lqt. of vinegar; let them soak for about twelve hours, rub the whole through a fine sieve into a saucepan, pour in 2qts. more vinegar, and add 21b. of green ginger, 141b. of garlic, and lib. of chillies, all finely ground, and about lib. of salt. Put about five hundred Tomatoes into a bowl, bruise them well, add them to the other ingredient-.-, and stir well over the fire until the preparation thickens. Let it get cold, strain off the liquor carefully, put it into bottles, and it is ready for use. (11) Put 41b. or so of Tomatoes into a saucepan, season well with a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, salt, and pepper, and cook gently for an hour or so. Strain the sauce through a sieve, add a little butter rolled in flour, and a small quantity of lemon juice; make the sauce hot without boiling, and it is ready for use. (12) Put a slice of ham at the bottom of a saucepan, with any trimmings of meat, one or two cloves, a little celery, and a few slices of carrot and onion; cover these with Tomatoes, and cook gently over a slack fire, stirring frequently until the Tomatoes are thoroughly cooked. They should be broken and mashed with a wooden spoon while cooking. Add a little Hour and stock, cook for twenty minutes longer, rub the sauce through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use, and should be of the con- sistency of cream. Tomatoes—continued. (13) Put some Tomatoes into the oven, and bake them till quite soft; scrape the pulp out with a teaspoon, add a little salt and cayenne, and stir vinegar into it till it is .about the thickness of thick cream. Serve in a sauce tureen. (14) Procure the required quantity of ripe Tomatoes, put them in a large stone or earthenware jar, cover with a plate, and bake them. When tender, rub the Tomatoes through a fine sieve. Mix with every breakfast cupful of the pulp 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, loz. of shallots, a clove of garlic, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 4 saltspoonful of white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Boil the whole together, and when of the thickness of cream pass through a fine hair sieve. Turn the sauce into bottles, and cork them down. (15) Cut the Tomatoes up, take out their pips, and let as much of their juice run away as possible. Put a small quantity of chopped bacon in a stewpan with some sweet herbs, chopped parsley and shallot, a few cloves, and a dust of salt and pepper. Fry these ingredients for a few minutes, then put in the Tomatoes, and let them simmer gently for half-an-hour or more until they are quite dis- solved. They must be frequently stirred. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (16) Imitation.—Bake some apples till quite soft, scrape the pulp out with a teaspoon, add a little salt and cayenne, with sufficient turmeric to colour the pulp like Tomatoes, and mix a little vinegar with it. (17) Italian Zuchillo.—Cut into small squares an equal quantity of trimmings of fat bacon and beef, using about lib. of each ; peel and cut an onion into small pieces, mix all together, and put them mto a basin of cold water ; next drain off the water, turn the contents of the basin on to a cloth, and squeeze them dry. Rub the interior of a saucepan with a clove of garlic, put in the above mixture, and place it over the fire; toss the contents occasionally until the onion is cooked, then add in mode- rate quantities some chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut a piece of Tomato conserve that has been dried in the sun into very small pieces, and stir them in, a small quantity at a time, with the contents of the saucepan. Next stir in gradually, 4 teacupful at a time, about 1 pint of water. Boil for five or seven minutes, then strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Skim off the fat, and it is ready for use. Fresh Tomatoes can be used in place of the conserve if more convenient; the latter, if at all old and tough, should be softened by soaking in a little water. The garlic may be omitted if the flavour is not desired. (18) Procure ripe, freshly-gathered Tomatoes, remove the stalks and green part surrounding them, cut them into quarters, and take out the seeds and watery substance. Put an equal quantity of chopped beef and fat bacon into a saucepan with a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, an onion, salt and pepper to taste, and toss them about over the fire for fifteen minutes; afterwards put in the Tomatoes, a few at a time, and stir them over the fire until reduced. Strain and skim the sauce, and it is ready for use. (19) Cut 41b. each of beef and fat bacon into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a chopped onion, a moderate quantity each of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss the whole over the fire for several minutes, then stir in some Tomato paste cut into small pieces; pour in gradually a sufficient quantity of water to make the sauce, and boil it gently for fifteen minutes. Strain the sauce, skim off all the fat, and it is ready for serving. Tomato Soup.—(1) Put lqt. of Tomatoes into a saucepan with 1 pint of hot water, and bring it to the boil. Rub together 2 piled table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 table- spoonful of butter; stir this into the boiling mixture, and. season to taste. Boil for fifteen minutes in all, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut off some thin slices of bread, without crusts, butter them, cut them into dice, put them in a pan with their buttered sides up, and brown in a quick oven. Serve the bread and soup separately. (2) Grate a large boiled carrot into a saucepan ; pour over 3qts. of rich beef stock and sufficient Tomatoes stewed607 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads, Tomatoes—continued. in butter to flavour; add a seasoning of mushroom ketchup and cayenne, and salt and white pepper to taste. Boil well, remove all the scum, add a little lemon-juice, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. To improve the quality of the stock, previously boil a little ham and vegetables with it, and strain. (3) Put JgalL of stock or rich broth into a saucepan, add a turnip, carrot, and onion, cut up very small, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil until the vegetables are done. Add six cloves, 1 breakfast-cupful of Tomatoes peeled and cut up small, salt and pepper to taste, and a thickening of flour. Boil up, remove the saucepan from the fire, mix in a little finely-chopped parsley, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. The stock or broth may be made either of beef or mutton. (4) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with four shallots cut in pieces, a few peppercorns and cloves, two sprigs of thyme, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, and Alb. of lean, raw ham cut up very small. F ry all these until they colour; add two dozen peeled Tomatoes, 3 breakfast cupfuls of rich stock, and a little essence of mushrooms; boil quickly until thick, pass it through a sieve into another saucepan, warm up again, turn it into a tureen, and serve. (5) Slice a small onion into a saucepan, add to it 2oz. of dripping, and let it stew till it turns a reddish brown; then add to it one dozen good-sized red Tomatoes, peeled and sliced, stir all together till it is very hot, then add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and pour in lqt. of boiling water; simmer for half-an-hour, then strain. Rub the Tomatoes through a sieve with the liquid, and return them to the stewpan. Add a moderate quantity of pepper and salt, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When it boils up, stir in loz. of butter rolled in flour; in another minute add 1 teacupful of boiled ice. Let it boil slowly for ten minutes, and serve. (6) Use eight or ten moderate-sized Tomatoes, cut them in halves, and scoop out the seeds. Put them in a sauce- pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion peeled and stuck with four cloves, a clove of garlic, and a moderate quantity of allspice. Stir the Tomatoes over a very gentle fire, and let them cook slowly. When done, turn them on to a fine hair sieve, remove the herbs, onion, and garlic, and rub them through. Put the Tomato pulp in a saucepan with lqt. of plain stock, and boil it. Then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with a small quantity of water and strained. Cut some small squares of bread, and fry them in butter until nicely browned. Then drain them, and put them in a soup-tureen; pour the boiling soup over them, and serve. Tomatoes with Spaghetti.—Pour into a saucepan 1 pint each of white broth and Tomato sauce, and season with 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Let it boil well for ten minutes; then throw in 4 pint of cooked spaghetti, cut about fin. in length; cook again for five minutes, tossing them well meanwhile, and serve very hot. Tomato Toast.—(1) Put a flat saucepan on the fire, warm it, and in it melt 2oz. of butter; add four medium-sized Tomatoes, about fib. of ham, and a little onion, all finely Fig. 807. Tomato Toast. chopped. Cook for about ten minutes, take the pan away from the fire, add four well-beaten eggs, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, but it must not be allowed to get hard. This will be sufficient for three rounds of toast (see Fig. 807). It should be evenly spread over and Tomatoes—continued. served as hot as possible. The toast should be soaked in butter first. (2) Procure a sufficient quantity of green Tomatoes, peel and slice them, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of clear broth, and stew until tender. When cooked, mix with the Tomatoes loz. of butter, 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut some nice slices of bread of a stale, square loaf, toast them delicately on both sides, then butter them, and place them on a hot dish; pour the contents of the stewpan over, and serve quickly. (3) Cut some Tomatoes into halves, put them in a sauce- pan, and stew them until tender. Peel and slice two or three onions, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them. Cut some slices of bread about 7,in. in thickness, toast them a light brown, butter them, and place them on a hot dish. Mix the Tomatoes and onions together; when both are cooked, season them to taste with salt and pepper, and spread the mixture over the hot toast. Serve while very hot. Tomato Vinegar.—(1) Cut three dozen large, ripe Tomatoes into quarters, but without quite separating them; rub fib. of salt over them, put them into a large jar, and set it in a cool oven, or by the side of the fire, for a day or two. Then put in A pint of mustard-seed, a sliced clove of garlic, and a small quantity each of mace, cloves, and grated nutmeg. Pour over them 2qts. of boiling vinegar, tie a piece of parchment or bladder over the jar, and keep it in a warm temperature for six days, shaking it well every day. Aftei yards put the jar in a store-cupboard for two or three weeks; then strain the liquor, and when clear pour it into small bottles, and keep them corked. (2) Wipe clean three dozen large Tomatoes, cut them down in quarters, but without separating them at the bottom, and rub 3oz. or 4oz. of salt over them. Put them in a jar in a cool oven, and let them remain for a day or so ; sprinkle over a little each of powdered mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of mustard-seed ; add a clove of garlic, cut in small pieces, and pour in A gall. of boiling vinegar. Cover the jar, let it remain in a slack oven tor five or six days longer, shaking it frequently; and squeeze all the liquor into a basin, let it stand until it is clear, pour it into bottles, and put them by, corked up, until wanted. The sediment may be used, but should not be bottled. Tinned Tomatoes.—Owing to the great difficulty experienced in growing Tomatoes in this and some other countries, and the difficulty of keeping them fresh through the winter, certain enterprising manufacturers have established a flourishing trade in Tomatoes preserved in hermetically-sealed tins. In this state they are always available for use, although they lose something of their flavour by the process. Being partially cooked they require some modification in the receipts for their pre- paration, as shown hereunder: Tinned-Tomato-and-Okra Sauce.—Rub a large tin of Tomatoes through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and mix it up with an equal quantity of milk and water or stock ; add a little chopped onion and any dried vegetables desired, half a small tin of okras, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, cook the contents for forty-five minutes or so, stir in a lump of butter, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Balls.—Put 41b. of Tinned Tomatoes into a stewpan, with J table-spoonful each of finely-chopped onion and flour, 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and moist sugar, and pepper, salt, and ground nutmeg to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until reduced to a rather thick paste ; then turn it into a plate, spread it out, and leave it until cold. Cut the mixture into small pieces, and roll them into balls on a floured table. Dip the balls in beaten egg, and then in bread- crumb ; put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a frying- pan, place it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then put in the balls and fry them until browned all over.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 608 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. "W lien fried, drain tlie balls on paper, arrange them in a pile on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 808), and serve. Fig. 808. Tinned-Tomato Balls. Tinned-Tomato Batter Pudding.—Put Jib. of sifted flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar and 14 teaspoonfuls of salt. Beat four eggs, and mix them with 24 breakfast-cupfuls of Tinned-Tomato juice, and 4 breakfast-cupful of milk. Pour tlie liquid mixture gradually into the flour, stirring it at the same tune with a wooden spoon, until quite smooth. Add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and \ teaspoonful of finely-chopped onion. Butter a baking-dish, or grease it with dripping, pour the mixture into it, put two or three small lumps of dripping on the top, and bake the pudding in a quick oven. Serve it hot with roasted meat. If preferred, the pudding may be baked under the meat. Tinned-Tomatoes-and-Cheese Pudding.—Mix 1 teacup- ful of grated breadcrumb and 2oz. of grated cheese with 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a pie-dish, strew it over with grated breadcrumbs, .and pour in the Tomato mixture; smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and cover it with grated cheese and breadcrumb ; put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and bake in a brisk oven. In about twenty j minutes’ time the pudding will be sufficiently baked. It can be served either hot or cold. Tinned-Tomato Compote.—Use a 2lb. tin of Tomatoes, strain them free of juice, and pack them in a jar with 14lb. of caster sugar and j teaspoonful of citric acid. Put a plate on the top of the jar, stand it in a moderate oven, placing the jar in a basin with a little water to prevent the fruit burning, and bake it until the compote is very thick. When sufficiently cooked, turn it into small jars, place on each a round of white paper that has been dipped in beaten white of egg, and tie them over with pieces of thick paper. Tinned-Tomato-and-Custard Pudding.—Mix 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs with 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes and their juice, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add a small quantity of ground cinnamon. Thickly butter a pie-dish, and pour in the mixture. Put 1 pint of milk in a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and about 4 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon. Set it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in quickly two well-beaten eggs; pour tlie custard over the Tomatoes, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven, stand the pie-disli on a flat dish, and serve. Tinned-Tomato-and-Egg Jelly Salad.—Put loz. of soaked French gelatine in a lined saucepan with f pint of Tinned Tomato juice, one slice of onion, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Boil the mixture until the gelatine is dissolved. Rinse out some small moulds or cups with cold water, then pour the jelly into them, and set them away in a cold place. Boil six eggs until hard, then peel and cut them into halves. Prepare a nice salad on a dish. When the jelly has set in the cups, dissolve it slightly on the surface by holding it in front of the fire, then stick a half egg in each. Let them set again, then run a knife round between the cup and the jelly so as to loosen it, and turn it on to the dish of salad (see Tomatoes—continued. Fig. 809). \\ hen carefully done, this makes an extremely pretty dish. Tinned-Tomato-and-Egg Patties.—Peel a couple of hard- boiled eggs, put them in a mortar, and pound them with 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 4 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and 1 teaspoonful “ of sugar. .Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of powdered cloves and mace. When well pounded, add to the mixture 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of Tinned Tomatoes without any juice, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; moisten the mixture with 4 teacupful of milk, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and a few drops of chilli vinegar; or instead of the chilli vinegar plain vinegar may be used with a dust of cayenne pepper. Butter some small patty-pans, and strew grated breadcrumb lightly over them; pour in the mixture, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, dust a few crumbs on the top, put a small piece of butter on each, and bake them in a brisk oven. In about a-quarter- of-an-hour, or when nicely browned, take the tins out of the oven, turn the patties out on to a dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Tinned-Tomato rool.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tinned Tomatoes into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of their liquor, and place it over the fire until hot. Mix 4 table- spoonful of cornflour with a little of the cold Tomato liquor, and when quite smooth stir it in with the hot Tomatoes. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until boiling and thickened, mashing the Tomatoes well at the same time ; then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of con- densed milk in it, and turn it into a fancy bowl. When the fool is quite cold, sift caster sugar over it, and serve with a dish of sweet biscuits. Tinned-Tomato Jelly.—Put loz. of gelatine that has been soaked for an hour in a small quantity of water, into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes and their juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, 4 saltspoonful of citric acid, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Rinse out a mould with cold water, turn the jelly into it, and keep it in a cool temperature until well set. When ready to serve, whip 1 pint of thick cream with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and pour the cream round it. Tinned-Tomato Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tinned Tomatoes with their juice into a basin, and mix with them sufficient finely-grated stale breadcrumb to thicken the juice, and sweeten with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar. Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with a suet crust; pour in the Tomato mixture, cover with a flat of the crust, moistening and binding the edges together. Tie a cloth over the pudding, plunge it into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and boil it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Puree.—Chop 6oz. of raw bam and two shallots, and put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, half a blade of mace, two or three sprigs of thyme, a bay- leaf, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves and peppercorns. Toss them over the fire until lightly browned, then turn in the contents of a tin of Tomatoes, and 1 teacupful of thick white sauce. Stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon until very hot, then rub it through a silk or fine hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, and mixARTISTIC LUNCHEON DISHES. 1. Fowl Saute with Pain and Croustade. 2. Chicken Darioles with Potatoes. 3. Fish Forcemeat with Quenelles and Fried Mussels. 4. Paupiettes of Sole and Fried Oysters. 5. Fish Quenelles and Boudins with Crayfish-tails. 6. Broiled Slices of Trout with Crayfish and Mushrooms. 7. Contised Chicken Fillets. 8. 1 urkey Poult and Potato Croquettes./ -THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 609 Tomatoes—continued. with it loz. of butter and a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut. Toss it over the fire for a few minutes until the glaze has melted, when it will be ready for serving. Tinned-Tomato Ragofit.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot in 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes, turn them into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until boiling and thickened. Peel and slice a large onion, fry it in butter until browned, then mix it in with the Tomatoes. Season with salt, pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Chop |lb. of corned beef with a piece of fat, and mix it with the Tomatoes. Stir the whole over the fire for ten minutes, then turn it into a hot dish, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Salad.—(1) Empty a pint tin of Tomatoes and their juice into a stewpan, mix h table-spoonful of arrowroot with a little of the Tomato juice, then pour it in with the Tomatoes, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling and thickened. Mix in a basin 1 table-spoon ful each of olive oil and chilli vinegar, h table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a Fig. 810. Tinned-Tomato Salad. small quantity of pepper. Mix the Tomatoes with this, turn the whole on to a dish, and leave it until quite cold. Garnish the Tomato salad with pieces of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 810), and serve. (2) Cut some Tinned Tomatoes into slices, and peel and slice a raw onion; rub a dish over with garlic, and put the sliced vegetables in it. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of vine- gar with 1 teacupful of olive oil, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Tomatoes. Strew lightly over them some powdered sweet herbs, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Sauce.—(1) Put half a tin of Tomatoes and one small onion into a saucepan, and stew them for about ten minutes ; take out the onion, and rub the Tomato pulp through a fine sieve. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, warm it, mix in an equal quantity of flour, and stir well until it is well browned ; add gradually the Tomato pulp, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a very little white pepper; warm the sauce, and it is ready for use. This sauce is generally used for macaroni. (2) Put half a tin of Tomatoes into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water; add two cloves, two peppercorns, two allspice berries, two sprigs of parsley, 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped onion, butter, and cornflour, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs. The onion must be fried in the butter, and the cornliour mixed in when the onion is yellow. Set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about ten minutes : add 1 saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and a little cayenne; strain the sauce, and it is ready for use. Tinned Tomatoes with Savoury Custard.—Mix with one pint tin of Tomatoes 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 scant table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions, and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, seasoning the mixture to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a pie-dish, and pour the mixture into it. Beat four eggs in a stewpan, pour in If pints of milk, season with salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and | table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions. Stir the custard over the fire until thickened, but not boiling, then pour it over the Tomato mixture. Put two or three small lumps of butter on the top of the custard, and place it in a moderate oven. In about three-quarters-of-an- hour, or when the custard has set, take it out of the oven, and serve. This makes an excellent dish for supper, ami requires very little time and trouble to prepare. Tomatoes—continued. Tinned-Tomato Soup.—(1) Put a quart tin of Tomatoes into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, and stir in 1 table- spoonful of warm butter worked up with double the quantity of flour and 1 table-spoonful of the Tomatoes. Add 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, boil for about a-quarter- of-an-hour, strain the soup into a tureen, and serve with buttered toast on a dish. (2) Put a tin of Tomatoes into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion stuck with three or four cloves, and 1 pinch each of allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and cook until the Tomatoes are quite soft; turn all out on to a hair sieve, and rub through until only the onion and herbs remain. Pour 3 pints of stock (either meat or poultry) into a saucepan, boil it up, stir in the Tomato pulp, and add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cold water; stir well, make it as hot as possible, pour it into a tureen, and serve with croutons of fried bread or toast. Tinned-Tomato Tart.—Mix with 2 breakfast cupfuls of tinned Tomatoes and their juice, 3 table-spoonfuls of finely- grated breadcrumb, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Butter a shallow dish, and line it with short crust, rolling the paste up round the edges so as to form a sort of wall, which pinch round with the finger and thumb. Pour the Tomato mixture into a dish, and bake it for about half-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over the top, and serve. TONGS.—This word is derived from the Icelandic tong—to bite, and lias a very ancient history, so far as the application is concerned. The cook recognises it Fig. 811. Ice-tongs. in the asparagus-tongs, fire-tongs, ice-tongs (see Fig. 811), sandwich-tongs, steak-tongs (see Fig. 812), sugar- tongs, &c., all of which have a very decided utility, Fig. 812. Steak-tongs. enabling the operator to seize with a firm grip those materials which it would be inconvenient or uncleanly to grasp with the fingers. TONGUES (Fr. Langues; Ger. Zungen; Ital. Lingue; Sp. Lenguas).—Under various headings, such as Ox, Sffep, Pigs, Lamb, and Reindeer, these are specifi- Fig. 813. Tongue. cally treated; in a general sense the Tongue is the large muscular organ that forms the floor of the mouth, and is used by most animals for collecting and swallowing food. The base of the Tongue is so intimately connected with the throat that it is usual when removing it from the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <I-c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. R610 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tong ues—continued. slaughtered animal to cut away with it all the fat and glands surrounding the windpipe, and the upper part of the pipe itself (see Fig. 813). A few directions that apply to Tongues generally are given hereunder. The word itself descends from the Icelandic and Swedish tunga, meaning language, although it is used for the purpose of speaking by the human race only. Boiled Tongues.—Soak the prepared Tongues overnight in plenty of cold water to freshen them slightly if they are salted, or to blanch them if they are fresh. The next day put them in a saucepan over the fire with cold water for salted Tongues, or boiling water for fresh ones, and allow twenty minutes to each pound for boiling, from the time they begin to boil. A lemon sliced, or 1 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 teaspoonful each of whole cloves and peppercorns, boiled with a large Tongue, less for smaller Tongues, and so on in proportion, greatly improves the flavour. When the Tongues are done, take them up, peel off the skins, and return them again to the hot liquor to keep warm, or, if they are to be used cold, let them cool in it. When serving, slice them into long slices, beginning near the tip. All the fleshy parts, and the fat near the roots of the Tongues, will serve to make excellent hash when cold, but are not generally served with the Tongue. Jellied Tongue.—Soak 1 loz. of gelatine in 1 breakfast- cupful of cold water for ten minutes. Put in a bowl 1 breakfast-cupful of good, hot, brown veal gravy. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar in a little cold water, and add it, together with 1 table-spoonful of sugar not burned, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and a bunch of savoury herbs, to the gravy in the bowl. When the gelatine has soaked ten minutes, put it in also; then pour in 1 pint of boiling water, and stir till the gelatine is completely dissolved. Strain the liquor through flannel, and let the jelly cool. When it begins to thicken, wet the inside of a basin or plain mould with cold water; put a very little jelly at the bottom, and then arrange in it some slices of hard-boiled eggs; put in a little more jelly, then a layer of slices of cold boiled Tongue, then more jelly and more Tongue, and so on alternately till Fig. 814. jellied Tongue. the mould is full. Put it in a cold place till quite firm, and when quite set it is fit for use. Dip the mould in hot water for an instant, turn the jelly out on to a dish, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 814), and serve. Fickled Tongue.—Wash the Tongue quite clean, lay it on a dish or pan, with plenty of salt over it, and turn it over every day for four or five days so that every part of it may be evenly salted. After tiie fourth or fifth day, mix together 2oz. of salt, £oz. of saltpetre, and loz. of brown sugar, and rub this well into the Tongue. Turn it over every day for a fortnight, and it is then fit to use. Potted Tongue.—Rub an ox-tongue well with Jib. of brown sugar and loz. of saltpetre. Leave it for two days; then boil it until tender. Drain and skin the Tongue, cut it Tongues—continued. into small pieces, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar with lib. of clarified butter. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of pounded mace. Press the paste into small jars, cover them with parchment, and tie them down. Stewed Tongue.—Wash the Tongue very carefully, and then rub it well with salt mixed with a little saltpetre. Let it remain in the salt for three days, ami then boil it till the skin can be easily peeled off. After taking off the skin, put the Tongue into a stewpan with 1 pint of stock and some of the liquor it was boiled in ; add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, some pepper, and two or three pounded cloves. When the Tongue is almost done, add loz. of flour, with 1 table-spoonful of butter rubbed into it, to thicken the sauce. Serve the Tongue hot, with the sauce poured over it. Tongue Salad.—Cut some cold boiled ox-tongue into small, thin strips, put them in a salad bowl, and add some chopped boiled potatoes and the same quantity of celery cut into small pieces. Strew some finely-chopped parsley over the salad, and baste it with a few table-spoonfuls of beef broth. Prepare a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad, which place in the ice box. When ready to serve, garnish the salad with the crisp heart-leaves of a lettuce. Tongue Sandwich.—Chop Alt), of cold boiled Tongue, put it in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, some salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and pound it to a paste. Dilute the paste with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread them with the mixture, ami press them together in pairs. Cut the sandwiches into halves, put them on an ornamental dish- paper or a folded napkin placed on a dish, and serve them. Tongue Toast.—(1) Take the remains of a cold cooked Tongue, grate it as fine as possible, add a little finely- chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and form the mixture into a thin paste with yolks of eggs. Make the mixture as hot as possible without boiling, turn it out on to slices of thin toast, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, brown the surface with a salamander, or in front of the fire, and serve. (2) Procure some of the hard parts or outside of a cold Tongue that may have got dry, and grate them, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Cut some moderately thick slices off a tin loaf, toast them delicately on both sides, trim off the crust, and butter them. Cover each piece of toast with thin slices of cucumber, strew the grated Tongue over them, and dust over with a very small quan- tity of cayenne pepper. Put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish nicely with fried parsley, and serve. TOOTHPICKS.—These are made of gold, silver, quill, or bits of sharpened stick. The mediaeval habit of using the prong of the fork was substituted by the intro- duction of splints of sweet-scented woods. These latter might be re-introduced with advantage. TOPS-AND-BOTTOMS.—The name given to a kind of nursery biscuits that are considered to have special merits as food for infants. The best receipt for their manufacture is the following: Prepare a dough as described for RUSKS, and make it into balls about the size of a small egg; place these on baking-sheets in straight rows just touching; cover them with a cloth, and let them prove well ; then bake in a moderately quick oven. When cold, cut the balls asunder, turn on the side, and cut through the middle, one at a time. Put back on the baking, sheet with the cut surface upwards, and set in a warm oven. When nicely browned over, remove and dry in a screen, or before a hot fire. TORTOISE BROTH.-—This is made from the common garden tortoise, and was at one time believed to be a remedy for consumption. As the flesh of thisTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 611 Tortoise Broth—continued. animal is not otherwise used in cookery, it will only be necessary to give the following receipt: Remove all the flesh from the shell of a tortoise, cut it up into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with 2 break- fast cupfuls of water, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity ; then throw in a handful of wild endive leaves, cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, and let it stand for ten minutes. Pass the broth through a cloth, and it is ready for use. TORTONI BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. TORTUE.—Fr. for Turtle. TOUGH MEAT.—The cause of toughness in meat is the density and quantity of the fibrous tissue, which binds the meat cells together into a mass. Toughness is usually an indication of age, but the flesh of some animals is tough even when young, so that toughness cannot be relied upon in all cases as an indication of age. What to do with Tough Meat is a question that vexes many an economical housewife and cook, especially as it is more frequently palmed upon them than it should be. The first suggestion that occurs to the improvident is to give it to the dog or cat; but it should be remembered that Tough Meat will make a good soup ; that it can be stewed till it nearly falls to pieces, gaining nothing, however, in the way of digestibility. Tough Meat, such as steak, can Fig. 815. Stanley's Patent Steak-tenderer (H. T. Tallack). be “tendered” by beating it, or by working it in a machine (see Fig. 815) consisting of two plates covered by tooth-shaped irregularities which bite into the meat and break down some of the tough fibrous tissue ; but, although good service may be rendered by such an instru- ment, it will not make Tough Meat equal to that which is young and tender. Tough Meat may be chopped up small, and then “ digested ” at a low heat in an earthenware terrine con- taining sufficient water to cover the meat and a table- spoonful of diluted hydrochloric acid to each pint of water. Braising is considered a good mode of cooking Tough Meat; but, after all, it is better to learn how to choose and use that which is tender. See Meat. TOULOUSE, A LA.—See Garnishes and Sauces. TOURNEDOS.—The literal meaning for this French term is “ tum-the-back,” and is applied to small collops of meat that are done on one side almost as soon as the cook turns his back. Receipts for these will be found under Beef, &c. TOURTE.—The French word for a tart, applied to those that are either sweet or savoury. TOUS-LES-MOIS.—The starch obtained from the underground stems of Canna edulis, sometimes used as a substitute for arrowroot. The granules are very large, flattened, and oval. Prepared as follows, it is con- sidered very good: Put 1 pint of new milk into a lined saucepan, with a piece of stick cinnamon, a piece of lemon-peel, and sugar to taste, and boil it. Mix 3 dessert spoonfuls of 'Ptms- les-mois smoothly with a small quantity of cold milk, then strain in slowly the boiling milk, stirring it at the same time. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the mixture, and stand it in a cool place. On the Tous-les-Mois—continued. following day, turn the Tous les-mois out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. It is advisable to mix Joz. of isinglass with the above, as sometimes it will not thicken sufficiently. TRAGACANTH.—See Gums and Gum Paste. TRANSPARENT SAUCE.—See Sauces. TRAVELLER’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. TRAVELLING CAKES.—See Cakes. Fig. 816. Electro-plated or Silver Waiter (Adams and Son). TRAYS.—This term, derived from the Old English treye, or Anglo-Saxon trecj—a small trough—is indigenous to this country, as well as the vessels themselves, for by Fig 817. Electro-plated or Silver Tea- or Coffee-tray (Adams and Son). no other nationality are Trays used for so many purposes as by the British. We have our tea-trays, lunclieon- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 r 2612 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trays—continued. trays, supper-trays, butler’s-trays, bread-trays, knife-trays, crumb-trays, and a variety of others not so closely con- nected with the subjects of this Encyclopaedia. The most useful Tray of all is the electro-plated or silver waiter (see Fig. 816), sometimes called a salver. These ex- quisitively chased silver or electro-plated Trays are used for handing round tea or coffee (see Fig. 817), or to hold the tea-service on the table. Fig. 818. Folding Luncheon- or Supper-tray (Adams and Son). Another very useful Tray is the supper-tray (see Fig. 818), a deep wooden Tray with sides that fall down and lie flat on the table when the corner bolts are released. The Fig. 819. Butler’s-tray or Stand (Adams and Son). butler’s-tray (see Fig. 819) for service at the table is of a similar nature to the supper-tray. TREACLE.—Under the heading of Molasses is de- scribed what may be called the coarse results of sugar- refining. Treacle, or more pleasingly “ golden syrup,” with which we have to deal here, is the result of the higher class of sugar-refining—that is to say, the result of roasting highly-refined sugars, as opposed to the drainings from raw sugar, commonly known as molasses. The term is derived from the Latin theriaca, so called because of its supposed powers of healing the bites of wild animals. Treacle Beer.—(1) Put lib. each of Treacle and moist sugar into a saucepan, add loz. of bruised ginger and half that quantity of hops, pour over 3qts. of water, and boil for a few minutes. Strain the liquor into a large bowl, pour in 5qts. more of water, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of yeast. Let this remain for ten or twelve hours to work; then pour it into bottles, cork them down, and keep them in a cool place until wanted for use. (2) Put 3oz. of hops into a vessel with 4Jgalls. of water, and boil for an hour; then strain into another vessel, and add 31b. of Treacle, stirring well to prevent it sinking to the bottom. When the liquor is down to 75deg. Falir. pour it into a barrel, with a little yeast added, and let it ferment for about four days. Now bottle it, and in about two weeks’ time it will be ready for use. As this will not keep any length of time, it is not much in use. Treacle—continued. Treacle Cake.—(1) Put Jib. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, and 2oz. of lard into a basin; and with the hand rub the lard thoroughly into the flour and sugar. Put loz. of almonds into a cup, pour boiling water over them, and let them stand a few minutes; then slip them out of their skins, cut them into halves, and put them into the basin with the flour, &c. ; throw in J saltspoonful of baking-powder, and with a spoon stir all well together; then pour in lib. of Treacle, and stir again. Put the mixture into a well-greased cake-tin, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. (2) Put lib. 2oz. of sifted flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger, cinnamon, and Jamaica pepper, £ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and a small quantity of black pepper, also 1 table-spoonful of caraway seeds, or a few stoned and chopped raisins. Warm 5oz. of butter, beat it well, and mix it and lib. of Treacle with the dry ingredients. Stir the whole until thoroughly incorporated. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake it in a slow oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin, and stand it up on end until cold to allow of the steam escaping. Treacle Parkin.—(1) Rub 41b. of butter into 24lb. of fine oatmeal until quite smooth, then mix in 211). of Treacle and Jib. of moist sugar. Stir the mixture well, put it into some buttered tins, and bake it. If preferred, it may be shaped into small cakes, and baked thus. (2) Warm 41b. of Treacle, then dissolve in it lib. of butter; next mix in gradually 41b. of the best oatmeal, lib. of moist sugar, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of pow- dered ginger. Stir the vdiole with a knife until well mixed, but do not knead it, and add a small quantity of brandy. Turn the mixture into a tin, spreading it out to about 2in. in thickness, put it in a very slow oven, and bake. When cooked, leave the parkin in the tin until quite cold; then turn it out, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Put them into tins, and keep in a dry place for use. Treacle Pie.—(1) Roll out some puff paste to about Jin. thick, line a pie-dish with it, and mask it with Treacle. Put a flat of the paste at the bottom of the dish, cover this over with Treacle, and continue in this way until the dish is full, having a layer of paste at the top. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve very hot. (2) Butter a pie-dish, line it completely with a good crust, spread a layer of Treacle over the bottom, and strew some finely shred lemon-peel over it; cover with another layer of crust, then another of Treacle, and so on until the dish is full, making the last layer of crust, which should be moistened with a little water, and pressed to the paste at the edges of the dish. Bake the pie in a good oven, but do not colour the crust too much at the top. When cooked, take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Treacle-and-Plum Pudding.—Peel and boil separately lib. each of carrots and potatoes; when tender, drain off all the water, and mash them. Chop finely lib. of beef- suet; wash and dry lib. of currants, stone and chop |lb. of raisins, and thinly shred Jib. of candied lemon-peel. Mix all the above ingredients together, adding lib. of dried and finely-sifted flour, fib. of grated breadcrumbs, and 2oz. of chopped candied ginger. Stir in lib. of Treacle, and a sufficient quantity of milk to mix the whole together. Butter a pudding basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it rapidly for eight hours. When cooked, serve the pudding with wine sauce. Treacle Posset.—(1) Put l breakfast-cupful each of milk and water into a saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of Treacle, and boil for a few minutes. Strain it, and serve very hot. All milk may be used if desired. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is on the point of boiling, pour in 1 teacupful of Treacle, and remove the pan from the lire. Let it stand for ten or twelve minutes, strain it, and serve at once in glasses. Treacle Pudding.—(1) Put ilb. of flour into a basin, and mix in loz. of finely-shred beef-suet, 4oz. of Treacle, 1613 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Treacle—continued. teaspoonful eacli of baking-powder and ground ginger, and a very little salt. When these are thoroughly in 01 porated, cover the basin with a sheet of buttered paper, put it into a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and continue to steam for three hours. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Put lOoz. of sifted flour into a basin, work in 8oz. of shred beef-suet, and make the whole into a stiff paste by adding 1 teacupful of water. Turn the paste on to a well floured table or board, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Butter the inside of a pudding-basin, selecting one that will hold 1J pints, line it with a part of the paste, and cut the remainder into rounds to fit one on top of the other. When put in the basin, mask the paste lining with Treacle, and put the top round at the bottom; mask this again with Treacle, and continue in this way until the dish is full, securing the top round to the sides. Cover over with a cloth, put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, or in a steamer over the Fig. 820. Treacle Pudding. saucepan, and cook for an-houv-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, pour over Jib. of boiling Treacle (see Fig. 820), and serve. Half a pound of Treacle will be quite sufficient for the inside. (3) Mix with lib. of flour 4oz. of finely-chopped beef- suet, 1 scant teaspoonful of ginger, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Stir in 1 teacupful of Treacle, with sufficient milk to bring it to the proper consistency. Butter thickly a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake it. Serve the pudding while hot. (4) Trim off the skin and finely chop Jib. of beef-suet, and mix it with fib. of Hour, the chopped peel of half a small lemon, 1 teacupful of Treacle, and a small quantity of ground ginger. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a small quantity of warmed milk, and stir it in with the above ingredients, mixing them well. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the pudding into it, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, adding more boiling water as the quantity becomes diminished. When ready, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a wine sauce, either poured over it or in a sauceboat. (5) Pour about 1 teacupful of boiling milk over lib. of flour, and beat it well with a wooden spoon ; then mix in Jib. of finely-chopped beef-suet and lib. of Treacle. A small quantity of grated nutmeg or powdered ginger may be added if liked. When the ingredients are well mixed, turn the whole into a buttered pudding-basin, cover with a floured cloth, tying it tightly round, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. Ten minutes before the pudding is taken up, prepare the follow- ing sauce for it: Beat the yolks of two eggs with 4 pint of milk, add 1 wineglassful of sherry, and sweeten to taste with moist sugar ; pour it into a small lined saucepan, stir it over the fire until on the point of boiling, and then take it off at once. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce, either poured over it or in a sauceboat. (6) Grate sufficient crumb of stale bread to fill two break- fast-cups, and mix with it Jib., of finely-chopped beef- suet, 1 heaped table-spoonful of powdered ginger, and J breakfast-cupful of Treacle, and beat well together. Turn the mixture into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a floured Treacle—continued. cloth over it, and boil it for two hours, keeping the basin well under water. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust it over with caster sugar, and serve. Treacle Tart.—Prepare a nice dripping crust, using a small quantity of baking-powder when mixing it. Butter a rather shallow tin, line it with the crust, strew in a thick layer of grated breadcrumbs mixed with finely-chopped lemon-peel, and then pour in as much Treacle as the crumbs will soak up. Grate a small quantity of nutmeg over it, and bake in a moderate oven. When the crust is done, take the tart out of the oven, and serve. Treacle Tartlets.—Half fill with breadcrumbs some tartlet pans lined with puff paste, and add a little grated ginger and a small quantity of chopped orange- or lemon-peel ; pour over sufficient Treacle—using golden syrup—to cover ; put the pans in a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when done, turn them out on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. TREFANY.—The Chinese name for the Beache- de-Mer. TRIFLES.—These are exceptionally English dishes, and are held in very poor esteem by the foreign pastry- cook, who probably attaches some greater importance to the name than is necessary. Webster connects the word with the French truffle or truffle, signifying anything of little note or importance. From the following receipts it will be seen that these Trifles are not by any means unim- portant as dishes. (1) Blanch 2oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds or peach-kernels, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste, adding a little rose-water to keep them from oiling. Take four small sponge cakes and eight macaroons, break them all into small pieces, mix them with the pounded almonds, and lay them at the bottom of a large trifle-dish; add to them the strained juice and grated peel of two lemons, and some grated nutmeg; mix together J pint of white wine and J gill of brandy, and pour it over them. Let this stand till the cakes are thoroughly soaked and almost melted in the liquor, and then stir it a little. Dis- solve Jib. of powdered white sugar in lqt. of cream, mix in it 1 glassful of noyau, and beat it all to froth with an egg- whisk. Turn a sieve upside-down on a large dish, and as the froth forms on the cream lift it off carefully and lay it on the sieve, pouring back into the cream that is being whisked any cream that drains from the froth. When all the cream is beaten to froth, put it away in a cool place. Have ready a rich baked custard of yolks of eggs, sugar and milk, and when this is quite cold, pour about 1 pint Fig. 821. Trifle. of it into the trifle-bowl on top of the soaked cakes. The last thing before setting the trifle on the table, add the frothed cream, piling it high (see Fig. 821). Ornament it with nonpareils. _ (2). Lay in the bottom of a trifle-dish some Naples biscuits and small macaroons ; pour over them sufficient white wine mixed with 1 table-spoonful of brandy to soften them; lay patches of raspberry jam over them, and fill the dish with a rich custard. Whip up a syllabub of some cream, lay the froth on a sieve to drain for a few minutes, then pile it high over the custard, and lay comfits here and there on top.614 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ike., referred to, see under their special heads. Trifles—continued. (3) Lay some pieces of sponge cake or sponge biscuits in a trifle-dish, and pour over them sufficient sweet white wine to soak them. Whisk together 3 table-spoonfuls of white wine, 1 J pints of cream, and 1 table-spoonful of sugar, to a good stiff' froth. Put a layer of preserved strawberries, raspberries, or any other fruit over the soaked sponge cake in the dish, pile over this the froth of the whisked cream, and pour the rest of the cream into the bottom of the dish. Garnish it with flowers. (4) Put at the bottom of a trifle-dish some macaroons and ratafia biscuits, and soak them well with raisin wine. When they have absorbed the wine, pour over them a very rich cold custard 2in. tldck, over that a layer of raspberry jam, and pile high over it whipped cream mixed with white of egg beaten to a stiff froth and flavoured with grated lemon-peel, raisin wine, and powdered white sugar. Both the cream and custard ought to be made the previous day. (5) Put 6oz. of macaroons into a dish, soak them in white wine, pour over them 1 pint of rich custard on top, lay a little whipped cream round, and garnish according to fancy. (61 Lay in the centre of a large dish or plate as many macaroons and ratafias as will be required for the Trifle. Blanch and pound as many sweet almonds as are required, add them to the cakes on the dish, together with some raspberry jam, currant jelly, and candied orange-peel and citron cut into small pieces ; turn down over these a good-sized sieve, letting it rest on the plate or dish. Add to the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon half a grated nutmeg and h pint of wine, and mix together; then add 3 pints of rich cream, sweetened to taste with powdered white sugar. Whisk this to froth, laying the froth on the sieve as fast as it forms, letting the cream that drains from it soak the cakes underneath. When the cream is all whisked into froth, and the cakes under the sieve have absorbed all the cream that has drained from the froth, lift the sieve, and lay the contents of the dish on a dish in which the Trifle is to be served ; pile the froth high over it, and stick on little slices of candied orange-peel, lemon- peel, citron, and nonpareils. (7) Put a layer of ratafias and a layer of macaroons in a glass dish, pour over them 1 wineglassful of sherry and about § wineglassful of brandy, spread a layer of quince jelly over the top, and set the dish in a cool pantry. Prepare a rich nicely flavoured custard, and when it is quite cold, pour it over the contents of the glass dish. Mix with 1 J pints of thick cream the strained juice of one lemon and the grated peel of half a one ; add 1 wine- I glassful of noyau, J wineglassful of white wine, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, which skim off the top as it rises, and put it on a fine sieve to drain. Keep the cream in a cool place for a few hours, then pile it over the top of the Trifle, and serve. If liked, the Trifle can be very prettily ornamented with crystallised cherries and angelica, cut in strips or fancy shaped pieces. Cold Savoury Trifle.—Cut a slice about lin. thick off a stale loaf, trim it to a square shape, removing all the crust, and make a hollow in the centre. Put a large piece of lard in a frying-pan, and when it boils, put in the bread, ■ and fry it a pale golden brown. Then put it on a sieve to drain. Roughly chop the flesh of a lobster; prepare a nice fresh salad, and place it in a dish. Fill the hollow of the croustade with the lobster, put it in the centre of the salad, and pour over a nicely-flavoured mayonnaise sauce. Ornament the dish prettily with various shapes cut out of whites of hard-boiled eggs, carrots, and beetroot, and serve. Moulded Swiss Trifle.—Put one dozen ratifias, half -a-dozen macaroons, and a large sponge cake in a deep tlisli, and pour over them a mixture of J pint of sherry, 1 wine- glassful of ram, and 1 wineglassful of brandy; stand the dish in a cool place, and leave the cake until soft. Arrange alternate layers in a mould of the soaked cakes, any kind of preserve, and plain biscuits. Press the contents of the mould occasionally, and drain off any superfluous moisture by putting in a small plate or saucer. Rub 3oz. of loaf Trifles—continued. sugar over the yellow rind of a lemon, put it with Joz. of isinglass into a small enamelled saucepan, pour in 1 scant breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and stir it over a gentle fire till at the point of boiling; then move it at once to the side. When somewhat cooled, mix the juice of half a lemon with the cream, and strain it. Pour the cream over the contents of the mould, and stand it on ice for an hour or two. Prepare a rich custard, and leave that also until cold. When ready to serve, turn the Trifle out of the mould on to a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. An extremely pretty supper dish. Old-fashioned Trifle.—Make lqt. of custard, and leave it until cold. Put a large moulded sponge cake in a glass dish with jib. of ratafias round it; strew over the ratafias some blanched and finely-shred almonds, chopped candied angelica, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; over that spread a layer of red-currant jelly, and then a layer of rasp- berry jam, and moisten the whole with J pint of sherry and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Leave this until the cake has soaked up the wine, then pour the custard round it, and stand the dish on ice. Grate the rind of one lemon into a basin, then squeeze in the juice, and add 4oz. of sugar and 1 wineglassful each of sherry and brandy ; with these mix in gradually 11 pints of cream, and whisk it well, taking off the froth as it rises to the top, and Fig. 822. Old-fashioned Trifle. placing it on sieves to drain. When all the cream is thus frothed, stand the sieve on ice. When ready to serve the Trifle, pile the frothed cream round the cake, garnish with macaroons (see Fig. 822), and serve. Queen of Trifles.—Lay Jib. of lady fingers or square sponge cakes at the bottom of a trifle-dish; pour over them, a spoonful at a time, 1 glass of brandy, lay over them, a thin layer of fruit jelly or jam, strew over this Jib. of crystallised fruit chopped fine, on top of this put a layer of macaroons (about Jib.), moisten them with 1 glass of sherry, and cover them with a thick layer of jam or sweet fruit jelly. Set the dish in a cool place, and let the wine and brandy soak into the cakes. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste, adding a little rose-water to prevent their oiling. Scald 1 pint of milk, and when very hot put the almond paste into it. Keep stirring it for one minute, and then stir in the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, with Jib. of powdered white sugar. Keep on stirring for three minutes longer, and then add 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold milk. Still continue stirring till the custard has thickened well, and then take it from the fire and beat it for awhile, or else pour it backwards and forwards from one jug to another several times, to prevent lumps from forming as it cools. Sweeten 1 pint of rich cream to taste with powdered white sugar and whisk it to a stiff froth. When the custard is quite cold, pour it over the soaked macaroons, &c., in the trifle-dish, and pile high over it the whipped cream. Savoury Trifle.—Finely chop Jib. of either cold coowed game, chicken, or veal, put it in a small saucepan with half the quantity of finely-chopped pickled mushrooms and 1 breakfast-cupful of thick-cream, season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir the mixture over the fire until very hot. Cut four615 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Trifles —continued. thick slices of bread, trim them to a round shape, and scoop out a deep hollow in the centre of each. Put a large lump of clarilied fat or lard in a stewpan, and place it over the fire until melted; then put in the pieces of bread, and fry them until of a pale golden-brown. Drain the bread on a sheet of paper for a few minutes, then fill the hollow with the above mixture. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the Trifles on it, garnish them tastefully with fried parsley, and serve. Tipsy Trifle.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire, together with Jib. of sugar. Beat the yolks of five eggs, and when the milk is almost on the point of boiling, stir them in, continuing to stir till the milk thickens; take it from the fire then without letting it boil, and when it is cold, flavour it with essence of vanilla or essence of almonds. Line the bottom of a trifle-dish with slices of stale sponge cake, and wet them well with white wine; when pretty well soaked, lay over them a layer of jam or fruit jelly, over this a layer of macaroons well soaked in white wine, then a layer of sponge cake well moistened with wine, a layer of jam or fruit jelly, and then more soaked macaroons, and so on till the bowl is three-parts full. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth with a little bright red fruit jelly. Pour the cold custard over the trifle, and heap the frothed whites on top, dropping a bit of bright red jelly here and there over it. TRIPE (Fr. Tripe; Ger. Flecke; Ital. Trippa; Sp. Tripa).—This term is applied to the large stomach of ruminating animals as prepared for the cook. The origin of the word seems to be in doubt, unless it can in any way be associated with the Latin tribere—to rub to- gether, that corresponding in a degree to the action of the walls of the stomach during digestion. The thick folds and fat pieces (see Fig. 823) are considered the best. Tripe is usually bought ready prepared; but as cases may happen when the cook might have to clean it, the following instructions may be useful: Well wash the stomach as soon as it is taken from the bullock, changing the water frequently; dust the dark inside coat over with quicklime, and scrape it at once. Cut it up into four parts, dip them into boiling water, and scrape them until they become perfectly white. Put them into a bowl with weak brine thickened with meal, and let them remain for a day. Scrape and soak them in this way for seven or eight days, then put them into a saucepan with oatmeal-gruel to cover, and boil until tender. The Tripe should be tied up in a cloth. Turn it out of the cloth, put it into a bowl of weak brine, let it remain for a day or so, and it is ready for use. Or put the pieces of the stomach of a fat bullock, one at a time, into a saucepan of water, and warm them; take them out, scrape them well, put them into a bowl of slightly-salted water, wash them well, change the water daily, and let them soak for five days, by which time they should be quite white. Put them in a saucepan of water, and boil them: and if not required for present use, keep thorn in vinegar. Baked Tripe with. Potatoes.—Cut lib. of Tripe into squares about 2in. in diameter, put them into an earthen- ware basin, with four chopped onions, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, cover over with water or stock, put the basin in a slack oven, and bake for three houfs. Iripe—continued. -. Strain off the liquor into a saucepan, skim it, add suffi- cient flour to thicken it, and boil up once. Arrange the Tripe and onions in a pie-dish, pour over the liquor, and cover over with mashed potatoes. Put the dish in a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes, so as to thoroughly warm the whole and brown the surface. Take it out, and serve at once. Boiled Tripe.—(1) Well wash lib. or so of Tripe, put it into a bow l of cold water, and soak it for several hours. Take it out, drain it, cut it up into squares, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add a marrow-bone, and boil slowly for about six hours. Add five or six whole onions, a thickening of flour mixed in miilk, with salt and pepper to season, and cook for half-an- liour longer. Skim off the fat, turn the whole out on to \ a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Well wash a piece of Tripe, put it into a saucepan, cover with milk and water in equal parts, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about thirty minutes. Put it on a dish when d< ne, pour over onion sauce, and serve. (3) Well wash a piece of Tripe, cut it up into small squares, roll each one up in a thin slice of bacon well seasoned with finely-chopped parsley and sw'eet herbs, put them into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, add three or four carrots cut in slices, and boil slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Put the pieces of Tripe on a dish, rub the carrots through a sieve over them, and serve ■with brown or white sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. Breaded Tripe.—Cut the Tripe into small, square pieces, roll them in warm butter, pepper them, and sprinkle over them chopped parsley and salt; roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and broil over a slow' fire. Serve hot with slices of lemon. Broiled Tripe.—Well wash a piece of Tripe, put it into a saucepan vrith sufficient milk and water to cover it, and boil for about tw'enty minutes. Take it out, drain it, cut it up into pieces, brush them over w'ith warm butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them until W'ell browned. Put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Broiled Tripe with. Tartar Sauce.—Put 21b. of Tripe, cut up into large squares, into a basin, dredge them over with salt and pepper, orcavtnne, add 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onion, and a little chopped parsley, pour over some oil, and let the wdiole remain for an hour. Take them out singly, roll them in oil, cover them with bread- crumbs, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Put them on a dish when done, and serve with tartar sauce either poured round or in a sauceboat. Curried Tripe.—Cut the Tripe into small pieces. Slice two or three onions according to the size, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and brown them over a quick fire; put the Tripe in with the onions, pour in sufficient broth to cover it, and stew' it gently till tender. Put 1 teaspoonful of flour in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of curry - powder; then stir in gradually J teacupful of cream, and 1 teacupful of broth. When quite smooth, stir the curry in W'ith the Tripe, and boil it for a few' minutes longer till thickened, stirring occasionally. When cooked, turn the Tripe on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Fricassee of Tripe.—Cut lib. or so of Tripe into 2in. squares, put them into a saucepan with a little each of ground ginger and mace, chopped onion, and sw'eet herbs in a bunch, pour over sufficient white wine to cover, set the saucepan on the fire, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the bunch of herbs, add a little chopped parsley, half an anchovy cut up small, the juice of a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and a thickening of yolk of egg and butter. Season well, stir over the fire for a few minutes, turn the wdiole out on to dish, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish.616 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tripe—continued. Tried Tripe.—(1) Put a piece of Tripe into a saucepan of cold water, and boil up once; pour the water off, scrape and clean the Tripe, cut it up into small squares, put it back in the saucepan, pour over more cold water to cover it, and cook gently for half-an-hour or so until it is quite tender. Take out the pieces, drain them well, dip them in batter, or egg and breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Put lib. of Tripe cut into small oblongs in cold water, and soak it for one night. On the following day, put the Tripe in a saucepan, cover it with fresh, cold water, and place it over the fire until boiling; then drain the water from the Tripe, cover it with more cold water, and boil it up again. Continue changing the water until the last lot boils up clear, and without any unpleasant odour; then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, put in a small lump of salt, and simmer gently until the Tripe is tender. Drain it, dry thoroughly on a clean towel, and season with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs mixed with 1 saltspoonful of salt and f, saltspoonful of pepper. Beat well the whites of two eggs. Boll the Tripe in the beaten eggs, and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, covering it well all over with them. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire until the blue smoke rises; then put in the Tripe; turn it when lightly browned on one side, and brown the other. When cooked, take the Tripe out of the fat, and place it on a sheet of kitchen paper Fig. 824. Fried Tripe. in front of the fire for a minute or two to drain. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Tripe on it, garnish it with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley (see Fig. 824), and serve. (3) Make a batter with three eggs beaten up with flour, milk, a little pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt, having it a little thicker than for pancakes. Cut the Tripe into pieces about Sin. or 4in. square, dip them into the batter, and fry in butter or dripping to a light brown. Serve the Tripe hot, garnish with fried parsley, and with melted butter sauce having lemon pickle in it. Roasted Tripe.—(1) Cut lib. or so of Tripe into squares, mask them with forcemeat, roll them up, tie them round with string, put them on a spit in front of a clear fire, dust them over with flour, and roast them, basting them frequently with butter. Let them remain for about ten minutes, put them on a dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve with melted butter in a sauceboat. (2) Make a stuffing of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and sifted breadcrumbs, mixed with beaten yolks of two eggs. Cut the Tripe into two pieces lengthwise, on the fat side of one of these pieces spread the stuffing, lay the other piece fat side downwards over it, roll it up tight, and tie it firmly with fine twine. Roast it for an hour or an-hour- and a half, basting it with flutter. Serve with melted butter sauce flavoured with ketchup and lemon pickle. Rolled Cheese.—Have ready a quantity of prepared Tripe, cut it up into strips, put it rough side uppermost, and on it place an equal quantity of strips of beef cut from the skirt. Season well with salt and pepper, roll them up, sew them with thread, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently until they are done and so tender that a straw will easily pierce them. Put them into a flat basin or tub, place a weight on the top, so as to flatten them, and leave till cold. Put them into a bowl of vinegar and water until wanted, then cut them up into slices, and they are ready to be served. Rolled Stuffed Tripe.—Chop very fine one small clove of garlic, peel and slice one medium-sized onion and one large Tripe—continued. ripe tomato, and fry them with lib. of sausage-meat until the meat begins to brown. In the meantime scald 21b. of Tripe, scrape it with the back of a knife, and cut it into strips 2m. wide and about 5in. long. When the sausage-meat is done, season it to taste, spread it over the pieces of Tripe, roll them up, and tie them compactly. Put a frying-pan over the fire with enough butter to cover the bottom, and when it begins to brown put in the rolls of Tripe, and quickly brown them. Also brown some little balls of sausage-meat. As the Tripe is browning dredge a little flour over, and when it is brown lay it on a dish. Pour a little hot water into tire pan, and stir it about to make a sauce; season this with salt and pepper, let it boil, pour it in a hot platter, and lay the Tripe in it, with the sausage-meat balls in the centre (see Fig. 825). Stewed Tripe.—(1) Well wash lib. of Tripe, boil it until tender, and then drain it. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the lire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually f pint of milk, and continue stirring until boiling. Put the Tripe in the sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the Tripe and sauce on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Shred 141b. of Tripe, brown it slightly for three minutes in a pan, with loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and 4 pinch of pepper; turn it into a saucepan, with 4 pint of German sauce, cook for live minutes longer, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, sprinkle with 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and serve on a hot dish. Tripe a la Bordelaise.—(1) Take 141b. of Tripe cut into twelve lozenge-shaped pieces, and put them to marinade for two hours in 1 table-spoonful of oil, with 1 pinch of salt, l pinch of pepper, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, six whole peppers, the juice of one lemon, and a crushed clove of garlic. Drain, roll them in flour, then in beaten egg, and finally in sifted breadcrumbs. Fry in loz. of clarified butter in a pan for five minutes on each side, and serve with I gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, adding to it 1 teaspoonful of meat glaze. (2) Peel and blanch three dozen small onions, put them into a saucepan with a little lard, fry them, sprinkle over a little salt and sugar, and add one dozen small mushrooms fried in lard, 1 Alb. of Tripe, well washed and cut into squares 14in. in diameter, and a clove of garlic, moisten with a little gravy, cover over the saucepan, and boil gently at the side of the fire for about lialf-an-hour. Skim off all the fat, add a little butter kneaded with flour to thicken, and a little minced parsley, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Tripe a la Caennaise. Cut 21b. of well-washed Tripe into 3in. squares, blanch, drain, and put them into a saucepan with 41b. of streaky bacon cut into cubes about lin. thick, and a calf’s foot, boned and cut into half-a-dozen pieces, and blanch with a little bacon; pour over is all. of rich broth, add three whole onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, three cloves, 1 teacupful of brandy, and a little each of salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan, boil up once, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very slowly for about three hours. Take out the bunch of herbs and onions, skim well, pour the whole into a dish, and serve. Tripe A la Creole.—Cut 1411). of Tripe into small pieces, fry them in a pan with 2oz. of butter, one chopped onion.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 617 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tripe—continued. and half a green pepper, also chopped. Brown them slightly for six minutes, then transfer them to a saucepan with one cut-up Tomato and t pint of Spanish sauce, anil season with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, adding a bouquet garni, also a crushed clove of garlic. Cook for ten minutes, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Tripe a la Dubois.—Well wash lib. of Tripe, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil it until tender. Take it out and cut it into squares. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion and a little shallot into a saucepan with a small quantity of lard, and colour them; add twelve button mushrooms, cook until their moisture is extracted, sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, add 3 table-spoonfuls of capers and cook for a minute; then remove the saucepan from the fire and let the contents cool. Add a handful of sifted breadcrumbs, a small quantity of parsley, and sufficient butter to form the whole into a paste. Put the Tripe, - which should be in one large square piece, on a table, place the mixture in the centre, fold the Tripe over, sew the edges together with twine, sprinkle over the Tripe a little salt and pepper, dip it first into well-beaten egg, then in butter, and lastly into breadcrumbs. Put it on a grid- iron over a slow fire, and cook gently for twenty-five minutes. Place it on a dish, remove the thread, and serve with a little hot gravy poured round. Tripe a la Lyonnaise.—(1) Well wash 1 Jib. of Tripe, boil it in water until tender, cut it up into pieces or fillets about Hin. long and lin. wide, sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and flour, put them into a frying-pan with boiling lard, and fry them for five or six minutes. Take them out and drain on a sieve. Put two or three onions cut up into slices in a frying-pan with a little oil, butter, and a clove of garlic, and cook them until they are well coloured; then add the Tripe, sprinkle over a little cayenne, toss the pan over the fire until the onions are cooked, take out the garlic, add a little chopped parsley, remove the pan from the fire, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put a piece of well-washed Tripe into a saucepan of water or milk and water, and boil it for twenty or thirty minutes, by which time it should be quite tender. Take it out, drain, and cut it up into squares. Put 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped onion into a frying-pan with an equal quantity of butter, and brown it; add the pieces of Tripe, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the side of the fire, and cook gently for about five minutes. Take out the pieces of Tripe, place them on pieces of toast on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve. (3) Cut up 1 Alb. of double Tripe, also two onions, and brown them in a pan with loz. of clarified butter until they assume a fine golden colour. Drain off the fat, return the pan to the fire, add 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and 1 gill of good Spanish sauce, and stew for two minutes longer. Serve with 1 pinch of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Tripe a la Mode.—Take 5lb. of double Tripe, one cow- heel, three calf’s feet, all well washed and cleaned in fresh water, and cut them in pieces 2in. long by lin. square. Have at hand an earthenware pot or saucepan, put some of the pieces of feet at the bottom, cover over with Tripe, then a layer of sliced carrots and onions, and continue the same until the vessel is full, seasoning each layer. Tie in a cloth a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, and six cloves ; put this in the middle of the pot, and pour over 1 pint of cider or white wine and a liqueur- glassful of brandy ; cover over the top with stalks of some green leeks, parsley-roots, and cabbage-leaves; place the lid on the pan, fastening it down with paste, so that the steam cannot escape, and leave it for about ten hours in a very slow oven. Serve on a hot dish. Tripe a la Poulette.—Put a large chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry to a good yellow colour ; add lib. of Tripe cut into squares, season well with salt and pepper, fry well until the moisture of the Tripe is reduced, dredge over 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and add gradually suffi- Tripe—continued. cient rich broth to moisten. Stir well until the liquor boils, then add a bunch of parsley, boil for two minutes, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes. Take out the pieces of Tripe, put them on a dish, and keep warm. Reduce the liquor, thicken it with yolks of eggs, pour it over the Tripe, and serve. A little butter, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg may be mixed in with the liquor. Tripe a la Toulouse.—Put a piece or pieces of Tripe weigh- ing 61b. or 7lb. into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil. Take it out, drain, scrape it clean, wash well in several waters, and cut it up into 2in. squares. Put fill, of fat bacon, cut up in small pieces, into a sauce- pan, melt them over the fire, add them to the Tripe in a saucepan, with 1 wineglassful each of white wine and brandy, and sufficient rich broth to cover; boil for a minute or two, add a carrot and an onion, a few cloves and pepper- corns, a little raw ham, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Boil again, cover over the pan, closing it hermeti- cally, remove it to the side of the fire or on the hot ashes, cover it to half its height, and simmer gently and con- tinuously for seven or eight hours. Take out the Tripe with a skimmer, strain the liquor, and skim ofl the fat. Put a little lard into a frying-pan, melt it over the fire, stir in 1 table- spoonful of flour, fry to a light colour, and add a little of the liquor from the stock. As soon as the liquor com- mences to boil, remove the pan to the side of the fire, add Jib. of raw ham cut up small, and cook for ten minutes; then add the Tripe, and simmer for half an-hour longer. Skim oil' all the fat, add a little finely-chopped parsley and 2 table-spoonfuls of minced gherkins, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Tripe and Onions.—Put lib. of Tripe into a saucepan with four large onions cut in slices, sprinkle over 1 teaspoon- ful of salt and a little pepper, and pour over 1 pint of water. Set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for about twenty minutes or until the Tripe is tender. Take out the Tripe and onions, skim the fat oil' the liquor, reduce to half the original quantity, add a thickening of milk and flour, and boil for a minute or so; replace the Tripe and onions, simmer at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve hot. Tripe Salad.—Boil some Tripe and an equal quantity of potatoes, drain them, and leave them till cold. Wash two or three heads of endive, shred them, and put them in a salad dish. Chop the potatoes and cut the Tripe into small pieces, put them in the centre of the dish, strew some chopped capers over the top, pour over a plain salad dress- ing composed of oil and vinegar, garnish round the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 826), and serve. A Fig. 826. Tripe Salad. very good salad can be made of pickled Tripe, by cutting it into small pieces and putting them in a salad Bowl with some chopped celery, with a mayonnaise dressing poured over it. Tripe Soup.—Wash and trim 31b. of bullock’s Tripe, put it in a saucepan with a lump of salt and lqt. of water, aird boil it gently till tender, keeping the water welI skimmed. When cooked, drain the Tripe, cut it into small pieces, put them in a saucepan, strain their cooking liquor over them, and pour in lqt. of clear soup stock; place this over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of three eggs618 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tripe—continued. with 1 teacupful of cream, the juice of two lemons, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; turn this into a saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon over a slow tire till thick, with- out letting it boil. Mix the sauce slowly into the soup, stirring it vigorously at the same time, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. TRIPLET AIL.—An edible fish (Lobotes surina- mensis) found in the sea water of most warm climates, especially on the southern and middle coasts of the United States. Locally this fish is known as the grouper. The flesh is delicate and sweet, the body being a very deep, silvery grey when alive, and blackish grey when dead. When full grown it is about twenty inches long, weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds, and can be cooked like perch. TRITURATE.—To grind to a fine powder. The term is not often used in cookery. TRIVET.—A tin •ee-legged stool, table, or other sup- port, used for holding a kettle or any other vessel near the fire. TROIS-SIX.—The name given to a French spirit, which is supposed to form three-sixths of the whole of the ordinary spirit made in France. TROTTERS.—See Sheep’s Feet. TROUGHS.—Vessels so called are used chiefly in bakeries for mixing dough. See Bread. TROUT. (Fr. Truites; Ger. Forellen; Ital. Trote; Sp. Truchas).—Next to the salmon the Trout ranks highest as a game fish. It belongs to the salmon tribe, and the salmon-trout or sea-trout (Salmo trutta) can only be distinguished from the salmon by the formation Fig. 827. Bull Trout. of the gill cover and the teeth, which are slighter and more numerous than those of the salmon. The Bull or Grey Trout (see Fig. 827) (S. eriox) is distinguishable from the Salmon-Trout by its teeth being larger and stronger. It frequently weighs about 161b., and its flesh is paler and not so delicately flavoured as that of the Salmon- Fig. 828. Great Grey Trout. Trout. The Great Grey or Lake Trout (S.ferox), chiefly caught in Loch Leven (see Fig. 828), grows to a great size, and is nearly equal to the salmon in flavour. The American Brook Trout (see Fig. 829) is a very fine variety, resembling in many respects our common Trout, which is caught in all our lakes and rivers. It weighs from about Ub. to 51b., and even in rare cases up to 91b. Trout—continued. The ordinary length of a large fish would be from 18in. to 20in. Walsh tells us that the Trout “resembles the salmon in all its habits, excepting only its migrations to the sea; it is in full season from March to July, but the time varies in different rivers so much that it is impossible to lay down an invariable rule.” Fig. 829. American Brook Trout. When in high condition, during the height of summer, they present, besides the usual appearance of freshness in the eyes and gills, a silvery hue in the skin; while the flesh, when dressed, cuts into flakes of a tinge approaching to pink or salmon colour, as it is called. All Trout should be cleaned and cooked as soon as pos- sible after catching, as in consequence of the extreme delicacy of the flesh, it soon deteriorates after death. The following receipts apply equally to all kinds of Trout, and have been contributed by some of the most famous chefs of our time: Aspic of Trout.—Clean a good-sized fresh Trout, draw it by the gills, wipe it inwardly, stuff it with fish forcemeat, and truss the head. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient court-bouillon to cover it, and boil until it is done. Have ready a piece of fried bread or pain-vert, of an oval form and the length of the fish, and place it on a dish of the same shape. Let the Trout get cold, draining it on a sieve, and wipe it well with a cloth; cover over the pain-vert with paper, place the fish on the top, supporting it with butter, glaze it with half-set aspic jelly, surround it with chopped jelly, and decorate the edge of the pain-vert with croutons of jelly. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with halves of hard-boiled eggs, intermixed with small lettuces cut in halves, and serve with mayonnaise sauce in a sauceboat. Baked Trout.—(1) Scrape and clean about 201b. of Trout, draw them through the gills, wash them well, and wipe them inwardly. Stuff them with forcemeat, put them into a baking-pan over 4lb. of melted butter, cover over with a few chopped mushrooms or a little mushroom liquor, and with slices of pork, and sprinkle over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, a can of mushrooms without any liquor, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over about £ pint of stock, set the pan in the oven, and bake for about half-an-hour, basting frequently with the liquor in the pan. Take them out when done, place them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of potatoes. (2) Scale and clean a Trout, draw it by the gills, and wipe it inwardly with a cloth. Work a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt into a small piece of butter, stuff the fish with it, put it into a well-buttered baking-disli, dredge over with salt and pepper, cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake for about half-an-hour in a moderate oven. The time for baking will vary accord- ing to the size of the fish. Take it out, place it care- fully on a dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (3) Clean, wash, and dry six Trout, weighing jib. each, put them on a buttpred dish, adding \ wineglass- ful of white wine, and one finely-chopped shallot, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Pour the liquor into a saucepan, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked herbs, moistening with \ pint of German sauce. Reduce to one- half the quantity, pour it over the Trout placed onTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 619 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. a hot dish, and serve with the juice of half a sound lemon squeezed over. Baked Trout with Truffles—(1) Scale and draw a large Trout, wipe it well, put it into a well-buttered shallow gratin dish, sprinkle it over with salt, add a bunch of parsley, surround the fish with truffle trimmings, pour over 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, put a piece of buttered paper over the whole, place the dish in the oven, cover it over, and cook until the fish is done and the liquor reduced to half its original quantity. Strain off the liquor into a saucepan, stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of meat glaze, boil for a minute or two, add a thickening of butter well kneaded in flour, and boil for a few minutes longer. Chop up two or three truffles, place them round the Trout, pour the liquor through a sieve over the whole, and cook for ten minutes longer. Slip the Trout on to a dish, and arrange the chopped truffles round. Add a little anchovy butter to the liquor, mix in the juice of a lemon and a little finely-chopped parsley, pour it over the fish, and serve hot. (2) Scale a Trout weighing about 21b., draw it by the gills, wash it well, and wipe the inside dry with a cloth. Put four finely-chopped, fresh peeled truffles into a mortar, pound them well, mix in about a third of their bulk of soaked breadcrumbs and warmed butter, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Stuff the fish with this mixture, put it in a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle it with salt, baste it with butter, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for twelve minutes ; then pour in 1 wine- glassful of white wine, and a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, and bake for a-quarter of-an-hour longer, by which time the fish should lie done. Take it out, and put it in a dish. Add a little more wine to the liquor, boil for one or two minutes, thicken with butter kneaded in flour, add two chopped truffles, boil for two minutes longer, remove the saucepan from the fire, and add another small lump of butter, the juice of one lemon, and a little chopped parsley. Pour the whole over the fish, and serve very hot. Boiled Trout.—(1) Clean and scale three or four large Trout, put them into a saucepan, pour over two breakfast- cupfuls of boiling vinegar, which will turn them blue, add an equal quantity of white wine, and pour over sufficient water to cover them. Add one onion stuck with cloves, one carrot, half a head of celery, four bay-leaves, a small bunch of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and sufficient salt to taste, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for about fifteen minutes with the cover on. Take out the fish when done, drain them, put them on a napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with oil and vinegar, or any fish sauce, in a sauceboat. (2) Scale, clean, and draw the required number of Trout, wipe them on a cloth, put them into a saucepan, cover them over with stock and red wine in equal propor- tions, and boil them until done. Take them out, put them in a dish, pour over the liquor, and let them remain for one day. Take them out, drain, place them on a dish garnished with fried sprigs of parsley, and serve. Oil and vinegar should accompany them. (3) Clean and scale four or five middling-sized Trout, wipe them dry on a cloth, put them in a fish-kettle with sufficient boiling water to cover, and add 4 teacupful of vine- gar, a small piece of horseradish, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt. Set the kettle on the fire, and boil for from twenty to thirty minutes, or until the fish are done, taking care that their skins do not burst by cooking too quickly. Take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with melted butter or anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Clean, wash, and dry six Trout weighing about Jib. each, place them on a drainer in the fish-kettle with a pinch of salt, adding one sliced carrot, one sprig of thyme, and two bay-leaves, and moisten with \ wineglassful of white wine and 4 pint of water. Put the kettle on the stove, and let the contents simmer gently for five minutes after boiling; then drain, and serve on a dish garnished with parsley and boiled potatoes cut up into quarters (see Fig. 830), and 4 pint of shrimp sauce in a sauce-bowl. The fish •stock may he kept for further use. Trout—continued. (5) Well wash and clean three or four Trout, draw them through the gills, wipe them inwardly, and push the tails into their mouths. In the meantime half-fill a saucepan with water, add a little vinegar, a bay-leaf, a few slices of onion, spice, salt, and pepper to taste, and boil for a few minutes, so as to get the water incorporated with the flavours; then remove the pan from the fire and let the contents cool. Put in the fish, boil up on the fire, remove the saucepan to the side, and simmer for a few minutes. Take out the fish, drain them well, give them several coatings of half-set fish jelly, arrange them on a dish, and serve. Slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley should be used for garnish. Fig. 830. Boiled Trout. (6) Remove the inside from five or six Trout, pulling it through the gills, and let them remain with their scales and the slime on them. Cut in slices an onion, a carrot, and a root of celery, put them into a saucepan with a little chopped parsley and sufficient butter to moisten, and brown them well: then pour in l pint of port wine, and lqt. of consomme or fish broth; sprinkle in salt to taste, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and a few cloves and peppercorns, and boil for about fifteen minutes, by which time the liquor should be reduced to one-tliird its original quantity. Strain it into another saucepan, put it on the tire, and when it is boiling put in the Trout and boil well for a few minutes; then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for five or six minutes. Take out the Trout, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with melted butter in a sauceboat. (7) Clean and draw a couple of Trout, put them on a drainer in a fish-kettle, cover them over with rich soup or stock, and add a seasoning' of half a bay-leaf, an onion with four cloves stuck in it, a few bruised peppercorns, and a little salt, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white wine. Place the kettle on the fire, boil for a minute or two, remove it to the side, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour. Take out the fish when done, remove the upper skin, put them on a dish, and serve (8) Select if possible two Trout about 1 foot in length, and one about 4in. longer, take out the gills, removing the entrails at the same place, wash them well, and dry them on a cloth. Sprinkle them well with salt, and let them stand for an hour; then wash them well to remove the salt, dry them, tie them up, put them on a drainer in a fish-kettle, sprinkle them over with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, pour a little boiling vinegar over them, put in a large lump of butter, and add sufficient fish broth to cover them. Bring the liquor to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. Put the fish when done on a dish, the two smaller ones outside the larger one, untying them in so doing, and serve with caper sauce and sweet oil. They do not require to be scaled when cooked in this way, as pouring the boiling vinegar over them will have the effect of colouring them as desired. Broiled Trout.—(1) Clean a Trout, wipe it dry, tie it up into shape, cover it over with 1 table-spoonful of salt mixed up with 4oz. of butter, and let it remain for two or three minutes ; then put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it gently for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Chop up a well-washed and boned anchovy, mix it up with a little melted butter in a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of capers, 1 dessert spoonful of vinegar, and a little each of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Place the Trout when done on a dish; boil the sauce for two or three minutes, pour it over, and serve at once. (2) Draw and scale two Trout, wash them well, wipe them dry, score them on either side, put them on a dish, sprinkle620 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces, dec., rejerred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. them over with salt and pepper, and baste them well with oil. Put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil them for about twenty minutes, basting them frequently with oil. Take them off when done, and put them on a dish. Put 1 teacupful of oil into a saucepan in the bain-marie, whisk well until it is frothy, sprinkle in a little salt and chopped parsley, remove the saucepan, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons, and stir well. Pour the whole over the Trout, and serve. (3) Thoroughly clean the fish, wipe it quite dry with a soft cloth, and tie it round with thread to keep it in shape. Melt :] 1 b. of butter quite liquid, dissolve in it 1 table-spoonful of salt, pour it over the Trout in spoonfuls till it is quite covered, anti let it stand in it for five minutes; then take it out, and broil it over a clear fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. (4) Clean the fish, cut off the fins, split the fish down the back close to the bone, and split the head. They may either be broiled at once, or after they are split they may be rubbed sparingly with salt, allowed to lie for two or three hours, then hung in the kitchen all night, and next morning broiled for breakfast. (5) Clean the Trout and split them down the back, and notch them across. Put a small quantity of olive oil into a flat dish, and mix into it a little powdered thyme, pepper, and salt; lay the fish in this, turning them over two or three times that they may be well oiled on both sides. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, not too hot, and serve them at once. Broiled Trout d la Maitre d'Hotel.—(1) Scrape and clean two or three Trout, cut them down the back, take out the bone, brush them over with butter, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them. Take them off when done, open them, put a slice of maitre-d’hotel butter inside each, and serve on a napkin, with slices of lemon and fried sprigs of parsley for garnish. (2) Procure six Trout |lh. each, clean and wash them well, drain them in a napkin, and make three incisions on each side. Place them on a dish with 1 teaspoonful of oil, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 small pinch of pepper, roll gently, put them on the broiler, and cook for four minutes on each side. Lay them on a dish, pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’hotel sauce, and serve with six slices of lemon for gar- nish, with any sauce desired in a sauceboat. Broiled Trout with Bacon.—‘Well wash and clean a Trout, slit it down the belly, and take out the backbone. Put Fig. 831. Broiled Trout with Bacon. a strip of bacon in the place of the bone, tie the fish into its original shape, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it. Place it on a dish when done, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 831), and serve. Collared Trout.—Clean the fish thoroughly, split them along the backbone, carefully dry them in a cloth, and sprinkle them well with salt, finely-powdered ma,ce, and black pepper. Roll each fish up separately, and pack them close together in a baking-dish, pour over them vinegar and beer in equal parts to cover them, put in some whole black peppers and two or three bay-leaves, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and bake for an hour. Croquettes of Trout.—Cut off the fillets from two cold boiled Trout, divide them into squares, cover them over with chopped chibbals or onions and chervil, squeeze over a little lemon juice, roll them up into croquettes, dip them into villeroi sauce, then into egg and breadcrumbs twice so as to have them well covered, plunge them into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a good brown colour. Take them out when done, drain them, and place them Trout—continued. on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with parsley for a garnish. Fillets of Trout a l’Aurore.—Cut off the fillets from three Trout, form them into any desired shapes, such as hearts, put them into a saute-pan with a little warmed butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and cook them quickly over the fire until they are done, turning them frequently so as to have them well cooked on both sides. Put them on a dish, pour over aurora sauce, or sauce made red with lobster spawn, and serve. Fillets of Trout a ITtalienne.—Put the Trout in boiling water for a minute, then peel off' the skin, split them lengthwise, and remove the bone. Put the fillets in a dish, and moisten them with olive oil and lemon juice. Beat some eggs with some finely-chopped parsley. Drain the pieces of fish, rub them over with flour, then dip them in the beaten egg. Put some lard or olive oil in a deep frying-pan and make it hot, then put in the fillets and fry them. 'When cooked, put the fillets on a sheet of paper to drain, and dust them over with salt. Prepare the follow- ing sauce while they are cooking: Put 4 pint of brown sauce into a saucepan with two or three finely-chopped mushrooms, 2 teaspoonfuls of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced Fig. 832. Fillets of Trout a l'Italienne. onion, the juice of one lemon, and pepper and salt to taste, and boil for fifteen minutes; then turn it into a hot dish, put the fillets in (see Fig. 832), and serve them. Fillets of Trout Sautes.—Separate the fillets from the bones, cut each fillet into halves, put them in a buttered saute- pan, season with salt and pepper, and fry over a brisk fire. Put 41b. of lobster butter into a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and a little salt and pepper, and stir over a slow fire till well mixed ; then pour in 4 pint of melted butter and 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Stir the sauce well till thick and on the point of boiling, then move it off’ the fire. \\ heil cooked, place the fillets on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. Fried Trout.—(1) Select small Trout, well clean and wash them, and cut off their fins. Season 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour with salt and pepper, and roll the fish well in it. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a Hat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when the blue smoke rises, put in the fish, and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, drain them on a sheet of kitchen paper in front of the fire, then lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean and wash the required number of Trout, and roll them in corn meal seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a frying-pan over the fire with enough fat in it to cover the bottom to the depth of 4in when it is melted. When the fat is smoking hot, put in the Trout, and quickly fry them brown all over. Take them up, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot. Pour out of the frying-pan nearly all the fat; put a breakfast-cupful of milk into the pan, and stir it until it boils. If the meal which adheres to the pan makes the milk too thick, add a little more milk. Let the gravy thus made boil for a minute, season it with salt and white pepper, pour it into a gravy-boat, and serve it with the fried Trout. If Hour is preferred, it may be used instead of the meal. (3) Slit open a Trout, clean it, wash well, and rub it dry on a towel or cloth. Do not chop oft the head, tail, or fins. Roll the fish well in flour, letting it remain in the flour-bowl for several minutes so as to get thoroughlyTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 621 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. coated. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling lard, plunge the fish in, and fry until done, which will take from five to ten minutes according to the size of the fish. Take it out, drain it well, place it on a dish, with slices of lemon put over it, and serve with a border of potatoes. (4) Scale and clean two or three Trout, slit them down the back, and take out the bone. Cut them up into rather small pieces, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, cover them well with flour, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them for from eight to ten minutes, by which time they should be well browned. Take them out, drain them on a cloth, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. In frying, care should be taken that the pieces of fish are only cooked, and not dried too much. (5) Plunge a good sized Trout into boiling water, and let it soak for two or three minutes ; then take it out, and with the aid of a sharp knife skin it, commencing at the gills. Slit it down the back, take out the bone, divide it into quarters, or pieces if desired, wipe it well with a cloth, dust it over with salt, dip it into well beaten egg, cover it with flour, put it into the egg again, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good yellow colour. Take it out, drain off all the fat, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Care should be taken not to fry too fast, otherwise the fish will not have such a rich appearance. (6) Clean the fish and cut off the fins, thoroughly dry them, dredge them with flour, brush them over with beaten egg, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling hot dripping. Turn a sieve upside-down before the fire, and lay them on it to drain. Serve melted butter sauce, flavoured with mushroom ketchup and lemon pickle, with them. If the Trout are small, roll them in oatmeal before frying them. (7) Slit down the belly two or three Trout, clean, wash, and dry them. Should they be small, then they will not require to be scaled, but the large ones should be. Roll them well in flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little melted bacon-fat, and fry them. They will take from six to fifteen minutes to cook, according to their size. Take them out, drain off all the fat, put them on a dish, and serve with slices of fried bacon for garnish. (8) Clean the fish well and cut off the gills. Have some hot lard or fat ready in a frying-pan, and after brushing the fish all over with beaten egg, and dredging plenty of sifted breadcrumbs over so as to cover them com- pletely and thickly, fry them, letting them brown nicely . When done, lay them on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve very hot. (9) Select a Trout weighing about lib., slit it down the back, open and clean it, chop off the fins, and take out the backbone. Sprinkle the inside well with pepper, put a thin slice cf bacon inside, tie the fish up to its original shape, score it on the outside, and roll it in flour. Put it into a frying-pan with a little boiling lard, and fry for about ten minutes. Take it out, drain it, place it on a dish, remove the string or twine, dust it over with salt, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon and fried parsley. Matelote of Trout and Eels.—Cut into pieces three small cleaned Trout and two small eels, also cleaned, put them into a basin, sprinkle over a handful of salt, and let them remain for about fifteen minutes to macerate. Put Fig. 633. Matelote of Trout and Eels. into a saucepan a finely-chopped carrot, onion, stick of celery, and a little parsley, and cook slowly over the fire for a few minutes; then add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and a few trimmings of mushrooms, put in the Trout—continued. pieces of eels, sprinkle over a little pepper, and add suffi- cient red and white wine to cover the whole. Boil quickly for five or six minutes, add the pieces of Trout and a few mushrooms, and cook gently until the latter are done; then add a thickening of butter kneaded in flour. Take out the pieces of fish, put them on a dish, strain the liquor over them, and serve with small glazed onions and mushrooms for garnish (see Fig. 833). Pickled Trout.—Clean the required number of small fresh Trout, draw them by {heir gills, and wipe them externally with a cloth. Dredge them over with salt and flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little oil, and fry them. Take them out when done, drain them, and put them into a deep dish. Put a tumblerful of olive oil, or sufficient to cover the fish, into a saucepan, add a quarter of its bulk of vinegar, a little water, and a small quantity each of cloves, peppercorns, basil, and thyme, and a few bay- leaves, and boil slowly for half an hour; then pour it over the fish, and let them soak for several hours. When wanted, which must not be before they have cooled, serve in the dish in which they are soaking. Potted Trout.--(1) Clean one dozen or so small Trout, wash them well, dry them on a cloth, sprinkle them over with salt, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours. Wipe them dry on a cloth, sprinkle them over with loz. of white pepper, half that quantity of powdered cloves, joz. of cayenne, and a small quantity of mace. Put the Trout, backs downwards, in an earthenware jar or pot, pour over ‘21b. of clarified butter, set the jar in a slack oven, and bake for about four hours. Take it out when done, and the fish are ready for use. (2) Scale and clean one dozen or so Trout, and chop of! their heads, tails, and fins. Well mix in a basin 2 tea- spoonfuls of ginger, 4oz. each of white pepper and ground cloves, |oz. each of cayenne and black pepper, two grated nutmegs, and a little mace; then add half as much again of salt, and when all are well incorporated, put a little in the inside of each fish, and arrange them at the bottom of a deep earthenware jar with their backs downwards. Cover them over with clarified butter, put a lid or paper over the jar, set it in a slack oven, and bake for about eight hours. Carefully take out the fish, put them in a dish, with the belly downwards, cover over with a weighted board, and let them remain until quite cold. Place them in another pan or in jars, smooth them over, pour over clarified butter to cover, set them away in a dry place, and they are ready for use. (3) Put a little more than lib. of Trout into a basin, pour over boiling water to cover, and let them remain for lialf-an hour. Take them out, bone and skin them, put the meat into a mortar, and beat in 41b. of butter; then sprinkle over slowly spices, salt, and cayenne to taste. Put the paste in pots, cover them over with clarified butter or fat, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted for use. (4) Clean the fish and remove all the bones, season them with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sweet herbs, pack them tightly into jars with a few pieces of butter, cover the jars with plates, put them in the oven, and hake the fish for fifteen or twenty minutes; when quite cold, pour in some clarified butter, cover each jar with brown paper, and tie it round with string. (5) Clean, wash, and dry the fish, and remove the heads, tails, and fins. Mix together the following pounded spices : Two nutmegs, 4 table-spoonful of ginger, 1 table-spoonful of cloves, 4oz. of Jamaica pepper, and joz. each of cayenne and hlack pepper. Add twice their weight of salt, and mix all thoroughly. Put 1 teaspoonful of this mixture into each fish, lay them backs downwards in a deep earthenware jar, cover them with clarified butter, put a piece of stout paper over the top, tie it tightly down, put them into a slow oven, and bake for eight hours. When cooked, take the fish out of the jar, put them on a dish the backs upwards, cover them with a board, and put a heavy weight on the top. When quite cold, pack the fish into smaller jars, leaving a clear space about .-{in. deep at the top, which fill up with clarified butter. Cover the jars, tie them down, and put them away for use.622 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tCc., referred to. see under their special heads. Tr out—con tinned. (6) Remove the heads, open and clean the fish thoroughly, rub a small quantity of butter over the insides, and season them with salt and pepper. Put them in a baking dish, place a few pieces of butter about on the top, dredge lightly with flour, and bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. When cooked, leave the fish until cold ; then put them into small potting jars, pour over them a little clarified butter, and tie down for use. Soused Trout.—Put 1 breakfast cupful of white wine and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water into,a saucepan, add a season- ing of spice and sweet herbs, and boil. Draw and clean three or four Trout, removing the insides by drawing through the gills. Add a little vinegar to the liquor, put in the Trout, boil up quickly, remove the pan to the side, and simmer gently until the Trout are done. Take them out, and keep them warm in a dish. Add a little white pepper and crashed ginger to the liquor, boil up once more, and set it aside to get cold. Turn it into a deep dish, place the Trout in it, and let them remain for from four to five days. Garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 834), ami they are then ready for use. Stewed Trout.—(1) Draw the fish, wash them well, dry them on a cloth, and make two or three incisions on one side, allowing the point of the knife to touch the bone. Put in a fish kettle a rather large lump of salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, a small hand- ful of grated horseradish, and equal quantities of white wine and water to cover the fish. When boiling, put in the Trout, and when cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, and strew over it in moderate quantities some powdered ginger and grated horseradish. Htrain a sufficient quantity of the cook- ing liquor to make the sauce into a small saucepan, and mix with it 2oz. of anchovy butter in small pieces, and boil it up again; then pour it over the Trout, and serve. (2) Clean and draw the fish, fasten its head with string, and put it in a stewpan. Put in another stewpan a few carrots, onions, and bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, four or five cloves, and a lump of butter, and toss about over the fire for a few minutes ; then pour in some red wine, and stew till the vegetables are tender. Pass the wine through a fine hair sieve on to the fish, season with a very small quantity of salt, and stew the fish until tender. When it is cooked, drain it and scrape off the scales. Then put it back into the stewpan with a little of its cooking liquor to keep it moist, and set it near the fire to keep warm. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed and lightly coloured; then pour in the remainder of the cooking wine of the fish, and 1 teacupful of veal gravy; add a few trimmings of mushrooms, and a bunch of green onions and parsley, and stir the sauce over the fire till thick and somewhat reduced; then strain it through a line hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, and mix with it a lump of butter that has been kneaded with a little flour, the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Stir it and boil it up again. Put the Trout on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (3) Draw and wash a couple of Trout, lay them on a baking-dish with a few small lumps of butter ami some white wine; strew over them some beaten mace, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, and capers, also some powdered parsley, thyme, and savoury, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and stew the fish in a moderate oven. When cooked, lay them on a hot dish, turn the contents of the baking-dish over them, garnish Trout—continued. with croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and slices of lemons, and serve. (4) Make a small opening in the stomach of the Trout and draw it, wash it well in plenty of water, then wrap it in a cloth, and fasten it securely at both ends with line twine or packthread, and bind it also round the middle, but not too tight. Put the fish in a fish-kettle with some court-bouillon, and stew it. Meanwhile, pre- pare the following sauce: Put 1 teaspoonful of Hour and 4oz. of butter into a stewpan, and stir it over the Hre till melted ; then pour in 1 teacupful of elder vinegar and the beaten yolks of five eggs, season with a little salt, and stir the sauce over a slow fire till thick, but move it oH' before it boils, or the eggs will curdle; tarragon or plain vinegar may be used in place of the elder, if preferred. M hen cooked, drain the Trout, put it on folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish paper placed on a hot dish, garnish it with neat sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. (5) Put a salmon Trout in a stewpan with two sliced onions and a sliced carrot, a shallot, a bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf, four or five cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour in 1 wineglassful of claret and a suificient quantity of stock to cover the fish, and boil it gently. When tender, drain the Trout carefully and place it on a hot dish. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of Hour, and stir it over the Hre until well mixed; then strain in a sufficient quantity of the cooking liquor of the fish to make the sauce, and stir it until boiling and thickened. Move it off the Hre, and mix in quickly the beaten yolk of one egg and the strained juice of a small lemon or half a large one. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve at once. Trout a la Beyrout.—Clean a large Trout, dry it on a cloth, dredge it over with Hour, put it on a gridiron over a clear Hre, and broil it. Take it off when done, remove the skin, put it on a dish, pour over sauce a la Beyrout, or fish sauce, and serve. Trout a la Cambaceres.—Boil six Trout, and when cooked, place them on a hot dish. Put in a saucepan two minced truffles, six mushrooms, also minced, and ^ pint of Spanish sauce, also twelve olives and 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Skim off the fat very carefully, pour the sauce over the Trout, ami serve. Trout a la Chambord.—(1) Clean, wash, and dry three fine Trout of Jib. each, stuff them with fish forcemeat, and place them in a deep baking-dish, buttering it well with about fjOz. of butter. Add \ wineglassful of white wine, a bouquet garni, a small pinch of salt, and the same of pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes in the oven, basting it frequently. Take the liquor from under the fish, put it in a saucepan with 4 pint of good Spanish sauce, reduce, and skim off the fat; then add one truffle and four mushrooms, all well sliced, also twelve blanched oysters. Dress the Trout on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with six fish quenelles. (2) Take out the inside of a large Trout by pulling it through the gills and without cutting it, chop off the fins, wash the Trout well, put it into a fish-kettle with mire- Fig. 835. Trout a la Chambord. poix and claret in equal quantities, and cook it until tender. Take it out when done, skin, put it on a dish, decorate it with salmon forcemeat squeezed through a funnel or forcer, making lines across it, insert some pieces of truffle into theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 623 box details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. Trout—continued forcemeat, and put the fish in the oven for a few minutes to poach the forcemeat. Have ready a ragout of crayfish- tails, mushrooms, and salmon forcemeat quenelles. Place a socle of rice on a dish, having it about lin. shorter than the fish, place the ragout round, pour over a little rich sauce, and surround it again with pieces of cooked eel, and more crayfish-tails, mushrooms, and quenelles, arranging them so as to cover the rice socle. Strain the fish liquor, skim it well, reduce it to half glaze, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish sauce, reduce again, strain into a tureen, and serve with the Trout. The fish may be further decorated with small pieces of fried smelts and mushrooms, stuck on atte- lettes, and placed down its back (see Fig. 835). Prawns and small potatoes in piles may be used also for garnish, and Geneva sauce served with it. Or the Trout may be put on a napkin on a dish, garnished with fried mackerel or carp roes, and served with Geneva or Dutch sauce mixed up with a little crayfish butter. Trout a la Chasseur.—This is an easy way for anglers to cook the fish as they are caught. Stuff the mouth with salt, wrap the fish round with well wetted paper, push it into hot ashes, and cook for from ten to fifteen minutes, or until the fish is done. Take it out, remove the paper, and the fish is ready to be eaten. Trout a l’Espagnole. —Scale and clean three or four Trout, draw them by the gills, wipe them inwardly, and stuff them with a mixture of butter, chopped chives, shallots, and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the fish in a pan, and soak them for an hour in olive oil mixed up with chopped chives, thyme, parsley, laurel leaves, and salt and pepper to taste. Take out the Trout, cover them with as much of the seasoning as will adhere, cover the whole with paper dipped in oil, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them. Take them off when done, remove the paper, put the Trout on a dish, pour over anchovy sauce, and serve. Trout 4 la Genevese.—(1) Clean and draw about 121b. weight of Trout, scale them, dry them on a cloth, put them in a saucepan, pour over 2 wineglassfuls each of sherry wine and champagne, and add a small piece of well-baked crust from a French roll, an onion stuck with two cloves, a little thyme and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, and cook for about an-liour-and-a-quarter; then take out the piece of crust and brown it before the fire. Put the fish on a dish to keep warm. Add a thickening of butter rolled in flour to the liquor, boil it up, pour it over the Trout, and serve with a garnish of the piece of crust cut up, and slices of lemon. (2) Clean and well wash five or six Trout, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich white stock, add a little parsley, thyme, a few shallots in slices, half-a-dozen each of whole peppers and cloves, and salt to to taste. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stew until the fish are done. Put the fish ou a hot dish, thicken the sauce, pour it over, and serve. (3) Put four well-cleaned middling-sized Trout at the bottom of a buttered flat saucepan, having them close together, pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine, sprinkle over a little salt, and boil them quickly with hot cinders or ashes on the lid. Put the Trout when done on a dish, brush them over with glaze, and keep them hot in a slack oven. Add a little glaze to the liquor in which they were cooked, boil up once, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fi;’e; then add a little thickening of butter; remove the saucepan from the fire, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour the liquor round the Trout, and serve. Slices of lemon should be served for garnish. (4) Clean about 151b. of Trout, chop off their heads, wipe them dry on a cloth, score them on both sides where they are to be cut when cooked, and with a sharp knife disconnect the backbones. Put the fish into a baking- dish, dredge them over with salt and pepper, add 4oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful each of sherry and champagne, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and a little broth. Put the dish in the oven, and baste frequently until the fish are done and well glazed. Take them out, and put them carefully in another dish. Add another breakfast cupful each of the sherry and champagne to the cooking liquor, with sufficient browned flour to thicken, and boil for a few minutes; then strain the liquor over the fish, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish. (5) Clean the Trout well, put them into a stewpan, pour over them equal quantities of Moselle or Rhenish wine, or sherry and champagne, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, a crust of French bread, and a little pepper. Cover the pan and set it over a quick fire. When the Trout are done, take them out of the stewpan; strain the sauce they were done in, thicken it with the crust well bruised and beaten into it, and a little butter and flour ; boil it, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with fried bread and slices of lemon, and serve hot. Trout au Gratin.—Clean and wipe four Trout of middling size, cut them up on the belly side from head to tail, and chop off' the spine bone at each end to remove it. Dust them over inwardly with salt and pepper, and stuff' them with quenelle forcemeat mixed with 1 table-spoonful or so of fine herbs. Tie them round into their original shape, put them close together on a well buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle over a little chopped shallot and parsley, and a few table- spoonfuls of mushrooms, press the fish close together, sprinkle them over with salt and more fine herbs, baste them well with butter, and pour round a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce and a little white wine. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Take it out when the fish are done, and serve. Trout a l’Hussarde.—Scale and clean a Trout, draw it by the gills, and stuff it with butter mixed up with finely- chopped sweet herbs. In stuffing great care must be taken that the skin is not broken. Rub the fish well with warmed butter or oil, dust it over with salt and pepper, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it; or it may be put in a dish in the oven and baked. Put it on a dish when done, and serve with poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Trout au Mayonnaise.—Cut off the heads and thin tail parts from six rather small Trout, clean them inwardly through the gills, and wipe them also inwardly, taking care not to remove the slime from the skin. Have ready a saucepan with sufficient court-bouillon mixed with a little claret to cover the fish, plunge them in when the liquor is boiling, cover over the pan, remove it to the side of the fire, and let the fish cool in the liquor. Take them out, drain them, wipe well, put them on the ice for thirty minutes or so, and glaze with half-set aspic jelly. Fill an ornamental border-mould with aspic jelly, turn it out on to a dish when set, put a little chopped jelly in the centre, pile the fish on the top, and serve with mayonnaise sauce in a sauceboat. Trout a POrly.—Cut off the fillets from seven or eight small Trout, put them into a basin with a little oil and lemon-juice, and add a few sprigs of parsley and a small quantity of salt. Let the fillets macerate in this for half- an-hour, then take them out, drain them, dust over slightly with flour, dip them singly into batter, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take Fig. 836. Trout A i.’Orly. them out when done and of a rich colour, drain them, dust over with salt, put them in a pile on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish (see Fig. 836). Trout en Papillotes.—Take six Trout of Jib. each, and stuff them with fish forcemeat. Oil as many pieces ofTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 624 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—co ntinu ed. paper as there are fish, put a slice of salt pork on either end of each piece, lay a Trout on top, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, fold the paper, and tie it securely with string. Cook in a baking-dish in a rather slow oven for about twenty minutes, and serve them in their envelopes, after removing the strings, with any sauce desired in a sauceboat. Trout au Remoulade.—Select medium-sized Trout, and fry them in butter; when cooked, place them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen paper to drain off as much of the fat as possible. Chop in moderate quantities some chives, capers, chervil, parsley, cress, and a small quantity of shallots; then pound them in a mortar, and mix with them 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 1 teacupful of salad-oil. The oil must be mixed in drop by drop, so that it may incorporate thoroughly with the other ingredients. When the sauce is perfectly smooth, mix in a small quantity of chilli vinegar. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a dish, put the Trout on it, garnish round with parsley, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Trout a la Venisienne.—Scale and clean a large Trout, wash it well and dry it, score it across the back, and insert in the openings butter highly seasoned with minced basil, chives, lemon thyme, and parsley. Put the Trout in a dish, pour over salad-oil to cover it, and let it remain for half-an-hour; then take it out, sprinkle over sifted breadcrumbs mixed up with a little chopped herbs, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it for about fifteen minutes, by which time it should be done. Put it on a dish, and serve with orange sauce in a sauceboat. Trout in Fish. Jelly.—-Clean the Trout and fix them with their tails in their mouths. Put in a fish-kettle with some water a bay-leaf, a peeled and sliced onion, a moderate quantity of spices, salt and pepper, and a dash of vinegar. Boil the water for some minutes, then move it away from the fire. When the liquor is cool, put in the fish, and place it over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer until the fish are tender. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, and baste them occasionally with clear fish jelly until they are nicely coated. When fish and jelly are quite cold, trim them neatly, lay them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with small croutons of jelly and bunches of nicely-picked fresh parsley, anil serve. Trout Pie.—Select the required number of middling-sized Trout to fill the pie-dish about to be used, clean and scale them, and draw them by the gills. Well wash and clean a few small ones, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them. Take them out, cut off all the flesh, chop it up with small quantities each of chopped truffles, mush- rooms, chives, breadcrumbs-, morels, and salt and pepper; mix in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and work the whole into a paste with well-beaten yolk of egg. Fill the Trout with this forcemeat, arrange them in the pie-dish, put a few lumps of butter over them, cover the dish over with a crust, make a small hole in the centre, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for a little longer than an hour, or until the pie is done. Take it out, pour in some hot, rich gravy, and serve either hot or cold. Trout Salad.—(1) Put a middling-sized lake Trout in a fish- kettle with one or two bay-leaves and a few cloves and peppercorns, and cover it with water, adding a small lump of salt. Boil the fish till tender, then drain it, trim off all the skin, remove the bones, and flake the flesh with two forks. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover it with a plain salad dressing, and let it stand from an-hour-and- a-lialf to two hours. Put some crisp lettuce-leaves into a salad-bowl, drain the fish, add it to the lettuce, pour over it a mayonnaise dressing, garnish it with fillets of anchovies and sliced hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (2) Procure some selected Trout, each weighing fib., clean them, put them into a saucepan with a piece of lemon-]ieel, \ table-spoonful of crushed peppercorns, arid a small lump of salt; cover them with water and red wine, mixed in equal quantities, and boil them till tender. Trout—continued. When done, leave the Trout till cold in the cooking liquor; then drain them, taking care not to break them, and split each one down the back, and remove the backbone, but leave the heads on. Wash some large lettuces, drain them well, tear the leaves to pieces, and put them in a salad- bowl ; pour over them a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, and toss them lightly about. Take as many dishes as there are fish, arrange on each a bed of the lettuce salad, and lay the Trout on the top. Pour over the fish a mayonnaise dressing, garnish them with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. TRUBU.—A kind of lierring fClupea toli) caught in the East Indian seas for the sake of its roe, which is esteemed a great delicacy when salted and preserved in jars. TRUFFLES (Fr. Truffes; Get-. Truffeln; Ital. Tar- tufi).—Kettner, in his “Book of the Table,” says: “It is time that the truth should be spoken about Truffles. The French praise them in high-flown terms, which are not in the least extravagant. The English, praising them in the self-same terms, are very extravagant indeed. When Truffles are to be had fresh (and they are in perfection with the turkeys at Christmas-tide) it seems too much to believe that they have come out of the earth, and have been detected in their hiding-places by the snouts of pigs. They are beyond praise in the perfection of their perfume. But once unearthed the perfume soon fades, and by the time they reach London it becomes so faint that if the Truffles are not quickly disposed of they are scarcely to be recognised as the sublime of human food.” Continuing, he further observes, that “ common-sense tells us that a fresh mushroom, gathered in English fields and woods, and well cooked, is worth more than all but a sprinkling of the Truffles which cross the channel; but, all the same, fashion is omnipotent, and a cook who should abstain from cramming his sauces with essence of Truffles, and from adorning his meats with slices of them, would be regarded as ignorant of his business, and fit only for the lowest of low life.” Let it be observed that much as the Truffle is vaunted, the civilised world has contrived to do without it until very recently. It was, indeed, known to the Romans; but, says Brillat-Savarin, “ from the Romans to our own day there is a long interregnum, and the resurrection of the Truffle is recent enough. One may even say that the generation which is now passing away has been witness of it.” In addition to the foregoing, Brillat-Savarin adds: “ The Truffle beautifies everything it touches. Without mentioning the very delicate meats to which it lends a new charm, the very simplest substances, the most common, impregnated with its aroma, may appear successfully on the highest class tables.” Fig. 837. French Truffle. “ The Truffles of commerce all belong to the genus Tuber,” says Lindley, “ of which several species are edible ; the English Truffles belonging principally to T. sestivmn, and the best French Truffles to T. mclanosporum (see Fig. 837). These are black and warty externally, with the625 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. Truffi.es—co ntinued. flesh variously marbled. The Piedmontese Truffles, on the contrary (which bear a high price, and are highly esteemed), are smooth, and within white, more or less tinged with pink.” Extraordinary stories are told of how Truffles are found by hunting for them with dogs or pigs. This may have been the case at some time or another; but the spots where they are likely to grow are now so well understood that a little perseverance in digging is generally sufficient to produce a find. In Poitou, spaces are sometimes en- closed, and sown with acorns, the result being that when the trees are sufficiently grown to shade the ground Truffles may be found underneath them. The kinds of Truffles with which cooks have mostly to deal are known as the green and the black ; other kinds, such as the white, lack flavour, and are not con- sidered of much culinary value. The red Truffle is sup- posed to be the black before it is ripe; but some authorities consider it to be a separate species. In Africa, Truffles called Terfezia are very abundant, and find their way into this country as substitutes for French Truffles. They are not nearly so strong in flavour. In Perigord, Truffles are abundant, hence Truffle sauce is named Perigueux, and Perigord pies are those containing Truffles, with other dainty meats, such as foies-gras. In England, Truffles are found chiefly in Hampshire, Wiltshire, and Kent. When cut through, the flesh of the Truffle presents a marbled appearance (see Fig. 838). Baked Truffles.—(1) Well wash and scrub lib. or so of Truffles, wrap each one in a piece of buttered paper, put them in the oven or under hot ashes, and bake for one hour. Take them out when done, and they are ready for use. (2) Scrub and well wash twelve large Truffles, cut them up into slices, put them into a baking-dish with 1 teacup - ful of olive oil, and add 1 saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, a blade of mace, a little parsley, and a small onion or shallot. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for one hour, turning the slices frequently so as to cook them evenly on both sides. Take them out when done, drain off the oil, put them on a dish, squeeze over the juice of one lemon, and serve. (3) Cut some large, fresh Truffles into slices, and put them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, and can be served at table; dust them over with salt and pepper, strew over them moderate quantities of finely-minced parsley and shallot, baste them with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, put another dish over the top, and put them in the oven. When the Truffles are cooked, squeeze the juice of one small lemon over them, and serve in the same dish. Boiled Truffles.—(1) Peel and wash one dozen or so large Truffles, put them into a saucepan which will just contain Truffles—continued. them, add two or three cloves, a small piece of beaten mace, salt to taste, and pour over sufficient white wine and water, in equal quantities, to cover. Set the saucepan on the fire, cover it over, and cook gently for one hour. Take out the Truffles when done, drain them, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. (2) Wash and clean twelve good-sized Truffles, put them in a saucepan with a slice or slices of bacon cut very thin, add a bay-leaf and two cloves, and pour over two breakfast-cupfuls of champagne. Set the saucepan on the fire, and cook gently until the Truffles are done, which will take about one hour. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. (3) Peel and wash twelve large-sized Truffles, put them whole into a saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine and 3 teacupfuls of rich gravy, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for one hour. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready to be used as a garnish; but should they be required for sauce, another teacupful of the gravy should be added, the Truffles boiled for a-quarter-of-an- hour longer, the whole turned into a tureen, and served. The Truffles for this may be either whole or cut up into slices or shapes. (4) Wash the Truffles clean, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste, pour in sufficient white wine and stock in equal quantities to cover them, and stew them until tender. When the Truffles are cooked, strain their liquor into another saucepan, mix with it a small piece of glaze, and boil it until thickly reduced. Pile the Truffles on a hot dish, pour their sauce over them, and serve. Broiled Truffles.—Well wash and peel four or five Truffles, cover them over with slices of bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, wrap them round with four thicknesses of paper dipped in cold water, push them into hot cinders or ashes, and broil them for about fifteen minutes. Take them out when done, remove two thick- nesses or the whole of the paper, put them on a dish, and serve. Dressed Truffles.—Wash half a dozen large Truffles, cut them into thin slices, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity each of finely-chopped parsley and onion, and about ioz. of butter, and fry them. Cut a slice of bread about lin. thick, trim it to a square shape, and hollow out the middle; put this into a frying-pan with a piece of lard, and fry it until nicely and equally browned; then put them on a sieve to drain. Have ready a sauce made as follows : Put 2oz. of butter into a small stewpan with a sliced carrot and onion, and loz. of ham cut into small pieces, and fry until nicely browned ; dredge in 1,- table-spoonful of flour, and add a bay-leaf, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, half a blade of mace, four cloves, and i pint of clear stock, seasoning to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. When ready, put the Truffles in the hollowed slice of bread, and place it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, strew over some chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, and serve. Essence of Truffles.—Wash and peel lib. of Truffles, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of chicken broth, h pint of Madeira wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents quickly for twenty minutes; then move the saucepan off the fire, and leave the Truffles in their liquor till cold. ,Strain the essence through a silk sieve, and bottle it for use. The Truffles should not be discarded, as they will be found to still contain sufficient flavour to be used advantageously. Gratinated Truffles.—(1) Scrub, wash, and peel five or six large Truffles, put the trimmings into a saucepan with a little Madeira wine and a few sweet herbs, boil for a few minutes, and strain off' the liquor. Put l breakfast- cupful of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, add gradually the liquor from the Truffle trimmings, and keep the whole warm on the side of the fire. Cut the Truffles into small squares, put them into a saucepan with a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, X-c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. 2 sTUE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 026 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles —continued. little clarified butter, sprinkle over a seasoning of salt and pepper, and, if desired, a little grated nutmeg. Warm the Truffles, pour in the reduced sauce, and stir well until the preparation is quite solid. Put this into live or six table-shells, sift over breadcrumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, place them in the oven, and brown them; or they may be browned with the salamander. Put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Wash and peel three or four large Truffles, cut them up into small squares, put them into a saucepan, sprinkle over grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of Madeira wine, and boil for two or three minutes. Put a few table-spoonfuls of rather thick brown sauce into another saucepan, add half the quantity of meat glaze, reduce to half the original bulk, pour in the liquor from the Truffles, and boil for a few minutes; then add the Truffles, stir well, turn the whole into a basin, and let it get cold. Care must be taken that the sauce is thick, so that when cold it will form a compact mass with the Truffles. Roll out some light paste or putt' paste trimmings, put small pieces of the preparation at intervals on it, cover these lover, cut them into shape with a tin cutter, cover them with bread- crumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out when done, drain them, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Preserved Truffles.—Well wash and scrub the required quantity of Truffles, which should be quite black and freshly gathered, peel them carefully rather thin, pack them closely in bottles, cork them up securely, place them in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of water, and cook gently for one hour. Let the bottles cool before taking them out, put them in a dry place, and the Truffles will remain good for a long time. Puree of Truffles. Well wash and peel £lb. of Truffles, put them into a mortar with loz. of butter, and pound them well; rub them through a fine sieve' into a sauce- pan, with 3 teacupfuls of Spanish sauce and l teacupful of essence of Truffles, and boil for a minute or two ; then stir in another ounce of butter and loz. of chicken glaze, and the puree is ready for use. Stewed Truffles.—(1) Peel and wash seven or eight large green Truffles, cut them up into thin slices, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and add a little beaten mace, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the lid on the pan, set it on the side of the Flu. 839. Stewed Truffles. fire, and simmer slowly for one hour. Add a thickening of butter and flour, stir well until the liquor is thick, remove the saucepan from the fire, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put a crust of fried bread in the centre of a dish, place the Truffles on it (see Fig. 839), take out the bunch of sweet herbs, pour the liquor over the Truffles, and serve. (2) Cut some fresh Truffles into slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the lire fora few minutes. Pour l pint of sherry over the Truffles, add a small piece of glaze, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire until tender. When the Truffles are cooked, turn them on to a hot dish, garnish them with sippets of toast or small Truffles— continued. croutons of bread that have been fried in butter, and serve. Stewed Truffles on Crust.—Cut some slices of bread about fin. in thickness off a household loaf, and shape the pieces like half hearts, making them round one end and pointed the other, with the point of a knife cutting an incision on one side only of each piece of bread. Fry them in butter till of a light golden colour, then drain and hollow them out, but keep warm. Cut about Jib. of raw peeled Truffles into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, season them with salt and pepper, and fry them over a brisk fire. Pour over the Truffles 1 teacupful of melted glaze and 1 teacupful of Madeira wine, and boil them gently till the liquid has reduced to half its original quantity. Move the Truffles from the lire; thicken their cooking liquor with a little sauce and about 2oz. of butter, and stir it for a few minutes at the side of the fire; then fill the crusts with it. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, and serve them. Stuffed Truffles.—(1) Well wash twelve large Truffles in warm water, put them into a saucepan with sufficient white wine to cover them, and cook them. Take them out, drain them, cut them with a cutter, scoop out the insides, fill them with cooked forcemeat, put them into the oven, warm them up, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. (2) Scoop out all the inside from twelve large Truffles cooked in champagne and cut in halves, leaving merely the shells. Chop the insides up with 4oz. of chicken force- meat and a few mushrooms, well seasoned with salt and pepper, fill the Truffle shells with the mixture, brush them over with egg, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped raw Truffle, and put them into a braising-pan with a little rich stock. Set the pan on the fire, cover over the lid with ashes, and cook gently for an hour. Pour a little Truffle sauce in the bottom of a dish, place the halves of Truffles on it, and serve. Timbale of Truffles.—(1) Peel and wash lb), or 2lb. of Truffles, cut them up into slices about Jin. in thickness, put them into a saute-pan with a little warmed butter, season them with salt and grated nutmeg, and toss them over the fire until they are done, taking care not to break them. In the meantime, rub loz. of butter into Jib. of flour, add a little sugar, and make the whole into a stiffish paste by adding the yolks of three eggs. Roll it out very thin on a floured board, and cut it up into various shapes. Well butter a plain timbale mould, pack it in ice, decorate it with the shapes of paste, and let them set. Prepare a puff paste with lib. of flour to 12oz. of butter, roll it also out thin, and line the mould with it. It should be seven turns puff paste. Fill the mould with the slices of cooked Truffles, cover over with more of the puff paste, make a slight hole in the centre, place the mould on a baking- sheet, in the oven, and bake. Turn the timbale out of the mould when done, make a slight hole in the top, pour in some warmed half-glaze, cover over the hole with a slice of cooked Truffle, and serve hot. (2) Scrub and well wash fifteen Truffles, peel them, cut them up into quarters, put them into a basin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, add a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy, cover over the basin, and put it in a cool place until wanted. Put half of the Truffle trimmings into a mortar, pound them well, mix in lib. of rasped fresh bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and rub the mix- ture lightly through a sieve. Sprinkle the inside of a well-buttered timbale mould with breadcrumbs, line it with short paste, mask it with three quarters of the bacon mixture, put the quarters of the Truffles in the centre, brush them over with a little melted meat glaze, cover over with the remainder of the bacon, and lastly with a round of the paste, fixing it to the sides. Put the mould into a hot oven, and bake for nearly or quite an hour, taking care not to let the paste have too much colour. Put 3 teacupfuls of brown sauce into a saucepan, and reduce them to 1 teacupful, adding gradually l wineglassful of Madeira, 2 or 3 tabic-spoonfuls of melted meat-glaze.62? THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—continued. and the liquor in which the Truffles were soaking. Re- duce again, add the remainder of the Truffle trimmings, boil well for a couple of minutes, and strain through a fine sieve. Take out the timbale when done, turn it out on to a dish, make a slight hole at the top, pour in the hot sauce, cover over the hole, and serve. Truffles served en Buisson.—Peel and wash 61b. of Truffles, put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of chicken broth and clnmpagne or sauterne to moisten, add a little chicken fat or drippings, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and one small onion with two cloves stuck in it. Cover over the saucepan, boil for a-quarter- of-an-hour, remove the pan from the fire, and let the Truffles cook in the liquor. Put an oval-shaped block of fried bread in the centre of a dish over a napkin; put half a dozen of the Truffles, which should be of the same size, on an equal number of skewers, stick them into the fried bread round the edge, keeping them at equal distances apart, garnish the base of the bread with more of the Truffles, put the remainder of them in a pile in the centre of the bread, hide the bread with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Truffles au Gratin.—Well wash and wipe dry seven or eight large, round, raw black Truffles, scrape out all the inside without injuring the peel, and chop it very fine. Mix in an equal quantity of chopped, cooked fat liver, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, moisten with a little brown sauce, and stuff the halves of Truffles with the mixture. Sprinkle the surface with sifted bread- crumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, put them close together in a flat-bottomed saucepan or gratin-dish, moisten with a little wine, boil up over the fire, put the sauce- pan or dish in the oven, and bake for ten minutes with the cover on. Take out the halves of Truffles when done, arrange them on a dish, and serve. Truffles a l’ltalienne.—(1) Scrub in water until thoroughly clean eight or ten Truffles, peel them, cut them into thin slices, put them in a baking-tin, strew over them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of powdered mace, pour over them 4 table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, put them into a moderate oven, and bake them for a little over three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, put the Truffles on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and serve. (2) Peel and wash six large Truffles, chop them up, put them into a frying-pan with a little oil and butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, add a clove of garlic, and toss them over the fire until they are quite warm. Add 4 wineglassful of Madeira, and a small quantity of melted glaze, and boil for three or four minutes; remove the pan from the fire, add a thickening of butter kneaded in Hour, and a small quantity of anchovy Fig. 840. Truffles a l’Italienne. butter, and boil up once; then take out the clove of garlic, and add 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with pieces of fried bread for garnish (see Fig. 840). Truffles ei la Serviette.—(1) Select large Truffles, and wash them in cold water. Put two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan with the Truffles, two or three small green onions, a small carrot, a clove of garlic, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, three or four cloves, salt and pepper to taste, a small quantity of sugar, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear stock. Boil the Truffles gently at the side of the lire until they are tender, then move them away, Truffles—continued. and leave them in their liquor until cold. Warm the Truffles again in the same liquor, drain and dry them on a clean cloth, pile them high on a hot dish over which has been spread a napkin (see Fig. 841), and serve them. , rTC ■- Fig. 841. Truffles a la Serviette. (2) Procure rather large, fresh Truffles, wash them well, and put them in a saucepan with a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover them well with equal quantities of white wine and clear stock that has been perfectly freed from fat, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, drain the Truffles on a sieve, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve them. (3) Wash twelve fresh Truffles, put them in a saucepan with two rashers of bacon cut into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of stock, season with salt and pepper, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with them, spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, turn the Truffles on to it, and serve hot. (4) Brush the Truffles in water until quite clean, put them in a stewpan with three onions, three or four sticks of celery cut into small pieces, two bay-leaves, four cloves, a bunch of thyme and parsley, sufficient milk to cover them, and a piece of butter about 2oz., and boil them gently at the side of the fire until tender. Take them out of the stewpan, and put them on a sieve to drain. When cold, serve them in a folded napkin. (5) Well wash and clean the required quantity of Truffles, put them into a saucepan with sufficient mirepoix and Madeira wine to moisten, and boil them until done. Take them out, place them inside a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Butter should be served as an accompaniment. (6) Wash Mb. of Truffles in cold water, brushing them well to remove all the dirt, drain them, and put them into a stewpan; pour in half a bottle of champagne, season them slightly with salt, and boil them gently for about half-an-hour or until tender. W hen cooked, dry them on a clean cloth, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve with as little delay-as possible, as they should be very hot when eaten. Truffles in Cases.—Pick out some Truffles, all about tlie same size, peel them, and cook them in white wine and stock, using very little liquid. Truffles should never be cooked too Ion", as they lose their flavour when overdone. When done, leave them till cool, and then drain them. Make a pyramid shape out of cardboard or thin wood, fix it firmly on a pain-vert, and brush it over with melted glaze ; have ready some small paper-cases of the same size, one for each Truffle. Roll the Truffles in melted glaze, and put one in each case. Brush the bottoms of the cases over with melted glaze, and stick them against the pyramid, the largest ones at the base and the smaller ones at the top. Stick three transparent attelette skewers, garnished with Truffles, on the top of the pyramid. This piece, being directly dished on a stand, is generally served at ball buffets, where the guests may help themselves. Truffle-and-Celery Salad.—-Cut up some cooked Truffles into slices and then in quarters, mix them up with the hearts of a few roots of celery, also cut up into pieces about fin. in length, put them into a salad-bowl, pour over a dressing composed of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve. Truffles Cooked in Champagne.—(1) Well wash^and clean 41b. of Truffles, put them in a saucepan, sprinkle over628 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—con tinned. salt and pepper to taste, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with champagne and a little blonde de veau or veal stock, and boil until tender. Take out the Truffles when done, and put them on a dish ; strain the liquor into another saucepan, reduce it to half its original quantity, pour it over the Truffles, and serve. (2) Cover the bottom of a saucepan with ham and veal cut in slices, cover these with well washed and peeled Truffles, add a little melted bacon-fat or lard, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few mushrooms, and salt and pepper to l taste. Place a few slices of fat bacon over the whole, i add sufficient champagne to moisten, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the Truffles are done. Take them out ami put them on a dish; strain and skim the sauce, reduce it, pour it over the Truffles, and serve. (3) Put one dozen large Truffles into a bowl of luke- warm water, soak for a couple of hours, scrub and wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan over a few slices of fat bacon, and add one carrot, one turnip, and two onions, all cut in slices, seasoning with six cloves, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and a bunch of parsley; pour in sufficient rich stock to moisten to half their height, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half-an-liour. Pour in J pint of cham- pagne, simmer for half-an-liour longer, remove the pan from the fire, cover it over with the lid, taking care that it fits tightly, let it cool, and pack it in ice, placing a weight on the lid. When the Truffles are quite cold, put them on a napkin on a dish, strain the liquor into a sauceboat, and serve. A little more seasoning may be re quired for the sauce; if so, it must be added and well stirred in. Truffle-and-Chestnut Stuffing.—(1) Peel off the thick outer skin of the chestnuts, put them in a saucepan with a bay leaf, a lump of salt, and plenty of coriander seeds, cover them with water, and boil them until nearly tendei-. Drain the chestnuts and peel off the inner skin; for every Jib. of chestnuts, weighed after they are boiled and peeled, allow ilb. of fat bacon, Jib. of Truffles, and a shallot. Mince the bacon and shallot, put it in a stewpan, and fry it; then put in the Truffles and chestnuts, both cut up into small pieces, season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, also add in small quantities some powdered thyme and marjoram, toss the mixture for a few minutes longer over the fire, and it is then ready for use. (2) Put lib. of fat chopped bacon and two shallots into a saucepan, and toss them for a minute or two over the fire; add lib. of boiled and skinned chestnuts, and Jib. of well washed and peeled Truffles, cut up into small pieces; then sprinkle over a little spice, salt, and pepper to taste, also a slight flavouring of powdered marjoram and thyme. Boil for a minute or two, and the stuffing is then ready for use. Truffle Cromeskies.—Chop up a few cooked Truffles and an equal quantity each of white flesh of fowl and fat livers, also cooked, and make them into a mass by adding reduced white sauce. Spread the mixture on to a baking- sheet to about Jin. in thickness, and let it cool on the ice. Put one or two calf's udders into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, and boil until done. Take them out, let them cool, trim, cut them into thin slices, beat them to reduce their thickness, put the Truffle preparation in them, and fold over so as to completely cover it. Dip them singly into batter, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, anti brown them slightly. Truffles—continued. Take them out when done, pile them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish (see Fig. 842). Truffles in Croustades.—(1) Wash and peel half-a- dozen Truffles, chop them up small, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and salt and pepper to taste, warm them over a quick fire, and pour in 4 table-spoonfuls each of Madeira wine and melted glaze. Remove the saucepan from the fire when the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, add a lump of butter, stir it well in, and keep the preparation warm. Cut off some slices about §in. in thickness from a household loaf, and these slices again into heart or other shapes, mark them on one surface with the point of a knife, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them. Open them where they were marked, take out the insides, fill them with the Truffle mixture, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. (2) Peel and wash one dozen Truffles after soaking them in warm water for a couple of hours, and cut them into thin slices. Put 2oz. of butter into a saute-pan, warm it, add the Truffles, sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, and cook for a minute or two; then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and cook slowly until the Truffles are done and quite tender, turning them occasion- ally so as to cook them equally on both sides. Add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of half-glaze, toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, and sprinkle over a little sugar. Cut two French rolls in halves, pull out the crumb, butter the crusts, and broil them over the fire to glaze them. Put them on a dish, fill them with the Truffle preparation, and serve. Truffles with Eggs.—Having well cleaned two or three large Truffles, peel them, put them in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, and cook them over a gentle fire until tender. Beat four eggs well with 1 teacupful of cream, and pour them over the Truffles, which should first be taken off’ the fire. Season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and stir them at the side of the fire with a wooden spoon until the eggs begin to set. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a pale golden brown in butter, and serve. Truffle Forcemeat.—Peel and wash lib. or so of Truffles, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, warm them, add an equal bulk of calf’s udder or scraped bacon, and a little minced sweet herbs, turn the whole when warm into a mortar, and pound well. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, mix in a little breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and sufficient yolks of eggs to give the forcemeat the required consistency. It is then ready for use. Truffles for Garnish.—Select large, round Truffles, wash them well, and peel them; put the required number (say about 31b.) into a saucepan, pour over sufficient chicken broth and sauterne or champagne to nearly cover them, add an onion stuck with two cloves, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little skimming from the chicken broth or fat. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil for a quarter-of-an-hour, with the lid on the pan; then remove it from the fire, and let the Truffles cool in the liquor. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Or they may be boiled for ten minutes, and cut into various shapes. The trimmings from them after they have been cooked may be employed in making sauce, as well as the liquor in which they were cooked. Truffle Ice.—Well wash and peel four fresh black Truffles, put the trimmings into a saucepan with 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk, and boil for ten minutes; strain the liquor through a sieve into a basin, and mix in lOoz. of sugar and the yolks of six eggs. Put this mixture, after it has been well beaten, into the freezer, and let it cool. Chop up the Truffles, put them into a saucepan with a little boiling syrup, and boil for a minute; remove the saucepan from the fire, and let the Truffles cool. Take them out, drain them, put them into a mortar, pound them, rub them through a sieve into a basin, pour over the syrup, and mix in a little of the infusion already in the freezer, so as to cool the Truffles quicker. Put this into the629 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—continued. freezer, adding it slowly to the infusion, and work well. When it is set, put it on a dish in lumps or blocks, and serve. Truffles with Montglas.—Peel five or six middling-sized Truffles, wash them well, dry them, cut them up into rather large-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan, pour over a little Madeira wine, and cook over a brisk fire until the liquor is reduced. Add a little melted glaze, and butter pulled in pieces, warm for a minute or two, remove j the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the juice of one I lemon. Cut into pieces an equal quantity of cooked white fowl meat, and put it into a saucepan with a few table- spoonfuls of white sauce, reduced and warmed, to thicken the mince. Put this on a dish, make a hollow in the centre, turn the Truffles in, and serve. Truffle Omelet.—Well wash two or three large Truffles, put them into a saucepan with sufficient white wine, champagne, or marsala to nearly if not quite cover them, and boil for ten minutes with the lid on the pan. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the Truffles warm in the stock for half-an-hour or so. Take them out, peel them, and chop them up very fine. Beat four eggs in a basin, add a little chopped parsley, salt, ami pepper, turn the omelet into a frying-pan with about ljoz. of butter made hot, and cook until it is yellow, but not brown. Put a part or the whole of the cooked Truffles, with a little of the liquor they were stewed in, in the centre of the omelet, fold it over, put it on a dish, and serve at once. Truffle-and-Potato Salad.—Cut in slices a few cooked peeled Truffles and potatoes, arrange them alternately in a salad-bowl well brushed with oil, garnish with small cooked onions and stoned olives, pour over a mixture of oil and vinegar, or oil and white wine, and serve. The salad should be allowed to soak for at least two hours before being used. Truffle Pudding.—Chop fine Jib. each of pork and fat livers and Jib. of ham, all uncooked, put them into a mortar, season highly, pound them well, and rub them through a fine sieve. Scrub and well wash lib. of black Truffles, cut them up into rather thick slices, put them into a basin, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Put J tumblerful of Madeira into a saucepan, add a handful of Truffle trimmings, and reduce the liquor to half its original quantity ; strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add a third of its bulk in meat glaze, boil up, thicken with butter rolled in flour, and remove the pan from the fire, and let the sauce get cold. Line a well-buttered dome-shaped mould or basin with suet crust, mask it with a thin coating of the mince, put in the Truffles in layers in the centre, pouring the sauce over the layer, and cover over with the remainder of the mince. Put a covering of the suet crust over the whole. Damp the centre of a cloth, well butter and floru- it, and tie it over the mould or basin, tying it tightly underneath. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, cover over with the lid, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. When done, turn the pudding out on to a dish, glaze it with the paste-brush, and serve with thin Madeira sauce in a sauceboat. Truffle Salad.—(1) Pick out all the black spots from five or six white Truffles, wash them well, wipe them dry on a cloth, and chop them up as small as possible. Put a little oil into a saucepan, add two or three fillets of anchovies rubbed through a fine sieve, make the oil hot, add the Truffles and a little seasoning, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, toss it for a minute or two, turn the salad into a bowl, and serve. (2) Well wash and peel five or six fresh black Truffles, chop them very fine, put them into a basin, and cover them over. Cut away the hard leaves from three tender artichokes, divide the tender leaves in halves, cutting them down the middle, and c t them up into very thin, small slices. Put them into a flat basin, sprinkle them over with salt, let them remain for ten minutes, and then wipe them on a cloth. Rub the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in Truffles—continued. a little mustard and vinegar, and 1 teacupful of olive oil. Put a layer of Truffles at the bottom of a salad- bowl, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cover over with a layer of artichokes, sprinkle over more salt and pepper, and continue in this way until the whole is used up, pouring a little of the dressing over each layer until it also is used up. Let the preparation stand for ten minutes, toss it well so as to get the dressing thoroughly mixed with the artichokes and Truffles, and the salad is then ready for serving. (3) Prussian.—Wash and peel three or four black Truffles, put them into a saucepan with a little white wine, sprinkle over a little salt, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for about four minutes. Take out the Truffles, chop them very fine, season them with salt and pepper, put them into a basin, pour over a little salad- oil, and let them stand for ten minutes, with a cover over the basin. Sprinkle over a little each of chopped parsley, chives, and tarragon, and pour over a few table-spoonfuls of thick mayonnaise sauce. Mix a little more of this sauce with some made mustard, pour it over the inside of a salad-bowl, put in the salad, and serve. Truffle Sauce.—(1) Cut five or six large Truffles into quarters, put them in a stewpan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish sauce and § wineglassful of sherry, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for forty minutes. Pour a small quantity of veal stock into the sauce now and then as it becomes reduced. Strain the sauce, chop the Truffles coarsely, return them to the stewpan with the sauce, and stir them over the fire until boiling again. It is then ready for serving. (2) Chop three Truffles, put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and a very small quantity of chopped shallot. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock that has been perfectly freed of fat, 1 wine- glassful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the sauce gently for ten minutes, and serve when ready. (3) Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, and put in one chopped shallot, J table-spoonful of flour, and some coarsely- chopped trimmings of Truffles. Pour in 1 pint of clear stock that is quite free of fat, and 1 wineglassful of sherry; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil it gently for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. At the end of that time, strain the sauce, and it is ready for serving. (4) Put eight French preserved Truffles into a mortar, pound them well, and rub them through a fine sieve. Put into a saucepan a few slices of onion, turnip, and carrot, a sprig of parsley, half a bay-leaf, loz. of raw lean ham, and loz. of butter. Stir well over the fire until the whole is cooked and quite tender, add J wineglassful of white wine and the puree of Truffles, stir in a little flour, and pour in 8 or 9 table-spooonfuls of brown sauce. Boil for ten minutes, rub the preparation through a sieve into another saucepan, add a little clear soup or consomme, boil up once more, stir in a little moist sugar and salt if desired, and the sauce is then ready for use. (5) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of half glaze into a sauce- pan, and stir well over the fire until it is reduced to 1J teacupfuls, or a third of its original quantity. Add four good-sized preserved French Truffles cut in slices, and a little moist sugar, remove the pan at once from the fire, and the sauce is ready for use. Bechamel or white sauce may be substituted for the half-glaze, but 1 teacupful of cream must then be added after the sauce is cooked, as it will require to be thicker-. (6) Make J pint of brown sauce, and put into it four large coarsely-chopped Truffles and 1 liqueur-glassful of sherry. Boil the sauce for half-an-hour, then skim it, thin it if necessary with a small quantity of stock, and serve. Truffle Stuffing- for Turkey.—Well brush 1 Jib. of Truffles, peel them, mince the peel very fine, cut the Truffles into slices, put them all into a saucepan with Jib. of minced fat bacon and any obtainable fat from the turkey, also a good-sized lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook for ten minutes, and let it get cold before using. A turkey should be stuffed with this three days before it is cooked, and Truffle sauce should accompany..630 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—continued. Truffle Tart.—Wash and pick 211). of Truffles, put them into a stewpan lined with thin slices of ham, put in with them a peeled and sliced onion, two slices of carrot, a little mixed dried and powdered herbs, a little salt, and a bay-leaf, and moisten with champagne. Lay thin rashers of bacon on top, cover the stewpan, and stew the contents almost to a jelly. Let this cool, and then put it into a tin lined with crust, and bake. Truffles on Toast.—Peel and wash a dozen very large Truffles, cut them in slices, put them into a frying-pan with 6 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and cook them slowly for a few minutes; add a bruised clove of garlic, 1 wine- glassful of sherry, and 6 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. j Stir well over the fire until the Truffles are done, add a little moist sugar and the juice of a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish over a slice of toast or fried bread, and serve. Truffles Cooked in Wine.—Well wash and scrub clean four or five Truffles, put them, with their peel on, into a saucepan, moisten them to a third of their height with white wine, and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and a small quantity of salt. Set the saucepan on a quick fire, cover it over, and boil for about eight or ten minutes, the time allowed being determined by the size of the Truffles. Take out the Truffles, brush them over with a little melted glaze, dry them at the oven-door or in a hot closet, put them on a dish, and serve. Should th y be required for garnish, they must be peeled, and then five minutes’ cooking will suffice. TRUSSING.—The origin of this term is somewhat doubtful, the meaning generally having a reference to binding or fixing in some way or another. Taken in this sense its ordinary application would be very extensive, Fig. 843. Turkish Kabobs. including any act whereby foods are prepared for the kitchen by the use of skewers, strings, or other mode of mechanical restraint. Prom this it will be understood that not a little of the art of the cook depends upon Fig. 844. Aiguillette. skilful Trussing, a detail that is far too often left to the purveyor to carry out, he frequently taking advantage of this to conceal some defect in the articles he is purveying. Fig. 845. Attereaux of Goose’s Fat Liver. A thin fowl, for instance, has the breast-bone smashed down to flatten the breast and give the bird the appear- ance of solidity. Small fresh haddocks are skinned and Trussing—continued. trussed with the tail in the mouth or passed through the eyes to resemble whiting, for which they are un- blusliingly sold. Such tricks are prevented if the cook I ig. 846. Roasted Reed-birds. does the Trussing. Unfortunately the subject has been almost entirely disregarded by writers on cookery, as much from ignorance as neglect, and perhaps more so, seeing that so few cooks, or professors of cookery, are versed in the merest rudiments of Trussing. Fig. 847. Calf s Kidney Trussed for Broiling. In commencing these instructions on Trussing it must be acknowledged that there is a great deal to be gained by artistic Trussing. The appearance of the article depends very much upon this, and convenience in carving or serving is of the first importance. This latter con- sideration will be especially studied in the following directions. The simplest mode of Trussing resembles that adopted by our ancestors, the ancient Britons, who threaded pieces Fig. 849. Boiled Crimped Skate. of meat on long wooden sticks or steaks, upon which they toasted them before the fire. We have examples of this in the modern Turkish Kabobs (see Pig. 843), which are merely shapely pieces of meat served on small wooden631 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc,, referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. skewers. The French aiguillette (see Fig. 844) and attereau (see Fig. 845) are refined instances of the same treatment, and it is further extended to the service of Fig. 850. Galantine. small birds, such as reed-birds, which are threaded on long skewers or spits (see Fig. 846). When cooked in this way they are termed a la brochette by the French chef. Fig. 851. Collared Breast of Mutton. Some persons contend that the mere act of transfixing should not be included under the heading of Trussing; but the meaning of Trussing is certainly that of holding Trussing—continued. truss used to keep open the flanks of a slaughtered beast, are familiar examples. Dried haddocks, smoked salmon, and kippered herrings are kept open by a similar system of Trussing; then we have the famous spatchcock (see Fig. 848), which is a bird cut down the back and spread open, a skewer being threaded Fig. 854. Paupiette of Beef. through the two outside edges, passing through the flesh of the breast, and flattening the whole bird as if cut in halves. Fish is sometimes served in the same way, the chief care being to have the body sufficiently divided so that when opened out the whole shall be of a uniform thickness, so as to ensure cooking evenly. The skewer Fig. 855. Saddle of Mutton Prepared for Baking Fig. 852. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton a la Milanaise. together as in a bundle, examples being a trhss of hay, and truss of reed-birds or larks; under these circumstances we consider the application legitimate. Fig. 853. Rolled Belly of Pork. The next stage of Trussing is that of transfixing in such a manner as to hold the object in a certain position. A kidney trussed for bi-oiling (see Fig. 847), or the must be held firmly in the right hand and forced through the nearest edge, then by forcing down the end held in the hand, and pressing on the flattened body with the palm of the left hand, the skewers can be forced through the breast-bone, and then made to pass through the flesh of the opposite edge, and so extend the body flatly open. Fig. 856. Ribs of Beef Prepared for Boiling. Crimped skate is trussed by transfixing into S-shaped scrolls, rounds, or curls (see Fig. 849). The next simplest form of Trussing is that of tying or binding, using either stout cord or tape, which latter is best for almost all. Some kinds of galantines (see Fig. 850) are prepared by rolling up the meat tightly in a cloth, tying the ends, then securing the body of the galantine by a series of tightly-drawn loops encircling it.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 632 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Trussing—continued. When served, such a galantine will show the marks of the loop lacing, therefore it is better to use tape, if convenient, as that leaves much lighter depressions. Another example of this mode of Trussing is the collared breast (see Fig. 851), the boned leg of mutton (see Fig. 852), and rolled belly of pork (see Fig. 853). Another Fig. 857. Rump of Beef in Parisian Style. example of simple tying, but with separate threads, is the paupiette (see Fig. 854), which consists of a rect- angular thin slice of meat spread with forcemeat and rolled tightly into the shape shown. The tying principle is employed in Trussing a saddle of mutton, lamb, or venison, the flaps or flanks being Fig. 858. Fillet of Beef Trimmed and Larded for Baking. turned in to cover the kidneys, and secured in this position by strings (see Fig. 855). In some cases, especially venison, the tail is curled over the back and fixed in that position by a small skewer passing through the curled tail into the flesh of the loin. Ribs of beef prepared for boiling (see Fig. 856), and the rump of beef Fig. 859. Cook’s Knife. as prepared by Parisian cooks (see Fig. 857), are folded up and tied round in a similar manner. The fillet of beef (see Fig. 858), brisket, and round are all trussed with skewers and string, the thin parts being rolled round the thicker parts and a large skewer driven in, right through in the case of the round, and then tied securely in this Fig. 860. Boning-knife. position by string, which should be tied in such a manner that it will do to suspend the joint to the jack-hook when roasting. Before going further into this subject, it will be ad- visable to describe the appliances that will be found useful for Trussing. Trussing—continued. In the first place there is the cook’s knife, two sizes of which should be close at hand; the larger (see Fig. 859) is useful for cutting off toes, heads, pinions, ragged ends, Fig. 861. Trussing-needle. &c., and the smaller (see Fig. 860) for cutting out pieces of gristle, bone, or other undesirable parts. The point of the smaller one also serves for making holes through Fig. 862. Set of Skewers on Frame. integuments, which are sometimes tough, so that the skewer may pass easily through them into the softer flesh. The next requisite is a set of iron skewers (see Fig. 862) of different sizes ; but care should be taken to have plenty of the size most frequently used, which will probably be about 5in. or 6in. long. A pair of strong scissors, such as would be used for trimming fish fins (see Fig. 864. Flour-mop. Fig. 865) are almost^andispensable. Some Trussing needles (see Fig. 861) of various sizes, some straight and some curved, about Sin. long being the more convenientTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 633 Trussing—continued. size, with broad, flat, spear-shaped points, and round shafts. Some very large iron skewers (see Fig. 863), a foot or so long, are also necessary for transfixing large joints, such as rounds of beef; the inside roll is thus kept in its place, instead of sliding out as the joint stiffens in cooking. It is well to have a flour-dredger (see Fig. 866) Fig. 865. Fish-scissors. for “ doughing ” poultry handy, unless the cook possesses a flour-mop (see Fig. 864), which is merely an exaggerated tassel or bundle of soft strong cord tied round tightly to form a handle. With these and plenty of string the cook is prepared to truss anything that comes to hand. through the snout, tail, and under-jaw. When cooked, the skewer or pin may be withdrawn without altering the circular position of the fish. The tail may be passed through the eyes by making a large hole In the head, The mouth can be kept open, if really desired, by stuffing something between the jaws before cooking. There is a mode of Trussing a large eel so that it shall, when cooked, resemble a serpent (see Fig. 868). This can be done by tying the coils together and transfixing the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. tying a piece of string round the tail, and pulling it through the hole. The tail will remain there, but is not so pleasing to the sight as when in the mouth. A fish Fig. 868. Boiled Eel with Montpellier Butter. bent into the shape of a letter S may he secured either by a long skewer passing through the head, middle, and tail (see Fig. 870), or by tying (see Fig. 871), the latter for preference. This is a very pretty style of Trussing a fish. Besides the details already given, there are numerous styles of Trussing that require special description, and these can be better and more intelligibly treated under the collective classifications of Fish, Animals, and Birds. These will include all sorts of poultry and game. Fish.—Very few words will suffice for this sub-heading, beyond what has already been said. The Trussing of whit- ing (see Fig. 867) is effected by passing the tail between the jaws and pinning it in that position by a skewer passed Fig. 869. Fish Stuffed and Sewn up for Cooking (New Method). Sometimes it is advisable to truss the heads of large fish, so that they will set firm when on the dish ; and some cooks like to gag the mouth open to show the tongue and teeth of those fish that have them. Neither system is of much importance, there being no reason for Trussing, provided the rate of cooking is kept within bounds. Fig. 867. Whiting Trussed, Fig. 870. Fish Trussed by Skewer.634 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PPACT1CAL COOKERY. Fig. 872. Section of Fish on Strainer. 869) described under Fish (Yol. I., p. 587), and to which reference should be made. The plan also of Trussing a fish to the strainer (see Fig. 872) is described under the same heading. Animals.—Chief amongst these will be the rabbit and the hare, the latter rarely being required whole for any- thing else than roasting, both being trussed alike for this mode of cooking. After stuffing and sewing up, draw the fore-legs straight along the sides, and pass a skewer through them, transfixing the body. Next, draw the Fig. 873. Barbecued Rabbit. hind-legs straight forward; sometimes a slight notch with a knife is required behind the joints to allow this. Fix these hind-legs also with a skewer, transfixing the body. A string is then crossed under the belly so as to pass round the four points of the skewers, and the ends are brought up over the back and tied (see Fig. 875). The tail is turned up and pinned on to the loin. When Truss- ing a rabbit for boiling whole, the head is drawn to the side (see Fig. 874) and secured there by means of a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fig. 876. Pheasant Trussed for Roasting. of the claws, leaving only jin., and serve the spur in the same manner; then chop off the pointed tips of the pinions, and turn the wings in so as to make triangles on the back of the bird, the tips being pushed over the first joints, as shown in the Plate, “ Trussing Poultry.” Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. head through the mouth into the body, the skewer point passing out 2in. or din. down, and fixing itself in the Fig. 871. Fish Trussed by Tying. body of the inner coil. The effect is striking if nicely executed. This division may be dismissed with a reference to the mode of stuffing and serving up a fish (see Fig. Trussing—continued. skewer and string. When barbecued or spatchcocked, as a rabbit sometimes is, the head is removed, and the body split open and trussed flat, as already described (see Fig. 873). The only other animal trussing that requires Fig. 874 Rabbit Trussed For Boiling. special mention is the noble boar’s head. All the cook has to do in this instance is to set the mouth so that the tusks may be plainly visible after cooking, and the ears Fig. 875. Hare Trussed. kept in their proper position by thin slips of wood or wire skewers. Birds.—Turkeys and fowls are trussed alike, so that what is said of one will answer for the other. As there is a good deal to say on this subject, it will be well to observe that when drawn according to the directions given under their own headings, the free use of the flour- mop or dredger is an absolute necessity, otherwise the bird will have a most revolting appearance; besmeared with blood and other discolouring matters from the inside, it would be anything but appetising or attractive. The first thing to do with a fowl is to clean or “ draw ” it. When you have done this, singe it, chop off the toesTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 635 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iL-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. Let it be said here, once for all, that the practice of fixing the gizzard and liver into the wings lias long since been exploded ; both being useful for other purposes, but spoiled by roasting or baking. Having arranged the wings, lay the fowl on its back, and that will be on its folded wings also ; then grip both thighs with one hand (as shown in the Plate), and with a long trussing-needle (a long packing-needle will do) threaded with twine (white for preference), pierce through the thighs and body in the position demonstrated; that is, in the bend of the joint. Draw the string through, and push the needle under the joint of the wing nearest the leg along it (as shown in the Plate), and then cut through the middle of the thick part, taking a stitch Fig. 877. Partridge Trussed. through the flap of the neck, drawn tightly down, stitch- ing it on to the back, then through the opposite pinion (see Plate). Press the leg into an even position, and square the fowl nicely before you; when it is evenly and neatly shaped, tie the ends of the string fairly tight. That done, press the leg down into the position shown in the Plate, and pass the needle through the leg and body to the other side; draw tight, and return through the flesh, over the outside of the backbone, through again to the joint where the two ends are tied (see Plate). Lastly, cut a little slit in the apron just above the vent, and force the cushion of the tail (Pope’s nose, as it is called) through, so that it remains in the bird out of sight. When Fig. 878. Pigeons Trussed for Roasting or Boiling. fowls are stuffed, the stuffing is pushed in at the hole where the vent was before the tail was tucked in, and thrust right up to the breast, tilling it out like a crop. Sboidd there be any difficulty in making the vent keep in its place, a small skewer must be used. Some cooks cut the feet off at the ankle joint; that is, where the scaly part joins the feathers, and this practice is a good one ; but when it is decided to leave the legs on, they must be singed, or rather burnt, until the outer skin can be stripped off by drawing a cloth firmly along it. Take care that both the knots of the Trussing-twine are on the same side of the bird, as they are more easily removed after cooking. Trussing—con tinned. Pheasants, pigeons, and partridges can be trussed for roasting in a similar manner to that described above. Fowls and turkeys for boiling or braising require a somewhat different mode of Trussing. Make an incision Fig. 879. Quail in Case. in the leg down to the bone (as shown in the Plate), then insert the fingers in the vent, and loosen the skin from the flesh all over round the thigh. When you are satis- fied that the limb is loose of the skin, lift the cut edge nearest the body of the bird, and, folding the limb, thrust it under the skin until it is seen as shown in the illustra- tion. The strings are then fastened over the feet. The great difficulty about this latter mode of Trussing is to get the legs well under the skin without breaking it. The insufficient loosening of the skin is generally the prime cause of trouble. Geese and ducks are trussed by turning the wings under and fastening the legs close to the sides by Fig. 880. Snipe Trussed in French Style. skewers. When the feet of the duck are left on, as they sometimes are, the joint is severed, the toes cut off, and the feet scalded and peeled. The bird is then trussed in the usual way, and the feet are tied under the back, against the points of the wings. Pheasants are trussed like fowls (see Fig. 876), and so are partridges and grouse, excepting that, like all small wild fowl, the legs are crossed (see Fig. 877), and the heads skinned and threaded on skewers, through the pinions.. Pigeons (see Fig. 878), quail (see Fig. 879), and other birds of a similar size are trussed so as to make the breasts plump out. Snipe and woodcock are trussed in France by thrusting the long beak through the body, and transfixing the legs under the thighs (see Fig. 880); woodcocks are sometimes trussed with the head “ hooded,” as it were, under the skin of the breast (see Fig. 881). When any special mode of Trussing for any purpose is prescribed, it will be found described under the particular heading to which it refers.636 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, A-c., referred to, see under their special heads. TUBA.—A drink made in the Philippine Islands from the sap of pine. TUCKAHOQ.—According to Lindley, this is the Americo-Indian name of a curious tuberous production, which is dug out of the ground in several parts of the United States. By some authorities it is believed to be a fungus, resembling the Truffle in its constitution and qualities ; but others believe that it is a peculiar con- dition of some root, though of what plant it has not been ascertained. It grows to several inches in diameter, and is used as a food, especially for making jellies. TUGINAR.—A famous Turkish ragout made with globe artichokes. The following is a good receipt for its preparation : Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan with lib. of chopped mutton or veal, set the pan on the fire, brown the meat a little, pour in sufficient water to cover, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and stir in two onions, finely chopped, with a few sprigs of parsley. Wash eight or nine artichokes, trim off all the ieaves, cut the bottoms into quarters, put them in the saucepan with the meat, and cook gently until they are done. Turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve. Any vegetables, such as cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, may be used instead of the artichoke bottoms, but these are preferred. TUMBLERS.—This name was originally given to drinking vessels in the time when our country was in possession of the Anglo-Saxons. The vessels to which this name was applied were made of earthenware, horn, wood, and at a much later date of glass, the peculiarity of them being that they had no bottoms (see Fig. 882) or stands. The object secured by this condition was to compel those drinking to empty the vessel at a draught. Since the introduction of the Venetian and other fancy glass work into this country vessels known as Tumblers have been made with flat bottoms (see Fig. 883), which renders the title exceedingly inappropriate. TUN.—A measure of wine containing two hundred and fifty-two gallons. The term is also applied to a brewer’s fermenting vat. TUNBRIDGE CAKE.—See Cakes. TUNNY (Fr. Thon ; Ger. Thunfisch).—Excepting in a state of pickle, or preserved in tins, the flesh of the Tunny is not much known in this country. It is an oceanic fish (Thynnus thynnusj of the mackerel family, inhabiting the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It grows to an immense size, sometimes weighing as much as a thousand pounds. In four months from its birth it will weigh more than two pounds, “and he would be very much more abundant than he is,” says Kettner, “ but that his mother has such an admiration for her eggs that she eats them the moment they become fertilized. Were it not for this infanticide the basin of the Mediterranean would be too small for the Tunny population.” Some- times the name is spelled Thunny. Braised Tunny served with Green Peas.—Cut off a thick slice of Tunny, lard it with fillets of bacon or anchovy, and blanch it in boiling water; take it out, drain it, wipe it. dry with a cloth, and dust it over with salt. Put a few trimmings of bacon and seasonable vegetables cut in slices at the bottom of a saucepan, place the slice of fish on the top, pour over sufficient broth and white wine in equal quantities to nearly cover it, put the saucepan on a quick fire, and reduce the liquor to half its original bulk. Remove the saucepan to a slack fire, cover it over, jmt hot ashes on the lid, and continue to cook until the fish is done and the liquor reduced to a glaze. Take out the fish, drain it, remove the outer skin, and put it on a dish over 1 pint of cooked green peas. Add a little broth to the liquor in the saucepan, strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, skim off all the fat, boil for a few minutes, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. Broiled Tunny with Puree of Sorrel.—(1) Cut off a slice of Tunny about lin. or 1 Ain. in thickness, put it into a flat dish, pour over sufficient oil mixed with a little lemon-juice to cover it, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and place a few slices of onions on the top. Let it remain in soak for two hours, take it out, drain it, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it. Put it on a dish over a puree of sorrel, ami serve very hot. (2) Put a thick slice of Tunny in a basin, cover it with olive oil in which has been mixed some lemon-juice, chopped onions, pepper, and salt, and let it macerate for two hours. Pick over some sorrel leaves, wash and dry them thoroughly, blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, keeping it well stirred, drain them, and leave till cold. Brown some butter and flour in a saucepan, pour in some clear stock that has been strained through a fine hair sieve, put in the sorrel, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till done. Drain the Tunny and broil it over a clear but slow fire. Skim the fat off the puree of sorrel, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and pile it on to a hot dish; put the slice of Tunny on this, and serve. Broiled Tunny Steak.—Cut off a slice about lin. thick from a Tunny, sprinkle it well with salt and pepper, brush it over with oil, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped parsley, and let it stand for an hour. Cover it with sifted breadcrumbs, put it in a broiler or on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it until done, turning it occasionally. Put it on a dish, and serve with remoulade sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. Dressed Pickled Tunny.—(1) Cut 5lb. or Gib. of marinaded or pickled Tunny into rather thick slices, arrange them overlapping one another round a small, deep dish, put a small pile of capers on the exposed ends of the slices, and serve with olive oil poured over. (2) Fold a napkin on a dish and dress on it the desired quantity of pickled Tunny. Decorate this with a little fresh parsley, and serve as a hors-d’oeuvre. Fried Small Fillets of Tunny.—Take off the skin from a slice of Tunny about Jin. in thickness, cut it down the centre to take out the bone, and cut it up into strips about Jin. in width. Sprinkle them over with salt, dip them singly into oil, dredge them over with flour, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. TakeTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 637 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tunny—continued. them out as soon as they are done and the flesh quite firm, drain them, dust them over with a little salt, arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Pried Tunny Steak.—Put 1 teacupful or so of oil into a saucepan, warm it, and put in a slice of Tunny cut about lin. thick and sprinkled on both sides with salt and flour. Fry it well for eighteen or twenty minutes, turning it frequently so as to cook it equally. Take it out when done, drain off all the oil, remove the skin, and put it on a dish. Put two bay-leaves and a little more of the oil into another saucepan, boil up, pour in a little vinegar, and boil for a minute longer ; pour this over the fish, and serve. Tunny Omelet.—Put the soft roes of two carp into a sauce pan of boiling salted water, blanch them for five minutes, take them out, drain, and chop them up with 2oz. or 3oz. of Tunny and 1 shallot. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add the Tunny mix- ture, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes, but without letting the butter boil, or the roe will become hard. In the meantime, put a lump of butter into another saucepan, warm it, sprinkle over a little chopped chives and parsley, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon- juice, and turn the whole out on to the dish in which the omelet is to be served, keeping it hot in the oven until wanted. Break a dozen eggs into a basin, beat them well, stir in the cooked fish, pour the mixture into an omelet- pan with a little butter, and cook it, keeping it rather thick. Take it out carefully, put it on the dish in the oven, and serve at once. TURBAK-.—A term applied by French cooks to an arrangement of a dish in such a manner that it represents one of these famous head-dresses. The dish is then called en turban. TURBOT (Fr. Turbot; Ger. Steinbutte; Ital. Rornbo; Sp. Rodaballo).—The king of flat fish, the pheasant of the sea. The Turbot (Rhombus maximus) is certainly most highly prized by epicures, and deservedly so, for its flesh is white, delicate, and deliciously flavoured. They are in season all the year round in some fisheries, but from March to August they are in their prime, when, in spite of their great size—often weighing from 301b. to 401b.—they are very expensive. It is a broad, flat fish (see Fig. 881), thick and fleshy, with a gelatinous skin, the upper-skin being dark and studded with sliell-like bony tubercles, and the under-skin usually white. Sometimes the under-skin is as dark as the top, a circumstance that the fishmonger endeavours to make capital of, for it is generally admitted that the flesh under the upper- Turbot —continued. skin or back is the best, and that being dark-coloured it is assumed that the quality of the flesh is therefore neces- sarily influenced by the colour of the skin. Sometimes a Turbot has red marks over the white skin, which disfigures it in the eyes of a gourmet; but as the spots can be removed by rubbing them with salt and lemon, and the flesh is quite as good, they may be purchased with confi- dence and at a somewhat lower cost. Turbots are caught along the south and east coasts of England, and are also brought from Norway and Holland, those from the latter country being considered the best fish. Those caught on the Dogger Bank rank first; then come those from Norway and Devonshire, and last of all are the Scotch. When cooked the flesh should be firm and curdy, with- out being hard or woolly; it is better kept for two or three days after catching if the weather is not too warm. In purchasing this fish very much must be left to the knowledge of the purveyor, as it is impossible to judge of its quality by appearances. For boiling Turbot whole a large vessel called a Turbot- kettle (see Fig. 885) is used. Full directions for cooking Turbot will be found in the following receipts : Aspic of Turbot.—Trim off the skin and cut the flesh of some cooked Turbots into nice-shaped pieces. Pour a thin layer of aspic jelly into a plain mould, and when it lias nearly set put in a layer of the Turbot and layers of fillets of anchovies, stoned olives, truffles, gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Strew in here and there a few capers and sweet capsicums, and pour jelly over each layer until the mould is full. Keep it in a coid place until the jelly is quite firm. Put a layer of tartar sauce on a dish, turn the aspic carefully out of the mould on to it, and serve. Baked Fillets of Turbot.—Wash and clean a small Turbot, cut off the four fillets or the flesh between the fins and centre of the backbone, cut these up into squares, put them into a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan in a quick oven, and bake the fish for about ten minutes, turning the pieces over so as to have them equally cooked on 'both sides. Take them out, put them on a dish in the same way as cutlets, pour shrimp, oyster, Dutch, or any other similar sauce over, and serve. Baked Stuffed Turbot.—(1) Clean a Turbot, and dry it thoroughly; remove the skin from the under-side, but do not cut it off. Make a stufling of morels, scallions, parsley, and sweet herbs all chopped very fine, seasoned with salt and pepper, and mixed together with beaten yolk of egg. Spread this stuffing all over the under part of the fish, turn the skin back over it, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in a basin before the fire, then beat up in it the yolk of an egg, sweet herbs chopped fine, and a little pepper and salt. Brush the fish all over with this, dredge breadcrumbs over it, and bake.638 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. (2) Remove the hone from a large Turbot, taking care to have the fish anil skin whole, and cutting off the bone close to the head. Sprinkle the fish with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; line it to .about an inch in thickness with highly-seasoned fish forcemeat, tie the fish round to its original shape, put it on a well-buttered drainer, baste it with some warm butter, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour over 1 pint of white wine, bring the liquor to the boil, cover the kettle, set it in a slack oven, and cook for about an hour and a half, basting it frequently with its own liquor. Pull the kettle to the oven door, brush the fish over with glaze, cook for fifteen minutes longer, and place it on a dish. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a little Italian sauce and butter to it, reduce to a glaze, pour it over the fish, and serve with any fish sauce desired. The fish may be braised in the same way should it not be convenient to bake it. Baked Turbot.—(1) Clean and wash a small Turbot, put it on a dish, pour over a little hot butter, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, powdered mace, salt, and pepper, and let it remain for an hour. Lift the fish up carefully, and place it in a baking-dish; brush it over with egg, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, put it in the oven, and bake. Take it out when done, slip it on a dish, and serve with any fish sauce desired. (2) Clean and wash a small Turbot, and chop off the head and fins. Butter a baking-dish, sprinkle the bottom with half a grated nutmeg, a little chopped parsley, and salt and pepper; pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white wine, put in the fish, cover with an equal quantity of the above ingredients, put a few lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake the Turbot until done. Take out the fish, put it on a dish, and keep hot in the oven. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a little flour thickening, boil up once, stir in a small quantity of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom or other ketchup, pour the whole over the Turbot, and serve; or it may be served separately in a sauceboat. Baked Turbot with Wine Sauce.—(1) Clean and wash a Turbot, thickly butter a shallow baking-dish, place some slices of onion at the bottom, and lay the fish on them; put in a few sliced mushrooms, two bay leaves, strew over a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, two or three cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Moisten almost to height with equal quantities of white wine and water, and cover the fish with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake the fish for about an-hour-and-a half, basting it occasionally with the cook- ing-liquor. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, strain the liquor into a saucepan, and thicken it with a brown roux; season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in the beate'n yolks of two eggs and the strained juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve without delay. (2) Thickly butter a baking-dish, and put at the bottom a few slices of onions and mushrooms; lay the Turbot on them, strew over some finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and put in a couple of bay-leaves; also put in a few cloves; moisten to height with white wine and water in equal quantities, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful <:f flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until nicely browned, then strain in a sufficient quantity of the cooking- liquor to make the sauce. Season it with a small quantity of nutmeg, and continue stirring until boiling. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of a small lemon, strain them, then stir them in with the sauce, first moving the saucepan to the side of the fire. Place the fish carefully on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Turbot.—(1) Cut off' a piece weighing about 31b. from a Turbot, trim off the fins, put it into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for a couple of hours. Take it out, drain, put it-in a fish-kettle, cover with salt to about Jin. in thickness, pour over more than sufficient water to cover, boil up once, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, skim well, and simmer gently for about twenty - Turbot—continued. five minutes. Take it out, drain, again put it with the dark side downwards on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Melted butter, shrimp, lobster, or Dutch sauce may be served in a sauceboat. (2) Clean and wash a Turbot, chop off the fins, put it into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for a couple of hours. Wash it thoroughly in fresh water, cover with salt to about Jin. in thickness, place it in a Turbot kettle, pour in sufficient boiling water, boil up once, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about thirty minutes, by which time the fish should be done. Take it out, drain, put it on a napkin spread over a drainer on a dish, and serve. It may be garnished in various ways according to taste, and served with Dutch or other sauce. (3) Clean and wash the inside of a Turbot, rub it out- side with a little sauce to facilitate the removal of the slime, put it into a bowl of water, and wash it thoroughly, frequently changing the water; pour into a Turbot kettle sufficient water to more than cover the fish, with salt and saltpetre added in the proportion of 4oz. of salt and Joz. of saltpetre to each gallon of water. Set the kettle on the fire, and when the salt and saltpetre have dissolved put in the Turbot with its fins on and with a slight cut at the back nearly to the bone to prevent the under or white side cracking. Boil slowly for a few minutes, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, skimming frequently, and simmer for an hour or so, according to the size of the fish. The time allowed for boiling and simmering is one hour for a fish weighing about 101b. Take it out, drain, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (4) Clean the fish well but do not skin it. Set it over the fire in a large Turbot kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it completely. If the fish is of a medium size, put in with it the strained juice of a lemon and 1 table- spoonful of salt; let it gradually come to the boil, skim it well, and let it boil two minutes for every pound of Turbot. When sufficiently boiled, lay it on a hot dish, the whiteside of the fish turned upwards, sprinkle over the coral of a lobster, and arrange round it a close border of fresh parsley with some slices of lemon and a little horse- radish. Serve with it in a small tureen lobster or shrimp sauce made with cream. Boiled Turbot with Lobster Sauce.—Put a Turbot in a fish-kettle with a bunch of parsley, a lump of salt, plenty of cold water, and the juice of two large lemons. When the water commences to boil, move the kettle to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently until the fish is tender. Have ready prepared the following sauce: Pick the meat out of a hen lobster, and cut it into moderate-sized pieces; put the shell and spawn in a mortar with a lump of butter, and pound it until smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Make f pint of butter sauce, put the pieces of lobster in it, and season with a very small quan- tity of cayenne pepper. When the sauce boils, stir in the pounded mixture and a teacupful of cream, and move the pan to the edge of the fire. When the Turbot is cooked, drain it carefully, lay it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, put a border of fresh green parsley round the dish, and then a circle of quarters of lemon (see Fig. 886). Serve the fish while hot, with the sauce in a sauceboat. The fish does not require much boiling. Boiled Turbot with Prawn Sauce.—Clean a large Turbot, cut it down the back, saw off the head, and divide theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 639 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. backbone in halves. Both the halves may be cooked and served in the same way, but should only one half be re- quired, take the thickest. Loosen the flesh from the bone, and with a sharp knife cut oft’ the ends of the bone. Put the half of the fish into a bowl of cold water, let it soak for two hours, take it out, drain, put it into a Turbot-kettle with more than sufficient water to cover it, boil it, then remove the kettle to the side of the fire, and let the fish simmer for about an hour according to its size. When done, take the Turbot out, drain it, remove the back-bone, wipe it dry on a cloth, put it on a dish, and serve with prawn sauce made with cream poured over it. Boiled Turbot with. Tartar Sauce.—Prepare the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with a lump of salt, a bunch of parsley, J teacupful of lemon-juice, and plenty of cold water. Place it on the fire until the water commences to boil, then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently until the fish is tender. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and beat them well, adding some olive oil, 1 table- spoonful at a time, alternately with 1 teaspoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, until the sauce is of the proper consist- ency. Mix with it 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped pickled gherkins, black pepper to taste, and a very small quantity of cayenne. When the fish is cooked, drain it carefully and lay it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Turbot with White Sauce.—Put some sweet herbs, thyme, basil, and a peeled onion cut in slices into a fish-kettle, and over these place a small, well-cleaned, and dried Turbot; lay over it some sweet herbs, thyme, basil, a leek cut into pieces, and some salt and pepper. Pour over it just" sufficient white wine and vinegar in equ I quantities to cover, and boil over a moderate fire. Put |lb. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, add to it a couple of leeks cut small, 2 table-spoonfuls of capiers, two boned anchovies, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, some water and vinegar, and a small quantity of flour; stir all these over the fire till quite done, then put the Turbot on a dish, and pour this sauce over it. Broiled Turbot.—Clean the fish and wipe it quite dry, split it down the back, and let it soak for nearly an hour in warm butter with chopped sweet herbs, parsley, salt, and pepper; then cover it with sifted breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear fire. Serve with lemon-juice or Seville orange-juice squeezed over. Broiled Turbot with Shrimp Sauce.—Cut off the fillets from half a small Turbot; cut these again into thin slices in a slanting direction, sprinkle them with salt and pepper to season, put them on a dish, moisten with oil, sprinkle over a finely-chopped onion and a few sprigs of parsley, and let them remain for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so. Put the yolks of two or three eggs into a basin with 3oz. of warmed butter, beat them well, dip the slices of Turbot in, and afterwards cover with sifted breadcrumbs. Put them a few at a time on a gridiron over a clear fire, broil them on both sides, place them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with shrimp sauce in a sauce- boat. Croustades of Turbot.—Cut a stale loaf into slices about 2in. thick, and cut them into rounds with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter; then cut half through the centre of each with a tin cutter liin. in diameter. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then pour in some milk, keeping the sauce rather thick, and stir it until boiling. Put in some cold Turbot that has been freed from skin and bone and divided into flakes with a fork, and a moderate quantity of finely- chopped parsley; season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Toss the fish over the fire until very hot. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when it boils put in the rounds of bread and fry them. As each round assumes a nice golden brown, take it out of the fat and drain it for a minute ou a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Turbot—continued. Lift out the pieces of bread marked by the smaller cutter and scoop out some of the inside with the handle of a spoon. Pill each croustade with some of the fish mixture, Fig. 887. Croustades of Turbot. and put a cooked button-mushroom on the top of each. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, arrange the cr ustades on it, garnishing them tastefully with parsley (see Fig. 887), and serve. Curried Turbot.—(1) Peel and slice a moderate-sized onion, and fry it in plenty of butter until a rich brown. Next mix in 1 heaped table-spoonful of curry powder and h table-spoonful of flour; afterwards stir in slowly sufficient stock to make the requisite quantity of sauce. Season to taste with salt, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Strain the sauce when it has boiled the allotted time through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cold. Cut some cold Turbot into moderate-sized pieces, throwing away the skin and bones, and put it into a stewpan until the cold sauce. Warm it slowly at the side of the fire, and when ready add a small quantity of lemon-juice. Prepare a border of plain boiled rice round a hot dish, turn the curry into the centre, and serve. If preferred, omit putting the border of rice round the dish, but garnish with small croutons of fried bread, and serve the nice separately. (2) Well wash and clean a small Turbot or half a middling-sized fish, remove the head and bones, chop it up into square pieces, put them into a basin of salted water, and let them soak for about twenty minutes. Put two chopped onions into a saucepan with a little butter, and cook them until they are coloured ; take the pieces of Turbot out of the water, drain and wipe them, put them into the saucepan, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and 2 table-spoon- fuls each of flour and curry powder. Cook two minutes longer, stirring well, pour in sufficient broth or court bouillon made with the bones and head of the fish to cover, add a bunch of parsley, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Take out the pieces of fish, arrange them on a dish, reduce the liquor, add a thickening of the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream, strain it over the fish, and serve with dried boiled rice in Indian style on a separate dish. Fillets of Turbot with Cream Sauce.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some cooked Turbot, skin them, leave them till cold, then cut them into collops. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, £ teacupful of cream, a small quantity of glaze, and a pinch of cayenne pepper; season to taste until salt, stir the sauce over the lire till thick, then move it to the side, and put in the fillets of Turbot. Turn the Turbot and sauce on to a hot dish, and serve it. If preferred, the mixture can be served in a vol-au-vent. Fried Turbot.—(1) Clean the fish well, sprinkle it with salt, and let it remain in the salt for twenty-four hours. Wash it then, and wipe it quite dry. Brush it over with beaten egg, and cover with well-sifted breadcrumbs. Fry the fish then in boiling lard with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar in it. When fried, lay the fish on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve anchovy sauce with it. (2) Select a small Turbot of about 51b. or 61b. in weight, clean and wash it, dry it on a cloth, dredge it over with flour, put it into a saucepan with a good supply of fat or oil, and brown it. Take it out, drain oft' all the fat, place it in a saucepan with a boned anchovy, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and ground ginger, pour over suffi- cient claret or white wine to nearly cover it, set the640 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. F<r details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer until the wine is reduced to half its original quantity. Take out the fish, which should be done, put it on a dish, add a thickening of butter rolled in flour to the liquor as well as a little minced lemon-peel, boil up once, pour it over the Turbot, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter sauce if desired. (3) Wash and trim oft’ the fins of a Turbot, and rub it well with salt. Cut five lemons into slices, lay half of them at the bottom of a rather shallow dish, then put in the fish and lay the remaining slices of lemon on the top. Mix 1 teaspoonful of salt and ljoz. of saffron in f pint of water, and pour it over the fish ; place a dish on the top to press it lightly. Let the fish macerate for ten or twelve hours. When this is done, drain the fish, pour a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the fish, and fry it till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the fish, lay it on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (4) Cut the fish into nice-sized pieces, and trim them neatly; lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and baste them well with lemon-juice. Leave the pieces of Turbot to marinade for an hour or two, then dip them in some frying-batter. Put a large piece of butter, lard, or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the pieces of fish a few at a time, and fry them a nice golden brown. As eacli piece is done, take it out of the fat and put it to drain for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Place an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish and put the pieces of fish on it; garnish them with fried parsley and quarters of a lemon, and serve. (5) Cut the remains of some cold Turbot into small, nice- shaped pieces, lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, squeeze some lemon juice over them, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of oil. Let the fish steep in this marinade for two or three hours; prepare a good frying-batter, and when sufficiently marinaded dip the pieces of fish in. Put a good-sized lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, and when the blue smoke rises put in the pieces of fisli and fry them a pale golden brown. As each piece is taken out of the fat, put them to drain on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Turbot on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Hashed Turbot.—Pick the flesh off some cold Turbot, removing all the bones and skin, flake the fisli, put it into a stewpan with some Dutch sauce, and warm it over a gentle fire. Boil some potatoes, and when cooked drain them, season with salt, and mash them up smoothly with butter. Build a wall of the potatoes on a hot dish, turn the fish into the centre, and serve. Kedgeree of Turbot.—Cut off the fillets of a small Turbot, choir them up into small pieces or squares, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done. Season with salt and pepper, and keep them hot at the side of the fire until wanted. Put a finely-chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry it, but with- out allowing it to colour; add lib. of well washed and drained rice, cook for a minute or two, pour in sufficient consomme or fish broth to moisten to a little more than three times the height of the rice, boil quickly for about twelve minutes with the cover on, put the pan at the entrance of the oven, and let the rice dry. Put in the chopped Turbot, sprinkle over a little cayenne, add three finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, and pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of white sauce. Stir well for a minute or two, turn the whole out on to a dish, pour over a little browned butter, and serve. Although this dish is of Indian origin it is often used in England. Mayonnaise of Turbot.—(1) Remove the skin and bones from 21b. or 31b. of cold boiled Turbot; cut up the meat into shapes such as hearts or rounds, put them into a basin with sufficient oil and vinegar to moisten, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and add a good flavouring of chopped Turbot—continued. shallots and tarragon-leaves. Let the pieces of fish soak in this for an hour or so, then take them out, arrange them on a dish in a circle, garnish with small fillets of anchovies and gherkins, hard-boiled eggs, beetroot in slices, tarragon-leaves, capers, and pieces of chopped meat jelly. Pour mayonnaise sauce in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 888), and serve. (2) Free some cooked Turbot from skin and bone, and divide the flesh into convenient-sized pieces; make a nice salad dressing with three-parts of salad-oil and one part tarragon vinegar, and season it with salt and pepper. Dip the pieces of Turbot in the dressing, arrange them on a dish, cover well with a mayonnaise sauce, and mix with it some finely-chopped tarragon- and chervil-leaves. Get the hearts of some small lettuces, wash and dry them, and garnish round the fish with them. Arrange tastefully over the whole some capers, olives, slices of hard-boiled eggs and gherkins, and serve. Scalloped Turbot.—Remove the skin and bone from some Turbot, and flake it with two forks. Mix with the flakes a quarter of their bulk of grated breadcrumbs, and season with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a very little cayenne pepper. Fill some table-shells with the mixture, and squeeze in some lemon-juice; strew over a few breadcrumbs, and baste each with 1 table spoonful of warmed butter. Put them into a brisk oven until lightly browned. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the shells on it, garnish here and there with parsley, and serve. Turbot a l’Anglaise.—Select a very white Turbot, soak it in cold water with a small quantity of milk if in winter, but if in summer let it remain on the ice until wanted. Make a cut down the centre of the back about 3in. in length and a little distance from the head, lift up the flesh from the backbone, and with a strong knife cut away three or four bones on each side of the large one, and remove two or three of the joints. This will prevent the fish breaking while being cooked, giving it plenty of room to shrink. Large Turbots only should be treated in this way. For small fish make an incision on each side of the backbone, sew up the mouth with thread, nib the belly part with lemon-juice to keep it white while cooking, put the fish on a strainer in a fish-kettle, put two lemons cut into slices and freed of pips on the top, sprinkle over a good supply of salt, half fill the kettle with boiling water, cover with a cloth, and then with the lid ; set it on a quick fire, boil up, and skim well, remove it to a slack lire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half, taking particular care that it does not boil. Take out the fish, untie the head if tied, place it on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with potatoes cut into shapes like olives and boiled, put sprigs of parsley in between them as well as over any part of the fish where the skin has cracked, and serve with melted butter sauce slightly acidulated with lemon-juice. Turbot au Beurre Noir.—Remove the skin and bones from some cold cooked Turbot, and cut the fish into nice-sized pieces. Put a large lump of butter into a stewpan, and boil it until it becomes a dark colour; then put in a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley and 1 wine- glassful of tarragon vinegar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the fish into the sauce and keep it at the side of the fire until hot through. Turn the fish with the butter on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot a la Chef de Cuisine.—Clean and wash a Turbot, put it into a large fish-kettle, cover with boiling water,■ -^-c. I, TABLE ORNAMENTS Moulded or formed with Fat, Paste, or Sugar, on Wooden or Metal Foundation)THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 641 Turbot—continued. add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice or vinegar, bring the liquor again to the boil, skim well, and let the fish simmer gently until quite done. Take it out, drain it, slip it on to a dish, and serve with boiled clams and sprigs of parsley for garnish, and cream or butter sauce- in a sauceboat. Turbot A la Creme.—(1) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan with a small piece of onion and a little parsley; boil up over the fire, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour worked up in an equal quantity of cold milk, and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of white pepper and a little thyme, 1 teacupful of butter, and salt to taste; put a little of this mixture at the bottom of a well-buttered pan or dish, cover with a layer of finely- chopped cold boiled Turbot, and continue in this way until the dish is full, using about 5lb. or 61b. of the fish altogether, and finishing up with the milk mixture. Sprinkle the top with sifted breadcrumbs and grated cheese, set the pan or dish in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, and serve. (2) Divide into flakes about 2lb. of cold boiled Turbot. Put loz. each of flour and butter into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for a few minutes, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, and stir until it boils. Sprinkle in a strong seasoning of cayenne, salt, and pepper, and add 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; take the pan off the fire and beat quickly in the yolks of two eggs. Put a small quantity of this sauce on to a dish in which the fish is to be served, cover the sauce over with a layer of fish, then more sauce over the fish, and so on until the dish is full or the ingredients used up. Take 3 table-spoonfuls of fine brown breadcrumbs, and mix them up with a tldrd of their quantity of grated Parmesan or any other cheese; sprinkle these over the Turbot, place the dish in the oven to warm the fish through, and serve. (3) Remove the skin and bones from about 2lb. of cold boiled Turbot, cut the flesh into small pieces, and lay them on a dish; put Jib. of butter with 2oz. of flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until the butter has melted and mixed with the flour, pour in gradually 1 qt. of milk, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling, then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream. Boil the mixture for two or three minutes longer, season it with salt and pepper (a small quantity of grated nutmeg may be added if liked), and pour it over the pieces of fish; strew grated cheese over the fish ; dust over a small quantity of salt and pepper, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until the cheese is lightly browned. Serve while hot. Turbot a la Espagnole.—Peel and slice a moderate-sized Spanish onion, and fry it in butter until cooked but not browned. Then put in some pieces of cold Turbot that have been freed from skin and bone, and cut into small pieces. Pour over them some French tomato sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and stir the ingredients over a moderate fire until the fish is hot. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot d la Gourmet.—Cut off about 31b. from the tail end of a middling-sized Turbot, rub it well with vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper, and let it soak for two or three hours in a basin. Take out the crumb of a French roll, soak it in milk, squeeze it dry, put it into a sauce- pan with loz. of butter, and add a little seasoning of cayenne and salt and the yolk of an egg. Set the sauce- pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture is thick and smooth; then add about half its bulk in preserved or tinned lobster, or a dessert spoonful of essence of anchovies, and work the whole into a paste. Stuff the fish with this by lifting the flesh from the bone: put it with the black side downwards in a well buttered baking-dish, pour over a teacupful of any light white wine, add a teaspoon - ful each of vinegar and essence of anchovies, loz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the dish in a moderate oven and hake for an hour, basting it frequently with the liquor and taking care that it does not brown at all. Take out the fish when done, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of cold milk into a basin, mix Turbot—continued. in a table-spoonful of flour, add a teacupful of milk that has been boiled down from double its bulk, pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir well over the fire until the preparation is sufficiently thick. Add 2oz. of butter and the yolk of one egg, stir for five minutes longer, and pour the whole through a sieve into the saucepan in which the Turbot was cooked, mixing it in with the stock. The saucepan should be on the fire, and while the mixture is being added it should be vigorously stirred. A few oysters if added will be a great improvement. Pour this preparation over the Turbot, and serve very hot. Stock with a little lemon-juice may be substituted for the wine if preferred. Turbot au Gratin.—(1) Put the belly-side half of a Turbot into a saucepan of salted water, boil for a minute or two, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until it is done, which will be in forty or fifty minutes. Take it out, drain it, remove the bones and black skin, and divide the flesh into rather small pieces. Put a layer of these at the bottom of ? gratin-dish, sprinkle over a little chopped cooked mushroom, and pour over a little reduced and well-seasoned bechamel sauce, and continue in this way until the dish is full, forming the whole into a dome shape. Mask the dome with more of the sauce, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, place the dish in a moderate oven, and let it remain for ten or twelve minutes, or until the surface is coloured. Take out the dish, place it on another one, and serve. (2) Well wash a large Turbot prepared and salted, and wipe it dry. Put lib. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a blanched chopped shallot, 2oz. of chopped parsley, 3 pints of mushrooms, the juice of two lemons, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Put half of this on a drainer of a turbot-kettle, place the fish over it, cover with the remainder of the mixture, and pour over a pint of white wine. Bring the liquor to the boil, basting the fish frequently with it; remove the kettle to a slow fire, and let the contents cook gently for an-hour-and-three-quarters. Cover the fish with rasped bread, mixed with a little Parmesan cheese; pour over a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, cook for fifteen minutes longer, take out the fish, put it on a dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of parsley, strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. Tomato or any fish sauce may be served with Turbot cooked in this way. (3) Remove the bones from a cold boiled Turbot, put it on a dish with a very little fish stock, cover with bechamel sauce, and sprinkle over breadcrumbs seasoned with pepper, also a little Parmesan cheese; brown the surface with a salamander, and serve as hot as possible. (4) Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour; mix well over the fire, then pom- in \ pint of milk and stir it until thickened and boiling. Cut some cold Turbot into small pieces, removing all skin and bone, put the fish into the sauce with 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and pepper and salt to taste, and toss the fish about over the fire until thoroughly hot. Rub a gratin-dish lightly over with garlic, turn the fish and sauce on to it, strew grated Parmesan cheese and baked breadcrumbs over the top, and bake in a brisk oven for a few minutes. When nicely browned over the surface, serve in the same dish. Turbot a la Laguipierre.—Clean and prepare a large Turbot by making several cuts in its sides, and rub it well all over with sweet oil seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut two onions and two lemons into slices; mix up with them some parsley, bay-leaves, and sprigs of thyme, cover the fish with this, and pour over 1 pint of oil. Rub the fish every now and then with this marinade for about two hours or until well and equally flavoured with it. Take up the fish, remove as much of the marinade as possible, rub it well again with oil, sprinkle it slightly with salt, place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, and let it cook until of a light colour all over, turning it carefully when done on one side. W hen the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 642 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. fish is done (which can he ascertained by gently pressing it with the fingers and seeing if the flesh yields easily), put it on a dish, garnish with a ragout of mushrooms and mussels (see Fig. 889) or other shell fish, and serve Dutch sauce in a sauceboat. Turbot a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Select a large white Turbot, make an incision about 3in. in length down the back and a little distance from the head, and with a sharp knife cut away three or four vertebrce, so that in cooking the fish will have room to swell without the skin bursting. Rub the fish well on both sides with salt, let it remain thus for an hour or so, wash off all the salt, tie it round into shape, place it on a well-buttered strainer in a fish-kettle, add lib. of butter and lqt. of champagne, and also a slight seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated mutmeg; place over the fish four lemons cut into slices with the pips removed, sprinkle over six chopped shallots and a little coarsely-minced parsley, cover the kettle, set it on the fire, and boil. Baste the Turbot frequently, remove the kettle to a slow fire, and let it boil slowly for about two hours, basting as before, and taking care not to disturb the covering of lemon, &c. Remove the fish from the kettle, strain the liquor into a saucepan, and mix in 4oz. of butter rubbed into 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Stir well until it thickens, add 1 table-spoonful of reduced veloute sauce and a small quantity of fowl glaze, boil for a minute or two, and stir in the yolks of four eggs. Place the Turbot on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce strained into a sauceboat. Turbot a la Normande.—(1) Wash and clean a small Turbot, chop off part of the fins to shorten them, put the fish into a flat saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion, and pour in sufficient white wine to nearly cover it. Sprinkle over a little salt, add a small bunch of parsley and a few fresh mushroom trimmings, set the saucepan on a brisk fire, cover, and let the contents boil. Remove the saucepan at once to the side of the fire, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. If a small Turbot is not obtainable, half a middling-sized one can be used. Have ready a garnish composed of cooked quenelles, oysters, mussels, and fresh mushrooms. Strain off the liquor from the saucepan without removing the fish, pour it into another saucepan, reduce it to half its original quantity, add a thickening of butter rolled in flour, remove the pan from the fire, add the liquor in which the mush- rooms and oysters were cooked, boil up for a minute or two, and add a thickening of the yolks of two eggs. Put the fish on a dish, pour over the sauce,* place the garnish round, brown the whole with a salamander or in the oven, and serve. (2) Well wash and clean a moderate-sized Turbot, and lift up the flesh from the bone. Prepare a stuffing with Jib. of soaked breadcrumbs, 6oz. of scraped bacon, 3oz. of butter, and the meat from one dozen prawns or two dozen shrimps all worked into a paste in a mortar with the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, and salt and pepper to taste, keeping the mixture on the ice until it is wanted. Stuff the fish with this, taking care not to have it too full. Put loz. or 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, 1 breakfast-cupful of white fish stock, 3 wine- glassfuls of any white wine, and salt and pepper to taste ; place the fish on the top, put the saucepan on a slow fire, bring the liquor gradually to the boil, place the Turbot—continued. saucepan in a moderate oven, and cook for thirty or forty-five minutes longer. Take out the Turbot when done, put it on a dish, and keep hot. In the meantime, pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bdchamel sauce into a sauce- pan, boil it up, stirring frequently, strain it into another saucepan, and add two dozen each of mushrooms and blanched oysters and mussels. Pour in a small quantity of milk, and sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of sugar; reduce the liquor until it is moderately thick, add 6 or 8 table- spoonfuls of cream and the juice of a lemon, pour the liquor over the Turbot, and serve with the mushrooms and shell-fish for garnish. If desired, the stuffing can be omitted, and mussels or oysters used without combination, using double the quantity of whichever is obtainable. Turbot a la Poulette.—Make about f pint of plain melted butter, using very little flour but plenty of butter. Put into it about one dozen button-mushrooms, first cutting them in halves, and let them simmer until tender. Free some cold remains of Turbot from skin and bones, cut the flesh into small pieces, and put it in the sauce. When the fish is hot, move it to the side of the fire and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and strained. If liked, a small quantity of minced parsley may be put in. Turn the Turbot with its sauce on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot it la Provencjale.—Prepare and marinade a Turbot, adding two chopped shallots and a clove of garlic to the seasoning. When ready, put it on a gridiron over a large clear fire, keeping it the white side downwards, and broil it. Turn it over on to a drainer, put it into a fish-kettle, pour in the marinade liquor together with 1 pint of cham- pagne and half the quantity of oil; dust it over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, place the kettle on a sharp fire, bring the liquor to the boil, remove to a slacker fire, place hot ashes on the lid, and cook for an hour. Put the Turbot on a dish, strain the liquor, and reduce it to half-glaze; pour it over the fish, and serve with anchovy or other fish sauce in a sauceboat. Turbot Cassolettes.—Peel and boil 3lb. of potatoes, and when cooked drain off all the water and mash them over the fire, adding a large lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Next stir in the beaten yolks of tliree eggs and pass the mix- ture through a fine hair sieve. Mould the paste into small rounds about 2in. thick and 2in. in diameter, and leave them until cold. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix them over the fire; stir about h pint of milk or a sufficient quantity to make a moderately thick sauce, and when boiling put in some cold flaked Turbot and finely-chopped parsley. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and toss it over the fire until thoroughly hot. Roll the rounds of potato paste in beaten egg, and coat them well with breadcrumbs; then make a circle in the centre of each, leaving a margin of about fin. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, ancLwhen boiling put in the casso- lettes and fry them a golden brown. As each one is done, take it out of the fat and drain it for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Scoop out some of the paste within the marked circle, and fill the hollow with the Turbot mixture. Arrange the cassolettes on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, garnish taste- fully with fried parsley, and serve. Turbot Croquettes.—(1) Flake some cold Turbot with two forks. Put about loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the fire. Next pour iu a sufficient quantity of milk to make a thickish sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When boiling put the fish into the sauce with a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and leave it until cold; then divide it into small quantities, and roll them in breadcrumbs to the shape of corks. Roll the croquettes in beaten eggTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 643 Turbot—continued. Turbot—continued. and breadcrumb them again. Put a good-sized lump of lard in a fiat stewpan, melt it, then put in the croquettes, and fry them until nicely browned. As they are cooked, take them out of the fat and drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, pile the croquettes in the centre, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut off about ilb. of a cold boiled Turbot, remove the skin and bones, and chop it up very fine. Put a little veloute sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, add a thickening of yolk of egg, sprinkle in a little chopped parsley, and mix in the chopped fish. Turn the prepara- tion out into a basin to cool, form it into croquettes of any shape, dip them into egg beaten up with oil, salt and pepper, roll them well in sifted breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until they are well browned and crisp. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried sprigs of parsley and tomato or poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. (3) The remains of cold Turbot can be used: remove the skin and bones, and flake the fish. Melt a small lump of butter in a stewpan, and stir in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; when well mixed, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot milk, and continue stirring it over the tire until thickened. Put the fish in the sauce with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and when cold form it into small balls or cork shapes, breadcrumb them, then egg-and-breadcramb them again. Put a lump of butter or lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the croquettes and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. Turbot Omelet.—Trim away the skin and bones from some cold remains of Turbot, and flake the fish with two forks. Mix in a stewpan over the fire loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour, then pour in gradually f teacupful of milk, and stir it until boiling. Put the fish into the sauce, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, and add l or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley. Toss the fish over the fire until very hot, then move it to the side. Make some savoury omelets, spread a moderate quantity of the Turbot mixture over each, and fold them over. Arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Turbot Pie. (1) Well wash and clean a small Turbot; put it into a saucepan of salted water, add a seasoning of cloves, chopped sweet herbs, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Set the saucepan on the fire and let it remain •until the fish is parboiled. Take it out, skin it, and cut it into pieces, rejecting the bones. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the pieces of Turbot, cover with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs, minced onion, and a good supply of butter pulled in lumps; cover with a crust of the paste, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake. Take out the pie when done, and serve either hot or cold. If desired, the Turbot may remain whole without being- skinned or boned. (2) Cut off all the flesh from a parboiled small Turbot, dividing it into small pieces and sprinkling it over with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Tut a layer of these pieces at the bottom of a pie-dish, cover with a little chopped parsley, chives, and sweet basil, and continue in this way until the whole of the ingredients are used up or the dish is full. Place four hard boiled eggs cut in slices round the top, together with 2oz. of butter in small lumps; cover the dish with a good crust, slip it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Turbot Pie a la Dubois. —Cut off the flesh from a small Turbot or half a large one, cut it into fillets or strips about lin. in width, put them into a basin, and sprinkle over with salt and ground spices to taste. Put half-a-dozen eggs into a saucepan of water, boil them hard, take off the shells, cut them up into quarters, sprinkle them over with salt, spices, and chopped parsley, put them into a basin, and cover them over to keep warm. Put a little more than lib. of large semolina on a sieve, sift it thoroughly so as to have none but the large grains, put it into a basin, add the yolk of an egg, mb it well with the hands, add another yolk, mb it well again, smooth it out on a baking-sheet, and dry it in the hot closet or oven. Rub it well again so as to break all the large lumps, put it into a saucepan with a little butter and salted water, and boil it, keeping it stiff and dry. Put two finely-chopped onions into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry them, but without colouring, add a few fresh mushrooms also chopped, and cook until their moisture is reduced ; sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in h tumblerful of white wine, add a bay-leaf, stir well until the liquor boils, cook for a few minutes, sprinkle in a handful of chopped parsley, and lastly the fillets of Turbot. Boil for five minutes longer, remove the pan from the fire, and let the whole get cold. Have ready some puff paste at six turns, made with lib. of flour and 12oz. of butter; let it stand for a little while, and roll three-quarters of it out into a flat about 1 foot wide and 2 feet long. • Damp the edges of the paste, mask it in the centre and not to the edge with a little of the semolina when cold; on this arrange, intermixed, the fillets of Turbot, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, the chopped onion-and mushroom mixture, and about two dozen uncooked oysters. Cover the whole with the rest of the semolina, making it into a convex form. Lift the edges of the paste so as to cover the pie, fastening them securely all round, and brush the surface over with well-beaten egg; make a small hole at the top for the steam to escape, decorate the sides with a knife, and put it in a moderate oven to bake. After it has been in for a few minutes, cover it with a sheet of paper, tying it round with string to support the paste, and let it remain for about an-hour-and-a-quarter. Put the bones and head of one Turbot into a saucepan with 1 quart of wine and a few vegetables; boil these well together, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add the liquor from one dozen oysters blanched in l wineglassful of white wine, and boil for a few minutes; add the yolks of three eggs to thicken, stir for a minute or two, add a small lump of butter, a little chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Remove the saucepan from the fire, add the two dozen oysters, and turn the whole of the sauce into a sauceboat. Take out the pie when done, remove the string and paper, put it on a dish, and serve very hot with the sauce. Turbot Rechauffe.—(1) Free from skin and bone some cold boiled Turbot, and chop the fish finely; mix with it 1 heaped teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, 3oz. of butter, three well-beaten eggs, a few drops of essence of anchovies, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and steam it until hot. Take care that the water does not enter the top of the mould. When ready, turn the rechauffe on to a hot dish, pour a melted butter sauce O'er it, and serve. (2) Boil two eggs hard and chop them; cut some cold Turbot into small pieces. Tut loz. of butter into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quan- tity of grated nutmeg. When on the point of boiling, put in the chopped eggs and the fish, and the same quantity of mashed potatoes as there is fish. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, adding more butter if necessary. File the whole high up on a hot dish, brown the surface under a salamander, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Turbot Rechauffe and Tomato Sauce.—Peel and slice two Spanish onions, put them into a stewpan with plenty of olive oil, and let them simmer over a gentle fire until quite tender but not browned. Flake some cold boiled Turbot, being very careful to remove all the skin and bone; put them in with the onions, pour in a few table- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. T oTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 644 Turbot—continued. spoonfuls of French tomato sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. When very hot, turn the fish and sauce on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot Rechauffe with White Sauce.—Use the remains of cold boiied Turbot, which should be freed from skin and bone, and flaked. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with about 1, pint of milk, pour it into a stewpan, put in Jib. of butter, and stir it over the fire until boiling. If too thick, mix some more milk with the sauce. Put the fish in the sauce with a few cooked button-mushrooms, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the whole occasionally over the fire until very hot, then move it to the side and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Add a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley. When ready, turn the fish and sauce on to a hot dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. Turbot Rolls.—Take- four round breakfast rolls; cut a small round piece off each roll, and scoop out all the crumb. Chop up half-a-dozen oysters and some cold Turbot, put it into a saucepan together with the strained liquor of the oysters, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, 2oz. of butter, the crumb of two of the rolls, and pepper and salt to taste ; let all stew together for five or six minutes, stir in then 1 table-spoonful of cream, and fill the scooped- out rolls with the mixture. Fit on again the pieces cut off the tops, and put them in the oven to crisp. Serve them very hot in a napkin. Turbot Salad.—Remove the skin and bone from about lib. of cold boiled Turbot; cut up the flesh into very thin slices, put them into a basin, pour over sufficient oil and vinegar to moisten, and sprinkle over salt and finely-chopped parsley. Put a plain border-mould into a basin containing ice, pack it in, and fill the cylinder of the mould with pounded ice. Ornament the sides of the mould with cold freshly-boiled prawns, dipping them in half set jelly to make them adhere, and arranging them in circles, fill the mould slowly with more of the jelly, and let it set. Turn it out on to a cold dish, and in the centre put a little chopped aspic jelly and a little vegetable salad thickened with mayonnaise sauce. Over these again arrange the slices of Turbot in the shape of a dome, Fig. 890. Turbot Salad. putting them in layers and masking them with mayonnaise sauce. Cover the dome with more of the sauce, keeping the surface quite smooth (see Fig. 890), and serve with a sauceboatful more of the sauce. Turbot Saute.—Divide into flakes or small pieces about 2lb. of cold boiled Turbot; put them into a saute-pan with a little warmed butter, toss them over the fire until they are hot, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped parsley, remove the pan from the fire, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Turbot—continued. squeeze in the juice of a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish, and Serve very hot. Turbot in Shells (en Coquilles).—Remove the skin and bones from Jib. or so of cold boiled Turbot, and chop it into small pieces or squares. Put a little veloute sauce into a saucepan with a small quantity of essence of mush- rooms, reduce it, add a thickening of butter rolled in flour, stir in the chopped meat, fill some scallop shells with the mixture, cover the top with sifted breadcrumbs, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven, and let them remain until they are warmed and their surfaces browned. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Turbot Soup with Curry.—Clean cut off the head of a small fresh Turbot; cut the body into square pieces, select the finest, and put them by. Place the head in a sauce- pan with the remainder of the fish, also a piece of conger eel and a small bunch of parsley; pour in 2qts. of water and 1 pint of French white wine. Put the lid on the saucepan, set it over a brisk fire, and boil the contents quickly for twenty-live minutes. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Put two sliced onions and a sliced leek into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned ; then put in the reserved pieces of Turbot, season them with salt, and fry them for a few minutes. Dredge 2 table-spoonfuls each of flour and curry powder over the Turbot, stir it till well mixed, then pour in the broth gradually. Continue stirring until boiling, then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire and simmer for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the pieces of Turbot out, remove the back skin and bones, and place them in a soup-tureen. Thicken the soup with a liaison of the yolks of four eggs, add a piece of butter, and strain it into the tureen. TUREEN.—This word is probably a corruption of the French Terrine, so called from its being made of Fig. 891. Tureen (Adams & Son). earthenware. The British cook applies the term almost exclusively to a vessel used for serving soup (see Fig. 891). TURIN CAKES.—See Cakes. TURIN ROLLS.—See Bread. TURK’S CAKE.—See Cakes. TURKEYS (Fr. Dindes, Dindons ; Ger. Truthahn).— It was supposed at one time that these birds were of Indian origin, and hence their name ; but more recent researches tend to show that the Turkey is a native of America, as it is found wild in Mexico, and was domesticated by the American Indians long before the discovery of America. The common domestic Turkey, belonging to the genus Meleagris, is now reared and fatted throughout this and other countries, the largest and best coming from Nor- folk, Suffolk, and Cambridgeshire. Turkeys are in season from September to March, and Turkey-poults from March to June. Old male birds, called “ stags,” are in season Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 645 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. at any time, but as they only answer for a certain kind of cooking, they are not much valued by artistic cooks. The flesh of the hen Turkey, which is a smaller bird than the cock, is considered the more delicate and flavoursome. A full-grown Turkey will weigh from 81b. to 121b., and is prepared for cooking as follows: Pluck the feathers the opposite way to which they are lying, using a knife to remove the pin feathers, and singe off all the down with a piece of lighted brown paper. Chop off the head, and should the Turkey be for roasting, slip the skin back from the neck, and chop oft the neck close to the body, leaving skin enough to fold over on to the back. Take out the windpipe, pull ' the crop away from the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off close to the opening into the body, taking care not to injure the skin. The crop) should always be pulled out from the end of the neck rather than through a cut in the skin, which will have to be sewn up if made. Cut through the skin at about 2in. below the leg joint, bend the leg at the cut by pressing it on to the table or board, and break off the bone. Pull out the tendons—which must never be cut—one at a time, pushing a finger under them; or they may be taken out all at once by holding the foot of the bird in a door and pulling the leg, when | the tendons will come out with the foot. The great advantage gained by cutting the leg below the joint is that there is more length of bone left for tying, and after the bird has been cooked these extra pieces of bone can be easily removed, leaving a clean unburnt joint. Cut out the oil bag at the tail, and remove the inside. There is some difference in the methods adopted of trussing a Turkey for roasting or braising, and boiling. For roasting, the same process as that described under trussing poultry is employed. For braising or boiling, trussing differs from the former in that the legs are tucked under the apron as follows : Singe and draw the bird, cut the legs, off at the first joint, pass the finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs and tuck them under the apron of the bird (see Fig. 892). Pass a skewer through the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and Fig. 892. Trussing a Turkey for Boiling. the other leg and wing. Clean the liven and gizzard, and tuck them in with the pinions. Turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and fasten some twine over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. When larded and trussed, a good fat bird should present the appearance shown in Fig. 893. Turkeys are often boned for making galantines or preparing other dishes 5n which the meat of the Turkey without the skeleton is preferred. In some of the follow- ing receipts the boning of the Turkey is prescribed, and the following is the mode of procedure: The skin of the Turkey for boning must not be broken or in the slightest way damaged, otherwise the effect will be spoilt. Pluck and singe the bird, chop off the head, the lower joints of the legs, and the tips of the wings, Turkeys—continued. and draw out the tendons from the legs, loosening the skin round the drumstick. The Turkey must not be drawn before boning. Place the bird on its breast on a board, and with a sharp boning-knife make a cut through the skin of the neck to the middle of the back or near the junction of the side bone. Scrape away the flesh with the skin until the end of the shoulder-blade is reached, ease the flesh from this, and continue to follow the bone to the shoulder joint down to the middle joint in the wing. Great care must be taken at this part, as the skin lies very near the bone. The lower or first bone should be left in the wing, as it is not in the way of carving, and helps to form the bird into shape. Should the Turkey be small, the wings may be chopped off at the middle joint, as there is very little meat on them. Serve the other wing in the same way, and then follow the collar-bone, from the wing down to the breast bone, loosening the crop from the flesh. Care again must be taken in re- moving the flesh from the breast bone not to cut through the skin on the ridge; it should be pushed away with the fingers, and the pieces that are detached from the other flesh can be inserted in their places afterwards. As soon as the breast bone is cleared of meat, take off that from the ribs, then take it from the legs at the top joint, then the drumsticks, turning the flesh inside-out as if pulling off a glove from a finger. When both of the legs have been boned, scrape down to the end of the back bone, and cut through the bone, leaving a part of it in the tail to hold the skewers. Now separate the membrane under the body, and all the flesh should be in the skin, while the skeleton containing the inside can be pulled away at the neck. Aspic of Turkey.—Truss a Turkey as for roasting, stuff it with a well seasoned bread stuffing, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit or roasting jack, and roast it in front of a clear fire. Ten minutes before taking the bird up, remove the sheet of paper and brown it. When cooked, leave it till cold. Cut the legs of the Turkey off at the first joint, and fix a Truffle on each drumstick. Cut the two fillets off' the breast, cut them into slices, and replace them. Brush the bird over with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, put it on a bed of chopped aspic jelly, garnish on both sides with croutons of aspic jelly, put a bunch of watercress at each end, and serve. Baked Boned Turkey.—Cut all the crust from three six- penny loaves of stale bread, and put them in water to soften; grate and sift all the crumb, and then break up the soaked crust very small and mix it with the grated crumb; add 2 table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered sweet marjoram, 2 table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered sweet basil, a bunch of pot herbs chopped fine, ^oz. of mace pounded fine, toz. of cloves pounded fine, two nutmegs grated, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of salt. (The bunch of pot-herbs should be made up of parsley, thyme, and scallions.) Mix these ingredients very well, and then make them into a paste with four beaten eggs. Draw and clean a Turkey, and then bone it. Take a needle and thread, and sew up any tears or cuts that may be found in the skin. Then stuff the Turkey withTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 646 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. the stuffing prepared for it, beginning at the wings, stuffing the body next, and then the thighs. Stuff the bird as hard as possible, and if properly done it will resume its natural shape and look much as it did before tlie bones were removed. Bind it firmly into shape with tape, and bake it for about three hours. If served hot, accompany it with a gravy made of the giblets chopped up and stewed, with some wine and egg added to it; if cold, drop some teaspoonfuls of currant jelly all over it when it is dished, and in the dish round it. Baked Turkey.—(1) Binge, draw, and truss a Turkey, season the inside with salt and cayenne pepper, put it in a baking-pan with the washed liver and gizzard and suffi- cient water to make the gravy, and bake in a quick oven, basting well. When'it begins to brown, dredge it over with Hour, turning it often so that each part can be equally browned. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper. When cooked, cut the liver and gizzard up, put it in a small saucepan with a lump of butter and 1 tablespoonful of cream, and stir it over the lire till hot. Put the Turkey on to a hot dish, first removing the paper from the breast. Skim the fat off the gravy in the baking-pan, and strain it into the saucepan with the gizzard and liver. Pour the gravy over the Turkey, and serve it while very hot. (2) If an old Turkey, wash it thoroughly inside with soda water when it has been singed and emptied, then rinse it in cold water, and plunge the bird into a sauce- pan of boiling water for live minutes. Prepare a stuffing with any scraps of cold meat, stewed giblets, hard-boiled eggs, chopped celery, grated bread- or cracker-crumbs, and loz. of butter, seasoning the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, and stuff' the Turkey with it. Spread a layer of slightly warmed butter over the bird, dust it over with salt and pepper, put it in a baking-dish with 1 pint of broth, and put it in a quick oven. When it begins to brown, dredge it with Hour and baste it, turn- ing often, so that each part may be equally coloured. Fix a sheet of buttered paper over the breast to prevent dryness. When cooked, take the paper off the breast, put the Turkey on a hot dish, sift some browned bread- crumbs over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of either oyster or celery sauce. Baked Turkey a la Turque.—Clean and truss a Turkey. Wash and partially boil 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, then drain it, and mix with it about a dozen chestnuts peeled and cut into small pieces, Jib. of well-washed currants, and 2oz. of blanched and chopped pistachio nuts, seasoning the mixture with salt and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and ground cinnamon. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, and place it over the Hre; when melted, put in the mixture, and stir it over the fire until well incorporated with the butter. Stuff the Turkey with this, sew up the breast, lay it on a baking-dish, and bake it, keeping it well basted with the butter. When cooked, place the bird on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauce- boatful of clear rich gravy. Baked Turkey with Cranberry Jelly.—Singe and draw a wild Turkey, and truss it for roasting, but do not stuff it, as the natural flavour is better without the addition of herbs and seasonings. Cover the breast with thin slices of salt fat pork, then cover the whole upper part of the Turkey with a thick sheet of well-buttered paper. Put in a baking-pan with a little water at the bottom, and bake it for nearly or quite two hours, basting it frequently. Let the water dry out of the pan at last, increase the heat of the oven, take off the paper and slices of pork, and brown the bird quickly. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of brown sauce round it, garnish with chopped cranberry jelly, and serve it with a sauceboatful of brown sauce. Blanquette of Turkey.—(1) Separate the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces, seasoning them with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put the pieces of meat into a saucepan with a small quantity of white sauce, and let it simmer for a few minutes by the side of a gentle fire. When ready, turn the mixture on to a hot Turkeys—continued. dish, garnish it with small slices of fried bacon, and serve. Any cold remains of Turkey can be used for this dish. (2) Cut off all the meat from a cold roasted or boiled Turkey. Pound the bones into small pieces, put them into a small stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them, add a bunch of thyme and parsley, one small onion, and a slice or two of ham or bacon, and set the pan over a gentle fire to boil for forty minutes. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Pass the liquor through a very fine sieve. Season the pieces of Turkey with salt and pepper, put them into a saucepan with ten or twelve button mush- rooms, cover them with the liquor from the bones, and when very hot (but not boiling) pour in 4 dessert-spoon- fuls of cream, well beaten with the yolk of one egg. When rather thick, serve on a hot dish, garnished with toasted sippets of bread. Boiled Boned Turkey a la Royale.—Bone a Turkey and save the blood that runs from it. Put 21b. of knuckle of veal into a saucepan, with 41b. of gravy beef, a head of celery, one sliced turnip, one sliced carrot, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, two dozen cloves, and a lump of salt. Pour in as much water as will cover the bird when it is put in, and boil for two hours, adding more water occasionally to keep up the original quantity. Clean the liver, heart, lungs, and gizzard, and chop them; mix with them Jib. of chopped veal, the same quantity of bacon, eighteen or twenty shallots, and a heart of celery, all chopped, and season with parsley, thyme, pounded cloves, allspice, pepper, and salt; then add 1 teacupful of button-mushrooms, and stir in the blood of the Turkey. Cover the bird with half of the forcemeat, then put on it some narrow strips of bacon, some sliced truffles, and the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, and cover them with the rest of the forcemeat. Roll and sew the Turkey up, and wrap it in a cloth, fastening it securely at the ends. Strain the broth into another stewpan, mix with it 4 pint of white wine, put in the bird, and boil it gently for three hours. When cooked, take the Turkey out, remove the cloth, put the bird in a deep Fig. 894. Boiled Boned Turkey a la Royale. dish, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve over it, and leave it till cold. Serve on a raised dish garnished with parsley (see Fig. 894). The foregoing makes a capital dish for breakfast or supper. Boiled Turkey.—Singe and draw a Turkey, and truss it as for boiling. Wrap the bird in a cloth, put it in a saucepan with plenty of hot water, and remove the scum as it rises to the top; when the water boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer from one hour-and a-half to one hour and-three-quarters! according to the size of the bird. When cooked, drain the Turkey, remove the cloth, put it on a hot dish, pour a small quail tity of parsley-and-butter over it, and serve with a sauce- boatful of the sauce. Boiled Turkey a l’Americaine.—Serve a boiled Turkey as for A. l’Anglaise, garnishing it with half a head of cooked and hot cauliflower, one good-sized cooked carrot cut in slices, and six cooked small onions, all neatly arranged round the dish, with J pint of hot German sauce in a sauceboat.647 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <lcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. Boiled Turkey a l’Anglaise.—Take a very fine tender Turkey of about 5lb. weight, singe and draw it, and truss with a needle from the wing to the leg. Put it into the soup pot, cook for one hour, and remove to a hot dish. Decorate the dish with 1 pint of cooked spinach a l’Anglaise and six slices of hot cooked lean ham. Serve with \ breakfast- cupful of hot broth poured over the Turkey so as to keep it moist. Boiled Turkey a 1’Ecarlate.—Singe and draw a Turkey, and stuff it with a mixture of breadcrumbs and chopped beef-suet, highly seasoned. Truss the bird as for boiling, put it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small bunch of fresh celery leaves, and a few cloves and pepper- corns. Pour in sufficient hot broth and toppings to reach the top of the bird, boil it up, cover the Turkey with a sheet of buttered paper, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, put on the lid, and keep the liquor simmering gently for two hours. Boil two pickled ox-tongues, and put them on the fire so that they may be cooked at the same time as the Turkey. When cooked, drain the tongues and Tqrkey, and remove the string from the bird. Take 1 pint of the cooking liquor of the Turkey, skim off the fat, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stew- pan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Mix a liaison of three yolks of eggs with the sauce, stir it by the side of the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. Put the Turkey on a hot dish, ornament the breast with tarragon-leaves, garnish it with slices of tongue that have been cut off the thickest parts, and pour over a little rich gravy. Serve the Turkey with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Turkey with. Celery Sauce.—(1) Singe, draw, and truss a fine, fat Turkey, wrap it up in slices of bacon, put it in a saucepan with the juice of a lemon, a small lump of butter, a piece of salt, and sufficient water to cover it, and boil it. Cut the stalks off some heads of celery, q>eel the heads and wash them well, blanch them, and stew them in a blanc (see Blanc) for vegetables. When tender, drain the heads of celery, cut them into pieces about lin. or ljin. long, and put them into some hot bechamel sauce. When the Turkey is cooked, drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve it. (2) Prepared the same as for A l'Anglaise, substi- tuting 1 pint of hot celery sauce, served in a sauceboat, in lieu of the hot broth poured over. (3) Prepare as for Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce, substituting celery, washed and chopped up, for the oysters, both in the stuffing and in the sauce, and taking care that the celery used for the sauce is very white and tender. (4) Singe and draw a Turkey, wash it inside and out in warm water, dry it, and rub it over well with lemon- juice. Put 3oz. of butter into a large saucepan, melt it, then put in the Turkey, with two or three small onions two sliced carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs including a few sprigs of parsley, half a blade of mace, a few pepper- corns, three or four cloves, and a small lump of salt. Pour in sufficient boiling water to cover the bird, and boil it over a gentle fire, removing the scum as it rises to the top. Prepare the sauce as follows: Procure two large white heads of celery, trim them, wash thoroughly, and cut them into convenient lengths ; put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns, and boil them. When very tender, drain the celery well, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire to mix them; next put in the celery, and bring it to the desired con- sistency with milk, stirring it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Turkey with Egg Sauce.—The same as for a l’Anglaise, serving with 1 pint of hot egg sauce separately. Boiled Turkey with Oysters.—Prepare and truss a nice hen Turkey for boiling. Blanch a sufficient quantity Turkeys—continued. of oysters in their own liquor, then beard them, and stuff the Turkey with them. Procure a stone jar with a tightly-fitting lid that Mull just hold the Turkey, put in the bird, put on the lid, solder round the edges of the jar with a flour-and-water paste to keep it perfectly air- tight, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for an-hour-and-a-half. At the end of that time remove the lid of the jar, and strain whatever liquor may be in it into a small stewpan, mixing with it the beaten yolks of two eggs and 1 teacupful of thick cream. Blanch a few oysters in their own liquor, put them into the sauce, and let all simmer for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Place the bird on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce round it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce.—(1) Choose a tender hen Turkey weighing about 7lb., have it carefully plucked, singed, and wiped with a wet towel, cut off the head and feet, and draw it without breaking the intes- tines ; stuff it with equal quantities of stale bread and oysters seasoned with salt and pepper, or truss it un- stuffed. Put it over the fire in sufficient boiling water to cover it, remove all scum as it rises, and boil the Turkey gently for about two hours, or until it is tender. Put the bird on a dish, and serve oyster sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Proceed as for A l’Anglaise, serving with 1 pint of hot oyster sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Singe and draw a Turkey, wash it inside and out in warm water, and rub it all over with lemon-juice. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and put in the bird with a few sliced carrots, two or three onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few' sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, Jib. of butter, moderate quantities of cloves and mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil the Turkey slowdy, removing all the scum as it rises to the top. Prepare the following sauce: Partially boil two dozen oysters in their ovm liquor, then drain them, remove their beards, and cut the oysters into quarters. The liquor should be strained and reserved. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of Hour, and mix them over the fire; then stir in the oyster liquor and sufficient cold milk to make the required quantity of sauce, add half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, and a very small quantity of cayenne pjepper. When the sauce boils, put in the oysters, and leave them until quite hot. Remove the mace and bay-leaf from the sauce, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. When the Turkey is cooked, drain it, place it on a hot dish, and serve with the above sauce. Boiled Turkey Stuffed with Celery.—Wash half a head of celery, chop it very fine, mix 4 heaped breakfast- cupfuls of finely-grated stale breadcrumbs with it, add 1J table-spoonfuls of salt, 4 teaspoonful of pepper, 2oz. of warmed butter, and two beaten eggs, and stir till vrell mixed. Stuff the Turkey with the mixture, sew up the openings, and truss it. Rinse a cloth in cold water, wring it out, and dredge it thickly with flour. Wrap the Turkey in the cloth, tying it securely, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes; then move it to the side and let it simmer. Allow three hours for a Turkey weighing 91b., and twelve minutes for every additional pound. When cooked, drain the bird, put it on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of celery sauce. Boiled Turkey in Yorkshire Style.—Singe a Turkey, cut off the legs, and scald them. Bone the bird without removing the wings. Prepare some veal forcemeat, anil stuff the Turkey with it, leaving room for a boiled tongue, which push down the centre of the forcemeat. Sew up the openings, truss the bird for boiling, inserting the legs in their proper position, and tie it up in a cloth. Put the Turkey in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for one-hour-and-a-half or more, according to the size. When cooked, drain and take the Turkey out of the cloth, put it on a hot dish, pour some white sauce over, and serve it.648 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. Boned Turkey a l’Americaine.—(1) Procure a fine tender young Turkey weighing about 8lh., singe and draw it, neatly wipe the interior, and hone it. Season the inside with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper evenly distributed. Place the bird on a dish, and lay it on the ice-box till wanted. Take ‘2lb. of lean raw veal, 31b. of fresh pork, and Jib. of larding pork, all cut up into small dice-shaped pieces; season with 2 pinches of salt, 1 pinch of white pepper, J saltspoonful each of grated nutmeg and thyme, and mix all well together. Place all in the chopping machine, and chop it exceedingly fine, repeating the process, if necessary, until it is chopped to perfection. Should there be any sinews among the in- gredients, remove them all. Place it on a cold dish, and set it away in the ice to cool until the following is prepared. Have ready Jilt, of the end (red) part of a cooked smoked beef tongue, and eighteen medium-sized truffles, both cut in dice-shaped pieces Jin. square. Take the forcemeat from the ice, and thoroughly mix the tongue and truffles with it, pouring in also 1 wineglassful of madeira wine; J breakfast-cupful of peeled pistachios can be added if liked. Take the Turkey from the ice, spread it on a clean table (skin side downwards), and with a sharp knife cut away even slices from the breast; arrange these on the thin parts, so that the Turkey has an equal thickness all over. Place the forcemeat right in the centre of the bird, column shaped, leaving a clear space of 2in. at each end, and of 4in. at each side. Spread on a table a strong napkin, sprinkling over it a little cold water. Fold up both ends of the Turkey, then both sides, lift and lay it in the centre of the napkin, roll it carefully in this, and tightly tie one end first, then the other. Place it in a large saucepan on the hot range, with the carcass, bones, and trimmings, completely cover with cold water, and place the lid on; when coming to a boil, thoroughly skim it, then add one medium-sized scraped carrot, and one peeled onion with three cloves stuck in, season with 1 pinch of salt, and boil on a moderate fire for fully two-hours-and-a-half. Remove the Turkey with a skimmer, let it cool enough to be easily handled, cut the strings at both ends, roll it over again as before, and tie tightly both ends as before. Lay it in a flat tin pan, placing on the top of it a board the size of the Turkey, and on top of that a weight, leaving the weight on until the Turkey is thoroughly cold, which will take several hours; but avoid placing it in the ice until thoroughly cold. Two days after this it will be ready for use, keeping it in the ice in the same napkin in which it was cooked. (2) Take a young chicken, disjoint it, take off the skin, and remove the bones and tough sinews. Cut the meat from the breast and thighs in long strips, and put them on one side. Prepare the following stuffing: Cut off the remainder of the meat, and chop it up with 1 lb. of raw lean veal, add 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and moisten the whole with boiling stock, seasoning with thyme, salt, and pepper to taste. Take a Turkey, bone it, and fill the legs and wings with the stuffing; put the fillets which were cut off when boning on the skin below the breast, then a layer of forcemeat stuffing, with a little potted ham or tongue put here and there, then a layer of the fillets of chicken previously cut off, next a layer of the stuffing. Tie up the bird into its original shape in a cloth. Put the trimmings of the veal, together with the chicken and Turkey bones, into a saucepan, with sufficient water to cover them, and put it on the fire to boil. When it begins to boil, put the Turkey in a steamer on the top of the saucepan, and let it steam for three hours. When done, take it out, remove the cloth, sprinkle flour and salt over it, and put it in the oven to bake for an hour, when it should be well browned. Let it get cold, put it on a dish, garnish with parsley, jelly, carrots, and beetroots, all cut into various shapes, and serve. Boned Turkey in Aspic Jelly.—The Turkey is prepared and cooked as for Boned Turkey a l’Americaine. Take the liquor in which the bones, &c., were boiled, skim it, and thicken with loz. of gelatine, previously soaked in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Make a brown aspic Turkeys—continued. jelly with veal or chicken stock, and also a dark jelly with beef stock. Put a mould in the ice, and pour in a little of the brown jelly to about Jin. in depth. Let this get hard, and then garnish it with vegetables of different colours cut in pieces, slices of hard-boiled eggs, rings of macaroni, Italian paste, &c., and fasten each piece in its place with a little liquid jelly. When set, pour in a little more of the jelly, and let it harden ; then put in the Turkey, taking care not to break the jelly, and keep- ing the bird in its place with a little more liquid jelly. When it is all hard, fill up the mould with the jelly, adding it very slowly. Let the mould remain on the ice until wanted, when dip it quickly into warm water, and turn the contents out. Put a garnish of the chopped dark jelly round it, with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Braised Larded Turkey.—Prepare and truss an old Turkey. Have ready some large lardons, roll them in salt, pepper, and other finely-powdered spices, and dried sweet herbs, all well mixed together, and lard the Turkey with them. Lay some slices of bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, and put the Turkey on them, together with its feet and two small knuckles of veal, six peeled onions, foul scraped and washed carrots, a small bunch of parsley, a scallion or two, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and three cloves; lay slices of bacon over all, and over that a piece of buttered paper. Pour in 1 qt. of stock, or more if the Turkey be a large one. Set the pan on the fire with ashes on the lid, and simmer for tliree-liours-and-a-half; then remove the pan from the fire, but let the Turkey remain in it for at least half-an-hour. Strain off the liquor, and boil it till it is reduced to one-fourth its original bulk. Break an egg, beat it up in a saucepan, pour the liquor on to it, and beat them well together; if it is not suffi- ciently flavoured, add sweet herbs, parsley, and scallion to it, put it over the fire, and do not cease stirring it till it boils; when it has boiled up, draw it to the side of the stove, lay red-hot ashes on top of the saucepan, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Then strain it through a fine hair sieve, let it stand till cold, and serve it with the Turkey. Braised Larded Turkey with Chestnut Puree.—Singe and draw a small Turkey, break the breast bone, cut the legs at the first joint, and remove the bone to shorten the legs. When the legs have been singed, introduce them into the thighs by the opening of the drumsticks. Finely chop some beef-suet, mix an equal quantity of bread- crumbs with it, stuff the crop of the Turkey with it, and truss the bird with strong string. Set the skin of the breast and legs by singeing, and lard it with bacon. Put some trimmings of bacon and vegetables in a braising- pan, put in the Turkey, moisten it to height with broth, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. When boil- ing, move the pan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and let the broth simmer till the Turkey, which should be constantly basted with its own cooking liquor, is done. Glaze the breast of the bird with a paste-brush, and when nicely browned drain it, and put it on to a hot dish. Mix an equal quantity of white wine with the cooking liquor, skim off the fat, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and boil it quickly till reduced to half glaze. Serve the Turkey with the sauce in a sauceboat and a separate dish of chestnut puree. Braised Turkey.—Draw a Turkey, truss it as for boiling, and stuff it with a chestnut-and-truffle stuffing, which should be made as follows: Peel off the dark skin of a quantity of chestnuts, put them in a saucepan with two bay-leaves, a handful of coriander seeds, a lump of salt, and plenty of water, and boil them; when nearly soft, drain them, and peel off the inner skin. Put lib. of finely-minced bacon and two or three chojiped shallots into a stewpan, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Cut lib. of the chestnuts up into small pieces, put them in with the bacon, add Jib. of truffles, also cut into moderate-sized pieces, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and a moderate quantity each of powdered thyme and marjoram. Stir the mixture over the649 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. fire for two or three minutes longer, then stuff the hinl with it. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, and put in the bird with two or three sliced carrots and onions, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs tied together with a few sprigs of parsley and a bay-leaf; add a few peppercorns and salt to taste, moisten to height with J pint of sherry and clear stock, and cover with a sheet' of buttered paper. Put the lid on the pan, with some hot ashes on it, and place it over a slow fire. Braise the Turkey for about four hours, and when cooked Fig. 895. Braised Turkey'. place it on a hot dish. Strain the cooking liquor into a small saucepan, skim off all the fat, and boil it up again ; then pour it over the bird, garnish round with potato croquettes and Brussels sprouts (see Fig. 895), and serve. Braised Turkey Studded with Truffles.—Singe and draw a Turkey, cut off the claws at the first joints, stuff it with breadcrumb stuffing, truss it, and singe it over to set the flesh. Stud the bird with two rows of squares of raw truffles down each side of the breast, and one row on the thick part of each leg, dust it over with salt, cover it with thin rashers of bacon, then wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and fasten it securely with fine twine or thread. Put it in a braising-pan with some sliced vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in to half its height some unskimmed broth, put the cover on the pan, and braise the Turkey over a slow fire, keeping it rather underdone. Prepare and cook some truffles, cocks’ combs and small Turkey forcemeat quenelles as for garnish. When the Turkey is cooked, drain oft' the cooking stock, passing it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, skim it, and boil it till somewhat reduced with some trimmings of truffles. Untrass the bird, put it on a hot dish, and garnish it with the cocks’ combs, truffles, and quenelles, arranging them in groups (see Fig. 896). Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, pour a small quantity of it over the Turkey, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Braised Turkey Stuffed with Truffles.—Singe and draw a fat hen Turkey, cut the neck off, leaving the crop skin as long as possible, scald the feet, and rub off the skin. Peel 31b. of truffles, and cut them into small balls. Put 1 Jib. of grated fat bacon into a frying-pan, put in two shallots, three bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, and one unpicked clove of garlic, season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry over a slow fire. When cool, strain the melted bacon-fat into a basin, and put in the truffles and half of the truffle trimmings, chopped. Stuff the Turkey with the aliove mixture, and truss it as for boiling. Line a braising-pan with slices of fat bacon, put in the Turkey Turkeys—con tinned. wrapped in a sheet of buttered paper, and cover it with 3 pints of mirepoix and J pint of Madeira. When the liquor boils, move the braising-pan to the side of the fire, put hot ashes on the lid, and braise the Turkey. Make some perigueux sauce, using up the remainder of the truffle trimmings. When cooked, drain the Turkey, untie it, put it on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce over it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Broiled Turkey’s Legs.—Cut the legs off' a cold roasted Turkey, dust them over with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and cut them slightly across with a sharp knife. Squeeze some lemon juice over them, put them on a well-greased gridiron, and broil till nicely browned on both sides over a clear fire. When finished, put the legs on a hot dish, baste them with warmed butter, and serve. Canapes of Turkey.—Cut some thin slices off the breast of a cold cooked Turkey, cut the slices into strips tin. wide, and as long as a slice of bread. Cut some rather thin slices of bread, dip each strip of meat into a thick r6moulade sauce, and lay four on each slice of bread. Put another slice of bread on the top of each, and cut them into fingers, lengthwise with the Turkey. Wrap them separately in pieces of wax paper, and arrange them on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a dish. The paper will prevent the fingers drying, and will keep them fresh for twelve hours or more. Chaudfroid of Turkey.—Cut the flesh off the breast of a large Turkey that has been cooked and cooled, then cut it into thin fillets lengthwise ; trim them to an equal size, dip them in some white chaudfroid sauce, and lay them by the side of each other on a baking-sheet. Leave the fillets till the sauce is cold, then trim them, and coat them with aspic jelly. Have ready a small pyramid shaped out of fat, stuck on a pain-vert, and orna- mented op the top with a vase of fat. Arrange the fillets on the pain-vert, leaning against the pyramid, and garnish the base of them with a circle of chopped jelly. Hollow out some cooked truffles, fill them with a salpifon of poultry that has been thickened with mayonnaise sauce, then arrange them round the base of the pain-vert, and serve. If liked, the fillets of Turkey may be alternated with fillets of pickled tongue that has been coated with red aspic. Devilled Turkey’s Legs.—(1) Cut and trim the legs off a cold cooked Turkey, and season them with salt and pepper. Mix a small quantity of mustard to a paste with some oil, rub the legs in it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning and basting often. When nicely coloured, put the legs on a hot dish, pour a little rich brown gravy over them, and serve. (2) Take the leg of a cold cooked Turkey, gash it over in several places, allowing the knife to touch the bone, and season it well with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. Mix 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 2 teaspoonfuls of flour to a thick smooth paste with cold water, then spread it well over the leg, lay it on a grid- iron, and broil it over a clear fire, turning it. Place the leg on a small hot dish, garnish with a folded napkin or dish paper, and serve. (3) Take the legs of a cold Turkey and score them across and across, making incisions about Jin. deep and about Jin. apart from eacli other. Put 1 heaped teaspoon- ful of dry mustard into a basin, and mix it smoothly with J teacupful of chilli vinegar ; then add 1 teaspoonful each of grated horseradish and braised shallot, a small teaspoon- ful each of caster sugar and chopped chillies, a salt- spoonful each of salt and white pepper, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and the beaten yolk of an egg, and mix all thoroughly. Spread some of the mixture over each of the legs, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When they are done, lay them on a hot dish, pour some clear nicely-flavoured brown gravy round them, and serve. These make a very savoury and easily prepared breakfast dish. (4) Take the leg of a roasted Turkey, score it, put it ou a gridiron, and broil it over a clear fire. Put into a small saucepan a little more than half a teacupful of clear650 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. brown gravy, loz. of butter, 3 table spoonfuls of port wine, 1 table spoonful of lemon-juice, \ table-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and 1 teaspoonful each of chilli vinegar and made mustard, seasoning with cayenne and black pepper in small quantities. Stir this mixture over the lire until hot. When the leg is devilled, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (5) Cut off the legs from one or more Turkeys, singe them slightly over a little ignited spirit, put them into the stock-pot, and boil them for about ten minutes. Take them out and put them on a dish to cool, and when quite cold season them with a pinch of salt, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of cayenne. Pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of Parisienne sauce and sprinkle over £ teaspoon ful of ground mustard. Roll the legs well in this marinade, cover them with finely-sifted breadcrumbs, place them over a moderate fire, and broil them for six minutes on each side. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a teacupful of hot sauce a la diable, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve with any desired garnishing, and sauce in a sauceboat. Devilled Turkey’s Legs and Wings.—Joint the legs and wings, put them on a gridiron, and broil them over a slow but clear fire. Mix 1 table-spoonful of mustard in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of pepper vinegar, adding 1 table spoonful each of celery sauce and acid fruit jelly, and a Fig. 897. Devilled Turkey’s Legs and Wings. little salt and pepper. When done, put the legs and wings on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, sift some finely- grated and browned breadcrumbs over the top (see Fig. 897), and serve. Pillets of Turkey d l'Ecarlate.—Cut out the fillets of a raw Turkey, trim off the skin, and beat them slightly with the blade of a knife; season them with salt, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, put them in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry them, keeping them rather underdone. Leave the fillets till cold, trim them all to the same shape, season them, brush them over with chaudfroid sauce tinged with cochineal, and leave them laid side by side on a baking-dish till the sauce is cold. Fix a pain-vert on a dish, put a sheet of white paper the same size on the top, put a small wood or fat support in the centre, and surround it with a salad mixed with mayonnaise. Arrange the fillets of Turkey in an upright position on the pain-vert, put an attelette with mush rooms, cocks’ combs, and truffles on the top, garnish round Turkeys—continued. the pain-vert with croutons of aspic jelly (see Fig. 898), and serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. Fillets of Turkey a la Milanaise.—Remove the sinewy skin off two breast fillets that have been cut off a small raw Turkey, cut the meat into slices slanting lengthwise, trim them, and beat them lightly. Dip the slices in beaten egg, then in freshly-grated breadcrumbs. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them quickly on both sides till nicely browned. Put a garnish of rice a la Milanaise in the centre of a hot dish; when cooked, arrange the fillets in a circle round it, pour over them the butter in which they were cooked, and serve them. Galantine of Turkey.—(1) Singe and draw a nice plump Turkey, and bone it carefully, trimming off all the ragged pieces. Cut 111), of lean veal and half that quantity of fat bacon into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them till smooth, seasoning with salt and pepper, a small quantity of mixed spices, and powdered sweet herbs to taste. Pass the mixture through a fine hah' sieve. Spread the Turkey open on a table the skin side downwards, dredge it over with salt and pepper, and spread the mixture over it. Cut a few truffles and about ^lb. of boiled tongue into pieces lin. square, and lay them over the pounded meat. Roll the Turkey up, and tie it tightly in a cloth. Put the trimmings of the bird into a large sauce- pan, with some trimmings of bacon, a calf’s foot cut into pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three peeled and sliced carrots and onions, a clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, a blade of mace, and salt to taste. Cover these ingredients with plenty of cold water, and place the pan over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for two-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time strain the liquor and return it to the saucepan; when it boils up again, put in the Turkey, and boil it for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, drain, and place the galantine on a dish; when a little cooled, remove the cloth, tie the galantine up tightly in it again, put another dish over it with a weight on the top, and leave it until quite cold. When ready, take the cloth off the galantine, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in liquid glaze, and leave it until the glaze is cold. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a large oval dish, lay the galantine on it, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. (2) Bone a Turkey and stuff it with forcemeat, roll it to a round shape, tie it in a cloth, and let it simmer till cooked. When cooked, press the Turkey under a weight till cold, still keeping it in the cloth. When cold, remove the cloth, wipe the bird over with a towel dipped in hot water, and place it in a mould a little larger than itself, filling the space round it with half-set aspic jelly, and leaving till set. Dip the mould in tepid water, turn the galantine out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Prepare a large fat white-fleshed Turkey, bone it by splitting down the back, taking care not to injure the flesh and especially the skin, and place it with the skin side downwards on a slab or table. Boil the liver, mince it, mix it up with 21b. of sausage meat, three hard-boiled eggs, two dozen stoned olives, 1 table-spoonful of capers, a few slices of dried tongue, 7>lb. of fat ham, also a smoked German sausage, four peeled truffles, and a pickled gherkin, all cut into slices, and sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg and white pepper. Arrange this mixture over the Turkey, sew it up securely, and put it in a piece of calico, binding it with tape. Put a plate at the bottom of a lined saucepan, place in the Turkey, together with its bones, a calf’s foot in pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, a few peppercorns, two or three cloves, a small clove of garlic, and over the whole a French roll cut in halves. Pour over two bottles of any light wine, such as chablis, and stew for five hours. Take out the Turkey, remove its covering, and wrap it up quickly in a clean one, putting it to cool under a heavy weight. Pour the liquor through a strainer, and let it cool also. On the following day, brush the Turkey with glaze, and put it on a dish. Skim off the fat from the jelly, melt it slowly, stir in the beaten whites and6 51 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. shells of two eggs, boil up once, strain through a flannel bag until clear, and pour it into two basins. Colour half of it with caramel, so as to give it a dark colour, let it set firm, cut it into fancy shapes, decorate the Turkey with it, and serve. Galantine of Turkey with Aspic Jelly.—Singe a Turkey, cut the tips off the legs and pinions, split the skin along the neck nearly as far as the head, then bone the bird completely. Cut some of the flesh off the legs and fillets into small pieces, put them in a basin with double their quantity of blanched bacon and a third of the quantity of ham, cut into small pieces* Season this forcemeat with salt and pepper, and pour 1 teacupful of white wine over it. Break up the backbone of the Turkey, put the pieces into a saucepan with the other bones, the trim mings and some scraps of beef, two boned and blanched calf’s feet, some vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spices to taste. Pour in sufficient white broth to cover them, and boil it up; then skim it, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Finely chop some lean veal, and mix with it an equal quantity of finely-chopped fat bacon; add this to the previously prepared forcemeat, season the mixture with salt and spices, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a tine hair sieve, and then stuff the Turkey with it. Truss the bird to an oblong shape, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it securely at both ends in the middle. Put the Turkey in the boiling stock and boil it gently for two-hours -and-a-half; drain it at the end of that time, take oil' the cloth, rinse it in hot water, tie it on again, and leave the galantine till cool, with a light weight on the toil. Strain the cooking-liquor through a line hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and try a little of it on ice to see if it jellies; if not, mix with it a small quantity of isinglass that has been dissolved in a little water. When nearly cold, strain the liquor into a stewpan, mix with it some chopped lean beef, about 4oz. for each quart of liquor, two eggs, 1 wineglassful of white wine, the same quantity of Madeira, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and 2 table spoonfuls of chervil. Whip the stock over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, put on the lid, and let the contents simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain off the liquor through a jelly-bag, and leave it till beginning to jelly. Put the whites of three eggs into a stewpan, and beat them till frothy; then pour in gradually the jelly and 1 wineglassful of Madeira, add a few cloves, and whisk it over the fire till boiling; then move the stewpan to the side at once, put some hot ashes on the lid, and leave it for fifteen minutes. Pass the jelly several times through a jelly-bag till quite clear, then pour it into a mould, stand it on ice, and leave it till cold and set. Take the galantine out of the cloth, trim it, glaze it with a paste-brush, put it on a dish, either whole or cut in slices, garnish it with croutons of the jelly, and serve. Hashed Turkey.—(1) Cut up whatever is left of a roasted Turkey, and put it into a saucepan ; add to it some shallots, mushrooms, truffles, chopped parsley, 2 table- spoonfuls of cullis, a little stock, say about 4 pint, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; then add one pounded anchovy and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Skim off the fat, and serve hot all together. (2) Roll a piece of butter in flour, stir it into a mixture of veal broth and cream till it boils, and then let it boil ten minutes. Cut some cold roasted or boiled Turkey into dice, and when the sauce has boiled ten minutes, draw it to the side of the fire and put in the dice, together with a little grated lemon-peel, pepper, pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup, and an oyster or two. Let it just simmer, and then serve. , (3) Remove the skin and bones from a cold roasted Turkey, and chop it rather fine ; mix with it any cold stuffing and gravy on hand, or hot water enough to moisten it, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and any powdered herb except sage. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, put in the hash, set the pan over the fire, and stir until Turkeys—continued. it is very hot. Just before the hash is done, poach three or four eggs, by breaking them into boiling salted water; as soon as the hash is taken up, put the poached eggs on it, and serve at once; or it may be served without the poached eggs. (4) Cut the legs off' a cold roasted Turkey, score them, season them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear fire. Cut the white flesh of the Turkey into thin slices. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in gradually 4 pint of gravy, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, season with salt and pepper, and add the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon. Put in the thin slices of Turkey, and heat them over a slow fire, shaking the saucepan occasionally. When hot, turn the Turkey with the gravy on to a hot dish, put the broiled legs on the top, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Hashed Turkey a la Bechamel.—The same as for Hashed Turkey a la Royale, omitting the trufHe and bread croutons, and serving with chopped parsley strewed over. Hashed Turkey a la Creme.—This is prepared the same as for Hashed Turkey a la Royale, substituting 1 pint of cold cream and 1 table spoonful of butter for the bechamel sauce, omitting the truffles and pate de foie gras, and reducing the cream with the hash to one half, which will take from four to five minutes. Pour the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. Hashed Turkey a la Polonaise.—Prepare the same as for Hashed Turkey a la Royale, only serving with six poached eggs and six heart shaped croutons instead of the truffles and pate de foie gras. Hashed Turkey a la Royale. -Take 1411). of nice-shaped pieces of cooked Turkey, place them in a saucepan with 1 pint of bechamel sauce, 3 table spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, and two truffles cut in square pieces. Season with 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and 4 pinch of nutmeg, and heat all together for ten minutes; then serve with six heart-shaped pieces of bread, covered lightly with pate de foie gras for garnish. Legs of Turkey a l'ltalienne.—Bone four large legs of Turkey, keeping the skin as long as possible, and leaving a small piece of bone at the end of each; stuff the legs with chicken forcemeat that has been mixed with a small quantity of chopped cooked truffles and ham, roll them to the shape of ballotines, sew them up, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, and boil them in white stock. When cooked, drain the legs, and leave them till cooled with a light weight on the top. Boil the cooking-liquor till reduced, untruss the legs, carve them, put them in the re- duced liquor, and warm them gently. Drain the legs, coat them thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb, baste them with a little warmed butter, and put them in a quick oven to brown. Fix a ruffle on each bone, arrange the ballotines on a bed of rice that has been prepared as for garnish and placed on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of reduced and slightly thickened brown sauce. Mayonnaise of Turkey with Aspic Jelly.—Cut the breast of a cooked Turkey into slices, then cut them again into shapes all alike. Make some mayonnaise sauce with lemon - juice, and mix with it nearly its quantity of just melted Fm. 899. Mayonnaise op Turkey with Aspic Jelly. aspic jelly. Coat the pieces of Turkey with the mayonnaise jelly, put them on a dish, and stand it on ice. Finely chop a boiled beetroot, and chop some parsley. Take the slices of Turkey on a fork, and when the jelly has firmly652 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued: set, dip the upper side lightly into the chopped parsley, then into the beetroot. Arrange them on a dish, the parsley side upwards, against a pile of shred lettuces, garnish with small neat sprays of watercress and chopped aspic (see Fig. 899), and serve. Minced Turkey with. Poached Egg's.—Singe and draw a Turkey weighing about 81b., boil it gently till cooked, then drain it and leave it till cooled. Cut all the flesh off the bones, chop it finely, and mix with it 2 breakfast- cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumb. Put the bones and trimmings of the Turkey into a saucepan with an onion and 3qts. of clear broth, boil the liquid quickly till re- duced to half its former quantity, and then strain it. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with ] table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned; then stir in gradually the strained broth, season it with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then put in the minced Turkey and breadcrumbs, and continue stirring till all is hot through. Take the mince up in breakfast-cup- fuls, flatten it, turn it out on to a hot dish, put a poached egg on each mound, and serve. Paupiettes of Turkey.—Skin and bone the pinions of a Turkey, and remove the two fillets; cut the flesh into slices, beat them lightly, and trim them to a square shape. Lard the meat at one end and on one side only with thin strips of bacon, and coat the other side with a thin layer of forcemeat and fine herbs. Roll the pieces of Turkey into the shape of paupiettes, keeping the forcemeat inside, and tie them round with twine. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the paupiettes with some vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in clarified broth to half their height, and cover with slices of bacon. Boil the liquid till reduced to half its original quantity, then move the stew- pan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and cook the contents for fifteen minutes longer. Take the bacon out of the stewpan, put some more hot ashes on the lid, and braise the paupiettes. When glazed, trim the paupiettes evenly at both ends, and put them into another stewpan. Mix with the cooking-liquor an equal quantity of white wine, boil and strain it, skim off the fat, and mix with the liquor a few trimmings of truffles and H breakfast-cupfuls of reduced veloute sauce. Boil the sauce quickly till sufficiently reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Make some forcemeat with the trimmings of the fillets, mould it into quenelles, and poach them in salted water. Chop an onion, put it in a stewpan with a little melted fat and 14oz. of well washed and drained rice, and stir it over the fire for eight or ten minutes; then pour in plenty of broth, and cook the rice till soft. When cooked, mix some finely-shred cooked truffles with the rice, Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese, 5oz. of butter, and \ teacupful of tomato sauce. Prepare a paste croustade, fix it on a hot dish, fill it with the rice mixture, arrange the paupiettes in an upright circle on the top, fill the hollow with rice, stand the quenelles in an up- right position all round it, and put a large truffle in the centre, with a smaller one on each side of the paupiettes. Brush the quenelles over with some of the sauce, and serve with the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat. Potted Turkey.—Draw and singe a Turkey, and bone it. Cut the flesh off the thighs, trim off' all the sinews, and chop it finely. Chop lib. of fat bacon and i-lb. of lean veal, mix them with the chopped Turkey-flesh, season with salt and spices, and pound the whole in a mortar. Lard the breast of the Turkey with the seasoned strips of fat bacon. Put a layer of the pounded mixture or forcemeat at the bottom of a potting-jar. Spread out the Turkey, skin downwards, dust it over with spices and salt, cover the inside with a layer of forcemeat, roll the bird up, put it in the jar, spread the remaining forcemeat over it, put some thin rashers of fat bacon and a bay- leaf on the top, and place the cover on the jar. Stand the jar in a large stewpan, pour in water to about a third of its height, put the stewpan in the oven, and cook the Turkey for about three hours. When cooked, take the jar out of the oven, leave it till cold, then cover the con- Turkeys—continued. tents with a layer of poultry-dripping. The Turkey should not be served till two days after it has been potted. Pulled Turkey.—(1) Pull the meat from the breast of a cold Turkey with a fork, put the meat in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy and 2 table spoonfuls of cream, add a piece of butter, dredge in a little flour, season with salt and grated nutmeg, and stir the mixture over the fire till hot. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Steep a blade of mace in gills of milk. Take the remains of a boiled or roasted Turkey that has a leg left on it, cut the leg off, and lay it aside. Pull the white meat from the bones with a fork, so that it conies away in fine strips. Take the mace from the milk in which it has been steeping, put the milk in a saucepan, mix smoothly into it 1 dessert spoonful of flour, stir it till it boils, and let it boil for ten minutes; put the strips of white meat into this, and place it where it will keep hot, but do not let it boil after the meat is put in. Joint and grill the leg, put it on a hot dish, pour over it the contents of the saucepan, and garnish with little rolls of toasted bacon. Roasted Turkey.—(1) Remove all feathers from the Turkey, singe it, and wipe it all over with a wet towel. Lay the bird on its breast, and cut down the middle of its back in a straight line; then, cutting from the neck downwards, and keeping the knife-blade close to the carcase, find the joints which unite the wings to the body, and disjoint them, leaving the bones in the legs. Free the carcase of the Turkey entirely from the flesh, taking care not to cut through the outer skin of the bird, especially along the front of the breast-bone. When all the flesh has been taken from the bones in this way, lay it skin downwards upon the table, and season it with salt and pepper. Remove the gall from the liver, and place the liver on the skin of the neck, from which the crop has been re- moved. Lay some oyster forcemeat on the flesh of the bird, draw the skin together at the back, and sew it with large stitches, taking care that enough forcemeat is used to well fill the body of the Turkey. Truss the bird, with skewers or string, so that its original shape is restored, tie a large thin slice of fat salted pork over the breast, and roast it before an open fire, or bake it in a hot oven (about twenty minutes to lib.), basting every fifteen minutes with the drippings, and seasoning it when browned. If a frothed surface be desired, dredge the Turkey with flour before basting it. When it is done, remove the skewers or strings which hold it in shape, and serve it with gravy made from the drippings in the pan ; the giblets should be boiled till tender, then chopped and added to the gravy. Serve celery with the Turkey. (2) Singe and draw the bird, leaving the skin of the crop long enough to turn over the back. Stuff it with veal stuffing or sausage-meat, and fasten the skin of the neck over the back with a skewer; then run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh, through the body, passing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. Clean the gizzard and liver, and tuck them between the pinions, turning the points of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it firmly. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, fix the bird on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it frequently with butter. When the Turkey is nearly done, remove the paper from the breast, dust it over with flour, and baste it with butter till brown. Divide some sausage-653 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. meat or veal forcemeat, whichever is used for the stuffing, into small balls, and fry them till nicely browned in boiling fat. Also prepare some bread sauce and rich brown gravy. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish with paper frills on the leg-bones, pour the gravy over it, garnish it with the balls (see Fig. 900), and serve with the bread sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Prepare a stuffing of the giblets blanched and cleaned, a little of the liver, and some ham and truffles; put all when minced into a saucepan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich stock, 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of red wine, and a seasoning of thyme, bay-leaf, sweet herbs, and various spices. Cook these slowly over a moderate lire for forty- five minutes, then turn the whole out of the pan, and let it get quite cold. Stuff' the bird with this, fasten it up, truss it, and let it hang for two or three days. Lard the breast with fine lardoons, put it on a spit, cover the breast with well-buttered paper, and roast it in the oven or before the fire. Take off the paper when the bird is nearly done. When ready, place the bird on a hot dish, and serve with truffle sauce. Roasted Turkey a la Financiere.—Prepare the bird as for roasting; season the interior with l teaspoonful of finely- chopped thyme and parsley, and a small quantity of powdered mace, pepper, and salt. Stuff the bird with veal forcemeat, make an incision down each side of the breast, and fill them with washed and sliced green truffles. Put the bird in a deep dish, dust a small quantity of cayenne jiepper over it, and let it soak in wine for twelve hours. At the end of that time, fasten a sheet of buttered paper over the bird, and roast it in front of a clear brisk fire from an-hour and a-half to two hours, according to the size of the bird. Baste it with the wine in which it marinaded till half cooked, then continue basting it with butter. Put the remainder of the wine in a saucepan with 1 break fast-cupful of rich brown gravy, 1 table-spoonful of Indian soy, and the strained juice of one lemon, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. When boiling, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering gently for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the Turkey up, remove the buttered paper, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Roasted Turkey with Cranberry Sauce.—Small fat hen Turkeys are the best for roasting, as the largest Turkeys are tough unless boiled beforehand. Singe and draw the bird, truss it with the legs in the body and the wings bent under the back, and fix it on a spit; put in the dripping-pan under- neath 1 table-spoonful of salt, some trimmings of beef, and some dripping, and roast the Turkey in front of a clear lire, basting it constantly with the contents of the dripping-pan. When beginning to brown, cover the Turkey with a sheet of buttered paper to prevent it blistering. Boil the heart and gizzard in water; when cooked, drain them, and cut them into small squares. Wash 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cranberries, put them in a saucepan with h pint of water and 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and cook for half an-hour. When soft, mash the berries with a spoon. Take the Turkey up when cooked; skim the fat off the gravy, stand the pan on the fire, pour in 1 breakfast cupful of hot water, and let it boil to dissolve the brown glaze adhering to the pan. Mix 1 table spoonful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in the gravy, and stir it over the fire till thick; then strain it and mix with it the gizzard and heart. Put the Turkey on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of the gravy over it, and serve it with the remainder in a sauceboat, and a sauceboatful of the cranberry sauce. Roasted Turkey Garnished with Black Olives.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey, and stuff it with pickled black olives that have not been stoned. Sew up the open ings of the Turkey, cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When cooked, remove the bacon from the Turkey, and brown it for a few minutes in front of the fire; then put it on a hot dish, garnish round with the bacon, and serve it with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. Roasted Turkey Garnished with Watercress.—Stuff and truss the Turkey, lard it with bacon, fix on a spit, and Turkeys—continued. roast it in front of a clear fire for thirty or forty minutes, according to the size, basting it well with butter. It should be kept rather underdone. When cooked, dredge some salt over the Turkey, remove it from the spit, and put it on a hot dish. Strain the gravy in the dripping-pan over the bird, and serve it with a dish of watercress that has been seasoned with salt and vinegar. Roasted Turkey in Hamburg Style.—Chop very line lib. of lean beef, fib. of beef-suet, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs; then mix them all together, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and bind together with three eggs. Prepare the Turkey, stuff it, truss it for roasting, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on a spit or roasting-jack, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it frequently with butter. When nearly cooked, take the paper off the bird, dredge it over with flour and salt, baste it well with butter, and brown it. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of celery sauce round it, and serve with celery sauce and bread sauce in separate sauceboats. Roasted Turkey Poult.—In the late spring and summer Turkey poults are preferable to the larger and older birds. They may be used as soon as they grow plump and well fleshed. Prepare a Turkey poult for roasting by carefully removing the feathers, then singeing and wiping it with a wet towel; and draw it without breaking the intestines. Thoroughly wash a fresh calf’s tongue, or as many sheep’s tongues as the Turkey will hold, put them inside the Turkey after seasoning it with 1 teaspoonful of salt and a dust of cayenne, and then sew up and truss the bird. Put it before an open fire, and quickly brown it on all sides, turning it frequently. When brown, season it with salt and pepper, basting it with the drippings which flow from it. A Turkey poult of 41b. or oil), will roast in about an hour. At the end of three quarters of an-hour, run a sharp thin knife-blade into the flesh, at the joint where the leg is united to the body, and examine the juice that flows; if it be brownish in colour, the poult is sufficiently cooked, but if the juice be red, the bird is not done. When the poult is nearly done, change the dripping- pan under it; pour nearly all the drippings out of the pan, set it over the fire, stir in a piled table-spoonful of flour, and continue to stir until the flour is brown; then gradually add 1 pint of boiling water, stirring the gravy thus formed until it boils and is quite smooth. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and it is ready for use. When the Turkey poult is done, remove the trussing cords or skewers, and serve it with the gravy. The tongue is carved and served with the poult. Any green salad or fresh tomatoes make a good garnish for the dish. A salad of four oranges, sliced, and dressed with salad-oil and a little cayenne, is exceedingly good with any roast. Roasted Turkey with Sausage-and-Chestnut Stuffing. —Carefully draw a young Turkey that has hung for a short time, wipe the inside with a cloth, and stuff it with sausages and some large chestnuts that have been partly roasted and peeled ; cut the neck off, leaving the skin as long as possible, then stuff the crop with sausages, and sew the skin on to the back; sew up the other opening of the Turkey, truss it, singe it on the breast to set the skin, and lard it with bacon. Fix the bird on a spit, first wrapping it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it continually with butter. Ten minutes before removing the bird from the fire, take the paper off and brown it, seasoning with a little salt. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish; strain the gravy in the dripping-pan, skim oil' the fat, mix a little glaze with it, boil it quickly for two or three minutes, pour it over the bird, and serve. Roasted Turkey Stuffed with Bacon and Truffles.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey. Wash and peel 1 Alb. of truffles, chop them, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Chop and pound an equal quantity of fat bacon, and mix it with the truffles. Stuff the bird with the mixture, cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on a spit or roasting-jack, anil roast it in front of a clear brisk fire, basting it frequently with butter.654 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. Remove the paper when the bird is nearly done, stand it nearer the fire, dredge it over with flour, and haste with butter till nicely browned. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of rich brown gravy over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Roasted Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts.—(1) Singe, draw, and truss the bird as for roasting. Peel fifty chestnuts, blanch them in boiling water till the inner skin can be easily removed, and boil them till soft; then drain and chop them very finely. Empty two marrowbones, and cut the marrow into small pieces ; mix these and the chestnuts together, season the mixture with a little salt, and stuff the Turkey with it. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, fix the bird on a spit or roasting-jack, and roast it in front of a clear brisk fire, basting it continually with butter. When nearly cooked, take the paper off the Turkey, move it nearer to the fire, dredge it over with flour and a little salt, and baste it with butter till frothed and browned. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish, pour a little chest- nut sauce over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy and a sauceboatful of bread sauce. (2) Singe, draw, wash well, and dry a fine tender Turkey weighing from 5lb. to 61b., fill the inside with chestnut stuffing (see No. 1), and truss the bird from the wing to the leg, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt well sprinkled over. Cover the breast with thin slices of larding-pork, and put it to roast in a roasting-pan in a moderate oven for one-hour-and- a-half, basting it occasionally with its own gravy. Take the Turkey out of the oven, untruss it, and dress it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, add 1 gill of broth or consomme, let it just come to the boil, strain it into a bowl, and send to the table in a sauceboat. Should the stuffing be objected to, it may be omitted, and the Turkey will then only require an hour-and-a-quarter to cook. (3) Remove all the sinewy parts from lOoz. of fillet of veal; ! chop the meat with lib. of fat bacon, season it with salt and spices, put it in a mortar, and pound it well, pouring in gradually at the same time 1 teacupful of broth. Turn the pounded mixture into a basin, and mix with it about three dozen roasted and peeled chestnuts. Singe and draw the Turkey, cut off the neck, leaving as much of the skin of the crop as possible, truss it, stuff it with the pounded meat and chestnuts, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Ten minutes before the bird is done, remove the paper, baste the bird well, dredging a little flour and salt over it, and brown it. When cooked, remove the strings and put the Turkey on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over the bird, and serve. Roasted Turkey Stuffed with Oysters (American).—Pre- pare the bird as for roasting. Crumble sufficient stale bread to make 4 breakfast-cupfuls, and mix with it an equal quantity of crushed oyster cakes. Warm 41b. of butter, and stir it in with the breadcrumbs, with the liquor from four dozen oysters and two beaten eggs. Put in the four dozen oysters, season the mixture to taste, then stuff the Turkey with it, putting it in loosely, so that the crumbs may absorb the gravy. Cover the bird with a thickly-buttered sheet of paper, fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it well with butter. Ten minutes before removing the bird from the fire, take off the paper, dust it over with flour and salt, and baste it well with butter, to colour it. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish. Prepare some brown sauce with the contents of the dripping pan, pour a small quantity of it round the bird, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Scalloped Turkey.—(1) Cut off all the meat from a boiled or roasted Turkey, and mince it very fine. Crack and break the carcase, put it into a saucepan, together with the fat, skin, and gristle, cover it with cold water, and let it simmer to make the gravy. Grease the inside of a pie- dish, cover the bottom with a layer of breadcrumbs, over this put a layer of minced Turkey, on this lay bits of butter and any bits of stuffing, then a layer of breadcrumbs, and so on till all the minced Turkey is used up. When Turkeys—continued. all the goodness is extracted from the bones, strain the gravy, put it back into the saucepan, and thicken with browned flour. Pour some of this gravy into the pie-dish, and with the remainder of it moisten sufficient fine bread- crumbs to form a smooth paste over the top ; season with a little salt and pepper, and spread the moistened bread- crumbs evenly and rather thickly over the scallop. Lay a dish over all, and bake for half-an-hour; then take the cover off, and when browned, serve. (2) Chop fine about 21b. of cold roasted Turkey, and have ready an equal quantity of forcemeat used for stuffing. Put a layer of the cold meat at the bottom of a pie- dish, cover with the forcemeat, pour over a little rich gravy, and continue in this way until the dish is full. Cover with buttered breadcrumbs, place the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until the surface is brown. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Steamed Turkey.—(1) Rub a boned Turkey with 2 table- spoonfuls of salt and a little pepper, applying it inside only; fill it up with forcemeat, and sew up the back and neck, and lastly the vent. Truss it as if it were entire, and with a strong piece of cotton cloth fasten the bird in firmly, drawing it very tightly at the legs, as this is the broadest part. Put the bird in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam it for three hours. Take it out, put it on a baking-sheet, which should be well buttered, baste it well with butter, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and flour, put it in the oven, and bake for an hour, basting it frequently with its own liquor and a little stock. Take it out, let it get cold, remove the binding, put it on a dish, and serve. (2) Cut the meat off the remains of a cold roasted Turkey into moderate-sized pieces. Put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan with some cold water, season with pepper and salt, and boil them, thus making the stock. Skim the liquor, strain it into another saucepan, put in the pieces of Turkey, with two or three dozen oysters, some button onions, a few chillies, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and let the stew simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Singe, draw, and truss the Turkey, rub the inside with butter, salt, and pepper, fill it with oysters, and sew up the openings. Put the bird on a dish, set it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, put the lid on, and steam it for two-hours and-a-half. When cooked, take it out, and put it on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy in the dish with flour and butter, then mix in some oyster sauce, and boil if up. Mix a small quantity of boiled cream with the sauce to whiten it, then pour it over the Turkey, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (4) Put f ile bird into a stewpan with some turnips, carrots, onions, and celery, all nicely prepared and cut up small; add a bunch of sweet herbs and a seasoning of salt and pepper, barely cover with water, and let it stew as slowly as possible, keeping the stewpan closely covered. Let it stew till tender, and serve hot. Stewed Turkey with Celery.—Clean and truss a hen Turkey as for boiling, stuff’ it with veal forcemeat, put it into a large saucepan with plenty of hot water, ami boil it gently until tender. When the Turkey is done, take half of the cooking liquor and put it into another saucepan with four well-washed heads of celery, and stew them till tender. Take the celery out of the liquor, put in the Turkey, breast downwards, and boil it gently for twenty minutes; then drain it, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot near the fire. Work loz. of butter with 1 table-spoon- ful of flour, put it in the celery liquor, stir it over the fire till boiling, then put in the celery cut up into short lengths, and warm it again. Pour the sauce and celery over the Turkey, and serve. Stewed Turkey with Nouilles.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey with the legs turned in. Melt some bacon-fat in a stewpan, put in the bird, cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, and fry it over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Pour in with the Turkey broth to three parts its height, add two or three small onions, aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 655 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of celery-root, four cloves, and seven or eight peppercorns. Boil the liquor for ten minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and stew the Turkey gently till cooked. Prepare a garnish of nouilles, finishing it with butter and Parmesan cheese, then put it on a hot dish. Remove the string from the Turkey, and put it on the dish with the nouilles. Skim and strain the cooking- liquor, thicken it with tomato sauce, and boil it for a few minutes. Pour a small quantity of the sauce over the bird, and serve it with the remainder in a sauceboat. Stewed Turkey Pinions with Chestnut Puree.—Take out the large wing-bone from some Turkey pinions, and fold the skin over at the end where it has been boned. Put the pinions in a saucepan with hot water, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then drain them, and put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix. When cooked, press the pinions between two plates till cold. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and boil it quickly till reduced; then put in the pinions and glaze them. Arrange the pinions in a circle on a hot dish, glaze them again by brushing them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, fill the centre of the dish with chestnut puree, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted glaze. Stewed Turkey’s Pinions with Sauce Tortue.—Singe the pinions, bone them to the second joint, and press the flesh into the hollow left by the bones. Put the pinions in a saucepan with hot water, stand it over the fire till boiling, then plunge them into cold water, dry them, and pluck them. Blanch and cut Jib. of streaky bacon into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with three small sliced onions, 2oz. of lard, and the pinions. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire till nicely coloured: then drain off the fat, dredge in about 1 table-spoonful of flour, add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, a small I quantity of trimmings of mushrooms, and sufficient white I wine and broth in equal quantities to cover them. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering till the pinions are done. Prepare some small quenelles of veal or chicken force- meat, and poach them; cook about twenty button-mush- rooms, and cut a cooked calf's brain into small equal-sized pieces. When cooked, drain the pinions, skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it into another saucepan, and boil it quickly till somewhat reduced, adding gradu- ally 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and seasoning with 1 pinch of cayenne. Put the pinions, calf’s brains, mushrooms, and quenelles into the sauce, and let them simmer gently for a few minutes; then turn the stew on to a hot dish, sprinkle some chopped gherkins over it, and serve. Stewed Turkey with Wine and Tomato Sauce.— Thoroughly clean and scald the giblets of two Turkeys, drain them, and put the livers on one side; place the remainder of the giblets in a stewpan with some chopped bacon and a thinly sliced onion, dust in a small quantity of pepper and salt, and fry the giblets over a moderate fire till they are set; then add a small bunch of sweet herbs, and pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and sufficient broth to cover them. Boil the giblets till three parts cooked, then drain, trim, and return them to the stewpan. Wash Jib. of best rice, put it in with the giblets, with their strained cooking-liquor, Jib. of raw ham cut into small pieces, and a little under J pint of tomato sauce. When the liquid is boiling, draw the stewpan to the edge of the fire, put the lid on, with some live embers on the top, and let it simmer for half an hour. Pour the stew, when cooked, on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Turkey a la Bourgeoise.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey as for roasting, but do not stuff it, and roast it in front of a clear brisk fire, basting it well with butter till nicely browned. Put a few slices of veal at the bottom of a deep stewpan, put in the Turkey, cover it with slices of bacon, moisten to height with stock or broth, Turkeys—continued. put in a bunch of sweet herbs, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. When cooked, take the Turkey out, and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the bird, and serve. Turkey a la Daube.—A large and rather old Turkey should be used for this dish. Singe and draw the bird, divide it into halves, cutting the sides transversely through the middle. Cut the legs off, and lard them on the thickest part with fillets of ham. Cut off the rest of the bones adhering to the breast, which divide in two lengthwise. Lard the two fillets with raw ham, and season them with salt and spices. Put fib. of chopped fat bacon in an earthenware stockpot, and melt it; put in the body- bones, breast, legs, neck, claws (which should have been scalded and skinned), and the crop (which should have been opened and cut). Toss the above ingredients over a moderate fire for half-an hour, then add a ham-bone, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, one carrot, one onion, and a boned blanched calf’s foot, seasoning with salt and pepper. In putting the articles in the stockpot, they should be arranged so that the vegetables and body- bones are at the bottom. Cover all with slices of bacon, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and white wine to three- fourths the height. When boiling, move the stockpot to the side of the fire, put a sheet of paper over the top, then a deep plate with a little water in it and a weight on the top, in order to concentrate the vapour. Peel and fry about thirty small onions till lightly browned, and when the Turkey is three-parts cooked, put them in. When cooked, put the legs of the Turkey on a hot dish, place the breast on the top, and arrange the giblets and onions all round. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, return it to the saucepan, put in a lump of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till thick. Pour the gravy over the Turkey, and serve. Turkey a la Toulouse.—Peel from 21b. to 31b. of raw truffles.- chop the trimmings with Jib. of fresh bacon, put them in a mortar and pound them, and pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve. Singe and draw the Turkey, stuff it with the pounded mixture, truss it, fasten a sheet of buttered paper round it, fix it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting often with butter. Ten minutes before taking the bird up, remove the paper and let it brown, dusting it over with salt. Put some slices of toast on a hot dish, place the Turkey on them, garnish with roasted quails at each side, and the truffles, seasoned and boiled in white wine, at each end (see Fig. 901), and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Turkey Ballottines.—Clean and bone a Turkey, and stuff’ it with a salpicon of tongue and truffles mixed with Turkey forcemeat. When stuffed, shape the Turkey into a long roll about 2Jin. in diameter, put it in a cloth, secure it at eacli end, and tie it very tightly across in two places with string. Put the Turkey into a stewpan, cover it with mirepoix, and when cooked take it out and let it cool for half-an-hour. Take off the cloth, and cut the Turkey through where the marks of the string are. Put a mound of boiled rice in the middle of a dish, cover it with ravigote butter, stand two of the ballottines on the mound, and put the third one on the top; put choppedTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 656 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifee., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. jelly in the spaces between the pieces of Turkey, garnish with crohtons of jelly round the rice mound, and serve. Turkey Boudins.—Cut the meat off a cold cooked Turkey, chop it finely, and mix with it an equal quantity of breadcrumbs that have been soaked in milk and the same amount of finely-chopped onions. Put the mixture into a mortar, pound it, pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar, and pound it again with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, adding gradually at the same time 1 pint of cream or Jib. of warmed butter. Season the mixture to taste with powdered mace, nutmeg, and salt. Fill some skins, prepared as for sausages, with the mixture, tie up the ends, put the boudins in a saucepan of hot water, and let them simmer gently but do not boil them. When cooked, drain the boudins, and leave them till cold. When ready to serve, prick them lightly with a fork, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Take them out of the paper, and put them on a hot dish. Turkey Breasts a la Chipolata.—Singe, draw, and wipe a fine young Turkey of 61b. weight, and detach the two legs entirely. Place a few pieces of pork-skin in a saucepan, adding one cut-up carrot and onion, and a bouquet garni; lay the breasts of the Turkey over, season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, put on the lid, and cook for about ten minutes to slightly colour. Moisten with 1 pint of broth, and put it into the oven without the lid, letting it cook for forty minutes, and basting it frequently with its own gravy. Arrange the Turkey on a hot dish, and serve with 1 pint of hot chipolata sauce poured over. The stock remaining in the pan may be used for preparing Spanish sauce. Turkey Breasts a la Espagnole.—Proceed as for Turkey Breasts a la Chipolata, but after cooking for twenty minutes only, take the Turkey off', place it in another sauce- pan, and baste it with its own gravy, adding J pint of Spanish sauce. Blanch J pint of chicken or Turkey livers, cut them into two or three pieces, according to their size, and put them into the pan with the Turkey, adding J wine- glassful of Madeira wine. Cook for twenty minutes longer, and serve with the livers placed round the breasts, and the gravy poured over. Turkey Brochettes.—Cut the meat off the breast of a raw Turkey, trim the skin and sinews off the meat, cut it into small equal-sized pieces, put them in a basin, dust some pepper and salt over them, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons, and baste them with oil. In two hours’ time, run some small skewers through the pieces of meat, wrap them in lamb’s caul, and broil them over a clear fire. When cooked, remove the caul, put the meat on a hot dish, and serve. Turkey Croquettes.—Cut the meat oft' the breast of a cold cooked Turkey, trim off the skin and fat, and cut the lean into small squares; put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of rice that has been boiled in broth till dry and of whole grain, sprinkle in 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, and keep it covered. Pour 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a flat stewpan, and boil it till reduced, stining and adding by degrees sufficient melted glaze to bring it to a creamy thickness. Mix 1 table-spoonful of curry powder with a small quantity of milk, stir it into the sauce, then pour the whole over the meat and rice. Stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes, then turn it into a basin and leave it till cool. When firm, divide the mixture into equal quantities with a table-spoon, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs again. Boil some lard in a frying-pan, plunge in the croquettes, and fry them till well and equally browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, put them on a dish-paper or folded table-napkin placed on a hot dish, garnish, and serve. Turkey Custard.—Wash 1J breakfast-cupfuls of the best rice, put it into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil for five minutes ; then drain off the water, and put in 3 pints of milk, Jib. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and the grated peel of two oranges; add J saltspoonful of salt, put Turkeys—continued. the saucepan over a very slow fire, and stir the contents occasionally until the rice is tender. Well wash and dry lib. of currants, and beat the yolks of six eggs. Mix the currants and yolks with the rice, and stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chantilly cream, moving the saucepan off the fire before the eggs are added. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the other ingredients. Butter a dish, line it with a good puff paste, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take the custard out of the oven, brown it lightly under a salamander, unless it is already sufficiently browned, and serve. Turkey Fricandeau.—Bone two or three drumsticks of Turkey, trim them neatly, and lard with thin strips of smoked bacon. Make a sufficient quantity of stuffing to fill up the hollows left by the bones, with grated ham, champignons, and breadcrumbs, season with a small quantity of sweet herbs, grated lemon-neel, salt, and pepper, and bind it with beaten egg. Stuff the drumsticks, levelling the stuffing off neatly with the flat blade of a knife. Lay them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with boiling white stock, and keep them simmering slowly at the side of the fire until tender. They will take about half-an-hour to cook. Meanwhile stew some celery or sea-kale, and make 1 pint of white veloute sauce. When cooked, drain the drumsticks, and brown them under a salamander. Turn the stewed vege- tables on to a hot dish, lay the drumsticks on it, pour their cooking liquor over, first removing the bunch of herbs, pour the veloute sauce round the dish, and serve while very hot. Turkey Fricassee.—Separate the meat from the bones of the remains of some cold cooked Turkey, cut it into small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. -Put 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with a thin strip of lemon-peel, and boil it for five minutes. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour to a paste with a little cold milk, then stir it into the milk in the saucepan, and con- tinue to stir it over the fire for two minutes; then take out the lemon-peel, remove the sauce from the fire, and allow it to cool for a few minutes. Add Joz. of butter to the sauce, put in the cut-up meat, and stir it over the lire till hot. While the Turkey is being warmed up, fry some thin squares of bacon. Turn the Turkey on to a hot dish, arrange the bacon round, and serve. Turkey Patties.—(1) Mince the flesh of some cold cooked remains of Turkey, and season it with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient cream and butter to make it a nice consistency, and stir it over the fire till hot. Butter some small patty pans, line them with paste, fill them with the above mixture, put a paste cover on the top, and trim round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. Bake the patties in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove them from the tins, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve them. (2) Mince some of the white meat of a cooked Turkey, season it with a little salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel, and moisten it with a little cream and a small quantity of butter warmed till quite soft. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, put some of the mince into each, cover with puff paste, and bake. Turkey Pie.—Pick the meat off the remains of some cold roast Turkey, and chop it finely. Put the mince into a saucepan with a small quantity of milk, pounded mace, pepper, and salt, judging the amount by the quantity of meat; thicken it with a little flour that has been worked with butter, and stew it gently for a short time. Line a buttered dish with a good pie-crust, and when the above mixture is cold, pour it over the paste; put a paste cover on the top, moisten and press the edges together, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, the pie can be served either hot or cold. Turkey Pinions au Consomme.—Cut the large wing-bone out of the pinions, fold the skin over at the ends, putTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 657 * Turkeys—continued. them into a saucepan with hot water, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then take the pinions out, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with chicken broth. Boil the pinions gently till cooked, then drain and arrange them on a silver casserole, pour some veal broth over, and serve them. Turkey Pinions a la St. Menehould. —Remove the large bone from eight or ten Turkey pinions, blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with equal quantities of white wine and stock, season with salt, pepper, and 1 pinch of grated nutmeg, and boil gently till cooked ; then take them out. Boil the cooking- liquor till reduced to a creamy consistency, pour it over the pinions, first removing the bunch of herbs, and leave them till cold. Dip the pinions in olive oil, cover them thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them so that they may be equally browned on both sides. Put the pinions on a hot dish, squeeze some lemon-juice over, and serve them. Turkey Pinions with. Chicory.—Take out the large bones of the pinions, blanch them, put them in a saucepan with mirepoix, and cook them. When cooked, arrange the pinions in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a puree of chicory, and serve. Turkey Rechauffe with White Sauce.—Trim away all the skin and bones from any remains of cold cooked Turkey, and cut the meat into small square pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then stir in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and continue stirring until boiling. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and put in the pieces of Turkey. Keep the sauce simmering slowly at the side of the fire until the pieces of Turkey are hot through, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Turkey Salad.—(1) Remove the bones from some cold cooked Turkey, trim off all the skin and thick fat, and cut the meat into long strips and then across, making the smallest possible squares. If celery be in season, procure about two-thirds as much celery as there is Turkey, and cut it in the same way. Lettuce or white cabbage, or a mixture of both, can be used in place of the celery, adding celery salt or extract of celery vinegar. Mix the meat and vegetables together, and season them with pepper and salt. Mix t teacupful of vinegar and A teacupful of salad- oil together, then stir in with the salad. Cover the bottom of a salad-bowl with highly-seasoned mayonnaise, spread the salad on the top of it, and serve. (2) Cut the flesh from a cold roasted Tiukey, trim off the skin and fat, and chop the meat finely. Boil twelve eggs till hard, peel them, remove the whites, and mash the yolks till smooth with 1 table-spoonful of water; then mix the chopped Turkey with it, and A table-spoonful of pounded celery seed, seasoning the mixture to taste with pepper, salt, and mustard. Mix 1 teacupful of olive oil with vinegar to taste. Put the Turkey mixture on a dish, pour the vinegar and oil over it, and serve at once. (3) Trim and chop the meat off a cold roasted Turkey ; mince three slices of lean cooked ham, two bunches of celery, three apples, and four cucumber pickles; then mix all together. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs in a little cream, mix with them Jib. of butter, slightly warmed, 2 teaspoonfuls each of salt, mustard, and pepper, and vinegar to taste. Pour the dressing over the salad, and serve it without delay. (4) Prepare two Turkeys, and boil them till well done ; drain them, separate the meat from the bones, trim off all the skin and fat, and chop it finely. Boil twelve eggs till hard, leave them till cool, and then separate the yolks from the whites; mash the yolks and chop the whites. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of mixed mustard in a dish, pour in a small quantity of salad-oil, and rub it till smooth with a fork; then pour in a little vinegar in which has been dissolved 2 table spoonfuls of salt, and continue pouring in alternately oil and vinegar till 1 pint of the latter and Turkeys—continued. A pint of the former have been used. Pound 3 tea- spoonfuls of celery-seed in a mortar, and cut a large mango into small pieces; mix these and the hard-boiled eggs with the oil and vinegar, add 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and stir till well mixed. Chop as much celery as there is Turkey meat, then mix them together on a dish, pour the dressing over, and serve. Turkey Sandwich.—Finely chop the dark meat of a cold roast Turkey, put it into a saucepan with about 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped celery, season it with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire till hot; then add a soft-boiled egg, and leave it till cool. Cut some slices of bread about Ain. in thickness, toast them on both sides, then split them in two, and butter them inside. Spread a layer of the Turkey mixture on one of them, lay the other side over, and press them gently with the blade of a knife. Cut the sandwiches into halves or quarters, put them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper that has been placed on a dish, and serve them. Turkey Sausage.—Draw a Turkey, cut the skin down the back and round the joints, then pull it off as nearly whole as possible. Separate the meat from the bones, remove all the gristle, chop the meat, then put it in a mortar and pound it. Chop and pound half the quantity of fat bacon, and mix it with the pounded Turkey. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and sage, roll it in the skin of the Turkey, and then in a cloth, fastening this securely at the ends (see Fig. 902). Rut the rolled Turkey into a saucepan with the bones and trimmings, cover it with lightly-seasoned broth, and boil it gently for an hour. When cooked, put the Turkey on a dish, leaving it in the cloth, place another dish on the top, with a weight Fig. 902. Turkey Sausage. on the top of that, and leave it till cold. Remove the cloth from the sausage, cut it into slices, arrange them on a dish, ornament it with chopped aspic jelly and small sprays of parsley, and serve. Turkey Soup.—(1) Remove the meat from the bones of the remains of a cold cooked Turkey, preserving it as whole as possible. Cut the meat off the breasts into collops, and put them on one side; chop the remainder, and pound it with l breakfast-cupful of rice that has been boiled. Cut off the bones of the Turkey’s legs, put them into a saucepan with the giblets and some trimmings of veal, add some carrots, onions, celery, leek, and a bunch of sweet herbs, season with salt, pepper, and cloves, and cover the whole with broth. When the liquid boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for an-hour-and a-half. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, skim off the fat, put it in the pounded meat and rice, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Mix 2 table spoonfuls of curry powder to a smooth paste with a small quantity of broth, then stir it into the saucepan with the other ingredients; move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put. in the Turkey collops, boil it up again so as to make it hot, then pour it into a tureen, and serve. (2) Take the carcase of a cold roasted Turkey, cut all the scraps of meat from it, and mince them fine; mince also any bits of heart, liver, and gizzard that may be left. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a soup-kettle, and set it over the fire to get hot. Peel and slice an onion, and when the butter is hot add the onion to it, together with the minced Turkey-meat and any cold stuffing on VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. tr658 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. hand, and let all these ingredients brown together. When they are brown, stir among them 2 heaped table spoonfuls of Hour, and let that brown also; then pour in 4qts. of boiling water, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 1 level saltspoonful of pepper, stir the soup thoroughly, and put in the carcase of the Turkey without breaking it; cover the soup-kettle, and let the soup cook slowly for at least two hours. Then remove the carcase of the Turkey, and serve the soup hot with all the other ingredients in it. A wineglassful of sherry poured into the tureen containing the soup is a great improvement, but the soup is excellent without it. Turkey-and-Tongue Cromeskies.—Remove the skin and bones from any remains of cold Turkey, cut the meat into small pieces, and cut half the quantity of cold cooked tongue into pieces the same size. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with loz. of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed; then pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and con- tinue stirring until it boils. Put the Turkey and tongue into the saucepan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, turn the mixture on to a dish, spread it out, and let it get cold. Mix 3oz. of flour smoothly with A table-spoonful of salad oil and 1 teacupful of warm water. When quite smooth, stir in with the flour the well frothed white of one egg. When the Turkey-and- tongue mixture is quite cold, divide it into small pieces, each of which roll in a thin square slice of bacon. Put a large lump of clarified fat in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises; then dip the rolls in the batter, drop them in the fat, and fry them for six or seven minutes, turning them about; then take them out of the fat with a slice, and lay them on a sheet of paper to drain. Arrange the cromeskies in a pile on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, garnish them with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Turkey Giblets.—These should always be carefully preserved, as they come in very useful for making sauce or gravy, or they can be used to make dishes by themselves. The old-fashioned system of tucking the gizzard and the liver in the wings when trussing for roasting has been long since condemned by common-sense, they being spoiled by drying and hardening in the cooking. The gizzard, liver, and heart should be put in a pan of water as soon as removed from the interior of the bird. The liver should be well squeezed in the water to disgorge it of its blood, and the heart should be cut open and also disgorged. The gizzard or crop should be cut open, and all the stones and other contents carefully washed out: the thick white lining can then be peeled off. The feet must be scalded and skinned, and any odd pieces of the neck may be also skinned and otherwise cleaned for making gravy. Haricot of Turkey Giblets.—Thoroughly wash and clean some Turkey giblets, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, and let them simmer for a few minutes; then strain them, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, and put them in a stewpan. Put a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs in with the giblets, dust salt and pepper over them, pour in a little good broth, and stew them gently. Peel and wash two or three turnips, and cut them to resemble as nearly as possible heads of garlic; then put them in a saucepan with a little Spanish sauce, and boil them slowly till tender. When the giblets are cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Potted Turkey Livers.—Prepare three or four livers of Turkeys, put them in a stewpan with some very fat bacon, and fry them until they begin to brown; then put in with them one clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, four or five cloves, and J saltspoonful of pepper. Pour in A pint of red wine, and leave the stewpan over the fire until the liquor boils; then move it to the side, and keep the con- tents simmering gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, take the livers out of the stewpan, put them in a mortar with half their quantity of fresh butter, and pound the whole to a smooth paste, adding more seasoning Turkeys—continued. if required. Press the pounded liver into small jars, leaving a space about Jin. at the top, which fill up with clarified butter or Turkey fat. Cover the jars with paper, and tie them down securely with twine. Keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Stewed Turkey Giblets.—(1) Thoroughly wash and clean the giblets of two Turkeys, consisting of neck, pinions, crop, heart, liver, and claws, and wipe them thoroughly on a cloth. Cut a little over Jib. of streaky bacon into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, three small onions, and the giblets, with the ex- ception of the livers. Fry the giblets till nicely browned, then dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and a little pepper and salt. Stir in gradually a small quantity of white wine and sufficient broth to cover the meat, set the stewpan over the fire, and boil the contents for a few minutes, stirring all the time; then move it to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and simmer gently. Blanch about two dozen small onions, and peel and wash an equal quantity of young carrots and turnips. When the giblets are three-parts done, put in the vegetables, season with salt and pepper, add the livers and A wineglassful of brandy, put some live embers on the lid of the stewpan, and finish cooking the contents. When cooked, put the Fig. 903. Stewed Turkey Giblets. meat in the centre of a deep dish, and garnish round the sides with the vegetables (see Fig. 903). Take the bunch of sweet herbs out of the liquor, skim it, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve. (2) Clean and scald some livers and gizzards of* Turkeys, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them over the fire till brown; then put in 5oz. of bacon cut into moderate-sized pieces, and brown them also. Take the giblets and bacon out of the saucepan, dredge in some flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed with the butter; then pour in gradually 1 pint of water, add a bunch of thyme and laurel leaves, one onion stuck with four cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. Put the giblets in the liquor, and when boiling move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. Peel ten or twelve small equal-sized turnips, boil them for fifteen minutes, and then drain them. Put the turnips in the stew, with some sliced carrots and potatoes, chopped celery, and two lumps of sugar. When cooked, skim the fat off the stew, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Turkey Giblets with Turnips.—Clean and blanch a set of Turkey giblets. Divide the neck and gizzard each into four pieces, and cut the pinions and legs in two. Cut Jib. of streaky bacon into slices lin. thick, then divide them into pieces 1 Jin. long; put them into a stew- pan with a pat of butter, and fry till lightly browned. Take the bacon out, put in the giblets, and fry them. Put the bacon back into the stewpan with the giblets, add lib. of turnips cut to the shape of corks, ten button- onions, and loz. of butter. Fry the above ingredients till browned, then put in fifteen peeled potatoes, a bunch of sweet herbs, and lqt. of water ; season with salt and pepper, and let the stew simmer slowly by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Ten minutes before dishing the stew, put in the Turkey livers. When cooked, take the bunch of sweet herbs out of the stew, and skim off the fat. Turn the giblets on to a hot dish, arranging them with the heart, livers, gizzard, and legs in the middle of the dish, put the pieces of neck round them, place the pinions on the top, pour over the remainder of the stew, and serve it.659 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Turkeys—continued. Turkey Giblets au Brochettes.—Remove the gall from the livers of two or three Turkeys, and cut them into moderate- sized squares; split the hearts in two, open and empty the crops, and wash them well in warm water. Run a thread through the crops, put them into a saucepan with some stock, and boil them for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Drain the crops, divide them and trim oft' the hard skin, and cut them into the same sized pieces as the livers. Season the giblets with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, baste them with a small quantity of oil, and mix with them the same quantity of thin squares of bacon as there are crop and liver squares. File the meat on skewers in alternate order, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb, lay them side by side on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them. When nicely browned, put the skewers of giblets on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve them. Turkey Giblets a la Chipolata.—Thoroughly wash and clean some Turkey giblets, then remove the livers, and scald the rest. Put Jib. pf streaky bacon, cut into small pieces, into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and heat it over the fire for a few minutes ; then put in the giblets, season with salt and pepper, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the fat off the giblets, dredge a small quantity of flour over, pour in gradually suilicient broth to cover them, and stir over the fire till boiling; then draw the stewpan a little to the side, and keep the contents simmering. Peel twenty each of small carrots, turnips, and onions, blanch them, and cut them into balls with a vegetable-cutter. In an hour’s time, put the vegetables into the stewpan, with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, half-a-dozen peppercorns, three or four cloves, and a little under 1 wineglassful of cognac ; put some hot ashes on the lid, and finish cooking the contents. Prepare about fifteen small sausages with some chopped onions and gourds; blanch the Turkey livers, and cut them into small pieces. Add the sausages and the livers to the stew half-an-hour before removing it from the lire, and boil them. When cooked, turn the stew into a hot dish, and serve. Turkey Giblet Pie.—Thoroughly clean the giblets of two Turkeys, minus the livers, and blanch them for live minutes ; then drain and trim them. Put Jib. of streaky bacon cut in small pieces into a stewpan with a lump of butter, put in the giblets, sprinkle a little chopped onion over them, season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a slow fire for half-an-hour, turning them about constantly. At the end of that time, pour 1 wineglassful of white wine in with the giblets, and boil till it has evaporated. Put some thin slices of beef at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put in the giblets; blanch the livers, add them, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. Pour about J pint of broth into the stewpan that the giblets were fried in, boil it for five minutes, and skim it; work l table-spoon- ful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of Hour, put it in the broth, and stir it over the fire till thick. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve over the giblets. Grease the edges of the dish with a little butter, line it with a strip of puff paste, moisten it with a little water, cover the meat with a Hat of paste, trim and press the edges together, and notch them round with a knife. Make a hole in the top of the paste cover, ornament it with a design of leaves in paste, then put the pie in a slack oven. In fifteen minutes’ time put a sheet of paper over the pie and bake it for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on another dish, and serve. Turkey Giblet Soup.—Thoroughly clean the giblets of two Turkeys—necks, pinions, and gizzards—blanch them in boiling water, and cut them into moderate-sized pieces. Put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, one onion, one carrot, some trimmings of raw ham, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and fry them over a moderate fire till well set; then dredge in a small quantity of flour, and fry them for a few minutes longer; then stir in gradually 3 pints of broth and h pint of white wine. Continue stirring the liquid till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till the giblets are cooked. Cut the red part of two carrots, Turkeys—continued. one turnip, and a piece of celery-root into small cubes, blanch, and drain them, put them in a saucepan with a little broth, and let them simmer gently till tender. When the meat is done, take it out of the liquor with a skimmer, trim it, and put it in with the vegetables. Strain the cooking-liquor of the vegetables and giblets through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, add A tumblerful of Madeira and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and boil it for fifteen minutes. Put the meat and vegetables into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Turkey Liver Cheese.—Remove the gall from about eight Turkey’s livers, cut them into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with half their quantity of bacon cut into small thin squares, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few parsley- leaves, some finely-chopped mushrooms, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped shallots ; season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a quick fire. Pour in 1J wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and boil it quickly till reduced. Take the frying- pan off the fire, and leave the livers till cool. Put the livers in a mortar with a third of their quantity of panada, pound them, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and break into it one whole egg; then add gradually seven or eight yolks, and work it well with a wooden spoon. Mix a small quantity of melted glaze with the forcemeat and 3 table-spoonfuls of truffles, cut into small squares. Rutter a cylinder-mould, fill it with the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water to half its height, put the lid on the saucepan with some live embers on it, and let the water simmer gently for three-quarters-of an-hour. When the mixture is firm to the touch, take the saucepan right oft' the fire, and leave the mould in the water for three-quarters-of-an-hour ; then take it out, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a hot dish. Pour some brown sauce, that has been reduced with 1 wineglassful of white wine, round the pain, and serve it. TURKISH CAKES.—See Cakes. TURKISH CROQUETTES.—.See Croquettes. TURKISH PILAU.—See Pilau. TURKISH SHERBET.—See Sherbet. TURKISH WINES.—Very few of the grapes grown in Turkey are converted into wine, wine-making being contrary to the doctrines of the Koran. They are there- fore preferred as a table-fruit. TURMERIC.-—The root or root-stock of a Cingalese plant (Curcuma longa). Externally it is of a grayish colour, but internally a deep rich yellow, with a slight aromatic smell and a bitterish acrid taste. When dried and powdered, it forms an ingredient of curry powder. TURNING.—A term used in cookery applying to a plan of cutting vegetables into ornamental shapes, such as olives, dice, corks, discs, &c. With a sharp knife and a little practice this is easily performed, something depending Fig. 904. Position of Hands in Turning. upon the position of the hands (see Fig. 904) and the sharpness of the knife that is used. Some cooks prefer to use knives that are specially made for the purpose, but those who are expert are content with the smallest sized For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 U 2660 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turning—continued. cook’s knife—one that wouM he used for honing. (Further information concerning the cutting of vegetables into patterns and designs will be found under Vegetables. TURNIPS (Fr. Navets; Ger. Ruben; Hal. Napi; Sp. Nabos).—The ancient Greeks and Romans were, accord- ing to history, well acquainted with the Turnip (Brassica Rapa) (see Fig. 905). In the fifteenth century we read that it was one of the principal crops cultivated by the Flemings from whom they were introduced into this country about the middle of the sixteenth century. Wild Turnips are frequently found growing in the corn- fields of England, the bulb being comparatively hard and Fig. 905. Common Turnip. Fig. 906. French Yellow Turnip. woody. By cultivation a comparatively useless root has been converted into a nutritious vegetable. For an account of the culinary uses to which Turnips can be applied, reference must be made to the following receipts. A variety known as the Yellow Turnip (see Fig. 906) has a long and spindle-shaped root, somewhat resembling a carrot. It is much more delicate in flavour than the common Turnip, and is extensively cultivated in France and Germany for use both raw and as a dinner vege- table. Boiled Turnips.—(1) Peel and wash the Turnips, cut them into quarters, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and add 1 table-spoonful of salt to every 2qts. of water, Boil the Turnips till quite tender, then drain them, and they are ready for serving. (2) Peel and slice lqt. of Turnips, and boil them in salted water until they can be mashed; then drain and mash them, season them with salt, pepper, and plenty of butter, stir them over the fire constantly until all the water has evaporated, and serve them. Instead of mash- ing boiled Turnips, they can be cut in dice and heated in white sauce, or milk, or simply with salt, pepper, and butter. Cold boiled Turnips mixed with an equal quantity of potatoes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter, and then fried, make a good dish. Brown Turnip Garnish.—Peel the Turnips, cut them into pieces 2in. long and lin. wide, wash them, blanch them for five minutes in boiling water, and drain them. Put a Turnips—continued. pat of butter into a frying-pan, and melt it without brown- ing; then put in the Turnips, and toss them about over a clear fire for a few minutes till lightly browned. Drain them, put them in a stewpan with some chicken broth, and boil them till tender. Drain them again, and use them for garnish. Fried Turnips with Curd (TURKISH).—Peel and wash the Turnips, cut them into rather thick slices, and boil them in salted water till partly cooked; then let them drain till quite free of water. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it ; dip the slices of' Turnip in flour, then put them in the frying-pan, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Lay the slices in a baking-dish that will bear the heat of the lire, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock over them, and set the pan over a slow fire. In about fifteen minutes’ time take the Turnips off the fire, drain and place them on a hot dish, cover them with dairy curd, pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot butter over them, dust them with salt and pepper, and serve. Glazed Turnips with Gravy.—(1) Peel and wash the Turnips, turn them to a ball shape, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, and drain them. Put 1 small pat of butter in a frying-pan, put in the Turnips, and fry them till lightly browned. Drain them, put them in a stewpan with 1pints of household gravy, season with 1 pinch of sugar anil a small quantity of salt, and keep them simmer- ing gently till tender. Put the Turnips on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (2) Peel and cut into pear shapes twelve equal-sized small white Turnips, parboil them for five minutes, and drain them when done. Butter the bottom of a saute-pan capable of holding them, put them in one beside the other, and let them get a golden colour, adding pint of [lowered sugar. Moisten with \ pint of white broth, and add i pinch of salt and a very small stick of cinnamon. Cover with a buttered paper cut the shape of the pan, and place it in the oven to cook for twenty minutes. When the Turnips are cooked, lift off the paper, and arrange them on a hot dish. Reduce the gravy to a glaze for six minutes, then pour \ gill of broth into the saucepan to loosen the glaze, remove the cinnamon, and pour the sauce over the Turnips. Mashed Turnips.—Peel the Turnips, wash them, cut them into thin slices, put them in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam them for about an hour, or until they are quite tender; then mash them with a small quantity of milk, seasoning with pepper and salt. The above dish is generally served with boiled mutton, in which case they can be steamed over the saucepan in which the mutton is boiling. Pickled Turnips.—Peel as many Turnips as are wanted, cut them crosswise into four pieces each, put them in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them until nearly tender; then take them out and drain them on a colander. Put a moderate quantity of powdered mustard seed in their cooking liquor, and leave it for two or three hours. Lay the Turnips in a stone jar, sweeten the liquor to taste, and strain over them, through a line hair sieve, suffi- cient to half cover them. Fill the jar up with the best white vinegar, and put the lid on, seeing that it is perfectly air- tight. In ten days’ tune the pickle will be ready for use. Stewed Turnips.—(1) Peel, blanch, and drain some Turnips, all of one size. Butter the bottom of a saucepan large enough for the Turnips to be put in side by side, lay them in, pour in some stock, and season with salt, caster sugar, and a stick of cinnamon. When the liquor b.uls, put a sheet of buttered paper on the top, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and cook the Turnips gently. When sufficiently cooked, take the lid off the saucepan, and leave the Turnips in the liquor till cold and glazed ; then put them on a dish. Melt the glaze with a small quantity of stock, take out the cinnamon, pour the sauce over the Turnips, and serve them. (2) Pare and wash the Turnips, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them till tender. Drain andTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 661 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turnips—continued. cut them into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, dust some caster sugar over them, and fry them till brown. When browned, take the Turnips out and put them on a hot dish. Pour in the frying-pan with the butter a little more than l pint of stock, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, season with pepper and salt, and boil it quickly for a few minutes till reduced. Skim the fat oil' the sauce, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, pour it over the Turnips, and serve them. (3) Peel some small new Turnips, cut them in halves, put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and toss them over the fire for two or three minutes. Dust them over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, cover them with clear stock that has been well freed from fat, and add 1 teaspoonful of white sugar. Boil the. Turnips very slowly until they are tender, and serve them on a hot dish with their gravy over them. Stewed Turnips a la Franchise.—Procure small young Turnips, peel them, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them until tender; then take them out of the saucepan. Thicken their liquor with breadcrumbs, season to taste, and stir over the tire for a few minutes; next put in the Turnips again, with the beaten yolk of one egg and 1 teacupful of milk, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for five or six minutes. Turn the Turnips on to a hot dish, garnish them with fried sippets of bread, and serve. Stewed Turnips with Sugar.—Peel some young Turnips, selecting them as nearly as possible of one size, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned. Sprinkle some caster sugar over them, season with a little salt, pour in 1 teacupful of stock, more or less, according to the quantity of Turnips, put the lid on the saucepan, and let them simmer slowly till tender. When cooked, turn the Turnips on to a hot dish, and serve. Stuffed Turnips.—Select the Turnips all of one size, neither too large nor too small, peel them, cut off the tops, and scoop out their insides. Finely chop two onions and enough mutton to fill the Turnips, mix with it 2 table- spoonfuls of well-washed rice, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a small quantity each of pepper and salt, mixing these ingredients well together. Stuff the Turnips with the mixture, replace their tops, thus forming lids, put them in a saucepan, moisten to height with broth, ^ put in a small lump of salt, and stew them gently. When nearly cooked, put in 1 wineglassful of malt vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and finish cooking them. Fig. 907. Stuffed Turnips. Arrange the Turnips tastefully in a group in the centre of a hot dish (see Fig. 907), pour the remainder of their cooking-stock round them, and serve. Turnips a la Creme.—(1) Put three medium-sized cut-up raw Turnips into a saucepan with loz. of butter, anti steam them for thirty minutes ; then add 1 pint of good bechamel sauce, mb through a sieve, and moisten with lqt. of white broth, seasoning with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Heat it while stirring continually, and serve with i; breakfast-cupful of cream beaten into it with two egg yolks. (2) Procure the required quantity of small new Turnips, peel them, and boil them in salted water. When tender, drain off all the water, toss them about over the fire for a minute to dry them as much as possible, then put in loz. of butter and h table-spoonful of flour, ami mix smoothly in a small quantity of cream, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Boil them gently Turnips—continued. for five or ten minutes, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Select small new Turnips, peel them, and boil them until tender in salted water; then turn them on a sieve, and let them drain thoroughly. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with £ table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed smoothly, then stir in 1 breakfast cupful of milk or cream. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil it gently for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Next put in the Turnips, and leave them till hot again. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Turnips au Gratin.—Peel the Turnips, cut them into thin slices, steep them in cold water, then strain them. Butter a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, put in the Turnips, and cover them with grated Parmesan cheese. Prepare a thick white sauce with some milk and stock, mix some grated cheese in it, and stir over the lire till smooth. Pour the sauce over the Turnips, sprinkle grated breadcrumb on the top, put the dish in the oven, and bake till lightly browned. When cooked, serve the gratin in the same dish. Turnips a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peel some young and rather small Turnips, and boil them until tender in salted water. When cooked, put them to drain on a sieve. Place a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan and melt it ; then put in the Turnips, with some finely minced parsley, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss them about over the lire for a few minutes, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Turnip a la Poulette.—Peel and wash the Turnips, trim them to a pear shape, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually sufficient chicken broth to cook the Turnips in. Stir the sauce over the lire till boiling, then put in the Turnips, add 1 pinch of sugar, and let them simmer gently until tender; then take them out with a skimmer, and put them on a hot dish. Mix the beaten yolks of two eggs in the sauce, and stir it by the side of the fire for two or three minutes; then pour it over the Turnips, and serve. Turnips in Batter.—Put Jib. of butter into a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when it has melted, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 pint of milk. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and continue stirring it over the fire until it thickens. Then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled Turnips. Continue stirring the mixture over the lire, and boil it for ten minutes. Cut two slices of bread off a tin-loaf, trim off the crusts, and toast them a golden brown. Butter the toast, cut each piece into quarters, and lay them on a hot dish. Pour the Turnip mixture over them, and serve immediately. Turnips with Cream.—Procure young spring Turnips, peel them, and boil them in salted water; when tender, turn them on to a sieve, and let them drain thoroughly. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with i table-spoonful of flour, and mix smoothly over the fire with 1 teacupful of cream and £ teacupful of milk. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, put in the Turnips, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Put them on a hot dish, pour their sauce over them, and serve. Fig. 908. Turnips for Garnish. Turnips for Garnish.—Peel the Turnips, then cut them to any fancy shape desired, such as corks, balls, discs, &c. (see Fig. 908). Blanch them in boiling water for five662 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c„ referred, to, see under their special heads. Turnips—continued. minutes, leave them till cool, drain, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient broth to cook them in; season with a little salt and sugar, and boil the Turnips till they are sottish. They are then ready for garnish. Turnips Glaces.—Peal some Turnips, and cut them into the shape of small pears; put them in a saucepan with some water and a little salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Turn them on to a sieve, and leave them until thoroughly drained. Melt about loz. of butter in a saucepan, put in the Turnips, strew in plenty of caster sugar, and toss them about over the lire until they begin to colour. Moisten them with a small quantity of broth, season with salt, pepper, and a little powdered cinnamon, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, pile the Turnips on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Turnip Porridge.—Pare and cut up into slices lib. or so of Parsnips, put them on to boil in milk-and-water until tender, strain them on the back of a sieve, throw away the liquor, and nib through the Turnips. Put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, 1 table-spoonful of Hour, 1 gill of cream, and a little sugar, salt, and cayenne pepper ; add the liquor in which they were boiled, warm up, and serve. Turnip Pudding.—Peel the Turnips, ivash them, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then drain them, and cut them into slices. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, melt it, then put in the Turnips, season them with pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar, and toss them over the lire for a few minutes; then pour in some bechamel sauce, and boil them gently till tender. Pass the puree through a line hair sieve, and mix sufficient beaten egg with it to bring it to the proper consistency. Thickly spread the inside of a mould that has a well in the centre, with butter. Fill it with the Turnip mixture, and cook it in a bain-marie. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the hollow in the centre with some fancifully-cut vegetables that have been cooked in bechamel sauce, and serve it. Turnip Puree.—(1) Peel the Turnips, blanch them in boiling water, then plunge them into cold water. Put the Turnips in a saucepan with sufficient chicken broth to cook them in, and boil them gently till tender. When cooked, drain them, mix the crumb of a French roll with them and a lump of butter, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with an equal quantity of bechamel sauce, and boil it till the moisture has somewhat reduced. Pass the puree through the sieve again, mix a lump of flutter and a few table-spoonfuls of thick cream or thickened milk with it, stir it over the fire till the butter has dissolved, and it will be ready for serving. (2) Peel and wash the Turnips, cut them into quarters, and boil them in salted water till tender. Drain them, press them through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix |lb. of butter and 2 table spoonfuls of cream with them, season the mixture with pepper and salt, and if liked a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the puree into a saucepan, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Peel about lib. of Turnips, and blanch them in boiling water; then drain and soak them for an hour in cold water. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed ; then pour in 1| pints of white stock, and continue stir- ring it over the fire until boiling. Drain the Turnips, put them into the stock, season with salt, pepper, and £ teaspoonful of sugar, and let them stew gently until tender. Wash 2oz. of rice and boil it in plenty of water until tender. When the Turnips are cooked, pass them through a fine wire sieve, return them to the saucepan with \ pint more stock, and stir them over the fire until boiling again. When the rice is soft, drain it thoroughly, then turn it into a tureen; mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with the puree, pour it over the rice, and serve at once. Turnip-and-Rice Soup.—Peel and wash some Turnips, and put them in a saucepan with some washed rice, using Turnips—continued. more Turnip than rice. Put in a lump of butter and sufficient water to cook them in, and let them simmer gently until tender. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix in some milk, and season with pepper and salt; stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, and let it simmer for about fifteen minutes; then stir in a lump of butter and \ pint of cream. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plateful of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Turnip Salad.—Peel and wash the Turnips, and put them in a saucepan in which a piece of bacon has boiled for several hours and the amount of water has been reduced. Put the bacon back on the Turnips and boil them till tender. When cooked, mash the Turnips, and put them on a hot dish. Skim the fat oil the liquor, pour it over the salad, lay on it four poached eggs (see Fig. 909), and serve while very hot. Turnip Sauce.—Peel and wash Hlb. of Turnips, cut them into quarters if old, but if young they can be left whole. Boil them in water till tender, then drain them and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put 3oz. of butter and h table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of milk. Stir the milk till it boils, then put in the Turnips, season with 1 saltspoonful of salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and continue stirring the sauce over the fire for three or four minutes. Turn the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve it with whatever dish it was intended for. Turnip Soup.—(1) Peel some Turnips, cut them into little balls with a vegetable.cutter, and blanch them in boiling water for live minutes. Put a chopped onion and leek into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over the lire till lightly browned; then sprinkle in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir in gradually 3qts. of broth. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, add the Turnips and some trimmings of raw ham, and let it simmer till the Turnips are tender. When cooked, strain the liquor oft the Turnips and drain them on a cloth. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan. Sprinkle a little caster sugai ovei the Turnips, and fry them in a little butter till lightly browned. Drain all the fat off the Turnips, put them into the soup, and boil it up again. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it. (2) Boil some Turnips till tender, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix a lump of butter with the puree, and season it with pepper and salt. Put 1 teacupful of sago in a saucepan with 4 pints of clear stock, and boil it "till the sago is cooked ; then stir in the Turnips, and let them simmer for a few minutes. Turn the soup into the tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (3) Put the bone and trimmings of a knuckle ot veal into a saucepan with one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and 3qts. of water; put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer gently foi six hours. Stir in the liquor, leave till cool, then skim oft the fat, and pour it from the sediment at the bottom into a saucepan. Peel and wash six Turnips, cut them into small squares, put them into the saucepan with the soup, season with pepper and salt, and let it boil gently for half an-hour, adding in twenty minutes’ time a small french roll. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a small saucepan, pour in oradually 1 pint of cream, add loz. of butter, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Stir the thickened cream into663 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Turnips—con t inued. the soup, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it •with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (4) Cut about a quarter of a large Turnip into slices, brown them slightly in a little butter, stirring them fre- quently so as to keep them equally coloured, put them into a saucepan with the required quantity of fowl con- somme (about lqt. will he sufficient), and boil for two hours. Rub the Turnips with the broth through a fine sieve, pour in more soup if required, boil up once, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, remove all the scum, add a little moist sugar to very slightly sweeten, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve with pieces of toast separately. Turnips in White Sauce.—Peel the Turnips, wash them, and turn them to any shape required. Put the Turnips in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of butter and a small quantity of salt, and boil them till tender. Drain them on a colander, put them on a hot dish, pour 4 pint of hot white sauce over them, and serve. Turnip-tops.—The young shoots of the field Turnip (see Fig. 910) form a very excellent vegetable in early spring, when fresh cut and used as greens. They have a very pleasant bitter flavour, and are a very good substitute for spinach. Boiled Turnip-tops.—Take young Turnip tops gathered in the spring, wash, and drain them well. Plunge them into plenty of fast boiling water with a small quantity of salt in it, and let them boil for rather more than twenty minutes. Drain them well, and serve either plain or chopped fine and mixed with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of butter. Puree of Turnip-tops.—Thoroughly wash and pick over a quantity of Turnip tops, put them in a saucepan of boil- ing water, anil boil them until they are tender. Turn the greens on to a fine sieve, press them well to extract all the water, and when almost dry rub them through the sieve. Put in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until well incorporated ; then put in the Turnip tops, moisten with a very small quantity of clear gravy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the panic over the fire until very hot, then turn it on to a dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Turnip-tops and Poached Eggs.—Pick the Turnip-tops carefully over, removing the dead leaves; wash the remain- der in plenty of water, put them into a saucepan with a moderate quantity of water, and stew them until tender; then drain them well and rub them through a sieve. Put Hoz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; put in the Turnip-tops, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, and then move them to the side where they will keep hot. Pour some water into a shallow stewpan, put in it some leaves of parsley, a few peppercorns, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of Turnips—continued. vinegar. When the water commences to boil, move it to the side of the fire where it will just simmer, break in carefully as many eggs as will conveniently float on the top, put the lid on the pan, and leave them until cooked. Take the eggs up carefully with a slice, brush them over on each side with a soft paste-brush, and cut them to a uniform size with a round fluted tin cutter. Put the Turnip-tops on a hot dish, pat them down evenly, lay the poached eggs on the top, garnish with small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter (see Fig. 911), and serve quickly. Turnip-top Salad.—Pick out the best of the Turnip-tops, wash them well, and tie them up in bundles. Put them in a saucepan with plenty of salted boiling water, and boil them until tender. When cooked, put them on a sieve in front of the fire to drain thoroughly, then arrange them on a dish. Make a dressing of three parts oil with one part vinegar, season to taste with salt and pepper, beat it well, pour it over the Turnip-tops, and serve. TURNIP BREAD.—See Bread. TURNOVERS.—Pies or tarts made by turning one half of the crust over the other and enclosing the fruit or other material. They are usually of a semicircular shape, the original sheet of paste being circular. Several receipts for these will be found under special headings. TURNSPITS.—A small breed of dogs, having long bodies and short crooked legs. They were at one time trained to work a sort of tread-mill which turned the roasting-spits. The distorted shape of their fore-legs might have been convenient for the purpose, but is not the result of the function required of them. Like a good many other uses or abuses to which dogs were formerly trained, this has received its quietus. TURTLE (Fr. Tortue ; Ger. Schildkrbte).—To the “ Alderman of Bristol ” we are indebted for our first experience of the delights to be found in a dish of Turtle. The city of Bristol appears, by the following lines, written by a Bristol Alderman, to have been at one time more famous than the city of London for its civic gluttony. 1 hate French cooks, but love their wine, On fricassee 1 scorn to dine, And bad’s the best ragout; Let me of claret have my fill, Let me have Turtle to my will In one large mighty stew. All boons in one I ask of fate: At city feasts to eat my weight, And drink enough to swim in. The magic name of Turtle—real Turtle—gave then, and gives now, a sort of royal ring to the menu, which cannot fail to attract the gourmet’s attention. At one time the cost of a Turtle rendered its introduction prohibitory at any but a wealthy feast, it being compulsory to use a whole “ fish,” which would weigh from 601b. to 2001b. Recently Turtle-flesh has been imported after having been dried in the sun, and in this state only so much need be used as may be required for preparing a very small quantity of soup. Several other preparations are also now664 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. introduced into the market, such as preserved Calipash and Calipee, extract of Turtle-meat in bottles, Turtle- green fat in bottles, Turtle-fins in tins, and ready-made soup in glass jars. “ But the preparation of all that indicates the greatest advance in our times,” writes an authority, “is the importation of the sun-dried flesh, for reasons that must be conspicuous to all in anywise interested. Firstly, it is easy of transportation, can be bought iii any quantity, from the smallest to the greatest—from loz. to a ton, so to speak—can be stored away for use as required, and is much simpler of manipulation in the kitchen than is the live fish, or even ‘ angels and from a scientific point of view the flesh should be superior, being caught, killed, and skilfully dried in its native place, so to speak; for, careful and clever as the importer may be, the Turtle-fisli cannot reach this country after a long voyage in as good con- dition as they are caught.” The Green Turtle (see Fig. 912) (Chelonia Midas) comes of a large family which wavers midway between fish and the alligator tribe. It differs from the tortoise in that it is evidently designed for a water life, its limbs being Fig. 912. Green Turtle. shaped like paddles and fins, enabling it to swim with great ease and rapidity. The Turtle is generally im- ported alive into this country, being brought over from Jamaica and the West Indies in large tanks, or lying about the deck, to which they are frequently nailed through the fore-fins. They are caught either on shore or at sea, those on shore coming there for the purpose of laying eggs, which they do three times a year, laying about one or two hundred eggs at a time, covering them over carefully, and leaving them for the sun to hatch. When on shore their motion is so slow and clumsy that Turtle-fishers have no difficulty in turn- ing them on their backs, in which position they remain indefinitely until released by their captors. At sea they are caught by means of strong nets. The following interesting information has been supplied by a gentleman who has been engaged in the Turtle fisheries a great part of his life: “ Where Turtles abound the eggs are relished and eagerly sought after, but, according to all accounts, not quite so easily found, although one lady Turtle will deposit in a single night from one hundred and forty to two hundred eggs in the sand, carefully covering them over before she returns to sea. About a fortnight later on, she returns to the same spot to deposit again, clearing out the sand with her back fins ; and so on about every two or three weeks, to the extent of some four or five visits, eventually making a nest of something like five hundred to eight hundred eggs. So carefully are they covered up again each time that, in spite of their number, it requires an expe- rienced eye to discover them. In appearance these eggs are quite round, as large as a billiard ball, with a flexible white shell. The Orinoco and Amazon Indians are reputed to make quite a little harvest from Turtle eggs in the season, for when the high waters of the Orinoco subside, about the month of February, it is estimated that millions Turtle—continued. of Turtles come ashore to lay. They obtain a very fine, clear, sweet oil from these eggs, which serves the purpose of butter to them. “ A native of Brazil, it is said, will consume as many as twenty or thirty Turtle’s eggs at a meal, and a European, if accounts be true, can swallow a dozen or two for break- fast. They make good omelets when fresh, and the Indians eat them raw, mixed with their cassava-flour. With us they are more familiar taken from the newly- slain Turtle before the parchment-like shell is formed, and in this condition the young eggs consist entirely of yolk; hundreds, in all stages of development, are found, from a pin’s head to full size. Sometimes these imperfectly-formed eggs are dried for use, but more generally the cook uses them up in a dish of soup, or entree.” Turtles, he further informs us, live to a great age, and sometimes grow so large as to weigh nearly a thousand pounds; but any exceeding two hundred pounds are very rarely caught for market, the most convenient size of all weighing from 60ib. to 801b. The object of the Turtle- fisher is to deliver the fish alive, unless it is deter- mined to dry the flesh, a practice that is rapidly increasing as the value of the dried flesh is ascertained. Turtles in captivity very rarely feed. How they keep up their excellent quality in a state of servitude is one of those mysteries unknown to man; but it is generally admitted that a Turtle is materially lightened, and there- fore damaged, by a long voyage. It is said to fret and pine as for the loss of haunts of freedom and its fellows, with whom, however, it is rarely seen. So a Turtle, with its peculiar three eyelids, which, no doubt, gives to it much of its melancholy, love-sick appearance, is spoken of by many as an emblem of suffering love and sacrificial devotion. The popular name “ Green ” Turtle is derived not so much from the above-named amorous-looking peculiarity, for that is common to all, nor from the colour of its external covering, which is mostly a dark olive, passing into dingy white, as from the fat—the lovely green fat— that is so highly prized by epicures. Before dressing a Turtle it is necessary to kill it, unless you prefer those who have succumbed to hardships or hard fate, and are commonly known as “ angels these can be purchased at a very low rate. The Japanese are accredited with the following: They place the Turtle in a pan of water on the fire, cover the pan with a lid, having a hole large enough to allow the Turtle to put its head through, which it does as soon as the water begins to get hot. They then feed it with a mixture of wine-and- flour paste, of which it partakes greedily, probably to lessen the effects of the beat. This operation continues so long as the Turtle has strength enough left to put its head through the hole. It is not necessary to say that such practices are not known in this country, but that the more merciful process of beheading is the rule. The hind fins are tied together ready for hanging up, then, by tickling under the chin, the Turtle can be coaxed into protruding its head, when, by a determined cut direct from the wrist, and with the knife edge entering just behind the head, the deed is done. Then it is hung up by the hind fins all night to bleed into a bucket, and if the Turtle were pretty healthy and lively the head will be found to retain its vitality a long time—even to snapping at a carrot with its jaws, but not to the extent of following you about, as some have said. In the morning the body will be ready for the chef’s attentions, which are as follow: Lay the dead Turtle on its back and take oft’ the fins at the sockets ; cut round the joint, bend so that the knuckle protrudes through the cut, and then sever the ligaments. Next begin to remove the under shell, or calipee, by inserting the knife-point and cutting inwards; do not insert the knife point close to the edge of the under shell, but665 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. as far from it as the soft parts will allow. Press hard upon the shell if the edge is to be used as a guide ; cut away all round, raising the shell, and dissecting so that as much white, or “ chicken ” meat, may be removed as possible; but be careful not to cut into the entrails. When that shell is re moved, the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver, &c., can be taken out and cast into water; in some cases these are not esteemed, but are thrown away. Under the liver is the gall, which must not be wounded, or a quantity of meat, fat, &c., will be spoiled. Look out for the green fat, and collect it carefully from the fin sockets and around the edges of the shell ; but do not be surprised if you do not find any, as some Turtles do not possess it, although good enough otherwise to all intents and purposes ; place that also in cold water for future use. The dark “ beef ” meat or calipash, may next be removed from the back shell, and then the shells are sawn up, and the pieces, together with the head, boiled into stock. It is usually understood that Turtle is a combination of fish (green fat), flesh (calipash), and fowl (calipee), and all these parts have their separate uses and require indi- vidual treatment. The “ fowl ” is used for soups and white entrees, and it takes very little cooking. The “ flesh ” is harder, coarser, and tougher, and makes good steaks, pie, fricandeau, etc. The “ fish ” is prized for the soup. The fins are looked upon by gourmets as next in value to the fat—by some even more highly prized. They have to be scalded and peeled before being used, and then there are several ways of preparing them for serving. The following is given as the West Indian mode of dressing Turtle : A Turtle weighing about 501b. will be required. Hang it up by its lins, chop oil' its head, and let it bleed until the next day. Cut out the calipee or belly shell, securing as much of the white meat attached to it as possible, and put it to soak for lialf-an-hour in a bowl of salted spring water. Cut off the fins, put them into a basin or saucepan of boiling water, and let them remain until they are sufficiently scalded to be easily cleaned. Takeout the intestines and lungs, being careful not to injure the gall, wash them thoroughly in warm water, scraping them well with a knife to remove the inside skin, put them into a saucepan with about 2galls. of water, and boil them until tender. The liver should not be used, as it gives the Turtle a black appearance when cooked. Cut out all the white meat from the upper shell and put it into a basin of cold spring water. Saw the upper shell about 2in. deep all round, put it into boiling water to scald, take it out, and remove the thin shell. Cut in pieces a knuckle of veal and two calf’s or neat’s feet, put them into a saucepan with four large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2oz. each of cloves and mace, and poui- over 3galls. of water. Boil up once, skim well, boil for three hours without ceasing, and strain off the liquor. Take about 21b. of the white meat of the Turtle without bones, and trim the pieces to sizes about as large as an egg. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, add the pieces of white meat from the veal, place the saucepan over a slow- fire, and cook very gently until the meat is quite tender; put the lungs and part of the back shell into a saucepan, pour over the veal and neat’s or calf’s feet stock, season highly with basil, sweet marjoram, thyme, winter savoury, and parsley, all finely chopped, and one dozen bruised corns of allspice, put in two onions and half a-dozen shallots, also in small pieces, and stew gently until the whole is quite tender. Take out the meat, strain the liquor into another saucepan, place the fins in it, and cook them also until tender, and take them out when done. Put Mb. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, sprinkle in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir well until quite smooth. Pour in slowly the liquor in which the fins and white meat were cooked, stir well until it boils, add 1 pint of Madeira and a good seasoning of cayenne and salt. Cut the lungs and the piece of the back shell in pieces, put them into the saucepan with the liquor, and add the two hind fins, each cut into three pieces, and the remainder of the white Turtle meat, and cook for a Turtle—continued. quarter-of-an-hour. Put a stiff paste round the back shell, decorate it with leaves or other ornamentations, sprinkle the inside over with salt and cayenne, put in the lungs and pieces of shell, hind fins, and white Tm-tle meat, squeeze over the juice of two lemons, add a few forcemeat- and-egg balls, and bake for about two hours in a mode- rate oven. Raise the meat attached to the calipee or bottom shell, stuff it with forcemeat, score it on the top, season it highly with chopped basil, marjoram, thyme, winter savoury, and beaten spice, place a few lumps of butter here and there, sprinkle over salt and cayenne, put a rim of paste round the edge, and bake for three hours. Put the 21b. of white meat and all the Turtle bones into a saucepan, pour over some of the stock and lqt. of water, add a large bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, and mace, and cook until the soup is sufficiently done. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, add a thickening of flour and butter to give it the consistency of cream, pour in 1 pint of Madeira, season to taste with salt and cayenne, and boil gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, skim- ming frequently. Prepare in a saucepan a thickening of flour and butter, using about 1 table-spoonful of each; pour in gradually the liquor in which the fins w’ere stewed, and stir well over the fire until it boils; add salt and cayenne to taste, the juice of a lemon, and a tumblerful of Madeira, place in the fore fins and a few forcemeat and-egg balls, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and flour into another saucepan, and stir well until quite smooth ; arid gradually 3 breakfast-cupfuls of hock, and stir well until it boils; add the intestines and maw cut into pieces about 3in. long, and stew for about fifteen minutes, seasoning well with salt and cayenne, and add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with 2 breakfast cupfuls of cream and flavoured with nutmeg. Stir well until the liquor is about to boil, remove the pan from the fire, shaking it frequently, and add lastly the juice of a lemon. All the different parts will now be ready to be served. Turn the soup into a tureen, place it in the centre of the table, and place the calipash and calipee at either end, with the fiicassee and fins at the side. Many modern cooks object to using the in- testines, as giving much trouble and being of doubtful value. Braised Turtle.—Cut off’ one of the fleshy parts of a Turtle, form it into shape, lard it with small fillets of anchovies, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper to taste, put it into a basin, and add some slices of vegetables and a little sweet herbs. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar into a saucepan, add a few cloves and pepper- corns, place the pan on the fire, reduce the liquid to h teacupful, let it get cold, pour it over the Turtle, and let it remain for a couple of days. Put the slices of vegetables at the bottom of a flat saucepan, place the noix on the top, pour over the liquor, cover the Turtle over with paper, place the lid on the pan with hot ashes on the top, anil braise on a moderate fire for about two hours. Take out the meat, drain it, put it on a dish, pour over poivrade sauce, spiinkle over a little chopped gherkin, and serve. Egg Balls for Turtle Soup.—Put the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs into a basin, break them up, and mix them with the yolk of a raw egg. Form the paste into small balls, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for two minutes to get hard, and they are ready for use. Forcemeat Balls for Turtle Soup.—Cut off a small portion of the vealy part of a Turtle, mince it very fine, and mix it up with a small quantity of boned anchovy and boiled celery, the yolk of one or two hard-boiled eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, with mace, cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; add a little oyster liquor, a small quantity of warmed butter and well- whisked egg. Form the paste into balls, plunge them into a frying pan of boiling butter or fat, fry them to a good colour, and they are ready for use. They should be added hot to the soup. Fricandeau of Turtle.—Lard the inside shoulder fillet of a raw Turtle with firm bacon fat, and braise it for an hour.666 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle —continued. Take it out when done, glaze it, and serve with sorrel, piquante, or mushroom sauce poured round. Fricassee of Turtle.—Take 3lb. of Turtle-steak, and cut it into strips about 3in. wide and 4in. long. Put \ pint of strong veal gravy into a tin saucepan with a close-fitting lid, put the saucepan into a pot of hot water at the side of the fire, and let the gravy get hot. Fry the strips of Turtle brown in some butter, drain them on kitchen paper, and put them into the warmed gravy in the saucepan. Peel and slice a small onion, peel and cut the stems from a couple of dozen mushrooms, and fry both onions and mushrooms in the butter the Turtle has been fried in; then put them into the saucepan with the Turtle and gravy, add also a bunch of sweet herbs and a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, put the lid on tight, move the pot over the fire, and let the Turtle simmer for quite half-an-hour. Add to the butter left in the frying-pan 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of browned flour, take it from the range, and mix the flour and butter to a smooth paste, mixing with it the strained juice of half a lemon. When the Turtle is done, take it up, arrange it on a hot-water dish, and cover it. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, add to it the paste from the frying pan, stir it till it is quite thick, and let it boil hard for at least five minutes ; then add 1 glass of wine, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, each yolk cut into three pieces, and let it boil up. Pour it over the Turtle, and serve. Fried Turtle.—Cut thin slices of tender uncooked Turtle flesh or of cold cooked Turtle, roll them in cracker- or bread-crumbs, then dip them in beaten egg, and again roll them in crumbs. Have ready over the fire a frying-pan con- taining about 4in. in depth of butter melted, and when it begins to smoke put in the slices of Turtle and fry them light brown. When the slices are fried, lay them on brown paper in a dripping-pan to free them from fat, and keep them hot in the oven until the sauce is made. Pour nearly all the butter out of the frying-pan, stir in ^ pint of cream, t pint of mild tomato ketchup, and enough flour or cracker crumbs to make the sauce of the proper consistency. Let it boil for two or three minutes while the fried Turtle is being dished with a garnish of sliced ham or fresh watercress, then pour the sauce into a bowl, and serve the dish. Any other well-seasoned sauce may be used. Tender Turtle steaks are very good broiled, and served with any acid jelly. Mignons of Turtle.—Cut out some circular pieces, about 2m. in diameter and tin. in thickness, from blanched Turtle-steak, and lard their surfaces with firm bacon-fat. Put in a braising-pan a few slices of onion, turnip, and carrot, a little celery and garlic, all finely chopped, and add cloves, mace, and other seasoning as required. Place the pieces of Turtle on the top, cover them over with more of the vegetables and seasoning, pour in sufficient good broth to moisten, and braise until the meat is tender. Take it out, put it on a dish, add some mush- room sauce to the ingredients in the pan, boil for a minute or two, pour the whole over the pieces of Turtle, and serve. A little lemon thyme, basil, and sherry may also be added to the sauce if desired. Preserved Green Turtle Soup.—Select a medium-sized Turtle, cut off the head, and let it bleed for twelve hours. Remove the bones by opening the sides, cut the carcase in pieces, and blanch them for three minutes in boiling water. Lift off the top shell and place it in a saucepan, covering it with white broth, a handful of whole peppers, one dozen cloves, half a bunch of thyme, and six bay- leaves (all the above spices and herbs tied up in a bit of muslin). Add a handful of salt, and cook for about an hour. Drain, remove the bones, and cut the rest in dice. Let the broth be reduced to three-fourths its quantity, then put in the white lean meat, letting it cook for ten minutes, and then add the green part of the Turtle. Fill some medium-sized pots with this, and when cold pour hot lard over the tops. A wineglassful or more of Madeira wine may be added to the broth according to taste. Stewed Turtle.—Clean a small Turtle, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and parboil it or sufficiently boil Turtle—continued. it to easily remove the meat. Cut out the meat in small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a seasoning of salt, cayenne pepper, spices, and a little lemon, add a few hard-boiled eggs cut up and sufficient, white v'ine to moisten. Boil until the meat is quite tender, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. The meat for this should be rather over than underdone. The wine and lemon may be substituted by rich stock or by Turtle soup. Stewed Turtle Fins.—The fore fins of a Turtle (see Fig. 913) are considered the best to use, but the hind fins are reckoned nearly as good ; to serve them, disconnect them from the shell, keeping them whole, then dislocate the bone of the joint, and remove the fleshy part adhering to the fin. The round parts of the detached flesh at the side of the shoulder blade of each fin are the only parts made use of, and are called the noix or nuts. The upper ends of the fins where the junction-bones were should be trussed so as to keep them in shape. Now plunge the fins into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them remain until the outer skin can easily be peeled off by the aid of a knife. Put a few bacon parings, slices of vegetables, and sweet herbs at the bottom of a saucepan, place the fins over them, add a little broth and white wine to moisten, reduce this to a glaze, pour over sufficient of the broth and wine Fig. 914. Stewed Turtle-fin. to cover, and cook until the fins are done. Take them out, place them on a hot dish, garnish with the noix, larded and braised, and a few truffles (see Fig. 914), and serve. Turtle Fins ft la Bechamel.—Cut off the fins of a Turtle, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and scald until the scales can be easily removed. Put them into another saucepan with sufficient broth or water to cover, and cook them until tender. Take them out, arrange them on a dish, pour over some of the liquor in which they were cooked, and serve with bechamel sauce, boiled with 1 wineglassful of white wine, in a sauceboat. Turtle Fins a la Financiers.—Scald and clean the fins of a Turtle, take out the large bones, and insert thin tubes in the cavities; bind the fins tightly in cloths, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water or broth to cover, and boil until tender. Take them out when done, and let them cool without removing the cloths. Have ready a little Turtle quenelle mixture poached in Turtle consomme, remove the cloths and tubes from the fins, stuff them with the mixture, warm up again, and serve. A garnish com- posed of fancy shapes cut out of the firm red part of a cooked ox-tongue, truffles, breast of chicken, champignons, and also small quenelles may be used. Turtle Fatties.—Line a dozen or so patty pans with paste, and bake. Put 1 table-spoonful of powdered thyme, basil,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 667 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. and marjoram into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sauce, boil for a few minutes, season with salt and pepper, add a little lemon-juice, and remove the pan from the fire. Cut up fine about lib. of Turtle-meat, put it into the saucepan, warm it thoroughly, turn the whole into the patties, and serve; or, if preferred, the meat may be put into the the patty-pans before the paste is cooked, and baked with them. Turtle Pie.—Put a layer of slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish ; over these put the meat from a shoulder of a Turtle, cut also into thin slices, cover with more bacon, put a puff paste covering on the dish, place it in a mode- rate oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take out the pie when done, make a small hole in the top, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot rich brown sauce, and serve. Turtle Quenelles.—Remove all the gristle, &c., from about 12oz. of Turtle-steak, cut into pieces, put them into a mortar, pound well, and rub them through a fine sieve. Prepare a bread panada by working the crumb of a loaf in a saucepan with loz. of butter, stirring well over the fire until the mixture does not adhere either to the spoon or pan. Put the Turtle puree back into the mortar, add Jib. of the bread panada, and 6oz. of butter, work them well together, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, the whites of three eggs and the yolks of five, a little powdered basil and nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Form the quenelles into shape with 2 table-spoons, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling consomme or rich broth, and poach. Take them out when done, arrange in a heap or pyramid on a dish, and serve with rich perigord sauce. Turtle Soup.— (1) Kill and prepare a Turtle weighing about 1001b. in the usual way. Take off the fins, saw the shell into six or eight pieces, and put them together with the head and fins into a large saucepan of boiling water. Boil for a few minutes, then take out each piece of the shell separately; remove the thin shell and the scales from the fins, put the whole into another saucepan, cover them well with water, and boil until the meat is tender and can be easily removed. Take them out, remove all the bones and uneatable parts, put the flesh between two dishes or boards with a weight on the top, and let it remain until quite cold. Return the bones to the liquor in the saucepan, and simmer gently at the side of the fire. In the meantime put 15lb. eacli of knuckle of veal and leg of beef into a large saucepan, add two fowls without their fillets, the fleshy part of the Turtle, a large bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, six .bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, lqt. of mushrooms, four large onions, two heads of celery, Jib. of parsley roots, eight cloves, Joz. each of salt and whole pepper, and pour over 1 pint of sherry anil Jgall. of stock. Place the saucepan over a clear fire, and boil until the liquor is reduced to a glaze, then add the strained liquor in which the Turtle and bones have been boiled and as much more stock as will be required for the soup. Boil for a few minutes longer, skimming as re- quired ; strain the liquor into another saucepan, add a few more onions and two or three carrots, and simmer gently for about five hours. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another pan, remove all the fat, and add sufficient roux thickening to bring the broth to the con- sistency of thin Spanish sauce; put the pan away from the fire, and continue to skim until the soup is quite clear. Put 3 breakfast cupfuls of consomme or rich broth into a saucepan with about Jib. of green basil, half that quantity each of marjoram and lemon thyme, a small sprig of thyme, and a handful of parsley. Boil up once, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour or so; rub the whole through a fine sieve, and add the puree to the soup. Cut the Turtle-meat, which must be quite cold, into small pieces about ljin. square, add them to the soup, simmer gently for thirty minutes or thereabouts, add more seasoning if required, skim - carefully, put in the blanched and drained green fat, and if wanted for use turn the soup into the tureen or into basins to get cold. In the latter case it can be warmed up a little at a time if required. A few chicken quenelles, 2 or 3 Turtle—continued. wineglassfuls of Madeira, lemon-juice, and cayenne should always accompany this soup. Should the whole of a Turtle be more than required, dried Turtle meat can be substi- tuted, for after a Turtle has once been dressed it will not last very long in a fit state to be used. (2) For this a Turtle weighing from 1401b. to 1801b. should be used, as the smaller ones, in comparison, pos- sess very little green fat. Chop off the head of the Turtle, tie it up by the fins, and let it hang for ten or twelve hours; take it down, place it on its back on a board, and cut out the belly with a sharp knife, leaving the fins and keeping as close to the upper shell as possible. Take out the interior, remove any green fat that may be on it, and throw the remainder away. Next cut away the fins and fleshy parts, leaving the two shells empty; cut the upper one into quarters and the bottom one into halves. Put the Turtle-meat, shells, and head into a large kettle such as a turbot-kettle, pour over sufficient cold water to cover, boil quickly on a sharp fire for five minutes to scald them, plunge them into a bowl of cold water, take them out when cool, cut off the scales, and throw them away ; remove all the green fat, which must be put away until wanted, and return the whole of the remainder to the kettle, when it may be allowed to simmer until the meat is tender and will easily leave the shells. Take them out when done, remove all the glutinous meat from the shells, cut into small squares, and keep them warm until wanted. The fleshy part may be used for making a fricandeau, but it is not considered worth eating, as very few stomachs can digest it. To prepare the stock three large saucepans should be used; if only one be used, more boil- ing is required, and the different ingredients lose a deal of their aroma. Put a good supply of butter at the bottom of the three saucepans and add equally 61b. of lean ham, 201b. of beef, and 601b. of knuckle of veal, all cut up rather small. Season with four onions and a carrot cut in slices, loz. of salt, ten cloves, two blades of mace, two dozen peppercorns, and 1 pint of water. Put the saucepans on a sharp fire, stirring frequently, and let them remain until a brown glaze is formed at the bottoms; then fill them up with the liquor in which the Turtle was blanched, adding more water should there not be suffi- cient. Boil the contents of the saucepans, remove to the side of the fire, and let them simmer gently for about two hours, skimming as required. Pass the liquor through a sieve into basins, and let it cool; pour it into a large stock-pot or saucepan, and keep it on the side of the fire until wanted. Fill up the three saucepans containing the meat with more water, and simmer for about four hours, then strain off the liquor and reduce it to a glaze. Melt 31b. of butter in a saucepan, which must be a large one, add ten sprigs each of thyme, winter savory, marjoram, basil, and ten bay-leaves, cook for a few minutes, but without allowing them to colour ; add 411b. of Hour, stir well until it takes colour, then remove the pan from the fire, and stir frequently until the whole is nearly cold. Pour in the stock, which should be about lOgalls., boil up, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the con- tents simmer for a couple of hours, skimming as required. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another large saucepan, put in the pieces of Turtle meat, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer until it is nearly done; then add all the green fat, and salt if required, and continue to cook until the whole of the meat and fat is tender. Turn all into basins and let it remain until wanted for use. Before serving it must be warmed, seasoned slightly with cayenne, a little Madeira wine added to flavour it, and lemon served separately. Should only a part be required for use, the remainder if put into jars and covered will remain good for a long time. The glaze from the meat in the three saucepans may be put away in jars until wanted, or added to the stock. Or in the same way a clear soup may be made by filling up the three saucepans when the bottoms are covered with a white instead of a brown glaze, so as to keep the stock white and clear. Strain when ready into the large saucepan, reduce the liquor to two-thirds its original bulk, season as before with the herbs, and add while boiling a roux made668 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. with 12oz. of arrowroot, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of port wine, and lqt. of cold stock, stirring well for about five minutes. Now strain the liquor into another saucepan, put in the pieces of Turtle, then the green fat, and proceed as for the thick soup, but omitting the cayenne. Soup prepared in this way should be of a green colour and perfectly clear. (3) Take the under shell or calipee and cut the meat from it into quarters. Chop 201b. of veal, and put it to- gether with the meat of the Turtle into a large pot; add all kinds of herbs, carrots, onions, spice, peppercorns, two bay-leaves, a little salt, and Hlb. of lean ham, together with a very little water, and let it stew till of a brown colour. Put in the fins, first scalding off the skin, as well as the heart; half an-hour afterwards fill the pot with water and beef stock in equal parts. Skim the soup carefully, put a bunch of parsley in, and let it boil gently. While this is cooking, scald the head, the calipee, and all the soft parts of the calipash, and be very careful to take off all the skin, even the smallest particle that remains ; put them together with the gut into a large pot with plenty of water to boil till tender, then take them out and divide into squares, and put them in a basin by them- selves till they are required. When the meat of the Turtle is well done, take up the fins anil heart and lay them on a dish ; strain all the soup through a sieve into a large pan, take off the fat with a ladle, and put it into a basin. Make some roux thickening and mix it, first with the fat in the basin and then gradually with the soup in the pan ; then put it over the fire and let it boil for two hours skimming all the time and stirring constantly till it boils. After two hours’ boiling and skimming, squeeze it through a cloth, put it into another large stewpan over the fire, and boil it gently for one hour; then put in the heart, calipash, and calipee, the head, and some of the best of the meat, all cut into squares, and the forcemeat balls and the herbs that were chopped and stewed on the previous day; keep it gently boiling, and continue to skim it carefully. An hour and a half before serving put into it nearly half a bottle of brandy and a bottle of Madeira. Keep it boiling gently and still continue to skim it. Put a little cayenne into a basin, add to it the strained juice of six lemons, and let it stand for a short time. Skim the soup for the last time, stir it up well, and if it is not salt enough, add a little ; mix the cayenne and lemon juice into it, and ladle it into the tureen. (4) For each quart of soup, brown together, by stirring over the fire, 1 table-spoonful each of Hour and butter ; when the butter and flour are brown, gradually add the required quantity of strained Turtle stock, stirring con- stantly until the soup is smooth. Season with salt and cayenne pepper, add to each quart about half-a-dozen pieces of green fat, 4 breakfast-cupful each of the tender parts of the shell and the flesh of the Turtle cut in lin. pieces, 4 breakfast-cupful of egg balls, or a few Turtle eggs, and one dozen forcemeat balls if desired. Let the soup boil once, add to each quart 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, 1 table-spoonful of lemon juice, and half- a-dozen thin slices of lemon, and serve it at once. (5) For each quart of Turtle soup stock to be clarified allow the white and shell of one raw egg and 1 table- spoonful of cold water. Mix the shell, white of egg, and water slightly in the bottom of a saucepan, pour the cold stock over them, and set the saucepan over the fire. Let its contents slowly reach the boiling-point, stirring them several times to prevent the egg sticking to the bottom of the saucepan; let the soup boil gently till the egg rises to the surface in the form of a thick scum, and the soup appears quite clear under it; then strain it through a folded towel laid in a colander, allowing it to run slowly through without squeezing the towel. If it has got cool in straining, heat it again, season to taste, and serve it hot with lemon and wine. (6) On account of the delicious quality of the flesh, the green Turtle is highly prized; but as it is so very large, it is usually sold in small quantities in tins. Cut off all the meat, leaving the green fat, from a can of green Turtle, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of brown stock, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Cut the green fat Turtle—continued. into small squares or dice. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, warm it, sprinkle in an equal quantity of flour, brown it slightly, add it to the soup, and season well with salt and pepper. Put in the pieces of green fat, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, add a few slices of lemon and the required number of egg balls, and serve. (7) Put 41b. or 5lb. of Turtle meat into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of allspice and butter, half the quantity of black pepper, and salt to taste. Poui- over Jgall. of water, boil over the fire until the Turtle is nearly done, add two large onions and a bunch of mar- joram, parsley, and thyme tied together, cook until the meat is quite done, remove the bunch of herbs, add two lemons cut in slices, a little curry powder, and 2 break fast-cupfuls of Madeira or other wine ; thicken as required with flour, turn the whole into a soup tureen, and serve as hot as possible. (8) When all the flesh is cut off a large Turtle, wash it, and let it drain. Plunge the breast shell into a large vessel of boiling water, and boil until the plates may be easily separated, then take them up. Boil the back and the belly in water till the softer parts can be easily removed, but before they are cooked quite enough lay them in separate earthenware vessels to cool, so that they shall not stick together, allowing the bones and trimmings to continue boiling for some time. Take a large stewpan lay at the bottom of it some slices of ham, and on these lay two or three knuckles of veal ; over them all lay the flesh of the body, four fins, and head of the Turtle. Let the flesh of the body lie on top of the veal, and over it the rest of the flesh ; add to this a large onion stuck with six cloves, a large bunch of sweet herbs, such as sweet marjoram, sweet basil, parsley, lemon thyme, and green onions, add also a little of the liquor that the shell is boiling in, and let it stew. When it has stewed for some time, add some of the liquor in which the back and belly have been boiled ; when the flesh of the fins is stewed tender take it out and lay it aside. When the rest of the Turtle-flesh is stewed quite tender, take it up and strain the soup through a silk sieve, then mix with it some very thin white roux. Cut all the softer parts of the flesh into small pieces about fin. square, put them into the sou)), and let them simmer till the pieces of Turtle can easily be pierced with a fork, skimming it well meantime. Chop a small quantity of herbs, put them over the fire with a little sugar and four bottles of Madeira, and let it boil till the wine is reduced to one half its original quantity; then mix it, after rubbing through a sieve, with the soup, and let it boil for a short time. Make a forcemeat of lib. of veal cut from the leg and quite free from fat or sinews, and about the same quantity of crumb of bread soaked in milk until quite soft and then squeezed dry, and put it, together with the veal, a small quantity of calf’s udder, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a small piece of butter, a little cayenne, salt, and pounded spices, into a mortar, and pound all very fine. Mix them together thoroughly, then add and mix in the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two. Throw a little bit of this forcemeat into boiling water, and if it does not cook sufficiently firm, mix into it the yolk of another egg. Divide the forcemeat into halves, and mix into one half some chopped parsley to make a variety. Make all the forcemeat into balls about the size of the yolk of an egg, poach them in boiling water, and add to the soup. Mix a little cayenne with the strained juice of a couple of lemons, and add it to the soup just before serving. If the fins of the Turtle are to be served as a side dish, they must be parboiled, skinned, and then stewed in a little of the soup mixed with about the same quantity of port wine, thickened with a little butter rubbed with flour, and seasoned with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon juice. Turtle Soup a l’Americaine. -Prepare about 2qts. of r ich Turtle soup, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. Skin an eel, cut it into pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of butter, add a sliced carrot and onion, about lqt. of button mushrooms, and a few parsley roots; let them all cook gently over the fire, take out the piecesTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 669 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Turtle—continued. of eel, and keep them hot in a saucepan. Now add to the remainder the trimmings of the eel and a seasoning of thyme, basil, bay-leaf, allspice, cayenne, anti grated nutmeg, and pour in 1 pint of champagne. Boil slowly for an hour, strain the liquor into the saucepan containing the .eel, boil for half-an-hour, take out the pieces of eel, drain them, put them in a tureen, reduce their liquor to half-glaze, add it to the Turtle soup on the fire, pour the whole while boiling into the tureen, and serve. Turtle Soup from Dried Turtle.—(1) Cut up in small pieces 2lb. of shin of beef, 4oz. of lean raw ham, and 2lb. of knuckle of veal, and put them into a saucepan or stockpot. Put 4oz. of dried Turtle (see Fig. 915) into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for forty-eight hours, changing the water three or four times ; then put it into a saucepan of water and simmer very gently for twenty or twenty-four hours. Put the Turtle into the saucepan Fig. 915. Dried Turtle. with the other meat, pour in the liquor in which it simmered, which should be sufficient to make the soup, bring it gently to the boil, skim as required, add two onions, one carrot, one turnip, half a head of celery, all cut up in pieces, a sprig each of thyme and marjoram, 1 tea spoonful each of basil' and peppercorns, a blade of mace, six cloves, and salt and cayenne to taste. Boil or simmer gently for eight hours, take out the pieces of Turtle, pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, let it get cold, skim off all the fat, add the whites and shells of three eggs beaten slightly, to clarify, boil up once more, remove the pan to the side, and let it remain for thirty minutes, by which time it should be quite clear. Skim well, strain the liquor through a napkin or very fine sieve into another saucepan, add the Turtle, which should have been pressed and cut into con- venient-sized pieces, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add salt to taste, boil up once more, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve. A little caramel may be added should the soup not be dark enough. A wineglassful of Madeira is a great improvement. (2) Put Mb. of dried Turtle-flesh into a basin of warm water, and let it soak for half-an-hour; take it out, dry on a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with lqt. of rich veal stock. Set the saucepan on a slow fire, and let the liquor boil gently all day, adding more of the stock to keep up the original quantity. Turn the whole into a basin, cover, and let it remain until next day. Return all to the saucepan, adding more stock if required, put in lib. of conger eel or Hlb. of fresh eels, boil until done, take them out, and plunge them into boiling water. The eels will improve the flavour of the soup, and can be served for an early *meal. Put J pint of the stock into a separate saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of dried basil, 1 table-spoonful of marjoram, and 1 teaspoonful each of thyme and dried pennyroyal. Cover the pan, and cook the contents for an hour; take them off’ when done, and let them cool, still keeping them covered. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve, extracting as much of the goodness from the herbs as possible. Take out the Turtle-meat when tender, and cut it up into pieces about 2in. square. Add slowly suffi- cient of the herb liquor to season the soup, as well as a small quantity of cayenne. Clarify the soil]) if necessary, add l table-spoonful of extract of meat and 1 gill of sherry or Madeira, and sufficient stock to make the whole up to 2qts.; return the meat to the soup, add two dozen cooked small egg balls, remove the saucepan from the fire, Turtle—continued. squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, turn the whole into the soup-tureen, and serve. Should the soup not be clear enough, it may be strained through a jelly-bag until it is so, warming up again before serving. Should thick soup be required, add a thickening of flour and butter, and skim frequently. Apiece of ham if boiled in the veal stock is a great improvement. (3) Take jilb. of dried Turtle, put it into cold water, and let it steep for three days. At the end of that time take it from the water and put it in a saucepan over the fire together with 3qts. of good veal stock, and let it simmer gently for six hours. Take the Turtle out, put the soup away, and let it cool. When quite cold, take off .all the fat. Peel and slice a small onion, and fry it brown in a very little butter at the bottom of a saucepan ; pour the soup in over the fried onion, boil it for ten minutes, and then strain; return it to the saucepan, and add salt and cayenne to taste. Cut the Turtle up into rather small pieces, add it to the soup together with 1 glass of sherry and 1 table-spoonful of Frascati’s sauce, let it simmer for a few minutes, then pour it into the tureen, and serve lemon with it. (4) Put the dried Turtle meat into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for an hour; strain off the liquor, put the meat into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil over a slow fire for from six to eight hours, by which time the meat will be from three to four times its original bulk. Take out the meat and cut it up into pieces about 1 Jin. square. In the meantime put into a saucepan (which should be well tinned) 5lb. of gravy beef, 21b. of leg of veal, one calf’s foot, and Mb. of lean ham. Pour over sufficient water to cover, boil up slowly, removing all the scum as it rises, add a bunch of parsley, one head of celery, three onions and carrots, and a small packet of Turtle herbs and spices. Boil for a minute or two longer, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten hours, taking care not to let it boil fast, or the soup will thicken and be spoilt. Strain the soup through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, add the pieces of Turtle-meat and their stock, and boil again very gently until the meat is quite tender. Remove the saucepan from the fire after adding 1 tumblerful of sherry, turn the whole into a soup- tureen, and serve. A wineglassful of Madeira and the juice of half a lemon, if added a few minutes before serving, are a great improvement to the flavour. Turtle-Soup Stock.—Prepare and cut up a Turtle. Put the pieces of shell over the fire in a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil for two or three hours, or until the outer edges of the shell are soft. As the water boils away, add more, always keeping the shells covered. Cut the soft parts of tlie shells into pieces about iin. square, lay them in an earthenware bowl, cover with a wet napkin, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Place the hard parts of the shells again into the water in which it was boiled, put in also one-eighth of the first weight of the Turtle of beef-bones, and one-sixteenth of the weight of veal bones, or of calf’s feet and head cleaned as directed for soup, skinning the calf’s head. On top of these in- gredients lay the neck and fins of the Turtle, and the cushions or rounded muscles at the top of the Turtle fins, unless part of the latter is to be reserved raw for broiling as steaks; add a sufficient quantity of water to cover all, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and let all boil gently for about two hours, or until the bones of the fins separate easily from the flesh. Remove any scum which may rise, and keep the soup-kettle closely covered. When the fins and cushions are tender, take them out of the stock, separate the flesh from the bones, keeping it in good-sized pieces, and put it aside in a cool place until wanted in an earthenware vessel covered with a wet napkin. Return the bones to the stock, add to it the proportions usually employed for soup stock, of carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, sweet herbs, whole cloves, mace, and peppercorns, and boil gently for five hours, keeping the saucepan closely covered. After the liver, eggs, fat, and intestines have been soaked in cold water, boil themTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 670 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. in the stock, the intestines being turned outward like a reversed glove finger, and thoroughly scraped and washed. When the stock is boiled, it should be strained through a folded towel laid in a colander set over a large earthen- ware bowl until clear. All those parts of the Turtle which have been cooked and covered with wet napkins should now be placed in bowls, and covered with the strained Turtle stock; all of the stock remaining should be saved for soup. Most Turtle cooks advise leaving out the intes- tines, chiefly because they are more trouble to prepare than they are worth. Mock Turtle.—Imitation is the sincerest flattery, but there is a great deal of difference between dishes made of real Turtle and those concocted to resemble it as nearly as possible. The following may be con- sidered the best receipts known for Mock Turtle, the bulk of them being for soup: Flavouring for Mock-Turtle Soup.—Mix with 1 teacupful of basil wine, J teacupful of mushroom ketchup, and ljoz. each of shallot wine and essence of anchovies; then add 4 teaspoonful of curry powder, a small piece of thinly-pared lemon peel, and 4 drachm of citric acid. Leave the mix- ture for seven or eight days; if added to the soup at the end of that time, it will be found to possess the flavour of Turtle soup. Mock Turtle (Demie Tortue) a la Franpaise.—Take a fine fresh calf’s head with the skin on, wash it well in warm water, and when well cleared of blood boil it for two hours ; take it up then and let it cool. When quite cold, cut off in lin. square pieces the fat parts of the head which adhere to the skin, and wash them well in several waters. Put 2qts. of good beef stock slightly seasoned with salt, cayenne, truffles, and mushrooms, into the soup- pot, add five onions, five turnips, and five carrots all cut into slices, a head of celery cut small, two or three shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, three bay-leaves, half-a-dozen cloves, half-a-dozen allspice, three blades of mace, two slices of lean ham chopped small, 3 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of soy ; let it simmer for two hours, and then strain through a hair sieve. Put in the pieces of calf’s head, give it a boil, and pour it into the tureen together with a little strained lemon- juice and 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine or 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Serve cayenne and thin slices of lemon with it. Mock-Turtle Pie.—Prepare a rich hash with the flesh from a calf’s head cut into pieces about 3in. long and 2in. wide. Put eight calf’s feet into a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover and a seasoning of powdered sweet herbs, salt, 'and pepper, simmer gently until the meat drops off the bones, and strain the liquor into a basin, rubbing through as much of the meat as possible so as to have a strong stock. Put a lining of rich paste into a pie- dish, put in the calf’s-head hash, the tongue cut into large-sized pieces, some brain cakes, and forcemeat and egg balls. Add also twenty or thirty green leaves of spinach cut up into pieces the same size as the meat, pour over sufficient of the stock to fill the dish, put a cover of paste over, and bake until done in a moderate oven. Take it out when ready, and serve with the follow- ing sauce added a few minutes before sending to table: Put a little of the stock into a saucepan, add a dozen or so bruised oysters and their liquor, the pulp of twenty prunes, a blade of mace, a flavouring of nutmeg and cloves, 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and 1 wineglassful of port wine. Simmer gently for about ten minutes, and it is ready for use. Mock-Turtle Soup.—(1) Peel three onions, scrape and wash two good sized carrots, peel and wash a turnip, wash and trim a head of celery, and then cut all these vegetables into slices; fry them in Jib. of butter till they are a nice pale brown. Put 2lb. of leg of veal and 21b. of leg of beef into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, fit the lid on tightly, and let it stand at the side of the fire for an hour, keeping it just warm enough to draw the gravy from the meat; then put it into a larger sauce- pan or pot, add to it the fried vegetables, a bunch Turtle—continued. of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of garlic the size of a pea, three leaves of sage, a blade of mace, four cloves, half-a-dozen peppercorns, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of white sugar, Jib. of lean ham (mild), half a calf’s head nicely prepared and with the skin left on, and 4qts. of cold water. Put this over the fire, let it boil up quickly, and skim well. The half head should be laid in the pot skin upwards. When the liquor is well skimmed, acid 1 teacupful of Marsala, and keep the soup simmering, not boiling, for two hours, taking off the scum as it rises. Take out the half head, remove the bones, and trim off any rough pieces ; return bones and trimmings to the soup, and let them simmer for four hours, continuing to remove all scum as it rises. Put the meat from the head between two dishes, laying a heavy weight on the top one to press the meat well, and leave it there till cold. Mix 5 talile-spoonfuls of Hour with Jib. of fresh butter, brown it slightly in the oven, then mix with it 1 saltspoonful of salt, nearly 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, 1 or 2 grains of cayenne, and 1 table-spoonful' of flour of mustard ; stir this into the soup, together with 1 teaspoon- ful of anchovy sauce and 1 dessert spoonful of soy. When the soup has simmered for four hours after the head has been taken out, let it boil for fifteen minutes, and then strain it through a fine sieve. Cut the meat of the head into pieces about Jin. square, put it into the strained soup, return it to the fire, add the strained juice of a lemon, simmer for twenty minutes, add 2 wineglassfuls of brown sherry, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve immediately. Serve with cayenne and cut lemons. (2) Put into a good-sized stewpan a cow-heel, Hlb. of leg of beef, loz. of lean bacon or ham, a large onion stuck with four cloves, two shallota, the red part of one carrot, a sprig of lemon-thyme, a little winter savory, a few green leaves of sweet basil, a bunch of parsley, eighteen black peppercorns, the same quantity of allspice, and 1 pint of cold water. Set it over the fire, cover it closely, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes; then take the lid off, and see that the meat does not burn. When it is nicely browned, fill up the stewpan with boiling water and let it simmer gently for two hours. Strain it, and put it again over the fire. Blend 2 or 3 table-spoon- fuls of flour smoothly and gradually with J pint of strained soup, stir it into the soup over the fire, continue stirring till it boils, and then let it simmer for ten minutes. Skim it and add to it the cow-heel, cut into pieces about fin. square, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the strained juice of a lemon, l wineglassful of sherry, 1 saltspoonful of ground black pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg, and let it simmer for five minutes longer. Some forcemeat balls put into the tureen with the soup improve it. It is also an im- provement to add at the same time as the cut-up cow- heel, lib. of nicely-cooked veal cutlet cut small, or boiled pickled pork cut small, or some nice double tripe about |in. thick cut into fin. squares. (3) Well wash and clean an ox-foot, split it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to more than cover it, add 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, two onions with the skins on to give a dark appearance to the liquor, a little celery-seed, a few slices of carrot and turnip, a few cloves and peppercorns, and sufficient salt to taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil for a minute or two, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents for about six hours. Take out the foot, remove all the bones, strain all the liquor into another saucepan, add the meat from the foot, sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry or any other white wine, boil up quickly for a few minutes, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve. Should imitation Turtle eggs be required in the soup, they can be made by mixing 4oz. of minced lean pork with 1 teaspoonful of sage, salt and pepper to taste, a few breadcrumbs, and one slightly-beaten egg. Form this mixture into small balls, fry them to a light brown in boiling lard, and add them to the soup a few minutes before serving. (4) Cut into slices half-a-dozen ox-palates and one calf’s foot, or else two calf’s feet and one neat’s foot; boil671 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. them till they are very tender, then put them into a full quart of mutton broth skimmed quite clear of fat and made out of about lib. of scrag of mutton. Beard a dozen oysters, and put them in together with their strained liquor after chopping them pretty fine; chop fine also a large onion, a good bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, and a piece of lemon-peel, these last being chopped much finer than the oysters; add also a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg, cover the saucepan close, and let the contents simmer gently for quite three- quarters-of an hour. Just before taking it from the fire, add J pint of Madeira and the strained juice of half a lemon. Pour the soup into the tureen, and then put in a few well-seasoned forcemeat balls and a few egg balls. (5) Take a calf’s head with the skin on it, have it chopped in halves, take out the brains, and then put the head over the fire in cold water (the quantity of water must depend on the quantity of soup to be made); put in onions, parsley, lemon-peel, and sweet herbs, and let it simmer gently till the meat on the head is tender. Take the head out then, and thicken the soup with flour and butter. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, divide them into seven or eight equal, or nearly equal, parts, tie them in pieces of well buttered muslin, and boil in the soup for about five minutes. Take the brains, season them with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, heat them up with a small quantity of flour and two or three eggs, form the hatter into small cakes and fry a light brown. When the head is cold, cut the meat into pieces about Jin. or fin. square. Skim all the fat from the soup and strain it, put it over the fire with the meat of the head, a seasoning of cayenne and salt, add also sherry, and a small quantity of mushroom and walnut ketchup; let the meat get hot through, and pour the soup into the tureen. Lay on the top of the soup the egg halls taken out of the muslin in which they were boiled, a few forcemeat balls, and the fried brain cakes. (6) Cut a sheep’s pluck and milt into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a few vegetables such as turnips, carrots, and onions, 1 breakfast-cupful of pearl barley, a few cloves and peppercorns, a small piece of mace, and a lump of salt. Pour in 4qts. of water, and when it boils move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for five hours. Afterwards put in the head, and boil it gently until tender. When cooked, take the head out and strain the liquor. When quite cold, skim the fat off the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and boil up again; thicken it with flour and butter that have been kneaded together, and colour a rich brown with burnt sugar colouring. Add to the soup 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and let it simmer gently for lialf- an-hour. Cut the meat from the head in small pieces, and warm up again in the soup. When ready to serve, mix 2 wineglassfuls of sherry with the soup, add more seasoning if necessary, pour it into a soup tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (7) Thoroughly wash a fresh calf’s head, cut off the skin without mangling it, so that the best parts may be re- served for different dishes after it is boiled in the soup stock; cut out the tongue whole, and take ,out the brains without breaking them. After the head is ' skinned, have it split so that the different passages and mouth can be thoroughly cleaned, and then wash the entire head in plenty of cold water. Put the bones of the head in the bottom of a soup-kettle, lay the skin and tongue upon them, cover with cold water, and place the kettle over the fire, where its contents can slowly reach the boiling- point; remove all scum as it rises, and when the stock is clear put in a carrot, a turnip, an onion peeled, a bouquet of herbs made by tying together 1 handful of parsley, a bay-leaf, a stalk of celery, and a sprig of any sweet herb except sage, and a dozen whole cloves and peppercorns, or a small pod of red pepper. Cover the kettle after adding 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil the soup gently for two hours ; then take out the head and tongue, wrap them in a wet cloth, and continue the boil- ing for four hours, keeping the kettle closely covered to Turtle—continued. prevent the evaporation of the soup stock. When it is done, strain, and cool it. When the stock is cool, take off the fat; cut the thinnest parts of the head in small dice ; make some egg halls, allowing J breakfast-cupful of egg halls and 1 breakfast-cupful of calf’s head for each quart of soup. Lor each quart mix together in a pan over the fire 1 table-spoonful" each of butter and flour, and stir them until they brown. Then gradually stir in lqt. of stock ; when the soup is quite smooth and begins to boil, add the egg balls and calf’s head. Put 1 wine- glassful of Madeira and the juice of half a lemon or half a lemon sliced into the soup-tureen, see that the soup is seasoned, turn it into the tureen, and serve it at once. The best part of the calf’s head may be broiled, fried, or stewed, and the tongue and brains served boiled with some sharp sauce. The tongue alone may he served boiled with any kind of boiled greens, and the brain made into fritters or croquettes. Receipts for these will be found under their appropriate headings. (8) Procure a calf’s head, the freshest to be had, and take out the brains. Clean the head well in cold water, using several waters, rinse it well, and then let it lie in fresh cold water for an hour at least. Put the head in a soup-kettle over the fire, and cover it well with cold water. As soon as any scum rises, which will be as soon as the water gets warm, it must be skimmed off. Let it come to the boil, and boil gently for an hour. Take the head out of the liquor, and when it is nearly cold remove all the bones and skin, and cut the meat and tongue into pieces about fin. square, not larger, and lay it aside. When the head is taken out of the soup-kettle, put into the liquor 5lb. of leg of beef and 5lb. of knuckle of veal, and as soon as convenient all the bones and trimmings of the head. Skim the stock well, cover the kettle close, and boil the contents for five hours ; then strain it and let it stand all night. Next morning take off all the fat. Peel and slice fib. of onions, and put them over the fire in a large stewpan, together with fib. of green sage, chopped, but not too fine, and Jib. of fresh butter; let them stew till quite tender, mix and stir smoothly into them Jib. of flour, and then add and stir in the skimmed stock till it is of the consistency of cream (the rest of the stock may be reserved for gravy sauces). Add to the soup in the stewpan salt to taste, Joz. of black pepper, and foz. of allspice, both ground very fine, and the thinly- pared rind of one lemon; let it simmer very gently for an-hour-and-a-half, and then strain it through a hair sieve. It must not be rubbed through, but if it does not run through easily knock the side of the sieve with a spoon. When strained, put it into a clean stewpan to- gether with the meat ot the head. Let it simmer, stir- ring frequently, for from half an-hour to an hour, or till the meat is tender, hut be careful not to cook it too much. Five or six minutes before taking it from the fire, add for each gallon of soup J pint of Madeira, or if the soup is to be of a dark colour J pint of claret, 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls of strained lemon juice, the peel of one lemon pared as thin as possible, and either 1 teaspoonful of curry powder or J drachm of cayenne. Let it simmer for five minutes, pick out the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready. Have ready a dozen-and-a-lialf Mock Turtle forcemeat balls for a tureen- ful of soup. Brain cakes are also an improvement. To make them, let the brains boil for ten minutes, take them out of the boiling water, and lay them in cold water; take some dried savory or lemon-thyme, some grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt, pound them fine, and mix well together. Beat up an egg, cut the brains into pieces about the size of a walnut, dip them in the beaten egg, and roll them in the pounded seasoning ; make as much as possible stick to them, dip them again in the beaten egg and then in sifted breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling lard or fat, and send them up on a side dish. A veal sweet bread nicely cooked but not overdone cut into pieces about fin. square or less and put into the soup at the same time as the forcemeat halls is an improvement. (9) Remove the fillets from a sole, cut them into pieces, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter and a'672 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. seasoning of salt, and cook them slightly. Take them out, put them into a saucepan, together with the butter from them ; add 2qts. of mushrooms and two onions and carrots cut into slices, a small bunch of parsley, two boned anchovies, a little finely minced ham, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a small quantity each of cayenne, ground mace, pepper, and allspice; pour in 4 pint of hot broth and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of consomme, aud boil slowly for about an hour. Strain through a cloth, and add to it about an equal quantity of well-skimmed Spanish sauce. Before straining, the pieces of sole should lie taken out and put in the tureen, together with quenelles made with a slice or two of salmon, four cooked truffles cut into pieces, and also a few cooked sweetbreads. Pour over the soup, adding as much more as may be required; put into the tureen about three dozen cooked mushrooms and cocks’ combs, and serve with pieces of toasted bread separately. (10) Cut off the fillets from a turbot, put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with two onions, 2qts. of mushrooms, a small slice of lean ham, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and a small quantity each of thyme, bay- leaf, basil, and marjoram; add cayenne, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, pour in 4 pint of champagne, and boil slowly for about an hour. Rub as much as possible through a fine sieve into another saucepan; add to it the required quantity of consomme for the dish, say about 2qts., and a little Spanish sauce, and boil for a few minutes, skimming frequently. Have ready in the tureen the pieces of turbot boiled in salted water, together with a few quenelles of partridges, cooked crayfish-tails, two or three dozen blanched oysters, about the same quantity of cooked mushrooms, and a few cocks’ kernels also cooked; pour over the soup, and serve. TUTTI FBiUTTI.—Ital. for all sorts of fruit. The name is applied to a great variety of fruit dishes, ices, &c., as will be seen hereunder. (1) Line the interior of a 3-pint melon-shaped mould with 1 pint of vanilla cream. Cut 4oz. of candied apricots into small pieces, also 4oz. of candied cherries into halves. Mix these together. Spread half the quantity of the fruits evenly round the creim in the mould, and pom- in 1 pint of raspberry water-ice round the fruits. Arrange the balance of the fruits all round the water-ice, and fill the mould with 1 pint of pistacMs cream-ice. Tightly cover the mould, put it in a pail with a layer of broken Fig. 916. Tutti Frutti. ice and rock-salt at the bottom, fill up to the surface with the same, and freeze for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn out the Tutti Frutti (see Fig. 91(3) on a glass stand, and serve with the following sauce: Put in a basin 1 pint of whipped cream with 2oz. of sugar and 1 gill of maraschino. Beat the whole well together for two minutes. Pour it over the Tutti Frutti, and immediately send to table. (2) Prepare 1 pint of vanilla cream-ice, 4 pint of straw- berry cream-ice, and 4 pint of lemon water-ice; let them remain in the freezers. Put 4oz. of candied cherries on to Tutti Frutti—continued. a plate, cut them into halves, and add two candied apricots cut into small pieces. Take six Tutti-Frutti moulds, open one of them, and lay on the cover 1 spoonful of strawberry cream with 1 spoonful of the lemon water- ice, one beside the other; press a sixth part of the candied fruits into the cream, in the cover of the mould, filling the bottom with vanilla cream, and close together firmly. Lay it immediately in a pail with broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom, cover the mould slightly with more ice and rock-salt, and proceed to prepare the other five moulds the same. When they are all in the pail and covered as the first one, fill it up entirely with broken ice and salt, and freeze for an hour. Have a vessel containing warm water ready to hand, and prepare six small dessert-plates with a small fancy paper on each ; lift up the moulds, one after the other, wash the ice and salt off quickly, turn the Tutti Fruttis on to the plates, and serve. (3) Prepare some short-paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, and cut it into rounds the same size as the pudding-basin. Butter the basin, and spread a thick layer of currant jam at the bottom ; next put in a round of the paste and spread that with a layer of apricot jam, cover that with another round of paste, which mask with a layer of strawberry jam. Fill the basin with the rounds of paste and alternate layers of the jams. Wring a pudding-cloth out in boiling water, flour it, and tie it tightly over the basin. Plunge the pudding into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. More boil- ing water should be poured into the saucepan occasionally to keep up the required quantity, which should well cover the pudding. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with cream. (4) Stone Jib. of raisins, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a small piece of stick cinnamon, and stew them over a moderate fire for twenty-five minutes. Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, put them in a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat well. Strain the milk from the raisins over the eggs and sugar, stirring them well at the same time. Turn tlie mixture into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick, without allowing it to boil ; then move it off the fire and leave it until cold. Remove the cinnamon from the raisins, and mix with them 2oz. of peeled and finely- chopped sweet almonds, 2oz. of candied cherries, and two limes that have been cut into quarters ; add also 2oz. of thinly-shred citron-peel. Stir the cold custard* gradually in with the fruit, and when well mixed turn it into a freezer, and work until frozen. Rinse a mould out with cold water, turn the frozen mixture into it, close it, and pack it in pounded ice and salt for an hour or two. When the pudding is quite firm, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents at the sides, then turn the pudding into a fancy dish, and serve. (5) Whisk the well beaten yolks of three eggs into 1 pint of fresh milk, add sugar to taste, and then set it over a moderate fire ; stir till it thickens, but take it from the fire without letting it boil, and stir it occasionally till cool ; then add 4lb. of almonds (weighed in their shells), blanched and grated fine, 2oz. of rai. ins stoned and chopped, and 2 table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam; mix all well together § and put it into a freezer. When nearly frozen, stir in \>2 pints of rich fresh cream whipped and sweetened. Let it" remain in the freezer till thoroughly frozen, stirring it frequently to keep the ingredients well mixed. (6) Set 1 pint of rich fresh cream over the fire; mix into it the well-beaten yolk of an egg, Jib. of loaf sugar, and essence of vanilla according to taste. Stir it till just on the point of boiling, take it from the fire then, and strain through a fine sieve. When quite cold, put it into a freezer, and when half frozen add and stir in 1 table- spoonful of greengage jam, 1 table-spoonful of peacli preserve cut in small pieces, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of strawberry jam and cherry preserve. Let the cream remain in the freezer till quite frozen, then serve. (7) Pour 4qts. of cream into a saucepan, add 2lb. of powdered loaf sugar, eight eggs, and loz. of fresh or dried elder-flowers. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stir\ •&rRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: ^0 Microfilm No: Date Particulars 0 U Q ( Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification v-'OV \ 1 CC f* \ p- i-s.v ' \. C N* Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks