THE T HAVE LEER’S LIBRARY, In Cour-e of Publication in Parts, price One Shilling each : Comprising books of valuable information and acknowledged merit, in a form adapted for reading while Travelling, and also of a character that will render them-worthy of preservation. List o/VGfl.LLuiTs, price One Shilling each, already published. Part 1. M-riM acaulay’s Essay on Warren Hastings. . 2- Sly. .Macaulay's Essay on Loro Clive. ’3. Loyiioviii JfiaO-51. ByJ. H. \1*Cdlloch, Esq. . i: Sir itOGer ok Goverley. From The Spectator. • 5.-William Pitt and the IvarloT Chatham. ByT. 11. Macaulay. 6—7. Lmno’s Residence in Norway. ' 8. .Mr. M acaulay’s Essays on Ranke and Gladstone. 9—to, Ida Pfeiffer’s Lady’s Voyage ii .und the V\orli>. 11 —12; Eotiikn, or Traces of Travel from the Kas r. 13.. Mr. Macaulay’s Essays on Addison and Walpole H 15. Hue’s I ravels in Tartary, Thibet, and China. 16—17. Holckoft’s Memoirs. 18. Ihe Earl of Carlisle’s Lectures and Addresses. 19—20. Werne’s African Wanderings. 21—22. Mrs. Jameson’s Sketches in Canada. 23. Brittany and the Bible. By 1. Hope. 24. The Natural History of Creation By Ur. Lindley Kemp. 25. Mr. Macaulay’s Essay on Lord Bacon. 2th The pLKCTKicTelegraph'. By l»r. G. Wilson. 27 - 28. Jkhkmann’s Pictures from St. Petersburg. 29—30. Tlje Rev. G. K. Gi.eio’s Lkipsic Cam pa gn. 311 Memoir of the Duke of Wellington. 32—33. Ihe Australian Colonies. By William Hughes, F.R.G.S. 34—35. Sir Edward Seaward’s Narrative abridged. 36. Lord Jeffrey’s Essays on Swift and Richardson. 37u RaNke’s Ferdinand 1. anti .Maximilian II. 38—39. Memoirs of a MaTtrb-d’Ahmks lly Alexandre Lumas. 40. Mr. Macaulay’s Essays on Byron andthe Com ic Dramatists. 41. MarshalTurexne. By the Rev. T. o. Cockayne, M.a. 42—43. OduCoal Fields ami Our Coal Pits. 44. Barrow’s Tour on the Contisent in 1852. 45. Swiss Men and Swiss Mountains. By R. Ferguson. 46. Gironiere’s Philippine Islands. 47. Turkey uml Christendom. 48. Confessions of a Working Man. By Emile Souvesthe. 49. The Chase in Brittany. By 1. Hope. 50. The Love Story from Southey’s Ifoclor. 51. An Attic Philosopher in Paris. By Emile Souykstre. 52. Mr. Macaulay’s Speeches on Parliamentary Reform. 53. The Russi ans of the South. By Shirley Brooks. 54. Indications Of Instinct ByT. L. Kemp, M.U. 54—56. Lanman’s Adventures in the Wilds of North America. 57-58-59. UrCustinb’s Russia, abridged. W . my(RUM.V..->* \!r.■A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE CHOICE AND COOKERY FISH. BY PISCATOR. SECOND EDITION. LONDON: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS. 1854.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. weiMOmec Call No. London: A. and G. A. SpottiswooDE, IS ew-street-Square.CONTENTS CHAPTER I. PAGE Introductory Remarks - - - - 1 CHAPTER II. Directions for clwosiny Fish, with Remarks upon their respective Qualities - - - - - - - 10 Section I. Preliminary Observations - - - 10 Section II. Fishes of the Cod Kind - - - 14 Section III. Fishes of the Flounder Kind 38 Section IV. Dories - - - - - 51 Section V. Fishes of the Salmon Kind 55 Section VI. Eels and Congers - - - - 66 Section Vn. Fishes of the Carp Kind - - - .72 Section VIII. Pikes and Launces - - - - 85 Section IX. Fishes of the Mackerel Kind 92 Section X. Fishes of the Herring Kind - - 97 Section XI. Spinous Fishes, including Fishes of the Perch Kind, and Mullets, both red and grey; the Sea Bream in all its varieties; Wrasses, and the Tribe of Gurnards - 103 Section XII. ■ Cartilaginous Fishes - - - 123 Section XIII. As to the Choice of Salt Fish - - 129 Section XIV. How to choose Crabs, Lobsters, and all other Kinds of Shellfish 132contents. IV CHAPTER TII. PAGE Section I. Of cleaning and preserving Fish, and preparing it for the Table - - 140 Section II. How to cure and preserve Fish - - 151 CHAPTER IY. On the Cookery of Fish - - - - - -157 Section I. How to boil Fish - - - 158 Section II. How to fry Fish - - - - - 173 Section III. Gravies for fried Fish - - - 197 Section IV. How to broil Fish .... 200 Section V. How to stew Fish - - - 207 Section VI. How to make Fish Curry - 227 Section VII. How to roast and bake Fish - - 229 Section VIII. Fish Pies and Patties - 239 Section IX. Fish Soups - 247 Section X. Twice-laid Dishes of Fish ... 252 Section XI. Potting, Scolloping, Pickling, and Ma- rinading- - - - - - 255 Sauces for Fish - - - - - 275 Section XII.THE CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. The object of the present work is to supply instructions upon the choice ancl cookery of fish; a subject hitherto only partially treated upon by the many talented authors on the general art of cookery. Even in the very best of these books a great number of our most common and useful fishes are omitted altogether; whilst others are slightly glossed over, little being said about the edible merits, or by what particular mode of cookery they may be turned to the most profit- able advantage. As a proof of this, in six modern cookery works of the highest merit, we have searched in vain for something about the qua- F B2 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. lities of the John Dory, which, although one of the best fishes the sea has produced, is altogether unnoticed; nor can we find the ling, — a very common, and yet one of the most useful fishes taken upon our coasts, — spoken of otherwise than as a dried salt fish; whilst no kind of fish whatever is capable of being dressed in a greater variety of ways, and few are equal to it in every one of them. The red and the grey mullet, two fish as different from each other, as far as cookery is concerned, as any two kinds can possibly be, we find jumbled together in a very strange manner, as if both were of the same species; the only difference mentioned between them being, that the red are better than the grey; whereas in point of fact they differ so widely from each other in every essential particular, that no mode of cookery adapted to the one can be applied to the other without spoiling it outright. But it is not our intention to find any further fault with our talented writers on the art of cookery for their omissions in the fish department, in which, as far as they have gone, the subject has been so well treated, that our regret is that more has not been said upon it. This we hope in some measure to supply, and at the same time to point out how a valuable article of food, the importance of which does not seem to be suffi-3 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. ciently appreciated, may be turned to the most advantageous account. It is really a subject worthy of some attention in a country like our own, where the consumption of provisions of every kind is so great as to render us in some degree dependent upon foreign countries, not only for the luxuries, but even some of the most common and essential necessaries of life, and where consecpiently every available article of food we can obtain from our own resources oimht to be O made the most of; notwithstanding which, by some woeful mismanagement, many tons of fish, instead of being used as food, are frequently cast away to rot upon a dunghill, or carted away for manure, that, if properly distributed, might have relieved the wants, not only of hundreds, but even of thousands of our needy fellow-creatures. This great evil formerly arose from the vast expense incurred and time occupied in carrying fish to any great distance overland from the places where it was caught; which consequently placed the purchase of that article only within the reach of the more opulent classes of society, and these, even at the highest prices, could not always obtain it in a sound condition. These difficulties are now in great measure removed by means of railway communication, through the medium of which fish of all kinds, and in a healthy4 CIIOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. state, may, at a trifling expense, be distributed throughout the whole length and breadth of the land, and thus afford all ranks and classes a valuable augmentation of the necessaries ot life at a moderate price. In a national point of view, therefore, it is evident an increased consumption of this article of food must confer a great benefit on the whole kingdom; for not only would the people generally be better and more cheaply fed, but our fisheries, so important to the interests of this country, as affording the best nursery for our seamen, would be carried on far more extensively in proportion as the demand for their labours in- creased. For this the supply is ample; all that is wanting is a demand for the article, and a knowledge of how to apply it when obtained. If the good qualities of many kind of fishes were better known, this desirable end would be very easily attained; but unfortunately many good and wholesome fishes are rejected merely from ignorance of their real value, or of the proper way of cooking them; and this occurs more fre- quently with the most common and cheapest kinds of fish, many of which are superior to those of a rarer kind, and which are consequently sold at a much higher price. Such has been remark- ably exemplified in the instance of the hake, which, although so highly esteemed amongst the5 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. Portuguese (but upon whose coast it does not appear to be plentiful), as to be styled a royal fish, fit for the food of kings, has been so slightly regarded at Plymouth, where it is abundant, that till very lately it was altogether rejected by the opulent classes, and unthankfully eaten by the poor, for no other cause j than the extreme cheap- ness and abundance of the commodity. Latterly, however, the merits of the hake have overcome this ill-founded prejudice, and it is now to be met with at the best tables, where we have had the gratification of seeing hake cutlets garnishing a splendid turbot, and even unanimously proclaimed to be the better fish of the two. Still, for all this, far greater quantities of hake are often brought into our markets than can possibly be consumed in a fresh state; the consequence is, that tons weight are frequently spoilt, and carried off by cartloads at a time for manure. The same also occurs with respect to rays, with which the markets in the southern parts of the west of England are often so glutted, that not one tenth part of them can find purchasers, even at the very lowest price; and yet when rays are prepared in the form of crimped skate, they are by no means a bad dish of fish, and in many places highly prized, when stewed is really delicious, and, what is still more, exceedingly wholesome and nutri-6 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. tious; and yet, from the quantities of these fish, and the exceeding lowness of price at which they may be purchased, many of the very poorest people, and almost on the verge of starvation, will refuse to partake of them in any shape or form whatever. This, amongst numberless other instances Ave could mention, shows how desirable it is that the true qualities of all our fishes should be more generally known, as well as the criterions by which their sound and healthy condition may be most readily tested. The chief cause why fish is not a more favourite article of diet with many persons is, that they have chanced to partake of it when out of season, or tainted by decomposition, or spoilt by exceedingly bad cookery, and they have taken a disgust to it accordingly. A mackerel is a fine flavoured fish when perfectly fresh, and a very nauseous one when stale; and yet the latter is the condition in which most of these fish are commonly eaten by those who live at a dis- tance from the places they are caught. The same remarks apply equally to many other kinds of fish, which, although excellent when dressed soon after they are taken, entirely lose their fine flavour a few hours afterwards, and, if kept much longer, become so insipid as to be altogether unpa- latable, although free from any taint of decompo- sition; whilst others, as the whole of the ray1 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. tribe for instance, so far from being at all damaged, are greatly improved by being kept a day or two before they are cooked. Again, there are some kinds of fish — as the whiting pollock, and tam- lin cod—which are soft, watery, mawkish, and insipid, if boiled immediately after they are cap- timed, but which by being powdered with salt a day or two before they are dressed, become both firm and well-flavoured, whilst with other fish, the same process produces an effect diametrically op- posite; the salt extracting every kind of good flavour, and often imparting a strong disagree- able taste in its stead, which it almost invariably does, if used in any considerable quantity for the purpose of preserving soles, and most, if not every, other kind of flat fish. The cleaning and preparing fish for the table also requires considerable care, and many good dish of fish is spoilt in consequence of inattention to this important matter. It is also essential to know what particular mode of cooking is best adapted to each indi- vidual kind of fish; for, although some species are capable of being dressed in every variety of way that gastronomic ingenuity can suggest, and, if properly done, are good in every one of them, there are others that, although delicious if dressed in the mode to which they arc espe-8 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. cially adapted, are scarcely eatable if cooked in any other manner. Thus, if a grey mullet were to be dressed without being gutted or scaled in the way a red mullet is usually done, it would be unfit to be eaten; whilst a red mullet scaled and plain boiled, iu the same manner the grey ought to be dressed, would prove one of the most insipid fishes that could be brought to table. A carp, everybody knows, when stewed, affords a splendid dish, but, when simply boiled, is one of the very worst fish that can be eaten. Chads also, which are the young of the sea bream, although very indifferent fish when pre- pared in most of the ordinary ways of cooking, may be so cooked, that inexperienced persons would not know them from surmullet; they are also exceedingly good marinated; in addition to which, by the aid of a little butter and spice, they may be potted, and rendered in every re- spect ecpial to the potted charr for which the lakes of Cumberland have been so long; and justly celebrated. With these few preliminary observations, we shall proceed at once with our subject. First, by offering such practical directions as may enable our readers to distinguish the different species of fish from each other, with remarks upon the respective merits of each individual9 INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. species; as also the time of year at which they are to he found in the most sound and healthy condition, and the criterions by which this sound and healthy condition can be most readily de- termined. Our next attempt will be to point out the proper way of cleaning fish, and preparing them for cooking, as also the best ways of preserving them either for a short or a long period, as circumstances may require. And, lastly, we shall afford all the information we can collect as to the various ways in which each individual species may be cooked, so as to appear at table to the greatest possible advantage ; as also the way in which it should be served up and garnished, and the different sauces and gravies with which it ought to be accompanied ; as also the various ways in which these gravies and sauces are to be prepared.10 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. CHAP. II. DIRECTIONS FOR CHOOSING FISH, WITH REMARKS UPON THEIR RESPECTIVE QUALITIES. SECTION I. Preliminary Observations. Most persons entertain the notion that certain kinds of fish all come into good season at the same time of the year, without any important difference between the individual qualities of each; in fact, that when a particular sort of fish is said to be in season, the whole species are equally good; and, when out of season, all are bad in a like degree. Now this is most erroneous. It is ti ue that in some months of the year the generality of fish of a particular kind are in better condition than at others; and at those periods the greater number will be found to be in the primest order. But at the same time it must be borne in mind, that fish vary as much from each other in the relative state of their goodness, as either cattle or poultry ; so that, even in the most favourable periods of the year, many fish may always be met with in an unhealthy state, and of some par-11 CHOOSING FISH. ticular kinds, as we shall duly notice hereafter, it is rare, at any season of the year whatever, out of a quantity exposed for sale, to find one half of them in proper order for the table ; and sometimes not even one in twenty can be met with approaching even to tolerable condition, and this even at a time of the year when fish of the same kind are usually considered to be in proper season. This shows how necessary it is that every caterer of a family should know how to choose fish as well as meat, poultry, vegetables, fruit, or any other article of food. There is, indeed, little risk, for those who can afford to pay the price, of buying a fish much out of condition from a first-rate fishmonger, however the article may prove as far as freshness is concerned ; as this kind of tradesman makes it a rule never to purchase any but first-rate fish, but upon which, as he must get a large profit to afford a sufficient remuneration for the in- vestment of capital in so perishable an article, the purchaser must expect to pay accordingly ; so that any one who is possessed of sufficient knowledge to select the article may usually ob- tain it at a great reduction of price in a public fishmarket, and generally in a much fresher state than he could obtain in the shop of a fashionable fishmonger. Still, those who know nothing ofCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 12 the matter, if they want a really good dish of fish, would do wiser to deal with a respectable fishmonger, and pay him what he asks, than run the risk of what they may purchase in the public markets, or from those persons who hawk fish about the streets and through the country; for into such hands as the latter all the refuse fish is sure to come, which, of course, they strive to dispose of to their most ignorant customers, well knowing their wiser ones would decline to purchase so worthless a commodity. This is another strong argument that every one who attempts to purchase fish, should know something of the quality of the article; and more particu- laily so, as little difference is made in the price between the good and the bad; so that, upon being able to exercise a sound judgment will depend whether you have the best, or the worst kind of commodity, for precisely the same amount of money. l>ut it is not enough to be able to detect the healthy condition of a fish, or its state of fresh- ness ; for with some kinds it is essential to dis- cover the particular manner in which they have been captured; as the way in which fish are taken sometimes spoils some delicate kinds out- right, and others it impairs so considerably, that they are, or, at any rate, are supposed to be, soldCHOOSING FISH. 13 at a cheaper rate than those which have been caught by some less injurious mode. Thus, whitings, haddocks, bibs, and surmullet, beirnr very tender and delicate fish, if caught in a trawl net, are rendered all but worthless, in consequence of the pressure they encounter amidst the crowd of other fish, and the weeds, scruff, and rubbish with which they are jammed up in the trawl net. Cod, ling, hake, and pollock, when captured in the same manner, all become more or less injured, sometimes to such an extent as to render them valueless, whilst at others the damage is but trivial; still, however slight it may be, none of the last kind of fish caught in this way, are equal to those taken with a hook and line. Yet fish- vendors have never been known to cry stinking fish, or trawl-caught cod, hake, or whiting, which they usually strive, and often successfully, to pass off on every inexperienced purchaser as hook-and- line caught fish. The difference between hook-and-line fish and one caught in a trawl, may, however, be very readily detected by any one who will attend to the rules we shall lay down in the following section, and which we trust will be duly attended to by all our readers who intend to make pur- chases in the fishmarket.CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 14 SECTION II. Fishes of tiie Cod kind. The cod tribe consists of no less than sixteen dis- tinct species; namely, the common cod, speckled cod, haddock, bib, pouting, whiting, whiting pollock, rawlin pollock, hake, forked hake, four species of lings—the single bearded, three bearded, and five bearded; the burbot; and also the torsk and the tadpole fish. They are all good fish, and afford the most wholesome food the sea produces ; being innocent and easy of digestion, and on this account are permitted to be eaten by invalids in preference to any other kind of fish whatever. But good and wholesome as all these fish un- doubtedly are, great judgment is required in their selection, as a great many kinds are brought into the markets in very inferior condition, and, with the exception of whiting and whiting pollock, it is rare to find, amongst the different varieties of the cod tribe exposed for sale, one half of them in a fit condition for the table, and rarely, if ever, are one fourth part of them in first-rate order. 1. The Common Cod. The codfish is taken on all parts of the British coast, but those caught on the Dogger-bank are15 THE COMMON COD. the most esteemed. Great numbers of large cod are, however, caught on the Devonshire and Cornish coasts, with which the fishmarkets of the seaport towns are plentifully supplied; but these fish do not often attain then’ highest state of perfection on the latter coast, as not one out of ten of those commonly exposed for sale can be considered in tolerable order, and not one in fifty in first-rate condition. There are two varieties of these fish, which may be distinguished from each other by the one having a long, sharp nose, extending to some distance beyond the eyes; the nose of the other variety being blunt and wide. The former is usually found to be of a darker cast than the latter, although the colour in all these fishes, and in fact in most others, is found to vary according to the natuie ol the food upon which they subsist, and the kind of bottom they inhabit; most fishes possessing the chameleon-like property of chang- ing their tints, and acquiring those of the soil they usually swim over; which assists them to conceal themselves from the sight of numerous foes to whose attacks they are constantly liable, and to which a strong contrast in colour would constantly expose them. Hence it is that on rocky ground cod are often taken of a dark brown tint, resembling that of the ore-weed at theCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 16 bottom, and even where the weeds acquire a reddish tint, the same hue is also imparted to the fishes inhabiting them. The prevailing colour of those codfish that are met with in clean ground is an ashy green cast above, the lower parts being white; but in some the upper parts are of so pale a tint as to be nearly white, where these fish constantly inhabit a light-coloured sandy ground. The codfish attains to a large size, instances having occurred of their weighing as much as sixty pounds, and Pennant speaks of one taken on the Yorkshire coast, that weighed as much as seventy-eight pounds; but about twenty-five pounds may be considered as the usual average of an adult codfish. Until these fish attain a pound weight they are termed codlings, and from that size to ten pounds weight they are called tamlin cod, and when they exceed the latter weight, then they become entitled to be styled codfish. The large cod, if in good order, are generally the best flavoured fish, the smaller ones bein^ less firm; and the smaller the fish, to the greater extent does this want of firmness prevail. The best way to counteract this defect is to sprinkle the fish with salt a day or two before it is dressed. As a general rule, the cod is a winter fish, coming into season in October and jxoino- out in February; its highest condition being about17 THE COMMON COD. Christmas, at which time most of the females will be found in roe; and they continue good until very near the eve of depositing their spawn: but when this period approaches they become out of condition, and by the time it is finished they are thin and emaciated, and continue out of order for some months afterwards; yet, as it usually happens that some of these fishes cast their spawn many weeks earlier than others, the first begin to regain their condition before the last begin to fail, and thus some codfish may be found in tolerable order nearly all the year through. And now for choosing a codfish. In doing this you must select one that rises high and is well filled out at the nape, having a deep pit just be- hind the head, the sides being broad and ribbed with elevated ridges; the flesh ought also to be stiff. If the fish has a tongue in its mouth it tells its high condition. A cod’s tongue can never speak falsely in this respect, as it is never found in the mouth of one unless it is in first-rate order. The freshness of the fish may be tested by the brightness of its eyes, the redness of the gills, and the clear moisture of the slime upon its body ; although in a trawl-caught codfish the latter test is wanting, as the scales and slime being rubbed off in the net, the fish acquires the same dull, dry, and CCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 18 stale appearance of a codfish that has been for some time captured; and it is from the scales being thus detached, and the dull, dry-looking aspect of the fish, that a trawl-caught codfish may be dis- tinguished from one taken by a hook and line. The colour of the gills will, however, still afford a test of its freshness, which may also be deter- mined by pressing the point of your finger hard enough upon the body of the fish to make an im- pression, which will remain if the fish be stale, but will rise again immediately on the removal of the pressure if it be perfectly fresh. There is a smaller variety of cod called the variable or speckled cod, which is sometimes taken on our coasts, and which differs from the common codfish in having a smaller head, and by the lower jaw being considerably shorter than the upper one, as it also does in its external colouring; which is a greyish brown speckled over with yel- low or pale drab spots. It is a smaller fish than the common cod, as it seldom exceeds seven or eight pounds weight; but if in good order is superior in flavour to a well-fed common codfish of the same size. 2. The Iladdoch. The haddock bears some resemblance to the codfish, j et may easily be distinguished from itTHE HADDOCK. 19 by the black mark, sometimes a stripe, but more commonly a spot, on each shoulder, vulgarly be- lieved to have been made by the finger and thumb of St. Peter when he took the tribute-money out of the mouth of this fish, and which, as a me- morial of the miracle, has been continued to the whole race of haddocks down to the present day. Be this as it may, the haddock is an excellent fish; its flesh being firm and of a snow-white colour, with a creamy curd between the flakes. It may be dressed either quite fresh or slightly powdered, and it eats agreeably enough when salted either in pickle or dried. The larger the fish the firmer it is, depending of course upon its health and condition; for these fish difler quite as much from each other in their comparative goodness as the codfish, and quite as many bad specimens may be found amongst the one as the other, so that equal attention is necessary in making a selection of either of these fishes. To choose a haddock, pick out one, if you can find any such, that is deep-bodied, thick, and well filled out, rounded at the poll, and elevated on the back; for if sharp ridged, like the top of the roof of a house, and if the form of the fish is lanky and compressed, it is out of season. It should also be of a pale brown on the back, the sides being bright and silvery, the slime clear and transparent,CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 20 the scales undisturbed, and all the fins unruffled, if the scales are rubbed off, the body assumes a dull reddish tint, and if the rays of the fins, par- ticularly the tail fin, are broken, and separate from the membrane, the fish has been caught in a trawl, and will be scarcely worth eating; as the pressure it encounters in the net squeezes up the liver and intestines, and imparts a strong and disagreeable taint to the whole fish. Redness of the gills and brightness of the eyes also afford a test of the freshness of this fish. When it is stale the gills turn to a dull cast, the sides grow dull, and the fish becomes limp. A haddock, like a codfish, ought to be perfectly stiff; but this does not always occur even in a perfectly fresh and healthy fish; still a fish that does not stiffen never flakes out well. The largest haddocks, it seems, are found in Dublin Bay, and on the coasts of Devonshire and Cornwall; on the latter of which they are some- times taken weighing as much as fourteen pounds, and specimens of from eight to ten pounds may be constantly met with in the fish-markets alono- the southern line of coast of those counties; whilst from two to four pounds weight may be con- sidered the common average of those fishes ob- tained by the London markets from the other parts of our sea-coast.THE BIB. 21 The larger-sized haddocks keep better than the smaller ones; hut those of all sizes are likely to ac- quire a rancid taint, from the oily quality of their livers, if permitted to remain too long after they are caught without being gutted; which process should never be unnecessarily delayed where cir- cumstances will otherwise permit. Haddocks are delicious, either boiled or fried, but are of rather too dry a nature to eat so well when stewed as cod, ling, or hake; and, although salt tends to preserve them, we consider it extracts in some degree the delicate richness of their flavour; and, in our opinion, a haddock cannot be eaten too soon after it is caught. Haddocks are a winter fish, being in best order from November to February, which is the spawn- ing time; after which the larger ones become thin and out of season, at which times they betake themselves to very deep water, where they are not often captured; the smaller ones, that have not arrived at a spawning time of life, are in proper condition for the table at all times. 3. The Bib. The bib is a firm, sweet-tasted fish. It is very common in our fish-markets, Avhere it is usually sold at a very cheap rate. It averages from22 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. about two pounds to half a pound weight. It is a fish that keeps badly, from the oily nature of its liver, which soon imparts g rancid flavour to the fish, but which may be entirely prevented by extracting the intestines within a few hours after it is caught; if this, however, be duly at- tended to, the fish will be found to possess a very agreeable flavour ; the larger ones being delicious when boiled, and the smaller ones equally so when fried, provided they be done soon after they are caught; but they lose a great deal of the delicacy of their flavour when kept; and, though they may be preserved by being sprinkled with salt, it deprives them altogether of the fine taste they possess when perfectly fresh. From being so seldom partaken of in a state of perfection this fish does not bear so good a reputation as it really merits. Those caught in a trawl are rendered worthless, and may be detected by the dull aspect they acquire by being deprived of their scales. In selecting a bib, see that the eyes and scales look bright, and the slime on the bodies clear and transparent; that the fish is well filled out, deep-bodied, high at the back, and thick behind the shoulders. Gut the fish as soon as possible, and cook it at the earliest opportu- nity.THE POUTING CODFISH. 23 This fish is known hy a great variety of names; at Southampton it is called a toup ; in many other places a whiting pout, or pouting; in the west of England it is called a blin or blind; at St. Ives it is known by the name of lug or leaf; and at Penzance by the title of bothock, which, we have been informed, in the ancient Cornish language, signifies large eyes, for which this fish is remark- able, as also for a membrane that covers them, which it has the power of distending like an air- bladder. 4. The Pouting, or Power Codfish. The pouting is a smaller fish than the last; seldom attaining to more than a quarter of a pound weight. It resembles a bib of the same size so much in its general appearance, that many persons who even see the two fishes side by side do not detect the difference; but which is apparent enough to a practised eye, the pouting being of a more elongated form than the bib, and its scales much larger in proportion. The pout- ing, when eaten within a few hours after it is caught, is one of the most delicious-flavoured fish the sea produces; but it keeps so very badly, that unless cooked on the very day it is caught it loses all the delicacy of its flavour, and, although per- fectly untainted by decomposition, it becomes so24 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. tasteless by the time it has been twenty-four hours out of water as to be scarcely worth eating. On this account, although swarms of these de- licious fish may be taken daily in Plymouth Sound during the whole of the summer and autumn months, we have never seen one of them exposed for sale in the fish-markets of either Plymouth, Stonehouse, or Devonport, or, in fact, at any place offered for sale in any way. The only persons, therefore, who have the oppor- tunities of enjoying them are the amateur fisher- men and their friends; and, as the former often capture as many as ten or fifteen dozen of these fishes in the course of two or three hours, a sufficient supply can generally be relied on; and, v hen nicely fried on the same day, they afford as good a dish of fish as the most fastidious epicure could desire to partake of; but which, if the process were to be delayed until the following day, he would condemn as unfit to be eaten. o. Rawlin Pollock, Whiting Pollock, and Whiting. These three distinct species of fish have so great an external resemblance to each other, that casual observers often mistake the one for the other The two former, however, are distin- guishable from the whiting, not only by beingPOLLOCK AND WHITING. 25 usually of a darker colour, but also in the forma- tion of the jaws; the upper jaw of the whiting projecting beyond the lower one, whilst in both kinds of pollock the lower jaw projects beyond the upper one. The difference between the two kinds of pol- lock may be detected by examining their lateral lines; that of the whiting pollock being of a dark colour and of a curved form, rising towards the middle of the back, and then sinking and running straight towards the tail; whilst in the rawlin pollock the line runs straight along the whole length of the body from gill to tail, and is of a silvery white. Both kinds of pollock attain a large size, the rawlin pollock sometimes reach- ing to forty pounds, the Avhiting pollock to as much as fourteen ; but about half that size may be taken as the usual average of the adult fishes. The rawlin pollock is not held in very high estimation, and has acquired a worse reputation than it deserves from being often met Avith out of season, as the larger fish usually are during the greater part of the summer months. The almost general rule, that “ the larger the size the better the fish” is reversed in the rawlin pollock, the small ones being much the best flavoured. In choosing one of these fish, you must see that it is thick about the poll, Avell rounded overCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 26 the back, and that it carries its fulness down to the very tail. The redness of the gills, bright- ness of the eyes, and elasticity of the flesh upon pressure afford the best proof of its freshness. The scales being rubbed off, and the fins broken, denote the fish to have been caught in a trawl; but it is liable to less injury when taken in this manner than most others of the cod tribe. It is a fish, also, that is improved by being salted before it is cooked, and makes an excellent salt fish. Indeed, Sir Richard Bonnycastle, in his account of the products of Newfoundland, considers this fish, when prepared in this manner, superior to the cod, for which that part of the world has been so long celebrated. The rawlin pollock is, however, preserved in a different manner from the codfish, being exported to this country pickled in barrels, the cod being sent over dried. The whiting pollock is considered a better fish than the preceding; but this fish is much im- proved by being sprinkled with salt a day or two before it is cooked. The criterions of goodness in a whiting pollock are the depth and fulness of the body; and its fieshness is determined by the brightness of the eyes, the redness of the gills, and the clearness of the slime; but which soon dries up, even before27 rOLLOCIv AND WHITING. the fish gets in any way tainted, and often causes it to assume an untempting appearance before it becomes at all stale ; when this occurs, its fresh- ness may be tested by pressure, in the manner we have already pointed out. The rawlin pollock is known by various names, depending in a great measure upon its various stages of growth; as coal fish, sethe, grey lord, and blockin. The fry, when small, are called billets, coalsies, parrs, and podleys; when above a foot long they are termed poodlers. The whiting pollock sometimes, par excellence, is styled pollock only. On the Yorkshire coast it is called a leet, and in Scotland a lythe. The whiting (or silver whiting as it is some- times called, to distinguish it from the whiting and rawlin pollock), when in prime order, as it generally is during the greater part of the year, is one of the most wholesome and delicate fish the sea produces; and, except during the spawning time, which occurs about January, may be con- sidered in season all the year round. The largest whiting* are caimlit on the southern coast of Devonshire and Cornwall; but those taken on the northern coast of those two counties, although usually smaller in size, are superior in flavour. When perfectly fresh it is of a pale brown on the back, the sides silver and slightly mottled with-O CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. greyish brown, the belly white, the slime per- fectly clear and transparent. As the fish grows stale the slime becomes thick, and imparts a dull appearance to the sides. When caught in a trawl, it assumes a dull, parboiled appearance, which is perceptible to the most unpractised eye; and, being a fish of a very tender nature, a trawl-caught whiting is not fit to be eaten, and should be rejected accordingly. If treated properly, whiting will keep well, and are rather improved than otherwise by being kept a day, or sprinkled with salt before they are used; but the intestines ought to be extracted as soon as possible after they are caught. Those whitings which die stiff with their mouths wide open always flake out the best, and therefore should always be selected when the opportunity offers; but this does not always happen, as we have often noticed several dozens of these fish all perfectly fresh and in good season, and yet not a stiff fish amongst the whole batch. 6. The Hake. The hake, although little esteemed, is one of the most valuable fishes with which it has pleased a bountiful Providence to bless mankind. They are found in great abundance, and may be cooked29 THE HAKE. in a great variety of ways. It is very good when boiled, either perfectly fresh, powdered slightly with salt, or cured; either pickled, or as a dried salt fish. Hake cutlets form as delicious a dish of fish as can possibly be produced; slightly powdered, it makes a first-rate broil; it is also good stewed, either whole with a pudding in its belly in the way a pike is done, or cut up in steaks; and is very nice either marinated or potted. Hakes are in best order from about Michael- mas to Christmas; but towards the latter end of January, as they approach near the spawning- time, they begin to fail; yet, unluckily, at these times they are taken in greatest numbers by the trawlers, whilst they remain in a weak and supine state at the bottom. This is much to be regretted, as at those times by far the greater portion of them are out of season, and consequently not in a proper state to be eaten; and this is the chief cause of the hake’s undeserved unpopularity. A hake, indeed, that is at any time caught with a trawl, is inferior to a hook-and-line fish, and the difference between the two may be detected by the scales being rubbed off, and the rays of the fins broken and detached from the membranes, which always occurs more or less in a trawl-caunht hake. Yet, although the trawl always does some30 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. degree of damage to these fish, it injures some much more than others; yet often the damage is so trifling, that the fish need not be altogether re- jected, particularly when a hook-and-line-caught hake in proper condition cannot be procured. If, therefore, the fish is well proportioned, and retains its stiffness, and the scales are only par- tially rubbed off, it may prove a very good fish; but never purchase one that has not retained a considerable portion of its scales about the shoul- ders and forepart of the body. In a hook-and-line hake the scales present an even and unbroken surface, the sides are bright and silvery, and the fins unbroken and unruffled. The proof of high condition consists in the stoutness of the body, the thickness of which should be carried well down towards the tail; but the abdomen should not be too much rounded and swollen. The freshness is proved by the redness of the gills, the brightness of the eyes and scales, and the transparency of the slime. 7. The Forked Hake. The forked hake resembles the species last de- scribed, but is of a stouter make. It is of much smaller size than the common hake, seldom exceed- ing two feet in length, and may be recognised by31 THE LING. possessing two very remarkable long, naked rays, forked at the extremity, and growing out from the throat about midway from the gape of the mouth and pectoral fin. This fish does not appear to be very plentiful; hut may usually be met with in the Plymouth fish-market during the winter months. It is not, however, much esteemed. It resembles the hake, but is extremely inferior to it in flavour. The best way of dressing the forked hake is to split it open, and, powdering it with pepper and salt, to broil it over a clear fire, rubbing plenty of butter over it when done; in which way it will be found to eat very agreeably. The same rules may be adopted for selecting this fish as the preceding one. 8. The Ling. The ling is a first-rate fish, both for size and goodness. It sometimes attains to as much as seventy pounds weight, and thirty pounds is by no means an extraordinary size ; added to which, its flesh is firm, white, and of most exquisite flavour; it keeps remarkably well without the aid of salt or any other material for preserving it; though it takes the former very easily; and when cured as salt-fish is far superior to any other kind prepared in the same way. There is, however, a32 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. great deal of difference in the relative goodness which these fish bear to each other, as even in the most favourable season of the year numbers of them may be found out of condition; and at others, perhaps not one in ten can be met with that is in first-rate order. It is necessary, therefore, that every one who purchases a ling should know how to make a proper selection; to do which the following rules should be carefully observed. The fish must be stout and thick about the shoulders and forepart of the body, decreasing by gradual and imperceptible degrees towards the tail, the muscles being well filled up, and marked by small elevated ridges or furrows; the fish ought also to be perfectly stiff. The abdomen should not be too much rounded. If the fish has a large protuberant belly, and becomes suddenly compressed at the vent, and thin towards the tail, it is altogether out of season. An ill-conditioned ling never becomes stiff; but the reverse is not always the case, as ling caught in a trawl seldom stiffen well; and sometimes this happens with a ling in good season caught with a hook and line; but, whenever this occurs, the fish will not flake out so well as one that becomes perfectly stiff. Another unerring- proof of the good or ill condition is the colour of the liver, which should be of an opaque, creamishTHE LING. 33 cast, approaching almost to whiteness, and the paler the colour is, the better is the condition of the fish. When out of order, the liver as- sumes a darker cast, until it acquires a reddish tint, which affords a sure indication that the fish is out of season. Its freshness may be tested in the same manner as in the codfish. Those fish which have been caught in a trawl-net may be distinguished from the others by having a dull look, and Avanting the brightness of colouring displayed in a high-conditioned hook-and-line ling. This is caused by the slime having been rubbed off by the traAvl-net. The latter mode of capture does not injure a ling so much as it does most other fishes of the cod tribe; but still a fish taken in this manner is not equal to one of the same kind caught with a hook and line. The largest lings are the best flavoured, the smaller ones being deficient in that firmness Avliich forms such an excellence in the adult fishes. Until a ling measures twenty-six inches or up- wards from shoulder to tail it is called a drizzle, and is not allowed to rank as a sizeable fish; and Avhen bounties were allowed by the government to fishermen upon the exportation of salted fish, drizzles Avere excluded from participating in them. Like the cod, the ling has a remarkably fine D34 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. sound, which can he either dressed fresh with the fish, or salted; in which way the tongues of these fish, as also those of the cod, are prepared. The roes, both hard and soft, are also excellent. The greatest portion of what is called cod-liver oil, now so much used as medicine, is produced from the liver of this fish. Ling is cooked in the same manner as cod; in addition to which, on account of its superior firmness, it is excellent cold and pickled, or soused in the way salmon and mackerel are done. It is also delicious potted in the manner we shall hereafter point out; an economical mode of turn- ing cold fish, which is too often thrown away and wasted, to valuable account, at a cost that is next to nothing. Any cold portions which may be left also afford the best possible materials for fish sausages; for frying in batter; or covered with egg, cream, and crumbs; the preparation of all which will be duly treated of in its proper place. 9. The Burbot. The burbot is the only member of the cod family that inhabits the fresh water. It is a moderate-sized fish, usually about two pounds weight, resembling a small ling in form, but, like the eel, covered over with a thick, mucous slime. It is said to be a delicious fish, resembliim inTHREE-BEARDED LING. 35 flavour, but superior to, the common fresh-water eel. It is not, however, a general fish in this country; being only met with in a few of our rivers, as the Severn, Trent, and Cam, and in some rivers in Yorkshire and Durham. It is also known by the names of burbolt and eel-pout. 10. The Three-bearded Ling Is a moderate-sized fish, seldom exceeding the length of twelve or fourteen inches. It derives its name from possessing three barbs—two on the muzzle and one beneath the chin,—the common ling possessing only the latter. It is of a wider make than the common ling about the shoulders and forepart of the body, but becomes more compressed towards the tail. It differs also in colour, being curiously mottled with brown and red. It is a delicate fish, rather resembling a whiting than a ling in flavour; but it ought to be cooked very fresh, as it loses all its flavour, and becomes flabby and disagreable, if kept for any time after it is token. The best way to cook these fish is to split them open, and either fry or broil them. Their healthy condition and freshness may be tested in the same manner as the common ling. The fry, when not exceeding five or six inches in length, are of a uniform brown colour. These make a delicious fry if cooked on the same36 CHOICE AXD COOKERY OF FISH. day they are caught; but, if kept longer, they lose all their delicate flavour. 11. The Five-bearded Ling. The five-bearded ling is a little fish of four or five inches in length, possessing no less than five beards; two at the end of the nose, two just before the eyes, and one beneath the chin. It is a dark-looking, ugly fish, but eats very agreeably if nicely fried. 12. The Tadpole Fish. The tadpole fish is even more repulsive in its appearance than the one we have last men- tioned; and, its wide and depressed head, stout shoulders, short and compressed body, com- bined with its dark colour, give it some re- semblance to an overgrown specimen of the repulsive-looking reptile from which, there can be little doubt, it derives its name: still, in spite of appearances, it possesses a most exquisite flavour, as we can testify from our experience. It is, however, a very rare fish on our coasts; so rare indeed, that some celebrated writers on natural history speak of it as if only one or two rare specimens had ever occurred. This, however, is not the fact; it is certainly a scarce fish, and, being small—for it seldom exceeds six or seven37 THE TORSK. inches in length, and is very ugly to hoot—the fishermen who catch them, much oftener than is supposed, throw them aside as worthless. We ourselves have occasionally taken them with a hook and line ; and, having put the edible merits of the first we captured to the test, were so well satisfied with the result, that we have taken care to turn all the rest that have come in our way to the same account. The best parts are about the head and collar-bones, which are beyond description delicious. 13. The Torsk. The torsk is entirely a northern fish, swarming about the Shetland Islands and the Orkneys, from whence we receive it in the form of dried salt-fish; but it is rarely brought to our markets in a fresh state. It has, however, been sometimes brought from Scotland to London in well-boats; but this, it seems, only occurs at rare intervals. When eaten quite fresh it is said to be rather tough; on which account it is usually preferred in a salted state. It has something the form of a ling, but is of a much stouter make. As we can only speak from our own knowledge of this fish in its salted state we must defer any further observations upon it until we come to treat upon the subject of salt fish.38 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. SECTION III. Fjshes of the Flounder kind. The flounder tribe, commonly called flat fish, contain several varieties of fish, many of which are celebrated, not only for the excellence of their culinary qualities, but also for the facility with which they may be preserved without artificial aid, as also for their wholesome and nutritious properties. Most of them are common upon our coasts, and some of them may be met with in our fish-markets in a fit condition for the table at all tunes and seasons of the year. 1. The Turbot. The good qualities of a turbot are too univer- sally known to require either praise or comment from us. It is a fish of a remarkably rounded form; the upper part of the body is brown, minutely speckled, as if strewed over with fine sand, varying considerably in the depth of tint, in different specimens, from a pale cast to a daik and almost cinereous hue; depending, in great measure, upon the colour of the soil the fish has been inhabiting. The same side is also interspersed with a number of small bony tuber-39 THE TURBOT. cles, placed without any order, and varying in number in different fish. If in good order, the pale side is of an opaque, lio-ht cream colour, with a slight blush of a pink or reddish hue, particularly about the fins. When it is out of season it is of a pale white, approaching to a milk-and-water cast. As good a proof as any of the high condition of a turbot is the thickness through the body; and whenever this occurs you may rely upon it the fish is a good one. The redness of the gills and moisture of the body denote its freshness. When stale, the skin looks dry, and the pale side acquires a dull reddish tint of a darker cast between the flakes, which then become visibly developed. The turbot is, however, a fish that keeps very well, and, particularly in the winter season, is per- fectly good even when it presents the stale look above mentioned. To prevent these appearances, it is a practice of fishmongers to be constantly pouring water over the best fish; but these ac- quire a soddened look, and may be recognised accordingly. A turbot has frequently a red appearance about the tail, which, although in reality no detri- ment, injures the look of the fish; to counteract which, fishermen are in the habit of opening a vein near the tail whilst the fish is living;CrrOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 40 y hicli, allowing the blood to escape, prevents this unsightly appearance. Tm hots sometimes grow to a very large size. The largest of the kind we have received any au- thentic account of, Avas one caught off Whitby in the spring of 1832, which weighed as much as 1901bs.; but from about fifteen to tA\renty pounds may be considered the aA’crage Aveight of these fishes usually met Avith in our markets, although thirty, or eAren forty pounds, is by no means an unusual size. The best flavoured are those rang- ing betAveen twelve and twenty pounds. In the northern parts of the kingdom this fish is called a bret, and in Scotland it is known by the name of bannock-fluke or raA\m fluke. 2. The Brill. The brill bears a close resemblance to the turbot, but has a narrower body; it is also thinner through, and its dark side is free from the small spiny tubercles with Avhich the upper side of the turbot is always interspersed. There is little difference in the colour of the dark sides of these fishes, but the brill never acquires the rich creamy- pink cast of the turbot on the pale side; Avhich, at its very best, is only a pale or dull yellowish white, acquiring a bluish milk-and-water or. cuidy appearance, or a mottled kind of mixture41 THE HALIBUT. of bluish milk-and-water tints with curdy milk- white, particularly about the fins. The opaque, or yellowish whiteness of the under side, and total absence of the milk-and-water cast, is the best proof of the good condition of a brill. It does not grow to anything like the size of the turbot; seldom exceeding ten pounds, and the greater proportion not reaching to more than half that weight. It is a good and wholesome fish, but labours under the disadvantage of bearing too close a resemblance to the turbot; and, as it does not come up to the latter in excellence, the best brill that can be procured will be no more than a turbot of moderate, if not indifferent quality. At Plymouth this fish is called a holibut, or halibut, although that title belongs to a totally different kind of fish, being the one we shall next notice. In Cornwall it is called a kite, and in the northern parts of the kingdom a pearl. 3. The Halibut, or Holibut. The true halibut grows to a size we may fairly term enormous, instances having occurred of these fishes weighing as much as 500lbs.: and one hundredweight is no uncommon size. It is of a much more elongated shape, not only than either the turbot or the brill, but than most othersCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 42 of the flounder tribe, excepting the soles. The moderate-sized fish, of from twenty to fifty pounds weight, are the best, as the larger ones are very diy and coarse, and possess little flavour. On account of its vast size this fish is usually cut up and sold in slices. The best parts are the flakes about the fins, and the pickings about the head; the other parts, though firm, are rather insipid. It may be dressed in every way a turbot may be done, as will be pointed out hereafter; and, although inferior to the turbot, it is a very valu- able fish, and has one very great recommendation, that you may make a dish of it of which a blind Pei son may partake without any danger of bein^ choked by the bones. It is in best season during the spring. 4. The Plaice. The plaice may be distinguished from all the rest of the flounder tribe by the orange-coloured spots upon its dark side. When it is in good season, the under side is of an opaque, creamy white, with a slight blush of pink over it. If it is of a milky white, or inclining to a curdy or milk-and-watery cast, it is out of season. Another proof of the goodness of a plaice is the thickness through the body; and it ought to be stiff. The freshness may be tested by the brightness of43 THE PLAICE the eyes, freshness of the colouring on the dark side, and clear moisture of the slime. It is a fish that grows to a respectable size, sometimes attaining to as much as ten pounds or upwards ; but about one-half that weight may be considered as the average size of a full-grown fish. When in prime order, it is excellent; but, from some cause we are unable to account for, we have not, even at the most favourable times of the year, been able to find above one or two large plaice out of a dozen that can be considered in first-rate condition ; and, when otherwise, they are a very watery and insipid fish: so that, whether you get a very good or a very bad fish, will depend entirely upon the choice you make ; and, unless you really understand some- thing about the matter, leaving the fish vender out of the question altogether, the chances are always six to one at least against you, and sometimes a great deal more. The best time of the year for plaice is the latter end of the autumn; experienced fishermen say, during the blackberry season; at which time you will find more of these fish in good order than at any other time of the year, although some may be found good as late as the middle or latter end of March. The large plaice are best boiled; but theCIIOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 44 small ones should be fried. The roe should not be boiled in the body of the fish; but se- parately, as it takes a much longer time to do than the fish itself does, and if retained in the body of the latter until properly done, the fish itself would be boiled to rajis. © 5. The Flounder. The flounder grows to the weight of about three or four pounds; but the greater number of those exposed for sale in the market do not exceed the weight of half a pound. It resembles a plaice in shape, but wants the orange spots on the dark side; and may also be distinguished not onl\ fiom the latter fish, but also all other flat fifch, by possessing a row of small sharp spines surrounding the upper sides, placed just below the junction of the fins with the body. Another row marks the side line, and runs half-way down the back. The dark side is sometimes spotted with dirty yellow, and sometimes the prevailing dark colour is marbled with a darker shade of the same hue; but the depth of tint varies in differ- ent specimens, depending chiefly on the colour of the ground they swim over. The lower side is white, but often marked with dusky particles of a dirty brownish cast, either entirely or partially covering it. This is considered rather as a proof45 THE DAB. of the good condition of the fish than otherwise ; but the most certain proof of goodness is the thickness of the body and the opaque colouring of the pale side, which should have the appear- ance of white earthenware. If it has a clear or curdy appearance, the fish is out of season. Flounders are in the best order in the latter end of the autumn and early part of the winter; though some may be found in good condition, not only through the whole winter, but also in the early part of the spring. Their condition depends in great measure on the time of their spawning, some shedding the roes much earlier than others ; at which time they fail in condition, and remain for some time after spawning out of season. They are inferior to most other kinds of flat fish, being apt to be soft and watery; a defect which may, however, be in a great measure removed by ad- hering to the directions we shall lay down here- after, when we come to point out the way of cleaning and preparing fish for cooking. 6. The Dab. The dab is a very nice little fish, resembling the two preceding ones, from which it may be distinguished, not only by possessing rough scales, but also by the clear, pearly whiteness of its pale46 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. side, with the exception of that portion which covers the intestines, which, being of an opaque white, contrasts strongly with the clear white of the other part of the body. This fish rarely ex- ceeds a foot in length, but is a very good fish when nicely fried; and few are to be met with from August until April that are not in good condition; but after that time they go out of season, and few good ones are again to be met with until towards the latter end of the summer. 7. The Smooth Dab, or Mem Sole. The smooth dab resembles the common dab; but is without the rough scales of the latter, and is of rather a rounder make. It is a common fish in most parts of the West of England, and is in season at the same tune as the common dab ; but certainly is not equal to the latter fish in flavour. It is known by a variety of names on different parts of our coasts; as smear dab, town tab, lemon dab, and sand fluke. 8. The Whiffe, or French Sole. The whiffe is a remarkably thin fish, of an elongated make. The upper side is of a pale brown, the lower side a clear pearly white tinged with a leddish cast; and, from the extreme thin- ness of the fibh, if held up to the light, it is semi-47 THE TOP-KNOT. transparent. It grows to the length of about a foot and a half, but, from being so thin, it rarely weighs a pound. It is, take it altogether, the worst of the whole flounder tribe, being soft and insipid. In some parts of Cornwall this fish is called a carter; at Plymouth it is called a French sole. These fish are better when fried than cooked in any other manner, and ought to be dressed soon after they are caught. % 9. The To-p-Knot. This is a singular-looking fish, being more of a square than either a round or oblong form. Its head is large, and formed like that of a brill or turbot. The colour of the upper side varies much in different specimens, acquiring the same colour as the rocky ground which it always inhabits, varying from a reddish brown to a deep cinereous cast. When at rest it always adheres to the rocks, and, being of a corresponding colour, it is difficult to detect its presence, even in very clear and shallow water. The under side is a pearly bluish white, slightly tinged with a reddish cast. It is a small fish, seldom exceeding seven or eight inches in length, and, although not very scarce, is not often captured, as it does not take a bait very readily, and inhabiting rough and foul ground, is altogether out of the reach of48 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. the trawlers. It is a good fish when nicely fried, blit in no way superior to many more common fishes which may at all times be more easily and cheaply procured. 10. The Sole. The sole is too well known a fish to require any particular description, except to point out the distinction between a good and a bad one; for, although these fish may be obtained in good order all the year round, yet there is a great dif- ference, in point of goodness, bet ween the different fishes of this kind we find exposed for sale at the same time. The best proof of goodness is the thickness of the body; and the pale side should be of a creamy white. A milky whiteness denotes that it is not in prime order, and a bluish tinge that it is thoroughly out of season. The upper side varies considerably in depth of tint, from a pale fawn cast to a deep brown, depending upon the colour of the ground the fish usually frequents. The freshness is tested by the brightness of the colour on the dark side, and the transparency of the slime, which assumes a dull cast if the fish has been long out of the water. A frothy appearance may also be discerned on the pale side when the fish is perfectly fresh, which is never perceptible after the fish has been some time caught; but49 RED-BACK. — THICK-BACK. all soles keep well, particularly if gutted soon after they are taken, so that they will remain good some time after the appearances above pointed out have departed. There are three other kinds of fish very much resembling the sole in general appearance, but which never attain to any considerable size. The first of these is 11. The Red-Back (So called from the prevailing colour on the dark side), which is mottled with darker shades of the same cast. It is rather broader than the common sole in proportion to its length; from which it may also be distinguished by the superior size of its scales. It is a small fish, seldom exceeding nine inches in length, and the greater number we meet with are not above half that size. It is not very common, but is occasionally taken by the trawlers; and, in point of goodness, is very in- ferior to the common sole. 12. The Thick-Back Is a still smaller fish than the last. It is of reddish brown, speckled with minute spots of a darker hue of the same brown; with small brown marks or blotches on the dark side, varying in size and number in different specimens, but princi- ECHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 50 pally at the junction of the fins with the body. Although small, they are quite equal in goodness t° a sole of the same size. They are not a very common fish, but may be frequently seen in Ply- mouth fish-market in the early part of the spring. 13. The Scald Fish Seldom exceeds four or five inches in length. It is shaped like a sole, but differs from it essentially in having the eyes placed on the reverse side of the head. Its scales are very large in proportion to its size, but come off so readily as to be always rubbed away by the rough usage it encounters in the trawl nets; which gives it the naked, par- boiled appearance from whence it derives its name. It is rather a scarce fish, which is little to be regretted, as, independently of its insignifi- cant size, it does not possess an agreeable flavour. There is also another small kind of sole, called the solinette; which is a little fish of about the same size as the last, but is of a longer make than any of the preceding. It is a very scarce fish, and even when taken by the trawlers is usually thrown overboard with the weeds and rubbish of the trawl; so that it very rarely finds its way into the fish-markets.51 JOHN-DORY. SECTION IY. Dories. The John-Dory is the only species of this tribe that is commonly met with on our shores, and the only one ever used as food; for, although it has a disreputable relative, called the boar-fish, which is occasionally taken, the latter is so bad a fish as to be rejected by all classes; so that it has only to be known to be avoided. In shape it bears some resemblance to the dory, but its immense eyes, contracted mouth, the want of the long filaments upon its back, and the absence of St. Christopher’s mark, and its prevailing dull-red colour, are quite sufficient to point out the dif- ference to the eye of the most casual observer. As for the true John-Dory, his culinary merits are so great, that he may fairly be entitled to claim the palm of excellence with any of the products of the sea. He seems to have borne a highly merited reputation from the earliest ages of anti- quity, particularly amongst the Greeks, who, in ancient days, gave him the name of their supreme god Zeus, or Jupiter. Its modern title of dory is said to be derived from the French word, adoree, “ worshipped.” The Greeks of modern times also treat this fish with due respect, by hanging it up in their most sacred places of wor-52 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. ship. According to some authorities, also, the dory, and not the haddock, is said to have been the fish that furnished St. Peter with the tribute- money ; which has so far obtained credit, that many contend that its name is derived from the Italian il janitore, or " the door-keeper,” in allu- sion to St. Peter’s office of keeping the keys of heaven. Others assert his dark spot was occa- sioned by the finger marks of St. Christopher, who captured one of these fishes as he was in the act of carrying his blessed Master across a ford. His name of John is stated to be de- rived from nothing more nor less than a cor- ruption of the French word jaune, or “yellow,” from the golden tint that prevails over this fish when first taken out of the water. Be this as it may, we claim no better name for him than he has acquired by his culinary excellence; and we coin- cide with the celebrated Mr. Quin, that no fish is entitled to a better name in this respect. The love this eccentric personage bore to Johu-Dories, which he used to eat with the livers of surmullets, has given rise to some anecdotes at his expense. In his opinion the inhabitants of Plymouth ought to be the happiest people on the face of the earth, from the simple fact of their being blessed with a never-failing supply of this superlatively good fish: but it seems that, upon subsequentlyJOHN-DORY. 53 paying a visit to that part of the world, the reality did not come up to his expectations; for he afterwards expressed an opinion, that, although the natives had a plentiful supply of good fish, they had no notion of cooking it, and were totally ignorant of the art of melting butter, so that, if he looked for perfect happiness on earth, he must go elsewhere in search of it. The habits of this singular being were very remarkable. He was often, without any appa- rent cause, known to be in bed for two or three days together, sleeping away soundly during the greater part of the time. Whilst staying at Plymouth, his first question, when he awoke in the morning, was to inquire into the state of the fish-market, and, if the report was unfavourable, he would merely desire to be called again on the following morning, and again betake himself to repose. On one occasion, on his return from Plymouth to Bath, his love for John-Dories still remaining unabated, he sent directions to the landlord of the inn at Ivybridge to procure some of the finest fish of this kind to be ready on the day he arrived there; and, in order that these might be dressed in the highest degree of perfection, he actually had a cask filled with salt-water strapped on to his carriage, not esteeming fresh-water toCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 54 be so well adapted to the purpose. J\Tow, it unfortunately so happened, that, in consequence of bad Aveather, or some other cause, no dories could be procured, and so annoyed was Quin Avith the disappointment, that, although an ex- cellent dinner in every other respect had been provided, he refused to partake of it, or even to enter the house, and, casting his water-cask adrift, he left the place in a rage, and proceeded, fasting, on his journey. Dories are caught in very considerable quan- tities on the southern coasts of Devonshire and Cornwall, Avhere some may be found in season neaily all the year through. A greater number of the full-grown fish are, however, to be met with in prime order from Michaelmas to Christ- mas. The small ones are always good, and eAren amongst the large ones, if there is a good supply in the market, it seldom happens but that one or two good ones may be picked out. The best proof of sound condition is the thickness of the body; so that if you select the stoutest fish you can see from a lot of others, you will be certain to have the best one. Freshness is tested by the redness of the gills, the brightness of the eyes, and freshness of the colours, though the latter often acquire a faded appearance if the fish has been knocked about long in a trawl-net; but.55 THE SALMON. being a very firm fish, the trawl does it very little injury. It is a fish that keeps remarkably well; but should be gutted soon after it is caught, and, if kept for a day or two, the inside should be washed out with vinegar. Large dories are best boiled, but the small ones should be fried; they may also be cooked in a variety of other ways, as we shall hereafter point out. Dories are sometimes met with weighing as much as twelve pounds, but from two to four or five may be considered the usual average size of a full-grown fish of this kind. SECTION V. Fishes of the Salmon kind. The Salmon. The salmonidae, or salmon tribe, are the very aristocracy of fishes; and of these the salmon, the acknowledged king of the fresh waters, ranks pre-eminently first. Although a fish so familiarly known, it will be necessary for us to point out some directions by which the proper condition of this fish may be56 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. determined; and this, perhaps, is more important for persons to know who reside near the places wheie the fish are taken than those who live at a distance; as it is notorious that the best- seasoned fish are sent away to wherever they are likely to find the readiest market, whilst the worthless are retained for home consump- tion. The period of these fish coming; in and ont of season is determined in a great degree by that at which they deposit their spawn. TV hen the rudiments of roe first show themselves the fish is usually in greatest perfection ; but, as the roe increases in size, the fish gradually de- clines m health, and, on the eve of spawning, is completely out of season; still, as some of these fish shed their spawn many months earlier than others, some salmon may be met with in tolerable condition throughout the greater part of the year; yet the time the greatest numbers may be met with in proper order is from about the latter end of May to the beginning of September. The best proof of the condition of a salmon is a small head, a thick shoulder, a great roundness and bieadth over the back, and continued thick- ness down even to the tail; the cheeks and scales should be resplendent and silvery; and the fish itself stiff and film. TVTien out of season the sides lose their bright, silvery cast, which then57 THE SALMON. acquire a coppery tinge; and the cheeks, particu- larly of the male fish, become marked with orange-coloured stripes; and, when at the very worst, the whole fish assumes a dusky cine- reous hue, whilst its thin and emaciated ap- pearance denotes the wretched state of the fish; but long before this, in fact as soon as the sides assume the coppery tinge above alluded to, the fish is unfit to be eaten. When a salmon first comes in from the sea, it is often covered with small parasitical insects, which, so far from de- noting ill-health, affords a certain proof of the excellence of its condition. The male fish, or, as it is sometimes called, the kipper, is known from the female by the hooked shape of the lower jaw ; and this, as the fish grows out of season, increases in size, forming at length a groove in the upper jaw. When the fish is cut up, the flesh should be of a beautiful pink, and the flakes clearly de- veloped. This is the best proof of its being in season. It is a common practice to crimp salmon, in order to make it eat dry and crisp; but, to pro- duce this effect, the operation must be performed immediately after it is taken out of the water; the fish being killed with a few hard blows over the head, and the incisions made instantly afterwards.58 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. It is as unnecessary as cruel to crimp the fish whilst they are alive ; nor is the practice by any means so general as is supposed. At any rate, at every salmon fishery we have ever visited the universal practice has been to kill the fish before the crimp- ing process has been resorted to. To choose crimped salmon, see that it rises at the edges of the cuts, and that the muscle is much contracted between them; and that the flakes are well disclosed, and the flesh firm and elastic. When stale, the scales lose their bright appear- ance, and, unless continually wetted, become dried up, and the gills, instead of a red, assume a dirty biown tint; to counteract which appearance dis- honest fish-venders have a practice of staining the gills with blood; but, as some of this generally runs over the body of the fish, the trick is at once exposed to all those who have been put on their guard against this imposture; although we have heard the fish venders declare it to be blood flow- ing from the expiring fish, which must have died at least a week previously. The Salmon-Peel. The salmon-peel, or sahnon-trout, very much resembles a salmon m its external appearance; but may be recognised as a distinct species by the fins, particularly the pectorals, which in the59 THE SALMON-PEEL. salmon are of a dark, inky cast; those of the salmon-trout being pale, and in fact almost white. Both species of fish are in season at the same time of year; and the salmon-trout, like the true sal- mon, when in proper order, presents the same bright, silvery cast, and also the beautiful pink flakes, when cut up, as the latter fish. In select- ing a fish of this kind, see that it has a very small head, that it is thick about the shoulders, and deep-bodied, and that the scales look bright, silvery, and moist. If the fish is of a lanky form, and the scales look dull, it is out of season. If the skin looks dry it is stale. This fish is usually met with from about one pound to three pounds weight. The larger fish are generally most plentiful during the months of May and June; and the smaller ones, (being the fry of the same year, which, having gone to sea, have returned again to the fresh water) about the latter end of July, and through the month of August to the early part of September. It must, however, be remarked, that this fish often exceeds the limits of size that we have mentioned, reaching occasionally to as much as eight or ten pounds; and Mr. Yarrcll, in his History of British Fishes, informs us, that he had seen a salmon-trout in the possession ofCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. GO Ml'. Groves, the fishmonger of Bond-street, that weighed as much as seventeen pounds. The Bull- Trout. The bull-trout, budge, or bouge (sometimes called a truff), resembles the two last-mentioned fishes; but is of a less elegant form, having a much larger head, and the sides and belly being of a less silvery cast, caused by the extreme thinness and transparency of its scales, beneath which the colouring of the body can be discerned. The tail fin, which is slightly forked whilst the fish is young, becomes convex as the fish gets older; from which circumstance the adult fishes of this kind are known by the name of round tails. This fish grows to a large size, sometimes reaching to as much as twenty pounds; but from four to eight pounds is the most common size. It is in season at the same time with the salmon; but is not so highly esteemed as either that fish or the salmon-peel, its flesh never acquiring that perfection of flavour, or attaining that beautiful pink cast, for which the other two fishes are so remarkable; for even when in primest order the flesh of the bull-trout only acquires a pale orange tint, and at other times it is of a yel- lowish white. On this account it is generallyTHE TROUT. 61 acknowledged to be an inferior fish, and is con- sequently sold at a much lower rate than either the sahnon or the salmon-peel. The Grey or Lake Trout. The great lake or grey trout very much re- sembles the bull-trout in flavour. It is a fish confined to our large standing waters, as the lakes of Cumberland and Westmoreland, and some of the large fresh-water lochs in Scotland. It grows to as large a size as the salmon; but the middling-sized fish are considered the best, although, upon the whole, it is not a fish that appears to be held in much estimation. It is in season dining the summer. The Common Trout. There is no fish that varies more in condition than the common trout. The best are found in clear running waters; and, when in best condition, their flesh has often the pink hue of the salmon. Still this tint is only peculiar to the trout in- habiting certain localities, as in many of our waters these fishes are never found to acquire it. In the absence of this, the best proof of their being in healthy condition is a coating of a deep brown cast just beneath the skin; which is very perceptible when the fish is dressed, the flesh62 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. beneath being of an opaque white or cream colour. In some waters the trout come into and go out of season much earlier than in others. The best proof of condition is a small head, thick shoulders, deep body, bright scales and spots, and a general splendour of colouring throughout. The small trout come in season earlier than the larger ones; the former being met with in tolerable order by the latter end of March or the early part of April, the latter rarely before the beginning of May. They are in best order at the middle or latter end of June, and continue good until September; after which the fish begins gradually to decline, and by October may be con- sidered to be out of season. The Parr. The parr is a delicious little fish of about six inches long, very like a small trout; but from which it may be distinguished by possessing a more elegantly proportioned and rounded form, a blunter nose, and a smaller mouth; whilst a large dark spot on the gill cover, for which the parr is singularly remarkable, affords an unerring mark of distinction. The parr is in best order during the three summer months; and is one of the most deliciousCHARE. — GRAYLING. 63 fish we possess, being infinitely superior to a trout of the same size. It is excellent when fried, and is quite equal to cliarr when potted in the same manner; the directions for which will be given hereafter. The Charr Is much larger than the fish last mentioned, being from nine inches to a foot in length. It is of a longer make than either of those we have previously noticed. It is in best season from July to October; but is not often taken in any considerable quantities until the months of November and December, when these fishes ap- proach the shallow waters for the purpose of depositing their spawn; at which time they are beginning to fail in condition. They are only met with in some particular localities; as in the lakes of Cumberland and Westmoreland, and in one or two large lakes in Wales. Their freshness is tested in the same manner as that of the trout. The Grayling Is an excellent fish, and an exceedingly useful one, as it serves to supply the place of the trout, coming into season at the time the latter begins to decline, and remaining good as long as the other continues out of condition. It sometimes attains64 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. as large a size as five pounds; but from three- quarters of a pound to three pounds weight is the most common size. A full grown grayling, when in prime order, is of a dark colour about the head and frills, having a tinge of gold about the sides, varying with a purple cast when viewed in different lights. The little ones are of a bright silvery hue, and are in season all the year round. These fish are cooked in the same manner as the trout, and their freshness may be tested in the same way as that of the latter fish. Smelts and Atherines. The smelt is in best season from August to May. Its goodness, as well as the freshness of its condition, may be detected by a bright, silvery appearance, the redness of its gills, and the bright- ness of its eyes. If a dull cast prevails, the eyes look sunk, and the abdomen discoloured, it is stale and unfit to be eaten. The Atherine Resembles a smelt, and is known by that name all along the southern line of the coast, where, it seems, the true smelt is rarely if ever to be found. It may, however, be easily distinguished from the true smelt by the form and size of its secondTHE VENDIS AND GWYNIAD. 65 y which is lai0e 3nd expanded, with long soft rays connected by a membrane; whilst the fin in the smelt is a small fleshy excrescence like that of the trout and salmon Avithout any rays what- ever, and is termed the adipose fin, which is peculiar to the whole salmon tribe. Both the smelt and atherine bear a close re- semblance in flavour, being extremely delicate, and Avhen properly fried make a very nice dish in themselves; but they are usually served up to table for the purpose of garnishing salmon, turbot, cod, and other large fish. The atherine does not continue in season so long as the smelt, as the former deposit their spawn about the latter part of January or the eaiiy pait of February; at which time they are out of season, and so remain for some time afterwards. They are in best condition from Michaelmas to Christmas. The Vendis and Gwyniad. t These two little fishes> which are about eight or nine inches in length, resemble the herring in theii general appearance; but, from possessing the adipose second dorsal fin, are classified amongst the salmonidie. They are found in a few of our FCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. G6 lakes. They do not possess much flavour, but are not amiss when nicely fried. SECTION YI.’ Eels and Congers. Eels. Eels and congers are both excellent fish. Of the former kind, there are three distinct varie- ties; the silver eel, the grig, and the broad- nosed eel. Of these, the silver eel grows to the largest size, instances having occurred of this fish attaining to as much as twenty pounds weight: but occurrences of this kind are rare; three pounds being considered a good size for one of these fish, and by far the greater number of those we meet with in the markets being under a pound weight. The silver eel is remarkable for a bright silvery cast over the belly, and is of a longer make than either of the other two varieties. The grig is of a greenish-brown on the upper side, and yellow on the belly. The broad-nosed eel is of a darker colour on the upper side than the two preceding, varying much, however, in depth of tint in different specimens—from an olive-brown to the darkest shade of that colour—EELS. 67 in some approaching almost to blackness; but the bell} i& always oi a paler cast, and sometimes perfectly white. It is also of a broader form about the shoulders, and has a larger head and wider snout. The silver eel and grig are about of equal goodness when of the same size; but, as the largest eels are always the best, the silver eel has so far the advantage over the other. The broad- nosed eel, although a good fish, is certainly inferior in quality to the other two. Eels are found both in fresh and salt water; but those taken in the former, particularly if clear streams, are the best; those inhabiting- foul and muddy waters invariably possess a less agreeable flavour. Eels are in season nearly all the year, but are at their worst from April to June, which is their spawning time; an operation that is performed whilst they lie em- bedded in the mud; but from the effects of which they are less injured, and recover more rapidly than any kind of fish we are ac- quainted with. These fish possess wonderful tenacity of life; living and exhibiting active motions many hours after they have been taken from their proper element; being often found alive and vigorous when exposed for sale in the markets. WhenCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. G8 dead, if the slime looks clear, and the skin full, the fish is fresh; but if the slime looks dry, and the skin at all wrinkled, they are stale. Eels are often skinned whilst alive ; which is an unnecessary act of barbarity, as their skins will come off’ very easily as long as the fish is quite fresh; and they should alwavs, as an act of common mercy, be killed before the operation is attempted. This may easily be done by severing the spine just behind the head, but taking care not to cut it quite off*; for, if this be done, the fish will live for some time after. How, or why this is, we leave to wiser heads than ours to determine; such, however, is the fact, the occurrence of which we have witnessed over and over again. Another way to kill eels speedily, is, to throw them into dust or dry ashes; either of which, adhering to their slimy coats, and thus stopping up the pores, kills them very speedily, and also renders them more easy to skin afterwards. If a small portion just above the tail is cut off the fish will soon bleed to death. The directions for skinning eels will be given in that portion of the work that relates to the cleaning and preparation of fish previously to the cookery. The Conger. The conger bears so great an external re-THE CONGER. 69 semblance to the common eel as to induce many to believe that the former is only an eel of larger growth, and that the difference in colour and general appearance results solely from the constant residence of the latter in salt water; but, by any one who knows anything about fish, the two fishes are easily distinguishable from each other. First, the conger, of whatever size it may be, has always the snout and upper jaw projecting beyond the lower one ; whilst the common eel is equally remarkable for its protuberant lower jaw. Secondly, the lateral line is scarcely visible in the common eel; whilst that of the conger is very distinctly marked—broad, and of a whitish colour. And, thirdly, the internal structure of these fishes differs still more widely ; the conger having a great many more bones than the eel, par- ticularly towards the tail, and in possessing a greater number of vertebras. The conger grows to a large size, some- times reaching to as much as eighty, ninety, or even one hundred pounds weight; but the best for the table are from ten to twenty pounds; these, when properly cooked, present a most delicate appearance, from the snow-like whiteness of their flesh, and, what is still better, possess a rich and truly delicious flavour. When stewed, conger is quite equal, and certainly, as far as wholesome-CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISII. 70 ness is concerned, superior to the best fresh-water eels; possessing all the excellence of high flavour of the latter, without the luscious crossness which so many object to in eels in whatever manner they may be cooked. Yet, with all these ad- vantages, from some cause or other, the conger is not popular with many persons, its consumption being chiefly confined to the lower classes; vdio, in the West of England, consume vast quantities of these fish, for which they usually pay a higher price than they could often procure cod and al- ways ling of the very best quality. The Cornish people put this fish into a pie. In the Channel Islands an excellent soup is made of it; and it is capable of being turned to advan- tage in a great number of other ways; as roasted, or baked with a forcemeat-pudding in its belly ; fried in steaks or cutlets, and marinated or potted: but it is not good either boiled or broiled, except wdien it has been previously salted, and even in this state it does not equal either cod, ling, or hake. In Cornwall a singular mode of curing: confer O O O prevailed even as far back as the reign of Queen Elizabeth; which was merely to slit the congers in halves, and, without any further preparation, to hang them up in a kind of shambles erected for that purpose, where, allowing them to become fly-blown, so that all the parts liable to decom-THE CONGER. 71 position were thus destroyed, the residue, being thoroughly dried in the sun, became in this manner fit for use. When perfectly cured, it was exported to Spain and Portugal, and there ground into powder, and used by the natives of those countries for the purpose of thickening their soups; but, although formerly carried on to some extent, we find that for some years past the trade has totally ceased. Congers are in best season from May to January, the latter of which months is their spawning time, when the fish begins to decline, and,does not regain its condition for some months afterwards. In most of the fish-markets in the West of England, congers, when exposed for sale, are cut up in portions to suit different customers. At these times, the whiteness of the flesh, as contrasted with a muddy, dirty-looking cast, denote the condition of the fish; the quantity of fat that lies along the spine is also an in- dication of the high season of the fish. When the fish is entire, the best proof of its goodness is the stoutness of the body and the depth of the lateral line, which should be in a kind of deep furrow. If fresh, the eyes are bright and the skin is moist; if the skin looks dry, and the eyes dull, it is stale.CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 72 There is a great difference in the depth of colour of these fish ; some being of a pale brown, or even almost Avliite on the upper part, and the belly white as snow. Others are of a deep brown or purplish tint, and some of an inky blackness; but all of rather a lighter cast upon the belly. This difference in colour is owing in great mea- sure to the particular kind of ground they in- habit ; those found amongst rocks being dark, and those in clean or sandy grounds of a lighter hue, according to the colour of the soil at the bottom. SECTION VII. Fishes of the Carp kind. There are several species of fish which natu- ralists classify as belonging to the carp tribe. Some of these are excellent fishes, but the majority of them are soft, watery, and insipid, and will scarcely bear comparison with even the very worst products of the sea. The Common Carp and the Crucian. The common carp is a very good fish when properly cooked, which is by being stewed in a rich gravy; another species, the crucian, is a73 THE CARP AND CRUCIAN. very inferior fish, and, though capable of being made an agreeable dish, can never be rendered equal to the former fish. Externally, the two fishes bear a strong resemblance to each other; but as one is so much the superior, it is essential that we should give such directions as may enable our readers to detect the difference between them. One certain rule for discrimination is the size, for a crucian seldom exceeds the weight of two pounds; so that if you select a fish of three or four pounds weight, you may, though not safe from deception, at any rate congratulate yourself upon being the purchaser of something monstrously wonderful. But these other cri- teria may always be relied on: — Thus, the crucian is a deeper-bodied fish than the common carp; its head is also shorter, and its nose more blunt. The colour also is paler; the sides being of a light olive brown, with a slight golden cast, becoming pale towards the belly, the lower part of which is white, whilst, in the true carp, the general colour is a deep brown on the back, growing paler, and acquiring a deep golden cast on the sides, passing into a lighter shade towards the belly. The head of the true carp is also of a much darker cast than that of the crucian; but the most certain and never-failing mark of dis- tinction lies in the formation of the back fin.74 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. which, in the former fish, sinks soon after its commencement; a peculiarity that does not occur in the latter fish. The common carp sometimes attains to a con- siderable size, instances having occurred in this country of these fish weighing as much as fifteen, and even eighteen pounds; hut these are mere pigmies in comparison to those of Germany and Italy. In the former country we are told they often grow so large as to weigh as much as seventy pounds, whilst from thirty to forty pounds is a size by no means uncommon. But the carps of Italy far exceed even these in hulk; instances having been recorded of their being taken in the Lake of Como, weighing as much as two hundred pounds. The usual size of what may be termed adult carp in this country ranges between three and eight pounds. The crucian very rarely exceeds two pounds, and about three-quarters of a pound may be considered its average size. Carp are in best season during the month of April, whilst the roe is somewhat advanced, but before the time of shedding it commences. This lasts over a period of some weeks, as these fish do not deposit the whole of their eggs at once, but, like domestic fowls, continue to lay them fromTHE CARP. 75 time to time ; and, after this has gone on for some time, the fish becomes thin and emaciated, and a red and raw appearance is visible about the abdominal region, caused by the scales being rubbed off from that portion of the body. In many waters that are well adapted for the fattening of carp, they are found to acquire a rank and muddy taint, either from the nature of the soil, or, more probably, from the par- ticular property of some kind of vegetable matter upon which they subsist. This bad effect can be counteracted by placing the fish for a few days in a small pond or stew of clean water. Two other modes have, however, been practised successfully in removing this muddy taste : one is to sew up a piece of bread in the body of the fish when it is undergoing the frying process previously to stewing, the bread being extracted before the fish is transferred into the stewpan; the other, which is the French plan, is to pour a glass of strong vinegar down the throat of the fish whilst it is alive, which produces an instant- aneous exhalation through the pores, which is said to be also greatly facilitated by instantly scaling the fish. The latter part of the proceeding we think had better be dispensed with, or at any rate not attempted so long as the fish has a spark of life remaining in him; after which it is appre-76 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. * La Nouvelle Cuisine Economique. liended the scaling process would be of little or no service in producing the desired result. In Holland, we are informed, it is a very com- mon practice, not only to keep carp alive for several weeks out of water, but even to fatten them by inclosing them in a net enveloped in wet moss, and feeding them occasionally with bread sopped in milk; taking care to refresh them from time to time by throwing cold water over the moss. In winter they are transported to a con- siderable distance packed in wet moss in baskets. The carp, although mentioned by Aristotle and Pliny, and some other ancient writers, does not appear to have been held in very high estimation in their days; and, though it has borne a fair repute in modern times, it is rather amongst our continental neighbours than ourselves. Accord- ing to a celebrated French work on the art of cookery*, the head of the carp is the best part of him, being le morceau d’honneur, and which for that reason the author adds, “ doit etre offert a la personne la plus consideree.” Next to the head, the portions about the back are considered to be the best. The roe of the carp is often dressed with the fish, and is wholesome and well flavoured; in whichTHE CARP. 77 * La Nouvelle Cuisine Economique. respect it differs from that part both of the pike and the barbel; the spawn of the latter being of a poisonous nature, whilst that of the former is so strong a cathartic, as, to use the words of a French writer, to purge violently par hant, et par has *, and to such a degree as to endanger the lives of the sufferers. When out of season a number of small white warty excrescences appear on the top of the head of a carp, and whenever this occurs the fish is thoroughly out of season, and should be rejected accordingly. As long as the slime remains moist, and the scales look bright, the fish is fresh, but when the fish looks dry, the colours dull, and the eyes dim and sunken, it is stale. In Italy and some other parts of the continent, a kind of caviar is made of the hard roe of the carp, which is considered equal in flavour to that of the sturgeon ; and finds great favour in the eyes of the Jews, who universally reject the caviar made from the sturgeon, which, being a fish without scales, is forbidden by the Levitical Law, and is consequently an abomination to all true Israelites.78 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. The Fresh-water Dream Is a fish something resembling a carp, but differ- ing from it in the extreme depth of its body. Although held in little repute at the present day, these fish seem to have borne a better character some centuries ago. Thus, according to Chaucer, “ Full many a fair partrich liadde he in mewe, And many a breme, and many a luce* in stewe.” Whilst an old French proverb says, “ He who hath breams in his pond may bid his friends wel- come. The head and belly are said to be the best parts of a bream, whilst, as we have just before observed, the head and back are the best portions of the carp. Breams are dressed in the same manner as the latter fish, and the smaller ones may be fried; but they are rather insipid when cooked in that manner. Another plan is to broil them with the scales on; but even then they are very poor and tasteless. In Ireland the poorer classes cure them by splitting and salting them, and drying them in the sun; and when so cured they eat them with their potatoes. These fish are in best condition from midsum- mer to Michaelmas. Their spawn is harmless, but possesses little flavour. Their spawning time * A pike, or jack.79 THE RUDD. is May; about which time and for a month or so afterwards, they are out of season. Their freshness may be discerned in the same way as in the carp: when stale their eyes look sunk and dim, and a redness may be detected about the belly, particularly in the region of the ventral fins. The prevailing size is from one to three pounds weight, although examples have been found of these fishes attaining to as much as seven or eierht pounds weight. The Rudd Is a fish resembling the bream, but may be re- cognised as a distinct species by the eyes and fins, the sides of the latter being yellow, whilst those of the former are of a reddish cast; the fins of the lat- ter are also red, those of the bream being of a light cast, tinged at the extremities with red or brown. The rudd does not attain so large a size as the bream; still rudds of two pounds weight are sometimes taken; but a rudd weighing a pound is considered a fine fish of the kind. It is cooked in the same way as the carp and bream, and, although far inferior to the first, is certainly supe- rior to the latter fish. The rudd is not a general fish, yet the waters in which they are found generally afford a plcnti-80 CnOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. ful supply of them. They inhabit the broads of Norfolk, and most of the fresh waters of that county; as also those of Cambridge and Warwick- shire; they may also be met with in the Isis about Oxford, and are occasionally caught in the Thames. As this fish is distinguished by various names in different localities, it will be necessary, to pre- vent confusion as to identity, to give such of them as we are acquainted with; which are rudd, red- eye, finscale, and shallow. The scientific name is Leuciscus erythrophthadmus. It is in season at the same time as the bream. Roach, Race, and Chub. All these fishes are too familiarly known to re- quire any particular description, and all bear a very bad culinary reputation, being watery, soft, and insipid, even to a proverb. The best way to dress them is to fry them so thoroughly as to deprive them of every watery particle, and then, by the aid of good melted butter and anchovy sauce, they may pass as a dish of fish when no better kinds can be procured; and foi this purpose the small fish are far more adapted than the large ones. All these fish are at their best, if such a term can be apjilied to them, from July to October.THE BARBEL. 81 The spawn of all these fishes is wholesome, and is by many considered the best part of them; but it is tasteless, and carries out the old adage of “bad the crow, bad the egg;” and we must also bear in mind, that when these fishes are in spawn they are always out of condition, which may be de- tected by the white, warty excrescences which appear about the head, in the manner we have previously noticed as peculiar to the carp. The Barbel Is so bad a fish, that it is almost rejected by all classes in this country as an article of food; and yet our French neighbours, by dint of good cookery, do contrive to make a very good dish out ot such apparently impracticable materials, dressing it in the same way as the carp. But the spawn, from the poisonous qualities* we have already alluded to, is always rejected. The large barbels are considered the best; and the parts about the head around the tongue, and the pickings about the collar-bones are esteemed the choicest morsels. This fish attains to a respectable size, ranging from between two to five pounds weight. * Ante, p. 77. G82 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. The Gudgeon Is a small fish of six or seven inches long; but which, in spite of the smallness of size, is held in fair esteem on account of its wholesome qua- lities and delicacy of flavour; hence it is recom- mended to invalids ; and, as these fish cannot be eaten in too fresh a state, they are exposed for sale alive in small tubs or vessels. They soon decompose after death; which may be detected by a dull-red, discoloured appearance about the abdomen, through which the intestines often pro- trude. They ought, therefore, to be gutted as speedily as possible after they are taken, as the delay of even an hour or two may cause them to become tainted; when, if the precaution we have recommended had been adopted, they would have kept good for a much longer time. The best, and we believe the only proper way of dressing gudgeons, is by frying them, when, if cleverly done, they will nearly equal smelts in delicacy of flavour. Minnows, Loaches, and Bullheads, When you can obtain a sufficient supply, make a very nice fry ; but they ought all to be cooked very soon after they arc taken, as they soon become tainted.THE TENCH. 83 The Tench. This fish is distinguished from all the rest of the carp tribe by the slimy coating, like that of the eel, with which its body is covered. It is a delicious fish when in prime order, being in our humble opinion by far the best of all the carp family, and it has decidedly the advantage of being capable of being cooked in a greater variety of ways than all the rest of them put together. Stewed tench, either alone or accompanied by a few fresh-water eels, forms one of the best dishes the art of cookery can possibly be exercised upon; whilst few fresh-water fishes can equal a tench when either boiled or fried; added to which, it makes most excellent Avater souchy. As these fishes bury themselves in the mud during the Avinter months, from which they do not emerge until the mild weather begins to set in, they can seldom be obtained in any quantity before April, from Avhich time, until about the early part of June, they are in first-rate order; but when they commence shedding their spawn, which occurs about the middle of the latter month, they begin to decline ; though they soon regain their health and strength, and are again fit for the table by the latter end of July or early part of August. The male fish may be recognised from theCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 84 female by having the belly, or ventral fins, of a much larger size than those of the latter. Tench are sometimes met with so large as to weigh five pounds; and an instance once occurred of a fish of this kind being taken at Thornville Royal that weighed as much as twelve pounds. What is still more wonderful, it was taken out of a small pond full of weeds and rubbish, and from a hole from under some roots, from whence it had no mode of egress; and, from the contracted limits of its prison, the fish being unable to main- tain its natural position, had acquired a form, or rather deformity, suited to fit its place of confine- ment. In other respects it was in good health and condition. The usual size of the tench we commonly meet with ranges from a quarter of a pound to a pound, or a pound and a half, although two pounds weight is not uncommon. The best proof of health and condition is a rounded fulness behind the head, an elevated back, and a body deep and well filled out. The re- splendent golden cast we often see upon the sides, although usually, is not always, a sure proof of the goodness of their flavour; neither is the dark, muddy cast we sometimes see any more certain proof to the contrary; instances having occurred where these fishes have presented a most beau-PIKES AND LAUNCES. 85 tiful golden exterior, and yet have tasted so muddy, rank, and disagreeable as not to be eatable; whilst, on the other hand, others of an inky blackness have proved exceedingly well flavoured. The muddy taint in tench may be removed in the same manner as we have before mentioned with respect to carp.* The transparency of the slime, and general moisture ol the body and brightness of the scales and eyes, afford certain proof of the fish being fresh. When the slime is dried up, the gills pale, and the eyes look dull and sunken, it is stale. SECTION viii. Pikes and Launces. There are two species of pike, the river-pike or luce, and the sea-pike or garfish; but which, although arranged by naturalists as belonrnno- to the same family, have little resemblance to each other, excepting in the position of their fins; for in size, form, and flavour, they differ very mate- rially from each other. The fresh-water pike sometimes attains to as * See ante, p. 75. G 3CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 86 much as forty pounds weight ; but instances of this kind are very rare, thirty pounds being an unusual bulk, and twenty pounds is considered a large size ; so that from twelve to fifteen pounds may be considered as the common average size of the adults of this species. But the largest fish are not the best, being apt to be coarse : on this account, a preference is usually given to fish ranging from seven to ten pounds weight. The fresh-water pike is a winter fish, being usually met with in best order from September to February. The spawning-time is about April, previously to which the fish begins to decline; so that even before it actually commences to deposit its spawn, it becomes out of season, and so con- tinues for three or four months afterwards. The spawn itself, for the reasons we have already given*, is always rejected. These fishes were, it seems, more highly valued in former times than they are at the present day; for, we find that in the reign of Henry VIII. they were considered so great a dainty that a large one fetched more than double the price of a house-lamb, and a young jack, or pickerel, than a fine capon. This high price has been attributed to the extreme scarcity of these fish in those days, they having, according to some authorities, been * Anti, p. 77.87 THE PIKE. only just then introduced into this country; yet this cannot possibly be correct, as it is clearly established that pikes were a marketable com- modity in this kingdom as far back as the reign of King Edward I. The best portions of a pike are those over the ribs, which have, in addition to superiority in richness of flavour, the advantage of being free from those forked-bones with which the other parts of this fish are plentifully supplied, and which prove exceedingly troublesome. In the first year the young pikes—or rather jack, for so they are technically styled until they attain the weight of four pounds—have a greenish cast over their scales, which assumes a grayish- brown tint, with large pale spots as the fish increases in size and age. When in highest condition, these spots acquire a golden tint, and the grey cast turns to an olive green, which, combined with a bulky thickness about the shoulders, and depth of body well filled out, afford a sure proof of the healthy order of the fish. We have heard, and also read of fishes of this species being sometimes met with of a beautiful golden cast, with black spots, and of others possess- ing a green backbone; the latter of which are said to be highly esteemed, on account, we presume, of the rarity of this extraordinary peculiarity.88 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. as green bones present anything rather than an agreeable appearance; and, in fact, is the chief, if not the sole, cause why the sea-pike (which also possesses this peculiarity) has fallen into unmerited disrepute. Proof of freshness in a pike is shown by the moisture on the body, brilliancy of the scales, and a clear development of its colours, as also by the brightness of the eyes and redness of the gills: if these properties are wanting, the fish is stale. The Sea-Pike, or Garjisli, Bears more resemblance to an eel than its fresh- water namesake, being of a remarkably elongated form, and carrying near the same depth of body from the gills to within one-fifth the distance from the tail; but its most remarkable features are produced by the long and slender form of the jaws, which project forward like the bill of a snipe or woodcock. It is of a dark green colour on the back, the sides and belly being bright and silvery. The bones, as we have previously re- marked, are of a bright green colour; and this, added to a smell resembling copper, which this fish emits when first taken out of the water, has raised an unfounded prejudice against its edible qualities; for it is a mild, well-tasted fish, quite89 LAUNCES. free from any rank or disagreeable taint, resem- bling very much a mackerel in taste, but rather dryer. The emission of a strong and unpleasant odour from fish in a raw state affords no indication of any similarity in its flavour. Few fish, when raw, have a stronger or more disagreeable fishy smell than herrings, flounders, and fresh-water eels; and yet the flavour in none of these fishes is in the slightest degree affected by it, and none emit a more agreeable odour when cooked. Garfish are usually eaten plain boiled; but we consider the best way to cook them is to split them through and extract the backbone, and then either fry or broil them. They are in season all the summer through, when it is very rare to meet with any that are not in excellent condition; for which good quality these fishes are more singularly remarkable than any other kind of fish we are acquainted with. When perfectly fresh their sides are bright and silvery; if they look dim and dry they are stale. These ought to be cooked soon after they are caught, although they will keep far better than mackerel and many other kinds of fish. Launces. Launces bear a resemblance to the sea-pike in shape and in the silvery colouring of their90 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. sides; but absence of the beak-like elongation oi the jaws shows a marked distinction between them. The former also differ essentially from the garfish in the number, shape, and position of their fins, the former wanting the ventral fins, with which the latter is provided; and also in having a very elongated dorsal fin, which extends nearly from the nape to the tail, that of the sea-pike being placed far back, and, al- though elevated, being narrow. There are two distinct kinds of launces, the greater and the less; the larger kind beino- known in most places as the sand-eel, the smaller as the sand-launce. In many parts of Cornwall, however, we have found these titles reversed; the term sand-launce being applied to the larger, and sand-eel to the smaller species. The latter it must, however, be observed, is so much the better fish, that the two will not bear any com- parison with each other, the larger kind beino- watery and insipid, the smaller delicious beyond description. It is most essential, therefore, that we should point out how the two kinds may be t guished from each other; for, although the larger kind sometimes grows to the length of two feet, and the smaller species is seldom more than seven or eight inches, yet it often happens that small fish of the former kind associate themselves91 LAUNCES. with the latter full-grown fishes, so that numbers of both kinds, all of the same size, are often cap- tured together. The points of difference consist in the larger species, which we will distinguish as the sand- eel, having a more cylindrical or eel-like body ; the sides of the sand-launce being of a more flattened form, with the lateral line very slightly developed, which in the former fish is marked with a deep furrow: the colour of the upper part of the sand-eel is also darker than that of the sand-launce, being of a dark olive green; that of the sand-launce, when living in its native element, being pale brown, turning first to a pale green after the fish is taken out of water, and then to a greyish blue. When fresh, the sides look bright and silvery, and, as they grow stale, they assume a reddish cast. They are in best season during the latter end of September and early part of October, at which time they are full of roe. The males may then be distinguished from the females by beino; more distended with the milt than the latter are with the spawn. They should be dressed with the roes in their bodies, and, when so cooked, are delicious. The great drawback to the utility of these excellent little fishes is, thatCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 92 they decompose so very rapidly, that they can seldom be eaten to perfection at any considerable distance from the place where they are caught. The best Avay to keep them is to gut them, and dry them thoroughly in a towel. These fish may also be kept alive for a day or more, if placed uninjured amongst wet sea-weed the instant they are captured. Both species penetrate be- neath the sand where left bare by the receding tide; from whence they are dug up Avith prongs and a particular kind of rake or hook adapted for that purpose. They also swim about in large shoals, and are sometimes taken by bushels at a time in a very fine-meshed net. Yet good, as these fish are, far greater numbers are con- sumed as bait for catching other fish than as food, and they are seldom brought into the fish- markets along the southern line of the coast of England, although many places there abound with them. SECTION IX. Fishes of the Mackerel kind. There are four species of mackerel, viz., the common mackerel, the cad or horse-mackerel, the tunny, and the banito. The two former are93 THE COMMON MACKEREL. very common fishes, but the two latter are only occasional visitors to our shores. The only shape in which we can get tunny is in a pickled state from abroad, and the banito we never see in any shape or form. As our sole object is to treat about such fishes only as may be met with in our fish-markets, we shall therefore pass over the two latter, and confine our observations to the two former species. The Common Mackerel Is a very general fish, and perhaps more familiarly known to the public than any other kind of fish whatever; and yet very few persons know how to recognise a good fish of this kind from a bad one ; though with no species of fish whatever is this knowledge more requisite ; for not only is there a vast difference between the relative srood- O ness of condition of these fishes, but they also keep so badly, that it is quite as necessary to know how the state of its freshness may be pro- perly tested. On account, indeed, of fish of this kind keeping so badly, an act of Parliament Avas expressly passed so far back as the reign of King William III., authorising the sale of mackerel on Sundays; and thus the law has continued to the present day.CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 94 The best proof of the condition of a mackerel is a deep body well filled out, rising high, and rounded over the back, carrying its fulness very far down the body, which must be stiff and bent, with the tail curved upwards. Unless a mackerel is in prime order, a narrow black line of an inch or two in length unites the black bars or lines upon the back, a little above the lateral line, and between the tail and the termination of the second back fin. This is termed by scien- tific fisherman “ the rogue’s mark; ” and, although not a proof that the fish is thoroughly out of season, is never found in a fish that is in first-rate condition. When a mackerel is perfectly fresh, the back is of a pale green, the colour bright, and the black bars distinctly marked ; those of the males being nearly straight, whilst those of the females are in a waving line. The sides and belly should look bright and silvery, varying, like mother-of- pearl, with blushes of pink about the pectoral fins. As the first becomes stale, the upper part turns from green to blue, at first bright, but becoming duller by degrees ; the pearly tint dis- appears from the sides; a dull shade of brown appears about the lateral line, and the slime, if not dried up, looks dirty; the body loses its stiff- ness, and, as decomposition advances, the skin95 THE COMMON MACKEREL. gets wrinkled, and the bowels oftentimes pro- trude ; though the latter sometimes occurs from pressure, even before the fish becomes tainted by keeping ; but, from whatever cause it may arise, a burst fish is never fit to be eaten. The bulk of mackerel are in best season from July to Christmas. Many persons, however, consider that mackerel are best in the spring; which is a very great mistake, as at that time of the year they are thin and emaciated, so that amongst a thousand not one can be found that is really in proper order for the table, and, what is equally remarkable, scarcely one of these early spring fish is ever known to stiffen after death, which affords a certain indication that they are then out of season. There is, however, at all times a great difference in the quality of the shoals of these fishes; some being found to contain a preponderating number of good fish, others of bad fish, and very often, as in the early part of the spring, of bad fish al- together. We have generally found the largest fish, if in proper condition, to possess the finest flavour, although many prefer the smaller ones, as not possessing that degree of luscious richness which some object to in a mackerel; and which may account for persons liking the thin springCHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. 96 mackerel, -which certainly have no kind of rich flavour whatever about them. The flesh of the mackerel, when the fish is in prime order, is of an opaque whiteness; when out of season, or kept too long, it assumes a dingy hue, like dirty water slightly tinged with milk. The usual weight of a full-grown mackerel in good season is about a pound and a half; but they sometimes exceed two pounds weight. The Scad, or Horse Mackerel, Bears some resemblance to the mackerel; but is flatter on the sides, and is remarkable for having its lateral line covered with a series of broad scales or plates. The general appearance of this fish is pleasing enough to the eye; the upper part being of a dusky-olive hue, varying with blushes of azure and green, which are very bright when the fish is just taken out of the water; the extremity of the gill-covers, throat and under jaw are of a purplish black, and bear the ap- pearance of having been stained with ink. This fish does not reach to quite so large a size as the common mackerel. Like the latter, these fish assemble together in large shoals, and are often taken in great quantities; but they yield very little profit to the fishermen, being very ill- tasted, and, therefore, few persons who have onceTHE HERRING FAMILY. 97 tasted them will purchase or eat them at any price. Yet, we have heard some persons speak favourably of them; and, as we often see them in the fish-markets in Devonshire, we suppose they must meet with purchasers, otherwise they would never find their way into places where such de- licious fishes as sand-eels, weevers, and pout- ing, although abundant in the neighbourhood, are never exposed for sale. SECTION X. Fishes of the Herring kind. There are no less than seven kinds of herrinsrs sold in our fish-markets, all of them very good and wholesome fishes. They are as follows: — the herring, pilchard, sprat, anchovy, whitebait, and two species of shad, the allice and the twaite. Herrings, Pilchards, and Sprats. All these three species closely resemble each other in general appearance, but in flavour they differ altogether. The difference in form consists in a pilchard being of a fuller make, well rounded over the back, and its sides well filled out; those of the H98 CHOICE AND COOKERY OP FISH. herring being flattened and compressed. The back fin is also differently placed in these fishes, being more forward in the pilchard than the herring; so that if suspended by it, the former will drop by the tail and the latter by the head. Pilchards are in best season from July to Christmas, at which period they become heavy in spawn, when the flesh loses a great portion of its rich moisture; so that the fish at such times eats more dry, which some consider to be an improvement. After spawning, pilchards become out of season; but they are not so de- teriorated by its effects as the herring, and the fishermen do not scruple to eat pilchards in this state, who would reject a shotten herring as utterly worthless. Pilchards, if they can be eaten perfectly fresh, have very much the same rich flavour as salmon- peel; but, from their extremely oily nature, they ac- quire a rancid taste within a very few hours after they are taken ; and the flesh, which, if cooked in proper time, would have been of a curdy whiteness, then acquires a dull, reddish cast. The? best way of cooking them is to broil them with their scales on, without gutting. They are also very good split, and peppered and salted. They also make a rich pie. In Cornwall numbers99 HERRINGS. are salted in every year, for home use, and a still greater number for foreign, consumption. But, al- though esteemed by the Cornish people, and those to whom they are sent abroad, they are too strong and rancid to suit the palates of the generality of persons, and will not bear any comparison either with Yarmouth bloaters, or Scotch red herring’s. There is very little difference in the relative goodness which these fish bear to each other as far as condition is concerned; so that if one is good, his companions are equally so. If fresh, and uninjured by pressure, their scales are bright as silver; if they look dull, or the scales fall off very readily, and they are red about the gills, they are getting stale. Herrings, unlike the former fish, differ very much fiom each other in point of relative goodness; so that the selection of these is a matter of importance. The male fish are always the best; and may be detected by their superior size and depth of body, particularly when the spawning time draws near, the male being always more turgid with the milt than the female is with spawn. The bright silvery appearance and firm adhesion of the scales is the best proof of freshness. If the sides look dull, and a redness ajypears about the gills and abdomen, the II 2100 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. fish is too stale to be eaten. Herrings are in best season from June to November. After they have shed their spawn, which occurs about January, they are unfit to be eaten; but they continue good nearly up to the very eve of spawning. Herrings are usually fried; but the Scotch people often boil them, and there are also a variety of other ways in which they may be turned to account, as we shall notice hereafter. Sprats are so very like herrings excepting their difference in size, that many persons have treated them as the fry of the latter fish; but there are some marked differences which denote the species to be distinct. One is, that the sprat wants the axillary scales which are found both in the her- ring and pilchard: another is, that a serrated roughness runs alona; the whole line of the abdomen of the sprat, which in the other two species is perfectly smooth; added to which, the flesh of the former is of a much darker cast when cooked. Sprats make a delicious fry, and are a most valuable acquisition to the poorer classes, being often taken in such abundance as to be sold remarkably cheap; but, like many other of the gifts of Providence, these fish are the less esteemed on account of the bountiful manner in whichWHITEBAIT. 101 they are supplied and the extremely low price at which they can be purchased. Sprats are usually most abundant and in best season during the winter months. Their fresh- ness may be tested in the same manner as in herrings and pilchards. The smaller fish are the best flavoured. Whitebait. These little fishes, which were formerly sup- posed to be the fry of the shad, are now satisfac- torily proved to be a distinct species that never exceed the length of a few inches. These fish are in best season during the months of July, August, and September, and their merits are too well known to require one word from us upon that head, except to observe that, like sprats, the smaller-sized fish are better than those of larger growth. Their freshness may be detected by their silvery appearance ; if they look dull and soft about the abdomen they are stale. These fish, like the pouting and sand-launce, keep very badly, requiring to be cooked very shortly after they are caught; on which account they are never eaten to perfection when transported to any con- sideiable distance from the place where they are captured. They are found chiefly in the Thames.102 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. Anchovies. These fish, although inhabitants of our seas, are not often captured upon any part of our coasts, for want of some mode of fishing properly adapted to the purpose; those we consume are always sent over to us from abroad preserved in pickle. Like sprats and whitebait, the very larjie ones are not so good as those of smaller size. Shads. Both species of shads resemble an overgrown herring. Of these the allice is the larger fish ; be in" sometimes met with as much as two feet © in length. The twaite is usually about one- ' half that length ; and may be distinguished from the former fish by a row of dusky spots, five or six in number, commencing at the gill covers, and running along the side line about half-way down the body. The allice has only one of these spots, which is placed immediately behind the gills. The twaite also possesses teeth, which the allice is entirely without. These distinctions ought to be borne in mind, as there is a great difference in the merits of the two fishes; the allice being in every respect the better fish. The best season for both these fishes is April, May, and the early part of June. About JulySPINOUS PISHES. 103 they shed their spawn; and in order to allow them to do this unmolested, they are not allowed to be caught in the Thames after the 26th of June. The criteria of freshness are the same as in the herring*. O SECTION XL Spinous Pishes, including Pishes of the Perch kind and Mullets, both Eed and Grey ; the Sea Bream IN ALL ITS VARIETIES ; WRASSES ; AND THE TRIBE OF Gurnards. There are no less than six different kinds of perch amongst our edible fishes, although only one of them, the fresh-water perch, is commonly known by that appellation. The other kinds are the bass, ruff, great weever, and little weever, and the red mullet. All are excellent and whole- some fishes ; but the greater part find more favour in the eyes of those who eat them than in those whose duty it is to clean and prepare them for the table ; not only on account of the great tenacity with which the scales adhere to their body rendering their removal a tedious and diffi- cult operation, but also on account of the sharp spines which all these fishes possess; some of which, indeed, are of a poisonous nature, so that a puncture from them not only inflicts consider-104 CHOICE AND COOKEKY OF FISH. able pain, blit, as we shall notice hereafter, may be productive of very serious consequences. The Common Perch. This fish may readily be distinguished by its hog back, which is provided with two fins; the first armed with sharp spines, united by a mem- brane ; the second consisting of soft flexible rays. It is remarkable for the dusky bands which orna- ment its upper part, the ground of which is a deep olive brown, changing to a golden tinge, varying in blushing tints of pink, blue, and purple, whilst the fish is fresh, but which vanish as it becomes stale. Perch are in best season from July to February, at the latter end of which they deposit their spawn, and continue out of season for a month or two afterwards. They are a sweet, well-tasted fish, but the bones prove very troublesome in the smaller fishes. Perch, however, sometimes attain a re- spectable size. Pennant speaks of one that weighed as much as nine pounds, but it is not often that a perch of three pounds can be met with. Two pounds is not uncommon ; yet half a pound may be considered the usual average weight at which this fish may be procured. Perch may be cooked either by boiling, frying,THE BASS. 105 or stewing, and for water souchy they stand superior to all others. The best proof of then* good condition is the fulness and elevation of the back, and marked development of the colours; the freshness, as we have already remarked, may be tested in the same manner. These fish keep much better than the trout, and, in fact, most other fresh-water fishes. They are also remarkably retentive of life, so much so indeed, as to allow of their being brought alive to market; and Mr. Yarrell tells us, that in Roman Catholic countries they are frequently transported alive for forty or fifty miles to market, where, if not sold, they are again returned to their natural element, to be reproduced on some future occasion. The Bass. This fish has the spinous fins and hard, adhesive scales of the perch, but resembles a salmon in colour, and somewhat in form; on which account the fishwomen of the west of England have dignified it with the title of “ salmon-bass,” although it is in no way whatever connected with the salmon family. Still, for all this, the bass is a very good fish and a very useful one, as it is capable of being cooked in a great variety of ways, — boiled, broiled, fried, stewed, baked,106 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. or made up into a pie. It is also excellent when soused in the same way salmon and mackerel are usually done. Yet, although so good a fish, it is not a fashionable one, scarcely ever in any shape or form making its appearance at the tables of the wealthy; and yet it was highly esteemed amongst the ancients, many of their writers, and amongst them Pliny and Ovid, having celebrated its culi- nary excellence. The bass attains sometimes to eighteen pounds weight; but about half that bulk is the usual size of a full-grown fish. They may, however, be met with of all sizes, from one ounce upwards. Bass are in best order in the autumn and winter months. The best proof of the condition of this fish is the form of the body, which should be rounded over the back, without any inter- mediate depression, until it passes the anal fin. A dark olive-brown on the upper part is a sign of good condition. The sides should be bright and resplendent like silver. If a bass has a dull, leaden grey on the upper part, the sides dull grey instead of silvery white, and the back sinking just about the second dorsal fin, the fish is out of season. The spawning time is during the summer; but, as some of these fishes deposit their spawn many weeks earlier than others, it follows that some107 THE RUFF. get into good condition at a time when others are unfit to be eaten. The bass is a fish that keeps very well, and, if gutted and hung up by the head in a cool place, will, in moderate weather, remain good for two or three days without the assistance of salt or any artificial aid whatever. The Ruff Is a small fish of five or six inches in length, resembling a small perch; but from which it may be distinguished by having only one back fin, and wanting the dusky bands on the upper part, for which the perch is so remarkable. It affords a dainty dish when nicely fried. It comes in season about midsummer, and continues good until the spring following, when it sheds its spawn. The best proof of freshness is bright- ness of the eyes, vividness of the colours, and redness of the gills. Weevers. There are two kinds of weevers; the greater and the lesser weever. The former is remarkably long and slender, with flat compressed sides, and of about a foot in length, and with a forked tail; the lesser species is rather a deep-bodied fish, but its sides are flattened and compressed, and its108 CIIOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. length about three or four inches. They are both prettily marked fishes, being striped over the body and sides with various colours ; but they have a waspish look about their countenances, which is borne out by the formidable weapon they bear in the form of three or four short but sharp spines placed on the nape just behind the head, with which they can inflict a puncture attended with great pains, often succeeded by violent inflammation. To prevent these con- sequences, the French fishermen are compelled, by the laws of their country, to cut oft these spines before they are allowed to expose the fish for sale. The most effectual cure for a wound of this kind is to make a strong brine, and then, plunging in the wounded part, to keep the brine as hot as the patient can bear it. Mr. Couch says,* that smart friction with oil soon restores the part to health. It is probably owing to a prejudice against these fishes arising from their poisonous weapons, that they are rarely eaten in this country, although held in great esteem amongst the French; which indeed they truly merit, as they possess a sweet and rich flavour, very like that of the sole. They are excellent fried or stewed. Although plentiful in * YarrelTs British Fishes, p. 21.TITE RED MULLET. 109 the neighbourhood of Plymouth, they are never exposed for sale in the market. We have some- times found them huddled together amongst the small fish that are sometimes caught by the trawlers, and brought into the market, where they are sold at almost a nominal price to the poor; and we have often obtained an excellent dish of this fish for the smallest amount of money we chose to give. Mrs. Glasse mentions the wee vers; but we do not believe they are alluded to in any of the more modern works on the art of cookery. On the coast of Cornwall the weevers are called bishops. On the Sussex coast the larger species is known by the name of sea-cat; and in Scotland by that of gowdie. The Red Mullet, or Surmullet. This is a very beautiful, as well as one of the most delicious productions of the sea. When first caught it is of a delicate rose colour, striped with yellow; but these fine colours fade soon after death. It is sometimes found to reach two pounds, but about half a pound is the most usual weight. This fish has been held in great esteem from a very early age; and the vast sums the ancient Homans gave for it appear almost in-110 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. credible. Thus, according to Dryden’s trans- lation of Juvenal,— “ The lavish Six thousand pieces for a mullet gave, A sesterce for each pound ; ” amounting;, altogether to the sum of 481. 8s. 9d. of our money; whilst, according to Pliny, a con- sul named Asinius Celer, gave 8000 nummi, or 64/. 11s. 8d. modern English currency for a single fish of this kind. Neither did the extravagance of these people end even here; as, according to Seneca, they were so exceedingly fastidious about the freshness of this fish, that it seemed not enough unless it was put alive into their guest’s hand; and, according to the luxurious habits of those days, rich epicures kept stews in their very eating rooms, so arranged, that the fish could be taken out alive from under the table, and placed upon it; and he also tells us they took great pleasure in seeing them change their colours when they were dying. Pennant also informs us that Apicius, of renowned gastronomic memory, invented a method of suffocating these fishes in the (/arum sociorum, or famous Car- thagenian pickle, and afterwards making a rich sauce of their livers. Independently of their extreme delicacy ofIll THE EED MULLET. flavour, they are celebrated for the delicious taste of their livers, which is the only sauce that should be eaten with them; on which account they are usually dressed without being drawn, in the same manner as woodcocks: but this is an objectionable mode, as the intestines have afterwards to be separated from the livers; which, if not properly done, leads to very disagreeable consequences; besides which, the garbage presents an unsightly appearance. But all this may be avoided by adopt- ing the plan we shall point out when we come to treat of the proper ways to prepare and cook this most excellent of fishes. Bed mullets are in best season during the latter part of summer; and so they continue until the end of the year. The best proof of their fresh- ness is the brightness of their colours and the moisture on the scales; as also the brightness of the eyes and redness of the gills. If they look dry, and are soft about the abdomen, the eyes sunk, and the gills pale, they are stale. If caught in a trawl they are comparatively worthless, the livers being squeezed up with the intestines, and utterly spoilt. A trawl-caught surmullet may be recognised by having its scales rubbed off. If you see one of these fishes with all its scales on, you are safe, for even if caught in a trawl it has in that case incurred no injury.112 CnOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. The Grey Mullet Is a totally differently shaped fish from the red, being of a rounded cylindrical form; and has, in terms, more apt than elegant, been compared to that most useful article a rolling pin. It is of a leaden-grey colour on the back, the sides and belly being silvery. As its food consists chiefly of marine vegetables and small insects it collects O from the mud, it frequently acquires a muddy taint, particularly if not gutted soon after it is caught; so that if cooked without being drawn, and dressed like a surmullet, it would be one of the most nauseous fishes that could be brought to table; and yet, if cooked in a proper manner, it is an exceedingly good fish. The best way of dressing them is by boiling or stewing, and the smaller ones are very good fried. They are also very nice when preserved like pickled salmon, and eaten cold. In the Mediterra- nean, what is called botargo is made of the roes and milts of these fishes. The materials being taken out, and cleansed, are steeped in salt and water for four or five hours; and being then pressed between two boards or stones, and again washed, is afterwards dried in the sun for about a fortnight, when it is considered sufficiently pre- pared for use. The grey mullet grows as large as seven or113 the sea-beeam. eight pounds, and five or six pounds is a very common size. It seems, however, that there is a small species, that seldom exceeds a pound weight, and which may be distinguished from the larger kinds by the extreme protuberance of its fleshy lips; but there does not appear to be any dif- ference in flavour between one of these fishes and one of the same size of the other species. The Sea-Bream Is a very deep-bodied fish, with a remarkably vertical profile; it has large scales, and very large eyes, and just behind the gill-cover it is marked with a dusky spot similar to that upon a haddock. The upper part is of a pale brown, with a slight pinkish cast tinged with grey, grow- ing silvery towards the lower parts, which are white. The smaller breams are called chads. The latter are of a greyer cast than the full-grown fishes, and do not acquire the reddish tinge until they are somewhat advanced in size. The full-grown fishes are often met with weighing as much as three pounds; and some- times reach to as much as five pounds weight. They are in best season during the summer and autumn months, and are remarkably plentiful on many parts ot our coast, particularly upon those of Devonshire and Cornwall; in the neighbour- I114 CnOICE AND COOKEKY OF FISH. hood of which they are sold at a remarkably cheap rate. The best way of cooking them is by stewing; when, if well done, they are quite equal to any fresh-water carp, which, when prepared in this manner, they very closely resemble in flavour. They are also very good baked with a forcemeat pudding in their bellies. They may also be cooked in the same way as we shall hereafter point out for dressing surmullet; and in that form afford so good an imitation of the latter fish, that few persons who are not good judges of fish would detect the difference. They also make a very good fish-pie. The chads, or young fish, are very nice marinated; and when potted in the way we shall hereafter point out, may be made nearly, if not quite, equal to potted char. It is, however, a fish that does not keep well, and ought to be gutted soon after it is taken. Another disadvantage it possesses is, that it does not take salt well; consequently, it is next to useless to attempt to preserve it in that manner. The brightness of the eyes and colours, and transparency of the slime, denote it to be fresh; when stale, it looks dull, and becomes soft and discoloured about the abdomen.RAY — BECKER — BLACK BREAM. 115 The Ray, or Gilt-Head, Is a fish resembling the bream, from which it is distinguishable by the singular form of the profile, which is nearly vertical; as also in the form of the tail-fin, which is shaped like a crescent; and by wanting the dusky spot behind the gill-covers. It is of a larger size than the bream, and possesses a delicious flavour; but, unfortunately, is rather a scarce fish upon our coasts. The Reciter, or Braise, Also very closely resembles a bream; but, like the fish last mentioned, does not possess those dusky spots which are peculiar to the former fish. Its body is of a longer make, and the profile less vertical than that of the bream, and its colours are brighter. It is also, when full grown, rather a larger fish; and is considered to possess a superior flavour. It comes in sea- son at the same time as the bream, and may be cooked in precisely the same manner. Although not a scarce fish, it is by no means so common as the bream. The Black Bream Is a fish of about the same size and shape as the common bream; but rather deeper-bodied, the back being remarkably elevated, and the profile116 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. exceeding vertical. The colour varies, in different specimens, from a dusky, slaty hue, to almost blackness; the sides are paler, and when the fish is caught of almost a silver hue; but, after the fish has been a short time out of water, it acquires a darker tint. It is about the same size as the bream, but is a fatter fish, and pos- sesses a richer flavour. It may be cooked in the same way as the bream, and its freshness may be tested in the same manner. It is somewhat strange that, although this fish is by no means scarce upon our coasts during the latter part of the summer and throughout the whole of the autumn months, yet none of the fry, or a fish of the kind under a pound weight, is ever met with. Wrasses. There are no less than nine varieties of this fish upon our coasts; all of which are so soft, watery, and insipid, that not all the art of cookery can convert them into a good dish of fish. The best way of turning them to account is to split them, powder them well with pepper and salt, and broil them, rubbing in plenty of butter. Upon the whole, hoAvever, they are more required to be known to be avoided, than to be selected for any culinary purpose whatever.GURNARDS 117 The ballan-wrasse, the largest of the tribe, sometimes attains to as much as eight or nine pounds weight, and four or five pounds is a common size. In general appearance this fish resembles a fresh-water carp; but is remark- able for possessing large flexible lips, which, turning upwards, disclose two rows of teeth, rather resembling those of terrestrial animals than fishes. Most of the other kinds are small, and do not generally exceed half a pound weight; but some of them are remarkable for the beauty of their colours; still all seem alike bad, as far as their edible qualities are concerned. Gurnards. These fishes, of which we possess five distinct species, are all of them good and wholesome; and, fortunately, they are distributed in toler- able abundance upon most parts of our coasts. All these fish closely resemble one another in flavour, as well as form; their flesh is white, exceedingly sweet and firm, and shells out into snowy flakes; and, what is highly advantageous, they keep exceedingly well without the assist- ance of salt, and, if required, will take the salt very nicely, and may be easily preserved by that means. Of these,118 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. The Tubfish Is the largest in size, attaining to the weight of nine or ten pounds, but commonly ranging from about a pound to five pounds weight. Like the rest of the gurnard tribe, this fish has a large head, wide at the top, and sloping gradually towards the nose; the cheeks being armed with strong, bony plates. The body, which is thickest about the shoulders, tapers away gradually, and becomes very slender towards the tail. The tubfish is brown upon the back, red on the sides, with a golden cast below, the belly being of a snowy whiteness. This fish is remarkable for the size and beauty of its pectoral fin, which expands like a fan; being of a greenish brown, edged with deep blue, the effect of which is entirely lost when the fin lies folded up like an old umbrella on the fish-stalls. The best criterion of good season in this fish, and the same rule is equally applicable to the whole tribe, is the thickness of the body, and the brilliancy of the colours ; the latter of which, as well as the redness of the gills, affording the best possible proof of their freshness. If the gills are dry and pale, and the eyes dim and sunk, the fish is stale. I rom its superiority in size, and the abundance with which it is supplied, the tubfish may be con-119 THE TUBFISH. sidered the most valuable of the whole of the gurnard tribe. It is capable of being cooked in a great many ways. It is exceedingly good plain- boiled ; and presents a very attractive appearance when prepared in that manner, from the snowy whiteness of its flakes. It is also very good either split and fried, or cut up in quarters, being well- coated with egg and bread-crumbs. It also makes a nice dish either stewed, or baked with a force- neat pudding in its belly. It is not, however, considered equal in flavour to the piper; but which we are inclined to think rather j^roceeds from the greater scarcity of the latter fish. We have often partaken at the same tune of tubfish and pipers, both kinds of which have been cooked in the same manner, and served up at the same time, and we could never detect any difference whatever in flavour between the two fishes; which, after all, is no ill compliment to the piper, the tubfish being in reality so good a fish that even to equal it is no small merit. Tubfish may be found in good order at all times of the year; but, as there is a great difference between fishes of this kind, great care will be required in the selection.CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISII. The Piper. This fish, although it does not attain so large a size as the tubfish, is sometimes met with weierh- ing as much as two pounds, though usually from three-quarters to a pound and a half; which is about double the average weight of most of the other gurnards, with the exception of the tubfish, and with this exception the piper may fairly be ranked as the second best-sized fish of the whole tribe. It is of a reddish pink cast on the upper side, the belly snowy white. But, besides its colour, it is of a more slender make than the tubfish ; for, although tolerably stout about the shoulders, it tapers away very remarkably towards the tail. This fish may always be recognised by the sin- gular formation of its snout, which is armed with two broad, cloven plates, with a sharp spine at the end, — a very formidable, offensive weapon. The piper, like the tubfish, may generally be met with in good season all the year through; the best proof of which is the stoutness about the shoulders. The Red Gurnard. This fish does not usually attain to more than half the size of the piper; from which it may be distinguished by Avanting the cloven plates on121 THE RED ALICE. the snout. The upper part is also a deeper and more decided red. It resembles the two last in flavour, and its goodness may be tested in the same manner. The Red Alick Is even a smaller fish than the one last described, as it seldom exceeds half a pound weight; the greater number being no more than a quarter of a pound. They are elegantly formed little fishes, having a smaller head than others of the gurnard tribe; which, with a remarkably vertical profile and large bright eyes, gives them a very quaint and pleasing appearance. They are of a deeper and duller cast of red than the red gurnard, and their sides are streaked with minute, dark-brown spots. Some specimens are found having the upper sides of the same olive-brown cast as in the tubfish. They are also remarkable for the extreme roughness of the lateral line. These fish are sold indiscriminately, under the name of red gurnards, with the true fish of that name, both kinds being usually exposed for sale at the same time in the fish-markets. Nor do the generality of persons detect any difference between the two fishes; though this is obvious enough to the practised eye. But there is a still greater dif-CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. ference in the flavour; the flesh of the red alick being much more dry than any of the other gur- nards; which some object to in this fish, whilst others esteem it the more highly for that very reason. It has also another recommendation, that you seldom find one of these fishes that is not in good order; which is not the case with any of the rest of the gurnards. ’ The Grey Gurnard Is met with from half a pound to a pound and a half in weight. It may be distinguished from all the rest of its tribe by the greyish colour of its upper side. It is not so highly esteemed as the rest of the gurnards; but is, nevertheless, a very good and wholesome fish. It does not, however, come into season so early as its congeners, being seldom found in good order before September; from whence it continues in season until the spring. But at all times a number of these fish may be met with that are in a thin and emaciated condition, and these should always be rejected. The proof of good condition is the fulness of the body, and a bright coppery tinge upon the sides. Its freshness is tested in the same way as the rest of its tribe.123 KAY FISHES. SECTION XII. Cartilaginous Fishes. Cartilaginous fishes are so described on account of having their muscles supported by cartilages instead of bones, to distinguish them from those we have previously been treating of, which are termed osseous, or bony fishes. Carti- la ginous fishes are far less numerous than true bony fishes, comprising chiefly the rays, the sturgeon, the lampreys, and the whole shark family. Fishes of the Ray hind. Notwithstanding there are no less than twelve distinct species of these fish, the flesh of the whole of them usually passes under the general term of skate, which is the very worst fish of the whole tribe. From the unprepossessing exterior of these fishes, they are less highly esteemed than they deserve; and many persons reject them alto- gether, for no other reason. Yet what can be more absurd than to refuse a wholesome and de- licious article of food because the animal affording it has an unprepossessing exterior ? For —124 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISII. “ It is the flavour forms the test of merit; Which, when with wholesome qualities combined, Forms the intrinsic value of all food. If mere exterior is to claim the palm, Then must the woodcock to the parrot yield, The spotted leopard supersede the deer, And dories to the blue-striped wrasse give place. Yet, is the ermine better than the hare, Because its coat bedecks the robes of kings ? ‘ Or is the adder better than the eel Because its painted skin contents the eye ? ’ So, as the mind doth mark the worth of man, And not gay clothes, for such a fool can wear, Thus for our table should we choose those things Whose goodly qualities are there display’d ; Nor deem their virtues less, because, forsooth, Their raw exterior wears unseemly guise. Do not foul ways oft lie through fertile lands And richest mines beneath a barren soil ? ” The best kinds of rays are the thornback, and the common, or homelyn ray. The former may be recognised by the body being covered with thorny tubercles, and the homelyn ray may be distinguished from the skate by having the snout less protruded; that of the latter fish being remarkably long and sharp. The best portions of all these fishes are the parts surrounding the fins; which should be cut up and prepared in the manner we shall hereafter point out. It may be cooked either boiled, broiled, fried, or stewed; and when done in the latter way, very few other fish come up to, or, in fact, will bear a comparison to it; and yet it is veryLAMPREYS. 125 rarely dressed in that manner. If any of the stewed fish is left, the flesh, mixed up with the gravy, and converted into sausages, is far superior to every other thing of the kind we have tasted. Few fishes, therefore, could be turned to much greater advantage in a family than a ray, being one of the most nutritious and wholesome fishes we possess, and delicious when properly cooked; added to all which advantages, a few pence may generally obtain a sufficient quantity to supply a plentiful meal for several persons. In selecting one of these fishes, choose the thickest you can find; and never take a skate, if you can obtain a thornback or a ray. The way to crimp and prepare them will be noticed hereafter. These fish keep remarkably well, and, in fact, except in very hot weather, are improved by being kept for a day or two before they are cooked. Lampreys. There are three kinds of lampreys—the sea- lamprey, the common lamprey, and the pride ; but the last mentioned, being an exceedingly small fish, and of no use, except as bait for catching those of a larger kind, we shall pass it by without further notice. The appearance of126 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. all these fishes is repulsive; not only from their snake-like form and eye, hut also from their open, circular mouth, and the seven holes on each side, which serve them as then- gills. With respect to their organisation also, they rank amongst the very lowest of the vertebrated animals, not having even a backbone to boast of; the place of which is supplied by a mere gristle, without any processes or protuberances whatever. Yet, ungainly as these fishes may now appear, they were kept as pets by the ancient Romans; for we are informed that Antonia, the wife of Drusus, had a pet lamprey, in whose gills she hung gems and earrings; a species of unnecessary finery the fish, no doubt, would gladly have dispensed with. Licinius Crassus also brought his lam- preys, which he kept in a vivarium, to become so tame as to be obedient to his voice, and to come and receive food at his hands; whilst we are also told, that the celebrated orator, Quintus Hortensius, wept at the death of one of these fishes that he had kept long and loved exceed- ingly. But as every dog has his day, it seems those of the lampreys have long since passed away, as far as keeping them for pets is concerned; and they are only now esteemed for their real qualities, which are very good ones, being niceLAMPREYS. 127 fishes, either potted, stewed, or made up into pies. Still, it seems, they are more agreeable to the palate than wholesome to the body, being apt to create surfeits if eaten in too great quantities. One of our kings (Henry the First) is said to have met with his death in consequence of in- dulging in a too-plentiful meal of these fishes; and yet, strange to say, this very self-same fatal material, cooked up in a pie, is by ancient custom transmitted annually at Christmas as a token of loyalty by the city of Gloucester to the sovereign of this country; a gift attended both with expense and difficulty; for, on account of the scarcity of these fishes at that particular season of the year, they can hardly be procured at a guinea a-piece. The greater, or sea-lamprey, sometimes attains to as much as four or five pounds weight. Its body has a curiously mottled appearance, of a rusty red and brown, which, when the fish is in the water, gives it something the appearance of an old, rusty piece of broken iron hoop. The smaller, or river-lamprey, rarely exceeds a foot in length, and in shape and colour resembles a small fresh water eel. Both these fishes are in their highest state of perfection during the months of April and May; about which time the sea-lamprey comes up from128 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. the salt water into the fresh for the purpose of depositing its spawn; after which, like all other fishes, it becomes out of season. But it is not often met with in this state; for, as soon as it has spawned, it returns again to the sea, where it soon recruits its exhausted strength. Sharks. Although there are no less than fourteen species of sharks to be found upon our coasts, two only, the rough hound or morgay, and the dog- fish, are consumed as food; and even the two latter are seldom eaten except in a salted state. The dogfish, when split and dried, we have been assured by every one who has possessed the ap- petite or courage to partake of it, is a rich and well-tasted fish, resembling very much salmon prepared in the same manner. Dried dogfish, and also morgays, are often exposed for sale in the fish-markets at Penzance. The white shark is rarely, though sometimes, seen upon our coasts ; but is universally rejected as an article of food by all classes in this country, on account of its propensity for feeding upon human flesh. We have, however, been told by many seafaring persons who have partaken of it, that its flesh is very good, bearing a strong resem- blance to veal, both in flavour and appearance.129 THE STURGEON. The Sturgeon. This, although a fish of most peaceable disposi- tion, bears an external resemblance to the shark race, particularly in the projecting snout and position of the mouth. A sturgeon, from its large size, is sold and cut up in portions in the fish- mongers’ shops. It is a rich and well-flavoured fish, and exceedingly useful, from its capacity of being cooked in a great variety of ways. Unfor- tunately it is a scarce fish in this country, and consequently, when obtained, is sold at a high price. The proof of goodness is, that the flesh should cut clean, and present a Avhite appearance, strongly contrasted with the blueness both of its veins and gristle; a brown or yellowish cast in these parts denotes the fish to be in bad condition. It is of the hard roe of this fish that caviar is usually composed, although sometimes, as we have previously noticed, it is prepared from the hard roes both of the carp and grey mullet. SECTION XIII. As to the Choice of Salt Eish. The fishes that are usually salted dry, are cod- fish, ling, hake, whiting, and rawlin pollock, silver, whiting, and the torsk or tusk. K130 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISII. Ling, cod, and hake, and, in fact, all other salt fish, ought to appear of a light colour, and present a perfectly dry appearance, free from spot or mil- dew, but they should not feel hard to the touch. These fish should always be thick and stout, par- ticularly behind the head, and the stoutness should be carried on down to the very tail. The most esteemed ling are those taken on the coasts of Scilly and Penzance, and also at St. Ives, in Cornwall; but the best cured fish of the kind we have met with have been preserved at Polperro, a fishing station in Cornwall, about ten or twelve miles westward of Plymouth, which are less hard and dry than those prepared at any of the other places we have mentioned. The codfish taken on the coast of Newfound- land are neither so large nor so good as those cured on the Cornish coast, but they are usually sold at a cheaper rate. Next to cod and ling, hake may be considered the best salt fish; when cured in the common way, it is termed Poor John, or stock fish. At Plymouth, they have a method of smoking them, in the way of red herrings and dried salmon. Dried salmon should be thick about the shoulders and deep-bodied throughout; and the flesh, when it is cut, of a deep pink colour, as dis- tinguished from the dim red, which is impartedCHOICE OF SALT FISH. 131 by means of saltpetre to a colourless and un- healthy fish; numbers of which are cured in this way, and whose defects are attempted to be dis- guised in the manner we have just mentioned. Red herrings should look very bright, and shine like burnished metal, and be thoroughly stiff. If limp, and dull in colour, and soft or broken about the belly-parts, they are not good. Pilchards should look firm; but these fishes are seldom met with ill cured, although, from their extreme saltness and strong, oily, rancid taste, few persons, excepting those who have been accustomed to them from early life, can be prevailed upon to eat them. Fishes hejjt in pickle should present a clean ap- pearance, and be free from spots or bruises. They should also feel firm and elastic to the touch. Anchovies shoidd be firm and hard, and the abdomen entire and unbroken ; they should also be of a red colour under the skin. If soft and of a brown colour, with the abdomen broken, and the ribs showing through the aperture, they are bad. The smaller ones are considered superior to those of larger size. K 2CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISIL 132 SECTION XIV. How to choose Crabs, Lobsters, and all other kinds of Shell Fish. Crabs and Lobsters. Crabs and lobsters are often purchased alive, and this is usually the wisest course, as by this means you not only insure the freshness of the article, hut avoid the possibility of buying any such as may have died a natural death, either in the well-boats, or in the cobles in which they have been kept. We know that the greater portion of boiled crabs and lobsters with which a large town near one of our great crab and lobster de- pots is supplied, consists of those which have died in this manner; and, after a sudden summer flood, the fresh waters of which often prove fatal to the store shell-fish, crabs, lobsters, and cray- fish are pretty sure to be cried around the town. If the crier is silent, you may rely upon it the rain has done no mischief to the lobster stores. The best proof of the goodness of a crab, whether dead or alive, is in the depth of the red- ness of colour on the upper side, and the clean appearance, and absence of all spots, bruises, or blemishes on the lower side; a dirty, yellowish brown back, and spots, and marks of bruisesCRABS AND LOBSTERS. 133 about the body and claws, denote a sickly con- dition. When boiled, the upper part will be of a deeper red than when it is in a raw state, and there should also be a strong spring or elasticity in the joints of the legs and claws, which, if they hang loosely, show either that the fish is stale, or has died a natural death previously to being boiled. The female crab is easily recognised from the male by possessing smaller claws, and by having a much wider flapped tail. The former is con- sidered inferior, although those persons who are partial to the cream of a crab give it a preference, and it certainly makes up in cream for what it wants in claws. It is a good ride to choose both crabs and lobsters by weight, those that are the heaviest being always the best. Crabs and lobsters both come into season at the same time that oysters go out, and may be considered in their best order from April until October. In choosing a lobster: if it be alive, select one whose shell is hard and firm, whose coat looks dark, and bears evidence of having been a long time worn, as an old outside denotes a sound in- teiioi. The male is known from the female, not134 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. only by wanting the roe which is generally found adhering to the belly of the latter, but by pos- sessing much larger claws, and having a narrower tail, which is stiff and hard; that of the female being broad and soft. The female is in best order just as the rudiments of roe first make their appearance, at which time a rich coral will be found in the head, which disappears as the eggs increase in size. Many persons, however, give a preference to the male, or cock lobster, as possess- ing flesh of a more firm and delicate flavour, and as presenting also a more pleasing appearance to the eye. The best way of testing the freshness of a boiled lobster is to try the spring of the tail, which is strong and elastic if the fish be fresh; but slack and loose, it is either stale, or, like a crab exhibit- ing the same symptoms, has died a natural death previous to its cooking. Press the cheeks, and if they yield readily to the pressure, the fish is in bad order; if they feel hard and resist the pressure, it is in good condition. There are two species of crayfish, the one being found in the fresh water, and the other in the sea. The former is of very small size, not being much more than double the size of a large prawn. The sea crayfish attains a considerable bulk, being at least twice as heavy as the largest lobster. ThePRAWNS AND SHRIMPS. 135 smaller species has claws like a lobster, but not so large in proportion to the rest of the body; the sea crayfish has no large claws, but possesses slender legs, with a small kind of forceps at the extremity, with which it can give a very severe pinch. Both species resemble a lobster, but do not come up to it in flavour; the smaller being more insipid, and the latter ra- ther too tough and wanting the exquisite rich- ness of flavour for which the lobster is so pre- eminently distinguished. Still, crayfish are by no means to be despised, and when lobsters cannot conveniently be procured, they act very well as substitutes. Their goodness and freshness is tested in the same way as with lobsters. Praicns and Shrimps. Prawns and shrimps are in best order when the females are in roe, the latter being, in fact, the most delicious part of them. When boiled, if they are elastic and spring back upon being pulled by the tails, and the flesh is moist within the shells, well filled out, they are fresh; if dry, tough, and shrunk up, they are stale ; and if soft, slender, and watery, they are in bad condition.136 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. A great deal of the qualities of both shrimps and prawns depends upon the care bestowed upon the boiling of them, which we shall give proper directions about hereafter. Oysters. The goodness of oysters depends chiefly upon the nature of the ground from which they have been taken; and it is from the particular quality of the ground that the Colchester oysters derive the goodness for which they have been so long and justly celebrated. In some bottoms that are affected by minerals, the oysters not only acquire a disagreeable taint, but become so unwholesome as to be absolutely poisonous: as is the case with the oysters caught in Falmouth harbour; and yet, by being removed to more healthy ground, they soon become purified, acquire a good flavour, and lose all their pernicious qualities. In other grounds the oysters, although not actually unwholesome, are thin and ill-tasted, but the latter defects may be cured by cleansing and feeding the oysters for a week, or even a lesser time, in the manner we shall by and by point out. There is an old and a very true saying, that oysters are always in season as long as there is an B. in the month.HOW TO PRESERVE OYSTERS, ETC. 137 Mussels and Cockles. These should be full in the shell, and look clean and free from mud. Cockles, if taken from a muddy ground, should be kept for three or four days in clear salt water. How to preserve and cleanse Oysters, Mussels, and Cockles. The best mode of cleansing and fattening oysters, is to place them flat on their sides in a pan, with enough water not only to cover them, but also to fill up the pan nearly to the brim. Salt water is best adapted to the purpose, but if you can only procure fresh water, then you should throw in a little salt proportioned to the size of the vessel, but taking care not to over do it, as too much salt will injure if not kill the oysters. The water should be changed once every day, and as soon as fresh water is put in, cast in a handful or two ot flour, barley, or oatmeal, to which may be added about the same quantity of wheaten bran. By adopting this plan, you will find a consider- able improvement even in the course of a couple of days, and by the expiration of five or six days they will become perfectly fat, in which state, with care, they may be kept for upwards of a fort-138 CHOICE AND COOKERY OF FISH. night; but after being kept over a week they are rather more apt to decline than improve in con- dition. The shells should also be carefully examined every day, and if any are found to remain constantly open, they should be at once removed, as the oyster is then either dead or in a dying state; and, if allowed to remain, will prove injurious to the health of the rest. A cool cellar is the best place to keep them in. Mussels and cockles should be kept in clean water—salt is the best—in the same manner as oysters, and the water changed once or twice. They should be so kept for a day at least before they are used, for the purpose of cleansing them from the sand, mud, and other impurities usually found in shellfish of this kind when first taken up from their beds at the bottom; but it is not ne- cessary to feed them, unless you wish to preserve them for any length of time. In choosing mussels, those which are of a deep colour and very sharp at the edges are generally the most tender and best flavoured; those that are of a slate colour, or bluish cast, and rough and worn at the edges, are generally hard and tough. Cockles that have the whitest shells are gene- rally the best, being usually found in clean sandyCOCKLES. 139 ground, and therefore free from the muddy taint which often renders cockles so unpalatable ; they will, hoAvever, require longer cleansing when taken from a sandy than a muddy bottom, in order to free them thoroughly from the sand, which, until they are entirely free from it, is as disagreeable in its way as the muddy taint we have already alluded to.140 nOW TO CLEAN" AND PRESERVE FISH. CHAP. III. OP CLEANING AND PRESERVING FISII, AND PREPARING IT FOR THE TABLE. The cleaning of fish is a very important matter, but, being a disagreeable office, is often en- trusted to unskilful hands, who execute their task so negligently, that almost as many fish are injured by this process as by bad cookery. The chief thing to be attended to, is to cleanse away every offensive particle, and not to maul about or handle the fish in such a way as to de- prive it of its stiffness, which, if lost, will destroy a great portion of its firmness. Another thing is to do the thing in the right way ; for it must be remembered that different kinds of fishes require to be cleansed in a particular manner, and that what may be proper for one will be exceedingly detrimental to another. Some require to be opened by the belly, others by the back; in some, the intestines are drawn out by the gills, without the fish being split open at all; and in a few, the intestines are allowed to remain alto- gether ; others are cooked with the scales on,PREPARING FISH FOR THE TABLE. 141 being merely wiped with a dry cloth to rub off the external slime. Again, some require not only to be scaled, but also to be skinned, either wholly or partially, — as eels, scate, and soles; whilst others require scalding for the purpose of assisting in getting oft their skins, or cleansing them from the strong slime with which their bodies are coated. In cleansing fish, a pump or cock of running water is very advantageous, as the force of the running water washes out everything that is ne- cessary without that pawing about, and rubbing or scrubbing, which proves so detrimental to the firmness of the fish. As a general rule for cleaning most kinds of fish, having dipped the fish in water, lay it flat on its side, either on a board or a flat stone, keep- mg it m a firm position by grasping it with one hand about the head and shoulders, whilst with the other, by the aid of a knife, you scrape off all the scales and slime, taking especial care not to cut, break, or bruise the skin of the fish. Having cleansed one side, turn over the fish, and do the like with the other; then cut off the fins and wash the fish just enough to clear it of any slime or loose scales that may still adhere to it; then open the fish, if it is one that is required to be opened by the belly, by cutting it open in the middle with a sharp knife to a little below the142 now TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. vent; then extract the gills and intestines, taking care not to break or bruise the roes, if any, as also the liver, when either of the latter are intended to be preserved and eaten with the fish; and be careful to scrape and wash out all the blood that lodges about the backbone; then wash the fish quickly, but thoroughly, handling it as little as possible; and as soon as this process is completed, take it out of the water and hang it up by the head, to allow the water to drain off, and do not leave it one moment in the water after the washing is complete, as by so doing the flavour and firmness will often be materially injured. All the cod tribe require great care, particularly in cleansing the back bone from the blood, which, if allowed to remain, turns black when the fish is cooked, and presents a very disgusting appear- ance. To prevent this, all this tribe, from their peculiar formation, require to be cut open for some distance down below the vent; the sound should be carefully separated with a sharp knife close to the back bone, on one side only, leav- ing it attached to the opposite side, and then the blood on the interstices of the back bone can be reached so as to permit the blood to be scraped out either with the point of a knife, or a small brush. In preparing hakes, it is a frequent practice toPREPARING FISH FOR THE TABLE. 143 extract the back bone, which can be drawn out quite clear from the fish without any portion of * the flesh adhering to it, but ivliich we do not believe can be done with any other species of fish. The way it is managed is, after opening the fish by the belly and disembowelling it, to insert the finger and thumb of the right hand betwixt the vertebrae, just behind the head, and forcing them onward by the edge of the bone down the whole length of the body as far as the fish is opened, it by that means is drawn out entire, and quite free from the flesh. In cleaning turbot, flounders, and all fish of that kind, it will be necessary that they should be opened considerably below the vent, otherwise it is difficult to extract the whole of the intestines, and impossible to cleanse the entire cavity of the body properly ; and from neglect of this kind it is that flat fish are so often found to have that un- pleasant muddy taint about the abdominal parts. Before attempting to scale perch, weevers, gur- nards, or any kind of fish possessing spines, the latter should always be cut off, to prevent the possibility of a puncture, which is certain to pro- duce painful, and possibly serious, consequences. Fishes that require to be opened by the back, and which will be duly noticed when we treat of the manner in which each particular kind of144 HOW TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. fish is to be cooked, should be split through from nose to tail with a very sharp knife, so that the flesh may be cut clean and without being jagged close to the back bone; the belly being left entire, and the fish thus spread open. This mode of preparation is well adapted to some particular kinds of fish when designed for either broiling or frying, such as salmon peel, mackerel, garfish, cod, whiting, and fish of the like kind; as by that means the rich fat portion about the belly part is preserved, which would be in great measure lost if the fish was opened by the belly in the usual way. When opened by the back, also, the form of the fish is better suited to either the gridiron or the frying-pan, than when pre- pared in any other way. Opening by the back is also an excellent plan when fish are intended to be regularly salted in to keep; as not only is the salt more easily ap- plied, but the parts about the belly, which would otherwise become too dry and hard, by the above process become the best portions of the fish. Sprats, sand-launces, and many other very small fishes, are best cleaned by cutting off the head just below the collar bones, and at the same time drawing out the intestines with the gills, without ripping open the bodies. This, in the case of sand-launces, may and ought to be done withoutPREPARING FISH FOR THE TABLE. 145 drawing out the roes; which, provided the fish possess any, should be allowed to remain, and be dressed in their bodies. As the scales and slime of all the last-mentioned fish come off very readily, they should be merely rubbed off with a dry cloth, rubbing upwards, and not attempting to scrape them off with a knife. Fishes that are intended to be dressed with their scales on ought to retain them entire and unruffled, as the object of permitting them to re- main is to prevent the moisture and rich juices of the fish from exuding and wasting away in the cookery. For this reason pilchards, when in- tended to be dressed with their scales on, must not even be wiped with a cloth, but must be cooked exactly in the same state they are taken out of the nets, as the slightest rubbing would instantaneously detach every scale from their bodies. Other fishes whose external scaly cover- ing is of a more enduring nature, as the bream and surmullet, may be rubbed gently from the head downwards, but this, particularly with the latter fish, must be very tenderly done. Flounders, although a soft and watery fish, may be made to eat more dry and firm by adopting the proper plan of cleaning them. To managers, get your flounders as fresh as you possibly can. If they be alive, kill them, either by breaking L146 HOW TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. open their throats, or knocking them on the head; and as soon as they are dead, cut off the tail and back and anal fins close to the body; then gut the fish, and hang them up by the head, when a considerable quantity of slimy water will exude from them. On the following morning skin the fish, either on both sides, or on the dark side only, and, washing off all the mucous slime, hang them up again in the wind and air, so that they may get thoroughly dry; then cut them in pieces, and, coating them well with egg and bread-crumbs, fry them carefully, and they will make a delicious dish of fish. Soles are usually skinned on the dark side only; the pale side requires to be carefully scaled, which is often very negligently done, and that side of the fish all but spoilt in consequence, as few things we meet with- at table are more disgusting than a mouthful of fish scales. A small portion of the dark skin of the sole, dried and preserved, is ex- cellent for fining coffee. Red mullets are usually dressed without being either scaled or gutted; the object of omitting the latter process being to preserve the livers entire and uninjured: but this may be done, under care- ful management, without the necessity of retaining the disgusting quantity of garbage and half di- gested food with which the bodies of these fish arePREPARING FISH FOR THE TABLE. 147 so fully supplied. This may be contrived by making a cut across the body, just below the gills, through which the garbage and the liver may be drawn, and the latter, after being carefully separated from the offal, can be again introduced through the aperture into the body of the fish. Another way of preserving the livers and getting rid of the superfluous parts, is to gut the fish, and, after wiping out the inside with a cloth, to detach the liver from the garbage, and boil it separately from the fish m a small saucepan; and then, melting your butter in the same liquor the livers were boiled in, mix up the whole together as a sauce to accompany the fish. This we think the best plan of the whole, as the most imperfect livers may by this means be turned to the utmost ac- count, without the possibility of the smallest particle that is really good being wasted in the process of cooking;. O Rays, thornbacks, and the whole of that class of fishes, should be skinned: this is best done imme- diately after the fish is killed, which may be ma- naged by dividing the spine behind the head, and stripping off the skin immediately afterwards, when it will come off more readily than when the fish has been some time dead. Another plan of pre- paring a ray is to cut off the tail close to the body, and to cut round the edges of the fins, and148 nOW TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. then hang up the fish by the head, when a great quantity of watery slime will drain from it; and if the skin does not come off readily the skinning process may be accelerated by scalding the fish in boiling water. The best parts are the fins, the cartilages of which should be cut across with a sharp knife into strips of about an inch or so in width. The other parts may be cut up in small pieces. When cut up, the pieces should be thrown into strong salt and water, and kept there for some hours, or even a day or more, before they are dressed, which will extract every rank taint, and impart a more white and delicate appearance to the flesh. Eels should be skinned before they are dressed. This must be done whilst they are quite fresh, otherwise the skins do not come off so readily; but it is as unnecessary as cruel to skin them whilst alive, for the skins come off quite as easily when the fish is recently dead as when the bar- barous proceeding above alluded to is practised. The way to kill eels speedily we have already pointed out. To skin these fish in the most easy manner you should first cut just through the skin all around the body below the gill aper- tures ; then stick a strong skewer or the prong of a stout steel fork through the head above, and, holding on by that part with one hand, take aPREPARING FISH FOR THE TABLE. 149 coarse towel in the other, and, grasping the fish tightly just below the part where you have cut through the skin, drawing your hand hard down- wards, you may strip it off entire, as you would a stocking. We understand it is a common practice in Ireland merely to rub off the slime, and to cook the eels without depriving them of their skins. We ourselves once partook of eels so prepared; but this occurred merely through the ignorance or carelessness of the cook; which, combined with exceedingly bad cookery in every other respect, produced so nauseous a mess, that nothing short of the perils of absolute starvation could induce us again to venture upon a dish of eels prepared in that manner. But congers should never be skinned before they are cooked, and, as they have little slime on their bodies, they may easily be scraped clean. In fact, the skin of the conger is exceed- ing rich, and adds much to the delicacy of the flavour of these truly excellent fishes. Salt fish requires attention in being properly soaked in water previously to being dressed; and it is from inattention to this very important matter that salt fish is usually found so over-salt, hard, and disagreeable, which renders it a less favourite article of food than it would be if proper150 nOW TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. care and attention was paid in preparing it for cookery. To prepare a salt fish — a ling, for example, which is by far the best of all fish that can be cured in this manner, — it should lie for six or eight hours at least in a sufficient quantity of fresh water to cover it entirely; being then taken out, it should be scrubbed with a hard brush or a coarse cloth, placed on a clean stone or flat board, and then allowed to drain for six or eight hours more. After this, it should again be placed in water, which, if it can be kept about luke- warm, will be all the better; and there it should be suffered to continue for ten or twelve hours, when it will be found to swell considerably, and also to have become pliant and tender. Warm milk-and-water is considered to soften and im- prove both the flavour and appearance of the fish. Some persons add vinegar to the water as a means of extracting the salt. Two soakings and one draining are indispensable to render the fish fit for cooking; one soaking, for however long a time (which, by the way, is all the salt fish usually gets), only makes a kind of pickle, in which, as long as the fish remains, it gets rid of very little of its original saltness. Dried cod may be prepared in the same manner as ling; and it must also be observed that the151 TO PRESERVE SALT FISH. smaller fish of either kind do not require to re- main so long a time in the water upon each soak- ing as those of large size. Dried salmon does not require much soaking. In fact, an hour in lukewarm water, or even less, if the fish be not very thick through, will be quite sufficient, and if allowed to remain much lono-er, the flavour will be impaired. After being taken out of the water, it should be allowed to drain for halt an hour, or perhaps a short time longer, before it is dressed. One soaking only will be required. Ded herrings and anchovies should be merely washed in hot water before they are dressed, the former being allowed to remain in it for about three or four minutes afterwards; but the latter should be taken out immediately after they have been thoroughly washed and scraped. Red herrings are sometimes prepared by being steeped in boiling beer, in which they are allowed to remain until the liquid becomes cold. SECTION II. HOW TO CURE AND PRESERVE ElSH. The business of preserving salt fish usually devolves upon fish-curers residing at the stations152 HOW TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. where the fish are captured; hut we consider it may not be altogether superfluous, in a work of this kind, to point out the various modes in which it may be done, for the convenience of any of our readers who may feel inclined to put them into practice. When the fish are only intended to be pre- served for a few days before they are dressed, then, if the weather be cool, merely a slight sprinkling of salt will be a better plan than throwing the fish into a strong pickle, which will soon destroy the curdy appearance of the flakes, whilst the strength of the salt will extract a great portion of its true flavour. If the fish is to be kept over more than one day, all the salt should be washed off on the second day, and fresh salt sprinkled over it; this will prevent a tainted taste, which will otherwise be imparted to it, par- ticularly when the fish is allowed to lie flat on its side in a dish. To prevent this, where fish are intended to be kept only for a day or two, and the weather is cool, it is a good plan to take out the eyes and fill up the apertures with salt, rub- bing at the same time a small quantity over the rest of the fish, particularly the inside and the interstices about the backbone. Having done this, the fish should be hung up by the head in a cool place. If the weather is at all warm, it will beTO PRESERVE EISII WITHOUT SALT. 153 advisable to make an incision on one side of the backbone, from the very junction of the head to the body down nearly to the tail, and fill up the aperture with salt; for it is always about the back- bone that the fish becomes first tainted; so that, if the weather is very unfavourable for keeping fish, the safest plan will be to cut out the backbone altogether and fill in plenty of salt in its place. In cool weather, it you wish to avoid imparting too much saltness to your fish, you may call in the aid of pepper, and thus render less salt neces- sary. This is particularly well adapted to fish that are intended for broiling; and you may also add a little ground mace or allspice. If you are desirous of keeping your fish for any length of time, so as to preserve its original flavour untainted with saltness, the best plan is partially to dress in a way suited to the mode in which it is to be finally prepared for the table. If simply to be boiled or fried, then the fish may be about half-done in either of those modes; and if intended for stewing or currie, then the frying part of the process may be previously gone through; and by this means, in mild weather, the fish may be kept good for two or three days without the aid of salt or other mode of preserva- tion than that we have recommended. Parboiling salmon soon after it is caught is an154 110W TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISII. excellent way of preserving its curdy flakes, when you find it desirable to keep it for several days before it is finally cooked for the table. Another way of preserving salmon without the aid of salt, the latter of which is considered to extract much of the richness of its taste, is to hang it up in a cool place, wash out the inside every day with vinegar, and afterwards to throw a quantity of pepper over the same parts. When fish are intended to be regularly salted in and preserved for a length of time, considerable attention will be required in every stage of the proceeding, as a slight neglect in any one of them may render all the others unavailing. The fish usually prepared in this manner are ling, cod, hake, pollock, whiting, and the torsk, and gur- nards of all sorts and kinds, as also herrings, pilchards, and sprats; salmon and salmon-peel may be cured in this manner. In the western parts of Cornwall dogfish and morgays, and mackerel, are preserved as salt fish, besides rays of every sort and description. The latter kind of fish are first well scrubbed, to get off the slime, and are then immersed in a strong pickle of brine ; in which they are kept for ten days or a fort- night. They are then taken out, and submitted to a second scrubbing and pickling; and, after remaining about four or five days more in theLING, COD, HAKE, SALMON, ETC. 155 pickle, are hung up to dry in sheds, being ex- posed to the open air and sun whenever the opportunity permits. Gurnards are also cured in precisely the same manner. The latter are also very good when smoked like red-herrings. We once tried rubbing the prepared smoking liquid over these fishes when dried and salted, and found them excellent. Ling, cod, hake, and the rest of the cod tribe ai e split open by the back; and the intestines being extracted, they are immersed in trickle for about ^ten days or a fortnight. They are then taken out, and, being well rubbed with dry salt, are hung out to dry, a small stick being thrust tin ough them, as we see in the carcases of sheep, pigs, and oxen, to keep the body of the fish in a proper position; as well for the purpose of giving it a good appearance as to place it in the most favourable form for drying. But this drying process is a very tedious one; for, before it is thoroughly completed, the fish require frequent exposure to the sun and air; and if. a violent shower of rain comes on before they can be collected and put in a place of shelter, they sustain considerable injury; and are spoilt altogether if allowed to remain until the rain has thoroughly saturated them. When salmon, or any of the salmon tribe, are150 HOW TO CLEAN AND PRESERVE FISH. salted, it is an improvement to make the pickle with equal portions of salt and saltpetre. Hake are also cured in the same way, when they are intended to be smoked as well as dried. This smoking process is a great improvement to salted hake, as it also is to all the salmon tribe; and may be done in the same way as hams or bacon. When fish are kept in pickle only, they should be taken out after they have been a week or ten days in the brine, and be thoroughly washed — pumping over it is the best way; and new pickle being made, the fish should be cast into it, and there allowed to remain until required for use. When wanted for the table, they should be watered and drained, for the purpose of extracting the salt, in the same manner as dried salt fish. Keeping fish in pickle improves the colour, or rather pre- serves it better than when the fish is thoroughly dried; but if kept for any great length of time, it is difficult to extract the excessive saltness which it imbibes there.157 ON THE COOKERY OF FISH. CHAP. IV. ON THE COOKERY OF FISH. And now we enter upon the most important por- tion of our subject, which is the actual cookery of fish in all its various branches; as boiling, frying, broiling, stewing, curries, roasting and baking in every sort of way, pies, patties, soups, potting, pickling and marinating, and, in short, every device and contrivance that gastronomic ingenuity has invented for the purpose of turning this valu- able commodity to the most advantageous pur- poses. These different modes we purpose treating of in the same order which we have here laid down; and although, by dint of mere instructions, we cannot hope to make a perfect cook, we still trust the instructions we shall be enabled to give will show how every kind of fish may be ren- dered most available, and how a vast number of fishes, all easily procured, but hitherto neglected, may be converted into most useful articles of food, and even of actual luxury, at a lower rateTHE COOKERY OF FISII. 158 than we can procure the most common and coarsest kinds of food. SECTION I. How to boil Fish. Boiling, although apparently so simple a process, is one by which, through carelessness and inattention, more fish are spoilt outright than by any mode of cookery whatever. What, indeed, can be more unsightly or more unpala- table than fish sent to table a mere mass of rags and tatters, except what may also be just as often seen, a fish produced half-raw; and, in addition to both these defects, covered with the scum of the boiler, or half-deluged in water, for want of a fish- drain upon the dish, or from the slovenly manner in which it has been dished up? One great cause why fish are so often badly boiled is, that they are merely cast into a kettle, and there allowed to remain until they are con- sidered sufficiently cooked, without any consider- ation as to the rate at which the water is boiliner. To boil a fish of any considerable size in a proper manner, it should be put into cold water ; and as soon as it begins to boil strongly, its force159 HOW TO BOIL FISH. should be instantly checked, either by throwing in a small quantity of cold water, or removing the kettle from too close a contact with the fire; which must be continued from time to time, so that the water may only boil gently, until every por- tion ot the fish is thoroughly dressed. If allowed to boil away fiercely, the skin would be split, and the outer portion overdone, while the parts near the backbone would be utterly raw. Care also must be taken to keep the kettle covered, lest soot or any other dirt should fall into it, and the cover merely taken off from time to time for the purpose of removing any scum that may have arisen upon the surface. Small, tender fish, such as whiting and cod- lings for instance, should not be put in until the water boils ; but in all other respects the process should be conducted in the same way as with fish ot a more bulky size and solid nature. When the fish is done enough, the fish-plate should be lifted up gently; then, holding it over the kettle, allow the water to drain off; which being done, place the fish on a fish-dram or upon a clean napkin, taking care not to do so as long as a drop of water continues to flow from it. Do not dish it up, however, until the moment before it is to be sent to table ; for although it may be kept warm for a considerable time under a cover,THE COOKERY OF FISH. 160 the damp arising from the steam will counteract in a considerable degree the good effect of your placing the fish dry upon the dish, and if cir- cumstances prevent you from being able to send the fish to table as soon as it is done, then the best way to keep it warm is to allow it to remain on the tin plate, which must be placed across the top of the kettle, the upper side of the fish being covered up with a clean cloth. Salt, vinegar, and horseradish thrown into the water in which the fish is boiled is very good, not only for improving its flavour, but also pre- serving its appearance, by preventing the skin from breaking. How to boil a Cod’s Head and Shoulders. A large cod should never be boiled entire; as the part near the tail being much thinner than about the shoulders, the former portion would be overdone before the thicker part would be much more than lialf-cooked. For this reason, therefore, the fish should always be dressed in portions. The head extremity, being the part most esteemed, is usually made the company dish. In order that it may be properly boiled, the head and shoulders should be bound with broad tape three or four times round before the fish is committed to the kettle, for the purpose of pre-HOW TO BOIL FISII. 161 venting the cheeks from breaking away, as they are otherwise apt to do; the kettle should con- tain sufficient cold water to cover the fish, and to this should be added a handful of salt, a bundle of sweet herbs, a couple of wine-glasses of vine- gai, and a little shred horseradish. When the water boils, it must be checked in the manner before directed *, and kept boiling gently, until it is done enough. A moderate sized head and shoulders will take about half an hour. I ou may ascertain whether or not the fish is sufficiently done by inserting a fish-slice at the backbone, when, if you can raise the flesh clear off it, and it appears white and done, the fish is ready for the table. Cod, if crimped, will take a shoiter time than if dressed in a solid piece. When you take up the fish, unwind the tape carefully, so that none of the skin may be broken, and dish up the fish according to the directions we have previously laid down. If you intend to dress either the spawn or the liver, it must not be done m the body of the fish, but be placed along- side it in the kettle, where, if it be at all largest must remain for a short time after the fish is taken up; for it takes a longer time to become thoroughly done than the fish itself, and hence it is that we so often see the middle part of a roe * See page 159.162 THE COOKERY OF FISII. Bent to table in a half raw state. Garnish with scraped horseradish, and place the roes and liver by the side. If the fish has a soft roe, it should be fried instead of boiled. Oyster sauce is the proper accompaniment to a boiled cod’s head and shoulders; next come cockle sauce, shrimp, crab, lobster, Cornubian sauce, or anchovy ; although there is no kind of fish sauce that may not be eaten with it. Mustard, with plain melted butter, is also well suited to it, and, indeed, mustard mixed with most kinds of sauces is found to give them an improved flavour. Codlings may be boiled entire. Previously to cooking the latter, it is a good plan to take out their eyes and fill up the sockets with salt, as they become more firm and flake out better when powdered with salt for a day or two before they are eaten, than they will be found to do when cooked perfectly fresh. To boil Ling. Lino' mav be boiled in exactly the same way as a cod; but as the skin of the former is more firm than that of a cod, it is unnecessary to bind up the cheeks in the manner we have directed for the latter. There is also this difference between the tail portion of a cod and a ling, that the latter will take as long to be thoroughly boiled as the head and shoulders of the fish, there not beingIIOW TO BOIL FISII. 163 tlint disproportion of tlic solidity of those parts as in the codfish. Boiled ling should be accom- panied with the same sauces as codfish, and be garnished and served up in the same manner. The tail portion of the ling is considered superior to the head, or any other part; and the nearer the extremity of the tail, the more agreeable is the flavour. To boil Pollacks, Hakes, Haddocks, and Whiting. These fish, if not very large, may be boiled en- tire. They do not take so long in boiling as a cod or ling of the same weight, and should be placed in boiling instead of cold water; but they must be kept boiling gently. They may all be eaten with the same sauces as the cod; but mus- tard mixed up with melted butter is particularly well adapted for whiting, and can only be ex- ceeded by Cornubian sauce; some of the latter being mixed up with the mustard. To boil Cods’ Sounds and Tongues. Previously to the boiling, the tongues and sounds must be steeped for three or four hours in warm milk and water, and then thoroughly scraped and cleansed. After this, they must be put into a saucepan, with fresh milk and water, m which they should boil very gently until theyTHE COOKERY OF FISII. 164 become tender; and when done, they should be served up accompanied with egg sauce. Mus- tard or Cornubian sauce are the best accompani- ments. You may garnish either with scraped horseradish or boiled parsnips. The horseradish, and also the egg sauce is sometimes strewed over the sounds and tongues. To boil Salt Cod, Ling, or any other hind of Salt . Fish. The fish, after being well watered and drained, pursuant to our previous directions*, should be boiled very slowly in water into which a wine- glass of vinegar and some shred horseradish should be cast. The fish must be put into cold and not boiling water, and boiled in all respects in the same way as we have directed a fresh cod to be done.f It should be served up with egg sauce, mustard, and plain melted butter, and may be garnished in the same manner, with shred horseradish or boiled parsnips, as with cods’ sounds and tongues. To boil Salmon. Salmon, if large, should be boiled in portions, 1 ike a codfish ; if small, it may be dressed entire, and this is best done by fixing the tail in the * Sec page 149. f See page 161.HOW TO BOIL riSLI. 165 mouth by means of a skewer, and boiling it in a turbot-kettle; the fish being sent up to table resting on its belly, with the back uppermost. The spawn and liver may be placed beside it on the same dish. The salmon, like the cod, if dressed in a large piece and uncrimped, should be put into cold water, and boil very gradually; but if crimped or dressed in thin slices, it should be put at once into boiling water, in which, after permitting it to remain about a minute, lift up the drain, and letting the water flow off, let it thus remain for about a couple of minutes, repeat- ing this once or twice afterwards, which will cause the curd to set, and make the fish eat more crisply; then return it to the kettle, and let it con- tinue to boil at a gentle rate until done. The best sauce for salmon is lobster, shrimp, or anchovy; it may also be eaten with ketchup, or soy, Cornubian sauce, or vinegar. Sliced cu- cumber may also be eaten with it; as also capers mixed up in melted butter, prepared in the same way as when eaten with boiled mutton. Trout and Salmon Peel. All these fishes should be boiled whole, and eaten with the same sauce as the salmon; vine- gar and scraped horseradish should be put into the water with them, and, in taking them up.THE COOKERY OF FISH. 1GG allow the water to drain away from them, and take care to avoid breaking the skin. To boil Tench. This fish should be boiled in precisely the same way as the last, and served up garnished with sliced lemon, and chopped parsley, mixed up in melted butter. It may also be accompanied by slices of cucumber. Basse, Mullet, and Perch. All these should be boiled in the same manner as codlings and whitings. The two former may be eaten with crab, lobster, shrimp sauce, or anchovy; the latter with soy, ketchup, Cornu- bian sauce, Chili, or common white wine vine- gar, to the latter of which may be added sliced cucumber. Gurnards. These fishes are boiled in the same manner as the last, and may be accompanied with crab sauce, which seems peculiarly adapted to them, but there are few, if any, sauces they eat amiss with. They should boil very gently, and care should be taken to prevent as much as possible the skin from breaking; but this cannot be wholly prevented by any care or precaution, and theHOW TO BOIL FISH. 167 fresher the fish the more it occurs. These fish may also be boiled with a pudding in their bellies, in the manner we shall direct a fresh water pike to be done. Herrings and Pilchards. These fish, when boiled, must be previously scaled and washed, and then rubbed over with vinegar and salt, and should be put into boiling- water, and allowed to boil away at a moderate rate for about ten minutes, and should be eaten with parsley and butter, or mustard mixed up with melted butter. Pilchards may be eaten with raw onions chopped up fine. To boil a Pike. A pike, when boiled, should always be dressed with a forcemeat pudding in its belly, which should be prepared as follows: bread-crumbs, a small portion of sweet herbs and parsley chopped fine, a little lemon peel, a good sized piece of butter mixed up with the yolks of a couple of eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg, cayenne, com- mon pepper and salt; a few oysters chopped up will make a valuable, but not indispensable, addi- tion. The pudding must be served up in the belly of the fish, which should then have its tail skewered in its mouth, and be boiled and served M 4168 THE COOKERY OF FISII. * See page 165. up in the same manner as we have previously directed for a salmon.* Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve it up with plain melted butter. Eels and Congers. Neither of these fishes should be boiled, unless of large size. Eels should be first skinned, but the skin must be retained upon congers; but either kind should be cut up in small portions, to disguise their snake-like form, and for the same reason most persons throw the head away. They should be served up with chopped parsley, mixed up in melted butter. To boil a Turbot. Great attention is required to boil a turbot properly, for being, when in prime order, a very thick and solid fish, as compared with the rest of the flounder tribe, it necessarily takes some time to boil thoroughly, and if the process be con- ducted carelessly the skin is very apt to break, which not only injures the appearance of the fish, but in some degree deteriorates from its goodness. To prevent this some preliminary steps are neces- sary, both in preparing the water, as well as the fish itself, before it is put into it.169 HOW TO BOIL FISH. * See page 159. In the first place, see that your kettle is suffi- ciently large, and then pour into it water enough to cover the fish, and throw in a handful of 6alt, half a pint of vinegar, some pieces of shred horseradish, and sweet herbs ; let all these in- gredients boil up for some time in the water, so that it may imbibe all their strength; then lift oft the kettle and allow the water to become per- fectly cool. Then take the turbot, and scoring it just through the skin on the dark side (Avhich is the most effectual means of preventing it from cracking on the other), place your fish in the kettle, with the dark side downwards, and as soon as the water boils check it as before directed.* A moderate sized turbot will take about twenty minutes, and a large one from five-and-twenty minutes to half an hour boiling. When done enough, take care to drain it well, lay it on a napkin placed upon a fish-drain, and serve it up garnished with sliced lemon, and scraped horse- radish strewed over the fish. The spaAvn of a hen lobster spread over the AAdiite side of the fish gives it a very elegant and attractive appearance. It should be accompanied Avith lobster, or shrimp, or crab sauce. Anchovy, soy, ketchup, Cornubian sauce, or vinegar, may also be eaten Avith it, as may also sliced cucumber.170 TIIE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 147. Brills, Plaice, Flounders, and small Halibut. All these fish may be prepared and boiled in the same manner as a turbot; but it must always be kept in mind that not being so thick and solid they will not take so long a time in their cookery. They may all be eaten with the same sauces as a turbot, except that crab sauce is better adapted than any other kind whatever to a boiled plaice. The larger halibuts are usually boiled cut up in portions, and a turbot may1 also be dressed in the same way. To boil Soles. These fish should be skinned on both sides previously to boiling, and should have a little shred horseradish, a wine glass of vinegar, and a little salt cast into the water; they should boil very gently, and care should be taken to skim off all the scum. Serve up either with shrimp, lobster, crab, or anchovy sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon, and strew a little shred horseradish over the fish. To boil Scate. This fish, being prepared as before directed*, should be placed in boiling water, and boil for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. As theHOW TO BOIL FISn. 171 * See page 161. thinner parts do not take so long a time as the thicker in dressing, the latter should be put into the water first. Crab sauce is the best accom- paniment ; but if that cannot be procured, you may substitute anchovy or Cornubian sauce. To boil Sturgeon. The fish should be placed in sufficient cold water to cover it, into which should be cast some pieces of lemon peel or stick of horseradish, some whole pepper, and a pint of vinegar to every two quarts of water. Carry on the boiling process in the same way as in cooking a cod’s head and shoulders.* Garnish with sliced lemon and scraped horseradish, and serve it up with crab or lobster sauce, plain melted butter, and anchovy sauce. Sliced cucumber may also be served up with it. To boil Mackerel. No fish is so easily boiled as mackerel, pro- vided you only boil them long enough, as none requires so much boiling to make it firm; and, like an egg, the longer you boil them the harder they become; for we have known instances where they have been allowed to boil for upwards of three hours, and yet were not only firm and solid, but the flavour not in the slightest degreeTIIE COOKERY OP FISIT. 172 impaired. This is very unaccountable, as every other kind of fish we are acquainted with would Inn e been boiled to rags, or a mere pulp, or dis- solved altogether by such a mode of treatment. If any one doubts what we have stated, they have only to try the experiment to set all such doubts at rest. Chopped fennel in melted butter is the proper sauce for boiled mackerel; some persons eat green gooseberries with them. To boil Crabs, Lobsters, and Crayfish. het the water boil fiercely, then cast into it a handful or two of salt, and then plunge in the crab or lobster. About a quarter of an hour will boil a large crab or lobster, but a smaller one will do in lesser time. A crab may be killed by cutting off a portion of one of its legs between the joints, when it will speedily bleed to death; but if the leg be divided at a joint, the contraction of the muscles will prevent the blood from flowing, and thus the desired effect will be prevented. Prawns and Shrimps Are often utterly spoilt in undergoing the process of boiling, though, if properly managed, it is very simple and easy. First have °theHOW TO TRY FISH. 173 water boiling briskly, throw into it a handful or two of salt, and then cast in the prawns or sin imps, which, as soon as they are done enough will float upon the surface. They should then be emptied out into a cullender, and as soon as the water has drained off from them, they should be thrown into a dry towel, and a good quantity of salt strewed over and rubbed into them quickly, whilst they remain hot, which having done, wrap them up in the towel, and theie allow them to remain until they become quite cold. To hoil Cockles and Mussels. These only require to be placed in a stew-pan over a brisk fire. JSTo water will be required, as the liquor which oozes from their shells will be ample for the purpose. As soon as the shells are sufficiently open to permit you to extract the animal substance within, they are dressed. SECTION U. How TO FRT Fisn. Notwithstanding the wretched examples of fried fish we have often met with at the tables of our acquaintance, there is no branch in the art174 THE COOKERY OF FISH. of cookery more easy to attain, if tire proper means are but duly attended to. In the first place, the fire should be clear and free from smoke, and yet not burn too fiercely. Secondly, the frying pan must be clean, and not overworn in the service, as in the latter case the fish will be likely to stick to it, and also to become burnt and discoloured. Thirdly, the pan should be properly prepared by being moistened with a little butter or lard, which should be melted in it over the fire, and when completely dissolved, the pan should be wiped out with a cloth before the fat in which the fish is intended to be fried is cast into it. Fourthly, the lard, butter, dripping, oil, or whatever material the fish is to be fried in, must not be stinted in quantity. This should also be allowed to be not only completely dissolved, but also to boil up before the fish itself is placed in the frying-pan. Fifthly, the fish itself should be thoroughly dried and folded in a cloth, and either well dredged with flour, or completely coated with ecg and bread-crumb. Sixthly, when once in the frying-pan, the fish must never be left for one moment un- attended to, and must fry at a moderate rate, and when one side is done enough, it must be care-HOW TO FRY FISH. 175 fully turned over with a fish-slice on the other, until that side also is thoroughly cooked. When done sufficiently, let all the fat drain off, which is best done by means of a hair sieve ; then place the fish on a fish drain, or if intended for company, place it on a napkin. Oil is generally considered the best material to fry fish in, but we have found hog’s lard answer the purpose equally well, besides the advantage of being much cheaper. Beef and pork dripping may also be used, but the dripping of mutton does not answer so well, as it is apt to impart a muttony flavour to the fish. Butter does not fry fish so well as dripping, and should not be used when the latter can be procured, except when the fish is to be merely partly fried as a preliminary stage to the stewing process, when good fresh butter will be the proper thing to be used. If the above rules are carefully adhered to, there will be no difficulty whatever in attaining the desired object. IIoiv to fry Cod. The portion of a codfish best adapted for frying is the thin part about the tail, which should be split close to the backbone, the latterTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 176 of which may be either cut out entirely, or one side may be fried with a portion of the bone adhering to it. This portion of the cod is usually fried without being coated over with any egg and bread-crumbs; and should be served up with plain melted butter, and eaten with anchovy, Cornubian sauce, soy or ketchup. It the thicker parts of the fish are fried, they should be cut in slices of about an inch in thickness, through the backbone, and may be done either with or without egg and bread-crumbs. Large haddocks, ling, whiting pollack, coal- fish, and large bass, may also be prepared and served up in the same manner. Codlings, small Haddocks, and Pollack. Having scaled the fish, and washed it clear from all slime, open them by the back close to the backbone, and split them down to the very tail, leaving the belly-part entire; then taking out the intestines, and thoroughly cleans- ing the backbone, flour and dry your fish, and fry them in plenty of dripping until they become of a fine pale brown, managing them very care- fully, particularly in turning them in the frying- pan, as they are very tender and apt to break in pieces if at all roughly handled. When done, dram off the tat, and serve them up garnishedHOW TO FRY FISH. 177 with fried parsley, and accompanied with plain melted butter, mustard and vinegar, and anchovy or Columbian sauce. To fry Whiting. Fix the tail of the fish in its mouth, in which position it can be secured by means of a small wooden skewer, although it frequently happens that the long, sharp teeth of the fish are alone sufficient for the purpose ; then, having the fish perfectly dry, rub the body over with an egg beaten up, and then sprinkle it plentifully with bread-crumbs; after which place each fish so prepared upon its belly in the frying-pan, with plenty of dripping all ready, in the manner we have previously mentioned, and fry them very gently until the under-side is done, and then turn them over carefully, and let them fry at the same rate until thoroughly cooked. Be sure not to stint the dripping, for if you do, you will pro- bably spoil your fish. When done, garnish Avith fried parsley, and serve them up on a napkin, accompanied Avith plain melted butter, mustard, vinegar, Cornubian sauce, anchovy, soy, or ketchup. If Cornubian sauce, which is particu- larly well adapted to Avhiting cooked in the above manner, is used, mixing it with mustard is by many considered an improvement. Whitings are some- N178 THE COOKERY OF FISH. ♦ times skinned previously to being coated with egg and bread-crumbs. In order that the fried parsley may look well, and retain its colour, after being well washed, it should be tluown into boiling dripping, but must only be permitted to stay there for a few seconds, which will crisp it sufficiently, with- out destroying its colour, as it would certainly do if allowed to remain much longer. The mode of frying whiting we have just mentioned, is better adapted to small or moderate sized fish than to those of any considerable size; the latter of which when fried are either split up in the way we have directed codlings and had- docks to be done, or else, without being split, are cut up into two or three pieces, in which form they are often employed to garnish some larger kind of boiled fish. We ourselves, however, con- sider it a bad plan to associate boiled and fried fish together in the same dish, as the steam arising from the former must necessarily prove injurious to the latter, and which, on that account, should always be served up in a separate dish. Habit probably has reconciled us to the inconsistency of placing boiled and fried on the same dish, but in which there is no more real propriety than there would be in placing fried mutton chops or veal cutlets as a garnish for a boiled round ofHOW TO FRY FISH. 179 beef, which, if so produced at table, would ex- cite no small degree of amazement amongst the company. To fry Whiting-pouts. These fish are delicious if they can be procured perfectly fresh, and be properly fried afterwards, the latter of which is not a very easy task, even for a practised hand, as these fish are exceedingly tender, and, from being required to be dressed fresh, are apt to curl up in the frying-pan and break in frying, in spite of all the care that may be taken to prevent it. The best way, however, is, after scaling and gutting the fish, which must be by the belly, to dry them with a cloth for an hour or so before they are required for the frying-pan, and, previously to placing them there, dredge them well with flour or egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of dripping, until they are thoroughly done and become brown and crisp; then serve them up garnished with sliced lemon, and accompanied with the same sauces as whitino-. Any kind of small fish may be fried to advantage by following these rules. To fry Hake. This fish should always be fried in cutlets, which makes one of the best dishes of fish that can be placed on a dinner-table. They should be preparedTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 180 as follows:—Cut the cutlets lengthwise, and not across the body of the fish, of about the length and breadth, but of twice the thickness, of an ordinary veal cutlet, the fish being previously well 'scaled and gutted, and the backbone ex- tracted in the manner we have already pointed out*, but the skin must be retained; then, drying the pieces well in a cloth, cover them plentifully with egg and bread-crumbs, and when dressed serve them up in a clean napkin, and garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Melted butter and the same sauces may be eaten with it as with whiting. The head, backbone, the portions about the fins, and other parts not adapted for cutlets, may, however, be turned to very good account in fur- nishing the materials for a gravy to accompany the cutlets, the directions for making which will be duly given when we come to treat of fish- gravies, — a subject by no means to be passed over lightly, though it is a branch of the art of cookery which people in general know little about, or seldom attempt to carry into practice. * See page 143.181 HOW TO FRY FISH. To fry Eels. Eels require to be cut up in pieces before they are fried. If large, they should be done very slowly, and in an ample supply of dripping. Egg and bread-crumbs should be sprinkled over them; to this parsley and sweet herbs, chopped up very fine, are sometimes added. Serve them up with plain melted butter, and also chopped parsley in melted butter; capers are also con- sidered a good accompaniment, as a corrective of the fat, luscious flavour of these fishes, which is found too strong for delicate stomachs, and for the same reason we consider the Cornubian sauce particularly well suited to them; still, any of the sauces we have before mentioned may be used. The heads, from their snake-like form, should never be prepared and served up with the other parts. To fry Congers. The smaller kind of congers are fried cut up in the same way as eels, but are not previously deprived of their skins; the heads and the por- tions near the tail are, however, often rejected, the former from its snake-like look, and the latter on account of the quantity of small, wiry bones that abound in that portion of the body, and prove exceedingly troublesome; still these re-182 THE COOKERY OF FISH. jected parts serve to make a gravy for the other parts, and may also be converted into an excellent souj), as we shall duly notice hereafter. To fry conger properly, the process must be twice gone through. First, the pieces must be put into the frying-pan with a moderate quantity of dripping, in which the fish must be first par- tially fried, for the purpose of extracting the watery particles from the body, which, mixing with the fat in the pan, causes a considerable frizzing, and in this the fish would never fry to a proper brown colour. Let the frying, however, go on until the frizzing begins to subside, and then take out the fish, and having poured away the contents of the pan, wiped it out, and put in plenty of fresh dripping, replace it on the fire, and when the dripping is melted and begins to boil, put in the pieces of conger again, and let them fry gently until thoroughly dressed. When done, serve it up with plain melted butter, parsley and butter, or fennel sauce; anchovy, soy, ketchup, or Cornubian sauce may also be eaten with it. If a fish-gravy is made from the other parts, it should be served up in boats with the melted butter.IIOW TO FRY FISH. 183 To fry Lampreys. The sea lamprey should always be split up previously to frying, and the gristle which sup- plies the place of a backbone extracted. Only the parts below the holes or gill apertures are fit to be eaten ; the slime should also be well scraped off, but the skin should be retained. It should be fried until it becomes a fine pale-brown, and should previously be well coated with flour, or egg and bread-crumbs. The small river lamprey may be fried cut up in small pieces like an eel, and without being split open, the slime being first cleaned away, and the parts above the gill-holes cut off and cast away. They should be eaten with chopped parsley and butter. To fry Perch. Perch, previously to being fried, should be opened by the belly, and all the fins cut off close to the body; care also must be taken to scale them thoroughly, which often proves a troublesome affair, on account of the great tenacity with which the scaley coating adheres to their bodies. When cleaned and scaled, they should be well dried, and then, being coated in egg and bread-crumbs, should be fried of a light-brown. Garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon, and serve them up ■THE COOKERY OF FISH. 184 with plain melted butter. Many of the fish- sauces we have previously mentioned may be eaten with this fish, liuffes and weevers, and also shads, or the fry of the sea-bream may be cooked and served up in the same manner. To fry Bass and Mullet. Small bass and mullet, that is, fishes of either of these kinds, of less than half a pound weight, should be prepared and fried in the same manner as we have just before directed for cooking pei ch, when they exceed the above-mentioned size they should be split open by the back, and fiied in the way we have before directed for cod- lings and haddock. A very large bass should, however, be cut up in steaks, in the way we have ordei ed a cod to be done; but a large mullet should be cut up in cutlets in the same manner as a hake. The head, bones, and other super- fluous parts will serve as materials for a gravy. Serve up with plain melted butter, and any of the fish-sauces we have before mentioned may be eaten with either of these fishes. To fry H rasse. Scale them thoroughly, and cutting off’ all their fins close to the body, pepper and salt them well, and hang them up to dry for three or four hours185 HOW TO FRY FISH. before you attempt to fry them, which must be done in plenty of dripping ; and they should be fried very brown, to get rid as much as possible of the watery softness which makes all these fishes so little prized as articles of food. To fry Gurnards. Gurnards of every kind, when intended for the frying-pan, may be opened by the back or belly, the slime and scales having been previously scraped off, and the fins all cut away close to the body; they should be well dried and thoroughly dredged with flour, but without using any egg or bread-crumbs. They should be fried in the same manner as codlings and haddocks; but being a more solid fish, they will take a longer time in doing. Garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Crab, lobster, shrimp, or oyster sauce makes a very agreeable accompaniment, but every kind of fish-sauce is suited to them. To fry Carp and Tench. Carp are not often fried, except as a prepara- tory step to the stewing process; but when they are to be dressed entirely by frying, they must be done in precisely the same manner as the perch. If the fish has a roe, it should be fried separately, and not in the body of the fish; and.186 TIIE COOKERY OF FISII. if laige, will take a longer time to be thoroughly done than the fish itself. Garnish with fried paisley and sliced lemon, and the roes of the fish, one lobe being placed on each side of it. The sauce should be melted butter and anchovy, with a slight squeeze of lemon in it. Tench may be fried in the same way, but should be served up with parsley and butter, or fennel-sauce; yet any of the other sauces we have mentioned may be eaten with it. To fry Rudds, Bream, Roach, Dace, Chub, and Barbel. All these fish should be prepared in the same manner as the perch, but should be fried very thoroughly, so as to extract the water, and give them something of a firmness, which frying, better than any other process, is calculated to produce on soft, watery, and insipid fishes, as all these most undoubtedly are. They should, therefore, be fried until they become perfectly brown and crisp, and then, if eaten with an- chovy or Cornubian sauce, mixed up in melted butter, they will serve as a passable dish of fish when no better kinds can be procured.HOW TO FRY FISH. 187 To fry Mackerel and Garfish. These fish, when intended to be fried, should be opened by the back, and being thoroughly dried, may be fried, either dredged over with flour or egg and bread-crumbs. They must be fried in plenty of dripping, and of a deep-brown colour. They may be served up either with parsley and butter, or fennel. Cornubian sauce, mustard and vinegar, mixed up in melted butter, is the best sauce, as it conceals the excessive rich- ness which so often causes these fish, if eaten in quantity, to disagree with many constitutions; but they will eat very agreeably with anchovy, soy, or ketchup. Garfish, after being well scaled and the fins cut off, should be opened by the back, and the back- bone taken out; then, being cut in pieces, should be fried in the same manner until done thoroughly brown. They may be served up in the same way, and eaten with the same sauces, as mackerel; the latter of which they very much resemble in flavour, but are rather dryer. To fry Sand Launce, Sprats and Minnows. All these little fishes are cleaned by nipping off their heads just below the gill-covers, and draw- ing out the intestines, the scales and slime being rubbed off with a rough towel, and being dried188 THE COOKERY OF FISH. in a cloth and well dredged with flour, should be fried thoroughly brown and crisp, so that the smaller fish may be eaten bones and all, without danger or inconvenience. Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve them up with plain melted butter. To fry Whitebait. Dry them thoroughly, then, dipping them in egg, throw them in some flour, giving them a shake, so that plenty of flour may adhere to their bodies, and then, placing them in a frying-pan, with plenty of dripping, continue to dredge them with flour all the time they are frying, until it forms a complete coating over them. Take care to keep them all in motion, so that they may not adhere to each other, or stick to the frying-pan. Serve them up with a lemon cut in halves, and eat them with broAvn bread and butter. Very small sprats or minnows may be cooked to advan- tage in the same way. To fry Herrings and Shads. Herrings, after being deprived of their scales, must be opened by the belly; then take out the inside and preserve the roe, which must be fried separately. Then, having thoroughly cleansed theHOW TO FRY FISH. 189 fish, score it in three or four places across the body on both sides into the very backbone, by which means the watery particles, which are so objection- able in these fish, will escape, and the flesh will be- come crisp and firm. Dry and flour them well, and fry them till they are done perfectly brown, and garnish with the roes. Fried onions are also an excellent accompaniment with these fish, and should be served up with the roes in the same dish with the fish. Mustard and vinegar mixed up in melted butter is the best sauce. Shads of both kinds may be fried and served up in precisely the same manner as herrings. To fry Pilchards. Pilchards should be thrown into the frying- pan just as they come out of the nets, and, if possible, care should be taken to select such only whose scales are perfect and entire. Very little dripping will suffice to fry them, as they are so fat and rich as to supply their own dripping. When done, serve them up in their scales, which may be easily removed when they are to be eaten by inserting a knife under, when the whole covering will come off entire. When a pilchard can be procured fresh and living from the sea, and cooked as soon after it expires as possible, itTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 190 is extremely rich and delicious; but, from its fat and oily nature, they soon become fat and rancid, so that, except at the spot where they are taken, they cannot be partaken of in their highest state of perfection. These fish are usually eaten by the Cornish people with salt and water, with raw onion chopped up fine. We, however, consider plain melted butter, mixed up with mustard and vinegar, and fried chopped onions, to be a great improvement on the salt and water and raw onion. To fnj Salmon. Cut your fish in slices of about a hand’s thick- ness, fry them slowly of a pale-brown, and take care that they are done enough, and serve them up with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. Sliced cucumber is also a pleasing accompani- ment. Another Way. Take your slices of fish in the proportions above mentioned, and after seasoning them with cayenne and pepper and salt, envelope them in white paper, and fry them until they are suffi- ciently done; then serve them up in the paper with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce ; some consider caper sauce as an agreeable accom- paniment.nOW TO FRY FISH. 191 To fry Surmullet. Prepare your surmullet according to the direc- tions we have previously laid down *, and, folding them up in white paper, fry them until thoroughly done, and then serve them up in the paper, ac- companied with plain melted butter, which, with them livers managed according to the instructions we have already given, is the only sauce that should be eaten with them. To fry Salmon, Peal, Trout, Grayliny, and Charr. Any of these fish, if large, should, previously to being fried, be opened by the back, and cooked in every respect as mackerel have been directed to be done, and may be served up with the same sauces, as also with the addition of shrimp or lobster sauce. Small fish should be opened by the belly, and, being well coated with egg and bread-crumbs, should be fried brown and crisp. Garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon, and serve them up with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. Smelts, Gudyeons, and Atherines May be prepared and cooked in the same manner as in the last receipt. All these fish should be * See pages 146, 147.192 TIIE COOKERY OF FISH. carefully scaled—an operation we have often seen very carelessly done, particularly with smelts and atherines. These fishes ought also be gutted, which is frequently omitted in the atherine, but in which it is more necessary than with any other kind of fish we know; for, although delicate in flavour, these fish are as filthy feeders as ducks, or even the very swine. To fry Dories. A small dory, when properly fried, is a most delicious fish, and this is the mode in which the smaller kind of this fish can be turned to best advantage. Being a firm, flat-sided fish, it seems fitted by nature for a frying-pan, and it may be done either with or without egg and bread-crumbs. Do not stint the dripping, and take care that the fish does not stick to the pan. When done, garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon, and serve up with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. To fry Soles, small Turbots, and Brills. All these fish, if of small size, should be fried whole, the skin on the dark side being skinned off, and the pale side well scraped and cleansed from scales and slime. The fins must be cut close to the sides of the fish, which must then be well dried either in a dry cloth, or by exposure to theHOW TO FRY FISH. 193' air, and then, being well sprinkled with egg and bread-crumbs, must be fried of a fine pale brown, using plenty of dripping for the purpose, and taking especial care that the fish do not burn or stick to the frying-pan. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve up with melted butter, an- chovy, or Cornubian sauce: crab, lobster, and shrimp sauce avill also be suited to either of these fish. If they are of large size, they should be divided into two or three pieces. This will enable you to ascertain whether your fish is thoroughly cooked or not, which you may do by inserting a fish-slice near the backbone, in raising up the flesh in the manner we have previously pointed out.* Another way of frying Soles, fyc. A delicious dish of fried fish may be made of either of the last mentioned fish, as also of plaice, dabs, flounders, or any other kind of flat fish, by pursuing the following instructions. Scale the fish carefully, and then cutting the flesh as closely and smoothly as possible from the bone, roll several of the pieces together with the skin out- wards, so as to form a kind of fillet, between the layers of which you must place a forcemeat, con- * Sec page 161. O194 THE COOKERY OF FISH, f See page 170. * See pp. 197—200. sisting of bread-crumbs, a small portion of parsley, and a little egg to bind the whole together ; and if you wish to make it still more savoury, you may add a few pickled or fresh oysters or shrimps, chopped up and mixed in the forcemeat. The outer parts should be coated with egg and bread- crumbs, and the whole should be fried thoroughly in an ample supply of dripping, and, when done, should be served up with a sauce prepared out of the heads, bones, and other superfluous parts, in the manner we shall hereafter point out.* Dabs, Plaice, Flounders, fyc. These fish should be scaled and carefully cleaned, but, with the exception of flounders, no part of the skin should be removed; the latter may, however, be prepared either with the skin on, or skinned on the dark side, or on both sides, in the way we have previously pointed outf, and in the latter case should be covered with ess: and bread-crumbs. The others may be done either with or without the latter coating, but they must otherwise be well dried and plentifully dredged over with flour. If the fish are large they should be cut up in pieces, but if small they should be dressed whole. Garnish with fried parsley, andnOW TO TRY FISH. 195 serve up with plain melted butter and anchovy or Cornubian sauce. To fry Turbot Cutlets. Cut ofl the fish from the bones in cutlets of about a hand’s breadth; take off any skin that may adhere to the dark side, but allow that on the pale side to remain. Sprinkle the pieces well with egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in a plentiful supply of dripping. Brills, large plaice, flounders, and dories, may be prepareddn the same way. The heads and bones will make a gravy for the fish. Another mode. Instead of egg and bread-crumbs, substitute batter, and in the latter case take care to have a plentiful supply of dripping in the pan, otherwise the cutlets will be likely to burn and the batter to get tough. lloio to prepare Batter to fry Fish. Break a couple of eggs in half a pint of milk; add to this six table-spoonsful of flour, and o-ra_ dually mix the whole together. This ought to be done an hour or two before the batter is required for use, which must be beaten up again just be- fore the cutlets are steeped in it, by which meansTHE COOKERY OF FISIT. 196 * See page 149. it will become more light than when beaten up and used immediately. To fry Skate or Tliornbach. The fish being cut up in strips, as before directed, should be well sprinkled with egg and bread-crumb, or coated in batter, and when fried of a nice brown should be served up garnished in the same manner, and eaten with the same sauces, as fried turbot cutlets. To this you may add crab sauce, which is particularly well suited to this fish. To fry Salt Fish. Small split codfish, and other salt fish of small size, after being watered to extract the salt, pur- suant to the instructions we have before laid down*, should be fried entire, and served up with plain melted butter. Cornubian sauce, mixed up with mustard and vinegar, is the best sauce to be eaten with it. To fry Salt-fish Cutlets. Having well watered the fish, cut out the cutlets of about half a hand’s breadth, and, dipping in batter, fry them of a pale brown. Garnish197 GRAVIES FOR FRIED FISH. with fried parsley, and serve them up with plain melted butter. To fry Cod’s Sounds and Tongues, Mussels, and Oysters. Having cleaned and prepared your sounds and tongues, as before directed*, dip them in batter and fry them of a pale brown. Oysters and mussels may be done in the same way. It is indeed a good plan to dress and serve up the sounds, tongues, and oysters with the salt-fish cutlets, as the whole eat more agreeably when associated together than either will do when served up separately. Some of the liquor of the oysters, mussels, or cockles, should be mixed up with the batter. SECTION III. Gravies for fried Fisii. Gravies for fried fish are seldom thought of: and yet in many instances they are a great im- provement, and really a valuable acquisition, particularly to those who have a dislike to melted butter. The heads, bones, and other parts of the * See page 163. o 3198 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 180. fish, which would otherwise be thrown away, or a very common and cheap kind of fish, with only the aid of a little butter or dripping, an onion or two, and a small portion of sweet herbs, will form the foundation, to which only a glass or two of wine need be added to make it as perfect as the most lavish expenditure could effect. When large fish are fried either in steaks or cutlets, then, as we have previously observed*, the heads and bones may be used for the purpose; but when the fry consists of only small fish which are cooked whole, then either some of the same kind, or some other kind of fish, as small eels, congers, gurnards, flounders, or the heads and bones of a hake, which are thrown away by scores in the fish-markets in the west of England, and which any one would be thanked for carrying away, may be called into service, as may also the head and the tail extremity of a good-sized conger, the latter of which, from being so inter- spersed with thin wiry bones, which, though no detriment to it for making gravy, renders it ex- ceedingly unpleasant to eat in most other ways. The head, bones, and whatever other pieces you use, must be thoroughly cleansed, and should then be either fried or baked in butter until they199 GRAVIES FOR FRIED FISH. become brown; the pieces must then be taken out and placed in a stewpan, with a small quantity of water or broth. A large-sized onion, or two or three small ones, well coated with flour, must then be fried brown in the butter in which the pieces of fish were done, and then, with the butter, must be cast into the stewpan, with some sweet herbs and a small piece of butter of about the size of a walnut, or, what is still better, a proportionate quantity of cream in lieu of the butter. Season with cayenne, common pepper, salt, nutmeg, a squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of Cornubian sauce, or twice that portion of lemon pickle or ketchup. Let the whole stew together until it becomes of the consistency of raw cream, or rather until the liquid has decreased about one-third of its original quantity. You may add to the above some pickled onions and mushrooms, as also a few oysters, either fresh or pickled; if fresh, add to the gravy in the stew- pan the liquor of the oysters also. A glass or two of wine, either red or white, will also be found an improvement. If your stock of head and bones is not suffi- cient, then throw in a spare cutlet or two of the fish, or a small eel, conger, gurnard, or flounder cut up in pieces, and without any consideration about their being all of the same kind of fish.THE COOKERY OF FISH. 200 When done, throw out the contents of the stewpan into a cullender or hair sieve, and let the liquid strain through it. If it proves too thin, add to it a little melted butter, coated in flour, and when prepared serve it up in boats with the fish. SECTION IY. How to broil Fisil In broiling fish, the points to be chiefly at- tended to are — First, to have a clear fire, not too fierce, and yet sufficiently strong not to exhaust its force before the cookery is complete. Secondly, to have the gridiron quite clean. Thirdly, the fish must be well cleansed and dried. And fourthly, all the time the broiling is going on, take care to keep the fish from sticking to the bars of the gridiron, which injures both the ap- pearance and flavour of the fish. To prevent this, the fish should be well dusted with flour, the bars of the gridiron having previously been rubbed either with butter, lard, or suet; and the fish should not be laid on until the bars are tho- roughly heated. A little salt cast upon a strong coal fire is a201 IIOW TO BROIL FISH. very good way to check the smoke and allay the strength of the tire, which at the same time makes it burn bright and clear; but charcoal, coke, or cinders afford the best embers for broiling purposes. How to broil large Codfish, Ling, Ilahe, Had- docks, Pollack, or Basse. All the above-mentioned fishes, when broiled, should be cut up in portions in the same way as for frying, and be prepared in the same way, except that coating with egg and bread-crumbs must always be omitted; but its place must be supplied with a plentiful covering of flour. The pieces must be well seasoned with pepper and salt, which should be cast over them whilst dressing. When done, rub in a good supply of butter before the fire: mustard, vinegar, and Cornubian sauce will be a proper accompani- ment. You may also serve up some plain melted butter; although, if a sufficient quantity of butter be rubbed into the fish, the melted butter may generally be dispensed with.202 TIIE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 188. To broil Salmon Peel, Trout, Mackerel, Codlings, Whitings, Haddocks, Whiting Pollack, and Gurnards. All these fishes should be dressed entire, being split by the back and spread open, and being well peppered and salted inside; after which they must be well dredged with flour on both sides, to prevent them from sticking to the gridiron; and when done, lay them flat and spread open, with the inside uppermost, into which plenty of butter must be rubbed before the fire. To broil Herrings. These fishes should be prepared in the same manner as for frying*, and should be thoroughly dried and well dredged with flour. The roes should not be dressed in the fish, but dressed separately; but as the latter are apt to slip off, between the bars, into the fire, the best way of dressing them is by frying; and as fried onions are an excellent accompaniment to broiled her- rings, the roes and onions may share the frying- pan together. The herrings should be broiled until they are thoroughly brown, and, plenty of butter being rubbed into them, they should be served up with mustard and plain melted butter.203 HOW TO BROIL FISH. * See page 144. f See page 181. To broil Pilchards. Pilchards should be placed without any pre- vious preparation on the gridiron, and, when done, should be served up in their scales, without rubbing in any butter over the fish, the rich moisture retained within by the scales rendering butter quite superfluous. The scaly covering will come off entire by placing a knife under it. Vinegar is the best sauce, for the fish itself is quite rich enough without the aid of melted butter. The Cornish people use salt and water, with onions, chopped up fine, as an accompaniment. To broil Sprats. Wipe off the scales with a rough towel, then, drawing out the intestines by the gills as before directed*, run a small wooden skewer through the eyes of half a dozen or more, and so broil them, sending them up on their backs, which will cause them to eat more crisply than any other means that has been yet discovered; and when so prepared, they form a very cheap and really excellent dish of fish. To broil Eels. \ Prepare the eels in the same manner as for frying f, broil them over a slow fire, and, if they204 THE COOKERY OF FISH. f Ibid. § See page 147. are large, bestow plenty of time, and see that they are thoroughly done throughout. Serve them up with plain melted butter, or with parsley and butter. To broil Salmon. Cut the fish in slices, as for frying*, season them well with cayenne and common pepper, a little nutmeg and some salt, then wrap the slices up in white paper, well buttered, and broil them over a slow fire. Serve them up in the paper, accompanied with the same sauces as with fried salmon, f To broil Surmullet. The fish being prepared in the same manner as before directed |, and the slime wiped off with a cloth, but in so careful a manner as not to dis- place a scale, the fish must be folded up in white paper, which, being rubbed over with butter, must be broiled over a slow fire. The fish must be sent up to table in the paper, accompanied with plain melted butter. The way of treating the livers we have already mentioned §, and it will, therefore, be unnecessary to repeat the same in- structions again in this place. * See page 191. X Sec page 191.1I0W TO BROIL FISII. 205 To broil Bream and Shads so as to resemble Surmullet. Wipe the fish down the body with a cloth, so as to cleanse it from the slime, but not so as to displace any of the scales; then, opening the fish, take out the inside and wipe out the body with a cloth; and then, separating the liver from the intestines, introduce it again into the fish’s belly, wrap the fish in white paper, and broil it in the same manner as a surmullet, and serve it up the same way. A fish under a pound weight is best adapted for this purpose ; and, as fish of this kind are remarkably cheap and plentiful, the livers of two or three fishes may be taken to fill the body of one fish, and the other fish applied to some other purpose; and when prepared in this manner there are very few persons upon whom these fish might not be passed for genuine surmullet. To broil Cod's Sounds and Tongues. Prepare these as for boiling*, and after season- ing them with cayenne, and common pepper and a little salt, flour them well and broil them whole. Serve them up with melted butter. * As to which, see page 163.206 THE COOKERY OF FISIT. t See page 151. * See page 151. To broil Redherrings and Salt Pilchards. Having steeped the herrings either in boiling water or beer, pursuant to the directions before laid down*, broil them before a brisk fire, upon a toasting-fork, until they are sufficiently done, and be sure that the roe is thoroughly dressed through; then rub in as much butter into it as will absorb before the fire. If any of them contain hard roes, open the belly, and insert some butter between the lobes of the roe, closing it up again so that the heat may the more readily melt the butter. Mustard is the proper accompaniment for red- herrings, although but few persons seem aware of it. Salt pilchards may be broiled in the same way as redherrings. To broil Salt Fish. Salt fish, after being well watered, pursuant to our previous directions f, may be broiled on a oridiron, over a slow fire, and, when done, as much butter should be rubbed into it as it will absorb. It may be served up with egg sauce and parsnips. Mustard also may be eaten with it.207 IIOW TO STEW FISII. SECTION V. How to stew Eisn. Stewing, although one of the most useful as well as economical ways to which fish may be turned to account, is one that is far less fre- quently practised than either of the modes we have already treated upon, arising probably from the erroneous notion which exists amongst those who know nothing at all about the mat- ter, that it is a difficult, tedious, and expensive process, and at all times most uncertain in its results. Now this is altogether wrong; the pro- cess is neither difficult nor tedious, and though it necessarily occupies some portion of time, yet it is not necessary that so much of the cook’s attention is to be taken up with it during the interval as to prevent him, or her, as the case may be, from attending to many other matters; and so far from being expensive, it is in reality a very cheap mode of cookery, as the fish itself, with the aid of a few fried onions and a small quantity of butter, will supply a sufficient gravy. And thus a very savoury dish of fish may be made out of some very cheap and common fish, that will quite equal what can be so prepared from the most scarce208 THE COOKERY OF FISH. and expensive kinds ; and as to uncertainty of the result, that we will venture to say will never occur to those that will take the trouble to ad- here to the few very simple rules we shall lay down. The great error in stewing fish is, that the fish only undergoes one of the necessary processes, being placed raw in a quantity of water, accom- panied with a few vegetables and, perhaps, a few glasses of wine, all here thrown away, and there allowed to boil away to rags in a stewpan, and then served up, broth and all together, the previous process of frying and preparing the gravy having been altogether omitted, and thus presenting such a sad sloppy, uninviting mess, that a person must be either very hungry or polite who would venture to partake of it, and still more so if he could be induced to do so a second time; and yet the same materials, properly managed, and even without the aid of the wine so wasted and thrown away, might have made a delicious dish, which every one would have partaken of with satisfaction and have gladly eaten of again. How to stew Basse, Sea Bream, and Gurnards. Both the basse and the bream require great attention in removing the scales, which adhere very closely to the skin: the fish also must be209 HOW TO STEW FISH. carefully cleansed, and the fins cut off to the body. It must then be fried over a tolerably brisk fire, in a good quantity of butter, lard, or dripping, until it is about three parts done. Then take it up, and place it in a stewpan, and add to it a good meat gravy, or a fish gravy prepared in the manner we are about to point out, and about an equal proportion of water or broth, a table spoon- ful of soy or ketchup, or half that quantity of Cornubian sauce or lemon pickle, a slice or two of lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs; season with cayenne, common pepper, a little nutmeg, and a blade or two of mace. Then flour one or two onions, and fry them brown in the same butter in which the fish was fried, turning them quickly to prevent their sticking to the pan, and when well browned, throw them, dripping and all, into the stewpan. The above are the essential ingredients; but if you wish to make your gravy superlatively rich and good, add to it a wine-glass or two of wine, a few pickled mushrooms, and a few oysters, either fresh or pickled. Let the whole stew gently for about an hour, then take up the fish and pour the gravy over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and fried bread cut three corner wise. A forcemeat pudding, prepared according to pTIIE COOKERY OF FISH. 210 the instructions we have previously given in our directions for boiling a pike *, sewn up in the bodies of any of these fishes, will be found an agreeable addition. O If you desire to have a fish gravy, it may be prepared out of the same materials and in the same manner as we have before directed for frying, and should stew quite as long, so as to ex- tract the whole of the nutriment from the mate- rials, but should contain rather more liquid in proportion, so as to allow for the shrinkage and thickening of the gravy during the stewing pro- cess after it is added to the fish. It is a good plan to prepare the gravy the day before it is wanted, and allowing it to become cold, to skim off all the fat that may have accumulated on the surface, so as to have the gravy as free from fat as possible. To stew Carp and Tench. Having scaled and prepared your fish as above directed*, sew up a piece of bread into the fish’s belly, sufficiently large to fill up the whole cavity f, and fry it in the same manner as the last; then * See page 167. f The bread is inserted for the purpose of removing any muddy or disagreeable taint the fish may have acquired from the nature of the bottom, or some kind of weeds peculiar to the waters they may come from, as noticed in page 75.now TO STEW FISH. 211 take up tlie fish, cut through the stitches carefully, and, opening the belly, take out the bread, and place the fish in a stewpan. Having next fried up the onions and prepared your gravy, pour the whole over the fish, and let it stew in the same manner as the last. You may add half a pint of wine to the gravy, as also a few pickled mushrooms and oysters, which will make the gravy exceedingly rich and delicious. Many persons kill their carps by cutting their throats, and, saving all the blood, throw it in for the purpose of enriching the gravy. Garnish and serve up in the same way as directed in the pre- ceding receipt. To steic Pike and Hake. These fish should always be stewed with a forcemeat pudding in their bellies, prepared ac- cording to our previous directions *; and, fixing the tail in the mouth with a skewer, fry and stew them in the same manner as carp or tench. Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve up the fish resting upon its belly. This is an excellent way of turning a large hake to most profitable account, as by this means, for a shilling, a delicious dish may be obtained, suffi- * See page 167. r 2212 THE COOKERY OF FISH. cient to satisfy eight or ten, or even a dozen people. To stew Carp, or any other of the previously mentioned Fish, white. When the fish is to be stewed white, it should only undergo one-third of the frying process it undergoes when intended to be done brown, and the frying process is, in fact, often dispensed with altogether. The fish must be placed in a stewpan, with about a couple of quarts of meat broth or thin fish gravy, the materials of which must be simply boiled or stewed, without being previously browned, yet so long as thoroughly to extract all the good- ness from the materials, but in a larger quantity of water, to prevent the liquid from becoming too thick. Add to the broth or gravy half a pint of wine, a couple of onions, a stick of horseradish, and a bundle of sweet herbs; season with cayenne, common pepper and salt, and let the whole stew away for about an hour and a half. "WTiilst this is going on, pour out a couple of glasses of white wine in a small saucepan, with two anchovies, an onion, a little lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of thick cream, and a large portion of the liquor in which the fish is stewing; add to this the yolks of two eggs well beaten up, and let the whole boil gently together for a few minutes; and justIIOW TO STEW FISII. 213 before you take it up, squeeze a little lemon into it. Then dish up the fish, and pour the sauce over it. Garnish with sliced lemon. To stew Conger or Ling brown. Conger and ling, from their elongated form, are not adapted for dressing whole in any shape or way, and if prepared in the manner we have directed for a hake, would afford a complete model of the serpentine emblem of eternity cooked up in the shape of a stew, producing altogether an effect far more singular than tempting. These fish, therefore, are stewed in portions; and for this purpose the middle parts are best adapted, the head and tails contributing to furnish the gravies. There are two ways of arranging the portions; that is to say, either in one entire piece, or in steaks. If the former plan is adopted, then a forcemeat pudding, prepared as before directed *, should be placed in the belly. The fish must then be partly fried and stewed, in the manner we have previously directed for a bass.f This is also an excellent way to dress a portion of a hake, cutting off the tail just below the vent, and the head at the shoulders; and having extracted the backbone in the way we have before directed J, * See page 167. f See page 208. J See page 143. P 3214 THE COOKERY OF FISH. f See page 108. * See page 167. make all these into gravy, and fill up the body with a forcemeat pudding. Garnish with sliced lemon. To stew Conger, fresh-water Eels, Ling, Hake, Cod, Sfc., in steaks, hr own. Cut your steaks in the same way as before directed for frying *, and fry and prepare them in precisely the same manner as for stewing bass, &c. f, the head, bones, and other superfluous parts of the fish forming the gravy. Take care, if possible, not to break the pieces in taking them up. Garnish with fried bread, cut three corner- wise, and sliced lemon. To this you may add forcemeat and egg-balls, which are certainly a vast improvement. This is an admirable mode of dressing a moderate-sized conger; but only the middle portions should be used in the stew, the other parts should be used to supply the gravy. Fresh-water eels may be stewed in precisely the same way, only that every portion of them ex- cept the heads may be devoted to the stewpan. An additional squeeze or two of lemon, and a rather larger quantity of soy, Cornubian sauce, or ketchup, will be an advantage to the latter kind215 now TO STEW FISH. of fish ; ancl a glass or two of wine in the gravy will always be an improvement: if you consider the wine too expensive, substitute the same quantity of cider, which will answer the purpose nearly as well; so well, indeed, that few persons would detect the difference. The forcemeat and egg-balls must, however, be omitted, which, though so well adapted to stewed conger, are not suited to fresh-water eels when cooked in that way. To stew Lampreys. Split open the lampreys and extract the gristle that supplies the place of a backbone; cut them up in pieces and stew them brown, precisely as we have directed for eels, in the preceding re- ceipt. They may also be dressed by rolling up the pieces in a fillet, which can be kept together by running a skewer through it. The small river lampreys, after being prepared in the same manner as for frying, may be stewed cut up in small pieces. Another way of stewing Lampreys. Having prepared your lampreys, rolled up into fillets as in the preceding receipt, place them in the stewpan, together with a few slices of butter, in half a pint of gravy, and half that quantity ofTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 216 * See page 182. white wine or cider, and the same quantity of claret or port wine, an onion cut up in slices, a a little lemon-peel cut up fine, and a bundle of sweet herbs; season well with pepper, salt, cloves, nutmeg, a blade or two of mace, and a little cayenne; stew over a slow fire. When done, pour off all the liquor into a saucepan, and boil it up with a couple of anchovies, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and a squeeze of lemon ; thicken the gravy by shaking in a little flour, and after the whole has boiled up for a few minutes, take up the fillets from the stewpan, and, placing them in a dish, pour the gravy over them. Garnish with fried bread and slices of lemon. When the lampreys can be procured alive, it is a frequent practice to bleed them and preserve their blood to mix with and enrich the gravy. To stew Congers, Eels, Sfc., white. Congers, when stewed white, are cut up in wider portions than when stewed brown, and are indeed sometimes done in one entire piece. It should only undergo the first preliminary frying process in the manner we have before pointed out, in order to extract all the rank and watery par- ticles*, after which the fish should be transmitted217 HOW TO STEW FISIT. to the stewpan. Then boil one or two onions in the water or broth in which the fish is intended to be stewed, until they become soft and tender. Then pour the liquid over the fish, and add to the same a quantity of new milk, and let it stew gently until it is thoroughly done; then throw in a sufficient quantity of cream to make a rich gravy. Season with cayenne and salt, keeping the whole in motion, so as to prevent it from curdling, for two or three minutes; and just before taking it up, add to it a squeeze of a lemon. To stew Mackerel. Open the fish by the back, and take out the bones; and with the latter, the heads, and any other materials you have at hand, make about half a pint of fish gravy; to this add about the same quantity of meat gravy or strong meat broth, a piece of butter coated in flour, an an- chovy or half a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the same quantity of Columbian sauce or about twice as much soy or ketchup, a squeeze of lemon, a little chopped fennel and parsley, and a pickled onion or two. Season with cayenne pepper, and salt. Having all these ingredients prepared in your stewpan, cut up your fish, if large into quarters, if small split them intoTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 218 * See page 208. halves; then roll the pieces round a wooden skewer, and, placing them in a saucepan, add a glass of port wine to the gravy; let it boil for a minute or two; then take up the fish, and, after straining the gravy through a hair sieve or cullender, pour it over the fish. Garnish with fried bread, cut three cornenvise, and sliced lemon. To stew Soles and all kinds of moderate-sized Flat-fish. Having skinned and prepared your soles as before directed, fry them until they are half- done, and then stew them in the same way we have directed for bass*, with the simple addi- tion of a couple of anchovies, or a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, thrown into the gravy. Flounders, plaice, and dabs may be done in the same way, but should be dressed with their skins on, but which, of course, should be well cleansed from scales and slime, and the fins all trimmed off close to the body. It is also better to divide them into two or three pieces. Small turbots and brills may also be prepared in the same manner, but the former should have the skin stripped from off the dark side, for the purpose of getting rid of the hard tubercles219 HOW TO STEW FISH. * See page 218. interspersed over that part of the fish, which are exceedingly troublesome if the skin to which they are attached is permitted to remain. Serve them up with the gravy poured over the fish, and garnish with sliced lemon. To stew large Soles, Turbot, Sfc. Very large soles are best prepared for stewing by cutting the flesh as clean as possible from the bones, which is either rolled round in fillets or cut up into cutlets, the bones and heads being applied to make the gravy; in other respects, it should be stewed and served up in the same way as if the fish was cooked entire.* Large turbot, brills, plaice, and halibut, may be either stewed entire or cut up into cutlets; but the latter is the preferable mode. To steic Ray or Skate. Ray and skate of every kind and description are excellent stewed; the finny portions should be skinned and crimped in the same form as for frying, some of the other portions of the fish, or some of the crimped parts themselves, being called into service for the gravy. It should then be stewed in precisely the same manner as conger steaks are directed to be220 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 214. done *, and served up with forcemeat and egg- balls, being garnished with fried bread, cut three cornerwise, and sliced lemon. To stew Sturgeon. Sturgeon should be cut up in slices of about an inch, or a little more, in thickness, which, being half-fried, should be placed in a stewpan with some good veal broth, an onion, and a bundle of sweet herbs, and be allowed to stew until it becomes perfectly tender. Having then fried an onion or two in the butter in which the fish was previously fried, pour this, and also the gravy in which the fish was stewed, into a saucepan, adding to it a glass or two of Avine, some butter rolled in flour, or about the same proportion of cream, and a spoonful of ketchup, or half that quantity of Cornubian sauce. As soon as the Avhole has boiled up Avell together, strain it through a sieve or cullender, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with sliced lemon. To stew salt Ling. This is a very nice Avay of cooking a salt ling, and an exceedingly useful one, as you may at all times have a stock of the necessary commodity in hand to supply an emergency whenever it mayHOW TO STEW FISII. 221 * See page 150. be required, and at a time and season when no other kind of fish can possibly be procured. And now for the receipt. Having thoroughly steeped your fish in water, and allowed it to drain, so as to extract the su- perabundant saline particles *, take a piece of the proportionate quantity you require, and boil it gently, until sufficiently done to enable you to pull it in pieces with a fork, which you must do by that means, at the same time taking care to detach all the bones from it. The supply of sauce will, of course, depend upon the quantity of fish it is intended to ac- company. For a moderate-sized piece, four onions, four eggs, and a pint of new milk, and half that quantity of cream, will be sufficient. The onions must be boiled before the sauce is made, and the eggs boiled hard and cut up into slices. Then take some butter rolled in flour, and some mustard, and mix it with the onions and eggs, and let the whole of these boil up gently with the fish for about half an hour. Then take up the wdiole and throw it in a dish, placing sliced hard-boiled egg over it, and gar- nish with sliced lemon.T1IE COOKERY OF FISH. 222 * See page 163. To stew Cud's Sounds and Tongues. Having the sounds and tongues prepared as before directed*, boil them in milk and water until they are about half-done. Then, having ready some veal broth, put into it two boiled onions, a small piece of butter rolled in flour and enough cream to thicken the gravy, and a piece of lemon- peel ; then put in the sounds and tongues, and let the whole stew away gently for about twenty mi- nutes. Season with a little nutmeg, cayenne, com- mon pepper and salt. Garnish with sliced lemon. To stew Pilchards with Potatoes. This is a truly Cornish dish, and will, we fear, suit few but Cornish palates. Wash some salt pilchards, and place them with some peeled pota- toes in a saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of water to prevent the stew from burning; let the whole boil until the potatoes are done, and then serve up the fish and potatoes in the same dish. To stew Lobsters. Take a large lobster, or two small ones, and extracting all the meat from the head, body, tail, and claws, and carefully extracting the black gut, break it all up into small portions; put the whole into about half a pint of strong fish or meat gravy,223 HOW TO STEW FISII. in which the shells should be previously broken small, and boiled up ; add to this a piece of butter rolled in flour or a proportionate quan- tity of cream, half a gdass of white wine or a table-spoonful of vinegar, an anchovy, or a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, the same quantity of Cornubian sauce, soy, or ketchup; add a slight squeeze of lemon. Season Avith cayenne, com- mon pepper, salt, nutmeg, and some pounded mace; let the Avhole warm gently over a slow fire until it begins to simmer; then serve it up garnished Avith sliced lemon and bread sippets. Another way. The lobster, being minced up fine, should be stewed in a pint of strong beef soup in which the broken shells should be first boiled up, to which must be added butter coated in flour, a glass of wine, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and another of soy or ketchup, and a squeeze of lemon. Season Avith cayenne pepper, salt, and a little bruised mace; let the whole steAV very sloAvly, and simmer for tAvo or three minutes. Serve it up in the same manner as in the last receipt. To stew Lobsters in the Irish icay. Cut and break a boiled lobster, but not into small pieces; then having ready-prepared a mixture of mustard and vinegar, seasoned Avith cayenne.224 THE COOKERY OF FISII. * See page 172. put this, with the lobster and a good-sized piece of butter, into a stewpan ; keep the cover close for about five minutes; then throw in a glass of sherry or madeira, and let it boil up for about five minutes more; then serve it up garnished with sliced lemon. In Ireland this savoury mess is often prepared in the same apartment in which it is eaten, being cooked in a machine called a dispatcher, which has a spirit-lamp under it, and is dressed in the presence of the company, whose appetites are greatly excited by the agreeable odour it emits whilst the cooking process is progressing. Mr. Michael Angelo Titmarsh, in his Irish Sketch Book, speaks in the highest terms of this dish; he also informs us that porter is drank with it, and whisky punch afterwards. To stexo Praxmis and Crayfish. These must be boiled according to the direc- tions we have previously laid down*, and when cold the shells and heads, which should be slightly bruised, must be boiled up in a small quantity of water or meat broth, with a blade or two of mace, and a few whole peppercorns, until the strength is thoroughly extracted from the whole of the in- gredients. Then strain off the liquor and throw225 HOW TO STEW FISH. it into a stewpan with a glass of white wine, or rather less than the same quantity of vinegar; a good-sized piece of butter rolled in flour, or a trifle more than the weight of the butter in cream; season with cayenne, common pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, and some pounded mace; then put in the prawns’ tails, and let the whole simmer gently together for a minute or two, but be careful it does not boil up too strongly; then pour the whole into a dish, and serve them up hot. A portion of lobster, Cray fish, or crab, may be mixed up with the prawns, if required. To stew Oysters. Mix the liquor of the oysters with an equal quantity of water or meat broth, a little white wine or vinegar, a little whole pepper, or a blade or two of mace; let the whole boil up together, and then put in the oysters and let them just boil up ; thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, or, what is still better, a propor- tionate quantity of cream. Serve them up with the gravy; garnish with sliced lemon and bread sippets. To stew Mussels and Cockles. Having placed your mussels or cockles in a QTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 226 stewpan over the fire, until the shells become open, throw them into a cullender over a deep dish, so that you may he able to preserve a suffi- cient quantity of the liquor that comes from them; then take out the contents from the shells and throw as much of the liquor as you require into a small stewpan; add to it a good-sized piece of butter, and a proportionate quantity of vinegar to give it an agreeable flavour ; season with cayenne, plenty of common pepper, and warm it gently over a slow fire, keeping it stirring all the time, and when it simmers, throw in the mussels or cockles, and there let them remain for about a couple of minutes ; then throw them into a deep dish and serve them up hot. In preparing mussels, he careful to extract their fibrous beards, which, if eaten, will he attended with very unpleasant, if not serious, conse- quences. Still, these beards, from their wiry texture grating against the teeth, cause their presence to be generally detected. It is from inadvertently swallowing these beards that mus- sels have acquired the ill and undeserved cha- racter of being of a poisonous nature, and which has been erroneously supposed to proceed from a small kind of crab sometimes found in the shell; hut this little creature is quite innocuous, and may he eaten with impunity by any one who may227 HOAV TO MAKE FISH SAUCE. think proper to venture upon so untempting a little morsel. SECTION VI. How TO make Fish Curry. It may be laid down as a general rule, that every kind of fish that is adapted for stewing, may be converted into a curry; and added to this, fish that have been already dressed may also be pressed into the service, and all kinds mixed together, which, so far from being in any way detrimental, will be rather an improvement to the whole. The foundation of all fish curries should be a rich fish-gravy, made with the bones, heads, and some portions of the flesh either of the same, or of some other kinds of fish adapted to the pur- pose, prepared as before directed.* To this should be added about twice the quantity of fried onions that are used in preparing the stewed fish, to which you may also add a clove or two of garlic ; add to this a tea-spoonful of Cornubian sauce, a dessert spoonful of curry powder, and a piece'of butter rolled in flour. Having half fried your fish as for stewing * See page 197. Q '£228 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 224. place it in a stewpan, pour in the gravy, and let the whole stew slowly the same time you would allow for stewing in the ordinary way. Then, having your rice prepared and nicely boiled, serve it up in a separate dish from the curry. Some attention is requisite in boiling the rice. The best and most simple plan is to boil the rice gently until sufficiently done; and then, throwing off all the water from it, place the saucepan either on a stove, or in an oven, or over the fire, until the grains separate. To curry Praions. Boil an onion in a small quantity of water, until it is reduced to a pulp; in this stew the heads and shells of the prawns, as before directed *; and, having strained off the liquor, throw it into a stewpan, and let it warm gently until it sim- mers ; then put in the prawns, with a spoonful of curry powder and a tea-spoonful of Cornubian sauce. Let the whole simmer for about two minutes, stirring the whole well together. Serve them up with boiled rice. To curry Lobsters. Stew your lobster, as before directed; and, when it begins to simmer, add to it a tea-spoonfulHOW TO EOAST AND BAKE FISH. 229 of Comubian sauce, and double that quantity of curry powder. Let the whole simmer gently, stirring it well for about a couple of minutes, then throw the whole out upon a dish covered with rice. SECTION YII. How TO ROAST AND BAKE FlSII. Fish, whether for roasting or baking, are both prepared in much the same way; and, therefore, we purpose treating of them together. To bake a Cod’s Head Fill a baking-dish with about a quart of water, or broth; add to this an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon peel, and a little grated horse- radish, a large spoonful of pepper, a little cayenne, some grated nutmeg, and a blade or two of mace. Having prepared your fish as for boiling*, ex- cept that the head is not to be bound round with tape ; place this in the baking-dish, dredging well with flour that portion which remains above water, sticking also pieces of butter, of about the size of oysters, or larding it all over with small pieces of fat bacon or salt pork, and place the * See page 160. Q 3THE COOKERY OF FISH. 230 dish in an oven, and there let it remain until sufficiently baked. Then take up the fish, and place it carefully on a clean dish; and pour out the liquor from the baking-dish into a saucepan, adding to it a glass of wine or cider, or something less than half that quantity of vinegar, a few oysters, either fresh or pickled, chopped up in small pieces (if in summer, when oysters cannot be procured, substitute cockles or mussels) ; add a tea-spoonful of the ketchup, soy, or half the quantity of Cornubian sauce, and a piece of butter well coated with flour. The whole must be kept well stirred together until it boils, and must then be poured into the dish over the fish. Garnish with fried bread and sliced lemon. To roast a Cod’s Head. Boil a cod's head and shoulders until it is about half done. Then, taking it up, strip all the skin carefully off, and place it before a brisk fire, basting it well with butter, and dredging it over with flour; and, as soon as the froth rises, strew fine bread-crumbs over it, and continue basting until the fish is thoroughly done. Then serve it up, garnished with fried parsley, or scraped horseradish, and sliced lemon around the border of the dish. Oyster sauce may also be served up with it.HOW TO ROAST AND BAKE FISH. 231 Q 4 Another Way. After preparing, parboiling, and stripping off the skin as in the last receipt, dredge over the fish with flour and lard it with pieces of fat bacon ; bake it in an oven until sufficiently done, and then brown it over with a salamander. To bake a Pike. Having well scaled and cleansed the fish, and cut off its fins, stuff the belly with a forcemeat pudding, prepared as before directed, and then place the tail in the mouth in the same manner as for stewing *; next lay the fish upon its belly in a baking-dish, flour it well, and stick it over with pieces of butter of the size of oysters, or lard it with pieces of fat bacon. Then place it in a common oven, or what perhaps is still better, a Dutch oven before the fire, basting it occasion- ally with the dripping that comes from it. When done, take out the fish and place it on a clean dish; and then adding a squeeze of lemon, a little soy or ketchup, and a little melted butter, stir up the whole well together, and pour it into the dish with the fish. * See page 211.232 THE COOKERY OF FISII. To bake Hake, Ling, Bass, Cream, and Gurnards. Any of these fishes may be baked with a pud- ding in their bellies, in the same way as a pike ; but with the exception of the hake and ling, the rest must lie upon their sides, being of too bulky a make to permit their tails being fixed in their mouths. Ling, as also conger, are, however, usually baked cut up in portions in the same way as for stewing*; but in all other respects are cooked and served up in the way we have just before pointed out. To bake Fish in Fillets. Take any of the fish we have last mentioned, as also any kind of flat-fish you like ; cut off the head, and after skinning, splitting, and boning them, roll them up in fillets; flour them, and stick them with butter, or lard them with fat bacon, and bake them in an oven, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Make a fish-gravy out of the head and bones f, and pour it over the fish. Serve it up with plain melted butter. Another Mode. Having skinned and boned the fish as before directed, coat it well on both sides with egg and * See page 213, t See page 197.HOW TO EOAST AND BAKE FISH. 233 * See page 143. bread-crumbs, mixed with a little parsley shred very fine ; then have ready some bearded oysters chopped up, place these between the rolls, and bind up the fish in fillets; season them with a little cayenne, nutmeg, and a tolerable cpiantity of pepper and salt, and bake them as in the former receipt. Serve up with oyster-sauce. To bake Hake on Potatoes. Take a large baking-dish; rub the bottom of it well with fat bacon, and then dredge it with plenty of flour ; next, peel a sufficient quantity of potatoes to cover the bottom of the dish; after which, take the body of a hake, the head being first cut off and the backbone extracted*, and having well seasoned the inside with pepper and salt, spread the fish over the potatoes with the back uppermost, which must be larded over with bacon, and thoroughly dredged over with flour. It must then be committed to the oven; and, when done, served up hot in the same dish in which it was baked. Any other kind of fish we have pointed out as adapted for baking, may be prepared in the same manner, and affords an excellent dish at a cost234 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 197. seldom exceeding a shilling, sufficient to satisfy at least have a dozen hungry mouths. To bake Carp. Having scaled the fish and cut off the fins, lay it in a baking-dish, and pour over it sufficient wine (whether red or white is immaterial) to cover the fish; season with cloves, nutmeg, mace, cayenne pepper, and salt; add to this a bundle of sweet herbs and an anchovy, or a small quantity of anchovy sauce, and bake the whole for about an hour in an oven; then pouring off the liquor into a saucepan, add to it some butter rolled in flour, a squeeze of lemon, and boil up the whole together, taking care to keep it well stirred all the time; then placing the fish in a clean dish, pour the sauce over it. A basse, gray mullet, hake, or sea bream, is exceedingly good dressed in the same way. If you are desirous to save a portion of the wine, you may substitute an equal quantity of cider with the wine; or, instead of the cider, the same proportion of a good fish-gravy prepared as before directed.* To bake Salmon. First, scale the fish; then, taking out the backbone, chop up some shrimps and oysters.HOW TO ROAST AND BAKE FISH. 235 * See page 148. mixing these with bread-crumbs and a little parsley chopped up very fine, and seasoning with a little cayenne, common pepper, and salt; roll up the whole tight, and, after dredging well with flour, stick it about with butter, or lard it well with fat bacon; and, placing the fish in a baking-dish, bake it in a quick oven. Mix the gravy that comes from the fish with a little butter rolled in flour, and then placing the fish in a clean dish, pour the gravy over it. Garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Another Way. Take either the middle piece or tail end of a salmon, dredge it thoroughly with flour, and, binding it round with a piece of tape, hang it up to a bottle-jack, or fix it in a cradle-spit, or in a Dutch oven, and let it roast before a good fire, basting it from time to time with butter. When done, finish off the gravy as in the foregoing receipt, and serve up the fish in the same way as there directed. To hake Eels, Conyers, and Lampreys. Eels must be must be previously skinned, as before directed*; but either of the two latter, if used, must retain their skins. The heads of either236 THE COOKERY OF FISH. kinds, as also the tails below the vent, must not be used. Fill the belly with a forcemeat pudding, and sew it up; flour the fish well, and stick it over with pieces of butter, or lard it with fat bacon, and place it in a baking-dish; make a gravy or broth with the heads and tails and pour it into the dish with the fish, and bake it in a moderate over. When done, pour off the gravy; and, after skimming off the fat, strain it through a sieve; add to it a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, twice that quantity of ketchup, an anchovy, and a slice of lemon; let the whole boil up together for a few minutes, shaking in at the same time a little butter and flour, to thicken it; then turn the fish into a clean dish, and pour the gravy over it. Garnish with sliced lemon and fried parsley. To roast a Conger. Take about seven or eight pounds of the middle portion of a conger; and having pre- pared and enclosed a forcemeat pudding in its belly, and dredging it with flour, and sticking it over with butter or larding it with fat bacon, fix it with some splints to a spit, or suspend it to a bottle-jack before the fire, and there let it roast until done, basting it from time to time with the gravy that comes from it, and occasionally dredg- ing it over lightly with flour. When done, takeHOW TO ROAST AND BAKE FISH. 237 * See page 197. it up in a clean dish. Then add to the gravy that has come from the fish, some gravy or broth produced from some of the other parts of the conger prepared as previously directed * ; and if this proves at all thin, thicken it with a little butter rubbed in flour, or a proportionate quan- tity of cream, to which add a tea-spoonful of Cor- nubian or anchovy sauce, or double that quantity of soy or ketchup. To roast Sturgeon. Sturgeon is considerably improved by lying in salt and water for six or eight hours before it is cooked; then cleanse it well, fix it on a spit, and baste it well with butter whilst roasting1, dredging it lightly from time to time with flour, and when half done, have prepared some fine- grated bread, with a few sweet herbs and a little parsley chopped up very fine, which being cast over it will, by the aid of the batter and flour, ad- here to the fish ; when done enough, take it up and place it in a clean dish; and pour over it a sauce pre- pared according to the instructions of the celebrated Mrs. Grlasse; viz., a pint of water, an anchovy, a small bit of lemon peel, an onion, a bundle of sweet herbs, mace, cloves, whole pepper, black238 THE COOKERY OF FISH. and white, and a piece of horseradish; cover it close, let it boil a quarter of an hour, then after straining it, return it again to the saucepan, pour in a pint of white wine, about a dozen oysters and their liquor, two spoonsful of ketchup, two of walnut pickle, the inside of a crab bruised fine, or some pieces of lobster or shrimps, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoonful of mushroom pickle, or juice of lemon; let all simmer together, and when the fish is dished, pour the sauce over it. Garnish with fried bread and sliced lemon. Another Mode. Another mode is to take a piece of sturgeon of the proportionate size required; and after plunging it in water and salt, as we have just before di- rected, and washing it clean, to parboil it; and then, stripping off all the skin, to roast it precisely according to the preceding directions, and serve it up with the same sauces. To roast Salmon. This fish can be roasted either entire or cut up in portions, and may be done either in a Dutch oven or in a cradle-spit; or it may be tied with splints to a common spit, or suspended to a bottle-jack. It should previously be scaled ; and whilst roasting, should be basted with butter.FISH PIES AND PATTIES. 239 and occasionally dredged with flour. It is some- times the practice to strip off the skin, and supply its place with a coating of egg and bread-crumbs; but we consider the former to be the better plan; as, by retaining the skin, you keep in and retain the rich moisture, which, if permitted to escape, causes the fish to eat too dry to be pleasing to most palates. Add a little melted butter and a glass or two of wine to the gravy that drips from the fish; and warming this up in a saucepan, place the fish in a dish, and pour the gravy over it Garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. SECTION VIII. Fish Pies and Patties. Fish pies are a valuable addition to a bill of fare; and the Cornish people have so great a predilection for this particular branch of cookery, that there are few fish found upon their coasts that are not applied to this purpose. Some fishes are, however, much better adapted to it than others, as they ought to possess a firm muscle, and be as free as possible from bones; but ten- der fish, such as whiting, however delicious when cooked in a way to which they are adapted,240 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 148. make very Lad pies; and sliould never, therefore, be devoted to that purpose. Eel Pie. Prepare your eels as for frying*, and cut them up in the same manner ; season them with a little cayenne, common pepper, and salt, and pour in sufficient water nearly to fill the dish ; and placing on a lid of crust, bake them until they are thoroughly done. Then take off the lid, and pour in some cream proportioned to the size of the pie; and instantly replacing the crust, the cream will mix up with the gravy, and make it just what it ought to be. Some use butter ; but this is not near so good as cream, being apt to make the gravy very oily, and thus renders it as unpleasant to the taste as to the sight. Conger Pie. This is prepared in much the same way as in the last receipt, except that the tail portion, on account of the numerous bones with which it is interspersed, had better be left out. TV hen the pie is done, some portion of the gravy should be poured out before the cream is put in, as a much greater portion of liquid will be found to exudeFISH PIES AND PATTIES. 241 from a conger than an eel when undergoing the baking process shut up in a pie. Hake Pie. Hake, when intended for a pie, should be cut up in cutlets, as for frying*; and being placed in a pie-dish, and seasoned with a little cayenne pepper and salt, should be baked in the same manner as an eel pie, and with the addition of cream to enrich the gravy. If you wish to save the cream, then have a fish gravy prepared before- hand, and, allowing it to become cold, pour this over the cutlets when placed in the dish, before putting on the lid and committing it to the oven. Bass Pie. Bass make an excellent pie, being prepared in much the same way as the hake, with this differ- ence, that the former fish, instead of being cut up in cutlets, is cut up in thick steaks through the backbone ; and all the roots of the fins should be cut out, the bones of which would otherwise prove exceedingly troublesome. Any of the larger kind of gurnards, as also ling, may be prepared to advantage in the same way. Sea-Bream Pie. These fish are usually put in whole, being * See page 180. E242 TIIE COOKERY OF FISII. first very carefully scaled, and the fins cut out by the roots. Wrass are also cooked in the same manner; but as they are exceedingly watery, the whole of the liquid coming from the fish should be strained off and a good supply of cream sub- stituted in its place, so as to make these fishes as palatable as circumstances will admit. Bream pie, however, is excellent; but wrass pie we cer- tainly cannot praise. Salmon Pie. Cut up the fish in cutlets, in the same manner as a hake is done; lay the pieces in a pie-dish, the bottom of which must be well rubbed with butter; season with cayenne, common pepper, and salt; add some bruised shrimps, or some portions of lobster, and fill up the pie about half full with water. Then, with the salmon bones, head, and any other ingredients you have at hand, make a good fish gravy; and when the pie is done, open the lid and pour the gravy into it. Flat-fish Pie. Any kind of flat-fish is suited for a pie ; but of all these the sole is by far the best. For this purpose the largest-sized fish of the kind are to be preferred. These must be cut, in cutlets, carefully from the bones, and placed in layers inPISH PIES AND PATTIES. 243 the pie-dish, each layer being seasoned with cayenne, plenty of common pepper, a little grated nutmeg and ground mace, and between each layer must be placed some oysters deprived of their beards, or a few bruised shrimps; the beards and liquor of the former, or the heads and shells of the latter, being previously boiled up with the head and bones of the sole, until all the goodness is extracted, the whole is poured into the pie-dish, over the cutlets, which are then to be covered over with a crust and thoroughly baked, and when done the lid must be lifted up, and a quantity of cream, proportioned to the size of the pie, poured into it, and the lid again closed down to permit the cream to become thoroughly mixed up with the gravy whilst the latter remains boiling hot. This we consider the best of all fish pies, and may be eaten either hot or cold. Pilchard Pie in the Cornish mode. Carefully scale your pilchards, which you must take care to ascertain are perfectly fresh, and having scalded a few leeks, place them in about equal proportions with the pilchards in the pie- dish, with sufficient water nearly to fill the dish ; and when baked enough, open the lid, drain oft' all the liquor, and pour in some cream or new milk.244 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 221. f See page 222. Salt-Jish Pie. Prepare your fish as for stewing*, and when it will bear it pull it in pieces with a fork; and having four or five hard-boiled eggs chopped up fine, season the whole with cayenne and com- mon pepper, and then fill up the dish with as much milk as it will contain ; when the pie is baked, lift the lid, pour a little cream into it, and close it up again immediately. Lobster Pie. Prepare your lobsters in the same way as for stewing f; and if the lobster be a female, beat up the coral and spawn in a mortar. This being done, cast all you have picked out, both great and small together, into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water, veal broth, or thin fish gravy, three tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a good-sized piece of butter rubbed in flour; season with cayenne, pepper, salt, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pounded mace. Let all these in- gredients warm very gently over a slow fire, until the mixture begins to simmer ; then put the whole into a very shallow pie dish, and cover it with a rich crust, and bake it until the paste is done, when it will be ready for the table.245 FISH PIES AND PATTIES. Lobster Patties. Prepare the lobster as in the last receipt, only that the tail part should be broken up in rather smaller portions. If you intend to have small patties, bake up some fine puff paste in patty- pans, the bottoms of which you must well butter, otherwise the patties will stick to them. Pill up the space between the pastry and that which the lobster is intended eventually to occupy, with a small piece of bread, in order to preserve a sufficient hollow space for the latter purpose. Then place the patties in the oven, and whilst the baking process goes on warm up your lobster with the necessary ingredients in a stewpan, taking care it never quite reaches to the boiling point; and when the patties are baked enough, lift up the lid of each, and, carefully extracting the bread, pour the lobster, and a proportionate quantity of the liquid in which it was stewed, into the hollow place the bread previously occupied. If a larger patty is required, then of course the bread inserted must be proportioned to it, although, in the larger-sized patsies, it is a more common practice to dispense with the lid, or cover, altogether; but, in either case, the bread should be inserted to preserve the space the lobster is designed to occupy.246 THE COOKERY OF FISH. * See page 224. Shrimp and Prawn Patties. Prepare your patties as directed in the last receipt; and, having stewed the shrimps or prawns in the way we have previously pointed out* (but of course omitting the onions), pour them, with their sauce, into the patties; serve them up folded in a napkin, to keep them hot. They may, however, be eaten cold, and in the latter form make an excellent dish for a supper table. Oyster Patties. Having bearded your oysters, boil up the beards and hard parts in the liquor till all their strength is extracted, and the bulk of liquid con- siderably reduced in quantity; then strain it through a hair sieve, and, having cut up the re- maining portion of your oysters into small pieces, throw them, together with the strained liquor, into a stewpan ; season with cayenne, common pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and grated lemon- peel. Let the whole warm gradually until it begins to simmer; then throw in a sufficient quantity of cream to thicken it, and keep turning until it is thoroughly mixed together, and then pour the contents into your patties. Be not tooFISH SOUPS. 247 sparing of your cream, for, depend upon it, milk and flour will never answer the purpose, whatever strict economists may assure you to the contrary. Sometimes oysters are put in whole, instead of being chopped up; and when they are very fine, a single oyster only is placed in a patty of a pro- portionate size, the gravy being filled in with it; and a number of these patties are placed one above another, thus forming a kind of pyramid, which has a very pleasing appearance, and looks exceed- ingly well upon a supper table. Another mode. A delicious patty may be made by mixing up chopped portions of veal sweetbread with oysters, in about equal quantities, the oysters prepared according to the foregoing receipt. SECTION IX. Fish Sours. Fish soups, although not very often used, are many of them excellent, and almost any kind of fish may be turned to profitable account in this way, and this even after having been previously H 4248 TIIE COOKERY OF FISH. cooked, particularly if a little meat broth can be procured; and many heads, bones, and por- tions of fish that are carelessly thrown away and wasted, might with little trouble have as- sisted in the form of a very delicious soup, in helping out the following day’s dinner. Several kinds of fish may be mixed up together, which in fact is generally an improvement, some giving strength and nourishment, and others imparting a flavour to the soup, as in the receipt fol- lowing. Fish Soup. Take about two pounds of eels or congers, one pound of crimped skate, and about the same weight of flounders, or any other kind of flat-fish or gurnards, cleanse them properly, cut them up in pieces, and fry them in butter until they are about half-done; then place them in a boiler, in about three pints of water or meat broth; having first seasoned the pieces with cayenne, common pepper, and salt, add a bundle of sweet herbs and parsley, and let the whole stew for several hours, so that not only all the strength and goodness may be extracted from the fish, but that the liquid may be reduced to about one-third of its original quantity. Whilst the stewing is going on, fry a couple of onions, coated with flour.249 FISH SOUPS. in the butter in which the fish was previously fried, until thoroughly brown, and then throw them into the soup, together with the butter in which they were fried. Thicken with a little flour and butter, and add a little ketchup, soy, or Cor- nubian sauce. Then pour out the contents, and strain them through a hair sieve or cullender into a basin, and there allow them to get cold, when all the fat which accumulates upon the surface should be removed; when wanted for use, the soup may be again warmed up. You may add vermicelli or macaroni to the soup. Conger Soup, in the Jersey mode. Take five pounds of conger to three pints of water, cut the former up into small pieces and place them in a boiler with the water, until the liquid is reduced to about two-thirds of its original quan- tity ; then strain it olf through a hair sieve or cul- lender ; add to it the same quantity of new milk as there is of soup, and warm this up again ; throw in some green peas, which should be boiled up in the soup until thoroughly done, and then the peas and soup must be served up together. To make Conger Soup in imitation of Turtle. Prepare the soup as in the first receipt, and then cut off some belly-pieces of a large congerTHE COOKERY OF FISII. 250 into pieces of about an inch square, and fry them in butter until about one-half done, and then throw the pieces, with the butter in which they were fried, into the prepared soup, in which they must be allowed to stew until thoroughly done; thicken the soup with butter rolled in flour, or a proportionate quantity of cream, give a squeeze of lemon, and add to this forcemeat and esfs:- balls. Oyster Soup. Make a soup according to first receipt, and when it is strained otf, beat up the yolks of ten hard eggs, with the hard part of a pint of oysters, in a mortar, and cast this, with the liquor and the remaining portions of the oysters, into the soup, and let the whole simmer together for about half an hour; then have ready the yolks of six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the soup; keep the mixture stirring over the fire until it becomes thick and smooth, allowing it only to simmer slowly, and on no account to boil. Mussel Soup. Stew the mussels in the liquor which comes from them, into which must be thrown some butter rolled in flour, some parsley, and a bundle of sweet herbs; allow them to simmer251 FISH SOUPS. * See page 181. until the liquid is reduced to about one-half its original quantity ; then strain off the liquor, and mix it with some soup prepared according to the first receipt, and after warming up the whole, throw in the mussels, and serve up the latter together with the soup. Eel Soup. Take some fresh-water eels, skinned and cut up in the same wray as for frying*, and to every pound-weight of fish put a quart of water, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bundle of sweet herbs; add a little soy, ketchup, or Cornubian sauce, and let the whole stew gently until half the liquor is wasted. Fry an onion or two in butter, and when done brown throw it, with the butter, into the soup. Strain the soup as before directed, and having some pieces of toasted bread cut up in small pieces in a tureen, pour the soup over them. Lobster and Crayfish Soup. Take three quarts of strong veal broth made without herbs, the crumb of four French rolls, the flesh of a lobster, or sea crayfish, or a proportion- ate quantity of river crayfish or of prawns, pound up the whole in a mortar, together with the coralTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 252 and spawn, if any ; season with cayenne, common pepper, and salt; add a glass of wine, or half that quantity of vinegar, and a slight squeeze of lemon; let the Avliole stew gently for about half an hour, and serve it up with a French roll, stuck full of almonds, floating in the tureen. SECTION X. Twice-laid Dishes of Fish. Although any portions of fish that are left un- consumed are usually considered so worthless as to be thrown away and wasted, they may always be turned to some, and very often really profitable, account. The smallest portions may assist in making fish soups or enriching gravies, and the larger may often be submitted to some process of cookery by which they may be rendered quite as agreeable as when first produced in the way they were originally cooked. To fry Turbot, Soles, or Dories that have been previously dressed. Take as much of these fishes as you can entire, in one solid piece, from the bones; coat them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of dripping until they become a fine pale253 TWICE-LAID DISHES. * See page 195. brown. Serve them up with melted butter, anchovy or Cornubian sauce, soy, or ketchup. You may, if you please, substitute batter pre- pared according to the directions before given *, as a substitute for the egg and bread-crumbs. We have only enumerated soles and turbot, but any other kind of flat-fish may be prepared in the same way. To fry cold Cod, Liny, Sfc. Any portion of cod or ling that may be left cold must be separated, so as to be divided by the flakes in pieces of about half an inch in thickness, and being coated either in egg and bread-crumbs or in batter, may be fried as in the last receipt, and served up with plain melted butter, oyster sauce, vinegar, mustard, soy, ketchup, anchovy, or Cornubian sauce. Another mode. Pull the fish completely to pieces with a fork, picking out the bones, and mix it up thoroughly with an equal proportion of mashed potatoes; add to this four or five hard eggs chopped up fine, mixed with a raw egg and a small quantity of melted butter, just enough to bind the Avliole together; make them up in small flat cakes, ofTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 254 about an inch in thickness, or mould them into the form of sausages; fry them brown, and serve them up with plain melted butter and mustard. Fish Sausages. Take any previously-dressed fish, and, after carefully extracting all the bones, mince it up fine, season with cayenne, common pepper and salt, and mix up with it a sufficient quantity of raw beaten egg, to bind the whole together; make the mixture up into the form of sausages, or of small balls. Fry them brown, and serve them up with plain melted butter; bread-crumbs, or cold mashed potatoes, may be mixed up with the fish, and they may also be coated with bread- crumbs, by rubbing a little raw egg about the outside of the balls or sausages, and then strewing the bread-crumbs over them. Fish that has been previously stewed, particu- larly skate, the gravy that is left being mixed up with the fish, are really delicious prepared in this manner. Ogster Sausages. These are prepared by chopping up some veal very fine, then pounding it in a mortar, and chopping up an equal proportion of oysters very small, all of which are mixed up with bread- crumbs and a little beef suet, and moistened withPOTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 255 some of the liquor taken from the oysters, the whole being bound together by means of an egg beaten up, and being previously seasoned with cayenne, common pepper, salt, and a little beaten mace, is moulded into the form of sausages or balls, and fried in butter. Lobster Balls, or Sausages. Take the flesh of a lobster, together with the coral and spawn, if any, and pound the whole in a mortar, adding to it bread-crumbs to about one- quarter the proportion of the lobster; season with cayenne, common pepper, salt, and bruised mace. Mix up a little melted butter with the other in- gredients, and, making it up into balls or sausages, coat the latter with egg and bread-crumb, and fry them of a fine pale brown. Potting is also an excellent way of turning cold fish to good account; but this subject belongs properly to the next section, and will be there fully entered upon. SECTION XI. Potting, Scolloping, Pickling, and Marinating. To pot Lobster cold, For this purpose a hen lobster is the best suited. Mix up the coral and spawn, and the pickingsTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 256 about the head, and all the flesh from the claws, in a mortar, seasoning it with cayenne, common pepper, salt, and bruised mace; add to this some thick melted butter, until the whole becomes one entire paste; then take the meat from the tail, taking care to extract and cast away the black gut which runs down through it, and beat it up in like manner; then put one-half of the last- pounded meat in the bottom of the pot, the part from the head and claws in the middle, and the remaining half from the tail portion upon the top; and cover the whole with clarified butter. To pot Lobster hot. Prepare and pound the meat from the head and claws as in the last receipt, but omitting the butter; then break up the flesh from the tail in small pieces, but do not pound it; press the latter in a deep baking dish, cover it with butter, and bake it for about half an hour; then take it out and let it cool, and when it becomes so, turn it out into pots, spread the pounded parts on the top, and pour clarified butter over it. To pot Lobsters according to Mrs. Kaffaid’s receipt, which cost ten guineas. The authoress above alluded to, in her edition of “ The Experienced English Housekeeper,”257 POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. published in the year 1787, presents her readers with the following valuable receipt:— “ Take twenty good lobsters, and when cold pick out all the meat from the tail and claws (be careful to take out the black gut in the tails, which must not be used); beat fine three quarters of an ounce of mace, a small nutmeg, and four or five cloves, with pepper and salt; season the meat with it; lay a layer of butter in a deep earthen pot, then put in the lobsters, and lay the rest of the butter over them (this quantity of lobsters will take at least four pounds of butter to bake them) ; tie a paper over the pot; set them in an oven; when they are baked tender, take them out, and lay them on a dish to drain a little; then pot them close down in your potting-pots, but do not break them in small pieces, but lay them in as whole as you can, only splitting the tails. 'When you have filled your pots as full as you choose, take a spoonful or two of the red butter they were baked in, pour it on the top, and set it before the fire to let it melt in; then cool it and melt a little white wax in the remainder of the butter, and cover them. N.B.—Lay a good deal of the red, hard part in the pot to bake, to colour the butter, but do not put it into the potting- pans.” By adopting the above plan a sufficient quan- s258 THE COOKERY OF FISH. tity of lobsters may be preserved to be in readi- ness for immediate use, of which you may always avail yourself when unable otherwise to obtain a lobster of any kind either for love or money. Another way. Split the tail and extract the black gut of one or two lobsters, which should be only parboiled ; butter the bottom of a baking-dish and place your pieces fiat in it, seasoning them with a little cayenne, allspice, nutmeg, white pepper and salt; then placing bay-leaves between each piece of lobster, cover the Avhole with butter and bake them in a slow oven. When done, press down the lobster by placing another dish that fits the upper parts of the baking-dish, filling the former with heavy weights, and keeping up this pressure for at least six or eight hours; then take out the lobster and throw away the bay-leaves, and then, filling your pots with the portions of lobster, cover the whole with clarified butter. To pot Crayfish. This should be done in the same way as before directed for lobsters, for in every way in which the latter may be done the former may be done also, with only this simple difference, that a cray- fish being often of a more watery nature than aPOTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 259 lobster, the flesh of the former should be squeezed between two plates, so as to press off all the water before it is placed in the pots; but this latter course of proceeding will be unnecessary when the baking process, as mentioned in the preceding- receipt, is resorted to. To pot Praions, Shrimps, and river Crayfish. Bruise up the tail portions, which must be ex- tracted from the shells, and mixing them up with a little melted butter, and seasoning Avith a little cayenne, common pepper, salt, and a very little bruised mace, place them in pots and pour clari- fied butter over them. If there is any coral or spawn, this should be all picked out and mixed up with the other parts. Another mode. Pound the parts you have extracted from the shells in a mortar, and mix them up into a paste Avith a little butter; season as in the last receipt, and, putting the meat in a pot, cover it over with clarified butter. A third way. Put the tads of the prawns, as Avhole as you can extract them from their shells, into the pots in Avhich they are to be baked; and if there isTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 260 any coral in the heads, or eggs, these should be inserted to fill up the spaces; then season as before directed, and pressing down the contents,, cover over with butter, and let the whole bake in a slow oven from about ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. When perfectly cold, turn all out into a fresh pot in which they are to make their appearance at table, and, pressing them down close, pour clarified butter over them. To -pot Crab Mix up the white flesh of the body and claws with about one-fourth the same quantity of the cream of the crab ; season with cayenne, common pepper, bruised mace, and salt; place the mixture in a pot, and pour melted butter over it. To pot cold Fish. Almost every kind of cold fish may be made available in this way, but those fish which are the firmest and most free from bones are the best adapted to the purpose; any parts may be used that are free from bones, and the pickings about the head and fins of a ling or codfish, the skin and sound chopped up small, all come in most advan- tageously for this purpose. This mode is as simple and easy as it is economical and useful. All you have to do is to pull the solid parts of the fish to pieces with a fork, and to pick out the261 POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. other parts by the same means; mix up the whole in a basin, with a little melted butter, seasoning with cayenne, common pepper, salt, and a little bruised mace; and, placing the mixture in pots, pour clarified butter over it. A few minutes are often sufficient to complete the whole process. The fish we have usually employed in this way are ling, cod, hake, conger, basse, bream, mackerel, ray, turbot, and flat-fish of all kinds, and every one of them has given satisfaction; but as each gives a different flavour to the preparation, it is difficult to say which of them is the best. It may be prepared from cold fish cooked in every possible way; and, if made from fish that has been either previously stewed or curried, any gravy that is left should be mixed up with the fish, which will serve still further to enhance the richness of the flavour. When prepared in this way, with a little parsley strewed over the top, it presents a tempt- ing appearance either at a breakfast or a supper table, and is also admirably adapted for a luncheon or a pic-nic. Char, Trout, and Chads. Gut and scale your fish, and cut off their heads and fins; then season each fish well with pepper, salt, allspice, and a little cayenne; spread them262 THE COOKERY OF FISII. * See page 258. open and lay them in layers, with their backs uppermost, in a baking-dish, into which you must then pour sufficient clarified butter to cover them, and tying paper over the dish, bake them all night in a very slow oven, for if the oven is too hot the fish will become baked up dry, and utterly spoiled; but by baking slowly the bones turn to a soft gristle, and afford no impediment whatever to the eating of the fish. It will be necessary, therefore, to examine the fish before you finally take them up, to see that the bones have become properly softened, which even several hours’ baking, where the oven is very cool, will not accomplish; still it will not do to risk them in an oven too hot; and therefore, if they do not bake enough in one night, give them a few hours more baking, until you find they are thoroughly done and the bones have acquired the desired con- sistency. Then allow the fish to become cold, and place a baking-dish, with weights upon that containing them, in the way we have before directed for potting lobsters *, and keep up a heavy pressure for six or eight hours, then turn out your fish, and laying them in layers in pots, press them down tight and pour clarified butter over them. If you wish to keep them for any length of time, pour melted mutton suet over263 POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. them instead of clarified butter, and wlien you intend to use them take off the mutton covering, and, scraping away the portion of fish that has come into immediate contact with it, pour over clarified butter in its stead. Another way. Having prepared your fish as before directed, dry them in a cloth; next lay them on a board or stone, and strew a quantity of salt over them, and let it remain for six or eight hours; then rub it gently off, wiping the fish afterwards carefully with a cloth, and then seasoning them with bruised mace, ground cloves, and grated nutmeg on the inside, but with pepper and salt only on the outside, put them into a deep pot, with their bellies uppermost, and pour in sufficient clarified butter to cover them; bake them for five or six hours in a slow oven. When they are dressed, lay a board over them, and turn them upside down, to let the gravy run from them; scrape the salt and pepper very carefully off, and season them exceedingly well, both inside and out, with the above seasoning; then lay them close in broad thin pots, with the backs uppermost, and cover them with clarified butter.264 THE COOKERY OF FISII. * See page 258. To pot Salmon. Having well scaled the fisli, split it into cutlets, wipe them with a clean dry cloth, but do not wash them; then season with cayenne, pepper, allspice, and a little salt, and place the cutlets in layers in a baking-dish, with some bay-leaves betwixt each layer, over which pour clarified butter sufficient to cover the whole; bake in a slow oven for about three hours. When done, drain off the oil and gravy that exudes from the fish, and then press the fish in the same way we have previously directed a lobster to be done * ; next press it down tight into pots, and cover it with clarified butter. To pot Salmon that has been previously dressed. Take any portion of cold salmon, clear it from the bones, and pick it in pieces with a fork; season with allspice, pepper, and salt; add to tliis some thick melted butter, so as to make it into a paste, but without moistening it too much; then press the mixture into a pot, and pour clarified butter over it. Some of the coral and eggs of a lobster, and bruised portions of the latter, or bruised shrimps or prawns, are a valu- able addition, and greatly improve both the appearance and flavour.265 POTTING, PICKLING, ETC. * See page 262. To pot Mackerel, Gurnards, Basse, Mullet, Sfc. Split your fish ancl extract the backbone, and if the fish are large divide them into four parts, if small into two; season them in the same manner as trout and char * are directed to be done, and placing the pieces in a baking-dish, cover them with clarified butter, and cover the dish with paper; bake them for about two hours in an oven moderately heated, and after allowing them to become cold, press them between two baking-dishes, at the same time draining off all the gravy that comes from them; then place them in pots, and cover them with clarified butter. Besides the fish we have above enumerated, any other kind of solid and firm fish may be prepared in the same way. To pot Eels. Having skinned your eels, split them in two, and take out the backbone; cut them in pieces two or three inches long; season with a little cayenne, allspice, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of sage rubbed very fine; place the pieces of eel in layers in a baking-dish, over which you must pour sufficient clarified butter to cover them, and then tie paper over the top and bake them in a tolerably quick oven266 THE COOKERY OF FlSn. for about an hour and a half. When cold, take them out, press them into pots and pour clarified butter over them. To pot Congers. Congers must not be skinned, but in other respects must be cut up in the same way as fresh- water eels; they will, however, require to be done in a very slow oven, in which they should be allowed to bake for eight or ten hours, until all the numerous fine bones which abound so much in the tail portions of congers are dissolved to a gristle. When done, press them and strain off the liquor that comes from them, and place them in pots as in the preceding receipt. To pot Lampreys. Lampreys may be potted in the same way as eels are before directed to be done; in addition to which the following mode is often adopted: — The lampreys being well wiped upon the outside, so as thoroughly to cleanse away the slime, are then split open below the gill-holes, and the gristle that stands them instead of a backbone carefully extracted; they are then cut off below the gills, and the portions intended to be potted well rubbed with pepper and salt, and so allowed to remain for ten or twelve hours. They arePOTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 267 then wiped dry, again seasoned with pepper, salt, bruised mace, and a little grated nutmeg, and rolled up in a fillet, and in that form put into a pot, sufficient clarified butter being poured in to fill up the crevices and cover the fish; paper is then tied over the pot, and they are baked for about three hours in a moderately heated oven; when nearly cold, they are slightly pressed, and the gravy drained from them, and when quite cold they are put into pots, and clarified butter poured over them. To scollop Lobster. Having extracted the lobster from the shell, break it into very small pieces, mixing up the coral and eggs, if any, with it; season with cayenne, common pepper, bruised mace, and salt, and place the mixture in scollop-shells; then break up the shells and claws of the lobster, and place these in a small quantity of water, and let the whole stew until reduced to about one-half its original quantity ; then strain off the liquor in a small saucepan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and pour sufficient of this into the scollop-shells to moisten the whole con- tents ; then sprinkle bread-crumbs over the top, and bake the scollops in a dutch-oven before the fire; and when done, brown over the bread-268 THE COOKERY OF FISH. crumbs with a salamander, and serve up in the scollop-shells. To dress a Crab, cold. Crabs are best done in their own shells, when intended to be eaten cold. To do this, extract all the flesh from the claws and body, taking care to pick out every particle of shell; mix the whole together with a good quantity of mustard and vinegar, a little cayenne, common pepper, and salt; and having thoroughly cleansed the back shell, fill it up with the mixture, which should be eaten cold, without any further dressing. To dress a Crab, hot. Mix your crab, as in the preceding receipt, but add to it about one-fourth the proportion of bread-crumbs, mixed up with it, and several pieces of butter stuck amongst it; put this mix- ture either into the back shell of the crab, or into scollop-shells, which must be baked before a fire or in an oven; and, when done, brown over with a salamander, and serve up in the crab or scollop shells. Scolloped Oysters. Place a layer of bread-crumbs in scollop-shells, the bottoms of which should be previously wellTOTTING, TICKLING, ETC. 269 rubbed with butter; then, having bearded a sufficient quantity of oysters, place them in layers upon the bread-crumbs; season them well with pepper and salt, and place a number of small pieces of butter between the layers; then arrange another layer of bread-crumbs, butter, and oysters, until the shells are quite filled up, and cover the whole with bread-crumbs, and a few more pieces of butter upon the top of all. Bake before the fire, or in an oven, and, when done enough, brown them over the top with a sala- mander, and serve up in the shells. Mussels, cockles, and every edible kind of shellfish, may be prepared in the above manner. To pickle undressed Salmon. Scale the fish, and rub it well with a dry cloth, and scrape out the blood carefully from the backbone, but wash it not; then cut off its head, and cut up its body into two or three pieces, across ; then boil the fish in equal propor- tions of water and vinegar, with a few cloves and blades of mace, till it be done, taking care to skim off all the scum that comes upon the surface whilst boiling; then take up the fish, and allowing both that and the liquor in which it was boiled to become cold, add to it about one-third moreTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 270 vinegar, a clove or two, and some whole pepper, and then replace the fish in the liquor. Trout, salmon peel, basse, mullet, and mackerel, are all excellent when prepared in the above manner. To pickle cold Salmon. Boil up some portion of the water in which the fish was previously cooked; add to this about the same quantity of vinegar, and throw in a few whole peppercorns; as soon as the liquor begins to bubble take it off the fire, and place in it any previously-dressed cold salmon you may be desirous of preparing and preserving in this way. In case the salmon should not have been sufficiently done previously, then boil it up in the pickle until it becomes thoroughly dressed throughout. Turbot, flat-fish of all kinds, basse, salmon peel, trout, mullet, ling, hake, gurnards, and in fact nearly, if not every kind of fish that is adapted for boiling, may be prepared in the Avay we have just pointed out; but with most of the latter a few bay-leaves boiled up with the pickle will be found a decided improvement. To pickle Oysters. In opening the oysters, take care to preservePOTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 271 * See page 225. the liquor, add to this an equal quantity of vinegar, a glass of white wine, a blade or two of mace, some whole peppercorns, and a little salt; boil up this mixture for about five minutes, taking care to skim off all the scum; then put in the oysters, and let them simmer very gently for about ten minutes; then cast them, with the liquor, into deep earthen pots, and tie them over tight with dried bladder, white leather, and paper, so as to exclude the external air until you require them for use. To pickle Mussels and Cockles. Extract the contents from the shells as pre- viously directed.* If intended to be eaten imme- diately, throw in about one-third of vinegar in proportion to their own liquor; season with pepper and salt, and a little cayenne; let this get cold, and then cast in the mussels or cockles. If in- tended to keep for a longer period, you must then add three parts vinegar in proportion to the other liquor. Water Souchy. This may be prepared from most kinds of fishes, but perch, tench, and flounders are those usually employed for the purpose. The principal thing272 THE COOKERY OF FISH. to be kept in view in preparing water souchy, is to extract every particle of goodness from one kind of fish to make a rich soup to dress those whose bodies are intended to be eaten. To accomplish this object, you must take about one- half of the weight and quantity of the fish, and boil them to a mash in about two quarts of water and some broken parsley and parsley roots, until the greater portion of the flesh of the fish may be strained with the gravy through a cullender, which being done, add a little parsley chopped fine, and then place the remainder of the fish in the liquor; season with pepper and salt, and let the fish stew until thoroughly done, and then throw them, with the soup in which they have been stewed, into a tureen. If you have large and small fish, or fish of various kinds, you should use the inferior and smaller ones for the soup, reserving the latter for the purpose of cooking and serving up whole. Another way. Scale, gut, and thoroughly cleanse your fish, put some salt into the water you purpose cooking it in; then separating an onion into round rings, throw these in, together with a handful of clean parsley; then add about as much milk as willPOTTING, PICKLING, ETC. 273 turn the water white, and boil the fish in this until they are done enough. Serve them up in a tureen with the soup, parsley, and onions. A third way. Prepare your fish as in the foregoing receipt, and then place them in a stewpan in a gravy made as follows:—melt some butter in a stewpan, then throw in a little boiling water, some sliced onions, a few slices of carrot or turnip, some parsley roots, a little Cornubian sauce, soy, or ketchup; season with pepper, salt, and a little allspice, and when the fish is nearly done, give a slight squeeze of lemon into the gravy; then give the whole a shake, and serve it up, gravy and all, in the same dish. To marinade Mackerel, Herrings, Pilchards, Chads, §'c. Cleanse your fish and cut off their heads; rub into the inside plenty of bruised mace or all- spice, pepper, salt, some whole peppercorns, and a blade or two of mace; and then place them, in layers, m a baking-dish; put bay-leaves between the labels, and pour in about three-parts vinegar to one of water sufficient nearly to fill the dish. Bake in a slow oven for about five hours, when you may examine the fish to ascertain if the T274 THE COOKERY OF FISH. bones have become soft; if not, they must be baked longer, and until such time as all the bones become converted into gristle, when they may be taken up, and, being allowed to remain in the liquor until it becomes cold, the whole must be carefully shifted into a clean dish, so that the fish may not be broken in the transit. To marinade Conger, Ling, Hake, fyc. To marinade large fish, the backbone should be extracted and the fish cut up in pieces; which, being seasoned as in the foregoing receipt, should be baked until thoroughly done in a tolerably quick oven, and, being permitted to become cold, should be then shifted into a clean dish. If, however, the tail portions of a conger are done, it will then become necessary to resort to the slow-baking process, for the purpose of dis- solving the wiry bones, which will not be so effectually done if the fish is baked quickly. To collar Eels. Skin and gut as many eels as you may require ; then take out their backbones and cut oft' their heads; next season them well with cayenne, common pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, a few bruised cloves, some sage chopped fine, and a little grated lemon-peel. Roll up the fish in fil-SAUCES. 275 lets, and bind them round tightly with tape. Boil them in salt-and-water and vinegar, in equal pro- portions, until they are done. Then take out the fish and throw in some whole peppercorns; cast the pickle into a deep dish, and when it becomes quite cold place the fish in it. Congers, lampreys, garfish, gurnards, and mackerel, may be prepared in the same way ; but none of these must be deprived of their skins. Lobster Salad. The lobster being boiled, the whole of the flesh should be extracted from the shell and claws, the tail part being cut or broken in tolerably large pieces, and the whole, with the cream, coral, and eggs, if any, well mixed up together and put into the bottom of the bowl; the salad and salad mix- ture being thrown over it. SECTION XII. Sauces foe Eisii. Lobster Sauce. Extract the meat from the shell and claws, and break it up into small pieces. If you haveTHE COOKERY OF FISH. 276 * See page 224. a hen lobster, take out all the coral and spawn, and pound it up fine in a mortar. Boil the shells, which should be broken up, in half a pint of water, or, what is still better, the same quan- tity of veal or some other meat broth, with a little ground allspice or bruised mace, and whole pepper, and a little scraped horse-radish. Let this boil until the whole strength of the ingredients is extracted; then strain off the liquor, and throw it, with the pieces of lobster, into a stewpan, adding to it half a pound of cream, or, if that cannot be conveniently obtained, the same quan- tity of thick melted butter, a teaspoonful or two of anchovy sauce, or a dissolved anchovy, and a slight squeeze of lemon. Stir the materials about, and let the whole simmer for about five minutes; but be careful not to let it boil; for if you do, it will destroy the colour, which cannot easily be restored. Season with a little cayenne and salt whilst the stewing process is going on; and, when completed, serve up the sauce in boats. Shrimp Sauce. Prepare your shrimps as for stewing*, only add a little more liquor, which must be thickened with melted butter or cream. Whilst stewino- in © the pan, add a teaspoonful or more of anchovySAUCES. 277 sauce, in proportion to the quantity of shrimps ; season with salt, cayenne, and a little bruised mace or allspice. Serve it up in boats. Crab Sauce. Pick out a sufficient quantity of the meat of a boiled crab, and mix it up with an equal propor- tion of its cream; then, having ready some thin melted butter in a stewpan, throw the mixture into it with about a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or an anchovy; thicken with cream or butter coated in flour, and season with cayenne, allspice, and salt. Serve it up in boats. Oyster Sauce. In opening the oysters, take care to preserve the liquor ; then, having bearded and taken off the tough portion of the oysters, stew these with the beards in the liquor, to which you may add broth, if you have any, if not, as much water as you will require in proportion to the sauce you intend to make, but at the same time allowing a suffi- cient quantity for it to diminish to about one- half the original bulk before you put in the oysters. Previous to this, however, the liquor must be taken up and strained, and thickened with a good-sized piece of butter rolled in flour, and to which must be added an anchovy or a tea-THE COOKERY OF FISH. 278 spoonful of anchovy sauce. Then place the oysters in the sauce and keep the whole turning round, to prevent the butter from curdling until thoroughly warmed up; and then serve up in boats. Cockle Sauce. Mix up a good-sized piece of butter in plenty of flour, and melt it with some of the liquor from the cockles, a spoonful of anchovy sauce, or a dis- solved anchovy, and a little vinegar ; then throw in the cockles, which must be previously boiled and extracted from the shells, and shake them about for two or three minutes; and serve them up in boats. Mussel Sauce. This is prepared in precisely the same way as the last, only that in the present instance it will be an improvement to substitute white wine for vinegar. To prepare Anchovies for Sauce. Take as many anchovies as you are likely to require out of the pickle; dip them into boiling water, and, taking them out instantly, lay them flat upon their sides, and scrape off all the scales and white slime, and with a knife remove what- ever portion of intestines they may contain.279 SAUCES. Then fill a water-plate with boiling water, and, laying the cleansed anchovies upon it, take out the backbones and mix up all the flesh (which will speedily dissolve with the heat of the plate into a kind of paste) with a little butter and flour. This may afterwards be thrown into and mixed with melted butter. If you wish for a nice anchovy paste for a sandwich or toast, then mix up the anchovy with- the butter only. Another way. To two anchovies as above, add one glass ol white wine and water, half a nutmeg grated and a little lemon-peel; when it has boiled five or six minutes, strain it off, and add to it a spoonful of white-wine vinegar; then prepare some rich, melted butter, and cast the mixture into it, stir- ring it well together for about a minute, and serve it up in boats. Horse-radish Sauce. Stew an onion to a pulp in good fish or meat gravy; into this grate a teaspoonful of horse- radish ; to which add a couple of anchovies, or two teaspoonsful of that sauce and the same quantity of mustard. Let the whole simmer gently over the fire, keeping it stirring all the280 THE COOKERY OF FISH. time, and thicken it either with cream or butter rolled in flour, and just before you take it up give a slight squeeze of lemon. Fennel Sauce. Boil the fennel in the same water in which you do the fish, and, when it becomes tender, take it out, and, chopping it up fine, mix it with plain melted butter. Egg Sauce. Boil two or three eggs hard; then strip off the shells; take off the whites and chop them up, but not too fine; afterwards chop up the yolks in like manner; then mix yolk and white well to- gether, and throw both into good melted butter. This sauce is particularly well adapted to all kinds of salt fish, and may be eaten with mustard by those who are partial to the latter article. Parsley and Butter. Having chopped the parsley fine, boil it up with the water or broth in which the butter to accompany it is intended to be melted; or, in other words, melt the butter and cook the parsley at the same time; for, as soon as the butter is completely melted, the parsley will be done enouo'h also. o281 SAUCES. Caper Sauce. Chop up the capers fine, and throw them into melted butter, and serve it up in boats. This sauce is not commonly used with fish, but is well adapted for salmon, mackerel, pil- chards, eels, and other rich and luscious fish.INDEX A. Alick, red, description of, 121. how to boil, 166. fry, 185. broil, 202. stew, 208. Anchovies, how to choose, 102. Atherine, how to distinguish from true smelt, 64. proof of freshness, 65. how to cook, 65. B. Baking, practical observations upon, 229. Barbel, how to cook to best ad- vantage, 81. Bass, description of, 105. directions how to choose, 106. how to prepare for cooking, 141. how to boil, 166. fry, 184. broil, 201. stew, 208. bake, 232. make a pie, 241. pot, 261. pickle, 270. marinade, 273. Batter, directions for making, 195. directions for frying in, 195. Beckar, description of, 115. directions for cooking, ib. how to stew, 208. Beckar, how to bake, 232. Black bream, description of, 115. how to dress, 116. Bishop. See Weever. Boiling, practical suggestions re- specting, 158—173. Bones of fishes, how turned to best advantage, 179. Botargo made from the roes of grey mullets, ib. Bothock. See Bib. Braise. See Beckar. Bream (freshwater), description of, 78. how to dress, 186. Bream (sea), description of, 113. how to boil so as to resemble surmullet, 205. how to stew, 208. bake, 232. make a pie of, 241. pot so as to resemble chan', 261. Bret. See Burbot. Brill, description of, 40. how to choose, 40, 41. boil, 168. fry, 192, 193. fry in cutlets, 195. fry in batter, ib. dress twice-laid, 252. Broiling, practical observations upon, 200. Bull trout, description of, 60. when in season, ib. how to boil, 165. fry, 191. Burbot, description of, 34.284 INDEX. C. Caper sauce, how to make, 281. Carp, description of, 72. how to choose, 73. 77. when out of season, 74. muddy flavour in, how cured, ib. best portions of, 76. how to fry, 185. stew brown, 210. white, 212. bake, 234. Carter. See Whiffe. Chads, how to broil so as to re- semble surmullet, 205. how to pot so as to resemble char, 261. Char, when in best season, 63. freshness of, how ascertained, ib. how to cook, 191. pot, 261. Chub, observations upon, 80. best mode of cooking, ib. how to fry, 186. when in best condition, ib. Cod, description of 14—18. when in best season, 16. how to choose, 17. soft and watery taint, how best removed, 16. how to choose, 17. rules for selecting a healthy fish, ib. proofs of freshness, ib. how to clean and prepare, 142. powder with salt, 152. cure, 154. boil, 158. 160. 162. sauces to accompany, 162. how to fry, 175. broil, 201. stew, 214. bake, 229. roast, 230. pickle, 270. dress twice-laid, 253. marinade, 274. Cod, salt. Sec Salt-fish. Cod, tamlin, observations upon, 16. Cod's sounds and tongues, how to prepare for cooking, 163. how to boil, ib. fry, 197. broil,<e05. stew, 222. Cod, variable, how distinguished from common codfish, 18. Codling, how to boil, 162. fry, 179. broil, 202. Conger, difference between and common eel, 69. various modes of cooking, 69, 70. how to choose, 71. when in best season, ib. how to boil, 168. fry, 181. stew, 213, 214. bake, 235. roast, 236. make a pie of, 240. soup, 248, 249. pot, 266. marinade, 274. collar, ib. Connor. See Wrasses. ■Crabs, how to choose, 132. when in best season, 133. how to distinguish male from female, ib. how to boil, 172. dress cold, 268. dress hot, ib. make sauce of, 277. Crayfish, how to choose, different kinds of, 134. how to boil, 172. stew, 222. 224. pot, 258, 259. scollop, 267. Crimping fish, observations upon,285 INDEX. Crimpish fish, object of, is to make the fish eat dry and crisp, 57. of skate and rays, how managed, 148. Crimped fish take a shorter time in boiling than when done in a solid piece, 161. Crucian, how to distinguish from a carp, 73. how to cook, 210. Curing fish, directions for, 154. 158. Curry, directions for making, 227. 229. Cutlets, how to cook, 195. hake, 179. turbot, 195. brill, ib. plaice, ib. flounder, ib. dory, ib. salt-fish, 196. D. Dabs, description of, 45, 46. how to fry, 194. Dace, best modes of cooking, 80. how to fry, 186. marinade, 273. Dog-fish, how cured and preserved, 128. Dory, description of, 51. origin of name, ib. anecdotes of Mr. Quin respect- ing, 52, 53. when in best season, 54. how to choose, 54. criteria for determining the freshness of, ib. how to dress, 192. Drizzles, small lings when so termed, 33. E. Eels, varieties of, 66. when in best season, 67. proofs of freshness, 68. how to kill, ib. skin, 148. hoil, 168. fry, 181. stew, 214. bake, 235. roast, 236. make a pie of, 240. collar, 274. Eel-pout. See Burbot. Egg sauce, directions for making, 280. E. Fennel sauce, how to prepare, 280. Five-bearded ling, description of, 36. Flat-fish pie, how to make, 242. Flounders, description of, 44. proof of good condition, 44, 45. at what time in best condition 45. how to prepare for cookery, 145. best modes of dressing, 170. I94. pie, 242. how to make water-souchy of 271. Forked hake, description of, 30. how to dress, 30. French sole. Sec Whiffe. G. Gar-fish, description of, 88. when in best season, 89. criterion of freshness, ib. * how to fry, 187. collar, 274, 275. Grayling, when in best season, 63. signs of freshness in, 64.INDEX. 286 Gravy, fish, how to prepare, 197. 200. Grey gurnard, description of, 122. how to boil, 166. fry, 185. broil, 202. Grey mullet. See Mullets, grey. Gudgeon, description of, 82. staleness in, how detected, ib. how to fry, 191. marinade, 273. Gurnards, various species, how distinguished, 117—122. how to boil, 166. fry, 185. stew, 211. pot, 265. collar, 275. Gwyniad, description of, 65. II. Haddock, description of, 18, 19. signs of health, condition of, 19. criteria of freshness, 20. when in best season, 21. how to clean, 141, 142. powder with salt, 152. cure, 154. boil, 163. fry, 176. proper sauces to be eaten with, 176, 177. how to broil. Hake, merits of, 28, 29. when in best season, 29. how to choose, 29, 30. prepare for cookery, 142. powder with salt, 152. cure, 154. boil, 163. fry, 179. broil, 201. bake, 232, 233. bake on potatoes, 233. make a pie of, 241. Hake, how to pot, 260. pickle, 270. marinade, 274. Herrings, how to distinguish from pilchards, 97. when in best season, 99. males, how distinguished from females, ib. how to boil, 167. fry, 188. broil, 202. marinade, 273. Herrings, red, how to choose to prepare for cookery, 151. how to dress, 202. Halibut, best portions of, 42. Homelyn ray. See Ray. Hook-and-line fish, how distin- guished from those caught in the trawl nets, 17. 20. 29. J. Jack. See Pike. John Dory. See Dory. K. Kite. See Brill. L. Lake trout, observations upon, 61. Lampreys, different kinds of, how distinguished, 125. when in best season, 127. how to fry, 183. stew, 215. bake, 235. pot, 266. collar, 274. Launce, different species, how dis- tinguished from each other, 90.INDEX, 287 Launces, how to dress, 187. Lemon dab, description of, 46. Ling, description of, 31. directions for choosing, 32. how to clean, 142. powder with salt, 152. cure as salt fish, 154. boil, 162. fry, 176. broil, 201. stew, 213, 214. bake, 232. dress twice-laid, 253. pot, 260. Ling, five-bearded, description of, 36. Ling, three-bearded, description of, 35. how cooked to best advantage, 35. Ling, salt, how to choose, 130. how to prepare for cooking, 150. boil, 164. fry, 196. fiy in cutlets, 196, 197. stew, 230. twice-laid, 253. Lobster, how to choose, 133. male, how distinguished from female, ib. when in best season, ib. test of freshness of in, when boiled, 134. how to boil, 172. stew, 221, 222. in the Irish way, ib. make a pie of, 244. patties, 245, 246. curry, 228. soup, 251. balls or sausages, 255. pot, 255. 258. scollop, 267. salad, 275. sauce, ib. Lotig-nose. See Gar-fish. Lug-a-leaf. See Bib. M. Mackerel, various species of, 92, how to choose, 94. proofs of stalcness in, ib. when usually in best season, 95. how to boil, 171. proper sauces for boiled, 172. how to fiy, 187. broil, 202. stew, 217. pot, 265. pickle, 270. marinade, 273. collar, 274. Merry sole. See Smooth dab. Minnows, how to dress, 82. how to cook to eat like white- bait, 188. Morgay, how usually cured, 128. Mullet, grey, description of, 112. how cooked to best advantage, ib. how to boil, 166. sauce to be eaten with, ib. how to fiy, 184. stew, 210. pot, 260. pickle, 270. marinade, 273. Mullet, red, when in best season, 111. criteria for freshness in, ib. how to recognise a trawl-caught fish, ib. prepare for cookery, 146. fry, 191. broil, 204. Mussels, proof of healthy condition ill, 137, 138. how to boil, 173. fiy, 197. stew, 225.INDEX. 288 Mussel soup, 250. how to scollop, 267. pickle, 271. make sauce of, 278. N. Natives. See Oysters. O. Oysters, goodness depends chiefly upon the nature of the ground they inhabit, 136. disagreeable taint in, how reme- died, 136. when in proper season, ib. best modes of feeding, 137. how to fry, 197. make into pies and pat- ties, 245, 246. soup, 250. sausages, 254. how to scollop, 268. pickle, 270. sauce, 277. P. Parboiling salmon, benefit to be derived by, 153. Parr, how distinguishable from a small trout, 62. how to dress, 63. Parsley-and-butter, how to pre- pare, 280. Pearl. See Brill, or Holibut. Perch, description of, 104. when in best season, ib. proof of condition, ib. various modes of cookery, 105. how to boil, 166. fry, 183. Perch, how to stew, 208. make water-souchy of, 271—273. marinade, 273. Pickling, directions for, 269. Pike, freshwater, when in best t season, 86. spawn of, unwholesome, ib- best portions of, 87. proof of good condition, 87. freshness, 87. how to boil, 167. stew, 211. bake, 231. Pike, sea. See Garfish. Pilchards, how to distinguish from herrings, 97. when in best season, 98. different modes of cooking, ib. how to choose, 99. fry, 189. broil, 203. stew on potatoes, 222. make a pie of in the Cornish mode, 243. marinade, 273. Piper. See Gurnards. Plaice, how recognised from the rest of the flounder tribe, 42. when in best order, 42, 43. best proof of, 42. criteria of freshness, 42. how cooked to best advantage, 43, 44. how to boil, 170. fry, 194. Pollock, rawlin, difference between and whiting pollock, 25. how to choose, ib. powder, 152. cure, 154. boil, 163. fry, 176. broil, 201. Pollock, whiting, how to choose, 25. various modes of cooking, 26.289 INDEX. Pollock, how to powder, 152. cure, 154. boil, 163. by* i"6- broil, 201. Pope. See Ruffe. Patties, 239—247. Pickling, observations upon, 269. 271. Pies, directions for making, 239 —247. Potting, observations upon, 255. 266. Pout, eel. See Eel-pout, Burbot. Pout. Sec Whiting-pout, rower codfish. See Whiting-pout. Prawns and shrimps, how to choose, 135. when in best season, ib. how to boil, 172. stew, 224. curry, 228. make pies and patties of, 246. soup, 251. how to pot, 259. sauce, 276. E. Pawn flank. See Turbot. Ragan gilt-liead, description of, 115. Rags, twelve distinct specie^ of, 123. flesh of, when prepared for table designated skate, ib. best kinds of, 124. what are the best portions, ib. make excellent sausages, ib. directions for cleaning and pre- paring, 147. how to cure as salt-fish, 154. boil, 170. fry, 196. stew, 219. Rag, how to make into balls or sausages, 254. pot, 261. Red alick. See Gurnards. Red back, how distinguishable from the sole, 49. Red gurnard. See Gurnard. Red mullet. See Mullet, red. Roach, best mode of cooking, 80. Rudd, how distinguished from the freshwater bream, 79. how to be cooked, ib. Ruffes, how distinguished, 107. criteria of freshness in, ib. how to fry, 191. marinade, 273. S. Salad. See Lobster salad. Salmon, when usually in season, 56. best proofs of, ib. signs of unhealthy condition, 57. effect of crimping upon, 57. distinction in appearance be- tween male and female fish, 57. signs of staleness, how de- tected, 58. how to preserve fish, 153, 154. cure, 155, 156. boil, 164. • fry, 190. broil, 204. bake, 234, 235. roast, 238. make a pie of, 242. sausages, 254. how to pot, 260. 264. pickle, 269, 270. Salmon, dried, how to choose. 130. how to prepare for cooking, 151. Salt-fisli, how to choose, 129. how to prepare for cooking, 149. 151. U290 INDEX. Salt-fish, how to cure, 154. how to boil, 164. fry, 196. dress in cutlets, ib. broil, 206. stew, 220, 221. pie, 244. twice laid, 253. Salmon-peel, how recognised, 58,59. how to choose, 59. boil, 165. fry, 191. broil, 202. pot, 261. 263. pickle, 270. roast, 238. stew, 220. Sand eel. See Launces. Sandfieuk. See Smoothdab. Scad, description of, 96. observations upon the merits of, 96. Scaldfish, description of, 50. Shad, two species of, how distin- guished, 102. when in best season, ib. directions for the cookery of, 188. Shrimps. Sec Prawns and Shrimps. Skate. See Rays. Smelts, when in best season, 64. how distinguished from the atherine, ib. criteria of freshness in, ib. how to cook, 191. Smooth dab. See Dab, smooth. Sole, how distinguishable from its varieties, 48, 49. how to choose, 48. prepare for cooking, 146. boil, 170. fry, 192, 193. in fillets, 193. stew, 218, 219. Sprats, how to distinguish from small herrings, 100. Sprats, when in best season, 101. how to prepare for cookery, 187. how to dress, ib. Stewing fish, directions for, 207. 227. Sturgeon, how to choose, 129. how to stew, 220. roast, 236, 237. T. Tench, when in best season, 83. male how distinguishable from female, ib. how to choose, 84. rank and muddy taste in, how obviated, 85. criteria of freshness of, ib. how to boil, 166. fry, 185. stew, 210. make water-souchy of, 271—273- Top knot, description of, 47. Thornback. See Rays. Torsk, description of, 37. Town-dab. See Smooth dab. Trout, how to choose, 61. when in best season, 62. criteria of condition and freshness, ib. how to boil, 165. fry, 191. pot, 261. 263- pickle, 270, 271. Turbot, description of, 38, 39. proof of good condition in, 39. how recognised from brill or halibut, 40. how to boil, 168. fry, 192. dress in cutlets, 193. stew, 218, 219. make a pie of 242.291 NDEX. Tnrbot, how to dress twice-laid, 252. sausages, 254. how to pot, 260. pickle, 270. Twaite. See Shads. V. Variable cod. See Codfish. Vendace, description of, 65. W. Water-souchy, directions for mak- ing, 271 — 273. Weevers, description of 107. spines of, capable of inflicting a severe wound, 108. how to fry, 184. Whiffe, description of, 46. best mode of cooking, 47. Whitebait, description of, 100. best season for, ib. how to dress, 188. Whiting, when in best season, 27. how to choose, 27, 28. boil, 163. fry, 177, 178. broil, 202. Whiting pout should he gutted as soon as possible after being captured, 22. how to dress, 179. Whiting pollock. See Pollock. Wrasses, nine varieties of, 116. how to fiy, 184. make a pie of, 242. Z. Zeus, name of the dony amongst the ancients, 51. TIIE END. 'London: A. and G. A. Spottiswoode, N ew-street-Square.A CATALOGUE OP NEW WORKS IN GENERAL LITERATURE, PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS, 39, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. CLASSIFIED INDEX. Agriculture and Rural Affairs. Pages Bavldon on Valuing Rents, etc. - - 5 Caird’s Letters on Agriculture - - - 7 Cecil's Stud Farm - - - - 7 Loudon’s Encyclopedia of Agriculture - 14 ,, Self*Instruction for Farmers, etc. 14 ,, (Mrs.) Lady’sCountryCompanion 15 Low’s Elements of Agriculture - - 15 ,, Domesticated Animals - - * 15 Arts, Manufactures, and Architecture. Bourne’s Catechism of the Steam Engine 6 ,, On »he Screw Propeller - - 6 Braude’s Dictionary of Science, etc. - 6 Ohevreul on Colour ----- 8 Cresv’s Eucyelo. of Civil Engineering - 8 Eastlake on Oil Painting 9 Gwilt’s Encyclopaedia of Architecture - 9 Jameson’s Sacred and Legendary Art - 1*2 „ Commonplace Book - - 12 Loudon’s Rural Architecture - - - 14 Moseley’s Engineering and Architecture 17 Richardson’s Art of Horsemanship - - 19 Steam Engine, by the Artisan Club - 6 Tate on Strength of Materials - -22 Lire’s Dictionary of Arts, etc. - - 24 Biography. Bunsen’s Hippolytus - - - - 6 Chesterton’s Autobiography - - - 8 Cockayne’s Marshal Turenne - - 23 Freeman’s Life of Kirby - - - - 12 Havdon’s Autobiography, by Taylor - 10 Holcroft’s Memoirs • - 23 Holland’s (Lord) Memoirs - - - JO Lardner’s Cabinet Cyclopaedia - - 13 Maunders Biographical Treasury - - 16 Memoir of the Duke of Wellington - 23 ,, Lord Peterborough - - 18 Merivale’s Memoirs of Cicero - - 16 Russell’s Memoirs of Moore • - - 17 ,, Lile of Lord William Russell - 19 Pages Southey’s Life of Wesley - - - - 21 ,, Life and Correspondence - 21 Stephen’s Ecclesiastical Biography - 22 Taylor’s Loyola - - - - - 22 ,, Wesley - - - - - 22 Townsend’s Eminent Judges - - -24 Waterton’s Autobiography and Essays - 24 Books of General Utility. Acton’s (Eliza) Cookery Black’s Treatise on Brewing Cabinet Gazetteer - ,, Lawyer Cust’s Invalid’s Own Book Hints on Etiquette Hudson’s Executor’s Guide ,, On Making Wills Lardner’s Cabinet Cyclopaedia Loudon’s Self Instruction ,, Lady’s Companion ,, (Mrs.) Amateur Gardener Maunder’s Treasury of Knowledge ,, Biographical Treasury ,, Scientific Treasury ,, Treasury of History ,, Natural History Pocket and the Stud - Pycroft’s English Reading Reece’s Medical Guide - Rich’s Companion to Latin Dictionary Riddle’s Latin Dictionaries Richardson’s Art of Horsemanship Roget’s English Thesaurus Rowton’s Debater - Short Whist - Thomson’s I merest Tables Traveller’s Library - Webster’s Domestic Economy Willich’s Popular Tables - Wilmot’s Abridgment of Blackstonc’s Commentaries - Botany and Gardening. Conversations on Botany - - - J Hooker’s British Flora - - - - ]1 9f Guide to Kew Gardens - - 11 London; Printed by M- Mason, I\y Lime, Paternoster Row,2 CLASSIFIED INDEX. Pages Lindley’s Introduction to Botany - -14 M Theory of Horticulture - -14 Loudon’s Hortus Britannicus - - -14 ,, (Mrs.) Amateur Gardener - 15 ,, Self-Instruction for Gardeners 14 ,, Encyclopaidiaof Trees & Shrubs 14 .. ,, Gardening - 14 .I „ Plants - • 14 Rivers’s Rose Amateur’s Guide - - 19 Chronology. Blair’s Chronological Tables - - • 6 Bunsen’s Ancient Egypt - • • J Haydn’s Beatson’s Index - - " lo Nicolas’s Chronology of History - - 13 Commerce and Mercantile Affairs. Bewley’s Decimal Interest Tables * • 5 Francis On Life Assurance - - • 9 Lorimer’s Letters to aYoung Master Marinerl4 McCulloch’s Commerce and Navigation - 15 Steel’s Shipmaster’s Assistant “ " Thomson’s Interest Tables - • • 22 Criticism, History, and Memoirs. Passes Ro^et's English Thesaurus * Russell’s (Lady Rachel) Letters - ,, Life of Lord William Russell - St. John’s Indian Archipelago Schmitz’s History of Greece - Sinclair’s Popish Legends - Smith’s Sacred Annals • . - - Southey's The Doctor etc. - Stephen’s Ecclesiastical Biography - ,, Lectures on the History of prance - Sydney Smith’s Works - - Lectures oti Moral Philo- sophy - Taylor's Loyola - ,, Wesley - Thirlwall’s History of Greece - Townsend’s State ’Trials * - Turkey and Christendom - Turner’s Anglo-Saxons - ,, Middle Ages - ,, Sacred History of the World - Zumpt’s Latin Grammar - 19 19 19 20 21) 21 21 22 22 22 21 21 22 22 22 24 2H 24 24 24 24 Geography and Atlases. Butler’* Geography and Atlases - - 7 Cabinet Gazetteer - - • ■ 7 Hall’s Large Library Atlas - - “10 Hughes'a Australian Colonies - - - 23 Johnston’s General Gazetteer - -12 M‘Culloch’s Geographical Dictionary - 15 Murray’s Encyclopaedia of Geography - 18 Sharp’s British Gazetteer - - - 20 Austin’s Germany * Balfour’s Sketches of Literature Belfast’s English Poets * - Blair’s Chron. and Historical Tables Bunsen’s Ancient Egypt - „ Hippolytus Burton’s History of Scotland - Chalybaeus’s Modern Speculative Philo- sophy - “ “ ' . ' Convbeare and Howson’s St. Paul - Eastlake’s History of Oil Painting Erskine’s History of India - Felice’s French Protestants * Francis’s Annals of Life Assurance - Gleig’s Leipsic Campaign " Gurney's Historical Sketches ' " “ Hamilton’s Essays from the Edinburgh Review - - " “ Haydon’s Autobiography, by Taylor Holland’s (Lord) Foreign Reminiscences ft ,, Whig Party - Jeffrey’s (Lord) Contributions Kemble’s Anglo-Saxons in England Lardner’s Cabinet Cyclopaedia Macaulay’s Crit. and Hist. Essays - „ History of England ,, Speeches - Mackintosh’s Miscellaneous Works ,, History of England - - M‘CuHoch’8 Geographical Dictionary Martineau’s Church History - Maunder’s Treasury of History Memoir of the Duke of Wellington Merivale’s History of Rome • ,, Roman Republic - Milner’s Church History - Moore’s (Thomas) Memoirs, etc. - M tire’s Greek Literature - Ranke’s Ferdinand and Maximilian - Rich’s Companion to Latin Dictionary - Riddle’s Latin Dictionaries Rogers’s Essays from Edinburgh Review 5 5 5 6 7 6 8 9 9 8 9 23 9 10 10 10 10 12 12 13 15 15 15 15 15 15 1 r> 16 23 16 16 16 17 17 23 19 19 19 Juvenile Books. Amv Herbert ------ 20 Calling, etc. of a Governess 7 Corner’s Children’s Sunday Book - - 8 Earl’s Daughter (The) - * - - 20 Experience of Life ----- 20 Gertrude - -- -- --20 Howitt’s Boy’s Country Book - - - 11 ,, (Mary) Children’s Year - - 11 Laneton Parsonage - - 20 Mrs. Marcet's Conversations - - - 16 Margaret Percival ----- 20 Pycroft’s English Reading - - - 19 Medicine and Surgery. Bull’s Hints to Mothers - - - 6 ,, Management of Children - - 6 Copland’s Dictionary of Medicine - - 8 Cust’s Invalid’s Own Book - - • 8 Holland’s Mental Physiology - - 11 Latham On Diseases of the Heart - - 12 Little on Treatment of Deformities - 14 Moore On Health, Disease, and Remedy - 17 Pereira On Food and Diet - - - 18 lteece’s Medical Guide - - - - 19 Miscellaneous and General Literature. Austin’s Sketches of German Life - 5 Calling, etc. of a Governess - - 7 Carlisle’s Lectures and Addresses - - 23 Chalybaeus’s Modern Speculative Philo- sophy - - - - 7 Defence of Eclipse of Faith - - - 9 Eclipse of Faith - - - 9 Greg’s Essays on Political and Social Science • - - - - 9Earl’s Daughter (The) - . - - 20 Kenip’s Natural History of Creation - 23 Ranke s Ferdinand and Maximilian - 03 to Mbssbs. LONGMAN and Co.’s CATALOGUE. Pages Haydn’s Book of Dignities - - - 10 Hole’s Essay on Mechanics* Institutions lo Holland’s Mental Physiology - - - 11 Hooker’s Kew Guide - - - - 1| Howitt’s Rural Life of England - "11 m Visits to Remarkable Places - n Jameson’s Commonplace Book - - 12 Jeffrey’s (Lord) Contributions - - 12 Loudon’s Lady’s Country Companion - 15 Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays 15 »» Speeches • - - - 15 Mackintosh’s (Sir J.) Miscellaneous Works ]5 Memoirs of a M ait re d’Armes - . 03 Maitland's Church in the Catacombs - ]g Pascal’s Works, by Pearce - • . jg Pycroft’s English Reading - • • 19 Report on Industrial Instruction - - 11 Rich’s Companion to Latin Dictionary - 19 Riddle’s Latin Dictionaries - - - 19 Rowton’s Debater - - - _ - 19 St. John’s Nemesis of Power - * - 20 Schoolmaster’s Difficulties - - 20 Seaward’g Narrativeof his Shipwreck - 00 Sir Roger De Coverley - - - 21 Smith’s (Rev. Sydney) Works - - 21 Southey's Common-Place Books - -21 11 The Doctor etc. - . - 2*2 Souvestre’s Attic Philosopher - - 23 „ Confessions of a Working Man 23 Stephen’s Essays “ * - - - 22 Stow’s Training System - - - - 22 Thomson’s Outline of the Laws of Thought 22 Townsend’s State Trials - - - - 24 Willich’s Popular Tales - - . - 24 Zumpt’s Latin Grammar ... - 24 Natural History in General. Callow’s Popular Conchology 7 Ephemera and Young on the Salmou - 9 Gosse’s Natural History of Jamaica - 9 Kirby and Spence’s Entomology - - 12 Lee’s Elements of Natural History - 12 Maunder’s Treasury of Natural History - lfi Turton’s Shells of the British Islands - 24 Waterton’s Essays on Natural History - 24 Youatt’s The Dog - . - . - 24 • 1 The Horse - - 24 1-Volume Encyclopaedias and Dictionaries. Blaine’s Rural Sports * - - 6 Braude's Science, Literature, and Art - 6 Copland’s Dictionary of Medicine - - 8 Cresy’s Civil Engineering g- Gwilt’s Architecture 9 Johnston’s Geographical Dictionary - 12 Loudon’s Agriculture - - . - 14 ,, Rural Architecture - - 14 ,, Gardening - _ 14 ,, Plants ... 14 >» Trees and Shrubs - . - 14 M^ulloch’s Geographical Dictionary • 15 ,, Dictionary of Commerce - 15 Murray’s Encyclopajdiaof Geography - 18 Sharp’s British Gazetteer - 20 Lire's Dictionary of Arts, etc. - - - 24 Webster’sDomestic Economy - - 24 Religious and Moral Works. Amy Herbert -20 Bloomfield’sGreek Testament g ,, Annotations on ditto - - 0 Pages Calling and Responsibilities of a Governess Calvert’s Wife’s Manual Conybeare and Howson’s St. Paul » Corner’s Sunday Book .... Dale’s Domestic Liturgy ... Defence of Eclipse of Faith - Discipline Eclipse of Faith 9 Englishman’s Greek Concordance - - 9 ;* Heb. and Chald. Concord. 9 Experience of Life (The) - - - 20 Felice’s French Protestants . . . g Gertrude - -20 Harrison’s Light of the Forge - - 10 Hook’s (Dr.) Lectures on Passion Week 11 Horne’s Introduction to Scriptures - H m Abridgment of ditto - - 11 Jameson’s Sacred Legends - - - 12 » Monastic Legends - - *12 Legends of the Madonna - 12 Jeremy Taylor’s Works - - - - 12 Kippis's Hymns - - - _ - 12 Laneton Parsonage - - - - - 20 Letters to My Unknown Friends - - 14 »♦ °n Happiness - - - - 1*> Litton’s Church of Christ - - 14 Maitland’s Church in the Catacombs - ig Margaret Percival - . . . ">0 Martineau’s Church History - - . ig Milner’s Church of Christ _ lfi Montgomery’s Original Hvmns - - lg Moore On *he Use of the Body - - j; »♦ t »* Sou) and Body - . - 17 „ ’» Man and his Motives - - 17 Neale s Closing Scene - . . - 1^ »* Besting Places of the Just - - 18 » Riches that bring no Sorrow - IS o Risen from the Ranks - . - 18 Newman’s (J. H.) Discourses - . - ]8 Readings for Lent _ oy “ Confirmation - . - OQ Robinson s Lexicon to the Greek Testa, ment - Saints our Example - I I [ S Self-Denial ... 7y Sermon on the Mount, illuminated ’ I 20 Sinclair’s Journey of Life - - .21 «» Popish Legends - . - 21 Smith s Sydney) Moral Philosophy - 21 »* y1-) Sacred Annals - - . oj Southey’s Life of Wesley - . J, Taylor’s'Lo^-n] a ^ EcdesfasticJBiography 21 »i Wesley . . " " oo Thumb Bible (The) - . . ' oi Turner’s Sacred History - - I Poetry and the Drama. Arnold’s Poems ... Aikin’s (Dr.) British Poets BailUc’s (Joanna) Poetical Works - Belfast’s Lectures on the English Poets Bode s Ballads from Herodotus Calvert’s Wife’s Manual Flowers and their Kindred Thought Goldsmith's Poems, illustrated Kippis’s Hymns ... L. E. L.’s Poetical Works Linwood’s Anthologia Oxoniensis Macaulay’s Lays of Ancient Rome Montgomery’s Foetica) Works *» Original Hymns NNx»xaoCLASSIFIED INDEX 4 Pages Moore's Poetical Works • - - - 17 ,, Lalla Rookh - - - - 17 ,, Irish Melodies. - - - 17 ,, Songs and Ballads - - - 17 Roby’s Poetical Remains • - - 19 Shakspeare, by Bowdler - - - - 21 t, *8 Sentiments and Similes - 11 Southey’s Poetical Works - - - 21 ,, British Poets - - - * 21 Swain’s English Melodies - - - 22 ,, Letters of Laura D’Auverne - 22 Thomson’s Seasons, illustrated • • 22 Thornton’s Zohrab • - - - 22 Watts’s Lyrics of the Heart - - 24 Political Economy & Statistics. Ban field's Statistical Companion £ Caird’s Letters on Agriculture - -7 Francis on Life Assurance - - *• 9 Greg’s Essays on Political and Social Science ------ 9 Laing’s Notes of a Traveller - - - 12 „ Notes Denmark and the Duchies 12 M’Culloch’sGeo^raphical, Statistical, etc. Dictionary - - - - 15 ,, Dictionary of Commerce - 15 „ London - - 23 ,, Statistics of the British Empire 15 Marcet’s Political Economy - - - 16 Willich’s Popular Tales - - - - 24 The Sciences in General and Mathematics. Bourne’s Catechism of the Steam Engine 6 ,, on the Screw Propeller - - 6 Braude’s Dictionary of Science, etc. - 6 Cresy’s Civil Engineering - - - 8 DelaBeche’s Geology ot Cornwall, etc. 8 ,, *s Geological Observer - - 8 De la Rive’s Electricity 8 Faraday’s Non-Metallic Elements - - 9 Herschel’s Outlines of Astronomy - - 10 Holland’s Mental Physiology - - ll Humboldt’s Aspects of Nature - - 11 ,, Cosmos - - - ll Lardner’s Cabinet Cyclopaedia - - 13 Marcet’s (Mrs.) Conversations - - 16 Moseley’s Engineering and Architecture 17 Owen’s Lectures on Comparative Anatomy 18 Our Coal Fields and our Coal Pits - ■« 23 Peschel’s Elements of Physics - - 18 Phillips’s Fossils of Cornwall, etc. - 18 ,, Mineralogy - - - - 18 ,, Guide to Geology - - - 18 Portlock’s Geology of Londonderry - 19 Smee’s Electro-Metallurgy - - - 21 Steam Engine, by the Artisan Club - 6 Tate on Strength of Materials - - 22 Todd’s Tables of Circles - 22 Wilson’s Electricity and the Electric Telegraph - ----- 23 Pages Rural Sports. Cecil’s Stable Practice ,, Records of the Chase - ,, Stud Farm The Cricket Field - Ephemera on Angling n ’s Book of the Salmon The Hunting Field - - - Loudon’s Lady’s Country Companion Pocket and the Stud - Practical Horsemanship - • Pulinan’s Fly-Fishing - • Richardson’s Horsemanship St John's Sporting Rambles - Stable Talk and Table Talk Stonehenge on the Greyhound The Stud, foi Practical Purposes Veterinary Medicine, etc. Cecil's Stable Practice - „ Stud Farm The Hunting Field - Morton's Veterinary Pharmacy Pocket and the Stud - Practical Horsemanship - - Richardson’s Horsemanship - - - Stable Talk and Table Talk - The Stud for Practical Purposes Youatt’s The Dog - „ The Horse - Voyages and Travels. Adams’s Canterbury Settlement Baker’s Rifle and Hound in Ceylon Barrow’s Continental Tour Davis’s China - Eothen ----- Ferguson’s Swiss Men and Mountains - Forester and Biddulph’a Norway Gironifere’s Philippines Hill’s Travels in Siberia - Hope’s Brittany and the Bible - „ Chase in Brittany Howitt’s Art Student in Munich Hue’s Tartarv, Thibet, and China Hughes’s Australian Colonies - Humboldt’s Aspects of Nature Jameson's Canada - Jerrmann’s Pictures from St. Petersburg Laing.’s Norway - ,, Denmark and the Duchies ,, Notes of a Traveller Osborn’s Arctic Journal - Peel’s Nubian Desert Pfeiffer’s Voyage round the World •ower’s New Zealand Sketches Richardson’s Arctic Boat Voyage Seaward’s Narrative of his Shipwreck - St.John’s (H.) Indian Archipelago ,, (J. A.) Isis ,, ,, There and Back again ,, (Hon.F.) Rambles - - - Sutherland's Arctic Voyage Traveller’s Library - Werne’s Alricnu Wanderings - Baker’s Rifle and Hound in Ceylon Berkeley’s Reminiscences of a H man - .... Blaine’s Dictionary of Sports Hunts- - 5 / 7 7 H 9 9 10 15 10 10 19 19 20 in 22 10 / 7 10 17 10 10 19 10 10 24 24 5 5 23 8 23 23 9 23 in 23 23 11 23 23 11 23 23 23 12 12 18 18 23 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 22 23 23 Works of Fiction. Lady Willoughby’s Diary - - - 24 Macdonald’s Villa Verocchio - - - 15 Sir Roger De Coverley - - - - 21 Southey’s The Doctor etc. - - - 22ALPHABETICAL CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS PUBLISHED BY Messes. LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. Miss Acton’s Modern Cookery- Book. —Modern Cookery in all its Branches, reduced to a System of Easy Practice, bor the use of Private Families. In a Series of Receipts, all of which have been strictly tested, and are given with the most minute exactness. By Eliza Acton. New Edition; with Directions for Carving, and other Ad- ditions, Plates and Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*• 6rf. Adams.—A Spring in the Can- terbury Settlement. By C. Warren Adams, Esq. With Five Illustrations. Post 8vo. pTice 5s. 6d. Aikin. — Select Works of the British Poets, from Ben Jonsou to Beattie. With Biographical and Critical Prefaces by Dr. Aikin- New Edition, with Supplement by Lucy Aikin ; consisting of additional Selections, from more recent Poets. 8vo. price 18*. Arnold. — Poems. By Matthew Arnold, Author of Poems by A. A New Edition, greatly altered ; With a Preface. Fcp. 8vo. price 5*. 6d. *** Afore than one-third of the contents of this volume consists of Poems now first published. Austin.—Germany from 1760 to 1814; Or, Sketches of German Life from the Decay of the Empire to the Expulsion of the French. Reprinted from the Edin- burgh Review; with large Additions. By Mrs. Austin. Post 8vo. [Nearly ready. Joanna Baillie’s Dramatic and Poetical Works, complete in One Volume: Comprising the Plays of the Passions, Miscellaneous Dramas, Metrical Legends, Fugitive Pieces, (several now first pub- lished), and Ahalya Baee. Second Edition, including a new Life of Joanna Baillie ; with a Portrait, and a View of Bothwell Manse. Square crown 8vo.21a. cloth or 42*. bound in morocco. Baker.—The Rifle and the Hound in Ceylon. By S. W. Baker, Esq. With several Illustrations printed in Colours, and Engravings on Wood. 8vo. price 14a. Balfour.—Sketches of English Literature from the Fourteenth to the Present Century. By Clara Lucas Bal- four. F<:p.8vo. /a. Bayldon’s Art of Valuing Rents and Tillages, and Tenant’s Right of Enter- ing and Quitting Farms, explained bv several Specimens of Valuations; with Remarks on the Cultivation pursued on Soils in different Situations. Adapted to the Use of Landlords, Land Agents, Ap- praisers, Fanners, and Tenants. New Edition; corrected and revised by John Donaldson. 8vo. 10a. 6d. Banfield.—The Statistical Com- panion for 1854: Exhibiting the most In- teresting Facts in Moral and Intellectual, Vital, Economical, and Political Statistics, at Home and Abroad. Corrected to the Present Time: and including the Census of the British Population taken in 1851. Compiled from Official and other Authentic Sources, by T. C. Banfield, Esq., Sta- tistical Clerk to the Council of Education. Fcp. 8vo. price 5s. Lord Belfast.—Lectures on the English Poets and Poetry of the Nineteenth Century. By the Right Hon. the Earl of Belfast. 8vo. price 6a. Gd. Berkeley.—Reminiscences of a Huntsman. By the Honourable Grantley F. Berkeley. With four Etchings by John Leech (one coloured). 8vo. price 14a. B e w 1 e y. — Decimal Interest Tables, calculated at 5 per Cent, from 1 Day to 365 Days, and from 1 Month to 12 Months, on from to <£40,000: To which are added, Tables of Commission, from ^ per Cent, to 5 per Cent, advancing by Eighths. By John Bewley. 8vo. price 21a.6 NEW WOKKS and NEW EDITIONS Black’s Practical Treatise on Brewing, Based on Chemical and Econo- mical Principles: With Formula' for Public- Brewers, and Instructions for Private Fami- lies. New Edition, with Additions. 8vo. price 10s. 6d. Blaine’s Encyclopaedia of Rural Sports; or, a complete Account, Historical, Practical, and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shooting, Fishing, Pacing, and other Field Sports and Athletic Amusements of the present day. A New and thoroughly re- vised Edition; with numerous additional Illustrations. The Hunting, Racing, and nil relative to Horses and Horsemanship, revised bv Harry Hieovkr ; Shooting and Fishing by Ephemera; and Coursing by Mr. A. Graham. With upwards of 600 Woodcuts. 8vo. price 50*. Blair’s Chronological and His- torical Tables, from the Creation to the present Time; with Additions and Cor- rections from the most authentic Writers ; including the Computation of St. Paul, as connecting the Period from the Exode to the Temple. Under the revision of Sin IIknry Ellis, K.H. New Edition with corrections. Imperial 8vo. price 31*. 6d. Bloomfield.—The Greek Testa- xnent: With copious English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanatory. Especially formed "lor the use of advanced Students and Candidates for Holy Orders. By the llev. S. T. Bloomtield, D.D. F.S.A. New Edition. 2 vols.8vo. with Map, price «sC2. Dr. Bloomfield’s Additional Annotations on the above. 8vo. price 16s. Bloomfield.—College and School Greek Testament; with shorter English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explana- tory, formed for use in Colleges and the Public Schools. By the Rev. S. T. Bloom * field, D.D., F.S.A. New Edition, greatly enlarged and improved. Fcp. 8vo. 10*. 6d. Dr. Bloomfield’s College and School Lexicon to the Greek Testament. Fcp. 8vo. price 10*. 6rf. Bode.—Ballads from Herodotus: With an Introductory Poem. By the Rev. J. E. Bode, M.A., late Student of Christ Church. 16mo. price 5*. A Treatise on the Steam Engine, in it* Application to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways. By the Artisan Club. Edited by John Bourne, C.K. New Edition. With 3(1 Steel Plates, and 349 Wood Engravings. 4to. price 27s. Bourne. — A Treatise on the Screw- Propeller : With various Suggestions of Improvement. By John Bourne, C.E. With 20 large Plates and numerous Wood- cuts. 4to. price 3-8*. Bourne.—A Catechism of the Steam Engine, illustrative of the Scientific Principles upon which its Operation depends, and the Practical Details of its structure, in its Applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways; with various .Suggestions of Improvement. By John Bourne, C. E. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. Brande.—A Dictionary of Sci- eiict. Literature, and Art ; comprising the History, Description and Scientific Prin- ciples of every Branch of Human Know- ledge ; with the Derivation and Definition of all the Terms in general use. FMited by W.T. Brande, F.R.S.L. and K.; assisted by Dr. J. Cauvin. The Second Edition, revised and corrected; including a Supple- ment, and numerous Wood Engravings. 8vo. price 60*. The SUPPLEMENT separately, price3*. 6rf. Bull.—The Maternal Manage- ment of Children in Health and Disease. By T. Bull, M.l)., Member of the Royal College of Physicians; formerly Physician Accoucheur to the Husbury Midwifery in stitution. New Edition, Fcap. 8vo. 5*. Bull.—Hints to Mothers, for the Management of their Health during the Penoo of Pregnancy and in the Lying- in Room: with an Exposure of Popular F^rrors in connexion with those subjects, etc.; and Hints on Nursiug. By T. Bull, M.D. New Edition. Fcp. price 5*. Bunsen.—Hippolytus and his Age; Or, Doctrine and Practice of the Church of Rome under Commodus and Alexander Severus : and Ancient and Mo- dern Christianity and Divinity compared. By C. C. J Bunsf.n, D.D., D.C.L. A New Edition, corrected, remodeled, and ex tended. 7 vols. 8vo. [Nearly ready. 1. Hippolytus and his Age; or, the Be- ginnings and Prospects of Christianity New Edition, 2 vols.Svo. Separate Works connected with Hippo- lytus and his Age, as forming its Philoso- phical and Philological Key ;— 2. Sketch of the Philosophy of Language and Religion ; or, the Beginnings and Prospects of Mankind. 2 vols. 8vo. 3. Analecta Ante-Nicaena.. 3 vols.8vo. I. Reliquite Literaria?.; II. Reliquiae Cauonicae ; HI. fteliquiie Liturgicie.published by LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 7 Bunsen.—Egypt’s Place in Uni- versal History: An Historical Investigation, in Five Books, by C. C. J. Bunsen, D.D., D.C.Ij. Translated from the German, by C. H. Cottrell, Ksq. M.A.—Vol. 1. con- taining the First Book, or Sources and Pri- meval Facts of Egyptian History: With an Egyptian Grammar and Dictionary, and a complete List of Hieroglyphieal Sijjns ; an Appendix of Authorities, embracing the complete Text of Manetho and Eratosthe- nes, /Egyptiaea from Pliny, Strabo, etc , and Plates representing the Egyptian Divinities. With many illustrations. 8vo. price 28s. *** The second Volume is preparing for publication. Burton.—The History of Scot- land, from the Revolution to the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection (1689— 1748.) By John Hill Burton, Author of The Life uf David Hume, etc. 2 vols. 8vo. price 26s. Bishop Butler’s General Atlas of Modern and Ancient Geography : com prising Fifty-two full-coloured Maps ; with complete Indexes. New Edition, nearly all re-engraved, enlarged, and greatly im- proved; with Corrections from the most authentic Sources in both the Ancient and Modern Maps, many of which are entirely new. Edited by the Author’s Son, the Rev. T. Butler. Royal 8vo. price 24s. half bound. Separately The Modern Atlas, of 28 full- coloured Maps. Rl. Svo 12s. The Ancient Atlas of 24 full- coloured Maps. Rl.Svo. 12s. Bishop Butler’s Sketch of Mo- dern and Ancient Geography. New Edition, carefully revised, with such Alterations introduced as continually progressive Dis- coveries and the latest Information have rendered necessary. Edited by the Author's Son, the Rev. T. Butler, 8vo. price 9s. Caird.—English Agriculture in 1851) and 1851 ; Its Condition and Prospects. By James Cairo, Esq., of Baldoon, Agri- cultural Commissioner of The Times. The Second Edition. 8vo. price 14*. Calvert.—The Wife’s Manual; or, Prayers and Thoughts on Several Occa- sions of a Matron’s Life. By the Rev. W illtAm Calveht, nector of St. Autholin, and one of the Minor Canons of St. Paul’s. PostSvo. [Jn the Prma. The Calling & Responsibilities of a Governess. By Amica. Fcp. Svo. price 4*. 6d. Catlow.—Popular Conchology; or, the Shell Caomet arranged : being an Introduction to the modern System ol Conchology; with a Sketch of the Natural History oi tlie Animals, an Account of the Formation of the Shells, and a complete Descriptive List of the Families and Genera. By Agnes Catlow. New Edition, with numerous additional Woodcuts. Post 8vo. [In the Press. Cecil. — The Stud Parm ; or, Hints on Breeding Horses lor the Turl, the Chase, and the Road. Addressed to Breeders of Race Horses and Hunters, Lauded Proprietors, and especially to Te- nant farmers. By Cecil. Fcp. Svo. with Frontispiece, os. Cecil.—Records of the Chase, and Memoirs of Celebrated Sportsmen, illustrating some of the Usages of Olden Times and comparing them with prevailing Customs : Together with an introduction to most of the Fashionable Hunting Countries; and Comments. By Cecil. With two Plates by B. Herring, Fcp. fivo. price 7*- 6d. The Cabinet Gazetteer: APopu- lar Exposition of all the Countries oi the World ; their Government, Population, Revenues, Commerce and Industries; Agricultural, Manufactured, and Mineral Products ; Religion, Laws, Manners, and Social State : with brief Notices of their History and Antiquities. From the latest Authorities. By the Author of The Cabinet Lawyer. Fcap. 8vo. price 10*. 6d. cloth ; or 13*. calf lettered. Cecil.—Stable Practice; or Hints on Training lor the Turf, the Clmse, and the Road, with Observations on Racing and Hunting, Wasting, Ruce Riding, and Han- dicapping. Addressed to Owners of Racers, Hunters, and other Horses, and to all who are concerned in Racing, Steeple-Chasing, and Fox Hunting. By Cecil. Reap. Svo. with Plate, price 6s. half- bound. The Cabinet Lawyer: A Popu- lar Digest of the Laws of England, Civil and Criminal; with a Dictionary of Law Terms, Maxims, Statutes, and Judicial Anti- quities; Correct Tables of Assessed Taxes, Stamp Duties, Excise Licences, and Post- Horse Duties ; Post-Office Regulations, and Prison Discipline. 16th Edition, compris- ing the Public Acts of the Session 1853. Fcap. Svo. price 10*. 6d.—Supplement, price 1*. Cbalybaeus’s Historical Survey of Modern Speculative Philosophy, from Kant to Hegel. 'Iranslated from the German by Alfred Tulk. Post8vo. [Just ready. Conversations on Botany. New Edition, improved; with 22 Plates. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*. 6<*.; or with the Plates | coloured, J2*.8 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS Captain Chesterton’s Autobio- graphy.— Peace, War, and Adventure: Being an Autobiographical Memoir of George Laval Chesterton, formerly of the Field-Train Department of the Royal Ar- tillery, subsequently a Captain in the Army of Columbia, and at present Governor of the House of Correction at Cold iiatli Fields. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 16*. Chevreul on Colour.—The Prin- ciples of Harmony and Contrast of Colours, and their Applications to the Arts : In- cluding Painting, Interior Decoration, Tapestries, Carpets, Mosaics, Coloured Glazing, Paper-Staining, Calico Printing, Letterpress Printing, Map Colouring, Dress, Landscape and Flower Gardening, etc. By M. E. Chevreul. Membre de l’lnstitut de France, etc. Translated from the French by Charles Martel. Illustrated with Diagrams, etc. Crown 8vo. [In the press. Conybeare and Howson.—The Life and Epistles of Saint Paul : Com- prising a complete Biography of the Apostle, and a Translation of his Epistles inserted in Chronological order. By the Rev. W. J. Conybeare, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; and the Rev. J. S. Howson, M.A. Principal of the Collegiate Institution, Liverpool. With 40 Engravings on Steel and 100 Woodcuts, 2 vols. 4to. price £2. 8s. Copland.—A Dictionary of Prac- tical Medicine : Comprising (general Path- ology, the Nature and Treatment of Dis- eases, Morbid Structures, and tlie Dis- orders especially incidental to Climates, to Sex, and to the different Epochs of Life, with numerous approved Formulae of the Medicines recommended. By James Cop- land, M D.. Consulting Physician to Queen Charlotte’s Lying-in Hospital, etc. Vols. I. and II. 8vo. price <j£3; and Parts X. to XVI. 4#. 6d. each. The Children’s Own Sunday- Book. By Miss Julia Corner, Author of Questions on the History »f Europe. With Two Illustrations. Square fcp. 8vo. price bs. Cresy. — An Encyclopaedia of Civil Engineering, Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Edw. Cresy, F.S.A., C.E. Illustrated by upwards of 3<K)0 Woodcuts, explanatory of the Principles, Machinery, and Constructions which come under the Direction of the Civil Engineer. 8vo. price £3. 13#. 6 d. The Cricket-Field; or, the Sci- .ence and History of the Game. Illustrated with Diagrams, and enlivened with Anec- dotes. By the Author of Principles of Scientific Butting. Fcp. 8vo. with 2 Plates price 5#. half-bound. Lady Cust’s Invalid’s Book.— The Invalid** Own Book : A Collection of Recipes from various Books and various Countries. By the Honourable Lady Cust. Fcp. 8vo. price 3#. 6d. Dale.—The Domestic Liturgy and Family Chaplain, in Two Parts: The F'irst Part being Church Services adapted for Domestic Use, with Prayers for every Day of the Week, selected exclusivelyfrom the Book of Common Prayer. Part II. Comprising an appropriate Sermon for every Sunday in the Year. By the Rev. Thomas Dale, M.A„ Canon-Residentiary of St. Paul’s Cathedral. 2d Edition. Post 4to. 21#. cloth ; 31#. 6d. calf; or <£2.10#. morocco. TliE FAMILY CHAPLAIN, 12#. 1 ^ ( The Domestic Lituroy, 10#. 6d. Davis.—China during the War and since the Peace. By Sir J. F. Davis, Bart., F R S., late H.M. Plenipotentiary in China ; Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Hongkong. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 21#. De Felice.—History of the Pro- testauts of France, from the Commence- ment of the Reformation to the Present Time. Translated from the French of G. De Felice, D.D., Professor of Theology at Montauhan, by E. West: With a Sup- plemental Chapter, written expressly for this tranalation by Dr. De Felice. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 12#. “ We can speak with confidence of the idiomatic accuracy of Mr. West’s trans- lation, whose critical acquaintance with the French language has enabled him to produce a rendering of the French Pro- fessor’s work in the highest degree credit- able to his scholarly ability and taste. He has turned good French into good English, without taking unclassical liberties with either one language or the other. As the work is from the pen of a writer of singular perspicuity, enlarged research, and fervent devotion to the cause of evangelical Protes- tantism, it will he justly regarded by all competent judges as a valuable addition to the literature of our country.”—Evangel*- cal Magazine. Delabeche.—The Geological 0b- server. By Sir Henry T Delabeche, F.R S. Director-General of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom. New Edition ; with numerous Woodcuts. 8vo. pride IS#. Delabeche.—Report on the Geo- logy of Cornwall, Devon, and West Somer- set. By Sir Henry T. Delabeche, F.R.S., Director-General of the Geological Survey. With Maps, Woodcuts, and 12 Plates. 8vo. price 14#. De la Rive.—A Treatise on Elec- tricity, in Theory and Practice. By A. De la Rive, Professor in the Academy of Geneva. In Two Volumes, with numerous Wood Engravings. Vol. 1. 8vo. price 18s.PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 9 The SUPPLEMENT separately, price 6*. [*/uaf ready. Discipline. By the Author of ** Letters to My Unknown Frieuds,” etc. Second Edition, enlarged.„ ISnio. price 2s. 6d. Eastlake.—Materials for a His- tory of Oil Painting. By Sir Charles Lock Eastlake, F.K.S., F.S.A., President of the Royal Academy. 8vo. price 16*. The Eclipse of Faith; or, a Visit to a Religious Sceptic. New Edition. Post Svo. price 9*. 6d. A Defence of The Eclipse of Faith, by its Author ; Being a Rejoinder to Professor Newman’s Reply. Post Svo. price 5s. 6d. The Englishman’s Greek Con- cordance of the New Testament: Being an attempt at a Verbal Connexion between the Greek and the English Texts; including a Concordance to the Proper Names, with Indexes Greek-English and Engiish-Greek. New Edition, with a new Index. Royal Svo. price 42*. The Englishman’s Hebrew and Chaldee Concordance of the Old Testa- ment : Being an attempt at a Verbal Con- nexion between the Original and the English Translations: with Indexes, a List of the Proper Names and their Occurrences, etc. 2 vols. royal 8vo. price ^£3. 13*. 6d. ; large paper, j£4. 14*. 6d. Ephemera. — A Handbook of Angling ^Teaching Fly Fishing, Trolling, Bottom Fishing, and Salmon Fishing ; with the Natural History of River Fish, and the best Modes of Catching them. By Ephe- mera. Third and cheaper Edition, cor- rected and improved; with Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 5*. Ephemera.—The Book of the Salmon: Composing the Theory, Principles, and Practice of Fly-Fishing for Salmon ; Lists of good Salmon Flies for every good River in the F.mpire ; the Natural History of the Salmon, all its known Habits de- scribed, and the best way of artificially Breeding it explained. With numerous coloured Engravings of Salmon Flies and Salmon Fry. By Ephemera; assisted by Andrew Young, Fcp. Svo. with coloured Plates, price 14*. W. Erskine, Esq.—History of India under the House of Taimur (1526 to 1707). By Wm. Erskine, Esq., Editor of Memoir* of the Emperor Baber. The First Volume—History of Baber; His Early Life, 1483-1526; his Reign in India, 1526- 1530. The Second Volume,—History of Huwayun, 1530-1556. Vols. I. and II.8vo, Faraday (Professor).—The Sub- iect-Matter of Six Lectures on the Non- Metallic Elements, delivered before the Members of the Royal Institution in 1852, by Professor Faraday, D.C.L., F.R.S., etc. Arranged by permission from the Lecturer’s Notes by J. Scoffern, M.B., late Professor of Chemistry in the Alders- gate College of Medicine. To which are appended Remarks on the Quality and Tendencies of Chemical Philosophy, on Allotropism, and on Ozone; together with Manipulative Details relating to the Per- formances of Experiments indicated bv Professor Faraday. Fcp. Svo. price 5*. 6<f. Forester and Biddulph’s Nor- way.—Norway in 1848 and 1849: Containing Rambles among the Fjelds and Fjords of the Central and Western Districts; and including Remarks on its Political, Military, Ecclesiastical, and Social Organisation. By Thomas Forester, Esa.; and Lieutenant M. S. Biddulph, Royal Artillery. With Map, Woodcuts,and Plates. 8vo.price 18s. Francis. — Annals, Anecdotes, and Legends: A Chronicle of Life Assur- ance. By John Francis, Author of The History of the Bank of England, "Chro- nicles and Characters of the Stock Ex- change,” and A History of the English Railway. Post Svo. price 8*. 6d. The Poetical Works of Oliver Goldsmith. Edited by Bolton Cornet, Esq. Illustrated by Wood Engravings, from Designs by Members of the Etching Club. Square crown Svo. cloth, 2l*.; morocco <£1. 16*. Mr. W. R. Greg’s Contributions to the Edinburgh Review.—Essays on Poli- tical and Social Science. Contributed chiefly to the Edinburgh Review. By William B,. Greg, 2 vols. Svo. price 24*. Gurney.—Historical Sketches ; Illustrating some Memorable Events and Epochs, from a.d. 1400 to a d. 1546. By the Rev. John Hampden Gurnf.y, M.A., Rector of St. Mary’s, Mary-le-bone. Feu. 8vo. 7*. 6d. * Gosse.—A Naturalist’s Sojourn in Jamaica. By P. H. Gosse, Esq. With Plates. Post 8vo. price 14*. Gwilt. — An Encyclopaedia of Architecture, Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Joseph Gwilt. Illustrated with more than One Thousand Engravings on Wood, from Designs by J. S. Gwilt. Second Edition, with a Supplemental View of the Symmetry and Stability of Gothic Architecture: Comprising upwards of Eighty additional Woodcuts. 8vo. price 52*. 6d.10 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS Sidney Hall’s General Large Library Atlas of Fifty-three Maps (size 20 in. by 16 in.), with the Divisions and Bound- aries carefully coloured ; and an Alpha- betical Index of all the Names contained in the Maps. New Edition, corrected from the best and most recent Authorities ; with the Railways laid down, and many entirely new Maps. Coloiubier 4to. price £h. h». half-russia. Hamilton.—Discussions in Phi- losophy .and Literature, Education and University Reform. Chiefly from the Edin- burgh Review; corrected, vindicated, en- larged* in Notes and Appendices. By Sir William Hamilton, Bart. Second Edi- tion, with Additions. 8vo. price 21s. Hare (Archdeacon).— The Life of Luther, in Forty-eight Historical En- gravings. By Gustav KSnio. With Ex- planations by Archdeacon Hare- Square crown 8vo. [In the preu. Harrison. — The Light of the Forge; or. Counsels drawn from the Sick- Bed of E. M. Bv the Rev. William Harrison, M.A., Rector of Birch, Essex, and Domestic Chaplain to H. R. H. the Duchess of Cambridge. With 2 Wood- cuts. Fcp. Svo. price 5#. Harry Hieover.—The Hunting- Field. By Harry Hieover. With Two Plates, one representing The Right Sort; the other, The Wrong Sort. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. Harry Hieover. — Practical Horsemanship. By Harry Hieover. With 2 Plates, one representing Going like Workmen ; the other. Going like Mofft. Fcp. 8vo. 5*. half-bound. Harry Hieover.—The Stud, for Practical Purposes and Practical Men t being a Guide to the Choice of a Horse for use more than for show. By Harrv Hik- over. With 2 Plates, one representing A pretty good tort for mott purpotet; the other, Knythcr a bad tort for any purpotc. Fcp. 8vo. price Sr. half-bound. Harry Hieover. — The Pocket and the Stud; or, Practical Hints on the Management of the Stable. By Harry Hieover. Second Edition ; with Portrait of the Author on his favourite Horse Harlequin. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. half-bound. Harry Hieover. — Stable Talk and Table Talk ; or Spectacles for Young Sportsmen. By Harry Hieover. New Edition, 2 vols. Svo. with Portrait, 24s. Haydn’s Book of Dignities: con- taining Rolls of the Official Personages of the British Empire, Civil, Ecclesiastical, Judicial, Military, Naval, and Municipal, from the Earliest Periods to the Present Time: compiled chiefly from the Records of the Public Offices. Together with the So- vereigns of Europe, from the Foundation of their respective States; the Peerage and Nobility of Great Britain; and numerous other Lists. Being a New Edition, im- proved and continued, of Beatson's Political Index, By Joseph Haydn, Compiler of The Dictionary of Datet, and other Works. 8vo. price 25#. half-bound. Kaydon.—The Life of Benjamin Robert Haydon, Historical Painter, from his Autobiography and Journals. Edited and compiled by Tom Taylor* M.A.«of the Inner Temple, Esq.; late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge ; and late Pro fessor of the English Language and Litera- ture in University College, London. Se- cond Edition, with Additions and an Index. 3 vols. post Svo. price 31s. 6d. Sir John Herschel. — Outlines of Astronomy. By Sir John F. W. Hp.ks- chfl, Bart. etc. New Edition; with Plates and Wood Engravings. Svo. price 18#. Hill.—Travels in Siberia and Russia. By S. S. Hill, Esq. 2 vols. post 8vo. with Map. Hints on Etiquette and the Usages of Society: With a Glance at Bad Habits. By AyotySfr “Manners make the Man.'* New Edition, revised (with Ad- ditions) by a Ladyof Rank. Fcp. 8vo. price Hnlf-a-Crown. Hole.—Prize Essay on the His- tory and Management of Literary, Scien- tific, and Mechanics' Institutions, and especially how far they may be developed and combined so as to promote the Moral Well-being and Industry of the Country. By James Hole, Hon. Secretary of the Yorkshire Union of Mechanics' Institutes. Svo. price 5#. Lord Holland’s Memoirs. — Memoirs of the Whig Party during My Time. By Henry Richard Lord Hol- land. Edited by his Son, Henry Ed- ward Lord Hoij.and. Vols. 1. and II. post Svo. price 9# 6d. rath. Lord Holland’s Foreign Remi- niscences. Edited by his Son, Henry Ed- ward Lord Holland. Second Edition ; with Facsimile. Post Svo, price JO#. 6d.PUBLISHED by LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co 11 Holland.—Chapters on Mental Physiology. BySirHENRY Holland, Bart., F. U.S., Physician-Extraordinary to the Queeu ; and Physician in Ordinary to His Royal Highness Prince Albert. Founded chiefly on Chapters contained in Medical Note* and Reflection*, by the same Author. Ftp. 8vo. price 10s. 6d. Hook. — The Last Days of Our Lord’s Ministry : A Course of Lectures on the principal Events of Passion Week. By Walter Farquhar Hook, D.D., Chap- lain in Ordinary to the Queen. New Edi- tion. Fcp. 8vo. price 6s. Hooker and Arnott.—The Bri- tish Flora; Comprising the Phtcnogamous or Flowering Plants, and the Ferns. The Sixth Edition, with Additions and Correc- tions, and numerous F'igures, illustrative of the Umbelliferous Plants, the Compo- site Plants, the Grasses, and the Ferns. By Sir W. J. Hooker, F.R.A. and L.S. etc., and G. A. Walker Arnott. J.L.D , F.L S. 12mo. with 12 Plates, price 14s., with the Plates coloured, price 21s. Hooker.—Kew Gardens; or, a Popular Guide to the Royal Botanic Gardens of Kew. Bv Sir William Jackson Hooker. K.H., D.C.L., F.R.A. aud L.S., etc. etc. Director. New Edition ; with numerous Wood Engravings. 16mo. price Sixpence. Horne.—An Introduction to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holv Scriptures. By Thomas Hartwell Horne, B.D. of St. John’s College, Cambridge. Pre- bendary of St. Paul’s. New Edition, re- vised and corrected ; with numerous Maps, and Facsimiles of Biblical Manuscripts, 5 ▼ois. 8vo. price S3*. Horne.—A Compendious Intro- duction to the Study of the Bible. By Thomas Hartwell Horne. B.D. of St. John’s College, Cambridge. Being an Ana- lysis of bis Introduction to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holy Scrip- tures. New Edition, corrected and en- larged ; with Maps and other Engravings. )2mo. price 9*. Howitt.— (A. M.) An Art Stu- dent in Munich, By Anna Mary Howitt, 2 vols. post 3vo. price 14*. Howitt.—The Children’s Year. By Mary Howitt. With Four Illustrations, engraved by John Ahsolon, from Original Designs hy Anna Mary Howitt. Square 16mo. price 5*. William Howitt’s Boy’s Coun- try Book. Being the real Life of a Country Boy, written by Himself: Exhibiting all the Amusements, Pleasures, and Pursuits of Children in the Country. New Edition; with 40 Woodcuts. Fcp. f*vo. price 6*. Howitt.—The Rural Life of En- gland. By William Howitt. New Edition, corrected and revised; with Woodcuts hy Bewick and Williams; uniform with Visits to Remarkable Places. Medium 8vo. 21*. Howitt.-Visits to Remarkable Places; Old Halls, Battle-Fields, and Scenes illustrative of Striking Passages in English History and Poetry. By William Howitt. New Edition ; with 40 Woodcuts. Medium 8vo. 21*. Second Series, chiefly in the Counties of Northumberland and Durham, with a Stroll along the Border. With up- wards of 40 Woodcuts. Medium 8vo. 21*. Hudson. — Plain Directions for Making Wills in conformity with the Law: with a clear Exposition of the Law relating to the Distribution of Personal Estate in the case of Intestacy, two Forms of Wills, and much useful Information. By J. C. Hudson, Esq., late of the Legacy Duty Office, London. New and enlarged Edition , including the provisions of the Wills Act Amendment Act of 1852, (introduced by Lord St. Leonards). Fcp.Svo. 2*.6d. Hudson.—TheExecutor’s Guide. By J. C. Hudson, Esq., New and enlarged Edition; with the Addition of Directions for paying Succession Duties on Real Pro- erty under Wills and Intestacies, and a ’able for finding the Vnlues of Annuities and the Amount of Legacy and Succession Duty thereon. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. Humboldt’s Aspects of Nature. Translated,with the Author’s authority, by Mrs. Sabine. New Edition. 16mo. price 6*.: or in 2 vols. 3*. 6d. each cloth ; 2*. 6<f. each sewed. Humboldt’s Cosmos. — Trans- lated with the Author’s authority, by Mrs. Sabine. Vols. I. and II. l6mo. Half-a- Crown each, sewed ; 3.t. fid. each cloth : or in post 8vo. 12*. fid. each cloth. Vol. III. post 8vo. 12*. 6rf. each cloth: or in 16ino. Part I. 2*. 6rf. sewed, 3*. fid. cloth; and Part II. 3*. sewed, 4*. cloth. Humphreys. — Sentiments and Similes of Shakspeare : A Classified Se- lection of Similes, Definitions, Descrip- tions, and other remarkable Passages in Shakspeare’s Plays and Poems. With an elaborately illuminated border in the cha- racteristic style of the Elizabethan Period, massive carved covers, and other Embel - lishments, designed and executed by H. N. Humphreys. Square, post 8vo. price 21*. The Report of the Committee appointed by the Council of the Society of Arts to inquire into the Subject of Indus- trial Instruction. With the Evidences. 8vo. price 5*.NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS 12 price 6*. M.A., F.C.P.S., etc. 2 vols. 8vo. price 28*. Jameson.—A Commonplace Book of Thoughts, Memories, and Fancies, Ori- inal and Selected. Part I. Ethics and haracter; Part II. Literature and Art. By Mrs. Jameson. With Etchings and Wood Engravings. Square crown 8vo. [Just ready. Mrs. Jameson’s Legends of the Saints and Martyrs. Forming the First Series of Sacred and Legendary Art. Second Edition ; with numerous Wood- cuts, and 16 Etchings by the Author. Square crown 8vo. price 28*. Mrs. Jameson’s Legends of the Monastic Order, as represented in the Fine Arts. F'orming the Second Series of Sacred and Legendary Art. Second Edi- tion, corrected and enlarged ; with 11 Etch- ings by the Author, and 88 Woodcuts. Square crown 8vo. price 28*. Mrs. Jameson’s Legends of the Madonna, as represented in the Fine Arts. Forming the Third Series of Sacred and Legendary Art. With 55 Drawings by the Author, and 152 Wood Engravings. Square crown 8vo. price 28*. Lord Jeffrey’s Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. A New Edition, complete in One Volume, with a Portrait engraved by Henry Robinson, and a Vig- nette View of Craigcrook, engraved by J. Cousen. Square crown 8vo. 21*. cloth; or 30*. calf. *.* Also a LIBRARY EDITION, in 3 ols. 8vo. price 42*. Bishop Jeremy Taylor’s Entire Works : with Life, by Bishop Heber. Re- vised and corrected by the Rev. Charles Page Eden, Fellow of Oriel College, Ox- ford. In Ten Volumes. Vols. II. to X. 8vo. price Half*a-Guinea each. Vol. I. comprising Bishop Heber’s Life of Jeremy Taylor, ex- tended by the Editor, is nearly ready. Johnston.—A New Dictionary of Geography, Descriptive, Physical, Statis- tical, and Historical: Forming a complete General Gazetteer of the World. By Alex- ander Keith Johnston, V. R.S.E., F.R.G.S.F.G.S.; Geographer at Edinburgh inOrdinary to Her Majesty. In One Volume of 1,440 pages , comprising nearly 50,000 Names of Places. 8vo. price 36*. cloth ; or half-bound in russia, 41*. Kemble.—The Saxons in Eng- land : A History of the English Common- wealth till the period of the Norinan Con- quest. By John Mitchell Kemble, Kippis’s Collection of Hymns and Psalms for Public and Private Worship. New Edition: including a New Supple- ment by the Rev. Edmund Kell, M.A. 18rao. price 4*. cloth; or 4s. 6d. roan.— The Supplement, separately, price Eight- pence. Kirby.—The Life of the Rev. William Kirby,M.A.,F.R.S.,F\L.S., etc. Rector of Barham. Author of one of the BridgewaterTreatises, and Joint-Author of the Introduction to Entomoloey. By the Rev. John Freeman, M.A., Rector of Ashwicken, Norfolk, and Rural Dean. With Portrait, Vignette, and Facsimile. 8vo. price 15*. Kirby & Spence’s Introduction to Entomology; or, Elements of the Na- tural History of Insects: comprising an account of noxious and useful Insects, of their Metamorphoses, Food, Stratagems, Habitations, Societies, Motions, Noises, Hybernation, Instinct, etc. New Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. with Plates, price 31*. 6d. Laing’s (S.) Observations on the Social and Political State of Denmark find the Duchies of Sleswick and Holstein in 1851: Being the Third Series of Notes of a Tra- veller. 8vo. price 12*. Laing’s (S.) Observations on the Social and Political State of the European People in 1848 and 1849: Being the Se- cond Series of Notes of a Traveller. 8vo. price 14*. L. E. L.—The Poetical Works of Letitia Elizabeth Landon ; comprising the Improoitatrice, the Venetian Brace- let, the Golden Violet, the Troubadour, and Poetical Remains. New Edition; with 2 Vignettes by Richard Doyle. 2 vols. 16mo. 10*. cloth; morocco, 21*. Dr. Latham on Diseases of the Heart. Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine: Diseases of the Heart. By P. M. Latham, M.D., Physician Extraordinary to the (iueen. New Edition. 2 vols. 12mo. price 16*. Mrs. R. Lee’s Elements of Na- tural History; or First Principles of Zoo- logy : comprising the Principles of Classi- fication, interspersed with amusing and instructive Account? of the most remark- able Animals. New Edition, enlarged; with numerous additional Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*. 6d. Letters on Happiness, addressed to a Friend. By the Author of Letters to My Unknown Friends, etc. F'cp. 8vo.13 published by LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. LARDNER’S CABINET CYCLOP/EDIA. £c«“ e^A “n<1 SCie"Ce8’ Na‘Ural HUt0r* *"d M“u‘ SIR JOHN HKRSCHEL, sir james mackintosh, ROBERT SOUTHEY, SIR DAVID BREWSTER, THOMAS KEIGHTLEY, JOHN FORSTER, sir Walter scott, THOMAS MOORE, BISHOP THIRLWALL. THE REV G. R. GLE1G, J. C. L DE SISMONDI, JOHN PHILLIPS, F.R.S., G.S. And other Eminent Writers. Complete in 132 vols. cp. 8yo. with Vignette Titles, price, in cloth, Nineteen Guineas. The Works separately, in Sets or Series, price Three Shillings and Sixpence each Volume. A List of the Works composing Bell’s History of Russia . 3 vols. 10s. 6d. Bell’s Lives of British Poets,2 vols. 7s. Brewster’s Optics, . . 1 vol. 3». 6d. . Cooley’s Maritime and In- land Discovery . . 3 vols. 10s. 6d. Crowe’s History of France, 3 vols. 10*. Gd. De Morgan on Probabilities, 1 vol. 3s. Gd. De Sismondi’s History of the Italian Republics . 1 vol. 3s. 6d. . De Sismondi’s Fall of the Homan Empire . . 2 vols. 7s. . Donovan’s Chemistry . 1vol. 3s. 6<f. . Donovan’s Domestic Eco- nomy .... 2 vols. 7s. Dunham’s Spain and Por- tugal . . . . 5 vols. 17s. 6d. Dunham’s History of Den- mark, Sweden, and Nor- way .... 3 vols. 10s. 6d. Dunham’s History of Po- land .... 1 vol. 3s. 6d. Dunham’s]Germanic Em- pire .... 3 vols. 10s. 6d. Dunham’s Europe during the Middle A^es . . 4 vols. 14s. Dunham’s British Drama. tints . . . .2 vols. Dunham’s Lives of Early Writers ofGreat Britain, 1 vol. Fergus’s History of the United States . . 2 vols. Fosbroke’s Greek and Ro- man Antiquities . . 2 vols. Forster’s Lives of the Statesmen of the Com- monwealth . . . 5 vols. 17s. 6rf. Gleijf’s Lives of British Military Commanders 3 vols. 10s. 6d. 22. Grattan’s History of the Netherlands. . . 1 vol. 23. Henslow’s Botany . . 1 vol. 24. Herschel’a Astronomy . 1vol. 25. Herschel’s Discourse on Natural Philosophy . 1 vol. 26. History of Rome . 2 vols. 27. History of Switzerland . 1vol. 28. Holland’s Manufactures in Metal, .... 3 vols. 10s. 6rf. 29. James’s Lives of Foreign Statesmen . . 5 vols. 17s. Gd. 30. Kater and Larduer’s Me- chanics . . .1 vol. 3s. 6d. 31. Keightley’s Outlines of History . . . . 1vol. 3s.6rf. 32. Lardner’s Arithmetic . 1vol. 3s. Gd. 33. Lardner’s Geometry . 1 vol. 3s. 6d. the CABINET CYCLOPAEDIA: 7*. 3s.6rf. 7s. 7s. 3s. Gd. 3s. Gd. 3s. Gd. 3s. Gd. 7s. 3s. 6<f. 34. 35 I 36. ' 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49. 50. 51. 52. 53. 54. 55. 56. 57. 58. 59. 60. 61. 62. Lardner on Heat . . 1 vol. Lardner’s Hydrostatics and Pneumatics . .1 vol. Lardnerand Walker’s Elec- tricity and Magnetism, 2 vols. Mackintosh, Forster, and Courtenay’s Lives of Bri- tish Statesmen . . 7 vols. . Mackintosh, Wallace, and Bell’s History of Eng- land .... 10 rols. . Montgomery and Shelley’s Eminent Italian,Spanish, and PortugueseAuthors,3 vols. Moore’s History of I reland, 4 vols, Nicolas’s Chronology of History. . . 1 y0I. Phillips’ Treatise on Geo- „ .... 2 vols. Powell s History of Natural Philosophy . . . 1 vol. Porter’s Treatise on the Manufacture of Silk . 1 vol. Porter’s Manufacture of Porcelain and Glass . 1 vol. Roscoe’s British Lawyers, 1 vol. Scott’s History of Scot- land .... 2 vols. Shelley’s Lives of Eminent French Authors . . 2vols. Shuckard and Swainson’s Insects .... 1 vol. Southey’s Lives of British Admirals . . . 5 vols. Stebbing’s Church History, 2voIs Stebbing’s History of the Reformation . . 2 vols. Swainson’s Discourse on Natural History . . ] T01. Swainson’s Natural His- tory and Classification of Animals . . . 1 vol. Swainson’s Habits and In- stincts of Animals . 1 vol. Swainson’s Birds . . 2 vols. Swainson’s Fish, Reptiles, etc 2 vols. Swainson’s Quadrupeds . 1 vol. Swainson’s Shells and Shell fish . . . 1vol. 3*. fid. Swainson’s Animaisin Me- nageries . . . 1vol. 3s. fid. Swaiuson’s Taxidermyand Biography of Zoologists 1 vol. 3s. 6d. Thirlwail’s History of Greece .... 8vols. 28s, 3s. 6d 3s. fid. 7s. 24s. 6d. 35s. 10s. 6d. 14s. 3s. 6d. . 7s. 3s. 6d. 3s. 6d. 3s. fid. 3s. 6d. 7s. 7s. 3s. 6d. 17*. 6d. 7s. 7s. 3s. fid. 3s.fid. 3s. 6d. 7s. 7s. 3s. fid.NEW WOItKS and NEW EDITIONS 14 bv Mrs. Loudon. 8vo. price 50*. Supplement separately, price 14#. Letters to my Unknown Friends Bv a Lady, Author of Letters on Hap pi- neu. Fourth and cheaper Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 5s. Lindley.—The Theory of Horti- culture; Or, an Attempt to explain the principal Operation* of Gardening upon Physiological Principles. ByJohn Lindley, Ph.L). F'.R.S. New Edition, revised and improved; with Wood Engravings. 8vo. [In the press. Dr. John Lindley’s Introduction to Botany. New Edition, with Corrections and copious Additions. 2 vols 8vo. with Six Plates and numerous Woodcuts, 24s. Linwood.—Anthologia Oxonien- sis, sive, Florilcgium e lusibus poeticis di- versorum Oxoniensium Graecis et Latinis decerptum. Curante Gulielmo Linwood, M.A. iEdis Christi Alummo. 8vo. price 14s. Lr. Little on Deformities.—On the Nature and Treatment of Deformities of the Human Frame. By W. J. Little, M.D., Physician to the London Hospital, Founder of the Royal Orthopedic Hospital, etc. With 160 VV'oodcuts and Diagrams. 8to. price 15s. Litton.—The Church of Christ, in its Idea, Attributes, and Ministry: With a particular Reference to the Controversy on the Subject between Romanists and Pro- testants. By the Rev. Edward Arthur Litton, M.A., Vice-Principal of St. Edmund Hall, Oxford. 8vo. price 16s. Lorimer’s (C.)Letters toaYoung Master Mariner on some Subjects connected with ilia Calling. New Edition. Fcp. Svo. price 5a. 6d. Loudon’s Self-Instruction for Young Gardeners, Foresters, Bailiffs, Land Stewards, and Farmers; in Arith- metic, Book-keeping, Geometry, Mensur- ation, Practical Trigonometry, Mechanics, Land-Surveying, Levelling, Planning and Mapping, Architectural Drawing, and Iso- metrical Projection and Perspective: With Examples shewing their applications to Horticultural and Agricultural Purposes ; a Memoir, Portrait, and Woodcuts. 8vo. price Js. 6d. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Gar- (lening; comprising the Theory and Prac- tice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arbori- culture, and Landscape Gardening : Includ- ing all the latest improvements, a General History of Gardening in all Countries; a Statistical View- of its Present State ; and Suggestions for its Future Progress in the British Isle*. With many hundred Wood- cuts. New Edition, corrected and improved Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Trees and Shrubs; or the Arboretum et Vrutice- tum Bn tannic urn abridged: Containing the Hardy 1 revs and Shrubs of Great Britain, Native and Foreign, Scientifically and Popularly Described: with their Pro- pagation. Culture, and Uses in the Arts ; and with Engravings of nearly all the Spe- cies. Adapted for the use of Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Foresters. With about 2,000 Woodcuts, 8vo. price 50s. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Agri- culture: comprising the Theory and Prac- tice of the Valuation,Transfer, Laying-out, Improvement, and Management of Landed Property, and of the Cultivation and Eco- nomy of the Animal and Vegetable Pro- ductions of Agriculture ; Including all the latest improvements, a general Historv of Agriculture in all Countries, a Statistical View of its present State, and Suggestions for its future progress in the British Isles. New Edition ; with 1,100 Woodcuts. Svo. price 50s. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Plants, including ail the Plants which are now found in, or have been introduced into, Great Britain, giving their Natural History, accompanied oy such descriptions, en- graved Figures, and elementary detail*, as may enable a beginner, who is a mere En- glish reader, to discover the name of every Plant which he may find in flower, and ac- quire all the information respecting it which is useful and interesting. New Edition, corrected throughout and brought down to the year 1854, by Mrs. Loudon and George Don, Esq., F.L.S., etc. 8vo [In the Sprtng. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Cot- tage, Farm, and Villa Architecture and Furniture : containing numerous Designs, from the Villa to the Cottage and the F'arm, including Farm Houses, Farmeries, aud other Agricultural Buildings; Coun- try inns, Public Houses, and Parochial Schools, with the requisite Fittings-up, Fixtures, and Furniture, and appropriate Offices, Gardens, and Garden Scenery : Each Design accompanied by Analytical and Critical Remarks. New Edition, edited by Mrs. Loudon ; with more than 2,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. price 63#. Loudon’s Hortus Britannicusj Or, Catalogue of all the Plants indigenous to, cultivated in, or introduced, into Britain. An eutlrely New Edition corrected through- out: With a Supplement, including all the New Plants, and a New General Index to the whole Work. F.dited by Mrs. Lou- don ; assisted by W. H. Baxter and David Wooster. 8vo. price 3D. fid.—Thepublished BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 15 price One Shilling each. price 42s. Mrs. Loudon’s Amateur Gar- dener’s Calendar; Being; a Monthly Guide na to what should be avoided as well ah what should be done in a Garden in each Month : with plain llules how to do what is requisite; Directions for Laying!Out and Planting Kitchen and Flower Gardens, Pleasure Grounds, and Shrubberies ; and a short account, in each Month, of the Qua- drupeds, Birds, and Insects, then most injurious to Gardens. l6mo. with Wood- cuts, price 7s. 6d. Mrs. Loudon’s Lady’s Country Companion ; or, How to Enjoy a Country Life Rationally. Fourth Edition, witn Plates and Wood Engravings. Fcp. Svo. price 5s. Low.—A Treatise on the Do- mestieated Animals of the British Islands: comprehending the Natural and Econo- mical History of Species and Varieties ; the Description of the Properties of external Form; and Observations on the Principles and Practice of Breeding. By D. Low, Esq., F.R.S.E. With Wood Engravings. Svo. price 25s. Low. — Elements of Practical Agriculture; comprehending the Cultiva- tion of Plants, the Husbandry of the Do- mestic Animals, and the Economy of the Farm. By D. Low, Esq., F.R.S.E. New Edition; with 2UU Woodcuts,8vo.price 21s. Macaulay. —Speeches of the Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay, M.P. Cor- rected by Himself. 8vo. price 12s. Macaulay.—The History ofEng- land from the Accession of James 11. By Thomas Babinqton Macaulay, New Edition. Vols. 1. and II. Svo. price 32#. Mr. Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays contributed to the Edin- burgh Review. Four Editions, as follows 1. Library Edition (the Seventh), in 3 vols. Svo. price 36s. 2. Complete in One Volume, with Port- trait and Vignette. Square crown 8vo. price 21s. cloth ; or 30s. calf. 3. Another Edition, In 3 vols. fcp. Svo. price 21s. 4. People's Edition, in course of publi- cation, crown Hvo. in Weekly Num- bers at 1 \d. and in 7 Monthly Parts, Macaulay. — Lays of Ancient Rome, with Ivry and the Armada. By Thomas Babinoton Macaulay. New Edition. 16mo. price 4s. 6d. cloth; or 10s. 6d. bound in morocco. Mr. Macaulay’s Lays of Ancient Rome. With numerous Illustrations, Ori- ginal and from the Antique, drawn on Wood by George Scarf, jun., and engraved by Samuel Williams. New Edition. Fcp. 4to. price 21s. boards, or 42s. bound in morocco. Macdonald. — Villa Verocchio 5 or the Youth of Leonardo da Vinci ; A Tale. By the late Diana Louisa Mac- donald. Fcp. 8vo. price 6s. Sir James Mackintosh’s History of England from the Earliest Times to the final Establishment of the Reformation. Being that portion of the Hittory of Eng- land published in Dr. Lardner's Cabinet Cyclopaedias which was contributed by Sir James Mackintosh. Library Edition, re- vised by the Author's Bon, 2 vols. 8vo. price 21s. Mackintosh.—Sir James Mack- intosh’s Miscellaneous Works : Including his Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. A New Edition, complete in One Volume ; with Portrait and Vignette. Square crown 8vo. price 21s. cloth ; or 30s. bound in calf. MlCulloch. — A Dictionary, Practical, Theoretical, and Historical, of Commerce and Commercial Navigation. Illustrated with Maps and Plans. By J. R. McCulloch, Esq. New Edition (1854), adapted to the Present Time ; and embrac- ing a large mass of new and important In- formation in regard to the Trade, Commer- cial Law, and Navigation of this and other Countries. Svo. price 50s. cloth ; half-russia, with flexible back, 55s. M‘Culloch. — A Dictionary, Geographical, Statistical, and Historical, of the various Countries, Places, and Prin- cipal Natural Objects in the World. By J. R. M'Culloch, Esq. Illustrated with Six large Maps. New Edition, with a Supple ment, comprising the Population of Great Britain from the Census of 1851. 2 vols. Svo. price 63s. M‘Culloch. — An Account, De- scriptive and Statistical of the British Empire ; Exhibiting its Extent, Physical Capacities, Population, Industry, and Civil and Religious Institutions. By J. R.M'Cul- loch, Esq. New Edition, corrected, en- larged. and greatly improved. 2 vols. 8vo.10 NEW WOliKS AND NEW EDITIONS Maitland.—The Church in the Catacombs: A Description of the Primi- tive Church of Home, illustrated by its Sepulchral Remains. By the Rev.Charles Maitland. New* Edition, with many Wood- cuts. 8vo. price 14s. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Chemistry, in which the Elements of that Science are familiarly Explained and Illus- trated by Experiments. New Edition, en- larged and improved. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. price 14«. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Natural Philosophy, in which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained. New Edition, enlarged and corrected ; with 23 Plates. Fcp. 8vo. price 10#. 64. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Political Economy, in which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*. 64. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Vegetable Physiology; comprehending the Elements of Botany, with their Application to Agriculture. New Edition; with Four Plates. Fcp. 8vo. price 9#. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Land and Water. New Edition, revised and corrected ; with a coloured Map, shew- ing the comparative Altitude of Mountains. Fcp. 8vo. price 5#. 64. Martineau.—Church History in England: Being a Sketch of the History of the Church of England from the Earliest Times to the Period of the Reformation. By the Rev. Arthur Martineau, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. 12mo. price 6i. Maunder’s Biographical Trea- sury ; consisting of Memoirs, Sketches, and brief Notices of above 12,000 Eminent Per- sons of all Ages and Nations, from the Earliest Period of History; forming a new and complete Dictionary of Universal Bio- graphy. The Eighth Edition, revised throughout, and brought down to the close of the year 1853. Fcp. 8vo. 10*. cloth; bound in roan, 12*.; calf lettered, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Historical Treasury 5 comprising a General Introductory Outline of Universal History, Ancient and Modern, and a Series of separate Histories of every rincipal Nation that exists; their Rise, rogress, and Present Condition, the Moral and Social Character of their respective Inhabitants, their Religion, Manners, and Customs, etc., etc. New Edition ; revised throughout, and brought down to the Pre- sent Time. Fcp. 8vo. 10*. cloth; roan, 12*.; calf, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Scientific and Lite- rary>Treasury : A New and Popular En- cyclopaedia of Science and the Belles- Lettres ; including all Branches of Science, and every subject connected with Litera- ture and Art. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. f rice 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*.; calf ettered, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Treasury of Natural History; Or, a Popular Dictionary of Ani- mated Nature: In which the Zoological Characteristics that distinguish the different Classes,Genera, and Species, are combined with a variety of interesting Information illustrative of the Habits, Instincts, and General Economy of the Animal Kingdom. With 900 Woodcuts. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 10*. cloth ; roan, 12#.; calf, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Treasury of Know- ledge, and Library of Reference. Compris- ing an English Dictionary and Grammar, an Universal Gazetteer, a Classical Diction- ary, a Chronology, a Law Dictionary, a Synopsis of the Peerage, numerous useful Tables, etc. The Twentieth Edition care- fully revised and corrected throughout : With some Additions. Fcp 8vo. price 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*.; calf, 12*. 64. Merivale. — A History of the Romans under the Empire. By the Rev. Charles Merivale, B.D., late Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. Vols. 1. and II. 8vo. price 28*.; and Vol. Ill.com pleting the History to the Establishment of the Monarchy by Augustus, price 14*. Merivale.—The Fall of the Bo- man Republic : A Short History of the last Century of the Commonwealth. Bv the Rev Charles Merivale, B D., late Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. 12mo. price It. 64. Merivale.—Memoirs of Cicero: A Translation of Cicero in hit Let ten, by Bernard Rudolph Abekeu. Edited by the Rev. Charles Merivale, B.D. 12mo. Milner’s History of the Church of Christ With Additions by the late Rev. Isaac Milner, D.D., F.R.S. A New Edition, revised, with additional Notes by the Rev. T. Grantham, B.D. 4 vols. 8vo. price 52*. Montgomery.—Original Hymns for Public, Social, and Private Devotion. By James Montgomery. 18mo. 5*. 64.17 published BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. James Montgomery’s Poetical Works; Collective Edition; with the Author’s Autobiographical Prefaces. A New Edition, complete in One Volume;' with Portrait and Vignette. Square crown 8vo. price 10s. 6d. cloth ; morocco, 21-5.— Or ip 4 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Portrait, and Seven other Plates, price 20s. cloth; morocco, 36«. Moore.—Man and his Motives. By Gkorge Moore, M.D., Member of the Royal College of Physicians. Third and cheaper Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6s. Moore.—The Power of the Soul over the Body, considered in relation to Health and Morals. By George Moore, M.l>., Member of the Royal College of Physicians, etc. Fifth and cheaper Edition. «Fep. 8vo. furice 6s. Moore.—The Use of the Body in relation to the Mind. By George Moore, MJ>., Member of the Royal College of Physicians, Third and cheaper Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6s. Moore. — Health, Disease, and Remedy, familiarly and practically con- sidered in a few of their Relations to the Blood. By George Moore. M.D. Post 8vo. 7*. 6d. Moore.—Memoirs, Journal, and Correspondence of Thomas Moore. Edited by the Right Hon. Lord John Russell, M .P. With Portraits and Vignette lllustra- tions. Vols. 1. to IV. post 8vo. price 10s. Gd. each. The Fifth and Sixth Volumes of MOORE'S MEMOIRS, JOURNAL, and CORRESPONDENCE, with Portraits of Lord John Russell and Mr. Corry, and Vignettes, byT. Creswick, R.A., of Moore’s Residence at Paris and at Sloperton. Vols. V. and VI. postSvo. price 21a. Thomas Moore’s Poetical Works. Containing the Author’s -recent Introduc- tion and Notes Complete in One Volume; with a Portrait, and a View of Sloperton Cottage. Medium Svo. price 21s. cloth; morocco 425. %* Also a New and Cheaper Issue of the First collected Edition of the above, in 10 vols. fcp. Svo. with Portrait, and 19 Plates, price 35*. Moore. — Songs, Ballads, and Sacred Songs. By Thomas Moore, Author of Lalla fiookh, etc. First collected Edition, with Vignette bv R. Doyle, lfimo. price 58. cloth; 125. 6d. bound in morocco. Moore’s Irish Melodies. New Edition, with the Autobiographical Preface from the Collective Edition of Mr. Moore’s Poetical Works, and a Vignette Title by D. Maclise, R.A. lGmo. price 5a. cloth ; 12r. 6d. bound in morocco* Moore’s Irish Melodies. Illus- trated by D. Maclise, R.A. New and cheaper Edition [ with 161 Designs, and the whole of the Letter-press engraved on Steel, bv F. P. Becker. Super royal Svo. price 31s. 6</. boards; bound in morocco, <£2. 125. 6d. * The Original Edition of the above, in Imperial 8vo. price OS1*, boards; morocco., <£4. 14s. 6d.; proofs, dCG. G«. boards,—may still be had. Moore’s Lalla Rookh: An Ori- ental Romance. New Edition; with the Autobiographical Preface from the Col- lective Edition of Mr. Moore’s Poetical Works, and a Vignette Title by 1). Maclise, R.A. 16mo. price 5s. cloth; 125. 6d. bound in morocco. Moore’s Lalla Rookh: An Ori- ental Romance. With 13 highly-finished Steel Plates, from Designs by Corbould, Meadows, and Stephanoft, engraved under the superintendence of the late Charles Heath. New Edition. Square crown 8vo. price 155. cloth ; morocco, 285. A few copies of the Original Edition, in royal 8vo. price One Guinea, still remain. Morton.—A Manual of Pharmacy for the Student of Veterinary Medicine: Containing the Substances employed at the Royal Veterinary College, with an attempt at their Classification; and the Pharma- copoeia of that Institution. By W. J. T. Morton, Professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica in the College. Fifth Edition (1854). Fcp. 8vo. price 105. Moseley.—The Mechanical Prin- ciples of Engineering and Architecture. By the Rev. H. Moseley, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy and As- tronomy in King's College, Loudon. 8vo. price 24s. Mure.—A Critical History of the Language and Literature of Ancient Greece. By William Mure, M.P. of Caldwell. 3 vols. 8vo. price 36*. Vol. IV. comprising His- tnrical Literature from the Rise of Prose Composition to the Death of Herodotus. 8vo. with Map, price 155.18 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS price 9#. 8vo. price 14#. Murray’s Encyclopaedia of Geo- graphy : Comprising complete Description of the Earth: exhibiting its Relation to the Heavenly Bodies, its Physical Structure, the Natural History of each Country, and the ludustry, Commerce, Political institu- tions, and Civil and Social State of All Nations. Second Edition; with 82 Maps, and upwards of 1,000 other Woodcuts. 8vo. price 60#. Neale. — “ Risen from the Ranks ;** Or, Conduct versus Caste. By the Rev. Erskine Neale, M.A., Rector oi Kirton, Suffolk. Fcap. 8vo. price 6t. Neale.—The Riches that bring no Sorrow. By the Rev. Erskine Neale, M.A., Rector of Kirton, Suffolk. Ftp.Svo. price 65. Neale.—The Earthly Resting Places of the Just. By the Rev. Erskine Neale, M.A., Rector of Kirton, Suffolk. Fcp.Svo. with Woodcuts, price 7s. Neale.—The Closing Scene; or Christianity and Infidelity contrasted in the Last Hours of Remarkable Persons. By the Rev. Erskine Neale, M.A., Rector of Kirton, Suffolk. New Editions of the First and Second Series. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. price 12#.; or separately, 6#. each. Newman.—Discourses addressed to Mixed Congregations. By John Henry Newman, Priest of the Oratory of St. Philip Neri. Second Edition. 8vo. price 12#. Lieutenant Osborn’s Arctic Journal. Stray Leaves from an Arctic Journal ; or. Eighteen Months in the Polar Regions in search of Sir John Franklin's Expedition. Bv Lieut. Sherard Osborn, R.N., Commanding H.M.S.V. Pioneer. With Map and Four coloured Plate3. Post 8vo. price 12#. Owen Jones.—Flowers and their Kindred Thoughts. A Series of Stanzas. By Mary Anne Bacon. With beautiful Illustrations of Flowers printed in Colours by Owen Jones. Imperial 8vo. price 31#. 6d. elegantly bound in calf. Owen.—Lectures on the Com- parative Anatomy and Physiology of the Invertebrate Animals, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1843. By Richard Owen, F.R.S. Hunterian Pro- fessor to the College. New Edition, cor- rected. 8vo. with Wood Engravings. [Jn the press. Professor Owen’s Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrate Animals, delivered at the Roval College of Surgeons in 1844 and 1846. With numerous Woodcuts. Vol. I. The Complete Works of Blaise Pascal. Translated from the French, with Memoir, Introductions to the various Works, Editorial Notes, and Appendices, by Groroe Pearce, Esq. 3 vols. post 8vo. with Portrait, 25#. 6d. Vol. 1. Pascal’s Provincial Letters: with M. Villemain’s Essay on Pascal prefixed, and a new Memoir. Post 8vo. Portrait, 8#. 6d. Vol. 2. Pascal’s Thoughts on Religion and Evidences of Christianity, with Additions from original MSS.: from M. Faug£re’s Edition. Post 8vo. 85. 6</. Vol. 3. Pascal’s Miscella- neous Writings, Correspondence, Detached Thoughts, etc. from M. Faugfcre’s Edition. Post 8vo. 8#. 6d. Captain Peel’s Travels in Nubia. —A Ride through the Nubian Desert. By Captain W. Peel, R. N. Post 8vo. with a Route Map, price 5#. Pereira’s Treatise on Food and Diet. With Observations on the Dietetical Regimen suited for Disordered States of the Digestive Organs; and an Account of the Dietaries of some of the principal Me- tropolitan and other Establishments for Paupers, Lunatics,Criminals,Children,the Sick,etc. 8vo. 16#. Peschel’s Elements of Physics. Translated from the German, with Notes, by E. West. With Diagrams and Wood- cuts. 3 vols. fcp. Svo. 21#. Peterborough. — A Memoir of Charles Mordaunt, Earl of Peterborough and Monmouth. With Selections from his Correspondence. By the Author of Hoche- Ifttra, etc. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 18#. Phillips.—A Guide to Geology, By John Phillips- M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S., Deputy Reader in Geology in the University of Oxford; Honorary Member of the Im- perial Academy of Sciences of Moscow, etc. Fourth Edition, corrected to the Present Time ; with 4 Plates. Fcp. Svo.price 5«. Phillips’s Elementary Intro- duction to Mineralogy. A New Edition, with extensive Alterations and Additions, bv H J . Brooke, F.R.S., F.G S.; and W. H. Miller, M.A., F.G.S., Professor of Mineralogy in the University of Cambridge. With numerous Wood Engravings. Post 8vo. price 18#. Phillips.—Figures and Descrip- tionsot the Palaeozoic Fossils of Cornwall, Devon, and West Somerset; observed in the course of the Ordnance Geological Sur- vey of that District. By John Phillips, F.R.S. F.G.S. etc. 8vo. with 60 Plates,19 published BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. Captain Portlock’s Report on the Geology of the County of Londonderry, and of Parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh, examined and described under the Autho- rity of the Master-General and Board o Ordnance. 8vo. with 48 Plates, price 24s. Power’s Sketches in New Zea- land, with Pen and Pencil. From a Journal kept in that Country, from July 1846 to June 1848. With Plates and Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 12#. Pulman’s Vade-Mecum of Ply- Fishing for Trout; being a complete Prac- tical Treatise on that Branch ot the Art of Angling; with plain and copious Instruc- tions for the Manufacture of Artificial Flies. Third Edition, with Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. price 6#. Pycroft’s Course of English Heading, adapted to every Taste and Ca- pacity ; With Literary Anecdotes. New and cheaper Editiou. Fcp. 8vo. price os. Dr. Reece’s Medical Guide; for the use of the Clergy, Heads of Families, Schools, and Junior Medical Practitioners: Comprising a complete Modern Dispensa- tory, and a PracticalTreatise on the distin- guishing Symptoms, Causes, Prevention, Cure, and Palliation of the Diseases incident to the Human Frame. With the latest Discoveries in the different departments of the Healing Art, Materia Medica, etc Seventeenth Edition, corrected and en- „r£e<LbJr the Author's Son, Dr. H. Reece, M.ll.C.S. etc. 8vo. price 12*. Rich’s Illustrated Companion to the Latin Dictionary anti Greek Lexicon: Forming a Glossary ol all the Words repre- senting Visible Objects connected with the Arts, Manufactures, and Every-day Life of the Ancients. With Woodcut Representa- tions of nearly 2,000 Objects from the Antique. Post 8vo. price 21j. Sir J. Richardson’s Journal of a Boat Voyage through Rupert’s Land and the Arctic Sea, in Search of the Discovery Ships under Command of Sir John Franklin. With an Appendix on the Physical Geo- graphy of North America ; a Map, Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. price 31s. (id. Richardson (Captain).—Horse- manship ; or, the Art of Riding and Ma- naging a Horse, adapted to the Guidance of Ladies and Gentlemen on the Road and in the Field : With Instructions for Breaking in Colts and Young Horses. By Captain Richardson, late of the 4th Light Dra goons. VVitti 5 Line Engravings. Square crown 8vo. price 14s. Riddle’s Complete Latin-Eng- lish and English-Latin Dictionary, for the use of Colleges aud Srhools. Ar to and cheaper Edition, revised and corrected. 8vo.21s. Separately ■(Dictionary, 7». •'ll heLatin«EnglibhDictionary,15#- Riddle’s Copious and Critical Latin.English Lexicon, founded on the Gcrman-Latin Dictionaries of Dr. William Freund. New Editiou. Post 4to. price 31#. lid. Riddle’s Diamond Latin-Eng- lish Dictionary : A Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and right Accentuation of Latin Classical Words. Royal 32mo. price 4#. Rivers’s Rose-Amateur’s Guide; containing ample Descriptions of all the fine leading varieties of Roses, regularly classed in their respective Families; their History and Mode of Culture. New Edi- tion, Fcp. 8vo.6#. Dr. E. Robinson’s Greek and English Lexicon of the Greek Testament. A New Edition, revised and in great part re-written. 8vo. price 18#. Roby.—Remains, Legendary & Poetical, of John Roby, Author of Tradi- tions of Lancashire. With a Sketch of his Literary Life and Character by his Widow ; and a Portrait. Post 8vo. price lOj. 6d. Rogers.—Essays selected from Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. By Henri Rogers. 2 vols. 8vo. price 24#. Dr. Roget’s Thesaurus of Eng- lish Words and Phrases classified and ar- ranged so as to facilitate the Expression of Ideas and assist in Literary Composi- tion. New Edition, revised and enlarged. Medium 8vo. price 14#. Rowton’s Debater: A Series of complete Debates, Outlines of Debates, and Questions for Discussion; with ample references to the best Sources of Information on each particular Topic. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6#. Letters of Rachael Lady Rus- scll. A New Edition, including several unpublished Letters, together with those edited by Miss Bebiiy. With Portraits, Vignettes, and Facsimile. 2 vols. post Svo. price 15#. The Life of William Lord Rus- sell. Bv the Right Hon. Lord John Rus- sell, M.P. The Fourth Edition, complete in One Volume ; with a Portrait engraved on Steel by S. Beilin, from the original by Sir Peter Lely at Woburn Abbey. Post Svo. price 10#. 6d.20 NEW WOHKS and NEW EDITIONS St. John (the Hon. F.)—Rambles in Search of Sport, in Germany, France, Italy, and Russia. By the Honourable Ferdinand St John. With Four coloured Plates. Post 8vo. price 9*. 6d. St. John (H.)—The Indian Ar- chipelago; Its History and Present State. By Horace St. John, Author of The Bri- tish Conquests in India, etc. 2 vols. post 8vo. price *21#. St. John (J. A.)—There and Back Again in Search of Beauty By Jamks Augustus St. John, Author of Isis, etc. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 21*. St. John (J. A.)—The Nemesis of Power: Causes and Forms of Political Revolutions. By James Augustus St. John, Author of There and Bark again, etc. Fcp.Svo. {Just ready. Mr. St. John’s Work on Egypt. Isis: An Egyptian Pilgrimage. By James Augustus St. John. 2 vols. post 8vo. 21k. The Saints our Example. By the Author of Letters to tny Unknown friends, etc. Fcp. 8vo. price js. Schmitz. — History of Greece, from the Earliest Tiroes to the Taking of Corinth by the Romans, B.C. 14f>, mainly based upon Bishop Thirlwall’s History of Greece. By l)r. Leonhard Schmitz, F.R.S.E. Rector of the High School of Edin- burgh. New Edition. 12rao. price Is. 6d. A Schoolmaster’s Difficulties at Home and Abroad:—1. In regard to his Calling; 2. In relation to Himself; 3. As concerning his Charge; 4. About Commit- tees; 5. With Pupil-Teachers; 6. Touching Inspectors; J. On the Matter of Society; 8. In Prospect of the Future; and 9. Af fectingPersonal Relations. Fcp.8vo.4*.6tf, Sir Edward Seaward’s Narra- tive of his Shipwreck, and consequent Dis- covery of certain Islands in the Caribbean Sea : With a detail of many extraordinary and highly interesting Events in his Life, from 1/33 to 1749. Third Edition ; 2 vols. post 8vo. 21*. An Abridgment, in 16mo. price 2*. 6d. The Sermon on the Mount. Printed on Silver; with Picture Subjects, numerous Landscape and Illustrative Vig liettes, and Illuminated Borders in Gold and Colours, designed expressly for this work by M. Lepelle du Bois-Gai.lais, formerly employed by the French Govern- ment on the great work of Count Bastard. Square 18mo. price in ornamental board*, One Guinea; or 31*. 6d. bound in morocco. Self-Denial the Preparation for Easter. By the Author of Letters to my Unknown Friends, Letters on Happiness, etc. Fcp. 8vo. price 2*. 6d. Sewell.—Amy Herbert. By a Lady. Edited by the Re-v. William Sewkll, B I). Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. Sewell.—The Earl’s Daughter. By the Author of Amy -Herbert. Edited by the Rev. W. Sewell, B. D. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. 9*. Sewell.—Gertrude : A Tale. By the Author of Amy Herbert. Edited by the Rev. W Sewell, B.D. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. Sewell.—Laneton Parsonage: A Tale for Children, on the practical Use of a Portion of the Church Catechism. By the Author Amy Herbert. Edited by the Rev. W. Sewell. B.D. New Edition. 3 vols.fcp. 8vo. price 16*. Sewell.—Margaret Percival. Ey the Author of Amy Herbert. Edited by the Rev. \V. Sewell, B.D. New Editiou. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. price 12*. By the same Author, The Experience of Life. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo- price Is. 6d. Readings for a Month Prepara- tory to Confirmation : Compiled from the Works of Writers of the Early and of the English Church^ Fcp. Svo. price 5s. 6d. Readings for Every Day in Lent : Compiled from the Writings of BisHor Jeremy Taylor. Fcp. Svo. 5*. Sharp’s New British Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary of the British Islands and Narrow Sens : Comprising con- cise Descriptions of about Sixty Thousand Places, Seats, Natural Features, and Oo- jects of Note, founded on the hest Autlio rities; full Particulars of the Boundaries, Registered Electors, etc. of the Parlia- mentary Boroughs; with a reference under every name to the Sheet of the Ordnance Survey, as far as completed ; and an Ap- pendix, containing a General View of the Resources of the United Kingdom, a Short Chronology, and an Abstract of certain Results of the Ceusus of 1851. 2 vols. Svo. price £2.16*.published BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 21 The Family Shakspeare 5 in which nothing is added to the Original Text; but those Words and Expressions are omitted which cannot with propriety be read aloud. Bv T. Bowdlkh, Esq. F.It.S. New Edition, in volumes for the Pocket. 6 vols. fcp. Svo. price 30#, *•* Also a Library Edition ; with 36 Wood Engravings from designs by Srairke, Howard, and other Artists. Svo. price 21*. Short Whist 5 Its Rise, Pro- gress, and Laws ; With Observations to make any one a Whist Player. Containing also the Laws of Piquet, Cassino, Ecarte, Cribbage, Backgammon. By Major A * • * * * New Edition ; to which are added, Precepts forTyros. By Mrs. B * • • * Fcp. Svo. 3*. Sinclair.—The Journey of Life. By Catherine Sinclair, Author of The Business of Li/e (2 vols. fcp. Svo. price 10s.) New Edition, corrected and enlarged. Fcp. Svo. price os. Sinclair.—Popish Legends or Bible Truths. Bv Catherine Sinclair. Dedicated to her Nieces. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. Sir Roger de Coverley. Prom The Spectator. With Notes and Illustra- tions by W. Henry Wills; and Twelve fine Wood Engravings, by John Thompson from Designs by Frederick TayLEr. Crown Svo. price 15*. boards; or 27*. bound in morocco.—Also a Cheap Edition, without Woodcuts, In 16mo. price One Shilling. Smee’s Elements of Electro- Metallurgy. Third Edition, revised, cor- rected, and considerably enlarged; with Electrotypes and numerous Woodcuts. Post Svo. price 10*.6rf. Smith’s Sacred Annals.—Sacred Annals: Vol. III. The Gentile Nations; or. The History and Religion of the Egyptians, Assyrians, Babylonians, Medes, Persians, Greeks, and Romans, collected from ancient authors and Holy Seripture, and including the recent discoveries in Egyptian, Persian, and Assyrian Inscrip- tions: Forming a complete connection of Sacred and Profane History, and shewing the Fulfilment of Sacred Prophecy. By George Smith, F.A.S.,etc. In Two Parts, crown 8vo. price 12s. By the same A uthor. Sacred Annals: Vol. I. The Patriarchal Age ; or. Researches Into the History and Religion of Mankind, from the Creation of the World to the Death of Isaac. Crown Svo. 10*. Sacred Annals: Vol. II. The Hebrew People ; or, The History and Re- ligion of the Israelites, from the Origin of the Nation to the Time of Christ. In Two Parts, crown 8vo. price 12*. ^"ke Works of the Rev. Sydney Smith ; including his Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. New Edition, com nlete in One Volume; with Portrait and Vignette Square crown 8vu. price 21s.; or 30s. bound in calf. _ * R Library Edition (the rourth), in 3 vols. 8vo. with Portrait, price 36s. The Rev. Sydney Smith’s Ele- mentary Sketches of Moral Philosophy, delivered at the Royal Institution in the Years 1801, 1803, and 1806. Second Edition. 8vo. price 12s. The Life and Correspondence of the late Robert Southey. Edited by his Son, the Rev. C. C. Southey, M.A. Vicar of Ardleigh. With PortraitSi and Lands- cape Illustrations. 6 vols. post Svo. 63*. Southey’s Life of Wesley; and Rise and Progress of Methodism. New Edition, with Notes and Additions, by the late Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Esq., and the late Alexander Knox, Esq. Edited by the Rev. C. C. Soothrv, M.A. 2 vols. Svo. with 2 Portraits, price 2S». Southey’s Commonplace Books. Comprising—]. Choice Passages; with Col lections for the History of1 Manners and Literature in England } 2. Special Collec- tions on various Historical and Theological Subjects; 3. Analytical Readings in various branches of Literature; and 4. Original Memoranda, Literary and Miscellaneous. Edited by the Rev. J. VV. Warter, B.D. 4 vols. square crown 8vo. price £3 18*. Each Commonplace Book, complete in it- self, may be had separately as follows First Series-CHOICE PASSAGES, etc. 18*. Second Series — SPECIAL COLLEC- TIONS. 18*. Third Series — ANALYTICAL READ 1NGS. 21*. Fourth Series — ORIGINAL MEMO- RANDA, etc, 21*. Robert Southey’s Complete Poet- ical Works •, containing: all the Author’s last Introductions and Notes. Complete in One Volume, with Portrait and Vignette. Me- dium 8vo. price 21». cloth; 42s. hound in morocco. *,♦ Also aNew and Cheaper Issue of the First collected Edition of the above, in 10 vols. fcp. Svo. with Poitrait and la Plates, price 33*. Select Works of the British Poets; from Chaucer to Lovelace, inclu- sive. With Biographical Sketches by the late Robert Southey. Medium Svo. 30*.NEW WOKKS AND NEW EDITIONS Southey’s The Doctor etc. Com- plete in OneVolume. Edited by the Rev. J. W. Warter, B.D. With Portrait, Vig- nette, Bust, and coloured Plate. New Edi- tion. Square crown 8vo. price 2D. Stephen.—Lectures on the His- tory of France ; By the Right Hon. Sir James Stephen, K.C.B., LL.D., Pro- fessor of Modern History iu the University of Cambridge. Second Edition, 2vols.8vo. price 24#. Stephen.—Essays in Ecclesias- tical Biography; from the Edinburgh Re view. By the Right Hon. Sir James Ste- phen, K.C.B., LL.D. Third Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 245. Steel’s Shipmaster’s Assistant, for the use of Merchants, Owners and Masters of Ships, Officers of Customs, and all Persons connected with Shipping or Commerce; containing the Law ami Local Regulations affecting the Owner- ship, Charge, and Management of Ships and their Cargoes; togetuer with Notices of other Matters, and all necessary Infor- mation for Mariners. New Edition, re- written, by G. VVillmork, Esq,, M.A., Barrister-at-Law; G. CikmeNts, of the Customs, Loudon; and W. 'Pate, Author of The Modern Cambist. 8vo. price 28». Stonehenge. — The Greyhound: Being a Treatise on the Art of Breeding, Rearing, ami Training Greyhounds for Pub- lic Running; their Diseases and Treat- men : Containing also, Rules for the Ma- nagement of Coursing Meetings, and for the Decision of Courses, by Stonehenge, With numerous Portraits of Greyhounds, etc., engraved on Wood, and a Frontis piece engraved on Steel. Square crown 8vo. price 21#. Stow. — The Training System, the Moral Training School, and the Normal Seminary or College. By David Stow, Esq., Honorary Secretary to the Glasgow Normal Free Seminary. Ninth Edition; with Plates and Woodcuts. Post 8vo. price 6*. Dr. Sutherland’s Journal of a Voyage in Baffin's Bay and Barrow's Straits, in the Years 1850 and 1851, per- formed by H.M. Ships Lady Franklin and Sophia, under the command of Mr. William Penny, in search of the Missing- Crews of H. M. Ships Erebus and Terror. with Charts and Illustrations. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 2/#. Swain.—English Melodies. By Charles Swain. Fcp. 8vo. price 65. cloth; bound in morocco, 12*. Swain.—Letters of Laura D’Au- verue. By Charles Swain. Ecp. Svo. 'is. 6rf. Tate.—On the Strength of Ma- terials ; containing various original and use- ful Formulae, speciallj applied to Tubular Bridges, Wrought Iron and Cast iron Beams, etc. By Thomas Tate, F.R.A.S. Svo. price 5#. 6d. Taylor.—Loyola: and Jesuitism in its Rudiments. By Isaac Taylor. Post 8vo. with a Medallion, price 10*. 6d. Taylor.-Wesley and Methodism. By Isaac Taylor. Post Svo. with a Por trait, price 10«. 6d. Thirl wall.—The History of Greece. By the Right Rev the Lord Bishop of St- David’s fthc Rev. Connop Thirlwall). An improved Library Edition ; with Maps. 8 vols. Svo. price £4.16#. Also, an Edition in 8 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, price 28#. Thomson (The Rev.W.)—An Out- line of the Laws of Thought : Being a Treatise on Pure and Applied Logic. By the Rev. W. Thomson, M.A. Fellow and Tutor of Queen’s College, Oxford. Third Edition, enlarged. Fcp. Svo. price 7#. 6d. Thomson’s Tables of Interest, at Three, Four, Four-and-a-half, and Five per Cent., from One Pound to Ten Thou- sand, and from 1 to 365 Days, in a regular progression of Single Days; with Interest at all the above Rates, from Oue to Twelve Months,and from One to Ten Years. Also, numerous other Tables of F.xchanges, Time, and Discounts. New Edition. 12mo. 8#. Thomson’s Seasons. Edited by Bolton CornEy, Esq. Illustrated with Seventy-seven fine Wood Engravings from Designs by Members of the EtchingClub. Square crown Svo. price 21#. cloth ; or, 36# bound iu morocco. Thornton.—Zohrab 5 or, a Mid- summer Day's Dream: And other Poeins. Bv William Thomas Thornton, Author oi An E»*ay on Over-Population, etc. Fcp. Svo. price 4#. 6rf. Todd (Charles).— A Series of Tables of the Area and Circumference of Circles; the Solidity and Superficies of Spheres; the Area and Length of the Dia- gonal of Squares; and the Specific Gravity of Bodies, etc.: To which is added, an Ex- planation of the Author's Method of Calcu- lating these Tables. lutended ns a Facility to Engineers, Surveyors, Architects, Me- chanics, and Artiznns in General. By Charles Todd, Engineer. The Second • Edition, improved and extended. Post8vo. price 6#.23 PUBLISHED by LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. THE TRAVELLERS LIBRARY, In course of Publication in Volumes at Half-a-Crown, and in Parts price One Shilling each. Comprising books of valuable information and acknowledged merit, in a form adapted for reading while Travelling, and also of a character that will render them worthy of preservation. i. d. VOL. I. MACAULAY’S ESSAYS on WARREN HASTINGS and LORD CLIVE ..2 6 II. ESSAYS on PITT & CHATHAM, RANKE & GLADSTONE 2 6 III. LAING’S RESIDENCE in NORWAY 2 6 IV. PFEIFFER’S VOYAGE ROUND the WORLD 2 6 V. EOTHEN, TRACES of TRAVEL from the EAST 2 6 VI. MACAULAY’S ESSAYS on ADDISON, WALPOLE, and LORD BACON 2 6 VII. HUC’S TRAVELS IN TARTARY, etc 2 6 VIII. THOMAS HOLCROFT’S MEMOIRS 2 6 IX. WERNE’S AFRICAN WANDERINGS 2 6 X. Mrs. JAMESON’S SKETCHES in CANADA 2 6 XI. JERRMANN’S PICTURES from ST. PETERSBURG 2 6 XII. The Rev. G. R. GLEIG'S LEIPSIC CAMPAIGN 2 6 XIII. HUGHES'S AUSTRALIAN COLONIES 2 6 XIV. SIR EDWARD SEAWARD’S NARRATIVE 2 6 XV. ALEXANDRE DUMAS’ MEMOIRS of a MAITRE-D’ARMES 2 6 XVI. OUR COAL-FIELDS and OUR COAL PITS 2 6 XVII. M’CULLOCH'S LONDON and GIRONIERE’S PHILIPPINES 2 6 XVIII. SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY and SOUTHEY’S LOVE STORY 2 6 XIX. JEFFREY’S ESSAYS on SWIFT and RICHARDSON and ) 2 6 LORD CARLISLE’S LECTURES AND ADDRESSES I XX. HOPE’S BIBLE in BRITTANY and CHASE in BRITTANY 2 6 XXI. THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH and NATURAL HISTORY of CREATION 2 6 XXII. MEMOIR of DUKE of WELLINGTON and LIFE of MARSHAL TURENNE 2 6 XXIII. TURKEY and CHRISTENDOM and RANKE’S FERDINAND 1 2 6 and MAXIMILIAN i XXIV. FERGUSON’S SWISS MEN and SWISS MOUNTAINS and ) „ R BARROW’S CONTINENTAL TOUR j XXV. SOUVESTRE’S WORKING MAN’S CONFESSIONS and ) , R ATTIC PHILOSOPHER in PARIS ) XXVI. MACAULAY’S ESSAYS un LORD BYRON, and the COMIC DRAMA- } 2 g TISTS and his SPEECHES on PARLIAMENTARY REFORM (1831-32) ) XXVII. SHIRLEY BROOKS’S RUSSIANS of the SOUTH and ) „ R Dr. KEMP’S INDICATIONS of INSTINCT ) XXVIII. LANMAN’S ADVENTURES in the WILDS of NORTH AMERICA 2 6 XXIX. De CUSTINE’S RUSSIA, Abridged 3 6*24 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS. The Thumb Bible ? or, Verbum Sempiternum. By J. Taylor. Being an Epitome ot the Old and New Testaments in English Verse. Reprinted from the Edition, of 1693, bound and clasped. In i 64mo. price Eighteenpence. Townsend —TheLives ofTwelve Eminent Judges of the Last and of the Pre- sent Century. By W. C. Townsend, Esq., M.A., Q.C. 2vols. 8vo. price 28#; Townsend.—Modern State Tri- nls, revised and illustrated with Essays and Notes. By YV.C. Townsend, Esq., M.A. Q.C. 2 vols. 8vo. price 30*. Sharon Turner’s Sacred His- tory of the World, attempted to be Philo- sophically considered, in a Series ot Letltaa to a Son. New Edition, edited by the Author's Son, the Rev. S. Turner.^ 3 vols. post 8vo. price 31*. 6d. Sharon Turner’s History of En- gland during the Middle Ages: Comprising the Reigns from the Norman Conquest to the Accession of Henry V111 - Fifth Edition, revised by the Rev. S. Turner. 4 vols. 8vo. price 60s. Sharon Turner’s History of the Anglo-Saxons, from the Earliest Period to the Norman Conquest. The Seventh Edi- tion, revised by the Rev. S. Turner,. 3 vols. 8vo. price 36*. Dr. Turton’sManual ofthe Land and Freshwater Shells of the British Is- lands. New Edition, with considerable Ad- ditions. By John Edward Gray: with Woodcuts, and 12 coloured Plates. Post 8vo. price lot. Dr. Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manulactures and Mines : Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. The Fourth Edition, much en- larged and corrected throughout; with all the Information comprised in the Supple- ment of Recent Improvements brought down to the Present Tunc, and incorporated in the Dictionary. Most of the Articles being entirely re-written, and many New Articles now first added. With nearly 1,600 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. price 60*. Waterton.—Essays on Natural History, chiefly Ornithology. By C. Wa- terton, Esq. With an Autobiography of the Author and Views of Walton Hall. New and cheaper Edition. 2 vois. tep. 8vo. 10». Separately: Vol. I. (First Series),os. 6d. Vol. U. (Second Series), 4s. 6<f. Alaric Watts’s Lyrics of the Heart, and other Poems. With 41 highly- finished Line Engravings, executed ex- pressly for the work by the most eminent Painters snd Engravers. Square crown 8vo. price 31s. 6rf. boards, or4os. hound in mo- rocco i Proof Impressions, 63s. boards. Webster and Parkes’s Ency- cloptediaof Domestic Economy; Comprising such subjects as are most immediately connected with Housekeeping i As, The Construction of Domestic Edifices, with the Modes of Warming, Ventilating, and Lighting them—A Description of the vari- ous Articles of Furniture, with the Nature of their Materials—Duties of Servants, etc. New Edition; with uearly 1,000 Woodcuts, 8vo. price 50*. Willich’s Popular Tables for ascertaining the Value of Lifehold, Lease- hold, and Church Property, Renewal Fines, etc. Third Edition, with additional Tables of Natural or Hyperbolic Logarithms, Tri- gonometry, Astronomy, Geography, etc. Post 8vo. price 9*. Lady Willoughb/’s Diary (1635 to 1663). Printed, ornamented, and bound in the style of the period to which The Diary refers. New Edition; in Two Parts. Square fcp. 8vo. price 8*. each, boards; or, bound in morocco, 18*. each. Wilmot’s Abridgment of Black- stone's Commentaries on the Laws of En- gland, intended for the use of Young Per- sons. and comprised in a series of Letters from a Father to his Daughter. A New Edition, corrected and brought down to the Present Dav, by Sir John E. Eardley Wilmot, Bart., Barrister at Law, Recorder of Warwick. 12mo. piice 6*. 6d. Youatt.—The Horse. By Wil- Liam Youatt. With a Treatise of Draught. A New Edition; with numerous Wood En- gravings from Designs by William Harvey. (Messrs. Longman and Co.’s Edition should be ordered). 8vo. price 10*. Youatt.—The Dog. By William Youatt- A New Edition; with numerous Engravings trom Designs by William Har- vey. 8vo. 6*. Zumpt’s Larger Grammar of the Latin Language. Translated ami adapted fur the use of the English Students, by Dr. L. Schmitz, F.R.S.E., Rector of the High School of Edinburgh: With numerous Ad ditionsand Corrections bv the Author and Translator. The Third Edition, thoroughly revised; to which is added, an Index tby the Rev. J. T. White, M.A.) of all the Pas- sages of l.atin Authors referred to and explained in the Grammar. 8vo. price 14s. March, 1854. London: Printed by M. Mason, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row.• ' *NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS BY CONTRIBUTORS TO THE EDINBURGH REVIEW. i . ' 1 In- IIISIORY (i | LNG LAN!.). from tin A coercion nf James the Sfcnml. liy Tho\i.\s Baningros Macaulay. .Ninth Edition. Vols. I and :i, 8vo. price ;i2s. •Mr. .MAC A l! I, \Y’S CRITIC A I. and HISTORICAL ESSAY ■' contributed to ti e Edinburgh Review. Four Edith i,~, as follows: — 1. 1 oniptete in ONE VO LUMP', with l’orlrnit ami Vignette. Square crown Svo. price 21s. 2. A 1.1BRAKY EDITION (the Eighth). in 3 vols. 8vo. price 3tis. :t. Another Ktfcition. in 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. price One Guinea. 4. I'Ll 'DLL’S EDITION, 2 vols. crown 8to. Ss, ; or in 7 Farts, Is. each. Mr. MACAULAY'S LAYS «.I ANCIENT ROME. IYRV, and the ARMADA. Sew Edition. ICnio. with Vignette, puce 4s. 6ii.; morocco, 10s. (ill. Mr. MACAULAY’S LAYS »rf A NCI ENT ROM K, with YYondcm Illustrations Original and from the Antique, by G. Itch auk. New Edition. Fcp. 4to price 21s.; morocco, 42s. SPEECHES of the Rijrlit Hon. T. B. MACAULAY, M,P. Corrected by Himself. Svo. price 12s. Lon! JEFFREY’S CONTRIBUTIONS o. the EDIN- BURGH REVIEW, in One Volume; with Portrait ami Vignette. Square crown Svo. price 2i %. Also, a LIBRARY EDITION (the E-cond), in 3 vols. 8vo. price 42s. Sr JAM US M \CKI\TDSirs MISCELLANEOUS WORKS; Including his Contribution* to tTle Edinburgh Review. Complete in One Volume; with Portrait and V.gnette. Square crown gvo. price 21a. Also, a NEW EDITION, in 3 vols. fcp. Svo. price 21s. >ir JAM I S MACKINTOSH’S HISTORY of ENGLAND, from the Earliest Times to the final Establishment or the Reformation. \ New Library Edition, reviseilhy thp Author’s Son. 2 vols. Svo. price 21s. The Rev SYDNEY SMITH S MISCELLANEOUS W< iRKS; IncVudintr his Contrih.itiond to the Edinburgh Review. 1. In ONE VOLUME.« ith I’ortruit and Vigngtte. Squar.ecKiwn8vo.2ts. -• A LIBRARY EDl l ION (the Fourth), in3Sk>1s. 8vo. with'Toclrnit.368. •L Another Edition, in 3 vols. fcp. Svo. price One Guinea. n.e Rev. SYDNEY SMITH’S ELEMENTARY SKETCHES of MORAL PHILOSOPHY, Second Edition. 8vo. price 12s. Sir-Jam KS ST i I’: I K'N’N ESSAYS ill ecclesiastical UJOHRAPHY..- Third Editing. 2 Vols. Svo. 24s. Str JAMES STEPHEN’S LECTURES on the HISTORY of FRANCE, Secpnd Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s. !' f. '■ EA 1 Of r EliS'S 'I.SJSAI S, ^ejecied fi- m (T)NTRI BU I IONS to the EDINBURGH'. RKV 1EVV. 2 vols. Svo. price'2 Is. ESSAYS POLI i IC \ L a ml SOCIAL SCIENCE, eon. tribute*) chiefly to the Edinburgh Review. By William II.Grhcj. 2 \ols Svo. price 24s. Sir WILLIAM HAMILTON’S DISCUSSIONS in PHI- LOSOPHY and LI IERATURE. EDI ATlONnnil UNIVERSITY REFORM: Chiefly from the Edinburgh*Review, Second Edition. Svo. price 21s. London: Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans.