22500108086Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20416994MRS. LINCOLN'S Boston Cook Book. WHAT TO DO AND WHAT NOT TO DO IN COOKING. MRS. D. A. LINCOLN, OF THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL. BOSTON: ROBERTS BROTHERS. 1884.Copyright, 1883, By Mrs. D. A. Lincoln. V«f LLCOME INSTITUTE H LIBRARY Coll. VelMOmec Call No. John Wilson and Son, Cambridge.Book IS Jietikateti TO MRS. SAMUEL T. HOOPER, President of the Boston Cooking School, IN RECOGNITION OF HER ZEAL IN EVERY GOOD WORK FOR THE BENEFIT OF WOMAN ; AND TO THE PUPILS, PAST AND PRESENT, OF THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL, WHOSE ENTHUSIASM IN THEIR WORK HAS MADE THE LABOR OF TEACHING A DELIGHT.*^ Not to know at large of things remote From use, obscure and subtle, but to know That which before us lies in daily life, Is the prime wisdom." Milton. To know what you do know, and not to know what you do not know, is true knowledge."— Confucius.PEEFACE. To cornpile a book which shall be not only a collection of receipts, given briefly for the experienced housekeeper, and with sufficient clearness for the beginner, but which shall also embody enough of physiology, and of the chem- istry and philosophy of food, to make every principle in- telligible to a child and interesting to the mature mind ; which shall serve equally well for the cook in the kitchen, the pupil in the school-room, and the teacher in the normal class, — is a difficult task. Yet the need of a book of moderate cost, containing in a reasonably small compass all this and much more, has been seriously felt b}^ all who are engaged in teaching cookery. Moreover, there is a special reason for the publication of this work. It is undertaken at the urgent request of the pupils of the Boston Cooking School, who have desired that the receipts and lessons given during the last four years in that institution should be arranged in a permanent form. To one who from childhood has been trained in all de- tails of housework, learning by observation or by actual experience much that it is impossible to receive from books, the amount of ignorance shown by many women is surprising. That a person of ordinary intelligence pre- siding over her household can be satisfied with only a vague conception of the common domestic methods, or that am' true woman can see anything degrading in any labor necessary for the highest physical condition of hervi Preface. family, would be incredible if the truth of it were not daily manifest. Happily, popular opinion now decides that no young lady's education is complete without a course of training in one or more branches of domestic work. And those who are not so fortunate as to have the best of all train- ing— that of actual work under a wise and competent mother — gladly resort to the cooking-schools for in- struction. In compiling these receipts for use in a school and in the family, several things were demanded. In a school of pupils from every class and station in Hfe, a great variety of receipts is desirable. They must be clear, but concise, for those who are already well grounded in first principles. They must be explained, illustrated, and reiterated for the inexperienced and the careless. They must have a word of caution for those who seem always to have the knack of doing the wrong thing. They must include the most healthful foods for those who have been made ill by improper food; the cheapest as well as the most nutritious, for the laboring class ; the richest and most elaborately prepared, for those who can afford them ph^'sically as well as pecuniarily^ These receipts are not a mere compilation. A large portion have accumulated during a long period of house- keeping ; and many have been received from friends who are practical housekeepers. Others have been taken from standard authorities on cooking; and all have been fre- quently and thoroughly tested by pupils under the eye of the author. As far as possible, acknowledgment has been made for the receipts received. Where changes and im- provements have been made, of where there were many authorities for the same formula, no credit has been given. Some cook-books presuppose the presence of an as- sistant ; but as three fourths of the women in this countryPreface. vii do their own work, these receipts are arranged so as to require the attention of but one person. It is proverbial that 3'oung housekeepers are often greatly perplexed in attempting to provide little enough for only two. For their benefit many of our receipts are prepared on a scale of smaller measurements. The materials to be used are given in the order in which they are to be put together. They are arranged in col- umns, where the e3^e may catch them readil}^, or in italics where economy of space seemed desirable. Every caution or suggestion has been given at the re- quest of some pupil who failed to find in other books just what she needed ; or because, in the experience of teach- ing, it has been shown that, unless forewarned, pupils inevitably make certain mistakes. Many subjects which in other books are omitted or given briefly, will be found to have received here an extensive treatment, because they have seemed of paramount importance. All the chemical and phj^siological knowledge that is necessary for a clear understanding of the laws of health, so far as they are involved in the science of cookery, is given in this book. Nine tenths of the women who go through a scientific course in seminaries never put any of the knowledge gained into practical use. B}' the time they have occasion to use such knowledge in their own homes, the Chemistry and Physiolog}^ have been relegated to the attic, where they help mice to material for their nests, but help no woman to apply the principles of science upon which the health and welfare of her house- hold largely depend. The statement will appear incredible to most people, and yet it is true, that many women do not know what the simplest things in our dail}" food are ; cannot tell when water boils, or the difference between lamb and veal, lard and drippings. They cannot give the names of kitchenviii * Preface. utensils; do not know anything about a stove, or how to pare a potato. This will explain what might otherwise seem an unnecessary minuteness of detail. The expe- rience of such ignorance also suggested the sub-title of the " Boston Cook Book," — " What to do and what not to do in Cooking,"—just how to hold your bowl and spoon, to use your hands, to regulate your stove, to wash your dishes ; and just how not to fall into the errors into which so many have stumbled before yow. But, more than all, it is attempted to give a reason for every step taken, and a clear answer to any questions that are likely to arise in the experience of either housekeeper or cook.A PREFACE NOT FOR THE PUBLIC. A WORD of grateful acknowledgment is due the many friends who have aided in this work. First, to m}' mother I owe much for her excellent judg- ment in training me as a child to a love for all house- hold work. Although it was often hard to " help mother " when other children were at play, the knowledge thus gained has proved invaluable. Every j^ear's experience in teaching has made me prize more and more this early training. Also, I am deeply indebted to Miss M. S. Devereux for the illustrations of this book. In all my work I have been greatly aided by her suggestions and generous sj^mpathy. And, lastly, I would not forget my obligations to a large circle of personal friends. Especially would I remember the one who, twenty years ago, aided me in making my first loaf of bread, and the many among my pupils who, out of their varied experience, have contributed much that has proved helpful. MARY J. LINCOLN WoLLASTON, Mass., 1884.CONTENTS. PAGE Introduction 1 Bread and Bread Making 36 Heceipts roR Yeast and Bread 62 Raised Biscuit, Rolls, etc 68 Stale Bread, Toast, etc 75 Soda Biscuit, Muefins, Gems, etc 80 Waeeles and Griddle-Cakes 97 Tried Muffins, Fritters, Doughnuts, etc 102 Oatmeal and other Grains 108 Beverages Ill Soup and Stock 119 Soup without Stock 146 EisH 159 Shell Pish 175 Meat and Pish Sauces 187 Eggs 197 Meat 210 Beef 214 Mutton and Lamb 232 Veal 239 Pork 245 Poultry and Game 251 Entrees and Meat Rechauffe 265 Sundries 282Contents. xii PAGE Vegetables 289 Rice and Macahoni 306 Salads 309 Pastry and Pies 316 Pudding Sauces 328 Hot Puddings 331 CusTAUDS, Jellies, and Creams 341 Ice-Cheam and Sherbet 361 Cake 369 Fruit 391 Cooking eor Invalids 407 Miscellaneous Hints 435 The Dining-Eoom 439 The Care of Kitchen Utensils 443 An Outline oe Study for Teachers 449 Suggestions to Teachers 483 A Course of Study for Normal Pupils 485 Miscellaneous Questions for Examination 486 Topics and Illustrations for Lectures on Cookery . 490 Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking-School . 495 Explanation of Terms used in Cookery 503 List of Utensils needed in a Cooking-School . . . 508 General Index 513 Alphabetical Index 529LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS. PAGE Fig. 1. Grain of Wheat 37 " 2. Grain of Wheat with Bran removed .... 38 " 3.. Grain of W^heat magnified ....... 38 4. Yeast Plant 46 " 5. Cruller 105 6. Cruller after Folding 105 *' 7. Baked Fish » . 164 " 8. Small Fish served whole . . » 166 9. Scalloped Lobster 183 10. Omelet 201 " 11. Orange Omelet 202 12. Eggs and Minced Meat . ......... 205 " 13. Stuffed Eggs 206 "14. Eggs a la Creme 208 "15. Diagram of Ox 212 16. Hind Quarter of Beef 212 " 17. Aitch Bone 214 " 18. Bound 215 " 19. Back of Bump 216 ^< 20. First Cut of Sirloin 216 " 21. Sirloin Boast 217 " 22. Tip of Sirloin 218 " 23. First Cut of Bib 219 " 24. Chuck Bib 219 " 25. Fillet of Beef 222 " 26. Mutton Duck 235 " 27. Paper Buffle 236 " 28. Chop 237 " 29. Chop in Paper 237List of Illustrations, xiv PAGE Fig. 30. Calf's Heart 241 *' 31. Sweetbreads and Bacon 243 32. Sweetbreads on Macaroni 244 33. Pigeons and Spinach on Toast 264 " 34. Boned Turkey, browned 265 " 35. Boned Chicken, larded and baked 266 " 36. Chicken in Jelly 267 37. Meat Porcupine 272 38. Croquettes 279 39. Stuffed Potatoes 296 ^' 40. Chicken Salad 314 41. Lobster Salad 315 42. Bow-Knots 321 43. Cheese Straws 322 44. Apple Snowballs 335 45. Orange Charlotte 348 46. Orange Baskets e 351 47. Mould of Bavarian Cream. ....... 357 48. Royal Diplomatic Pudding . 358 49. Strawberry Charlotte 360 50. Cookies 386INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS. PAGE Boston Cooking-School 1 Lectures on Cookery 1 Health Food Company 2 The Crawford Range . . c . 3 Wollaston Foundry Company 4 Garland Oil Stove 4 Provisions 5 Mutton and Lamb , . , . 5 Fish 5 Butter and Eggs , . 5 Silver White 6 Groceries 6 Ice ..... 6 Kindergarten 6 Deerfoot Farm 7 Flavoring Extracts » .... 71 THE BOSTON COOK BOOK. COOKERY Cookery is the art of preparing food for the nourish- ment of the human bod}^ When given its proper impor- tance in the consideration of health and comfort, it must be based upon scientific principles of hygiene and what the French call the minor moralities of the household. All civiHzed nations cook their food, to improve its taste and digestibiUty. The degree of civilization is often measured by the cuisine. Cooking (from the Latin coquo^ to boil, bake, heat, dr}', scorch, or ripen) is usuall}' done by the direct application of heat. Fruits and some vegetables which are eaten in a natural state have reallj^ been cooked or ripened by the heat of the sun. Milk and eggs, which are types of per- fect food, would be useless as food unless they came from the warm living animal. Fish, flesh, and fruits which have been dried in the sun or smoked, and are often eaten without any further preparation, have undergone a certain process of natural cooking. Heat seems to create new flavors, and to change the odor, taste, and digestibility of nearly all articles of food. It swells and bursts the starch cells in flour, rice, and potatoes ; hardens the albumen in eggs, fish, and meat; softens the fibrous substances in tough meats, hard vege- tables and fruits. It develops new flavors in tea, coffee, roasted meat, crusts of bread, baked beans, etc.2 The Boston Cook Book. Cold is also an important matter to be regarded in the preparation of food. Sweet dishes and certain flavors, like hone}^, ices, and custards ; the water, wine, or milk we drink ; our butter, fruits, and salads, — are all more pala- table when cold. Water^ or some other liquid, in connection with heat is necessarj^ in man}^ forms of cookery. Grrains, peas, beans, dried fruits which have parted with nearly all their moisture in the ripening or drying process necessar}' for their preser- vation, need a large portion of water in cooking, to soften and swell the cellulose, gluten, and starch before the}^ can be masticated and digested. In some vegetables and fruits water draws out certain undesirable flavors ; it softens and dissolves the gelatinous portions of meat, and makes palatable and nourishing many substances which would be rendered unwholesome by a dry heat. Air^ or the free action of oxj^gen, upon our food while cooking develops certain flavors not otherwise to be ob- tained. Meat roasted or broiled has a much finer flavor than when boiled, baked, or fried. Toasted bread, thin corn cake baked before the fire, roasted apples, and many articles cooked in the open air, show the benefit of this free combined action of heat and air. Drying in the sun was one of the earhest modes of cookery. Then came roasting before an open fire, or broihng over the coals, and baking in the hot ashes. This last was the primitive oven. As the art of making cooking-utensils developed, stewing, boiling, and frying were adopted. Then, to economize heat, portable ovens were invented ; these were originally a covered *dish set over or near the fire, having sometimes a double cover filled with coals. Afterwards, stoves which kept the fire and heat in a limited space were introduced ; and im- provements have been made in them so extensively that we now have them with conveniences for doing every form of cooking with wood, coal, oil, or gas. Some one gives this distinction between man and other animals : " Man is an animal that builds a fire and uses itThe Boston Cook Book, 3 to cook his food." It is quite important then, as a step- ping-stone to cooking, to learn the properties and manage- ment of a fire. Fire. Fire is heat and Kght produced b}- the combustion of inflammable substances. Combustion is a chemical opera- tion carried on in the air, or the chemical union of the ox3'gen of the air with some combustible bodj^, like hy- drogen gas or the solid carbon^ and is attended with the evolution of heat and light. The heat and the hght come from the sun. With every particle of vegetable matter that is formed by the combined action of the sun and the carbonic acid gas in the air, a portion of the sun's heat and light is absorbed and held fast in it. And whenever this vegetable matter is decomposed, —as in burning wood, coal, or oil, which are only definite forms of vegetable mat- ter, — this heat and light are given out. The amount of each depends upon the mode of burning. Ai7' is composed mainly of two elementary gases, ox3'gen and nitrogen (one part oxj^gen and four parts nitrogen), with a small amount of watery vapor and carbonic acid gas. Pure oxygen is a gas which has a wonderful attraction for, and power of combination with, everj^ other element. If it were everywhere present in a perfectly pure state, it would consume or burn up ever3'thing; but it is diluted or mixed (not combined) with nitrogen, another gas which is incombustible, and which lessens the combustibility of ever3'thing with which it comes in contact. Owing to this dilution, the oxygen will not unite with the carbon and M^lrogen with which it is everywhere surrounded, and produce rapid combustion, except at a high temperature. The temperature at which this union takes place is called the burning-point, and this varies in different substances. Thus combustion is within the power and control of man ; and some extra means are usually emplo3^ed to increase the temperature to the burning-point, — friction, or per- cussion, or the use of some more highly inflammable4 The Boston Cook Book. sub'stances, like sulphur and phosphorus. This produces heat sufficient to complete the chemical union, or, in com- mon phrase, " kindles the fire." The heat generated for all household purposes is produced by the chemical action of the oxygen of the air upon the hy- drogen and carbon which are found in the various kinds ot wood and coal. The oxygen first combines with the car- bon and decomposes it, producing carbonic acid gas, which escapes into the air, from which it is absorbed hj plants, or by human lungs when there is no proper ventilation. The oxygen also combines with the hydrogen gas in the fuel, and this produces the flame ; the larger the amount of hydrogen in the fuel, the greater the amount of flame. Some of the products of combustion are not entirel^^ con- sumed, and pass ofif* as smoke ; some are incombustible, and remain as ashes. The intensity of a fire and the amount of heat which it produces are alwa^'s in proportion to the amount of oxygen with which it is supplied. There should be just air enough for perfect combustion. An excess of air projected upon a fire conveys away the heat, cools the fuel, and checks the combustion. The suppl}^ of air should be controlled by confining it in a limited space. Fires are usually kindled at the bottom of a flue or chim- ney. The heated air, being lighter, rises ; the colder, den- ser air rushes in to take its place, becomes heated, and ascends. Thus a continuous current is established, and a constant supply of fresh air secured. The chimney serves to carry off the smoke and poisonous products of combus- tion ; the heavier, incombustible products settle in the form of ashes. The force of this current of air drawing through the chimne}^ (a matter of great importance) is called the draught. It varies with the temperature and amount of air in the room, and the length and width of the chimney. Fuel. The materials generally used as fuel are wood, charcoal, coal, kerosene oil, and gas.The Boston Cook Booh, S Soft woods^ such as pine or birch, kindle quickl}'-, produce intense heat, and are best for a quick, blazing fire. Hardwoods^ like oak, ash, and hickor}^, burn more slowly, but produce harder coals, which retain the heat longer, and are better where long-continued heat is required. Charcoal^ which is coal made by charring or burning wood with only a limited supply of air, burns easily and produces greater heat in proportion to its weight than any other fuel. It should never be burned in a close room. Anthracite coal is a kind of mineral charcoal derived from ancient vegetation buried in the earth, and so thoroughly pressed that nothing is left but pure carbon, a little sul- phur, and the incombustible ash. It kindles slowly, yields an intense, steady heat, and burns for a longer time with- out replenishing than the hardest wood. Coke^ often used in cities, is the residue of coal from which illuminating gas has been manufactured. The heat is intense, but transient. Stoves for burning kerosene oil and gas have recently been introduced, and are now so nearl}^ perfect that the care of a fire for cooking purposes is trifling. Gas can only be used in certain localities. The cheapest fuel is the best kerosene oil. There need be no waste, no superfluous heat, no vitiated air, if the fire be extinguished immediately after the work is done, and if the stove be kept perfectly clean, so as to secure a free burning and perfect combustion. With two good stoves having all the latest and best improvements, a large amount of work can be easily and satisfactorily' accomplished. The Making and Care of a Coal Fire. If 3'Ou intend to buy a new stove or range, get one sim- ple in construction, that yon may quickly learn all its parts and their uses ; plain in finish, that 3'ou ma}^ easily keep it clean; and perfectly^ fitted part to part, with doors and dampers shutting absolutely close, so that you may con- trol the fire and heat. This latter point is of essentialThe Boston Cook Booh. 6 importance in regulating the oven and in preventing a waste of fuel. Become thoroughl}^ acquainted with whatever stove you may have. If necessarj^, take it apart; learn how to clean it in the inside, to regulate the dampers for all the variations of wind, temperature, and fuel; and then learn how to make and keep a fire. All stoves have a fire-box, with more or less space under- neath for ashes ; a slide damper under the fire, letting in the air ; an outlet for the smoke ; and a damper which reg- ulates the suppl}' of hot air, sending it around and under- neath the oven, or letting it escape into the chimne3\ Remove the covers and brush the soot from the top of the oven into the fire-box; then clean out the grate; and if the stove have conveniences for so doing, sift the ashes in the stove and save all the old coal and cinders. Put in shavings or loose rolls of paper, then fine pine kindlings, arranged crosswise, and a layer of hard wood, leaving plenty of air space between the pieces. Be sure the wood comes out to each end of the fire-box. Put on the covers ; and if the stove need cleaning, moisten some pulverized stove polish with water, and rub the stove with a paint brush dipped in the polish. When all blackened, rub with a dry polishing-brush until nearly dry. Open the direct draught and oven damper, and light the paper, as a slight heat facilitates the process of polishing. When the wood is thoroughly kindled, fill the fire-box with coal even with the top of the oven. Brush up the hearth and floor, empty the teakettle, and fill it with fresh water. Watch the fire, and push the coal down as the wood burns away, and add enough more coal to keep it even with the top of the fire bricks. When the blue flame becomes white, close the oven damper; and when the coal is burning freely, but not red, shut the direct draught. It seems impossible for some persons to understand that a coal fire is at its height as soon as well kindled, and needs only air enough to keep it burning. When it becomes bright red all through, it has parted with most of its heat, and begins to die out. Tons7 The Boston Cook Book. of coal are wasted in many kitchens, and ranges are need- lessl}^ burned out, by filling the fire-box till the coal touches the covers, and leaving the draughts open till the coal is red. Nearly all stoves and portable ranges have the oven at one side of and a little below the fire. In brick-set ranges the ovens are sometimes over the fire. A stove has a door on each side of the oven, with the fire-box in front. A portable range has only one oven-door, and the fire-box at the end. In ranges where the oven is over the fire, the articles to be baked are placed on a grate near the middle, as the bottom of the oven is usually very hot. In stoves or portable ranges anj'thing which has to rise in the oven, like bread, pastry, cake, etc., is placed on the bottom of the oven, and, if the heat be too great, a small rack or grate ma}- be placed under it. Large pieces of meat are placed on a rack in a pan ; while small cuts of meat, birds, etc., which are to be baked quickly, and any dishes which are to be merely browned, like scalloped dishes, must be placed on the grate near the top. Cultivate the habit of opening and shutting the oven-door quickly but gently. Learn the hottest and coolest places in the oven. Look at things as the}^ are baking, and turn and watch till you are sure they can be left alone. If anything bake unevenly or too fast, put a screen between it and the heat, — a pan on the grate above or underneath, or a frame of stiff paper made larger than the pan, that it may not touch the dough. When the regulating dampers are closed and the oven is still too hot, lift a cover on the top partly off, although in a stove in which the parts are perfectly adjusted this will never be necessary. When the oven is not hot enough, open the direct draught, and rake out the ashes from the grate. Keep the grate cleaned out and the fire burning freely, when a very hot oven is needed. At other times keep the draughts shut and do not waste the coal. To keep a brisk fire for several hours or all day, it is better to add a sprinkHng of coal often, rather than to let it burn nearly out, and then, by adding a larger quantity,8 The Boston Cook Booh, check the fire and retard the work. In using the top of tlie stove remember the hottest place is over the fire and toward the middle, not on the front of the stove. When 3^ou have once watched the flame in its passage over the top, down the back, and under the oven, then across, out and up on the opposite side and out into the chimney, you will understand where the greatest heat must be. Boiling. The term " boiling" is often used erroneously in cook- ery. The expressions the teakettle boils," the rice is boiling," ''boiled beef," etc., are all good illustrations of the rhetorical figure metonymy^ but they are practically incorrect. In all cases it is only the water or liquid which boils. No solid can boil until first changed to a liquid. Solids become liquid at the melting-point. Liquids take the form of steam or vapor at the boiling-point. Boiling is the conversion of a liquid into steam by the application of heat sufficient to cause ebullition^ or agitation of its sur- face. Boiling, therefore, as applied to the cooking of solids, is heating or cooking in a boiling liquid. It is one of the most generally used, and abused, forms of cooking. Boiling water, which is really cooked water, is the liquid usually employed. Water, as it is heated from below, ex- pands into vapor. The air of the water and the steam shoot up in the form of bubbles ; as they come in contact with the cold water near the surface, the bubbles collapse, the steam is condensed and descends with the cold water, making a double set of currents, which causes quite a com- motion among the particles. As the whole body of water becomes hotter, these bubbles of steam rise higher and higher before collapsing, and occasion the sound which we call the " singing of the kettle." When the water is sufficiently heated, they rise and break at the surface, causing more or less agitation, according to the rapidity with which they are formed. Water is scalding hot at 150°, or when the hand cannot be borne in it. WaterThe Boston Cook Booh 9 simmers when the bubbles all collapse beneath the surface, and the steam is condensed to water again, or at 185°. Water boils when the bubbles rise to the surface, and the steam is thrown off, as at 212°. When this boiling-point is reached, the heat escapes with the steam ; and all the fire in the world cannot make the water any hotter, so long as the steam escapes. If the fire be very fierce, so that these bubbles are formed and expelled rapidh^, and the water boils over, the water is no hotter; it only evaporates or boils away faster, and can onl}^ be made hotter by confin- ing the steam, which in ordinar}^ kettles is impossible, owing to the enormous expansive force of the steam. With a few exceptions it is a waste of fuel, time, and ma- terial to keep the water boiling at such a galloping rate that the cover has to be lifted to prevent boiling over. A kettle should never be quite full, as the water ex- pands in heating, and, in boiling over, makes needless work and injures the stove. Water will boil more quickly in a kettle with a rough surface than in one with a smooth surface, as the water adheres to a smooth surface with greater force, and this force or attraction must be over- come before boiling takes place. Small, clean gravel is sometimes kept in a smooth kettle to facilitate the boihng. Water boils at a higher temperature when there is sugar, or salt, or an^'thing in it to increase its density. It takes longer for it to boil; but it is hotter, when that point is reached. No one who has been burned by boiling syrup ever doubted this fact. Fresh water boils at 212° ; salt water, at 224°. If we put salt with the water in the lower part of a double boiler, a greater degree of heat is obtained by which to cook the articles in the top. Water boils at a lower temperature, that is, more quickly, when the pressure of the air upon the water is diminished. Before a rain the pressure of the air is lessened, because the air when filled with vapor is lighter. Observing house- keepers have often noticed how quickl}^ things burn at such a time, and foretell a rain by the rapidity with which water evaporates.The Boston Cook Book. lO The pressure of the air is less the higher we ascend above the level of the sea, since we leave much of the air below us. Cooking in boiling water requires a much longer time in mountainous regions ; for the water boils so quickly that it holds less heat than in lower altitudes, where it is subject to greater pressure. Water, in boiling, loses the air or gases which give it a fresh taste and spark- Ihig appearance. It becomes flat aiid tasteless. If there be any impurity in water, boiling or cooking will destroy it. Then, by cooling, and exposing to pure air again, it becomes aerated and palatable. But water for cooking, unless there are impurities to be removed, should be used when freshly boiled. This is especiall}' important in mak- ing tea and coffee. Soft water should be used in boihng where the object is to soften the texture, and extract the soluble parts, as in soups, broths, tea, and coffee. Hard water, or soft water salted, is better where we wish to preserve the articles whole, and retain the soluble and flavoring principles, as in most green vegetables. Beans or dried peas, which contain casein or vegetable albumen in large proportion, should be cooked in soft water, as the lime in hard water hardens the casein, and prevents the vegetables from becoming soft. In cooking meat, fish, and vegetables in water, we should remember these two facts : — Cold water draws out the albuminous juices, softens the fibres and gelatinous portions of meat, and holds them in solution. It draws out starch, but does not unite with it. Boiling water hardens and toughens albumen and fibrine, bursts the starch grains, and is absorbed by the swelling starch. Meat is cooked in water for three distinct purposes : — First, To keep the nutriment within the meat^ as in what is usually called hailed meat. To do this, we leave the meat whole, that only a little surface may be exposed. Plunge it into boiUng salted water, and keep it there for five or ten minutes ; this hardens the albumen over the entire surface, and makes a coating through which the juicesThe Boston Cook Booh. II cannot escape. Then move the kettle where the water will simmer slowl^'. See that the cover fits tightly, to keep in the steam. The water should be salted to raise the boiling-point, and increase the density of the water, and thus prevent the escape of the juices. A small amount of the albumen in the outer surface will be dissolved and rise as scum. This should be removed, or it will settle on the meat and render it uninviting in appearance. If the meat be put in the kettle with the bones uppermost, then the scum will not settle on the meat. In turning the meat do not pierce into it to let the juices escape. It will take a longer time to cook in this way, but the fibrine will be softened, and the meat made more tender and of better flavor, than when kept boiling furiously. Second. Meats are cooked in water to have the nutri- ment wholly in the Uquid^i as in soups and meat teas. Cut the meat in small pieces ; soak in cold water, the longer the better; heat graduall}', and keep hot, but not boiling, until all the goodness is extracted. Third. Meats are cooked in water to have the nutri- ment partly in the liquid and partly in the meat., as in stews., fricassees^ etc. Put the meat in cold water, let the water boil quickly, then skim, and keep at the simmering-point. The cold water will draw out enough of the juices to enrich the liquid; then, as it reaches the boiling-point, the meat hardens, and retains the remainder. Fish is usually cooked in boiling water for the purpose of keeping the juices in the fish. As the flesh of fish breaks easily, the water should never be allowed to boil rapidly. Salmon, mackerel, or any very oily fish, should be put into cold water, and brought almost to the boiling- point quickly, as they have a \^ry strong, rich flavor. A little of this flavor can be lost without injury to the fish. Vegetables, which are mostly starch and water, should be put into boiling water and boiled rapidly, that the small portions of albumen which they contain may be hardened on the surface ; then, if the starch grains are burst quickly, they will absorb the albuminous juices within.The Boston Cook Book. 12 Milk boils at 196°. Being thicker than water, less of the steam escapes, and the whole liquid becomes hot sooner than water. The bubbles rise rapidly, and, owing to their tenacity, do not burst at the surface, but climb over one another till they run over the edge of the pan. Milk, grains, custards, and any substances which, from their glutinous nature, would be liable to adhere to the kettle, are much more easily and safely cooked in a double boiler, or in a pail within a kettle of water. This is one form of steaming, or cooking over boiling water. In steam- ing, the water should not stop boiling until the articles are cooked. This is a convenient form of cooking many arti- cles which it is troublesome to cook with a dry heat, and yet do not need the solvent powers of water. Watery vegetables are rendered drier by steaming; and tough pieces of meat which'cannot be roasted, are first made tender b}^ steaming, and then browned in the oven. Some- times meat is steamed in its own juices alone; this is called smothering, or pot-roasting. Stewing is another form of boiling or cooking in a small quantity of water, at a moderate heat, and for a long time. The word means a slow, moist, gentle heat. It is an eco- nomical mode of cooking, except where a fire has to be kept for this purpose alone. The long-continued action of a gentle heat softens the fibres; and the coarsest and cheapest kinds of meat, cooked in this wa}^, with vegeta- bles, may be made tender and nutritious. By judicious use of seasoning material, remnants can be made into savory and nourishing dishes. Whether we call it simply a stew, or ragout, haricot, or salmi, the principle is the same, — that of slow, steady simmering, rather than fierce boiling. Fricasseeing (meaning "to fry") is a form of stewing. The term is usually applied to chicken, veal, or some small game, which is cut into pieces, and fried either before or after stewing, and served with a rich white or brown sauce, and without vegetables. Any meat that is quite juicy and not very tough may be first browned on the out- side to keep in the juices, and improve the flavor. Coarse,13 The Boston Cook Booh. « tough pieces should not be browned, but dipped in vinegar to soften the fibre ; and pieces containing much gristle should be put into cold water. Braising is a form of stewing done usuallj^ in a braising- pan or kettle which has coals in the cover. Any granite or iron pan with a close cover to keep in the steam will answer the purpose. When placed in the oven, where it is surrounded by a slow, uniform heat, it needs very little attention. It is one of the most economical and satisfac- tory ways of cooking large pieces of tough, lean meat, pigeons, liver, fowls, heart, etc. Stock, vegetables, and bacon may be used, if a rich liquor be required ; but water, herbs, and simple seasoning make it very palatable. Baking is hardening or cooking in a dry heat, as in a close oven. Nearly all flour mixtures — bread, pastry, and some forms of pudding — are more wholesome baked than when cooked in any other way. Many forms of baking are really stewing; but the closely confined heat of the oven gives an entirely different flavor from that obtained hy stewing over the fire. This is seen in the difference between stewed and baked apple-sauce, beans, etc. Meat and fish, if baked in the right way, lose less in weight than when boiled or roasted. To bake them prop- erly, the juices must be kept within the meat. An intense heat at first is necessary to harden the albumen ; then re- duce the heat, that the outside may not become too hard, and baste frequently to prevent drying. No water should be put in the pan at first, as it will then be impossible to have a greater heat than that of boiling water (212''), while for baking meat 280°, or more, is required. Put one or two tablespoonfuls of beef drippings, or some of the fat from the meat, in the pan, to use in basting, as the fat can be made much hotter than water. If the joint be very large, or the meat need thorough cooking, hke poultry, veal, or pork, water can be added to check the heat as soon as the outside is cooked sufficiently to keep in the juices. This will keep the meat moist. Small cuts, and meats to be eaten rare, are better baked without water.14 The Boston Cook Book, Many persons accustomed to meat roasted before the open fire object to the flavor of baked meat. If the oven be very hot at first, and opened every five minutes just long enough for the basting, which is an essential part of the cooking process, the smoky odor escapes. If there be no damper to check the heat underneath the oven, put the grate or another pan under the dripping-pan, as no heat is required under the meat. This will prevent the fat in the pan from burning and smoking the meat. Place the meat with the skin side down at first; then, if the juices begin to flow, the skin keeps them in ; and, when turned, it brings the side which is to be up in serving next the hottest part of the oven, for the final browning. All baked meat or fish should be salted and floured all over. Salt draws out the juices ; but the flour unites with them, making a paste which soon hardens, and keeps them within. Baste often, and dredge with salt and flour after basting. If there be no shelf attached to the stove near the oven, keep a box or frame of wood just the height of the oven, near by, and pushed up close to it; it will be found very convenient to pull the pan out upon it when basting or turning the meat. Frying. Fr^ang is cooking in hot fat, — not boiling fat, as it is so often called, for fat can be made much hotter than the temperature required for cooking, which is 385° ; the tem- perature for boiling fat is from 5G5^ to 600°. Frying, when properly done, is immersion in smoking-hot fat. The fat should be deep enough to entirely cover the articles to be cooked ; and as it may be used many times, it is not so extravagant as some suppose to use such a quantity. The prime secret of nice frying is to have the fat hot enough to harden instantly the albumen on the outer surface, and thus prevent the fat from soaking into the inside of what- ever is to be fried. As a much higher temperature is required than that for boiling or baking, the articles areThe Boston Cook Booh. very quickly cooked ; and they have a flavor quite unlike that given by any other form of cooking. All articles to be fried should be thoroughly dried and slightly warmed. If very moist, or very cold, or too many articles be fried at a time, the fat becomes chilled, and the grease soaks into them. Then, as the moisture heats and boils, it causes such a commotion that the fat and water boil over, and there is great danger from the fat taking fire and spreading to your clothing, to say nothing of the trouble of cleaning the stove and floor. For this reason be careful not to let a drop of water, or of con- densed steam from another kettle, fall into the hot fat. Meat, fish, oysters, croquettes, etc., should be dried, and rolled in fine bread-crumbs, to absorb any moisture ; then rolled in beaten egg, and in fine crumbs again. The hot fat hardens the albumen of the egg instantly ; and that, with the crumbs, makes a fat-proof crust. Fish balls, fritters, and fried muffin mixtures contain egg and albumen sufficient to keep them from soaking fat, if the fat be only hot enough. A Scotch bowl, or deep iron or granite kettle, and a wire basket small enough to fit down into the kettle, are best to use in frying. The Test for Hot Fat. — When the fat begins to smoke put in a bit of bread ; if it brown quicklj^, or while you can count sixty as the clock ticks, it is hot enough for fried potatoes, doughnuts, etc. When hot enough to brown the bread while you count forty, it will do for fish balls, croquettes, etc. When ready to fry, plunge the basket into the hot fat to grease it, and then place in it the croquettes, or what- ever you may be frying, so that they will not touch each other. Hold the handle of the basket with a long fork, and plunge it quickly into the fat, but do not drop the handle, because if the fat begin to boil up, you can then raise the basket quickly, and wait till the ebullition has subsided before plunging it in again; and thus avoid the danger of burning from the overflowing fat. The fat cools rapidly, when many articles are fried at once, andThe Boston Cook Book. i6 should be reheated to the test point before frying any more. Time. —Any cooked mixture, such as fish balls and cro- quettes, or very small fish, oysters, scallops, etc., will be fried brown in one minute. Thicker fish, chops, and frit- ters require longer cooking; and, after plunging them into the hot fat, the kettle should be set back from the fire to prevent them from becoming too brown before they are sufficiently cooked. While frying, be careful not to spill any fat on the stove. Keep a tin plate in your left hand, and hold it under the basket, or ladle, as you take things from the fat. Draining. — Thorough draining is another secret of nice frying, and 3^ou cannot find a much hotter place than right over the hot fat; so hold your basket of fried food over the hot fat, and shake slightly, till all dripping has stopped. Then place the fried articles on soft or unglazed paper, to absorb the fat, and keep them hot till ready to serve. Never pile fried articles one on another. Fat for Frying. Lard, a mixture of half suet and half lard, drippings, or oil, may be used for frying. Suet and drippings are cheap- est, and are preferred by many. Suet used alone cools very quickly and leaves a tallowy taste. Drippings should be carefully clarified (see page 18) and freed from water, or the articles cooked will soak fat. Lard, with a small proportion of suet or drippings, is more generally satisfac- tory. There is often a ver}^ disagreeable odor to new lard, and more or less water in it, as is shown b}^ the froth and ebullition as soon as it becomes hot. Before it is used for any purpose it should be clarified with slices of raw potato and heated until it becomes still. Olive oil is the purest fat for frying, but it is too expensive for general use. Cotton- seed oil has been recently introduced for cooking purposes, and is an excellent fat for frying, though mau}^ dislike its peculiar odor. It may be heated much hotter than lard,The Boston Cook Book. 17 without burning, and, when properly used, imparts no flavor to the food. When the fat becomes too brown for potatoes or doughnuts, use it for croquettes, etc., and then use it for nothing except fish balls and fish. When it be- comes very brown, put it with the soap-grease. If you wish to fry several kinds at the same time, begin with potatoes, following with doughnuts or flour mixtures, and crumbed articles last; otherwise the crumbs will fall off*, and adhere to whatever is put in subsequently. After every frying, strain the fat through a fine wire strainer or fine strainer cloth into a tin pail, not pouring it, but dip- ping it from the kettle with a small long-handled dipper. Let it cool slightly before straining, as, if very hot, it will melt the strainer. Sprinkle coffee on the stove, while fly- ing, to disguise the odor. Sauteing. The ordinary waj^ of frying in a shallow pan with only a little fat, first on one side and then on the other, which the French call sauteing^ answers very well for some purposes, — omelets, fried cakes, and many things browned in butter ; but nearly everything that requires any more fat than just enough to keep it from sticking, is much better immersed in hot fat. Fish balls, chops, and 03'sters are more quickly cooked, and absorb less fat, when fried by immersion than when sauted. Some people are extremely unwilling to make the change, and persist in going on in the old wa}" of cooking in a Kttle, half-hot fat which spatters over stove and floor, soaks into the fish or meat, and is often served as the only gravy. Upon such, dyspepsia is a fell avenger. These directions for frying are given thus minutely not from any desire to recommend this method of cooking; but, if people will fry their food, the}^ should do it in the only correct way. With the exception of salt-fish balls and small, dry, white fish, there is nothing fried, even in 2i8 The Boston Cook Book. the right way, that would not be equally good, and much more conducive to health, were it cooked otherwise. Sar- atoga potatoes, or chips as they are called, are really chips, for persons with weak digestion. Oj'sters, chops, fritters, and the materials in croquettes, muffins, and doughnuts may be cooked in many better waj'S. Frying answers very well for open-air cooking, on the seashore or in camp, where appetite and digestion are strengthened. But in most modern houses, where the odors from the kitchen penetrate the remotest nook and corner, there are many serious objections, apart from the indigestibility of the food thus prepared. The acrid odors given off during the heating of fat are very irritating to the mucous membrane of the nose and throat, and they are equally so to a sensitive stomach. Some persons who can usually digest fried food cannot do so when the stomach has been irritated by the odor in frying. If all those who are so fond of croquettes, fritters, etc., were obliged to inhale the smoking fat, these dishes would seldom appear on the table. To clarify Fat. An}' uncooked fat, such as suet, the fat from chickens, and all superfluous beef fat, should be saved and clarified, or made pure and clear. Cut the fat into small pieces, cover with cold water, and cook over a slow fire until the fat has melted, and the water nearly all evaporated. Then strain and press all the fat from the scraps. When cool, remove the cake of hard fat, or, if soft, draw it to one side and let the water underneath run off. You may put with the new fat any fat from soup stock, corned beef, drippings from roast beef, veal, fresh pork, or chicken ; in fact, an}'- thing except the fat from mutton, turkey, and smoked meat. If there be any sediment adhering to the fat, add a little very cold water, and, after stirring well, pour the water off, or skim the fat from the water. Place the fat in a pan over the fire, and, when melted, add one small raw potato, cut into thin slices. Let it stand on the topThe Boston Cook Book. 19 of the stove or in the oven till the fat has stopped bub- bling, is still, and the scraps are brown and crisp and rise to the top. Strain through a fine strainer, and keep in a cool place. Fat thus cleared will keep sweet for weeks, if melted occasionally, w^hich should alwa3^s be done when any new fat is added. Boiling the fat causes the water in it to evaporate, and the organic matters or impurities to be decomposed, and deposited as sediment; the potato, owing to its porosity and power of absorption (being mostly starch and carbon), absorbs any odors or gases, unites with the sediment, and thus cleanses the fat, very much as charcoal purifies water. Clarified fat (or dripping, as it is usually termed) an- swers for many purposes in cooking,—frying, sauteing, basting roast meat, greasing pans ; and as shortening for bread, plain pastr}^, and gingerbread. Egg and Bread Crumbing. Hints on saving bread crusts and stale pieces, for egg and bread crumbing, are given on page 75. The crumbs should be sifted through a fine sieve. For fish or meat mix a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsle}^ with them. Beat the eggs slightl}^ with a fork in a shallow dish. Add one tablespoonful of water or two tablespoonfuls of milk for each egg. Add a little sugar if they are to be used for sweet dishes, and salt and pepper for all others. Sprinkle the crumbs on a board, and roll the chop, fish, or cro- quettes first in the crumbs ; shake off all that do not adhere. Cover all the articles with the crumbs and let them stand till dry, then dip into the beaten egg, and be careful to have every part covered. Drain from the egg, and roll again in the crumbs. Croquettes or any soft mixture should be held on a broad knife w^iile being placed in the egg. Then dip the egg over them, and slip the knife again lengthwise under the croquette, drain, and put it carefully into the crumbs. Scallops and very small oysters can be more easily crumbed by placing them with the crumbs in aThe Boston Cook Book. 20 sheet of paper, and tossing or turning till all are crumbed. Eemember the order: crumbs first, then egg, then crumbs again. Koasting. Koasting (meaning to heat violently" ) is cooking be- fore an open fire ; it implies the action of a much greater degree of heat than that emplo3^ed in any of the previously specified methods of cooking. The heat of an open fire is about 1,000°. In the days of open fireplaces this was the general way of cooking large pieces of meat; but now it is adopted only in large establishments, or by those who can afibrd the additional expense of a tin kitchen, and a range con- structed especiall}^ for roasting. Baking, or roasting in a very hot oven, being a cheaper and more convenient way, is more generally used. Ovens in stoves and ranges are now well ventilated; and meat when properly cooked in a very hot oven, and basted often, is nearly equal in flavor to that roasted before an open fire. The fire for roasting should be clear and bright, and of sufficient body to last, with only a slight sprinkling of coal, through the time for roasting. The meat is placed on a spit, and hung in the jack in a tin kitchen, and made to revolve slowly before the fire by winding a spring in the jack, or b}^ turning the spit at regular intervals. The meat should be rubbed with salt and flour, and placed on the spit, ver}^ near the fire at first, to harden the albumen ; then removed a little dis- tance to prevent the meat from burning, before the inside is cooked. Place two or three spoonfuls of dripping in the pan to use in basting the meat ; baste often, and dredge two or three times with flour. When the joint is very large, place a buttered paper over it. As the juices of meat are composed largely of water, the water will be evaporated as soon as it reaches the boiling-point, or 212°. When meat is placed in a moder- ate oven, the heat is not suflScient to harden the albumenThe Boston Cook Book, 21 on the outer surface ; the watery juices evaporate, the steam escapes, and the meat becomes dry and tasteless. But when meat is exposed to the intense heat of an open fire, or a very hot oven, the albumen hardens ; and if basted frequently with hot fat, the meat is completely en- veloped in a varnish of hot melted fat, which assists in communicating the heat to the inside, and checks the evaporation of the juices ; this prevents the escape of the steam, so that the inside of properl}^ roasted meat is really cooked in the steam of its own juices. The evapo ration of juices is proportionate to the amount of surface exposed. A small joint has a larger surface in proportion to its weight than a large joint weighing double or treble the amount; therefore the smaller the joint to be roasted, the higher the temperature to which its surface should be ex- posed, that the evaporation may be more quickly arrested. For very thin pieces of meat, which have a still larger surface in proportion to the weight, such as steaks and chops, a greater heat is required. This is accomplished by hroiling^ which should be done near the burning- point, the highest degree of heat emploj^ed in any form of cooking. Broiling. Broiling (meaning " to burn" ) is cooking directly over the hot coals. The degree of heat is so intense that the articles to be cooked would be very quickly burned, were they allowed to remain for any length of time over the fire. The secret of nice broiling is frequent turning. The fire should be bright red, and nearly to the top of the fire-box, so that the broiler may almost touch the fire. There should be no flame, as the flame from coal is due to the combustion of tany vapors, and will cause a deposit of coal tar on the meat, giving it a smoky, nauseating flavor. When the fat from the chop or steak drips on the coals and blazes, it deposits a film of mutton or beef fat all over the meat, which has a very different flavor from that of the coal flame. When the steak has much fat, removeThe Boston Cook Book. 22 part of it. A little fat will improve the flavor, baste the meat, and keep it from becoming too dry. The oven damper should always be opened while broiling, that the smoke of the dripping fat may be carried into the chimney. There is nothing better for broiling than a double wire broiler. It is well to have several sizes. Grease it well with a bit of the fat from the meat, or with salt-pork rind. Place the thickest part of whatever is to be broiled next the middle of the broiler. Do not salt the meat, as salt draws out the juice. Have the platter heating, and every- thing else ready, that you may not leave the broihng for an instant. Hold the broiler firmlj^, with a coarse towel wrapped around 3^our hand to protect it from the heat. Place it as near the fire as possible, to sear the outside instantly ; count ten, then sear the other side. The heat hardens the outside, and starts the flow of the juices. They cannot escape through the hardened outer surface ; but if the meat were cooked wholly on one side before turning, they would soon come to the top, and then, in turning the meat, the juices would drip into the fire. But if the meat be turned before the juices reach the top, the other surface is hardened, and they cannot escape, but flow to the centre, and are there retained. As the juices are converted into steam by the heat, they swell and give the meat a puffy appearance. If the broiling be carried on too long, these juices gradually ooze between the fibres to the surface, and are evaporated; and the meat becomes dry, leather}^, and indigestible. Meat should be broiled only long enough to loosen all the fibres, and start the flow of the juices. The meat will spring up instantly when pressed with the knife ; and when it ceases to do this, the juices have begun to evaporate, and the meat shrinks. A little experience will enable one to decide just when to remove the meat. Do not cut into it, as this lets out the juices. It should be pink and juicy, not raw and purple, nor brown and dry. Turn over as often as you can count ten, and cook four minutes, if23 The Boston Cook Book. one inch thick; six, if one incli and a half thick. The smaller and thinner the article, the hotter should be the fire ; the larger the article, the more temperate the fire, or the greater the distance from the fire. Fish should be floured to keep the skin from sticking. A large baking-pan to keep in the heat should be held over anything "which is very thick and requires to be cooked a long time. Chickens, which need to be thoroughly broiled but not burned or dried, require about twenty minutes. A safe way is to wa'ap them in buttered glazed paper; cook the inner side first, and after the first searing keep them at a little distance from the fire. Chops, bacon, birds, and dr}^ fish are also improved by broiling in the buttered paper. Take a large sheet of white letter paper, or two small sheets. Eab them well with softened butter. This keeps out the air. Season the chop or fish with salt and pepper, place it near the centre of the paper, and fold the edges of the i3aper over several times and pinch them together close to the meat. The paper will char a long time before blazing, if care be taken not to break through the paper and thus let in the air and let out all the fat. The meat will be basted with its own fat and juices. A longer time will be required for the broiling ; but when the paper is well browned, the chop will be done. It will be found juicy and delicious, — free from any smok}^ fiavor. Pan-hroiling is broiling in a hissing hot spider or frying- pan. Heat the pan to a blue heat. Rub it with a bit of the beef fat, just enough to keep the meat from sticking, but do not leave any fat in the pan. Sear the meat quickly on one side, then turn without cutting into the meat, and brown the other side before any juice escapes into the pan. Cook about four minutes, turning twice, and serve very hot with salt and butter. If the pan be hot enough and no fat used, this is 7iot frying, it is hroiUng on hot iron; and the fiavor is almost equal to broiling over the coals.The Boston Cook Booh 24 Time Tables for Cooking. Baking Bread, Calce^ and Puddings. Loaf bread . . . . 40 to 60 m. Rolls, biscuit . . . 10 to 20 Graham gems ... 30 " Gingerbread . . . . 20 to 30 " Sponge cake . ... . 45 to 60 " Plain ... 30 to 40 Fruit " . . . 2to 3hrs. Cookies 10 to 15 m. Bread pudding ... 1 hr. Eice and Tapioca . . 1 " Indian pudding . . . 2 to 3 " Plum " ... 2 to 3 " Custards 15 to 20 m. Steamed brown-bread . 3 hrs. Steamed puddings . . 1 to 3 " Pie-crust about 30 m. Potatoes 30 to 45 Baked beans ... 6 to 8 hrs. Braised meat ... 3 to 4 " Scalloped dishes . . 15 to 20 m. Baking Meats, Beef, sirloin, rare, per lb, Beef, sirloin, well done, per lb Beef, rolled rib or rump, per lb Beef, long or short fillet Mutton, rare, per lb. Mutton, well done, per lb Lamb, well done, per lb. Veal " Pork " " " Turkey, 10 lbs. wt. . Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. wt. Goose, 8 lbs. . Tame duck . Game " Grouse . . . Pigeons . . Small birds . Venison, per lb. Fish, 6 to 8 lbs. thin fish Fish, 4 to 6 lbs. halibut . . Fish, small . long, thick . 8 to 10 m. 12 to 15 " 12 to 15 " 20 to 30 " 10 " 15 " 15 " 20 30 " 3 hrs. Itol^ " 2 40 to 60 m. 30 to 40 "■ 30 " 30 15 to 20 " 15 " Ihr. 20 to 30 m. Boiling. Eggs, coffee, clams, oysters 3 to Rice, green corn, peas, tomatoes, asparagus, hard-boiled eggs Potatoes, macaroni, squash, celery, spinach, sweetbreads . . Young beets, carrots, turnips, onions, parsnips, cauliflower Young cabbage, string beans, shell beans, oyster plant . . . Winter vegetables, oatmeal, hominy and wheat, chickens and lamb Fowls, turkey, veal 2 to Corned beef, smoked tongue, beef a la mode 3 to Ham Halibut and salmon in cubical form, per lb Blue-fish, bass, etc., per lb Cod, haddock, aud small fish, per lb 15 to 20 to 30 to 45 to 1 to 4 to 5 m. 20 " 30 " 45 " 2 hrs 3 " 4 " 5 " 15 m. 10 Frying. Smelts, small fish, croquettes, fish balls 1 m. Muffins, fritters, doughnuts 3 to 5 " Slices of fish, breaded chops 4 to 6 "The Boston Cook Book. 25 Broiling. Steak, one inch thick 4m. Steak, one and a half inch thick 6 ^' Small, thin fish 5 to 8 " Thick fish 12 to 15 " ChopS;, broiled in paper 8 to 10 " Chickens 20 " Larding. Manj^ kinds of meat which are very lean and dry are improved by the addition of some kind of fat. The tender- loin or fillet of beef, the thick part of the leg of veal, grouse, and liver, are often prepared in this waj'. Larding is drawling small strips of fat salt pork or bacon through the surface of the meat; daubing is forcing strips of pork through the entire thickness of the meat. Take a piece of fat salt pork two inches wide and four inches long. Shave off the rind the long way of the pork ; then cut two or three slices about a quarter of an inch thick, the same way as the rind ; cut only to the membrane which lies about an inch below the rind, as'this is the firmest part of the pork ; then cut each slice across the width, into strips one quarter of an inch thick. This will make the lardoons one quarter of an inch wide and thick and two inches long. Insert one end of the lardoon into the end of the larding-needle, then with the point of the needle take up a stitch half an inch deep and one inch wide in the surface of the meat. Draw the needle through, and help the pork to go through by pushing until partly through, then hold the end of the pork and draw the needle out, leaving the pork in the meat, with the ends projecting at equal lengths. Take up more stitches one inch apart in parallel or alternate rows, until the whole surface is covered. Daubing is applied to a broad, thick piece of beef or veal. Cut the pork in strips one third of an inch wide and thick, and as long as the meat is thick. Punch a hole clear through the meat with a steel, and then insert theThe Boston Cook Book. 26 lardoon with a large larding-needle or with the fingers. The salt and fat from the lardoons penetrate the inside of the meat, and by many are considered an improvement. Those who object to the pork will find that beef may be seasoned as well hy covering the surface with nice beef suet, salted ; or the pork may be laid on the meat and removed after cooking. The process is not difficult, re- quiring no more skill than any other kind of sewing. Boning. Any one who can use a sharp knife, and scrape meat or fish from a bone, without cutting her own flesh, can bone anything, from the smallest bird, chop, or fish, to a leg or forequarter of lamb, or a turkey. A small knife with a sharp, short, pointed blade, is all that is required. It is well to begin on a small scale by removing the bone from a chop or steak. The aim is to remove the flesh from the bone without cutting into the flesh, or destroying its shape more than is necessar3\ To Bone a Chop or Steah — Begin at the bone end, scrape the meat awa}^ leaving the bone clean and the flesh un- broken. If there be a piece of tenderloin under the bone, remove it, and put it up close to the meat, which was above the bone in the original form. Directions for boning fish are given on page 161. To Bone a Leg of Mutton, — Cut it ofl" at the first joint, insert the knife near the joint, and loosen the fiesh from the bone, leaving all the gristle and tendons on the bone. Then begin at the tail end, and scrape the fat away from the backbone, then follow the bone (you can easily tell by the feeling, if you cannot see it) until you come to the joint; leave all the gristle and cords on the bone, and con- tinue scraping off* the flesh till the whole bone is out. One could easily cut through from the outside to the bone and remove it in that w^ay; but the flesh w^ould have to be sewed together, and much of the juice would escape. After removing the bone, stufi* the cavity left the bone,27 The Boston Cook Book, and sew the skin together at the smaller end. Then bring the edges together at the upper end, crowding all the flesh inside, and sew the skin together tightl3\ This gives a rectangular form of solid meat and stuffing. When salted and floured and exposed to a hot oven, the juices are kept inside ; the meat is more conveniently served, and, when cold, does not become dry and hard. Any other pieces of meat are boned in a similar manner. To Bone a Bird^ Fowl, or Turkey, — In this case the flesh is to be kept in the skin in order to preserve the shape. The skin should be firm and unbroken, and the bird should not be drawn. Remove the head and pin- feathers, singe and wipe carefull3\ Remove the tendons from the legs, and loosen the skin round the end of the drumstick. Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the middle of the back, or near the junction of the side bone. Scrape the flesh with the skin away from the backbone until you feel the end of the shoulder-blade ; loosen the flesh from this, and then follow the bone to the wing joint, and down to the middle joint in the wing. The skin lies very near the bone underneath the joint, and care must be taken to avoid cutting through the skin at these places. Leave the first bone in the wing to aid in keeping the shape ; it ma}^ be removed before serving. In small birds there is so little meat on the wings, that it is just as well to cut them off" at the middle joint. Re- move the bone from the other wing in the same way, then follow the collar bone from the wing down to the breast- bone, loosening the crop from the flesh. In removing the flesh from the breastbone, be careful not to cut through the skin on the ridge. The flesh may be pushed away with the fingers, and the fillets or pieces that are detached from the other fiesh can be laid aside, and iDut in place afterwards. When the breastbone is bare, separate the flesh from the ribs, and be careful not to break through the membrane into the inside. Remove the flesh round the second joint, then the drumsticks, turning the flesh wrong side out as in pulling a glove from the finger.28 The Boston Cook Book. Repeat this process on the other side. Then scrape down to the end of the backbone, and cut through the bone, leaving a part of it in the tail. Separate the membrane under the body without breaking. Thus 3'ou have the flesh in the skin, and the skeleton left entire with the con- tents undisturbed in the inside. Lay the stuffing in, filling out the legs and wings, then sew the skin along the back, and skewer or tie into the original shape. An easier way of boning a fowl where it is to be rolled like a galantine^ is to cut off the wings at the second joint, break the drumstick half-way from the joint, cut the skin down the entire length of the back, remove the flesh from the wing and second joint, turning the skin and flesh off like a glove ; then do the same on the other wing and leg, leaving the breast till the last. The wings and legs are turned inside, the stuffing is laid in the flesh, and the whole rolled over and over, and sewed on the edge of the skin and at the ends of the roll. Measuring. It has been said that good cooks never measure am^- thing."- They do. They measure by judgment and ex- perience ; and until you have a large share of both these essential qualities, use your spoon and cup or scales. Measures, in preference to weights, are used in nearly all these receipts, as they are more convenient for the ma- jority of housekeepers. When measured and estimated by the Table of Weights and Measures on page 30, the cup and spoon may be used as accurately as the scales. Flour, meal, sugar, salt, spices, and soda should al- ways be sifted before measuring. Any other materials that have been packed, like mustard and baking powder, if not sifted, should be stirred, and broken up lightl3\ One tablespoonful of solid mustard taken carelessly from the box has been found equal to three tablespoonfuls measured afcer sifting. The saltspoons, teaspoons, and tablespoons used in these receipts are the silver spoons now in general use. IronThe Boston Cook Book. 29 mixing-spoons vary much in size, but there is a size which holds exactly the same as a silver tablespoon. Be careful to use this size in measuring. The cup is the common kitchen cup holding half a pint. Those with handles are more convenient. To measure a teaspoonful of dry material, dip into the sifted material, and take up a heaping spoonful, shake it slightly until it is just rounded over, or convex in the same proportion as the spoon is concave. An even ov scant teaspoonful means the spoon filled lightty, and levelled off with a knife. One half teaspoonful is most accurately measured by dividing through the middle lengthwise. When divided across the width the tip is smaller than the lower half. A heaping teaspoonful is all the spoon will hold of any lightlj^ sifted material. A teaspoonful of liquid is the spoon full to the brim. Tahlespoonfuls are measured in the same way. A cupful of dry material should be filled and heaped lightly (not shaken down), then levelled off even with the top. A small scoop should be kept in the flour or sugar to use in filling the cup. A heaping cupful is all the cup will hold. A cupful of liquid is not what you can carrj?" without spilling, but what the cup will hold without running over ; full to the brim. Place 3'Our cup in a saucer, while filUng it, or in the bowl in which the liquid is to be poured. Half a cupful is not half the distance from the bottom to the rim. Most cups are smaller at the bottom, for which allowance must be made. Take two cups of the same size and shape, fill one with water, then pour the water without spilling into the other cup until it stands at the same level in both cups. This gives jow the half-cupful exactly, which in the cups used here is two thirds of the height, or within an inch of the top. The quarter and three-quarter measures ma}^ be found in the same way. A scant cupful is within a quarter of an inch of the top. ^'Butter the size of an egg^' is a very common expression. This equals about one quarter of a cupful, or two ounces, or one heaping tablespoonful, either of which is more easily30 The Boston Cook Book. written than the first expression. Place an egg in one tablespoon, then pack butter in another till it fills the spoon in the same proportion as the egg, and 3'ou will easil}^ carry it in mind. Have your materials measured or at hand, and all uten- sils ready before beginning the mixing, or putting the ingredients together. Keep a bucket or pan full of flour, freshly sifted each day, and ready for use. Measure flour first, and put it in a bowl or pan together with salt, soda, cream of tartar, and spice ; measure butter and put it in the mixing-bowl; then measure the sugar, and, in scraping out the sugar, take the butter which has adhered to the cup. Break yom eggs on the edge of the cup ; if the white be clear, the egg is good. Put the yolks in one bowl and the whites in another; measure the milk or liquid, and, after using the beaten j^olk, clean out the bowl with the milk. Or, measure all the dry ingredients, break and sep- arate the eggs, measure the milk, add it to the beaten yolks, and measure the melted butter last. In either way you can make one cup do for all without washing. Two eggs beaten separately " means that the yolks and whites are to be beaten separately, not each whole egg beaten separately. A tablespoonful of melted hutter is measured after melt- ing. A tablespoonful of hutter melted is measured before melting. To economize space, in many of the receipts the abbre- viations are written: one cup for one cupful, tablesp. for tablespoonful, teasp. for teaspoonful, and saltsp. for salt- spoonful. All these measures mean a full measure, unless scant or heaping measures are specified. Table of Weights and Measures. 4 saltspoonfIlls of liquid 4 teaspooiif Ills of liquid 3 teaspooiifuls of dry material 4 tablespoonfuls of liquid 2 gills 1 teaspoonful. 1 tablespoonful. 1 tablespoonful. 1 wineglass, or ^ gill, or ^ cup. 1 cup, or ^ pint.31 The Boston Cook Book. 16 tablespoonfuls of liquid 12 tablespoonfuls of dry material 8 heaping tablespoonfuls of dry material 4 cups of liquid 4 cups of flour 2 cups of solid butter \ cup of butter 2 cups of granulated sugar 2^ cups of powdered sugar 3 cups of meal 1 pint of milk or water 1 pint of chopped meat packed solidly 9 large eggs, 10 medium eggs 1 round tablespoonful of butter 1 heaping tablespoonful of butter Butter the size of an egg 1 heaping tablespoonful of sugar 2 round tablespoonfuls of flour 2 round tablespoonfuls of coffee 2 round tablespoonfuls of powdo sugar 1 tablespoonful of liquid 1 bottle S. M. wine 1 bottle brandy 1 small bottle Burnett's extract 1 small bottle Burnett's extract 1 flask of olive oil = 1 cup. -1 cup. = 1 cup. = 1 quart. = 1 pound, or 1 quart. = 1 pound. r ^ pound. = 1 pound. -1 pound. -1 pound. - 1 pound. -1 pound. -1 pound. = 1 ounce. z 2 ounces, or \ cup. - 2 ounces, or \ cup. -1 ounce. = 1 ounce. : 1 ounce, r 1 ounce. : ^ ounce. z 3 cups, or 48 tablespoonfuls. : 1^ cups, or 24 tablespoonfuls. = ^ cup scant, or 3 tablespoonfuls. = 12 teaspoonfuls. = 1^ cups, or 20 tablespoonfuls. Table of Proportions. 1 scant measure of liquid to 3 full measures of flour, for bread. 1 scant measure of liquid to 2 full measures of flour, for muffins. 1 scant measure of liquid to 1 full measure of flour, for batters. ^ cup of yeast, or \ of compressed yeastcake, to one pint of liquid, 1 even teasp. of soda and 2 full teasp. of cream tartar to 1 quart of flour. 3 heaping, or 4 even teaspoonfuls, of baking powder to 1 quart of flour. 1 teaspoonful of soda to 1 pint of sour milk. 1 teaspoonful of soda to 1 cup of molasses. 1 saltspoonful of salt to 1 quart of milk for custards. 1 teaspoonful of extract to 1 quart of custard. 1 saltspoonful of salt to 1 loaf of sponge cake. 1 teaspoonful of extract to 1 loaf of plain cake. 1 saltspoonful of spice to 1 loaf of plain cake. 1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 quart of soup stock or 2 quarts of flour, 1 saltspoonful of white pepper to 1 quart of soup stock. 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs to 1 quart of soup stock. 1 tablespoonful of each chopped vegetable to 1 quart of soup stock. A speck of cayenne pepper is what you can take up on the point of a pen- knife or on a quarter-inch square surface. A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonful. A pinch of hops is of a cup.The Boston Cook Book, 32 The proportions of seasoning given in these receipts are not sufficient for those who like highly seasoned food. It is easier to add more, than to remove any if too highly seasoned. Mixed Spice for Eich Cakes and Plum Puddings, i teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 1 teaspoonful each of mace and grated nutmeg. 3 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. Spice Salt for Soups and Stuffings. 4 ounces of salt. 2 ounces of celery salt. 1 ounce each of white pepper and ground thyme, 1 ounce each of marjoram and summer savory, ^ ounce of sage. 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. \ teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice, and mace. Mix, sift, and keep closely covered. Mixed Whole Herbs, for Soups and Braised Meats. 1 bunch each of whole thyme and marjoram. 1 bunch each of summer savory and sage. ^ pound of bay leaves. Crush and break the leaves, blossoms, and stalks, and mix thoroughly. Mixing. Next to care in measuring comes the manner of mixing. The most accurate measurement of the best materials is often rendered useless by a neglect to put them together properly, and the blame is usually charged to the oven or the receipt. There are three distinct ways of mixing: Stirring^ Beating^ and Cutting or Folding. Stirring, —Let the bowl of the spoon rest slightly on the bottom of the mixing-bowl; then move round and round in widening circles, without lifting the spoon out of33 The Boston Cook Booh. the mixture, except to scrape the sides of the bowl occa- sionally. Stir slowlj' at first, to avoid spattering; add the liquid gradual!}', and be sure the bowl of the spoon (not the edge nor the tip merel}^) touches the bottom and sides of the bowl. This is mashing as well as stirring, and the mixture soon becomes a paste. When perfectl}^ smooth and free from lumps, add more liquid till you have the desired consistenc3\ We stir flour and water together for a thickening, or butter and flour and milk for a sauce. We stir when we rub butter to a cream, or when we make a batter or semi-dough. When we make a stifl* dough we stir at first, and then turn the whole mass over, bringing the knife or spoon round the bowl and cutting up through the dough. Beating. — Tip the bowl slightly, and hold the spoon so that the edge scrapes the bowl, and bring it up through the mixture and over with a long quick flop to the oppo- site side; under, and up through again, lifting the spoon out of the mass and cutting clear through, scraping from the bottom at ever}^ stroke. Keep the bowl of the spoon and the sides of the mixing-bowl well scraped out, that all the material may be equally beaten. We stir simply to blend two or more materials ; we heat to entangle all the air possible in the mixture. We beat eggs or batter or soft dough. The albumen of the eggs and the gluten of the flour, owing to their visciditj^ or glutinous properties, catch the air and hold it in the form of cells, something as w^e make soap bubbles hy blowing air into soapy water. The faster we beat, and the more we bring the material up from the bowl into the air, the more bubbles we have; but one stirring motion will de- stroy them. Yolks of eggs should be beaten nearlj^ as much as the whites, or till they are light or lemon-colored, and thicken perceptibly. The whites should be beaten till they are stiff and dry, or fly oflT in flakes, or can be turned upside down without spilling. When the two are to be put together, always plan to turn the whites into the yolks, as there is less waste than when the yolks are turned into 3The Boston Cook Book. 34 the whites. Let the whites stand a minute, then run a palette knife round the edge close to the bowl; they will slip out easil}^, and leave the bowl almost clean. For beating eggs, for nearly all purposes the Dover egg-beater is the best. There should be two sizes, the larger one for the whites of eggs. Hold the beater lightly in the left hand, and move it round through the egg while turning the handle. For frosting, and snow pudding, and all beat- ing of soft dough, use a perforated wooden spoon. Bowls with slightly flaring sides, and not too deep to be clasped from bottom to rim in the left hand, are most convenient. If tipped slightly toward the right, the beating is done more effectually. Cutting^ or Folding, or Lifting, — Omelets, sponge cake, whipped cream, etc., should have the beaten white cut or folded in carefully to avoid breaking the air bubbles. Turn the mixture over with the spoon, cut through, lift up, and fold the materials together, lifting the part from below, up and over, and mixing very gently until just blended. Do not stir round and round, nor beat quickly. All mixtures which are raised with eggs alone, should have the j^olks and whites of the eggs thoroughly and separately beaten; any very thin batter, like pop-overs, pancakes, or gems made without eggs, should be beaten vigorously just before baking. Graham or whole-wheat flour is better than white flour for gems that are made without eggs, because it contains more gluten. Shall we stir only one way? No; stir any way 3'ou please, so long as you blend or mix the materials. But after heating in air bubbles, don't break them by stirring^ unless 3^ou wish to keep up the game of cross purposes indefinitely. Always let the last motion, before turning into the pans, be one of quick, vigorous heating; except in those receipts where folding instead of beating is indicated.The Boston Cook Book. 35 Table of Average Cost of Material used in Cooking. 1 cup of flour or meal . . . $0.01 1 pound of spaghetti . . . $( 1 cornstarch . . . ).16 .06 .10 20 1 can of tomatoes .... .15 .03 .18 1 cup of molasses .... .05 .15 .02 1 " devilled ham and tongue .30 1 tablespoonful of wine . . .02 1 tumbler of jelly .... .35 1 " " brandy .04 1 jar of marmalade .... .25 1 teaspoonful of vanilla . . 1 " spice . . . .02 .75 .02 1 " " soda, and 2 1 " chocolate . . • .40 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar .02 ^ " nutmeg .... .32 1 tablespoonful of butter . . .03 Butter size of an egg . . . .05 ^ " cloves, cassia . . .15 1 tablespoonful of olive oil . .02 1 " ginger .... .10 2 tablespoonfuls of coffee . . .05 1 mustard .... .12 2 teaspoonfuls of tea . . . .01 " herbs, ground . . .10 1 quart of milkman's cream . .25 Package of whole herbs . . 8 1 Deerfoot cream .60 1 pound of cheese .... 1 " Parmesan cheese . .18 .16 .50 1 peck of potatoes .... .25 .50 1 pound of raisins .... 18 1 quart of onions .... .10 1 " currants .... .10 .02 1 " citron .... .18 1 " crackers . . . .10 1 bunch of celery .... .20 1 tapioca .... .07 1 handful of parsley . . . .05 1 rice ,00 1 bunch of watercresses . . .05 1 " macaroni . . . .18 .10 These prices are for the best materials, and are esti- mated for the season, from October to June, when butter and eggs are higher than during the summer.36 The Boston Cook Book, BREAD AND BREAD MAKING. Importance of Bread. — Bread is one of the earliest, the most generally used, and the most important forms of food adopted by mankind. Nothing in the whole range of domestic life more affects the health and happiness of the family than the qualitj^ of its daily bread. With good bread, the plainest meal is a feast in itself; without it, the most elaboratel}^ prepared and elegantly served menu is unsatisfactory. Bread-making is at once the easiest and the most difficult branch of culinary science, — eas}', if only sufficient inter- est be taken to master a few elementary principles and to follow them always, using the judgment of the best authorities, until experience furnishes a sufficient guide ; difficult, if there be any neglect to use proper care and materials. It should be regarded as one of the highest accomplishments ; and if one tenth part of the interest, time, and thought which are devoted to cake and pastry and fancy cooking were spent upon this most important article of food, the presence of good bread upon our tables would be invariabl}' secured. Origin and Meaning ofBreads — Bread is made from a variety of substances, —roots, fruits, and the bark of trees ; but more generally from certain grains. The word bread is derived from the verb to hray^ or pounds expressive of the old method of preparing the grain. Bread is therefore made of something braj-ed, as bra^^ed wheat or braj'ed corn. Bat these brayed or ground materials are not prop- erly bread until they are mixed or moistened with water. Then the brayed grain becomes doughy from a word mean- ing to wet^ or moisten. In primitive times this wetted meal or dough was baked at once in hot ashes, and made37 The Boston Cook Book. a firm, compact bread, exceedingly hard of digestion. Accidental!}^ some one discovered that b}^ letting the dough stand till it had fermented, and then mixing it with new dough, it raised, or lifted, the whole mass, and made it lighter and more porous. Thus we have our word loaf^ from Ufian, to raise, or lift up. The old dough—or leaven, as it is called—lifts up the dough. The raised mass is held in place b}^ the heat in baking, and becomes the loaf of raised bread. Bread made from Wheat. — Bread is made principally from wheat flour. Eye and corn meal are sometimes used, but better results are obtained when there is a mixture of wheat with one or more of these grains» Rye used alone makes a close, moist, stickj^ bread; while corn meal alone makes too drj' and crumbly a loaf. Wheat is an annual grass of unknown origin, cultivated more extensively' in the Northern hemisphere. There are over one hundred and fifty varieties of wheat. They are classified as red or white, in reference to the color of the grains; as w^inter or summer, — winter wheat being sown in the autumn, and summer wheat in the spring; as soft or hard, —soft wheat being tender and floury or starchy, and hard wheat being tough, firm, and containing more gluten. Chemical Composition of Wheat.—Wheat is the only grain which contains gluten in the proper proportion and of the desired quality essential to the making of light, spongy bread. It contains all the elements necessary for the growth of the hody ; but, to meet all the requirements of nutrition, the whole of the grain, with the exception of ^ , ^ . „ , ^ , . ^ ' ^ Fig. 1. Gram of wheat, showing outer the outer husk, should be coat of silex and woody fibre. used. Wheat has several la^'ers of bran coats, the outer one of which is almost wholly pure silica and is perfectly indigestible. Underneath thisThe Boston Cook Book. 38 Fig. 2. Grain of wheat with bran coat removed- husk lie the inner bran coats, containing gluten, a dark sub- stance which is the nitrogenous or flesh-forming element, the phosphates and other min- eral matters which help to make up the bony parts of the bod}', and the oil which gives the characteristic odor to wheat grains. The cen- tre, or heart, of the grain consists of cells filled with starchy a fine, white, mealy powder, which has little value as food except as a heat producer. There is also a small amount of gluten dif- fused among the starch cells. For convenience, these dif- ferent parts of the wheat will be designated as bran^ or the outer husk ; gluten, or the inner bran coats ; and starch, or the heart of the wheat. The proportion and quality of the gluten and starch in difi'erent kinds of wheat vary according to the climate and soil in which they are grown. They are also afiTected by the method of grinding the grain. Wheat grown in Southern or warm climates, and in the intense, though short, summer of our own Northwest, contains more nitrogen than that grown in cold, damp climates. It loses more water by evaporation, and consequently the seed is smaller and harder. In some varieties of wheat the outer hush is thin and smooth, and peels ofl^* readily under the stones. In others, it is thick and rough, and adheres closely to the kernel. In some, it is light-colored or brittle ; in others, dark-colored or tough. The husk}^ portion of wheat is about fourteen or sixteen per cent of the whole weight. The gluten of wheat is a gray, tough, elastic substance, consisting chiefly of vegetable fibrine. It can be examined FiGo 3. Grain of wheat magnified. A is the bran; B the gluten ; C the starch.39 The Boston Cook Book. easily by making a dough of flour and water, and working it on a sieve under a stream of water. The water will carry the starch, sugar, gum, and mineral matters into the pan below, leaving a lump of gluten on the sieve. It closely resembles a piece of animal skin, and, when dried, has a glue-like appearance ; hence its name, gluten. The proportion of gluten varies from eleven to fifteen per cent. This tough, elastic quality of the gluten determines the quality of the flour. The more gluten and the tougher or stronger it is, the better the flour. The gluten of good flour will swell to four or five times its original bulk ; while that of poor flour does not swell, but becomes water}- and sticky, and sometimes gives off a disagreeable odor, owing to the deterioration of the fatty or oily element. Preparing the Flour. St. Louis Process. — There are several methods of con- verting wheat into flour. One is by grinding between two horizontal stones, the upper one revolving, and the lower one stationary. The surface of the stones presents an infinite number of minute cutting edges. The upper stone IS convex, the lower one concave ; but instead of fitting perfectly, they approach closer together from the centre outward, so that, as the grain is poured into an opening in the uj)per stone, it is at first rather coarsely crushed, and then cut finer and finer, as it is carried to the circumfer- ence by the centrifugal force. As the grain leaves the stones, the outer husk has been least affected ; the tough, coherent gluten is divided minutely, while the brittle starch, which forms two thirds of the grain, is completely crushed. The miller then divides these products, by sifting or bolt- ing, into Jlne Jlour^ coarse fiour^ and hran. The hran should be discarded as utterly useless for human food ; but it is often mixed with an inferior quality of fine flour, and sold as Graham flour. It was at one time considered valuable as a food for those suffering from constipation, chiefly on account of its coarseness ; but40 The Boston Cook Book. science has shown us recently that minute points of glass (and bran is nothing else) are not Nature's best agents in removing effete matters from the system. All of the so- called Graham flour made by this process should be sifted before using. The coarse flour will var}" in quality, according as it has more or less of the outer bran mixed with it. In the soft wheats the husk peels off readily under the stones, and is easily separated b}- bolting; and as these soft varieties contain the smallest proportion of gluten, the}^ jdeld a coarse flour, containing only an average amount of gluten, and the whitest flneflour. But in the hard, fl^'^^ty wheats, this outer husk clings so closely that much of it is ground up finely with the flour, giving it a dark color. This flour, as it contains a large proportion of gluten, would be more nutritious were it not that much of the gluten adheres to the hulls, and is lost by sifting them out, and much of the fine, flinty bran is retained in the flour, which makes it irritating and indigestible. The quality of the flne flour depends upon the qualit}^ of the wheat, in the first place ; also upon the number of sift- ings, being richer in gluten the less it is sifted ; and upon the way in which it is stored. The process of grinding with the stones heats the flour; and as it is often thrust upon the market without being properlj^ cooled and dried, it spoils very rapidly. Flour made by this process of grinding is called the St, Louis, or old-process flour. When made of the very best quality of grain and carefully pre- pared, it makes a sweet, nutritious bread, and is excellent in cake and pastry. It is often designated pastry flour, Haxall Process. — Another method of making flour is by the new, or Haxall process, so called from the name of the inventor. B}^ this process the outer husk is first re- moved, or decorticated; then the cleaned grain is cut by a S3\stem of knives, which reduces it to a fine powder with- out the injurious effects of heating. This flour has a shghtly granular consistenc}^, owing to the presence of minute particles of hard, flinty gluten. It is usually madeThe Boston Cook Book. 41 from the best quality of wheat, and keeps well. It is con- sidered by many as the best flour for bread, as it makes a whiter, nicer-looking loaf. Haxall flour swells more than that made by the old process, as it contains more of the gluten ; the same measure making a greater quantit}^ of bread than the St. Louis flour. It is, therefore, cheaper in the end, though costing more per barrel. By repeated siftings, this flour loses its gluten, as does that made by the St. Louis process, and consequentlj^ is then inferior as a food. But we can supply by other flours and other food what this flour lacks in* nutritious qualities ; and until the popular taste is educated to demand the amount of nutri- ment contained in bread rather than the whiteness of it, as a test of its qualit}^, it is well to make our fine, white bread from this, which is the best flour, and have it as nearly perfect as possible. There have been many variations of the Haxall process, and all are included under the term 7ieic-process flour. Minnesota. —The Minnesota, or patent-process, flour is now considered one of the best grades. The Washburn, Pillsbury, and many other mills located in Minneapolis are the largest flour-mills in the world, and produce an excel- lent quality of flour, in which a large proportion of the gluten is retained. This Minnesota flour is made from carefull}^ selected wheat grown in the Eed River region, the best wheat-growing section in America. The first step in the process is the breaking off of the germinal point of each grain by what are called ending stones. Then it is sent through corrugated iron rollers, having shallow grooves cut spirally upon them, with rounded ridges between, and the opposing rollers grooved in an opposite direction. The grains are crushed (not ground) ; the starchy parts, or middlings, being quite finely powdered and easily separa- ted from the bran or tailings. After this separation the middUngs are passed through ten bolting-cloths, and then through other and finer corrugated machines, and made into the various grades of flne, superfine^ and fancy flours.The Boston Cook Book. 42 Health-Food Flour, — A still better method of convert- ing wheat into flour, and one which is indorsed b}^ leading scientists and physicians, has been recently introduced by the Health Food Company of New York. Only the choicest kinds of wheat are used. The outer husk is first removed by moistening the grain, and subjecting it to a gentle rub- bing by what is termed the "attrition process." This softens the wood}^ fibre of the outer bran, which is easily removed by sifting, but does not affect the hard gluten coats. The grains are dried, then pulverized into various grades hj a compressed cold-air blast, which dashes the grains into atoms with tremendous force. This is called whole-wheat flour, the name indicating that the whole of the gluten, or nutritive part of the flour, is retained. It is not sifted like other flours, but pulverized into all the varieties of crushed loheat^ coarse granulated and Jine granulated wheat; each variety, even the finest flour, containing all that is valuable as food. Bread made with this flour has been found, after repeated trial, to be sweet and agreeable to the taste, light and spong}' in texture, with none of the objec- tionable features of Graham bread, and answering fully all the demands of perfect nutrition. Cheap inferior Graham flour, made of poor flour mixed with bran, is worse than no food at all. Any flour con- taining much of the indigestible bran causes irritation of the digestive organs ; all the food is hurried through the alimentary canal before digestion is complete or all the nutriment can be absorbed, and thus is neither economical nor healthful. Fine flour containing the most gluten is the most nutritious, because it is all digested, and the loss of albuminous material can be supplied from other sources. The Arhngton, the Franklin, and some other brands of whole-wheat flour, are highly indorsed by those famihar with them. The Tests of Good Flour. The first requisite in making good bread is to use good flour. Good flour should not be pure white in color, butThe Boston Cook Book. 43 of a creamy, yellowish-white shade. If it feel damp, clammy, or sticky, and gradually form into lamps or cakes, it is not the best. Good flour holds together in a mass, when squeezed by the hand, and retains the impres- sion of the fingers, and even the marks of the skin, much longer than poor flour; when made into a dough, it is elastic, easy to be kneaded, will stay in a round puffy shape, and will take up a large amount of water: while poor flour will be sticky, flatten, or spread itself over the board, and will never seem to be stifl' enough to be handled, no matter how much flour is used. Haxall flour has a fine granular consistency, and runs easily through the sieve or the fingers like fine meal; while- good St. Louis flour feels soft and oily. It is extravagant to buy poor or even doubtful flour. But, should it have every appearance of being good flour, and yet not make good bread, do not condemn the flour without a fair trial; and be sure the fault is nowhere else. * Every experienced cook has her own tests for flour, and some of them are amusing, if not reliable. The best way is to buy a small quantit}^ at first, and make it into dough ; then, if satisfactor}^, purchase whatever amount is re- quired, and buy this same brand as long as it proves of uniform quahty. The names given to flour are not a sure criterion of the quality. The flour may come from the same growth of wheat, and be ground in the same manner and at the same mill, and yet the miller or the wholesale dealers will brand it diflerently. And the same brand will yary in quality from year to 3'ear. Some of the varieties sold in Boston, and known to be good by personal trial, are Archibald's Extra, Washburn's, Spaulding, Corrugated, Taylor's Best, Brown's Best, Marguerite, etc. ; the same flour may be known in other cities under different names. There are others equally good, and every 3^ear some new brand is announced. It is estimated that one barrel of flour will last one person one 3'ear; which gives a rule of proportion by which to bu}'. Most good housekeepers agree that flour is not improved by long keeping, thoughThe Boston Cook Booh, 44 flour dealers think differently. Flour should be kept in a cool, drj' place, as the least dampness causes it to absorb moisture ; the gluten loses its tenacity, becomes sticky, and the bread made from it is coarser and less light. For small families it is better to buy whole-wheat flour by the bag or half-barrel; Haxall, for bread, by the bar- rel ; and the best St. Louis flour for cake and pastry, by the bag, as a much smaller proportion is needed (or should be) for these indigestibles, than for the " staff of life." Bread, Fermented and Unfermented. Now, having discussed Jthe subject of the flour, the next step in order is the different ways of making it into bread. These may all be included under two divisions, — those made by fermentation, and those without fermentation. Fermentation^ what is it"^ — Fermentation is that change in organic substances by which their sugar, starch, gluten, etc., are decomposed or recombined into new compounds. This change may be spontaneous under favorable condi- tions of air, moisture, and warmth ; or it may be hastened by the presence of a ferment. A ferment is some albu- minous substance in a state of decomposition, and, when introduced into any other albuminous substance, in how- ever minute a quantit}', causes a change which pervades the whole mass. These fermenting substances are in great variety, and the germs of some of them are always present in the air. There are different kinds of fermentation. The lactic fermentation is the change in milk when it sours. The casein, or albuminous part of the milk, by exposure to the air and warmth, begins to decompose, becomes a ferment, and changes the sugar of the milk into an acid called lactic acid. This reacts upon the remainder of the milk, as any acid would, and causes it to coagulate or harden, and gives it a sour taste. The alcoholic fermentation is that which is produced in substances rich in sugar or starch, as the fruits and grains from which wines and beer are made. Some of these fer-The Boston Cook Book, 45 ment germs are present in the juice of grapes ; and under the influence of air, moisture, and warmth, the^^ seize upon the sugar already present in the natural fruit juices, and any that may be added, and convert it into carbonic acid gas and alcohol. In the grains, a portion of the gluten ferments and changes the starch into sugar, and then the sugar into carbonic acid and alcohol. In con- verting the starch into sugar there is no change evident to the e3'e ; but as soon as the sugar is decomposed into alco- hol and carbonic acid gas, large bubbles of gas appear, which swell the whole mass. Acetic fermentation is caused by allowing alcoholic fer- mentation to go on beyond a certain limit, or in a tem- perature above 90^^. A familiar illustration of this is the change of wine or cider into vinegar. Now, bread-dough contains gluten, sugar, and starch ; and if the dough be kept warm for a certain time, lactic fermentation will be developed spontaneously^ and the bread made from such dough will be sour and heavy. Alco- holic fermentation can also be spontaneously produced in dough, b}^ making first a batter (as the semi-fluid state is more favorable to rapid chemical change), and subject- ing it to a temperature of 110° for five or six hours ; then, adding more flour, allowing it to rise again, and then baking it. Bread made in this way is called salt or milk- rising's bread. But it does not keep well, and is not gen- erally liked. It is not always convenient to wait for dough to be raised in this manner, so we hasten the process by the addition of some active ferment. Leaven, or a piece of old dough, left to sour, and then mixed with the new dough was formerly used; this produced lactic as well as alcoholic fermentation, and though the bread was light and spong}' in texture, it had an unpleasant sour taste. But since the chemistry of yeast fermentation has been under- stood, yeast has come to be considered the best ferment for producing alcoholic fermentation in bread rapidly, and with no objectionable result.The Boston Cook Book. 46 Teast, what is it? — Yeast is a plant or germ of the fungus tribe. Under the microscope it is found to consist of numberless minute rounded or oval bodies which are true vegetable cells. Yeast is therefore one of the simplest or sap. They grow or expand from the minutest micro- scopic points, and seem to bud off from each other and multiply into many millions to the cubic inch. These cells are easily propagated in any medium where they find congenial food, particularly in the juice of grapes. If grape-juice be filtered and left to stand in a warm place two or three hours, it becomes first cloudy, then thick, and gives off bubbles of gas, showing there has been some change in its composition. In a short time a grayish- yellow froth, or layer of yeast cells, collects on the surface. " Whether the germs or spores of the yeast plant exist already in the juices of the living grape, or whether they are always floating in the air, and cling to the exterior of the fruit, and only become mixed with the juice in the wine- press, is not known ; " neither is it known just how they decompose the sugar of the grape. But it is enough for our purpose to know that they grow in the juice and ex- pand there, and that an active ferment may be dissolved out of these yeast cells, sufficient to cause alcoholic fermentation. The natural development of yeast through the agency of plants is too slow and inconvenient a process to rely upon ; therefore we manufacture it from various substances rich in starch and sugar. Brewer's yeast is made from malt, or sprouting grain, usually barley; home-made j^east, from flour and potatoes. Yeast Bread the Result of Chemical Changes. — Bread properly made with yeast undergoes certain chemical changes which render it lighter, more porous, more pleas- FiG. 4. Yeast Plant. and smallest of vegetable organisms. Each little cell consists of an en- veloping skin or mem- brane, containing a liquidThe Boston Cook Book, 47 ant to the taste, and more healthful, because more easily digested, and more convenient for general use. It is gen- erally recommended by scientific and medical men as the best form of bread. Wheat contains a larger percentage of starch than of any- thing else. We learn, in the chapter on Digestion, that starch as such is not absorbed into the human sy-stem. It must first be transformed into sugar. All starch that is not changed into sugar by the process of cooking or before our food is eaten, is so changed by the ptyalin^ or ferment of the saliva, and the ferment of the pancreatic fluid. An\^ process which produces this change for us makes our food more digestible. " Powdered alum will dissolve in water sooner than a crystal of alum." Any fluid will penetrate more easily through a sponge than through putty, and the salivary and gastric fluids are no exception to this rule. Wheat starch in its natural state is close and compact; and bread made simply with flour and water, and baked at once, will be close, dry, and difficult to masticate and digest. Good bread should be sufficiently soft to be easily crushed in the mouth, and of such a light, spongy texture that all the starch cells ma}^ be ruptured, and the greatest possible amount of surface be presented to the action of the diges- tive fluids. To obtain these qualities in bread, we try to expand the dough as much as possible without destroying its natural sweetness. Owing to the peculiar elasticity and tenacity of the wheat gluten, this is very easily accom- plished by alcoholic fermentation. The flour is moistened with some warm liquid, yeast and salt are added, and it is then exposed for some hours to a temperature of about 70°. The yeast changes some of the starch of the flour into sugar, and the sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. This gas, being lighter than the dough, rises, and, in its eflbrts to escape, expands the elastic, glutinous dough into a mass two or three times its original bulk. The toughness or elasticity of the gluten prevents the gas from escaping ; and when this expansion has reached the desired limit,—that is,before the alcoholic fermentation has changedThe Boston Cook Book. 48 to the acetic and soured the dough, or the tough, glutinous walls of the air cells are broken,—we check the forma- tion of gas, and kill the ferment by baking the dough in a hot oven. The alcohol escapes into the oven ; some of the starch is changed into gum, and forms the crust; and the rapid decomposition, produced by the intense heat, causes the crust to assume a brown color. Unfermented Bread, — This is made without yeast; but the principle is the same as in fermented bread, namely, the liberation of gas within the dough. The gas escapes quickly, and all such bread must be baked as soon as possible after mixing. There are no chemical changes in the starch or sugar; the elastic, glutinous dough is simply expanded by the gas. The starch cells are ruptured by the intense heat in baking ; but if the gas bubbles burst before the heat has fixed the gluten wall, the bread will be heavy. This gas is produced in the bread dough in various ways: 1st. By the gas in very cold water, and the air obtained by vig- orous beating; 2d. By the introduction of water under pressure, highly charged with gas. The first method is only suitable for mixtures which are to be baked quickly in a very hot oven, and eaten immediately, like gems, puffs, etc. The latter method produces what is known as aerated bread, making a light, sweet, spongy loaf; but it is not practicable for home use. 3d. The usual method is by some gas-generating compound, as the union of an acid and an alkali; usually soda, with either sour milk, cream of tartar, or muriatic acid. This is a convenient form adopted \)y many people who think it hard work to make 3^east bread. When the chemicals used are pure, and in such a proportion that they neutralize each other, and leave only Rochelle salt as a residue, this bread, if used only occasionall}^, is harmless. But Rochelle salt is a medicine, not a nutritive food ; and "those who are well do not need the disturbing influence of a medicine in their daily bread," and those who are ill do not often need this particular form of medicine. Through ignorance or care- lessness this bread is often made so that there is an excessThe Boston Cook Book. 49 of alkali or a residue of alum ; and then, if used habitually, it is injurious, and to some extent poisonous. It is con- venient to know how to make it well in an emergency, and it helps make variety. It is best, when freshly baked, in the form of small biscuit rather than in loaves, and is not as indigestible, when eaten hot, as hot yeast bread. But for a bread for general use, for bread that will keep well, for bread that will leave a sweet, clean taste in the mouth, for bread that will yield the most in bulk from a given amount of flour, for bread for promoting health, there is nothing equal to perfect, home-made yeast bread. It is not so difficult a task to make perfect bread as most young housekeepers imagine, or old housekeepers assert. It is not impossible for a young girl to succeed as well in her first attempt in this art as the mature housekeeper who counts her loaves by the thousand, provided she learns the best way of making it, and uses a reasonable amount of common-sense. The Best Kinds of Yeast. Who made the first j^east ? and how does a j^oung house- keeper start her own, when away from stores or friends, where she can neither bu}^ nor borrow ? are questions often asked. Simply make a thin batter with flour and water, and let it stand in a warm place till it ferments, and is full of bubbles. A pint of this ferment is equal to one cup of old yeast in starting the new. There are three kinds of yeast in general use, — the dry., the compressed., and the liquid., — each of which has its peculiar merits. Dry yeast calces^ such as the "National" or "Twin Brothers," are inexpensive, alwaj^s ready to use, and gen- erally^ liked by those who care more for economy of time and trouble than for the quality of their bread. Compressed yeast calces., like the " Vienna" or " Fleisch- mann's," are excellent, when perfect!}^ fresh ; the best form of yeast where bread is made in large quantities. But for a small family, where only a quarter of a cake is used per- 4The Boston Cook Book. so haps twice a week, or for those hving at a distance from the stores, they are inconvenient, expensive, and waste- ful. They have almost entirely taken the place of baker's yeast. As to which is best of the many varieties of home-made yeast, who shall decide when housekeepers disagree? Every good cook thinks her wsij the best. They are all good that make good bread; the only special advantage of one over another being the greater ease in making or the length of time it will keep good. People w^ho are inclined to shirk think it a deal of trouble to make yeast of any kind ; but there are none so independent as those who make their own yeast. The simplest form of liquid yeast is made with flour, salt, and boiling hop water. To this msiny add potatoes and a little sugar, and some add ginger. Chemists say that the potato is the best form of starch for the growth of yeast. Potato 3^east rises more rapidly, and keeps longer without souring, than flour yeast; bread made from it is sweet, light, and does not dry quickly. As to the comparative merits of grated raw potato or boiled potato, those who have used them both ways with equally good results think the grated potato has the advantage of being made in much less time. The really essential points are that the water shall be hoiling^ so that all the cells of the flour or potato may be ruptured. The salt and sugar assist in the fermentation, and the hops and ginger serve to prevent the yeast from souring by checking the fermentation before all the sugar is converted into alcohol; they also give it an agreeably pungent taste, if not used in too large quantities. Old l)otatoes are better than new for 3^east, because the}^ con- tain more sugar. Porcelain or granite kettles for boiling the hops and potatoes, and earthen bowls and wooden spoons for mixing, are best, as iron and tin cause the yeast to turn dark-colored. The yeast for starting must be fresh and lively, and never added till the boiling mixture has become lukewarm,The Boston Cook Book, or the plant will be killed. It must be kept warm, and stirred several times while rising, and the next day put awa}^ in well-scalded glass jars. Keep it in a cool place ; freezing or intense heat will kill the yeast plant. Reserve a portion for the next rising in a small jar by itself, as opening the jar often causes the yeast to lose its strength. Always shake or stir well before using. Yeast is good when it is foam}^ or full of beads, has a brisk, pungent odor, and a good deal of snap or vim; it is poor when it has an acid odor, and looks watery or has a thin film over the top. Making the Dough. Flour is moistened, or made into dough, with water or with milk. This softens the gluten and starch, dissolves the sugar, and cements all the particles together. Those who prefer water claim that water bread is cheaper, has more of the natural sweet taste of the wheat, and will keep longer ; while those in favor of using milk are equally sure that milk bread is more nutritious, more tender, more agreeable to the taste and the eye, more easily made, and with proper care will keep sweet and moist longer. Proportion. — The proportion of liquid and flour varies both with the flour and the liquid. Bread made of St. Louis flour, or mixed with water, takes more flour to make the same amount, than when made of Haxall flour, or mixed with milk. The general rule is one scant measure of liquid, including the yeast, to three full measures of flour. Water bread will need about one cupful more ; and milk bread, or whole-wheat bread, from one half to one cupful less of flour. Dough which is to be kneaded, or rolled and cut into special shapes, should be stiffer than that which is not kneaded, or is to be made into loaves ; but in all cases it should be mixed just as soft as can be handled easily without sticking, and just as little extra flour as possible should be used. If the dough be too stiff", make several deep incisions, and work in a little more liquid. The proportion of ^^east is half a cupful of fresh home-The Boston Cook Book. 52 made yeast to a pint of liquid: a little less in warm weather ; or when mixed at night, when the dough has a longer time to rise; or when made with a ''sponge," or with whole-wheat flour, as the extra amount of gluten in this flour causes it to ferment more rapidl}^ A larger amount of yeast can be used when it is necessarj^ to make bread in a limited time ; but great care must be taken not to use enough to leave an unpleasant yeasty taste in the bread. With compressed yeast, dissolve one fourth of a cake in half a cupful of lukewarm water^ and use as home- made yeast. It will dissolve in one tablespoonful of water; but it is important to have the half-cupful, that the propor- tion of liquid may be the same. Manner of Mixing. — Many people prefer to measure the flour, and add enough of the liquid to make it the desired consistency. The better way is to measure the liquid, and add flour, using more or less according to the quality of the flour, as the measure of the liquid determines the size of the loaf. All the flour may be added at first, and the dough raised in a mass ; or a drop batter may be made with about half the flour, and when this has well risen, the re- mainder of the flour may be added, and the whole allowed to rise again. The latter method is preferable when it is inconvenient to knead at the first mixing, as is often the case in the evening, or when there is any doubt about the quality of the 3^east, as, if the yeast will not raise three cups of flour, it certainly will not raise six. This method is advisable, also, when it is necessary to hasten the pro- cess of bread-making. Dough made by "setting a sponge," as this way is called, requires less yeast, the fer- mentation being more rapid in a batter than in a stiff dough ; and this fermented batter acts like a double portion of 3^east on the fresh flour, raising it very quickly. It is the best way of making bread with milk in the summer, as it may be mixed early in the morning and baked by noon; and as it may be easil}^ watched, it need not become sour. The question of mixing at night or in the morning is one which every housekeeper can best answer for herself.The Boston Cook Book. S3 Many old receipts read, ^' Make a hole in the flour, add the yeast, and then pour in the liquid." If the 3'east be added to the milk or water, and well mixed with it, and the flour then stirred thoroughly into this liquid mixture, the 3'east will be more evenl}^ distributed through the dough, and less kneading will be required than when made by the old method. The other ingredients added to the dough are salt and sugar^ in the proportion of one even teaspoonful of salt and one even tahlespoonful of sugar to three pints of fiour^ using a little less salt if butter is added, and a little more with compressed yeast, as that is not as salt as home-made yeast, and doubling the amount of sugar when using whole- wheat flour. Sugar in Bread, — Man}^ object to the use of sugar in bread. Flour in its natural state contains sugar ; this sugar is changed in fermentation. Just enough sugar to restore the natural sweetness, but not enough to give a reall}^ sweet taste, is necessary' in fermented bread. Potatoes. — Potatoes are sometimes added to bread dough. Where the flour is of an inferior quality, the bread is very much improved by their use ; but with good flour they are unnecessarj^, and the use of them increases the labor of making bread. Shortening, — Whether bread shall be '' shortened or not shortened,'' is another question on which there is great diversity of opinion. Those who disapprove of fat of any kind in bread claim that we eat fat enough in other forms of food, and also that the same crisp tenderness of tex- ture ma}^ be produced by skilful kneading. Bread made witli new or unskimmed milk, and kneaded well, requires no other shortening; but water bread, when shortened, is made more tender, and therefore is more easil}^ pene- trated by the digestive fluids. The latest decision of the best phj'sicians is that fat is absolutely necessary as an element of food, and it is often given as a remedj^ for some diseases. The proportion which one person would receive from one tahlespoonful of butter, or drippings, orThe Boston Cook Book. 54 lard, in two loaves of bread would not harm the most deli- cate stomach. Butter tastes best; drippings are cheap- est. Lard has for its chief merit that of making whiter bread than either of the others. The shortening m^y be rubbed into the flour, or, better still, melted in the warm liquid. Too much shortening clogs the glutinous cell- walls, and therefore checks the rising. Eolls, rusks, and buns, which are usually shortened more than loaf bread, should have the butter added at the.last kneadino:. The bread should be mixed in a deep stone-china or granite bowl; wooden bowls are difficult to keep sweet and clean. Brown earthenware is awkward in shape and clumsy to handle, while tinware, being a better conductor than china, lets the heat within the mass escape, and the tin rubs off from the constant friction. Use a wooden spoon, or a wooden-handled iron spoon, or a broad-bladed knife. Kneading the Dough. — Kneading is the process of press- ing or working the dough in such a manner that the flour and water may be thoroughly mixed, and the yeast be so evenl}^ distributed that the fermentation may be equal through the whole mass. It may be done cutting or chopping, either with the hand or machinerj- ; but there is nothing that gives the fine, even grain to bread so well as hand-kneading; and no surer test of the proper consist- ency of dough than that given by the sense of touch. There are some kinds of milk bread and rolls which are YQYj good without it; but water bread should always be kneaded. It is often done in the mixing-bowl, hy draw- ing the dough over from the side and pressing it down in the centre, turning the bowl with the other hand ; but it is more effectually accomplished on a bread-board. In Spain the bakers knead the bread with such force that the palms of the hands and the second joints of the fingers are covered with corns ; but strength and force are not so essential to good kneading as a peculiar and dexterous handling of the dough. The most approved process is the following: —The Boston Cook Book, 55 Sprinkle the board with flour, and leave a little in the corner to lay your hands upon. Scrape the dough from the bowl, and toss it over with the knife that it may be well floured. Flour the hands ; then, with the finger- tips, draw the dough farthest from you up and over to- ward the centre, letting the ball of the hand meet the dough, and then press down firmly, giving the dough some- what of a rolling motion, that it may not stick to the board. Repeat this motion until the dough is in a long narrow shape, then turn it at right angles, and draw up, fold, and press down again; and continue this process until the dough is smooth, elastic, fine, and even-grained. Dust the board and the palms of the hands with flour often, but only slightly. Should the dough stick, lift it quickly, and always scrape oflT what has adhered to the board before dusting again, that the board may be kept smooth. But do not let it stick; keep it in constant motion. Do not knead hard enough to break into the dough, nor let the finger-tips pierce the smooth crust that soon forms under proper kneading. Use the fingers merely in drawing the dough over, and keep them up and out of it when press- ing with the ball of the hand. Use both hands in the same manner, or draw up and press with the right, and turn the ball of dough with the left, that all parts may receive an equal pressure. When enough of this smooth, soft texture has been formed all through the dough, it can be worked for some time without even a dusting of flour. After a little experience, if care be taken in the beginning, and only a little flour added at each dusting, when the dough is sufificiently kneaded, the hands, the apron, and the board will be clean, and the dough of an even, elastic consistency, springing up instantly as you toss or pound or punch into it. The habit of mixing with the hands, and rubbing off little wads of dough from the fingers into the whole mass, should be avoided, especially toward the last of the process. There is no mechanical operation in cooking more fascinating than the deft, quick touches a natural kneader gives to a mass of dough. Young ladies56 The Boston Cook Book. with pretty hands can display them there quite as well as with embroidery, etc. ; but the rings and bracelets should be left in the jewel-case. The stitches in tight dress sleeves are not warranted not to break " during this pro- cess. Perfect freedom for the muscles of the arms and chest is absolutely essential to the making and kneading of bread. Temperature and Time for the Raising of Bread. — In winter the water or milk used in mixing should be luke- warm ; and if the flour be kept in a verj' cold place, warm it before using. In summer the water need not be warmed, neither should it be ice-water; the milk should be scalded (not boiled), and cooled. After the bread is kneaded sufficiently it must be made into a smooth round, ball, with no dry flour left on the surface, and put back in the mixing-bowl to rise. If you have learned the knack of scraping a bowl thoroughly, it need not be washed ; otherwise it is well to wash and grease the bowl, that the dough may come out more easily after it has risen. Notice how it fills the bowl, and let it rise until it has a little more than doubled in size. Cover it, not with a cloth alone, as that serves merely to keep out the dust, but with several thicknesses of cloth, and a tightly fitting tin cover. It is important that the air be excluded, as it causes a hard crust to form, which will be difficult to mix thoroughly in the dough at the next kneading, and will also leave dark spots or streaks in the bread. The dough should rise in a temperature of about 75°. Avoid a draught of cold air, or sudden alternations of ex- treme heat and cold. If it be placed on a mantel or near a stove, it must be turned frequently. When necessary to hasten the rising, place the bowl in a pan of warm (not hot) water, and keep the water at the same temperature until it begins to rise. After fermentation has been well established the temperature can be lowered without harm, provided it does not fall below 45°. In winter, bread should be mixed early in the evening; and if the kitchen become very cold before morning, keep the dough in a57 The Boston Cook Book, warmer room ; it will be risen by six or seven in the morn- ing. In summer, mix it later at night, leave it in a cool place, and the next morning attend to it earl}^; if possible, by five o'clock. In very hot weather mix early in the morning, and bake by noon. It should never be allowed to rise to the point of " caving in," or settling, or running over the bowl. Even if it does not become sour, it loses the natural sweet flavor of the wheat, and is tasteless and insipid. It should rise in a light, puffy, well-rounded mass ; and if it half filled the bowl at first, it will be readj^ when risen nearly to the top of the bowl, " to cut down," as most cooks express it. This is done by cutting it away from the sides of the bowl, and working it over into the centre with the knife. This releases some of the gas, checks the fermentation, and reduces the bulk somewhat. It will rise again very quickly, and the cutting-down pro- cess can be repeated several times, and the bread will be the better for it, provided the rising does not go too far at any time. It takes but a moment, and should alwa3's be done when the dough is risen sufficiently, if 3'ou are not ready to shape it at once into loaves. If 3'ou do not wish to bake the bread for several hours, it can be kneaded again and put in the ice-chest or cellar. When the dough rises too long, and has soured, it will have a strong, tin- gling acid odor as yow cut into it, and it will pull away from the bowl in long threads, having a watery appear- ance, quite unlike the proper spongy consistency and pun- gent alcoholic odor when it is just right. The practice of using soda to sweeten it, when in this state, cannot be too severely condemned. Chemists sa}' that light sour bread is not unhealthful, although unpalatable to most Americans. Bread in that condition is eaten largely by the Germans. Sour bread sweetened by soda is unhealthful, as it is very rarely that the alkali is whoHv neutralized b}' the acetic acid. Those who boast of never having sour bread be- cause the}" alwa3's keep a bottle of soda dissolved and ready for instant use, should, instead, blush at the fact of such careless housewiferj^ With proper care, bread, evenThe Boston Cook Book. 58 when made with milk, need never sour. But should the accident ever occur, it is better to eat the bread, or dry it for crumbs, or throw it away even, than to use the soda. This practice is so abominable that here it will receive neither aid nor encouragement. Shaping into Loaves or Biscuit, — At least an hour be- fore the time for baking, scrape the dough from the bowl, and turn it out upon the board, which should be dusted with flour; knead it slightly, and divide into the proper proportion for loaves. The measures given in the following receipts fill two brickloaf pans, which are eight inches long by four inches broad and five inches deep, with nearly straight sides. This shape gives small uniform slices. Small round pans w^ere formerl}' considered best for baking both bread and cake ; and there is some truth in the reason given, namelj', that the cells which are formed b}- the gas are circular in form, and are much more uniform in a round than in an oblong loaf, in which the corner cells are easily flat- tened or compressed, forming heavy streaks around the edges. But many people dislike the shape of the slices in a round loaf, and oblong pans have been more generally adopted. They should be greased with lard or drippings. It is better to divide the dough into four equal parts and put two in each pan, for several reasons : a small round loaf is more easily shaped, and can be broken, if wanted, while fresh, better than a long loaf; two small loaves rise and fill the pan more evenly than one long loaf; and unless great care be taken in shaping to have the one loaf of uniform thickness, it will rise more in the middle and give uneven slices. Man}^ make a deep cut through the middle to prevent this ; but that spoils the smooth round eflfect which adds so much to the looks of the crust. Use the merest dusting of flour in shaping, and knead ju^t enough to work out the large bubbles of gas by fold- ing the mass over into the middle, then letting it spring open. Pat, coax, and work it with the hand and fingersThe Boston Cook Book. 59 until there are no wrinkles, and the loaves are smooth. Greasing the hands slightly with butter helps. All the flour added at this kneading rises but once, and too much will make the loaf burst out unevenly at the sides. Some careless kneaders merel}^ fold it over, and if it look smooth on the top they think that enough; but their loaf will sometimes have a seam or crack through it, which will cause the slices to fall apart easily. The loaves should come nearl}^ half-way up the pan ; and the same rule follows as for the first rising, namely, let it come to the top, or till the bulk is doubled. Cover with cloth and tin cover, or a large tin pan. The time for rising varies with the lightness of the dough and the temperature of the room. It is impossible to give a definite rule ; but should it rise too far and stick to the cloth, or look " tum- bled in," cut it down, knead, and let it rise again. Never bake it in the above state, as it will be coarse-grained, if not hollow. It is better to bake it a little too soon than to let it rise too long. Rolls and small biscuit should rise in the pans longer and be baked in a hotter oven than the loaf, because the loaf rises in the oven until the heat has penetrated to the centre ; while in the rolls the air cells are very quickly fixed by the intense heat needed to perfect the crust, and fer- mentation is almost immediately checked. This is con- trary to the usual practice; but it is the correct wsij. Many people prepare biscuit for breakfast by letting them rise ten or fifteen minutes in a very hot place while the oven is heating. The}' are often only half baked, and then eaten smoking hot; and those who have never had an}'- thing else think them just right. The evil eflfects of this practice have been the occasion for much of the outcry against hot, or even fresh, biscuit. Such are entirely dif- ferent from the dry, light, delicious biscuit which have had a natural, not a forced, rising, are of the proper texture, have been baked quickly, and allowed to stand at least half an hour before being eaten. The moral of the above is, never try to have raised biscuit for breakfast without6o The Boston Cook Booh. rising at least three hours before breakfast-time, unless you wish your family to become slaves to indigestion. The Temperature for Baking. — The object of baking bread is to kill the ferment, rupture the starch grains, fix the air cells, and form a nicel}^ flavored crust. Bread could be baked by steam, as the air cells become fixed at 212°, and the temperature of the inside of the loaf, owing to the moisture, never rises above that point; but, to give the delicious flavor of the browned crust, a much higher temperature is needed. The oven should be hot enough to brown a teaspoonful of flour in one minute for rolls, and in Jive minutes for loaves. This is a good rule for those who do not use a thermometer, or cannot judge of the heat by their hands. The heat should be greater at the bottom than at the top of the oven, and of suflScient strength to last through the time of baking (which is about an hour) without replenishing the fire. Divide the time into thirds ; the first fifteen or twenty minutes the heat should increase, remain steady during the next, and decrease toward the last. The dough should rise, and, after fifteen minutes, begin to brown slightly. If the oven be too hot, and the loaf brown too fast, a hard crust will be formed before the heat reaches the centre, and, pressing down on the air cells, make a heavy streak ; or, if removed from the oven too soon, it will be raw and doughy inside. If the heat be not sufficient to form the crust in fifteen minutes, the dough will go on rising until it becomes sour and pasty, and the air cells will run together, making a hole in the middle. The baking of bread is something that will not take care of itself. The old notion that you must not look at an^^hing in the oven is erroneous ; and until you have learned b}' experience just how to regulate the fire and oven, and the many tests by which every good cook determines when bread is done, look at it often, and bake according to the clock from fifty to sixty min- utes. Better bake ten minutes too long, putting a paper over the top to prevent a burned crust, than not long enough. Bake it hrown^ not black, nor pale whity-brown,6i The Boston Cook Book. but brown all over. Rolls are often brushed with milk just before and after baking, to give them a richer brown color. Rubbing over with soft butter while still hot makes a crisp, delicious crust. When well baked, if tapped with the fin- gers, a hollow, empty sound will be emitted ; the crust feels firm, and, if broken apart, the inside rebounds in- stantly on any slight pressure. The Care of Bread after Baking. — Remove the loaves immediately from the pans, and place them where the air can circulate freely round them and thus carry off the gas which has been formed, but is no longer needed. A bread or cake cooler, made of fine wire, set in a narrow frame thirty inches long b}^ twelve or fifteen broad, is a very use- ful article, as it will hold several loaves. An old wire window-screen, too small for modern windows, with cleats on the ends, to keep it two or three inches from the table, answers the purpose admirabl3\ Many use a wire sieve ; but that is small, and leaves the marks of the larger cross wires on the loaf. Never leave the bread in the pan, or on a pine table, to sweat and absorb the odor of the wood. If you like crusts that are crisp, do not cover the loaves ; but to give the soft, tender, wafer-like consistency which many prefer, wrap them, while still hot, in several thick- nesses of bread cloth. When cold, put them into a stone jar or tin box ; remove the cloth, as that absorbs the mois- ture, and gives the bread an unpleasant taste and odor. Keep the jar well covered and carefully cleansed from crumbs and stale pieces. Scald and dry it thoroughly every two or three days. A 3'ard and a half square of coarse table linen makes the best bread cloth. Keep a good suppl}^; keep them sweet and clean, and use them for no other purpose. Fine white bread should be partaken of in moderation. Although the "staff of life," it is not necessary to eat bread with every kind of diet. It is most useful when taken with articles containing a large proportion of nour- ishment in a small bulk, as it then gives the stomach the proper degree of expansion.The Boston Cook Book. 62 Raw Potato Yeast. 3^ cup flour. cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful salt. 3 raw potatoes. 1 to 2 quarts boiling water. 1 cup yeast. First, see that you have at least three quarts of water boiling rapidly. Pare the potatoes, and keep them cov- ered with cold water. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt in a large bowl, and grate the potatoes as quickly as possible, not stopping to grate ever}^ scrap ; mix them at once with the flour, using a wooden or silver spoon, that the mixture may not be dark-colored. Pour the boilmg water directly from the teakettle over the grater, and rinse off the potato into the bowl, using perhaps a pint of water at first. Mix the water thoroughly with the potato and flour; then add, slowly, enough more boiling water to make it the consist- ency of thin starch. The amount of water will depend upon the quality of the flour and potatoes. If it does not thicken, pour the mixture into a double boiler or granite pan, and let it come to the boiling-point, stirring well to keep it from sticking. Strain through a squash strainer and let it cool. When lukewarm (clear through the mixture, not merely on the top), add the yeast. Cover slightl}', and keep in a warm (not hot) place, until light and covered with white foam. After it begins to rise, beat it well sev- eral times, as this makes it stronger. At night, or when well risen, put it into wide-mouthed earthen or glass jars. The next morning cover tightl}^, and keep it in a cool place. Reserve one cupful or more in a small glass jar, and do not open it until ready for the next ^^east-making. Alwa^^s shake 3^east well before using; take your cup to the jar instead of taking the jar to the hot kitchen ; when empt}^, scald the jar and the cover thoroughh\ This is the quickest and easiest way of making j^east, fifteen min- utes being ample time for the first part of the process. It is whiter and looks more inviting than that made with hops. It keeps well two weeks, and makes delicious bread. This receipt can be varied by using boihng hop-water./I The Boston Cook Book. 63 Steep one fourth cup of loose hops five minutes in three pints of ivater, in a granite or porcelain kettle, and strain it into the potato and flour. Or the flour may be omitted, using more potato or less water. Man}^ think it an improvement to mix one even teaspoonful of sifted ginger with the flour, sugar, and salt. The hops and ginger will make the 3^east dark-colored, but it will not be perceptible in the bread. Boiled Potato Yeast. (Mrs. Townees Matilda.) Three large.) old potatoes, pared, soaked, and boiled until broken in small pieces ; half a cup of loose hops boiled in one quart of water. Drain and mash the potatoes ; add the hop water and enough more hot water to make two quarts. Strain, rubbing all the potato through, and put it on to boil. When boiling, add three fourths of a cup of flour^ which has been wet to a smooth paste in cold water, and three quarters of a cup of sugar. Boil five minutes, stirring well; let it cool; add three fourths of a cup of yeast; and, when well risen, add one fourth of a cup of salt. Keep in a covered stone jar in a cool cellar. Bread made with this yeast will not sour even in the hottest weather. Hop Yeast. Steep half a cup of loose hops in one quart of boiling water.) in a granite kettle, five minutes. Mix one cup of flour.) one fourth of a cup of sugar., and one tahlespoonful of salt. Strain the hop liquor, and pour it boiling into the flour mixture. Boil one minute, or till thick. When cooled, add one cup of yeast. Water ^ 2 quarts sifted (new-process) flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter, or drip- pings, or lard. Bread. % cup liquid yeast, or, cake compressed yeast, dis- solved in 3^ cup water. 1 pint lukewarm water. Sift the flour, and fill the measure lightly, not heaping, nor shaken down. Turn it into a large bowl holding about64 The Boston Cook Book, four quarts. Eeserve one cup of flour to add at the last if needed, and to use on the board. Mix the salt and sugar with the flour; rub in the shortening until fine, like meal. Mix the yeast with the water. If compressed yeast be used, dissolve one fourth of a cake in half a cup of water. This is in addition to the pint of water to be used in mix- ing. Pour the liquid mixture into the centre of the flour, mixing it well with a broad knife or a strong spoon. Scrape the dr}^ flour from the sides and bottom of the bowl, bring- ing the knife up through the dough, and turning the mass over and over until no dr}^ flour is left. If it be too soft to be handled easil}^, add a little of the reserved cup of flour. If too stifl*, add more water. Knead it half an hour, or till smooth and flne-grained. Cover, and let it rise until it doubles its bulk. Cut it down ; let it rise again ; divide into four parts, then shape into loaves, putting two in each pan, or reserve some for biscuit. Cover and let it rise again to the top of the pan. Bake in a hot oven nearly an hour. 1 tablespoonful sugar. Measure the milk after scalding, and put it in the mixing- bowl ; add the butter, sugar, and salt. When cool, add the yeast, and then stir in the flour, adding it gradually after five cups are in, that it maj^ not be too stifl*; use just enough to knead it. Knead till smooth and elastic. Cover ; let it rise till light; cut it down; divide into four parts ; shape into loaves or biscuit. Let it rise again in the pans. Bake forty or fifty minutes. The same proportions as in the preceding rule, except that about one cup less of flour is used, and the dough is not kneaded. Mix it with a knife, cutting it through and Milk Bread, l^To. 1. 1 pint milk, scalded and cooled. 1 tablespoonful butter, melted in the hot milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 3^ cup yeast. 6 or 7 cups flour. Milk Bread, JSTo. 2 (not kneaded).6s The Boston Cook Book. turning and working it over until all the dry flour is well mixed with the other materials. Mix it just soft enough to be shaped into a loaf after it has risen. Scrape the dough from the sides of the bowl; smooth the top with a knife ; cover and let it rise. Shape it into loaves, and when well risen bake about forty minutes. Water Bread (with a Sponge). 1 tablespoonf 111 butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 pint water. 3^2 cup yeast, scant. About 2 quarts flour. Put the butter, sugar, and salt in the mixing-bowl; add one fourth cup of boiling water to dissolve them ; then add enough more lukewarm water to make a pint in all, half a cup of yeast, and three and a half or four cups of flour, enough to make a batter that will drop, not pour, from the spoon. Give it a vigorous beating; cover and let it rise over night. This soft mixture is called a sponge. In the morning add flour to make it stiff enough to knead. Knead it half an hour. Cover; let it rise in the bowl until noon, or till light and spongy ; then shape it into loaves or rolls; let it rise again in the pans ; bake as usual. This sponge can be divided in the morning, add- ing to one part of it white flour enough to knead it, and to the other part whole-wheat or rye flour and another tablespoonful of sugar. Make it just stiflT enough to shape easily into a loaf after it is risen. Use white flour to shape it on the board, as the rye and whole-wheat flour are sticky. Or make the dough a little softer, fill gem pans two thirds full, let them rise to the top, bake in a hot oven, and you have " raised rye or whole-wheat gemsJ^ Milk Bread, No. 3 (with Sponge). Pour one pint of scalded milk on one tablespoonful each of butter and sugar^ and one teaspoonful of salt; when luke- warm, add half a cup of yeast if mixed in the morning or one fourth of a cup if mixed at night. Stir in three cups of 566 The Boston Cook Book. flour^ and beat well. Let it rise over night, or, if mixed in the morning, about three hours. Then add from two to three cups of jiour^ or enough to knead it, and knead half an hour. Let it rise in the bowl, and again after being shaped into loaves or rolls, and bake as usual. Whole-wheat or rye bread or gems can be made from this sponge the same as in the preceding rule. Whole-Wheat or Graham Bread. 1 pint milk, scalded and cooled. 5 or 6 cups fine granulated wheat 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. flour, or 1 teaspoonful salt. 2 cups white flour, and % cup yeast. 3 or ^% cups sifted Graham flour. In the morning mix, in the order given, into a dough, a little softer than for white bread ; let it rise till light, stir it down, pour it into well-greased pans^ or, if stiff enough, shape it into loaves; let it rise again, and bake a little longer and in a less hot oven than white bread. Graham or whole-wheat flour rises more rapidly than white flour, as it contains more gluten. It is liable to become sour if mixed over night, and then the cooks resort to the soda. For the true remed}' use less yeast, and use sugar instead of molasses, or mix in the morning. Always sift the flour, notwithstanding all cook-books say to the contrar3\ Use a coarse sieve or squash strainer. Sift once, and, if you observe the character of the refuse, you will be glad to do so always. Bake part of this as biscuit or rolls. When made with ordinary Graham flour, the bread is much lighter if at least one third white flour be used. Squash Bread. 1 cup squash, stewed and sifted. 1 tablespoonful butter. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. ^^P y^ast. \% cups scalded milk. Flour enough to knead it. 1 teaspoonful salt. Mix the sugar and salt with the squash, add the butter melted in the hot milk, and when cool add the yeast and67 The Boston Cook Book. flour. Knead fifteen minutes. Let it rise till light. Knead and shape into loaves or biscuit. When well risen, bake. Rye Bread. Make by rule given for Milk Bread, No. 3, adding rye flour or rye meal to the white-flour sponge. Raised Brown Bread. (Mrs. H. B. May.) 1 pint yellow corn meal. ^2 cup yeast, cup molasses. teaspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful soda. 1 pint rye meal. Put the corn meal in the mixing-bowl, and scald it with boiling water, just enough to wet it; let it stand ten min- utes, then add cold water enough to make a soft batter. When lukewarm, add the yeast, molasses, soda, salt, and rj'C meal. Beat it well, and let it rise over night, or until it cracks open. Stir it down ; put it in a buttered and floured tin to rise again; sprinkle flour over the top. Bake in a moderate oven two hours. Brown bread made by this rule was first tested by the writer thirty years ago, when it was a wonder and delight to watch it as it was put on a wooden shovel and placed in the great brick oven. It has been made in the same house regularly every week since then, and proves just as good now as it was in the olden time. Thirded Bread. 1 cup white flour (St. Louis). 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 cup rye flour, or sifted rye meal. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 cup yellow corn meal. ^ cup yeast. Mix with milk (scalded and cooled) till thick enough to be shaped. Let it rise until it cracks open. Put into a brickloaf pan, and when well risen bake it one hour.The Boston Cook Book. 68 Sour Milk Brown Bread, No. 1. (Mrs. Wm. B. Johnson.) 1 pint corn meal. 1 pint Graham flour. 1 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 pint sour milk. 1 cup molasses. Mix the meal with flour. Mash the soda and salt before measuring; sift and mix thoroughly with the flour; add the sour milk and molasses, and beat well. If not moist enough to pour, add a little warm water. Pour it into a well-greased mould or pail, filhng it only two thirds full. Cover it with a tight cover, also greased. Steam three hours in a steamer, or set the pail in a kettle of boiling water. Keep the water boiling ; and as it boils awa}^ re- plenish with boiling water to keep it at the same level. Remove the cover, and place the mould in the oven fifteen minutes to dry the crust. Sour Milk Brown Bread, N^o. 2. 1 cup white corn meal. 1 cup rye flour. 1 cup Graham flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 full teaspoonful soda. cup molasses. 1 pint sour milk. Mix in the order given, sifting the soda, and adding more milk or water if not thin enough to pour. Steam three hours. One cup of raisins stoned and halved may be added to this, or any of the receipts for brown bread. Raised Biscuit and Rolls. The name "biscuit" is from the French, and means " twice baked." It was originally applied to a kind of hard, thin bread, made in that manner to deprive it of all moist- ure and insure its remaining in good condition for a long time. It was something like our crackers and ship bread. But in America it means an}' kind of bread made into small, round cakes and intended to be eaten hot or fresh. Raised biscuit may be made from any of the doughs madeThe Boston Cook Book, 69 by the receipts for bread ; the proportions are enough for one pan of bread, and one pan of biscuit containing twelve or sixteen according to the size. They should always be made small, and shaped with the fingers, not cut with a cutter. Divide the portion of dough reserved for biscuit into halves, then into quarters, and each quarter into thirds or quarters. To shape a biscuit^ take one of these quarters in the left hand and rest it lightly on the board. With the right thumb and forefinger draw a point of the dough up and over to the centre, and hold it down with the left thumb. Give the dough a slight turn toward the left, and repeat the drawing up and folding over until 3^ou have been all round the ball. You may roll them in the hands until all these foldings have disappeared and they are smooth and round, and call them simply biscuit; or you may make the folds as distinct as possible, and place them at once in the pan. The folds will spread apart in rising, and when baked they can be peeled off in layers. They are then honored with the name of Imperial Rolls. Put the biscuit in a shallow round pan, fitting them closely, that they may rise up, round and puffy, instead of spread- ing. When very light, bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Keep them wrapped in a bread cloth for at least half an hour before serving. The receipts for Milk Bread are especially nice for biscuit. Eolls. Rolls are made by rolling the raised dough into small forms, with the hands or with a rolling-pin, and afterward cutting and folding into the desired shape ; the shape and manner of manipulation giving the distinctive names. The dough for rolls should be very light, and when wanted un- usually nice, more shortening should be worked into it after the second kneading. The rule for Water Bread made with a sponge is good for plain rolls; Milk Bread m.ade with a sponge is the same as Parker House Rolls^ which have been generally adopted by housekeepers as the stand-The Boston Cook Book, 70 ard. The following are some of the best varieties and shapes:— For Finger Eolls^ make a dough hy the rule for Milk Bread, No. 2, and when risen and read}- to shape, divide the half reserved for rolls into twelve pieces. Make each piece into a smooth ball as if for biscuit, then roll it be- tween the palms, or with the palm of one hand on the board, into a long roll about the size of the second finger. Eoll with buttered hands or with as little flour as possible. Place them close together in a long, shallow pan. Let them rise to the top of the pan, and bake in a very hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes. To make a Oleft Roll^ make the dough into smooth balls, then with a floured knife-handle press through the centre but not quite through on the ends. Or make them round, and place them some distance apart on the pan, and when ready to bake, make a deep cut through the middle. Make another cut at right angles with the first and you have a Gi^oss Roll. Parker House Rolls are made after the receipt for Milk Bread with sponge, and when well risen and read}^ to shape, roll the dough on the board as you would pastrj^, and, if wanted richer, spread a generous tablespoonful of soft- ened butter all over it. Fold the dough, and roll out again until nearly half an inch thick. Lift the rolled dough from the board and let it shrink back all it will, and be sure it is of uniform thickness before cutting, or the rolls will lose their shape. Cut with a round or oval cutter; press the thumb across the middle and fold over like a turnover, letting the edges come together. As the}^ rise they will open a little, and, if folded only half-way over, the}^ are liable to open too far. Spread a bit of soft butter the size of a pea on the edge before folding it, if 3'ou like the crusty inside which that gives. Or roll the dough thinner, and put two rounds together with a thin spread- ing of butter between ; these are called Twin Rolls. To make PocJcet-hook or Letter Rolls^ roll the dough in a rectangular shape one fourth of an inch thick, and cut it in71 The Boston Cook Book. strips four inches wide and as long as the dough will allow. Spread with soft butter; fold one end of the strip over about an inch and a half, and then over again. Cut off even with the folding, and then fold another, and so on. Or cut the dough into strips two inches wide by seven long, and spread each strip with butter, and fold one third over and then again like a letter. Or roll the dough out one fourth of an inch thick, then roll up and cut pieces one inch wide from the end of the roll, turn them over on the side, and place close together in a pan to rise. To make a Br aid ^ cut the rolled dough in strips one inch wide by six injches long, and pinch three strips together at the end, then form into a braid. Or roll little balls of dough into long pieces the same as for sticks, and then braid them. To make Crescents^ or Vienna Rolls^ roll the dough until only an eighth of an inch thick; cut into pieces five inches square and then into triangles. Hold the apex of the triangle in the right hand, roll the edge next the left hand over and over towards the right, stretch the point and bring it over and under the roll; bend the ends of the roll around like a horseshoe, being careful to keep in the folding. Any dough that is quite stiff may be shaped with the hands into small, oval rolls with quite tapering ends, and baked far enough apart to allow each roll to have a crust all over. These are called French Rolls, Any of these rolls may be rubbed with a cloth dipped in melted butter; or, better still, twist a piece of butter in a clean cloth and rub it over them just as they are taken from the oven. Melt the butter, sugar, and salt in the hot milk; when lukewarm, add the yeast (if compressed, dissolve in three Sticks. 1 cup milk, scalded. cup butter. 1 tablespoonful sugar. % teaspoonful salt. cake compressed yeast, or 3 tablespoonfuls liquid yeast. Wliite of 1 egg. About 4 cups flour.72 The Boston Cook Book. tablespoonfuls of warm milk or water), then the beaten white and flour. Knead until smooth and fine-grained. Let it rise over night or till light. Shape into small balls; then roll into sticks a foot long. Let them rise slowl}^ and bake in a moderate oven, that they may be dried through before browning. When shaped into large plain rolls, they are called White Mountain Rolls. Rolls designed for breakfast or dinner are better not to be sweetened enough to taste sweet; but for tea or lunch more sugar may be added. This brings us to another vari- ety of rolls which are made richer by the addition of but- ter, sugar, eggs, and fruit, including Swedish Rolls^ Rusks, and Bunns, 1 scant teaspoonful salt. Melt the butter, and dissolve the sugar and salt in the hot milk ; w^hen lukewarm, add the yeast and beaten whites. Mix in flour to make a sponge or drop batter. In the morning add the remainder of the flour, and knead twenty minutes. Let it rise till noon or till light; then knead again slightl}^, and roll out into a large, rectangular piece, half an inch thick. Have the edges as straight as possi- ble. Spread all over with a thin layer of soft butter, and a sprinkling of sugar, cinnamon, grated lemon rind, and currants. Roll up like a jelly roll, cut ofl* slices an inch wide, lay them with the cut side dow^n on well-greased pans, and when well risen bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. When done, glaze them w^ith sugar dis- solved in milk, and dry them a few minutes in the oven, or rub them with soft butter. If mixed in the morning, make a sponge with the scalded milk cooled, the eggs, salt, sugar, and part of the flour. Place the bowl in a pan of warm water for three or four hours ; then add the butter and the remainder of the flour. Knead, and after it is well risen roll out as above. Swedish HoUs. 1 pint milk, scalded. 3^ cup butter. 1^ cup sugar. Wliites of 2 eggs. 1^ cup yeast. 7 or 8 cups flour.73 The Boston Cook Book, Rusk, Wo. 1. 1 cup milk, scalded and cooled. cup yeast. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 2 cups flour. 3^ teaspoonful salt. Mix in a sponge at night or very early in the morning. When well risen, add flour enough to make a stiff dough. Knead and let it rise again, then add one fourth of a cup of butter^ rubbed to a cream, half a cup of sugar^ and one egg, beaten with butter and sugar. Let it rise in the bowl till light. Shape into small round biscuit; put them close together in a shallow cake pan, that they may rise very high. When ready to bake, rub the tops with sugar dis- solved in milk, sprinkle with dry sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Rusk, No. 2. Make a dough at night by the rule for Milk Bread, No. 1. In the morning make half the dough into a loaf for bread. Put with the remainder half a cup of butter, creamed, with one cup of sugar and one egg, well beaten ; mix and beat well; add half a cup of flour, or enough to shape it easilj^ Let it rise in the bowl, shape into small rounds or into long narrow rolls, and when verj^ liglit, glaze them and bake as in the preceding rule. Rusk, No. 3. (Mi55 Yandes.) 1 pint milk, scalded. 1 cup potato yeast. f/o cup butter and lard, mixed. 3 eggs. % cup sugar. Flour as required. Mix early in the morning, in the order given, adding flour enough to make a thin batter. Let it rise till full of bubbles, then add flour enough to knead it. When well risen, shape into rounds, or roll out and cut them. Let them rise in the pans till very light; then bake in a hot oven about half an hour.The Boston Cook Booh, 74 Dried Busks are made after either of these receipts, and when risen are rolled thin, cut into rounds, and put two together into the pan. When baked, they are pulled apart and left in a very moderate oven to diy. Or the}' are cut in slices when cold, and dried until crisp and brown. They are delicious soaked in milk and eaten with butter, or used the same as bread in puddings, or soaked in a custard and sauted. Beat it well and in the morning add flour to made a stiff dough. Knead fifteen minutes. Let it rise until light, then add one fourth of a cup of butter^ softened, half a cup of currants, and one saltspoonful of cinnamon or nutmeg. Let it rise in the bowl till light. Shape into small round cakes, put them close together, and when well risen bake in a moderate oven. Glaze them with sugar and milk, or with white of egg beaten stiff with sugar. Make a deep cut like a cross just before they are put into the oven, and you have Hot Gross Bunns. Many prefer a bit of citron put into the middle of each bunn. These are better when freshly baked. It is therefore well to make only a small quantity. They ma}' be made from risen milk-bread dough in the same manner as Rusk, No. 2, by using the spices and the fruit and a smaller quantitj' of sugar. This receipt for bunns makes excellent raised doughnuts by omitting the currants and rolling half an inch thick and cutting with a doughnut cutter. Bunns. Make a sponge over night with 1 cup milk, scalded. 1 1 tablespoonful sugar and 1 egg beaten together. 2 1 saltspoonful salt, cup yeast. 2 cups flour. Raised Bread Cake, or Loaf Cake. This is similar to rusks and bunns, only richer; and as it improves by keeping, it is well to make a large quantity.75 The Boston Cook Book. At night mix one pint of milk^ scalded and cooled, one teaspoonfid of salt^ half a cup of yeasty five or six cups of f^our^ enough to make a soft dough. In the morning pre- pare one cup of butter^ creamed ; add two cups of brown sugar^ one tablespoonful of mixed spices^—cinnamon^ nut- meg^ and allspice^ — and four eggs^ 3'olks and whites beaten separately. Add this mixture to the beaten dough, and beat well. Add two cups of stoned and chopped raisins^ or one cup of raisins^ one cup of currants and half a cup of sliced citron. Flour the fruit. Let it rise in the bowl till light. Stir it down, and pour into two deep cake tins, making them two thirds full. Let it stand in a warm place fifteen or twenty minutes, then bake one hour or longer in a moderate oven. Uses for Stale Bread. All bread crumbs left on the plates or bread board or in the bread jar, any broken pieces not suitable for toast, and any crusts or trimmings of toast should be carefully collected in a pan by themselves, and dried (not browned) in the hot closet or in a moderate oven, then pounded in a mortar or rolled on an old bread board, sifted through a coarse sieve, and put away in a dry place. These will be useful in covering anything which is to be dipped in egg and crumbs and then fried. Bread crumbs brown better than cracker crumbs, and are much cheaper, being made from material which is usually thrown away. These are dried bread crumbs^ and are not to be used for bread pud- ding or scalloped dishes, as they will absorb a great deal of moisture. They will keep indefinitely in a dr}^ place. Stale bread crumbs^ which are not dried in the oven, but are made from odds and ends of stale bread, crumbled finely or grated on a coarse grater, are better for meat or fish stuflSng, bread puddings, bread sauce, bread griddle-cakes, scalloped fish, etc. They should be used at once, as the}^ soon become musty. Any whole slices of stale bread may be steamed or used for toast.The Boston Cook Book. 76 Stale Bread Steamed. Have a large covered steamer fitting tightly over a ket- tle of boiling water. One with holes all over the bottom is best, as the steam condenses and runs down the sides and through the holes ; while in those with holes only in the middle it forms little pools of water round the edge, which make the bread soggy. Do not put in the bread until everything else is ready, as it takes only a few min- utes for it to become heated through. Arrange it all in the middle of the steamer, tilted against a small cup or dish so that the steam may pass between the slices. Do not let any of it touch the sides of the steamer, or it will become water-soaked. When ready to remove it, lift the cover quickly, turning it over instantl}^, that no water may drip on the bread. Spread each slice with butter as you take it out, and arrange them on a hot platter. Cover with a napkin and serve immediately. Stale biscuit may be made much nicer than new in this way. These direc- tions may seem needlessly minute ; but it is just these little things that make the difference between light, deli- cate, hot steamed bread, and the heavy, water-soaked stuff that is often served. Egg Toast, or Bread Sauted. 1 egg. [ 1 cup milk. 1 saltspoonful salt. | 4 to 6 slices stale bread. Beat the egg lightly with a fork in a shallow pudding- dish ; add salt and milk. Soak the bread in this until soft. Turn the slices by putting those underneath on the top, and dip the custard over them, being careful not to break them. Have a griddle hot and well buttered. Brown them on one side; then put a piece of butter on the top of each slice, and turn and brown on the other side. To be eaten hot with butter, also with sugar and cinnamon if liked. This is one of the nicest ways of freshening stale bread, and is especially convenient when the fire is not inThe Boston Cook Book. 77 order for toasting. It is called French, Spanish, German, and Nun's Toast; but Egg Toast seems to best indicate the character of the dish. When fried in deep fat, it may be used as a pudding by serving with a sweet sauce, and is then called Italian Fritters. Brown Bread Brawls. Break one pint of dri/ brown bread and half a cup of stale white bread into inch pieces. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a large fiying-pan, and when it is melted, but not brown, add the bread and cover with one pint or more of milk. Let it simmer, stirring occasionally to keep it from stick- ing, until the bread is soft and the milk absorbed. Salt to taste. Brown Bread Brewis, No. 2. Mix the same proportion of bread with one fourth of a cup of butter in a double boiler ; add milk to cover, and cook over hot water without stirring until the bread has absorbed all the milk. If the bread be very drj^, more mWk will be needed. Toast. Bread is toasted, or dried and browned, before the fire to extract the moisture and make it more palatable and digestible. If the slices be cut thick and carelesslj^ ex- posed to a blazing fire, the outside is blackened and made into charcoal before the heat can reach the inside ; the moisture is only heated, not evaporated, making the inside doughy or clamm}", and when spread with butter, which cannot penetrate the charcoal, but floats on the sur- face in the form of oil, it forms one of the most indigestible compounds. The correct way is to have the bread stale, and cut into thin, uniform slices about one quarter of an inch thick. The fire should be clear, red (not blazing) coals. The crusts maj^ be removed or not according to your taste, or the purpose for which the toast is intended. If you require only one or two slices, a toasting-fork willThe Boston Cook Book, ;8 answer ; but if a larger quantity be needed, tliere is nothing better than a double broiler with wires about a third of an inch apart. Place the slices evenly on one side of the broiler, being careful not to put in more than can be equally exposed to the fire ; close the broiler and hold it firmly, that the slices may not slip ; move it gently over the fire for one or two minutes ; then turn it over, that all the moisture may be drawn out; hold it nearer to the coals, and color it a delicate golden-brown. Serve at once in a toast rack or piled lightly, that it may not lose its crisp- ness. Butter before serving, or send it dry to the table. Bread properly dried and toasted is changed from the nature of dough, which alwa^'s has a tendency to sour on the stomach, into pure wheat farina. It is not so scorched as to turn the butter into oil, but absorbs the butter; and butter and farina, being easily separated, are quickly acted upon b}' the gastric fluid. Many persons prefer toast that is soft inside, but it should never be served to sick people in that manner. It is better to have it dry, and then mois- tened with milk or water, than to have it doughy. If the bread be freshly baked and 3'ou must make toast, dr}^ the slices in a warm oven before toasting. Always toast over the coals, or in the oven. If toasted over a hot stove, the crumbs fall through and burn, giving it a scorched and smoky flavor. 1 large tablespoonful butter. Scald the milk; put the butter in a granite saucepan; when melted, add the dr^' cornstarch; when well mixed, add one third of the milk. Let it boil, and stir constantly till it is a smooth paste ; add the remainder of the milk gradually, stirring well; then add the salt. Put the toast in a hot deep dish ; pour the thickened milk between each slice and over the whole. Keep the dish over hot water until ready to serve. If liked very soft, the sUces may be Milk Toast. 1 pint milk, scalded. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 1^ teaspoonf ul salt. 6 slices dry toast.79 The Boston Cook Book, first dipped in hot salted water, or in the hot milk before it is thickened. Cream Toast. Cream toast may be made in the same way, using a scant tahlespoonful of hutter^ and cream instead of milk, or b}^ thickening the boiling cream with 07ie tahlespoonful of cornstarch wet in a little cold milk or water; then salt to taste, and boil eight or ten minutes. Water Toast. Have a shallow pan with one quart of boiling water and a teaspoonful of salt. Dip each slice of dry toast quickly in the water, then pile on a hot platter. Spread evenly with butter and serve very hot. Do not let them soak an instant in the water. Toast for Garnishing. For poached eggs, cut the bread into rounds with a large cake-cutter before toasting. For small birds or as- paragus, remove the crusts and cut into oblong pieces. For minces and fricassees, cut into small squares or dia- monds. For a border, cut, after toasting, into inch and a half squares, and then into halves diagonally, making tri- angles ; or cut into long pointed triangles.The Boston Cook Book, 8o SODA BISCUIT, MUFFINS, GEMS, ETC. The soda now used in cooking is the bicarbonate of soda, — an alkali made from the ashes of marine plants, or, more recently, from sea salt. Crude soda is known as sal- soda^ or soda-saleratus ; when refined and cleared of its im- purities, it is carbonate and bicarbonate of soda, the latter having twice as much carbonic acid gas as the carbonate. Potash is another fixed alkali made from wood ashes. Pearlash is purified potash. Saleratus is prepared from pearlash by exposing it to carbonic acid gas. Pure, strong alkalies are powerful corrosive poisons, eating the coats of the stomach perhaps quicker than any other poisonous agent. This caustic or burning propert}^ is somewhat weakened by the carbonic acid united with them, and is therefore less in bicarbonate of soda than in the potash compounds. The latter are now seldom used. Alkalies when properl}^ combined with acids lose this poi- sonous property; the carbonic acid gas is liberated, and the compound formed b}^ this union is called a neutral salt, being neither acid nor alkaline. When not properly com- bined, if the acid be stronger than the alkali, the salt is acid ; and if the alkali be in excess, the salt is alkaline and still poisonous. Soda has a great affinit}^ for water; and when wet, a combination takes place which allows some of the carbonic acid gas to escape. This ma}^ easily be seen by the effer- vescence which occurs when soda is dissolved in hot water. This, the old way of using soda, was theoretically wrong, as much of the gas was lost; yet practically good results were obtained, because the saleratus formerly used was much stronger than the bicarbonate of soda of to-day, and could well be weakened.8i The Boston Cook Book. Soda alone, when mixed with wet dough, will give off gas enough to raise the dough ; but it leaves a strong alkaline taste and a greenish yellow color, and, being poisonous, must be neutralized by an acid, or else its use is not ad- missible. The best acid for this purpose is one w4iich does not liberate the gas instantly on contact with the soda, before the heat can fix the air cells, and also the one which leaves no unwholesome residue. Muriatic Acid^ which is sometimes used, would be the best, as it leaves only common salt as a residue ; but the gas is liberated instantly, and onlj' a skilled hand can mix the bread and place it in the oven without losing much of the gas. Cream of Tartar^ which is tartaric acid combined with potash, and is obtained from the crystals or argols which collect in w^ine casks, is preferred by chemists. Being only slightl}^ soluble in cold water, it unites with soda only when heated, and the gas is not all liberated until the mixture is in the oven. The residue from the union is Rochelle salt, which is not injurious taken occasionally in small quantities. The objections to cream of tartar are these: being very expensive (the price varying with the grape crop), it is often adulterated with alum and other harmful substances; and the proportions of soda and cream of tartar are often guessed at instead of being ac- curatel}^ measured. The only safe wa}^ to use these chemi- cals is to purchase cream of tartar of a reliable chemist, and to measure carefully one level teaspoonful of soda to two full teaspoorfuls of cream of tartar for 07ie quart of flour. It takes a trifle more than twice the quantity of cream of tartar to make the reaction complete. The soda must be finel}^ pulverized before measuring ; rub it on the board with a knife, measure, and then sift through the finest wire strainer into the flour. Sifting with the flour through an ordinary flour sieve is not enough. Cream of tartar does not become lumpj^ like soda ; but it is better to sift it, and salt also, into the flour, and then sift all together two or three times. There is no greater abomination in cooked 682 The Boston Cook Booh food than a spot of soda, even if it be but the size of a pin-head, and no one should excuse such negligence. Baking-Powders. — When 3^our druggist or cook is not to be relied upon, use a baking-powder which has been tested and proved pure. Pure baking-powders are soda and cream of tartar mixed by weight in the proper pro- portion, and combined with rice flour, cornstarch, or some harmless ingredient to insure their keeping. To allow for this starch the measure should be a little more than the combined amount of soda and cream of tartar; three rounding teaspoonfuls of haking-'powder being equal to one level teaspoonful of soda and two full teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. One even teaspoonful of baking-powder for each cup of flour is a convenient formula. Soda is also neutralized by sour milk or lactic acid. This is economical, particularly for those who have pure milk and more than they can use while it is sweet. But milk is often adulterated, and, in winter, grows bitter before it sours ; and the degree of acidity varies so much that the result is often failure. Sour milk is best when it sours quickly, and is thick and smooth, not separated. One even teaspoonful of soda to one pint of nicely thickened or loppered milk is the proportion. When the milk tastes or smells sour, but is not thick, use it as sweet milk in gingerbread or brown bread, where 3'ou have molasses to complete the acidity. Add a very little more soda if the receipt call for sweet milk, or a little less if for sour milk. Nearly all kinds of soda biscuit, muffins, gems, etc., should have the dry ingredients mixed in one bowl, and the liquids, such as milk, eggs, melted butter, etc., in another ; and when ready to bake, stir the two quickly and thoroughly together, and bake immediately in a very hot oven. Molasses gives another acid which is combined with soda, to raise and lighten dough. Directions for its use are given under rules for brown bread and molasses gingerbread.The Boston Cook Book. 83 Soda and Cream of Tartar Biscuit. 1 quart sifted flour. 2 fall teaspoonfuls cream of 1 even teaspoonf ul salt. tartar. 1 even teaspoonful soda, meas- 1 large tablespoonful butter, ured after pulverizing. Milk to make a very soft dough: new-process flour will take a pint or more ; St. Louis flour, less. Mix in the order given, sifting the soda, salt, and cream of tartar into the flour. Then sift all together twice. E-ub in the butter with the tips of the fingers, until there are no large lumps. Mix in the milk gradually, using a broad knife and wetting only a small part of the flour with each addition of the milk. When just stiff enough to be handled (not kneaded), cut it through with the knife until barely mixed ; it should look spongy in the cuts and seem full of air. Turn it out on a well-floured board ; toss with the knife till well floured ; touch it with the hands as little as possible ; pat it with the rolling-pin, which must be lifted quickly that it may not stick; and when the dough is about half an inch thick, cut it into rounds and bake at once. To make Twin Biscuit^ roll the dough out less than half an inch thick, cut into rounds, spread with softened but- ter, and put two together, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. Baking-Powder Biscuit. These are made in the same way as the preceding, using three rounding teaspoonfuls of baking-powder in place of soda and cream of tartar. Sour Milk Biscuit. These should be made the same as cream of tartar bis- cuit, using one pint of thick sour milk instead of sweet milk, and omitting the cream of tartar. Observe the same directions as to lightness and dexteritj^ in mixing, and vary the amount of milk according to the flour.84 The Boston Cook Booh. Whole-Wheat or Rye Biscuit (with Soda). 1 cup whole-wheat or rye flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 cup white flour. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful melted butter. % teaspoonful soda. Milk enough to make a drop batter (about one cup). If sour milk be used, omit the cream of tartar. Mix in the order given, and bake in hot gem pans twenty or thirty minutes. Cream BiKSCuit. When using sweet cream, make the same as cream of tartar biscuit; and when using sour cream, the same as sour-milk biscuit, omitting the butter in either case. Any of these mixtures may be baked in gem or muffin pans by using more milk, and making the dough soft enough fo drop from the spoon. Short Cakes, No. 1. 1 pint sifted flour. 3^ teaspoonful salt, scant. 3^ teaspoonful soda, measured after pulverizing. 1 full teaspoonful cream of tartar (omit if sour milk be used). 3^ cup butter. 1 cup sweet or sour milk, or cold water. Mix the salt, soda, and cream of tartar with the flour, and sift two or three times. Eub in the butter until fine like meal, or if liked very short and crisp, melt the butter and add it hot with the milk. Add the liquid graduall}^, mixing and cutting with a knife, and use just enough to make it of a light spongy consistency. Scrape out the dough upon a well-floured board ; toss it with the knife until floured ; pat into a flat cake, and roll gently, till half an inch thick ; cut with a small round cutter, and bake on the griddle or in the oven. If you use a griddle, grease it well with salt pork or butter, and cook the cakes slowly; watch and turn them, that all may be browned alike.The Boston Cook Booh 8s When they are well puffed up, put a bit of butter on the top of each, and turn over, —or move them to one side and grease again with the pork, and turn over upon the freshly greased place. When browned on the other side and done, of which you can judge by the firmness of texture or by pulling one partly open, serve immediately. Tear them open, as cutting with a knife makes them heavy and indigestible. If to be baked in the oven, put them quite close together in a shallow pan, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. Short Cakes, No. 2. Make by rule No. 1, and divide into two parts ; pat and roll each part into a large, round cake the size of a pie plate, and bake either in a spider or in the oven. These short cakes may be eaten hot with butter if for a simple breakfast or tea cake, or buttered and spread with sweet- ened fruit for dessert. Strawberry Short Cake, ISTo. 1. Make a crust by rule for Dutch Apple Cake, on page 86 ; bake it on round tins ; split, butter, and spread with sweet- ened berries and cream. Strawberry Short Cake, No. 2. Make by rule No. 1 for Short Cake, and bake on a grid- dle in small rounds. Tear open, and spread each half with softened butter. Put half of the cakes on a hot plate. Mash a pint of strawberries, sweeten to taste, put a large spoonful on each cake; then put another layer of cakes, and whole berries, well sugared. Serve with cream. Peach Short Cake. Make by either of the receipts for Strawberry Short Cake, and spread with sliced and sweetened peaches. Apricots may be used in the same way; and cream may be added if preferred.86 The Boston Cook Book. Orange Short Cake. The same as Strawberry, using oranges. Peel and di- vide the oranges, remove the seeds and thick inner skin, and cut each section into three or four pieces. Sweeten to taste. Whole-Wheat or E.ye Short Cakes. 1 cup white flour. 1 cup whole-wheat or rye flour, teaspoonful soda, crushed be- fore measuring, and sifted into the flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar (omit if sour milk be used). )^ teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 1 cup of sweet or sour milk, the amount varying with the flour. 1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. Mix in the order given, making the dough stiflT enough to be rolled. Cut into rounds and bake on a griddle ; tear open and serve with cream and salt. Or roll very thin, cut and bake in the oven, split and pour cream thickened as for toast over them. Dutch Apple Cake. (Mrs. A, A. Lincoln.) 1 pint flo. u 3^ teaspoonful salt. 3^ teaspoonful soda, sifted into the flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. cup butter. 1 egg. 1 scant cup milk. 4 sour apples. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Mix the dry ingredients in the order given ; rub in the butter; beat the egg and mix it with the milk; then stir this into the dry mixture. The dough should be soft enough to spread half an inch thick on a shallow baking- pan. Core, pare, and cut four or five apples into eighths; lay them in parallel rows on top of the dough, the sharp edge down, and press enough to make the edge penetrate slightly. Sprinkle the sugar on the apple. Bake in a hot oven twent}^ or thirty minutes. To be eaten hot with but- ter as a tea cake, or with lemon sauce as a pudding.The Boston Cook Book. 87 Apple or Huckleberry Cakes. 1 pint sifted flour. 3^ teaspoonf ul salt. 2 even teasp. baking-powder. cup butter. }^ cup sugar. 1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- arately. 1 cup milk. 1 heaping cup huckleberries or thinly sliced apples. Mix the flour, salt, and baking-powder, and sift two or three times. Have the berries picked over, washed, dried, and sprinkled with flour. Eub the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat again. Add the yolk well beaten, and then the milk. Stir this into the flour and beat thor- oughly ; add the white beaten stiff, and, lastly, the berries, being careful not to break them. Bake in a shallow pan or in muffin pans about half an hour. These may be made with sour milk, omitting the baking- powder, and using half a teaspoonful of soda ; or leave out half a cup of flour, and substitute for it half a cup of fine white corn meal. cup butter. Milk or water enough to moisten. 1 pint berries, washed, dried, and floured. Huckleberry Cake, No. 2. {Mrs. A. A. Lincoln,) 1 quart flour. 1 scant teaspoonful salt. 4 even teasp. baking-powder. 3^ cup sugar. Mix salt, baking-powder, and sugar with the flour. Rub in the butter, and moisten with milk or water to make a dough stiff enough to keep in shape when dropped from a spoon. Add the berries, which should be well floured to keep them from setthng. Drop by the large spoonfuls on a well-buttered shallow pan. Bake twenty minutes. Raised Flour Muffins or Sally Lunns (with Yeast). 1 cup milk, scalded and cooled. 3^ teaspoonful salt, scant. 1 teaspoonful sugar, cup yeast. 1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- arately. Flour enough to make a drop batter. If intended for tea, add two tablespoonfuls of sugarand mix late in the forenoon. The}^ will rise in five or sixThe Boston Cook Book. 88 hours ; then add one large tahlespoonful of butter melted. When well mixed, fill muffin pans two thirds full. Let them rise fifteen or twenty minutes, and bake in a hot oven. Or they may be baked in muffin rings on a griddle, in which case it is better to add the melted butter at the first mixing. When ready to bake, have the griddle and rings well greased ; contrive to take up a spoonful of the dough without stirring enough to let out the air, and fill each ring ; cook until brown and well risen, then turn ring and muffin together, and brown the other side. Pull them apart, never cut them. This same mixture, when risen and baked in a buttered pudding-dish in which it is to be served, is the old-fashioned Sally Lunn. Cut with the point of a warm knife. If intended for breakfast, make a batter with the milk, yeast, flour, and sugar, mix late in the evening and keep in a cool place. In the morning add the egg, melted butter, and salt, and bake as usual. Muflans or Sally Lunns, No. 2 (made quickly). 1 pint flour. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. % ^^P milk. % teaspoonf ul salt, scant. % ^^P butter, melted. Mix flour, baking-powder, and salt. Beat the 3^olks, and add the milk and melted butter. Put the two mixtures together quickly; add the whites last. Fill muffin pans two thirds full, and bake fifteen minutes in a ver}^ hot oven. This makes eight muffins. If for tea, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar to the flour. Use a scant cup of milk and one fourth of a cup of butter if you prefer. Oatmeal Biscuit. {Miss Barnes,) 3 cups boiling water. I 1 scant teaspoonful salt. 1 cup oatmeal. | Pour the water on the oatmeal; add the salt, and cook three hours in a double boiler. Vfhile still warm, add orie large tahlespoonful of butter^ and half a cup of sugar.89 The Boston Cook Book. When cool, add half a cup of yeasty and fiour to make a stiff dough. Let it rise over nigiit. In the morning bake in gem pans twenty minutes or till brown. Tea Cakes. 2% cups St. Louis flour. }^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. ^2 cup sugar. % teaspoonful salt. 1 egg. 1 cup milk. 1 tablespoonful butter, melted. Mix in the order given, and bake in gem pans or cups. Add one cup of berries, and it makes a delicious berry cake. Cream Muffins. 1 pint flour. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Yolks of 2 eggs, beaten lightly. % cup cream or enough to make a drop batter. Whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff. Bake in muffin pans, and serve very hot. Tea Cake (Loaf). 1 pint flour. % teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 3 eggs, yolks beaten and mixed with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 cup milk (mixed with the yolks and sugar). 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. Whites of the eggs added last. Bake in a brickloaf pan, in a hot oven, as a tea cake. To be eaten hot Granulated Wheat Muffins. 13^cups granulated wheat (Health Food or Arlington). % teaspoonful salt. 2 even teasp. baking-powder. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 egg. 1 scant cup milk. }4 cup water. Mix in the order given, and bake in hissing hot gem pans twenty minutes.90 The Boston Cook Booh Rye Muffins. (Miss Parloa.) 1 cup rye flour, or sifted rye meal. 1 cup white flour. cup sugar. 1 egg. 3^ teaspoonf ul salt. 1 cup milk. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Mix rye, sugar, salt, flour, and baking-powder thor- oughly. Beat the egg ; add the milk, and stir quickly into the dry mixture. Bake in hot gem or muffin pans twenty- five minutes. Corn Muffins. (From an unknown Friend.) 1 cup common corn meal. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 scant teaspoonf ul salt. 1 even tablespoonful butter. 5 cups boiling water. Mix at night the meal, sugar, and salt in the top of the double boiler ; add the butter and boiling water, stir until smooth, and cook an hour. Turn into a mixing-bowl, and pour over it one fourth of a cup of water to prevent a crust from forming. In the morning beat it up soft and smooth. Mix one cup and a half of fne yellow corn jiour^ one cup and a half of white flour^ two even tea- spoonfuls of hahing-powder^ and stir them into the cooked meal. Add one egg^ well beaten. Drop the mixture into round iron gem pans, and bake in a hot oven. To make corn and rye muffins^ add, in the morning, 1 cup yellow corn flour. I 1 cup common flour. 1 cup rye flour. 1 Or make coim and whole-wheat muffins by adding 1% cups yellow corn flour. % cup common flour. 1 cup whole-wheat flour, Frank- lin or Arlington. These are delicious. This rule makes fifteen muffins. If fewer be desired, half of the cooked corn-meal mixture may be used, and the remainder reserved for another baking. But in this case do not forget to halve theThe Boston Cook Book. 91 dry mixture added in the morning, and to use one small egg. Apple Johnny Cake (without Eggs). (Mrs, Webb.) 1 pint white meal. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 3^ teaspoonful salt. teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Milk enough to mix quite soft. 3 apples, pared and sliced. Mix in the order given. Bake in a shallow cake pan thirty minutes. Corn Cake (thin). 1 cup yellow corn meal. cup sugar. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 1 cup flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 1 egg. 1 cup milk. 1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. Mix in the order given, and bake in two Washington pie tins, spreading the mixture thick enough to half fill the pan. Sponge Com Cake (Sour Milk). 1 cup flour. }4 cup corn meal. }^ teaspoonful salt. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 3^ cup sugar. Yolks of 2 eggs. White of 1 egg. 1 tablespoonf ul butter, melted. 1 cup sour milk. Bake in a shallow round pan or in a brickloaf pan. Use the other white of egg for clearing the coffee. Sponge Com Cake (Sweet Milk). 1 cup meal. }4 cup flour. }4 teaspoonful salt. )'2 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 1 tablespoonf ul sugar. Yolks of 2 eggs. White of 1 egg. IJ^ cup milk. Bake in brickloaf bread pan about half an hour.92 The Boston Cook Book, Spider Corn Cake (Sour Milk). {Miss Parloa.) % cup corn meal. Flour to fill the cup. 1 tablespoonful sugar. teaspoonful salt. teaspoonful soda, scant. 1 egg. 1 cup sweet milk. ^ cup sour milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. Mix the meal, flour, sugar, salt, and soda. Beat the egg; add half of the sweet milk, and all the sour milk. Stir this into the dry mixture. Melt the butter in a hot spider, or shallow round pan, and pour the mixture into it. Pour the other half cup of sweet milk over the top, but do not stir it in. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Corn and Rice Muffins. 1 pint white corn meal. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 cup cold boiled rice. 1 teaspoonful soda, scant. 1 pint sour milk. 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful melted butter, or drippings. Bake in muffin pans about twenty minutes. Hominy and Corn Meal Cakes. (Mrs. S. S. Ropes.) Mix two tahlespoonfuls of fine., uncooked hominy^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ one tablespoonful of butter., half a cup of boiling water. Place this over the teakettle, or on the back of the stove until the hominy absorbs all the water. Pour one cup of boiling milk on one scant cup of corn meal; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and the hominy. When cooled, add two eggs^ yolks and whites beaten sep- arately, and one heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder. Bake in hot, buttered gem pans twent}' minutes. Maryland Com Cakes (without Soda). {Mrs. Upham.) Mix one cup of fine white sifted meal^ one even table- spoonful of butter^ one teaspoonful of sugarone saltspoonful93 The Boston Cook Book. of salt. Add one scant cup of boiling milk. When cooled, add one egg^ yolk and white beaten separately. Bake in stone cups about thirty minutes. Dodgers, Dabs, or Corn Meal Puffs (without Soda). {Alice Walcott.) Two cups of fine white corn meal^ scalded with boiling water so that the meal is all wet but not soft; add one teaspoonful of butter^ one teaspoonful of sugar^ half a tea- spoonful of salt^ two or three tablespoonfuls of milk; when cold, add two eggs., yolks and whites beaten separately. The batter should drop easily from the spoon, not be thin enough to pour, nor stiff enough to be scraped out. Have your pans greased and hissing hot, and the oven as hot as possible. Bake until brown and puffy. Indian Bannock (without Soda). {A. W,) 1 cup corn meal. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 pint boiling milk. When cool, add two eggs^ beaten separately. Bake in a shallow earthen dish in a very hot oven, and serve in the dish, like a pudding. Hoe Cake (without Soda). Boiling milk or water enough to scald it. 1 cup white corn meal. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful sugar (if you like). Make it thick enough not to spread when put on the griddle. Grease the griddle with salt pork, drop the mix- ture on with a large spoon. Pat the cakes out till about half an inch thick ; cook them slowly, and when browned put a bit of butter on the top of each cake and turn over. They cannot cook too long, provided they do not burn. Sometimes the dough is put on in one large cake, and as soon as browned underneath is turned over upon a freshl}^ greased place; the thin, crisp crust is peeled off with a knife, laid on a hot plate, and spread with butter, and94 The Boston Cook Book. when another brown crust has formed, the cake is turned again, the crust is removed and buttered, and so on until the cake is all browned. These crisp, buttered crusts are served piled together and cut in sections. E-ice Crusts. (Miss Ward.) Cook one cup of cold boiled rice in the double boiler in milk enough to make a thin mixture, and until the rice is very soft. Add one tahlespoonful of sugar^ a little salt, one egg, and flour enough to make it hold together. Spread on the pan, having the mixture one third of an inch thick. Bake in a hot oven. Split and eat with syrup. Rice or Hominy Drop Cakes. One cup of boiled hominy or rice, and one egg. If the hominy be cold, heat in a farina kettle with one tablespoon- ful of water, and stir till it is softened. Beat yolk and white separately; add one saltspoonful of salt. Drop in tablespoonfuls on a well-buttered pan, and bake brown in a hot oven. Breakfast Puffs, or Pop-overs. 1 cup flour. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 cup milk. 1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- arately. Mix the salt with the flour ; add part of the milk slowly, until a smooth paste is formed; add the remainder of the milk with the beaten yolk, and lastly the white beaten to a stiff froth. Cook in hot buttered gem pans or earthen cups in a quick oven half an hour, or until the puffs are brown and well popped over. Rye Gems, or Shells (without Soda). ^ cup rye meal. cup flour. 1 saltspoonful salt. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 cup milk. Mix the meal, flour, and salt. Beat the yolks ; add the sugar and milk. Stir this into the dry mixture ; add the95 The Boston Cook Book. whites, beaten stiff. Bake in iron gem pans, or stone cups, thirty to fort}^ minutes. One cup of mixed rye meal^ white corn meal, and whole-wheat flour^ in about equal pro- portions, may be used in the same way. This receipt makes six gems. Whole-Wheat or Graham Gems, or Puflfs. {A. TT.) 2 cups of whole-wheat flour. ^2 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 1 cup milk. 1 cup water. Mix flour, salt, and sugar. Add the milk to the beaten 3'oiks, then the water, and stir this into the dry mixture. Add the whites, beaten stiff, and bake in hissing hot gem pans thirt}^ minutes. Whole-Wheat Crisps (specially good for Children). 1 cup rich cream, sweet or sour. cup sugar. 1 saltspoonful salt. 2 cups fine granulated wheat flour, or enough to make a stiff dough. Knead fifteen minutes, or till stiff enough to roll out thin as a wafer. Cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake on un- greased tins in a very hot oven. The sugar will sweeten the sour cream sufficiently. Fine Granulated Wheat Gems (no Yeast, Soda, nor Eggs). 1 cup water. 1 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 cup milk. I cups fine granulated wheat. Stir the flour slowtyinto the liquid, until you have a drop batter. Then beat as rapidly and as long as 3^our arm will allow. Have the iron gem pans hissing hot, and well buttered. Fill quickly, giving the batter a brisk beating several times during the filling, and bake at once in a very hot oven.The Boston Cook Book. 96 Maryland, or Beaten Biscuit. (Mrs, Towne.) 1 quart flour. I 3^ teaspoonful salt, cup lard. | 1 cup cold water. Eub the lard and salt into the flour, and mix with cold water to a very stiff dough. Knead ten minutes, or until well mixed; then beat hard with a biscuit beater or heavy rolling-pin, turning the mass over and over until it begins to blister and looks light and puffy, or till, pulling off a piece quickl}^, it will give a sharp, snapping sound." When in this condition, pull off a small piece suddenly, form it into a round biscuit, then pinch off a bit from the top. Turn over and press with the thumb, leaving a hollow in the centre. Put the biscuit some distance apart in the pan. Prick with a fork. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. They should be light, of a fine, even grain, and crack at the edges like our crackers. In Maryland no young lady's education was formerly considered finished until she had learned the art of making beaten biscuit. Graham Wafers. 1 pint white flour. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 pint Graham flour. Cold water enough to make a stiff 1^ cup butter. dough, cup sugar. EoU out very thin, cut in squares, and bake quickly. Wafer Biscuit (for Invalids). 1 pint flour. White of 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful butter. Warm new milk enough to make 1 saltspoonful salt. a stiff dough. Mix salt with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add the beaten white of egg, and milk enough to make a stiff dough. Beat half an hour with a rolling-pin, without ceasing. Break off a little piece of dough at a time, and roll it out as thin as paper. Cut into large rounds. Prick with a small wooden skewer, and bake quickly without burning.97 The Boston Cook Book, Gluten Wafers. Half a cup of sweet cream and one saltspoonful of salt. Stir in gluten enough to make a stiff dough. Knead and roll out YQYy thin. Cut into rounds, and bake a delicate brown on an ungreased tin. Gluten is a preparation of wheat flour without the starch. Waffles, Griddle-Cakes, Pancakes, etc. The names pancakes, fritters, flap-jacks, slap-jacks, batter-cakes, griddle-cakes, slappers, etc., are applied in- discriminately in different localities. Pancakes were formerly a kind of muffin mixture, made a little stiffer than a drop batter, but not stiff enough to roll out, and were dropped from a spoon into hot fat, and fried like doughnuts. But, recently, the name has been applied to a very thin batter made usually without soda, cooked one cake at a time on a small well-buttered frying- pan, and turned like a griddle-cake; then buttered, and rolled over and over, or spread with sugar and jelly, and then rolled. In ''ye oklen time" good cooks were sup- posed to have the knack of tossing the pan so skilfully that the cake would turn over itself; but this is now one of the lost arts. For convenience and clearness, the following names will be used in this work : — Griddle-Cakes: any kind of small, thin batter-cakes cooked on a griddle. Pancakes: larger, thin batter-cakes, made without soda, and cooked in a small fr3'ing-pan. French or Rolled Pancakes: the same as the preceding, buttered, sweetened, and rolled. Fried Drop Cakes or Fried Muffins: any muffin mixture, dropped from a spoon into deep hot fat. Fritters: a thinner mixture made without soda, either plain or with meat, fish, or fruit, and cooked by dropping into deep hot fat. * 798 The Boston Cook Booh Waffles and Griddle-Cakes. A waffle iron is made of two corrugated iron griddles fitted and fastened together at one side with a hinge, and revolving in an iron frame, which is to be placed over the fire. It may be either circular or oblong. Each griddle is divided into compartments, which are usuall}' grooved into diamonds, hearts, rounds, etc. The iron should be placed over the fire, heated on each side, and greased thoroughly, as it is very hard to clean if the cakes stick. Put a piece of salt pork on a fork, or put a small piece of butter in a clean cloth, and rub all over both griddles. The heat will melt the butter and let just enough of it go through the cloth. This is better than to put it on with a knife. Close the griddles and turn them; this causes the fat to run evenly over them. Open, and pour the waffle mixture into the centre of the half over the fire, or put a spoonful in each compartment, filling them about two thirds full. Cover, and cook one minute on one side, then turn and cook a little longer on the other. Any kind of griddle-cake mixture, with the addition of the melted butter to make them crisp, may be cooked on a waffle-iron, if one cares to take the extra trouble. Waffles. 1 pint flour. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 3 eggs. IJ^ cups milk. 1 tablespoonf ul butter, melted. Mix in the order given ; add the beaten yolks of the eggs with the milk, then the melted butter, and the whites last. Serve with butter, or sjTup, or caramel sauce. Lemon Syrup (served with Waffles). ' 1 cup sugar. I 1 teaspoonful butter. cup water. | 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Boil the sugar with the water until it thickens slightly.The Boston Cook Book. 99 Add the butter and lemon juice. Serve as soon as the butter is melted. Raised Waflles. Mix at night one pint of milk, one third of a cup of yeast, and one pint of Jiour, In the morning add half a teaspoon- ful of salt, two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and one tahlespoonful of melted butter. Use only one egg, make the batter a trifle thinner, and fry on the griddle, and you have Flannel Cakes. Either of these receipts may be varied by using half or one third fine white corn meal or Graham flour with the white flour. If intended for tea, mix in the forenoon. To Cook Griddle-Cakes. A soapstone griddle, which needs no greasing, is the best; but of whatever material, let it be large enough to hold seven cakes. Let it heat while you are making the cakes. If an iron griddle be used, put a piece of salt pork two inches square on a fork; and when the griddle is hot enough for the fat to sizzle, rub it all over with the pork. Just grease it; do not leave little pools of fat on the edge to burn, and smoke the cakes. Take up a tahlespoonful of the mixture, and pour it from the end of the spoon. The mixture should hiss or sizzle as it touches the griddle. Put one in the centre and six around the outside. By the time 3'Ou have the seventh cake on, the first one will be full of bubbles and ready to turn; and when the seventh is turned, the first will have stopped puflflng and be done. Wipe the griddle with a dry cloth, and grease again after each baking. Turn your griddle often, bringing each edge of it in turn over the hottest part of the stove, that the cakes may cook evenly. Always mix waffles or griddle-cakes in a bowl with a lip, and beat up the mixture well between each baking.100 The Boston Cook Book. Griddle-Cakes. 1 pint flour. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful soda. 1 scant pint sour milk or cream. 2 eggs, well beaten. Crush, measure, and sift the soda and salt into the flour. Mix thoroughly. Add the milk, and beat well; then add the beaten yolks, and lastly, the whites, beaten stiff. Bake on a hot, well-greased griddle ; turn when full of bubbles, and bake on the other side till they stop puffing. Use one half or one third fine corn meal or Gra- ham flour^ to make a variety. To make Huckleberry Griddle-Calces^ add one 'pint of berries^ picked over and rolled in flour. Some persons prefer to mix the sour milk with the flour, and let the mixture stand over night. In the morn- ing add the salt, soda, and eggs. Sour milk is the best for griddle-cakes, and when thick- ened just right, the cakes are very good without the eggs. Kice or Hominy Griddle-Cakes (no Soda). 1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup warm boiled rice, or fine hominy. % teaspoonful salt. 2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. Flour enough to make a thin batter. Bake either as griddle-cakes or waffles. Bread Griddle-Cakes. 1 pint stale (not dried) bread-1 1 pint milk, scalded, crumbs. | 1 tablespoonful butter. Pour the hot milk over the crumbs, add the butter, and soak over night or till the crumbs are softened. Then rub through a squash strainer; add 2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 1 cup flour. }4. teaspoonful salt. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Cold milk to thin it if needed. Bake slowly : spread with butter and sugar, and serve hotlOI The Boston Cook Book. Raised Graham Griddle-Cakes. Mix one pint of milk^ scalded and cooled, one cup of whole-wheat Jlour^ one cup of white flour, one fourth of a cup of liquid yeast. Let it rise over night. In the morning add half a teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of mo- lasses, one saltspoonful of soda. If too thick, add a little warm water. These are more wholesome than buckwheat cakes. Buckwheat Cakes. Pour one pint of boiling water on half a cup of fine corn meal; add half a teaspoonful of salt. Mix well, and when lukewarm add half a cup of white flour, one cup of buckwheat flour, one fourth of a cup of yeast. Beat vigorously. Let it rise over night. In the morning stir down, and beat again. When risen and ready to bake, add one saltspoonful of soda, sifted through a fine strainer. Beat again, and fry in large cakes. Buckwheat cakes, even if not sour, usually require the addition of soda just before baking, to make them light and "tender. But when in their best estate, they are far from perfect food. They should be eaten only in very cold weather, and but seldom even then. They are better and brown better when made with boiling milk instead of water. Com Meal Slappers, or Griddle-Cakes (no Soda). 1 pint corn-meal. I 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful butter. | 1 teaspoonful sugar. Pour into this mixture boiling milk or water enough to wet the meal. When cool, add two eggs, well beaten, and cold milk enough to make a very thin batter. Pease Griddle-Cakes. Take green pease which have been boiled, but are too hard to eat as a vegetable. Drain very dry, then mash,The Boston Cook Booh, 102 and rub the pulp through the squash strainer. Or boil one cup of split pease till very tender, letting the water boil away. Drain, mash, and rub through a squash strainer, and use the same as the squash in squash griddle- cakes. Pour the boiling milk into the squash; add the butter, sugar, and salt. When cool, add the egg, well beaten, then the baking-powder, mixed and sifted with the flour. If too thin, use more flour; and if too thick, add a little milk. The dry mealy squash is the best. French Pancakes (no Soda). {Miss Parloa.) 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 cup milk. % cup flour. % teaspoonful salt. ^ tablespoonful salad oil. Beat the yolks and whites separately. Add the milk, salt, and sugar to the j^olks. Pour one third of this mix- ture on the flour, and stir to a smooth paste. Add the remainder of the milk, and beat well; then add the oil. Heat and butter a small frjdng-pan, and pour into it enough of the mixture to cover the pan; when brown, turn and brown the other side. Spread with butter and sugar or jelly ; roll up, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. The fat for fried cakes should be clean, new fat, half lard and half clarified beef drippings. By new fat is meant fat that has not been used for meat or 'fish, or be- come browned by previous fiying. The same fat may be used several times by clarifying with several thin slices of raw potato, and straining through a fine strainer after each frying. When it becomes too brown for any Squash Griddle-Cakes. 1 cup boiling milk. 1 cup sifted squash. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful sugar. % teaspoonful salt. 1 egg. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 1 cup flour. Fried Drop Cakes.103 The Boston Cook Book, flour mixtures, it will answer for croquettes or fish balls. It should be very hot, and still, not bubbhng; but not as hot as for mixtures which have been previously cooked. The surest way is to fry a bit of the mixture. It should rise at once to the surface, with much spluttering of the fat, swell, and begin to brown on the under side. Drop cakes will usually turn over themselves, but doughnuts and fritters should be turned. They should be cooked an even golden brown, and the fat be kept at the right tem- perature by moving the kettle farther from or nearer to the fire. Try them with a fork, and if it come out clean, they are done. Drain each cake over the hot fat, and when they cease to drip, put them in a squash strainer placed in a pan on the back of the stove, or drain on soft brown paper. Change the first cooked to another pan when the next are ready to be taken out. If the fat be not hot enough, or if there be too much soda, doughnuts will absorb the fat. The alkali in them unites with the grease, as it does in making soap. The eggs will prevent the cakes from soaking in the fat, and it is healthful and more economical to use them. Fried Flour Mu£ans. {Miss I. A, Maynard.) 1 egg. 1 sahspoonful salt. % cup sugar. Flour enough to make a stiff ^ cup milk. batter. 1 teaspoonf ul baking-powder. Mix salt and baking-powder with two cups of flour. Beat the egg very light; add the sugar, and beat again. Add the milk, then the flour, with enough more, if needed, to make a stiff batter. Drop from a spoon into hot fat. Fried Com Meal Cakes. {Miss Ward.) One pint of milh^ poured boiling hot upon one cup of corn meal; add one heaping tahlespoonful of sugar^ and half a teaspoonful of salt. Let it stand all night, or till well swollen ; then add two eggs and half a cup of flour. Fry in hot lard.104 The Boston Cook Book, Fried Eye Muffins. % cup rye meal. ^ cup flour. ^2 teaspoonfulsoda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 egg. 3^ cup milk. Mix in the order given, and drop from a small table- spoon into hot fat. Cook until the mujffins will not stick when tried with a fork. Fried Eye Muffins (Sour Milk). 1 pint sour milk. 3^ cup of molasses. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful cinnamon. 1 teaspoonful soda. 2 eggs. Rye flour to make a stiff drop batter. Fry as in the preceding rule. Sour Milk Doughnuts. {Mrs, Henderson.) Two eggs, beaten light, one cup of sugar, three even table' spoonfuls of melted butter, one cup of sour milk (or if sweet milk be used, add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar), four cups o^ flour, with half a teaspoonful soda, and one salt- spoonful each of cinnamon and salt. Enough more flour to make just soft enough to roll out. Mix the dough rather soft at first. Have the board well floured, and the fat heating. Eoll only a large spoonful at first. Cut into rings with an open cutter. Mix the trimmings with another spoonful. Work it slightly till well floured, and roll again. Eoll and cut all out before frying, as that will demand your whole attention. Eemember that the fat should be hot enough for the dough to rise to the top instantly. Doughnuts, No. 2. 1 quart flour. 3^ cup sugar. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 saltspoonful cinnamon or nut- meg. 1 egg. Milk enough to moisten to a stiff dough.The Boston Cook Booh. los Doughnuts, No. 3. 1 egg. 1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 1 cup milk. 3^ teaspoonful salt. teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 saltspoonful cinnamon. Flour enough to roll out. Raised Doughnuts. 1 pint risen milk bread dough. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 1 cup sugar. Spice to taste. 2 eggs. Flour enough to roll out. These are more wholesome than those made with soda. Crullers. {A. W.) 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 egg, 3'olk and white beaten sep- arately. saltspoonful cinnamon or mace. % saltspoonful salt. Flour enough to roll out. Eoll the dough one fourth of an inch thick. Cut in rectangular pieces, two and a half by three and a half inches ; then make five in- cisions lengthwise, cutting to within one third of an Fig. 5. Cruller. Fig. 6. Cruller after Folding. inch at each end. Take up every other strip, fold each strip together slightly in the middle, and drop them into hot fat.The Boston Cook Booh io6 "Wonders, or Cheats. Beat one egg; add one saltspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a very stiff batter. Roll out as thin as a wafer, cut with large round cutter, and fry one minute in hot fat. Serve with honey or syrup, or with cream and jelly, or any delicate pudding sauce. Henriettes. 1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- 1 saltspoonful baking-powder arately. % sahspoonful cinnamon, cup cream. 1 teaspoonful wine or brandy. 1 saltspoonful salt. Flour enough to roll out. Roll as thin as a wafer, and cut with a pastrj^ jigger into small squares or diamonds. Fry in boiling lard. Drain, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Of add less flour, make a thick, stiff batter instead of a dough, and press the batter through a pastry tube into boiling lard, making rings or any shape preferred. Cinci, or Rags. 1 cup flour. I ^ cup boiling water. 1 saltspoonful salt. I 1 egg. Pour the boiling water gradually upon the flour and salt, and stir to a smooth paste; cool, add the egg, and beat well. Press through a pastr}^ tube into hot lard. Drain, and sprinkle with sugar. Fritter Batter (for Oysters, Clams, or Fruit). Tolks of two eggs^ beaten well; add half a cup of milk or water^ and one tahlespoonful of olive oil^ one saltspoonful of salt^ and one cup of flour^ or enough to make it almost a drop batter. When ready to use, add the whites of the eggs, beaten ver}' stiff. If intended for fruit, add a tea- spoonful of sugar to the batter. If for clams, tripe, or meat,107 The Boston Cook Book, add one tablespoojiful of lemon juice or vinegar. This bat- ter will keep several days. Oyster Fritters, — Boil the oysters till the liquor flows freely. Drain, strain the liquor, and use it to make a bat- ter, as in the preceding rule. Dip each oyster in the batter and fry until brown in hot fat. Clam Fritters. — Drain the clams, and chop the hard part. Use the liquor to make a fritter batter. Add the clams and fry by small spoonfuls in hot fat. Clams in the shell should be steamed and dressed. Drain, and dip each whole clam into the batter. If large and tough, chop the hard part, and use the same as raw clams. Apple Fritters, — Core and pare three or four apples., but do not break them. Cut them in slices one third of an inch thick, leaving the opening in the centre. Sprinkle with sugar., lemon., and .spice. Dip each slice in the fritter batter and fry in hot fat. Drain, and sprinkle with pow- dered sugar. Vegetables for fritters, such as celery, salsify, or parsnip, should be boiled till tender, then drained and cut into small pieces ; then stir them into the fritter batter.io8 The Boston Cook Book. OATMEAL, INDIAN CORN, AND OTHER G-RAINS USED AS FOOD. Oatmeal is highly nutritious, being richer in nitrogen than any other grain; but as it does not contain a tough, adhesive gluten, like wheat, it is not easily made into fer- mented bread. Its nitrogenous matter resembles casein more than gluten, and is called avenin (from avena^ the oat). It is used as a mush or porridge, eaten with sugar and milk. It is rich in food for muscle and brain, useful for children and laboring people, but irritating to many people whose digestive powers are weak. Groats, or Grits, are oats from which the outer husk and inner flinty cuticle are removed. Indian Corn is used in man}' forms. Some varieties which contain a large proportion of sugar, are eaten green from the cob as a vegetable. The whole grains, hulled, are eaten as samp ; broken grains of various sizes, as hominy; the ground grains, as either coarse or fine meal. Meal grows musty very quickly when ground by the old process, owing to the moisture of the corn and the heat of the stones. In the new-process, or granulated, meal the corn is first dried for two years, then ground into coarse grains like sugar. Indian corn is also used in the form of a very fine powder, called cornstarch. Corn meal, when cooked, is best made into small loaves or cakes and eaten hot. It is rich in nitrogen, and contains more fat than the other grains. This causes it to attract the oxj-gen from the air, and spoil rapidly. It should be purchased in small quantities. It is better adapted to strong labor- ing people, as it is very heating for persons with weak digestion.109 The Boston Cooh Book. Rye meal and flour are used, more especially in New England, in the form of bread and mush. Rye is sweeter than wheat, and makes a moist bread which can be kept for some time without becoming hard and unpalatable. Rye should be purchased in small quantities, kept in a cool, dry place, sifted and examined thoroughly before using. Barley is used in soups and sometimes in gruels. It cannot be made into good bread, as it has too little gluten. It is nutritious, being rich in phosphates. It contains starch and mucilage, and, in the form of gruel, makes a soothing drink in fevers. The husk is removed, the grains are ground and polished, and then it is termed pearl barley. Buckwheat has less flesh-forming, and more heat-giving elements than wheat. It is therefore suitable onty when used in cold weather and b}^ those who labor hard or exer- cise freely. It is used principall}^ in the form of griddle- cakes. Rice contains very little of the flesh-forming element. It has more starch and less fat than any other grain. It is cheap, and is largely used by people in very hot ch- mates. It should always be used with milk, eggs, or some fatty substance. Oatmeal Mush. One cup of B. B, oatmeal, and one teaspoonful of salt^ to a scant quart of hailing water. Put the meal and salt in the top of the double boiler ; add the boiling water. Place the upper boiler on the stove, and boil rapidly eight or ten minutes, stirring occasionally with a fork. Then place it over the hot water, and cook from forty to sixty minutes if liked dry, from two to three hours if liked very soft. Re- move the cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the steam escape, to dry it off. Served with hahed apples and sugar and cream. Oatmeal comes in three grades. B. B. is the whole oat with the outer husk removed. It is less pasty than theThe Boston Cook Booh, no finer grades. The Scotch consider the coarse oatmeal the best, the finer kinds being only suitable for children and invalids. Oatmeal, rice, or any mush that contains much starch, is more easily digested if it is masticated, and mixed with the saliva. When eaten as a soft porridge and still fur- ther thinned with milk, if it be swallowed whole, the saliva has no chance to do its part, and the whole process of the digestion of the starch is left for the intestines. The meal should be thoroughly cooked, stifi", and drj^, rather than thin. Hominy^ cracked wheats and granulated wheat are cooked in the same way, using only three cups of boiling icater instead of one quart. The crached wheat ma}^ be poured into a mould wet with cold water, and when jellied eaten cold with sugar and cream. Whole wheat requires jive cups of boiling water to one cup of wheats and should cook six hours. Hasty Pudding, or Indian Meal Mush. Put one quart of water on to boil. Mix one pint of corn meal^ one teaspoonful of salt^ and one tablespoonful of flour with one pint of cold milk. Stir this gradually into the boiling water and boil half an hour, stirring often. Eat it hot, with milk, and only in cold winter weather. Fried Hasty Pudding. Cook as above and pour it into a brickloaf pan; when cool, cut into three-quarter inch slices. Dip them in flour^ and brown each side in hot fat in a frying-pan. Or dip in crumbs^ egg^ and again in crumbs^ and fry in deep fat. Any of these mushes may be fried the same way. When eaten with bacon, they make a nice relish for breakfast.Ill The Boston Cook Book. BEVERAGES. Tea. There are three varieties of the tea-plant; both black and green tea can be prepared from them all. Green tea is made from young leaves steamed, roasted, and dried quickly on copper plates. Black tea is made from leaves which have been exposed to the air ten or twelve hours before roasting. The action of the air upon the leaves during this long exposure causes the dark color. Green tea gives up less of its juices in drjdng, and this accounts for its energetic action on the nervous system. The tea-leaf contains the largest amount of nutritive matter of any plant used as human food, though only a small portion of it is extracted by our common method of making tea. There is a large proportion of casein in the leaves. Many of the savage tribes of Tartar}^ boil the leaves with soda, and eat them with salt and butter. But in our method of using tea as a beverage merel}^, we use such a comparatively small quantity that the amount of nutriment is verj^ little; its chief value being the sense of warmth and comfort that it gives. It excites the brain to increased activity, and produces wakefulness ; hence it is useful to students and night-workers. It retards the action of the natural functions, causes less waste, and, to a certain extent, saves food. For this reason, when not used in excess, it is suited to poor people, whose supplies of substantial food are scanty ; and to old persons, whose powers of digestion and whose bodil}'' substance have begun to fail. It should not be used early in the morning, as the body needs immediate nourishment in a larger quantity; and it should at all times be taken moderately, both as to quantity and strength.112 The Boston Cook Booh. The water should be freshly boiled. Scald and heat the teapot, which should be of earthen or china, never of tin. Allow one teaspoonful of tea for one cup of boiling water, Eeduce the proportion of tea when several cups are required. Put the tea in a strainer, pour through it half a cup of boiling water to cleanse the grounds. Then put the tea in the teapot; pour on the boiling water; cover closely and place it where it will keep hot, but not boil, for five minutes. If cold or lukewarm water be used in making tea, the thein^ or nitrogenous substance, will not be obtained. In boiling tea or allowing the leaves to remain long in the tea, by repeated steeping, the fragrant aroma is wasted and the tannin is extracted, which may cause gastric dis- orders to those who drink it. Never make tea in a tin teapot, as the tannic acid acts upon the metal and produces a poisonous compound. A slice of lemon is a good substitute for milk in tea. The lemon prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the tea causes in some persons. A French chemist recommends grinding tea like coffee. It will yield nearly double the amount of its exhilarating quality Also to put a lump of sugar into the teapot with the tea. Iced Tea, or Russian Tea. Make the tea by the first receipt, strain it from the grounds, and keep it cool. When ready to serve, put two cubes of block sugar in a glass, half Jill with broken ice^ add a slice of lemon ^ and fill the glass with cold tea. Coffee. Coffee grows on small trees. Mocha, the best variety, is grown in Arabia. Other choice kinds come from Java, the West Indies, and South America. The fruit of the coffee tree is something like the cherry, and contains two seeds or beans. Bruising the fruit separates the berries,113 The Boston Cook Booh which are then washed and dried. The raw berries are tough, difficult to grind, and have but little flavor. Coffee should be roasted and kept in air-tight cans, that the fine flavor may be perfectly developed and preserved. Coflee is more stimulating than tea, and, when taken very strong after a hearty meal, aids digestion. It should be made in such a way that the full strength and aroma are obtained, without developing the tannic acid. This is done by pour- ing boiling water upon the coffee and keeping it in a closely covered vessel just below the boiling-point, or boiling not longer than five minutes. If allowed to boil longer, or left uncovered, the volatile oil w^hich forms the fragrant aroma is dissipated, and the tannic acid extracted. This acid, when combined with cream or milk, forms a leathery, indigestible compound which irritates the internal membranes. The proportion of one third Mocha and two thirds Java coffee is agreeable to most people. Many prefer to roast and grind the coffee for themselves ; but in coffee-houses the arrangements for roasting are now so complete, that it is well for small families to buy coffee already roasted, and to grind it as needed, or buy it ground in a small quantity. ^ The coffee-pot should be of granite ware or porcelain, and kept scrupulously clean, cleansing the spout as well as the pot ever}^ time it is used. A brownish deposit is soon formed on the inside of the pot, if the coffee be allowed to stand in it long, or if it be not often scoured. Man}^ a cup of ill-flavored coffee is owing to its having been made in an unclean pot. The proportions are, one heaping tahlespoonful of coffee to one cup of boiling water^ reducing the proportion slightly when several cups are required. Half a cup of ground coffee is enough for one quart of water^ and will make sufficient for five people. It takes a greater pro- portion of coffee and water, and it is more difficult to make just enough for one person than for more, as the last coffee poured out is not as clear as the first. The 8114 The Boston Cook Book. old notion of allowing extra for the pot is not without reason. Fish glue or inferior isinglass, which can be purcliased at a druggist's, is a cheap and convenient article to use in clearing coffee. Egg shells should be saved and used for the same purpose. Wipe the eggs as soon as they come from the market, and then the shells may all be used. Two or three shells contain albumen sufficient to clear a quart of coffee. Various modifications of the biggin, or French coffee-pot, are in use, and the coffee made in them is excellent, as none of the aroma is wasted. The}' are general!quite expensive, and some soon get out of order, if not handled carefull}'. The spout of the coffee-pot should be closed with a cork, or a thimble fitted for that purpose, or a piece of soft brown paper twisted so as to form a stopper. This prevents the escape of the steam and aroma. Coffee, if allowed to boil, should stand at least ten minutes after boiling, to give it time to settle and become clear. Roasting Coffee. Put one pound of raw coffee in a small frying-pan. Place it on the stove, and shake and stir occasion all}' for fifteen minutes, or till yellow. Then cover it, and increase the heat, and shake till the kernels are all a deep cinnamon or chestnut color, and have an oily appearance. Be careful that none are burned. Keep it covered, and when still warm, not hot, add one egg and its shell. Beat until every kernel is coated with the egg. The egg will dry quickly. It helps to preserve the flavor, is the cheapest form in which to use egg for clearing, and does not interfere with the grinding of the coffee. Coffee should be kept in air-tight tin cans, and ground only as required. The finer it is ground, the stronger will be the extract.115 The Boston Cook Book. Coffee (Common Coflfee-Pot). 1 heaping tablesp. ground coffee. I 1 egg shell. 1 square inch isinglass, or | 1 cup freshly boiling water. Scald the coffee-pot. Put in the coffee and isinglass. Add the boiling water. Cover the spout, and boil just five minutes. Stir it well. Set the pot on the back of the stove, where it will keep hot, but not boil. Add half a cup of cold water. Pour out a little of the coffee and pour it back again to clear the grounds from the spout. Let it stand at least ten minutes. If served in the pot, be careful not to roil the coffee by shaking the pot or b}^ careless pour- ing. A tablespoonful of caramel mixed with the ground coffee gives additional flavor and color. Steamed Coffee. The same proportions as in the preceding rule. Place the coffee-pot in a kettle of boiling water, or make the coffee in a granite double boiler kept expressly for that purpose, and steam twenty minutes. Pour it from the grounds into a hot coffee-pot for serving. Coffee made with Cold Water.—Put the required propor- tion of cold water and coffee into a china or granite coffee- pot, cover closely, and let it stand over night. In the morning let it just come to the boiling-point, and serve at once. It needs no straining nor clearing. {Miss Devereux.) Coffee made with an Egg. One egg is sufficient to clear one cup of ground coffee. If a smaller quantity be desired, half an egg may be used, as, if fresh, the remainder will keep till the next day. Or the whole egg may be beaten with the ground coffee, and such portion of it used as is needed, keeping the remainder closely covered. To mahe the coffee^ add half a cup of cold water to the portion of egg to be used and one third of a cup of coffee.116 The Boston Cook Book. Beat well; put it in the hot colFee-pot; add one pint of hoiling water and boil five minutes. Keep it hot, but not boiling, for ten minutes. Pour out a little and pour it back to clear the spout. Filtered Coffee. This is made in a French biggin, or an}^ double coffee- j)ot fitted with one or more strainers. The coffee, which is ground very fine, is placed in the strainer; this is put into the receptacle for holding the made coffee, the boiling water is poured in and allowed to drip slowly through the coffee. If there be only two parts to it, the coffee-pot should stand where the coffee will keep hot, but not boil. Many of the coffee-pots made on this principle are placed in another vessel containing boiling water. To serve Coffee. Cream^ scalded milh^ and hlock sugar are essential to good breakfast coffee. Put in one tahlespoonfal of cream and tivo tahlespoonfids of milk^ and fill the cup three fourths full. Never fill to overflowing. Let each person add the sugar desired, unless 3^ou know the individual tastes of the fam- ily. The milk should be just hot, but never boiled, as boiled milk gives a very unpleasant flavor. After-dinner coffee^ or hlack coffee^ is made b}' either of the receipts previously given, using double the proportion of coffee : two heaping tablespoonfuls of coffee to one cup of water. It should be very strong and perfectly clear ; served in small cups, with block sugar if desired, but not with cream or milk, as the milk counteracts the purpose for which the coffee is taken. The addition of three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream to a cup of coffee gives Vienna Coffee, An equal amount of boiled milk and filtered coffee is called Cafe cm Lait, Cocoa and Chocolate. Cocoa is the fruit of a small tree which grows in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies. The fruit is shaped117 The Boston Cook Book, like a large, thick cucumber, and contains from six to thirt}^ beans. The beans are roasted, like coffee. The husks or shells are taken off, and used in that form as cocoa shells. The}' need longer boiling, and are preferred by many persons with weak digestion. They are some- times ground with the bean, making an inferior article of cocoa. Starch is also used to adulterate cocoa. The best cocoa is made from the whole bean after the husk is re- moved. Cocoa nibs are the beans broken instead of ground. Chocolate is the finely ground powder from the kernels mixed to a stiff paste with sugar, and sometimes flavored with vanilla. It is the most nutritious and convenient form of cocoa; a small cake of it will satisfy hunger. It is a very good lunch for travellers. If the oily scum which forms on the surface after boiling be removed, it is less indigestible. Chocolate does not produce the injurious effects which render tea and coffee objectionable, and is far better for children and working-people. Cocoa. Put half a cup of broken cocoa into a pot with two quarts of water. Boil gently two hours, until reduced to one quart; or use half cocoa and half shells. Serve with sugar and cream., or scalded milk. It is more digestible if allowed to cool and the globules of fat removed, then reheated. Prepared Cocoa. This ground cocoa comes in many forms, and some are recommended to be prepared at the table ; but all kinds are better boiled one minute in a very little water, the same as chocolate, and thinned with hot milk. Shells. Steep one cup of shells in one quart of boiling water three or four hours, adding more hot water as it boils awa}-. Strain, and serve with hot milk, or cream and sugar.ii8 The Boston Cook Book. Chocolate. Put one square of Baker's chocolate^ two tahlespoonfuls of sugar^ two tahlespoonfuls of hot water^ and a pinch of salt in a small saucepan, and boil until smooth; stir constantl}'; add gradually one pint of boiling water^ and when read}^ to serve add one pint of hot milk. Use all milk and two squares of chocolate^ if liked richer; or thicken with one teaspoon- fal of cornstarch wet in a little cold water^ and boil five min- utes before adding the milk. German, or Sweetened Vanilla Chocolate. Melt two sticks of chocolate in two or three tahlespoonfuls of hot water. Stir to a smooth paste ; add graduallj^ one pint of hot milk and stir or mill it five minutes. Serve in cups three quarters full with two or three tahlespoonfuls of whipped cream on the top. Sweeten and flavor the cream before whipping.The Boston Cook Book. SOUP. Nothing can be easier than to make a good soup if one only knows how and has the will to do it; and if one will, it is easy to know how. Considerations of econ- omy and healtlifulness make it the duty of every house- keeper to thoroughly inform herself on the few essential points in soup-making. When these are learned it will be as simple as any other duty. As soups are not made from nothing^ a supply of mate- rials should alwa^^s be kept on hand, such as dried sweet herbs (which may be purchased at an}^ city market for a trifle ; twenty-five cents' worth will last a year or more) ; also whole^ as well as ground sjjices; and, more particu- larly, fresh vegetables, — onions^ carrots, and turnips. If we had access to the French market, we could buy the smallest amount whenever it might be desired; but as only a few marketmen in America will sell a single onion or a single carrot, it is well for those who cannot cultivate for themselves to purchase in large quantities. They maj^ be kept in a cool place by covering with clean sand. Parsley may be grown in the house if you have a sunny window; and we can all have salt and pepper. Now, having these seasoning materials always at hand, 3'ou may easily find other material in the store-room, or from the day's supply of fre|h meat, fish, etc., without buying expressly for soup ; that is, if you, instead of the market- man, have the bones and trimmings. Every pantry should have a " catch all." It is vastly more important there than in the sewing-room or on the toilet-table. The coal-hod, refuse pail, and sink catch all in many households. One or two large bowls — not tin, but deep earthen dishes, provided they are sweet and doThe Boston Cook Book, I20 not leak — will better answer the purpose. After breakfast or dinner, do not put away the remnants of steaks or roasts on the platters, but look them over and put by themselves any pieces that can be used again, either cold or in what are called made dishes. Then put all the bones, trimmings, fat, gristle, and everything, especially the platter gravy, which usually flavors the dish-water, into the catch all/' If you have just one bone from a steak or chop, if it be not burned it is worth saving, and in cool weather will keep till you have another. If there be a tablespoonful of any vegetables, a stalk of celery, an egg, baked apple, or a bit of macaroni, put them away neatl3\ You will find a use for them. If you have boiled a fresh tongue, a fowl, a leg of lamb, or a cup of rice, plan to make a soup also, and thus save the water. This economy may be carried to the extreme of saving the water in which cabbages, beans, or potatoes have been boiled, or of keep- ing a fire several hours in a hot da}' only to save a few cents' worth of bone, or of spoiling all the soup b}^ adding a spoonful of turnip already sour; but as a rule we err in the opposite practice. Soups are made from meat, fish, and vegetables, with water or milk; seasoned or flavored with any or every kind of vegetable, sweet herbs, spices, currj^ powder, catchups, aromatic sauces, and with some kinds of fruit. They are served thin and clear, or thickened with vegeta- bles or cereals, and with or without meat. Soups are classified and named in various wa3's, accord- ing to material, color, quality, etc. Soups with stock have meat as the basis. Soups without stock are made of fish, vegetables, and milk. They are sometimes called soup maigre. Soups are named from flie principal ingredient, or an imitation of the same, as Potato, Onion, Beef, Mutton, Chicken, Gumbo, Macaroni, Okra, Ox-tail, Gib- let, Cock-a-leekie, Lobster, Mock Turtle, Mock Bisque, etc. ; or from the color, as Clear, or Amber, Brown, and White ; or from the consistency, as Thin soups and Purees ; or from the quality, as simple Broths, Bouillon, and Con-121 The Boston Cook Book. somme ; or from the season of the year, as Julienne ; or from the people who nse them, as Scotch Broth, French Pot-au-feu, Indian Mullagatawnej^; or from the name of the makers, or in any wa}' one's fancy and invention may suggest. But from the scores, yes, hundreds of receipts in the cook-books, which seem so bewildering to the be- ginner, a few simple rules may be deduced which will make the process of soup-making intelligible ; and when once the foundation is laid, you may build and enlarge as 3^ou choose. Do not be discouraged because you have not all the dozen or more ingredients mentioned in most receipts. You will find many of them may be omitted with a per- fectly satisfactory result. Much depends upon what is omitted, though, as Potage a la Heine without chicken, or Julienne without vegetables, or Mullagatawney without curr}" powder, would disappoint those who think only of the name ; but, called by any other name, you would find them very good soups. Soups with Stock. Soups made with stock include all the varieties made from beef, veal, mutton, and poultr}'. Perhaps a glance at the meaning of the word stock will make clear its appli- cation to cookery. Stock is from the Anglo-Saxon stician^ to stick, and the idea of fixedness is expressed in all its forms. Stock in trade or business means the money or material laid b}^, or stored^ stocked^ jixed^ as a source of supply, ready for use at any time; and in the business of soup-making, stock is the material stored or prepared in such a way that it may be kept or fixed for use in making different kinds of meat soup ; or, more definitely, it is a liquid containing the juices and soluble parts of meat, bone, and vegetables, which have been extracted by proper cooking. This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to the gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in quality, owing to the manner in which it is prepared and the material used.122 The Boston Cook Book. Stock is usually made from the cheaper, inferior parts of meat, which yield the most nutriment when cooked in this way; also from odds and ends of cooked meat, which perhaps could not be used otherwise. The chief object in making stock is to obtain in the quickest manner the largest possible amount of nutriment from the cheap- est parts of meat, and after getting it to keep and use it. This is best accomplished by observing the following rules: — First. Cut the meat into small pieces, and soak them in cold water before heating, that every atom of nourish- ment may be extracted. Cold water draws out and dissolves the meat juices, while hot water hardens the albumen on the outside of the meat and prevents the juices from escaping into the liquid. Second. Use a careful selection and proportion of meat, bone, and water, and season judiciously, so that no one flavor will predominate. Third, Use a steam-tight kettle, and simmer., — not boil the material rapidl}', — that the juices may be retained in the water, and not wasted by evaporation. Fourth. Make stock the day before using, if possible, that the fat ma}^ be more easily remeved ; but do not give up making it simply from ''lack of time," for it ccm be made qu^ckl3^ A soitp digester is the proper vessel for making stock. This is a porcelain-lined iron kettle with a bale, and hav- ing a cover fitting closely into a groove, so that no steam can escape except from the valve in the top of the cover, which at once indicates when the water is boiling rapidly. One holding six quarts, and costing three dollars, is a con- venient size for a small family. If you cannot afford a digester, get a granite ironware kettle, with a tightly fit- ting cover. Plain ironware will do if 3^ou have nothing better; but it rusts easily, and, if tin-lined, the tin melts in careless usage. The meats used in making stock should contain gelatine,, osmazome^ and a small amount of fat.The Boston Cook Book, 123 Gelatine is found in the bones, skin, tendinous and gristly portions of flesh, especially in veal. It is this which causes the stock to become a jelly. But a soup which forms a jelly, or is made principally from bones, is not the most nutritious. The jelly of bones and sinews boiled into soup can furnish only jelly for our bones and sinews. It is use- ful in convalescence, for then the portions of the system in which gelatine is needed have been wasted ; but in other cases, though easily digested, it is unwholesome, for it loads the blood with disturbing products. It is entirel}' destitute of flavor, and therefore we need with it meat con- taining osmazome. Osmazome is that part of meat which gives to each of the various kinds its distinctive flavor. It is more abundant in brown than in white meats, and in the meat of old rather than in that of young animals. It is found largely in lean beef, mutton, and fowls. Osmazome is more highly developed in roasted meals; therefore all the bones and remnants of roasts which cannot be utilized in entrees^ should be put into the soup-kettle. We need also the alkaline and acid salts found in the blood and juices of the flesh; therefore a small portion of raw^ lean meat should form a part of all stock. Fat is necessar}', as an element of perfect food, and should alwa3's be used in making stock. It adds to the flavor, and all that is not absorbed in the stock may be re- moved when cold. The marrow^ found in the shin bone, is the best form of fat. The browned fat of roast beef gives a fine flavor, and occasionally a bit of ham or bacon may be used. But all mutton fat should be avoided, be- cause of its rankness. These four kinds of meat—beef, mutton, veal, and poul- tr}' — may be used together or separatel}'. It is better to use mutton, if in a large quantity, by itself, as the flavor is disagreeable to many. After having extracted all the nutriment from the meat in its juices, fat, albumen, and flavor, do not attempt to make further use of the worthless residue of muscular fibre. It is not only harmful, but dry,The Boston Cook Book. 124 tasteless, and utterly useless as food. It needs the addi- tion of many other materials to make it palatable even, and it is cheaper to get the fibrine we need from meat cooked in other ways, directions for which will be given under Boiling Meats and Stews. Therefore do not liesi- tate, as a matter of economy, to throw away this useless meat. When fresh meat is bought expressl}' for stock, select a piece from the shin or lower part of the round of beef or veal. This has bone with marrow, a large proportion of gelatine, more or less osmazome, according to the amount of flesh, and costs less than other parts. In mutton, pieces from the neck and forequarter are the best. Fowls are better than chickens. With this fresh meat may be used the bones and trimmings from steak or chops, and the flank ends of roasting pieces, which yield more nutriment if added to the stock pot before being cooked. Add also any remnants of roasted or broiled meat, bone, fat, gristle, anything except mutton fat. In families where large roasts of beef and poultry are often used, there should be mate- rial enough for stock, without bu^^ing new meat, except for the nicest of clear soups, which the French call Consomme. The proportions of bone and meat should be about equal by weight. When ready to begin the stock, wipe the fresh meat with a clean cloth wet in cold water. Never put the meat in a pan of cold water to soak. It takes out all the juices that you wish to save. Wipe hefore cutting. The inside is clean. But rinse the cloth and scrub the outside thoroughly. Cut away the parts that are tainted or dis- colored by rusty meat-hooks, etc. Examine all the odds and ends of cooked meat, and remove any smoked or burned parts from ham or broiled meat, also the stuffing and skin from roast poultry, if you wish to have the stock clear. Scrape the meat clean from the bones and cut into inch pieces. Break or saw the bones as small as you con- veniently can. Remove the marrow (a soft, fatty sub- stance, which you will find in the hollow of the bones) and put it in the soup kettle to keep the bones from sticking.125 The Boston Cook Book. Put in the bones and pack the meat around them. Place your kettle on the back of the range before adding the water, so that there need be no heav}^ weight to lift. Allow one quart of fresh cold water to every pound of meat and bone ; one fourth less water if your stock is to be made altogether of cooked meats, or if you use a digester. Cover the kettle, and after the water is quite' red, and the juices are well drawn out, draw the kettle forward and let it heat slowl}', and simmer^ or boil slowl}^, but never boil hard. The scum, which soon rises on the surface, is the albu- men and juices of the meat which have been drawn out and mixed with the cold water. They coagulate, or har- den, as the water heats, and, being lighter than the water, rise to the surface in the form of scum. It has usually been considered essential, in making soup, to remove every particle of this scum ; but the practice is wholly unnecessary and wasteful. We learn, in the article on Boiling, the three distinct purposes and methods of cooking meat in water; and yet in skimming a soup we act directly con- trary to the general principle there explained. If the kettle be clean, the water pure, and the meat well cleansed from any impurities on its outer surface, what can there be in the meat not suitable to eat, any more than in roast beef, or steak, or boiled mutton ? In making beef tea we are directed by the highest scientific authorities to remove the fat, cut the meat small, soak it in cold water, heat gradu- ally, and never skim, as the scum or thickened material in the water is the very thing desired. Soup is only another form of beef tea, and the fat which is objectionable can better be removed when the stock is cold. These juices and soluble parts of the meat should be retained; they increase, rather than diminish, the flavor, and all the sedi- ment which is fine enough to go through the strainer should be used. In any thickened soup it is so mingled with the other ingredients as not to be unpleasant to the e3^e. And for those who wish clear soups, which are not as nutritious, this sediment can easily be removed in the clearing.126 The Boston Cook Book. In a criticism which so decidedly rejects a prevailing custom, it may be well to remarli that the method of pre- paring soups which is recommended in the preceding paragraph has been successfully proved in the Boston Cooking School for the last three years. The French, who regard skimming as very important in making their Pot- au-feu^ remove the meat as soon as tender, and serve it as bouilli^ or boiled beef. As it has not been cut in small pieces, and is heated quickly, some of the juices are re- tained in the meat, and it is nourishing and palatable. Their Pot-au-feu is more like our beef stew than like soup stock. In the preparation of the stock, the next step is to add the seasoning, which may be used in these proportions: For every quart of water^ one even teaspoonful of salt, two peppercorns or half a saltspoonful of ground pepper^ two cloves^ two allspice berries, one fourth of a saltspoonful of celery seed or a bit of celery root^ a sprig of parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, and a tablespoonful of each vegetable. Herbs and spices are better whole than ground, as they may be more readily removed by straining. The French cooks use a bouquet of herbs, made with two leaves or blossoms of each herb wrapped in a sprig of parsley and tied securely so that it may be easily removed. A con- venient and economical way is to strip off the leaves and blossoms, break the stalks in tiny pieces, mix them, and keep in a tin box. Use sage, summer savory, thyme, marjo- ram, and bay leaves: a teaspoonful of the mixture (not of each herb) for every quart. The vegetables generally used are onion, carrot, turnip, and celery. It is better to omit them entirely in warm weather, or if you wish to keep the stock more than a week, as the vegetable juices ferment quickly and sour the stock. Wash, scrape, or pare the vegetables; cut them into small pieces for convenience in measuring, as one onion or one slice of carrot is rather indefinite. Keep them in cold water until the juices are drawn from the meat.127 The Boston Cook Book. When old or strong, they may be blanched or parboiled first. Onions, potatoes, and cabbage should always be scalded to draw out the indigestible qualities. Some object to the use of onions, particularly^ on account of the disagreeable odor; but when added with the other seasoning material, they are so completely^ absorbed in the stock that no trace of their presence can be detected. All or part of the vegetables may be fried first, if 3'ou like. One or two sour apples give a pleasant flavor to stock. Wines or catchups should be added just before serving, as boiling dissipates the flavor. If 3^ou wash to have a dark brown stock, reserve part of the lean meat to brown with the onions. Fry the onions in a little fat, and when very brown remove them, to pre- vent burning, and brown the meat in the same fat. Add the onions and meat to the stock. Take a little water from the stock, and wash off all the brow^ied glaze ad- hering to the frying-pan, as this is the best part. A table- spoonful of browned sugar or caramel (see page 134), which should always be kept on hand, will also give a rich dark color. After the seasoning is placed in the mixture, put the kettle where it will keep at a gentle, steady simmering. Do not let it boil furiously^ one half- hour and not at all the next, but find the place on the range where it will keep at just the right temperature, and then, if you have a steady^ fire, it will need no further attention until ready to strain. It is hot enough if the water just bubbles on one side of the kettle. When the stock has simmered till the meat is in rags and the bones clean, strain at once. Do not let it stand, if in an iron kettle. If you have used a digester or steam- tight kettle, the water will not have lessened much. If boiled in an ordinary kettle, it will be reduced about one half by- evaporation, and may be diluted when ready^ for the table. Strain in this way. Place a stone jar beside your kettle. It should be of a size suited to the amount of stock. Put a colander over the jar (it should fit inside128 The Boston Cook Book. it), and a strainer cloth over tlie colander. Then, with a ladle or dipper, dip the contents of the kettle and pour into the strainer. Never try to lift the kettle and pour it out, unless you have more strength and skill than most beginners. When you have only a pint left, you may try the pouring. Do not squeeze the cloth, but let the con- tents drain ten or fifteen minutes, then throw the scraps awa3\ Remember that you. have extracted all the nutri- ment, and have it in the w^ater; so do not expect to have any virtue in the meat or vegetables. Set the jar in a cool place, uncovered, but not in the ice chest while hot. It keeps better to cool quickly. In cold weather, and if 3^ou have used a large proportion of bone, the stock will harden like jelly, with a cake of solid fat on the top. This fat, by excluding the air, helps to keep the stock, and should not be removed until the stock is needed. In winter stock will keep a week, and longer, if made without vegetables. It should be heated occasionally to the boil- ing-point, or after taking off any portion of it, that what remains may harden again in an unbroken form. A little fresh charcoal tied in a bag and boiled with the stock is said to restore it when only slightly changed. In very warm weather, make only enough for each day, as sometimes it spoils in one night. If yoxx wish to make a soup while the stock is still hot, put what portion 3'ou may need into a shallow pan and place the pan in ice water, with a larger pan of ice water over it. This will soon harden the fat; or if you have not time to do this, take off what fat yoxx can with a spoon, and wipe off the remainder with soft tissue paper, or strain several times through a fine napkin. The grease will adhere to the napkin, which should be rinsed in cold water. That hardens the fat. Or you may let the soup boil gentlj', and nearly all can be taken off. To remove the fat after the stock has jellied, run a knife around between the cake of fat and the jar. If the fat be solid, it will sometimes come off whole ; but if soft, take off all you can without cutting into the jelly, then wring129 The Boston Cook Book. a cloth out of ver}^ hot water, and wipe the stock. The hot cloth will absorb the fat readily. Remember, if the soup is to be served clear, not a pin-head of fat must be left; but if it is to be thickened with an}' starchy material, this will absorb what cannot be removed with a spoon. This fat must be saved and clarified according to direc- tions on page 18. With this stock for a foundation, you may make an endless variet}^ of soups, each soup taking its name from the principal solid ingredient; and it is equally valuable to use, instead of water, in making gravies or sauces. No matter how little 3^ou have, one cupful is worth more than it costs to make it, as an addition to fricassees and braised meats. This stock, if properly made and strained, will be sufficiently clear for any common soups. But for clear sparkling soups and aspic jellj', it must be clarified with the white of an egg. To clear Soup Stock. Eemove the fat, and allow the white and shell of one egg for every quart of stock. If you wish to flavor the stock more highly, add half a saltspoonful of celery seed and the thinnest possible shavings from the rind of half a lemon. Add also the lemon juice, and more salt and pepper if needed. Mix celery seed, lemon, egg, etc. with the cold stock, and beat it well. If the stock be hot when the egg is added, the egg will harden before it has done its work. This is a point where many fail. Set it over the fire and stir it all the time, until it is hot, to keep the egg from settling. Then leave it, and let it boil ten minutes. By this time a thick scum will have formed, and as it breaks the liquid will be clear and sparkling, like wine, and darker than before. Draw it back on the stove, and add half a cup of cold water. Let it stand ten minutes, while you get 3'our jar, colander, and fine napkin readj^ for straining. Wring your napkin out of hot water, and la}^ it over the colander. Put the finest wire strainer on the napkin and then pour it all through. This strainer will catch the scum 9The Boston Cook Book. I30 and shells which would otherwise clog the napkin. Let it take its own time to drain ; but if you must hasten it, raise the napkin first at one corner, and then at another, and let the liquid run down to a clean place. This is better than squeezing. This is all ready to serve as a clear soup by simply heathig to the boiling-point. Serve with it, in the tureen, thin slices of lemon, a glass of sherr}^ yolks of hard-boiled eggs, or delicate flavored force-meat balls ; or put on each plate a poached egg, or a spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. In making soups from this stock, bear this fact in mind: Do not waste the stock by boiling in it an}^ material which requires long boiling. Vegetables, rice, sago, tapi- oca, macaroni, vermicelli, etc., should be cooked separately and then added to the stock, which should be brought to the boiling-point. The following are some of the principal varieties. These soups are all supposed to have no meat served with them. The broth is clear and thin, and every particle of vegetable or cereal should be distinct, except in the soups called Mixed Vegetable and Tomato. Concise rules for Common Brown Stock and Consomme are given for the benefit of those who do not need to read all the preliminary remarks. 1 large tablespoonf ul salt. Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces. Put the marrow, bones, half of the meat, and the cold water into the kettle. Soak half an hour before heating. Add spices and herbs. Brown the onions and the remain- der of the meat, and add them to the stock ; add the veg- etables cut fine. Simmer six or seven hours and strain. Brown Soup Stock. 6 pounds hind shin of beef. 6 quarts cold water. 10 whole cloves. 10 whole peppercorns. Bouquet of sweet herbs. 3 small onions. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 stalks celery. 2 sprigs parsley. ■The Boston Cook Book. Bouillon. 4 pounds beef, from the middle of 1 tablespoonful salt. the round. 4 pex)^ercorns. 2 pounds bone. 4 cloves, 2 quarts cold water. 1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces ; add the water,* and heat slowly; add the seasoning, and simmer five hours. Boil down to three pints ; strain, remove the fat, and season with salt and pepper. Serve in caps at luncheons, evening companies, etc. Boil one onion, half a carrot, and half a turnip with it if you like. Clear, or Amber, Soup, or Consomme.^ 4 pounds shin of beef. 4 pounds knuckle of veal, or 3 pounds fowl. 4 quarts cold water. 2 ounces lean ham or bacon. 6 cloves. , 6 peppercorns. Bouquet of herbs. 1 tablespoonful salt. 3 onions. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 stalks celery. 2 sprigs parsley. 3 eggs, whites and shells. 1 saltspoonful celery seed. Eind and juice of one lemon. Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces. Put the marrow, bones, and part of the meat in the kettle with four quarts of cold water. Heat slowly: cut the onions and vegetables fine, and fry them in the ham fat or in drippings ; then brown the remainder of the meat. Add onions, meat, herbs, spices, and vegetables. Simmer until the meat is in rags ; it will take seven or eight hours. Strain, and when cold remove the fat; add the whites and shells of the eggs, celery seed, lemon, and salt and pepper if needed. When well mixed, heat it, and boil ten min- utes. Strain through the finest strainer, and heat again to the boiling-point before serving. Serve clear, or with wine or lemon. Clear soup should be perfectly transpar- ent, of a light brown or straw color. 1 Consomme means " consumed, boiled to rags."132 The Boston Cook Book. Left-over Soup. Bones and trimmings from a 6- 4 cloves. pound roast of beef. 2 cold mutton-chops. The flank end of a sirloin steak, 4 peppercorns. 1 cold fried egg. 2 baked apples. uncooked. 4 quarts cold water. 1 tablespoonful salt. 1 cup cold boiled onions. 2 stalks celery. 1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. Cut up the meat and bones, and put them in the kettle with the cold water. Add all the other ingredients, and simmer till thB bones are clean, the meat is in rags, and the water reduced one half. Strain, and the next morning remove the fat; when ready to serve, heat the stock to the boiling-point; warm with it one cup of cold macaroni or tomatoes left from yesterday's dinner. Add more sea- soning if needed. Cut the celery into thin slices, the turnip into quarter- inch dice, and the carrot into three-quarters by one- eighth inch strips or straws, using only the orange part. Or cut carrot and turnip into quarter-inch slices, and then into fancy shapes with small vegetable cutters. Cover with boiling water, add half a teaspoonful of salt, and cook until soft, but not long enough to destro}^ their shapes. Let the quart of stock come to a boil; add the vegetables, the water, and more salt if necessary. Serve hot. In spring and summer use asparagus, peas, and string beans. It is quite important that the vegetables should be small and of uniform thickness ; but if any require a longer time to cook, they should be cut into smaller pieces. Julienne Soup, 1 quart stock. 1 pint mixed vegetables. }4 teaspoonful salt. )^ saltspoonful pepper.The Boston Cook Book. 133 Macaroni Soup. 1 quart stock. I 1 teaspoonful salt. 3 or 4 sticks macaroni. | % saltspoonf ul pepper. Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water, about half an hour, or until tender; drain, pour cold water through it, to keep it from sticking together. Lay the sticks close together on a board, and divide them into eighth-inch pieces, making tiny rings, or cut them into half-inch pieces. There should be about a pint of macaroni for a quart of stock. Bring the stock to a boil; add the maca- roni, the salt, and the pepper; then pour all into the tureen. Vermicelli Soup. 1 quart stock. | 1 teaspoonful salt. 3^ cup vermicelli. ) saltspoonf ul pepper. The vermicelli may be broken or not, as you please. Cook about ten minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, put it in the tureen, and pour over it the boiling stock. Spaghetti and Italian Paste may be used in the same way. Rice, Tapioca, Sago, or Barley Soup. 1 teaspoonful salt. % saltspoonf ul pepper. 1 quart stock. 2 tablespoonfuls either rice, bar- ley, tapioca, or sago. Wash the grains, and cook until tender in boiling salted water; then add them to the boiling stock. Serve with croutons. Barley should be soaked one hour, and boiled two hours or more. Vegetables and macaroni are better with beef stock ; and rice, tapioca, and barley with mutton or chicken stock. Tomato Soup with Stock. 1 quart stock. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 saltspoonf ul pepper. 1 can tomatoes. 1 teaspoonful salt. Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain. Rub all but the seeds through the strainer. Add the sugar, salt,134 The Boston Cook Booh and pepper, croutons. Add all to the boiling stock. Serve with Carrot, or Crecy Soup. 1 quart rich, brown stock. 1 pint carrot. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. }^ saltspoonf ul pepper. 1 small onion, sliced. Wash and scrape the carrot; shave off in thin slices a pint of the outer part. Do not use the yellow centre. Cook the carrot with the onion in boiling salted water to cover, till very tender. Eub the carrot through a squash strainer. Add the stock and heat again. Add the sugar, salt, and pepper, and when hot serve immediately with croutons. Mixed Vegetable Soup. 1 cup strained tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonf ul pepper. 1 quart stock. 1 quart boiling water. 1 cup each chopped onion, carrot, and celery. cup each chopped turnip, pars- nip, and cabbage. Use all or as many varieties of vegetables as you wish, or if you have only a few, add macaroni, rice, or barley, having in all half the amount of vegetables that you have of liquid. Chop all the vegetables fine. Cabbage, cauli- flower, parsnip, potatoes, or onions should be parboiled five minutes, and drained carefully. Fry the onions and car- rot ; then put all with the water and stock, and simmer until tender. Add the seasoning. Serve without strain- ing. Always add sugar to all mixed vegetable soups. The next division of soups includes those which are thickened in various ways, and in which the meat is served with the soup ; also White Soups, and the materials to be served with soups. Caramel, for coloring Soups, etc. Melt one cup of sugar (either brown or white) with one tablespoonful of water in a frying-pan. Stir until it becomesThe Boston Cook Book. 135 of a dark brown color. Add one cup of boiling water; sim- mer ten minutes, and bottle when cool. This should always be kept on hand, as it is useful for many purposes. It gives a rich, dark color to soups, coffee, and jelly; is more wholesome than browned butter in sauces, and is delicious as a flavoring in custards and pudding sauces. Glaze. Glaze is simply clear stock boiled down to one fourth of its original amount. Put two quarts of rich, strong stock into a saucepan, and boil it uncovered until reduced to one pint. It should have a gluey consistency, and will keep a month if put in a closely covered jar in a cool place. It is useful in browning meats which have not been colored by cooking, but which we wish to have the appearance of having been roasted or browned. Thickening for Soups. Soups are thickened with flour, cornstarch, or rice flour: one tablespoonful for a quart of soup, — heaping, if flour ; scant, if rice flour or cornstarch. Flour is the cheapest, but cornstarch gives a smoother consistenc3\ Mix the flour with a very little cold w^ater or milk until it is a smooth paste ; then add more liquid, until it can be poured easilj" into the boiling soup. Remember to boil the soup fifteen or twenty minutes after the thickening is added, that there may be no raw taste of the flour. Where butter and flour are used, the butter is rubbed to a cream, mixed or braided with the flour, and then made into a paste with a little of the soup. A better way is to put the butter in a small saucepan, and when melted and bubbling stir in the flour quickl}^ until smooth (be careful not to brown butter for any white soup) ; then add gradually about a cup of the hot soup, letting it boil and thicken as 3'ou add the soup. It should be thin enough to pour. In vegetable soups or purees, as soon as the hot butter and. flour are blended,136 The Boston Cook Booh. they may be stirred at once into the soup. This is what is meant in many of the receipts by thickening with butter and flour which have been cooked together. The hot but- ter cooks the flour more thoroughly than it can be cooked in any other wa}'. When a brown thickening is desired, as in Mock Turtle Soup, melt the butter and let it become as brown as it will without burning; then add all the flour at once and stir quickly, that every particle of it may be moistened in the hot butter; add the water or soup graduallj^ Flour that is browned while dry, either in the oven or over the fire, colors, but does not thicken. A certain amount of moisture, of either fat or water, is necessary with the heat to thoroughly swell the grains of starch in the flour. Thickened soups should be about the consist- ency of good cream. Purees are thicker. Material to be served with Soup. Croutons^ or Fried Bread, No, 1. — Cut stale bread into half-inch slices, remove the crusts, and cut into half-inch cubes ; put them in a frying-basket, plunge into fat hot enough to brown them while you count forty; drain and sprinkle with salt. They may be fried at an}^ time and heated in the oven just before serving. The}^ are espe- cially nice with pea and bean soup. No. 2. — Cut the bread into cubes, and brown in butter in an omelet pan; or butter first, then cut into cubes and brown in the oven. Thej^ are best when prepared after the first receipt. Crisped Crackers. — Split butter crackers and spread with butter; put them, the buttered side up, into a pan, and brown in a hot oven. They are delicious with white or vegetable soups, and in fish chowder and oyster stews. Egg Balls. ^oiXfour eggs twenty minutes ; put them in cold water. When cool, cut carefully through the white, and removeThe Boston Cook Book. 137 the yolks whole. They ma}- be served in the soup whole or cut into quarters. Or put the yolks in a small bowl and rub them to a paste with a wooden spoon. Season with one saltspoonful of salt; one fourth of a saltspoonful pepper ; one teaspoonfal of melted butter. Moisten it with the beaten 3'olk or white of one raw egg^ using just enough to shape it easily into balls about the size of a walnut. Koll in flour and fry in butter; the same as force-meat balls. They are sometimes boiled five minutes in the soup, but are better fried. Force-Meat Balls for Soup. 1 cup of any cooked meat. Yolk of 1 raw egg. 1 saltsp. each of salt and thyme. A few drops onion juice. % saltspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonf ul lemon juice. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 teaspoonf ul chopped parsley. Chop the meat very fine ; add the seasoning; beat the yolk of the egg, and add enough of it to moisten the meat; make it into balls the size of a nutmeg, put them in a soup plate, sprinkle them with flour, shake the plate until the balls are all floured ; put the butter in an omelet pan, and when brown [)ut in the balls, and shake the pan occasion- ally until the balls are browned. Mock 1 calf's head, 4 quarts cold water. 1 tablespoonful salt. 6 cloves. 6 peppercorns. 6 allspice. % inch stick cinnamon. Bouquet of herbs. 2 onions. Soup. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. Celery root. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 tablespoonf uls flour. 1 pint brown stock. 3 eggs. 1 lemon. Wash, scrape, and clean the head, and soak an hour in cold water. Remove the brains and tongue. Laj- themThe Boston Cook Booh 138 in cold water, to be reserved for separate dishes. Cut the head into four or five pieces, and put it into the kettle with the skin side up, to prevent sticking. Add the cold water; heat slowly and skim thoroughly, as the meat is to be used again. Add the salt, and simmer two hours, or until the meat slips from the bones. liemove the meat, and put the face meat smoothly on a plate, so it can easily be cut into dice when cool. Eeserve the remainder of the meat for force-meat balls. Put the bones on to boil again. Add the herbs, spices, and vegetables, and simmer until reduced to two quarts. Strain, and set away to cool. Half an hour before serving, remove the fat, put the stock onto boil, and season with one saltspoonful each of ground thyme or marjoram and pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Make a brown thickening with two tablespoonfuls of butter, browned, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or flour, and one pint of brown stock. Stir this into the stock. Add one cup of meat dice, made bj' cutting the face meat into half-inch cubes. Boil the three eggs twentj^ minutes, and make the 3^olks into egg balls, or cut the whole eggs in half-inch slices. Make force-meat balls with the reserved meat, according to directions on page 137. Put the meat balls and egg balls into the tureen, add the soup, and serve very hot with thin slices of lemon. This is usually flavored with a glass of sherry wine, but is very good with only the lemon, or a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Or 3'ou may boil w^ith it one pint of strained tomatoes. If you have no brown stock, boil one poufid of lean beef with the head, and use the head stock with the flour and butter tlii(^^ening. This soup is often made from calf's feet, and one or two pounds of lean veal. The feet should be soaked and scalded, boiled in four quarts of water with the herbs, spices, and vegetables, until the water is reduced to two quarts. Strain, and use as directed in the first receipt, making force-meat balls of the veal, and meat dice from the gelatinous meat of the feet.The Boston Cook Book. 139 Ox-Tail Soup. 2 ox-tails. • 1 tablespoonful salt. 1 large onion. 1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. 1 tablespoonful beef drippings. 4 cloves. 4 quarts cold water. 4 peppercorns. Wash and cut up the ox-tails, separating them at the joints. Cut the onion fine and fry it in the hot beef drip- pings. When slightly browned, draw the onion to one side of the pan, and brown half of the ox-tails. Pat the fried onion and ox-tails in the soup kettle, and cover with four quarts of cold water. Tie the cloves, peppercorns, and herbs in a small piece of strainer cloth, and add them to the soup. Add the salt, and simmer three or four hours, or until the meat separates from the bones, and the gristly portions are perfectly soft. Select some of the nicest joints to serve with the soup. Skim off the fat, and add more salt and pepper, if needed. Strain and serve very hot. If vegetables are served with this soup, add one pint of mixed vegetables, — onion, carrot, turnip, and celer}^ Cut them into small pieces, or into fancj^ shapes with a vege- table cutter. Add them to the liquor after straining, and boil twenty minutes or until tender. MuUagatawny Soup. This is an Indian soup, and means " pepper pot." It can be made from veal, calf s head, chicken, or rabbit. Use one, or a mixture of two or more of these varieties of meat. MuUagatawny soup should alwa3^s be very highly seasoned with onions, curry powder, and apples, or lemons, or some strong acid fruit. The best portions of the meat are usuall}^ removed as soon as tender, and served with the strained soup. Eice should also be served with this soup. 3 pounds chicken, or young fowl. 1 pound veal bones. 2 onions. 1 tablespoonful beef drippings. 4 cloves. 4 peppercorns. 2 sour apples, or The juice of 1 lemon. 4 quarts cold water. 1 tablespoonful curry powder. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful sugar.140 The Boston Cook Booh. Clean the chicken, and cut it at the joints into nice pieces for serving. Pat it in the soup kettle with the veal bones, or any pieces of veal 3^ou ma}^ have. Cover with four quarts of cold water. Slice the onions, and fry them brown in the beef drippings. Put the onions, cloves, pep- percorns, and apples in the kettle. Mix the curry powder, salt, and sugar to a smooth paste with a little of the water ; add it to the soup. Let the soup simmer until the chicken is tender. Remove the chicken and cut into small pieces. Put the bones back in the kettle, and simmer another hour. Strain the soup, remove the fat, and put the liquor on to boil again, with the pieces of chicken and three or four tablespoonfuls of boiled rice. When the chicken is hot, serve at once. Scotch Broth. % cup pearl barley. 2 pounds neck of mutton. 2 quarts cold water. cup each of carrot, turnip, on- ion, and celery. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 tablespoonf ul flour. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 saltspoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. Pick over, and soak the barley over night or several hours in cold water. Wipe the meat with a clean wet cloth. Eemove the fat and skin. Scrape the meat from the bones and cut it into half-inch dice. Put the bones on to boil in one pint of cold water, and the meat in three pints of cold water. Let the latter boil quicklj', and skim carefully just as it begins to boil. When the scum comes up white, add the barley and skim again. Cut the vege- tables into quarter-inch dice, fry them five minutes in one tablespoonful of the butter, and add them to the meat. Simmer three or four hours, or until the meat and barley are tender. Strain the water in which the bones have sim- mered. Cook one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of flour. When smooth, add the strained water gradually, and stir into the broth. Add the salt, pepper, and parsley. Simmer ten minutes, and serve without straining. Manj^ people have a prejudiceThe Boston Cook Book. 141 against mutton in stews or broths. The strong, disagree- able flavor lies mostly in the skin. If this be removed together with the fat, it will repay one for the time and trouble. As this broth is not to be strained, it is always well to boil the bones separateh^ Care must be taken not to let the water boil away. This is a favorite dish among the Scotch. They often serve it with a larger proportion of vegetables. The carrots are sometimes grated, giving the broth a fine color, and sometimes the dice of meat are first browned in the butter. Rice may be used instead of bar- lej^ Scotch broth made after this receipt has been tested by a native Scotchman, and pronounced more like the auld countree " than any other dish eaten in America. Mutton Broth. Allow one quart of cold water to each pound of meat and bone. Break the bones and cut the meat (which should be lean) into small pieces. Cover with cold water and heat slowly. Add one teaspoonfal of salt and half a salt- spoonful of pepper^ and a small slice of onion and turnip if 3^ou like. Simmer until the meat is in shreds. Strain it, and when it is cool remove the fat. To one quart of the broth allow two tahlespoonfuls of rice^ washed and soaked half an hour. When the broth is boiling, add the rice ; simmer until it is tender, being careful not to let the water boil away. Season, and serve at once. For seasoning, a little curr}^ powder, used as you would use cayenne pepper, or a saltspoonful of celerj^ salt, or a few leaves of fresh mint, are agreeable as a change. When you have not time to cool the broth, a piece of soft tissue paper passed over the surface helps to take up any globules of fat which cannot be removed with a spoon. To make it quickly for a sick person, chop one pound of perfectly lean, juicy mutton very fine ; pour over it one pint of cold water. Let it stand until the water is very red; then heat it slowly. Let it simmer ten minutes. Strain, and serve hot.142 The Boston Cook Book. Chicken Broth. Clean the chicken, and separate it at the joints. Re- move all the skin and fat. Cover the chicken with cold water. Add one tahlespoonfid of salt^ one saltspoonful of pepper^ one small onion^ sliced. Simmer until the chicken is tender. Remove the best part of the meat, and put the bones and gristle back and simmer until the bones are clean. Wash and soak two tahlespoonfuls of rice half an hour. Strain the broth. Remove the fat. Put the broth on to boil again, and add to it the rice, and the nicest portions of meat cut into small pieces. Simmer until the rice is tender. Add seasoning to taste, and serve at once. A*few spoonfuls of cream may be added if desired. Serve with toasted crackers. Turkey Soup. Take the bones and scraps left from roast turkey or chicken, or any kind of game. Scrape the meat from the bones, and la}^ aside any nice pieces, no matter how small. Remove all the stuffing, and keep that by itself. Break the bones, and pack them closely in a kettle. Cover with cold water. Add one small onion^ sliced, one teaspoonful of salf^ and a little pepper. Simmer two or three hours, or until the bones are clean. Strain, and remove the fat. Put the liquor on to boil again, and add for every quart of liquor, one cup of cold meat^ cut into small pieces, and half a cup of the stitffing. Or omit the stuffing and thicken the soup with flour. Simmer till the meat is tender, and serve at once. If there be a much larger proportion of meat and stuffing left, use it in making scalloped turke}^ or croquettes. This is much better than to boil meat, bones, and stuffing together. In that case the stuffing absorbs the oil, and gives a very strong, disagreeable flavor to the soup.The Boston Cook Book. 143 White Soup Stock. White soup stock is made from veal or chicken, sea- soned with onion, celer}^ salt, and white pepper, avoiding anything which will give it color. White soups are thick- ened with rice, cornstarch,- flour, eggs, or the white meat of chicken chopped fine, and are made still richer by milk or cream. Wipe and cut the veal into small pieces. Put it into the kettle with the cold water. Heat slowly and skim, because we do not wish the soup colored. Add the salt, peppercorns, onions, and celery. Simmer five hours, strain, and when cool remove the fat. There should be about three pints of stock. When ready to use it, put the stock on to boil, and the milk into the double boiler. Thicken the stock with one tablespoonful of butter and one heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch, cooked together. Add the boiling milk, the salt, and pepper. Beat two eggs until light, put them in the tureen, and strain the boiling soup over them. Many people prefer to use the yolks of the eggs only. This makes a ^^ellow soup. Others vary it by boiling the eggs hard and rubbing the yolks through a gravy strainer after the soup is in the tureen. This veal stock may be clarified with the white of an egg, if you wish it transparent. But it is better with the milk or cream, and should be highly seasoned, and re- duced one half by boiling, as when made from veal alone it is insipid. Serve with croutons. White Soup (from Veal). 4 pounds knuckle of veal. 3 quarts cold water. 1 even tablespoonful salt. 1 pint milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 heaping tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful celery salt. % saltspoonful white pepper. 6 peppercorns. 2 small, onions. 2 stalks celery.144 The Boston Cook Book. White Soup (from Chicken). 3 or 4 pounds fowl. 3 quarts cold water. 1 tablespoonful salt. 6 peppercorns. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped celery. 1 pint cream. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 1 ieaspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful white pepper. 2 eggs. Singe, clean, and wipe the fowl. Cut off the legs and wings, and disjoint the body. Put it on to boil in cold water. Let it come to a boil quickly^ because we wish to use the meat as well as the water, and skim thoroughly. The meat may be removed when tender, and the bones put on to boil again. (Use the meat for croquettes or other made dishes.) Add the salt and vegetables. Simmer until reduced one half. Strain, and when cool remove the fat. For one quart of stock allow one pint of cream or milk. If cream, use a little less flour for thickening. Boil the stock; add the butter and flour, cooked together, and the seasoning. Strain it over the eggs, stirring as 3^ou pour, or the eggs will curdle. By substituting, for the eggs in this white soup, the white meat of the chicken, chopped fine and rubbed to a powder, we have Potage a la Reine^ which many think too elaborate for any but a professional cook to undertake. The breast of a roast chicken may be used. Add it to the boiling stock, then thicken it with the flour and butter. Add the cream, and if not perfectly smooth, strain into the tureen. It should be quite thick like cream. Whole rice is sometimes served with clear chicken soup. If used as a thickening, boil the rice until soft enough to rub through a strainer. Add it to the chicken liquor, and unite them with butter and flour cooked together. The liquor in which a fowl or chicken has been boiled, when not wanted for any other purpose, should be saved for white soup. If the vegetables and spices are not boiled with the fowl, fvy them five minutes without burn- ing, add them to the stock, and simmer fifteen minutes.The Boston Cook Book. 145 Strain before serving. Chicken stock clarified makes a pale straw-colored, transparent soup. Potage a la Reine, No. 2. {Queen Victoria's favorite Soup.) Remove the fat from 07ie quart of the water in which a chicken has been boiled. Season highly with sa/^, pepper., and celery salt, and a little 07iion if desired, and put on to boil. Mash the 3'olks of three hard-boiled eggs fine, and mix them with half a cup of bread or cracker crumbs., soaked until soft in a little milk. Chop the white meat of the chicken until fine like meal, and stir it into the egg and bread paste. Add one pint of hot cream slowly, and then rub all into the hot chicken liquor. Boil five minutes ; add more salt if needed, and if too thick add more cream, or if not thick enough add more fine cracker dust. It should be like a puree. 10146 The Boston Cook Book. SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. Any of the soups or purees in this division may be at- tempted before one has mastered the imaginary difficulties of stock-making. They are palatable, nutritious, inex- pensive, and quickly prepared. Wash and pare the potatoes, and let them soak in cold water half an hour. Put them into boiling water, and cook until very soft. Cook the onion and celery with the milk in a double boiler. When the potatoes are soft, drain off the water and mash them. Add the boiling milk and seasoning. Eub through a strainer, and put it on to boil again. Put the butter in a small saucepan, and when melted and bubbling, add the flour, and when well mixed stir into the boiling soup ; let it boil five minutes, and serve very hot. This flour thickening keeps the potato and milk from separating, and gives a smoothness and con- sistency quite unlike the granular effect which is often noticed. If the soup be too thick, add more hot milk. The celery salt may be omitted if you have the fresh celery, or, if you like, put one tahlespoonful of fine chopped parsley into the soup just before serving. When 3'OU wish a richer soup, use a quart of milk, mak- ing it much tliinner, and add two eggs^ well beaten, after you take it from the fire ; or put them in the tureen, and stir rapidly as you pour in the boiling soup. New raw potatoes, cut into small dice or balls and cooked till tender but not broken, are sometimes served in potato soup. Potato Soup. 3 potatoes. 1 pint milk. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 1 stalk celery. 1 teaspoonful salt. % teaspoonful celery salt. saltspoonf ul white pepper. 3^ saltspoonful cayenne. 1 tablespoonful butter.The Boston Cook Booh 147 Celery Soup. 1 head celery. 1 pint water. 1 pint milk. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful flour. % teaspoonful salt. % saltspoonf ul pepper. Wash and scrape the celery, cut into half-inch pieces, put it into one pint of boiling salted water, and cook until very soft. Mash in the water in which it was boiled. Cook the onion with the milk, in a double boiler, ten minutes, and add it to the celery. Rub all through a strainer, and put it on to boil again. Cook the butter and flour together in a small saucepan until smooth, but not brown, and stir it into the boiling soup. Add the salt and pepper; boil five minutes, and strain into the tureen. Serve very hot. Tomato Soup. 1 quart can tomatoes. 1 pint hot water. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 4 cloves. 4 peppercorns, or 1 saltspoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. Put the tomatoes, water, sugar, salt, cloves, and pep- percorns on to boil in a porcelain stewpan. Put the but- ter in a small saucepan, and when it bubbles put in the onion and parsley. Fry five minutes, being careful not to burn it. Add the cornstarch, and when well mixed stir it into the tomato. Let it simmer ten minutes. Add more salt and pepper if needed. Strain, and serve with plain boiled rice, or croutons, or toasted crackers. : Mock Bisque Soup. 3^ can tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 1 quart milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 3^3 cup butter. 3^ saltspoonful white pepper. Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain easily. Boil the milk in a double boiler. Cook one tablespoonful148 The Boston Cook Book. of the butter and the cornstarch together in a small sauce- pan, adding enough of the hot milk to make it pour easily. Stir it carefully into the boiling milk, and boil ten minutes. Add the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and stir till well mixed. Add salt and pepper and the strained tomatoes. If the tomatoes be very acid, add half a salt- spoonful of soda before straining. Serve ver}^ hot. Many would use more tomatoes, but it is more delicate with a small quantity. saltspoonful cayenne. Soak the beans over night. In the morning pour off the water, and put them on to boil in two quarts of cold water. Slice the onion and fry it in one tablespoonful of the butter. Put it with the beans. Add a bit of celery root, if you have it. Simmer four or five hours, or until the beans are soft. Add more cold water as it boils away, — about half a cup every half-hour, — to check the boil- ing and soften the beans, leaving about two quarts when done. Rub the beans through a strainer, put the soup on to boil again, and add the salt, pepper, and mustard. When boiling, thicken it with the flour and butter which have been cooked together. This will prevent the beans from settling. Season to taste. Cut the lemon and eggs into thin slices, put them into the tureen, and pour the hot soup over them. Serve with croutons. Many think tomatoes are an improvement. If that flavor be desired, add to the above half a can of tomatoes, before straining. Others think it is not just right unless a quarter of a pound of salt pork, or some bones and odds and ends of meat, have been boiled with it. The beans are sometimes boiled to quite a thick pulp, and after sifting made of the proper consistency by thinning with brown Black Bean Soup. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 saltspoonful pepper. 1 pint black beans. 2 quarts cold water. 1 small onion. 1 saltspoonful mustard. 1 tablespoonful flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 lemon. 2 hard-boiled eggs.The Boston Cook Booh. 149 soup stock, and seasoned more highly with the addition of ground herbs, spices, force-meat balls, and wine. It is then not unlike Mock Turtle Soup. A very good bean soup may be made from the remains of baked beans. Add one quart of water and a slice of onion to each pint of beans. Boil to a pulp, mash, and season. Or make the soup of equal parts of white beans and canned or dried sweet corn. If dried corn, soak it over night, chop it fine, and boil it with the beans. If canned corn, chop it, and add it to the beans after straining. But whichever way it is prepared, do not boil the beans in the water in which they were soaked, nor serve them without straining, to remove the hulls, which contain no nutriment and are indigestible. 1 tablespoonful flour. Pick over and wash the peas. Soak over night, or for several hours in cold water. Put them on to boil in three pints of fresh cold water, and let them simmer until dis- solved, adding enough more water, as it boils away, to keep three pints of liquid in the kettle. Keep it well scraped from the sides of the kettle. When soft, rub through a strainer and put on to boil again. Add either water, stock, milk, or cream to make the consistency you wish. It should be more like a puree than a soup. Cook one large tablespoonful of butter and one of flour together, and add to the strained soup when boiling. Add the salt and pepper, and when it has simmered ten minutes, serve at once with fried dice of bread. This is delicious made in this simple wa3^ It must always be strained, and thickened with the flour and but- ter, or it will separate as it cools. It will be smooth, per- fectly free from grease; and those who like the natural Split Pea Soup. 1 cup dried split peas. 3 pints cold water. 1 tablespoonful butter. % teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful white pepper.The Boston Cook Book. ISO taste of the peas prefer it to any other waj^ of cooking. Do not think you must boil more or less salt pork with it, as most receipts advise. It may be varied in many ways, by adding half a can of tomatoes before straining, or by boiling with the peas a small onion which has first been cut fine and fried in a little butter, or b}" adding any rem- nants of bone or meat, being careful to remove them before straining. Always use the split peas, as the hulls have been removed, and they cook much more quickly than the whole peas. Green Pea Soup. 1 quart green peas. saltspoonful pepper. 1 quart water. % teaspoonful sugar. 1 pint milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful flour. Put the peas into one pint of boiling water, and cook until soft. Mash them in the water in which they were boiled, and rub through a strainer, gradually adding a pint of hot w^ater, which will help to separate the pulp from the skins. Put on to boil again. Cook the butter and flour in a small saucepan, being careful not to brown it. Stir it into the boiling soup. Add the salt, sugar, pepper, and the milk, which should be hot, using enough milk to make it the consistenc}^ you prefer. This is a very good way to use peas that are old and hard, and unfit to serve as a vegetable, which is often the case with those that come from a market. When the pods are fresh, wash them thoroughly; allow more water, and boil them with the peas. Green Corn Soup. 6 ears sweet corn, or enough to % saltspoonful white pepper. make 1 pint raw pulp. 1 teaspoonful sugar. Water to cover the ears. 1 teaspoonful flour. 1 pint milk, or cream. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. With a very sharp knife scrape the thinnest possible shaving from each row of kernels, and then, with the backThe Boston Cook Book. 151 of the knife, scrape out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. Break the cobs if long, and put them on to boil in enough cold water to cover them. Boil thirty minutes and strain. There should be about one pint of water after straining. Put the corn water on to boil again, and when boiling add the corn pulp. Cook fifteen minutes. Add the salt, pepper, sugar, and the boiling milk. Thicken it with one teaspoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of butter cooked together. Boil five minutes and serve at once. Corn is better for soup when it is a httle old for the table, and the pulp is thick rather than milky. Vegetable Soup (Winter). 1 cup each of onion and carrot. 1 cup each of turnip and parsnip. 1 pint each of celery and potato= 3^ cup butter or drippings. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 saltspoonf ul white pepper. 1^ saltspoonful cayenne pepper. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 slice of bread crust toasted very brown. Cut the onion, carrot, turnip, parsnip, and celery into half-inch dice, reserving the onions to fry, and the pota- toes to boil by themselves. Put the butter in a stew- pan or soup kettle, and when hot add the onions. After frying them carefull}' until colored but not burned, add the flour, and when well mixed pour on gradually a pint of hot water. Add the salt, pepper, sugar, bread, vegetables (except the potatoes), and enough boiling water to cover all. Let them simmer two hours. Boil the potatoes ten minutes, drain, and add them to the soup. When the vegetables are soft, rub all through a strainer. Add more salt and pepper if desired, and keep over hot water until ready to serve. A summer vegetable soup may be made in a similar man- ner, using young onions, turnips, carrots, and cauliflower. Cut fine and parboil; then cover with fresh boiling water, simmer until soft, mash, strain, season, make quite thinThe Boston Cook Book. 152 with hot cream or milk, and pour this over a small qaan- tit}^ of tender green peas and asparagus tips, previously boiled. Fish Soup. 1 pound any boiled fish, — salmon, 1 tablespoonf ul butter. cod, or halibut. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 quart milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 slice onion. 1 saltspoonful pepper. Cook the fish in boiling salted water, until it flakes easily. Drain it, remove the skin and bones, and rub through a coarse strainer. Cook the onion with one quart of milk ten minutes, remove the onion, and thicken the milk with the flour and butter cooked together. Add the seasoning and fish. Let it boil up once and serve. Puree of Canned Salmon. Kemove the oil, bones, and skin from half a can of salmon. Chop the salmon very fine. Boil one quart of milk^ and season and thicken it as for fish soup. Add the salmon, and when heated it is ready to serve. Lobster Soup, or Bisque of Lobster. 2 pounds lobster. 1 quart milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 2 tablesp. flour or cornstarch. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful white pepper. 3^ saltspoonful cayenne pepper. 1 pint water. Kemove the meat of the lobster from the shell, and cut the tender pieces into quarter-inch dice. Put the ends of the claw meat and any other tough, hard parts, with the bones of the body, into one pint of cold water, and boil twenty minutes, adding more water as it boils away. Put the coral on a piece of paper, and dry it in the oven. Boil one quart of milk, and thicken it with one tablespoon- ful of butter and two of flour or cornstarch. Boil ten minutes. Strain the water from the bones and add it to the milk. Add the salt and pepper, using more if highThe Boston Cook Book, 153 seasoning be desired. Rub the dried coral through a strainer, using enough to give the soup a bright pink color. Put the green fat and lobster dice into the tureen, and strain the boihng soup over them. Serve immediately. If 3'ou do not like so much of the lobster in the soup, chop it all ver}^ fine, boil it with the milk, and rub it through a squash or gravj^ strainer. Many like the addi- tional thickening of half a cup of fine cracker crumbs. This soup may also be varied by using one pint of stocky either chicken or veal, and one pint of milk; or by the addition of force-meat halls made in the following manner : Cut onl}' half of the meat into dice ; chop the remainder, and pound it to a fine paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs^ one teaspoonfid of butter^ a little salt^ and peeper ; beat one raw egg., and add enough of it to moisten the paste so that it ma}' easily be made into balls the size of a nutmeg ; let them simmer in the soup about five minutes, just enough to cook the egg. Lobster Soup, No. 2. The meat of two small lobsters^ cut fine, one pint of cream., one pint of milk. Simmer twenty minutes. Add one table- spoonful of flour wet in cold milk. Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Just before serving add half a cup of butter., cut into small pieces, and stir till it is entirely absorbed. Strain, and serve very hot. Put the milk on to boil in the double boiler, while you prepare the o^^sters. Place a colander over a pan. Put the oj^sters in a large bowl, and pour over them one cup of water. Take up each oyster with the fingers, to make sure no pieces of shell adhere to it, and drain in the colander. Strain the oyster liquor, which has drained from the Oyster Soup. 1 quart oysters. 1 pint milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Salt to taste. saltspoonful pepper.154 The Boston Cook Book. colander, through the finest strainer. Put it on to boil. Remove the scum, and when clear put in the 03'sters. Let them simmer, but not boil, until they begin to grow plump and the edges to curl or separate. Strain the liquor into the milk, and put the oysters where the}^ will keep hot, but not cook. Thicken the milk with the butter and flour, which haA^e been cooked together; add salt and pepper to taste (the amount of salt depending upon the saltness of the o^^sters). Boil five minutes ; add the oys- ters and serve at once. This receipt may be varied b}^ boiling one cup of fine chopped celery and a small slice of onion with the milk ten minutes ; then straining and thick- ening it with half a cup of powdered cracker. Add the butter, the seasoning, and the parboiled oysters. Serve at once. Oyster Stew is made like oyster soup, without the thickening. Clam Soup. peck clams in the shell. 1 tablespoonf ul chopped parsley. Salt to taste. 1 heaping tablespoonf ul butter. 1 saltspoonful pepper. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. saltspoonful cayenne pepper. 1 pint milk or cream. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. Prepare the clams hy boiling in the shells, and cutting as directed for clam chowder, keeping the soft part sepa- rate from the hard. Pour off one quart of the clam liquor after it settles, being careful not to take any of the sedi- ment ; put it on to boil, and remove the scum. Add one pint of hot water^ and season to taste with salt, pepper, ca}^- enne, onion, and parsley. Put in the hard part of the clams. Simmer fifteen minutes, strain, and boil again, and when boiling thicken with the flour cooked in the butter. Add the hot milk or cream, and the soft part of the clams ; serve at once, wdth crackers and pickles. Another method of preparing clam soup, if needed quickl}^: Heat the clam broth to a boiling point; add the clams cut fine ; season, and pour into the tureen over two eggs beaten up with the boiling milk.The Boston Cook Book. The dam hrotk served hot with toasted crackers will often tempt a person with a capricious appetite. Fish Chowder. 4 or 5 pounds cod or haddock or bass. 6 potatoes. A 2-inch cube of fat salt pork. 2 small onions. 1 tablespoonful salt. ^ teaspoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 quart milk. 6 butter crackers. When buying a fish for a chowder, have the head left on, but the skin removed ; or if you have to depend upon your- self, remove the skin according to directions on page 161. Then begin at the tail and cut the fish from the bone on one side, keeping the knife as close as possible to the bone; remove the bone from the other side. Do not for- get to take out the small bones near the head. Wipe the fish carefully with a damp cloth, cut it into pieces about two inches square, and put it away in a cool place. Break the bones and head, cover with cold water, and put them on to boil. Pare and slice the potatoes one eighth of an inch thick, using enough to make the same quantity by measurement as you have of fish. Soak them in cold water half an hour, and parboil or scald in boiling water five minutes; then pour off* the water. Cut the pork into quarter-inch dice, and fry it in an omelet pan. Cut the onions into thin slices and fry them in the pork fat, being careful that it does not burn. Pour the fat through a strainer into the kettle, leaving the pork scraps and onions in the strainer. Put the sliced potatoes into the kettle ; hold the strainer over the potatoes, and pour through it enough boiling water to cover them. This is easier than to fry in the kettle, and skim out the pork and onions, — which to a novice would be running the risk of burning the fat, cleaning the kettle, and beginning again. When the potatoes have boiled ten minutes, strain the water in which the bones were boiled, and pour it into the kettle. Add the salt and pepper, and when the chowder is boiling briskl}", put in the fish, and set it back where it can sim-156 77^6 Boston Cook Book. mer ten minutes. Do not break the fish by stirring it. Add the butter and the hot milk. Spht the crackers, put them in the tureen, and pour the chowder over them. Do not soak the crackers in cold water. Butter crackers will soften easily in the hot chowder. If you wish the broth thicker, stir in one cup of fine cracker crumbs, or one tablespoonful of flour cooked in one tablespoonful of butter. More milk and a little more seasoning may be added to this amount of fish and potato, if you wish to make a larger quantity. When wanted richer, beat two eggs^ mix them with the hot milk, and put in the tureen before turning in the chowder. If added w^hile the chowder is in the hot kettle, the eggs will curdle. Any firm white fish m^y be used for a chowder, but cod and haddock are best. Many use a cod's head with the haddock. The head is rich and gelatinous, and it should always be boiled with the bones, and the liquor added to the chowder. In this chowder you have nothing but w^hat the most dainty person may relish. There are no bones, skin, or scraps of boiled pork. Fish, potatoes, and crackers are all distinct in the creamy liquid, instead of being a pasty mush, such as is often served. For a change, the crackers may be buttered and browned. If a highl}^ seasoned dish be desired, boil an onion, cut into thin slices, with the potatoes ; add more pepper, and either cayenne pepper, Worcestershire sauce, or curry powder. Omit the boihng water, and use onl}^ that in which the bones were boiled, when making a smaller quantity. Clam Chowder. % peck clams in the shells. % teaspoonful white pepper. 1 quart potatoes, sliced thin. 1 large tablespoonful butter. A 2-inch cube of fat salt pork. 1 quart milk. 1 or 2 onions. 6 butter crackers. 1 teaspoonful salt. Clam chowder is made in the same manner as fish chowder, substituting half a peck of clams for the fish. Clams in the shells are better, as 3^ou then have more clam hquor. Wash with a small brush, and put them157 The Boston Cook Book, in a large kettle with half a cupful of water, or just enough to keep the under ones from burning; set them over the fire. When the clams at the top have opened, take them out with a skimmer, and when cool enough to handle, take the clams from the shell; remove the thin skin; then with scissors cut off all the black end, cut the leather straps " into small pieces, leaving the soft part whole. Let the clam liquor settle, and pour it off carefull}'. Use half water and half clam liquor. Fry the pork and onion the same as in fish chowder ; add the potatoes, which have been soaked and scalded, and boihng water to cover. When the potatoes are soft, add the clam liquor, the seasoning, and the clams ; when warmed through, add the hot milk and turn into the tureen. Do not put the clams into the chowder until the potatoes are nearly done, as prolonged boiling hardens them. Scrape the raw corn from the cob. Boil the cobs twent}^ minutes in water enough to cover them; then skim them out. Pare, soak, and scald the potatoes. Fry the onion in the salt pork fat, and strain the fat into the kettle with the corn water. Add the potatoes, corn, salt, and pepper. Simmer fifteen minutes, or till the potatoes and corn are tender. Add the butter and milk, and serve very hot with crisped crackers. Corn Chowder. 1 quart raw sweet corn. 1 pint sliced potatoes. A 2-inch cube fat salt pork. 1 onion. 1 teaspoonf ul salt. 1 saltspoonful white pepper. 1 large tablespoonf ul butter. 1 pint sliced tomatoes. 1 pint milk. 6 crisped crackers. Lobster Chowder. 1 pound lobster. 1 quart milk. 3 crackers, cup butter. 1 scant teaspoonf ul salt. 3^ saltspoonful white pepper, saltspoonful cayenne pepper. Boil one quart of milk. Eoll three crackers fine; mix with them one fourth of a cup of butter, and the green fatThe Boston Cook Book. 158 of the lobster. Season with one scant teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and one fourth of a saltspoonful of caj'enne pepper. Pour the boiling milk gradually over the paste. Put it back in the double boiler; add the lobster meat cut into dice; let it boil up once, and serve. Puree of Clams. One pint of boiled dams; remove the dark substance from the soft part, and chop the hard part very fine. Thicken one pint of hot cream with one tahlespoonful of flour cooked in one heaping tahlespoonful of hot butter ; add the chopped clams, the soft parts, and salt and pepper. Add more hot cream or a little of the clam liquor if the puree be too thick. When hot, strain it into the tureen.The Boston Cook Booh, 159 FISH. Fish, on account of its abundance, cheapness, and wliolesomeness, is invaluable as an article of food. It is less nutritious and less stimulating than meat, as it con- tains less solid matter and more water. An exaggerated idea of the value of fish as brain food has prevailed ; the latest authorities, however, state that there is no evidence to prove that fish is any richer than meat in phosphorus. But as it contains little fat, the white varieties particularly, it is easily digested, and as it has a large proportion of nitrogenous material, it is especially adapted to all those upon whom there are great demands for nervous energy. Salmon heads the list of whatsoever hath scales and fins," in nutritive qualities ; and it is richer than meat. The next in value are fat halibut, shad, white-fish, mack- erel, blue-fish, lean halibut, bass, flounder, trout, cod, haddock, cusk, etc. Red-blooded fish, like salmon, mackerel, and blue-fish, have the oil distributed through the hodij. They are nutritious for those who can digest them, but are too rich and oily for invalids. White fish, like flounder, halibut, cod, and haddock, have the oil in the liver, and are more easily digested. Fish should be perfectly fresh and thor- oughly cooked, or it will be very indigestible and some- times poisonous. Broiling and baking are the best methods. Small pan-fish and fillets of large white dr}^ fish are good if fried ; but oily fish should never be fried. Salting draws out the nutritive part of fish the same as it does in meat; and either, when thus prepared, should be used as a relish, and not depended upon for nourishment. Fat fish are injured less than white fish, as the fat is not removed by salting.i6o The Boston Cook Book. All varieties of fish need an accompaniment of starch}^ foods, like bread and potatoes ; and white fish need beside to be cooked with butter or fat to make them desirable as food. The juices of fish, shell-fish particular^, are of an alkaline nature ; and this renders lemon juice or vinegar a desirable condiment as a neutralizing agency. The flesh of good, fresh fish is firm and hard^ and will rise at once when pressed with the finger. If-the eyes be dull and sunken, the gills pale, and the fiesh flabb}^ or soft, the fish is not fresh. Fish should be cleaned as soon as possible, in strongly salted water. They should be washed (not soaked) by wiping with a cloth wet in salt water. Then wrap them in a cloth which is sprinkled with salt, and put them in a cool place. If put in the ice-chest, they will taint the butter and milk. Put ice around them, if necessary ; but do not let them touch the ice, as fresh water and ice will soften them. When once they lose their hard, firm con- sistency, they are considered unfit to eat by those who know what good fish really are. Frozen fish should be thawed in cold water. Fresh- water fish having a muddy taste or smell are improved by soaking in salt and water. Salt fish should be soaked in fresh water, with the shin side up^ to draw out the salt, and should be eaten only occasionally^, for the reason before stated. To Clean a Fish. — If the fish have scales, remove them before opening. Scrape with a small, sharp knife from the tail to the head; hold the knife flat and slanting, resting it on the fish, that the scales ma}^ be taken upon the knife; scrape slowly, that the scales may not fl}^ over everything near, and rinse the knife often in cold water. When the fish is to be served whole^ do not remove the head and tail. Smelts and small fish served whole are opened under the gills, and the contents squeezed out by pressing from the middle with the thumb and finger. Large fish are split open from the gills half-way down the lowerThe Boston Cook Book. i6i part of the body, the entrails removed, and the inside scraped and cleaned. Open far enough to remove all the blood on the backbone. Many leave the sound, which is the white part adhering to the bone; but it is better to remove it. To Skin a Fish, — Cut a thin, narrow strip down the backbone, taking off the dorsal fin. Then open the lower part half-w^aj down. Slip the knife under and up through the bon}^ part of the gills, and hold this bony part between the thumb and finger, and strip the skin ofiT toward the tail. Then do the same on the other side. Small fish, like mackerel and w^hite-fish, when dressed for broiling, should be split through the back. To Bone a Fish. — Clean, and strip off the skin ; lay the fish flat on a board ; begin at the tail, and run the knife in under the flesh close to the bone, and scrape it away clean from the bone, holding the flesh carefull}^, not to break the flakes. When the flesh on one side is removed, slip the knife under the bone on the other side, and raise the bone, leaving the flesh on the board ; then pull out all the small bones left in the flesh, which 3'ou can easily feel with the fingers. Fish wdth many fine bones, like shad and her- ring, are not boned ; but from cod, cusk, mackerel, white- fish, and haddock they may be easil}' removed. Fillets of Fish are the flesh separated from the bone, and served whole or divided, as the case ma}^ require. Floun- ders or sole, chicken halibut, and bass, should have the fillets on each side divided lengthwise ; making four long thin pieces, or fillets. Other fish are cut into thin slices or small squares. Very small fish may be split, the bone removed, and the whole fish rolled up from the tail to the head and fastened with a skewer. Broiled Fish. First clean the fish. Wash with a cloth wet in salt water, and dry on a clean fish towel, kept for no other purpose. Mackerel, white-fish, small blue-fish, trout, small cod, and II162 The Boston Cook Book. shad should be spht down the back, and if yon prefer, cut off the head and tail. Halibut and salmon should be cut into inch slices, the skin and bone removed, and turned often while broiling. Cut flounder, bass, and chicken hal- ibut into fillets. Oily fish need onl^^ salt and pepper; but dry white-fish should be spread with soft butter or olive oil before broiling. Use a double ware broiler, and grease well with salt porh rind. Put the thickest edge of the fish next the middle of the broiler, and always broil the flesh side first, as the skin burns easil3\ Cook the flesh side until it is brown. The time should vary with the thickness of the fish ; move the broiler up and down, that all parts may be equally browned ; then turn, and cook on the other side just enough to crisp the skin. Small fish require from five to ten minutes ; thicker fish, fifteen or twenty minutes. The fire should be hot and clear. If the fish be very.thick, hold it farther from the fire ; or when nicely browned, put the broiler in the oven on a dripping-pan, and cook till the flesh sepa- rates easily from the bones. Mackerel, trout, and fresh herring are sometimes broiled whole. Clean without open- ing more than is necessary. Wipe and dry well. Gash through to the bone at intervals one inch apart on each side, and rub salt^ pepper^ and butter or oil in the incisions ; wrap in buttered paper, and broil carefully from ten to twenty minutes. When read}^ to serve, loosen the fish from the broiler on each side, open the broiler, and, leaving the flesh side of the fish uppermost, slide it off without breaking. Or open the opposite way, hold a platter over the skin side, and invert platter and broiler together. Spread with butter^ salt^ and pepper; or add chopped parsley or watercresses ; or serve with Maitre d'hotel, Tartare, Tomato, or Curry sauce. Garnish parsley and slices of lemon. Baked Fish. Cod, haddock, cusk, blue-fish, small salmon, bass, and shad may be stufifed, and baked whole.163 The Boston Cook Booh. Stuffing for Baked Fish weighing from four to six Pounds, 1 cup cracker crumbs. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 saltspoonful pepper. 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful capers. 1 teaspoonful pickles. ^ cup melted butter. This makes a dry, crumbly stuffing. If a moist stuffing be desired, use stale (not dried) bread crumbs, and moisten with one beaten egg and the butter ; or moisten the crackers with warm water. Oyster Stuffing, — One pint of oysters, one cup of seasoned and battered cracker crumbs. Drain and roll each oyster in the crumbs. Fill the fish with the oysters, and sprinkle the remainder of the crumbs over the oysters. General Directions. — Fish bake through more evenly, brown better, and are more easily served, if placed upright in the pan instead of on one side. Fish that are broad and short, like shad, may be kept in place by propping with stale bread or pared potatoes. But all others that are narrow in proportion to the length ma}" be skewered or tied into the shape of a letter S ; run a threaded trussing- needle through the head, middle of the bod}^ and tail in the direction indicated hy the dotted line above ; then draw the string tight, and fasten the ends. Fish thus prepared will keep their shape after baking. Have an iron sheet with rings at the ends for handles, and just large enough to fit into the dripping-pan. Eub the sheet well with salt pork, and put pieces of pork under the fish to keep it from sticking. This sheet will enable 3"ou to hft the fish from the pan and place it on the platter without breaking. If jou have no sheet, put two broad strips of cotton cloth across the pan, before lading in the fish. When done, lift out on the cloth. Do not put water in the pan, unless you wish to steam instead of bake the fish. Put two or three slices of fat salt pork over and near the fish, and when the flour has browned, baste often with the pork fat. Bake till brown, and baste often.4 164 The Boston Cook Book. No. 1.—Clean, wipe, and dry the fish; rub with salt; stuff and sew. Cut gashes two inches apart on each side. Skewer into shape of 8, and put it on the fish sheet. Eub all over with soft butter^ salt^ and pepper. Put narrow strips of fat salt pork in the gashes. Dredge well with flour. Put it into a hot oven without water; baste when the flour is browned, and baste often afterwards. Remove it Fig. 7. Baked Fisli. carefully from the fish sheet, and place it on a hot platter. Draw out the strings or skewer, wipe off all the water or fat which runs from the fish, and remove the pieces of pork. Pour Hollandaise sauce around (not over) the fish, or serve a drawn butter sauce flavored with lemon, in a sauce-boat; and pile Saratoga potatoes lightly around the fish. Garnish the head of the fish with parsley or watercresses. To serve the Fish. — Make an incision along the backbone the entire length of the fish ; then draw the fish away from the bone on each side, cutting at right angles with the bone. Raise the bone to reach the stuffing, and serve a little of the fish, stuffing, and sauce to each person. The skeleton should be left entire on the platter. No. 2. — Remove the head, tail, and skin. Rub well with salt and lemon juice. Stuff with oyster stuffing^ and sew securely. Skewer it into shape, if long enough, or put it upright on a greased fish sheet, with brend to keep it in place. Or remove^the bone, place the fish on a platter, and lay the prepared oysters between the layers of fish. Season cracker crumbs with salt^ pepper^ and chopped parsley^ and moisten with melted butter. Brush theThe Boston Cook Book. fish with heaten egg^ then sprinkle with the crumbs. Set the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water to keep the platter from cracking. Bake from forty to sixty minutes. Serve with tomato or Hollandaise sauce poured around the fish. No. 3. Baked Halibut. — Three or four pounds of halibut. Dip the dark skin in hoiling water., and scrape clean. Rub well with salt and pepper. Put it into a clean pan, and pour milk over it till half an inch deep. Bake about an hour, basting with the milk. Remove the bone and skin, and arrange on the platter in the original form. Serve with plain drawn butter, egg sauce, or cream sauce, and garnish with slices of boiled eggs. The milk keeps the fish moist, is a good substitute for pork, and makes the fish brown better. Use just enough milk to baste, and let it cook away toward the last. Or sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top, when the fish is nearly done, and serve with tomato sauce. A large cod, or any whole fish too large for a small family, may be cooked as follows: Remove the skin and bones from the middle and thickest part; stuff and bake. Use the bones and head for a chowder. Cut the tail piece into slices, salt well, and fty or broil them. Or crimp them by soaking in salted water; then simmer in water with salt and lemon juice^ and serve cold with Tartare sauce. Fried Fish. Mackerel, salmon, blue-fish, and all oily fish should never be fried. Smelts, perch, and other small pan-fish maj^ be fried whole. When fried smelts are used as a garnish, fry them in the shape of rings b}^ pinning the tail in the mouth. Cod, halibut, etc., should be skinned and boned, and cut into slices one inch thick and two or three inches square. Flounder and bass may be cut in fillets, as described on page 161, and each fillet seasoned with salt and pepper, and fastened with a small wooden skewer. Small fish may be boned without parting in the middle,The Boston Cooh Book, and rolled from tail to head. Fish for fvjmg should be thoroughlj^ cleaned and dried, seasoned with salt and pepper, and covered first with flour or fine bread crumbs, then dipped in beaten egg, then in crumbs again. If this does not cover them completely', repeat the process. When the fish has been kept on ice, let it become slightly warm before frying, as otherwise it will chill the fat and become greasy. Fry in deep, smoking hot fat. Observe the directions given for frying on page 15, testing the fat first with bread; and after the first plunge into the hot fat set the kettle back to keep from burning; then reheat before frying any more. Yry from two to five minutes. Drain and serve with tomato, or Tartare, or any acid sauce. Garnish with- slices of pickle or lemon, and parsley. Arrange small fish with heads and tails alternating; or two or three on a skewer, one skewer for each person ; or in a circle round a Fig. 8. Small Fish served whole. silvcr CUp, placed ill the centre of the platter and holding the sauce. Slices or rolled fillets may^ be arranged in a circle, with the sauce in the centre. Boiled Fish. Boiling is the most insipid and wasteful way of cooking fish. To make boiled fish palatable, a rich sauce, like lobster, oyster, or shrimp sauce, is needed for all kinds except salmon and blue-fish. Salmon is so much richer and more oily than other fish that boiling does not injure it. Hollandaise and sauce piquante are appropriate for salmon. A fish kettle with a drainer for lifting out the fish is quite essential. Or 3'ou may put a small piece of fish in a wire basket or on a plate ; tie the plate in a square of cloth, and lift clotii, plate, and fish together. Never try to boil a fish whole, as nothing can be more167 The Boston Cook Book. unsightly than the head of a boiled fish. Clean the fish thoroughly, and remove the head, tail, and skin. Hub well with salt and lemon juice. Fish should be of uniform thickness, to boil nicely. A small salmon or the middle cut of a large one^ or the thickest part of cod or hlue-jish^ or a thick piece of halibut^ should be selected for boiling. Cod, haddock, and cusk, unless perfectly fresh, will break in boiUng. If fish be put into cold water, the juices are drawn out into tlie water. If cooked in rapidly boiling water, the fish breaks on the outside before the middle is done. The best and most economical way is to cook it in a steamer over boiling water. If that is not convenient, put the fish into boiling salted water, and simmer till done. Fish is cooked when the flesh separates easily from the bones, and should be taken up immediately, and well drained be- fore serving. A very good way of boiling fish is to steep it for five minutes in strongly salted boiling water, with one or. two tablespponfuls of lemon juice, then plunge it into fresh boiling water without salt, and simmer till done. Less scum rises in the fresh water, and the fish looks whiter. Allow about six minutes to a pound for boiling ; more if in a cubical form than for a thin narrow piece of the same weight. Serve boiled fish on a folded napkin, and the sauce in a sauce-boat. Parisienne potatoes boiled or fried and piled like cannon balls, alternating with parsley and button mushrooms ; or sliced pickles, fried oysters, Saratoga po- tatoes, slices of lemon, or hard-boiled eggs may be used as a garnish. If the fi.sh break and look unsightly, re- move the bones, and flake it; pile it lightly on a platter, and pour the sauce over the fish. To boil Fish au Court Bouillon. — Fish are improved by cooking in water flavored with vegetables and spices. Mince one onion ^ one stalk of celery., and two or three sprigs of parsley. Fry them in a little butter ; add two tablespoon- fuls of salt., six peppercorns^ a bay leaf^ three cloves^ two quarts of boiling water^ and one pint of vinegar or sourThe Boston Cook Book. wine. Boil fifteen minutes, skim well, strain, and keep to use in boiling fish.. Rub the fish with salt and lemon juice^ and put it into the boiling liquor, and simmer till the flesh separates from the bone. Stewed Fish. — Any dry white fish or fresh-water fish may be stewed, and made into a very palatable and eco- nomical dish. Remove the skin, head, and bones from a four-pound fish. Cover the bones and head with cold water, and cook them for half an hour. Slice and scald two small onions. Drain, and fry them till yellow, in the fat obtained from a two-inch cube of salt pork. Pour it all into the kettle with the bones. Cut the fish into pieces two inches square, and season them with salt and pepper. Put them in a clean kettle with a little butter to keep them from sticking, and strain the boiling bone water over them, using just enough to cover. Add the juice of half a lemon., and when boiling thicken with one heaping table- spoonful of butter and two of four cooked together. Sim- mer fifteen minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste, and one iablespoonful each of chopped parsley^ and tomato or mushroom catchup., if desired ; or add one quart oi drained oysters^ and simmer till the oysters are plump. A Matelote of fish is the French name for fish stewed with wine. Fish a la Creme. Four to six pounds of fish., one to one and a half pints of cream sauce^ and one cup of cracker crumbs., moistened in one third of a cup of melted butter. This is one of the most attractive and convenient methods of serving any kind of dry white fish, — cod, had- dock, or cusk. Clean the fish; cook in boihng salted water with one tablespoonful of vinegar till the flesh sepa- rates easily. Drain, and when cool remove the skin and bones, and pick apart in flakes. Sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Make a rich white sauce. Put a layer of fish on a platter suitable for serving. Cover with the white sauce, letting the fish soak up all it will; then arrangeThe Boston Cook Book. another layer of fish and sauce. Moisten cracker crumbs in melted butter, and spread over the top with a fork. Set the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water, to keep the platter from cracking, and bake till the crumbs are brown. Garnish with parsley. The ivhites of two or three eggs^ beaten stiff and salted, are sometimes used in the place of crumbs, but are not so palatable. Two or three tahlespoonfuls of grated cheese may be mixed with the crumbs, if you like the flavor. The sauce may be mixed with the fish; but be careful not to mash the fish or get it too moist. Then the fish may be piled on the platter, higher and broader at one end and giving the outline of a flat fish; or arranged in the form of a fish shaped like the letter S, and covered with the crumbs. Or, if the fish be not broken in boiling, take it up carefully on the drainer, remove the head, skin, and small bones from one side, put a platter over the fish and invert platter and fish together; then remove the skin and the backbone from the other side, leaving the fish as whole as possible. Cover with the sauce and crumbs, and bake as above. This is not so desirable as the first method, because some fine bones are liable to be over- looked, and the sauce is not so well mixed with the fish. Remnants of Cooked Fish. Remnants of cold boiled or baked fish (using stuffing and sauce also) may be freed from skin and bones, flaked, and used in any of the following ways : — Scalloped Fish, — Vxxi jish and stuffing into a shallow dish in alternate la3'ers, with cream sauce to moisten ; cover with buttered crumbs^ and bake till the crumbs are brown. Fish in Potato Border. — Warm the fish slightly in a white sauce^ and put it in the centre of a dish with a border of mashed potatoes. Or, if you have enough material for a large platter, put the border on the edge and a higher mound of potatoes in the centre, and fill the space between with the fish. Sprinkle buttered crumbs lightly over the whole and set in the oven till brown.I/O The Boston Cook Book, Chartreuse^ or Cassei^ole of Fish^ No. 1. —One cup of any cold Jish, flaked, seasoned, and moistened with a little cream ; the same quantity of mashed potatoes ; and two hard- hoiled eggs. Butter a small mould and put in alternate la}'- ers of potatoes, fish, and slices of egg. Steam twent}^ minutes, turn out upon a hot platter, and garnish with parsley. No. 2. — Mix one cup of stale bread crumbs.) one pint of cold fish.) flaked, and two eggs. Season to taste with Wor- cestershire or tomato catchujj^ salt., and cayenne pepper. Put into a buttered mould. Boil thirty minutes, and serve with an}^ fish sauce. Kedgeree. — Warm cold flaked fish slightly over hot water; and just before serving stir in one egg^ beaten with one or two tablespoonfuls of hot milk and a bit of butter., and serve in a rice border. Steam the rice, one cupfulin two cupfuls of highly seasoned stocky in a double boiler thirty minutes, or till tender and dij. Curried Fish.—Warm any cold flaked fish in curry sauce.) page 190. Creamed Fish with Oysters. — Add an equal amount of oysters to the^sA, and cook in white sauce till tlie oj^sters are plump. Garnish with points of toast. Spiced Fish. — Steep six cloves, six allspice kernels., six peppercorns.) and one tablespoonful of brown sugar in one cup of sharp vinegar ten minutes, and pour it over one pint of any cold flaked fish. Crimped Fish. Soak slices of any firm white fresh fish in very strongly salted water. Put them into boiling salted water enough to cover, with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar.) and boil about ten minutes. Drain; arrange on a platter; remove the skin and bones. Serve hot with oyster or lobster sauce., or cold with a Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce poured into the cavity left by the bone. Garnish with water- cresses.171 The Boston Cook Booh, Potted Fish. Three shad or six small mackerel^ uncooked ; one third of a cup of salt with half a saltspooriful of cayenne pepper mixed with it, and half a cup of whole spices^ — cloves^ peppercorns, and allspice mixed in about equal proportions. Vine- gar to cover. Clean, remove the skin, split in halves, cut each half into three pieces, and remove all tlie larger bones. Pack the fish in laj^ers in a small stone jar. (Earthenware must not be used on account of the vinegar.) Sprinkle the salt and spices over each layer. Add one onion sliced thin, if you do not dislike the flavor. Add vinegar enough to completely cover the fish. Tie a thick paper over the top, or tie a cloth over and cover with a crust of dough to keep in all the steam. Bake in a ver}^ moderate oven five or six hours. Eemove the dough-crust, and when cooled cover, and keep in a cool place. This will keep some time, if the fish be kept under the vinegar; the bones will be dissolved, and it makes an ex- cellent relish for lunch or tea. Rules for Fish Salad^ Croquettes^ and Chowder are given elsewhere. Salt Fish Balls. 1 cup raw salt fish. 1 pint potatoes. 1 teaspoonf ul butter. 1 egg, well beaten. saltspoonful pepper. More salt, if needed. Wash the fish, pick in half-inch pieces, and free from bones. Pare the potatoes, and cut in quarters. Put the potatoes and fish in a stewpan, and cover w^ith boiling water. Boil twenty-five minutes, or till the potatoes are soft. Be careful not to let them boil long enough to be- come soggy. Drain off all the water ; mash and beat the fish and potatoes till very light. Add the butter and pepper, and when slightly cooled add the egg and more salt, if needed. Shape in a tablespoon without smoothing much, slip them off into a basket, and fry in smoking hotThe Boston Cook Book. 1/2 lard one minute. Fiy only five at a time, as more will cool the fat. The lard should be hot enough to brown a piece of bread while 3'ou count fort}-. Or, first dipping the spoon in the fat, take up a spoonful of the fish and plunge it into the hot fat. Drain on solt paper. These fish balls should be mixed while the potatoes and fish are hot. If you wish to prepare them the night before, omit the egg, and in the morning warm the fish and potato in a double boiler, then add the egg. Keep the fish in a bowl of cold water while picking it apart, and it will need no further soaking. Contrary to all old theories, boiling the fish with the potato does not harden it. When well mashed and beaten with a strong fork,'the fish will only be recognized in the potato b}^ the taste, and not by the presence of hard, lumpy pieces. Never chop salt fish. If picked apart into small pieces and then rubbed with a potato masher till it is re- duced to fine threads, it will blend with an}^ mixture better than it will when chopped. These are the most quickly prepared and the most delicious fish balls ever made, and are worthy the superlative adjectives which have been given them b}" enthusiastic pupils. Fish Hash, — The same mixture as above, cooked in a little salt pork fat in a frying-pan till brown, and turned out like an omelet. Fish Souffle. — Prepare the fish as for fish balls ; add two iablespoonfuls of cream and two eggs^ beaten separatel}^; and bake in a buttered dish. To prepare Salt Fish for Cooking. Soak over night in cold water with the sMn side up^ that the salt may be drawn out; or, if 3'ou can, strip the skin off" before soaking. By changing the water often, less time will be required. Salt mackerel and other small corned fish should be broiled. Salt codfish should be put on the stove in fresh water and kept warm, but not boiling, till softened. Then remove the bones and skin, and flake in delicate pieces. Serve with egg or cream sauce, potatoes, sweet beets,The Boston Cook Book, 173 carrots^ and onions^ and crisp salt pork scraps, and you have the old-fashioned salt fish dinner. Creamed Salt Fish, — Serve one cup of the picked up fish in a rich cream sauce with potato harder or on toast. Mock Oyster Stew, {Mrs. S, M. Bailey.) —Prepare one cup of salt fish by washing, shredding, and simmering till soft; when ready to serve, put it in a shallow dish with one pint of oyster crackers or three butter crackers split and browned, and pour over it one pint of hot milk. Add a tahlespoonful of butter and hcdf a saltspoonful of pepper^ and serve. Scorched Salt Fish, — Pick a small piece of the thickest part of salt fish into long flakes. If very salt, soak a few minutes in cold water. Brown over hot coals. Spread with butter, and serve hot. Fish thus prepared is a nice relish with potatoes which have been roasted in the ashes. It will also tempt a convalescent. Smoked salmon or hali- but may be prepared in the same manner. Tongues and Sounds, — Soak them in warm water several hours, or till freshened ; scrape off the skin. Cut them in small pieces and heat slowly in milk or loater. Make a thin white sauce to pour over them, and serve on toast garnished wdth hard-boiled eggs. Fish Koes, Fried. Wash the roes and cook them ten minutes in boiling salted water with one tablespoon/al of vinegar. Then plunge them into cold water. Drain, and roll in beaten egg, then in seasoned crumbs, and fry till brown in smok- ing hot fat. Scalloped Roes,—Boil the roes as in the preceding re- ceipt. Drain, and break up lightly w^ith a fork. Sprinkle a layer of the roe in a shallow dish; then rub the yolk of hard-boiled egg through a fine strainer. Add a sprinkling of parsley and a little lemon juice. Moisten with a thin white sauce. Then another la3'er of roe, egg, seasoning, and sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake tillThe Boston Cook Book. 174 brown. If a larger dish be required, use with the roes any cold Jlaked jish^ or a small quantity of cooked rice, • Small Fresh Fish Baked in a Crust. Clean the fish, and wipe dry. Cut gashes one inch apart on each side ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a rich biscuit crust with baking-powder, or make a pastry crust; roll it out half an inch tliick ; wrap the fish in the crust, pinch the edges together, and bake about half an hour. Serve with egg sauce. Table of the Cost, etc., of Fish. Cost. Weight. How sold. When in Season. Cod. 8 cts. per lb. 3 to 20 lbs. Whole. Hs-ddoclc. 6 to 8 cts. per lb. 5 to 8 lbs. Whole. Cusk. 8 cts. per lb. 5 to 8 lbs. Whole. Winter. Halibut. 12 to 20 cts. per lb. By the lb. Flounders. 6 to 10 cts. per lb. ^ to 5 lbs. Whole. Salmon. 25 to 50 cts. per lb. Bv the lb. May to Sept. Shad. $1.25 in March, 25 cts. in May. Whole. Spring. Blue-fish. 7 to 15 cts. per lb. 4 to 10 lbs. Whole. June to Oct. Tautog. 12 cts. per lb. Whole. July to Sept. White-fish. 20 cts. per lb. 4 lbs. Whole. Winter. Bass. 12 to 25 cts. per lb. 3 to 8 lbs. Whole. Sword-fish. Smelts. Perch. 15 cts. per lb. 10 to 25 cts. per lb. 20 cts. per dozen. ( Average i 8 to a lb. By the lb. July to Sept. Sept. to March. Summer. Pickerel. 15 cts. per lb. 1 to 4 lbs. Whole. Trout, Brook. 75 cts. per lb. Whole. Spring. Mackerel. 5 to 25 cts. each. Whole. April to Oct. Eels. 15 cts. per lb. 1 to 1 lb. Whole. Lobsters. 12 cts. per lb. 1 to 2 lbs. Oysters. 35 to 50 cts. per qt. Sept. to May. Clams. 20 cts. per qt.; 40 cts. per pk. in the shell. Crabs. $1.25 to $1.50 per dozen. Summer. Herring. 20 cts. per dozen. Mar. and Apr. Salt Cod Fish. 10 cts. per lb., best. Smoked Fish. 20 to 35 cts. per lb. Where no time is specified the fish are always in season.175 The Boston Cook Booh SHELL FISH. Oysters^ Clams^ Scallops^ Lobsters, Crahs^ Shrimps^ and Prawns are the principal varieties of shell fish used as food. Oysters. These shell fish are found in perfection in the cool waters of the Northern Atlantic coast. The Blue Points from Long Island are considered the best in the New York market. The Wareham and Providence River are equall}^ esteemed in Boston. 03^sters are neither healthful nor well flavored from Ma}^ to September; at all other times th^Y are used more extensively and are more highly prized than any other shell fish. They are nutritious, and are easil}' digested when fresh and eaten raw, or when only slightly cooked. When over-cooked, they are tough and leathery. Oysters should never be kept long after being taken from the shell; and if to be used raw, should not be opened till just before using. Oysters cooked in the Shells, —Wash and scrub the shells, and put them in a pan with the round side down (to hold the juice), and cook either in a hot oven, on the top of a hot stove, on a gridiron over the coals, or in a steamer, ten to twenty minutes. When the shells open, the oysters are done. Remove the upper shell; season the oyster on the lower shell with butter^ pepper^ salt^ and vinegar^ and serve at once. Or take from the shells, put into a hot dish, season, and serve immediately. There is no other way of cooking the oyster in which the natural flavor is so full}^ developed. Raw Oysters. — Open the oysters ; look them over care- fully ; remove any fine pieces of shell which ma}^ adhere to them; then season slightly with salt and pepper^ and let1/6 The Boston Cook Book, them stand half an hour in the ice chest. Serve on fanc}" oyster plates, or on the deep half-shell, with slices of lemon. Serve with small squares of buttered brown bread. Ousters on Ice. — Put a rectangular block of clear ice, having smooth, regular surfaces, in a large pan. With a hot brick or flat-iron melt a cavity large enough to hold the desired number of 03'sters. Pour the water from the cavity, and fill with oysters, which should first be drained, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Place a thick napkin on a platter, put the ice upon this, cover the dish with parsley or smilax, and garnish with lemon. The ice is some- times roughly chipped to resemble a rock. If the dinner be served from the- sideboard, individual plates of ice are made. To prepare Oysters for Cooking.—Pour half a cup of cold water over one quart of oysters ; then with clean hands take out the 03'sters separately and remove any bits of shell or seaweed. Serious accidents have often resulted from the presence of pieces of shell. The crabs which are found among the oysters are considered a delicacy and should be saved. The 03"ster liquor is seldom used, as enough comes from the oysters in cooking ; but, if de- sired, it should be strained before using. The 03^sters may then be cooked in any of the following ways. To cooh or parboil Oysters in their Liquor. — Put them in a saucepan without water; stir them, or shake the pan slightl}^; as soon as heated, suflflcient liquor comes from them to keep them from burning. When the edges curl or ruffle, and the o^^sters look plump instead of flat, the}^ are cooked. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve as a plain roast; or pour on toast, and call it a fancy roast. For Oyster Stew, see page 154. Smothered Oysters. — Put one tablespoonful of butter in a covered saucepan with half a saltspoonful oi lohite pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. When hot, add one pint of oysters carefull}- prepared. Cover closely, and shake the pan to keep the oj^sters fromThe Boston Cook Booh. sticking ; cook two or three minutes, or till plump. Serve on toasted crackers. Creamed Oysters. — Make one cup of thick cream sauce (see page 190), and season with salt^ pepper^ cayenne^ and celery salt. Wash and pick over one pint of oysters^ and parboil until plump. Skim carefully ; drain and add them to the sauce. Serve on toast^ and garnish the dish Tvith points of toast; or the toast may be omitted, and bread crumbs browned in butter sprinkled over the 03'sters. When served in patty shells or in a vol-au-vent^ make the cream sauce thicker. Fricasseed Oysters. — Cook one pint of oysters in hot but- ter., till plump, as directed for smothered oysters. Drain, and keep the oysters hot, and add enough cream to the 03'ster liquor to make one cupfid. Cook one tablespoonful of Jlour in one tablespoonful of hot butter. Add slowly the hot cream and 03'ster liquor. Season with one teaspoonful of lemon juice^ salt., and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce into one well-beaten egg., add the hot 03'sters, and heat one minute. Serve on toast., if for breakfast; or in paper cases, or patties, if for lunch or dinner. Scalloped Oysters. — One pint of solid oysters, washed and drained ; one third of a cup of melted butter; one cup of cracker or stale bread crumbs, moistened in the melted but- ter. Butter a shallow dish; put in a layer of crumbs, then a layer of 03'sters ; season with salt and pepper; and, if you like, add Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, wine, or mace. Then put in another la3'er of crumbs, then 03^sters and seasoning, with a thick \^jqy of crumbs on the top. Bake in a hot oven about twent3^ minutes, until the crumbs are brown. Many prefer to heat the 03^ster liquor and the butter with an equal quantit3^ of milk or cream, and use more cracker. Moisten each la3^er of cracker with the hot liquid. Reserve the larger part of the butter for the top la3^er of crumbs. In this way a larger dish ma3^ be prepared with the same quantit3' of 03"sters. Oysters en Coquille.—Prepare as for scalloped 03'sters. Put one or two very large or several smaller 03^sters in 12178 The Boston Cook Book. oyster or scallop shells ; season, and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are brown. Place the shells on small plates, and serve one to each person. Large scallop shells may be obtained at the fish market, then cleaned and used several times. Tin, granite, or silver shells may also be used. Oysters and Mushrooms in Crusts. — Bake Parker-House- roll dough in round pans, or as small round biscuit placed some distance apart. When cold, cut a slice from the top of each, and remove the soft inside without breaking through the crust. Fill with the following mixture : — Parboil half a pint of oysters. Strain, and save the liquor. Cut the oysters fine, and mix with them half a can of chopped mushrooms. Mix the oyster liquor and mush- room juice with enough cream to make one pint in all. Pour this hot liquid slowly on one tahlespoonfal of Imtter and three of flour cooked, together. Season highh' with salt^ pepper, lemon juice^ and cayenne. Pour this into the crusts, and serve at once. This dish is acceptable to those who cannot eat oysters in puff-paste patties. Pigs in Blankets^ or Huitres au Lit. — Season large 03'S- ters with salt and pepper. Cut very thin slices of fat hacon ; wrap each oyster in a slice of bacon, and fasten with a wooden skewer. Put in a hot omelet pan, and cook just long enough to crisp the bacon. Serve on small pieces of delicate toast. Fried Oysters. —Wash the 03'sters, drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper^ and let them stand twenty minutes. Roll first in seasoned crumbs., then dip in beaten egg mixed with one tablespoonful of milk ; roll in crumbs again, and frv one minute in smoking hot lard. Drain on paper, and garnish with chopped or sliced pickle^ or chowchow. Serve with cold slaw or celery salad. Fried oysters are much better, and spatter less in frying, if parboiled shghtly and drained before rolling in the crumbs. When only a few are wanted, and those espe- cially nice, select the large oysters, roll them in fine crumbs^ then in Mayonnaise dressing^ then in crumbs again, and fry.179 The Boston Cook Book. Sauted Oysters.—Prepare as for frying, and brown on each side in hot butter; or roll in the cracker only, and brown them. Oysters in Fritter Batter.^ see page 107. Broiled Oysters, — Pick over, and drain large oysters. Dip in melted butter., then in fine cracker crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. Butter a fine wire gridiron; put the 03^sters in closely, and broil till the juice flows. Some prefer to broil them without the crumbs, but more juice is lost in this way. Pickled Oysters, — Cook one quart of oysters in their liquor, till plump. Remove the oysters, and add to the liquor half a cup of good cider vinegar. Skim as it boils, and add one teaspoonful of salt.^ two blades of mace^ ten cloves^ ten peppercorns^ ten allspice berries.^ and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Boil five minutes. Pour the liquor over the oysters, and when cold seal in glass jars, and put in a cool dark place. They will keep two weeks. Clams. Thin shell clams, and round shell clams, or quahaugs, furnish a delicious and wholesome form of food if eaten only when fresh. They are more easily opened and have a finer flavor when cooked in the shells. Steamed Clams. — Wash and scrub the shells. Put them in a kettle without water, cover closely, and cook till the shells open. Take them out with a skimmer, pour the clam water into a pitcher, and let it settle. Straining is not sufficient, as the fine sand will go through the finest strainer; but the water will be clear if care be taken not to disturb the sediment. Remove the clams from the shells, peel off the thin skin around the edge, and cut off the whole of the black end. Scissors are better than a knife for this purpose. Rinse each clam in a little of the clam water, and if very large, cut the tough part into small pieces. When the water is clear, pour it into a saucepan, add the clams, and heat again till just hot, buti8o The Boston Cook Book. do not let them boil. Serve with hrown bread^ or toasted crackers; and let each person season them to taste with melted butter^ pepper^ and vinegar. Scalloped Clams. — Prepare the clams as in steamed clams. Make a white sauce, as for fish (see page 189) ; put the clams in a shallow dish or in clean shells ; cover with the sauce and buttered crumbs, and bake till brown. • For Clam Soup, Clam Chowder, and Clam Fritters, see the Index. A Clam Bake. An impromptu clam bake may be had at any time at low tide along the coast where clams are found. If you wish to have genuine fun, and to know what an appetite one can have for the bivalves, make up a pleasant party and dig for the clams yourselves. A short thick dress, shade hat, rubber boots, — or, better still, no boots at all, if you can bring your mind to the comfort of bare feet, — a small garden trowel, a fork, and a basket, and 3^ou are ready. Let those who are not digging gather a large pile of driftwood and seaweed, always to be found along the shore. Select a dozen or more large stones, and of them make a level floor ; pile the driftwood upon them, and make a good brisk fire to heat the stones thoroughly. When hot enough to crackle as you sprinkle water upon them, brush off the embers, letting them fall between the stones. Put a thin layer of seaweed on the hot stones, to keep the lower clams from burning. Rinse the clams in salt water by plunging the basket which contains them in the briny pools near by. Pile them over the hot stones, heaping them high in the centre. Cover with a thick layer of sea- weed, and a piece of old canvas, blanket, carpet, or dry leaves, to keep in the steam. The time for baking will depend upon the size and quantity of the clams. Peep in occasionally at those around the edge. When the shells are open, the clams are done. They are delicious eaten from the shell, with no other sauce than their own brin^^ sweetness. Melted butter, pepper, and vinegar should beThe Boston Cook Book. i8i ready for those who wish them; then all maj' " fall to." Fingers must be used. A Hhode Islander would laugh at an}^ one trying to use a knife and fork. Pull off the thin skin, take them by the black end, dip them in the prepared butter, and bite off close to the end. If you swallow them whole, they will not hurt you. At a genuine Ehode Island clam bake, blue-fish, lobsters, crabs, sweet potatoes, and ears of sweet corn in their gauzy husks are baked with the clams. The clam steam gives them a delicious flavor. Brown bread is served with the clams, and watermelon for dessert completes the feast. Scallops. This shell fish has a round, deeply grooved shell. The muscle which unites the shell is the only part eaten. Scal- lops have a sweet flavor, and are in season during the fall and winter. The}^ may be stewed like oysters, but are better fried. Fried Scallops, — Pick over, and wash quickly; drain between towels ; season Jine cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. Dip the scallops in the crumbs, then in beaten egg^ and again in crumbs. Fry in smoking hot fat^ and serve at once. Lobsters. The markets are now so well supplied with these deli- cious shell fish, that they may be obtained in good condi- tion all the year. The canned lobster is also convenient in an emergency, for use in soups and salads. Lobsters are put alive into boiling salted water, and cooked twenty minutes from the time the water boils. They should not be eaten until cold, and never be kept more than eighteen hours after boiling. Lobsters are difficult of digestion, and should be eaten with mustard, cayenne pepper, and lemon juice or vinegar. To Choose a Lobster. — Select one of medium size, heavy in proportion to the size. Those with hard, solid shells, streaked with black, will be found full of meat; those withThe Boston Cook Book. thin shells are water3^ If the tail spring back quickly when straightened, the lobster is fresh. To Open a Lobster, — Wipe the shell with a wet cloth. Break off the large claws, separate the tail from the body and the body from the shell, leaving the stomach, or ladj', in the shell; then remove the small claws. Save the green liver and coral. Crush the tail b}^ pressing the sides together, then pull it open on the under side, and take out the meat in one piece. Draw back the flesh on the upper end of this meat, and remove the intestinal canal, which runs the entire length. This is sometimes black, and sometim-es the color of the meat. Break olf all the gills on the body before picking the meat from the joints, as they are liable to drop off with the meat, and are too w^oolly to be palatable. The gills, stomach, and intestines are the only parts not eaten. Break the body in the middle, and pick the meat from the joints, being careful not to take any of the bones. When the shells of the large claws are thin, cut off a strip down the sharp edge, and remove the meat whole; or break them by hammering on the edge. Never pound them in the mid- dle, as that crushes the meat. If the lobster shell is to be used for serving the meat, cut down the under side of the tail with a sharp knife, and remove the meat without breaking the outside shell. Trim the inside, and clean the shell. The body shell may be cleaned, split in halves, and trimmed with sharp scissors into the shape of clam shells. Plain Lobster, — The simplest way of serving lobster is b}^ many considered the best. Remove the meat from the shell, and arrange in a tasteful manner; or cut it into small pieces. Let each person season to taste with salt,, pepper^ vinegar^ and oz7, or melted butter. Stewed Lobster, — Cut the lobster fine ; put it in a stew- pan, with a little milk or cream,. Boil up once; add one tablespoonful of butter^ a little pepper,, and serve plain or on toasted crackers. Cook lobster just long enough to heat it, as a longer cooking renders it tough.183 The Boston Cooh Book. Creamed Lobster. — For one pint of lobster meat cut fine, make one pint of white sauce (see page 189). Season with salt^ cayenne., and lemon. Heat the lobster in the sauce, but do not let it boil. Serve on toast. Curried Lobster.—Make a curry sauce (see page 190), and warm the diced lobster in the sauce. Fig. 9. Scalloped Lobster. Scalloped Lobster. — Season one pint of lobster^ cut into dice, with salt^ pepper^ and cayenne. Mix with one cup of cream sauce (see page 190) ; fill the lobster shells, using the tail shells of two lobsters. Cover the meat with cracker crumbs., moistened with melted butter. Bake till the crumbs are brown. Put the two shells together on a platter, with the tail ends out, to look like a long canoe. Lay the small claws over the side to represent oars. Gar- nish with parsley. The lobster may also be served in scallop shells. Devilled Lobster. — The same as the preceding receipt, with the addition of more salt., pepper., and cayenne; add, also, chopped parsley., onion juice., mustard.^ and Worcester- shire sauce. For Lobster Soup., Chowder^ Cutlets^ Croquettes., and Salad., see the Index. Crabs. These are found near the coast of the Southern and Middle States, and are considered such a luxury in Marj'- land that special means are taken for their propagation. They are usually quite expensive in Eastern markets.The Boston Cook Booh. Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When the new shell is forming, they are called soft shell crabs, and are highly esteemed by epicures. Soft Shell Grabs. — Use them onl}^ when freshly caught, as the shells harden after twentj^-four hours. Pull off the sand bags, and the shaggy substance from the side ; then wash, and wipe dry ; sprinkle with salt and pepper ; roll in crumbs^ then in egg^ again in crumbs; and fry in smoking hot lard. Boiled Crabs. —These should be heavy, of medium size, and with stiff joints. Plunge them head first into boihng water, and cook fifteen minutes; then remove the outside shells and the shaggy substance, rinse in hot water, and arrange on a platter. They are eaten from the shell. Scalloped Grabs, — Pick the meat from the shells, mince it, and mix with a cream sauce ; season with salt and pep- per^ put the mixture in the crab shell or in scallop shells, cover with buttered cracker crumbs,, and bake till brown. Devilled Grabs, — Prepare as for scalloped crabs, add- ing mustard^ cayenne pepper,, and lemon juice to the seasoning. Grab Salad. — Mix the meat with a Mayonnaise dress- ing^ pack in the crab shells, and garnish with sliced lemon and cresses. Shrimps. Shrimps and Prawns are found in the summer season on the Southern coasts. The}" are similar in form to a lobster, but very small. They should be cooked in boiling salted water from five to eight minutes. Remove the shells and head ; the part that is eaten resembles in shape the tail of a lobster. They are used in fish sauces, and are very effective as a garnish. Shrimp Salad and Shrimps en Goquille may be prepared like lobster. Canned shrimps are generally used in East- ern markets. Scalloped Shrimps. -^'Miake a tomato sauce (see page 193). Pick over one can of shrimps, and heat them in the sauce ;The Boston Cook Book. 185 add one glass of wine. Turn into a scallop dish, cover with buttered crumbs^ and bake till the crumbs are brown. Reptiles. Fried Frogs. — Frogs are considered a delicacy b}^ those w^ho have cultivated a taste for them. If not already pre- pared for cooking, remove the skin from the hind legs^ which is the onl}^ part used. Dip in crumbs^ seasoned with salt and pepper^ then in egg^ and again in crumbs. Wipe the bone at tlie end; put in a basket, and fry one minute in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve in a circle, around a centre of green peas. Some parboil them three minutes in boiling salted water and a little lemon juice^ before frying. Frogs' legs may also be broiled^ or they ma}^ be made into a white or brown fricassee^ seasoned with mushrooms or tomato catchup. Terrapin. This expensive member of the turtle family is highly prized in Baltimore and Philadelphia, but seldom used in New England. Terrapin may be kept alive through the winter by putting them in a barrel, where they will not freeze, and feeding them occasionall}' with vegetable parings. Before cooking, soak them in strong salt water. Put them alive into boiling water, and boil rapidly ten or fifteen minutes. Remove the black outside skin from the shells, and the nails from the claws. Wash in warm water; then put them on again, in fresh boiling water; add a little salt, and boil about three quarters of an hour, or until the under shell cracks. Open them carefully over a bowl to save the grav}^, remove the under shell, the sand bags, the head, and the gall bladder from the liver. If the gall bladder be broken in the process, the whole dish will be ruined by the escaping gall. Put the upper shells on to boil again in the same water, and boil until tender; watch them carefull}^ and take each out as soon as186 The Boston Cook Booh. tender. Pick the liver and meat from the upper shell, and cut into several pieces. The intestines are used with the meat in winter, when the turtle is in a torpid condition ; but in the summer the}' should be thrown away. Boil the intestines hy themselves one hour. This should be pre- pared the day before. Heat the meat in the gravy. To each terrapin add one wineglassful of cream^ half a cup of butter, a little salt^ cayenne^ and one wineglassful of sherry. Use the turtle eggs if there be any; if not, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to each terrapin. Rub smooth, mixing with raw yolk enough to make into balls the size of tur- tle eggs. Add these and the wine just as 3'ou send the dish to the table. Green Turtle Soup. The green turtle is highly prized on account of the deli- cious quality of its flesh; but as it is very large and ex- pensive the canned turtle is more generally used. One can of green turtle^ one quart of brown stock, two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, one lemon. Cut the green fat into dice and lay it aside. Simmer the remain- der of the turtle meat in the stock for half an hour. Brown the flour in the browned butter, add it to the soup, season highly with salt and pepper. Serve with thin slices of lemon, egg balls, and the reserved green fat.187 The Boston Cook Book, MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. Drawn Batter^ or water and melted butter thickened with flour, and seasoned, is the simplest form of a sauce. When milk, or cream, or white stock is used in place of water, less butter is required, and the sauce is called White, or Cream, or Bechamel sauce. By browning the butter, using brown stock, and adding different seasoning materials, we have all the varieties of Brown sauces. Many people fail in making sauces by not cooking the flour sufficiently, and also by serving them with a mass of oily butter on the surface. Usuall}^ the flour is wet to a smooth paste and stirred into the boiling liquid. When made in this manner, the sauce should boil at least ten min- utes to have the flour thoroughly cooked. But by cooking the dry flour in the hot butter the starch in the flour is more quickly cooked, and the butter is all absorbed and converted into an emulsion. Sauces made in this manner are perfectlj^ smooth, free from grease, and have a fine flavor. Every one should learn how to make both white and brown sauces. They are adapted to nearly every form of food. Meats, fish, vegetables, eggs, macaroni, rice, toast, etc., are rendered more palatable by being served with an appropriate sauce. Put half the butter in a saucepan ; be careful not to let it become brown ; when melted, add the dry flour, and mix Drawn Butter Sauce. 1 pint hot water or white stock, cup butter, scant. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 3^ teaspoonf ul salt. 3^ saltspoonf ul pepper.The Boston Cook Book, i88 well. Add the hot water, a little at a time, and stir rapidly as it thickens. When perfectly smooth, add the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and stir till it is absorbed. Add the salt and pepper. When carefulh' made, this sauce should be free from lumps ; but if not smooth, strain it before serving. The following sauces maj^ be made with one pint of this plain drawn butter as a foundation : — Gaper Sauce (for Boiled Mutton). — Add six taUespoon- fuls of capers, Piclded Nasturtium seeds may be used in place of capers. Ugg Sauce (for Baked or Boiled Fish). — Add two or three hard-hoiled eggs^ sliced or chopped. Parsley Sauce (for Boiled Fish or Fowls). — Add two tdhlespoonfuls of chopped parsley. Lemon Sauce (for Boiled Fowl). — Add the juice and pulp of 07ie large lemon^ and the chichen liver boiled and mashed fine. Shrimp Sauce (for Fish). — Add half a pint of shrimps^ whole or chopped, two teaspoonfals of lemon juice., and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Acid Sauce, — Add one tahlespoonfal of lemon juice or vinegar., and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Mustard Sauce (for Devilled Turke}^, Salt Fish, etc.). — Add three tahlespoonfuls of mixed mustard and a Little cayenne pepper. Lobster Sauce (for Boiled Fish).— One pint of lobster meat., cut into quarter-inch dice. Put the inner shells and scraggy parts in one and a half pints of cold water, and boil fifteen minutes. Strain and use the water in making one pint of drawn butter sauce. Add the lobster dice., the dried and powdered coral., a little cayenne pepper., and two tahlespoonf uls oi lemon juice. Oyster Sauce (for Boiled Fish, Turkey, or Chicken). — Parboil one pint of oysters ; drain, and use the 03'ster liquor in making 07ie pint of drawn hntter sauce. Season with celery salt and cayenne pepper. Add the oj^sters ; cook one minute longer, and pour it over the fish or chicken. AddThe Boston Cook Booh 189 the beaten 3'olk of one egg or one glass of claret loine^ if you wish a richer sauce. Celery Sauce (for Boiled Fowl). — One pint of the ten- der part of celery^ cut ver}^ fine. Cook in boiling sailed water^ enough to cover, till tender. Drain; add enough hot water to that in which the celery was cooked to make a pint, and use it in making one pint of drawn butter sauce. Add the cooked celery and the seasoning. Richer Drawn Butter Sauce, — Make a plain drawn butter sauce^ and when ready to serve, pour it boihng hot into the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir thoroughly, season to taste, and serve at once. Sauce Piquante, — Add one tablespoonful each of vinegar and lemon juice,, two tablespoonfuls each of chopped capers^ pickles^ and olives^ half a teaspoonful of onion juice,, and a few grains of cayenne pepper,, to one pint of drawn butter. White Sauce (for Vegetables, Chicken, Eggs, etc.). 1 pint milk, or half milk and half white stock. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. ^ teaspoonful salt. }4> saltspoonful pepper. Heat the milk over hot water. Put the butter in a granite saucepan, and stir till it melts and bubbles. Be careful not to brown it. Add the dry flour, and stir quickly till well mixed. Pour on one third of the milk. Let it boil, and stir well as it thickens ; tip the saucepan slightly to keep the sauce from sticking. Add another third of the milk ; let it boil up and thicken, and stir vig- orously till perfectly smooth. Be sure that all the lumps are rubbed out while it is in this thick state. Then add the remainder of the milk ; let it boil, and when smooth add the salt and pepper, using more if high seasoning be desired. This white sauce may be used in place of drawn butter in any of the preceding rules. Bechamel Sauce, — A white sauce made partly with cream and partly with rich white stock, either veal orThe Boston Cook Book. I go chicken, according to directions for white sauce, is called Bechamel. The water in which celery, oysters, or lobsters have been cooked may be mixed with milk in making sauces given under these names. For Fish a la ere me and other preparations of fish, boil one slice of onio7i with the milk, or add half a teaspoonful of onion juice and one tahlespoonful of chopped parsley. For Oysters^ Sidd half a teaspoonful of cele?y salt, a few grains of cayenne pepper^ and one tahlespoonful of lemon juice. For boiled Fowl, add half a can of mushrooms. A richer white sauce is made by heating the yolks of two eggs, and pouring the hot sauce into them just before serving. Gurry Sauce (for Curried Eggs, Chicken, etc.). — Cook one tahlespoonful of chopped onion in one tahlespoonful of hutter five minutes. Be careful not to burn it. Mix one tahlespoonful of curry powder with two tahlespoonfuls of flour ^ and stir it into the butter. Add one pint of hot milk grad- uall}^, and stir as directed for white sauce. Cream Sauce, ISTo. 1. }^ teaspoonful salt, saltspoonf ul pepper. 1 pint hot cream. 1 heaping tahlespoonful butter. 2 heaping tahlespoonfuls flour. Make in the same manner as white sauce, and vary the seasoning for the dififerent dishes for which it is to be used, as directed in white sauce. A thicker Cream Sauce is given under rules for Cro- quettes. Cream Sauce, No. 2. Warm one cup of cream. Beat the yolks of two eggs, strain them into the warm cream, and cook over hot water till the eggs thicken the cream like boiled custard. Stir all the time and when smooth and thickened remove from the fire, and add salt and pepper to taste. Serve with boiled celery, cauliflower, chicken, oysters, fish, etc.The Boston Cook Booh 191 Brown Sauce. 1 pint hot stock. 2 tablespoonf uls minced onion. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. % teaspoonful salt. 32 saltspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Caramel enough to color. Mince the onion and ivy it in the butter five minutes. Be careful not to burn it. When the butter is brown, add the drj' flour and stir well. Add the hot stock a little at a time, and stir rapidly as it thickens, until perfect^ smooth. Add the salt and pepper, using more if high seasoning be desired. Simmer five minutes, and strain to remove the onion. The stock for brown sauces may be made from bones and remnants of any kind of meat, by soaking them in cold water, and boiling until the nutriment is extracted. The onion may be omitted if the flavor be not desired; but the sauce is better with it if it be not burned. By the addition of different seasoning materials to this brown sauce a great variety of sauces may be made. Half the quantity given is suflScient for most entrees, or to use for an}^ purpose in a small family. Be very careful not to burn the butter, as the desired color can better be obtained by adding caramel. Brown Sauce Piquante (for Beef). — To one cup of hrown sauce add one tahlespoonful each of chopped pickles and capers. Sauce Poivrade. — Make one cup of hrown sauce; add one teaspoonful of mixed herbs^ thyme^ parsley^ hay leaf and cloves. Simmer' ten minutes ; add two tablespoonfuls of claret.^ and strain. Sauce Robert.—To one cup of hrown sauce., add one teaspoonful of sugar^ one teaspoonful of made mustard., and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Brown Mushroom Sauce (for Beef). — To one cup of hrown sauce add half a can of mushrooms., whole or quar- tered, and simmer five minutes. Currant Jelly Sauce (for Mutton). — Make one cup of192 The Boston Cook Book, hrown sauce^ strain it, and add half a cup of melted currant jelly. Heat till the jelly is well mixed, and serve very hot. Olive Sauce (for Roast Duck). — Soak twelve olives in hot water enough to cover, thirty minutes, to extract the salt. Pare them round and round, close to the stone, leaving the pulp in a single piece, which should curl back into the natural shape after the stone is removed. Make one cup of hrown sauce^ add the olives, and simmer ten minutes. Oumberland Sauce, — To one cup of hrown sauce add one teaspoonful of made mustard^ two tahlespoonfuls of currant ielly^ and two tahlespoonfuls of wine. Flemish Sauce (for Beef or Veal). — Cut a cupful of the red part of carrot into quarter-inch dice, and cook in boiling salted, water till tender. Make one cup of hrown sauce,, add the cooked carrot, hcdf a tablespoonful of chopped parsley^ one tablespoonful esich of chopped pickles and grated horseradish. Sauce a la Italienne, — Fry one tablespoonful of fine chopped shalots in one tablespoonful of salad oil till yellow. Add one bay leaf a sprig of parsley^ one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms; fry five minutes. Remove the bay leaf, add two tahlespoonfuls of flour^ mix well, and add one cup of stock. When smooth, add two tahlespoonfuls of mushroom catchup,, and one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Serve without straining. Chestnut Sauce (for Roast Turke}^). — Remove the shells from one pint of large chestnuts. Scald or boil them three minutes to loosen the inner skin. Remove the skin ; break them in halves, and look them over carefully. Cook in salted boiling water or stock till very soft. Mash fine in the water in which they were boiled. Cook one tablespoon- ful of flour in two tahlespoon fuls of brown butter^ stir into the chestnuts and cook five minutes. Add salt Sind pepper to taste. The boiled chestnuts ma}^ be added to the gravy made from the drippings of the poultr}^, or to one cup of white193 The Boston Cook Booh sauce. Common chestnuts are much sweeter and more highly flavored, but it takes a long time to prepare them. Peanut Sauce may be made in the same manner. Port Wine Sauce (for Venison). — Half a cup of port wine, half a glass of melted currant jelly, one saltsp'oonfid of salt, a little cayenne pepper, one teaspoonfal of lemon juice, half a cup of th ick brown stock, or half a cup of the drippings from the meat freed from fat. Heat all together till very hot. Espagnole Sauce. — Boil one quart of strong consomme or rich, highly seasoned brown stock, till reduced to one pint. Then use it as given under the rule for brown sauce, and flavor with wine. Bread Sauce (for Game). 1 pint milk. % teaspoonful salt. cup fine bread crumbg. % saltspoonful pepper. 2 tablespoonf uls chopped onion. % cup coarse bread crumbs. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful butter. Boil the flne bread crumbs and onion in the milk fifteen minutes, and add' the butter, salt, and pepper. Fry the coarse bread crumbs in another tablespoonful of butter till brown. Pour the sauce around the birds, and sprinkle the brown crumbs over the whole. Soubise Sauce (for Lamb or Mutton Chop). Boil three large onions till very soft. Drain, and rub the onion through a sieve. Stir the onion pulp into half a pint of white sauce made with milk or cream. Tomato Sauce (for Macaroni). Stew half a can of tomatoes and half a small onion ten minutes. Eub all the tomato pulp through a strainer. Cook one tablespoonful of butter and one heaping table- spoonful of flour in a granite saucepan; add the strained tomatoes gradually, and one saltspoonful of salt and a shake of white pepper, 13194 The Boston Cook Book. Tomato Sauce (for Chops or Fish). can tomatoes. 1 cup water. 2 cloves. 2 allspice berries. 2 peppercorns. 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs. 2 sprigs parsley. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 1 tablespoonful butier. 1 heaping tablesp. cornstarch. 3^ teaspoonful salt. }^ saltspoonful pepper. Put the tomato, water, spices, herbs, and parsley on to boil in a granite saucepan. Fry the onion in the butter till yellow, add the cornstarch, and stir all into the tomato. Simmer ten minutes ; add the salt and pepper, and a little cayenne pepper, and strain the sauce over boiled meat or HoUandaise Sauce (for Baked or Boiled Fish). (Miss Parloa.) Rub the butter to a cream in a small bowl with a wooden or silver spoon. Add the yolks, one at a time, and beat well; then add the lemon juice, salt, and pepper. About five minutes before serving, add the boiling water. Place the bowl in a saucepan of boiling water and stir rapidly until it thickens like boiled custard. Pour the sauce around the meat or fish. Mix the vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and Worcestershire sauce in a small bowl, and heat over hot water. Brown the butter in an omelet pan, and strain into the other mixture. fish. 3^ cup butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. Juice of % lemon. 1 saltspoonful salt. saltspoonful cayenne pepper, cup boiling water. Tartar Sauce (Hot, for Broiled Fish). 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. sauce. 1 saltspoonful salt. cup butter.The Boston Cook Book. 195 Tartar Sauce (for Broiled or Devilled Chicken). One tahlespoonfid each of mustard^ Chili vinegar, shaJot vhiegar^ and claret wine, and two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce. Heat in a bowl over hot water, and pour it over the chicken. Horseradish Sauce (Hot, for Beef). 4 tablesp. grated horseradish. 1 teaspoonful salt. 4 tablesp. powdered cracker. % saltspoonful pepper. 3^ cup cream. 1 teaspoonful made mustard. 1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Mix, and heat over hot water. Horseradish Sauce (Cold). Cream one fourth of a cup of butter till very light; add two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one tablespoonful of ver}^ thick cream, and half a teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar. Keep it on the ice till thick and cold. Sauce Tartare (Cold, for Fried or Boiled Fish, Tongue, Fish Salad, or Broiled Chicken). 1 teaspoonful mustard. ] 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. ^ saltspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful chopped olives. 1 tablespoonful chopped capers. 1 tablespoonful chopped cucum- ber pickles. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 1 saltspoonful salt. Few drops onion juice Yolks 2 raw eggs. % cup oil. Mix in the order given ; add the yolks, and stir well; add the oil slowly, then the vinegar and chopped ingre- dients. This will keep for several weeks. Maitre d'Hotel Butter (Cold, for Beefsteak). cup butter. . }4 teaspoonful salt, saltspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Rub the butter to a cream ; add salt, pepper, parsley, and lemon juice. Spread it on hot beefsteak.The Boston Cook Book, Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (Hot). Add the beaten yolks of two eggs to the cold Maitre d'Ho- tel butter^ and when ready to serve add one jpint of drawn butter^ made with strong white stock. Sauce for Fish BaUs (Cold). 2 teaspoonf uls dry mustard. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful soft butter. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Mix in the order given, in a granite saucepan ; add half a cup of boiling water^ and stir over the fire till it thickens and is smooth. Serve it cold. Mint Sauce (for Lamb). 1 cup fresh chopped mint. I cup vinegar. ^ cup sugar. | Use only the leaves and tender tips of the mint. Let it stand an hour before serving. Use more sugar if the vin- egar be very strong.197 The Boston Cook Book. EG-GS. Whatever else you may economize in, do not limit your family in respect to eggs. They are nutritious, and even at four cents each are cheaper than meat. The}^ should be used freely by all except those who know they cannot digest them. Using freely does not mean their unnecessary or extravagant use in rich cakes, custards, etc., nor in the indigestible form of fried or what is ordinarily called hard- boiled eggs ; but it means the frequent use of them in any of the simple forms of boiling, baking, omelets, plain cake, and other wholesome combinations. It is very poor econ- omy^ especially for those who keep hens, to exchange eggs' for corned beef or salt fish : or to use soda and cream of tartar as a substitute for eggs in sponge cake, or half- cooked flour in an omelet. The}^ may be served in an unlimited variety of styles, are especially suitable for breakfast or lunch, attractive as a garnish, and when combined with sugar and milk make the most healthful puddings, desserts, or tea dishes. But though a type of perfect food, eggs are not intended to be eaten exclusively, any more than other foods. They are one of the most highly concentrated forms of food, and, being wholly destitute of starch, should be eaten with bread or rice The white of the egg has but a trace of fat in it, and requires the addition of butter, milk, or fat meat, like bacon or ham. The white of egg contains water, mineral ingredients, and soluble albumen ; the 3^olk has, in addi- tion to these, oil and sulphur. The albumen is enclosed in layers of thin-walled cells. When beaten, these walls break, and the albumen, owing to its glutinous nature, catches and holds the air, and increases to many times its original bulk.198 The Boston Cook Booh. Do not use an egg till it has been laid ten hours, as the white does not become set or thick till then, and cannot be beaten stiff. Eggs for poaching or boiling are best when thirty-six hours old. Albumen, when heated, becomes a dense solid ; if mixed and heated with a liquid, it hardens and entangles in its meshes any solids or impurities in the liquid, and rises to the surface with them as scum, or pre- cipitates them. It is thus the white of egg clears soups, jellies, and coffee. Strong acids, corrosive sublimate, and creosote will also coagulate albumen; and there- fore, if any of these poisons be taken into the system, the white of egg, swallowed quickly, will combine with the poison and protect the stomach. The shells of newly laid eggs are almost full; but as the shells are porous, on exposure to the air, the water inside evaporates, and the eggs grow hghter, while air rushes in to fill the place of the water, and causes the nitrogenous elements to decompose, and the eggs soon spoil. This explains wh}^ a good egg is heavy, and will sink in water; and wh}- a stale egg is lighter, has a rattling or gurgling sound, and floats in the water. Any- thing which will fill up the pores and thus exclude the air, when applied to perfectlj' fresh eggs, will preserve them indefinitely; a coating of liquid fat or gum, or a packing in bran or salt, with the small end downward, is effectual. Eggs should be kept in a cool, dark place, and handled carefully, as an}^ rough motion may cause the white and yolk to become mixed, hy rupturing the membrane which separates them, and then the egg spoils quickly. Never buy eggs about the freshness of which you have an}^ doubt, not even in winter. One can easily judge which is the better economy, — to pay twenty-five or thirty cents a dozen, and find none of them full and fresh, and perhaps half of them really rotten ; or to pay fifty cents, and obtain them freshl}^ laid, —not merely fresh from the countr}^, — and all sound and good. Eggs with a dark shell are richer and have larger yolks. Eggs are of betterThe Boston Cook Book. 199 flavor and more palatable in the spring, but are good and suitable, if perfectly fresh, at any season. Boiled Eggs (the Best Way). Put the eggs in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and let them stand about ten minutes where the water will keep hot (180°), but not boiling. The white should be of a soft jelly-like consistency, and the yolk soft but not liquid. Experience will show the exact time to keep the eggs in the water to suit individual tastes. The}^ should be served immediately, as they harden by being kept in the hot shell. An egg, to be cooked soft, should never be cooked in boiling water^ as the white hardens un- evenl}' before the heat reaches the yolk. Hard-hoiled Eggs, — Cook eggs for twenty minutes in water just below the boiling-point, for use in any receipt which specifies hard-boiled eggs. The 3^olk of an egg cooked ten minutes is tough and indigestible ; twenty minutes will make the yolk dry and meal}^; then it may be more easily rubbed smooth for salad or other mixtures, and more quickly penetrated by the gastric fluid. If the shell of an egg be cracked before boiling, pierce several small holes in the large end to keep the contents from bursting out at the crack. Dropped or Poached Eggs on Toast. Toast a slice of bread for each egg, and trim neatly, or cut with a round cutter before toasting. Have a very clean shallow pan nearly full of salted and boiling water. Remove all the scum, and let the water simmer. Break each egg carefully into a cup, and slip it gently into the water. Dip the water over them with a spoon, and when a film has formed on the yolk and the white is firm, take each up with a skimmer; drain, trim the edges, and place on the toast. Put a bit of butter and a little salt and pepper on each egg; or make a thin cream sauce and pour it around them. Put a tablespoonful of lemon juice200 The Boston Cook Book. in the water, or poach the eggs in muffin-rings to give them a better shape. An egg-poacher, something like a castor with perforated cups, is very convenient. No, 2. — Spread the toast with butter and anchovy paste or sardine paste,, and serve a poached egg on each slice; or spread the toast with 'potted or finely minced boiled ham. Ham and Eggs, — Serve poached eggs on thin slices of broiled ov fried ham ; when served on hot, highly seasoned boiled rice^ they are called Spanish Eggs, Eggs poached in Tomatoes^ or a la Dauphine, {M. L, Clarke,) — Stew slowly for ten minutes half a can of toma- toes and one small onion^ cut fine. Season highly with salt and pepper. Break six eggs into a bowl without beating, and when ever}'thing else is ready to serve, slip them into the hot tomatoes. Lift the white carefully with a fork, as it cooks, until it is all firm ; then prick the yolks and let them mix with the tomato and white. It should be quite soft, but with the red tomatoes, the white and yellow of the egg, quite distinct. Serve at once on toast. Scrambled Eggs. — Beat four eggs slightly with a fork ; add half a teaspoonful of salt,, half a saltspoonful of pepper,, and half a cup of milk. Turn into a hot buttered omelet pan and cook quickly, stirring all the time till the egg is firm but soft. Serve on toast or with hot minced ham or veal. Any of the ingredients given in fancy omelets may be mixed with the beaten eggs before cooking. No. 2. — Put a tablespoonful of butter in an omelet pan; when hot, add three whole eggs ; stir quickly till the mix- ture is firm but soft. Add a little salt and pepper,, and serve at once. Omelet. Beat the yolks of two eggs till light-colored and thick ; add two tablespoonfuls of milk,, one saltspoonful of salt,, and one fourth of a saltspoonful of pepper. Beat the whites of two eggs till stiff and dry. Cut and fold them lightly into the yolks till just covered. Have a clean, smoothThe Boston Cooh Book. 201 omelet pan. When hot, rub it round the edge with a teaspoonfiil of butter on a broad knife ; let the butter run all over the pan and when bubbling turn in the omelet quickl}' and spread it evenly on the pan. Lift the pan from the hottest part of the fire and cook carefuUj^, until slightly browned underneath; slip the knife under to keep it from burning in the middle. Put it on the oven grate to dry (not brown) the top. When the whole centre is dry as you cut into it, run a knife round the edge, then under the half nearest the handle, and fold over to the right. Hold the edge of a hot platter against the lower edge of the pan, and in- vert the omelet upon the platter. Or add only half of the beaten whites to the 3^olks, and when nearly cooked spread the remainder over the top ; let it heat through ; fold over, and the white will burst out round the edge like a border of foam, making a foam omelet^ or any fancy name you may choose to give it. If 3'ou have no omelet pan, or no convenience for dry- ing the omelet in the oven, use a smooth iron spider or frying-pan with a tin cover, and double the quantities given. Heat the pan and the cover very hot. Butter the pan, turn in the mixture, cover it, and place on the back of the stove for five minutes, or till firm. Fold as usual. Omelets should be only slightly browned, never burned, as the flavor of scorched egg is not'-agreeable. One tahlespoonful of chopped parsley^ or a teaspoonful of fine grated onion ^ or two or three tablespoonfuls of grated sweet corn may be added to the yolks before cooking. Thin slices of cold ham^ or three spoonfuls of chopped ham^ veal^ or chicken; stewed tomatoes or raw tomatoes sliced; chopped mushrooms^ shrimps^ oysters which have been par- boiled and drained ; cooked clams^ chopped fine ; or gratedThe Boston Cook Book. 202 cheese^ — ma}^ be spread on the omelet before folding, giving all the varieties of fancy omelets^ each variety taking the name of the additional ingredient. ^(j, 2. — Beat six eggs until light and foamy with a Dover ecrcr-beater ; add half a teaspoonful of salt and one scant salt- spoonful of pepper, and one cup of milk. Fry a large spoon- ful at a time in a hot pan or on a griddle, and roll over quickly like a French pancake. This is a convenient way where the family come irregularly to breakfast. The mix- ture may stand for some time if beaten again thoroughly before frying. Creamy Omelet, {Mrs. Ewing.) — Beat/oz^r eggs slightly with a spoon till you can take up a spoonful. Add a scant half-teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspgonful oipepper, four tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, and mix well. Butter a hot omelet pan, and before the butter browns turn in the mixture. Then with the point of a fork pick or lift up the cooked egg from the centre and let the uncooked egg run under. This leaves the butter on the pan, and is better than stirring. Continue the lifting until the whole is of a soft creamy consistency; then place it over a hotter part of the fire to brown sHghtly; fold and turn out as usual. Sweet or Jelly Omelet. — Allow a teaspoonful of powdered sugar to each egg, and omit the pepper. Mix and cook as in Omelet No. 1, and when ready to fold put two or three tablespoonfuls of any kind of preserves, marmalade, or jelly on the top. Fold and sprinkle with sugar. Orange Omelet. — The thinly grated rind of one orange and three tablespoonfuls of the juice, three eggs, and three tea- spoonfuls of powdered suyar, Fio. 11. Orange Omelet. -g^^^ ^^^^^ . ^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ rind, and juice; fold in the beaten ivhites, and cook as in Omelet, No. 1. Fold, turn out, sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar, and score in diagonal lines with a clean red-hot poker. The burnt sugar gives to the omelet203 The Boston Cook Book, a delicious flavor. Or cut the orange into sections, re- move the seeds and tough inner skin; cut each section into pieces, and mix with the yolks before cooking; or spread part of the orange over the omelet before folding, and sprinkle the remainder over the sugared top. This is a convenient dessert for an emergencj^, and may be prepared in ten minutes if one have the oranges. Omelet Souffle,—Allow a heaping teaspoonful of pow- dered sugar^ a few drops of lemon or vanilla for flavoring, and two whites to each yolk. To make a small omelet, beat the yolks of two eggs, till light and thick; add two heaping teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar and hcdf a teaspoon- ful of lemon or vanilla. Beat the whites of four eggs till stifl* and drj^, and fold them lightly into the 3^oiks. Put it by the tablespoonfuls lightly into a well-buttered baking- dish. Cook in a moderate oven about twelve minutes, or till well puflfed up and a straw comes out clean. Serve at once, as it falls quickl}'. Baked Eggs. Small stone china dishes or egg-shirrers, holding one oi two eggs for each person, are convenient for this method of serving eggs ; or use a common platter placed over hot water ; or bake in the shells in a moderate oven ten minutes, first pricking several holes with a large pin in the large end of the egg, to keep the air within from bursting the shell as it expands. No. 1. —Break each egg into a cup, being careful not to break the 3^olk, and put the eggs on a hot buttered dish suitable for serving. Put a little salt on each egg. Bake until the white is firm. Add a little butter and serve at once. Garnish each egg with thin strips of breakfast bacon. No. 2.— Cover the buttered dish vfiiXi fine cracker crumbs. Put each egg carefully in the dish, and cover lightlj^ with seasoned and buttered crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are brown.The Boston Cooh Booh, 204 No, 3. — Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and salt slightlj'. Spread it roughly on a platter; make a nest or cavity for each yolk some distance apart. Season, and bake till the white is brown. No. 4. — Cover the dish with any poultry gravy you may chance to have, or with white sauce^ and have a slice of toast or bread sauted for each egg. Set the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water, and when toast and gravy are hot drop the eggs on the toast, and bake till the eggs are set. Eggs en Coquille.— Cut slices of stale bread in large rounds ; then with a smaller cutter cut half-way through and scoop out the centre, leaving them shaped like n. pate shell, with the cavity large enough to hold one egg. Dip these bread shells in raw egg^ beaten with a little milk., and saute, or fry them in hot fat. Put them on a platter covered with hot white sauce or poultry gravyand serve a poached egg in each shell; or put a raw egg in each and bake till the eggs are set. Half a cup of chopped or sliced mushrooms may be cooked in the gravy. The shells may be toasted if you prefer. No. 2.—Take half a cup of soft bread crumbs^ an equal amount of fine chopped ham or tongue., and a little pepper., salt^ parsley^ mustard., and melted butter. Make it into a smooth paste with hot milk or cream. Spread the mixture on some scallop shells. Break the eggs carefully, and put one in the centre of each shell; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper., Siudfine cracker crumbs moistened with melted butter. Set in the oven, and bake five or six minutes, or until the egg is firm. Or put the bread and meat mixture in a baking-dish, shaping it a httle to hold six or seven raw eggs; cover lightly with buttered crumbs^ and bake till the whites of the eggs are firm. Eggs and Minced Meat. — Chop one pint of cold chicken, ham, or veal fine, and rub it to a smooth paste ; add one table- spoonful of melted butter, one tahlespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and two beaten eggs. If too dry, moisten with a little cream or stock or gravy, but do not205 The Boston Cook Book. have it too soft to shape. Heat it in a frying-pan just enough to warm through, letting it dry off if too moist. Form it on a hot platter into a flat mound ; hollow the cen- tre, leaving a ridge of the mixture round the edge. Keep it hot, and put three or four poached eggs in the centre. Fig. 12. Eggs and Minced Meat. Garnish with triangles of toast laid round the base of the meat. Or, if you have a larger quantit}^ of meat, prepare as above, and make a mound one inch deep on a round dish and a smaller mound above that, and place eggs baked in cups, or hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, or egg baskets on the space between the mounds. Garnish with parsley. Pannikins. — Warm minced ham or tongue or veal in a thick cream sauce, and pile it in the centre of a platter. Heat and butter some earthen cups, break an egg in each, and bake till the egg is firm. Turn them out and arrange round the meat. Various Ways of Serving Hard-boiled Eggs. Curried Eggs. —Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Eemove the shells and cut into halves or slices. Fry one teaspoon- fal of chopped onion in one tablespoonful of butter.^ being careful not to burn it; add one heaping tablespoonful of flour or one even tablespoonful of cornstarch mixed with half a tablespoonful of curry powder. Pour on slowly one cup and a half of white stock or milk or cream ; add salt and pepper to taste. Simmer till the onions are soft. Add206 The Boston Cook Book, the eggs, and when warmed through serve in a shallow dish; or arrange the eggs on hot toast^ and pour the sauce over them ; or cover with buttered crumbs and bake till the crumbs are brow^n. Egg Vermicelli. —Boil three eggs twent}^ minutes. Sepa- rate the j^olks and chop the whites fine. Toast four slices of bread; cut half into small squares and half into points or triangles. Make one cup of thin white sauce with one cup of cream or milk^ one teaspoonful of butter^ one heaping teaspoonful of Jlour^ half a teaspoonfid of salt^ and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Stir the whites into the sauce, and when hot pour it over the squares of toast. Rub the yolks through a fine strainer over the whole, and garnish with a border of toast points and a bit of parsley in the centre. Or cut the bread into rounds before toasting. Pour the white sauce on the hot platter, and put the rounds of toast on the sauce some distance apart. Put a little of the chopped white on each slice, pile it high on the edge, rub the yolks through a fine strainer over the centre, and lay small sprigs of fine parsley between the toast. Stuffed Eggs. — Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Re- move the shells and cut carefully lengthwise. Remove the 3^olks, and put the two whites of each egg together, that the}^ may not become mixed. Mash the yolks, and add one teaspoonful of soft butter, a few drops of onion juice., and half the quantity of potted or dev- Fig. 13. Stuffed Eggs garnished with .77 , , r\ 'i* Parsley. '^ll^d ham OY tongue. (Jr, it minced chicken., lamb., ovveal be used, season to taste with salt^ pepper^ mustard^ and cayenne or chopped parsley. Fill the whites with the mix- ture, smooth them, and press the two halves together, being careful to fit them just as they were cut. Spread the remainder of the 3'oik mixture on a shallow dish and place the eggs on it. Cover with a thin white sauce, or207 The Boston Cook Book. any chicken or veal gravy ; sprinkle buttered crumbs over the whole, and bake till the crumbs are a delicate brown. No. 2. —After the eggs are filled with the mixture and put together as above, roll each egg in fine bread crumbs and beaten egg and in crumbs again, then repeat the pro- cess, and fiy in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve hot with tomato sauce or garnished with parsley, Scotch Eggs, — One cup of lean cooked ham chopped ver}'' fine ; six hard-boiled eggs. Cook one third of a cup of stale bread crumbs in one third of a cup of milk to a smooth paste. Mix it with the ham ; add half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard^ half a saltspoonful of cayenne^ and one raw egg. Mix well^ remove the shells from the eggs, and cover with the mixture. Fry in hot fat two minutes. Drain, and serve hot or cold, for lunch or picnics. Cut them into halves lengthwise, and arrange each half on a bed of fine parsley. The contrast between the green, red, white, and yellow gives a very pretty effect. No. 2.—Boil eggs twent}^ minutes. Make a force- meat with one cup of any kind of cold meat finel}^ chopped, half a cup of soft bread crumbs cooked to a paste, in one third of a cup of milk and one raw egg., beaten light, using just enough of the egg to unite the mixture, being careful not to have it too soft. If chicken be used, season with chopped parsley and a pinch of herbs; season ham with mustard and cayenne ; veal., with lemon juice or horseradish; and salmon^ with lemon and cayenne. Divide the eggs crosswise or lengthwise, or leave them whole. Cover each half or whole egg thickly with the force-meat, and place them on a buttered tin pan and bake in a hot oven till slightly browned. Arrange on a hot platter with a white sauce poured around (not over) them. Scalloped Eggs. —Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of white sauce with stock and cream or milk^ and season to taste. Moisten one cup of fine cracker crumbs in one fourth of a cup of melted butter or cream. Chop fine one cup of ham., tongue., poultry., or fish. Remove the208 The Boston Cook Book. yolks of the eggs, and chop the whites fine. Put a laj^er of buttered crumbs in a buttered scallop dish, then a layer of chopped whites^ white sauce^ minced meat^ yolks rubbed through a fine strainer, and so on, until the material is all used, having the buttered crumbs on the top. Bake till the crumbs are brown. Egg Balls in Baskets.—Boil three eggs twenty- minutes. Eemove the shells, cut oflf a thin slice at each end, that the eggs may stand upright, and cut in halves crosswise. Remove the 3^olks, and stand the cups or baskets thus made around the edge of a platter. Rub the yolks to a smooth paste; add an equal amount of cooked ham or tongue^ chopped fine, one tablespoonful of melted, butter^ salt^ pep- per^ and mustard to taste. Make into balls the size of the original yolks, and fill the cups. Make one cup of white sauce., with cream or milk and white stockseasoned with salt and pepper. Pour it in the centre of the eggs. Set the platter in the oven a few minutes, and when read}^ to serve put a tiny bit of parsley on each ball. In place of the meat, you may use, if you prefer, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese., a speck of cayenne pepper., and moisten with vinegar and olive oil. Boil three eggs twenty minutes. Cut oflT a slice at each end, and cut the eggs in halves crosswise. Remove the yolks, and cut them in ^...^ """""--^^ thin slices. Mix with cups with the mixture. Place them on a shallow dish and pour 07ie cup of thick cream sauce (page 190) around them. The sauce should come nearly to the top of the cups. Or cut the eggs in halves, and place them with the cut side down and serve in the sauce. Eggs a la Creme; them an equal amount of small thin pieces of cold chicken, ham, salmon, or lobster^ and season to taste. Fill the white Fig. 14. Eggs a la Creme.The Boston Cook Book, 209 Eggs in a Nest. Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Remove the shells. Separate the yolks without breaking; or rub them to a smooth paste with a little olive oil to moisten, and shape into small balls. Cut the whites in thin narrow slices, and mix with them an equal quantit}^ of fine shredded chicken^ ham^ or salmon^ and a tahlespoonful of fine sprigs of parsley. Pile this mixture, which should be light and dry, on a platter in a circular or oval ring, and put the yolks in the centre. Set the platter in a steamer, to heat the mixture. Make a pint of thick white sauce ; pour enough of it round the edge of the dish to come half-way up the nest, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. The same materials may be served cold as Devilled JEggs. Mix a little cayenne pepper and made mustard with the yolks and also with the shredded meat; add a sprink- ling of vinegar^ and garnish the dish with parsley or water- cresses. Or serve as a salad, garnished with cresses or lettuce^ and sprinkle a French dressing over the whole. Egg Salad may be served in this form. Cut the yolks in dice, and mix them lightly with diced chicken, salmon, fish, or lobster; fill the white cups heaping with the mixture, and serve on a bed of lettuce or cresses, with French or Mayonnaise dressing. 142IO The Boston Cook Book, MEAT. Meat is a general term applied to the flesh of animals used for food. It includes the muscular flesh, sinews, fat, heart, liver, stomach, brains, and tongue. Meat is divided into three classes : — Meat^ including beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and pork. Poultry^ including chicken, turke3^ geese, and ducks, or all domestic fowls. Game^ including partridges, grouse, pigeons, quail, or other birds, venison, and any wild meat that is hunted in the forest or field. Meat consists of several substances, —fibrine^ alhumen^ gelatine^ fat^ and the juice of Jlesh, Fihrine exists in the blood and flesh. In the former it is soluble, owing to the alkaline nature of the blood ; it is deposited by the blood, made into flesh, and becomes insoluble flesli-fibrine, and forms the basis or fibre of mus- cular tissue. It is separated into bundles \>y membranes, and into larger separate masses by cellular tissue, in which fat is deposited. Its true color is white ; but the blood in the veins which penetrate everj^ part of the fibre gives it a reddish tinge. This ma}' be seen b}^ washing a piece of lean meat in cold water. The red coloring matter is soon drawn into the water, and the meat is a mass of white fibre. Fibrine is hardened and contracted by intense heat, but softened by moderate and long- continued heat. Meat that has tough fibre should simmer and not boil. Albumen exists in the flesh and in the blood. It is the soluble portion of the flesh. It dissolves in cold water, but hardens in hot water. Gelatine is a peculiar substance found in the tendons21 I The Boston Cook Book. and gristly parts of flesh, the shin, and the sinewj^ parts about the joints, and in the nutritive parts of bones. It may be dissolved by soaking in cold water, and then boil- ing gentl}^ for several hours. The solution hardens when cold. Gelatine hardens in a dry heat, and such parts of meat as contain it in abundance should be stewed, rather than roasted or broiled. Fat of meat is contained, a good measure of it, in the adipose tissue of almost all flesh which is used as food. It is liquefied by heat, and resolved into various acid and acrid bodies. It is a warmth-giver, and is therefore most appropriately used in cold seasons and climates. The juice of the flesh consists of water, a small propor- tion of albumen, and a mixture of other compounds. It is not the blood, for it still exists after the blood has been withdrawn. It may be obtained b}^ chopping lean meat fine, putting it in a closel}^ covered jar without water, and heating it gradually. If heated above 160°, the albumi- nous matters in it harden and turn brown. The solid residue, consisting of fibres, tissue, etc., is white, tasteless, and inodorous. This separated juice is strong!}^ acid, while the blood is always alkaline. It contains many sub- stances which are very valuable as food, and the savory principle, or ozmazome^ which gives flavor to the meat and causes it to difler in different animals. Meat should always be cooked in such a manner as to retain the largest proportion of this juice. The juice is drawn out into the brine in salting, and this renders salt meat less nutritious. The juice when the water has been separated from it b}' evaporation, is termed extract of meat. The flesh of all young animals is more tender, but not so nutritious as that of maturer animals. Nearly all parts of an animal may be used as food. Meat is in season all the year; but certain kinds are better at stated times. Pork is good only in autumn and winter; veal^ in the spring and summer; venison^ in the winter ; fowls^ in autumn and winter ; lamh^ in the summer and fall; mutton and beef at any time.The Boston Cook Book. 212 Fig. 15. Diagram of Ox. 1. Tip of Sirloin. 2. Middle of Sirloin. 3. First Cut of Sirloin. 4. Back of Rump. 5. Middle of Rump. 6. Face of Rump. 7. Aitch Bone. 8. Lower Part of Round. 8^. Top of Round. 9. Vein. 10. Poorer Part of Round. 11. Poorer Part of Vein. 12. Shin. 13. Boneless Flank. 14. Thick Flank with Bone. 15. First Cut of Ribs. c. Chuck Ribs. d. Neck. 16. Rattle Rand. 17. Second Cut of Rattle Rand. 18. Brisket (a. the navel end; butt end). 19. Fore Shin. b the 3 ^' \7/ ^3 //I Fig. 16. Hind Quarter of Beef. The figures in the hind quarter correspond to those in the same section of the whole ox.213 The Boston Cook Booh. All meat should be removed from the brown paper in which it is wrapped as soon as it comes from the market, or it will taste of the paper and the paper will absorb the meat juices. Wipe all over with a clean wet cloth. Chops and steaks will keep sweet much longer if examined at once, and any parts that are not clean and sweet removed. In warm weather look at the meat often. Put it on a dish near, but never directly upon, the ice. Cost of Meat and Game. Shin of beef, 3 to 6 cts. per lb. Lamb, leg. 14 to 30 cts. per lb. Middle cut of shir , 7 to 10 Lamb, chops. 15 to 40 " Lower part of Lamb, fore round, 13 to 15 u u quarter. 10 to 25 Vein, 20 to 25 Veal, knuckle. 12 to 17 " Top of round. 20 to 25 U (( Veal, cutlet. 22 to 28 " Aitch bone, 8 to 10 (( (< Veal, breast. 9 to 14 " " Face of rump, 17 to 22 Sweetbreads, 25 to 70 " whole. Middle, ^' 25 to 28 U (( Calf's liver, 25 to 70 " Back, " 22 to 30 Calf's heart. 5 to 8 each. Sirloin, 28 to 33 Calf's head, Fresh pork. 25 to 60 " " Whole tenderloin, 75 c. to i U.OO " 9 to 15 " per lb. Small 30 to 45 cts. " Salt pork, 11 to 15 " " Tip of sirloin, 22 to 30 Bacon, bag. 17 to 20 " First cut of rib, 17 to 25 Bacon, slices, 15 to 18 " " Second cut of rib, 15 to 20 U (.1 Hani, bag, 17 to 20 " Chuck rib, 7 to 14 Ham, sliced. 20 to 25 *' Second cut, rib Lard, 11 to 15 " " corned, 12 to 15 U 11 Leaf lard, 10 to 15 Brisket, 8 to 12 il u Sausage, Turkeys, 12 to 20 " Boneless brisket, 15 il (i 20 to 35 " Flank, 6 to 11 11 u Fowl, 12 to 30 " Liver, 10 to 12 (( u Chickens, 18 to 75 " Tripe, plain, 6 to 18 u a Ducks, wild, 25 c. to $1.50 each. Tripe, honey-comb, 15 Ducks, tame. 20 to 37 cts. per lb. Heart, 3 to 10 4( u Ducks, Canvas- Suet, 7 to 12 u u back, $1.50 to $2.00 each. Mutton, leg, 12 to 20 Grouse, 75 c. to $1.25 " Mutton, loin, 14 to 20 Partridge, 75 c. to $1.25 " Mutton, saddle, 15 to 20 Pigeon, wild, 75 c. to $2.00 per d. Mutton, chops. 15 to 25 u (( Pigeon, tame. 12| to 25 cts. each. Mutton, fore Squab, $2.50 to $4.50 per d. quarter, 8 to 12 It (( Quail, $1.50 to $3.00 Mutton, neck, 6 to 9 (( uThe Boston Cook Book. 214 BEEF. Good beef should be bright red, well marbled with yel- lowish-white fat, and with a thick outside layer of fat. The flesh must be firm, and when pressed with the finger no mark should be left. The suet should be dry, and crumble easily. A side of beef is divided into the hind quarter and fore quarter^ The hi7id quarter consists of the round, the rump, and the loin. The fore quarter is divided into the back half and the rattle rand. In cutting up a hind quarter, the flank is first removed. The cut should slant two or three inches toward the tip. The upper part from 7 to 9. The aitch bone (7) lies between the back and middle cut of the rump and the top of the round. It is usually sold whole; it makes a good roast for a small family, considering the price (10 cents), and is the best piece for a beef stew. The first cuts of the vein (9) which joins the face of the rump make good steak. The top of the round is Fig. 17. Aitch Bone. of the flank has the ends of the short ribs, and is used for corning. The lower end of the flank has no bones. This may be stufled, rolled, and boiled, either fresh or corned. The round is sep- arated from the rump in the lineThe Boston Cook Book, 215 the inside of the thickest part of the leg (8^, behind 8 in the diagram). As seen on the counter, it is above the bone. It consists of one large section or muscle with a thick edge of fat. Tlie best round steaks lie between this point and the ridge of fat. The third slice is considered the best. After cutting beyond this ridge comes the beginning of another muscle, which is very tough. One may easily detect, by the separation of this narrow strip of meat along the top of the slice, whether the meat came from the best part of the top of the round. It may be the Fig. 18. Round, showing the beginning of the tough muscle on the top. best the marketman has ; but it is not the best cut, though often palmed off in place of the third slice. The under part of the round has two sections or muscles, the one nearest the bone being larger than the outside section. The skin is thin, with very little fat. Steaks from this cut are sometimes sold as good round steak to the ignorant buyer; but keep in mind that in the top cut there is one large muscle with thick fat, instead of two smaller muscles and thin fat, and you will not be deceived. This under cut of the round is excellent for braising. It is well shaped, requires no trimming, and is the cheapest cut, as every scrap of it ma}^ be eaten. Below this, as we follow down the leg, are nice pieces for stews, pie meat, etc. The marrow bone, running through the round to the shin, contains the best marrow. The next best is in theThe Boston Cook Booh. 2l6 foreshin. The hind shin differs from the fore shin in hav- ing a thick tendon, which separates entirely from the end of the leg, and dnites again at the joint, forming a loop by which the hind quarter is hung on the meat hook. The middle cut of the shin may be used for stews and brais- ing, and the lower part for soups. The rump is usu- ally separated from the loin, and divid- ed into the back, Fig. 19. Back of Rump. middle, and face of the rump. The back of the rump, one of the best pieces for roasting, has part of the backbone and sometimes the rump bone, as some marketmen will not cut it out before weighing. The small end nearest the loin has the most tender meat. Fig. 20. First Cut of Sirloin, showing the bulging muscle on upper edge. The middle cut has no bone, but it is not tender. It is better for braising than for roasting. Some- times the rump is not divided, and is cut into steaks. If cut parallel with the backbone, it will be tough. If cut at right angles, and from the end nearest the loin, it makes the217 The Boston Cook Book. best steaks, and is well worth the extra price charged for cutting in this manner. The face of the rump has a thick piece of fat in the middle, often purposely' covered by a thin cutting from the ten- derloin. This is a cheap piece for roasting, but not of the best qualit3\ The sirloin is se^^arated from the rump in a slant- ing direction. Never buy the first slice, as it alwaj^s has a small narrow bone near the top in addition to the rib, and a larger por- tion of tough flank and gristle than the middle or second cuts. As it lies on yig. 21. Sirloin Roast, second Cut. the counter you ma}^ easily tell if it be the first slice by the small bone ; and if you press on the top of the meat near the middle, a small sec- tion of meat bulges out. This is the end of the muscle forming the face of the rump and vein, and is very tough. The second cut of sirloin has the most tenderloin, and only a straight rib at right angles with the backbone. Any part after the first slice is taken off, until you come to the tip, is called the second cut, and is sold for roasts or steak. The tip is very juicy. The whole hind-quarter is hung up by the shin, the juices all flow down, and the tip holds a large portion. The muscles which are the least used have the most tender fibre and the least juice. These muscles, lying along the loin or middle of the backbone, above the ribs, and forming the top of the sirloin, are more tender, but less juicy, than those of the rump and round. The tenderloin, Ij-ing along the middle of the back under the sirloin, from below the tip to the face of the rump, is protected b}^ its bed of suet below, and its roof of bones above. It is a muscle very little used, is very tender, but dry, and entirely without flavor. This is removedThe Boston Cook Book. 2l8 whole, and sold as the long fillet; or divided, and the smaller part, Ij'ing under the rump, sold as the short fillet. In cold weather it is economy to bu}^ a large sirloin. Remove the fillet, or tenderloin, and cook that first, as it Fig. 22. Tip of Sirloin. spoils easily; corn the flank, or use it for a stew; and roast the upper part. If very large, roast it slightly the first time, and it may be roasted again for a second dinner. The Fore Quarter. The back half of the fore quarter has the backbone on the upper edge. The best roasting piece is the first cut of the rib, which joins the tip of the sirloin, and is sometimes sold for the tip. The tip has onl}^ one thick muscle above the rib, and the bones are usually slanting. One side of the first cut of the rib looks just like the tip; the other side has the beginning of another tough muscle next to the skin, and the bones are straight. There are ten ribs in the fore quarter; three are left in the sirloin. This first cut may be one, two, three, or four ribs ; but two are enough to roast for a small family. The shoulder blade begins in the fifth rib, and above this lie what are called the chuck ribs. The meat above the blade is tough, andThe Boston Cook Book. 219 only suitable for stews. The part underneath is cut into small steaks, and is often offered for sale as sirloin steaks. The shoulder of mutton, just above the fore shin, is good for braising and pie meat. The rattle rand is divided into three long narrow strips, thick and lean at the upper end, and thin and fat at the lower end, all of which are usually corned. The upper part, called the rat- tle, is divided into Fig. 23. First Cut of Rib. three cuts. The thick upper end is preferred by those who like lean corned beef. The second cut has straight ribs running through it, and three distinct laj^ers of meat with fat, and is considered the choicest piece by those who like a streak of fat and Fig. 24. Chuck Rib, with six ribs removed. a streak of lean." The middle strip has a thick layer of fat, and only one layer of lean, and the bones are slanting. This is not a desirable piece. The lower strip is the brisket, the upper end of which is thick ; the lower end,220 The Boston Cook Book. toward the middle of the creature, is called the navel end. Brisket pieces alwaj-s have what is called a selvedge on the lower side, and the breast bones running at right angles with the rib. After a little experience in marketing one may easilj^ distinguish the various cuts of beef. It is well to know what you want, and to know whether you get what you have ordered. Roast Sirloin of Beef. Six or eight pounds from the tip or second cut of the sirloin. Wipe, trim, and tie or skewer into shape. If there be a large piece of the flank, cut it off, and use it for soups or stews. If you prefer to use it for this purpose after roast- ing, draw it round underneath and fasten it with a skewer. Lay the meat on a rack in a pan, and dredge all over with salt^ pepper^ and flour. Put it in a very hot oven with two or three tahlespoonfuls of drippings or pieces of the beef fat placed in the pan. Place a rack under the pan, or turn the heat off from the bottom of the oven. Put the skin side down at first, that the heat may harden the juices in the lean part. When the flour is brown on the pan and the meat is seared, baste with the fat and reduce the heat. Baste often, and dredge twice with salt and flour. When seared all over, turn and bring the skin side up for the final basting and browning. Bake fifty or sixty minutes, if liked very. rare ; an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, if liked well done. If there be any danger of burning the fat in the pan, add a little hot water after the flour is browned. Meat may be roasted and carved better if placed in the pan and on the platter with the skin up instead of the flesh side. Carve a sirloin roast by cutting several thin slices parallel with the ribs. Then cut down near the backbone and sep- arate the slices. Cut out the tenderloin from under the bone, and slice it in the same manner. Many turn the sirloin over and remove the tenderloin first. Serve a little of the crisp fat on the flank to those who wish it.221 The Boston Cook Booh Rib Roast — Remove the backbone and ribs. Skewer or tie into a round shape, and prepare as for sirloin. Allow a longer time for roasting, as the meat is in a more com- pact form without the bones. Place it skin side up on the platter, and carve thin slices from the flesh side. The Back of the Rump. — This is the best and cheapest piece for roasting, as the meat is all good and there is not as much bone as in other pieces. It is usually too large for a small famity ; but in cold weather it may be used to advantage, b}^ cutting steaks from the thickest end, using the small end for a roast and the bones for soup. In carving the rump, when the bone has not been taken out, a deep cut should be made at the base, to loosen the meat; then the slices may be cut lengthwise or crosswise. When the family is large and all the meat is to be used, it is well to cut it lengthwise. Should only a small quan- tity be needed, cut only from the small end, and save the tougher parts for a stew. Many think it more economical to serve the poorer parts the first day, as the}^ are then more palatable, reserving the tender meat to be served cold. Roast from the Round, — A slice three inches thick, from the best part of the top of the round, may be dredged with salt^ pepper, and flour, and roasted. Carve in thin slices, the same as steak. It is rather tough, but juicy and well flavored. Yorkshire Pudding, — Beat three eggs very light. Add one scant teaspoonful of salt and one pint of milk. Pour half a cup of this mixture on two thirds of a cup of flour, and stir to a smooth paste. Add the remainder of the mixture and beat well. Bake in hot gem pans forty-five minutes. Baste with the drippings from the beef. This is a more convenient way than to bake in the pan under the beef, and gives more crust. Serve as a garnish for roast beef. Gravy for Roast Beef — When the meat is done, put it on a plate, and keep it hot while making the gravy. Hold the corner of the dripping-pan over a bowl; let the liquid in the pan settle; then pour off all the fat and save it.222 The Boston Cook Booh When no water is used in baking and the oven is ver}^ hot, this liquid will be the fat from the meat. The brown flour will settle, and some will adhere to the pan. Pour one pint of hot water or stock into the pan, and scrape off all the sedi- ment. Pour this water into a saucepan from which it may be poured easily, and place it on the stove to heat. Put four tahlespoonfuls of the hot fat into a small frying-pan, and when browned stir in two heaping tahlespoonfuls of dry flour^ or enough to absorb all the fat. Stir until the flour is brown and well mixed ; then add the hot liquid grad- ually, and stir as it thickens. Season with salt and pepper^ and simmer five minutes. Strain if not perfectly smooth. Gravy can be made in the dripping-pan ; but such pans are usualh^ large, inconvenient to handle, and take up more space than can be spared on the top of the stove, and are much harder to wash when the gravy has been made in them. To make it in the pan, pour off" nearl}^ all the fat. Put the pan on the stove and add dry flour until the fat is all absorbed. Then add hot water or hot stocky and stir as it thickens. Cook five to eight minutes, and strain. It is well for those who like gravies to make a large quantity, as it is useful in warming over the remnants of the roast. But there is no sauce or made grav}- equal to the natural juices contained in the meat, which should flow freely into the platter when the meat is carved. Fillet of Beef—Wipe, and remove the fat, veins, and tough tendinous portion in the middle. Trim into shape. Lard the upper side (see page 25). Dredge with salt, pep- per, and four. Put several pieces of pork in the pan under Fig. 25. Fillet of Beef.The Boston Cook Book. 223 the meat. Bake in a hot oven twenty or thirty minutes. If you prefer, omit the pork and put the choice pieces of beef fat over the meat. Serve with mushroom sauce. Or brush the fillet with beaten egg^ and sprinkle seasoned and buttered crumbs all over it, and bake thirty minutes. Or stuff the incisions left by the removal of the veins and tendons with any stuffing or force-meat. Dredge with salt and flour^ and bake. Broiled Steak. Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat, and remove the bone. Save the flank end for broiled meat cakes. Grease the gridiron with some of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning every ten seconds. Cook three or four minutes, if liked rare ; longer, if well done. Serve on a hot platter. Season with butter^ salt^ and pepper^ or serve with Maitre d'Hotel butter. Steaks should be cut at least an inch thick. Many prefer them much thicker. Sirloin, cross cut of the rump, and top of the round are all good steaks. The round is juic}', but has a net work of tough white fibre, which makes it difficult to masticate. If the steak be very tough, pound it with a meat hammer (a hammer with sharp teeth for cutting) or cut across it several times with a sharp knife on each side. The intense heat will sear the surface quickl}', and prevent the escape of the juices. Many prefer not to remove the bone in a sirloin steak ; but it burns quickly, and is better for the soup kettle if not cooked, and the steak is more easily carved when the bone is removed. Carve in narrow slices, giving each person a bit of tenderloin, fat, and upper part. Broiled Fillet of Beef — Cut slices from the tenderloin. Wipe the meat; grease the gridiron ; broil over a clear fire, turning every ten counts, for three or five minutes. Spread with Maitre d''Hotel butter. Broiled Meat Calces. — Chop lean, raw beef quite fine. Season with salt^ pepper^ and a little chopped onion^ or onion juice. Make it into small flat cakes, and broil on a well- greased gridiron or on a hot frjing-pan. Serve very hot224 Boston Cook Book. with hutter or Maitre d'Hotel sauce. The flank end of the sirloin is better when cooked in this manner than when broiled with the other part of the steak. Hamburgh Steak, — Pound a slice of round steak enough to break the fibre. Fry two or three onions^ minced fine, in hutter until slightly browned. Spread the onions over the meat, fold the ends of the meat together, and pound again, to keep the onions in the middle. Broil two or three minutes. Spread with butter^ salt, and pepper. Braised Beef. Four to six pounds of beef from the lower part of the round or face of the rump. Trim, and rub well with salt^ pepper^ and flour. Cut two small onions into dice, and fry them until light brown in salt pork fat or drippings. Skim them out into a braising-pan or large granite pan; then brown the meat all over, adding more fat if needed. Put the meat into the pan on skewers, to keep it from stick- ing, with the onions around^ not under, the meat. Add one quart of boiling water and one tablespoonful of mixed herbs,, which should be tied in a small piece of strainer cloth. Cover closely, putting a brick on the cover to keep it down, and cook in a moderate oven four hours, basting every twenty minutes. Turn over after two hours ; add more water as it evaporates, so as to have one pint left for grav}^ When tender, take up the meat, remove the fat and bag of herbs from the gravy ; add more salt and pep- per,, and if desired add lemon juice,, tomato,, or mushrooms; thicken with two tahlespoonfuls of flour^ wet in a little cold water. Cook ten minutes, and pour the gravy over the meat. Garnish with potato balls^ boiled onions,, or with veg- etables \ la Jardiniere, Horseradish sauce maj^ be served with the meat. This is a very nutritious, palatable, and convenient way of cooking the cheaper parts of beef, a cushion of veal, tongues, fowls, liver, and some other kinds of meat. The meat is equally good cold or hot; there is no waste if care be taken not to let it become hard and dryThe Boston Cook Booh. 225 by being exposed to the air. This method of cooking commends itself especiall}^ to those who " are tired of roasted, boiled, or fried meat." Beef a la Mode. Four to six poimds from the under part of the round of beef^ cut thick. Wipe, and trim off the rough edges. Put it in a deep earthen dish, and pour over it spiced vine- gar, made b}^ boiling for five minutes one cup of vinegar, one onion ^ chopped fine ^ three teaspoonfuls of salt^ and half a teaspoonful each of mustard^ pepper^ cloves, and allspice. Let the meat stand several hours, turning it often. Then daub it with ten or twelve strips of salt pork, cut one third of an inch wide, and as long as the meat is thick, inserting them with a iarding-needle or carving-steel. Or make large incisions and stuff with bread crumbs, highlj^ seasoned with salt, pepper, onions, thyme, marjoram, etc., moistened with hot water J one tablespoonful of butter, and one well-beaten egg. Tie it into good shape with a narrow strip of cotton cloth, to keep in the stuffing. Dredge with flour. Cut two onions^ half a carrot, and half a turnip fine, and fry them in fat or drippings until brown. Put them in the stewpan. Then brown the meat all over in the fat; put it on a trivet in the pan, and half cover with boiling water. Add one tablespoonful of mixed herbs, tied in a small strainer cloth. Cover closely, and simmer four hours, or until tender. Take it up carefully, remove the strings, and put it on a large platter. Kemove the fat from the gravy, add more seasoning, and thicken with flour wet in a little cold water I boil eight minutes, and strain it over the meat. Garnish with potato balls and snmll onions, - Beef Stew with Dumplings. The aitch bone is the nicest piece for a beef stew. There is some very juic}^ meat on the upper side in the large muscle which lies next to the top of the round, and it will serve a small family for a roast, and then may be made 15The Boston Cook Book. 226 into a stew. The flavor obtained bj roasting adds much to the stew; for this reason, when the meat has not been cooked, brown it in a little fat before stewing. The bones should never be chopped and splintered, but sawed care- fully, and all the fine, crumbly pieces removed before cooking. Other good pieces for stews are two or three pounds from the middle cut of the shin^ or the flank end of a large sirloin roast, or the upper part of the chuck rib. Any part that has bone and fat, as well as lean, either cooked or uncooked, makes the best-flavored stv^^w. The fat and bones may be removed before serving, and such pieces are much better than dry, lean meat. Remove the meat from the bones, and put them with part of the fat into the stewpan. Cut the meat into small pieces, and if not previously cooked, dredge with salt^ pepper, smii flour, and brown all over in salt pork fat or drippings. Put it into the stewpan. Cut two onions^ one small white turnip^ and half a small carrot (if you like the flavor) into half-inch dice. Cook them slightly in the dripping, and add them to the stew. Add boiling ivater enough to cover, and sim- mer two or three hours, or till the meat is tender. Remove the bones, and skim off the fat. While the meat is cook- ing pare six or eight small potatoes^ and soak them in cold water. When the meat is tender, pour boiling water over them, and boil five minutes to take out the acrid taste. Drain, and add them to the stew. Add salt and pepper to taste. When dumplings are to be served with the stew, add them when the potatoes are nearly done. The liquor should come up just even with the potatoes, that the durnp- plings may rest on them. Cover closely to keep in the steam, and cook ten minutes without lifting the cover. Take out the dumplings, put the meat and i)otatoes in the centre of a hot platter, and the dumplings round the edge. Remove the fat, and add more salt and pepper^ if needed, to the broth ; and if not thick enough, add a little flour wet smooth in cold vmfer^ and boil five minutes. Add one cup of strained tomato and 07ie teaspoonful of chopped parsley.227 The Boston Cook Book. Pour the gravy over the meat, putting part of it in a sauce tureen if there be more thdn the platter will hold. Dumplings, — One pint of jiour^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ one teaspoonful of cream of tartar.^ and half a teaspoonful of soda (or two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder). Mix with one scant cup of sweet milk into a dough soft enough to handle easil3\ Pat it out half an inch thick. Cut in small rounds, or mix softer and drop by the spoonful into the boiling stew. Cook ten minutes. Rolled Flank of Beef. Four or Jive pounds of ihQ flank. Wipe, and remove the skin, membrane, and extra fat. Pound and trim until of uniform thickness. Make a stuffing with one cup of cracker crumbs., two tablespoonfuls of fine chopped salt pork., half a teaspoonful of salt., one saltspoonful each of thyme., marjoram., and sage.^ half a saltspoonful of pepper.^ a few drops of onion juice., or one teaspoonful of chopped onion., and one egg. Moisten with hot water until soft enough to spread over the meat. Roll over, and tie or sew securely. Wrap a cloth around it. Put it into boiling water, and simmer six hours or until tender. Remove the cloth, press it, and when cold remove the strings. Serve cold, cut in thin slices. Corned flank may be prepared in the same way. The stuffing may be omitted, and the meat covered with vinegar spiced and flavored with onion, and after remain- ing in the pickle several hours, rolled, and boiled as above. Smothered Beef, or Pot Roast. Four to six pounds from the middle ov face of the rump,, the vein^ or the round. Wipe with a clean wet cloth. Sear all over by placing in a hot frying-pan and turning till all the surface is browned. Put in a kettle with one cup of water., and place ifc where it will keep just below the boiling-point. Do not let the water boil entirely away, but add only enough to keep the meat from burning.228 The Boston Cook Book. Have the cover fitting closely to keep in the steam. Cook until ver}' tender, but do not let it break. Serve hot or cold. The meat when cold is delicious, cut in quarter- inch slices, and sauted in hot butter. Spiced Beef. Four to six pounds from the middle cut of the shin. Wash the meat on the outside, and cut off any part of the skin which is not sweet and clean. Pick off all the fine frag- ments of bone. Cut the meat into several pieces ; cover with boiling water. Skim carefully as it boils, and then simmer until the meat falls to pieces, and the liquor is reduced to half a pint, Remove the meat; season the liquor higlity with salt^ pepper^ sage, and thyme. Add it to the meat, and mix with a fork till the meat is all broken. Pack in a brickloaf pan. When cold, cut in thin slices. Corned Beef. Select a piece of beef which has a fair proportion of fat, — the brisket or second cut of rattle rand. If verj^ salt, soak in cold water half an hour. Put on to boil in fresh cold water, enough to cover it; skim carefully when it begins to boil, and cook slowl}', simmering (not boiling) until so tender that 3^ou can pick it to pieces with a fork. Let the water boil away toward the last, and let the beef stand in the water until partially cooled. Lift it out of the water with a skimmer, and pack it in a brickloaf pan ; let the long fibres run the length of the pan ; mix in the fat so that it will be well marbled. Put a thin board, a trifle smaller than the inside of the pan, over the meat, and press by putting a heavy weight on the board. When cold, cut in thin slices. It has a very attractive appearance, and is a delicious way of preparing the meat. It is also the most appetizing way of serving the fat of the meat, which in corned beef is the most nutritious part and is often un- touched if offered in a mass on the edge of the lean.229 The Boston Cook Book. An Old-fashioned Boiled Dinner. {Mrs. Poor.) Notwithstanding that this dish has fallen into ill-repute with many people, it ma^ be prepared so as to be both pal- atable and nutritious for those who exercise freely. It is more suitable for cold seasons. The most healthful and economical wa}^, though perhaps not the old-fashioned wa}^, is to boil the beef the day before. ^our pounds of corned heef^ two or three beets., a small cab- hage^ two small carrots., one small white French turnip.^ six or eight potatoes of uniform size^ and one small crooked-neck squash. Wash and soak the corned beef in cold water, and put it on to boil in fresh cold water ; skim, and simmer until ten- der, but not long enough for it to fall to pieces. Let it cool in the liquor in w^hich it was boiled. Put it into a flat shallow dish, cover it with a board, and press it. Remove all the fat from the meat liquor, and save it to clarify for shortening. Save the meat liquor, but do not let it stand in an iron kettle or tin pan. Boil the beets the day before, also, and cover them with vinegar. The next day prepare the vegetables. Wash them all, scrape the carrots, and cut the cabbage into quarters ; pare the turnip and squash, and cut into three-quarter-inch slices, and pare the potatoes. Put the meat liquor on to boil about tw^o hours before dinner time ; when boiling, put in the carrots, afterward the cabbage and turnip, and half an hour before dinner add the squash and potatoes. When tender, take the vegetables up carefully; drain the water from the cabbage hj pressing it in a colander. Slice the carrots. Put the cold meat in the centre of a large dish, and serve the carrots, turnips, and potatoes round the edge, with the squash, cabbage, and pickled beets in separate dishes ; or serve each vegetable in a dish b}^ itself. This may all be done the same day if the meat be put on to boil ver}^ early, removed as soon as tender, the fat taken off, and the vegetables added to the boiling meat liquor, beginning with those which require the longest time to230 The Boston Cook Book, cook. This will depend very much upon their freshness. But whichever way the dish is prepared, boil the beets alone, remove the meat and fat before adding the vege- tables, and serve each as whole and daintily as possible. The next morning use what remains of the vegetables as a vegetable hash. Vegetable Hash, — Equal parts of cahhage^ beets, and tur- nips, and as mwoh. potato as there is of all the other vege- tables. Chop all very fine ; add a little salt and pepper ; put a spoonful of drippings in the frying-pan, and when hot add the hash, and cook slowly until warmed through. Tongue in Jelly. Wash a fresh tongue, and skewer the tip to the root. Cook until tender in boiling salted water ; remove the skin ; trim and tie it in good shape. Season two quarts of soup stock highly with salt, pepper, herbs, and wine or lemon. Clear it with eggs, and stiffen with the proportion of Cox's gelatine, as given for Aspic Jelly. Pour a little jell}' into a mould ; when cool, lay in the cold tongue, and add the remainder of the jelly slowly. Smoked Tongue, — Smoked tongues are much more pala- table, though not so economical as when fresh. Bend the tip of the tongue around, and tie it to the root. Put it in cold water and place over the fire. When the water boils, pour off the water, and put it on again in cold water. Boil until tender, or about two hours. Remove the skin, roots, and fat. Pour a white sauce over the tongue, and serve it hot; or serve it cold with a salad dressing. Tongues may also be braised (see Braised Beef, page 224) and served hot or cold. Lyonnaise Tripe. Tripe should always be boiled twenty to thirty minutes before cooking, or it will be tough. Cut the tripe in small pieces ; boil twenty-five minutes, and drain. Fry one tahlespoonful of chopped onion in oneThe Boston Cook Book. 231 heaping taUespoonful of butter till yellow. Add the tripe, one tahlespoonful of vinegar^ and one taUespoonful of chopped parsley^ salt and pepper to taste. Simmer five minutes, and serve plain or on toast. Broiled Tripe, — Boil the tripe twenty minutes ; dry it, spread with soft butter^ salt^ and pepper^ and broil until brown. Tripe in Batter,—Boil the tripe twenty minutes. Cut in pieces two inches square, dip in batter^ and fry in salt pork fat in a frying-pan. Batter, — One egg^ one quarter of a cup of water^ one tablespoonful of vinegar^ o?ie teaspoonful of salt^ and flour to make almost a drop batter. Liver. Soak ten minutes in boiling water to draw out the blood. Drain; remove the thin skin and veins. Cut into pieces for serving. Season with salt and pepper; roll in flour^ and fvy in salt pork or bacon fat. Drain, and serve with a brown gravy^ seasoned with onion ^ lemon juice^ or vinegar. Or spread with butter^ and broil, and season with salt^ pepper^ and butter. Kidneys. Beef and sheep's kidnej^s are often recommended for food on account of their cheapness. Epicures are fond of them. The taste for them is an acquired taste, which it is not desirable to cultivate. The latest decision of physicians is that they are not suitable to eat; as "from their constant use in the animal system as excretory or- gans,— organs which separate from the blood that which, if it remained in the blood, would poison the system,— they are often liable to become diseased."232 The Boston Cooh Book. MUTTON AND LAMB. Mutton stands next to beef in nutritive qualities, and with many lias even more value as food, because more easily digested. In mutton about one half the weiglit is in fat, while with beef it is only one third. The choicest mutton comes from the mountainous re- gions of Penns3^1vania, Virginia, and North Carolina. Good mutton should be large and heavy, the fat clear white and very hard, the flesh fine-grained and bright red. Poor mutton has but little fat, and little flesh as compared with the bone. Mutton is cut at the market by splitting down the back, and dividing at the loin into the hind and fore quarters; or the hind and fore quarters are separated without split- ting, and the loin is taken out whole and sold as the sad- dle of mutton. The leg, loin, and saddle are best for roasting, and are better if kept for some time before cook- ing. The leg, if to be boiled, should be fresh. The fore quarter is good boned and stuflTed; then steamed, and browned in the oven. The neck and bones are used for broths and stews. Chops are cut from the ribs and from the loin. The rib chops are sometimes cut long, with the flank on. The bone is removed and the meat rolled. These roll chops are not economical, as the flank forms the greater part. French chops are cut short from the rib, and the flesh is scraped clean from the end of the bone. The best-flavored, most tender, and cheapest in the end, are the chops from the loin. Tliej^ have very little bone, and a piece of tenderloin. Mutton has a strong flavor, disagreeable to m^my. It is said to be caused by the oil from the wool, which pen- etrates the skin. The pink skin above the fat should always be removed from chops, and wherever it is pos-233 The Boston Cook Book, sible, scrape it off without cutting into the lean. The caul, or lining membrane of the abdomen, is fastened round the meat, particularly on the leg, partly to increase its weight. This is often left on in roasting to help baste the meat; but it gives a strong flavor, and should always be removed, and the kidney fat used if needed. If care be taken in selecting only the best mutton, and in cook- ing it in the best manner, many who have become preju- diced against it could eat it with as much relish as beef. Mutton may be cooked rare, but lamb should always be well cooked. The end of the bone in a leg of mutton is smooth and oval, and is separated at the joint; while lamb may be known from mutton by the flat, irregularly grooved end of the bone, which is broken off squarelj^, instead of separated at the joint. Sometimes the bone is cut off close to the second joint, and then you will have to depend upon the word of your butcher. Saddle or Loin of Mutton or Lamb. Trim off all the pink skin and superfluous fat. Remove the ends of the ribs, the cord, and veins along the back. Wipe, and rub the inside with salt. Roll the flank under on each side, and sew it across the middle. Dredge with salt^ pepper^ Mid flour ; place it in the pan, with the inside up, in order to thoroughly cook the fat. Baste, and dredge often. When the fat is brown and crisp, turn, and cook the upper part till brown. Keep a buttered paper over it to prevent burning. Carve long slices parallel with the backbone, then slip the knife under and separate the slices from the ribs. Divide the slices; and serve with some of the crisp fat. A loin of mutton may be stuffed and rolled, having first removed the ends of the ribs. Bake, and serve in slices cut at right angles with the backbone. Leg of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted. Remove the bone ; wipe inside and out with a wet cloth ; sprinkle the inside with salt; stuff and sew. Put it on a234 The Boston Cook Book. rack in a dripping-pan, with some of the kidney suet on the meat and in the pan. Dredge with salt^ pepper^ and flour^ and bake in a hot oven. Baste as soon as the flour is brown, and baste often. Bake one hour, if liked rare; one hour and a quarter, if well done. Stuffing. — One cup of cracker or stale bread crumbs. Season with one saltspoonful each of salt^ pepper^ thyme^ or marjoram^ and moisten with a quarter of a cup of melted butter. Add hot water if a moist stuffing be desired. Boiled Leg of Mutton or Lamb. —Wipe, remove the fat, and put into well-salted boiling water. Skim, and simmer twelve minutes for each pound of meat. One quarter of a cup of rice is sometimes boiled with the mutton, or the meat may be tied in a cloth to keep it from becoming discolored. Serve with a thick caper sauce poured over the mutton. Garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. Carve slices from the thickest part of the leg down to the bone ; then slip the knife under and remove the shces from the bone. The thickest part of the leg should be toward the back of the platter. What to do with a Fore .Quarter of Mutton. Mutton Duck. — Select a fore quarter of mutton with the whole length of the leg bone left on. Ask the butcher to cut off what is called a raised shoulder, that is, raised from the backbone and ribs, cutting it far up on the shoulder to take in the whole of the shoulder blade, bone, and gristle. You may cut it yourself by removing the neck, the back bones, the ribs, and breast bones, leaving the shoulder blade in the upper part. Then scrape the flesh from the shoulder blade, and separate the blade at the joint. Lay it aside for further use. Remove the meat from the leg bone, turning the meat over, as you would * turn a glove over your hand. Be careful not to cut through the thin skin at the end of the leg. When within three inches of the lower joint, saw the bone off, and saw or trim the bone below the joint into the shape of a duck's bill. Bend the joint without breaking the skin. Wipe theThe Boston Cook Book. 235 meat and rub inside with salt. Make a moist stuffing and put it in between the layers of meat. With a coarse needle threaded with twine gather the edges of the meat, draw them together, fill the cavity with stuffing, and shape the meat into a long oval form like the body of a duck. Bend the leg at the lower joint to represent the duck's head and neck, and keep it in place with skewers. Eun one skewer Fig. 26. Mutton Duck. through the side at the top of the body, and put one into the body on each side of the neck. Wind a string around the bill, and fasten it to the skewers. Scrape the shoulder blade clean, trim the bony end into a sharp point, and notch the gristle at the opposite end. Insert this in the body to represent the tail, and fasten with twine. Put the bones and scraps of meat in water in a steamer or kettle. Place the duck on a plate, and steam it over the bones one hour to make it tender. Dredge with salt, pepper^ and flour., and bake one hour, or till brown; use the water in the kettle for basting if needed, or for a gravy. Tie paper over the head and tail to prevent burning. This ma}' be made of lamb, and if tender will require no steaming. Garnish with parsley and Scotch eggs., or with any kind of force-meat halls., crumbed and fried, or with egg-shaped potato croquettes. This Mock Duck is an attractive way of serving what is usuall}^ considered an inferior piece of meat, and solves the vexing problem, " how to carve a fore quarter of mutton."236 The Boston Cook Book. The bones may be entirely removed, and the meat stuffed, and sewed in an oval shape, then steamed and browned ; this will prove just as palatable to those who do not crave something new. In serving, cut it across in medium slices. Braised Mutton,—Bone and stuff the leg or the fore quarter, as directed in the preceding receipts ; cut the bone at the joints. Add oysters to the stuffing if preferred, and cook the same as braised beef. Tlie breast of mut- ton may be boned and rolled without stuffing and then braised. Lamb or Mutton Chops, — Wipe with a wet cloth; re- move the skin and extra fat; have a frj'ing-pan hissing hot, without any fat; put in the chops and cook one minute, turn, and sear the other side ; cook more slowl}' until done, five minutes if liked rare. Stand them up on the fat edge to brown the fat, without over-cooking the meat. When nearly done, sprinkle a little salt on each side. Drain on paper, and serve hot, either plain or with tomato or Souhise sauce. Mutton Outlets^ Breaded, —Trim the cutlets, and season with salt and pepper. Dip in crumbs^ beaten egg^ and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat^ four to six minutes if rare, eight to ten if well done. Ar- range in the centre of a hot dish, and pour tomato sauce around them, or place them around a mound of mashed potatoes or spinach. Trim the bones with a paper 7'uffle; or arrange them with the bone end up, stacked like bayonets, and gar- nish with staffed tomatoes. Fig. 27. Chops en Papillate, —Wipe, trim, wrap in but- Paper Ruffle, ^gj,^^ papers, and broil from three to five min- utes ; season, and serve plain or trimmed with paper ruffles. Or make a thick sauce with one cup of boiling stoch^ thickened with one heaping tablespoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of butter^ cooked together and flavored with mushrooms^ parsley.^ and lemon juice. La}' the cutlets on clean papers, spread the sauce over them, fold theThe Boston Cook Booh 237 edges, place in a pan in the oven for ten minutes. Serve in the papers. If the chops be tough, dip them in olive oil before broiling. Fricassee of Mut- ton or Lamb with Peas. — Cut two pounds of the breast of mutton or lamb into square pieces. Dredge with salt and Jlour^ and brown in . butter ov drippings. Put them in a stew- pan with one onion sliced, cover with boiling water.^ and simmer until the Fig 28. Chop. bones slip out. Eemove the bones, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, and when the liquor boils again, add the meat, salt^ and pepper^ and stew until nearly tender ; then add one quart of peas^ or one pint of boiled mac- aroni cut into half-inch pieces, or one pint of asparagus tips^ and sim- mer fifteen minutes. Mutton Stew for Two.— Two mut- ton cliops^ cut from near the shoul- der. Put them in a shallow pan having a tight cover. Pour on boiling water to the depth of one inch ; cover and simmer one hour ; add more water as it boils awa}^, using only enough to keep the meat from burning. Add two slices of French turnip^ two small onions whole ; and when the meat and turnip are nearl}" tender, add two common-sized potatoes^ having first soaked Fig. 29. Chop in Paper.The Boston Cook Book, 238 and scalded them. Add one teaspoonful of salt and a Utile pepper, Eemove the vegetables without breaking ; let the water boil nearly awaj^, leaving enough for a gravy. Re- move the fat, thicken the gravy with fiour^ and if needed add salt and tomato catchup. Pour it over the meat. Curry of Mutton.—Fry one large onion^ cut fine, in one heaping tahlespoonful of butter. Mix one tablespoonful of curry powder^ one teaspoonful of salt^ one tahlespoonful of flour^ and stir it into the butter and onion. Add gradu- ally one pint of hot water ov stoch. Cut two pounds of lean mutton into small pieces, and brown them in hot fat; add them to the sauce, and simmer until tender. • Place the meat on a hot dish, and arrange a border of boiled rice or Turkish pilaf around the meat. Slices of cold cooked mutton may be used instead of the fVesh meat. Veal curry is prepared in the same manner. Ragout of Mutton,, made from the fore quarter, or any cooked mutton, may be prepared as directed for beef stew, adding carrots and turnips cut small, and seasoning highly. Sheep's Tongues, Braised. Wash, dredge with salt and flour,, and brown in salt pork fat, with one or two minced onions. Put them in a pan with water or stock to half cover ; add one sprig of 'parsley,, a little salt ^nd. pepper ; cover and cook two hours, or until tender. Remove the skin, and trim neatly at the roots. Place a mound of spinach in the centre of the dish; ar- range the tongues around the spinach, alternating with diamonds of fried bread. Lambs' Tongues, Boiled, —BoW six tongues in salted water, with the juice of half a lemon, until tender. Serve cold with Tartar sauce. Or pickle them by covering with hot spiced vinegar.The Boston Cook Book. 239 VEAL. Veal is always in the market, but is better in the spring. The fat should be white and clear; and the lean, pink or flesh color. If the flesh be white, the calf has been bled before being killed, and the meat is unfit to eat. Veal contains less nitrogen, but more gelatine, than beef. It has very little flavor, and needs to be highl}^ seasoned to make it even palatable. Veal stands lowest among heat-producing meats, and should be eaten with potatoes or rice, which stand highest, or with bacon and jell}^, which furnish in their fat and sugar the carbon wanting in the flesh. It should alwa^'s be thoroughly cooked, as under- done veal is not wholesome. At its lowest price veal is never a cheap food when wx take into consideration the small amount of nutriment it contains, the large amount of fuel required to cook it, and the danger of being made ill by its use. The lower part of the leg or knuckle and all the gristly portions are used for soups. Cutlets, or steaks, the fillet, fricandeau, or cushion, are cut from the thickest part of the leg. The loin is used for chops or roasts, the breast for roasts,' and the neck for stews and soups. Calf s head and pluck includes the lights, heart, and liver. The head is used for soup, the heart and liver for braising. The lights are now seldom used.. Hoast Veal. The loin, breast, and fillet (a thick piece from the upper part of the leg) are the best pieces for roasting. The bone should be removed from the fillet, and the cavity filled with a highly seasoned and very 7noist stuffing. Tie or skewer into a round shape. Dredge with salt,, pepper^The Boston Cook Booh 240 and flour. Put strips of pork over the top, and bake. Allow half an hour to a pound. Cover with a buttered paper to keep the meat from burning. Add water, when the flour has browned, and baste often. Serve with horse- radish or tomato sauce, Fricandeau of Veal. — This is made of a thick piece of lean meat from the top of the leg. Trim it off high in the centre and thin on the edges, and lard the top. Braise it in stock highly seasoned with hacon^ onions^ and herbs (see Braised Beef). Serve it with tomato or horseradish sauce. Veal Stew or Fricassee. The ends of the ribs^ the neck^ and the knuckle ma}" be utilized in a stew. Cut the meat — two pounds — in small pieces, and remove all the fine bones. Cover the meat with boiling water ; skim as it begins to boil; add two small onions^ two teaspoonfuls of salt^ and one saltspoonful of pep- per. Simmer until thoroughlj^ tender. Cut four potatoes in halves; soak in cold water, and parboil them five min- utes ; add them to the stew. Add one tablespoonful of flour wet in cold water, and more seasoning if desired; and just before serving add one cup of cream^ or if milk be used add one tablespoonful of butter. Remove the bones before serving. To make Veal Pot-Pie ?ididi dumplings^ as in Beef Stew. If intended for a fricassee^ fty the veal in salt pork fat before stewing, and omit the potatoes. Add one egg to the liquor just before serving, if you wish it richer. Veal Cutlets. {Joanna Sweeny.') One slice of veal from the leg. Wipe, and remove the bone, skin, and tough membranes. Pound and cut, or shape into pieces for serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, E-oll in flne crumbs^ then dip in beaten egg^ then in crumbs again. Fry several slices of salt pork^ and fry the cutlets brown in the pork fat. When brown, put the cutlets in a stewpan. Make a brown gravy with one tablespoonful of butter,, or the fat remaining in the pan if it be notThe Boston Cook Booh 241 burned, and two heaping tahlespoonfuls of Jlour. Pour on gradually a cup and a half of stock or water. Season with Worcestershire sauce or lemon or horseradish or tomato. Pour the gravy over the cutlets, and simmer fortj^-five min- utes or till tender. Take them out on a platter, remove the fat from the gravy, add more seasoning if needed, and strain over the cutlets. Garnish with lemon and parsley, Calfs Liver, Braised. Wipe with a clean wet cloth. Lard the rounded side with bacon or salt pork. Fry one onion in salt pork fat. Put the liver and fried onion in a braising-pan ; add hot water or stock to half cover, one teaspoonful of salt^ one salt- spoonful of pepper^ and one tahlespoonfal of herbs. Cover, and cook in a moderate oven two hours, basting often. When read}^ to serve, straui the liquor, season with lemon juice^ and pour it over the liver. Calf's Hearty Braised. — Wash, remove the veins and arteries, and stuff with cracker crumbs^ seasoned with onion juice., salt, pepper, and herbs, and moistened with butter. Fig. 30. Calf's Heart. Lard with bacon or salt pork. Dredge with salt and flour. Fry one onion in salt pork fat or dripping ; brown the meat in the pork fat. Cook it as liver is cooked, by the preced- ing receipt. Calf's Head. Scrape and clean a calfs head. Take out the brains and tongue, and put them in cold water. Eemove all the dark membrane from the inside, and the gristle around the nose 16The Boston Cook Booh, 242 and e3^es. Soak two hours in lukewarm water to whiten it. Put the head, tongue, and heart on to boil in cold water, and skim carefully. Add one tahlespoonfal of herbs tied in a piece of strainer cloth, one tahlespoonful of salt^ ^nd 07ie saltspoonful of pepper. Pour boiling water over the liver, let it stand ten minutes, and when the head is nearly done, add the liver. When done, take up the head; re- move the skin in as nice pieces as possible. Put the pieces of head meat on the platter; la}^ the skin over them. Cut the heart, tongue, and liver in slices, and place them round the edge of the dish. If the head is to be served with the bones, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it until tender, but not long enough for the skin to fall ofl". Serve it plain; or score the top, brush with beaten egg^ sprinkle buttered cracker crumbs over it, and brown in the oven. Serve with it a brown sauce piquante^ tomato sauce^ or brain sauce. Brain Sauce. — Clean the brains, remove the red mem- brane, and soak in cold water. Put them into one pint of cold water with one tahlespoonful of lemon juice and half a teaspoonful of salt. Boil ten minutes ; then plunge into cold w^ater. Make one pint of drawn butter sauce; flavor with lemon and parsley; add the brains chopped fine, and when hot serve. Calf's Head,, Minced, — Chop what is left of the head,, tongue,, and liver ver}' fine, and warm it in a sauce made with the meat liquor ; season with lemon or horseradish^ salt, and pepper. Sweetbreads. The sweetbreads found in veal are considered the best. They are two large glands lying along the back of the throat and in the breast. The lower one is round and compact, and called the heart sweetbread, because nearer the heart. The upper, or throat, sweetbread is long and narrow, and easily divided into sections. The connecting membrane is sometimes broken, and each gland sold as a whole sweetbread. But there should always be two. Sweet-The Boston Cook Book. 243 breads were formerly thrown away as worthless ; but the demand for them has increased so that now they are a lux- ury. They have a delicate flavor, and as they spoil quickly, should be put into cold water as soon as pur- chased, and parboiled before using in any form, to insuli^ their being thoroughly cooked. They are sometimes left on the breast of veal, and may then be roasted with the meat. To Prepare Sweetbreads. —Put them in cold water ; re- move the pipes and membranes. Cook them in boiliug salted water, with one tablespoonful of lemon juice^ twenty minutes, and plunge into cold water to harden. Thej^ may then be cooked in either of the following ways : — Larded. — Lard, and bake until brown, basting with brown stock. Serve with peas. Fried. — Eoll in Jine bread crumbs^ egg^ and a second time in crumbs, and fry in deep fat, or saute in a little fat. No. 2. — Cut in half-inch slices, roll in seasoned crumbs, egg, and crumbs again. Put three slices on a small skewer, alter- nating with three thin slices of bacon one inch square. Fry in deep fat. Serve on the skewers, with tomato sauce. Creamed. — Cut in small pieces, and serve in a white sauce, on toast or in toast patties or in puff-paste shells or as a vol-au-vent. Broiled. — Rub with butter, salt, and pepper; wrap in buttered paper, and broil ten minutes. Serve with Maitre d^Hotel butter. Scalloped or in Cases. — Cut or break the sweetbreads into small sections. Mix with a rich cream sauce made with eggs (see page 190). Put them in a scallop dish, in shells, or in paper cases. Cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown. Fig. 31. Sweetbreads and Bacon.244 The Boston Cook Booh With Mushrooms, — Prepare as for creamed or scalloped^ and add half or an equal amount of mushrooms^ chopped or cut into quarters. Garnish witli toast points. Braised, — Lard with bacon. Put in a covered pan with fried onions^ and parsley^ and a pinch of herhs^ tied in a cloth. Half cover with stock. Bake forty or fifty minutes. Fritters,—Break into sections, and mix with a fritter batter (page 106). Fry by small spoonfuls in deep fat. Sweetbread Croquettes^ see Index. To serve sweetbreads, either larded, broiled, or fried, arrange around a centre of tomato sauce, mushrooms, or Fig, 32, Sweetbreads on Macaroni peas. Or put the sweetbreads in the centre on a nest of boiled macaroni. Sprinkle the macaroni with cheese, and pour white sauce or tomato sauce over it; or garnish the sweetbreads with stuffed tomatoes.245 The Boston Cook Book, POBK. Pork is an unwholesome meat, and should never be eaten by children, or people with weak digestion, nor, indeed, by any one except in cold weather. Salt pork, bacon, and ham are less objectionable than fresh pork. If fresh pork be desired, obtain it, if possible, from a source where you can be sure the animal has been kept in a cleanly manner and fattened on corn. Fresh pork should be young and firm, the fat white, the lean a pale red, and the skin white and clear. The fat, when salted, should be a delicate pink, and the rind should be thin. Soft, flabby flesh, and yellowish fat with kernels, indicate that the pork is not of the best quality. Unlike other meat, pork is divided into fat and lean. The flank and the thick layer of fat above the flesh are salted. The sides of very 3'oung pigs are smoked, as well as salted, and are called bacon. The hams and shoulders are salted and smoked. The head and feet are pickled or boiled, and made into souse or head cheese. After the fat is removed, the loin and ribs are used for roasting or for chops. The leaf fat from the kidneys is heated until melted, then strained, cooled, and used as lard. The trimmings of lean and fat, when chopped and highly seasoned, are called sausage meat. Eoast Pig. Select a pig from three to five weeks old. Clean well, and stuff* with hot mashed potatoes^ or stale hread^ highly seasoned with sage^ salt, pepper, and onions. If bread be used, moisten with warm water, melted butter, and one beaten egg. Stuff and sew. Skewer the fore legs forward, and246 The Boston Cook Booh the hind legs backward. Rub all over witli oyitter^ salt^ peppe7^^ and flour. Put it into a pan with a little water ; the oven should not be very hot at first, as it should be thorough 1}^ warmed through before browning. Baste very often, and at first use melted butter to make the skin tender and soft. Be careful not to let it burn. Bake two and a half or three hours. Arrange in a bed of parsley and celery leaves, with a " tuft of cauliflower in the mouth and a garland of parsley round the neck." Serve with apple sauce or pickles. In carving, cut off the head, then the hams and shoulders; split down the back, and separate the ribs. Boast Porh, —The chine, or loin, and the spare ribs are the best pieces for roasting. Rub well with pepper^ or sage^ salt^ and fiour, and bake twenty minutes for each pound. Baste often, and do not have the oven as hot as for other meat. Roast pork is more wholesome when eaten cold. Pork Chops or Steaks, — If pork chops are to be broiled, the}^ should be cut very thin, salted,, and peppered^ wrapped in greased paper, and broiled until thoroughly cooked, — from ten to fifteen minutes. To fry or saute them, cook them in a hot frying-pan in a little hot lard or salt pork fat. Cook slowly after they are brown, and be careful not to burn them. If a gravy be desired, pour off nearly all the fat left in the frying-pan, add two tahlespoonfuls of flour^ and when brown add hot water until of the desired consist- ency. Season witli salt,, pepper, vinegar^ and chopped pickles. Breakfast Bacon, — Cut off the rind and smoked part; slice very thin ; cook in a frying-pan till the fat is tried out and the bacon is dry and crisp, or fry in deep fat. Drain on paper, and serve alone or as a garnish for beefsteak. F^ned Salt Pork, — Cut fat salt pork in thin slices ; pour hot water over them ; drain, and fry in a pan until crisp ; or roll in egg and crumbs^ and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with salt fish or fried mush or baked potatoes.The Boston Cook Book. 247 Boiled Ham. If very salt, let it soak over night. Scrub well; trim off the hard black part, cover with cold water, and let it simmer slowly, allowing half an hour to the pound. Take it from the fire; let it remain in the water until nearly cold ; then peel off the skin and sprinkle sugar and grated breads or cracker crumbs^ over the top, and brown in the oven. Or boil until nearly tender; remove the skin and bake two hours ; baste often with vinegar. Cover with crumbs, return to the oven, and brown. Or omit the crumbs and cover with a paste made with one teaspoon/id of brown Jlour and half a cup of brown sugar^ moistened with a little port wine. Spread this over the ham, and brown in the oven. Serve with a brown sauce flavored with half a glass of champagne. Trim the knuckle with a paper ruffle. In carving, cut in very thin slices. Old hams are improved by adding a pint of vinegar and a table- spoonful of herbs to the water in which they are boiled. If the ham is not to be served whole, boil till it is very tender; let it cool, and remove the skin and bones, and press it, with the fat well mixed with the lean. To serve Cold Boiled Ham. — Cut in thin slices ; season highl}^ with cayenne pepper., or with mustard and lemon juice^ and broil two minutes. Melt half a glass of currant jelly; add a teaspoonful of butter.^ a little pepper., and when hot add several small thin slices of ham. Let it boil up, and serve at once. Cut the nicest part of lean ham in small thin slices. Chop the trimmings fine, and heap high in the centre of a platter. Garnish with the slices overlapping each other on the edge of the dish. Fried Ham. — Cut the ham in thin slices, remove the outside, gash the fat, and cook in a frying-pan till the fat is crisp. If cooked too long, it will become hard and dr}'. Broiled Ham. — Cut in very thin slices, and broil three or four minutes. Old or verj^ salt ham should be parboiled five minutes before being broiled. Serve with poached eggs.248 The Boston Cook Book. Sausages. If you like to know what jou are eating, have 3'our sausage meat prepared at home or by some one whom yon can trust. Of sweet fresh pork take one third fat and two thirds lean^ and chop fine, or have it ground hw your butcher. Season highh^ with salt^ pepper^ and sage (use the whole sage ; dry, pound, and sift it). Mix thor- oughly. Make cotton bags, one yard long and four inches wid^. Dip them in strong salt and water, and dry before filling. Crowd the meat into the bags closely, pressing it with a pestle or potato-masher. Tie the bag tightly and keep in a cool place. When wanted for use, turn the end of the bag back, and cut off the meat in half- inch slices, and cook in a frying-pan till brown. Core and quarter several apples^ and fry in the hot fat and serve with the sausages. A safe rule in seasoning sausage meat is one even table- spoonful of salt^ one teaspoonful of sifted sage^ and a scant half-teaspoonful of white pepper to each pound of meat. Souse. Take the gristly part of the pig's head, but not the fat; also the ears and feet. Remove the hard part from the feet. Scald or singe the hairs, soak in warm water, and scrape thoroughly. Let them remain in salt and water for ten hours. Scrape, and clean again, and put them a second time in freshly salted water. With proper care they will be perfectl}^ clean. Put them in a kettle and cover with cold w^ater; skim when it begins to boil; set back and let it simmer till the bones slip out easily. Skim out the meat, and remove the hard gristle, bones, and any superfluous fat. Season with salt^ pepper^ and vinegar^ and pack in stone jars. When hard, cut in slices, and brown in the oven. Head Cheese, — Prepare the same as souse, omitting the vinegar^ and season with sage. Put into a strainer cloth,249 The Boston Cook Book, and press out the fat. Pack it in jars or moulds. Serve cold, or brown slightly in a frjing-pan. Though seldom seen on modern tables, these dishes when carefuU}^ prepared are very acceptable to many who have pleasant recollections of them as served at -'grand- mother's table." To Try out Lard. Cut the leaves into small pieces ; remove all flesh and membrane ; put a few pieces in a kettle on the back of the stove, and when they are heated through, put in the remainder. Cook slowly until the scraps are crisp ; strain through a fine cloth into tin pails or pans, and press that obtained from the scraps into a separate pail. Never put water with the leaves, as the object is to expel that w^hicli they already contain, and there is no danger of burning if only a few pieces be put in at first, and the kettle be not over the hot fire. The kettle should not be covered until the scraps are crisp ; then cover it, and if no steam condenses on the cover, the water is evaporated. Baked Pork and Beans. Soak one quart of pea beans in cold water over night. In the morning put them into fresh cold water, and simmer till soft enough to pierce with a pin, being careful not to let them boil enough to break. If you like, boil one onion with them. When soft, turn them into a colander, and pour cold water through them. Place them with the onion in a bean-pot. Pour boiling water over one quarter of a 'pound of salt porh^ part fat and part lean ; scrape the rind till white. Cut the rind in half-inch strips ; bury the pork in the beans, leaving only the rind exposed. Mix one teaspoonful of salt — more, if the pork is not very salt — and one teaspoonful of mustard w^ith one quarter of a cup of molasses. Fill the cup with hot water, and when well mixed pour it over the beans ; add enough more water to cover them. Keep them covered with water until theThe Boston Cook Book. 250 last hour; ^then lift the pork to the surface and let it crisp. Bake eight hours in a moderate oven. Use more salt and one third of a cup of butter if 3'ou dislike pork, or use half a pound of fat and lean corned heef. The mustard gives the beans a delicious flavor, and also renders them more wholesome. Many add a tea- spoonful of soda to the water in which the beans are boiled, to destroy the acid in the skin of the beans. Yellow-eyed beans and Lima beans are also good when baked. Much of the excellence of baked beans depends upon the bean-pot. It should be earthen, with a narrow mouth and bulging sides. This shape is seldom found outside of New England, and is said to have been modelled after the Ass3a'ian pots. In spite of the slurs against "Boston Baked Beans " it is often remarked that strangers enjo}^ them as much as natives ; and many a New England bean- pot has been carried to the extreme South and West, that people there might have "baked beans" in perfection. They afford a nutritious and cheap food for people who labor in the open air.The Boston Cook Booh. 251 POULTRY AND GAME. The flesh of poultiy and of game birds has less red blood than the flesh of animals ; but as it abounds in phos- phates, it is valuable food, particularly for invalids. The flesh is drier, and not marbled with fat as in that of quad- rupeds. All game has a strong odor and flavor, which is by some mistaken for that of tainted meat. It should be kept till tender, but no longer, unless frozen. White-fleshed game should be cooked till well done; that with dark flesh may be served underdone. The breast of all birds is the most juicy and nutritious part. '' The wing of a walker and the leg of a flier are consid- ered choice tidbits." To Choose Poultry and Game. — The best chickens have soft yellow feet, short thick legs, smooth moist skin, plump breast; and the cartilage on the end of the breast bone is soft and pliable. This is sometimes broken in fowls to deceive purchasers; but the difference between a broken bone, that slips when moved, and a soft yielding cartilage may be very easily detected. Pin feathers always indicate a young bird ; and long hairs, an older one. The bodies of capons are very plump and fat, and larger in proportion than those of fowls or chickens. The meat is of finer flavor. Old fowls have long thin necks and feet, and sharp scales ; the flesh has a purplish tinge, and they usually have a large amount of fat. The best turkeys have smooth black legs, with soft, loose spurs, full breasts, and white plump flesh. Geese and ducks should be young, not more than a year old, have white soft fat, yellow feet, and tender wings, and be thick and hard on the breast. The windpipeThe Boston Cook Book, 252 should break when pressed with the thumb and finger. Wild ducks have reddish feet. Tame ducks have thick yellowish feet. Young pigeons have light red flesh on the breast, and full flesh-colored legs. Old pigeons are thin, and the breast very dark. Wild pigeons are cheaper, but are dry and tough. Stall-fed pigeons are the best. Squabs are young tame pigeons, and always have pin feathers. Grouse^ partridge^ and' quail should have full heavy breasts, dark bills, and yellowish legs. Young rabbits should have smooth, sharp claws, tender ears and paws, and short necks. Venison should be dark red, with some white fat. ' To Clean and Truss Poultry and Game, — The practice of sending poultry to market undressed is one that de- mands as earnest opposition from housekeepers as that of the adulteration of food. The meat is rendered unfit to eat, is sometimes infected with poison ; and the increase in weight makes poultr}^ a verj^ expensive food. All poultry should be dressed as soon as killed. The feathers come out more easily when the fowl is warm, and when stripped off toward the head. If the skin be ver}- tender, pull the feathers out the opposite wa^^ Use a knife to remove the pin feathers. Singe the hairs and down by holding the fowl over a gas jet, or over a roll of lighted paper held over the fire. Cut ofl" the head, and if the fowl is to be roasted, slip the skin back from the neck and cut the neck off" close to the body, leaving skin enough to fold over on the back. Remove the windpipe; pull the crop away from the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off* close to the opening into the ho^y. Be careful not to tear the skin. Alwa3^s pull the crop out from the end of the neck, rather than through a cut in the skin, which if made has to be sewed together. Cut through the skin about two inches below the leg joint; bend the leg at the cut by pressing it on the edge of the table, and break off* the bone. Then pull, not cut, out the tendons. If care be taken to cut only through the skin, these cords may be pulled out easily,The Boston Cook Book, 253 one at a time, with the fingers. Or take them all out at once, by putting the foot of the fowl against the casing of a door, then shut the door tightly and pull on the leg. The tendons w^ill come out with the foot; but if once cut thQj cannot, be removed. The drumstick of a roast chicken or turkey is greatly improved by removing the tendons, which alwaj^s become hard and bony in baking. There is a special advantage in cutting the leg below the joint, as the ends of the bones afford more length for tying, and after roasting this is easily broken off, leaving a clean, un- burned joint for the table. Cut out the oil bag in the tail. It is better to dress a fowl for a fricassee first. Then you learn the position of the internal organs, and can tell bet- ter how to remove them when dressing" for roasting, as with the whole fowl you v^^ork by feeling and not by sight. To Gut up a Fowl for a Fricassee. — Cut through the loose skin between the legs and body, bend the leg over, and cut off at the joint; then cut off the w4ngs. Make an incision in the skin near the vent, and cut the membrane lying between the breastbone and the tail, down to the backbone, on each side. Then jou have the intestines, gizzard, livft*, and heart exposed, and can easil}^ remove them. Do not forget the kidneys, lying in the hollow of the backbone, and the lungs in the ribs. Cut the ribs through the cartilage, separate the collar bone, and break the backbone just below the ribs. Divide at the joints in the wings and legs; separate the side bones from the back, and remove the bone from the breast. Never chop the bones, but divide smoothly at the joints. To Dress a Fowl for Boasting. — Make an incision near the vent; insert two fingers, loosen the fat from the skin, and separate the membranes lying close to tke ho6.y. Keep the fingers up close to the breastbone, until you can reach in be^^ond the liver and heart, and loosen on either side down toward the back. The gall bladder, lies under the lobe of the liver on the left side, and if the fingers be kept up, and ever}'thing loosened before drawing out, there will be no danger of its breaking. The kidneys andThe Boston Cooh Book, 254 lungs are often left in bj careless cooks ; but everything that can be taken out must be removed. When the fowl has been cleaned carefull}^ it will not require much wash- ing. Hold it under the faucet, or rinse out the inside quickl}^; then wipe dvy. If the breastbone protrude more than is desirable, put a small knife in at the opening, and cut through the cartilage in the ribs or through the breastbone. Or put a pestle in the inside, la\^ a towel over the breast, and pound slightly until the bone gives way. To Stuff a Fowl.—Place the fowl in a bowl, and put the stuffing in at the neck; fill out the breast until plump and even. Then draw the neck skin together at the end, and sew it over on the back. Put the remainder of the stuffing into the body at the other opening, and if full, sew it with coarse thread or fine twine. If not full, sewing is unnecessary, except when the fowl is to be boiled. To Truss a Fowl. — Draw the thighs np close to the body, and cross the legs over the tail, and tie firmly with twine. Put a long skewer through the thigh into the body and out through the opposite thigh, and another through the wings, drawing them close to the body. Wind a'string from the tail to the skewer in the thigh, then up to the one in the wing, across the back to the other wing, then down to the opposite thigh, and tie firml}' round the tail. If you have no skewers, the strihgs must be passed round the body, over the thighs and wings ; and care must be taken, in removing them, not to tear the browned crust on the breast. Sometimes the feet are cut off in the joint, and the legs passed into the body and out through an opening under the sidebone near the tail, or left in the body and covered with the*skin. To Clean the Giblets. — Slip off the thin membrane round the heart, cut out the veins and arteries, remove the liver, and cut off all that looks green near the gall bladder. Trim the fat and membranes from the gizzard, cut through the thick part; open it, and remove the inner lining with- out breaking. Cut off all the white gristle, and use only255 The Boston Cook Booh the thick fleshy part. Wash, and put them in cold water, and simmer till tender. The neck and tips of the wings are often cooked with the giblets. These directions apply to all kinds of poultry and game. Wild ducks, coot, and geese should be washed thor- oughly on the outside before being drawn. Scrub them with slightly warm water and soap. The skin is very thick and oily, and it is impossible to get it clean without soap. The strong smell in old fowls may be removed by wash- ing in warm soda water. To dress Fowls or Birds for Broiling, — Singe, wipe, and split down the middle of the back; lay open, and then remove the contents from the inside. Cut the tendons in the thigh, or break the joints, and remove the breastbone to facilitate the carving. To Carve Poultry.— Place the fowl on the platter, with the head at the left. Put the fork in across the breast- bone. Cut through the skin round the leg joint. Bend the leg over and cut off at the joint. Then cut off the wings, and divide wings and legs at the joints. Carve the breast in thin slices parallel with the breastbone. Some prefer to cut it at right angles with the bone. Take off the wish-bone ; separate the collar-bone from the breast; slip the knife under the shoulder blade, and turn it over. Cut through the cartilage which divides the ribs, separat- ing the breast from the back. Then turn the back over, place the knife midway, and with the fork lift up the tail end, separating the back from the hodij. Place the fork in the middle of the backbone, and cut close to the back- bone, from one end to the other, freeing the side bone. As soon as the legs and wings are disjointed, begin to serve, offering white or dark meat and stuffing as each prefers. Do not remove the fork from the breastbone till the breast is separated from the back. Use an extra fork in serving. If all the fowl be not required, carve only from one side, leaving the opposite side whole for another meal.256 The Boston Cook Book. Gravy for Roast Poultry and Game, —Put the giblets^ or neck, liver, gizzard, and heart, on to boil in one quart of water^ and boil till tender, and the water reduced to one pint. Mash the liver, and if desired chop the gizzard, heart, and meat from the neck. Pour off the clear fat from the dripping-pan, and put the settlings into a sauce- pan ; rinse out the pan with the water in which the giblets were boiled, and pour this water into the saucepan and put on to boil. Put three or four tahlespoonfals of the fat into a small frying-pan ; add enough dry flour to absorb all the fat, and when brown add the giblet liquor gradu- all}', and stir till it thickens. Season with salt and pep- per. If not smooth, strain it; pour half of it into the gravy boat, and add the chopped giblets to the remaining half, and serve separately, as all may not care for the giblet gravy. Koast Turkey. Clean as directed on page 252. Stuff with soft bread or cracker crumbs highly seasoned with sage^ thyme^ salt,, and pepper ; moisten the stuffing with half a cup of melted butter,, and hot water enough to make it quite moist. Add one beaten egg. Some use salt pork chopped fine, but stuffing is more wholesome without it. Oysters, chestnuts,, chopped celery, stoned raisins, or dates make a pleasing variety. For Stuffing and Trussing, see page 254. Put the turkey on a rack in a pan, rub well with butter, and dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Put in a hot oven, and when the flour is browned reduce the heat, and add a pint of water. Baste with butter until nicely browned; then with the fat in the pan. Baste often, and dredge with salt and flour after every basting. Allow three hours for an eight-pound turkey. Cook till the legs will separate from the body. Prepare the gravy as directed above. Garnish the tur- key with parsley or celery leaves and sausages or force-meat halls. Serve cranberry sauce or currant jelly with roast turkey.The Boston Cook Bookr 257 If the giblets be not desired in the gravy, they may be boiled, chopped fine, and mixed with the stuffing; or make them into force-meat balls, with an equal amount of soft bread crumbs. Moisten, and season highl}^, and brown them in hot butter. Boiled or Steamed Turkey or Fowl. Clean; rub well with salt^ pepper^ and lemon juice ^ and stuff with oyster or bread stuffing. It is better without the stuffing, as the oysters are usually over-done, and the same flavor may be obtained from an oj^ster sauce served with the turkey. Truss the legs and wings close to the bodj^; pin the fowl in a cloth to keep it whiter and preserve the shape. Put into boiling salted water. Allow twenty minutes to the pound. Cook slowly till tender, but not long enough for it to fall apart. Turkeys are much nicer steamed than boiled. Serve with oyster^ celery., lemon^ or caper sauce. Garnish with a border of boiled rice or macaroni^ and pour part of the sauce over the fowl. Fowls are sometimes stuffed with boiled celery^ cut into pieces an inch long; or with macaroni which has been boiled and seasoned with salt and pepper. Roast Chicken. Singe ; remove the pin feathers, oil bag, crop, entrails, legs, and tendons. Wipe, stuff, sew, and tie or skewxr into shape. Place it on one side, on a rack in a dripping- pan, without water. Dredge, and rub all over with salt^ pepper^ soft butter.^ and flour. Put chicken fat or beef drip- pings over it and in the pan. Roast in a hot oven, with a rack under the pan. When the flour is brown, check the heat, baste with the fat, and afterwards with one third of a cup of butter^ melted in one cup of hot ivater. When brown, turn the other side up ; then place it on the back, that the breast may be browned. Baste often, and dredge with flour after basting. Add more water if needed. Bake a four-pound chicken an hour and a half, or till the 17258 'The Boston Cook Book. joints separate easily. Lay buttered paper over it, if it brown too fast. Stuffing, — Moisten one cup of cracker or soft bread crumbs with one third of a cup of melted butter; season highl}' with salt, pepper, and thyme. Chestnut Stuffing. — Shell one quart of large chestnuts. Pour on boiling water, and remove the inner brown skin. Boil in salted water or stock till soft. Mash fine. Take half for the stuffing, and mix with it one cup of fine cracker crumbs; season with one teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoon- fid of pepper, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Moisten with one third of a cup of melted butter. Profes- sional cooks sometimes mix a little apple sauce, flavored with wine, lemon, and sugar, with a chestnut stuffing. Chestnut Sauce, — Remove the fat from the dripping- pan ; add nearly a pint of hot water; thicken with flour which has been cooked in brown butter ; add salt and pepper^ and the remainder of the chestnuts. Braised Fowl. Prepare the same as for roasting; dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and brown slightly in hot butter or chicken fat in a ftying-pan. Put in a deep pan ; half cover with water. Add the giblets, one onion, and one table- spoonful of herbs tied in a bag. Cover with a tightly fitting pan, and bake till tender, basting often. Chop the gib- lets, thicken, season, and strain the gravy ; add the giblets, and pour around the fowl. Chicken Fricassee. Singe, and cut the chicken at the joints, in pieces for serving Cover with boiling water ; add one heaping teaspoon- fid of salt, smdi hcdf a saltspoonful of pepper. Simmer one hour, or till tender, reducing the water to nearly a pint. Remove all the large bones, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and brown in hot butter. Put the chicken on toast on a hot platter. Strain the liquor and remove the fat.259 The Boston Cook Book. Add to the liquor one cup of cream or milk^ and heat it again. Melt one large tablespoon fal of butter in a saucepan ; add two tahlespoonfuls of flour^ and when well mixed pour on slowly the cream and chicken liquor. Add salt^ pepper^ half a teaspoonful of celery salt^ one teaspoon fal of lemon juice. Beat one egg ; pour the sauce slowl}^ on the egg; stir well, and pour over the chicken. The chicken may be browned before cooking, then stewed, and a brown gravy made b}' browning the butter before adding the flour. Half a can of mushrooms may be added to improve the flavor, letting them simmer in the sauce five minutes. Arrange the body of the chicken in the centre of the dish, with the wings at the top, the thighs below, and the ends of the drumsticks crossed at the tail. If the chicken be not fried, it is simpl}^ a chicken stew; and dumplings may be added, or not, as you prefer. And if put into a deep dish with a rich grav}^, made as for fricassee, but without the egg, and covered with a rich crust of pastry and baked, it is chicken pie. Chicken Curry. Cut the chicken at the joints, and remove the breast bones. Wipe, season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour^ and brow^n lightly in hot butter. Put in a stewpan. Fr\^ one large onion,, cut in thin slices, in the butter left in the pan till colored, but not browned. Mix one large tablespoonfnl of flour,, one teaspoonful of sugar,, and one tablespoonful of curry powder,^ and brown them in the but- ter. Add slowly one cup of water or stock and one cup of strained tomatoes,, or one sour apple chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour this sauce over the chicken, and simmer one hour, or till tender. Add one cup of hot milk or cream. Boil one minute longer, and serve wdth a bor- der of boiled rice. Rabbit, veal, and lamb may be curried in the same way.The Boston Cook Book, 26o Broiled Chicken. Singe, and split a young spring chicken down the back. Break the joints ; remove the breastbone, clean, and wipe with a wet cloth. Sprinkle with salt and pepper^ and rub well with soft butter. Place in a double gridiron, and broil twenty minutes over a clear fire. Spread with hutter^ and serve very hot. Or cover y^iih. fine bread crumbs and bake in a hot oven half an hour. Serve with Tartar sauce. To Carve.-—Separate the legs and wings, and then sep- arate the breast from the lower part. Fried Chicken. Singe; cut at the joints; remove the breast bones. Wipe each piece with a clean wet cloth ; dredge with salt^ pepper., and flour., and saute them in hot salt pork fat till brown and tender, but not burned. Arrange on a dish, with boiled cauliflower or potato balls^ and pour a white sauce over them. Or dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat^ and serve with tomato sauce. Broiled Fillets of Chicken. Remove the bone from the breast and thighs. Rub the meat with butter or olive oil; season, and cover with fine cracker dust. Broil about ten minutes. Devilled Chicken. Boil a chicken until tender in boihng salted water. When cold, cut at the joints, baste with soft butter^ and broil till brown. Qr cut any cold boiled or roasted chicken at the joints, rub with salt and butter^ and broil till warmed through. Pour hot Tartar sauce over them. Or make several incisions in the flesh, and rub with mustard and cayenne pepper before broiling.261 The Boston Cook Booh Roast Goose. Singe, remove the pin feathers, and before it is cut or drawn, wash and scrub thoroughly in warm soapsuds, to open and cleanse the pores, and render the oil more easy to be extracted. Then draw, as ^lirected on page 253. Wash and rinse the inside in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff with mashed potatoes highly seasoned with onion, sage, salt, and pepper, or with equal parts of bread crumbs, chopped apples, and boiled onions, seasoned with salt, sage, SLud pepper. Sew and truss ; put on a rack in a pan, and cover the breast with slices of fat salt pork. Place in the oven for three quarters of an hour. Ther^ork fat is quickly drawn out by the heat, flows over the goose, and aids in drawing out the oil. When considerable oil is extracted, take the pan from the oven, and pour off all the oil. Remove the pork, and dredge the goose with flour, and place again in the oven. When the flour is browned, add a little hot water, and baste often. Dredge with flour after basting. Cook until brown and tender. Make a gravy as on page 256. Garnish wdth water cresses. Serve with apple sauce. Roast Ducks. Pick, singe, and remove the crop, entrails, oil bag, legs, and pinions. Wipe, truss, dredge with salt, pepper, butter, and flour. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes if liked rare, or thirty minutes if preferred well done. Serve with olive sauce and green peas. Geese and ducks have a strong flavor, and are improved by stuffing the craw and body with apples cored and quartered. The apples absorb the strong flavor, therefore should not be eaten. Celery and onions are also placed inside the duck, to improve its flavor. Braised Ducks. Ducks that are tough and unfit to roast are improved by being braised with onions, carrots, and turnips. Or they may be stewed, and served with canned j9ea5.262 The Boston Cook Book. Larded Grouse. Clean, wipe, lard the breast and legs, and truss. Rub with salt and soft butter^ and dredge with flour. Roast twenty minutes in a quick oven if liked rare, thirty minutes if well done. Serve ^ith bread sauce. Potted Pigeons. Draw and clean. Break the legs just above the feet; leave enough below the joint to tie down to the tail. Wash and wipe. If old and tough, cover them with vine- gar^ spiced and flavored with onion^ and let them stand several hours. This makes them tender. Drain and wipe ; stuff, if you like, with cracker crumbs highly seasoned and moistened with butter. Dredge with salt^ pepper., ^wd flour. Yvy several slices of salt pork; cut one large onion fine, and fry in the salt pork fat. Put the crisp fat in the stew- pan, add the fried onion, then brown the pigeons all over in the fat left in the pan. Put them in the stewpan ; add boiling water or stock enough to half cover them ; add a pinch of herbs tied in a bag. Simmer from one to three hours, or till the pigeons are tender. Remove the fat from the broth, season to taste, and thicken with flour and butter cooked together. Strain over the pigeons, and serve hot. Braised Pigeons. Prepare the pigeons as for potted pigeons, and cook in a braising-pan. Cook spinach (see page 296) ; chop it fine, and season. Spread the spinach on slices of toast^ and lay the pigeons on the spinach one on each slice. Serve the gravy in a boat. Pigeons StujTed with Parsley. {Miss Ward.) Allow one pint of loose parsley for each pigeon. Wash, remove the large stems, and chop very fine, adding salt263 The Boston Cook Booh. and pepper and two or three tahlespoonfuls of water while chopping. Stuff the pigeons with the parsley ; add also the heart and a half-inch cube of salt pork for each pigeon. Add the water left in the tray to that in the stewpan, and cook as in the preceding rule. Roast Birds. Draw, and wash quickly; season with salt and pepper. Pin a thin slice of salt pork on the breast. Put on a shal- low pan, and bake in a hot oven, fifteen or twenty minutes. Baste often. Serve on toast with currant jelly or with bread sauce. Small birds may be baked in sjjoeet potatoes^ or if large cut in halves, using the breast only. Cut the potatoes in halves lengthwise, make a cavity in each half, season the bird with salt^ pepper^ and butter; fit it into the potato, put the other half over it, and bake till the potatoes are soft. Remove the string, tie with a bright ribbon, and serve in the potatoes, garnished with parsley. An inviting dish to serve to an invalid. Small birds are also broiled or stewed. Quail. Quail may be roasted, broiled, or braised ; or the breasts only maj^ be removed and broiled. Use the bones and trimmings to make stock for a rich sauce. Woodcock. Dress, and wipe clean. Dredge inside and out with salt and pepper; tie the legs close to the bod}^, skin the head and neck, and tie the beak under the wings. Tie a piece of bacon over the breast, and fry in boiling lard two minutes; or roast in the oven, and serve on toast. Venison. Venison is one of the most easily digested meats. It may be cooked after the same rules as mutton or beef. It264 The Boston Cook Book. should be cooked rare, and served ver}^ hot with currant jelly. The saddle, or loin, is the choicest cut for roasting or for steaks. Steaks are also cut from the leg. Venison steaks should be broiled the same as beefsteaks, and served with Maitre d'Hotel butter^ made with currant jelly instead of lemon juice. The cheaper, tougher parts of venison ma}^ be stewed or braised. Venison should be wiped carefull}^ before cooking, as the hairs are often found clinging to the meat. Rabbits. These may be cooked the same as chickens, — stewed, fricasseed, or larded and baked. Fig, 33. Birds and Spinach on Toa^t.265 The Boston Cook Book. ENTREES AND MEAT RECHAUFFE. Boned Turkey or Chicken. Bone the turkey as directed on page 27. Staffing for a Hen Turkey weighing Eightfounds. —The meat from a four-pound chicken^ one pound of raw^ lean veal^ one cup of cracker crumbs^ two eggs^ boiling stock enough to moisten, salt^ pepper^ and thyme to taste, and one cup of potted ham or tongue. Disjoint the chicken; remove the skin, tough sinews, and bones. Cut the meat from the thighs and breast in Fig. 34. Boned Turkey, browned and served like a Roast Turkey. long thin strips, lay it aside, and chop all the remainder with the veal. Do not use any salt pork unless you wish the stuffing to taste like sausage meat. Add the cracker crumbs ; make it quite moist with hot stock, and season to taste. Fill the legs and wdngs of the turkey with the force- meat. Put the fillets, which came out in boning, on the skin below the breast; then a la^ er of force-meat with a little of the tongue here and there ; or you may use thin slices of boiled tongue or ham. Then a layer of the re- served meat from the chicken, and force-meat again. Sew and tie into the natural shape. Or, if for a galantine, turn the legs and wings inside before stuffing, and roll up. Sew tightly in a cloth. Put the bones of chicken and turkey266 The Boston Cook Book. and all the trimmings from the veal in a kettle, and cover with cold water. Steam the turkey over the bones three hours. Remove the cloth, dredge with salt and flour, and bake one hour or until nicely browned. Serve cold, and garnish with parsley, sparkling jelly, carrots, and heets cut into fancy shapes, or with potato halls. Carve in slices across the breast. When the turkey is to be moulded in jelly, strain the liquor in which the bones were boiled ; rem^ove the fat, clear, and stiffen with gelatine as directed below. Make a brown aspic jelly with soup stock. Mould in the dark jelly and garnish with the hght, or vice versa. Stuffing for Boned Chiden.—1]^^ more veal, omit the chicken, and vary the amount of the other ingredients Fig. 35. Boned Chicken, larded and baked. given in stuffing for turke}^, according to the size of the fowl. Lardoons of pork may be inserted all over the top when the chicken is to be browned in the oven. To Mould in Aspic Jelly. — Take enough stock to fill the mould, — heef\f for dark jell}', and veal or chicken, if for light. Season highly with salt, pepper, celery seed, herbs, lemon, or wine. If a darker shade be desired, add a little caramel. For three pints of stock mix the whites and shells of two eggs with the cold stock ; add one box of Cox's gela- tine which has been soaked in one cup of cold water. Put all over the fire, and stir till hot. Boil till a thick scum has formed; remove that, and strain the liquor through a fine napkin. Pack a mould in a pan of snow or broken ice, and pour in jelly to the depth of half an inch. When hard, garnishThe Boston Cook Book, 267 Yfith. fancy vegetables of different colors^ slices of hard-boiled eggs^ Italian paste^ rings of macaroni^ etc. Fasten each ornament in place with hquid jelly, and when hard add enough jell}^ to cover all. When this is hard, place the meat, or whatever you have to mould, in the centre, being careful not to let it break the jelly. Keep the meat in place with some of the liquid jel- h^, and when hard add enough jelly to fill the mould. If to be dec- 3^ ChickeivdiTjelly. orated on the side, dip the ornaments in the liquid jell}', and if the mould be icy cold, they will adhere. The jelly must be added slowly. Keep in the mould in a cool place till ready to serve. To remove it, dip the mould quickly in warm (not hot) water, put the dish over it, and invert dish and mould together. Garnish withpar5% and sparkling jelly. Tongue,, boned turkey or chicken,, birds,, moulds of different kinds of meat smdjish, etc., may be served in jell3\ Pressed Chicken. An Easy Way of Preparing Boneless Chicken,—Boil a fowl in as little water as possible till the bones slip out and the gristly portions are soft. Remove the skin, pick the meat apart, and mix the dark and white meats. Re- move the fat, and season the liquor highly with salt and pepper; also with celery salt and lemon juice^ if you like. Boil down to one cupful,, and mix with the meat. Butter a mould, and decorate the bottom and sides with slices of hard-boiled eggs ; also with thin slices of tongue or ham cut into round or fancy shapes. Pack the meat in, and set awa}^ to cool with a weight on the meat. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, and turn out carefully. Garnish with parsley,, strips of lettuce or celery leaves^ and radishes or beets.268 The Boston Cook Book. Blanquette of Chicken. Make one cup of cream sauce^ put it in a double boiler, and add one pint of cooked chicken cut in strips, and one tahlespoonful of chopped parsley. When hot, beat the yolks of two eggs; add two tablespoonfals of milk^ and stir into the chicken. Cook two minutes. Serve in rice or potato border^ or with a garnish of toast points. Chicken Pilau. Warm one pint of canned chicken^ or cold roast or boiled chicken., in one pint of water till the meat is very tender. Skim out the meat, and add to the^ liquor one pint of strained tomatoes. Season highly with salt., pepper., fine chopped onion., and curry or Chutney sauce. When boiling, add one cup of well-washed rice., and cook twenty minutes, or till the rice is soft. Add the pieces of chicken and half a cup of butter or cream. When hot, turn out on a platter, and garnish with triangles of toast. Scalloped Chicken. Take equal parts of cold chicken., boiled rice or macaroni., and tomato sauce. Put in laj^ers in a shallow dish, and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake till brown. Cold roast turke}^, using stuffing and gravy, may be prepared in the same wa3^ Chicken Pie for Thanksgiving. {Miss A. M. Towns.) Two chickens.^ three pints of cream., one pound of butter., flour enough to make a stiff crust. Cut the chicken at the joints, and cook in boiling salted water till tender. Crust. — Three pints of cream., one heaping teaspoonful of salt., andfiour to mix it hard enough to roll out easil}'. Line a deep earthen dish having flaring sides with a thin layer of paste. Roll the remainder of the paste half an inch thick. Cut three quarters of a pound of butter into269 The Boston Cook Book. small pieces, and put them on the dough quite close to- gether. Sprinkle a little flour over the butter, and roll the paste over and over. Roll out again half an inch thick and roll up. Cut off from the ends of the roll, turn the pieces over and roll out half an inch thick for rims. Wet the paste in the dish with milk, and lay the rims round the sides of the dish. Put on two, three, or four rims, showing one above another, the inside rim the highest. Wet each rim to make it adhere. Fill the centre with the parboiled chicken. Take out some of the larger bones. Season the chicken liquor with salt and peppery smd pom- it over the chicken ; use enough to nearly cover. Cut the remaining quarter of butter into pieces the size of a chest- nut, and put them over the meat. Roll the remainder of the crust to fit the top. Make a curving cut in the crust and turn it back, that the steam ma}^ escape. Bake three hours in a brick oven. If baked in a stove oven, put on only two rims of crust and bake two hours. Chicken Terrapin. (Miss Mitiot.) Chop one cold roast chicken and one parboiled sweet- bread moderately fine. Make one cup of rich cream sauce, with one cup of hot cream^ a quarter of a cup of butter, and two tablespoonfids of flour. Then put in the chicken and sweetbread. Salt and pepper to taste. Let it heat over hot water fifteen minutes. Just before serving add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and one wineglass of sherry wine. Calfs liver, parboiled till tender, and cut fine, may be prepared in the same way, and used alone or with cold chicken or veal. Chicken Chartreuse. Chop ver}^ fine yiine ounces, or a heaping cup, of cold cooJced chicken ; add the inside of two sausages, or two ounces of lean, cooked ham, chopped fine, three tablespoonfuls of powdered bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of capers, or one270 The Boston Cook Book, tahlespoonfal of chopped parsley^ two tablespoonftds of lemon juice or vinegar^ a speck of cayenne^ two eggs^ well beaten, and enough hot soup stock to make it quite moist. Add salt and pepper to taste, the amount depending upon the seasoning in the sausages. The sausages ma}^ be omitted, and a larger amount of chicken used. Butter a small mould, and pack the meat in closelj^ to within an inch of the top to allow for swelling. Put it on a trivet in a kettle, and steam three hours. If no uncooked meat be used, one hour w^ill be sufficient. Cool it in the mould; when read}' to serve, dip the mould quickly into warm water and loosen the meat around the edges with a thin knife and remove the mould. It may be served plain or moulded in jelly (see page 266). Salmis of Game. Cut the meat from cold roasted game into small pieces. Break up the bones and remnants, x^over them with stock or with cold ivater^ and add a pinch of herbs, two cloves^ and two peppercorns. Boil down to a cupful for a pint of meat. Fry two small onions^ cut fine, in two tablespoonfuls of but- ter till brown; add two tablespoonfuls of flour ^ and stir till dark brown. Strain the liquor in which the bones were boiled, and add it gradually to the butter and flour. Add more salt if needed, one tablespoonful of lemon juice^ two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and the pieces of meat. Simmer fifteen minutes; add six or eight mush- rooms, and a glass of claret,, if 3^ou like, or the juice of a sour orange. Serve very hot on slices of fried bread, and gar- nish with fried bread and parsley. Or serve canned peas in the centre, with the meat on toast around the edge. Beef Olives, or Beef Rolls.i • Cut thin slices from cold roast beef, two and a half by four inches. Chop the trimmings and fat, allowing one 1 Olives is not an appropriate name, although in common use.271 The Boston Cook Book. tablespoonfal of the chopped mixture for each slice. Sea- son higlily with salt^ pepper^ and herbs^ and mix with one fourth as much cracker crumbs as meat. Spread this on each shce, nearl}^ to the edge. Roll and tie. Dredge with salt^ pepper^ and flour^ and fry brown in drippings or salt pork fat; put in a stewpan, and make a brown gravy b}" adding two tablespoonfals of flour to the fat left in the pan, and when brown pour on one pint of hot water. Sea- son Yiiih. salt and pepper; pour over the rolls and simmer till they are tender. Remove the strings, place the rolls on a platter, season the gravy and pour it over thpm. Rolls may be made in the same way by using raw lean meat from the round, cut in small thin slices ; pound it to break the fibre, and trim into shape. Rolls may be made of veal or thin slices of liver (parboil and remove the skin before using the liver). If there be any of the chopped mixture left, make it into round or oval balls, roll in crumbs^ then in egg, and again in crumbs; and brown in the oven or fry in fat. Beef Roulette, — Take a large thin slice of meat from the round, or any tough part; pound it enough to break the fibre, and trim into rectangular shape. Season and spread with a stuffing; roll, tie, and cook as directed for Beef Rolls. Serve hot with a gravy ; or cold, cut into thin slices. Fricadilloes, or Meat Balls, Sausages, or Rolls. Chop the meat fine ; add a slice of onion chopped fine, and if the meat be lean, add one or tivo slices of bacon ; sea- son highly with salt, pepper, sage, thyme, lemon juice, and parsley ; add one fourth as much bread crumbs or boiled rice as you have meat. Moisten with beaten egg and hot water or stock if needed ; shape like a ball, egg, or cylinder. Brown them in drippings or butter in a frying-pan, or roll them in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, and fry in hot deep/a#.The Boston Cook Book. 272 Frizzled Beef. Half a pound of smoked heef^ cut in thin shavings. Pour boiling water over it, and let it stand ten minutes. Drain and heat it in one tahlespoonful of hot butter^ to curl or frizzle it. Add one cup of hot cream. Or make a cup of thin white sauce with one cup of milk^ one tahlespoonful of butter,^ and one tahlespoonful of flour. Pour it over one well-beaten egg^ add the beef and a little pepper^ and serve at once. Or frizzle it, and mix it with two or three poached eggs. Meat Pie. Cut cold cooked meat into small thin slices or into half- inch cubes, remove all the gristle and fat except the crisped outside fat, put into a baking-dish, and cover with the meat gravy or with tomato or brown sauce piquante. Spread a crust of mashed potatoes over the meat, brush with beaten egg or sprinkle with cracker crumbs^ and cook twenty minutes or till brown. Meat Porcupine. Chop fine some lean cooked veal,, chicken^ or lamb; add one fourth its amount of cracker or bread crumbs,, or mashed potato,, and a small quantity of chopped bacon ; season highl}^ with salt,, pepper,, cay- enne,, ^wdlemon juice ; moisten with beaten egg and stock or water Fig. 37. Meat Porcupine. , i ^ :4- ^ enough to shape it. Mould it into an oval loaf, and put into a shallow pan well greased. Cut strips of fat bacon,, one fourth of an inch wide and one inch long. Make holes in the loaf with a small skewer, insert the strips of bacon, leaving the ends out half an inch, and push the meat up firmly round the273 The Boston Cook Book. bacon. Bake till brown. The bacon will baste the meat sufficiently. Ragout of Cooked Meat. Cut one pint of cold meat into half-inch dice ; remove the fat, bone, and gristle. Put the meat in a stewpan ; cover with boiling water., and simmer slowly two or three hours, or till very tender; then add half a can of mushrooms^ cut fine, two tahlespoonfals of Madeira wine, salt and pepper to taste. Wet one tahlespoonful of Jlour to a smooth paste with a httle cold water; stir it into the boiling liquor; add a teaspoonful of caramel, if not brown enough. Cook ten minutes, and serve plain or in| a border of mashed potatoes. The seasoning may be varied by using one tea- spoonful of curry powder, a few grains of cayenne pepper, or half a tumbler of currant jelly, and salt to taste. Hash. Equal parts of meat and potatoes, or two of potatoes to one of meat. Remove all the bone, gristle, and skin, and have only one-fourth part fat meat. Chop very fine, and mix well with the potatoes, which should be hot and well mashed. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Put in enough hot water to cover the bottom of the spider; add one large tablespoonful of butter. When the butter is melted, add the hash, and let it simmer till it has absorbed the water and formed a brown crust. Do not stir it. Fold like an omelet. Use corned meat or roast beef. If the potatoes be cold, chop them with the meat. Sandwiches. Chop verj' fine some cooked ham or cold corned beef or tongue with one-fourth part fat. Mix one teaspoonful of dry mustard and one saltspoonful of salt with cold water to a stiff paste ; add to it one fourth of a cup of butter creamed. Cut stale bread in very thin slices; spread with the mus- tard and butter paste, then with the ham. Put two slices together, and cut into rectangular pieces. 18The Boston Cook Book, Scalloped Mutton. Remove the fat and skin from cold roast mutton ; cut the meat in small thin slices ; season it with salt and pepper. Butter a shallow dish, put in a layer of bread or cracker crumbs^ then a laj^er of meat, then oysters^ strained and seasoned, tomato or brown gravy^ then crumbs, meat, etc., having on the top a thick layer of crumbs moistened in one third of a cup of melted butter. Cold boiled macaroni^ cut into inch pieces, may be used in place of oysters. Casserole of Rice and Meat. Boil one cup of rice till tender. Chop very fine half a pound of an}' cold meat; season highl}' with half a teaspoon- ful of salt^ half a saltspoonful of pepper^ one saltspoonfal of celery salt, one teaspoonful of finely chopped onion, one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and one saltspoonful esich of thyme and marjoram. Add one beateyi egg, two tablespoon- fuls of fine cracker crumbs, and moisten with hot water or stock enough to pack it easily. Butter a small mould, line the bottom and sides half an inch deep with the rice, pack in the meat, cover closely with rice, and steam fort^-five minutes. Loosen it around the edge of the mould; turn it out upon a platter, and pour tomato sauce over it. Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads with Potato Border. One pound of uncooked lean veal cut into half-inch cubes, and cooked with one slice of onion in boiling salted water till tender, then put into cold water to whiten. Make one C7ip of white sauce, and season with one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonfid of celery salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Put the veal and half a cup of mushrooms, cut into quarters, into the sauce. Heat over hot water five minutes, or till the meat and mushrooms are hot. Remove from the fire ; add quickly one teaspoonful of lemon juice and one well-beaten egg; serve inside a potato border, or on toast garnished with toast points.275 The Boston Cook Book, Potato Border, — One quart of mashed and seasoned potatoes shaped into a mound like a wall on the edge of a platter. Brush over with beaten white or yolk of an egg^ and brown slightl}^ Fill with anj^ kind of cooked meat or fish warmed in a white or brown sauce. Veal Birds. Slices of veal from the loin^ cut ver^^ thin. Wipe, re- move the bones, skin, and fat, and pound till one fourth of an inch thick. Trim into pieces two and a half by four inches. Chop the trimmings fine with one square inch of fat salt pork for each bird. Add half as mMoh fine cracker crumbs as you have meat; season highly with salt^ pepper^ thyme^ lemon^ cayenne^ and onion. Moisten with one egg and a little hot water. Spread the mixture on each slice nearl}' to the edge, roll up tiglitlj^, and tie or fasten with skewers. Dredge with salt^ pepper^ and flour; fry them slowly in hot butter till a golden brown, but not dark or burned. Then half cover with cream^ and simmer fifteen or twenty minutes, or till tender. Remove the strings, and serve on toast; pour the cream over them ; gar- nish with points of toast and lemon. If the veal be tough, dip in olive oil before spreading with the stuffing. Melton Veal. Take an}" cold veal^ either roasted or boiled ; chop it fine, and season with salt^ pepper^ and lemon juice; add two or three tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs^ and moisten with soup stock or hot water. Take one third as mnoh finely chopped ham as of veal; season with mustard and cayenne ; add oiie tablespoonful of cracker crumbs., and moisten with hot stock or water. Butter a mould, and line it with slices of hard- boiled egg. Put in the two mixtures irregularly, so that when cut it will have a mottled appearance ; press in closel}^ and steam three-quarters of an hour. Set away 'to cool; remove from the mould, and slice before serving. This is an excellent dish for lunch or tea, and is a con-2/6 The Boston Cook Book. venient way of using pieces of veal that would not other- wise be utilized. Veal Loaf. Parboil two pounds of lean veal. Chop fine with dne fourth of a pound of salt pork or bacon ; add four butter crackers^ pounded, two eggs^ well beaten, two teaspoonfuls of salt^ one saltspoonful of pepper^ and half a saltspoonful of nutmeg or mace. Moisten with the meat liquor, mould into an oval loaf, and put into a shallow tin pan. Add a little of the water in which the meat was boiled. Bake till quite brown, basting often. Serve hot or cold, cut in slices. Raw veal maj^ be used in the same w^ay, baking it two hours or more. No. 2, — Select a hnuckle of veal^ or 2i\\y hony piece that has a large proportion of gelatine. Cut in small pieces, and remove any fragments of bone. Cover with cold water., boil quickly, skim, and add one onion., one teaspoonfid of salt, and one saltspoonful of pepper. Let it simmer till the meat slips from the bones, the gristly portions are dissolved, and the liquor reduced to one cupful. Eemove the meat, pick out all the bones, strain the liquor, and season highW with salt^ lemon juice., Siud pepper^ and slightly with sage or thyme. Chop or pick the meat apart; add two or three tahlespoonfuls of powdered cracker and the meat liquor ; mix well and put into a bread pan. Put it in a cool place, and when hard serve in thin slices. The gelatine in the meat liquor will harden, and hold the meat together without pressure. Meat Souffle. Make one cup of cream sauce, and season with chopped parsley and onion juice. Stir one cup of chopped meat (chicken, fresh tongue, veal, or lamb) into the sauce. When hot, add the beaten yolks of two eggs; cook one min- ute, and set away to cool. When cool, stir in the whites, beaten stiff. Bake in a buttered dish about twenty min- utes, and serve immediately. If for lunch, serve with a' mushroom sauce.277 The Boston Cook Book. Potting. Chop and pound to a paste any fragments of cooked ham^ tongue^ beef^ poultry^ game^ ov fish. With ham use a quarter part fat. Remove all gristle and skin, and pound till free from any fibre and reduced to a paste. Season highl}^ with salt^ pepper^ cayenne^ and made mustard,, and moisten with a little melted butter (except ham, which has fat enough). Pack closely in small stone or earthen jars. Put the jars in a steamer, and heat for half an hour. Then press the meat down again, and cover with hot melted butter. This will keep some time, and may be served in slices or used for sandwiches. Ham and tongue may be mixed with veal or chicken. Beef, game, and fish are better alone. Potted Liver. Braise a calf^s or lamb's liver in rich, highly seasoned stock. When tender, cut fine and pound to a paste, add- ing enough of the strained liquor in which it was cooked to moisten it; add half a cup of butter^ melted and strained. Rub all through a sieve; pack in jars and pour melted butter over the top. Ragout of Lamb's or Calf s Liver. Boil till tender. Cut in thin round slices. Make a rich brown sauce ; season with spices and wine. Stew the liver in it till hot, and serve at once. Garnish with alternate slices of lemo7i and hard-boiled eggs. Croquettes. . These may be made of any kind of cooked meat, fish, oysters, rice, hominy, and many kinds of vegetables, or from a mixture of several ingredients. When mixed with a thick white sauce (see page 278), which adds ver}^ much to the delicacy of meat or fish croquettes, less meat is required. The sauce is a stiff paste when cold, and being mixed with the meat or fish the croquettes may be278 The Boston Cook Book, handled and shaped perfectly, and when cooked will be soft and creamy inside. To Shape a Croquette, — Croquettes may be shaped into rolls, or ovals, or like pears, with a bit of parsley or a clove in the end to represent the stem. Take a taUespoon- ful of the cold mixture^ and shape into a smooth ball. If the mixture stick, wet the palms of the hands slightly. Give the ball a gentle, rolUng pressure between the palms till shghtly cylindrical; then roll it lightly in the crumbs, clasp it gently in the hand, and flatten one end on the board. Turn the hand over, and flatten the opposite end. Place the croquette on a broad knife, and roll it in beaten egg. With a spoon dip the egg over the croquette, drain on the knife, and roll again in the crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat (see page 15). Drain on paper. In rolling any kind of croquettes, if the mixture be too soft to be handled easily, stir in enough fine cracker dust to stiffen it, but never add an}- uncooked material like flour, nor the dried bread crumbs used in rolling, as those will make the croquettes too stiff. Thick Cream Sauce (for Croquettes and Patties). 1 pint hot cream. 3^ teaspoonful salt. 2 even tablespoonfuls butter. saltspoonful white pepper. 4 heaping tablespoonfuls flour, or 3^ teaspoonful celery salt. 2 heaping tablesp. cornstarch. A few grains of cayenne. Scald the cream. Melt the butter in a granite sauce- pan. When bubbling, add the dry cornstarch. Stir till well mixed. Add one third of the cream, and stir as it boils and thickens. Add more cream, and boil again. When perfectl}' smooth, add the remainder of the cream. The sauce should be very thick, almost like a drop batter. Add the seasoning, and mix it while hot with the meat or flsh. For croquettes, one beaten egg may be added just as the sauce is taken from the fire ; but the croquettes are whiter and more creamy without the egg. For patties, warm the meat or fish in the sauce, and use the egg or not as you please.279 The Boston Cook Booh Chicken Croquettes. — Half a pound of chicken chopped verj^ fine, and seasoned with half a teaspoonful of sa/^, half a teaspoonful of celery salt^ a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper., one saltspoonful of white pepper.^ a few drops of onion juice., one teaspoonful of chopped parsley^ and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Make one pint of very thick cream sauce (see page 278). When thick, add one heaien egg^ and mix the sauce with the chicken, us- ing only enough to make it as soft as can be handled. Spread on a shallow plate to cool. Shape into rolls. Roll in fine Fig. 38. chicken Croquettes. breadcrumbs., then dip in beaten egg., then in crumbs again, and fry one minute in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve with a thin cream sauce. Many prefer to cut the chicken into small dice. If this be done, use less of the sauce, or the croquettes will be difficult to shape. The white meat of chicken will absorb more sauce than the dark. Mushrooms, boiled rice, sweetbreads, calf's brains, or veal may be mixed with chicken. Cold roast chicken, chopped fine, may be mixed with the stuffing, moistened with the gravy, and shaped into croquettes. Veal Croquettes,—Chop cold veal fine; season highly with salt., pepper., cayenne., onion juice^ celery salt., and pars- ley. If you like, add half the amount of oysters., parboiled and drained. Moisten with beaten egg and white sauce. Shape into rolls. Koll in fine bread crumbs., egg., and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. Oyster Croquettes. —Parboil and drain one pint of oysters. Cut them into quarters, and mix with cream sauce enough to hold them together. Season with salt and pepper. Shape, roll in crumbs., then in egg., then in crumbs again, and fry. Sweetbread Croquettes, — Oyie parboiled sweetbread., half a can of 7nushrooms^ chopped fine, and half a cup of warmThe Boston Cook Book. 28o boiled rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper^ and moisten with hot thick cream sauce until soft enough to be handled. When cool, shape, roll in crumbs^ then in egg^ and again in crumbs^ and fry. Calf s brains may be parboiled and mixed with sweetbreads or chicken for croquettes. Lobster Croquettes. — One pint of lobster meat^ cut fine. Season with one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of mus- tard., and a little cayenne, and moisten with one cup of thick cream sauce. Cool, and shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. Lobster Cutlets. —Prepare the lobster as for croquettes, and spread it half an inch thick on a platter. Cut into the shape of cutlets. Roll in crumbs^ egg, and crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve with a claw to represent the bone. Salmon, or any fish croquettes or cutlets are made in the same way. Clam Croquettes. — Steam the clams. Remove the shells, thin skin, black end, and the dark substance from the soft part. Cut the "leather straps," with the scissors, into small bits. Mix these and the soft part with a thick cream sauce, season with salt and pepper, and shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot lard. Potato Croquettes. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful of butter, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a speck of cayenne, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- ful of celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, and the yolk of one egg. Mix all but the egg, and beat until very light. When slightly cool, add the 3'olk of the egg, and mix well. Rub through a sieve and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Shape into smooth round balls, then into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs again. Fr}" in smoking hot lard one minute. Drain and serve in the form of a pyramid. Oyster Plant Croquettes. — Scrape, boil, mash, and season281 The Boston Cooh Booh the 03'ster plant. Shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs^ dip in egg^ and again in crumbs^ and fty as usual. Prepare parsnips in the same way. Turkish Croquettes, — Stew half a can of tomatoes fifteen minutes with one slice each of onion^ carroty and turnip, one teaspoonful of herbs, one sprig of parsley, two cloves, two pep- percorns, one teaspoonful of salt, and one saltspoonful of pep- 'per. Rub through a strainer. Take one cup of the strained tomatoes, one cup of brown soup stock, season highly, and when boiling add one scant cup of uncooked rice. Cook till the liquor is absorbed. Add a quarter of a cup of butter, and steam it, or cook on the back of the stove until the rice is soft. Add one beaten egg and a little cream sauce, or thick tomato sauce, using enough to make it quite moist. When cool, shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. Sometimes it is better to parboil the rice for five minutes, as it is more difficult to soften it in stock than in clear water. Sweet Rice Croquettes, — Steam one scant cup of well- washed rice in one pint of boiling water, or milk and water, thirt}" minutes, or till very soft. Add, while hot, one tea- spoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the well- beaten yolk of one egg, and a little hot milk, if it need more moisture. When cool, shape into small ovals, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry. Or, after shaping, press the thumb into the centre of each, and put in two boiled raisins or candied cherries, or half a teaspoonful of jelly or marmalade. Close the rice over the centre, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumhs again, and fry. Savory Rice Croquettes. — One pint of cold boiled rice warmed in the double boiler with two or three tablespoonfuls of milk. When soft, add one egg, well beaten, one table- spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, one fourth of a saltspoonful of white pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and one heaping tahlespoonful of fine chopped parsley. Shape, roll, and fry as usual. Rice or Macaroni Croquettes, — One pint of cold boiledThe Boston Cook Book, 282 rice or macaroni or spaghetti. Heat, and moisten with a little thick white sauce; add the beaten yolk of one egg^ two tahlespoonfals of grated cheese^ and salt and pepper to taste. Cool, shape, roll in crumhs^dv^ in egg^ roll in crumbs again, and fry. Hominy Croquettes. — Warm one pint of cooked hominy in one or two tahlespoonfuls of hot milk ; add the beaten yolk of one egg^ and salt to taste. Cool, shape, roll, and fiy. Creme Frete, — Boil one pint of nfiilk with an inch stick of cinnamon. Beat together half a cup of sugar^ two table- spoonfuls of cornstarch^ one tablespoonful of flour^ the of three eggs^ a quarter of a cup of milk^ and spoonful of sa/^. Pour the boiling milk on the mixture, and stir well. Strain into the double boiler, and cook fifteen minutes, stirring often. Add one teaspoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a buttered bread pan about one inch deep, and set away to cool. When very hard, sprinkle a bread board with J^?^e bread crumbs. Turn the cream out on it, and cut into strips two and a half inches long and one inch wide, or in squares or diamonds. Roll these in crumbs^ then dip in beaten egg^ then in crumbs^ and fvy brown in boiling lard. Sprinkle sugar over them, and serve hot. Break the cheese in small pieces, or if hard grate it. Put it with the milk in a double boiler. Toast the bread, and keep it hot. Mix the mustard, salt, and pepper ; add the egg, and beat well. When the cheese is melted, stir in the egg and butter, and cook two minutes, or until it thickens a little, but do not let it curdle Pour it over the toast. Many use ale instead of cream. Cheese Souffle. — Put two tahlespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; add one heaping tablespoonfid of flour; when Welsh Rarebit. pound rich cream cheese. cup cream or milk. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 3^ teaspoonful salt. A few grains of cayenne. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful butter. 4 slices toast.The Boston Cook Book. 283 smooth, add half a cup of milk^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ and 2ifew grains of cayenne. Cook two minutes. Add the yolks of three eggs^ well beaten, and oiie cup of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add the whites^ beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and bake twenty- five or thirty minutes. Serve immediately. Crackers a la Creme. — Split butter crackers^ and spread with butter^ salt, pepper, mustard, and cheese if you like. Put them in a buttered pudding-dish, cover with milk, and bake thirty minutes. Omit the mustard, pepper, and cheese, prepare in the same way, and it is called Cracker Brewis. Sardine Canapees. —Mix the yolks of hard-boiled eggs with an equal amount of sardines rubbed to a paste ; season with lemon juice, and spread on thin slices of delicate toast. Put two pieces together, and cut in narrow strips. Turkish Pilaf. One cup of stewed and strained tomatoes, one cup of stock, seasoned highly with salt, pepper, and minced onion. When boiling, add one cup of well-washed rice ; stir lightly with a fork until the liquor is absorbed, then add half a cup of butter. Set on the back of the stove or in a double boiler, and steam twenty minutes. Remove the cover, stir it hghtly, cover with a towel, and let the steam escape. Serve as a vegetable, or as a border for curry or fricassee. No. 2.—Prepare as in the preceding receipt. Add with the butter one cup of cooked meat (lamb, veal, or chicken), cut into half-inch pieces and shredded very fine. Serve as an entree. Sour Milk Cheese (sometimes called Dutch, Curd, or Cottage Cheese). 1 quart thick sour milk. 1 saltspoonf ul salt. 1 tea spoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful cream. Place the milk in a pan on the back of the stove, and scald it until the curd has separated from the whey.284 The Boston Cook Book. Spread a strainer cloth over a bowl, pour in the milk, lift the edges of the cloth, and draw them together; drain or wring quite dry. There will be but half or two thirds of a cup of curd^ but it is worth saving. It is the flesh- forming or nutritive part of the milk. Put it in a small bowl, with the butter, salt, and cream; mix it to a smooth paste with a spoon. Take a teaspoonful, and roll in the hand into a smooth ball. It should be quite moist, or the balls will crack. If too soft to handle, put it in a cool place for an hour, and then it will shape easily. Or it may be served without shaping, just broken up lightly wdth a fork. If scalded too long, the curd becomes very hard and brittle. It is better w^hen freshly made, and is deli- cious with warm gingerbread. An excellent lunch or tea dish. Season this cheese with one tahlespoonful of finely powdered sage^ if 3^ou like the flavor. Forefathers' Dinner. Succotash is the great dish in Plymouth at every cele- bi^ation of Forefathers' Da}^, December 22. Tradition saj^s it has been made in that town ever since the Pilgrims raised their first corn and beans, and it is supposed they learned to make it from the Indians. Strangers are rather shy of this peculiar mixture ; but it is a favorite dish with the natives, and to this day is made by some families man}^ times through the winter season. Although the dish has never been made by the writer, it has been tested by her in that ancient town many times, and the excellence of the following receipt is unquestionable. It is given in the name of Mrs, Barnabas Churchill, of Plymouth, a lady who has made it for fifty years after the manner handed down through many generations. One quart of large white beans (not the pea beans) ; six quarts of hulled corn, — the smutty white Southern corn ; six to eight pounds of corned beef, from the second cut of the rattle rand; one pound of salt porlc, fat and lean;The Boston Cook Book. 285 chicken weighing from four to six pounds; one large white French turnip ; eight or ten medium-sized potatoes. Wash the beans, and soak over night in cold water. In the morning put them on in cold soft water. When boil- ing, change the water, and simmer until soft enough to mash to a pulp and the water is nearly all absorbed. Wash the salt pork and the corned beef, which should be corned onl}^ three or four days. Put them on about eight o'clock, in cold water, in a very large kettle, and skim as they begin" to boil. Clean, and truss the chicken as for boiling, and put it with the meat about an hour and a quarter before dinner time. Allow a longer time if a fowl be used, and keep plenty of water in the kettle. Two hours before dinner time, put the beans, mashed to a pulp, and the hulled corn into another kettle, with some of the fat from the meat in the bottom to keep them from sticking. Take out enough liquor from the meat to cover the corn and beans, and let them simmer where they will not burn. Stir often, and add more liquor if needed. The mixture should be like a thick soup, and the beans should absorb all the liquor, yet it must not be too dry. Pare, and cut the turnip into inch slices ; add it about eleven o'clock, and the potatoes (pared) half an hour later. Take up the chicken as soon as tender, that it may be served whole. Serve the beef and pork together, the chicken, turnip, and potatoes each on separate dishes, and the beans and corn in a tureen. The meat usually salts the mixture sufficiently, and no other seasoning is necessary. Save the water left from the meat, to use in warming the corn and beans the next day, serving the meat cold. This will keep several da3^s in cold weather; and, like many other dishes, it is better the oftener it is warmed over, so there is no objection to making a large quantity. The white Southern corn is considered the only kind suitable for this ancient dinner.286 The Boston Cook Book. HuUed Corn. Tie a quart of oah wood ashes in a flannel bag, and put it with three gallons of cold water into an iron kettle. Let it boil and become Ije, or till the water is black. Put in four quarts of corn^ and boil till the hulls have all started. Stir it well with a wooden spoon. Then pour it into a large pan of cold water, and rub with the hand thoroughly to loosen the hulls. Change the water five or six times, and wash and rub till the corn is white and clean. Keep in cold water over night; then put on in fresh cold water, and simmer four hours, or till soft and flour3\ Take off the hulls and scum from the water, and add fresh water several times during the simmering. Indian Meal Pudding. {Mrs. Barnabas Churchill.) Rub a tahlespoonful of butter round the bottom and sides of a smooth iron kettle, — granite or porcelain will do; when melted, add half a cup of boiling water. This will prevent the milk from burning. Add one quart of milk. Let it boil up, and almost over the kettle ; then sift in one pint of fine yellow granulated corn meal., sifting with the left hand, and holding the meal high, that every grain ma^' be thoroughlj' scalded. Stir constantly ; add half a teaspoon- ful of salt, and set away till cold. Then add half a pint of JVeiv Orleans molasses and otie quart of cold milk. Put into a well-buttered deep pudding-dish, cover with a plate, and bake very slowly ten or twelve hours. Put it in a Satur- day afternoon oven," where the fire will keep low nearh^ all night. Let it remain over night, and serve for a Sun- day breakfast. Chickins forc'd with Oysters. (Taken from a receipt hook written in 1764.) Take Oysters, parsley. Onions, butter, pepper, Salt, grated Bread, Mushrooms—if 3^ou can get y™, & as many eggs as you think propper, fill them inside, & Cut y"" on the287 The Boston Cook Book. breast, if have a mind to, & put some of tlie stuffing there, make gravy of Oysters, butter & mace, pepper, roast them well. Bean Porridge. {Mrs, C. M. Poor.) Five pounds of corned beef^ not too salt, or four pounds of beef and one of salt pork; one pint of dry white beans, four tablespoonfuls of corn meal^ pepper and salt to taste, one pint of hulled corn. Soak the beans over night. In the morn- ing parboil in fresh water with a pinch of soda till soft. Put the corned beef and pork in cold water, skim carefulh% and simmer four or five hours, or till tender. Take out, and cut into two-inch pieces, and remove the bone and gristle; also the fat from the liquor. Put the meat and beans into the meat liquor, and simmer very slowly three or four hours, or till most of the beans are broken. Half an hour before serving stir in the meal, first wetting it in cold water to a smooth paste. The meal should thicken the porridge to about the consistency of a thick soup. The meat should be cooked till it falls apart. Season to taste with salt aud pepper. Add the hulled corn, and when hot serve with brown bread. Sometimes the vegetables usu- ally served with a boiled dinner are cooked with the meat, then removed, and the beans cooked as above, in the meat liquor. " This old-fashioned and ver}' nutritious dish was one of the chief articles of winter food at my grandmother's farm in Northern New Hampshire eighty years ago. When cooked, it was poured into bowls or basins holding from a pint to two quarts. A nice tow string was laid in a loop over the edge, and the porridge was placed where it would freeze. By holding the dish in hot water it would cause the porridge to slip out; then it was hung up hy the loops in the ' butter3%' and was considered ' best when nine days old.' At early dawn the ' men folks ' who went into the forest ' chopping' would take the skillet, or a little three-legged iron kettle, some large slices of ' rye and288 The Boston Cook Booh Indian' bread in their pockets to keep it from freezing. The porridge was hung, wrapped in a clean towel, upon the sled stakes. Their spoons were made of wood. The hay that lay on the floor of the ox sled was of use to keep their feet warm, and given to the oxen for 'bait' at noon. When it was twelve o'clock ' by the sun,' they kindled a fire by the aid of a ' tinder box,' warmed their porridge, and with their brown bread enjoyed this strong food as no modern epicure can his costly French dishes." Smothered Chicken. (A daline Miller.) Clean a chicken, too old for broiling; split down the back, and put it breast upwards in a shallow pan ; pour over it one cup of boiling, water, and cover tightly to keep in the steam. Cook half an hour ; then baste with the hot water, rub all over with softened butter, and dredge with salt and pepper. Baste often, keep closel}^ covered, and cook till tender. It should be yellow, not dark brown. Thicken the gravy; add chopped parsley, salt, and pep- per, and pour it over the chicken. Steamed Apple and Indian Meal Pudding. (^Mrs. Faiince.) Scald two cups of corn meal with boiling water. Add one teaspoonful of salt, one fourth of a cup of molasses, and two tart apples cut into eighths and cored, but not pared. Dissolve half a teaspoonful of soda in warm water, and add to the meal. Add more warm water to make a batter thin enough to pour. Pour into a greased pail, place it on a trivet in a kettle of boiling water. Cook three hours. The water must not stop boiling. To be eaten with roast meat. The next day warm what is left in the meat gravy.The Boston Cook Book. 289 VEGETABLES. Vegetable food, in its widest sense, includes some part of every form of plant growth, — herb, shrub, or tree, — used either as vegetables, fruits, grains, condiments, or beverages. Vegetables, as the term is generall}^ used, are such plants as are cultivated for culinary purposes. They comprise a variety of the parts of the plant, — roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and fruit. Before studying vegetables proper, it may be interesting for those who have never considered food from a botan- ical point of view to glance at the various forms of veg- etable growth commonly used as food. Beginning with roots^ we find, among fleshy roots, the carrot, turnip, parsnip, beet, salsifj^, and radish, which are cooked in their natural state or used raw. Also from roots we get ginger, arrowroot, and tapioca. Rootstocks^ or stems growing underground, consist of tubers^ like the potato, yam, and artichoke, and of scal}^ bulbs, like the onion, chives, leek, and garlic. Stems we eat in asparagus ; and whole trunks of trees are felled and used in making sago, which is \h(d pith of a species of palm-tree. Leaves include lettuce, endive, spinach, parsley, cabbage, and greens of various kinds. Dried leaves and Jloivers are used in the form of tea, sage, thyme, ba}^ leaves, tobacco, marjoram, savor}', and other herbs. Leaf stalks include celer}' and rhubarb ; flower stalks^ cauliflower and globe arti- chokes. The juices of vegetables furnish many forms of food,—sugar, acids, honey, oil, gum, and wines. The bark we use in cinnamon. Unexpanded flower-buds are pickled, as in capers, or dried, as in cloves. Ripe cloves have no aroma. Many seeds or berries are gathered green, and are then dried for use. Allspice, or Jamaica pepper, cassia buds, 19The Boston Cook Book. 290 long peppers, and black pepper are of this class. Mustard and celery seeds are used as well as the leaves. Nutmegs are seeds; and mace is the arzZ, or covering, of the nutmeg. Seed vessels are used green, as in string beans, and also dried and ground, as in cayenne pepper. Farinaceous seeds or grains include wheat, r^'e, oats, corn, barley, rice, and buck- wheat. They have a thin seed vessel adhering closely to the whole surface of the seed. Oleaginous seeds contain oil and starch, like the cocoanut, walnut, chestnut, almond, etc. Leguminous seeds are enclosed in pods, as peas, beans, lentils, etc. Under the general name of fruit we eat very different things. Fleshy fruits^ like grapes, tomatoes, gooseberries, blueberries, cranberries, and currants, are pulpy seed vessels. Oranges and lemons are pulpy seed vessels^ with a thick leathery rind. Squashes, melon, cucumbers, egg-plant, etc., are fleshy fruits with a hard rind. Chocolate is made from the seed of 2i fleshy fruit. In checkerberries, quinces, and in all parts of the apple and pear but the core, we eat a fleshy^ enlarged calyx. In peaches, plums, apricots, cher- ries, and other stone fruits, we eat the outer part oi' a peri- carp or seed vessel. Olives belong to this class, and are used green and in the form of oil expressed from the flesh}" pericarp. Coffee is the seed of a stone fruit. In figs we eat a hollow floiver stalky grown pulpj^, and the inside lined with a great number of flowers. Mulberries are clusters of the pulpy flower leaves and stalk of minute multiple flowers. Pineapples are mulberries on a large scale. The strawberry is the receptacle of a flower grown juicy and pulpy, and bearing many one-seeded seed vessels on its surface. Blackberries also are receptacles^ though smaller, covered with clusters of little stone fruits. Rasp- berries are the little stone fruits in a cluster without the receptacle. Many fruits, when dried, are called by different names. Dried currants are small grapes. Sultanas are larger grapes, and raisins are another and larger variety of the same fruit. Prunes and prunellas are dried plums.The Boston Cook Book. 291 Some of the lower orders of vegetation afford valuable food. Irish and Ceylon mosses are seaweeds, Iceland moss is a lichen. Truffles and mushrooms are a species of fungi of vegetable growth, but possessing a strong meaty or animal flavor. We need a large variety of vegetables in our food to promote perfect health. Vegetables are rich in saline substances which counteract the evil effect of too much animal food. Some are rich in organic acids, and man}^ abound in indigestible ligneous tissues which are useful in certain conditions. Those which contain starch and albumen and which can be stored for use during the winter months are considered the most valuable. All vegetables need the addition of salt and butter, or some form of fat, and many are rendered less indigestible by seasoning with pepper. Peas, beans, squashes, beets, turnips, etc., which contain sugar, should be slightly sweetened, as much of the natural sweetness is lost in cooking; and those con- taining potash salts, as cabbage and lettace, need an acid condiment. Beans, peas, and other vegetables, which are difficult of digestion, are less indigestible if eaten in the form of purees. Green vegetables should be freshlj- gathered, thoroughly washed in cold water, and cooked in freshly boiling salted water. It is impossible to give a definite time for cooking, as much depends upon their age and the time they have been gathered. Wilted vegetables require a much longer time than fresh. All vegetables should be cooked until soft and tender, and no longer. This is better ascertained by watching them carefully and piercing with a fork than b}^ depending upon any time-table. Veg- etables which are eaten raw and are liable to ferment in the stomach are usually dressed with some condiment, — oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Every green vegetable keeps its color better if it be boiled rapidly and uncovered. Many use soda for the same purpose, but unwisely.292 The Boston Cook Book, Potatoes. The potato is more generally used than any other veg- etable. It combines with other foods — meats particularly — to give the desired elements. But it should not be used alone, or in too great a proportion, as it gives very little flesh-forming material. When taken exclusively, such a large bulk of it is required for sustenance that it results in increased size and prominence of the stomach, which sometimes amounts to deformit}'. Potatoes are three fourths water. The solid matter consists largel}^ of starch, with a small quantity of albumen and mineral matter held in solution in the juices. The quantity of starch increases during the autumn, and remains stationary during the winter. In spring, when germination commences, the starch is changed to gum, and renders the potatoes mucilaginous. The sugar formed from this gum renders them sweeter. Potatoes which have been frozen and thaw«d suddenly are sweeter and more watery than before, because on exposure to the warmth and air the starch is changed to sugar. They should be kept frozen until ready to use, or used immediately after thaw- ing in cold water. The sprouts on potatoes should be removed as soon as they appear, since, if they are allowed to grow, they exhaust the starch, and render the potatoes unfit for food. Potatoes should be kept in a dry, cool cellar. Botanicall}^ potatoes belong to the same poisonous order as tobacco and deadly nightshade, and contain an acid juice which is unpleasant to the taste and often renders them indigestible. This lies in and near the rind of the potato. It is drawn out by heat. When the potatoes are baked it escapes in the steam, if they are opened at once ; and when the}' are boiled, it is absorbed by the water. It is not wasteful, tlierefore, to peel pota- toes before cooking, or to take off quite a thick peel, as they are thus rendered more wholesome. Taste the water in which potatoes have been boiled, and jom will have noThe Boston Cook Book. 293 desire to use it in your yeast, bread, or stews. Potatoes when first peeled are white, but turn brown on exposure to the air. For this reason the^^ should be covered with cold water as soon as peeled. New potatoes are watery, as the starch is not fully formed. They have a very thin skin, which may be rubbed or scraped off. Raw potatoes which are to be fried should be thinly sliced, and soaked in cold water to draw^ out all the starch, that the}' may be crisp and not meal}'. The cells which hold the starch grains are of an albuminous nature. These cells are divided in slicing the potatoes, and the starch is drawn out into the water; the albuminous mem- brane hardens in frying, and makes the potatoes crisp. Boiled potatoes should be drained the moment the heat bursts all the starch grains, which may easily be determined by their soft texture when pierced with a fork, else the starch will absorb water, and the potatoes become pasty and unwholesome. Baked potatoes should be served as soon as soft, and the skin should be slightly ruptured by squeezing to let the steam within escape, else it will condense and make the potato watery and unwholesome. Potatoes which are cut or sliced for stews and chowders should be soaked and scalded to remove the greenness before adding them to the stew. Boiled Potatoes, — Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash and scrub with a brush. Pare, and soak in cold water. Put them in boiling salted water, — one quart of water and one tahlespoonful of salt for six large potatoes. Cook half an hour or until soft, but not until broken. Drain off every drop of the water. Place the kettle un- covered on the back of the stove to let the steam escape. Keep hot until ready to serve. Potatoes a la Neige, — Prepare the potatoes as above, and when well drained and mealy beat them thoroughly with a fork, add salt to taste, and serve at once, piled lightly on the dish. Rice Potato, — Rub the beaten potato through a squash294 The Boston Cook Book. strainer into the dish in which it is to be served. Keep the dish in a pan of hot water, and use a potato masher or pestle to facihtate the rubbing. Mashed and riced potatoes may be browned by placing the dish in the oven a few minutes. Mashed Potatoes, — To one pint of hot boiled potatoes^ add one tahlespoonful of butter^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ half a saltspoonful of pepper^ and hot milk or cream to moisten. Mash in the kettle in which they were boiled, and beat with a fork until light and cream}', and turn out lightly on a dish. Never smooth it over, as that wiU make it heavy and compact. Potato Balls. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes highly seasoned with salt, pepper^ celery salt, chopped parsley, and butter; moisten, if needed, with a little hot milk or creara. Beat one egg light, and add part of it to the potatoes. Shape into smooth round balls. Brush over with the re- mainder of the egg, and bake on a buttered tin until brown. Be careful not to get them too moist. Potato Puff.—Prepare as for potato balls, making it quite moist with cream or milk. Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately, and stir them into the potatoes when slightly cooled. Turn into a shallow baking-dish, pile it in a rocky form, and bake ten minutes, or until it is puffed and browned. Add half a cup of finely chopped cooked meat, to give a variety. Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut one pint of cold boiled potatoes into dice, and season with salt and pepper. Yrj one scant tahlespoonful of minced onion in one heaping tahlespoonful of butter, until yellow. Add the potatoes, and stir with a fork until they have absorbed all the butter, being careful not to break them. Add one tahlespoonful of chopped parsley, and serve hot. One tahlespoonful of vinegar heated with the butter gives the potatoes a nice flavor. Creamed Potatoes. —Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes measuring one third of an inch, or into thin slices. Put them in a small shallow pan, cover with milk, and cook until the potatoes have absorbed nearly all the milk. ToThe Boston Cook Book. 29s one pint of potatoes add o^ie tahlespoonful of butter^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ half a saltspoonfid of pepper^ and a little chopped parsley. Fried Potatoes, — Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Have a frjdng-pan hot and well greased with salt pork or bacon fat. Cook the potatoes in the fat until brown, then turn, and brown the other side. French Potatoes. — Fr^' as above, pour a white sauce on a platter, and arrange the fried potatoes on the sauce. Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Prepare the Maitre d^Hotel butter ; mix one tablespoonful of butter., creamed, with the whole yolk of one egg. Add oiie teaspoonful of lemon juice ^ one tMespoonfal of chopped parsleyhalf a teaspoonful of salt., and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Cut one pint of cold boiled potatoes in thin slices or dice, or cut raw potatoes into balls with a French cutter, and boil them ten minutes. Warm the potatoes in milk enough to barel}^ cover them. When the milk is nearly absorbed, stir in quickly the Maitre d'Hotel butter, and serve at once. Baked Potatoes, — Select smooth potatoes of uniform size. Wash, and scrub well. Bake in a hot oven about fort}'-five minutes, or until soft. Pinch them to break the skins, and let the steam escape. Serve at once, and never cover, as the steam causes them to become soggy. Franconia Potatoes {Baked with Meat), — Wash, scrub, and pare potatoes of uniform size. Put them in the drip- ping-pan with the meat, and baste when the meat is basted. Or place them in a small tin pan beside the meat or on the grate, and baste with the dripping. Potatoes in the Half Shell., or Souffle.—Wash, scrub, and bake three smooth potatoes. Cut in halves lengthwise, and without breaking the skin scoop out the potato into a hot bowl. Mash, and add one even tablespoonful of butter., one of hot milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, and mix it with the potato. Fill the skins with the potato mixture, heaping it lightlj^ on the top. Brown slightly.296 The Boston Cook Book. Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake potatoes of equal size ; when done, and still hot, cut oif a small piece from the end of each potato. Scoop out the inside. Mash, and mix with it half the quantit}^ of cooked meat^ highly seasoned and finely chopped. Fill the skins a little above the edge. Set in the oven to brown the tops. Or omit Fig. 39. Stuffed Potatoes. the meat, and fill Onl}^ with the mashed and seasoned potato. Eeplace the cover, and heat again. Fried Raw Potatoes. — Pare, wash, and cut into the de- sired shape. Soak in cold salted water, drain, and dry between towels. Fr}^ in clear fat, hot enough to brown while counting sixty. Drain, and sprinkle with salt. Saratoga Potatoes are shaved in thin slices. Parisienne Potatoes are cut in small balls with a French A^egetable cutter. Macaroni^ or Shoo Fly.^ Potatoes are cut in quarter- inch slices, then in quarter-inch strips. Crescents and other shapes may be cut with vegetable cutters. These are all to be fried; but some prefer to boil the Parisienne potatoes, and serve in a cream sauce^ flavored with -parsley. Sweet Potatoes may be baked or boiled. The}^ are better baked. Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, warmed in milh^ and seasoned with butter and salt^ or browned in butter. A Southern Dish. (Adaline Miller.) — Cut cold baked sweet potatoes into quarter-inch slices, and put them in an earthen dish. Spread each layer with butter, and sprinkle slightly with sugar, and bake until hot and slightly browned. Sweet potatoes are much richer when twice cooked. Spinach. Pick over, trim off the roots and decayed leaves ; wash thoroughly, lifting the spinach from one pan of water into another, that the sand may be left in the water, andThe Boston Cook Book. 297 changing the water until it is clear. Put the spinach in a large kettle without water. Place it on the stove where it will cook slowl}' until the juice is drawn out, then boil until tender. Drain and chop fine. For half a peck of spinach add one large tahlespoonful of butter^ half a tea- spoonful of salt^ and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper ; or add a little thin cream sauce. Heat again and serve on toast. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and toast points^ or serve cold with French dressing. Spinach is nearly all water, and a smaller portion of the potash salts — its most valuable constituent — is lost when it is cooked in its own juices. Greens. The leaves and stalks of young beets, milkweed, dande- lions, and narrow dock are useful as food in the early spring, chiefly for the water and alkaline salts which they contain. They should be picked over, and washed care- fully, cooked in boihng salted water until tender, then drained, and seasoned with butter and salt. Vinegar is often used with them as a desirable condiment. Many people consider it necessary to boil a piece of salt pork with greens, but they are more wholesome when seasoned with butter. Dandelions should be cDoked in plenty of water ; but other tender greens may be cooked, like spinach, in their own juices. Asparagus. Wash carefully and break (not cut) into inch pieces as far as each stalk can be broken. When it will not snap off quickly, the stalk is too tough to be used. Cook in boiling salted water, deep enough to cover, for fifteen min- utes, or until tender. When the asparagus is not fresh and tender, it is well to boil the hardest part first, and add the tender heads after ten minutes. Drain, season with butter and salt^ or pour white sauce over it, and serve on toast. Many people prefer to leave the stalks whole, and tie them into bundles before boiling. When served in this way, unless all the tough part be broken of[ before cook-298 * The Boston Cook Book. ing, it is inconvenient, if not impossible, to cut the stalk afterward. Green Peas. Peas are fresh when the pods are green, crisp, and plump. The fresh pods are sweet, and full of flavor. Wash the pods before shelling, then the peas will require no washing. Put the peas into a colander, and sift out the fine particles. Boil the pods ten minutes, skim them out, and add the peas. Boil fifteen minutes, or till tender. When nearl}^ done, add the salt. Let the w^ater boil nearly away, and serve without draining, except when the peas are to be served as a garnish. Season with butter^ cream^ salt, and a little sugar. Old peas should be cooked until tender, drained, mashed, and rubbed through a sieve, and served a^^ a vegetable or made into a puree. Peas are nutritious, but they are indigestible unless the hull be broken before they are swallowed. Beans. String Beans. — Eemove the strings. The surest way to do that is to pare a thin strip from each edge of the pods. Many persons think this unnecessar}'; but the beans are much more delicate, and two or three strings are enough to spoil the whole dish. Lay a handful of the pods on a board with the ends even, and cut them all at once into inch pieces. Wash, and cook in boiling salted water from one to three hours, the time var3dng with different vari- eties of beans. Drain ; season with butter, salt, and cream, and serve hot, or serve cold as a salad. When ver}^ young and tender, they may be cooked in just water enough to keep them from burning. Shelled Beans. — Wash, and cook in boiling water ; al- wa3's use soft water. Add salt after ten minutes, and boil until tender. Let the water boil nearly awa}', and serve without draining. Season with butter and salt. Lima beans and other white varieties are improved by adding a little hot cream.299 The Boston Cook Book, Green or Sweet Corn. Remove the husk, and every thread of the silk}^ fibre. Put into boiUng water, cover with the clean inner husks, and cook from five to fifteen minutes. Try a kernel, and take up the corn as soon as the milk has thickened and the raw taste is destroyed. Corn, if boiled a long time, is made hard and its flavor impaired. Green Corn Fritters^ or Mock Oysters, — Cut through each row of kernels with the point of a sharp knife. Then with the back of the knife press out the pulp, and leave the hull on the cob. This is better and easier than to shave or grate off the kernels. To one pint of corn pulp add tiDO well-beaten eggs,, half a teaspoonful of salt^ half a saltspoonful pepper^ and two tablespoonfuls of flour^ or just enough to keep the corn and egg together. Do not add milk, as then more flour will be required, and this destroys the flavor of the corn. Fry in small cakes on a buttered griddle, and brown well on each side ; or add more flour, and drop by spoonfuls into deep fat. When highly seasoned with salt and pepper^ these fritters have the flavor of oysters. Make in the same way with canned corn, finel}^ chopped. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk,, as the canned corn is less moist than the fresh. Succotash, — This may be made b}" mixing equal quan- tities of shelled beans and corn cut from the cob, having first cooked and seasoned them separately. Or cut the raw corn from the cob, by scoring each row and pressing the pulp out with the back of the knife, leaving the hulls on the cob, and when the beans are nearly soft, add the corn, and cook fifteen minutes. Add cream, butter^ salt^ and sugar to taste. In winter, when the vegetables are dry and hard, soak the corn and Lima beans over night. Put the beans on in cold water, changing it twice. As soon as it boils, add the corn, and cook slowly several hours, or till soft. Sea- son with butter^ sugar,, and salt. Canned Lima beans and canned corn are also used.The Boston Cook Book, 300 Corn, beans, and peas are delicious and wholesome sum- mer vegetables. Much of the prejudice against their use among children results from imperfect mastication, which renders them indigestible. Every row of kernels should be cut with a sharp knife if the corn be served on the cob, and every pea or bean should be mashed with a fork to insure their perfect digestion. Thus eaten, these vege- tables are valuable food, and will cause no trouble. Tomatoes. Raw Tomatoes. — Scald and peel at least an hour be- fore using. Keep them on the ice, and serve with sugar^ salt^ vi7iegar^ or with Mayonnaise dressing. If very large, thej^ may be sliced before serving. Stewed Tomatoes. — Pour boiling water over them, remove the skins and the hard green stem. Cut them into quarters, and stew in a granite pan fifteen minutes, until the pulp is soft and the juice is partly boiled awa3\ Add salt^ pepper^ butter^ and sugar if desired. The tomato ma}^ be thickened with cracker crumbs or with cornstarch wet in a little cold water. Scalloped Tomatoes. — Season one quart of tomatoes with one teaspoonful of salt., one saltspoonfid of pepper^ half a cup of sugar., and a few drops of onion juice. Butter a deep dish, and sprinkle with fine crumbs. Pour in the tomatoes. Moisten one cup of cracker crumbs with half a cup of melted butter. Spread over the top, and brown in the oven. Raw tomatoes sliced ma}^ be used in layers, alternating with crumbs and seasoning. Stuffed Tomatoes. — Cut a thin slice from the stem end of large., smooth tomatoes. Remove the seeds and soft pulp, and mix with the pulp an equal amount of buttered cracker crumbs. Season to taste with sa% pepper., sugar., and onion juice. Fill the cavity with the mixture, heap- ing it in the centre, and sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top. Place the tomatoes in a granite pan, and bake until the crumbs are brown. Take them up carefully with a301 The Boston Cook Book. broad knife, and serve ver}^ hot. A small quantity of cooked meat finely chopped may be used with the crumbs. Onions. Pour boiling water over them, and remove the skins. Put them in boiling salted water. When they have boiled five minutes, change the water, and change again after ten minutes. Boil half an hour, or until tender, but not until broken. Drain off the water, add 77iilk enough to cover, and cook five or ten minutes longer. Season with butter^ salt, and x^efper. Serve plain or as a garnish for beef Or omit the seasoning, and pour white sauce over them. Baked or Scalloped Onions. — Boil, and if large cut into quarters. Put into a shallow dish, cover with lohite sauce and buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown. Onions are rich in flesh-forming elements, are soothing to the mucous membrane, and are otherwise medicinal. They impart an agreeable flavor to many kinds of food. Cauliflower. The leaves should be green and fresh, and the heads creamy white. When there are dark spots, the cauliflower is wilted. Pick oflT the outside leaves, soak in cold salted water, top downwards, for one hour, to cleanse it thor- oughly. Tie it in a twine bag, to prevent breaking. Cook in boiUug salted water fifteen or twentj^ minutes, or until tender. If not boiled in a bag, remove the scum before it settles on the cauliflower. Serve in a shallow dish, and cover with a cream or Hollandaise sauce. Or add a little grated cheese, and cover with cracker crumbs moistened in melted butter, and bake until the crumbs are brown. Or when cold, serve as a salad iv\\h Mayonnaise dressing. Cauhflower may be cut in small pieces, and served as a garnish around broiled chicken or sweetbreads.The Boston Cook Book. 302 Cabbage. Select a small heavy cabbage. Remove the outside leaves, cut mto quarters, cut off the tough stalk, soak in cold salted water half an hour. Cook till tender in boil- ing salted water, changing the water twice. Drain, cut or chop fine, season with salt and hutter^ or cover with vjhite sauce and buttered crumbs^ and bake till the crumbs are brown. The cauliflower and cabbage contain more gluten, and are therefore more nutritious, than any other vegetable food. They should be eaten with fat and oily food, and require an acid, like lemon juice or vinegar, as a condi- ment. Cabbage is considered indigestible, and man}^ boil with it a small piece of red pepper to counteract this effect. If the water in which cabbage is boiled be changed two or three times, less of the strong odor and flavor is retained. With proper treatment this vegetable may be served as temptingly as any other. It is more wholesome when served in its raw state as a salad than when cooked. Celery. Scrape clean, and cut the stalks into inch pieces ; cook in boiling salted water half an hour, or until tender. Drain and mix with 2i white sauce ; or dip them m fritter batter^ and fry in hoi fcut. Celer}^ is usually eaten raw, as a salad, but is more digestible when cooked. Celery is particularly good for nervous or rheumatic people. Egg Plant. Cut the plant into slices one third of an inch thick, with- out removing the skin. Sprinkle salt over each slice, pile them, and cover with a weight to press out the juice. Drain, and dip each slice first in fine crumbs^ then in beaten egg^ and again in crumbs^ and saute them in hot fat. Egg plants belong to the same famil}^ as the potato and tobacco, all of which contain a bitter juice, more or less poisonous.303 The Boston Cook Book. Egg Plant Fritters. (Adaline Miller.) — Put the egg plant whole into boiling salted water, mixed with one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice; cook twenty minutes or until tender ; mash and drain. To one pint of egg plant add half a cup flour^ two eggs., well beaten, and salt and pepper to taste. Fr}^ in small cakes in hot fat^ browning well on both sides. Artichokes. The Jerusalem Artichoke is a tuber, something like the potato ; but as it contains no starch, it is not meal}'. Peel and throw at once into cold water and vinegar to preserve the color. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, watch closely, and take them out as they become soft, for if left in longer they will harden again. Serve with a white sauce. Jerusalem artichokes ma}^ be used as a salad, or they may be pickled. Globe Artichokes. — These are thick, fleshy-petalled flowers which grow on a plant that resembles the thistle. The thickened receptacle and scales of the involucre form the edible portion. Soak the artichokes, cut off the out- side leaves, trim away the lower leaves and the ends of the others. Cook in boiling salted water, with the tops downward, half an hour, or until the leaves can be drawn out. Drain, remove the choke, and serve with dravm butter. Mushrooms. Peel the top and stalk, break in small pieces, place them in a stewpan, sprinkle slightly with salt and pepper, and let them stand half an hour, until the juice is drawn out. Stew the mushrooms in the juice aiid a little butter until tender, add cream to cover, and when the cream is hot serve on toast. Mushrooms are considered difficult of digestion. They are a fungous grow^th, and have a woody odor and a meaty flavor. They are used largely in sauces. Unless familiar with the difference between the edible and the poisonous mushrooms, it is safer to use the canned mushrooms, or to obtain the fresh at a reliable market.304 The Boston Cook Book. The eatable mushroom first appears ver}^ small, and of a round button shape, on a short underground stalk. At this stage it is all white. It grows rapidly, and soon the skin breaks around the base of the button, which there spreads like an umbrella, and shows underneath a fringed fur of a fine salmon-color, which changes to a chocolate and then to a dark brown color, when the mushrooms have attained some size. They are in perfection before the last change. The skin should peel easil3\ Those with yellow or white fur, and w^hich grow in low, damp shady places, should be avoided. The good mushrooms spring up in open sunny fields in August and September. Do not trust to any written description, but search the fields with some one who can unerringly distinguish them. The common puff-ball, when white and hard, though not so delicate as the mushroom, makes a palatable dish. It should be peeled with a silver knife, cut in slices half an inch thick, dipped in crumhs and egg^ or in a hatter^ and fried. Serve at once. Winter Squash. If the shell be soft, peel the squash, remove the seeds, and steam or cook in boiling salted water. If the shell be hard, split the squash, remove the seeds, and steam or boil until soft. Scrape out the soft part from the shell, mash, and season to taste. A pint oi squash needs one tdblespoonfxtl of butter^ a few grains of pepper^ half a teaspoonful of sugar^ and salt to taste. Squash may be baked in the shell, then mashed, and seasoned as above. Bummer Squashes are good only w4ien j'Oung, fresh, and tender. Wash, and cut into quarters or small pieces. The skin and seeds need not be removed. Cook in boiling salted water twenty minutes, or until tender. Place the squash in a strainer cloth, mash it thoroughly, squeeze the cloth until the squash is dry. Add a little cream or butter^ salt and pepper^ and heat again before serving.305 The Boston Cook Book. Carrots and Turnips. Carrots and turnips contain, instead of starch, a gelati- nous gummy substance, called pectine. They are useful in soups, giving them a fine flavor and color. Soups in which carrots are used are gelatinous when cold. Carrots are not a favorite vegetable for the table; but if 3'oung and tender, they are palatable when boiled, and served in a white sauce. They should be washed and scraped (not pared) before boiling. Old carrots are sometimes boiled, and served with corned beef and salt fish. Their rich color makes them eff'ective as a garnish. The red, outside part is considered the best, as the inside is stringy. Turnips contain but little nutriment. They are very waterj^, and having no starch are agreeable food to be eaten with potatoes. They contain no salt, and therefore need more than other vegetables. Being w^hoUy deficient in starch and fat, they are good with fat meat, corned beef, roast pork, and mutton. Turnips in White Sauce. — Wash and cut French tur- nips into half or three-quarter inch slices ; pare and cut each slice into strips, and then into cubes. Boil in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and pour white sauce over them. Turnips may also be mashed, drained, and seasoned with butter^ pepper., and salt. Parsnips. Parsnips contain starch and sugar, a small portion of gluten, and less water than carrots or turnips. They are eaten with salt fish and corned beef. Those which have remained in the ground through the winter are considered the best. The}^ should be washed and scrubbed thor- oughh^, but are more easily peeled after boiling. Cut them into half-inch cubes, and serve in v^hite sauce, JParsnip Fritters, — After boiling the parsnips, plunge them into cold water and the skins will shp off easil}^ mash them, and season to taste with butter^ salt^ and pepper. Flour the hands, and shape the mashed parsnip 20The Boston Cook Book, 3o6 into small, flat oval cakes. Eoll them in flour, and fry them in butter until brown; or dip them in molasses^ and then fry. Salsify, or Oyster Plant. Scrape, and throw at once into cold water, with a little vinegar in it to keep them from turning black. Cook in boiling salted water one hour, or until tender. Drain, mash, and season, and fry like parsnip fritters ; or cut into inch lengths, and mix with a lohite sauce ; or dip the pieces in fritter hatter^ and fi^ in hot fat. Beets. Wash, but do not cut them, as that destroys the sweet- ness and color. Cook in boiling water until tender. Young beets will cook in one hour, old beets require a longer time ; and if tough, wilted, or stringy, they will never boil tender. When cooked, put them in a pan of cold water, and rub off the skin. Young beets are cut in slices, and served hot with butter^ salt^ and pepper^ or cut in small cubes and served in a white sauce. They are often pickled in vinegar, spiced or plain, and served cold ; or they may be cut into dice, and mixed with other vegetables for a saladc Eice. Rice should be thoroughly washed. Turn the rice into a coarse strainer^ and iDlace the strainer in a deep dish of cold water. Rub the rice, and lift it in the strainer out of the water, changing the water till it is clear. It is impor- tant to observe all the steps of this process, for in this way all the grit is deposited in the water, leaving the rice thoroughly cleansed. Drain, and cook in either of the following ways, each of which, if followed carefully, will insure white, distmct kernels of thoroughlj^ cooked rice. Boiled Hice. — Have two quarts of water witli one table- spoonful of salt boiling rapidly in an uncovered kettle. Throw in one cup of loell-washed rice,, and let it boil so fast that the kernels fairly dance in the water. Skim care-The Boston Cook Booh 307 fully, and stir with a fork, never with a spoon, as that mashes the kernels. Cook twelve, fifteen, or twenty min- utes, according to the age of the rice, and add more boiling water if needed. Test the grains often, and the moment they are soft, and before the starch begins to dissolve and cloud the water, pour into a squash strainer. Drain, and place the rice — still in the strainer — in a pan in the hot closet or on the back of the stove. Stir it before serving, to let the steam escape and the kernels become dxy. Be careful not to cook the rice enough to burst the grains, as then nothing can prevent them from sticking together. Steamed Mice. — Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup of well-washed rice ; add half a teaspoonful of salt. Cook in the double boiler thirty minutes, or till soft. Re- move the cover, stir with a fork to let the steam escape, and dry off the rice. Rice will usually absorb twice its bulk of water; but when cooked in milk or stock a little more moisture will be required. Some of the nitrogenous and mineral constituents, of which rice has but a small amount, are lost in the boiling water, and unless the water be used for soup, to boil rice is a wasteful process. Steaming is a much easier method, and is more economical. Many dishes may be prepared from combinations of rice and various seasoning materials. Savory Rice. — Steam one scant cup of rice and two cups of rich white or brown stock highly seasoned with salt^ cayenne., chopped parsley., and ground herbs. Stir in one tablespoonfid of butter with a fork, just before serving. N'o, 2. — Fry one tablespoonfid of chopped onion in one heaping tablespoonful of butter until yellow; add one scant cup of uncooked rice., and stir until slightly colored; then add one pint of chicken stock., and pour all into the double boiler, and ^eam thirty minutes. Salmon Rice. — Use half stock and half strained toma- toes ; season highly with curry^ and cook like Savorj^Rice. Rice with Cheese. — Steam the rice after either of the preceding receipts, and put it in a shallow dish in layers,3o8 The Boston Cooh Booh. alternating with grated cheese and tomato sauce, or with sUces of hard-boiled eggs and thin cream sauce. Heat in the oven with or without a crust of buttered crumbs. Macaroni, Spaghetti, and Vermicelli. These are thick pastes made from wheaten flour mixed with a small quantity of water. They are made to take various shapes by being forced through holes in metallic plates. These plates are arranged over a fire ; and the macaroni, as it issues from the holes, is partially baked, and afterward hung to dry over rods. Vermicelli is used in soup and puddings; macaroni and spaghetti as vege- tables. Macaroni is a nutritious and economical food, and should be used more extensively than it is. Do not wash it, as the boiling water will better take off anj^thing that needs to be removed. Always cook it in boiling salted water until tender, before serving it in any way. Drain, and pour cold water over it to keep it from becoming past3\ Macaroni, as frequently prepared, in long pieces, which utterly refuse to come out of the dish in a proper manner when served, is not attractive. Nor is it palatable when it is only slightly seasoned, and is dried in the oven with- out a covering of sauce or crumbs. Macaroni, — Break one quarter of a pound of maca- roni in three-inch pieces, and put into three pints of boil- ing salted water. Boil twent}^ minutes, or until soft. Drain in a colander, and pour cold water through it to cleanse and keep it from sticking. Cut into inch pieces. Lay the strips on a board, parallel to each other, and cut through them all at once. Put in a shallow baking-dish and cover with a white sauce, made with a cup and a half of hot milk, one tablespoonful of butter, and one table- spoonful of flour, cooked according to directions for White Sauce (see page 189). AM half a teaspoonful of salt. Mix two thirds of a cup of fine cracker crumbs with a third of a cup of melted butter, and sprinkle over the top. Bake till the crumbs are brown.The Boston Cook Book. 309 If cheese be liked with it, use half a cup of grated Par- mesan or an}^ other dr}' cheese. Put part of it with the macaroni, and mix the remainder with the crumbs. No, 2. — Mix two hard-boiled eggs^ chopped fine, with the macaroni. Sprinkle each la3^er with salt and pepper, and add a little made mustard^ if 3'ou wish. Cover with milk and buttered crumbs^ and bake until the crumbs are brown. iVb. 3.—Pour a rich white sauce over the macaroni, and serve grated cheese on a separate dish. Macaroni and Tomatoes, — Boil as above, and cover with tomato sauce. Fry one tablespoonful of chopped onion in one tablespoonful of butter. Add one large table- spoonful of flour ; when well mixed, add gradually a cup and a half of strained tomato and half a teaspoonful of salt. Pour over the macaroni, and warm in the oven ; or cover with buttered crumbs^ and bake until the crumbs are brown. Spaghetti, — This is a variety of macaroni about one eighth of an inch in diameter. It is usually served un- broken. Take a handful of the long sticks, plunge the ends into rapidly boiling salted water. As they soften, bend and coil the spaghetti in the water, without breaking it, until it is all softened. Boil until tender. Drain, pour cold water through it, and serve without cutting, if you are skilled in the art of winding it around 3'our fork, as the Italians do. Serve the same as macaroni, with cream or tomato sauce, cheese, and crumbs. Salads. Green vegetables which are eaten raw and dressed with oil, acids, salt, and pepper, are classed as salads. Potatoes, string beans, beets, asparagus, cauliflower, and many other vegetables which have been cooked, are eaten cold with a salad dressing. Lobster, oysters, salmon, and other kinds of cooked fish, eggs, chicken, and delicate meats are combined with lettuce, cresses, or celery, and3 TO The Boston Cook Book. salad dressing, and furnish many appetizing and refreshing varieties of this useful form of food. There is a strong prejudice with many against the use of oil. It is not strange when we remember the rancid oil sometimes offered us. Pure olive oil is seldom to be obtained, if we are to believe all that the opposers of adul- teration assert. No doubt much that is sold as olive oil is made from cotton seed; but if it were sold under its right name and at a reasonable price there would be no objection to its use. When properly purified, and sweet, it may be as w^holesome as olive oil. They are both veg- etable oils, which are always considered more nutritious than animal oils. Oil is one of the best forms of fat we can use, and aids in digestion. Oil, when taken onl}^ in lobster salad or at late suppers, as is often the case, is held accountable for the horrors and torment following such a use; but if used seasonablj^ and moderately, there will be no ill effects. 3 tablespoonf uls oil. Mix in the order given, adding oil slowly. This dressing is suitable for vegetable and egg salads, and is also used to marinate, or pickle, a meat or fish salad. The onion may be omitted, and lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar. A teaspoonful of made mustard added to a French dressing is liked by many. French Dressing. 1 saltspoonful salt. % saltspoonful pepper. teaspoonful onion juice. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. Boiled Dressing. Yolks of 3 eggs beaten. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 3^ saltspoonful cayenne. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. or oil. 1 cup cream or milk. cup hot vinegar. Whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. Cook in the double boiler until it thickens like soft cus- tard. Stir well. This will keep in a cool place two weeks,311 The Boston Cook Book, and is excellent for lettuce, celery, asparagus, string beans, and cauliflower. Boiled Dressing for Cold Slaio, — Boil half a cup of vinegar with two teaspoonfuls of sugar^ half a teaspoon- ful each of salt and mustard^ and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Rub a quarter of a cup of butter to a cream, with one teaspoonful of flom\ and pour the boiling vinegar on it. Cook five minutes, then pour it over one well-heaten egg. The yolk only may be used, and the white saved for clearing coffee. Mix this dressing, while hot, with one pint of red cabbage^ shaved or chopped, or w^th a mixed vegetable salad. Cold slaw is delicious served wdth fried oysters or fish. Mix the first four ingredients in a small bowl. Add the eggs. Stir well with a small wooden spoon. Add the oil, a few drops at a time, stirring until it thickens. If hy chance you. add too much oil, do not attempt to stir it all in at once, but take it up gradually. When the dress- ing is thick, thin it with a little lemon, then add oil and lemon alternately, and lastl^^ the vinegar. When ready to serve, add half a cup of lohipped cream^ if you like. The cream makes it whiter and thinner. The oil should thicken the egg almost immediately, and the mixture should be thick enough to be taken up in a ball on the spoon, before adding the vinegar. Should the egg not thicken quickly, and have a curdled appearance, half a teaspoorful of the unbeaten white of egg or a few drops of vinegar will often restore the smooth consistenc3\ Be careful not to use too much, as it will make the dressing thin. The dressing liquefies as soon as mixed with vege- tables or meat; therefore it should be made stiff enough to keep in shape until used. Many prefer to use a Dover Mayonnaise Dressing. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. % teaspoonful salt, saltspoonful cayenne. Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 1 pint olive oil. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice.312 The Boston Cook Book. egg-beater, and others succeed best with a fork. The mixture soon becomes too hard to use an egg-beater to advantage. Lobster coral, dried and pounded to a powder, will give a Mayonnaise a bright red color. Spinach green, green peas mashed, or chopped parsley will color it green. Never mix the Mayonnaise dressing with the meat or fish until ready to serve, and then only part of it, and spread the remainder over the top. Mayonnaise Tartare is simply the addition of chopped olives^ pickles^ parsley^ capers^ and onions to the May- onnaise. Lettuce Salad. — Pick over and wash each leaf with- out breaking. Shake off the water and drain in a net. Keep the lettuce in a cool place until ready to serve. Just before serving, dry between two towels. Arrange the leaves in a salad bowl, the larger leaves around the edge and the light ones in the centre. Serve with boiled dress- ing^ or French dressing^ or sugar^ salt, and vinegar to taste. Lettuce should be served cool, fresh, and crisp. Never cut it, as that causes the leaves to wilt quickly. Tear them apart. Radishes or olives may be served with lettuce; and when a brilliant effect is desired, garnish with a few nas- turtium blossoms. When lettuce is used with other mate- rials, never mix them until ready to serve. Dressed Celery. — Use only the white, crisp part of the celery stalks. The green parts may be made into a puree or used in soups. Scrape off the brown discolored part, and wash thoroughly. Keep in cold water, and when ready to serve, drain and arrange in a celery glass. Serve with salt. Or cut the celery in thin slices, moisten with French or Mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with lettuce, cresses, or celery leaves. Lettuce and celery may be served with the roast if desired. Cucumber Salad. — Cut off an inch from each end of the cucumber, and pare off a thick paring, as a bitter juice lies near the skin. Cut in thin sUces, or shave with a vegetable cutter. Keep in cold water until ready to serve.313 The Boston Cook Book, Drain, and place in the bowl with ice. Serve with salt^ pepper, and vinegar^ or with a French dressing. Young onions thinl}' sliced are sometimes mixed with cucumbers. Cucumber and Tomato Salad. — Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad dish, then a layer of sliced cucumbers^ then sliced tomatoes., and pour a French dressing, or a Mayonnaise, over the whole. Tomatoes peeled and cut into halves, and served with a spoonful of Mayonnaise on each half, make an attractive salad. Potato Salad.— One pint of cold boiled potatoes, cut in half-inch dice or shaved in thin slices, and seasoned with salt and pepper; the yolk of oyie hard-boiled egg, one heaping tablespoonful of chopped parsley, half a cup of cold beet dice, and a French dressing. Put alternate layers of potato, beet, yolk of egg, rubbed through a fine strainer, parsley, and French dressing, until the materials are all used. Have parsley and egg on the top, and leave half of the dressing for the last la3'er. Or arrange the potatoes, parsley, and egg in the centre of the dish, then a circle of beets and lettuce around the edge, with French dressing sprinkled over the whole. Sliced onions, red cabbage chopped, capers, dice of turnips, and carrots cut into fancy shapes or rubbed through a strainer, may be used with potatoes for a salad. N'o. 2. — One pint of hot potatoes, mashed or cut in slices, half a cup of chopped cabbage, half a cup of chopped celery, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one cucumber pickle, and one hard-boiled egg, chopped fine. Mix well, and add enough of Boiled Dressing No. 2 to moisten. Keep on the ice until ready to serve. Place two tablespoonfuls on a leaf of lettuce, and serve in the leaf. Many professional cooks prefer to mix a potato salad while the potatoes are hot, as the salad looks more appetizing, will keep longer, and have less of the soggy peculiar taste than when made with cold potatoes. Rubbing a cut onion or a little garlic round the salad314 The Boston Cook Book. bowl is sufficient where only a slight flavor of onion is desired. Vegetable salads are suitable for lunch or tea, or may be served as a course at dinner. Egg Salad. — Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Cut the whites in thin slices, or chop them very tine. Arrange a bed of cresses on a dish. Make nests of the whites, and put one whole j-olk in the centre of each nest; or rub the yolks through a fine strainer over the whites. Sprinkle a French dressing over the whole. Serve small balls of cottage cheese with the salad. Oyster Salad. — Steam or parboil one pint of oysters. Drain, cool, and marinate them with a French dressi^ig. Serve with cresses., celery^ or lettuce., and a Maj'onnaise dressing. Fish Salad. — One quart of any kind of cold cooked fish., flaked and freed from bones and skin, and placed on a bed of lettuce. Pound the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs., and three sardines (bones and skin removed) to a smooth paste. Mix this paste with the Boiled or the Mayonnaise dressing., and pour it over the fish. Gar- nish with slices of lemon. Chicken Salad. — One pint each of cold boiled or roasted chicken and celery.^ or half as much celery as Fig. 40. Chicken Salad. chicken. Cut the chicken into quarter-inch dice. Scrape, wash, and cut the celery in dice. Mix and marinate with a French dressing., and keep on the ice until ready to serve. Make a Mayonnaise dressing., and mix part of it with the chicken; arrange the salad in a dish, pour the remainder of the dressing over it, and garnish with celeryThe Boston Cook Book. 315 leaves and capers, or lettuce^ and yolk of hard-boiled egg rubbed through a fine strainer. Lohster Salad, — Cut one pint of lobster meat in dice, season with a French dressing,, and keep it on ice until ready to serve, then mix with half of the Mayonnaise dressing. Make nests or cups of the crisp lettuce leaves ; break the poorer lettuce leaves and mix with the lobster. Put a large spoonful of the lobster in each leaf, with a tablespoonful of the Mayonnaise on the top. Garnish with capers and pounded coral, sprinkled over the dress- ing, and with lohster claws smd parsley round the edge. Salmon Salad, —Prepare in the same way with cooked or canned salmon, freed from bones, skin, and oil. Salad Sandwiches, — Mix a small quantity of Mayon- naise dressing with finely chopped lohster or chicken. Cover a small slice of hread with lettuce, then the salad, lettuce, and bread again. Wrap them in tin foil or oiled paper, and serve at picnics or when travelling.*The Boston Cook Book. 3i6 PASTRY AND PIES. Puff Paste, when skilfully made, is light and tender, and so delicate that it cannot be touched without crushing. It should be thoroughly baked, and is therefore more suit- able for tarts and patties and the upper crust of pies. Eat it sparingly ; unless you have a good digestion, and exer- cise freely, never eat it. It is, however, less injurious than the ordinary pastry seen on many tables, as it con- tains no more shortening than much of the pastry made with a ''guess measure" of lard. It is not so much the amount of fat the paste contains that makes it indigestible, as the inferior quality of the fat, such as rancid butter or impure lard, or the soggy, greasy, half-cooked paste. Pastry that is light, dry, and flaky is more easily sepa- rated by the gastric fluids than that which is heavy. Many housekeepers use lard in making pastry, as it is cheaper than butter, and makes a softer and more tender crust. Butter is more wholesome, and is preferable if 3'ou wish to make a brown crust. A mixture of half lard and half butter answers very well for common paste, but for puff paste butter alone should be used. In French receipts for puff paste eggs are considered essential, but there is no necessity for their use. It requires practice to make puff paste well; and as there are so manj' other dishes more easily made and vastly more important, it is better not to waste time and strength upon it. Let your ambition as a house- keeper soar higher than perfection in making puff paste. But those who will have it may observe the following directions. Puff Paste.— One pound of hest butter^ one pound of pastry flour ^ one scant teaspoonful of salt^ about oneThe Boston Cook Book, 317 cup of ice water. By measure, use one quart of flour and one pint of butter. Scald the bowl, then fill with cold water. Dip the hands into hot and then into cold water ; tills makes bowl and hands smooth, and keeps the butter from sticking. Wash the butter, by working it in the cold water, till soft and waxy. Divide into four parts ; pat each part into a long and narrow piece, and wrap in a clean napkin. Have three shallow oblong pans that will fit the one into the other. Fill the largest and smallest of the pans with broken ice. Put the butter, covered with the napkin, into the other, and place it between the two pans of ice to harden. Mix the salt with the fiour, then break in one quarter of the butter. Rub with the tips of the fingers, and keep plenty of flour between the fingers and the but- ter. Many prefer to chop it, that the warmth of the hand may not soften the butter. When the butter and flour are well mixed, and fine and dr}^ like meal, pour in the cup of ice water slowl,y. Mix with a knife, and cut, rather than stir. Wet only part of the flour at first and toss it to one side of the bowl, then wet another part; and when it is all of the proper consistency^ cut and mix it together till it can be taken up clean from the bowl with the knife. Add the last of the water cautiously, wetting only the dry flour, and use less or more than the cupful as the flour may require. If the butter be softened by the heat in rubbing, it will moisten the flour, and less water will be required. But it should not be allowed to soften. The mixture should be light and dry, like separate minute crumbs of butter coated with flour. Use a large smooth rolling-board and a glass rolling- pin. Put half a cup of flour in the dredger, and sprinkle the middle of the board with a light coating of flour. Toss the ball of paste in the flour with a knife until floured all over, then pat with the rolling-pin into a flat cake an inch thick. Have the end of the board next you, that 3'ou may roll the paste the required length. Hold the handles of the pin firmly, and roll with a light quick stroke as far asThe Boston Cooh Book. 3i8 your arms will allow,—the whole length of the paste, if possible, at every stroke. Do not attempt to roll the paste when it is in a ball or a cubical form, but pat it lightl}^, to make as large and flat a surface as possible before rolling. Roll out to the thickness of one third of an inch, and to a rectangular form. Lay one of the quarters of butter in a little flour on the corner of the board, and roll quickly into a long thin piece ; scrape it up with a knife, and along the middle of the whole length of the paste. Fold over one side of the paste, then the other, letting the edges just meet in the middle of the butter. Do not pat it down. Then fold each end to the middle and double again. Pound into a flat cake and roll again one quarter of an inch thick. Eoll another piece of butter thin, lay it on the paste, fold the sides over, then the ends over, and then together, and repeat the process with the remaining pieces of butter. When the butter is all rolled in, the paste may be folded, patted, and rolled out, two, three, or seven times, as your strength will permit. Twice is enough for pies, three or four times for patties ; but more are needed for a vol-au- vent. When the butter is of the right texture, fine, smooth, and firm, not dry and crumbl3s and the mixing and rolling are done so quickly and deftly that the butter does not soften, the paste will not stick, and ver}^ little flour will be required in rolling. Do not strike a hard blow in rolhng, nor press the paste down to the board, but roll with a light gentle stroke. When the paste does not slip along the board, you may know it is sticking, and it must be lifted at once, the board scraped clean, and floured slightly. Should the paste become soft and stick}^, fold again, and pat it out to the size of the pan, and put it in the napkin between the two pans of ice. It will harden in ten minutes, and then may be rolled easily. After all the but- ter is in the dough, cut in two pieces, then roll and fold one, while the other is in the ice pan. Keep the board and pin wiped drj^, and use only a little flour, but use enough to keep the paste from sticking.319 The Boston Cook Book. Keep the edges even while rolling, and fold evenly, that there may be an equal number of layers in all parts. Each time the paste is folded over the butter a small amount of air is enclosed and is retained, unless the fold be patted down and allow the air to escape at the end. These bub- bles of air may be plainly seen when the ball of dough is patted and rolled out, and care must be taken not to let the air escape. For this reason roll lightly and always from you^ as a hard motion back and forth is more liable to break the bubbles. Roll with a fan-like sweep, a little to the right and left, to widen it and keep the rectangular shape; then roll gently on the edge nearest 3'Ou, to make it of uniform thickness. The more of the bubbles 3'ou can retain in the paste, tlie lighter and more puffy it will be. The number of folds or layers of butter and paste makes the paste flak}^, but the amount of air in it makes it rise and puff in baking. The paste should be folded and rolled till no streaks of butter can be seen. After the last rolling, place it on the ice to harden, as it may then be cut and shaped more easily. To Bake Puff Paste. — The dough should be icy cold when it is put into the oven. If the patties soften after being shaped, place them between the pans of ice till they are hard. The oven should be about as hot as for rolls, with the heat greater underneath, that the paste may rise nearly to its full height before browning ; then quicken the fire to brown the tops, and turn the heat from underneath or put a pan or grate under to prevent burning. If the oven be too hot, the paste will burn before it is risen; if too slow, it will melt and spread. Patty Shells, Tarts, Vol-au-vents, and other Forms of Puff Paste. There are two ways of shaping the paste for patties and tarts. First, roll puff paste one eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out circular pieces with a cutter, two and320 The Boston Cooh Booh, one half inches in diameter. With a smaller cutter stamp out the centres from half of these pieces, leaving rings half an inch wide. Dip the cutters in hot water, and cut quicklj^, that the edges may not be pressed together or cut unevenly. Rub a little white of egg on the top of the large rounds near the edge, put on the rings, and press them lightly to make them adhere, but be careful not to get any egg on the edges, as that will prevent them from rising. Put round pieces of stale bread, cut half an inch thick, in the centre, to keep the paste from rising and fill- ing the cavity. Bake on shallow pans lined with paper, and when done remove the bread and soft paste under- neath. Bake the small pieces cut from the centre on a pan by themselves, as the^^ take less time for baking. In serving place them on the top of the shells for a cover. Another waj^ is to roll the paste one fourth of an inch thick, cut with a round cutter, and then with the smaller cutter cut nearly through the centre of each round, making a rim half an inch wide. After baking remove the centre crust and soft part underneath, without breaking through, as then the shell will not hold any liquid mixture. Some persons prefer this method ; but there is less waste when cut in the first wa}', as the parts cut out may be baked for covers, and usuallj'prove to be the most delicate part of the paste. Or, if covers are not wanted, these cen- tres may be rolled out thinner, and used as bottom pieces. The paste for patties is usuallj^ rolled one fourth of an inch thick and cut with a plain cutter. Two or three rims may be put on when a deeper shell is desired. Any kind of delicate cooked meat or fish (chicken, sweetbreads, oysters, lobster, etc.) ma}^ be cut into small pieces, and warmed in a thick cream sauce (see page 278), and served hot in patty shells, with a cover of the paste. Tarts are made thinner, and cut with a fluted cutter. They are filled with jelly or preserves, and served cold without a cover. Cupid's Wells. — Cut the rounds of puflT paste of three or four diflferent sizes ; use the largest one for the bottom,321 The Boston Cook Book. and cut the centres from the others, leaving the rims of different widths, and put them on the whole round, with the narrowest at the top. Bake, and fill with Vol-aic-vent, — This is made from the lightest form of puff paste, cut to an}^ size and shape desired, a large oval being generally preferred. Mark the outline with an oval mould or pan, and cut quickly with a knife dipped in hot water. Put on two or three rims, wetting the edge of each with white of egg. Make an oval hoop of stiff paper, two inches high, and slightly larger than the vol-au-vent, and place around it to prevent scorcliing. Bake a large vol- au-vent nearly an hour. Cakes a la JPolonaise, — Roll puff paste very thin, cut into pieces three inches square, wet the centre, turn each corner over, press the point down in the centre, and put a verj^ small round of paste on the centre. Bake, and when cool put dots of jelly on each corner. Fig. 42. Bow-Knots. BoiD-Knots. — Cut thin puff paste into half-inch strips, and shape them on the baking-pan into the form of a double bow-knot. When baked, put jelly on each loop of the bow. Rissoles, — Roll the scraps of puff paste thin, and cut into rounds. Put a spoonful of whatever material is to be used in the centre of half of the number, wet the edges, and cover with the remaining rounds, first cutting a cross in the middle, or stamping out a small piece with a vege- table cutter or pastry tube. Any kind of cold meat may be cut fine, seasoned to taste, moistened with a white sauce, and used in the rissoles. Or they may be filled with stewed and sweetened fruit, or mince meat prepared 21322 The Boston Cook Book. as for pies. They may be cut into larger rounds, the filling placed on one half, and the edges folded together like turnovers. Bake in a hot oven. Plaits, —Roll very cold puff paste thin, and cut into half-inch strips. Braid them together, and bake quickl3\ Cheese Straws. — Roll scraps of puff paste thin, sprinkle with grated cheese, and cayenne pepper if you like, fold, roll out, and sprinkle again, and repeat the four or five inches long and less than a quarter of an inch wide. Bake, and serve piled cob-house fashion. Some- times, when the paste is very hard, they are cut as narrow as possible, laid on the pan in groups of five or six, with one straw laid over the middle to represent a bundle of straws, and baked in that form. For Pies, roll the puff paste out a quarter of an inch thick, then roll up, and cut from the end of the roll. Turn each piece on the side, so that the folds show in rings, and pat out flat, then roll to fit the plate. Keep the paste in a circular form, and roll evenl}^ in every direction. Make slightly larger than the plate, as the paste shrinks when taken from the board, and should be fulled in rather than stretched to the required size. After a little practice it is just as easy to judge of the amount of paste required for one crust, and roll it in this way to fit the plate, as to roll so large a quantity that the edges have to be trimmed off and mixed with the remainder of the paste. Roll some of the paste, and cut into strips three quarters of an inch wide ; wet the under crust and place the rim on the edge. Use one rim for pies which are to be covered, and two, if you Fig. 43. Cheese Straws. process. Then place on the ice to harden. When cold, roll into rectangular shape one eighth of an inch thick; place it on a baking-pan, and with a pastry cutter dipped in hot water, cut into strips Pies.323 The Boston Cook Book, like, for pies witliout an upper crust. Fill the plate with the material to be used. Roll the upper crust larger than the plate, make a cut in the centre to let the steam escape, wet the rims, put the crust on the edge even with the rim and slighth' fuller in the centre, to allow for shrinking in baking; otherwise the crust, as it is forced up by the steam within, will draw awa}' from the edge. Wet every spot of the rim and edge, and press closel}^ but lightly together, to keep the juices from boiling out. All pies, meat pies especial!}^, with a top crust should have several holes cut in the crust to let the steam escape. All fruit pies are better flavored if made with fresh, rather than stewed, fruits. If to be filled with juicy fruit, or cream, they are more wholesome prepared as follows: Bake the two crusts separately, stew the fruit, fill, and put the two together. Or fill with a mock filling of pieces of clean cloth, bake, remove the cloth, and just before serving fill with the prepared fruit. Pies should bake from half to three quarters of an hour, or till brown. Use tin plates, as pies bake better on the bottom in them. No greasing is needed, and the pies should be changed to earthen plates as soon as done. Pastry for One Fie, — One heaping cup of pastry flour^ one saltspoonful of laking-poioder,, one saltspoon- ful of salt, and from one third to one half of a cup of butter and lard mixed. Mix the baking-powder and salt with the flour, and rub in the lard. Mix quite stiff with cold water. Roll out, put the butter on the paste in little pieces, and sprinkle with flour. Fold over, and roll out. Roll up like a jelly roll. Divide in two parts, and roll to fit the plate. Cream Paste. — Mix half a teaspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonfid of soda witli one cup of cream, and stir in flour enough to mix to a stiff paste. Roll half an inch thick. Cut half a cup of butter into small pieces, and put it on the paste. Sprinkle with flour, fold and roll out thin ; roll up, cut a piece from the end, and roll to fit the plate.324 The Boston Cook Book. Plain Paste, {Mrs, Tilton,) —Beat the white of one egg with one tablespoonful of lard. Work it into one quart of flour with the hands, till fine as meal. Add about one cup of ice water. Roll out, and put half a pound of butter on the paste in little pieces, either all at once or half of it at a time. Dredge lightly with flour. Fold the edges over, roll up, pat, and roll out. Lemon Pie^ JSTo, 1. — Mix one heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch with one cup of sugar / add one scant cup of boiling water^ and boil five minutes. Add one tea- spoonfid of butter^ the juice of one large lemoji^ and 072e egg^ well beaten. Bake between two crusts. No. 2. {Miss M. L. Clarke)—Mix three table- spoonfids of cornstarch^ one saltspoonful of salt^ and one cup and a half of sugar; add one pint of boiling water^ and boil five minutes. Add the grated rind and juice of two large lemons. When slightly cooled, add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, then the whites beaten stiff*. Cut them in as for an omelet. Line the plate with crust and rim, add the filling, and bake about twent}^ min- utes. If desired, cover when cool with a meringue, made with the whites of three eggs and one third of a cup of sugar. No. 3. {Miss Hammond.)— Mix one cup and a half of sugar and tioo heaping teaspoonfuls of flour ; add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two eggs., beaten stiff*, the grated rind of one and the juice of two lemons.^ and one cup of ice water. Line two plates with a crust and rim, fill, and bake in a moderate oven. Make a meringue with the whites of four eggs and one cup of poiodered sugar. Chess Pie. — Beat the yolks of three eggs until light and thick ; add half a cup of fine granulated sugar., and beat again; add one third of a cup of butter rubbed to a cream, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake on a plate lined and bordered with puff* paste. When done, cover with the whites of three eggs beaten stiff*, and mixed with half a cup of pov^dered sugar and one teaspoonful ofThe Boston Cook Book. 325 lemon juice. Brown slightly, and cut while hot, but serve cold. Apple Pie, — Cut sour apples in quarters, remove the cores and skins, and cut each quarter in two pieces lengthwise. Fill the plate, putting the pieces of apple round the edge in regular order, and piling sligiitly in the middle. They will cook as quickly as when sliced, though many are unwilling to believe it. When the apples are dry, add a little water. Cover with crust without wet- ting the edges, and bake about half an hour. When done, boil thi^ee heaping tahlespoonfuls of sugar and 07ie of wate7 five minutes. Add the grated rind of one quarter of a lemon,, or one tablespoonful of lemon juice. When the pie is done, remove to an earthen plate, pour this syrup through a cut in the top, or raise the upper crust and pour it over the fruit, or simply sprinkle with sugar and bits of butter. To sweeten before baking, sprinkle half a cup of sugar,, mixed with a little spice or grated lemon rind over the apple. Bind the edge of the crusts with a narrow strip of wet cloth, to keep in the S3^rup. Or wet the edge of the lower crust, sprinkle with flour, put on a rim, wet and flour that also ; fill with fruit, sweeten, put on the upper crust, and press the edges firmly together. Rhubarb Pie, —Peel the rhubarb, cut into inch pieces, pour boiling water over it, and let it stand ten minutes. Drain, fill the plate, sprinkle thickly with one cup of sugar^ dot with bits of butter^ cover with a crust, and bake. Squash Pie, — One cup and a half of stewed and sifted squash, not watery, but dry and meal}^, one cup of boiling milk^ half a cup of sugar^ half a teaspoonful of salt^ one saltspoonful of ci7inamon^ and one egg beaten slightl}^ Mix in the order given. Line a plate with paste, put on a rim, and fill w^ith the squash. Pumpkin pies are made in the same wa3\ Custard Pie, — Beat three eggs slightly, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar,, one saltspoonful of salt^ and one saltspoonful of nutmeg^ if liked. Pour on three cups of326 The Boston Cook Book, scalded milk; strain into a deep plate, lined with paste. Bake slowh-, and the moment it puffs and a knife blade comes out clean, it is done. Berry Pies. —Pick over the berries and sprinkle slightlj^ with flour ; add sugar to taste, —about one cup for a quart of fruit. Do not spoil the fruit flavor by using spices. Bake in a deep plate, with two crusts. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Mix in the order given. Use enough of the meat liquor to make quite moist. Substitute one cup of cider for the wine and brandy, if you prefer. Cook it in a porcelain kettle until the apple and raisins are soft. Do not add the wine, brandy, and rose water until the mixture is cooked. One cup of chopped suet or half a cup of butter may be added if preferred; but if the fat on the meat be used, or the pies are to be eaten cold, suet is not needed. Meat from the vein or the lower part of the round that has a little fat and no bone is the best for pie meat. Plain Mince Pie. — One cup of chopped meat (cold steak or roast beef which has been simmered till tender), two cups of chopped apple^ one teaspoonful each of salt^ allspice^ and cinnamon.^ one cup of brown sugarhalf a cup of small whole raisins^ half a cup of currants.^ mois- tened with one cup of cider^ or one cup of sweet pickle vinegar.^ or half a cup of water juice of one lemon., and two or three spoonfuls of an}^ remnants of jelly on preserve. Eccles Pie. {Miss Barnes.) — Two cups of seedless raisins and half a pound of citron^ chopped very fine ; Mince Meat for Pies. 1 cup chopped meat. 1^ cup raisins. cup currants. 13^2 cup brown sugar. 3^ cup molasses, or 1 cup granulated sugar. 3 cups chopped apples. 1 cup meat liquor. 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. y-2 teaspoonful mace. ^2 teaspoonful powdered cloves. 1 lemon (grated rind and juice). 34 piece citron. 3^ cup brandy. 34 cup wine. 3 teaspoonfuls rose water.327 The Boston Cook Book. add one cup of sugar^ the juice of 07W lemon^ and a little water. Stew five minutes. Line small patty pans with puff paste, fill with the fruit mixture, cover, and bake. Fanchonnettes, —Line small patt}^ pans with pufi?" paste, rolled very thin; fill them with lemon prepared as for Lemon Pie, No. 1 ; cover with a thin crust, and bake quickI3'. Or fill them as directed for Lemon Pie, No. 2, and bake without an upper crust.328 The Boston Cook Book. PUDDING- SAUCES. Hard Sauce (for Hot Puddings). cup butter. | % teaspoonf ul lemon or vanilla, 3^ cup powdered sugar. \ or a little nutmeg. Eub the butter to a cream in a warm bowl; add the sugar gradual!}', then the flavoring. Pack it smoothly in a small dish, and stamp it with a butter mould or the bottom of a figured glass. Keep it on ice till ver}' hard. Or pile it lightly on a small fancy dish, and you may call it Snowdrift Sauce. Lemon Sauce. 2 cups hot water. 1 cup sugar. 3 heaping teasp. cornstarch. Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 tablespoonful butter. Boil the water and sugar five minutes, and add the corn- starch, wet in a little cold water. Cook eight or ten minutes, and add the lemon rind and juice and the butter. Stir until the butter is melted, and serve at once. If the water boil awaj^ and the sauce become too thick, add more hot water till of the right consistenc3\ Whipped Cream Sauce. 1 cup cream. I % cup powdered sugar. 1 teaspoonful lemon or vanilla. | White of 1 egg. Mix the cream, vanilla, and sugar, and whip it without skimming oflT the froth. Add the beaten white of the egg and beat all together. Serve it on am' pudding usually eaten with sugar and cream.329 The Boston Cook Booh, Apricot Sauce. 1 cup apricot juice. I 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch or ^ cup sugar. j flour. Boil all together five minutes and strain. Use any kind of fruit juice or syrup in the same manner. Creamy Sauce. cup butter. j 2 tablespoonfuls wine, ^2 cup powdered sugar, sifted. | 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Cream the butter; add the sugar slowly, then the wine and cream. Beat well, and just before serving place the bowl over hot water and stir till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt the butter. When the wine and cream are added, the sauce has a curdled appearance. This is removed by thorough beating, and b^' heating just enough to blend the materials smoothl}^ It is not intended to be a hot sauce ; and if the sauce become oily in heating, place the bowl in cold water and beat again until smooth like thick cream. Omit the wine if desired, and use half a cup of cream^ and one teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla. Serve on any hot pudding. Foamy Sauce, No. 1. Whites of 2 eggs. f 1 cup boiling milk. 1 cup sugar. I Juice of 1 lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs till foamy, but not dry ; add the sugar, beat well; add the milk and lemon juice. Foamy Sauce, No. 2. > % cup butter. | 2 tablespoonfuls wine, or fruit 1 cup powdered sugar. juice, or sj-rup. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. }i cup boiling water. White of 1 egg beaten to a foam. Cream the butter; add the sugar, vanilla, and wine. Just before serving add the boiling water, stir well, then add the egg, and beat till foamy.330 The Boston Cook Booh. Half a cup of jelly melted in one fourth of a cup of boil- ing water and poured into the butter and sugar mixture, makes a pleasing variety. Yellow Sauce. (Mrs. Towne.) pound butter, pound brown sugar. Yolk of 1 egg. 1 gill brandy or wine. A little nutmeg. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and stir over hot water till liquid, then add the yolk of the egg, beaten. Stir till it thickens ; add brandy or wine and nutmeg, and serve. Wine Sauce. 1 egg. 1 saltspoonf ul grated nutmeg. 3^ cup wine. 1 cup boiling water. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. cup butter. 1 cup powdered sugar. Wet the cornstarch in cold water, and stir into the boil- ing water. Boil ten minutes. Rub the butter to a cream ; add the sugar gradually, then the egg, well beaten, and the nutmeg. When the cornstarch has cooked ten min- utes, add the wine, and pour the whole into the butter, sugar, and egg, stirring until well mixed. Caramel Sauce, (Miss Parloa!) — Put half a cup of sugar in an omelet pan, and stir over the fire till melted and light brown. Add half a cup of boiling water and simmer ten minutes. Molasses Sauce, — Mix one cup of molasses^ the juice of one lemon or one tablespoonful of vinegar^ half a salt- spoonful of salt^ and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil ten minutes and serve with plain rice or apple pudding. Plain Pudding Sauce, (Miss Ifammond.) — Melt o)ie heaping tablespoonful of butter; add two tablespoon- fuls of four, and one cup and a half of hot water. Cook as for drawn butter; then add one cup and a half of brown sugar. Stir till the sugar is melted, add two tea- spoonfuls of lemon juice and a little nutmeg.331 The Boston Cook Book. HOT PUDDINGS. Cottage Pudding. 2 heaping cups flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. % teaspoonful salt. 1 egg. ^ cup sugar. 3 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 1 cup milk. Mix the salt and baking-powder with the flour. Beat the egg, add the sugar, melted butter, and milk, and stir into the flour. Bake in a shallow dish. Serve with lemon^ wine^ OY foamy sauce, Dutch Apple Cake. This is used as a pudding (see page 86). It is easily prepared, attractive, and delicious, served with lemon sauce. Scalloped Apple. Mix half a cup of sugar and half a saltspoonful of cin- namon or the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt half a cup of butter, and stir it into one pint of soft bread crumbs; prepare three pints of sliced apples. Butter a pudding- dish, put in a layer of crumbs, then sliced apple, and sprinkle with sugar; then another layer of crumbs, apple, and sugar until the materials are used. Have a thick layer of crumbs on the top. When the apples are not juicy, add half a cup of cold water; and if not tart apples, add the juice of half a lemon. Bake about an hour. Cover at first, to prevent burning. Serve with cream, Eipe ber- ries and other acid fruits may be used instead of apples, and oatmeal or cracked wheat mush in the place of bread crumbs.The Boston Cook Booh 332 ♦ Steamed Apple Pudding. {Mrs. S. M. Bailey.) Fill a two-quart granite pan two thirds full of sour apples cut into eighths, and add half a cup of water. Butter the edge of the pan and the inside of the cover. Cover with a biscuit crust, made of one pint of flour, tivo teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and half a teas^joonful of salt; wet with one scant cup of milk, just stiff enough to roll out. Cover closely and steam one hour, or cook on top of the stove half an hour, with a trivet under the pan to keep the apple from burning. Serve at once with lemon or molasses sauce. Put a large round plate over the pan ; invert them, leaving the crust on the plate with the apples at the top. Cut like a pie. The crust may be shortened, the apples sweetened with molasses, and then baked in the oven; and it is called Pandowdy, Steamed Carrot Pudding. {Mr. Cole.) 3^ pound flour. 3^ pound chopped suet. ^2 pound currants. pound sugar. ^2 pound grated carrot. 3^ teaspoonful salt. Mix in the order given, and steam in a buttered mould three hours. Serve with wine sauce. Bread and Fruit Pudding. Soak one cup of stale bread crumbs in one pint of hot milk add one tablespoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, and 07ie saltspoorful of spice. When cool, add three eggs, well beaten. Add two cups of fruit, either chopped apples, raisins, currants, canned peaches, or apricots, — one, or a mixture of two or more varieties. When using canned fruit, drain it from the syrup, and use the latter in making a sauce. Yarj^ the sugar according to the fruit. Turn into a buttered pud- ding-mould, and steam two hours. N'o, 2. — Beat t\iQ yolks of three eggs, add one cup andThe Boston Cook Book. 333 a half of s%igar^ the grated/mc? and J^<^C6 of one lemon^ one saltspoonf'ul of salt^ one cup each of chopped apples^ currants^ and grated bread crumbs. Mix well, then add the whites of the eggs., beaten stiff. Boil in a buttered pudding-mould three hours, or bake two hours. Serve with lemon oy foamy sauce. Eve's Pudding. — Add half a cup of butter or one cup of chopped suet to the preceding rule. Bird's-l^est Pudding. Six or seven apples., cored and pared, and put into a buttered pudding-dish. Mix five teaspoonfuls of flour and OThe teaspoonful of salt., wet it to a smooth paste with cold milk., and add the yolks of three eggs., well beaten, then the lohites., and more milk, using one pint in all. Pour it over the apples, and bake one hour. Serve with hard or creamy sauce. Apple Tapioca Pudding. Pick over and wash three quarters of a cup of pearl tapioca. Pour one quart of boiling water over it, and cook in the double boiler till transparent; stir often, and add half a teaspoonful of salt. Core and pare seven apples. Put them in a round baking-dish, and fill the cores with sugar and leynon juice. Pour the tapioca over them and bake till the apples are very soft. Serve hot or cold, with sugar and cream. A delicious variation may be made b}^ using half pears, or canned quinces, and half ' apples': Apple Meringue. Core, pare, and bake seven apples, on a shallow plate, till soft, but not till broken. Beat the yolks of three eggs; add three tabl^spoonftds of sugar., a little salt^ and one pint of scalded milk. Pour it over the baked apples. Bake till the custard is firm. When cool, add a meringue made of the whites of three eggs., beaten till foamy ; add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar gradually, flavor334 The Boston Cook Book. with lemon^ and beat till stiff. Set the pudding-dish on a board in the oven, and brown the meringue. The whites of eggs for a meringue should be cool, and beaten till light and foamy, but not stiff; then add sugar gradually, in the proportion of one tablespoonful for each egg^ and beat till stiff enough to keep its shape. iVo. 2.—Pare and core the apples, fill the cavity with sugar and spice mixed, or with sugar^ butter^ and lemon. Bake the apples, cover with a meringue made with the whites of the eggs ; make the yolks into a boiled custard for a sauce, or serve with cream. This may be served hot or cold. Brown the meringue by holding a hot stove cover over it. Apple Porcupine. Arrange eight or ten apples (baked as in the preceding rule, or cored, pared, and cooked carefully in syrup, see Compote of Apples) in a mound on a dish for serving. Put quince jelly among the apples. Cover with a meringue made of the whites of four eggs and half a cup of pow- dered sugar. Stick blanched almonds into the meringue. Put the dish on a board in the oven, and brown slightly, or hold a hot iron over it. Serve with boiled custard sauce. Friar's Omelet. Steam tart apples, mash, and drain quite dry. Take one pint of the pidp^ and mix with it the yolks of three vnell-beaten eggs^ one cup of sugar, and the j^iice of half a lemon ; then add the beaten v^hites. Brown 072e cup of soft, fine bread crumbs in one tablespoonful of butter in an omelet pan. Butter a plain mould thickl}' with cold butter, and sprinkle over the bottom and sides as man}^ of the browned crumbs as will adhere. Fill with the prepared apple ; cover with buttered crumbs, and bake twenty min- utes. When cold, turn out on a platter, and serve with cream. It may be baked in a pudding-dish, and eaten hot.335 The Boston Cook Book, Apricots a la Neige. Boil one cup of rice fifteen minutes, or steam till tender (see page 307). Wring small pudding-cloths (one third of a yard square) out of hot water, and la}^ them over a small half-pint bowl. Spread the rice one third of an inch thick over the cloth. Put an apricot in the centre, filling the cavity in each half-apricot with rice. Draw the cloth around till the apricot is covered smooth- ly with the rice. yig. U. Apple Snowballs. Tie tightl}', and steam ten minutes. Remove the cloth carefully, and turn the balls out on a platter, and serve with apricot sauce. This amount of rice will make four or five balls. Apples, cored and pared, may be substituted for apricots. They should be steamed half an hour. These are more whole- some than apple or fruit dumplings, made with a flour crust. They are called Apple Snowballs, Plain Rice Pudding. Half a cup of well-washed nee, half a cup of sugar^ a little salt., and one quart of milk. Soak half an hour. Bake about two hours, slowly at first till the rice has soft- ened and thickened the milk; then let it brown slightly. This is creamy and delicious, though it is often called Poor Man's Pudding. Serve hot or cold. N'o. 2. — Three tahlespoonfuls of nc6, a little salt^ three tahlespoonfuls of sugar^ one quart of milk., and three sour apples^ pared and quartered, or 07ie cup of small, whole raisins. Put all into a deep pudding-dish, well buttered. Cover, and bake slowly four or five hours, till the milk is all absorbed and the rice is red or colored. Serve hot with butter.336 The Boston Cook Book. Kice and Fruit Pudding. Steam one scant cup of rice in two cups of boiling water^ in the double boiler, thirty minutes. Add, while hot, one tablespoonful of butter^ one scant teaspoonful of salt^ one beaten egg^ and half a cup of sugar. Cook five minutes. Butter a plain pudding-mould, sprinkle it with bread crumbs, or line with macaroons. Put in a la3'er of rice half an inch thick, then a la^'er of apricots or peaches or pineapple, then rice, fruit, etc., till the mould is full, hav- ing crumbs on the top. Bake twenty minutes in a mod- erate oven. Turn out on a platter, and serve with boiled custard flavored with vanilla^ or with an apricot sauce. E,ice Souffle. Boil half a cup of once in one quart of boiling salted water .fifteen or twenty minutes, and drain it. Put the rice in the double boiler with one pint of milJc^ cook ten minutes ; add the yolks of four or six eggs beaten with four or six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one tablespoonful of butter. Cook five minutes, and set away to cool; add half a teaspoon fid of vanilla or lemon. Half an hour before serving, beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and cut them lightly into the cooked mixture. Bake in a well-buttered pudding-dish half an hour. Serve im- mediately w^ith creamy sauce. Rice Custard. Soak half a cup of cold cooked rice in one p)int of hot milk till every grain is distinct. Add the yolks of two eggs^ beaten with a quarter of a cup of sugar and a pinch of salt., and cook like soft custard. While still hot, stir in the whites., beaten stiff, and set away to cool. Or turn the hot custard into a dish, and when cool cover with a meringue of the whites. Brown slightly, and serve cold.The Boston Cook Book. 337 Custard Souffle. (Miss Parloa.) Eub two scant taUespoonfuls of butter to a cream ; add two taUespoonfuls of flour^ and pour on gradually one cup of hot milk. Cook eight minutes in the double boiler, stirring often. Separate the yolks and lohites of four eggs^ and put the lohites away in the ice-chest. Beat the yolks^ add two taUespoonfuls of sugar^ and add to the milk, and set away to cool. Half an hour before serving, beat the whites stiffs and cut them in lightly. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish in a moderate oven thirt}^ minutes, and serve at once with creamy sauce. This mixture ma}^ be put into buttered paper cases, and baked ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in the papers. Sponge Pudding. {Alice Walcott.) cup sugar. cup butter. 3^ cup flour. Yolks of 5 eggs. 1 pint milk, boiled. Whites of 5 eggs. Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Cook until it thickens and is smooth ; add the butter, and when well mixed stir it into the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, then add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in cups, or in a shallow dish, or in paper cases, in a hot oven. Place the dish in a pan of hot water while in the oven. Serve with creamy sauce. Bread Pudding. One pint of fine stale bread crumbs^ soaked one hour in one quart of milk. Beat two eggs; mix one quarter of a cup of sugar^ one teaspoonful of salt^ one saltspoonful of nutmeg or cinnamon,, and one table spoonful of softened butter. Stir into the eggs, and then stir all into the milk. Bake one hour in a buttered pudding-dish. Add one cup of raisins^ and jovl have a Plum Pudding, The raisins should be first boiled, at least one hour, in water to cover, till plump and soft, as they will not cook 22The Boston Cook Book, 338 sufficiently in the baking. Four eggs may be used when a richer pudding is desired. And this becomes the Queen of Puddings by leaving out the whites, and after baking spreading a layer of jam over the top, then a meringue of the whites, and browning slightly. French Bread Pudding. — Butter small thin slices of nice hread^ spread with apple jelly^ and lay them loosely in a quart pudding-dish, fiUing it about half full. Pour over them one quart of boiled custard^ and cover wdth a meringue. Brown the meringue and serve cold. Or put the prepared bread in a buttered mould lined with maca- roons, cover with the custard, steam one hour, and serve hot. Plymouth Indian Meal Pudding. {Mrs. Faunce.) Mix one cup of yellow corn meal., one cup of molasses., and one teaspoonful of salt. Pour on one quart of boiling milk^ add one tablespoonful of butter^ three pints of cold milk., and one cup of cold water., or two eggs. Bake in a deep, well-buttered pudding-dish, holding at least three quarts. Bake very slowlj^ seven or eight hours. Do not stir, but cover with a plate if it bake too fast. One cup of currants may be used to give variet3\ Baked Indian Meal Pudding (made quickly). Boil one quart of milk. Pour it gradually on three tablespoonfuls of granulated Indian meal. Put it back in the double boiler, and boil one hour, stirring often. Then add one heaping tablespoonful of butter., one tea- spoonful of salt., half a cup of molasses., two eggs^ and one quart of cold milk. Mix well, pour into a well-buttered dish, and bake one hour. Eat with cream or butter. Whole-Wheat Pudding. {Miss Helen Spaulding.) Mix two cups of whole-wheat flour., half a teaspoonful of soda, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Add one cup of milk., half a cup of molasses^ and one cup of stoned and chopped raisins., or one cup of ripe berries. Steam two339 The Boston Cook Booh hours and a half, and serve with cream or any plain pudding sauce. One cup of dates, figs^ stewed prunes^ or chopped apple makes a pleasing variety. This is an economical pudding, wholesome for children and invalids when served with cream ^ and rich enough to suit any one when served with creamy or foamy sauce. Steamed Fruit Pudding. 1 pint flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder." 3^ teaspoonf ul salt. 1 cup milk. 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 2 eggs. % cup sugar. 1 pint berries, or ripe fruit or cut small, or 1 cup raisins, stoned and halved. Mix the baking-powder and salt with the flour; add the milk and melted butter. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar, and beat them well into the dough. Then add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff; and then the fruit, well rolled in flour. Steam two hours, and serve with lemon or foamy sauce. Steamed Suet and Fruit Pudding. 2% cups flour. 1 teaspoonful soda. teaspoonful salt. 3^ saltspoonf ul cinnamon. % saltspoonful nutmeg. 1 cup chopped suet, or % cup butter. 1 cup chopped raisins or currants. 1 cup water or milk. 1 cup molasses. Sift the soda, salt, and spice into the flour, rub in the butter, and add the raisins. Mix the milk with the molasses, and stir it into the dry mixture. Steam in a buttered pudding-mould three hours. Serve with foamy sauce. If water and butter be used, three cups of flour will be required, as these thicken less than milk and suet. This pudding is sometimes steamed in small stone cups. Cabinet Pudding. Butter a melon mould, and decorate it with candied fruity or with raisins boiled till soft and seeded; then put340 The Boston Cook Book. in a layer of lady fingers or stale sponge cahe^ then a few pieces of fruit, and repeat till the mould is nearl}^ full. Pour one pint of boiling milk into the yolks of three eggs^ beaten with three tahlespoonfuls of sugar and half a salt- spoonful of salt. Pour over the cake in the mould. Set the mould in a pan of warm water on the back of the stove half an hour, then bake one hour, keeping it in the pan of hot water. Or steam it one hour. Serve hot with wine or foamy sauce. Six macaroons or six cocoanut cakes may also be used, and the custard may be flavored with wine, Christmas Plum Pudding. {Mrs. J, M. Towne.) One pint and a half of grated bread crumbs (soft, not dried), one pint of chopped suet., one pint and a half of currants and stoned raisins mixed, half a cup of citron shaved thin, one scant cup of sugar., half a teaspoonful of salt^ half a teaspoonful of grated nutmegj fioe eggs., two even tablespoonfuls of flour^ made into a thin batter with milk., and half a glass of brandy. Mix in the order given, an(i boil or steam four hours. Serve with yellow sauce. Thanksgiving Plum Pudding. {Mrs. S. M. Bailey.) Six butter crackers., rolled fine, and soaked in three pints of milk. Cream one quarter of a cup of butter with one cup of sugar ; add half a teaspoonfid of salt., one teaspoonful of mixed spice., and six well-beaten eggs. Stir it all into the milk, and add one pound of the best raisins. Bake in a deep pudding-dish, well greased with cold butter. Bake very slowly in a moderate oven three or four hours. Stir several times during the first hour, to keep the raisins from settling. Make half of this receipt and steam it in a pudding-mould. Butter the mould, and line it with macaroons.341 The Boston Cook Book. CUSTARDS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. Soak the moss in cold water fifteen minutes ; pick over, wash, tie in a lace bag, and put it into the double boiler with the milk. Boil until the milk thickens when dropped on a cool plate. Add the salt; strain and flavor. Mould in small cups or in egg-shells. Break off a piece as large as a ten-cent piece on one end of the egg-shell, pour out the egg, rinse the shells, stand them upright in a pan of meal, and fill with the blanc-mange. Serve blanc- mange with sugar and cream ^ also with apple or grape jelly ; or put half a peach or anj^ candied fruit in the bot- tom of the cup before filling. Blanc-mange may be made b}^ using one tablespoon- ful of sea-moss farina. Stir it into the boiling milk, and cook twenty minutes. Or use three tahlespoonfuls of Hecker's farina in the same wa}'. Cornstarch and gela- tine are often used, but they are neither palatable nor nutritious without eggs. Chocolate Pudding. — Use the same proportion of moss and milk as in the preceding rule. Put one square of chocolate in a saucepan with two tablespoon fids each of sugar and water. Stir, and boil until smooth ; add a little of the milk, until thin enough to pour easily, then mix it well with the remainder of the milk. Add the moss, and boil till thick. Irish Moss Blanc-Mange. 3^ cup Irish moss. 1 quart milk. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful vanilla.The Boston Cook Book. 342 Danish Pudding, or Fruit Tapioca. ^ cup pearl tapioca. 1 3^ cup sugar. \% pint boiling water. % tumbler currant jelly. 1 saltspoonful salt. \ Pick over and wash the tapioca. Put it in the double boiler with the boiling water, and cook one hour, or till soft and transparent, stirring often. Add the salt, sugar, and currant jelly. Stir till the jelly is all dissolved. Pour into a glass dish, and keep on ice. Serve very cold with sugar and cream. Half a cup of lemon juice, or any acid fruit syrup, or one cup of canned apricot,peach, or quince, may be used instead of the jelly. Or, in summer, use one pint of ripe berries^ or any small fruits^ adding more sugar as required. Fruit Pudding, — Cook one quart of ripe berries or canned peaches or apricots with one pint of vmter^ and sugar to taste, till the fruit is well scalded. Skim out the fruit into a dish for serving. Wet one scant cupful of fine granulated wheat flour in a little cold water, stir it into the boiling S3'rup ; cook ten minutes, and pour it over the fruit. Serve very cold with cream. Boiled Custard. 1 pint milk. Yolks of 3 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. % saltspoonful salt. % teaspoonful vanilla. Scald the milk. Beat the yolks, add the sugar and salt, and beat well. Pour the hot milk slowly into the eggs, and when well mixed pour all back into the double boiler, and stir constantly till smooth and thick like cream. Strain, and when cool add the flavoring. Do not stir the egg into the hot milk, as there is danger of curdling, and a part of the egg will be left in the bowl. Scalding the milk hastens the process, so that less stirring is required. When nearly thick enough, the foam on the top disappears, and the custard coats the spoon; but the surest test isThe Boston Cook Book. 343 given by the sense of feeling. You are conscious that the custard is thicker by the way the spoon goes through it. Do not leave the custard an instant; take it off as soon as it is smooth, as it will thicken in cooling, and curdles quickl}^ if cooked a moment too long or if left in the boiler. Have a fine strainer placed in a bowl or pitcher before you begin to cook the custard, that you may strain it quickly. Boiled custard, when to be used as a sauce, should be thin enough to pour; when to be served as a custard, it should be cooked a moment longer, to make it thicker. Four or even Jive eggs to a pint of milk may be used when a rich custard is desired. But three are sufficient for nearl}^ all purposes. Boiled custard is much smoother when only the yolks of the eggs are used. Many combinations may be made by adding the whites of the eggs after the custard is cold. Beat the whites stiff, put them on a sieve, and cook over steam, or pour boiling water through them. The water will cook and stiffen the egg, and when well drained it may be piled in rock}^ form on the custard. Or the white may be poached by dipping it by the spoonful into boiling milk. Serve the custard in a large glass dish, and pile the white in a mass, or put spoonfuls of it here and there on the cus- tard, with bright-colored jelly on the white; or serve in small glass custard cups with the white and jelly on the top. Or pour the custard over slices of sponge cake (soaked in wine, if you prefer), and cover with a meringue of the whites sweetened and flavored. Floating Island^ Flummery^ Tipsy Pudding^ and hosts of other dishes are only fanc}' names given to the different combinations of cake, boiled custard, and meringue. Any of the following ingredients may be used as flavor- ing ; this will give a variety of dishes, which want of space prevents us from giving as separate receipts : half a square of chocolate^ melted; the three tahlespoonfuls of sugar molted to a caramel before mixing with the 3'olks ; one cup of grated cocoanut^ or cocoanut cakes crumbled ; six mac- aroons soaked in wine; one cup of chopped almonds or344 The Boston Cook Book. any of the varieties of candied fruits; four oranges^ peeled, seeded, and cut fine ; one pint of any canned fruit; one,pint of lemon^ wine^ or orange jelly^ cut in cubes. Or color the meringue pink by beating three tablespoon- fuls of bright-colored jelly with the whites ; or brown it with a salamander or hot poker, or by putting the dish on a board in the oven. Baked or Steamed Custard. 1 quart milk. i 6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 6 eggs. I 1 saltspoonful salt. Scald the milk. Beat the eggs ; add the sugar and salt, then the scalded milk. Strain, add a little nutmeg, and bake about twenty minutes in a deep dish or in cups set in a pan of warm water; or steam in a bowl or in cups. Test the custard with a spoon; if it come out clean, the custard is done. Caramel Custard. • . . % cup sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls water. 1 quart milk. 6 eggs. ■.^ '■ ^2 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Put the sugar in an omelet pan, and stir until it melts and is light brown'; add the water, and stir into the warm milk. Beat the eggs slightly, add the salt and vanilla and part of the milk. Strain into the remainder of the milk, and pour into a buttered two-quart mould. Set the mould in a pan of warm water, and bake thirty to fortj^ minutes, or till firm. Cut into the middle with a knife ; if it come out clean, the custard is done. Serve cold with caramel sauce. Delicate Pudding. % saltspoonful salt. Sugar to taste. 3 eggs. 1 cup water. 1 cup fruit juice. 3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. Boil the water and fruit juice (orange, lemon, or canned cherries, quince, or apricot). Wet the cornstarch in a littleThe Boston Cook Booh 345 cold water^ stir into the boiling syrup, and cook ten min- utes. Add the salt and sugar to taste ; the quantity de- pending upon the fruit. Beat the whites of the eggs till foam}^, and stir into the starch. Turn at once into a mould. Serve cold with a boiled custard sauce made with the 3'olks of the eggs. Apple Snow. 3 large tart apples. I % ^^P powdered sugar. 3 eggs (whites). I % <^^P j^Hy* Stew or steam the apples (cored and quartered, but not pared), drain, and then rub them through a hair sieve. Beat the Tfhites of the eggs stiff, add the sugar, beat again ; add the apple, and beat till like snow. Pile lightly in a glass dish, garnish with jellj^ or holly leaves. Serve with boiled custard. Tapioca Cream. 2 tablespoonfuls pearl tapioca. % saltspoonful salt. 1 pint milk. Whites of 2 eggs. Yolks of 2 eggs. 3^ teaspoonf ul vanilla. 3^ cup sugar. Soak the tapioca in hot water enough to cover it, in the top of the double boiler placed on the-back of the stove. When the water is absorbed, add the milk, and cook until the tapioca is soft and transparent. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar and salt. Pour the boiling mixture on them, and cook two or three minutes, or till it thickens like boiled custard. Eemove from the fire, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a foam. Stir well, and when cool flavor. Do not try to mould it, as it is more delicate when soft. Jellies and Fancy Dishes made with Gelatine, Custard, and Cream. Gelatine, as now obtained, is refined and clarified during * the process of manufacture, and this renders it unnecessary to use the white of egg in making jellies, as was requiredThe Boston Cook Book. 346 when using the old preparation of isinglass and gelatine. Much of the strength and flavor of jellies is lost in clearing them with eggs. Use Cox's gelatine for jellies and Nel- son's for cream. Cox's gelatine makes the clearest jelly, and the fishy taste is destroyed by the strong flavoring used in making wine, lemon, or orange jelly. Nelson's gelatine is finer, softens quicker, and has a more agree- able flavor. It is therefore better adapted to creams and delicate dishes. Never cook gelatine. Soak (not dissolve) it in cold water, in the proportion of 09ie cup of cold water to one box of gelatine. It will soften in fifteen minutes, if stirred often. Then dissolve in boiling liquid, — either water, milk, or custard, — and always strain through a fine strainer after it is dissolved. 3 tablespoonf uls sugar. Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft, then dis- solve it in boiling water. Make a custard with the yolks of the eggs, beaten, and mixed with the sugar and salt. Pour on the hot milk, and cook in the double boiler till it thickens. Then add the strained gelatine water, the vanilla, and the whites of the eggs, beaten stifle. Mix all well, and turn into moulds wet in cold water. Place in ice water, and when hard and ready to serve turn out on a dish. Italian Cream, — Use the same proportions as in the preceding receipt. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot custard instead of in hot water, and strain the whole while hot into the beaten whites. When well mixed, add lemon or vanilla^ and pour into a mould. Quaking Custard, — The same proportions as in Span- Gelatine Pudding, or Spanish Cream. box gelatine. cup cold water. ^ cup boiling water. Yolks of 3 eggs. 3^ saltspoonf ul salt. 1 pint milk. Whites of 3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful vanilla.347 The Boston Cook Book. ish Cream. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot cus- tard, and strain into a mould. When ready to serve, beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add three heaping table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar^ and the juice of one lemon. Turn the custard on a platter, and heap the meringue around it. Whites of 3 eggs. Soak the gelatine in the cold water fifteen minutes, or until soft. Then dissolve it in the boiling water ; add the sugar and lemon juice. Stir till the sugar is dissolved. Strain into a large bowl, and set in ice water to cool. Stir occasionall3^ Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the gelatine begins to thicken, add the beaten whites, and beat all together till very light. When nearly stiff enough to drop, pour into a mould. Or beat until stiff enough to hold its shape, if your strength will allow, and pile lightlj' in a tall glass dish. Make a boiled custard of the yolks of the eggs, the sugar, salt, and milk, and when cool flavor with vanilla. Serve the sauce in a pitcher. Or, if the snow be moulded, turn it out on a dish, and pour the sauce around the pudding. The snow may be turned into a shallow dish, two inches deep, to harden, and when ready to serve cut into blocks and piled like a pyramid. Blocks of lemon or wine jelly^ mixed with the snow or sparkling jelly (jelly broken up lightly with a fork), make a pleasing variety. If the whites of the eggs be added to the gelatine mixture before it becomes cold, as is directed in many re- ceipts, more time will be required for the beating. Many have never made the dish a second time on account of the time and strength expended. Fifteen minutes is suflScient when made according to this receipt. Snow Pudding. 3^ box gelatine. Yolks of 3 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. saltspoonful salt. 1 pint hot milk. teaspoonful vanilla. 3^ cup cold water. 1 cup boiling water. 1 cup sugar. cup lemon juice.348 The Boston Cook Book, Orange Charlotte. 3^ box gelatine, cup cold water, cup boiling water. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 cup orange juice and pulp. 3 eggs (whites). 1 cup sugar. Line a mould or bowl with lady fingers or sections of oranges. Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Pour on the boiling water, add the sugar and the lemon juice. Strain and add the ^gll^K^^k. orange juice and it till light. Add the beaten whites, and beat together till stiff enough to drop. Pour into the mould. One pint of whipped cream may be used instead of the whites of the eggs, or it may be piled on the top after the Charlotte is removed from the mould. Apple Charlotte. — One cup of cooked sour apple (steamed, drained, and sifted) may be used in place of the orange in the preceding receipt. Line the mould with lad}^ fingers or sponge cake, and serve a boiled custard^ made with the 3^olks of the eggs, as a sauce. Or use one cup of canned peachy pineapple^ or apricot^ or one pint of fresh strawberries or raspberries. Mash and rub the fruit through a sieve before using. pulp with a little of the grated rind. Cool in a pan of ice water. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and when the orange jelly be- gins to harden beat Fig. 45. Orange Charlotte. Fruit Charlotte. box gelatine. cup cold water. 1 cup sugar. cup water and 1 cup lemon juice, or 1 pint orange juice and 1 cup water. Yolks of 4 eggs. Whites of 4 eggs. 1 dozen lady fingers.The Boston Cook Book. 349 Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Make a syrup with the sugar and fruit juice. When boiling, pour it into the beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir well, and cook in a double boiler till it thickens. Add the soaked gelatine, stir till dissolved, and strain at once into a granite pan placed in ice water. Beat occasionally till cold, but not hard. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and then beat all together till it thickens. When almost stiff enough to drop, pour at once into moulds lined with cake. Keep on ice, and serve with or without powdered sugar and cream. Vary the fruit by stewing one pint of canned peaches^ pmeaj^ple, or apricots in one cup each of sugar and water till soft, then sift, add the yolks of the eggs, and cook till it thickens. Add the gelatine, strain, and when cool add the whites. Grated pineapple will not require sifting. Velvet Cream. {Miss Ward.) % box gelatine. \% cup sugar. \% cup sherry wine. Ij^ pint cream. 1 lemon (grated rind and juice). Soak the gelatine in the wine, add the lemon and sugar, and heat all together till the gelatine is dissolved. Then strain and set it away to cool. When nearly cold, but before it begins to stiffen, add the cream. Beat till nearly stiff enough to drop, then pour it into moulds and set it on ice until stiff as blanc-mange. Wine Jelly. hox gelatine. 14, cup cold water. 1 pint boihng water. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 cup sugar. 1 cup sherry or S. M. wine. Soak the gelatine in cold water fifteen minutes, or until soft. Add the boiling water, lemon juice, sugar, and wine. Stir well, and strain through a fine napkin into a shallow dish. Keep in ice water till hard. When ready to serve, cut in cubes or diamonds, or break it up lightly350 The Boston Cook Book. with a fork. If 3'ou wish to mould it, or to use for mould- ing creams, add only two thirds of a pint of boiling water. Orange Jelly. ^ box gelatine. 3^ cup cold water. 1 cup boiling water. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 cup sugar. 1 pint orange juice. Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. Add the boiling water, the lemon juice, sugar, and orange juice. Stir till the sugar is dissolved, and strain. Or use one cup of orange juice and one scant pint of boiling water^ one lemon, one scant cup of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Lemon Jelly. % box gelatine. 1 scant cup cold water. 1 pint boiling water. 1 cup sugar. % <^up lemon juice (large). 1 square-inch stick cinnamon. Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft. Shave the lemon rind thin, using none of the white. Steep it with the cinnamon in the pint of boiling water ten minutes, then add the soaked gelatine, sugar, and lemon juice, and when dissolved strain. Italian Jelly, or Fruit Moulded in Jelly. 3^ box gelatine. }4 cup cold water. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 scant cup boiling water. 1 cup sugar. 1 pint orange juice. 1 cup fruit. Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft. Shave the rind of the lemon, using only the yellow part, and soak with the gelatine. Pour on the boiling water; add the sugar, lemon juice, and orange juice. Strain through a fine napkin into a pitcher, or something from which it can be poured. Wet a mould in cold water, and pack it in a pan of ice. Put in a layer of jelly half an inch deep and harden it, then a layer of candied fruit or sections ofThe Boston Cook Book. 351 oranges^ fastening each piece of fruit in place with a little jelly before adding enough to cover the fruit, otherwise the fruit will float. Repeat till the mould is full. Place the pitcher where the jelly will keep liquid but not hot, and be sure that every piece of fruit is firmly in place before add- ing more. This may be made with lemon or wine jelly, A varietj^ of designs may be made by arranging different colors of fruit; and it well repa3^s one for the trouble, which seems very slight after the first attempt. Do not devote your whole morning to it, but look at it occasion- alty while 3'ou are doing other things, adding fruit and jell3^ as required ; and before jow are conscious of it, the dish will be prepared. Orange Baskets, — Cut as many oranges as will be re- quired, leaving half the peel whole for the baskets, and a strip half an inch wide for the handle. Remove the pulp Fig. 46. Orange Baskets. and juice, and use the juice in making orange jell3^ Place the baskets in a pan of broken ice to keep upright. Fill with orange jelly. When ready to serve, put a spoonful of whipped cream over the jelly in each basket. Serve in a bed of orange or laurel leaves, No. 2, — With a vegetable cutter cut out several small portions of the peel in the basket and handle, to give an open-work eflTect, and fill with a mixture of ora7ige^ wine., and lemon jelly,, cut into inch dice and piled lightly in the baskets. Or the baskets may be filled with Bavarian cream. Orange Sections, — Cut oflT a small portion from the end of the orange, and scoop out the pulp and juice. Be careful not to break through the skin. Fill them with352 The Boston Cook Booh, orange jelly which is thoroughly cold, but not hard, and place them upright in a pan of broken ice. When hard, cut each orange in quarters, and serve garnished with green leaves. Imperial Cream. Make the rule for Lemon Jelly (page 350), and color part of it pink with cochineal or cranberry juice. Harden it in a shallow pan. Make Snow Pudding (page 347), and when nearly stiff enough to drop, stir in small squares of the pink and lemon jelly, Mould, and when ready to serve, turn out on a dish, garnish the base and top with maca- roons soaked in wine. Pour rich boiled custard round the dish, and put macaroons and cubes of the jellies in the custard. Whipped Cream. Many wholesome, delicious, and attractive dishes may be made with whipped cream. To those who can obtain plenty of cream, these dishes afford a cheaper, more easily prepared, and far more satisfactory^ course than pie and many forms of hot puddings. Many of them are equally^ suitable for tea. Very rich cream should be diluted and well mixed with an equal quantity of milk. The best quality of cream obtained from the milkman is usually of the proper consistenc3\ Tliin cream will become liquid after whipping, and thick cream will turn to butter. The cream should always be icy cold; when it is to be served as a garnish, or for cream whips, it should be sweetened and flavored before it is whipped. A whip churn is the best utensil for whipping cream. This is a tin cylinder, perforated at the bottom and sides, and having a perforated dasher. When the churn is placed in a bowl of cream, and the dasher worked up and down, the air is forced from the cj^linder into the cream, causing it to become light and frothy. A Dover egg-beater will make the cream light, but it has a different consistency from that obtained by churning.353 The Boston Cook Book. To Whip Cream, — Place a bowl half filled with cream in a pan of broken ice. When verj' cold, put the churn into the cream, hold the cylinder firmly, and keep the cover in place with the left hand. Tip the churn slightly, that the cream may flow out at the bottom. Work the dasher with a light short stroke up^ and a hard^ pushing stroke down. When the froth appears, stir it down once or twice, as the first bubbles are too large; and when the bowl is full of froth, skim it off into a granite pan placed on ice. Take ofi* froth only, and do not take it ofl" below the holes in the cylinder, as it whips better when the}^ are covered. For this reason never whip a pint of cream in a three- quart bowl, and do not try to whip it all, as usually a little is left in the bowl which is too thin to whip. One pint of cream should treble in whipping. If for a garnish, drain the whipped cream on a hair sieve placed over a pan, and keep it on ice till stiff enough to keep its shape. Creams that are to be moulded are made stiffer by the addition of gelatine. Cream Whips. (^Miss Ward.) 1 pint rich cream. 1 cup pale sherry wine. 1 lemon (grated rind and juice). }4 cup sugar. Whites of 2 eggs, beaten light. Mix in the order given. Add more sugar if desired. Stir till the sugar is dissolved, then whip it and take off the froth as it rises, and put it on a hair sieve. Fill jelly glasses with the cream left in the bowl, and put the froth on the top. Newport Whips, (Mrs. Upham,)— One pint oi cream,, sweet or sour, one gill of sif^seet milk,, half a lemon sliced, sugar and loine to taste. Whip, and serve the whip only, in jelly glasses. If prepared in a covered bowl or tureen, the unwhipped cream may be kept for several daj^s, add- ing more cream, sugar, and wine to taste, and whipping as required for use. 23354 The Boston Cook Booh Charlotte Eusse (Cream). 1 pint rich cream. I % cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. j Sponge cake. Mix the cream, vanilla, and sugar. Place the bowl in ice water, and when chilled whip to a stiff froth, and skim off the froth into a sieve. Drain, and whip again that which has drained through. When nearlj^ all whipped, line a glass dish with lady fingers or sponge cake, fill with the cream, put cubes of wine jelly or any bright jelly on the cream, and keep on ice till ready to serve. Charlotte Russe, No. 2 (Cream and Eggs). 1 pint rich cream. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 1 tablespoonful wine. Whites of 2 eggs. 1 cup powdered sugar. Sponge cake. Flavor the cream with vanilla and wine, and whip to a stiff froth. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add the pow- dered sugar, and mix it lightly with the whipped cream. Keep it on ice till it stiffens. Line small cups or paper moulds with sponge cake, and fill with the cream. Or fill fancy paper cases with cream, and ornament each with thin triangles of sponge cake and a cube of wine jelly, A small part of the cream may be colored with melted chocolate or cochineal^ and used for decoration. Charlotte Russe, ITo. 3 (with Gelatine). {ISIhs Parloa.) box gelatine. 34 cup powdered sugar. cup cold water. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 1 pint cream. 1 tablespoonful wine. 1 dozen lady fingers. cup boiling water. Soak the gelatine in the cold water till softened. Chill the cream. Line a three-pint mould with lady fingers or narrow slices of sponge cake, crust side out; leave a little space between the slices, and have the cake even at the top. Whip the cream, and skim off into a graniteThe Boston Cook Book. 355 pan set in ice water. Sift the powdered sugar over the whipped cream, and add the vanilla and w^ine. Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water, and strain through a fine strainer over the whipped cream. Then stir (not beat) rapidly with the bowl of the spoon resting on the bottom of the pan. Turn the pan with the left hand while stirring with the right. If it feel lump}', lift the pan from the ice and place it in warm water to melt the gela- tine. Stir till the gelatine is well mixed with the cream, and when nearly stiff enough to drop, turn it into the mould. Keep on ice, and when read}' to serve, turn out and garnish the top with^*e%. This filling may be used in paper cases as directed in 1 pint cream. Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Chill and whip the cream till you have three pints of the whip. Boil the remainder of the cream (or if it be all whipped, use a cup of milk) with the sugar; and when boiling add the soaked gelatine. Stir till dissolved. Strain into a granite pan, add the vanilla or lemon, and wine if you wish; or flavor with two tablespoonfuls of melted choco- late^ or 07ie quarter of a cup of strong coffee. Place the pan in ice water, stir occasionall3% and when the mixture is thoroughly cold and beginning to thicken, stir in lightly the whipped cream. When nearly stiff enough to drop, pour into the moulds. This cream is sometimes moulded in small cups. Put half of a canned apricot ov peachy or three sections of orange^ or several small cherries., or a candiedplum^ in the bottom of the cup before filling with the cream. Or line a bowl with whole strawberries and fill with the cream. This is called a Stray:)herry Charlotte, Red ba- nanas sliced may be used in the same manner. No. 1. Plain Bavarian Cream. box gelatine. 3^ cup cold water. 3^ cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful yanilla.3S6 The Boston Cook Book, Riz d rImperatrice, — Prepare the cream as for Bava- rian Cream ; put ooie cup of cooked rice in the hot milk^ and stir till everj^ grain is distinct, then proceed as directed in the preceding receipt. Bavarian Cream, No. 2 (with Eggs). }/2 hox gelatine. y2 cup cold water. 1 pint cream. 1 pint milk. 4 eggs (yolks). cup sugar. % saltspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful vanilla 1 tablespoonful wine. Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Chill and whip the cream till you have three pints. Keep the whipped cream on ice, and boil the remainder of the cream, adding enough milk to make a pint in all. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and add the sugar and salt. Pour the boiling milk on the eggs, and when well mixed put back in the double boiler and cook about two minutes, or just enough to scald the egg. Stir constant!}^, add the soaked gela- tine, and strain at once into a pan set in ice water. When cool, add the vanilla and wine, or half a cup of orange juice. Stir till it begins to harden, then stir in quickl}' the whipped cream, and when nearly stiff enough to drop, pour into moulds wet in cold water. Chocolate Bavarian Cream. — Melt two sticks of sweetened chocolate., and stir them into the custard before straining. Coffee Bavarian Cream, — Add one quarter of a cup of very clear., strong black coffee. Or boil half a cup of ground coffee in the milk, before straining it over the eggs. Bavarian Cream with Fruit. 1 quart berries. 1 cup sugar. 3^ box gelatine. 3^ cup cold water. 3^ cup boiling water. 1 pint cream. Strawberries or JRaspberries. — Mash the berries with the sugar ; let them stand till the sugar is dissolved. Strain through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. SoakThe Boston Cook Book. 357 the gelatine in the cold water, then dissolve in the boiling water, and strain it into the berr}-juice. Cool, and beat till slightl}' thickened ; add the cream (whipped), and mould it in a plain mould, or lined like a Charlotte. Pineapple, — Stew a can of grated pineapple with one cup of sugar ten minutes, and use in the same manner without sifting. Peaches and Apricots, — Mash and sift one can of peaches or apricots (use juice Siud fruit), and stew with a heaping cup of sugar, and use as above. Norfolk Cream, — Line a mould with one pound of can- died plums, having first removed the stones, and spread the plums out as thin as possible. Make the plain Bava- rian cream, and when thick enough to drop, take out one third of it and color with cochineal; add half a cup of candied cherries cut in halves. Put a layer of the white Fig. 47. Mould of Bavarian Cream garnished with Whipped Cream and Fruit. cream next to the plums, and fill the centre with the pink. When ready to serve, loosen the edges with a knife and invert carefullj^ Garnish with whipped cream. Mock Canteloupe, — Mould the yellow Bavarian cream in a melon mould lined with lady fingers, and when ready to serve, turn out on a dish and sprinkle the top of the cream thickl}^ with chopped pistachio nuts, or any green fruit, plums, or angelica. Garnish with whipped cream and candied fruit. Prune Pudding, {Mrs, A, A. Lincoln.)—Make a small mould of lemon jelly. Boil large selected prunes slowl}^ until very tender, taking care to keep the skins unbroken. Drain and place in a glass dish. Break upThe Boston Cook Book. 358 the jell}^ all about them, so that it will have the appearance of being made together. Pile whipped cream^ prepared as for Charlotte Russe, No. 1, over the prunes and jelly. Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Chill and whip the cream. Boil the cream left in the bowl with milk enough to make a pint in all. Add the sugar, and when boiling- add the soaked gelatine. Stir until dissolved, and strain it into the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Add the vanilla, and the wine, if you approve. Stir well, and when slightly thickened add the whipped cream. When stiff enough to drop, add the French fruit. Mould it, and garnish with wine jelly^ fruity and green leaves. Or add one pint of blanched almonds ovpistachio nuts, chopped fine, instead of the fruit. Combinations of Jelly, Cream, Custard, and Cake. Boyal Diplomatic Pudding. {Miss Parloa.) — Make lemon, orange, or wine jelly, using only two thirds of a pint of boiling water, that it may be stiff enough to mould. fruit in some fanciful design. Cut cherries in halves, and cut plums to represent leaves, and arrange them like a cluster of cherries ; or cut the cherries smaller, and design a branch of barberries. Fasten each piece of fruit in place Creme Diplomats. {Miss M. L. Clarke.) box gelatine. 4 eggs (whites) 3^ cup cold water. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 1 pint cream. 1 tablespoonful wine. ^ cup sugar. 1 cup French fruit. Fig. 48. Royal Diplomatic Pudding. Strain it into a pitcher. Place a two-quart mould in a pan of ice water; pour in jelly half an inch deep. When hard, put in candiedThe Boston Cook Book, 359 with a few drops of the liquid jelly, and when hard add jelh' to cover the fruit. When this is hard, place a smaller mould in the centre on the jelly and fill with ice. Pour the remainder of the jellj' between the two moulds, adding it slowly, and dropping in fruit here and there, if you clioose, until the mould is full. When the jelly is all firm, remove the ice, and add warm^ not hot^ w^ater to the smaller mould, and take it out carefull}', without breaking the wall of jelly. Fill the space with a Bavarian cream (page 356). Make a rich soft custard with the yolks of Jive eggs^ half a cup of sugar ^ and a pint of milk; strain, and flavor with vanilla. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm w^ater, put a dish over it, and invert dish and mould together. Remove the mould carefuU}', and pour the soft custard around the pudding. Make the soft custard w^liile the jelly is hardening; and do not put the materials for the Bavarian cream together until the small mould is removed from the jelly, and the cavit}^ ready for the cream. Do not turn out of the mould until just before it goes to the table, as the slightest jarring breaks the jellj'. A coffee cup within a quart bowl, and a small pail within a larger one, have been successfully used by those who had no moulds. A variet}^ of dishes may be made by using the differ- ent colored jellies and fruits ; and any of the creams stiff* enough to mould can be used as filling. Snow Pudding, or Creme Diplomate and Wine Jelly^ Norfolk Cream and Lemon Jelly^ Orange Sponge and Orange Jelly^ are attractive combinations. It may also be made in two sizes of small moulds, serving one mould to each person. Gateau St, Honore, — Line a pie plate with thin puff paste,, prick with a fork, and bake light brown. Make a cream cake paste (see Index), press it through a pastry bag round the edge of a jell}' cake tin, and bake the re- mainder in balls the size of walnuts. Place the puff* paste on a plate, and spread with raspberry jam or orange mar- malade. Lay the border of cream cake paste on the edge, and press it into the marmalade. Fill the centre with any36o The Boston Cook Book, kind of Bavarian cream. Garnish with the cream cake balls and fruit Use orange sections with orange marma- lade, and candied cherries and opiums with raspberry jam. Sponge cake or feather cake^ baked thin in a round tin plate, is more delicate than pufF paste as a foundation for the gateau. Gdteau de Princess Louise, — Bake sponge drop mix- ture ov feather cake or snow cake in jelly cake tins. Cut the centre from one cake, leaving a rim one inch and a half wide. Put jelly on the remaining cake, lay the rim on the edge, and fill the centre with Bavarian cream. Garnish with candied fruit. Frost the rim.if j'Ou prefer. Chantilly Baskets, — Dip the edges of soft flexible macaroons in syrup, prepared as for crystallized fruit, and form them into a basket on a fancy plate, something as children shape a burr basket. A rim and handle of paste- board aid in keeping the shape. When dry, fill with any fancy Bavarian cream. Fig. 49. Strawberry Charlotte.The Boston Cook Book. 361 ICE-CREAM AND SHERBET. A GOOD ice-cream freezer should be in every kitchen; for with it a great variety of wholesome and attractive dishes may be prepared •with verj^ little expenditure of time and strength. Fruit, cream, and eggs, when frozen, are more palatable in hot weather than when served in other ways. A deep can, four inches in diameter, with a tight cover fitting outside the can, and packed in a firkin with ice and salt, makes a good substitute for a freezer. By scraping the cream from the sides and beating occa- sional 1}^ with a large bread-knife as the cream freezes, one maj^ have a ver}^ smooth quality of cream with very little effort. But whether with a patent or home-made freezer, the essential points are to have the ice finely crushed, to use the right proportion of coarse rock salt, and to beat the mixture thoroughly during the freezing. Salt has a great affinity for water, and when mixed with broken ice it unites with the water; the ice, in changing from, its solid form to a liquid, parts with its heat, and the mixture of melted ice and salt is many degrees colder than the ice alone. This is sufficient to reduce to the freezing-point the temperature of any liquid placed in the ice and salt. The finer the ice is crushed, the quicker it melts ; and the more the mixture is stirred, the sooner all parts become chilled. The melted ice and salt should surround the can, and not be drawn off* as fast as melted. For this reason it is a mistake to have the outlet for the water in the bot- tom of the firkin. It should be just, below the top of the can, and then the water will run out before it can get in- side the can. Draw it off whenever it floats the ice. The ice should be nearly as fine as the salt. Use one partThe Boston Cook Book, 362 salt to three or four parts ice. An easy way is to measure each with a saucer or small shallow pan. Put in a layer of ice three inches deep (pack it in solidly), then a meas- ure of salt (sprinkle it evenly on the ice), then three meas- ures of ice and one of salt, etc., till the freezer is full. Pack each la3'er in closely with a wooden paddle, and turn the freezer handle occasionally while packing. Be sure that the freezer works perfectly before adding the cream. The bearings and gears should be kept well oiled. When the cream is thoroughly cold, pour it into the can. Turn slowly at first, and after ten minutes more rapidly, till you can turn no longer. It usualty takes about half an hour. Re- move the beater, scrape off the cream, and beat and pack the cream closely in the can. Put a cork into the opening in the cover, and lay the cross-piece over to keep the can down in the ice. Cover with a piece of old carpeting wet in the salt and water. If the ice and salt have been well packed, and the cream is to be served within an hour and not moulded, no more ice will be needed ; but if to be kept longer, draw off the water and pack again. If to be moulded, beat the cream well, and pack into the mould; cover closely, and bury in ice and salt. After using the freezer, clean and scald the can ; dry thoroughly, and keep it uncovered while not in use. Drain the salt left in the freezer, and use again. A mixture of salt and snow answers when ice cannot be obtained. Use Turk's Island or coarse rock salt^ and 7iot what is called coarse fine salt. Ice-Cream, No. 1 (Philadelphia Ice-Cream). 2 quarts cream; if thick, add I 2 cups sugar. 1 pint milk. I 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla. This is the simplest, and to many the most delicious, form of ice-cream. Scald the cream ; melt the sugar in it, and flavor when cool. Freeze as directed above. The cream should be very sweet and highly flavored, as both sweetness and flavor are lessened by freezing. To make it lighter and more deUcate, whip the cream until you haveThe Boston Cook Book, 363 a quart of froth, and add the froth after the cream is partly frozen. Man}^ prefer to add the whites of eggs, beaten till foamy, but not stiff. Use two^ three^ or four eggs to each quart of cream. The proportion of sugar should vary according to the flavoring used. Ice-Cream, No. 2 (Neapolitan Ice-Cream). 1 quart milk. (6 or 8 eggs yolks). 1 cup sugar. 1 pint to 1 quart cream. Sugar to taste. Flavoring. Make a boiled custard with the milk, sugar, and the yolks of the eggs. Cook it slightly till smooth, but not curdled. Strain, and when cool add the cream, sugar to make it quite sweet, and anj' flavoring desired. The cus- tard, when made w'ith cream instead of milk, makes the richest kind of ice-cream. If cream cannot be obtained, beat the whites of the eggs till foamy, and add them just before freezing. No matter how many eggs are used, a little cream, if not more than half a cupful, is a decided improvement to all ice-creams. It is better to make sher- bet, or fruit and water ices, than an inferior quality of ice- cream with milk. Ice-creams are richer and mould better when made with gelatine ; but care must be taken to flavor highly, to disguise the taste of the gelatine. Use a quarter of a box of JVelso7i^s gelatine for two quarts of custard. Soak in half a cup of cold milk, and dissolve in the boiling custard just as it is taken from the fire. If by any acci- dent the custard should curdle in cooking, it will be smooth when frozen. Ice-Cream, No. 3. {Miss Parloa.) 1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 1 pint to 1 quart cream. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 3^ to 1 rup sugar. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 tablesp. flavoring extract. Boil the milk. Mix the sugar, flour, and salt; add the whole eggs, and beat all together. Add the boiling milk,364 The Boston Cook Booh. and when well mixed turn into the double boiler, and cook twenty minutes, stirring constantly till smooth ; after that, occasionally. When cool, add the cream, flavoring, and sugar to make it quite swxet. This makes a smooth and delicious cream ; and if tlie milk be boiling and the custard cook fully twenty minutes, there will be no taste of the flour. The following flavorings, with either of these receipts for a foundation, will give a great many varieties of ice-cream. Vanilla Ice- Cream. — Use one tahlespoonfiil of Bur- netts extract or one heaping tahlespoonful of the pounded vanilla bean sugar. Lemon Ice-Cream, — One tahlespoonful of lemon extract. Chocolate Ice-Cream. — Melt tv^o bars of sweetened vanilla chocolate Yf\\h. one or two tablespoonfuls of water ^ add a little cream or custard^ and when smooth stir it into the remainder of the custard. Add half a tablespoonful of vanilla. Confectioners sometimes mix half a teaspoon- fill of Ceylon cinnamon with the chocolate. It gives a rich, spic}^ flavor. Coffee Ice-Cream.—Make half a cup of very strong black coffee for two quarts of cream ; or boil half a cup of ground coffee in the milk. Caramel Ice- Cream. — Add half a cup of caramel (see page 134), and omit part of the usual amount of sugar. Pineap>ple Ice- Cream, — Add half a can of grated pine- apple or one pint of the ripe fruit, grated. Strawberry Ice-Cream,—Sprinkle sugar over the ber- ries ; mash, and rub through a fine sieve. Measure the juice, and use one pint juice to two quarts of cream or custard. Add more sugar as the berries require. Use the French bottled strawberries when the ripe fruit cannot be obtained. Banana Ice -Cream. —Make a custard with one pint of milk., one cup of sugar., and two eggs. When cold, add one pint of cream^ and six bananassifted, or cut inThe Boston Cook Booh 365 thi© slices. Add a little lemon juice if the bananas lack flavor. Baked Apple Ice-Cream. — Bake and sift six sweet apples. Add one quart of rich cream^ and sugar to taste. When the sugar is dissolved, freeze. Pistachio Ice- Cream. — One cup of pistachio nuts., and one quarter of a cup of almonds., blanched, chopped, and pounded to a paste. Add this to any receipt for ice-cream. Macaroon., Almond^ Walnut., Cocoanut., or Brown Bread Ice -Cream may be made by adding one pint of either of the above ingredients to any receipt for ice- cream. Crumble the macaroons and cocoanut cakes, and brown them slightly; dr}^ crumble, and sift the brown bread, and chop the nuts fine. Fruit Ice - Cream. — Canned fruit, or ripe fruit sweet- ened to taste, and cut into small pieces, may be added to partlj' frozen cream, giving many delicious varieties. Use peaches^ strawberries., raspberries^ pineapples., apricots^ or cherries. Cafe Parfait. — One pint of cream., one cup of sugar., half a cup of strong., clear coffee. Mix, chill, and whip. Take the froth off into a freezer or into a mould. Pack the mould in ice and salt, and let it stand without stirring two hours. Glace Cream. — Boil one cup of sugar and one scant cup of water until the syrup forms into a ball when rubbed in water between the finger and thumb. Then pour this sj'rup in a fine stream into the whites of three eggs beaten stiff*, and beat till stiff and cool. Stir it into any frozen cream, made with a little less than the usual amount of sugar. Ice - Cream with Condensed Milk. — Mix one can of condensed milk with th7'ee pints of scalded milk., and use in making a rich custard, as directed in rule No. 2. Flavor highly, and add a pound of candied fruit if desired. Tutti Frutti. — Make either of the receipts for ice- cream, and flavor with two tablespoonfuls of Sicily Ma- deira wine or Maraschino. When partly frozen, add one366 The Boston Cook Book. pound of French candied fruity cut fine. Use a mixture of cherries^ plums^ apricots^ pineapples^ pears^ strawber- ries^ and angelica root. Or use home-made preserves-^ carefully drained from the S3'rup, and cut into dice. Nesselrode Pudding, — Shell one pint of chestnuts. Blanch, and boil half an hour, then mash to a pulp, and stir into ice-cream made from rule No. 2. Strain, and when partly frozen add one piyit of mixed fruit,, cut fine. Frozen Pudding, — Make ice-cream. No. 3; add two tahlespoonfuls of soaked gelatine^ flavor with wine and vanilla^ and freeze. Cut a pound of French fruit or brandy peaches in small pieces; or use half a pound oi mixed raisins,, currants,, and citron,, and one cup of mac- aroons,, pounded, or one cup of mixed almonds and pista- chio nuts, pounded fine. Wash, and soak the currants and raisins until swollen. Remove the seeds, drain and quarter the raisins, and shave the citron in small thin slices. Mix half the fruit and nuts with the frozen cream. Butter a melon mould slighths and line with lady fingers; then sprinkle over a layer of mixed fruit, pack in the frozen cream nearl}^ to the top, then a layer of fruit, and cover with cake. Cover closely, and bind a strip of buttered cloth round the edge of the cover. Pack in ice and salt for two hours. When ready to serve, dip quickly in warm water, and turn out carefull3\ Sprinkle the remainder of the mixed nuts over the top, and garnish with cream,, sweetened, flavored, and whipped. Some prefer to serve a rich boiled custard sauce,, made with one pint of cream,, the yolks of four eggs,, half a cup of sugar,, and 07ie tea- spoonful of vanilla. Boil the milk and cream, and pour it on the beaten eggs and sugar. Cook slightl}^, and when cool add the fruit, and freeze. 1 quart milk. 1 pint cream. 6 whole eggs. 3 egg yolks. Plombiere. {Miss Ward.) \}4 cup sugar. 2 ounces each of preserved cit- ron, greengages, and pine- apple, cut fine.The Boston Cook Book. 367 Bomhe Glace. — Line a mould or the freezer with one quart of raspberry or pomegranate sherbet. Pack the sherbet round the bottom and sides of the mould one inch deep. Fill the centre with Bavarian cream^ or Charlotte Busse cream, or Creme Diplomate, Cover with the sher- bet, and pack in ice and salt one hour. Biscuit Glace, — Ice-cream and sherbet are often served in small, fanc}' paper cases, which may be obtained at a confectioner's. Make and freeze the cream, and fill the paper cases with two kinds, either sherbet and plain ice- cream, or sherbet and tutti frutti, or Charlotte Russe cream and sherbet, or ice-cream. Pack the cases in a freezer, and keep on ice and salt till ver^^ hard. Serve on a lace paper napkin laid on a fancj^ plate. Sometimes the bis- cuits are covered with a meringue, and colored shghtly with a salamander just before serving. Frozen Apricots. — Cut one can of apricots into small pieces, add one pint of sugar and one quart of water. When the sugar is dissolved, freeze. When parth^ frozen add, if you like, one pint of whipped cream^ measured after whipping. This is delicious without the cream. Peaches, pineapples, cherries, and strawberries are deli- cious when frozen. Vary the amount of sugar as the fruit requires. Sherbets, or Water Ices. Sherbets, or water ices, are made with the juice of fruit, water, and sugar. With a supply of canned fruit, or fruit syrup always at hand, a variety of delicious desserts may be quickl}' prepared. A tablespoonful of gelatine., soaked and dissolved, gives a light and smooth consistency to water ices. Many prefer to boil the water and sugar to a clear S3'rup, remove the scum, and when cool add the fruit juice ; and others use the white of egg beaten stiff, add- ing it after the sherbet is partly frozen. The following are some of the most delicious water ices. Follow the directions given under Orange Sherbet, for all the other varieties. •368 The Boston Cook Booh. Orange Sherbet. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. % cup cold water. 3^ cup boiling water. 1 cup sugar. 1 cup cold water. 6 oranges, or 1 pint of juice. Soak the gelatine in the cold water ten minutes. Add the boiling water, and when dissolved add the sugar, another cup of cold water and the orange juice. Strain when the sugar is dissolved, and freeze. Pomegranate Sherbet. — Make the sanie as Orange Sherbet, using the blood-red oranges. Lemon Sherbet. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. 1 quart water. 1 pint sugar. Juice of 6 lemons. The boiling water used in dissolving the gelatine should be part of the quart of water. Pineapple Sherbet. 1 can grated, or 1 pint fresh fruit. 1 pint sugar. 1 pint water. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. In using fresh pineapple be careful to remove all the eyes. Raspberry and Strawberry Sherbet. 1 pint berry juice. 1 pint sugar. 1 pint water. Juice of 2 lemons. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. Or, 1 pint preserved fruit. 1 cup sugar. 1 quart water. 2 lemons. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. When using preserved strawberries or raspberries, soak the fruit in part of the water and strain out the seeds.The Boston Cook Book. 369 GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING- CAKE. Study first the directions given under Measuring, Mix- ing, arid Baking. Cake is a mixture of part or all of the following mate- rials : eggs, sugar or molasses, flour, butter or cream, milk or water, fruit, soda, cream of tartar, spices, etc. An unlimited variety of cakes maj be made by varying the proportions of these materials, and to the same pro- portions many different names are given. Many amusing experiences are known of the eagerness with w^hich a newly named receipt for cake is received, which, after many trials, has been found to be an old receipt arranged in a different order. An analysis of the hundreds of receipts given in books devoted to cake-making would shoAv that the gen- eral principles involved may be included under two di- visions, namely, receipts for sponge cakes^ made without butter; Siwd 2^0unci ov cup cakes^ made icith butter. Sponge cakes are made rich with eggs, the lightness depending wholly upon the amount of air beaten into the egg; or an inferior quality is sometimes made by substituting soda and cream of tartar for part of the eggs, and adding more flour and some liquid, usually water. They vary in color, according as the white or yolk of the egg is used. Butter cakes are varied in the same way, and also by the addi- tion of fruit, or spices, or various coloring and flavoring materials. There is no one department in cooking where so much depends upon the baking as in making cake. The fire should be rather low, but sufficient to last through the entire baking. In many stoves it is exceedingly diflScult to bake cake by a morning fire ; as so much coal is put on, 24370 The Boston Cook Book, the fire is too hot and cannot be checked sufficient!}'. The oven should be less hot than for bread. If too hot, leave the oven door open for ten minutes before putting in the cake, then watch it, and protect it by putting over it a covering of paper, or a pan on the grate above. Do not attempt to make cake unless you can have entire control of the fire. Thin cakes require a hotter oven than those baked in thick loaves. If the oven be not hot enough at first, or be cooled too suddenly daring the baking, the cake will not be light. Cakes with molasses in them burn more quickly than others. Thin cakes should bake from fifteen to twenty minutes, thicker cakes from thirty to fort}^ minutes, very thick loaves about an hour, and fruit cake from two to three hours. Whichever kind you are baking, divide the time required into quarters. During the first quarter the heating is not manifested in appearance except by the rising; during the second the cake should continue to rise and begin to brown; then should become all over a rich golden brown ; and in the last quarter settle a httle, brown in the cracks, and shrink from the pan. Be careful not to take it out too soon. If necessary to move it, do it YQvy gently, and never move it when it has risen to the full height, but is not browned or fixed in its shape. If cake brown before rising, the oven is too hot. When it rises more in the centre, cracks open, and staj's up, it is too stiff with flour. It should rise first on the edges, then in the middle, crack slightlj^ settle to a level again, when the cracks usually come together. Nothing is more sug- gestive of bakeshop cake, or inferior quality in material, than a loaf with an upper surface having sharp edges, then hollows, and a peaked centre, as if the inside of the cake had boiled up and run out over the top. Line jom cake tins with paper, to prevent burning the bottom and edges and to aid in removing the cake from the pans. Lay the paper over the outside of the pan, and crease it round the edge of the bottom. Allow it large enough to come above the top of the pan. Fold in theThe Boston Cook Book, 371 middle lengthwise and crosswise, and cut out the open corners to the crease made b}' the pan. Then fit it into the inside of the pan, and grease the paper, not the pan, with fresh butter or lard. Many use a rag tied on a stick ; others grease with a brush. Nice brushes are yqyj ex- pensive (and no others are suitable), and unless carefully cleaned are quite objectionable. Rags and paper absorb the grease which should be put on the pan, and in any case the fingers should be washed after the process. So there is no quicker, easier, or more economical way of greasing a tin than to rub the butter on with the fingers. Mix cake in an earthen bowl, and never in a tin pan. Use a wooden spoon, as iron spoons discolor the hand and the mixture. Use only the best materials. Go without cake rather than try to make it, or eat it when made, with what is called cooking butter and second-rate eggs. Such cake cannot be good or wholesome. Wash the butter, if very salt. Brown sugar is good for fruit cake, but for all other varieties use the finest granulated or powdered sugar. Very coarse granulated sugar makes heavy cake, with a hard and sticky crust. The flour should be dry. When it has been kept in a cool place it should be slightly warmed, and always sifted before using. St. Louis flour — or pastry flour, as it is sometimes called — is best for cake. When new-process flour is used, take one eighth less. Soda, cream of tartar, and baking- powders should be crushed and sifted into the flour, then sifted two or three times with the flour. Mix spices with the flour or with the sugar. Mix a little of the measure of flour with the fruit to keep it from sticking together or settling. If the sugar be lumpy, crush and sift before using. Eggs should be. fresh, and cooled by keep- ing in cold water or in the ice-chest. The yolks and whites should be beaten separatel}^ Break each egg on the edge of the cup, just enough to crack the middle of the shell, so the white will flow out, but not hard enough to break into the j^olks. Then hold the egg over the cup, with the cracked side up, and break it apart. Let theThe Boston Cook Book. 372 white run into the cup, and keep the yolk in the half shell until all the white is drained off. Be careful not to break the yolk, as the smallest portion of it in the whites will prevent them from frothing. Beat the j^olks in a bowl, and the whites in a platter if you use a fork or whisk, or in a bowl if you use a Dover beater. Never stop beating the whites until the}^ are stiff and dry, as it is impossible to have them light if they become liquid again. Measure all the ingredients, and have the fire and all utensils readj^ before 3^ou begin to mix. Observe the fol- lowing order in putting materials together. Sponge Cake Mixtures, — Beat the 3'olks until light or lemon-colored and thick. Add the sugar graduallj^, and beat again. Add the lemon juice or flavoring, and water, if that is to be used. Beat the whites until stiff and dry, and cut or fold them in lightl}', then sift in the flour, and fold in carefully without any stirring. Sponge cakes should not be beaten after adding the flour. Those made with soda and cream of tartar require less beating than those without, but they are a very poor substitute for genuine sponge cake. Butter Cake Mixtures, — Warm the bowl with hot water, then wipe dry. Put in the butter, and rub with a wooden or silver spoon until light and cream3^ Be careful not to have the bowl so hot as to melt the butter. Add the sugar and beat again. If the habit of rubbing the butter and sugar together with the hand be already formed, and you find it easier than to use a spoon, it is hardly worth ¥/hile to change; but for those who are wholly inexperienced it is better to learn to use the spoon, and every lady would prefer to have her cook mix in that way. If the proportion of sugar be large for the butter, — more than double, — beat part of the sugar with the butter, and the remainder with the yolks of the eggs. Where a very small proportion of butter is to be used, it may be melted and mixed with the eggs and sugar. Beat the yolks till light and thick, then beat them well with the butter and sugar. Add theThe Boston Cook Book, 373 flavoring. Then add a little milk, then a little flour, and milk again, and continue until all the milk and flour are used. Lastly, add the beaten whites. All cakes made with butter require to be beaten long and vigorously after adding the flour, that they may be smooth and fine- grained. Fruit should be added last; cake with fruit should be a little stifl'er with flour than that without fruit. Citron and large pieces of fruit may be put in in la^xrs, or spread over the dough in the pan. All cake should be baked as soon as possible after it is mixed. Put the scrapings from the bowl into small tins. If put into the loaf, they sometimes cause a heavy streak through the top. Cake is baked when it shrinks from the pan and stops hissing, or when a straw inserted in the centre comes out clean. Eemove the loaf from the pan as soon as baked, lifting it out by the paper; or, if not papered, loosen the edges with a knife, and turn the pan over upon a cloth laid over a bread-cooler. Remove the pan as soon as possible. Never let cake stand in the pan to become moist. When cake is baked too hard or burned, rub oflT the burned surface with a coarse grater. Sponge Cake. 5 eggs. 1 cup sugar, powdered or fine granulated. 1 saltspoonful salt. lemon (grated rind and juice). 1 cup pastry flour. See general directions for putting together (page 372). The mixture should be stiff and spongy, of the consistency of Charlotte Russe filling, as it is poured into the pan. Bake in a deep bread pan, in a moderate oven, nearly an hour, —in a shallow pan, about fortj' minutes. If stirred instead of beaten, the bubbles of air will be broken and the mixture will become liquid. When baked, it will be tough and too close-grained. To make this cake well, requires strength in beating and judgment in baking; but when successful, it is one of the most satisfactory and perfect374 The Boston Cook Book. cakes made. Cut through the crust with a sharp pointed knife, then break apart. Sponge Cake, (Miss Josselyn.) — Beat the yolks of three eggs; add one cup of fine granulated sugar^ one tablespoonful of lemon juice^ and one tahlespoonful of cold tcater^ or a lump of ice melted in the lemon juice to make two tablespoonfuls of liquid. Add the whites^ beaten stiff, and one cup of pastry flour, Lady Fingers and Sponge Drops. — Four eggs^ half a cup of powdered sugar^ half a saltspoonful of salt^ one teaspoonful of flavoring^ and three quarters of a cup of pastry flour. See general directions for mixing sponge cakes. Pour the mixture into a pastry bag, and press through it into shape, about three inches long and not quite one inch wide. Or drop by the spoonful on a but- tered pan, and you have Sponge Drops. Sprinkle pow- dered sugar over them, and bake twelve or sixteen minutes in a very slow oven. Miss Ward^s Sponge Cake. — Break ten eggs into a bowl; add one pound of powdered sugarand beat to- gether for half an hour without stopping. Add half a pound of flour., the grated rind and juice of one lemon., and a vnneglassful of wine. Bake in deep pans one hour ; slowly at first, then quicken the fire the last half-hour. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before baking. Angel Cake. -—One cup of flour., measured after one sifting, and then mixed with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and sifted four times. Beat the %€hites of eleven eggs., with a wire beater or perforated spoon, until stiff and flaky. Add one cup and a half of fine granulated sugar, and beat again ; add one teaspoonful of vanilla or almond^ then mix in the flour quickly and lightly. Line the bottom and funnel of a cake pan with paper not greased, pour in the mixture, and bake about forty minutes. When done, loosen the cake around the edge, and turn out at once. Some persons have been more successful with this cake by mixing the sugar with the flour and cream of tartar, and adding all at once to the beaten egg.375 The Boston Cook Book. Sunshine Cake,—Make the same as Angel Cake, using one teaspoonful of orange extract instead of vanilla, and adding the well-beaten yolks of six eggs to the beaten whites and sugar before adding the flour. Sponge Cake for Cream Pies, or Berwick Sponge Cake. 3 eggs, yolks. ly^ cup sugar. % cup water. 1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 2 cups pastry flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 3^ teaspoonful soda. Whites of 3 eggs. Beat the yolks of the eggs ; add the sugar, lemon juice, and water ; then the flour, mixed with the soda and cream of tartar, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs. Bake in round shallow pans. When cool, split and fill with cream. When each part of the process of beating is done just two minutes by the clock, and baked in a loaf, it is called Berwick Sponge Cake, Cream, — Boil one pint of milk. Beat two eggs ; add half a cup of sugar and one saltspoonful of salt. Melt one tahlespoonful of butter in a granite saucepan, and add two tablespoonfuls of flour. When well mixed, add the boiling milk graduallj^, pour it on the eggs and sugar, and cook in a double boiler five minutes, or till smooth. When cool, flavor with lemon^ vanilla^ or almond. Sponge Cake with Fruit, — Make a Sponge Cake,, bake in shallow pans, and put crushed and sweetened straw- berries between the laj^ers. Cover with whipped cream. Or put 07ie cup of candied fruit,, cut flne, in a cream pre- pared as above, and use in the same waj^ Sponge Cake for Children, {Miss M, L, Clarke,^ — Mix in a bowl one cup and a half of pastry flour,, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of soda,, sifted with the flour, one cup of sugar,, and one tea- spoonful of extract of lemon or orange ; two eggs,, broken in a cup and the cup filled with milk or cream. Mix all in the order given, and beat very hard till light. Bake from twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven.376 The Boston Cook Book. Roll Jelly Cake. This is the simplest form of a butter cake. It is like a sponge cake, with the addition of a small amount of short- ening. Three eggs^ beaten separate!}^ till ver}^ light, then beaten together; add one cup of sugar^ three tablespoon- fuls of cream^ or one of melted butter^ one cup pastry flour mixed with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of soda. Spread verj^ thin on long shallow tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Spread with jelly while warm, trim the edges with a sharp knife, and roll up. One Egg Cake. cup butter, creamed. 2 cups flour. 1 cup sugar. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 1 egg, beaten light. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 cup milk. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Mix in the order given, and bake in a shallow pan, in a moderate oven, thirty minutes. Park Street Cake. 3^ cup butter. 1 cup milk. 2 cups sugar. 8 cups pastry flour. 4 eggs. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla or lemon extract. 1 saltspoonful mace. Contrary to our usual practice, this receipt is not given in the order in which the materials are to be put together, but in numerical order, as an aid in remembering the pro- portions. Rub the butter in a warm bowl, with a wooden spoon, until like cream, and add one cup of the sugar gradually; add the remaining cup of sugar to the beaten yolks of the eggs, beat until very light, and add to the butter. Add the flavoring. Then beat the whites stiff and dry, and let them stand while you add a little milk and flour alternately to the mixture. Add the whites last. This makes two loaves. Bake in a mod-The Boston Cook Book. 2>77 erate oven until the loaf shrinks from the pan. Halve this receipt, and 3'ou have Feather Cake ; or bake it in round shallow pans for Jelly Cake or for Cream Pies. Orange Cake. 2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 1 tablesp. melted butter. 3^ cup milk. 1^ cup flour. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 tablespoonful orange juice and a Uttle of the grated rind. Mix in the order given. Bake in a round shallow pan, split, and fill with orange cream. Orange Cream for Cake. — Put in a cup the rind of half and the juice of 07ie orange^ one tablespoonful of lemon juice ^ and fill with cold water. Strain, and put on to boil. Add one tablespoonful of cornstarch,, wet in cold water. Stir till thick, then cook over hot water ten minutes. Beat the yolk of one egg^ add tioo heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar,, stir into the starch, cook one minute, add one teaspoonful of butter,^ and cool. Fill the cake with the cream, and frost with ornamental frosting. Mark the frosting like a pie, in eight pieces, and decorate each with a section of orange and ornamental frosting. Orange Cake, No. 2. Double the preceding receipt for cake, and bake in two long shallow pans. Prepare the pulp of the oranges, sweeten to taste, and spread between the cakes. Frost with orange frosting. Cut into oblong pieces. Or fill with the following cream : — Orange and Gocoanut Cream for Cake, — One egg, beaten well; add one cup of v^hipped cream, half a cup of sugar, one cup of grated cocoanut, the grated rind of half and the juice of one orange. Put this between and on the top of the cakes, and sprinkle fresh cocoanut over the whole.3/8 The Boston Cook Book. Mother's Cake. {Mrs. R. M. Walcott.) This receipt is the foundation for countless varieties of cake, which are often given in cook books under different names, but which when analyzed are found to be identical in proportions. 1 scant cup butter. cup sugar. 3 eggs, beaten separately. 1 teaspoonful lemon or vanilla. 1 saltspoonful mace. 3^ cup milk. 3 cups pastry flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. ^ teaspoonful soda. Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, then the 3^olks of the eggs, then the flavoring. Reserve a quarter of a cup of flour, lest the cake be too stiff if all be used ; less flour will be required for a thin than for a thick loaf. Put the soda and cream of tartar into the remainder of the flour. Add the milk and flour alternatel}^, a little at a time, and lastly the whites, which have been beaten stiff and dry., Bake from forty to fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Add one cup of currants^ and it makes a nice Currant Cake; or half a cup of dates, cut fine and floured, and you have Date Cake, Color one cupful of the dough with spices, — cinnamon.^ allspice,, and mace^ — or with grated chocolate^ put it in the pan in spots, and you have Leopard Cake, By using a/w^^ cup of butterit is the same as White Mountain Cake, For Nut Cake add one cup of fine chopped walnuts^ or other nuts, to the dough, and put a laj^er of unbroken halves of English walnuts over the top. Or bake in shallow round pans, split and spread with a thin layer of currant jelly,, and then fill with Cocoa- nut and Haisin Cream made as follows: One cup of raisins,^ stoned and chopped fine, half a cup of chopped almonds., half a cup of grated cocoanut^ and the white of one egg^ beaten stiff.The Boston Cook Book, 379 Macdonald Cake. {Mrs. A, A. Lincoln.) 1 cup butter, creamed. 1% c^P sugar. 4 eggs (yolks). 1 teaspoonful lemon or vanilla. % cup milk. 3^2 <^iip cornstarch. 1^2 cup pastry flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 3^ teaspoonful soda. Whites of the eggs. Mix in the order given, and bake in two shallow pans in a moderate oven. Cider Cake. 1 cup butter. 4 cups flour. 2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda, scant. 3 eggs, beaten separately. 1 teaspoonful spice. ^ cup cider. Mix soda and spice with flour, then mix in the order given, and bake in two shallow pans. Dominoes. Bake sponge or feather cake in shallow pans ; frost, cut in oblong pieces, and mark like dominoes. Madelines. Bake any rich butter cake mixture quarter of an inch thick. Cut in squares or rounds ; ornament Yf\t]i frosting and nuts.^ or candied fruits. Gold Cake. % cup butter. 1 % cup fine granulated sugar. Yolks of 4 eggs. 1 whole egg. }^ cup milk. 3^ teaspoonful mace. teaspoonful soda. % teaspoonful cream of tartar, cups flour. Mix in the order given, putting soda and cream of tar- tar in the flour, and adding milk and flour alternately. Silver Cake. % cup butter. 1^2 cup sugar. % teaspoonful almond. % cup milk. teaspoonful soda. ^ teaspoonful cream of tartar. 2 34 cups flour. Whites of 5 eggs.38o The Boston Cook Book. Bake in a moderate oven, until the loaf shrinks from the pan. Watermelon Cake msij be made from this receipt by using red sugar in the gold cake, and adding one cup of raisins, seeded, quartered, and rolled in flour. Put the red cake in the centre of a round pan, and the white around the edge. Or put the red at the bottom, and the white on top. Bake in a large round pan, or two brickloaf pans. Marble Cake, — Color one cupful of the yellow cake dough brown with one taUespoonful of melted chocolate^ and mix the white, yellow, and brown in spots, or drop the brown in rings between the layers of white and yellow. Cornstarch Cake. % cup butter, creamed. ly^ cup sugar. cup milk. ^2 teaspoonful almond. y^ cup cornstarch. Mix in the order given, and bake in a moderate oven. \% cup pastry flour. }/2 teaspoonful soda. 1}4 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Whites of 6 eggs. % teaspoonful soda. \% teaspoonful cream of tartar. Whites of 8 eggs. 1 teaspoonful almond extract. Snow Cake. {Alice Walcott.) ^ cup butter. 2 cups sugar. cup milk. 2% cups pastry flour. Mix the soda and cream of tartar with the flour. Be sure to use one teaspoonful and a half of cream of tartar, as the extra amount is intended to stiffen the whites of the eggs. Rub the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat again ; add the milk and flour alternately, a httle at a time, and beat well. Lastly, add the beaten whites and the al- mond. Bake in two small pans in a moderate oven. Dream Cake, — Bake the Snow Cake in three shallow pans. Make the Ornamental Frosting, and flavor one part with lemon, another with vanilla, and the third with rose. Frost each cake, put together, and sprinkle grated fresh cocoanut over the top.381 The Boston Cook Book. Buttercup Cake. {A. W.) % cup butter. 2 cups flour. Ij^ cup sugar. ^4. teaspoonful soda. Yolks of 8 eggs. 1% teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 whole egg. 1 saltspoonful mace, or ^ cup milk. 1 teaspoonful lemon. Mix in the order given, and bake in two pans in a mod- erate oven till the loaf shrinks from the pan. Or bake in small round tins, and frost with yellow frosting^ and decorate with candied fruit. Harlequin Cake. {Mrs. Williams.) 1 cup butter, creamed. 2 cups sugar. 3 eggs (yolks). 1 cup milk. 3 cups pastry flour. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 3^ teaspoonful soda. Whites of 3 eggs. Mix in the order given, then divide the dough into four equal parts. Have two parts the color of the dough. Color the third with two squares of unsweetened choco- late., melted. Color the fourth part with pink coloring., and bake each part in a Washington pie plate. When all are done, la}^ first a light cake, then the chocolate, then another light, then the pink. Between the layers spread lemon jelly^ and frost with white frosting. Lemon Jelly for Cake. — Beat one egg., add one cup of water., the grated rind and Juice of one lemon. Pour this slowly on one cup of migar, mixed with two tahlespoonfuls of flour. Cook in the dc^ble boiler till smooth, like cream. Pink Coloring for Cake and Creams. % ounce cochineal. ounce alum. % ounce cream of tartar. % ounce salts of tartar. % pint boiling water. }/2 pound sugar. To the first three ingredients add the boiling water, and put in a porcelain stewpan. Let it stand on the stove without boiling for twenty-five minutes. Add the salts of tartar very gradually, stirring all the time. Add theThe Boston Cook Book. 3S2 sugar. Strain and bottle it. Use one or two teaspoonfuls, according to the shade desired. Pokeherry Syrup for Coloring Pink, — Put the fruit in a porcelain kettle, and cover with water. Boil slowly till the skins break, then strain. Add a pound of sugar to a quart of juice; boil a few moments, bottle and seal. Ribbon Cake. 1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 1 cup milk. 3)^ cups pastry flour. % teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 2 teas{)Oonfuls molasses. 2 teasj)Oonfuls brandy or wine. 1 teaspoonful' mixed mace and cinnamon. Have three long, shallow pans, of equal size. Divide the dough into three parts. Bake two parts as plain cake ; add to the remaining dough, ^ cup raisins, stoned and chopped. 1 cup currants. pound sliced citron (the fruit all floured). Bake, and put the fruit cake between the two plain cakes, Yfith. jelly between. Press it lightl}^ with the hand in putting together; trim the edges even, and frost. Coffee Cake. , • Use one cup of strong^ clear co^<56 instead of milk^ and make as in the preceding rule. A(%i the fruit and spices to the whole mixture. Bake it ia one loaf. 1 egg. % cup molasses. % cup sugar. 2^ cup melted butter. 1 cup milk. Spice Cak^s. 2^ cups flour. 1 neaping teaspoonful soda. 1 even teasp. cream of tartar. 1 tablespoonful mixed spice. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. Mix in the order given, and bake in small tins. One tablespoonful of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of ginger may be substituted for the vinegar and spice.The Boston Cook Booh. 383 Plum Cakes. % teaspoonful cream of tartar, pound raisins, stoned and chopped. % pound currants. 2 tablespoonfuls any fruit syrup. 4 cups flour. 2 teaspoonfuls mixed spices. If not dark enough, add a little melted chocolate. Bake in small tins, and frost part of them with the remaining white of egg. Pound Cake. {Miss Ward.) 1 cup butter. 2 cups brown sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. Whites of 2 eggs. 3^ cup milk. cup dark molasses. }4 teaspoonful soda. 1 pound butter. 1 pound sugar. 10 eggs. 1 pound flour. 3^ wineglass wine. 3^ wineglass brandy. Cream the butter; add the sugar, yolks of the eggs, wine, brandy, whites of the eggs, and the flour. Put citr- rants into one fourth of the dough, and almonds^ blanched and pounded in rose water., into another part; leave the remainder plain. Fill very small round tins three quarters full. Into half of those containing the plain dough put small pieces of citron., three in each, inserting the citron upright a little way into the dough. Sift sugar over the tops of those containing the citron and almond before put- ting them into the oven. Bake twenty minutes. Frost the plain and currant cakes. Pound cake is lighter when baked in small cakes than in loaves. Wedding Cake. 1 pound butter. 1 pound sugar. 12 eggs. 1 pound flour. 2 teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon and mace. 1 teaspoonful each of nutmeg and allspice. ' Line the pans with three thicknesses of paper; butter the top layer. Seed and chop the raisins ; wash and dry ^2 teaspoonful cloves. 2 pounds raisins. 2 pounds currants. 1 pound citron. 1 pound almonds. 1 wineglass brandy. 1 lemon.384 The Boston Cook Book, the currants (see page 435) ; cut the citron in uniform slices, about one eighth of an inch thick; blanch the almonds and chop fine. Mix all the fruit but the citron with enough of the flour to coat it thoroughly. Mix the spices with the sugar. Cream the butter; add the sugar, beaten yolks, beaten whites, lemon rind and juice, brand}^, flour, and fruit, except the citron. Put a layer of dough half an inch deep in the pan, then spread evenly with the citron, then another laj'er of dough and citron ; repeat till the materials are all used. Have dough for the top la3^er. As this cake does not rise much in baking, the pans may be at least two thirds full. Bake in two large, deep, oblong pans three hours, in a moderate oven. Frosting. Plain Frosting, ■— White of one egg^ one teaspoonful of lemon juice^ and one scant cup of poiodered sugar. Put the egg and lemon juice in a bowl, and stir the sugar in gradualh^ Then beat, not stir, all together five minutes. Soiled Icing. — One cup of granulated sugarone third of a cup of boiling water^ lohite of one egg., and one salt- spoonful of cream of tartar. Boil the sugar and water without stirring, until the s3Tup taken up on a skewer will "thread" or "rope." When it is nearly at that point, beat the egg stiff, add the cream of tartar, and pour the boiling syrup over the egg in a fine stream, beating well. When it thickens and is perfectly smooth, pour it over the cake. It hardens quickl}', and should be put on the cake before it stiffens enough to drop. Golden Frosting. — Beat the yolks of eggs and stir in poicdered sugar till stiff enough to spread, not to run. Flavor with vanilla or wine. Ornamental Frosting, — Whites of three eggs., three cups of confectioner''s sugar., sifted, and three teaspoon- fuls of lemon juice. Put the eggs in a large bowl; sprinkle with three teaspoonfuls of the sugar. Beat with a perforated wooden spoon, adding three teaspoonfuls of385 The Boston Cook Booh. sugar every five minutes. When it begins to thicken add the lemon juice and beat as before. It should thicken by the beating of the egg, and not by the addition of too much sugar. Do not use all the measure of sugar unless needed. Beat with a long flop, over and over, and never stir. When stiff enough to leave a " clean cut,'' or not to run together when cut with a knife, spread a thin la3'er of frosting on the cake, and when this is hard put on another layer a quarter of an inch thick. W^hen this is firm, mark it for cutting. To the remainder of the frosting add sugar more rapidh^, until it begins to harden on the spoon and bowl. Put a confectioner's tube into the end of a pastry bag, fill the bag with frosting, twist the end tightl}^, and press the frosting through the tube on the cake in any design you wish. Pink Frosting. — Color a portion of the Ornamental Frosting with cochineal^ adding it slowly till of the desired shade. Chocolate Frosting. — Melt a square of chocolate in a saucepan, and add to the Ornamental Frosting, using enough to color liglit or dark as j^ou prefer. Orange Frosting. — Grate the thin rind of an orange^ and soak it half an hour in three or four teaspoonfuls of the orange juice. Then squeeze the juice through a fine cloth, and use the same as lemon juice in Ornamental Frosting. Cookies. Plain Cookies. ^2 cup butter. 1 cup sugar, cup milk. 1 egg. 2 even teasp. baking-powder. Flour to roll out thin. Richer Cookies. }/2 cup butter. 1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful milk. 2 eggs. 1 heaping teasp. baking-powder. Flour to roll out. Cream the butter; add the sugar, milk, egg, beaten lightly, and the baking-powder mixed with two cups of flour, then enough more flour to roll out. Roll a little at a time. Cut out. Bake about ten minutes. 25386 The Boston Cook Book. Cocoanut Cookies. — Add one cup of grated cocoanut^ or half a cup of cocoanut cakes^ crumbled, to either of these receipts before adding the flour. Jumbles, — Roll either of these mixtures thicker, and cut with a doughnut cutter ; sprinkle sugar over, and bake a delicate brown. Hermits. —Add half a cup of storied and chopped rai- sins to the receipt for Richer Cookies^ and roll about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut into rounds. New Yearns Cookies. — Eub three fourths of a cup of butter into six cups of flour. Pour half a cup of hoiling water over one cup and a half of sugar., add a scanthalf teaspoonful of soda^ and when the sugar is melted stir all into the flour. Roll out thin. , One-Two-Three-Four Cookies. {Mrs. Whitney.) 1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar, g cups flour. 4 eggs. 3^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. }^ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful spice, or 2 tablesp. carraway seed, or 2 teaspoonfuls yellow ginger. Cream the butter, and add half the sugar. Beat the yolks, add the remaining half of the sugar, and beat them with the butter, then add the beaten w^hites. Mix the soda, cream of tartar, spice, and salt with the flour, and stir into the butter mixture. Take a teaspoonful of the dough., make it into a ball with floured hands, place the balls in the pan some distance apart, then press or flatten into a round cake, and bake about ten minutes. Thin Sugar Gingerbread. — Add to the preceding re- ceipt two teaspoonfuls of yellow ginger^ instead of spice^ and spread the mixture thin on a tin sheet. Mark in squares or oblongs, and bake. Fig. 50. Cookies.The Boston Cook Booh 387 Superior Gingerbread. {Mrs. Towne.) 13^ pound butter. 1 wineglass brandy. 1% pound sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls ginger and 9 eggs, yolks and whites beaten 1 nutmeg, grated, mixed with separately. 2 pounds flour, 1 wineglass wine. Mix as for cake in the order given, and spread ver}^ thin with a knife on tin sheets. Bake, and cut in squares while warm. This will keep six months. Hard Gingerbread. (Mrs, Dewey.) . % pound butter, pound sugar. 6 eggs. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls milk. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 2 pounds flour. Cream the butter; add the sugar and beaten eggs, and beat well. Sift in the ginger, strain the soda, and add the flour. Roll half an inch thick, or thin as a wafer. Hard Gingerbread. {Miss A. M. Towne.) 2 cups N. O. molasses. 1 cup butter. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 1 teaspoonful soda. St. Louis flour to mix very stiff. Heat (not boil) the molasses and butter; when the but- ter is melted, add the ginger, sifted, the soda dissolved in a little boiling water, and the flour. Eoll very thin, and bake in a quick oven. Soft Gingerbread. 1 cup molasses. to % cup butter or drippings, 1 teaspoonful soda. softened. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 1 cup milk. }^ teaspoonful salt. 3 cups pastry flour. Bake in shallow pans or gem pans in a moderate oven about thirty minutes.388 The Boston Cook Book, 3^ cup butter. 3^ cup cream. 13^ cup sugar. Sugar Gingerbread. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 1 teaspoonful soda, scant. Mix stiff with j^owr. Roll thick or thin. 1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoonful soda. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 1 tablespoonful butter, melted. Hot Water Gingerbread. % teaspoonful salt. % cup boiling water. 2 cups flour. Bake in a deep Mix in the order given, and beat well, cake pan. Sour Milk Gingerbread. 1 tablespoonful butter, softened. 1 cup sour milk. 23^ cups pastry flour, with an- other 3^ teaspoonful soda mixed with it, sour cream is used. Bake 3^ cup molasses. 3^ teaspoonful soda. )^ teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 3^ cup sugar. Omit the butter when muffin pans. Ginger Snaps. 1 cup molasses. % cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful ginger. m {Mrs, H. B. May.) 1 teaspoonful soda. 3^ cup softened butter. Flour to roll out very thin. Heat the molasses, pour it over the sugar; add the ginger, soda, butter, and flour. Cut, and bake quickly. Ginger Drops (without Butter). 2 eggs, well beaten. 1 cup brown sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 1 cup N. 0. molasses, boiled. 1 teaspoonful soda. Flour to roll out. Mix in the order given. Roll thin, cut with a very small cutter, and bake in a quick oven. If you like, add one tablespoonful of vinegar before adding the flour, and use a heaping teaspoonful of soda.The Boston Cook Book, Soft Molasses Cookies. {A. W.) 1 cup molasses. 2 tablesp. warm water or milk. 1 tablespoonful ginger. )^ cup butter, softened 1 teaspoonful soda. 1 Flour to mix soft. Mix in the order given, dissolving the soda in the milk. Eoll out one third of an inch thick. Cut in small rounds. Cream Cakes. 1 cup hot water. }^ teaspoonful salt. 3^ cup butter. ly^ cup pastry flour. 5 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Boil the water, salt, and butter. When boiling, add the drj flour, stir well for five minutes, and when cool add the eggs. This is such a stiflT mixture, many find it easier to mix with the hand, and some prefer to add the eggs whole, one at a time. When well mixed, drop, in table- spoonfuls, on a buttered baking-pan, some distance apart. Bake twenty to thirty minutes, or till brown and well puffed. Split when cool, and fill with cream. Midairs. — Bake the Cream Cake mixture in pieces four inches long and one and a half wide. When cool, split and fill with cream. Ice with chocolate or vanilla frosting. Cream for Cream Cakes and Eclairs. 1 pint milk, boiled. 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 3 eggs, well beaten. % cup sugar. 1 saltspoonful salt, or 1 teaspoonful butter. Wet the cornstarch in cold milk, and cook in the boiling milk ten minutes. Beat the eggs ; add the sugar and the thickened milk. Cook in the double boiler five minutes. Add the salt or butter, and when cool, flavor with lemon^ vanilla^ or almond. Kisses, or Cream Meringues. Beat the whites of three eggs stiflT and flakj^; add three quarters of a cup of powdered sugar^ sifting and cutting390 The Boston Cook Book, it in lightly. Drop b}^ spoonfuls on paper placed on boards. Put in the hot closet or oven, with the door open for half an hour. Then brown slightly. Pat two together; or put them on the paper in oblong shape, dry one hour, brown, remove the soft part, and fill with whipped cream. To make these successfully, the steady, moderate heat of a confectioner's brick oven is essential. It is a waste ot time and material to attempt them in an ordinary stove oven. Macaroons. Half a pound of almonds^ blanched, dried, and pounded to a paste, wath one teaspoonful of rose water. Beat to- gether the whites of three eggs,, and half a cup oipowdered sugar,, adding the sugar by the teaspoonful. Add half a teaspoonful of almond essence,, then add the pounded almonds and, if too soft to be shaped, add one tablespoon- fid of flour. Roll with wet hands into balls the size of walnuts, flatten them slightl}^ and place some distance apart on buttered paper. Bake slowl3\ Almond paste, ready for use, may be obtained at a con- fectioner's. Break it up with a fork, add the beaten whites and sugar, using four or five eggs for half a pound of paste. Drop by teaspoonfuls on paper, and bake as above. Cocoanut Cakes. (Mrs, Richard Ward.) The grated meat of two cocoanuts^ their weight in loaf sugar^ one cup of flour, and whites of two eggs. Shape into balls, and bake twenty minutes. Chocolate Caramels. One cup of molasses,, half a cup of sugar,, one quarter of a pound of chocolate^ cut fine, half a cup of mMk^ and one heaping tahlespoonful of butter. Boil all together, stirring all the time. When it hardens in cold water, pour it into shallow pans, and as it cools cut in small squares.The Boston Cook Book, 391 FBUIT. It would be a great saving of time and work, give a pleasing variety to bills of fare, and be above all a great promoter of health, if people would use ripe fruit abun- dantly in its season at their tables (not between meals). With the markets bountifully supplied with many varieties of fruit, it is to be regretted that it cannot be found at every table at least once a day. Much of the money spent for some kinds of meat would be better expended for fruit. A simple course of fruit is all that is needed after a dinner, and is much more wholesome than pies. But it is so hard for some people to break away from old customs that it will be long before housekeepers generally will be content to serve the queen of all fruits, the apple, in its natural state instead of making it into the " persistent pie," over the preparation of which many women toil, for naught save the fear that they may be considered shiftless if they have n't a pie in the house. Ripe fruit is especially appropriate at the breakfast- table, and may be taken before or after the principal dishes, according to individual needs and taste. Some peo- ple require the acid of oranges or grapes before the^^ can eat anything substantial; others might be made ill by their use at that time, but be benefited b}^ them afterwards. All fruit should be served as fresh and cold as possible. A dish of fruit which has been kept from day to day in a warm room may answer for an ornament, but it is not tempting to the palate. Only sound, fresh fruit should appear at the table. Apples for table use should have a pleasant spicy flavor, not too acid, and should be wiped clean, or polished if 3'ou prefer the street-vender's stjde.The Boston Cook Book. 392 Oranges may be served whole or cut. Many slice them across the sections ; but the presence of the seeds and tough inner skin is objectionable. A better way is to remove all the rind and white skin, divide into sections, then with the point of a silver fruit-knife cut off the inner skin in the middle, slip out the seeds, and cut each section into three pieces. Never serve with the seeds left in, nor sweeten until just before serving. A neat way to peel an orange is to cut the rind from the ends and leave a strip round the middle, then open, leaving the sections on the strip of peel. Or cut the oranges in halves crosswise without peeling, sprinkle with sugar, and eat with a spoon. Grapes, Malagas especially, should be carefully rinsed in cold water, then drained. Fruit scissors should be used to divide the clusters. Bananas may be served whole, or sliced and slightly sweetened or salted. Peaches should have the wool wiped off, or if pared and quartered should be sprinkled with fine granulated sugar, and served at once. Strawberries, if gritty, should be rinsed and drained, then hulled, and not sweetened till served. Large selected berries may be served with the stems on. Pass sugar with them, that those who prefer may roll them in it. Currants should be sweetened, and large whole clusters may be served on the stem. Currants and raspberries are dehcious when served together. Watermelons should be served very cold. Cut off a slice at each end, that each half may stand upright. Serve the core only, taking it out with a tablespoon in cone- shaped pieces. Other melons should have the seeds re- moved before serving, be cut in halves, a lump of ice in each, and served with sugar or salt. Bineapples. — Tare, remove the eyes, and cut in thin slices ; then remove the fibrous centre, and serve in slices, or cut the tender parts into small pieces and sweeten to taste. Or pare and pull off the tender part with a fork, as directed for preserved pineapple.The Boston Cook Book. 393 Iced Fruits, — Dip selected fruit into the white of egg slightly beaten, then roll in fine granulated sugar. Drj^, and serve very cold. Whole fruit should be served in a high dish, garnished with green leaves, flowers, or vines, and, with a tasteful combination of colors, arranged in a convenient way for serving. Nuts should be cracked, and served with salt. Almo7ids and other nuts having a tough inner skin should be blanched. Raisins, — Use only choice varieties, and serve with nuts. Peel the oranges, divide into sections, and remove the seeds and tough membrane. Put a la^-er of orange in the bottom of a glass dish, pour over it a little wine or lemon juice, and strew wdth powdered sugar; add cocoanut, and then the banana cut in thin slices; repeat the process, using orange, cocoanut, banana, etc., as before. The top la^^er is to be heaped high in the centre, and sprinkled thickly with cocoanut and powdered sugar, and garnished around the base with slices of banana. Other combinations of fruit may be arranged to suit the taste; and cocoanut cakes or macaroons^ crumbled, or a meringue of white of egg and sugar^ may take the place of the grated cocoanut. The simplest forms of cooking fruit are stewing and baking. Only a small amount of sugar is needed, and it is not well to prepare a large quantity at a time, as stewed fruits do not keep long. In cooking fruit alwa^^s use porce- lain or granite kettles, earthen dishes, wooden spoons, and Tropical Snow. 8 sweet oranges. 1 cocoanut, grated. 6 red bananas. 1 glass sherry wine, or cup lemon juice. Powdered sugar to taste. Stewed and Baked Fruits.394 The Boston Cook Book. silver knives, and pare just before cooking, that the deli- cate flavor of the fruit may be preserved, and its attractive appearance not impaired hy discoloration. Stewed Apple Sauce, — Pare, core, and quarter six or eight tart apples. Make a syrup with one cup of sugar,, two thirds of a cup of v^ater^ and a little lemon peel. When boiUng, add the apples, and cook carefullj^ two or three minutes, till the}^ are just tender, but not broken. Remove them carefullj^, boil the syrup down a little, and strain it over the apples. Cook them in granite or porcelain pans, and use a wooden spoon. Compote of Ap)ples, — Make a syrup with one cup of sugar,, one cup of water,, and a square-inch of stick cin- namon. Boil slowl}' for ten minutes, skimming well. Core and pare eight or ten tart apples ^ cook till nearly done in the syrup. Drain, and cook them a few minutes in the oven. Boil the s^Tup till almost like a jellj-. Ar- range the apples on a dish for serving. Fill the core cavities with jelly or marmalade. Pour the syrup over them. Put whipped cream around the base, and garnish the cream yi\\X\ jelly, Baked Apples, — Core and pare sour apples. Put them in a shallow earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar,, mixed with grated lemon rind; add water to cover the bottom of the dish. Bake in a very quick oven till soft, basting often with the syrup. Quinces may be baked in the same waj', adding a little more water, as the}' require a longer time for baking. When eaten hot wdth butter and sugar^ they are delicious. N'o. 2. — Fill a deep pudding-dish with apples, pared, cored, and quartered. For two quarts add one cup of sugar and one cup of water. Bake, closely covered, in a very moderate oven several hours, or till dark red. Baked Pears,—Hard pears, or "windfalls," are deli- cious pared and baked as in the preceding receipt. When done, and still hot, they may be sealed in Mason's jars, and will keep indefinitely. B}' preparing one large dishful every day during the pear season, a supply of wholesomeThe Boston Cook Book, 395 sauce may be easil}^ obtained from fruit that is often left to waste on the ground. Steamed Wiubarb. — Wash, peel, and cut the rhubarb into inch pieces. Put it into a granite double boiler, add one cup of sugar for a pint of fruity and cook till the rhu- barb is soft. Do not stir it. When the rhubarb is verj- sour, steam it without sugar until the juice flows, then drain it, add the sugar, and steam again till the sugar is dissolved. Or pour boiling water over it and let it stand five minutes, then drain and steam. Steioed Prunes.—Wash carefully, and if hard and dry soak an hour before cooking. Put them into a porcelain kettle, with boiling water to cover them. Boil, closely covered, from five to ten minutes, or until swollen and tender. Then add one tahlespoonful of sugar for onepiyit of prunes^ and boil a few moments longer, but not enough to break them. Use only the best selected prunes. If they lack flavor, add a little lemon juice. Cranberries. —Put three pints of washed cranberries in a granite stewpan. On top of them put three cups of gran- ulated sugar and three gills of water. After they begin to boil cook them ten minutes, closely covered, and do not stir them. Remove the scum. They will jelly when cool, and the skins will be soft and tender. No. 2. (Miss Ward.) — Equal measure of cranberries and sugar. Wash, drain, put in a porcelain kettle with cold water to just show among the berries when they are pressed down. When they boil add a quarter of the sugar. Sprinkle it over the berries without stirring. Let it boil again a minute, add another quarter, etc., till all the sugar is in. Boil up once more, and turn out. Boil slowly, and do not stir. This method is preferred by those who like a very rich sweet sauce. Jellies. Jellies are made of equal parts of clear fruit juice and sugar. Apples^ currants, quinces^ grapes^ and barberries are the fruits usually used. Zow blackberries and swampThe Boston Cook Book. 396 huckleberries make delicious jelly. Crab apples and quinces will form jellj easil}'; but grapes are unreliable, and cur- rants, if not gathered at the proper time, will sometimes fail. Cherries and some other fruits require the addition of gelatine. Berries, currants, and grapes require no water. Simply mash them in their own juice. Apples, peaches, and quinces should be stewed in as little water as possible, then mashed, and the juice strained. The juices of fruits contain a gelatinous substance called pectose, or pectic acid, which is soluble in the fruit juice, but has the property of coagulation when mixed with sugar, exposed to a slight heat, and then cooled. Sometimes the heat of the sun is sufficient, but usually a short but more intense * heat is necessarj^ When the sugar has a bluish tinge, or when there is not enough sugar to absorb the water in the juice, or when the juice is unusuall}^ watery, as when the fruit is over-ripe, and the fruit is boiled a long time to evap- orate this water, the mixture loses its gelatinous properties and becomes gummj^, or, as disconsolate housekeepers say, ''will not jelly." Currant Jelly, — Currants should not be over-ripe, nor gathered after a rain, as then they are too water}'. In New England currants are in the best condition about the 10th of July. Equal parts of red and white currants,, or currants and raspberries, make a delicately colored and flavored jelly. Pick over and remove the leaves and poor fruit, and if gritty wash and drain them, but do not stem them. Mash them in a porcelain kettle with a wooden pestle, without heating, as that makes the jelly darker. Let them drain in a flannel bag over night. Do not squeeze them, or the jelly will be cloudy. In the morning measure a bowl of sugar for each bowl of juice, and heat the sugar carefully in an earthen dish in the oven. Stir it often to prevent burning. Boil the juice twenty minutes, and skim thoroughly. Add the hot sugar, and boil from three to five minutes, or till it thickens on a spoon when exposed to the air. Turn at once into glasses, and let them remain in the sun severalThe Boston Cook Booh, 397 days, then cover with paper dipped in brandy, and paste paper over the top of the glass. One who is authority' on this subject recommends cov- ering with melted paraffine, or putting a lump of paraffine on the jelly while still hot; then no paper is needed. If one can be sure of several sunny days, and a perfectly dry place in which to keep jellies, they may be made without boiling. Mix the sugar with an equal weight of currant juice, and stir till dissolved. Fill the glasses and keep in the sun till dry. After draining the juice the currants may be squeezed, and a second quality of jelly made. It may not be clear, but answers for some purposes. Crab-Jipple^ Wild-Apple^ or Porter-Apple Jelly. {Miss Harriott T. Ward.)—Wash the fruit; cut into pieces, but do not pare, nor remove the seeds ; barely cover with cold water. Boil and mash them until soft. Then drain on a sieve. Use the juice only, and do not squeeze the fruit. Boil the juice with an equal quantity of sugar, until it jellies. Peach jelly is made in the same manner. Quince Jelly, — Wipe the fruit carefully, and remove all the stems, and parts not fair and sound. Use the best parts of the fruit for canning or preserving, and the skin, cores, and hard parts for jellj^ The seeds contain a large portion of gelatinous substance. Boil all together, in enough water to cover, till the pulp is soft. Mash, and drain. Use the juice only, and when boiling add an equal weight of hot sugar, and boil till it jellies in the spoon. Grape Jelly, — Select the grapes when not fully ripe. Wash and drain, then put them in a preserving-kettle, mash well, and heat till all the skins are broken and the juice flows freely. Strain, and use the juice only with an equal weight of sugar, as for Currant Jelly. Marmalade. This is made of the pulp of fruits with the juice, unless that has been used for jelly. When fruit is not abundant,39^ The Boston Cook Book. it is well to make marmalade at the same time with jellies, especially from peaches, quinces, and grapes. After drain- ing, rub the fruit pulp through a sieve, add an equal weight of sugar, and boil very slowly half or three quarters of an hour. Stir often to prevent burning. Preserves. These are usually prepared with equal weights of sugar and fruit. Although too rich for daily use, there are many people who prefer them to the canned fruit, and there are some fruits which are better with the full weight of sugar. The fruit should be ripe, fresh, and perfectly sound. The following rules illustrate the best methods for the different varieties of fruit. Peaches. — Pare the peaches ; or remove the skins by plunging the peaches into boiling lye (two gallons of water and one pint of wood ashes). When the skins will slip easily, take the peaches out with a skimmer and plunge them into cold water; rinse in several waters, and there will be no taste of the lye. Weigh, and add three fourths of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Halve them, and use some of the pits, or leave them whole as 3'ou please. The stones improve the flavor. Make a syrup by adding as little water as possible to the sugar, — about 07ie cupful to each pound of sugar. When it boils, skim till clear, then add the peaches, and cook until transparent. Brandy Peaches. — Prepare the peaches as above, and use half a cup of the best brandy to enery pound oi fruit. Add the brandy just as the syrup is taken from the fire. Some people prefer the yellow peaches, but white-fleshed freestone peaches have a delicious flavor. Damsons and Greengages should be pricked in man}^ places with a large needle, to prevent the skins from bursting. Or scald them and remove the skins, as some- times they harden in cooking. Prepare the syrup as for peaches. Cook only a few at a time, that they may not be broken. On three successive mornings pour off the399 The Boston Cook Boole. syrup, and boil it gently for ten minutes. This will thoroughly cook the fruit, without destroying the shape. Preserved Quinces. — Use the orange quinces. Wipe, pare, quarter, and remove all the core and the hard part under the core. Take an equal weight of sugar. Cover the quinces with cold water. Let them come slowly to a boil. Skim, and when nearly soft put one quarter of the sugar on the top, but do not stir. When this boils, add another part of the sugar, and continue until all the sugar is in the kettle. Let them boil slowly until the color you like, either light or dark. Another wa}- is to cook the quinces in water till ten- der, drain, and put them in a stone jar in layers, with an equal weight of sugar. Cover closely. In a cold dry place they will keep perfectly. They are lighter-colored and more tender than when cooked in the sj'rup. Watch them during the first month, and if there be any signs of fermentation, set the jar in a kettle of hot water till the fruit is scalded. Reserve the broken or unshapely pieces of quince, cut them in small cubes, and use with Straicherry Tomatoes. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound oi fruit. Make the s^a-up, and cook the fruit in it till tender. Skim it out, and boil the S3Tup down for ten minutes. Fill the jars, and seal at once. Equal parts of sweet apple., cooked with the quince but with no extra sugar, can scarcel}^ be distinguished from the quince. Preserved Pineapple. — Remove the skin and all the ej^es, take the pineapple in 3'our left hand, and with a sil- ver fork begin at the stem end of the fruit and fork out small bits. This will leave the core, which is juiceless and tasteless, in your hand. Weigh the pineapple after it is thus prepared, and sprinkle over it three quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of pineapple. When a sjTup is formed, cook the apple slowly in it until trans- parent, then remove the fruit and boil the syrup a little longer. Or slice the pineapple in half-inch slices, and cut out the core. Cook in the syrup, being careful not to break the slices.400 The Boston Cook Book. Preserved Strawberries^ Raspberries^ Currants^ Black- berries^ and Cherries, — Measure a bowl of fruit and the same quantity of sugar. Put in a preserving-kettle, over night, a layer of fruit, and then one of sugar. In the morning cook slowly without stirring, until the liquid is clear and the fruit soft. Skim thoroughl}^ before putting into the jars. Cherries should be stoned. The pits may be used if the flavor be desired. No, 2. —Use only large and selected fruit, and allow one cup of sugar to a pint jar of fruit. Pick over the fruit, and put at once into the jars, wdth as little hand- ling as possible, and sprinkle each layer with sugar. Place the jars in a boiler of water, and let the water boil ten minutes. Have a little sj'rup boiling, and fill each jar to the brim with the boiling syrup, and seal at once. Jams. Jams are made with whole small fruits, or large fruit cut fine, and cooked in an equal weight of sugar. Grape Jam. — Wash the grapes, and squeeze or pinch the pulp from the skins. Boil the pulp until it separates from the seeds, and rub it through a sieve. Then add the skins to the pulp, and boil with an equal weigiit of sugar fifteen minutes. Put into small jars or tumblers, and cover with paper. Currant,, JRaspberryor Blackberry Jam, — Pick over and mash the fruit; allow one pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Put the fruit and one quarter of the sugar into a granite or porcelain kettle ; when boiling, add another quarter of the sugar; boil again, add more sugar, and when all is used, let it boil till it hardens on the spoon in the air. Apples,, pears,, peaches,, and quinces should be pared, cut small, and treated in the same way. Cooking in onl}^ a little sugar at a time prevents the fruit from becoming hard.The Boston Gooh Book, 401 Canning. • Canning differs from preserving in that the fruit is kept, either with or without sugar, by sealing in air-tight jars or cans, and is not cooked long enough to destroy its natural flavor. Some authorities state that fruit may be kept by putting it in the jars, filling with cold water, and sealing immediately. But nearly all fruits are improved by the addition of more or less sugar. As a rule, all fruits that require sugar when fresh require it when canned. The important points in canning are to have the fruit perfect in shape and quality; the syrup clear, rightl}^ pro- portioned, and boiling hot; the jars hot and filled to over- flowing, and sealed quickly and thoroughly, that no air may be left inside. Have all utensils in order and at hand, that there may be no needless delay. Large-mouthed glass jars with glass covers or porcelain-lined screw covers are the best. Pint jars are more convenient for a small family. They should be scalded, and the covers and rub- bers clean and perfectl}^ fitted. Keep the jars in hot water until ready to fill, or roll each one in hot water just before filling, or place them in a folded towel wrung out of hot water, and put a silver spoon or fork in the jar while filling. A clamp is a great convenience, as the jar may be held in the clamp directly over the kettle and filled very quickly. If without this, have a broad shallow pan, half filled with hot water, on the stove or on a table near by, and place the jars in it while filling them. A wide-mouthed tunnel aids in filling the jars. When the fruit is to be boiled in the jars, place a perforated tin or some flat stones or muffin rings in the boiler, to keep the jars from resting on the bottom. Then the water will be under as well as around the jar, and there will be no danger of breaking. All ripe mellow fruit may be prepared and put at once into the jars. Place the jars in a boiler or kettle of warm water, with something underneath to avoid breaking. Make the s^Tup, using sugar according to taste, or in the proportion of one cup of sugar and one cvp of water for 26402 The Boston Cook Book* each jar of small juicy berries^ and one cup of sugar and two cups of water for pears and large fruits. Pour the syrup boiling hot into the hot jars, boil five minutes, and seal at once. Strawberries^ plums^ and cherries will require more sugar. Cherries should be stoned, but the stones may be used if liked. Quinces^ apples^ hard peaches^ pears^ and fruits which require softening, should be cooked in water or in syrup until tender. Then fill the jars with boiling syrup, strain- ing it if not clear. Peaches may be canned whole, or if halved, a few of the pits removed and cooked in the syrup to give addi- tional flavor. Pears should be well ripened and of fine flavor. A taste- less, insipid pear is only suitable for sweet pickle. Tomatoes should be peeled and cooked till well scalded, then salted and sealed at once. Always fill to overflowing, using boiling water when there is not enough S3aaip. Run the handle of a silver tablespoon down the inside of the jar, that the S3'rup may completel}^ surround the fruit. Fasten the covers on se- curel}', and give the screw an extra turn every half-hour until the fruit is cold. If the jars be kept bottom up and in a dark place, there is hardh- a chance of failure. The best quality of thick tin-foil may be used as a cover for an}" large-mouthed bottle or jar minus a cover. Fill the jar with the fruit and syrup, cover with a large piece of tin-foil, work it down over the rim until perfectly smooth and tight. If air-tight, there will be a depression in the cover as soon as the fruit is cold. Fruit thus covered should be kept away from mice, as they will eat the tin- foil. Canned fruit should be opened some time before using, that it may be aerated and the flavor improved. There has been a strong feeling against the use of fruit prepared in tin cans. Chemists have examined canned fruit as soon as opened, and found it harmless ; but if the fruit be leftThe Boston Cook Booh 403 in the tin can, the action of the air causes the acid in the fruit to act upon the metal and form a poisonous compound. Care should be taken to remove the fruit from the can as soon as opened. Sweet Pickles. Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds of best hrovm sugar^ one quart of vinegar^ and one cup of mixed whole spices^ — stick cinnamon^ cassia huds^ allspice^ and cloves ; less of the latter than of the former. Tie the spices in a bag, and boil with the vinegar and sugar. Skim well; then add the fruit. Cook ten minutes, or till scalded and tender. Skim out the fruit, and put into stone jars. Boil the syrup five minutes longer, and pour over the fruit. The next day pour off the syrup and boil down again, and do this for three mornings. Keep the bag of spices in the syrup. Tomatoes, — Scald, remove the skins, and cook without breaking if possible. Peaches, — Scald or wipe off the ''wool," and leave them whole. Do not stick them with cloves. If very ripe, merely pour the hot syrup over them on three suc- cessive mornings. Pears. — Select sound fruit, not too ripe. Pare, and leave them whole with the stems on. Cook till tender. Pipe Cucumber or Watermelon Pind, — Cut the pared rind into thick slices. Boil one ounce of alum in one gal- lon of water^ pour it on the rinds, and let them stand in it several hours on the back of the stove. Take out into cold water, and when cold boil them half an hour in the sweet pickle. Pipe Muskmelon or Canteloupe. Pare, and cut into thick slices. Pour the boiling syrup over them. The next morning pour off the s^Tup, boil five minutes, and pour it boiling hot over the melon. Repeat this on three mornings. Pineapple. — Slice it, or with a fork pick it off from the centre, in small pieces, and prepare as for melon.404 The Boston Cook Book. Tomato Catchup. (Mrs. Campbell.) Boil one bushel of ripe tomatoes, skins and all, and when soft strain through a colander to remove the skins only. Mix one cup of salt, two pounds of brown sugar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, three ounces each of ground all- spice, mace, and celery seed, two ounces of ground cinna- mon, and stir into the tomato. Add two quarts of best cider vinegar, and when thoroughl}^ mixed strain through a sieve. Pour all that runs through into a large kettle, and boil slowl}^ till reduced one half. It is an improvement to add a pint of brandy ten minutes before the catchup is done, but many think it unnecessary. Put it in small bottles, seal, and keep in a cool, dark place. Chop the tomatoes, mix the salt with them thoroughly, and let them stand over night. In the morning pour off the water, and chop the onion and celery. Mix the sugar, pepper, cinnamon, and mustard. Put in a porcelain kettle a layer of tomatoes, onion, celery, and spices, and so on until all is used, and cover with the vinegar. Cook slowly all day, or until the tomatoes are soft. Cauliflower, or cabbage, or one quart of cucumbers may be used with the tomatoes. Sliced or grated horseradish gives a pleasant flavor. Pickled Cucumbers. {Miss Harriott Ward.) To one hundred and fifty small-sized cucumbers take one pint of salt, dissolved in boiling water to cover them. Let them remain in a covered vessel for fort3'-eight hours. Then drain, and wipe each one carefully. Put them in a pickle-pot or firkin with one large onion, peeled and Piccalilli, or Chow Chow. 1 peck green tomatoes. 1 cup salt. 6 smah onions. 1 large head celery. 2 cups brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonf ul ground cinnamon. 1 tablespoonful ground allspice. 1 tablespoonful mustard. 2 quarts good, sharp vinegar.The Boston Cook Book, 405 stuck full of cloves, one green pepper, some scraped horse- radish^ and a small bit of alum. Boil vinegar enough to cover them. Fill a muslin bag with one cup of mixed spices,—whole cloves, whole allspice, peppercorns, stick cinnamon, white mustard seed, and a flake of mace, and boil ten minutes with the vinegar. Put this bag in the firkin when yovi pour on the boiling vinegar. When cucumbers are gathered fresh from the vines every daj^, they may be kept in brine till wanted. Make the brine strong enough to float an egg, — a pin t of coarse salt and six quarts of boiling water, boiled and skimmed clear. Pick the cucumbers as they ripen, wash carefully without removing the prickles, leave a bit of the stem on, and keep them covered with the brine. Soak, as required, in fresh cold water two days, and pour boiling spiced vinegar over them. Mixed Pickles. (Mrs. Poor.) 150 small cucumbers. 1 quart small martinoes. 1 quart small button onions. 1 medium cauUflower. Eind of watermelon. 3 pints green string beans. 3 cups salt. 4 quarts cold water. pound horseradish root. 1 tablespoonful white mustard seed. 1 tablespoonful stick cinnamon, broken into half-inch pieces. 1 tablespoonful whole cloves. 3^ tablespoonful peppercorns. 3^ tablespoonful allspice. ^2 tablespoonful whole mace. 1 teaspoonful celery seed. 2 quarts white wine vinegar. 1 ounce alum. 2 quarts boiling water. 1 gill alcohol. Wipe the cucumbers and martinoes with a damp cloth. Cut the cucumbers lengthwise into quarters, and the mar- tinoes into halves. Scald and peel the onions ; wash the cauliflower, watermelon rind, and beans ; break the cauli- flower into small pieces, and cut the melon rind about the size of the pieces of cucumber. Dissolve the salt in the cold water. Put the pickles in a large earthen or tight wooden vessel, and pour the brine over them : if they are not covered, add more cold water. Put a large earthen plate over them, with a clean brick or stone to keep them4o6 The Boston Cook Book. under the brine. Let them stand two days, remove them from the brine, and wash in cold water. Wash and scrape the horseradish root. Pack the pickles in a stone jar or firkin. Put all the spices into a bag made of strainer cloth. Boil the vinegar, spices, and alum in a porcelain kettle ten minutes, skim carefully, add the boiling water, and pour immediately over the pickles. If a stronger spice be desired, leave the bag on the top of the pickles. Set them in a cold place, with the plate and weight over them to keep them under the vinegar. In about two weeks add the alcohol, and in four weeks they will be ready to use. Mustard Pickles. {Mrs, John Sheldon.) Equal quantities of small cucumbers^ the largest ones sliced, green tomatoes sliced, cauliflower picked into flow- erets, and small button onions. Keep them covered with strongly salted water twenty-four hours. In the morning scald the brine, and dissolve in it a bit of alum the size of a nutmeg. Pour the boiling brine over the pickles. When cold, drain thoroughly and prepare as much vinegar as there were quarts of brine. To one quart of vinegar use one cup of brown sugar^ half a cup of flour^ and one fourth of a pound of ground mustard. Boil the sugar and vinegar. Mix the flour and mustard, and stir the boiling vinegar into it, and when smooth pour it over the pickles. Canned Fruit. (Mrs. John Sheldon.) Put the prepared fruit in a jar, and cover with boiling syrup sweetened to taste. On three successive mornings drain off the syrup, boil again, and pour over the fruit. The last morning, let fruit and syrup come just to the boil- ing-point, but do not boil; then seal immediately. Fruit prepared in this way has been tested by the author and found perfect. Strawberries preserve their shape and never ferment.The Boston Cook Book, 407 QENEBAL HINTS ON CARING- AND COOKING- FOB INVALIDS. Ventilation. — The first condition of comfort and re- covery to the patient is that the room be perfectly ven- tilated, either directly or from fresh air in an adjoining room. A sunnj^ exposure and an open fire, and in sum- mer an open fireplace, are essential aids. After all these points are secured, care must be taken that the air be not vitiated by anything in the room. Growing plants are more healthful than cut flowers ; unless the room be large and air}', the latter should not be allowed for any length of time, and even then should be removed as soon as their freshness is gone. If possible, avoid having a kerosene lamp in a sick-room. The odor is irritating to the mucous membrane, and in some conditions positively harmful. The wick should never be turned below the point of free combustion, either in the room of the sick or well. If 3'ou wish a dim light, place the lamp outside the door, or shade it by a screen. Never turn it down, as it will inevitably vitiate the atmosphere. Avoid noise in replenishing the fire, by bringing the coal in a paper bag, and putting bag and all upon the fire. Keep all medicines and everything suggestive of a sick-room out of sight. The Bed. — Arrange the bed so that the patient ma}^ be shielded from any draught. Neither sun nor lamp light should shine directly in the eyes. Whenever it is possible, change the position of the bed, furniture, and pictures, that the eye may have something new and inter- esting to dwell upon, if such changes interest instead ofThe Boston Cook Booh 4o8 distress the invalid. Two small beds, that the patient may find relief in change, are desirable ; or, if possible, procure an invalid's bed, which admits of many changes of position and the airing and changing of the bed with no accompanying fatigue. Cleanliness, — It is of the first importance that the bed linen and clothing of the patient should be kept fresh by frequent changes, and thoroughly dried and aired. Be careful to supply the needed warmth by light but not over- abundant clothing. The patient should be bathed freely ; avoid a chill by giving a sponge bath with alcohol and warm water, exposing only a part of the body at a time to the air, and rub till perfectly dry. Wet a cotton-flannel bag, made with the nap side out, in cold water, wring it slightly, and tie it over the broom to use in sweeping. Be careful to wash it every time it is used. It is quite essential that the floor of a sick-room should be kept clean. Eemove all dust with a damp cloth. The cleansing, drying, or airing of all objects should be done outside of the sick-room. Keep the room, the bed, the patient, and everything about yourself absolutely neat and clean. Conversation, —In extreme sickness let no unnecessary word be spoken in a sick-room, and no needless, noisy, nor abrupt movements be made. Let the voice be calm and clear, neither loud nor whispering. In speaking to the patient do so in the way that requires the least eflbrt in response, and never consult him about his food. Avoid all discussions of the disease, the medicine, and any excit- ing topic either with or before him. Do not excite the patient by needless conversation with the doctor outside of the sick-room. Never whisper, even when the patient is asleep or in delirium, because a whisper is more penetrat- ing than a low full tone. During convalescence do not weary with conversation ; let it alwa}'s be bright and cheer- ful, and, as far as possible, of things outside the sick-room. Cultivate the power of talking to, rather than with, a sick person.The Boston Cook Book. 409 Conveniences in a Bick-Room, — '' In severe sickness a glass tube is useful for feeding drinks and gruels ; and little white china boats with spouts are also good. A wooden tray with legs six or seven inches high, to stand upon the bed, is very convenient for serving meals." To keep Ice for a Sick-Room, — Tie a square of coarse white flannel over a pitcher, leaving a cup-shaped depres- sion of the flannel in the pitcher. Put broken ice in the flannel, and cover it tightly with a thicker flannel. The ice will keep all night, and the water maj^ be poured off as wanted. In applying hot bandages dip the flannel in boiling water, place it in the centre of a coarse towel, and twist and wring the ends of the towel; or place the flannels in a steamer over hot water until penetrated with the steam; they will then need no wringing. Feeding the Patient, — When feeding the patient, do it gentl}^ and neatly. Anticipate his wants, and let the food be a surprise as far as practicable. In severe sickness give nourishment in a small quantity often,, and never fail to give it immediately after a long sleep. During convales- cence food should be given at longer, but regular intervals. If the patient be unable to use a toothbrush, wet a bit of soft cloth and wipe the teeth and gums, and give a little water or acid drink to soften the dr}- mucous membrane and destroy the bad taste in the mouth, before oflering any food. Let everything prepared for the invalid be arranged to please the ejx as well as the palate. Serve less than 3'ou think the patient requires, and give as much variety as possible, serving in different forms or in different dishes if the material must be the same. Hot liquids should be hot when they reach the patient, not merely when they leave the kitchen. Serve them in a hot pitcher, and pour onl}^ a little into the hot cup or bowl, and so avoid its run- ning over into the saucer or too rapid cooling. Never insult the patient by offering him a slice of dough covered with charcoal, under the name of toast. When the meal is41 o The Boston Cook Booh. over, remove immediate!}^ everj^ trace of food from the room. Keep in the sick-room choice fruit or anj' delica- cies which have been sent to the patient only long enough to gratify the eye, then remove to a cool place, and serve as fresh and daintily as possible. Wines or liquors of any kind should never be given without the advice of a physician. Young persons do not need them, and, in any form of fever, stimulants are posi- tively harmful. In some extreme cases, among very old people, or where there is a great lack of recuperative power, they may be given. Visitors. —Visitors should never be admitted to a sick- room, except with the consent of the physician. Never visit a sick-room when in a violent perspiration or with an empty stomach, as then the S3'^stem more readily re- ceives contagion. If obliged to sit up all night with a patient, provide yourself with something to eat, if nothing more than a cake of chocolate, that there may be no needless exhaustion. Not the least of the many qualifications desirable in a good nurse is a thorough knowledge of the nature, use, and digestibility, as well as the best methods of preparing dif- ferent kinds of food, and of their adaptation to different forms of disease. Such knowledge is of still greater im- portance to ever}' ph3'sician, and fully as essential as the study of drugs. Nurses, alas ! are often wholly unquali- fied, or not to be obtained at all; and then that patient is fortunate, indeed, who has a physician who can in emergency fill the treble office of nurse, cook, and doctor. Diet for the Invalid. First Condition. — Sometimes the system from over- taxation, either mental or physical, needs a period of complete rest or comparative inaction ; or, as in the com- mencement of m.any forms of sickness, the diet should be food which merely satisfies the hunger and which soothes and reduces inflammation and quenches thirst, but doesThe Boston Cook Book, 411 not nourish nor stimulate. Foods proper at such times come under the head of starchy gruels, gelatinous soups and jellies, oranges, grapes, etc., and mucilaginous, acid, and aromatic drinks. Flour or Arrowroot Gruel. 1 cup boiling water. I 2 teaspoonfuls flour, wet in cold 1 saltspoonf ul salt. | water. Cornstarch and rice-flour gruels are made in a similar manner. Use a little more of wheat flour than of the others. Mix the flour and salt, and make into a smooth thin paste with cold water, then stir it into the boiling water. Cook five minutes, or until the desired consistency^ is ob- tained. Strain; then add sugar^ if preferred, and thin with a little milk. If intended for a fever patient, a little lemon juice improves the flavor ; if for a patient with sum- mer complaint, boil with the gruel half an inch stick of cinnamon or a little nutmeg,, — the spice will help to re- duce the laxative condition. Sick people soon tire of sweets, and gruels should be sweetened only slightl}^, if at all. Flour and starch}^ gruels should not be given in typhoid fever, or when .the disease is located in the intes- tines. Nor should they ever be used in excess, as, being rapidly swallowed, the}^ are unaffected b}^ the alkaline action of the saliva, and pass through the stomach un- changed and severely^ tax the intestines. They should be kept in the mouth and mingled with the saliva before swallowing. Milk Porridge. 2 dozen raisins, quartered. I 1 tablespoonful flour. 2 cups milk. | Salt to taste. Boil the raisins in a little water twenty minutes. Let the water boil away, and add the milk. When boiUng, add the flour rubbed to a thin paste with a Uttle cold milk. Boil eight or ten minutes. Season with salt andThe Boston Cook Booh 412 strain. Or omit the raisins, and add sugar to taste ; or add the beaten white of one egg after it comes from the stove. Barley Gruel. Boil one ounce of pearl barley a few minutes, to cleanse it. Pour off the water, add one quart of cold water and half a teaspoo7iful of salt^ and simmer one hour, or until reduced one half. Strain it; sweeten to taste, and add a little lemon or nutmeg^ if desired. Barle}^ contains muci- lage, and is soothing and refreshing in fevers and gastric inflammation. Indian Meal Gruel. 1 tablespoonful flour. | 1 teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonf uls corn meal, j 1 quart boiling water. Mix the flour, meal? and salt. Make into a thin paste with a little cold water, and stir into the boiling water. Boil thirty minutes, stirring often; thin with milJc or cream. Milk may be used instead of water by mak- ing the gruel in a double boiler. Indian meal gruel requires longer time for cooking than any purel}^ starchy gruels. iVb. 2. — Wet one heaping teaspoonful of 7neal and one saltspoonful of salt in a little cold water, and stir into one cup of boiling water. Boil slowly thirt}' minutes. Indian corn meal is heating in its nature, and should never be given where there is any inflammatory condition of the sj^stem. If given during convalescence after scarlet fever, it sometimes produces glandular swellings. When there is a deficiency of natural warmth, and no inflamma- tion, it may be given without harm. Oatmeal Gruel. 2 tablespoonf uls oatmeal. I 1 quart boiling water, teaspoonful salt. | Boil one hour. Strain, and serve with milk or cream.413 The Boston Cook Booh, No. 2. —Pound half a cup of coarse oatmeal until it is mealy. Put it in a tumbler, and fill the tumbler with cold water. Stir well; let it settle ; then pour off the mealy water into a saucepan. Fill again, and pour off the water, and again repeat this, being careful each time not to dis- turb the sediment in the bottom of the tumbler. Then boil the water twenty minutes. Add one saltspoonful of salt. If very thick, add a little cream or milk. Strain and serve hot. Beef essence or beef tea may be used in place of cream. This is the most palatable and convenient way of making gruel from oatmeal. Farina Gruel. 1 tablespoonful Hecker's farina. I 1 cup boiling water. 1 saltspoonful salt. | 1 cup milk. Put all but the milk in the double boiler, and cook fifteen minutes, or until it thickens, then add the milk and boil again. Sweeten to taste. Farina is a granulated preparation of the inner portion of the finest wheat, freed from bran and floury dust. It contains nitrogenous or flesh-forming material, is easily digested, and is a more nutritive food for invalids and children than cornstarch, sago, arrowroot, or tapioca, which contain only starch. Cracker Gruel. 4 tablesp. powdered cracker. I 1 cup milk. 1 cup boiling water. | % teaspoonful salt. Boil up once and serve. Egg Gruel. 1 egg (yolk beaten well). I 1 cup hot milk. 1 teaspoonful sugar. | White of egg, beaten till foamy. Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. Good for a violent cold, if taken very hot after retiring.414 The Boston Cook Book, Panada, No. 1. 1 cup stoned raisins. 1 quart water. 2 slices toasted bread, or 1 cup bread crumbs. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful sugar. Boil the raisins one hour. Skim out the raisins, and add the bread to the boihng water; boil fifteen minutes, stirring well. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, and pour the panada over them, stirring all the time. No, 2. — Split tioo Boston or Graham crackers. Put them into a bowl, sprinkle with sugar and salt^ and cover with boiling water. Set the bowl in a pan of boiling water for half an hour, or until the crackers are clear. SUde them out into a hot saucer, and serve very hot with sugar and cream. iVb. 3. — Boil one tablespoonful of cracker crumbs five minutes in one cup of boiling water^ slightly sweetened^ salted^ and flavored with lemon. 3^ teaspoonf ul salt. | Put the meal and salt in the double boiler, pour on the boiling water, and cook two or three hours. Remove the cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly salted, the meal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar^ or salt,^ and cream. Baked sour apples,, apple sa,uce^ and apple jelly are delicious eaten with the oatmeal. They should be served with the mush, and the cream and sugar poured over the whole. They give the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. Coarse oatmeal is not suitable for any form of water brash, acidity, or bowel irritation. It often causes erup- tions on the skin in warm weather. Oatmeal Mush for Children or Invalids. 1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water.415 The Boston Cook Booh. Indian Meal Mush. 1 cup corn meal. 1 1 cup cold milk. 3^ teaspoonf ul salt. | 1 pint boiling water. Mix the meal and salt with the cold milk. Stir this gradually into the boiling water. Cook half an hour in a double boiler, stirring often. Graham Mush. Mix half a cup of Graham flour and half a teaspoon- ful of salt. Make it into a thin smooth paste with a little cold water. Stir it into one pint of boiling water. Cook twenty minutes, stirring often. Serve with cream. Rye Mush is made in the same manner, and sometimes served with molasses. Gluten Mush, —Use one cup of gluten to one pint of boiling loater., and cook as above. Being destitute of starch, it will not thicken like Rye Mush. Brain Food. {Health Food Co.) Wet OQie cup of Brain Food in a little cold loater^ and stir it into one quart of salted boiling water. Cook over hot water one to two hours. Eat, hot or cold, with sugar and cream. Bice Water or Jelly. 2 tablespoonfuls rice. | Salt and sugar to taste. 1 quart cold water. ] Pick over and wash the rice, and cook in water one hour, or till the rice is dissolved. Add salt and sugar to taste. If intended for jell}', add lemon juice and strain into a mould. When cold, serve with sugar and cream. If to be used as a drink, add more hot water, enough to make a thin liquid, and boil longer. Add half a square inch of stick cinnamon,, and strain. Serve hot or cold. Bice is easily digested and almost wholly assimilated; it is good in diarrhoea or dysentery.416 The Boston Cook Booh. Tapioca Jelly. cup pearl tapioca. 1 pint cold water. 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 1 heaping tablespoonful sugar. Pick over and wash the tapioca. Add the cold water, and cook in a double boiler until entirely dissolved. Then add the salt, lemon juice, and sugar. Turn into a mould. Serve with sugar and cream. Half a cup of strawberry^ raspberry^ or blackberry jam or currant jelly may be used in place of lemons. Irish Moss Jelly. % cup Irish moss. I 1 lemon. 1 pint boiling water. | cup sugar. Soak the moss in cold water until soft. Pick over and wash again. Then put it into the boiling water, and sim- mer until it is dissolved. Add the lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a mould. Use currant jelly in place of lemon, or steep four or five figs with the moss. Sea mosses contain bromine and iodine, and are useful in rheumatic affections. Iceland mos^ maj^ be used in the same manner. This, when dried, contains more starch than potatoes, and more flesh food than oatmeal or corn. 2 tablespoonf uls lemon juice. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 cloves. Restorative Jelly. b(fx gelatine. 1 cup port wine. 1 tablesp. powdered gum arable. Put all together in a glass jar, and cover closely. Place the jar on a trivet in a kettle of cold water. Heat it slowly, and when the mixture is dissolved, stir well and strain. Pour into a shallow dish, and when cool cut it into small squares. This is good for an old person or a very weak patient. Mutton Broth. To make it quickly for an invalid, chop one pound of lean juicy mutton very fine ; pour over it one pint of cold417 The Boston Cook Book. water. Let it stand until the water is very red, then heat it slowl}'. Let it simmer ten minutes. Strain, season, and add two tahlespoonfuls of soft-boiled rice^ or thicken it slightly with rice flour wet with cold water. Serve hot. When given to a person with a severe cold, or a consump- tive, the fat should not be removed, as it is soothing to the chest, and when absorbed by the rice or some starchy material is not uninviting to the eye. For a fever patient, tne fat should be removed. When you have not time to cool the broth, a piece of soft tissue paper passed over the surface helps to take up an}^ globules of fat which will not come off with a spoon. Barley Soup. Remove the fat and bones from one pound of the neck of mutton. Cut the meat into dice, and add to it one table- spoonful of loell-washed barley and one pint of cold water. Heat slowljs and simmer two hours. Put the bones into one cup of cold water^ and boil gently half an hour. Then strain into the meat and barley. Season with salt. Skim off the fat, and serve with whole-wheat or gluten wafers. Calves'-Foot Jelly or Broth. 4 calves' feet. 2 inch stick cinnamon. 4 quarts cold water. 1 inch blade mace. 1 cup sugar. 3 eggs (whites and shells). 2 lemons. 1 pint wine. Scald the feet, and clean thoroughl3\ Split, break the bones, and put them into the cold water. Heat slowly, and simmer gently until reduced to three pints. Strain, and when cool remove the fat. Add the other ingredients except the wine. Put it over the fire, and stir until hot. Let it boil five minutes, or till a thick scum has formed. Set it back on the stove ; skim, and add the wine. Strain through a fine napkin into a shallow dish. When ready to serve, cut it into blocks, or break it up lightly with a fork. If intended for broth, simply remove the fat, season to 27The Boston Cook Book, 4i8 taste, and stir it into a beaten egg; or add sago or tapi- oca^ having first soaked and boiled it till soft. Veal broth is not ver}^ palatable in itself; and as it does not contain the nutritive qualities of beef or mutton broth, it is not well to use it in the sick-room except for a variety. Chicken Jelly or Broth. Clean a small chicken. Disjoint and cut the meat into half-inch pieces. Remove all the fat. Break or pound the bones. Dip the feet into boiling water, and scald until the skin and nails will peel off. The feet contain gelatine, and when well cleaned ma3^be used for jelly. Cover the meat, feet, and bones with cold water ; heat very slowh^, and sim- mer till the meat is tender. Strain, and when cool remove the fat. Season with salt^ pepper^ and lemon^ and add the shell and white of one egg. Put it over the fire, and stir well until hot. Let it boil five minutes. Skim, and strain through a fine napkin. Pour it into small cups, and cool it if intended for jelly. When the patient can take it, small dice of the breast meat may be moulded in the jelly. Serve hot, without clearing, if intended for broth. Beef Jelly or Broth. Prepare the same as for Bouillon (page 131). If in- tended for jelly, clear it as directed for Clear Soup. Barley Water. 1 tablespoonful pearl barley. I lemon. 3 blocks sugar. 1 quart boiling water. Wash the barle}^ in cold water, then pour off the water, and put the barley, sugar, and lemon into the boiling water, and let it stand covered and warm for three hours ; then strain it. Currant jelly or orange juice may be used in- stead of lemon. This is a valuable demulcent in colds, affections of the chest, hectic fever, strangury and other diseases of the bladder or urinary organs.The Boston Cook Book* 419 Gum Water. 1 ounce clean gum arabic, and j/o ounce sugar, dissolved in 1 pint boiling water. 1 lemon (juice). When dissolved, add the lemon juice, and strain through a fine strainer. This is soothing in inflammation of the mucous membrane. Toast Water. — Toast 07ie pint of vMte or brown bread crusts very brown, but be careful not to burn them ; add one pint of cold water / let it stand for one hour, then strain, and add cream and sugar to taste. The nourish- ment in the bread is easily absorbed when taken in this liquid form. Crust Coffee. — Pour one pint of boiling water over two slices of brown toast. Steep ten minutes, and strain. Add sugar and cream to taste. Corn Tea and Hice Coffee. — Brown 07ie cup of dried sweet corn or rice. Pound or grind it fine. Add one pint of cold water^ and steep it one hour. Strain, and serve with sugar and cream. These are pleasant and nourishing beverages. Slippery-Elm Tea. — Pour one cup of boiling water upon one teaspoonful of slippery-elm poicder or a piece of the bark. When cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. This is soothing in any inflammation of the mucous membrane. Pour boiling water on mashed cranberries^ barberries., or whortleberries. When cold, strain, and sweeten to taste. N'o. 2. — Stir a tablespoonful of an}- acid jelly or fruit syrup into one tumbler of ice water. iVb. 3. — Dissolve one tablespoonful of cream of tartar in one pint of water. Sweeten to taste. Apple Tea. — Roast two large sour apples., cover with boiling water; when cool, pour off the water and strain. Add sugar to taste. Acid Fruit Drinks.The Boston Cook Book. 420 Jelly and Ice. — With a large needle or pin, chip half a cup of ice into bits as large as a pea. Mix with it about the same quantity of lemon^ currant^ blackberry^ or bar- berry jelly. Yevy refreshing in fevers. Tamarind Water. — Boil two ounces of tamarinds with four ounces of stoned raisins in three pints of water for one hour. Strain and cool. Baked Lemon. — Bake a lemon or sour orange twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, open at one end and take out the inside. Sweeten with sugar or mo- lasses. This is excellent for hoarseness and pressure on the lungs. Lemonade. — Squeeze the juice from one lemon and add one tablespoonful of sugar. Pour on one cup of boiling water., and cool. Or take hot for a cold, after retiring. Flaxseed Lemonade. — Pour one quart of boiling vmter ON four tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed., and steep three hours. Strain and sweeten to taste, and add the juice of two lemons. Add a little more water if the liquid seem too thick. This is soothing in colds. Irish-Moss Lemonade. — Soak, pick over, and wash one quarter of a cup of Irish moss. Pour on one pint of boiling water. Heat to the boiling-point, but not boil, and keep it at that temperature half an hour. Strain, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemofi^ or enough to give it an acid taste. Sweeten to taste. Add acid phosphate in place of the lemon, if preferred. Wine Whey. — Boil one cup of new milk, and add one cup of wi7ie. Let it stand on the back of the stove five minutes. Strain, and sweeten the whey. The whe}^ or water, of milk contains the sugar, salt, and other saline bodies necessary for digestion and the repair of the mineral part of the bod}^ Herb Teas. Pour one cup of boiling water over one tablespoonfid of the herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the teakettle, andThe Boston Cook Book, steep ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. Mullein tea is good for inflammation of the lungs ; Chamomile tea^ for sleeplessness; Calamus and Catnip tea^ for colds and infants' colic; Cinnamon tea^ for hemorrhages ; Water- melon-seed and Pumpkin-seed tea^ for strangury 'and summer complaint. A few sprigs of sage^ burnet^ halm^ and sorrel^ half a lemon ^ sliced, and three pints of boiling water^ sweetened to taste, and covered closely until cold, makes an agreeable drink for a fever patient. Another Condition in sickness occurs when, after long- continued, prostrating, or rapidly wasting disease, the sys- tem demands immediate nourishment to supply that waste, or when there is a lack of nutrition from any cause. Food that contains the most nourishment in the most easily as- similated form is now needed; but the physician should always be consulted as to the food suitable during the dif- ferent diseases. Liquid food is most suitable, and should \)Qfood as well as drink. In nearly all cases of fever milk is given when the patient can take it. Two or three grains of pepsin in a cup of milk or broth facilitate its digestion. In typhoid fever milk has often proved of great value, and is now generally recommended b}' the medical faculty in all cases of scarlet fever, nervous disorder, and all diseases arising from imperfect nutrition. It keeps up the strength of the patient, acts well upon the stomach, soothes the in- testines, and promotes sleep. It should be taken slowly to prevent the curdling in a dense mass which may occur if too much be taken at once. A pint of hot milk taken slowly, every four hours, will often check the most violent diar- rhoea and d3'sentery. It should never be boiled, only scalded. Eggnog or broth, meat broth, farina and oatmeal gruel, and port wine jelly, are all suitable at such times ; but beef juice and tea are most generall}' used by phj^sicians. They afford a fluid and easily assimilated form of food, and have a remarkable power of restoring the vigorous action of the heart, and dissipating the sense of exhaustion following422 The Boston Cooh Booh. severe, prolonged exertion. When taken alone, tlie}^ are stimulating rather than nutritive, and a patient would soon starve if he did not have the addition of the fibrine of the meat or of some farinaceous food, like bread crumbs or oatmeal. Beef Essence and Beef Tea. Beef essence is the pure juice of the meat. This is given where a patient needs much nourishment in a small com- pass. Beef tea is the juice of the meat dihited with water. It is a mistake to think that any beef because it is lean or cheap is good enough for beef tea. It will do for the soup-kettle, but not for those who are ill. Meat for beef tea should be lean, juicy, and of good flavor. Everj' par- ticle of fat, skin, and membrane must be removed. The top of the round and the back and middle of the rump con- tain the most and the best-flavored juice. It costs more per pound than some other pieces ; but as it yields nearly double the amount of juice, it is really cheaper. The ten- derloin is often recommended for sick persons. It should never be used for beef tea, as it contains very little juice and lacks flavor. When the tender fibre of the meat is desired, it may be broiled, and served with the juice from some tougher steak. Broiliyig is the quickest, and sometimes the most palatable, way of preparing both essence and tea in an emergency. Drawing and heating the meat and juice is best where a little nourishment is to be given often, and where all the elements of the meat are needed. Soaking in cold water, then straining, and heating the juice only, is the most economical way, as more than twice the usual amount of juice may be obtained by adding more water when the meat has not been heated. The albuminous juices of meat coagulate at 160° ; if the tea be allowed to boil, they become hard, and settle almost immediately^ when served. Many make the mistake of straining the tea, or leaving the sediment untouched. If423 The Boston Cook Book, the tea be heated just enough to make it palatable, it will hold the juices in solution, not separated, and will be thick, and of the color of chocolate, and much more palatable and nutritious than when boiled. Broiled Beef Essence. —Broil half a pound of round steak one or two minutes, or until the juice will flow. Cut it into small pieces. Squeeze the juice into a bowl placed over warm water. 8alt^ and serve without reheating. Or pour it over a slice of hot dry toast. Broiled Beef Tea, — Add half a cup of boiling water to the meat after broiling as above. Bottled Beef Essence. — Put two pounds of round steak., cut in small pieces, into a jar without water. Place the jar, covered closely, on a trivet in a kettle of cold water. Heat gradually, and keep it not quite at the boihng-point for two hours, or till the meat is white. Strain, pressing the meat to obtain all the juice ; season with salt. Or place the jar in a moderate OA^en for three hours. The liquid thus obtained contains all the nutritive parts of the meat. It maj^ be kept in the refrigerator, and a small portion heated (not boiled), as wanted. Or it may be made into beef tea b}^ diluting with boiling water. Beef essence given ice cold is sometimes more agreeable to a fever patient. Bottled Beef Tea. — Add one cup of cold water to the meat in the jar, and make as above. When the patient can take a little solid food, add two tablespoonfuls of stale bread crumbs to the beef tea, or mix with it oat- meal gruel^ or add one teaspoonful of finely chopped raw meat. Stewed Beef Essence, — Cut half a pound of round steak into small pieces, season with one saltspoonful of salt^ press it with a pestle or potato-masher, and let it stand in a covered bowl half an hour. Pour off the juice, and heat, but do not boil it. Serve immediately, without straining. As the salt without water will draw out only a small portion of the juice from the meat, a beef tea may be made424 The Boston Cook Book. from the scraps of meat left b}^ adding one cup of cold water to the meat, and letting it stand two hours. Then strain and heat the liquid ; or the scraps of meat ma}^ be put in the soup-kettle. Economical Beef Tea. — Cut one pound of juicy rump steak into small pieces, and add one cup of cold water. Let it stand in a covered bowl several hours. When ready to serve, squeeze the meat and put it into another bowl. Strain the juice already obtained, add salt to taste, and heat it just enough to be palatable, but not enough to curdle it. Serve at once, while hot. If it be heated over the fire, stir constantly, and take it off the moment it looks thick and is hot; or heat it carefully over hot water. Add another cup of cold water to the scraps of meat, and soak again. Often the third cup of tea may be obtained from the same meat. This is excellent for hard-working people to take, in times of great exhaustion, before a hearty meal. It is one of the best and most easily prepared forms of soup or meat tea. Dr, MitchelVs Beef Tea. — One pound of lean heef cut fine; add one pint of cold water and five drops of muri- atic acid. Put into a glass jar. Place the jar in a pan of water at 110°, and keep it at that temperature for two hours. Then strain through thick muslin until the meat is dry, or press the juice out by squeezing. The acid makes the tea agreeable to a patient with fever, and also aids in drawing out the juices of the meat. Baw Beef Sandwiches. — Scrape fine a small piece of fresh, juicy, tender, raw beef. Season highly with salt and pepper. Spread it on thin slices of bread, put them together like a sandwich, and cut into small squares or diamonds. This will often tempt a patient who could not otherwise take raw meat. The sandwiches are sometimes made more palatable by toasting them slightly. Eggnog. — Beat the yolk of one egg; add one table- spoonful of sugar^ and beat to a cream. Add one table- spoonful of wine or brandy^ and half a cup of milk. Beat the white of the egg to a froth, and stir in lightly. OmitThe Boston Cook Book, 425 \ the milk when more condensed nourishment is required, or the wine, if not approved b^^ the ph3^sician. It is more palatable when made with the milk. Whipped cream may be substituted for the milk. In many cases it is desirable not to have the white beaten to a froth, as it causes wind in the stomach. .Portable Beef Tea, — Two pounds of heef cut fine, and half a box of gelatine. Soak together in one pint of cold water one hour, squeezing often. Heat to nearly the boiling-point. Strain, pressing all the juice from the meat, fill a glass jar with the juice, place the jar in water, and heat till the water outside the jar boils. Seal while hot. Dissolve two teaspoonfuls of the above prepara- tion in half a cup of boiling water^ add a few grains of scdt^ and serve at once. A convenient form of food for travellers. Broiled Beef Pidp, — Scrape raw beef to a pulp, make it into small cakes, and broil as steak. Season with salt and a few grains oi cayenne pepper^ and serve hot. Egg Tea and Coffee. — Beat the yolk of one egg; add one tablespoonful of sugar^ and beat to a cream ; add one cup of tea or coffee^ either hot or cold, and half a cup of cream. Stir in lighth^ the beaten white of the egg, and serve at once. Egg and Beef Tea. — Add one cup of hot beef tea to the egg, beaten as above. Dishes for Convalescence. When the crisis of disease is past, the system needs gradual but complete nutrition, and the appetite is clamor- ous, fickle, or perhaps altogether wanting. Then is the time most critical for the patient, and most trying to the tact, skill, and patience of the nurse. Many a person has been carried safely through a long and distressing illness, only to succumb at last to injudicious feeding, because of the nurse's ignorance or his own indiscretion. When solid food can be safely given, the patient may take it in any of the forms given in the preceding rules.The Boston Cook Book, 426 The following dishes may also be used : broiled squab, venison, chicken, chop, steak, salmon, chicken panada, boiled halibut, roast beef, mutton, cream toast, eggs, and o^^sters (except when especiallj^ forbidden by the physi- cian), sweetbreads, baked potatoes, asparagus, onions, macaroni, custards, Charlotte Russe, snow pudding, ice- cream, sherbet, blanc-mange. Bavarian cream, sponge cake, simple puddings, stewed fruits, and many others, — receipts for which will be found as indicated in the table of lessons in the Nurse's Course. Broiling for the Itwalid {Broiled Steak or Venison). — Wipe with a clean wet cloth. Grease the gridiron with a bit of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning as often as you can count ten. Cook four minutes if the steak be about one inch thick ; not longer, as further cooking dries up the juices and destroys some of the nutritive qualities. Be careful to serve on a hot platter, and season with salt^ and with pepper and butter if approved. Birds, chicken breasts, fish, and chops are better when seasoned, and wrapped in buttered paper, and then broiled, as this pre- vents them from burning or becoming too dry. Birds, fish, and chops are better, and more conveniently eaten, if boned before broiling. Broiled Steak^ N'o. 2. — Broil half a pound of round steak and one slice of tenderloin. With a meat or lemon squeezer squeeze the juice from the round over the tender- loin. Season, and serve hot. Chicken Panada, — One cup of cold roasted or boiled chicken^ pounded to a paste. Add half a cup of stale bread crumbs, and enough boiling chicken liquor to make it a thick gruel. Salt to taste. Boil one minute, and serve hot. When the chicken has been roasted, boil the bones to obtain the liquor. Chicken Custard. — Scald together one cup of stro7ig chicken stock and one cup of cream. Pour it over the well-beaten yolks of three eggs., and cook in a double boiler till slightly thickened. Salt to taste, and serve cool in custard cups.The Boston Cook Booh. 427 Crackers and Orange Marmalade, — Toast three crack- ers slightly. Dip them quickly into hoiling salted water. Spread with a little butter,^ and put a layer of orange mar- malade,^ or any other jelly or preserve, between them. Set them in the oven a few minutes before serving. pound best French chocolate. I 34 pound arrowroot. These materials are to be thoroughly mixed and rubbed together. A dessert spoonful of this mixture should be slightly wet with milk or water,, then stirred into one pint of boiling milk,, and boiled five minutes. This is excellent food for invalids or convalescents. Serve hot, as a bever- age ; or make much thicker, to be eaten cold as a delicate pudding. Laban, {Miss Parloa. ) — Oiie quart of new milk,, into which stir one tablespoonful of yeast. Let it stand in a cool place to harden, which wall take from three to twent}^- four hours. When hard, take a tablespoonfal of the mix- ture, and stir it into a quart of new milk,, and set away to harden. This is " Laban." It should be eaten with sugar and cream. If a constant supply be needed, reserve 07ie tahlespoonful each day for the next preparation. This re- ceipt is furnished by a lady who obtained it in Syria, and who advises a second or a third trial if the first attempt be unsuccessful. The dish is often palatable when the stomach is too weak for almost any other sohd food. This is similar to Koumiss, or fermented mare's milk. Ash Cake. {Mrs. Henderson.)—Wet corn meal,, salted to taste, with enough cold water to make a soft dough. Let it stand half an hour, or longer. Mould into a cake one or two inches thick, as 3^ou prefer. Place it on a clean spot on the hearth, and cover w^ith wood ashes. Bake from half to three quarters of an hour. Wipe before eating. The alkaline properties left by the ashes in the crust render it especiall}^ good for dyspeptics with an acid stomach. Kaoahout des Arabes. {Mrs. Devereux.) 1 pound rice flour.The Boston Cook Booh. 428 Gluten Gems. 2 cups gluten. % teaspoonful salt. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 egg. 2 cups water or milk. Bake in very hot buttered gem pans, in a hot oven, half an hour. Let very 3'oung children have mother's milk above every- thing else ; but if this be impossible, dissolve one ounce of sugar of milk or loaf sugar in three fourths of a pint of boiling water^ and mix, as required for use, with an equal quantity of fresh cow's milk. Give it, slightly w?irm, from a sweet, clean bottle. Sugar of milk is quite ex- pensive, but it is very much better for an infant than cane sugar. Teething children should have the milk from but one cow; the cow should not be fed on green corn nor sour apples, as these produce acidity in the milk. A little thin, well-boiled oatmeal, or farina gruel, may be added to the milk. For Slimmer complaint^ use scalded (not boiled) milk, prepared flour, roasted rice, boiled, mashed, and thinned with milk ; also rice jell}^ or barky gruel. Avoid all purely starchy gruels, like arrowroot, sago, and cornstarch, upon which many children are fed to death. For constipation,^ a little salt added to cow's milk is often beneficial; also gruel made from prepared corn meal and wheat flour, and oatmeal gruel. For older children use oatmeal, hominy or farina mush, and ripe fruit. Prepared Flour {for Infants). — Tie one pint of flour in a stout cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil three hours. Turn out the flour ball, and scrape off the gluten which will be found in a mass on the outside of the ball and is not desirable. The inside will prove a dry powder, which is very astringent. Grate a tablespoonful of this powder from the ball as wanted ; wet it in cold Diet for Infants and Young Children.The Boston Cook Book, 429 milk or water^ and stir it into one cup of boiling milk. Boil five minutes. Add a little salt. This is excellent for teething children. If they be troubled with constipation, use one quarter part corn meal and three quarters wheat flour, boil as above, and stir some of the grated lump into boiling cream and water^ using one part cream to six parts vKtter. For an infant the preparation should be thin enough to be taken from a bottle. Flour, after being cooked in this wa}^ and then reduced to a finely divided form, loses its adhesive quality ; and the particles are more easily separated and digested. Children and growing persons need the most nutritious food, and plent}^ of it at regular intervals ; but nothing stimulating nor exciting. The}^ should be given, and com- pelled to take, suflScient time for eating; and should be taught to masticate everything slowly and thoroughly. They should eat milk ; whole-wheat and cornmeal bread ; oatmeal, farina, and hominy mush ; plenty of ripe fruit raw, and stewed fruit sweetened; beef, mutton, veni- son, and poultr}^, either roasted, broiled, or boiled ; baked potatoes, and asparagus ; green peas, beans, and corn, if ever}^ hull be first broken or cut; eggs, omelets, and cus- tards ; plain sponge cake; ice-cream, if not too hard and cold, and eaten slowly; simple fruit and bread puddings ; fruit, tapioca, and farina; plain gingerbread and molasses cookies ; whole-wheat cookies and wafers. Children should avoid hot bread and griddle-cakes; fried meats or cakes or doughnuts; highly seasoned food; rich gravies ; rich pastry and cake ; pickles, pre- serves, all stimulants such as tea or coflTee ; raisins, un- less cooked three hours and stoned ; sago, arrowroot, and other purely starchy foods, except w^hen combined with milk, eggs, or fruit, and eaten with sugar and cream ; and especiall}" veal and pork. Veal is an immature meat, lack- ing in nourishment; and of the free use of pork, apart from the question of the trichinae, a majority of physi- cians believe that it is largely responsible for the forms ofThe Boston Cook Book. 430 scrofulous disease that have so undermined the health of civilized nations. What are termed the "fancies" of delicate persons, especially children, are often natural instincts, pointing out what is beneficial to the sj'Stem, or the reverse. All children have a fondness for sugar, which should be grati- fied in moderation rather than repressed. Their desire for it is natural, else it would not have been placed in the milk which forms their only nourishment in infancy. But candy, rich preserves, and cake are not the best form of sweets for children. Pure block sugar or maple sugar is better than any form of candy. It should never be allowed be- tween meals, but ma}^ be given occasionally as a part of the dessert. The habit of munching candy between meals destroys the appetite, disturbs the digestion, and is the cause of much illness among children. Children troubled with worms should avoid sugar, preserves, and green vegetables. Milk should enter largely into the diet of children. It con- tains caseine, or flesh-forming material; cream and sugar, which are heat producers; mineral salts, for the bony structure ; and water, as a solvent for all the other materials necessary in nutrition. It should be used with discretion, however; not drunk immoderatel}', but taken slowly as food after the pattern given by nature. Milk as taken is a fluid ; but as soon as it meets the acid of the gastric juice, it is changed to a soft, curd}^, cheese-like substance, and then must be digested, and the stomach is overtasked if too much be taken at once. A large glass of milk swal- lowed suddenly will form in the stomach a lump of dense, cheesy curd, which may even prove fatal to a weak stomach. Under the action of the stomach this chees}^ mass will turn over and over like a heavy weight; and as the gastric juice can only attack its surface, it digests very slowl}'. But this same milk, taken slowly, or with dry toast, light rolls, or soft dr}' porridge, forms a porous lump through which the gastric juice can easily pass, and which breaks up every time the stomach turns it over. Milk should be shghtly431 The Boston Cook Book. salted, and eaten with bread stuffs or sipped by the spoonful. Cow's milk produces less heat than human milk ; a child would grow thin upon it unless a little sugar were added. Wheat flour has such an excess of heat-producing mate- rial as would fatten a child unduly, and should have cow's milk added to it to reduce its fattening power. Hints on Diet for Invalids. Vanilla should not be used as a flavoring in food for sick people. It is medicinal; and all medicines are more or less poisonous, and are not to be taken as food. Pepper is allowable when a slight stimulant is needed. It should be white or cayenne pepper, as these are less irri- tating than black pepper. Boiled onions are soothing to the mucous membrane. In inflammation of the stomach they are often helpful when a piece of white bread could not be digested. Broiled or roasted squah^ venison^ chicken, mutton^ and heef^ in the order given, are the most easily assim- ilated meats. Game^ being rich in phosphates, is valuable for invalids. Broiled bacon, dusted with cayenne, is an easily digested form of fat. Tomatoes as an article of diet are considered by many ph^^sicians a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion. W^atery^ green^ or diseased potatoes should never be eaten. If there be only a small spot of decay, it taints the whole potato. Young potatoes are very indigestible. Eggs for sick people should be taken raw. When beaten with cold milk, they are more quickIj' absorbed. If cooked, the}^ should be either very soft, or hard enough to be easil}' criimbled to a powder, as in any intermediate stage the albumen is tough instead of brittle, and being tough is insoluble by the gastric juice ; these insoluble portions are often delayed in the stomach or intestines till they putref}', and the sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia evolved be- come poisonous to the intestinal canal.432 The Boston Cook Book. Soups which have in them cream or milk are better for invalids than those rich in gelatine. Cream of Celery and Potage a la Heine are especially suitable. Strong Bouillon is adapted to those suffering from hemorrhoids or any disease of the rectum, as there is no solid waste. Dyspeptics should avoid anything which they (not others) cannot digest. There are so many causes for and forms of dyspepsia, that it is impossible to prescribe one and the same diet for all. Nothing is more disagreeable or useless than to be cautioned against eating this or that, because your neighbor " So-and-so" cannot eat such things. If we would all stud}" the nature and digestion of food, and remember that air and exercise are as essential as food in promoting good health, we could easily decide upon the diet best suited to our individual needs. The diabetic should abstain from sugar and anything which is converted into sugar in digestion, such as all starchy foods, — fine wheat flour, rice, macaroni, tapioca, liver, potatoes, beets, carrots, turnips, parsnips, peas, beans, very old cheese, sweet omelets, custards, jellies, starchy nuts, sweet sauces, wine, and liquors. He may eat oysters, all kinds of fish, meat, poultr}^, and game, soups without any starch}^ thickening, lettuce, cucumbers, watercresses, dandelions, 3'oung onions, cold slaw, olives, cauliflower, spinach, cabbage, string beans, ripe fruit of all kinds without sugar, cream, butter, milk sparinglj^ gluten, flour, oil}' nuts freely salted, eggs, coffee, and cocoa. The corpulent should abstain from fat as well as sugar and starch. A diet of whole-wheat, milk, vegetables, fruits, and lean meat w^ill produce only a normal amount of fatness; while an excess of sweets, acids, spices, and shortening keeps the s^^stem in an unhealthful coftdition. Those who can digest fine flour, pastry, sugar, and fats become loaded with fat, but are neither strong nor vigorous. Thin people with weak digestion should also avoid such food; for thin people are often kept thin b}^ the same food which makes others fat. If they cannot digest the starch,The Boston Cook Booh 433 butter, and fine flour, the system is kept in a feverish, dys- peptic state ; they become nervous or go into consumption for no other reason than that hfe is burned out by a diet which only feeds the fire and does not renew the tissues. ''Men dig their graves with their teeth; not only by drinking whiskey and using tobacco, but by eating food loaded down with inflammator}' materials." The bilious and gouty should eat sparingl}* of brown meats, cheese, eggs, beans, peas, or food which is rich in albuminoids. A certain amount of albuminoid or nitro- genized food is requisite for tissue growth and repair; more being required for growing persons and the conva- lescent than for healthy adults. Most Americans are in- clined to eat more albuminoid food than is required. It gives a sensation of energy, of being equal to work, which is very pleasant. But when we have " too much of a good thing," more than is needed for repair of tissue, this sur- plus of albuminous material is imperfecth^ oxidized, the blood is laden with waste, and biliousness or gout is the result. Fish gives less albuminoid waste than meat. People who are inclined to constipation should eat whole-wheat, r^-e, and corn bread and mushes, ripe fruit, berries, green corn, vegetables, beef, mutton, poultry, milk, cream, and butter; and should avoid fried or greasy food, hot bread, rich cake, veal, pork, or anj'thing which has so much woody fibre or cellulose that it onl}' irritates the digestive canal., such as the outer bran of wheat, coarse oatmeal, etc. Those with consumptive tendencies should eat whole- some, easily digested and assimilated food, with plentj^ of fat, — not in the indigestible form that it takes when mixed with starch, but as in cream, sweet butter, fat of roast or boiled meat, the fat, but not the lean, of ham and corned beef, oil, salads, corn-meal, oatmeal, etc. The diet of people who are well should be governed largely their age, occupation, and exercise. Adults should have a variety of wholesome food cooked in different ways. Aged people should have a diet more like that of 28434 The Boston Cook Book. children. If the occupation tax the muscular strength^ use muscle-making food ; not wholly meat, as man}^ labor- ing people are inclined to think, but grains, peas, beans, cabbage, milk, cheese, eggs, whole-wheat bread, and chocolate, with a small amount of beef, mutton, and poultry. Students and hrain-worhers need more of brain- producing and less of muscle-making food. Brain food must contain phosphorus, which is found largely in oysters, eggs, fish, lean meat, wheat, peas, beans, and fruit. Those who are engaged in sedentary occupations^ who take little exercise and live in close, confined rooms, should eat onl}^ the most easil}^ digested food. People who engage in regular active labor, who take plenty of exercise in the open air, cultivate a cheerful, happj' disposition, live temperately in every vra}', and have naturally strong digestive organs, can eat any kind of wholesome food that has been properly cooked, and have no consciousness of a stomach or any visceral organs ; and appetite, unless previously impaired, is their best guide. If the digestive organs be not strong naturally-, such a mode of life as the above will tend to make them so, more than an}^ amount of drugs or quack medicines.The Boston Cook Book. 435 MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. To Chop Suet. — Cut into small pieces and remove the membrane. Sprinkle with flour, and chop in a cold place to prevent its becoming soft and sticky. To Clean Currants, — Put them in a squash strainer, and sprinkle thickly with flour. Rub them well until they are separated, and the flour, grit, and fine stems have passed through the strainer. Then place the strainer and currants in a pan of water, and wash thoroughly. Lift the strainer and currants together, and change the water till clear. Drain between towels, and pick over carefully. Dry them in a sunny place or between towels, but do not harden them by putting them into the oven. To Stone Haisins, — Pour boiling water over them, and let them stand in it five or ten minutes. Drain, and rub each raisin between the thumb and finger till the seeds come out clean, then cut or tear apart, or chop, if wanted very fine. Core Apples before paring, and there is less danger of their breaking. JEgg Shells. — Wash eggs as soon as the}^ come from the market, and then the shells may be used in clearing coffee, soup, etc. To Boil a Pudding in a Cloth. — Wring strong cotton cloth out of boiling water, and spread over a bowl. Sprinkle with flour, fill with the pudding, draw the cloth together, and tie tightly, then flour near the opening. Plunge into boiling water, and keep the water boiling during the time for cooking. Add boiling water as needed, and replenish the fire often. Meringues should be put on puddings after they are slightly cool, as, if the pudding be hot, the egg will liquefy.436 The Boston Cook Booh Moulds should be greased for any steamed mixture ; wet in cold water for jell}^, creams, etc. ; and neither wet nor greased if to be lined with cake. A mould of jelly will cool quicker if placed in a pan of ice water or snow than in the ice-chest. Candied or Crystallized Fruit or Niits, {Mrs, Camp- bell,) — Boil 07ie cup of granulated sugar and one cup of boiling water together for half an hour. Then dip the point of a skewer into the syrup and then into cold water. If the thread formed break off brittle, the syrup is ready. The S3Tup must never be stirred, and must boil slowly, not furiously. When done, set the saucepan in boiling water, or pour the syrup into a bowl placed in hot water, to keep the sjTup from candying. Take the prepared fruit or nuts on the point of a large needle or fine skewer, dip them into the syrup, and then lay them on a dish, which has been lightly buttered or oiled ; or string them on a thread, and after dipping in the syrup suspend them by the thread. When oranges are used, divide them into eighths, and wipe all moisture. Cherries should be stoned. English walnuts are especiallj^ nice prepared in this wa}'. To Blanch Almonds and other Nuts. — Remove the shells, cover with boiling water, and let them stand till the dark skin will rub off easily. Then put them in cold water, rub off the skins, and dry between towels. Corned Meat, — Fresh meat may be kept some time by corning it slightly. Wipe carefull}", and remove any parts that are not sweet and fresh, then rub all over thickly with salt. Or make a brine with rock salt and cold water ; use salt enough to float the meat, then cover, and put a heav}' weight on the cover to keep the meat under the brine. Three days' time is sufficient for corned meat. To MaJce Paper Boxes, — These can be obtained, in a variety of forms, from the confectioner; but plain ones may be made in this wa3^ Take a piece of stiff white paper, five inches square. Find the centre of the square b}' folding two opposite corners together and creasing lightly in the middle, then open and fold the other two inThe Boston Cook Book. 437 the same way. Fold the two sides over till they meet in the centre, then fold the two ends. Open, and cut in the fold down to the line at each end, but not on the side. Fold the sides over on the outside about one quarter of an inch ; then fold the middle part of the end in the same way. Then turn the ends of the side pieces round behind the end, and let them meet in the middle, and fold the edge of the end over them. Fasten the ends with a few stitches or with paste. A border of fancy perforated paper may be pasted on the edge. A Pastry Bag, — One third of a yard of yard-wide rubber sheeting will make three bags one foot square. Fold two opposite corners together, stitch along the edge, and make a triangular bag. Cut off at the point to make an opening large enough to insert the end of a tin tube. It is convenient to have three bags, with openings of different sizes, —- one for eclairs, one for lady fingers, and one for frosting. The tube for eclairs is three fourths of an inch wide at the small end; that for lady fingers, three eighths of an inch ; and the frosting tubes, of various sizes, some of them quite small. Fit the tube into the opening, and fill the bag with the mixture. Draw the edges together, and twist the top tightly to keep out the air. Hold the bag in the left hand, with the tube close to the place where the mixture is to be spread ; press with the right, and guide the mixture into any shape desired. A slight pressure is sufficient. When no longer needed, wash the bags in cold (never in hot) water, and dr}^ carefully. Vanilla Sugar. — One pound of lump sugar and one ounce of Mexican vanilla beans. Cut the beans in small pieces, and pound in a mortar, with the sugar, till fine like flour. Sift through a fine strainer, pound the remain- der again, and sift till all is fine. Keep in a tightl}^ corked bottle. Use a tahlespoonful for a quart of ice- cream. Or cut the beans into small pieces, and split them that the seeds may be exposed. Put an ounce of the beans in a small jar with a pound of sugar. Sift the sugar as required, and use as above ; add more sugar,The Boston Cook Book. 438 keep closely covered, and use as long as there is any flavor in the sugar. Canned Fruit Juices,—Fruit juices may be kept for a long time by canning the same as whole fruit. They are convenient for water ices and summer beverages. Mash the fruit, and rub the pulp through a fine sieve. Mix about three pounds of sugar with one quart of fruit juice and pulp. Fill Mason's jars with the sjTup, cover, and place in a heater with cold water to come nearly to the top of the jar. Let the water boil half an hour, then fill each jar to the brim, seal, and cool in the water.The Boston Cook Book, 439 THE DINING-ROOM. The subjects of " The Arrangement of the Table," "Dinner-Giving," and ""Bills of Fare" have been fully treated in other cook books, and it would be difficult to add to what has already been said. Hints on garnishing, carving, and appropriate combinations of dishes have been given in connection with many of these receipts ; and want of space forbids an}-thing more than some general rules. Above all things, attempt nothing in style or expense bej^ond what you can well afford. There is no more paltry ambition, nothing that contains more certainly the seeds of unhappiness and disaster, than such a desire for "empty show," which all sensible people must despise. Let 3'Our breakfasts be of wholesome and substantial food. The sj'stem needs nourishment in the morning after the long, unbrpken fast of the night. The practice of tak- ing only a cup of tea or coffee with hot biscuit, and possi- bly pie or doughnuts, gives a very poor foundation for the morning's labor, which is and should be the hard labor of the day. Milk, coffee, or chocolate, mushes, fruits, pota- toes or bread, meat, fish, or eggs, in some of their simple and digestible combinations should form the basis of the breakfast. The morning meal should be taken as soon as possible after rising. Any prolonged bodily exertion or exposure to the early morning air, before the stomach is fortified by food, is now condemned by the majority of physicians. The midday and evening meal may vary with the occu- pations and habits of the family; but a regular hour for eating should be observed, whether the more substantial meal come at noon or night; and if at night sufficient time should be allowed for digestion to be completed before I440 The Boston Cook Booh sleeping. A supper of cold bread and cake or pie is neither appetizing nor satisfying for those who have been hard at work through the dsij. Something warm or hearty, sometliing for a relish," every man craves for supper. Toast, brewis, warm tea-cakes, cocoa, oatmeal, warmed-over potatoes, cold meat, made dishes, eggs, oysters, etc., are far better than the common supper of sweets. Every one may have clean, if not fine, table linen. An under covering of cotton flannel or felt made to fit the table is desirable, as it prevents noise, and a linen cloth may be laid over it more smoothly than over the bare table. Thin tablecloths remain fresh longer if stiffened slightly with ver}^ thin starch, but heavy damask requires no stif- fening. Keep the cloths in a drawer large enough to hold them without much folding. Avoid making many folds in ironing, and in handling them fold always in the creases. In laying the cloth, place the centre of it in the centre of the table, and have the folds straight with the edges of the table. Crease the cloth round the edge of the table, that it may drape smoothly. Lay a plate, right side up, for each person. If the table be long, place one plate at each end, and those at the sides opposite each other. Place the napkin at the left of the plate, and at dinner place a piece of bread between the folds of the napkin. Place the knives, butter plate, and tumbler at the right of each plate, the forks at the left, and the soup and dessert spoons in front, the handles toward the right hand, — the number of each depending upon the number of courses. The fruit dish or flowers should occupy the centre of the table; the salt and pepper, butter, jell}', pickles, etc., at the corners. Place the various dishes on the table in regular order, straight with the table, or, if at an angle, let there be some uniformity, never helter-skelter. The cups, plates, and dishes for hot food should be heated in hot water or in a warming-oven. Use a spoon to place ice in delicate glasses or pitchers ; or put in the water first, and then the ice, to avoid breaking.The Boston Cook Book. 441 Do not let the table become disordered during the meal. The dishes, plates, etc., should be removed noiselessly, one b}^ one ; and never piled one upon another, after the hasty fashion of second-class hotels. If the serving be done by the host and hostess, it is more convenient for them to sit at the sides of the table ; the host serving the substantial dishes, and the hostess the tea or coffee, vegetables or entrees, puddings, and the dessert. Where there are servants to do the waiting, the host and hostess may sit at the ends of the table, as there the}' can command a better view of their guests, and see that they are properly served. The hostess should serve the soup, salad, dessert, and coffee ; the host, the fish and meat; and the servants, the vegetables and entrees. At a dinner served a la Itusse^ the fruit and flowers onl}^ are placed upon the table, the several courses being served from the side. Man}^ volumes have been written upon table etiquette. Some of the suggestions they contain are practical; others useless. What is considered proper at one place or time is not approved under other circumstances; and those desirous of observing the usages of good society are often sorely perplexed to keep pace with the variations of fashion. But if, instead of following mere arbitrary rules from the low standpoint of style,'' we would take for our guidance the best definition of true politeness as given by Dr. Watts, — " Love manifested in an easy and graceful manner,'' — we need never be at a loss as to " what to do and what not to do." A moment's observation will show the strictness of etiquette maintained in the famil}^ in which you may be a guest, — for instance, whether the servants are expected to take entire charge of serving everything, or whether the family reserve to themselves something of the happy privilege of courtesy and thought for each other; and you may forget with them, in the mutual interchange of the proper attentions, that freezing formahty which sometimes forbids that you should seem to know or care how your neighbor fares. "Think not of442 The Boston Cook Book. 3"0urself, but of what will contribute most to another's com- fort or convenience," remembering that for the time being utter deference should be paid to the evident arrangement of the house at which you are. This is the safest stand- ard for table etiquette, as well as for good manners ever}^- where. No selfish person can ever be ivxAy poUte. Children should be carefully trained in table manners as soon as they are old enough to come to the table, and accustomed to perfect politeness; then there will be no fear of mis- haps, nor special training needed for " companj^," nor any awkward habits to be overcome in later life. After a meal brush up any crumbs that may have fallen, lest they be trodden into the carpet. Collect the knives, forks, and spoons by themselves. Put any food that ma}' be used again on small dishes, never on the dishes used in serving. Scrape the dishes, empty and rinse the cups, and pack neatly near where they are to be washed. Brush the crumbs from the cloth, instead of shaking it, then fold and put it away carefully. Never pile nice china or am^ other dishes in the dishpan. Begin with a pan half filled with hot soapy water. Keep the soap in a shaker made for that purpose, or in a tin cup; make a strong lather in the cup, and use as needed. Never leave the soap in the dishpan to waste and stick to the dishes. Wash glasses first. Slip them in sidewa^^s, so that the hot water will touch outside and inside at once, and then there will be no danger of breaking from unequal expansion. Wash one at a time, and wipe instantly- with- out draining or rinsing. Wash the silver and wipe at once, as it keeps bright longer if wiped out of hot soapy water. Keep a cake of silver soap at hand, and rub each piece of silver as soon as discolored. Then wash the china, begin- ning with the cups, saucers, pitchers, and least greasy dishes, and changing the water as soon as cool or greasy. Place these dishes in the rinsing-pan with the cups inside up and plates resting on the edges, that the}^ may be scalded inside as well as outside, and drain quickly. Scald and wipe immediately.The Boston Cook Book. 443 Dave's" method of washing dishes, though not in general use, has been proved satisfactor}^ Place a pan of cold water between the washing and rinsing pans. After washing and wiping the glasses and silver, add more hot water, and wash the china first in the hot suds, then dip each dish instantlj^ into the cold water, and stand it on the edge to drain in the rinsing-pan. The cold water rinses off the hot suds, and the sudden change of tempera- ture dries the dishes almost instantly; and they require little or no wiping. They will be neither " sticky nor streak3^" Where there is only one woman for " cook, waitress, hostess, and kitchen girl," it is well, after the table is cleared and the dishes neatl}^ packed, to wash first the kitchen dishes, and pots and kettles; then with clean water and towels wash and wipe the table dishes. The hands will be left in much better condition than when the pots and kettles are washed last. The Care of Kitchen Utensils. A complete list of kitchen utensils is not given in this work, as the variety and number needed will be largely determined by circumstances. There are several utensils, which are not perhaps in general use, which lessen the labor of cooking, and add much to the attractiveness of food prepared by their aid. There is nothing that makes so much difference between ordinary and delicate cooking as a set of strainers. There should be one of very fine wire for sifting soda, spices, etc., and for straining custards and jellies; others with meshes from one sixteenth to one eighth of an inch in diameter; also a squash strainer and a colander. Ex- tension wire strainers are very convenient. Keep also a supply of strainer cloths^ made from coarse crash or cheese cloth^ and fine napkin linen. A set of oval tin moulds^ a melon mouldy and one or two fancy moulds are convenient for entrees, puddings, and jellies.The Boston Cook Book, 444 Other useful articles are Dover egg-heaters^ large and small; ordinary small wooden spoons and the larger per- forated ones ; a whi}^ churn ; granite saucepans and stem- pans^ holding from half a pint to six quarts; double boilers; 2LwirebashetioYiYYvci^\ 2i potato slicer; 2^fine wire broiler for toast, and two coarser ones for steak and fish ; a set of pastry bags and frosting tubes ; fancy vegetable cutters; a glass rolling-pin; and, above all, a small sharp-pointed knife, made from the best steel, for paring potatoes, turnips, etc., and a set of tin measuring-cups holding half a pint, and divided into quarters and thirds. It is a mistake to have many large, unwieldy dishes. Small saucepans and small bowds are more convenient, and granite or agate ware is much lighter to handle and more easily kept clean than ironware. Buckets are convenient for keeping sugar and small quantities of flour. Glass jars or wide-mouthed bottles are best for nearly all groceries, such as rice, tapioca, meal, raisins, etc. They are easily cleansed, and the contents are plainly seen. They may be kept air-tight, or, if that be unnecessary, old jars not suit- able for canning ma}" be utilized. A refrigerator should be examined daily and kept thor- oughly clean. If a suitable brush cannot be had, a long stiff wire with a bit of cloth on the end should be used to clean the drain pipe. Pour boiling washing-soda water through it every other day, and do not forget to wash off the slime that adheres to the water pan. Fish, onions, cheese, an}^ strong vegetables, lemons, or meat not per- fectly sweet, should not be kept in the same ice-box with milk or butter. Do not become wedded to the idea that dishes can only be washed in a sink. If your pantry or cookroom be some distance from your sink, and have a broad shelf or table in it, take your dishpan to the pantry, wash and wipe your dishes there, and in this way save a few of the unneces- sary steps which soon amount to miles with many weary housekeepers. Never wash a bread-board in an iron sink. The iron445 The Boston Cook Book, will leave a black mark on the board, which it is difficult to remove. Wash the board on the table where you have used it; use cold water, and scrub occasionally with sand soap. In scraping dough from the board, scrape with the grain of the wood, and hold the knife in a slanting direc- tion, to prevent roughening the surface of the board. Wash, and wipe dr^^, and never let dough accumulate in the cracks. Have one board for bread and pastry, and keep it smooth. Use a smaller board for rolling crumbs and pounding and cleaning meat and fish. A Dover egg-beater should never be left to soak in water, as the oil will be washed out of the gears and the beater be hard to turn ; or, if used again before it be dr}', the oil and water will spatter into the beaten mixture. Use it with clean hands, and then the handle will require no washing. Wipe the wires with a damp cloth immedi- ately after using, dry thoroughlj^ and keep it well oiled. All dishes should be scraped before washing. A small wooden knife is best for this purpose. Bread and cake bowls, or any dishes in which flour or eggs have been used, are more easily cleaned if placed in cold water after using, or washed immediately. Clear up as you work: it takes but a moment then, and saves much time and fatigue afterward. Never put pans and kettles half filled with water on the stove to soak. It only hardens whatever may have ad- hered to the kettle, and makes it much more difficult to clean. Keep them full of cold water, and soak them away from the heat. Kitchen knives and forks should never be placed in the dish water. Man}^ err in thinking it is only the handles which should not be wet. The practice of putting the blades into a pitcher of very hot water is wrong, as the sudden expansion of the steel by the heat causes the han- dles to crack. Keep the knives out of the water, but wash thoroughl}^ with the dishcloth, rub them with mineral soap or brick dust, and wipe them dry. Keep them bright, and sharpen often on a sandstone. The disadvantage andThe Boston Cook Booh. 446 vexation of dull tools would be avoided if every woman would learn to use a whetstone, and where and when to appl}^ a little oil. Milk will sour quickly if put into dishes which have not been scalded. They should first be washed in clear cold water, then in hot soapy water, then rinsed in clear boil- ing water, and wiped with a dry fresh towel. Do not for- get to scrape the seams and grooves of a double boiler. Ironware should be washed, outside as well as inside, in hot soapy water, rinsed in clean hot water, and wiped dry, not with the dishcloth, but with a dry towel. Dripping- pans, Scotch bowls, and other greasy dishes should be scraped, and wiped with soft paper, which will absorb the grease. The paper will be found useful in kindling the fire, and is a great saving of water, which is sometimes an object. A tablespoonful of soda added to the water will facilitate the cleaning. Kitchen mineral soap or pumice stone may be used freely on all dishes. It will remove the stains from white knife handles, the brown substance that adheres to earthen or tin baking-dishes, and the soot which collects on pans and kettles used over a wood or kerosene fire. Tins should be washed in clean^ hot soapy water. Eub them frequenth^ with mineral soap, and the}^ may be kept as bright as when new. Saucepans and other tin or granite dishes browned by use may be cleaned by letting them remain half an hour in boiling soda water, then rubbing with a wire dishcloth or stiff brush. A new tin coffee-pot, if never washed on the inside with soap, may be kept much sweeter. Wash the outside, and rinse the inside thoroughly with clear water. Then put it on the stove to dry, and when dry rub the inside well with a clean, dry clgth. All the brown sediment may be wiped off in that way, but a soap}^ dishcloth should never be put inside. Keep a granite pan near the sink to use in washing vegetables, and use the hand basin only for its legitimate purpose. Pare vegetables into the pan, and not into theThe Boston Cook Book. 447 sink. A strainer or any old quart tin pan with small holes in the bottom is a great help in keeping a sink clean. Pour the coffee and tea grounds, the dish water, and everything that is turned into the sink through the strainer first, and then empty the contents of the strainer into the refuse pail. Never use a ragged or linty dishcloth. The lint collects round the sink spout, and often causes a serious obstruc- tion. A dish mop is best for cups and cleanest dishes, but a strong linen cloth should be used for everything which requires hard rubbing. Wash the sink thoroughl}^, flush the drainpipe often with hot suds or soda water, wipe dr}^ and rub with a greased cloth or wnth kerosene. Keep it greased if you wish to prevent its rusting. Cremation is the most satisfactory way of disposing of kitchen refuse, both as a matter of convenience and for sanitary reasons. But if there must be other disposition made of it, keep two pails and use them alternately, cleansing each as soon as emptied. Wash dish towels in cold water, with plenty of soap, and rinse thoroughly in cold water, every time they are used. If left to dry without washing, they will be stick}^ to handle and have a disagreeable odor. If the dishes be well washed, rinsed, and drained, the dish towels will require no rubbing. It is easier to take care of three or four which have never been left to become grimy than to wash one after it is stained and saturated with grease. Towels used in this way may be kept sweet and clean without boiling or drjing in the sun. This method has been proved by years of trial. With a little care in observing these hints, and always using clean, hot soapy water (and not a liquid fit onl}^ for the swill cart), changing it as soon as greas}', dish-washing would be robbed of half its terrors. And after the work is done, il the hands be carefully washed with Castile soap, not with strong washing-soap, and wiped dry, no un- pleasant effect upon the skin will be felt. Some use a little vinegar to counteract the effect of the alkali in the soap.448 The Boston Cook Booh. A large apron made like a child's tire, high in the neck, with long sleeves, and buttoned in the back, is the best pattern for a work apron. It protects the entire dress, and can be easily removed when one is called from the kitchen. Print or cambric with a white ground and small black figures wears better than colored print. New, white mosquito netting and cheese cloth are useful for draining lettuce and for putting around fish, chicken, or vegetables which require careful boiling; also for bags for herbs and spices. Small squares of new cotton cloth are useful for wiping meat or fish. Keep them clean, and use for nothing else. Keep a good supply of small holders, large coarse towels to use about the oven, and fine crash towels for wiping dishes. Keep a damp towel on the table when cooking, for wiping the hands. Avoid the habit of work- ing with sticky or floury fingers, or using your apron for a hand towel or oven holder, or using the dish towels about the, stove. These suggestions are given by one who has alwa3's liked to wash dishes, and who thinks it not beneath the dignity of any woman to learn to do such work in the very best manner, and that no apology is needed for acknowledging a taste for this much-abused portion of domestic work.AN OUTLINE OF STUDY FOR TEACHERS. FOOD: ITS USES, CLASSIFICATION, AND PROPORTION. Webster defines food as anything that supports and nour- ishes life." The kingdom of nature is divided into organic and inorganic bodies. Organic bodies have life; inorganic bodies are without life. Organic bodies are composed of several reciprocal parts, each of which is necessary to, and dependent upon, all the other parts. Organic bodies, therefore, include plants and animals, and inorganic bodies include earths, metals, and minerals. Organic bodies spring from some parent or immediate producing agent; they are supported by means of nourishment, and die without it; they increase in size by the addition of new particles of matter to all parts of their substances. Inorganic bodies are formed by some chemical law or union, and grow only by addition to their surfaces. Organic and inorganic bodies are continually wasting away or wearing out. Waste takes place in all objects, animate and in- animate. The minutest change in position in any plant, ani- mal, or rock cannot be effected without some loss of substance. It has always been beyond the power of man to make anything that w^ould not wear out. But there is this important distinction between organic and inorganic bodies. Only organic bodies can repair their waste, and add to their substance; they alone have life, or vital force. When anything wears out in a stone or a steam-engine, there is no power in the stone or the engine to replace the lost matter; and when a plant or an animal dies, the power of repairing waste is gone from it forever. Hence it is with animate bodies, or bodies endowed with life, that we have to do in considering the subject of food. 29The Boston Cook Book, Life is that form of energy in creation that results in de- velopment from within the object. The energy may be purely physical, as in plants; or it may involve mental and moral considerations, as in animals. There are some essential distinctions between the various forms of organic life. Animals grow proportionally in all direc- tions, and, at a certain time of life, attain their average size. Plants grow upwards and downwards from a collet only, and continue to grow through a term of existence. Animals feed upon organic matter, consume oxygen from the air, and throw off carbonic acid; plants feed upon inorganic matter, consume carbonic acid, and restore oxygen to the air. Living plants or vegetables are, with few exceptions, fixed to the spot of earth from which they spring, and receive their nourishment from external sources. It is furnished them by the soil, air, light, and heat by which they are surrounded; and they are every moment receiving all that is necessary for their sustenance. If one of these essential conditions be withdrawn, death follows. Living animals have the power of locomotion^ and, being obliged to wander, they are not always directly in contact with their sources of nourishment. They have, there- fore, a storehouse in which they lay up at intervals a supply of material. The possession of this stomach, or storehouse, characterizes all animal beings. The changes that occur in animal life are more rapid and variable than those in vegetable life. Not being, like vegeta- bles, always in connection with their food, animals need some monitor to warn them when to seek it. This is provided them in the appetite^ or the sensations of hunger and thirst. There is also a pleasure in the regulated indulgence of these sensations, w^hich never fails to insure attention to their demands. The vegetable kingdom is the original source of all organic matter. All our food is derived directly from the vegetable w^orld, or indirectly through animals which have been nourished on vegetable products. The ox and sheep, which are consumed in the form of beef and mutton, have not fed on flesh, but on grass, hay, oats, and other grains. It is only under exposure to the sun's rays that plants will grow. Hence to its influence we must refer the production of food in the first instance, and therefore the sustenance of all life. Life and growth in human beings are dependent upon two conditions,—motion and warmth. Motion. — Our bodies are constantly in motion. The heartThe Boston Cook Book. 451 and lungs move with every breath. Every thought causes some change in the brain. Whenever any part of the body loses its power of motion, it dies. All this motion, whether voluntary or involuntary, results in the gradual wasting away of the flesh, blood, and bones of which the body is composed. *' We begin to die as soon as we begin to live." If the worn-out materials be not replaced, we die. One great object of food is to supply this waste. The demand for building material is greatest when the body is in a state of activity. Until the human body has attained its complete growth, there should be a constant supply of material for new growth^ as well as for repair. In maturity, or when, from bodily inactivity, there is less waste, a smaller supply will suffice. Food taken at regular intervals supplies means of growth, and repairs the worn-out tissues. Warmth. — The temperature of the living human body is about 98°. In hot or cold climates, in summer or winter, though the temperature of the external parts may vary, the internal tempera- ture is the same; and if not maintained within a few degrees of this point, death invariably follows. The source of this animal heat, so independent of outside circumstances, must be from within. To keep up this internal heat or fire, a constant supply of fuel is necessary. This fuel is supplied by our food. To fur- nish material for growth and repair, and to provide fuel for the warmth of the body, is the twofold object of food. Animal Coinhustion. — The process by which food maintains the motion and warmth of the body is a kind of combustion, and has often been compared to the combustion carried on in the steam-engine (see Youmans's Chemistry). We can have no combustion without oxygen; therefore oxygen is the first impor- tant element of food. The air is our great source of supply of oxygen, and a volume might be written on the necessity for pure air and perfect ventilation. We breathe oxygen from the air into our lungs, and exhale carbonic acid. There must there- fore have been some internal union of carbon or hydrogen with oxygen, and such a union always produces heat. The carbon and hydrogen are obtained from our food, and are important elements. They are necessary for animal combustion. Food is taken in a natural or in a prepared state, and, after undergoing certain processes of digestion and assimilation, be- comes a part of our bodies for a time, and then is burned in the body, the process resembling somewhat the burning of wood and coal in our grates. But this union of carbon and oxygen, "in- stead of taking place in one spot and so rapidly as to be accom-45 2 The Boston Cook Book, panied by light, as in the case of the grate fire, takes place in each drop of the blood, and so slowly and continuously as not to be noticed." The force and heat absorbed from the sun by the vegetable in growing, and stored in its starch and sugar, are set free, by the decomposition of the vegetable, into carbonic acid and water again. These are given out, partly as heat, keeping the body temperature at 98°; and partly in other forms,—in that of mechanical motion, etc. All the external or internal work of the body is done by the force and energy of the food which is burnt therein. The greater the amount of work to be done, the greater must be the supply of fuel. The fire is constantly burning. " The smoke passes out in exhalation, inhalation is the bellows to furnish more oxygen," and food supplies the fuel. The kidneys are the grates through which the ashes are removed. But if we are "a house on fire," why are we not consumed? Because, lest this internal fire burn too freely, the oxygen of the air is diluted with nitrogen, which is incombustible. The blood, bones, and muscles of the body are composed largely of nitro- gen, sixteen per cent of that element being present; and this prevents the complete burning up of the structure. " What the iron is to the stove, the nitrogenous tissues are to the body." But the stove wears out in time, and so our bodies are con- stantly wasting away; and these nitrogenous elements must be supplied by our food. Food, to accomplish its purpose fully, should consist of these four elements: oxygen^ to support combustion, — obtained from the air; carbon and hydrogen, to furnish fuel, — obtained from w^ater and carbonaceous food; nitrogen, to build up and repair the tissues of the body, — obtained from nitrogenous food. Food, in the form in which it is eaten, cannot sustain life. It must be converted into a fluid that can pass through very small channels into the blood. Then it must be mixed with the air, and undergo certain changes, before it can replace the worn- out elements of the body. To prepare food so that it can most readily be assimilated, that is, made like our bodies, should be the chief purpose in cooking. To do this, three things are essential: 1st. The food selected should be of the right mate- rial, and properly proportioned; 2d. It should be cooked in the most digestible and attractive manner; 3d. It should be adapted to the various circumstances of age, occupation, climate, and state of health. Food, to be of the right material, should contain all the ele-453 The Boston Cook Book, merits that our bodies contain. It is of primary importance, then, in studying food, to understand first the composition of the human body. THE COMPOSITIOISr OF THE HUMAN BODY. Our bodies are made up of different materials: skin, flesh, blood, bone, etc. These consist of a large number of substances, called compounds; the compounds contain two, three, or four elements, united chemically in definite proportion. Some of these compounds are: water^ which forms more than two thirds of the whole body, and is the common carrier of food into and through the system; fibrine, which is the chief solid material of flesh, and forms one tenth of the body; fat^ a mixture of three compounds, distributed all through the system; albumen^ and other nitrogenous substances, of which osseine in bones, keratin in the hair, nails, and skin, cartilagin in cartilage, and hemo- globin, which contains iron and gives the red color to the blood, are the most important. Chloride of sodium, or common salt, and other mineral salts of pofassa, lime, and magnesia, are found in all parts of the body. These compounds are made up of two or more separate and distinct elements. There are sixteen elements in the human body, — oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, chlorine, fluo- rine, silicon, calcium, potassium, sodium, magnesium, iron, manganese, and copper. Compounds only, not the separate ele- ments, are capable of nourishing the body. Oxygen only exists as an element. Its office is to support combustion. Combinations of tw^o or more of these elements are found in the various articles used as food. It is quite important that our food should consist of various materials, containing elements similar to, or capable of being changed into, the elements of our bodies, of which the most important are: water, to help diges- tion and assimilation of food, and to help carry away refuse material; salts, to renew the mineral parts and replenish certain tissues; carbon, to furnish fuel for warmth; nitrogen, to build up and repair the whole structure. For convenience the elements are classified chemically into Non-Combustibles, or inorganic compounds, including water and salts; Combustibles, or organic compounds, including carbona- ceous and nitrogenous foods. Some foods contain no carbon, some contain no nitrogen, and some have all the elements in454 The Boston Cook Book. various proportions. Food has been classified into gaseous, or air; liquid, or water; and solid, including animal and vegetable foods. But the division into carbonaceous, or heat-producing, and nitrogenous, or flesh-forming foods, answers every purpose. NON-COMBUSTIBLE COMPOUNDS. "Water and Salts. Water forms more than two thirds of the whole body. It is especially abundant in the blood and secretions. It gives them the necessary fluidity, and enables them to dissolve the important materials they contain. It is contained in all kinds of solid food, as well as in the liquids drunk as beverages. It is most abundant in fruits and vegetables. Every pound of perfectly dry food should be accompanied with four pounds of water. Pure water is composed of oxygen and hydrogen, one ninth hydrogen and eight ninths oxygen by weight. The usual test for pure drinking water is that it be " free from color, smell, or taste, be soft, bright, and aerated, and free from all deposit. But it is very seldom found in that condition, as its power of dissolving other substances is so great that it nearly always holds animal, vegetable, or mineral matters in solution, obtained from the earth through which it flows. It also absorbs gases and odors from the air. The animal and vegetable substances found in it render it impure. But the mineral matters, unless in excess, are not objectionable. When water contains more than a few grains to the gallon of carbonate of lime, it is termed hard water. When water is hard or impure, it should be boiled before being used for drinking, as this destroys the vegetable and animal impurities. Water evaporates at all temperatures, boils at 212°, and freezes at 32° Fahrenheit. In freezing, the substances dissolved in water are expelled. Water, as it approaches the freezing-point, expands, and often bursts the vessels in which it is contained. In ponds or rivers it expands, becomes lighter, freezes, and floats on the surface in the form of ice. Water is perfectly neutral. It combines with acids and with bases. It becomes sweet, sour, salt, astringent, bitter, or poison- ous, according to the nature of the bodies it holds in solution.455 The Boston Cook Book. Salts and other Mineral Matters. — The chief purpose of min- eral ingredients is to replenish certain tissues, and aid in the transferrence and absorption of the combustible nutrients, as a scaffolding aids in the construction of a building. Chloride of sodium, or common salt, is essential to the life of the higher animals. It exists in all parts of the body. It is more abundant in the blood than any other inorganic ingredient except water; but it is an active poisonous irritant if taken in excess, causing diseases of the mucous membranes, as in catarrh, and stiffening of the muscles, as in rheumatism. We take it as a natural ingredient in many kinds of food, and as a condiment to increase the relish of many others. The desire for salt is instinctive. There are people who do not use salt in food, but it is probable that they obtain sufficient sodium and chlorine in the brackish water they drink; or it may be, their habits of life render less salt necessary. Salt must be added plentifully to all vegetable food. The bad effects of a salt-meat diet can be counteracted by the use of lemon juice and fresh green vegetables, which are rich in potash salts. Salt taken with our food supplies two substances. Its chlo- rine supplies the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, that helps digest our food; and soda, which is an element of the bile, — a fluid which must be added to the dissolved or softened food before the nourishment can be extracted from it. People would very soon become ill if deprived of salt. A person requires from one fourth to half an ounce of salt daily. The attractive flavor which is developed by cooking and adding salt to our food excites the secretion of saliva and gastric juice, and therefore helps digestion. The Dutch used to condemn criminals to a diet of unsalted food. They suffered great physical torture, which soon ended in death. Salt is one of the most abundant of all minerals. It is ob- tained from springs by evaporation, and from natural mines It is readily soluble in hot or cold water. It is used for packing and preserving meats, as it prevents putrefaction by absorbing water from the flesh. The other mineral ingredients needed in the system are com- binations of lime, soda, potash, magnesia, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. Phosphorus, lime, and magnesia are found in meat, fish, the cereals, and potatoes. Potash is found in meat, fish, milk, vegetables, and the dry seeds and fleshy parts of fruits; iron, in flesh, vegetables, and nearly all food, in very minute quantities.The Boston Cook Book. Sulphur is in fibriiie, albumen, and caseine. There is sufficient saline matter, except common salt, in all the ordinary food we eat and the water we drink. These mineral matters become rearranged and combined before becoming part of the body, but they do not undergo any chemical change or decomposition. They are absorbed with the food, and form for a time part of the animal tissues, after which they are discharged with the secretions, and replaced by a fresh supply. They are absolutely indispensable to the nour- ishment of the body. COMBUSTIBLE COMPOUNDS. CARBONACEOUS FOODS. The first division of combustible compounds is called carbon- aceous because they all contain carbon; or heat-producing^ be- cause by their burning they generate heat. They consist of starch, sugar, fats and oils, gum, and the softer fibres of plants. They are found in vegetables, cereals, fruits, milk, eggs, and the fat of meat. Starch. Starch is one of the most important of vegetable foods; it is found in grains, seeds, and roots, and in the pith and bark of plants. When pure, it is a snow-white, glistening powder. It consists of exceedingly minute grains, varying in size and shape in the different kinds of starch. These grains are cov- ered with an outer skin which is insoluble and unchanged by cold water; but in boiling, this membrane bursts and the inte- rior of each grain dissolves in the water, forming a thick, gummy solution. When cool, it stiffens into a kind of pasty mass. Starchy food is very unwholesome unless properly cooked. It must be mixed with a sufficient amount of liquid, and sub- jected to a great degree of heat, that the grains may swell and burst. This liquid is sometimes supplied by the boiling water in which certain starchy foods are cooked; and sometimes by fat which melts with the heat, as in pastry, or by boiling fat, as in anything fried. When flour or starchy food is mixed with fat, it should be finely and evenly mixed, that the fat may penetrateThe Boston Cook Book, 457 every part of the flour, or else it will cake, and all the grains will not burst. Anything that helps to make pastry lighter and the fat more evenly distributed, causes the starch grains to burst equally, and makes such food more wholesome. Vegetables should be put into boiling water to burst the starch cells, and set free the confined air, of which there is a great deal in many kinds. They should be taken up as soon as they are soft, as they absorb water after the grains are fully burst. Starch in its uncooked, insoluble state is not digested by the human stomach. Seeds and fruits which consist of starch, especially if it be combined with oil, as in many nuts, if eaten uncooked, are very difficult to digest. All starchy articles of food should be masticated thoroughly, and mixed with the saliva. It is more necessary to chew bread and potatoes well than meat. Starch is changed by various means into sugar. If an acid be added to it in a watery solu- tion, and boiled, it becomes clear and transparent, and after a time all the starch disappears, and sugar takes its place. The same change is caused by the saliva, and during digestion the starch is all changed into sugar, so that none of it is found in the fluids and secretions of the body. This is easily seen by chewing pure starch; after a while it wdll become sweet. Starch contains no albuminous substances, and therefore cannot supply any of the materials of which our bodies are formed. But it is the source of the warmth of our bodies, and the strength we exert. Taken alone, it would be useless as an article of food. It must have the addition of albuminoid and fatty substances, like milk or meat. Starch is prepared by grinding some vegetable matter that contains it in abundance, and mixing it with cold water. The water is strained and allowed to stand; the starch settles at the bottom, and is then dried and powdered. Cornstarch is ob- tained from Indian corn, by a chemical process. The gluti- nous, oily elements are freed from the seed by alkaline solutions, and the starchy parts are ground and dried. Sago is starch from the pith of a species of palm-tree. Tapioca is from the root of a species of the cassava plant of South America. It is a coarsely granulated substance. Cassava^ or mandioc^ is a more finely granulated form of the same root. Arrotcroot is from the rhizoma, or rootstalk, of a West Indian plant. The natives use the roots of a species of the plant in extracting the poison of arrows; hence the name.The Boston Cook Booh 458 Sugar. Sugar is composed of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. There are three kinds,—cane sugar, or sucrose; grape sugar, or gki- cose; milk sugar, or lactose. Cane sugar as an article of food closely resembles starch, but it is soluble and therefore more easily digested. It is readily distinguished by its sweet taste. It is found in many animal juices and also in fruits, but exists mainly in vegetable juices which have little or no acid in their sap, like sugar cane, rock maple, and beet-root. In its natural state it is dissolved in the vegetable fluids, mingled with many other substances. It is obtained by crushing the raw material; the fluids thus obtained are heated with a solution of lime, which causes the impurities to separate and rise in scum. These are removed, and the purified juice boiled down until it solidifies as a brownish de- posit. This brown sugar is again dissolved, boiled, and filtered through charcoal, evaporated, and crystallized. Molasses is the drainage of the raw sugar. Brown sugar is the first product. Granulated sugar is brown sugar refined and re-crystallized. All brown and moist sugars are inferior in quality; they contain water and mineral matter, and are sometimes infested by a minute insect. Loaf sugar is the purest. Sucrose, or cane sugar, is changed, by the acids of the gastric juice and the nitrogenous matter of the food, into grape sugar, or glucose. One of the most remarkable properties of sugar is that it can be decomposed and converted into other substances by fermentation. In its chemical relations sugar ranks with acids, and combines with bases, as in sugar of lead. It melts at 320°, and by cooling forms a transparent amber-colored solid known as barley sugar. If heated to 420°, it forms a brown mass, called caramel. Sugar has great preservative powers, and is used in preserving fruits, hams, bacon, etc. Glucose^ or grape sugar, is abundantly distributed throughout the vegetable kingdom. It is found in honey, figs, grapes, and other fruits which have acid juices. It is less sweet than cane sugar, and is immediately absorbed into the circulation when taken into the stomach. It is less soluble and less easily crystallized than sucrose. Lactose^ or milk sugar, is obtained only from the milk of mam- malia. It has the composition of cane sugar, and is converted into grape sugar when taken as food.459 The Boston Cook Booh Fats. Fats, or oleaginous substances, are composed of carbon, hydro- gen, and oxygen, — the two former elements preponderating, — and, having a very strong affinity for oxygen, are highly combustible. Fats are solid; oils are liquid. Fats may be changed to oil by a slight accession of heat, and are obtained from both animal and vegetable tissues, — suet and dripping, from beef fat; lard, from the fat of pigs; butter, from the cream of milk; olive oil, from the fleshy pulp of the fruit of the olive tree. Oil is also found in nuts, seeds, cereals, and fruits. Croton oil, used for medicinal purposes, is from a plant, a native of India; cod liver oil, from the liver of cod fish; castor oil, from the seeds of the castor-oil plant. Fats and oils contain three different oleaginous substances, known as stearine, margarine, and oleine. Oleine is that portion of oil that causes its fluidity. It is more abundant in oils than fats, and in the fat of swine than in the harder fat of sheep or beef. Lard is better than mutton fat or suet for frying, because, having more oleine, it can be converted into a liquid sooner. Margarine is harder than oleine. It exists in human fat, in but- ter, and olive oil. Stearine is the most solid substance of the three, and is most abundant in tallow and suet. The peculiar odor some fats and oils possess is from the pres- ence of an acid. In butter it is butyric acid. Glycerine is the base common to all the fats. In stearine, the hardest fat, it unites with stearic acid; in margarine, a less solid form, with margaric acid; in oleine, or oil, with oleic acid. Fat forms the chief material of adipose tissue. It serves to fill spaces and give rotundity and beauty to the form, to equalize external pressure, to diminish the friction of the parts, to give suppleness to the tissues, and, being a non-conductor of heat, to keep the body warm. An undue accumulation of fat is a species of disease." Oils and fats will not mix with water; but if an alkaline sub- stance, like potash or soda, be added, the oil becomes separated into fine particles, and is held suspended in the watery fluid. This is called an emulsion, and this is what takes place in intes- tinal digestion. The gastric juice, being acid, does not digest fat, but only separates it from these substances, that it may digest the albuminous portions with which it is mingled. But460 The Boston Cook Book. the pancreatic fluid, being alkaline, resolves the fat into an emulsion. This completes the digestion, then the fats are ab- sorbed and received into the general circulation. Having a strong affinity for oxygen, these fatty particles in the venous blood, when they come in contact with the oxygen of the air, burn, and heat is evolved. The power of fat in maintaining heat and activity is two and a half times that of starch. Oils which are used as food are fixed oils. Volatile oils are found in many condiments and perfumes. Volatile oils can be distilled, or changed to vapor, and recondensed into their origi- nal form; they leave no permanent stain on paper. Fixed or greasy oils cannot be distilled; before changing to vapor they recombine into new compounds. Gum, Mucilage, Pectose, and Cellulose. These are combustible compounds, but are neither starchy, saccharine, nor oily. Gum is found in apple and plum trees. Gum arable is from a species of acacia, and is soluble. Muci- lage is found in onions, quinces, and flaxseed. It forms a jelly with water, but does not dissolve like gum arable. Pectose is found in many roots, like the turnip; also in the pear and peach. When boiled with water it changes to a vegetable jelly, called pectine. Currants, pears, peaches, plums, contain pectine, and this is what gives firmness to the preserves made from them. Cellulose is the woody fibre of stalks of grain, the membrane which envelops the grains, husks, and skin of seeds, rinds, cores, and stones of fruits. It is the main and almost the sole constituent of linen, and of the paper which is made from linen. NITROGENOUS FOODS. The second division of the Combustible Compounds is called nitrogenous^ or flesh-forming foods. Nitrogen is the flesh-form- ing element common to all foods. It enters largely into the composition of the body, forming sixteen per cent of the animal tissue. A liberal supply is necessary to form and repair tissue. Although the atmosphere is four fifths nitro- gen, we get no supply from that source. It must be sup- plied in a state of combination, not as an element, from such compounds as have been produced under the influence of life. We require organic nitrogenous matter, and not pure nitrogen. This is sometimes derived from vegetable sources, but is mostThe Boston Cook Book, 461 abundant in animal substances. Animal food is richer and more nutritious than vegetable food; but the latter, if taken in large quantities, yields the same amount of flesh-forming mate- rial. Nitrogenous substances in plants and animals are identical in composition; and, from whichever source they are taken, the most important consideration is, to digest them and make them into blood. Nitrogen is an essential part of some of our most powerful medicines, like quinine and morphine, and of our most dangerous poisons, such as strychnine and prussic acid. Nitrogenous foods are also called albuminous^ because albumen is their common element, though it is called by different names in different things. Albumen is from albus, meaning white. The principal varieties of albuminous food are lean meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, peas, beans, oatmeal, flour, rye, and corn. These are treated more fully in other parts of the book, in chapters on Bread, Meats, Fish, Eggs, Milk, and Vegetables. The albuminous portion of meat is the juice, or albumen, and the fibre, or fibrine. In eggs it is the white. In milk it is the caseine, or the curdy part that separates when milk has soured. In peas and beans it is called vegetable caseine. In flour it is gluten, — the sticky, glutinous substance which is left after squeezing or washing out the starch. Albumen exists in two states, —one soluble in water and one insoluble. The soluble may be changed to insoluble by heating to 120°, or by adding nitric acid. It is the most easily digested of all flesh-forming foods. Albuminous substances have the property of coagulation ; but all albuminoids do not coagulate in the same way. The albumen of eggs and the juices of meat coagulate by heating to the boiling- point. The fibrine of the blood coagulates when exposed to the air. Milk coagulates by the addition of an acid. Albuminous substances also have the property of fermentation. This occurs principally in substances which are rich in sugar, starch, and gluten, like flour, milk, etc. The fermentation in flour and milk is explained in the chapter on Bread-Making. Fermentation will not take place without air or moisture, and a moderate degree of heat. Therefore, if albuminous substances be excluded from air and moisture, and kept very hot or very cold, they will not ferment. Fermentation is a change in the elements of a body composed of oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen. Sugar is composed of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen in equal parts; when sugar ferments, it decomposes and then reunites in462 The Boston Cook Book. different proportions, forming different compounds, — alcohol, carbonic acid, and water. Albuminous substances are the only substances which putrefy. Putrefaction resembles fermentation, and is due to the presence, in large proportion, of the fickle element, nitrogen, and also to the large number of elements combined in all albuminous sub- stances. Complicated machinery is always more easily deranged than simple; and in all chemical combinations, the more com- plex they are, the more unstable. Nitrogen has a very weak affinity for other elements, and forms very unstable compounds. All substances rich in nitrogen, when exposed to the air, soon pass into a state of decomposition, or putrefaction. The oxygen of the air has a greater affinity than the nitrogen for the other elements, and unites with them very easily. In putrefaction the oxygen unites with the carbon to form carbonic acid, and with the hydrogen to form water. The hydrogen and nitrogen unite and form ammonia, and this occasions the peculiar, unpleasant odor of all putrefying bodies. In sub- stances rich in sulphur and phosphorus, the hydrogen unites with them and forms sulphuretted and phosphoretted gases which are very offensive. Therefore, if we exclude the air or oxygen from such substances, we can arrest decomposition. This is done by keeping them in air-tight vessels, thus remov- ing the oxygen from the outside; and by boiling or drying, to remove that which is diffused within. Freezing will have the same effect; also salting or preserving. The salt draws out the moisture, hardens the albumen, and prevents the access of oxygen. In preserving, by the use of a strong solution of sugar, the watery juices are drawn out and formed into a thick syrup which excludes the air. There are some albuminous substances, such as isinglass and gelatine, which are taken as food ; but, strictly speaking, they are not flesli-formers. Isinglass is obtained from the sound, or swimming bladder, of the sturgeon, and is imported from Russia. It is not actually gelatine, but is transformed into it by boiling water. Gelatine is obtained from bones. Ossein is that part of the bones to which their strength and elasticity are due. It is insoluble in cold water, but is slowly dissolved and changed into gelatine by being boiled gently under a pressure sufficient to prevent the escape of steam. Gelatine is also ob- tained from tendons, calves' feet, fish scales, stag's horns, etc. There are other varieties of nitrogenous food which are also carbonaceous. These are commonly included under the general463 The Boston Cook Book. term Beverages; namely, tea, coffee, cocoa, and chocolate. The nitrogenous^principle of tea is theine; of coffee, caffeine; and of chocolate, theobromine. Tea also contains iron and manganese. Drinks^ Beverages^ and Liquid Foods are classified as follows: water, including rain, well, and mineral spring water; mucilagi- nous, farinaceous, or saccharine drinks", including toast water, Irish moss, and barley water, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, and other gruels; aromatic or astringent drinks, including, tea, coffee, choco- late, cocoa, and herb teas; acidulous drinks, including lemonade, raspberry vinegar, and other fruit syrups; animal broths, or drinks containing gelatine, including soups, broths, and. beef tea ; emwZ- s^t'e drinks, including milk; alcoholic and intoxicating 'prinks, including wines, cider, beer, ale, porter, brandy, and whiskey. Water is discussed under Non-Combustible Foods. Receipts for mucilaginous and acidulous drinks, animal broths, and herb teas are given in the chapter on Cookery for the Sick. The aromatic drinks are included in a separate article under the head of Beverages. Alcoholic drinks will not be discussed for want of space. Milk is food as well as drink, and deserves especial consideration. Milk. Milk consists of three distinct substances, which separate from one another after standing awhile, — the cream, curd, and whey. The cream is the carbonaceous part, and forms ten or twelve per cent of the whole. It consists of very small globules of fat, or butter, invisible to the naked eye, surrounded by a fine mem- brane of caseine or albuminous matter. These are dispersed in the milk at first; but as they are lighter than the other parts, they rise to the top of the milk in the form of cream. When the cream is churned, the membrane of each globule is ruptured, causing the butter to cohere in a separate mass. If all this caseine, or albuminous matter, be not removed, the butter soon becomes rancid. The butter has more margarine than oleine, and is therefore hard and firm instead of fluid. It contains butyric acid, which gives it its peculiar flavor. The curd is the albuminous part of the milk, which separates in a solid form whenever milk sours or curdles. This separa- tion is occasioned by the action of the oxygen in the air upon the nitrogen in the caseine, causing a portion of the caseine to ferment. This ferment acts upon the sugar of the milk, and converts it into lactic acid; and this acid acts as any other acidThe Boston Cook Book, 464 would, and causes the sourness of the milk. The caseine is in- soluble in water, but in the milk it is combined with soda, and this compound is soluble. So, when the milk sours, and a suffi- cient quantity of acid is formed, it seizes upon the soda, takes it away from the caseine, and forms lactate of soda. The caseine, being thus set free, shrinks, and gathers into an insoluble curdy mass. This separation is spontaneous; but it is often caused artificially, by the use of an acid, —usually rennet, which is the lining membrane of a calf's stomach. The curd thus separated is pressed and prepared in various forms of cheese. It contains the nutritious elements of the milk in a condensed, but somewhat indigestible form. Cheese is more digestible when made from fresh than from skimmed milk. The whey is the water of the milk that separates from the curd in souring, and contains dissolved in it the sugar of milk and the saline and mineral ingredients. It is much better to use milk in its natural state than to use the butter or cheese obtained from it. It is the cheapest form in which animal food can be obtained, and should be used freely, especially by the young or weak. Condensed milk, when well prepared, is convenient and valu- able as an article of diet, if fresh milk cannot be obtained. It can only be made from pure milk, and is therefore perfectly harmless. CONDIMENTS. There is another class of foods, called condiments, which should not pass unnoticed. Food that " tastes good is digested more readily, and assimi- lated more perfectly, so that we really derive more nourishment from it. We use many articles with our food to make it taste better, which are not in themselves valuable as food. But by stimulating the flow of saliva and gastric juice, and enhancing the fine flavor of food, they increase the pleasure of eating, and render digestion more complete. These are called condiments. They are not necessary to persons of sound digestion, and, with the exception of salt, should not be used by children, nor by any one in large quantities. In perfect digestion there is the first taste in the mouth and the after-taste of the digestive organs which require satisfaction. Any cook may gratify the first, but the second requires a skilled chemist.The Boston Cook Book. 465 The principal condiments are salt, pepper, mustard, and some herbs, including mint, thyme, p?y>ley, sage, marjoram, summer savory, and bay leaves; spices, inc.uding ginger, nutmeg, cinna- mon, clove, mace, and allspice; and flavorings or extracts of lemon, vanilla, orange, almond, pineapple, etc. Salt is the only condiment actually necessary to health (see page 455). Pepper is a stimulant when taken in small quantities, but irri* tating if taken in excess. It is the dried berry of a climbing plant of the j^iper family. The whole peppers are called pepper- corns. These peppercorns are ground, and we have black pepper. The outer shells are sometimes removed before grinding, and these kernels ground give us white pepper^ which has a different flavor and is less pungent than black pepper. Red or Cayenne pepper consists of seed-vessels or pods of different species of capsicum ground to powder. It is stimulating, and far more wholesome than the black pepper, though not as much used. It is valuable as a medicine. Mustard is used as a condiment and medicine. It is made from seeds of black and white mustard, which are crushed be- tween rollers, and then pounded in mortars. In small quantities it is good for digestion. Both red pepper and mustard, if used sparingly with indigestible food, like lobster and baked beans, are very useful. The herbs are used dried or green, and when used judiciously, make meats, soups, and sauces more palatable. Spices are used in cakes and articles of food containing sugar, and sometimes with meats. They are used whole, ground, and in the extract. Ginger is the most healthful, and is often used in sickness. It is a valuable stimulating tonic in hot weather. The other spices are better when mixed in small quantities, less of clove and more of cinnamon being used. When combined so that no one spice predominates, they are pleasant to the taste. Care should be taken lest they hide the natural flavor of tlie food. Flavors are all good in small quantities. Almond, vanilla, lemon, and pineapple are often adulterated. They should never be added while the article is hot, as the heat wastes the strength of the flavor. Vanilla beans are better than the extract. It is always well, if possible, to use the fresh fruit juice. Lemon juice and vinegar, used in moderation, increase the sol- vent properties of the gastric juice, and are useful with meats and. vegetables which are difficult of digestion. 30466 The Boston Cook Book, PROPER PROTOiRTION OF FOOD. I These different kinds of food, loater, salts, sugar, starch, fat, and albumen, must be combined in our diet; for a simple sub- stance which fulfils only one of the purposes required in our food will not support life. A man cannot live on water or salt, yet he would soon die without them. A diet composed exclu- sively of fats, starch, or sugar is equally incapable of supporting life. The albuminous foods, though they are considered the most nutritious, must be combined with the others to produce the desired result. Milk is the only substance prepared by nature expressly as an article of food. Seeds grow, and produce plants and fruits after their kind; but milk is prepared as the natural food of the young of all mammalia. A baby fed on milk develops in every part; therefore milk must supply every requisite for the growth of the young body, and the proportions in woman's milk may be taken as the standard for human food. Milk analyzed is found to contain water, salt, fat, sugar, and caseine, — the five ele- ments of food. It has enough of flesh-producing elements to restore the daily waste, and enough heat-giving elements to feed the oxygen in breathing. But when the teeth are formed, the child's system needs a greater proportion of some elements than are supplied by the milk, and other foods are gradually added to the diet. Eggs also contain all the necessary elements; a diet of seven eggs per day furnishes all the nutrition a person needs. But the elements in eggs are too highly condensed, and are not properly proportioned for a continuous diet. Many articles of food do not contain all these elements, and it is very important to proportion our food rightly, so that one kind will supply what another lacks. A certain bulk is also necessary in our food to stimulate a thorough action of the diges- tive fluids. If the quantity be not sufficient to distend the stomach, so that the churning motion of the muscular coats can affect every part of the food, the digestion is imperfect. Dys- pepsia is often caused by lack of sufficient quantity of food, and by weakness of the muscles of the stomach. If this requisite quantity be wholly nutritious or highly condensed food, capable of entire absorption, the effect is too stimulating, and serious disorders of the alimentary canal are the result. To remedy this, it is necessary to have a certain amount of innutritionsThe Boston Cook Book. 467 food, which furnishes the bulk required, and gives all parts of the digestive apparatus their proper amount of work to perform. 'Many persons argue in favor of a vegetable diet, as we can obtain from vegetables all the necessary elements. There have been many cases known where people lived to an extreme age who used exclusively a vegetable diet, and others who lived equally as long upon animal food. But the general rule is, that we find the highest degree of bodily and mental vigor only among those who make use of a mixed diet. One of the strong- est physiological arguments in favor of this rule is found in the structure and conformation of the teeth and alimentary canal. Part of the teeth are of the carnivorous, or flesh-eating kind, and part of the herbivorous, or vegetable-eating kind. The alimentary canal is equally well adapted to the digestion of ani- mal or vegetable food, or an admixture of both. The proper proportion, by weight, is one third of animal, and two thirds of vegetable food. " Nature has given us an unerring guide to a proper choice of diet. An unperverted appetite is the voice of the physical sys- tem making known its needs, and it may always be trusted to indicate the food necessary to the preservation of health. But as the voice of nature is often unheeded, it is necessary to exer- cise intelligence in selecting our food and adapting it to the circumstances of life. By a proper choice we can often coun- teract the effects of a violation of nature's laws." ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO CLIMATE, AGE, OCCU- PATION, AND STATE OF HEALTH. In examining the foods adopted by different nations and classes of people, we find that many choose instinctively the kind best adapted to their individual needs. The climate, occu- pation, and water influence their choice. Climate. — Animal food is better for cold than for hot cli- mates. We breathe more rapidly, take in more oxygen in cold weather, and the internal fire burns up more of the food. We exercise more, and this causes more rapid wearing out of muscle and flesh. Fat meat is not digested easily unless exercise be taken freely; more oxygen must be mixed with it to produce heat than is required for sugar and starch. In summer, when we exercise less, the waste is less, and we need less warmth-468 The Boston Cook Book. giving food. The starch and sugar obtained from fruits and vegetables are easily digested, and furnish sufficient warmth. The Esquimaux or Greenlander consumes a large quantity of fat^ or blubber oil^ the most condensed form of carbonaceous food. This gives him the amount of heat necessary in an ex- tremely cold climate. With this blubber he mixes some indi- gestible substances to give the needed bulk for the perfect action of the stomach. The people of Norway, Sweden, and Russia use large quantities of oily fish. In China, India, and other extremely hot climates, rice is the universal food. Kice contains a very small amount of flesh-forming material, being mostly starch, which is changed into sugar by the action of the saliva. The natives of rice-eating countries owe much of their lack of spirit and energy to this defective diet. But when eaten with butter or olive oil, and made into curries, pilaf, and pilau, with a small amount of flesh or fish, it supplies all the elements necessary for life in such climates. The Spaniard in his olla podrida — a stew of peas, bacon, or fowl, with red pepper — finds all the necessary elements. The red pepper, used so largely in the curries and other dishes common to hot climates, stimulates the liver, which is naturally w^eakened by the long-continued heat, and thus assists digestion. The Arab chooses dates,parched grains, mare's or cameVs milk. The Turk adds to these melons and cucumbers. As we come northward again, we find more flesh-forming material in the polenta (a dish made of Indian corn) and the chestnuts, macaroni, and cheese used by the Italians. The pot-au-feu is the principal dish of every peasant in France. This furnishes the cheapest form of nutriment, and contains all the necessary elements of food. The ivaters of a country sometimes determine the national food. In Ireland, w^here the waters are strongly impregnated with lime, they furnish what the potato, which is richer in pot- ash and soda, lacks. When potatoes are combined with cabbage and pork, as in kolcannon, the flesh-forming element is supplied; and this, on account of the cost of meat, the laboring classes are unable to obtain in any other form. In England and Scotland, where the waters are soft, oats and wheat, which are rich in phosphates, are the staple diet. When combined with milk, eggs, rice, peas, beans, bacon, and cheese, their food is complete. To satisfy the natural instinct to obtain these five elements, we all prefer our bread with butter or cream, our meat with potatoes, our rice with butter, milk, or eggs; our fish we cook in fat; we eat liver with bacon and ham, or bacon with eggsjTlie Boston Cook Book. 469 we eat cheese with crackers, butter with cauliflower or cabbage, salt with all vegetables, oil with salad, and fresh vegetables with salt meat. Fruits and foods intended to be eaten raw contain a large proportion of water. This is supplied, when lessened by evaporation, by cooking and soaking in water. In cooking meats, we endeavor to retain all the juices, which are largely water. In spring we crave fresh green vegetables and salads, that we may have the potash salts of which there has been a deficiency in the winter diet. Occupation affects our choice of diet. Persons engaged in sed- entary occupations cannot digest as much nor as easily as those who labor out of doors. They should have food that gives the greatest amount of nourishment in the smallest compass, and it should be served in the most digestible form. Those who tax their brains severely should have animal food and the most digestible forms of starchy and warmth-giving foods. Those who exercise freely in the open air may take a larger quantity, and it need not be the most digestible, as they require food that will stay by them. The laborer instinctively prefers potatoes underdone, or *'with a bone in them;" and he chooses salt meat, not only because it is cheaper, but because it stands by him longer. The salt causes him to drink water freely, and this supplies the waste caused by excessive perspiration. A diet of vegetables, peas, beans, cheese, oatmeal, bacon, and the cheaper, more indigestible parts of meat properly cooked, is suitable for laboring people. State of Health. — In selecting food with reference to health it must be remembered that there are certain general rules which have been established by the best authorities through many ages and in a great variety of circumstances; there are, however, some exceptions to these general rules. Milk is considered a wholesome food, yet there are some persons who cannot take it. Cheese is a cheap and nourishing food for laboring people, but there are some persons to whom it is an active poison. This is also true of oysters and strawberries. These exceptions are owing to some idiosyncrasy of the palate or weakness of the digestive organs, and should be regarded only as exceptions, which do not affect the general principle. The application of these general principles, given throughout this book in connection with the various articles used as food, must be left to each individual; but to those who have given the subject no serious study a few hints may be helpful. They will be found in the article treating of Cooking for the Invalid.470 The Boston Cook Booh NOUKISHIJSrG AND STIMULATING FOOD. There is another classification of food which it is well to con- sider briefly. In its effect upon the system food is nourishing and stimulating, or the reverse. Nourishing foods are those which serve to develop perfectly every animal function, but do not increase the strength and speed of organic action beyond the point of full nutrition. Bread, vegetables, fruits, sugar, salt, and water are nourishing foods. Nourisliing and Stimulating Food. — All food that nourishes the body is in one sense stimulating, as it gives renewed energy to the bodily functions. But there are foods which impart a speed and energy to the organs above that necessary to per- fect nutrition; these are termed stimulating foods. Animal food is of this class. Stimulants. — Alcoholic drinks and condiments are classed as stimulants, because they impart no nourishment, but act simply as excitants to preternatural activity. Innutritious foods are those which are not assimilated; which are by nature indigestible, or have been made so by improper combinations and modes of cooking. The bran of wheat, fried or greasy food, heavy bread, and rich soggy pastry are either entirely unassimilated, and therefore not nourishing, or they weaken the system by exciting particular organs to excessive action.A7i The Boston Cook Book. DIG-ESTION. In studying digestion, it is well to keep in mind the twofold division of food into nitrogenous, or flesh-forming, and carbona- ceous, or heat-producing, elements. The process of digestion differs with the character of the food. The purpose of diges- tion is to change and combine all the elements of food into a fluid which will mingle with the blood, become assimilated, and furnish nutriment for the body. Digestion is not confined to the stomach. It begins with in- salivation in the mouth, and, after deglutition^ is carried on in the stomach and intestines, the process continuing through the entire length of the alimentary canal, — a tube varying in diameter, and thirty-six feet in length. The first process in digestion, as in any chemical analysis, is to crush the materials. The teeth are the grinders for reducing the food. If we bolt our food or swallow it in lumps, the soft coats of the stomach are made to do the tearing and grinding work of the teeth. A solvent being necessary, the saliva is secreted from the blood, and is poured through three pairs of glands into the mouth, each pair supplying a different saliva. This softens the starch and tender cellulose. Animals, like the beaver, which feed chiefly on woody matters, have very large salivary glands. In health the saliva is always alkaline, especially during and after meals. It lubricates the mouth, and moistens the food so that it may assume a pasty condition. It is also necessary to . the sense of taste, everything being tasteless that the saliva can- not dissolve. For this reason we cook and season our food so that it will excite the flow of the saliva. '' This saliva is poured into the mouth not to he cast out, but to do a specific work, then pass into the stomach and be again ab- sorbed. If the system be drained of the saliva by profuse spit- ting, as is the case with those who use tobacco freely, the order of bodily functions is reversed, and the mouth is made to do the work of the kidneys, which is to carry away a large amount of the superfluous water and all the waste salts."472 The Boston Cook Booh The saliva consists mostly of water, with a very small amount of saline matter and about five parts in one thousand of ptyalin, an albuminous ingredient, or ferment, which has the power of con- verting the starchy portions of food into sugar, and sugar into lactic acid, but does not act upon nitrogenous food. The saliva froths easily, and aids in carrying air into the stomach. This is the first step in digestion, and the most important, as any error in the beginning leads to evil consequences which affect the whole process. It is also important, because it is wholly a voluntary process. While the food is in the mouth, we may masticate it thoroughly or imperfectly, and swallow or reject it. But when deglutition has carried it into the stomach, it is wholly beyond our control, and we are not responsible for the remainder of the process, only so far as it may be affected by error in the first stages. Bread, potatoes, and all starchy foods should be thoroughly masticated, and mingled with the saliva. Meat may be swallowed hastily, or knives may be made to do the work of the teeth in masticating animal food; but no chemist can prepare an artificial saliva to be mixed with starchy food, to save the trouble of chewing it. If a piece of dry light bread be masticated thoroughly, it will crumble and be quickly mixed with the saliva, and become sweeter the longer it is kept in the mouth. The alkaline saliva changes the starch into sugar, and begins the digestion. Try to chew a piece of hot bread and it at once assumes a pasty condition, which neither teeth nor saliva can penetrate, and is swallowed involuntarily. A piece of putty would not be more indigestible. If this experiment be tried, no other argument would be needed against the use of hot bread. The stomach carries on the second part of digestion. The presence of food excites the flow of a fluid called the gastric juicej which is secreted in large quantities in the mucous mem- brane of the stomach. At the same time the muscular coats of the stomach contract, and produce a sort of churning motion, which carries the food round and round and over and over, ex- posing all parts of it to the action of the fluid. This gastric juice is always decidedly aczJ in its nature, containing hydro- chloric acid. The lactic acid formed from the sugar in the mouth is also present in the stomach. This acid arrests the work begun in the mouth on the starchy foods, renders the alkali neutral, and acts only on albuminous food. It contains an albuminous ingredient, or ferment, called pepsin, in^aboutthe same proportion as the ptyalin of the saliva. The pepsinAll The Boston Cook Book. mixed with the lactic acid is powerful enough to dissolve all the albumen and fibrine of flesh food into albuminose, and sets free the starch, sugar, and fat, melts the fat, but does not change either. When there is an excess or deficiency of acid in the stomach, the digestion is abnormal. Pepsin is sometimes used as a remedy for dyspepsia, and is obtained from the stomachs of young, healthy pigs which are kept hungry. As all food which is to nourish the system must be converted into a fluid form, any substances which are taken in fluid form and afterward solidified in the stomach, as blood or juice of flesh, milk, and raw eggs, must be changed again to a per- manent liquid form before they can be absorbed. All nitro- genous matters are not only dissolved by the gastric fluid, but are modified so as to remain dissolved. These changed albu- minous matters are called peptones. Oil plays an important part in these changes, so that, although oil is not digested, it serves a useful purpose in passing through the stomach. The stomach would digest itself were it not protected by a sheathing of mucus and by a continual forming of cells called epithelium^ during the process of digestion. The liquid or watery portions of food enter at once into the circulation by absorption. If too much water be taken with food, it dilutes the gastric juice and retards the digestion; as all that is not needed must be absorbed before digestion can go on. Digestion is also retarded by the presence of very hot or very cold food, as everything taken into the stomach has to be changed to the normal temperature of 100°. A large amount of food overloads the stomach,' distends the muscular coats, and lessens the power of motion. Too little food is also a mistake, as the stomach needs a certain amount of bulk to work upon. Continual or irregular eating is wholly contrary to the intention of nature, since it does not allow the stomach time to rest and to form new cells to secrete digestive fluids. Flesh food that is finely minced, like hash, croquettes, and many entrees, passes rapidly through the stomach without being dissolved by the gastric juice; but when taken in larger pieces it remains long enough to be all digested. The digestive power of the stomach is weakened when there is any undue action in any other part of the body, as in great muscular exertion or in powerful excitement of the brain. Therefore we should eat sparingly at first, when fatigued by exercise or study or when unduly excited, and should rest awhile after eating.The Boston Cook Book. 474 Lactic acid, small portions of sugar and digested nitrogenous substances, pass into the blood by absorption through the stomach veins. Thus the contents of the stomach leave it in two directions: a portion is absorbed through the coats of the stomach by the process of osmose, or the passage of fluids through animal membranes; the remainder passes through the pyloric opening into the duodenum and intestines for the com- pletion of digestion. Food from the stomach enters the duode- num in an acid state, and in the intestines is mingled with three alkaline fluids, all containing soda. The pancreatic fluids secreted from the pancreas, digests the fatty matters. It breaks the large granules of oil and fat into a great many minute particles, and converts them into a milky liquid called chyle, which mixes freely with water and passes through the tissues of the intestines into the lacteals. It also changes the starch into sugar, and the sugar into lactic acid, but has very little action on albuminous substances. The bile, secreted from the liver, plays an important part in intestinal digestion, the exact nature of which is unknown. Bile is a complex liquid, consisting of biliary acid in combina- tion with soda. It certainly aids in the absorption of fat, and many suppose its purpose is to lubricate the walls of the intes- tinal canal; from its soapy consistency it effects a smooth, non- irritating passage of the contents. If there be any lack or surplus of the bile, it soon produces an injurious result in the system. The bile is in the intestines, and not in the stomach except when the action of the stomach is inverted, in nausea and vomiting; then the bile is forced up into the stomach in- stead of down into the intestines. The intestinal juice^ secreted in the mucous membrane the entire length of the intestine, combines the active and digestive powers of all the other secretions. The lactic acid is formed so rapidly from the digestion of sugar that the contents of the intestine quickly becomes acidu- lous, and this completes the digestion of any portions of nitro- genous food not fully digested in the stomach. The combined amount of the salivary, gastric, pancreatic, biliary, and intes- tinal fluids secreted daily is twenty-one pints, of which the gastric juice forms more than one half. There are mechanical aids to intestinal as well as stomach digestion. The writhing, worm-like motion, or peristaltic movement, of the muscular coats of the intestines forces the food downward, and exposes all portions of it to the digestive fluids.475 The Boston Cook Book, Notwithstanding all these powerful agents in digestion, a portion of -useful matter passes through the intestines un- changed; and if there be a deficiency of either fluid, or a weakness of the muscular coats, or too great a quantity of irri- tating substance, like cellulose, woody fibre, bran, etc., the amount is increased. This is carried, with the innutritions portion, into the larger intestine, and forms a part of the excretions. ABSORPTION. The nutritive and perfectly digested portions of food are absorbed partly by the veins of the stomach, entering at once into the circulation, and partly by the intestines. The lining membrane of the intestines folds over and over upon itself, like a ruffle, along the entire edge; this is full of little tubes, or villi, which absorb the chyle. The blood vessels absorb the nutritive elements from the villi and carry them to the veins in two ways: 1st. Through the portal vein into the liver, where it penetrates every part of the liver, then passes out through the hepatic vein into the veins near the heart; 2d. Through the lacteals, which are attached to the lining membrane of th-e intestines and empty into the thoracic duct, a tube extending along the spine, and then into the subclavian vein, which lies in the left side of the neck, under the collar bone. The veins also bring with them the lymph, — a thin colorless fluid which comes from the absorbent vessels situated all over the body, and which contains the worn-out particles. Then the venous blood, supplied from the lacteals with new material, and from the lymphatic vessels with waste materials, enters the heart through the upper door, or right auricle, passes through the valves down into the right ventricle; out through the pulmonary artery into the lungs, where, as purple venous blood, it penetrates to the most remote capillaries. If the lungs be full of pure fresh air, the oxygen changes the purple blood into red blood, and burns up the impurities. The waste products of the combustion of carbon and hydrogen are expelled from the lungs at every breath in the form of carbonic acid and watery vapor; and not until now can the new elements in the blood, obtained from the food, become in reality food, or perfect blood.476 The Boston Cook Booh This oxygenized or vitalized blood now returns from the lungs, and enters the heart through the left upper door, or left auricle; the valves open and allow it to pass into the left ventricle, then out through the aorta, or great artery, from which the arteries carry it to the capillaries all over the system. In the capillaries the new material is deposited wherever needed, and changed by cell growth into new tissue. The lymphatic vessels take up all that is not needed, with the worn-out portions; and the veins then carry this impure blood back again to the lungs and heart. Thus a continuous circulation is established, the blood coursing over the whole body once in every three to five minutes, the time varying with the amount of exercise and the state of health. During this circulation the combustible compounds are burned by the oxygen received into the blood in the lungs, the carbona- ceous products of combustion are expelled through the lungs as carbonic acid gas and watery vapor, and the nitrogenous pro- ducts through the kidneys in the form of urates. " This process of digestion and absorption is really a kind of preliminary cooking process, going on from the mouth downwards all the way to the colon; and from every part of the long canal tiny lacteals and absorbing veinlets carry off contributions of food either to the general store of chyle, or to the venous blood w^hich is hurrying back to the heart.'' NUTRITION". Albumen is the basis of all animal nutrition. This is seen in the bird's egg during incubation. Under the influence of warmth and oxygen, all the tissues, membranes, and bones are developed from albumen." In the human body a nutritious fluid is prepared from the food, and supplies materials for growth and repair. This fluid is the blood, and when examined under the microscope is found to consist of a clear colorless fluid, of a saline, alkaline, and albuminous nature, and an immense number of infinitely minute blood globules, or corpuscles. These corpuscles consist of an albuminous membrane called globulin, filled with a red coloring matter, hematine, in which there is much iron. This liquid albuminous portion of the blood must be^changed to fibrine before it can nourish the muscles of the body. TheThe Boston Cook Book. A77 change of the gluten, caseine, and all the varieties of albuminous food into fibrine is a gradual process, begun in the lacteals, con- tinued in the circulation of the blood, and completed in the lungs by the oxygen which they receive in breathing. This fibrine remains in the liquid state, owing to the alkaline nature of the blood, and is distributed by the circulation into all parts of the structure, where it gradually coagulates into a netwoi k of tough thread-like fibres, enclosing in its meshes the blood corpuscles, and is changed by cell growth into new tissue, solid flesh and bone. The nervous system is also built and repaired from albumen. Nervous matter is about seven per cent albumen, and is the material by which w^e are put into relation with the external world. By it we see, hear, feel, taste, smell, and are conscious of existence. Each elementary cell or particle of tissue, whether of bone, flesh, or nerves, seems to have a sort of gland-like power, not only of attracting materials from the blood, but of causing them to assume its structure and participate in its properties. The bones and teeth select and appropriate the phosphates of lime, and magnesia, also fluorine. The muscles and nerves take fibrine, phosphates of magnesia, and potash. The cartilages seek for soda; the hair, skin, and nails are made up of silica. Iron is needed in the coloring matter of the blood, the black pigment of the eye, and in the hair. Sulphur exists in the hair, and phosphorus in the brains. The glands of the mouth take the substances necessary to form saliva; those of the eye, the elements of tears; the coats of the stomach, gastric juice; and the liver, bile. Each part of the body has the power to select, from the common supply, the material which suits it best for building and growing. If the conversion of albumen into fibrine be incomplete, the tissues are imperfectly nourished. The formation of tubercles in the lungs is caused by half-formed cells and coagulated albu- men deposited in the lungs. This is caused by a deficiency of the oily matter, which is necessary for the perfect formation of cells and the growth of healthy tissue. Hence for these cases physicians prescribe cod-liver oil. Distilled spirits coagulate the albumen which ought to go into the blood; this prevents the proper digestion of food, and causes one of the great evils resulting from their use. The ner- vous tissue is thus deprived of nourishment, which is one of the causes of delirium tremens.47^ The Boston Cook Book. Every twinge of pain in neuralgia is the nerves cryinq* out for better blood. Imperfect digestion and assimilation of food are the chief causes of neuralgia. Nutrition, though seemingly complex, is really a simple pro- cess; albumen is changed to fibrine, and fibrine to flesh. The relation of each to the other has been aptly compared to that of the raw cotton, the spun yarn, and the woven fabric. The minute corpuscles in the blood are constantly building up the body, very much as the coral insect builds its structure. The work of each corpuscle is too small for our conception; but, taken in the aggregate, the result is the wonderful growth and renova- tion of the human body. And what is still more wonderful, every organ of the body is on the alert to keep the whole system in natural health. The activity of the vessels which remove the waste particles from the blood is untiring. The kidneys are the scavengers of the body, and stand next to the lungs in renovating it. If too much water be drunk, the kidneys, lungs, and skin carry it off, for fear that the blood should become too watery. We may cease to convey food into the body for days with no evil consequences; but let the removing organs cease operations for a single day, and disease ensues. LIFE AND MOTION.i Circulation of Water. — As a plant grows, water from the soil or air unites chemically with carbon, and forms the woody fibre of the stem, the sugar of the sap, and the starch of the seed. When the plant dies, the water is again set free from its struc- ture and passes into the air. The starch and sugar, also, which the plant yields having been consumed by some animal, the water which they contain passes into the air through the lungs and skin. Thus the same water is caused to revolve in a circle of life-sustaining combinations. Within a single hour it may be in some vegetable structure in the form of sugar; then it may pass into and circulate through some animal system and be discharged as vapor from the lungs, and afterwards become 1 This article is mainly an abstract of the chapters on the Circulation of Matter," contained in ''Johnston's Chemistry of Common Life." It is inserted here as bearing upon the general subject of food, and with the hope that all who read this will read the original.The Boston Cook Booh. 479 absorbed by thirsty leaves and aid in the growth of flowers and fruits. Circulation of Carbon. —Vegetables, which are largely starch and carbon, absorb carbonic-acid gas from the atmosphere, which contains thirty-three grains of carbon in every square inch. If the world were all dry land, and covered with dense vegetation, all the carbon would be extracted from the atmosphere in twenty- three years. This carbonic acid is restored to the atmosphere by the waste and decay of vegetable matter, by the exhalations from animals, and by combustion. The leaf of a living plant draws in carbonic acid gas from the air, and gives off the oxygen contained in it, retaining only the carbon. The roots drink in moisture from the soil; and out of the carbon and water contained in it the plant forms starch, sugar, fat, and other substances. The animal takes the starch, sugar, or fat into its stomach, and draws in oxygen through its lungs. New chemical combina- tions are thus formed, undoing the work of the plant, and send- ing back to the air, from the lungs and skin, both the starch and oxygen, in the form of carbonic-acid gas and water. The same material is constantly circulating, — now floating in invisible air, now forming the substance of the growing plant, now of the moving animal, and now diffusing itself through the air ready to go its round again. It forms part of a vegetable to-day; to- morrow it is in a man's backbone; a week hence it may have passed through another plant and into another animal. In burning coal, we cause its carbon to unite with the oxygen of the air and to disappear as carbonic acid gas. The carbon returns to the atmosphere from w^hich it may have been taken millions of years ago w^hen it was appropriated by the growing plants, which, in the form of vegetable matter, were afterwards buried beneath the surface of the earth only to reappear ages subsequently in the form of fuel. The earth itself breathes out carbonic acid, sometimes with water, sometimes alone. It sparkles in the springs of Carlsbad and Seltzer; it kills man and beast in the terrible Valley of Death " in the island of Java. In this way is supplied the loss of that which is daily buried by the shell fish and coral insects in the limestone formations and coral growths. These rocks contain, chained down in seem- ingly everlasting imprisonment, two fifths of their weight of carbonic acid. Circulation of Nitrogen. — Gluten and fibrine are distinguished from starch and fat by containing nitrogen. The nitrogen forms480 The Boston Cook Book. four fifths of the air. It exists also in ammonia, and in aqua fortis, or nitric acid. These two compound bodies exist and are found in the soil; and from the soil the nitrogen is taken up by the plants, and gluten is formed. When the animal consumes the gluten, it builds up and renews the waste of its several parts. The gluten of the plant is transformed into the flesh and tissues of the living animal. Thus the nitrogen of the soil through the plant has reached the dignity of being a part of breathing, intellectual man. Having reached this form, this restless element, nitrogen, grows weary of inactivity and moves on. Not only the living body as a whole is in constant motion, but even its minutest parts are continually active. They are like the population of a great city moving to and fro, coming and going continually, weeded out and removed every hour by deaths and departures, yet as unceasingly kept up in numbers by new in-comers, chang- ing from day to day so insensibly as to escape observation, yet so evidently that after a few years scarcely a known face can be discovered among the congregated thousands." Scarcely has the gluten of the plant been fitted comfortably to its place in the muscle, the skin, or the hair of the animal, when it begins to be dissolved again and is removed. The living animal absorbs much oxygen from the air by its lungs. One part of it converts the carbon of the food into car- bonic acid; another portion is built into the substance of the body; a large part is employed in dissolving and removing the waste in urea, uric acid, etc. This urea and uric acid return to the soil from which the nitrogen they contain originally came, and where they are reconverted into ammonia, nitric acid, and other substances, and are now ready to enter into new roots and go the rounds again. The undigested gluten is rejected in the animal droppings, mingles with the soil, and is changed to ammonia and nitric acid. The vegetables which die undergo natural decay, and again enter the soil and air as elements. Animal bodies them- selves die at last, and the nitrogen they contain is made to assume the forms in which plants are able to take it up. The ammonia and volatile compounds of nitrogen, produced by animal and vegetable decay, rise in the form of gas or vapor, and escape into the air. The rains of heaven wash the ammonia out and bring it back to the earth. Part of it is, however, resolved into elementary nitrogen, and is thus lost to plants. To make up for this loss, nitric acid is formed in the air in small quantities.The Boston Cook Booh. Thi-ough the agency of the electric currents the oxygen and nitrogen of the air unite to form nitric acid. Ammonia is given off by volcanoes, and is returned to the earth by the rains and snows. Circulation of Mineral Matter. — Everything which the animal body contains is derived, directly or indirectly, from vegetable foods; and the mineral or ash it leaves, when burned, must have come from the soil through the plant. When the animal dies, its body sooner or later returns to the soil. So we have another circle in which the earthy matter of animals and plants moves. It ascends from the soil to the plant, then to the animal, and back again to mother earth, so that it is really " dust to dust." The plant does not absorb all mineral matters, but selects the rarer and more precious materials from the soil, and such as are held in solution by water. Phosphoric acid, lime, magnesia, and saline matter, of which common salt is a representative, are the principal substances chosen. The animal eating the vegetable, these substances enter its stomach, and are dissolved and enter the blood. The vessels provided for the purpose select the re- quired material, and, like ships in commerce, sail away on the blood rivers to their destined havens. The saline portion is car- ried to the blood and tissues. The phosphate of lime goes to the bones, and phosphate of potash to the muscles. After a time the animal, partly as it wastes and finally when it dies, returns to the soil all that the plant took from it. New plants receive it, and it goes the rounds again. So, over and over again, as the modeller fashions his clay, plant and animal are formed out of the same material. Is all sense- less matter to be constantly working, and are we intelligent beings to idle away a precious but limited existence ? One should learn from this always to work for a definite purpose. How lovely is the plant in its position of bond-servant of man! How willing and interesting! It serves till death, yet rises again rejoicing as ever, when spring returns, to renew its destined toil. The least alteration in the natural constitution of things would insure the extinction of animal and vegetable life. 31482 The Boston Cook Book, RECAPITULATION. The Plant takes in, water, by its roots; carbonic acid, by its leaves; nitrogen, in the form of ammonia and nitric acid; minerals, in the form of phos- phoric acid, lime, common and other salts, from the soil. The Animal takes in, water^ starch, fat, gluten, and mineral matters, in the form of vege- table and animal food, into its stomach; and oxygen into its lungs. The Soil takes in, urea and other animal excretions, dead animals and plants. The Plant produces, oxygen^ from its leaves; sugar^ starch, gluten, and mineral matters, in its sap and solid substances. The Animal produces, car- honic acid and luater, which are exhaled from the skin and lungs; urea, phosphates, and other salts, in the excretions; the fat in the bod}^, which is in time breathed away in the form of carbonic acid; water and perfect muscle, hone, hlood, and tissues, to build and repair the body. The Soil produces, carbon in the form of wood and coal, and in spring water; ammonia, ni- tric acid, and other nitrogenous compounds; phosphoric acid, lime, common salt, and other mineral matters. So the movement is circular; the beginning is the end. A marvellous commerce appears; soil, plant, and animal commin- gling; the elements of each being at different times the elements of all, and their interchange perpetual.The Boston Cook Booh 4^3 SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS. The Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking School, which is inserted on page 495, may be helpful to those interested in establishing Schools of Cookery. Beginning with the care of a fire and the simple dishes in daily use, the course includes illustrations of every principle involved in cookery. Special attention is given to breadj soups, entrees, meats, healthful puddings, desserts, and dishes for the invalid. The course is so arranged that each lesson offers a bill of fare for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. The number of dishes prepared at each lesson should be determined by the age and ability of the pupils, and the character of the instruction desired. In some classes it is desirable to have the dishes which are prepared served at the close of the lesson; thus an opportunity is given to instruct in laying the table and serving the food. With beginners or very young pupils, it is better to teach only two or three dishes at a lesson. Taking the first lesson in the first course for an example, a practice lesson may be conducted after the following plan. Explain first the construction of the stove and the making and care of a fire. When convenient, each pupil should take the entire care of a fire for one lesson. Let the pupils become familiar with the kitchen utensils, their names, and uses. The receipts should be read, and copied, if no text-book be used, and a portion of the work assigned each pupil. After the receipts are given, one pupil should prepare the yeast, another mix the bread, another pare and put the po- tatoes to soak, and another cut the bread for croutons, and wipe and trim the chops. The tables should be so arranged that pupils may watch what others are doing while busy about their own work. The attention of the whole class should be called to the making of the bread and yeast, and each in turn should help in the kneading. After the bread and yeast are set to rise, the potatoes should be put on to boil, the soup started, and the German toast prepared and left to soak. Those who prepared the bread and yeast may lay the table. When the potatoes and484 The Boston Cook Book. soup are done, keep them hot while the chops are being cooked, the toast browned, and the coffee made. Keep the other dishes hot while the soup is being served. Let the pupils share in turn the duties of waitress and hostess. In the second lesson the teacher should have ready for baking bread mixed the night before, and also some cold boiled potatoes. While one pupil is preparing the pans for the bread, another may shape part of the dough into a loaf, and then all may assist in shaping rolls or biscuit. The blanc-mange should be pre- pared next, and put away to cool. Then the meat and potatoes chopped for the hash, and the eggs boiled in various ways. One or two eggs will be sufficient to illustrate soft- boiled eggs, and may be eaten at once. The hard-boiled eggs may be used in making scalloped eggs. The gruels may be made at any time, and tested when ready. Then start the potato soup, bake the rolls or bread, cook the fried or creamed potatoes and the hash, and while the table is being laid and the soup finished, another pupil may broil the fish. Where it is not desirable to have a lunch, or where only a few lessons are given, it is better to have each lesson devoted wholly to one subject. In a lesson on bread, several kinds of bread may be mixed, and that baked which was mixed the night be- fore. Also make soda biscuit, rye muffins, and gems or corn cake. Or arrange the lessons with reference to the principle and methods of cooking, as shown in the programme for a course of lectures. In practice classes the pupils should do all the work under the guidance of the teacher. It is not enough that the work be done for them, letting them learn by looking on. They should do for themselves, the teacher directing and explaining. It is better to run the risk of spoiling a dish than not to give the pupils a chance to try, as a failure is often the best lesson pupils can have. Then they wdll know w^hat to avoid when work- ing alone. In large classes or in a demonstration lesson, the work may all be done by the teacher with the assistance of the advanced pupils. During a lesson instruction should be given in washing dishes and in the buying and care of materials used in cooking, and the pupils should be encouraged to ask questions freely. Examine the pupils frequently in the general principles of cookery, and the nature of food materials. Although it is not necessary to memorize every receipt, yet every pupil should be sufficientlyTlie Boston Cook Book. 485 familiar with the rules to be able to make bread, soup, coffee, several kinds of puddings and dishes for invalids, and to cook a variety of meats and vegetables, without referring to a receipt. Each one should have a correct idea of proportions, that she may detect any error in a new receipt. Pupils should dress appropriately for their work, cultivate habits of neatness and order, and never be encouraged to think that any part of cooking is disagreeable or unw^orthy of their very best effort; and the teacher should have unlimited patience with all, however inexperienced or careless they may be. A COUESE OF STUDY FOE, NOEMAL PUPILS. The Uses and Classification of Food. The Composition of the Human Body. Non-Combustible Food : Water and Salts. Condiments and Beverages. Carbonaceous Food : Starch, Sugar, and Fats. Nitrogenous Food : Milk, Eggs, Fish, Meat, Cereals, and Vegetables. Cookery; Fire and Fuel. Methods of Cooking. Measuring, Mixing, and Tables of Proportions. Digestion, Absorption, Assimilation, and Nutrition. Proportion of Food and Adaptation to Climate; Occupation; Age and State of Health. Circulation of Water; Carbon, Nitrogen, and Mineral Matter.The Boston Cook Book. 486 MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS FOB EXAMINATION. [No attempt at classification has been made in preparing these questions, as every teacher can testify that questions in daily life do not come in regular order.] How should a fire be built? What is the general plan upon which every stove is constructed? How should the heat be regulated in the oven? What articles are baked on the lower part of the oven; on the grate? How is it in a set range? What is the difference between a stove and a range; between a set range and a portable range? Where is the hottest place in the oven; on the top of the stove? How do you keep a steady fire to boil anything that must be kept at the same temperature several hours? What kind of a fire should you have for broiling? How do you blacken a stove? How do you clean a stove while hot? What precautions should be taken while frying in deep fat ? How do you remove fat if spilled on a hot stove? How should meat be basted? How may you keep supplied with hot water ? How do you wash glasses; silverware; greasy dishes; egg-beaters; bread boards and bowls? How do you clean frying-pans; kettles; iron pans? What are the best kinds of ware for general cooking? How do you clean tin and granite ware? What is to be done if anything burns on while boiling? How do you clean a refrigerator? How do you sharpen a knife? What is the best knife for paring; for scraping; for turning when frying? How do you keep a sink and dishpan clean? What is a set of " hollow ware," usually sold with a stove? What is a frying-pan; Scotch bowl; griddle; gridiron; broiler; stewpan; saucepan; digester; braising-pan ; gem pan; muffin pan? What is the difference between Washington, jelly-cake, squash, and mince pie plates? What is a gravy strainer; puree strainer; squash strainer; colander? What is the difference between a bread and meat-carving knife? What is a double boiler? When is an iron spoon not to be used, or a steel knife? What is the best spoon for cake-making; for basting meat; for stirring acid mixtures? How do you measure a tablespoonful ofThe Boston Cook Book. 487 flour; a teaspoonful or half a teaspoonful of soda and cream of tartar; a cup of flour; or milk; or half a cup of butter? How do you grease a bread pan; a cake pan lined with paper; a grid- dle; a gem pan; a waffle kon? How do you make a smooth flour thickening, or a thin batter? How do you peel potatoes and pare apples to keep them from discoloring? How should potatoes be boiled; rice; macaroni; vegetables, and cereals? What are the proportions of salt and water in boiling? How do you make tea, coffee, and chocolate? Why should water be used as soon as boiled? How should milk be boiled? How do you make a white sauce; drawn butter; brown gravy? Why is meat for soup put into cold water? How do you make a stew? How do you keep pea soup from separating? How do you broil meat and fish? How do you toast bread? How do you boil eggs? How do you make boiled custard; yeast; water bread? How much yeast and flour is used to one quart of milk? How many brickloaf pans of bread will six quarts of flour make? What is the order of mixing in breakfast cakes; bread; cake? How do you know when bread is done; steak; cake; oysters? What is the proper method of frying? What is the test for frying? How should fried articles be drained? How much soda and cream of tartar for one quart of flour? Why does cold water settle coffee? Why does raw potato clarify fat? Why does milk boil more quickly than water? Why not put water in the pan with roast meat? Why do we beat eggs for cake, but not as much for custards? Why is heavy bread unwholesome? Why should starchy food be well cooked ? What is food? What is nitrogenous food? What is car- bonaceous food? What is the use of water as food? What are the minerals we take as food? Explain assimilation. What foods produce the most heat? What foods produce the most strength? Why does the Laplander eat fat? Why do the Chinese eat rice? Why do we not eat fat in summer? AVhat is the best food for laboring men; for students; for children? W^hat kinds of food contain all the necessary elements? What are saccharine foods? What are farinaceous foods? What is meat? What are the best kinds? When are they in season? What is the difference between red and white-blooded fish? What is cream? Why is whey desirable as food in sickness? What is gluten; starch? Explain the digestion of starchy foods. What chemical changes take place in bread made with yeast? Why do we beat eggs? What is cooking soda, and what is its use? What is cream of tartar, and why do we use it?488 The Boston Cook Book. What is the effect of an unusual amount of soda in cooking and upon the health? What is the use of gelatine? Why do we use condiments and flavorings? How do you make a soup; brown soup; white soup? What is the best way to cook a piece of tough meat? What is the best way to cook a neck of mutton? Why do we eat potatoes with fish? Why do we eat milk, but- ter, or eggs with rice? Why do we eat pork with beans? Why does meat putrefy and fruit decay? Why does salting preserve meat? Why does salting make meat less digestible? Why are not habitual, eaters of salt meat long-lived? Which diet is best, meat or vegetable, or a mixture of both? What are the principal beverages? What is the effect of tea on the system? What are capers; mushrooms; truffles? What is farina ; mazina; semolina? How would you select the best beef; mut- ton; poultry; fish; lobsters? Why is a stale egg lighter than a fresh one? Why do we not use hard water in cooking? Why do w^e not fry in mutton fat? What is the test for frying for different things? Why do we not fry in water? What is the effect of baking or boiling potatoes too long? What is the most important process in digestion? What are salads; en- trees? What is caramel; soy? What part of the plant is an apple; a chestnut; chocolate; a turnip; a clove; a blackberry; spinach; rhubarb; cinnamon; sugar; onion; coffee; vanilla? What are prunes? What is hoe-cake? What is the derivation of the word ** bread"? Why do we knead bread? Why do we cook our food? What were the earliest methods of cooking? What is the meaning of the term " cookery "? What is the difference between baking, roasting, broiling, sauteing, frying, braising, stewing, simmering, and boiling? What is a pot-roast? Give a rule for tomato soup. Give a rule and the exact order for making fish balls. Why is starchy food better cooked in boiling water? Correct this rule for gingerbread, write the rule in the right order, and estimate the cost: Four cups and a half of sugar, one teaspoonful of molasses, two cups of ginger^ one cup of soda, one taUespoonful of flour, one taUespoonful of butter, and one tea- spoonful of sour milk. Why does a bright tin cover keep anything hotter than a dull cover? Why does soup keep hot longer than water? Why does a kettle of water sometimes boil over? Why does water simmer before it boils? Why does cream rise to the top of milk? Why will water dissolve sugar and not oil? Why is meat tough if489 The Boston Cook Book. boiled too rapidly? Why are decayed fruits unwholesome? Why do we scald preserves when they turn sour? Why does an egg tarnish silver? What is acetic acid; citric acid; malic acid; tartaric acid; oxalic acid? What is the difference between an acid and an alkali? Why are potatoes frozen and thawed sweet? Why does hard work make us hungry? Why does exercise make U3 warmer? What is the best antidote for poison taken in the stomach? How does the white of an egg clear soup and coffee? Give a rule for yeast; plain cake; Charlotte Russe; ice-cream; pastry. What is meant by the economy of nature? What are some of the simplest rules for table etiquette? Give the order of courses at a fashionable dinner-party. Give rules for beef tea, gruels, and drinks for invalids. Give some general rules to be observed in one's own kitchen and in teaching.490 The Boston Cook Book, TOPICS AND ILLUSTRATIONS FOR LECTURES ON COOKERY. [The number of dishes demonstrated at each lecture may be varied at the discretion of the lecturer.] I. AN INTRODUCTORY TALK ON COOKERY, FIRE, STOVES, MEASURING, AND MIXING. — Omelet, White Sauce, Cauli- flower a la Creme, Fish a la HoUandaise, Cream Toast, Baked Quinces. MIXING AND BAKING; BATTERS AND DOUGHS. —French Pancakes, Cake, Ginger Drops, Caramel, Brown Sauce, Roast Duck, Olive Sauce. PASTRY AND ICES. —Plain and Puff Paste, Mince and Lemon Pies, Tarts, Cheese Straws, Sherbet. LARDING, STUFFING, AND ROASTING. — Roast Chicken, Chestnut Stuffing and Sauce, Larded Grouse, Bread Sauce, Cran- berries, Bread and Fruit Pudding, Creamy Sauce. SIMMERING, BOILING, AND STEAMING. — Soup Stock, Clear Soup, Left-over Soup, Boiled Eggs, Macaroni, Rice a la Italienne, Whole-Wheat Pudding, Foamy Sauce. STEWING, FRICASSEEING, AND BRAISING. — Mutton Stew for Two, Chicken Fricassee, Lemon Sauce, Braised Liver, Sauce Piquante, Fish Curry, Fruit Charlotte. BREAD AND SALADS. — Whole-Wheat Bread, Rolls, Gems, Twin Biscuits, Yeast, Chicken Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing, Fish Salad, Sauce Tartare. FRYING AND SAUTEING.—Potatoes, Croutons, Fried Muffins, Fritters, Fish Balls, Oysters Sauted, Rice Waffles, Orange Omelet, Cold Slaw, Boiled Dressing. BROILING. — Venison, Chops, Lobster, Ham, Flounder, Tea, Choco- late, Tutti Frutti. AN EMERGENCY DINNER. — Bisque of Lobster, or Puree of Green Peas, Chicken Croquettes, or Chicken Pilau, Stuffed Pota- toes, Spaghetti, Sardines, Apricot Pudding, Fruit-Syrup Sauce, Coffee.491 The Boston Cook Book, DISHES FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT. — Irish Moss Lemonade, Plum Porridge, Oatmeal Gruel, Beef Tea, Broiled Squab, Racahout des Arabes, Crisps, Orange Baskets, Baked Eggs, Broiled Oysters. CAKE, FROSTING, AND DESSERTS. — Sponge Cake, Snow Cake, Frosting, Pineapple Cream, Gateau de Princess Louise, Royal Diplomatic Pudding, Mock Cantaloupe. II. ECONOMICAL DISHES. —Beef Stew with Dumplings, Fish Cro- quettes, Risotti, Steamed and Baked Apple Dumplings, Lemon Sauce, Snow Balls, Roly-Poly Pudding. BREAD, ENTREES, AND ICE-CREAM. — Milk Bread, Rusk, Bunns, Raised Doughnuts, Raised Bread Cake, Devilled Lobster, Curried Lobster, Neapolitan Ice-Cream. BREAKFAST DISHES.— Raised Corn Muffins, Rice Crusts, Bacon, Clam Omelet, Creamy Omelet, Eggs a la bonne Femme, Coft'ee. LUNCH DISHES. —Bouillon, Egg Baskets, Chartreuse of Fish, Lombardy Macaroni, Cheese Cups, Cabinet Pudding, Wine Sauce. SOUPS AND RECHAUFFES. — Mullagatawny Soup, Julienne Soup, Crecy Soup, Curry of Mutton, Turkish Croquettes, Meat Porcupine. FISH AND SAUCES. —Puree of Clams, Baked Fish, Oyster Stuffing, HoUandaise Sauce, Kedgeree, Fillets of Fish with Tomato Sauce, Maryland Oysters, Crisped Crackers, DeUcate Pudding. A FAMILY DINNER. — Potato or Celery Soup, Roast Beef, York- shire Pudding, Franconia Potatoes, Brown Gravy, Creamed and Scalloped Onions, Prune Pudding. PASTRY. — Plain and Puff Paste, Squash Pie, Eccles Pie, Rissoles, Lobster Patties, Creamed Lobster. SOUPS AND SALADS. —White Soup, Favorite Soup, Ox-tail Soup, Mayonnaise Dressing, Chicken Salad, Vegetable Salad, French Dressing, Frozen Pudding. TEA DISHES. —Rye Short Cake Toast, Apricot Short Cake, Tea Oysters aux Champignons, Devilled Chicken, Chicken Fillets Broiled, Scalloped Oysters, Imperial Cream. PICNIC DISHES. —Woodlawn Chicken, Sweetbread Sandwiches, Potted Liver, Highland Eggs, Chantilly Cakes, Whitneys. DAINTIES. —Foam Omelet, Chicken Terrapin, Lambs' Tongues Braised, Sweetbreads, Polonaise Cakes, Charlotte Russe, Plom- biere, Newport Whips.492 The Boston Cook Book. MIXING AND BAKING. — Bread, Graham Muffins, Breakfast Puffs, Waffles, Eggs sur la Plat, Omelet Souffle, Baked Bass, Sauce Hollandaise. MIXING AND BAKING (continued). —Plain and Puff Paste, Mince, Squash, and Chess Pies, Bow Knots, Cupid's Wells, Sponge Cake. STUFFING, TRUSSING, AND ROASTING. —Roast Chicken with Chestnut Stuffing, Roast Birds, Stuffed Potatoes, Stuffed Eggs, Roast Oysters. BOILING AND STEAMING.— Potato Soup, Celery Soup, Potato a la Neige, Boiled Rice, Casserole of Rice and Meat, Tomato Sauce, Boiled Eggs, Apricots a la Neige, Soft Custard, Coffee. FRYING AND SAUT^:ING. — Saratoga, Parisienne, Macaroni, Lyonnaise, and French Potatoes; Fried Oysters, Scallops, and Fish; Breaded Chops, Fish Balls, Potato Croquettes, Croutons. SIMMERING AND SEASONING.— Fifteen-Minute Soup, Clear Soup, Puree of Salmon, Puree of Peas, Egg Balls, Smothered Oysters, Blanquette of Salmon, White Sauce. STEWING AND FRICASSEEING. — Veal Birds, Veal Cutlets, Rolled Flank of Beef, Chicken Fricassee, Oyster Fricassee, Com- pote of Apples. LARDING AND BRAISING.— Larded Grouse, Bread Sauce, Braised Beef, Horse-radish Sauce, Braised Calf's Heart, Sauce Piquante. BONING, BROILING, AND TOASTING.— Boned Quail on Toast, Chops en Papillote, Steak a la Maitre d'Hotel, Huitres au Lit, Fil- let of Sole, Cream Toast, Broiled Oysters. DRESSING AND GARNISHING.— Potato Salad, French Dress- ing, Chicken Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing, Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads, Chicken Croquettes, Italian Jelly, Orange Baskets. POTTING, DEVILLING, AND SCALLOPING.— Potted Ham, Scotch Eggs, Devilled Lobster en Coquille, Scalloped Meat or Fish, Sandwiches, Scalloped Apple. FROSTING, FLAVORING, AND FREEZING.— Pineapple Sher- bet, Coffee Ice-Cream, Bavarian Cream, Gold, Silver, and Water- melon Cake, Plain and Boiled Frosting.The Boston Cook Book. 493 lY. BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. —Milk Bread, Yeast, Raised Waffles, Squash Waffles, Griddle Cakes, Hominy Cakes, Broiled Meat Cakes, Hamburg Steak. NICE, IF NOT NEW, DISHES.— Baked Beans, Brown Bread, Buckwheat Cakes, Baked Indian Pudding, Steamed Apple Dump- ling, Doughnuts, Apple Fies, Whips. DISHES FOR CHILDREN AND INVALIDS. — Beef Tea, Broiled Steak, Broiled Squabs, Raw Beef Sandwiches, Oatmeal Mush and Gruel, Baked Apples, Restorative Jelly, Cocoa, Gluten and Rye Mush, Gluten Wafers, Apple and Wheat Budding, Apple Tapioca Pudding, Fruit Tapioca. A THIRTY-FOUR CENT DINNER.—Potage a la Reine, Crou- tons, Fillet of Beef, Snow Potatoes, Spaghetti, Chicken Croquettes, Lettuce Salad, Boiled Dressing, Sponge Drops, Orange Sherbet, Coffee. SOUPS AND ENTR^:ES. —White Soup, Clear Soup, Clam and Fish Chowder, Clam Croquettes, Aspic Jelly, Boned Chicken, Cranberry Sauce, Halibut a la Creme. DELICATE DESSERTS. — Charlotte Russe, Cream Cakes, Wine Jelly, Gateau de Princess Louise, Norfolk Cream, Chantilly Bas- kets, Creme Diplomate, Bombe Glac'e, WHAT TO DO WITH A FORE-QUARTER OF MUTTON. — Stuffed Mutton, Mutton Chops, Scotch Broth, Turnips a la Creme, Macaroni, Macdonald Cake, Banana Ice-Cream. BREAKFAST DISHES.— Lyonnaise and Broiled Tripe, Fricassee of Tongues and Sounds, Fried Hasty Pudding, and Oatmeal Mush, FricadiJloes, Bacon, Graham Gems, Laplanders. LUNCH AND PICNIC DISHES.— Bouillon, Parker House Rolls, Lobster en Brochette, Oj^ster Plant Croquettes, Salad Sandwiches, Gingerbread, Dutch Cheese, Pannikins, Canapees, Curried Eggs, Fried Oysters, Cold Slaw. TEA DISHES. — White Mountain and Swedish Rolls, Zephyr Cakes, Brewis, Dutch Apple Cake, Orange Short Cake, Crackers a la Creme, Welsh and Yorkshire Rarebits, Toast, Ham. ENTREES. — Puff Paste, Oysters a la Creme, Patties, Vol-au-vent, Lobster Croquettes, and Cutlets, Turkish Pilaf, Turkish Cro- quettes. DAINTY DISHES.—Potato Souffle, Eggs a la Dauphine, Sweet- breads, Orange Omelet, Orange Cake, Ornamental Frosting, Cafe Parfait, Tropical Snow.The Boston Cook Book, 494 BOOKS OF REFERENCE. Among the many valuable authorities on subjects connected with food, the following have been consulted in preparing this work. The Cook Books are named, not according to their merit, but in the order in which the author has had personal knowledge of them: — Youmans's Handbook of Household Science. Johnston's Chemistry of Common Life. Wells's Science of Common Things. Lewes's Physiology of Common Life. Gray's How Plants Grow. Dalton's Physiology. Webster's Dictionary. Food. By A. H. Church. Food for the Invalid. Family Receipt Books wdthout number; and Cook Books by Mrs. Henderson, Marion Harland, Mrs. Cornelius, Mrs. Beecher, Warne, Francatelli, Soyer, Mrs. Whitney, Miss Parloa, Mrs. Campbell, Miss Corson, Mrs. Beeton, and Mrs. Ewdng.COURSE OF INSTRUCTION AT THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL, 158>^ TREMONT STREET. FIRST COURSE. — Plain Cooking. Twelve Lessons for $12.00, including materials. First Lesson. PAGE The Making and Care of a Fire 5 Raw Potato Yeast 62 Mixing Water Bread .... 63 Tomato Soup (without Stock) . 147 Croutons 136 Boiled Potatoes 293 Mutton Chops 236 German Toast ...... 76 Coffee 115 Setting the Table and Serving . 440 Second Lesson. Baking Bread 58 Potato Soup ,146 Broiled Fish 161 Fried or Creamed Potatoes . . 294 Boiled Eggs 199 Hash 273 Flour and Indian Gruel . . 411, 412 Blanc-Mange 341 Scalloped Eggs 207 Third Lesson. Mixed Soup Stock .... 124-132 Mixing Milk Bread .... 64 Hop Yeast 63 Beef Tea .... 423 PAGE Griddle-Cakes 99 Baked Fish 165 Drawn Butter or Egg Sauce . 187 Mashed Potatoes 294 Steamed Apple Pudding ... 332 Molasses Sauce 320 Fourth Lesson. Beef Soup with Vegetables . . 132 To Clarify Fat 18 To Try out Lard 249 Baking Milk Bread .... 58 Baked Potatoes 295 Broiled Steak 223 Broiled Meat Cakes .... 223 Custards: Baked, Boiled, or Steamed 342-344 Cookies or Ginger Snaps . 385-388 Fifth Lesson. Beef Stew with Dumplings . . 225 Graham Bread 66 Scalloped Meat or Fish . 274, 169 Brown Gravy 191 Poached Eggs on Toast . . . 199 Short Cakes 84 Gingerbread 388 Tea Ill49^ The Boston Cook Book. tblXtil IjQSSOTI, PAGE PAGE Rolls, or Milk Toast 78 t o Baking Graham Bread . . . 66 Raw Beef Sandwiches 424 . 91 Cake 376 Fish Balls or Fish Hash . . 171 Indian Pudding .... 338 . 165 . 296 Tenth Lesson. . 200 220 . 118 280 . 86 308 . 328 Onions, Parsnip, or Cabbage 301, 305 . 413 Stewed Apple Sauce . . 394 109 Seventh Lesson. 394 . 155 90 . 230 Jiilevent/i JLiesson, Oyster Soup or Stew . . 153 84, 95 179 270 . 328 Cold'Slaw ..... 311 . 65 93 Apple Tapioca Pudding . 333 Eighth Lesson. Lemon or Wine Jelly . . 349 65 . 249 Twelfth Lesson. Veal Cutlets 240' Brewis or Doughnuts . . . 77,104 Roast or Fricassee Chicken 257, 258 . 70 306 323, 325 Squash or Turnip . . . 304, 308 Apple and Toast Water . . . 419 92 . 304 294 182 Ninth Lesson. 310 140 Custard Souffld, Creamy Sauce, . 246 331 329 . 299 Steamed Suet Pudding, or Snow . 300 339, 347 SECOND COURSE. — Richer Cooking. Twelve Lessons for $12.00, including materials. First Lesson. Lyonnaise Potatoes . . 294 Coffee . 115 Broiled Beefsteak, with Maitre Oatmeal, Hominy, or Crushed d'Hotel Butter . . . . 223, 195 Wheat with Baked Apples . 109 Egg Vermicelli, or Curried . 293 206, 205The Boston Cook Booh 497 PAGE PAGE Hominy Drop Cakes, or Rice 71 Griddle-Cakes, or Soda Bis- 344 94, 100 , 83 Caramel Sauce 330 Frizzled Beef, or Tongues and Lettuce Salad 312 272, 173 Boiled Dressing .... Gluten Wafers .... 310 97 Second Lesson. Mutton Cutlets Breaded, with Sixth Lesson, Tomato Sauce . . . . 236, 194 Braised Beef, or Beef a la 296 Mode . 224 225 Parisienne Potatoes . . 296 Potato Balls 294 201 Onions, or Cabbage Baked . 301 302 Fried Rye Muffins . . . 104 147 98 87 98 Custard Souffle .... 337 118 329 Rice Souffle, or Bird's-Nest Third Lesson, Pudding, or Orange Short 63 Cake 336, 333, 86 63 Parker House Rolls . . 64 Seventh Lesson. '[11 152 Smothered Oysters . . 176 168 179 190 203 Meat Rechauffe, or Curried 208 . 273, 183 246 Tea .... 111 Apple or Lemon Pie . . 325 Cream Cakes, or Friars' Omelet 389, Fourth Lesson, 334 Stock for Clear Soup . . 130 Flannel Cakes, or White Moun- Fried or Broiled Fish . . . 165, 161 . 99, 72 194 Gluten Mush .... 415 280 Fish Balls 1/1 Eighth Lesson, 101 148 Macaroni or Spaghetti 307 136 Fried Oysters or Scallops .178, 181 220 Apple Meringue . . . 333 Franconia Potatoes . . 295 373 Yorkshire Pudding . . 221 305 Fifth Lesson, 296 129 Danish Pudding, or Gelatine Egg Balls and Forcemeat Balls 136 342, 346 134 281 Potatoes a la Maltre d'Hotel . 295 423 Baked Fish, with Sauce Hol- Irish Moss Lemonade . . 420 . 164, 194 32498 The Boston Cook Book. Ninth Lesson. PAGE Mutton Broth 141 Stuffed Leg of Mutton . . . 233 Currant Jelly Sauce .... 191 Turkish Pilaf 283 Turnips in White Sauce, or Cauliflower 305, 301 Tea Rolls 89 Tapioca Cream, or Scalloped Apple 345,331 Crackers a la Creme .... 283 Panada 414 Cream Pies 375 Tenth Lesson. Cream of Celery Soup . . . 147 Roast Chicken, or Chicken Curry or Fricassee . . 257, 258 Boiled Rice , 306 Cranberry Sauce . .... 395 Potatoes 293 Spider Corn Cake, or Squash Waffles 92, 102 Gold and Silver Cake .... 379 Plain Frosting 381 Snow Pudding, or Apple Snow- balls 347, 335 Eleventh Lesson. PAGE White Soup 144 Chicken Croquettes .... 279 Potted Pigeons, or Broiled Squabs 262, 260 Apple Fritters 107 Graham Gems 95 Lady Fingers 374 Sponge Drops 374 Charlotte Russe 354 Orange or Wine Jelly ... 350 Chicken Custard 426 Plum Porridge 411 Twelfth Lesson. Puff Paste ....... 316 Squash or Custard Pie . . . 325 Oyster Patties 319 Raspberry Tarts 319 Creamed Oysters 177 Creamed Lobster 183 Lobster Salad 315 Mayonnaise Dressino^ .... 311 Tea Cakes, or Cream Muffins . 89 Ice-Cream or Sherbet . . . 362, 368 THIRD COURSE.— Fancy Cooking. Twelve Lessons for $15.00; materials extra, ^3.00 to SB.00. First Lesson. Second Lesson. 131 Amber Soup or Consomme . . 131 63 72 65 Corn Meal Puffs 93 295 Smelts a la Tartar, or Fillets of Twm Biscuit, or Breakfast Bass or Flounders . . .165 161 Fried Oysters or Scallops . . 178 Coffee 115 Potatoes, Saratoga and Parisi- 79 296 Broiled Fillets of Beef, or 118 Chops en Papillote, or Broiled Rice Croquettes, or Bavarian Chicken, or Devilled Chicken 223, Cream 281 356 236 260 Silver or Cornstarch Cake . . 380 384The Boston Cook Book. 499 Third Lesson. PAGE White Soup from Veal . . . 143 Veal Birds 275 Casserole of Rice or Potato . . 274 Veal Croquettes, or Oysters and Mushrooms in Crust 279, 178 Spinach 296 Hominy or Turkish Croquettes 281 Wonders, or Henriettes . . . 106 Pigs in Blankets 178 Creme Diplomate 358 Orange Omelet, or Sweet Omelet, or Omelet Souffle 202, 203 Fourth Lesson. Potage a la Reine 144 Chicken Croquettes, or Blan- quette of Chicken, or Chicken Souffle 279, 268, 276 Scotch Eggs, or Stuffed Eggs 207, 206 Breakfast Rolls or Waffles . . 98 Cauliflower a la Creme . . . 301 Potted Meat, or Salmis of Game 277, 270 Rice and Apricot Pudding . . 336 Sardine Sandwiches .... 273 Apple or Orange Charlotte . . 348 Fifth Lesson. Potato Soup 146 Fillet of Beef with Mushrooms, or Fricandeau of Veal, or Roast Duck with Olives 222, 240, 261 Potatoes 296 Bread 66 Vegetables 300-306 Sponge Cake 373 Snow Pudding, or Baked Plum Pudding 347, 338 Macedoine of Fruits, or Orange Baskets 350, 351 Sixth Lesson. Puff Paste 316 Patties and Rissoles . . . 319, 321 Chess Pie 324 Mince Pie 326 PAGE Puff Paste Plaits 322 Cupid's Wells 320 Bow-Knots 321 Vol-au-vent 321 Cheese Straws 322 Cakes a la Polonaise .... 321 Canellons. See Explanation of Terms used in Cookery. Fanchonnettes 327 Seventh Lesson. Oysters on Ice 176 Larded Grouse, Bread Sauce . 262 Egg Salad, or Eggs in Cases . 209 Oyster Salad, or en Coquille . 177 Fried Celery, Parsnip, or Salsify 107 Cheese Souffle \ 282 Creme Frete, or Cinci . . 282, 106 Eclairs 389 Charlotte Russe, or Gateau St. Honors 354, 359 Egg Souffle in Cases .... 337 Eighth Lesson. Puree of Salmon 152 Salmon Cutlets, or Broiled Birds, or Birds in Potato Cases 280, 263 Braised Pigeons with Spinach, or Tongue in Jelly . . . 262, 230 Royal Diplomatic Pudding . . 358 Parisienne Souffle 344 Kisses,Meringues,or Macaroons 389, 390 Apple Snow, or Floating Island 345, 343 Ninth Lesson. Bisque of Lobster 152 Chicken in Aspic Jelly . . . 267 Scalloped Lobster en Coquille . 183 Cream Muffins 89 Welsh Rarebit, or Sardine Cana- pees 282, 283 Cabinet Pudding, or Eve's Pud- ding, or Orange Souffle . 339, 333, 344 Chocolate Caramels, or Cocoa- nut Cakes 390500 The Boston Cook Booh. Tenth Lesson. PAGE Stock for Mock Turtle Soup . 137 Braised Calf's Heart or Liver , 231 French Potatoes 295 Asparagus, or Spinach . . 297, 296 Quails on Toast...... 263 Chartreuse of Chicken . . . 269 Cake 376-382 Boiled Icing 384 Sherbet 368 Quaking Custard, or Tropical Snow 346, 393 Eleventh Lesson. Devilled Lobster or Crab . 183, 184 Shrimps en Coquille, or Mush- rooms 184, 303 Lobster Cutlets, or Lobster Cro- quettes, or Crimped Cod . 280,170 BEEF ESSENCE. Stewed 423 Bottled 423 Broiled 423 Eaw Beef Sandwich .... 424 BEEF TEA. Stewed 423 Bottled ........ 423 Broiled 423 . Broiled Steak 624 MUSHES. Graham 415 Indian 415 Gluten 415 Rye 415 Oatmeal 414 Hominy 109 Cracked Wheat 109 Granulated Wheat 109 Prepared Flour 428 Racahout des Arabes .... 427 PAGE Harlequin Cake 381 Orange Cake 377 Ornamental Frosting .... 384 Dominoes, or Madelines . . . 379 Ice-Cream, or Bombe Glacd . 363, 367 Twelfth Lesson. Sweetbreads with Peas . . . 243 Sweetbreads in Cases .... 243 Sweetbread Croquettes . . . 279 Salads 310-315 Mayonnaise Dressing .... 311 Sweetbreads with Mushrooms . 243 Strawberry Charlotte .... 355 Gateau de Princess Louise . . 360 Frozen Pudding, or Tutti Frutti, 366, 365 Cafd Parfait, pr Frozen Apri- cots 365, 367 GRUELS. Flour 411 Arrowroot 411 Cornstarch 411 Rice Flour 411 Indian Corn 412 Barley 412 Oatmeal 413 Cracker 413 Egg 413 Plum Porridge 411 JELLIES. Sago 416 Tapioca 416 Rice Flour 415 Calves' Feet 417 Beef 418 Chicken 418 Orange 350 Wine 350 Lemon 349 Restorative 416 NURSES' COURSE. Twelve Lessons for $5.00. First Lesson.The Boston Cook Book. 501 Second Lesson. DRINKS* TOAST. PA.GE PAGE . Ill . 115 Water . . . . » . . . . 78 . 118 . 117 . IIT Egg . 419 . 283 419 . 425 Egg Tea . 425 OYSTERS. . 419 . , 179 . 424 . . 176 . 419 . 419 . 420 . 419 . . 175 420 . 420 Flaxseed Lemonade . . . . 420 Irish Moss Lemonade . . . 420 . 419 Third Lesson, EGGS. . . 296 199 . 199 . 200 CUSTARDS. . 203 Boiled ....... . 342 . 201 . . 342 . 206 Cup . 342 Baked . . . 342 POTATOES. . , 426 . 292 . . 347 . 294 348 . 293 Orange Sponge .... . . 348 "Ralvpd , 295 Souffle . 295 Fourth Lesson. Mutton Broth, with Rice or Bar- . . 65 ley . 141 . . 97 Boiled Rice, Spinach or Aspara- . . 64 296, 297 . . 345 Vegetables, in White Sauce . 305$02 The Boston Cook Booh PAGE PAGE Bird's-Nest Pudding • . . 337 335 Baked Apples . 394 333 Apple Sandwicli . . . • . 331 Apple and Wheat Pudding . . 331 Fifth Lesson. . 27 357 Broiled Birds or Chops . . . 426 Crackers and Orange Marma- . 341 427 . 427 354 . 427 OOO . 426 368 Potato or Vegetable Soups . 146-150 367 Bread and Rolls . . . . 65-70 351 Stewed Prunes . 395 Sixth Lesson. Eoast Beef, or Roast Mutton or 374 Roast Chicken . . 220, 233, 257 88 . 258 95 Sweetbreads, or Venison Steak, 389 or Salmon Steak . . 243, 263,161 Italian Cream, or Bavarian . 307 356 Broiled Breast of Chicken . . 260 363EXPLANATION OF TERMS USED IN COOKEBY. Agneau. Lamb. A la, au, aux. With ; as, huitres aux champignons, oysters with mush- rooms. Dressed in a certain style ; as, Smelts d la Tar tare, with Tartare sauce. A I'Aurore. A white sauce colored pink with the spawn of lobster. A la bonne Femme. Of the good house- wife. A I'Estragon. With tarragon. A la Neige. In snow. A la Poulette. Meat or fish warmed in a white sauce with yolks of eggs. A la Heine. Of the queen. AHemande. A thick white sauce made with cream and the yolks of eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Almond. A nut grown in Southern Eu- rope. It consists of a stone fruit, the fleshy pericarp of which dries in ripen- ing, and forms a hard tough covering to the stone. Bitter almonds are obtained from Morocco. They contain prussic acid, and are poisonous. The sweet almonds include the Jordan and Valen- cia varieties. The Jordan almonds, imported from Malaga, are long and narrow, and are considered the best. Angelica. A plant, the stems of which are preserved in syrup, and used for decorating pastry, etc. Anguilles. Eels. Apricot. A stone fruit cultivated in temperate and tropical climates. The skin has a highly perfumed flavor. Asperges. Asparagus. Aspic Jelly. A transparent jelly made with stock, and used for garnishing. Au Beurre roux. With browned butter. Au vert Pie. With sweet herbs. Aux Cressons. With watereresses. Aux Bognons. With kidneys. Bain Marie. A shallow open vessel filled with hot water, in which smaller dishes containing soups and sauces may be placed and kept warm without fur- ther cooking until serving-time. Barm. The scum from fermented malt liquors, used as yeast. Baron of Beef. The two sirloins not cut down the back. Formerly a favorite dish in England. Baron of Lamb. The entire loin, not divided at the backbone, with the upper part of both legs. Basil. An herb having a perfume like that of cloves, used as seasoning. Bavaroise. Bavarian. Bay Leaves. The leaves of the cherry- laurel tree. Becasses. Woodcock. Bechamel. A white sauce made with stock and cream, named from a cele- brated cook. Beignet. A fritter. Beurre noir. Browned butter. Bisque. A shell-fish soup. Blanch. To parboil, to scald vegetables, nuts, etc., in order to remove their hulls or skins. Blanquette. Any white meat warmed in a white sauce thickened with eggs. Bouchees. Patties. Boeiif. Beef. Bouillabasse. Several kinds of fish boiled quickly, and highly seasoned with onion, orange peel, safFron, oil, etc. Bouille. Broth made from beef. Bouilli. Beef stewed, generally in one large piece, and served with a sauce. Bouquet, or Fagot, of Herbs. A sprig of each of the herbs used in seasoning, rolled up in a spray of parsley and tied securely.504 The Boston Cook Book. Braising. Stewing in a covered pan, with heat applied both below and above. Brawm. Head cheese. Bretonne. A pur^e of red onions. Brioche Baste. Cakes made with yeast. Broche. A spit. Brochette. A skewer. Brunoise. A brown soup or sauce. Bubble and Squeak. A dish of vegetable hash and meat. Buttock, A round of beef. Cafe au Bait. Coffee with hot milk. Cafe noir. Black coffee. Caille. Quail. Calipash. The glutinous meat of the upper shell of the turtle. Calipee. The glutinous meat of the under shell of the turtle. Canard. Duck. Canellons. Puff paste baked round a form of cardboard, shaped like a cane. Cannelon of Meat, Minced and highly seasoned meat, baked in the form of a large roll. Capers. Unopened buds of a low trail- ing shrub grown in Southern Europe. Pickled and used in sauces. Capon. A chicken castrated for the pur- pose of improving the quality of the flesh. Caramel. A syrup of burnt sugar, named after Count Caramel, who discovered what is called the seventh degree of cooking sugar. Cardoon. A vegetable resembling the artichoke. Casserole. A mould formed of rice or potato, and filled with a r(5chauffe. Champigyions. Mushrooms. Charlotte. A preparation of cream or fruit, formed in a mould, lined with cake or fruit. Chartreuse. A preparation of game, fillets, etc., moulded in jelly and sur- rounded by vegetables. Invented by the monks of the monastery of Char- treuse as a convenient way of disguising meat. Chervil. The leaf of a European plant used as a salad. Chetney. A hot acid sauce made from apples, tomatoes, raisins, cayenne, gin- ger, garlic, shalots, salt, sugar, lemons, and vinegar. Chillies. Red peppers. Chine. A piece of the backbone of an animal, with the adjoining parts cut for cooking. Usually applied to pork. Chou-fleur. Cauliflower. Citric Acid. The acid of the citron family, lemons, oranges, etc. Citron. The rind of a fruit of the lemon species preserved in sugar. Cochineal. Coloring matter made from the dried bodies of insects found in Mexico, where they feed on a species of the cactus. CocJc-a-leeJcie. A soup used in Wales, made from fowls and leeks. To Collar. To cure meat in a spiced brine. Collops. Meat cut in small pieces. Compote. Fruit stewed in syrup. Confitures. Preserves. Consomme. Very rich stock. Coriander. A plant cultivated for its tender leaves, which are used in soups and salads and in making curry powder. Cornichons. Pickles. Cotelettes. Cutlets. Coulis. A rich brown gravy. Cr^me Brulee. Browned sugar or cara- mel with cream. Creole, A la. With tomatoes. Crecettes. Shrimp. Crimp. To cause to contract, or render more crisp, as the flesh of a fish by gash- ing it, while living, with a knife. Croquettes. A preparation of mince with a bread-crumbed coating, and cooked till crisp. Croustade, A kind of patty of bread or prepared rice. Crouton. A sippet of fried or toasted bread. Crumpet. Raised muflans baked on a griddle. Cuen de Bcevf. Ox-tails. Currants. Dried currants are small black grapes, named from Corinth, where they are grown. Curries. Stews of meat or fish, seasoned with curry powder and served with rice. Curry Powder. A mixture of turmeric, coriander seed, pepper, ginger, carda- mons, cumin seed, caraway, and cay- enne. De, d' Of; as, filet de bceuf fillet of beef.The Boston Cook Booh 505 Desosser. To bone. Dinde. Turkey. JSn Coquille. Served in shells. £71 Papillote. In papers. Endive. A plant of the Composite family, used as a salad. Entrees. Small made dishes served with the first course at an elaborate dinner. Entremets. Second-course side dishes, including vegetables, eggs, and sweets. Espagnole. A rich brown sauce, the ^foundation of most brown sauces. Epinards, Spinach. Eperlans. Smelts. Faisan. Pheasant. Eanchonnettes and Florentines. Small pastries covered with a meringue. Farcie. A kind of force-meat or stufiing. Fausse Tortue. Mock Turtle. Feuilletage. Puff paste. Fillets. Pieces of meat or fish, generally rolled and tied. Financi^re. A rich brown sauce, with wine and mushroom catchup. Finnan Haddoclc. Haddock smoked and dried, named from Findhorn in Scotland, where they are obtained in perfection. Flaus, DarioleSf and Mirlitons. French cheese cakes. Foie. Liver. Fondue. A preparation of melted cheese. Fowl d la Marengo. A fowl browned in oil, and stewed in rich stock, seasoned with wine. Eaten and approved by Napoleon after the battle of Marengo. Fraise. Strawberry. Fricandeau. Meat larded and browned, and stewed in stock, or baked and covered with glaze. Fricassee. A stew in which the meat is first fried slightly. Fromage. Cheese. Gdteau. A cake. Gaiifres. WaflSes. Gelee. Jelly, Genevese Sauce. A white sauce made with white stock, highly seasoned with herbs, spices, mushrooms, lemon, and wine, and served with salmon or trout. Glace. Covered with icing. Glaze. Stock boiled down to a thin paste. Gratins, Dishes of game, fish, or vege- tables, served in a rich sauce. Grilled. Broiled. Groseilles. Currants. Haggis. A preparation of the heart, tongue, and liver of sheep. Haricot. A small bean; a bit. A stew in which the meat and vegetables are finely divided. Homard. Lobster. Hors-d^o&uvres. Relishes. Huitres. Oysters. Jamhon. Ham. Jardiniere. A mixed preparation of vegetables stewed in their own sauce ; a garnish of various vegetables. Kippered. Dried or smoked. Kromeskies. Minces of meat or fish dipped in fritter batter, and fried crisp. Laitue Lettuce. Lardoon. The piece of salt pork or bacon used in larding. Lentils. A variety of the bean tribe used in soups, etc. Lit. A layer. Articles in thin slices placed in layers, with seasoning or sauce between. Macedoine. A mixture of fruit moulded in jelly. Madeline. A kind of pound cake, Maigre. Dishes for fast days, made with- out flesh. Maitre d'Hotel. Master of the hotel. Malic Acid. The acid of apples, partially changed to sugar as apples ripen and into a bitter principle as they decay. Majina Kroup. A flour made from wheat and rice, sometimes mixed with saffron and yolk of egg. Maraschino. A kind of brandy. Marinade. A pickle for boiling meat or fish in. Marinate. To pickle or to sprinkle with a French dressing. Matelote. A rich stew, made of fish, and flavored with wine.The Boston Cook Booh. Mayonnaise. Cold sauce, or salad dress- ing. Menu. A bill of fare. Meringue. A kind of icing made of white of egg and sugar well beaten. Mi-Careme. Dishes used in mid-Lent. Mignonnette Pepper. Peppercorns ground coarsely. Miroton, Pieces of meat cut larger than collops, for a stew or ragout. Morel. A species of mushroom. Morue. Codfish. Mouton. Mutton. Nectarine. A variety of the peach, hav- ing a smooth skin. Nougat. A mixture of almonds and sugar. Nouilles. A kind of vermicelli. Noyau. A cordial. (Eufs. Eggs. Ognon. Onions. Oxalic Acid. The acid in sorrel and rhubarb. Panais. Parsnips. Paner. To cover with bread crumbs. Panure. Any entree that is bread- crumbed. Pate aux Choux. Cream-cake paste, so called because when baked it resembles a head of cabbage. Pate de Foie gras. A pie of fat livers. Perdreux. Partridge. Persillade of Fish. With parsley. Petits Pants. Little bread. Petits Pois. Pease. Pigeonnaux. Squab. Pimento. Allspice or Jamaica pepper. Pistachio, A pale greenish nut re- sembling the almond. Potlee. Stock used instead of water for boiling poultry, sweetbreads, etc. Poisson. Fish. Pommes. Apples. Pommes de Terre. Potatoes. Pot-au-feu. The stock pot. Potage. A soup. Poulet. A chicken. Puree. A thick soup rubbed through a sieve. Quenelle. A delicate force-meat used in entries. Ragout. A highly seasoned stew flavored with wine. Ramakins. A preparation of cheese and puff paste or toast, baked or browned. Ratijias. Almond cakes. A kind of liquor flavored with nuts. Rechauffe. Anything warmed over. Removes, or Releves. The roasts or prin- cipal dishes. Ris de Veau. Sweetbread. Rissoles. Small shapes of puff paste filled with some mixture, and fried or baked. Or balls of minced meat, egged and crumbed, and fried till crisp. Rizotta. Rice. Rognons. Kidneys. Roux. Thickening made with butter and flour. Salmi. A stew or hash of game. Savoy Calces, Naples Biscuits. Lady Fingers. Sauce Piquante. An acid sauce. Saute. Fried in very little fat. Scones. Scotch cakes of meal or flour. Semona, or Semolina. Same as Manna Kroup. Shalot. A variety of onion. Souhise Sauce. A puree of white onions named after Prince Soubise. Souffle. A very light pudding or omelet. The name means " puffed up." Soy. A Japanese sauce prepared from the seeds of Dolichos Soja. It has an agreeable flavor and a clear brown color. Used to color soups and sauces. Stock. The essence extracted from meat. Sultanas. White or yellow seedless grapes, grown in Corinth. Tamis. A sieve or fine strainer cloth. TarrOtgon. An herb, the leaves of which are used as seasoning and in flavoring vinegar. Tendrons de Veau. The gristles from the breast of veal stewed in stock, and served as an entree. Toad in the Hole. A dish of cold meat baked in a batter of milk, eggs, and flour. Tourte. A tart. Truffles. A species of fungi growing in clusters some inches below the soil, and having an agreeable perfume, which is easily scented by pigs, who are fond of507 The Boston Cook Book. them, and by dogs trained to find them. They are found abundantly in France, but are not subject to cultivation. Used in seasoning and garniture. Truite. Trout. Vanilla. The fruit of a Mexican plant. Pure vanilla beans are from seven to nine inches long, soft, oily, flexible, can easily be wound over the finger, and when cut have a frosted appearance. The seeds are so fine as to be hardly dis- cernible. An ounce contains seven or eight beans, and costs $150. Veau. Veal. Veloute. A smooth white sauce. Vin (Au). With wine. Vinaigrette Sauce. With acid wine or vinegar. Vol-au-vent. A crust of very light puflf paste, filled with oysters or chickens, warmed in a cream sauce, or filled with fruit. ADDENDA. Barbecue. To roast any animal whole, usually in the open air. Gumbo. A dish of food made of young capsules of okra, with salt and pepper, stewed and served with melted butter. Gumbo Filet Powder. Made from the tender young leaves of the sassafras, picked in the spring, and dried care- fully in the shade like any herb. Powdered fine and bottled tight. Used in New Orleans. Kohl Cannon. Boiled potatoes and cab- bage, minced together, and seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. OJcra. The green mucilaginous pods of an annual plant, used in the South for soups and pickles. Pof-Pourri. A mixture of minced cooked meat and vegetables. A mixture of fruits and sugar.LIST OF UTENSILS NEEDED IN A COOKING-SCHOOL. EARTHEN, CHINA, AND GLASS WARE. 2 2-qiiart Pitchers. 2 quart Pitchers. 2 pint Pitchers. 2 large oval Baking-Dishes. 2 small oval Baking-Dishes. 2 large round Baking-Dishes. 2 small round Baking-Dishes. 1 8-quart Bowl. 2 6-quart Bowls. 4 4-quart Bowls. 2 2-quart Bowls. 4 quart Bowls. 4 pint Bowls. 4 half-pint Bowls. 6 half-pint Kitchen Cups. 12 Baking-Cups for Pop-Overs. 12 Custard Cups. 2 small oval Platters. 2 medium oval Platters. 2 large oval Platters. 4 shallow Pie-Plates. 4 deep Pie-Plates. 2 Blanc-Mange Moulds. 2 Stone Jugs. 2 2-gallon Stone Jars. 2 gallon Stone Jars. 1 deep Pudding-Pot. 1 Bean-Pot. 1 Teapot. Table Dishes as required. 1 Glass Rolling-Pin. 1 dozen quart Mason's Jars. 1 dozen pint Mason's Jars. WC 1 Wash-Board. 1 large Bread-Board. 1 medium Bread-Board. 1 hard-wood Meat-Board. 1 Meat-Block. 1 large oval Chopping-Tray. 1 small round Chopping-Tray. 1 Potato-Masher. 1 Mortar and Pestle. 1 Potato-Slicer, 1 Water-Pail. 1 Scrubbing-Pail. WARE. 2 Pails for Refuse. 1 -Knife-Box. 1 Cover for Flour-Barrel. 1 Coffee-Mill. 1 gallon Tce-Cream Freezer. 1 Wooden Mallet. 1 Ice-Pick. 2 Butter-Paddles. 2 Butter-Moulds. 2 plain Wooden Spoons. 2 perforated Wooden Spoons. 4 small Wooden Spoons.509 The Boston Cook Book. 4 Wooden Knives. 2 Brooms. 1 Whisk-Broom. 1 Crumb Pan and Brush. 2 small Pastry-Brushes. 2 small Scrubbing-Brushes. 1 Scrubbing-Brush for Floor. 1 Stove Blacking-Brush. 1 Stove Polishing-Brush. 2 Dust-Brushes. 1 long-handled Mop. 1 Knife-scouring Box. 1 Egg-Basket. 1 large Market Basket. 1 small Market Basket. 1 hard-wood Rolling-Pin. 2 Nests of Boxes. 2 Nests of Buckets. Spice-Boxes. 2 Dish-Mops. 1 Sink-Scraper. 2 Wash-Tubs. Meat-Squeezer. 1 Lemon-Squeezer. Refrigerator. 1 2-quart Double Boiler. 1 6-quart Covered Kettle. 1 4-quart Covered Kettle, 1 2-quart Covered Kettle. 1 2-quart Saucepan. 1 quart Saucepan. 2 pint Saucepans. 2 half-pint Saucepans. E WARE. 2 round 4-quart Pans. 2 round 3-quart Pans. 2 round 2-quart Pans. 2 oval Pans. 1 6-quart Preserving-Kettle. 1 3-quart Preserving-Kettle. 1 Hand-Basin. IRON WARE. Range with Hot Closet and Water Tank. 1 double-lipped Spider. 1 Griddle. 1 Dish-Kettle. 1 Teakettle. 1 Dripping-Pan for Meat. 1 Dripping-Pan for Fish. 1 large French Fry-Pan. 1 small French Fry-Pan. 1 Scotch Bowl. 2 Gem-Pans. French-Roll Pan. 1 Soup Digester^ or 1 2-gallon Iron Pot, tight Cover. 1 6-quart Enamelled Kettle. 1 Enamelled oval Kettle for Fish and Ham. 1 Waffle-iron. Salamander. Scales. 3 Fiat-Irons. Clock. Thermometer. 6 Kitchen Knives. 6 Kitchen Forks. 2 Vegetable-Knives. 1 Carving-Knife. 1 Bread-Knife. 1 Palette-Knife 1 Chopping-Knife. 1 French Vegetable-Knife. 1 Meat-Fork. 1 Pie-Fork. 1 Meat-Saw. Meat-Hammer. 1 Meat-Cleaver. 1 Can-Opener. 1 Boning-Knife. 2 large Wooden - handled Iron Spoons. 2 medium Wooden - handled Iron Spoons. 2 small M'^ooden - handled Iron Spoons. 6 Iron Tablespoons.The Boston Cook Book. 5IO 6 common Teaspoons. 2 Ivory Saltspoons. 1 Set Steel Skewers. 1 Set Larding-Needles. Paste-Jagger. 1 Griddle-Spade. 1 Galvanized Iron Lemon-Squeezer. 1 Galvanized Iron Meat-Rack. TIN AND 1 large Grater. 1 Nutmeg-Grater. 1 Apple-Corer. 1 Pepper-Box. 1 Flour-Dredger. 1 Sugar-Dredger. 1 Salt-Dredger. 1 Spice-Box. 1 large-mouthed Tunnel. 1 small Tunnel. 1 large Tin Teakettle. 1 small Tin Teakettle. Ice-Cream Moulds. Ice-Cream Packing-Cans. 1 small Oil-Can. 1 Wire Broiler for Steak. 1 Wire Broiler for Fish. 1 fine Broiler for Toast. 1 Wire Soap-Dish. 1 Wire Potato-Masher. 1 Wire Spoon. 1 Wire Egg-Whisk. 1 Wire Frying-Basket. 1 fine Wire Strainer. 1 large Dover Egg-Beater 1 small Dover Egg-Beater. 1 Flour-Sifter. 1 Extension Wire Strainer. 1 Pur(?e Sieve. 1 Taper Soup-Strainer. 2 Gravy Strainers. 2 small Strainers, 2 double-handled Strainers. 1 8-inch Squash-Strainer. 1 4-inch Squash-Strainer. 1 Colander. 1 Wire Dish-Cloth. 2 large Dish-Pans. 2 medium Dish-Pans. 2 small Dish-Pans, for Flour. 2 4-quart Milk-Pans. 2 2-quart Milk-Pans. 1 6-quart Covered-Pail. IRE WARE. 1 4-quart Covered-Pail. 1 2-quart Covered-Pail. 1 Quart Measure. 6 half-pint Measure Cups. 3 Tin Scoops, three sizes. 1 4-quart Double Boiler. 1 2-quart Double Boiler. 1 quart Double Boiler. 1 Teakettle Boiler. 1 Steamer. 1 plain Pudding-Boiler. 1 lluted Rice Boiler. 1 Brown-Bread Mould. 1 large Melon Mould. 1 small Melon Mould. 2 quart fanc}' Moulds. 2 pint fancy Moulds. 2 2-quart plain oval Moulds. 2 3-pint plain oval Moulds. 2 quart plain oval Moulds. 2 pint plain oval Moulds. 2 half-pint plain oval Moulds. 1 4-6-quart Mould for Boned Turkey. 1 3-quart Mould for Boned Chicken. Meat-Pie Moulds. 6 small Charlotte Moulds. 6 Shell Scallop Tins. 1 dozen small Tins for Cakes. 6 Scallop Patty Tins. 6 small fancy Tins. 2 6-holed Muffin Pans. 1 dozen Muffin Rings. 1 Cake-Trunk. 1 Cracker-Trunk. 1 Whip-Churn. 1 2-quart Coffee-Pot. 1 quart Coffee-Pot. 1 Wash-Boiler. 2 Dust-Pans. 2 plain round Cutters, 2 sizes. 2 plain oval Cutters. 1 Doughnut-Cutter. 1 small Biscuit-Cutter.The Boston Cook Book. 1 large Fluted Cutter. 1 small Flut^l Cutter. 6 Vegetable-Cutters. 6 Pastry-Cutters. 3 Frosting-Tubes. 1 Tube for Eclairs. 1 Tube for Lady Fingers. 1 long-handled Skimmer. 1 short-handled Skimmer. 1 large short-handled Dipper. 1 small long-handled Dipper. 1 Ladle. 4 Bread-Pans. 4 Jelly-Cake Tins. 4 deep Jelly-Cake Tins. 1 Angel-Cake Pan. 4 long shallow Pans for Rolls. 4 long Pans, 2 inches deep. 2 Sponge-Cake Pans. 2 long deep Pans for Fruit Cake. 2 Gingerbread Sheets. 1 Fish-Sheet. 4 plain Pie-Plates. 4 shallow Pie-Plates. 1 large Pan for Meat. 1 small Pan for Meat. 1 Can with Spout for Oil. 2 Cans with Spout for Molasses. 1 gallon Milk-Can. 1 2-quart Milk-Can. 1 quart Milk-Can. 1 pint Milk-Can. 1 Canister for Tea. 1 Canister for Coffee. Tin Covers for Bowls and Braising- Pans. Perforated Tins for Steamers. Clamp for Preserve Jars. MISCELLANEOUS. 1 dozen fine Dish-Towels. 1 dozen Hand-Towels. 6 coarse Towels. 6 Oven-Holders. 3 Floor-Cloths. 3 Sink-Cloths. 9 Dish-Cloths. 4 Larap-Cloths. Soft Cotton Cloth for washing Meat and Fish. Cheese-Cloth. Strainer-Cloth. Pudding-Cloths. Fine Linen Strainers. Mosquito Netting for Spice-Bags. 1 Canvas Bag for Ice. Large Darning-Needles, Common Needles. Fine Twine. Coarse Thread. Scissors. Kitchen Lamp. Ironing Sheet and Holders. Gimlet. Screw-Driver. Corkscrew. Hammer. Tacks. Screws. Hooks. Nails. Brad-Awls. White Paper for Cake-Tins. Light soft Paper for Draining. Rubber Pastry-Bags. Coal-Hod. Coal-Shovel. Coal-Sieve. Ash-Hod. Two Work-Tables, covered with Mar- bled Cloth, and fitted with Drawers and Shelves underneath. Chairs, as required. Writing-Desk and Table combined.GENERAL INDEX. INTRODUCTION. PAGE Cookery 1 Fire 3 Fuel 4 Making a Fire 5 Boiling 8 Stewing 12 Fricasseeing 12 Braising 13 Baking 13 Frying 14 Fat for Frying IG Saut^ing 17 Clarifying Fat 18 Egg and Bread Crumbing . . 19 Roasting 20 PAGE Broiling 21 Time Tables for Cooking ... 24 Larding 25 Daubing 25 Boning 26 Measuring 28 Table of Weights and Measures 30 Table of Proportions .... 31 Rules for Mixed Spices and Herbs 32 Mixing 33 Stirring and Beating .... 33 Cutting and Folding .... 34 Table of Cost of Groceries ... 35 BREAD AND BREAD MAKING. Importance of Bread .... 36 The Best Kinds of Yeast. . . 49 Derivation of Word "Bread " . 36 Dry and Compressed Yeast . . 49 Chemical Composition of Wheat 37 50 Preparing Wheat Flour . . . 39 51 39 52 40 Sugar and Potatoes in Bread. . 53 41 Shortening in Bread .... 53 42 Kneading the Dough . . , . 54 Tests of Good Flour .... 42 Temperature for Raising Bread . 56 44 Time for Raising Bread . . . 56 45 Soda in Raised Bread .... 57 46 Shaping into Loaves .... 58 Chemical Changes in Yeast Bread 47 Temperature for Baking Bread . 60 48 The Care of Bread after Baking 61 33514 General Index, RECEIPTS FOR YEAST AND BREAD. PAGE PAGE 62 Whole-Wheat or Graham Bread 66 63 66 63 67 63 Raised Brown Bread . . . . 67 Milk Bread, No. 1 64 Thirded Bread 67 64 Sour Milk Brown Bread . . . 68 Water Bread with a Sponge . . 65 Sour Milk Brown Bread, No. 2 . 68 Milk Bread with a Sponge . . 65 RAISED BISCUIT, ROLLS, etc. 68 71 69 71 70 White Mountain Rolls . . . . 72 70 72 70 73 70 . 73 70 73 70 74 70 74 71 74 71 74 71 . 74 STALE BREAD, TOAST, etc. Dried Bread Crumbs .... 75 77 Stale Bread Crumbs .... 75 Brown Bread Brewis, No. 2 . . 77 Stale Bread, Steamed . . . 76 Milk Toast ....... 78 76 79 76 79 76 Toast for Garnishing .... 79 SODA BISCUIT, MUFFINS, GEMS, etc. Potash, Pearlash, Saleratus, Strawberry Short Cake, No. 1 . 85 80 Strawberry Short Cake, No. 2 . 85 Cream of Tartar, Muriatic Peach or Apricot Short Cake . 85 81 Orange Short Cake .... 86 82 Whole-Wheat or Rye Short 86 Baking-Powder Biscuit . . . 83 86 83 Apple or Huckleberry Cakes . 87 Whole-Wheat or Rye Biscuit . 84 87 84 88 84 88 Short Cake, No. 2 .... . 85 89General Index. 515 PAGE PAGE . 89 93 Granulated Wheat Muffins . . 89 94 Rye and Corn Muffins . . . 90 Rice or Hominy Drop Cakes 94 Apple Johnny Cake . . . . 91 Breakfast Pufts or Popovers 94 . 91 Rye Gems or Shells .... 94 . 91 Whole-Wheat or Graham Gems 95 . 92 Whole-Wheat Crisps .... 95 Corn and Rice Muffins . . . 92 Fine Granulated Wheat Gems . 95 Hominy and Corn Meal Cakes . 92 Maryland or Beaten Biscuit 96 Maryland Corn Cakes . . . 92 96 Dodgers, or Dabs, or Puffs . . 93 96 „ 93 97 WAFFLES AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. Distinction between Griddle Corn Meal Griddle-Cakes . . 100 Cakes, Pancakes, etc. . . . 97 Graham Griddle-Cakes . . . 100 Waffle Iron . 98 Huckleberry Griddle-Cakes 100 Waffles . 98 Rice or Hominy Griddle-Cakes 100 Lemon Syrup ..... . 98 Bread Griddle-Cakes .... 100 Raised Waffles . 99 Raised Graham Griddle-Cakes 101 Flannel Cakes . 99 Buckwheat Griddle-Cakes . . 101 Graham Waffles .... . 99 Corn Meal Slappers .... 101 Corn Meal Waffles . . . . 99 Pease Griddle-Cakes .... 101 To Cook Griddle-Cakes . . . 99 Squash Griddle-Cakes . . . 102 Griddle-Cakes . 100 102 FRIED MUFFINS, FRITTERS, AND DOUGHNUTS. Fried Drop Cakes .... . 102 105 Fried Flour Muffins . . . . 103 105 Fried Corn Meal Cakes . . . 103 Wonders, or Cheats .... 106 . 104 106 Fried Rye Muffins, Sour Milk . 104 106 Doughnuts, Sour Milk . . . 104 106 Oyster and Clam Fritters . , 107 . 105 Apple and Vegetable Fritters . 107 OATMEAL AND OTHER GRAINS. 108 109 . 108 110 . 108 110 . 109 110 . 109 110 . 109 110 109 Fried Hasty Pudding .... 1105i6 General Index. BEVERAGES. PAGE PAGE Tea Ill Iced Tea 111 After-Dinner or Black Coffee . 116 111 . 116 Coffee 111 . 116 111 Cocoa and Chocolate . . . . 116 Coffee (Common Coffee-Pot) 115 115 . 117 Coffee made with Cold Water . 115 Coffee made with Eggs . . . 115 116 . 118 SOUP AND STOCK. General Remarks on Soup • • 119 Tomato Soup wnth Stock . 133 Meaning of Stoclv * • • • • 121 Carrot or Crecy Soup . . . . 134 Essential Rules for Soup IVIaking Mixed Vegetable Soup . . 122 K.ind of IMeat for Soup • • • 123 Skimming Soup .... 125 Thickening for Soup . . . . 135 Seasoning for Soup .... 126 Materials served with Soup . 1 Dark Stock 127 Straining Stock 127 Removing Fat from Stock 128 Clearing Stock 129 1 Rule for Brown Stock 130 1 QT' 131 1 QQ Clear, i\.mber Soup, or Con- Mullagatawny Soup . . . 131 140 141 . 142 133 . 142 133 . 143 . 143 133 White Soup, Chicken . . . . 144 . 144 133 Potage a la Reine, No. 2 . . . 145 SOUP WITHOUT STOCK. Lobster Soup, or Bisque of Lob- 152 147 153 Mock Bisque Soup . . , . 147 153 154 . 149 154 . 150 155 156 Vegetable Soup (Winter) . 151 157 157 158517 General Index, FISH. PAGE PAGE General Remarks on Fish . . 159 Chartreuse or Casserole of Fish 170 160 .170 161 170 161 Creamed Fish with Oysters . . 170 161 170 161 170 162 171 163 171 163 Fish Hash 172 Baked Fish (served whole) . . 164 Fish Souffld ....... 172 To Carve Baked Fish . . . . 164 To Cook Salt Fish 172 Baked Fish, No. 2 164 172 165 173 "Priori TTicli 165 li 0 166 Mock Oyster Stew. . . . , 173 Fish au Court Bouillon . . . 167 Scorched Salt Fish 173 168 Tongues and Sounds .... 173 168 Fried Fish Roes 173 Remnants of Cooked Fish . . 169 Scalloped Roes 173 169 Small Fish Baked in Crusts 174 Fish in Potato Border.... 169 Table of Cost of Fish .... 174 SHELL -T ±0x1. 175 181 175 181 Oysters Cooked in the Shell 175 To Choose Lobsters .... 181 175 182 176 182 To Prepare Oysters for Cooking 176 182 Oysters Cooked in their Liquor 176 Creamed Lobster 183 Smothered Oysters .... 176 Curried Lobster 183 177 Scalloped Lobster 183 177 183 177 Oysters en Coquille .... 177 Soft Shell Crabs 184 Oysters and Mushrooms in 184 178 Scalloped Crabs 184 178 Devilled Crabs 184 178 Crab Salad 184 179 Shrimps and Prawns .... 184 179 184 Pickled Oysters 179 Shrimps en Coquille .... 184 179 184 179 185 180 Frogs = . . . 185 180 186 181 186General Index. 5i8 MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. PAGE PAGE Meat and Fish Sauces. <. . . 187 Brown Mushroom Sauce . . . 191 . 187 Currant Jelly Sauce . . . . 191 Caper Sauce ...<,.. . 188 . 188 Cumberland Sauce = . . . 192 . 188 . 192 . 188 Sauce a la Italienne . . . . 192 . 192 . 193 . 188 . 193 , 193 . 193 . 189 Richer Drawn Butter Sauce . . 189 . 193 . 189 Tomato Sauce for Chops . . . 194 . 189 Tartar Sauce (Hot) . . . . 194 190 195 . 190 Horseradish Sauce (Hot) = 195 Cream Sauce . 190 Horseradish Sauce (Cold) . 195 Thick Cream Sauce . . . . 190 . 195 . 191 Maitre d'Hotel Sauce . . . . 195 Brown Sauce Piquante . . c 191 Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (Hot). . 196 Sauce Poivrade ..... . 191 Sauce for Fish Balls . . . . 196 Sauce Robert , . . . . 0 191 , 196 EGGS. Remarks on Eggs .... . 197 Baked Eggs, Nos. 3 and 4 . . 204 . 204 Boiled Eggs (Hard) . . . . 199 Eggs en Coquille, No. 2 . . . 204 Dropped or Poached Eggs . , 199 Eggs and Minced Meat . . 0 204 Ham and Eggs . , . » . , 200 . 200 Eggs Poached in Tomatoes . , 200 Scrambled Eggs, No. 2 . . . 200 . 207 Omelet. . . o . , . . . 200 Scotch Eggs . 207 Scotch Eggs, No. 2 . . c . 207 „ 202 . 207 Creamy Omelet, No. 2 . o . 202 Egg Balls in Baskets . . . . 208 Sweet, or Jelly Omelet . . . 202 . 209 Omelet Souffle . 203 . 209 Baked Eggs, Nos. 1 and 2 . . 203 MEAT. Classification of Meat . . . 210 I Fibrine c 210 Composition of Meat .... 210 | Albumen . 210General Index. 519 PAGE PAGE GclfttinG ••••••• 210 Seasons for Meat .... 211 211 212 211 Diagram of Hind Quarter . . 212 211 213 211 Cost of Meat and Game . . 213 BEEF. Tests for Good Beef . . . 214 Beef Stew with Dumplings . 225 Divisions of the Hind Quarter 214 227 Divisions of the Fore Quarter 218 Rolled Flank of Beef . . . 227 Roast Sirloin of Beef • • . 220 Smothered Beef or Pot Roast 228 221 228 221 228 Yorkshire Pudding • . 221 229 Gravy for Roast Beef . 221 230 Fillet of Beef 222 230 Broiled Steak 223 230 Broiled Fillets of Beef . . 223 230 Broiled Meat Cakes . . . 223 231 224 231 224 225 231 MUTTON AND LAMB. 232 236 Saddle of Mutton or Lamb . 233 Fricassee of Mutton or Lamb . 237 Roasted Leg of Mutton . . 233 Mutton Stew for Two . . . 237 Boiled Leg of Mutton . . . 234 238 Fore Quarter of Mutton . . . 234 238 Braised Sheep's Tongues 238 Boiled Lambs' Tongues . . . 238 Lamb or Mutton Chops . <. 236 Pickled Lambs' Tongues . 238 Breaded Mutton Cutlets . . . 236 VEAL. 239 243 Larded Sweetbreads . . . 243 Fricandeau of Veal . . . 240 Fried Sweetbreads . . . . 243 Veal Stew or Fricassee . . 240 Creamed Sweetbreads . . . 243 240 Broiled Sweetbreads . . . . 243 Braised Calf's Liver . . . . 241 Scalloped Sweetbreads . . . 243 Braised Calf's Heart . . . 241 Sweetbreads with Mushrooms . 244 241 Braised Sweetbreads . . . . 244 . 242 Sweetbread Fritters . . . . 244 Minced Calf's Head . . . . 242 To Serve Sweetbreads . . . 244General Index. 520 PORK. 245 To Serve Cold Ham .... 247 245 Fried and Broiled Ham . . . 917 246 248 246 248 246 Head Cheese ....... 248 246 249 247 Baked Pork and Beans . . . 249 POULTRY AND GAME. 251 260 To Choose and Clean Poultry . 252 260 To Dress a Fowl for a Fricassee 253 Broiled Fillets of Chicken . . 260 To Dress a Fowl for Roasting . 253 260 To Stuff and Truss a Fowl . . 254 261 254 261 To Dress Fowls for Broiling 255 261 255 262 Gravy for Roast Poultry . . . 256 262 256 Boiled or Steamed Poultry . . 257 Pigeons Stuffed with Parsley . 262 257 263 Chestnut Stuffing and Sauce . 258 263 258 263 258 263 264 Chicken Curry 259 ENTRI:ES and meat R]ECHAUFF^:. 265 272 Stuffing for Boned Turkey . . 265 Ragout of Cooked Meat . . . 273 266 Hash „ . . . 273 Stuffing for Boned Chicken . . 266 273 To Mould in Aspic Jelly . . 266 274 267 Casserole of Rice and Meat . . 274 Blanquette of Chicken , , . 268 Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads 274 268 275 268 275 268 275 269 276 Chicken Chartreuse .... 269 Meat Souffld 276 270 277 Beef Olives or Rolls . . . . 270 277 271 Ragout of Lamb's or Calf's 271 277 272 277 272 To Shape Croquettes .... 278General Index. S2I Thick Cream Sauce . . PAGE . . 278 PAGE Chicken Croquettes . . . . 279 Oyster Plant Croquettes . . . 280 . . 279 Turkish Croquettes . . . . 281 . . 279 Sweet Rice Croquettes . . . 281 Sweetbread Croquettes . . . 279 Sav^ory Rice Croquettes . . . 281 Lobster Croquettes . . . . 280 Rice or Spaghetti Croquettes . 281 . 280 Hominy Croquettes . . . . 282 SUNDRIES. , . 282 Forefathers' Dinner .... 284 . . 282 Hulled Corn 286 Crackers a la Creme . . . . 283 Indian Meal Pudding .... 286 , . 283 Chickens Forced with Oysters . 286 287 , 283 Smothered Chicken .... 288 Turkish Pilaf, No. 2.. . . . 283 Steamed Apple and Indian Meal 288 VEGETABLES. Remarks on Vegetable Food . 289 Potatoes 292 Boiled Potatoes 293 Potatoes a la Neige .... 293 Rice Potatoes 293 Mashed Potatoes o .... 294 Potato Balls 294 Potato Puff ....... 294 Lyonnaise Potatoes .... 294 Creamed Potatoes 294 Fried Potatoes 295 French Potatoes 295 Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel . 295 Baked Potatoes 295 Franconia Potatoes .... 295 Potatoes in the Half Shell, or Potato Souffle 295 Stuffed Potatoes 296 Fried Raw Potatoes .... 296 Saratoga Potatoes . . » . . 296 Parisienne Potatoes .... 296 Macaroni Potatoes ..... 296 Shoo Fly Potatoes ..... 296 Crescent Potatoes 296 Sweet Potatoes 296 A Southern Dish 296 Spinach ........ 296 Greens 297 Asparagus 297 Green Peas . 298 String Beans 298 Shelled Beans 298 Sweet Corn 299 Green Corn Fritters .... 299 Succotash 299 Tomatoes, Stewed 300 Tomatoes, Scalloped and Stuffed 300 Onions, Boiled 301 Onions, Scalloped, Baked . . 301 Cauliflower 301 Cabbage 302 Celery 302 Egg Plant 302 Egg Plant Fritters 303 Jerusalem Artichokes. = . . 303 Globe Artichokes 303 Mushrooms .. ^ .... 303 Winter Squash 304 Summer Squash 304 Carrots and Turnips .... 305 Parsnips 305 Parsnip Fritters 305 Salsify 306 Beets*^ 306522 General Index, KiCJii AND MAUAKONI. PAGE PAGE Rice Macaroni and Vermicelli. . . 308 ... 307 Sftvory Kice ... 307 309 SS'lmoii Rice . ... 307 SALADS. ... 309 Cucumber and Tomato Salad . 313 ... 310 . 313 . 314 Boiled Dressing for Cold Slaw . 311 , 314 Mayonnaise Dressing . ... 311 OX'k Mayonnaise Tartare Dressing . 312 . 314 ... 312 . 315 . oiD ... 312 • old PASTRY AND PIES. ... 316 323 ... 319 324 ... 319 . 324 Tarts ... 319 324 ... 320 325 ... 321 325 Cakes a la Polonaise . ... 321 325 ... 321 325 ... 321 326 ... 322 326 ... 322 326 ... 323 326 ... 323 327 PUDDING SAUCES. ... 328 329 ... 328 ... 328 Whipped Cream Sauce ... 328 330 ... 329 330 ... 329 Plain Pudding Sauce . . . . 330 HOT PUDDINGS. Cottage Pudding 331 Steamed Carrot Pudding . . 332 Dutch Apple Cake 331 Bread and Fruit Pudding . . 332 Scalloped Apple 331 Eve's Pudding 333 Steamed Apple Pudding ... 332 Bird's-Nest Pudding .... 333523 General Index, PAGE PAGE Apple Tapioca Pudding . . . 333 337 . . 333 Plum Pudding (Plain) . . . 337 . . 334 Queen of Puddings .... 338 . . 334 French Bread Pudding 338 Apricots a la Neige . . 335 Plymouth Indian Meal Pudding 338 . . 335 Baked Indian Meal Pudding 338 PJaiii Rice Pudding . . . . 335 Whole-Wheat Pudding . 338 Poor Man's Pudding . . . . 335 Steamed Fruit Pudding . . . 339 Rice and Fruit Pudding . . . 336 Steamed Suet and Fruit. Pud- . . 33G 339 339 Christmas Plum Pudding . . 340 Thanksgiving Plum Pudding . 340 CUSTARDS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. Irish Moss Blanc Mange . 341 Chocolate Pudding .... Oil Danish Pudding, or Fruit Tapi- 342 342 342 343 343 . 352 Floating Island 343 . 352 313 . 353 Soft Caramel Custard .... 343 343 Macaroon Custard 343 Plain Bavarian Cream . . . 355 343 Strawberry Charlotte . . . . 355 Candied Fruit Custard . . . 343 Banana Charlotte .... . 355 344 Riz a la Imperatrice . . . . 356 344 Bavarian Cream, No. 2 . . . 356 344 Chocolate Bavarian Cream . . 356 344 Coffee Bavarian Cream . . . 356 344 Bavarian Cream with Fruit. . 356 345 . 357 345 . 357 345 . 357 Spanish and Italian Cream . . 346 . 358 346 Royal Diplomatic Pudding . . 358 Snow Pudding Orange Charlotte Apple Charlotte 347 Gateau St. Honore . . . . 359 348 Gateau de Princess Louise . . 360 348 Chantill}^ Baskets .... . 360 Fruit Charlotte 348 ICE-CREAM AND SHERBET. To Freeze Ice-Cream .... 361 I Neapolitan Ice-Cream Philadelphia Ice-Cream . . . 362 I Ice-Cream, No. 3 . , 363 363524 General Index. PAGE PAGE . 364 Ice-Cream with Condensed . 364 Milk 365 Chocolate Ice-Cream . . . . 364 365 . 364 Nesselrode Pudding .... 366 Caramel Ice-Cream . . . . 364 366 Pineapple Ice-Cream . . . 364 366 Strawberry Ice-Cream . . . 364 367 . 364 367 Baked Apple Ice-Cream . . . 365 367 Pistachio Ice-Cream . . . . 365 367 Macaroon Ice-Cream . . . . 365 367 Almond Ice-Cream . . . . 365 368 Walnut Ice-Cream . . . . 365 Pomegranate Sherbet .... 368 Cocoanut Ice-Cream . . . . 365 368 Brown Bread Ice-Cream . . . 365 368 . 365 Strawberry Sherbet .... 368 Raspberry Sherbet .... 368 . 365 CAKE. Mixing and Baking Cake . . 369 379 Sponge Cake Mixtures . . 372 379 Butter Cake Mixtures . . . 372 379 . 373 379 Gold and Silver Cake . . . 379 . 374 380 Miss Ward's Sponge Cake . . 374 Marble Cake 380 374 380 . 375 380 Sponge Cake for Cream Pies . 375 380 Berwick Sponge Cake . . . 375 381 Cream for Cream Pies . . . 375 381 Sponge Cake with Fruit . . . 375 Lemon Jell}^ for Cake . . . 381 Sponge Cake for Children . . 375 Pink Coloring for Cake . . 381 Roll Jellv Cake 376 382 . 376 382 . 376 382 . 377 382 Orange Cream for Cake . . . 377 . 377 383 Orange and Cocoanut Cream . 377 383 . 378 384 . 378 384 . 378 Ornamental Frosting .... 384 . 378 384 White Mountain Cake . . . 378 385 . 378 Chocolate Frosting .... 385 Cocoanut and Raisin Cream . 378 385General Index. 525 PAGE Plain Cookies 385 Richer Cookies 385 Cocoanut Cookies 386 Jumbles ........ 380 Hermits 386 New Year's Cookies .... 386 One-Two-Three-Four Cookies . 386 Thin Sugar Gingerbread... 386 Superior Gingerbread .... 387 Hard Gingerbread = . . . . 387 Hard Gingerbread, No. 2 . . 387 Soft Gingerbread 387 Sugar Gingerbread .... 388 PAGE Hot Water Gingerbread . . . 383 Sour Milk Gingerbread ... 388 Ginger Snaps . . , » . . 388 Ginger Drops 388 Soft Molasses Cookies ... 389 Cream Cakes 389 Eclairs 389 Cream for Eclairs 389 Kisses, or Cream Meringues . 389 Macaroons 390 Cocoanuts 390 Chocolate Caramels .... 390 FRUIT. 391 Preserved Blackberries . • . 400 To Serve Ripe Fruits .... 392 393 393 393 Stewed and Baked Fruits . . 393 Stewed Apple Sauce .... 394 400 Compote of Apples . > • . 394 , 400 394 . 400 394 . 400 394 . 401 395 Canned Strawberries . . . . 402 395 395 . 402 395 396 . 402 397 . 402 397 . 402 397 . 402 397 . 403 398 Tomato Sweet Pickle . . . . 403 Preserved Damsons .... 398 Peach Sweet Pickle . . . . 403 399 Preserved Strawberry Toma- Melon Sweet Pickle . . . . 403 399 Pineapple Sweet Pickle . . . 403 Preserved Pineapple .... 399 Preserved Strawberries . . . 400 Piccalilli, or Chow Chow . 404 Preserved Cherries .... 400 Pickled Cucumbers . . » . 404 Preserved Currants .... 400 Preserved Raspberries . . . 400General Index. 526 HINTS ON CARING AND COOKING FOR INVALIDS. PAGE 407 Jelly and Ice 420 The Bed 407 Tamarind Water 420 408 420 408 420 Conveniences in a Sick-Room . 409 Flaxseed Lemonade .... 420 Feeding the Patient . . . 409 Irish Moss Lemonade . . . . 420 Visitors in a Sick-Iloom . . . 410 420 Diet for the First Condition . 410 Herb Teas 420 411 Diet for another Condition . 421 411 Beef Essence and Tea 422 412 Broiled Beef Essence . . . . 423 Indian Meal Gruel .... 412 Broiled Beef Tea 423 412 Bottled Beef Essence . . • . 423 Oatmeal Gruel, No. 2 . . 413 Bottled Beef Tea . . . . . 423 413 Stewed Beef Essence . . . . 423 413 Economical Beef Tea .... 424 413 Dr. Mitchell's Beef Tea . . . 424 414 Raw Beef Sandwiches . . . 424 Oatmeal Mush for Invalids . 414 424 415 Portable Beef Tea 425 415 425 415 Egg Tea and Egg Coffee . . . 425 415 425 Dishes for Convalescence . 425 Rice Water or Jelly . • . 415 Broiling for the Invalid . . . 426 416 Broiled Steak or Venison . . 426 416 Broiled Steak, No. 2 . . . . 426 416 Chicken Panada 426 416 426 jBarlev Soup 417 Crackers and Orange Marma- Calves' Foot Jellv or Broth . 417 lade . 427 Chicken Jellv or Broth . 418 Racahout des Arabes .... 427 Beef Jelly or Broth . . . . 418 427 418 427 419 428 419 428 419 428 Corn Tea and Rice Coffee . 419 429 419 Milk for Children 430 419 Diet for Invalids .... 431-433 419 MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. To Chop Suet , To Clean Currants To Stone Raisins 435 435 435 To Core Apples . Egg Shells . . To Boil a Pudding 435 435 435527 General Index. PAGE PAGE , 436 To Make Paper Boxes . . 436 . 436 . . 437 Candied Fruits and Nuts . 436 . , 437 Canned Fruit Juices . . . . 438 . 436 THE DINING-ROOM. The Arrangement of the Table, etc 439-443 The Care of Kitchen Utensils 443-448 AN OUTLINE OF STUDY FOR TEACHERS. Food: Its Use? Classification, and Proportion 449 The Composition of the Human Body 453 Non-Combustible Compounds 454 Water and Salts 454 Combustible Compounds o . 456 Carbonaceous Foods 456 Starch 456 Sugar e 458 Fats 459 Gum, Mucilage, etc 460 Nitrogenous Foods 460 Milk . . , 463 Condiments 464 Proper Proportion of Food 466 Adaptation to Climate, etc 467 Nourishing and Stimulating Food 470 Digestion » 471 Absorption 475 Nutrition 476 Life and Motion 478 Circulation of Water 478 Circulation of Carbon 479 Circulation of Nitrogen 479 Circulation of Mineral Matter 481 Suggestions to Teachers 483 A Course of Study for Normal Pupils = 485 Questions for Examination 486 Topics and Illustrations for Lectures on Cookery . . . 490 Books of Reference 494 Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking-School . . 495 Explanation of Terms used in Cookery 503 List of Utensils needed in a Cooking-School 508ALPHABETICAL INDEX. Acid, Muriatic, 81. Albumen, 461. Almonds, 393. " To Blanch, 436 Apple Cake, 22. " Charlotte, 348. Johnny Cake, 91. " Meringue, 333. " Porcupine, 334. *« Pudding, 333. " Sandwich, 331. " Sauce, Baked,894. " " Stewed, 394. " Scalloped, 331. " Snow, 345. Snowballs, 334. " Tapioca, 383. Apples, Baked, 394. " Compote of, 894. " To Core, 435. *♦ Ripe, To Serve, 391. Apricots, Frozen, 367. " ^ la Neige, 334. Arrowroot, 457. Artichokes, 303. Ash Cake, 427. Asparagus, 297. Aspic Jelly, 266. Bacon, 246, 431. Baked Beans, 249. Baking, 13. Baking-Powder, 82. Bananas, 392. Bannock, 93. Barley, 109. Soup, 417. Water, 418. Bavarian Cream, 355, 356. Bean Porridge, 287. Beans, Baked, 249. " Shelled, 298. " String, 298. Beating, 33. Bechamel Sauce, 139. Beef, 214-218. " Braised, 224. ** Broth, 418. " Corned, 228, 436. " Essence, 422-425. Beef, Flank, 227. ' Frizzled, 272. ' Jelly, 418. * 3i la Mode, 224. ' Olives, 270. " Pulp, 425. Roast, 220-222. " Rolls, 270. ' Roulette, 271. ' Sandwiches, 424. ' Sausages, 271. ' Smoked, 272. ' Smothered, 227. ' Soup, 130,131. • Spiced, 227. ' Steak, 223. ' Stew, 225. ' Tea, 422-425. Beets, 306. Beverages, 111, 463. Birds, Roast, 263. " in Potato Cases, 263. " Veal or Mock. 275. Biscuit Glace, 367. Biscuit, 68. " Baking-Powder, 83. " Beaten, 96. " Cream, 84. " Maryland, 96. " Oatmeal, 88. " Raised, 68. Rye, 84. « To Shape, 68. " Soda, 83. " Sour-Milk, 83. " Wafer, 96. " Whole-Wheat, 84. Bisque of Lobster, 152. Blanc-Mange, 341. Blanquette of Chicken, 268. Boiled Dinner, 229. Boiling, 10. Bombe Glace, 367. Boning, 26. Bouillon, 131. Bow-Knots, 321. Brain Food, 415. Braising, 13. Bread, 36-79. " Baking, 60. " Brown, 67. 34 Bread, Brown, Sour-Milk, 68. " Cake, 74. " Chemical Changes in, 47. " Crumbs, 75. " Fermented, 44. " Importance of, 36. '* Kneading, 54. '' Loaves, 68. " Meaning of, 36. Milk, 64. Milk, with a Sponge, 65. " Mixing, 52. " Potatoes in, 53. " Rye, 67. " Sauce, 193. " Sauted, 76. " Shortening in, 63. " Squash, 66. " Stale, 75. Steamed, 76. ** Sugar in, 63. '* Temperature for, 56 " Thirded, 67. ** Time for Raising, 56. ** Unfermented, 48. " Water, 63. ** Water, with a Sponge, 65. " Whole-Wheat, 66. Yeast, 48. Brewis, 77. Broiled Meat Cakes, 223. " Steak, 223. Broiling, 21, 426. Broth, Chicken, 142. " Mutton, 141. " Scotch, 140. Buckwheat, 101. Cakes, 109. Bunns, 74. Butyric Acid, 459. Cabbage, 302. " Salad, 311. Cafe Parfait, 365. Cake, 369-383. " Angel, 374.532 Ali^hahetical Index, Flemish Sauce, 192. Floating Island, 343. Flour, Haxall, 40. '* Health Food Co., 42. Minnesota, 41. Pastry, 40. ** Prepared, 428. " St. Louis, 39. Tests of Good, 42. " Thickening for Soups, etc., 135. Flummery, 343. Folding, Cutting and, 34. Food, 449-482. Adaptation of, 467. " Albuminous, 461. " Carbonaceous, 456. Classification of, 454. " Liquid, 463. ** Nitrogenous, 460. Nourishing, 470. *' Stimulating, 470. " Tables of Cost of, 35, 174, 213. " Uses of, 450. Force-Meat Bahs, 137. Forefather's Dinner, 284. Fowl, Braised, 258. Freezing, 361. French Pancakes, 102. Friar's Omelet. 334. Fricadilloes, 271. Fricasseeing, 12. Fritters, Apple, 107. " Batter, 106. Clam, 107. " Italian, 77. " Oyster, 107. " Vegetable, 107. Frizzled Beef, 272. Frosting, 384. Fruit, 391-406. " Baked, 393. Candied, 436. " Canned, 401. " Juice of, 438. " Drinks, 419. " Frozen. 367. Iced, 392. " Jams, 400. " Preserved, 898. " Ripe, 391. " Serving of, 391. " Stewed, 393. Frying, 14. Fuel, 4. G.\ME, 251, 431. " To Choose, 251. " To Clean and Truss, 252. " Salmis of, 270. Gateau de Princess Louise, 380. « St. Hon ore, 359. Gelatine, 123, 345, 462. Gems, Gluten, 428. " Graham, 95. Gems, Rye, 94. " Wheat, 95. Giblets, 254. Ginger, 465. Gingerbread, 386-389. Ginger Snaps, 388. Glaze, 135. Glucose, 458. Gluten, 97. " Mush, 415. Glvcerine, 459. Go'ose, Roast, 261. Graham Flour, 42. " Wafers, 96. " Waffles, 99. Grapes, 392. Gravy, 221, 256. Greens, 297. Griddle-Cakes, 99-102. " Bread, 100. " "To Cook, 99. " " Corn Meal 100. " " Graham, 101, " " Huckleberry 100. " " Pease, 101. " " Rice or Hom- iny, 100. " Squash, 1()2. Groats, 108. Grouse, 262. Gruel, Arrowroot, 411. Barley, 412. Cornstarch, 411. Cracker, 413. Egg, 413. Farina, 413. Flour, 411. Indian Meal, 412. Oatmeal, 412. Rice Flour, 411. Gum, 460. '' Water, 419. Halibut, 165. Ham and Eggs, 199. Boiled, 247. " Broiled, 247. " Fried, 247. " To Serve Cold, 247. Hamburgh Steak, 224. Hash, 273. Vegetable, 230. Hasty Pudding, 110. Head Cheese, 248. Henriettes, 106. Herb Tea, 420. Herbs, Mixed, 32. Hermits, 386. Hoe Cake, 93. HoUandaise Sauce, 194. Hominy, 110. Cakes, 92. " Croquettes, 282. " Drop-Cakes, 94. " Griddle-Cakes, 100, Horseradish Sauce, 195. Huckleberry Cakes, 87, 100. Huitres au Lit, 178. Hulled Corn, 286. Ice-Cream, 361-367. Almond, 365. " Baked Apple, 365. " Banana, 364. " Brown Bread, 364. Caramel, 364. " Chocolate, 364. '* Cocoanut, 3ei5. " Coffee, 364. " Condensed Milk, 365. " To Freeze, 361. " Fruit, 365. " Glace, 365. " Lemon, 364. " Macaroon, 365. To Mould, 362. " Neapolitan, 363. " Philadelphia 362. " Pineapple, 364. Pistachio, 365. ** Strawberry, 364. " Tutti Frutti, 365. " Vanilla, 364. " Walnut, 365. Indian Corn, 108,110. Invalid, Cookery for the, 407. " Diet for the, 410, 422, 431. Irish Moss, 291. Blanc-Mange, 341. " .Telly, 416. *' Lemonade, 420. Isinglass, 462. Jams, 400. " Apple, 400. " Blackberrv, 400. " Currant, 400. Grape, 400. " Peach, 400. *' Pear, 400. " Quince, 400. " Raspberry, 400. Jellies, Fruit, 395. " " Apple, 397. " Currant, 396. " " Grape, 397. " " Quince, 397. " Gelatine, 349. " " Italian, 350. " " Lemon, 350. " Grange, 350. '* *' Restorative, 349. " " Wine, 849. Jelly, Calves'-Foot, 417.Alphabetical Index. 533 Jelly and Ice, 420. " Irish Moss, 416. " Rice, 415. *' Tapioca, 416. Johnny Cake, 91. Jumbles, 386. Kedgeree, 170. Kidneys, 231. Kisses, 389. Kitchen Utensils, 443. Kneading Dough, 54. Lab AN, 427, Lactic Acid, 463, 471-475. " Fermentation, 44. Lactose, 458. Lamb, 232. " Boiled, 234. Chops, 288. *' Fricassee, 237. " Loin of, 233. " Roasted, 233. " Saddle of, 233. Lamb's Liver, Ragout of, 277. " Tongues, 233. Lard, To Try out, 249. Larding, 25. Lemon, Baked, 420. Sauce for Fowl, 188 " Sauce for Pudding, 328. Syrup, 98. Lemonade, 420. " Flaxseed, 420. " Irish Moss, 420. Lettuce, 312. Liver, 231. " Calf's, Braised, 241. Potted, 277. Ragout of, 277. Lobster, Bisque of, 152. " Chowder, 157. Creamed, 183. " Croquettes, 280. " Curried, 183. " Cutlets, 280. " Devilled, 183. *' Plain, 182. Salad, 315. " Sauce, 188. " Scalloped, 183. " Soup, 152,153. " Stewed, 182. Lobsters, 181-183. To Choose, 181. " To Open, 182. Macaroni, 308. " with Cheese, 309. ** with Tomato,309. Macaroons, 390. Macedoine of Fruits, 350. Mackerel, 172. Madelines, 379. Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 195, 196. Mandioc, 457. Margarine, 459. Marmalade, 397. Maryland Biscuit, 96. " Corn Cakes, 92. Measures, Table of Weights and, 30. Measuring, 28. Meat, 210-213. " Corned, 436. " Cost of, 213. Pie, 272. " Porcupine, 272. *' Sauces, 187. " Souffle, 276. Melons, 392. Meringues, 389, 435. Milk, 463. " for Children, 430. Mint Sauce, 196. Miscellaneous Hints, 435. Mixed Herbs, 32. " Spice Salt, 32. " Spices, 32. Mixing, 33. Moulds, 436. Mucilage, 460. Muffins, 87-104. " Corn, 90. " " and Rice, 92. " Cream, 89. " Flour, 87. " Fried, 103. " Granulated Wheat, 89. " Rye, 90. Muriatic Acid, 81. Mush, Brain Food, 415. " Corn Meal, 415. " Gluten, 415. * Graham, 415. Oatmeal, 415. ' Rye, 415. Mushes, 109, 415. Mushroom Sauce, 191. Mushrooms, 291, 303. Mustard, 465. " Sauce, 188. Mutton, 232. ' Boiled, 234. Boned, 26. ' Braised, 236. Broth, 141. ^ Broth for Invalids, 416. Curry of, 238. ' Cutlets, Breaded, 238. * Duck, 235. ' Forequarter, 234. * Fricassee, 237. ' Ragout of, 238. ' Roasted, 233. ' Saddle or Loin of, 233 * Scalloped, 237. Stew for Two, 237. Nitrogen, 461. Norfolk Cream, 357. Nuts, 393. " To Blanch, 436. ■" Candied, 436. Oatmeal, 108. " Biscuit, 88. " for Children, 414. " Gruel, 413. " Mush, 109. Oil, Olive, 309. Oils, 459. " Fixed, 460. " Volatile, 460. Oleine, 459. Ohve Oil, 309. " Sauce, 191. Olives, Beef, 270. Omelets, 200-203. " Cheese, 201. " Chicken, 201. " Clam, 201. Corn, 201. " Creamy, 202. " Fancy, 201. " Ham, 201. " Jelly, 202. Mushroom, 201. Orange, 202. " Oyster, 201. Parsley, 201. Shrimp, 201. " Souffle, 203. " Sweet, 202. Tomato, 201. " Veal, 201. Onion Sauce, 193. Onions, 301, 431. " Baked, 301. Boiled, 301. " Creamed, 301. " Scalloped, 301. Orange Baskets, 351. " Charlotte, 348. " Jelly, 350. " Sections, 352. Oranges, 392. Oyster Plant, 306. Sauce, 188. * Soup, 1.53. ■' Stew, 154. ' Stuffing, 163. Oysters, 175-179. ' Broiled, 179. * en Coquille, 177. ' Creamed, 177. * Croquettes, 279. * Fricasseed, 177. ' Fried, 178. ' on Ice, 176. * Mock, 229. ' with Mushrooms, 178. * Parboiled, 176. ' Pickled, 179.534 Alphabetical Index. Oysters, To Prepare for Cooking, 176. Raw, 175, Roasted, 175. Salad, 314. Sauted, 179. Scalloped, 177. Smothered, 176. Ozmazome, 123. Pan Broiling, 23. Panada, 414. " Chicken, 426. Pancakes, French, 102. Pannikins, 205. Paper Boxes, 437. Parker House Rolls, 70. Parsley, 119. " Sauce, 188. Parsnip Fritters, 305. Parsnips, 305. Paste Cream, 323. " for one Pie. 323. *• for Patties, 319. " Plain, 324. " Puff, 316-319. for Tarts, 319. Pastry Bag, 437. " Tubes, 437. Peaches, 392. " Pickled, 403. " Preserved, 398. Peanut Sauce, 193. Pearlash, 80. Pears, 394. Pickled, 403. Peas, Green, 298 " Puree of, 149, 150. Pease Griddle-Cakes, 101. Pectose, 395, 460. Pepper, 431, 465. Piccalilli, 404. Pickles, 403-405. Cucumber, 404. Mixed, 405. " Mustard, 406. Sweet, 403. *' " Cucumber, 403. " Melon, 403. « Peach, 403. *' Pear, 403. " *' Pineapple, 403. " " Tomato, 403. *' " Watermelon, 403. Pie, Apple, 825. " Berry, 326. " Chess, 324. " Chicken, 268. " Custard, 325. " Eccles, 326. " Lemon, 824. " Meat, 272. " Mince, 826. " Plain, 326. " Paste for one, 323. Pie, To Roll Paste for, 322. " Rhubarb, 325. " Squash, 325. Pies, 322-326. Pig, Roast, Little, 245. Pigeons, Braised, 262. " To Choose, 251. Potted, 262. " Stuffed with Pars- ley, 262. Pigs in Blankets, 178. Pilaf, Turkish, 283. Pilau, Chicken, 283. Pineapples, 392 , 899. Pistachio Ice-Cream, 365. Plaits, 822. Plombiere, 866. Pokeberry Syrup, 882. Polonaise Cakes, 321. Pop-overs, 94. Porcupine of Meat, 272. Pork, 245-250. and Beans, 249. Chops, 246. Roast, 246. Salt, 246. Porridge, Bean, 287. Milk and Plum, 411. Port Wine Jelly, 416. " " Sauce, 193. Pot Roast, 227. Potage k la Reine, 144, 145. Potash, 80. Potato Balls, 294. Border, 275. Croquettes, 280. Puff, 294 Salad, 313. Soup, 146. Yeast, 62. Potatoes, Baked, 295. Boiled, 294. in Bread, 53. Creamed, 294. Franconia, 295. French, 295. Fried, 295. " Raw, 296. on Half Shell, 295. Lyonnaise, 294. Macaroni, 296. k la Malt re d'Hotel, 295. Mashed, 294. a la Neige, 293. Parisienne, 296. Rice, 293. " Stuffed, 296. " Sweet, 296. " " Baked, 296. Potting, 277. Poultry, 251-264. " To Carve, 255. To Choose, 251. " To Clean, 252. •* To Dre^R for Broil- ing, 255. Poultry, To Dress for Fricas- see, 263. " To Dress for Roast- ing, 263. " Gravy for, 256. " To Stuff and Truss, 255. Prawns, 184. Preserves, 398. " Cherries, 400, Currants, 400. " Damsons, 398. Peaches, 398. " Pineapples, 399. *' Quinces, 399. " Raspberries, 400. Strawberries, 400. " Strawberry Tomatoes, 399. Proportions, Table of, 31. Prunes, 394. Pudding, Apple M^ringue, 333. " Apple Porcupine, 334. " Apple Snowballs, 335. " Apple Tapioca, 333. " Apricot, 835. " Bird's-Nest, 333. " Boiled in a Cloth, 435. '* Bread, 337. '' Bread and Fruit, 332 " Cabinet, 339. Carrot, 822. " Chocolate, 341. " Christmas, 340. " Cottage, 821. " Danish, 342. Delicate, 344. " Dutch Apple, 331, " Eve's, 333. *' French Bread, 838. " Frozen, 366. " Fruit, 342. " Fruit, Steamed, 339. Fruit Tapioca, 342. " . Gelatine, 346. " Indian Corn Meal, 286, 288, 338. Nesselrode, 366. Plain Plum, 338. " Poor Man's, 335. " Prune, 357. " Queen of, 338. " Rice, 335. " Rice and Fruit, 336. " Roval Diplomatic, 858. Sauces, 828. " Scalloped Apple, 331.Alphabetical Index. 535 Pudding, Snow, 347. Sponge, 337. " Steamed Apple, 331. " Suet and Fruit, 339. Thanksgiving Plum, 341. " Tipsy, 343. « Whole-Wheat, 338. *' Yorkshire, 221. Puddings, 331-360. Puree of Beans, 148. of Celery, 147. *< of Clams, 158. of Fish, 152. " of Green Corn, 150. " of Lobster, 152. " of Peas, Green, 150. " " *' Split, 149. " of Potatoes, 146. " of Salmon, 152. of Vegetables, 151. Putrefaction, 462. Quail, 263. Quinces, 394. Rabbits, 264. Racahout des Arabes, 427. Ragout of Cooked Meat, 273. Raisins, 392. To Stone, 435. Raspberries, 392. Rechauffe, Meat, 265. Reptiles, 185. Rhubarb, 895. Rice, 109. " Boiled, 306. " with Cheese, 807. " Croquettes, 281. " Crusts, 94. *' Drop-Cakes, 94. " Griddle-Cakes, 100. " Jelly or Water, 415. " Salmon, 307. " Savory, 307. " Steamed, 307. Rissoles, 321. Hiz a I'Imperatrice, 356. Roasting, 20. Rolls, 68. " Braided, 71. " Cleft, 70. " Crescents, 71. " Cross, 70. " Finger, 70. " French, 71. " Imperial, 69. " Letter, 70. " Parker House, 70. " Pocket-Book, 70. " Swedish, 72. " Twin, 70. " Vienna, 71. " White Mountain, 72. Rusks, 73. " Dried, 74. Rye, 109. " Bread, 67. Gems, 94. " Meal, 109. " Muffins, 90. Fried, 104. " Mush, 415. Sago, 457. Salads, 309-315. Celery, 812. " Chicken, 314. " Crab, 184. " Cucumber, 312. " Egg, 209, 314. " Fish, 314 Lettuce, 312. " Lobster, 315. " Oyster, 314. Potato, 318. " Salmon, 315. ** Sandwiches, 315. " Shrimp, 184. " Tomato, 312. Saleratus, 80. Sally Lunn, 87, 88. Salmis of Game, 270. Salmon, Puree of, 152. " Salad, 315. Salsify, 280, 306. Salt, 455. " Mixed, 32. Salts, Mineral, 455. Sandwiches, 278. " Raw Beef, 424. " Salad, 315. " Sardine, 273. Sardine Canapees, 288. " Sandwiches, 278. Sauces, Meat and Fish, 187- 196. " Acid, 188. " Bechamel, 189. " Brain, 242. Bread, 193. " Brown, 191. Caper, 188. " Celery. 189. " Chestnut, 192. •* Cream, 190. Cumberland, 192. " Currant Jelly, 191. " Curry, 190. " Drawn Butter, 187. ' * Drawn Butter, Rich- er, 189. " Egg, 188. Espagnole, 193. " Fish, 190. " for Fishballs, 196. " Flemish, 192. '* Hollandaise, 194, '* Horseradish, 1P5. " a la Italienne, 192. '* Lemon, 188. Lobster, 188. " Maitre d'Hotel, 195 196. " Mint, 196. Sauces, Mushroom, 191. *' Mustard, 188. Olive, 192. " Oyster, 188. Parsley, 188. " Peanut, 193. Piquante, 189. Poivrade, 191. " Port Wine, 193. " Robert, 191. " Shrimp, 188. " Soubise, 193. " Tartar, 194, 195. " Tartare, 195. " Tomato, 198,194. White, 189. Sauces, Pudding, 828-330. " Apricot, 329. " Caramel, 330. '* Creamy, 329. " Foamy, 329. " Hard, 328. " Lemon, 328. " Molasses, 330. " Plain, 330. " Snowdrift, 328. " Whipped Cream, 328. " Wine, 330. " Yellow, 330. Sausages, 248. Sauteing, 17. Scallops, 181. Scotch Broth, 140. ' Eggs, 207. Seasoning for Soup, 126. Shells, 118. Sherbets, 368. *' Lemon, 368. " Orange, 368. " Pineapple, 868. Raspberry, 868. " Strawberry, 368. Short Cakes, 84-86. " " Apricot, 85. " Orange, 86. ■* *' Peach, 85. *♦ Rye, 86. ' " Strawberry, 85. " " Whole-Wheat, 86. Shrimps en Coquille, 184. " Salad, 184. " Sauce. 184. Scalloped, 184. Sick-Room Cookery, 407- 434. Soda, 80. Biscuit, 83. in Yeast Bread, 57. Soubise Sauce, 193. Souffle Cheese, 282. " Meat, 276. Soup, 119-186. " Amber, 131. " Barley, 133. " Black Bean, 148. " Brown, 130. Carrot, 134.536 Alphabetical Index. Soup, Celery, 147. " Chicken, 144. " Clam, 154. " Clear, 131. " Consomm^, 131. " Corn, 150. Crecy, 134. Digester, 122. " Fish, 152. " Green Corn, 150. " Green Pea, 150. " Green Turtle, 186. " Julienne, 132. Left-over, 132. " Lobster, 152, 153. " Macaroni, 133. •' Mock Bisque, 147. " Mock Turtle, 137. " Mullagatawny, 139. " Ox-Tail, 139. " Oyster, 153. *' Pea, Green, 150. " " Split, 149. " Potage k la Reine. 144. *♦ Potato, 146. " l{ice, 133. " Sago, 133. *' Salmon, 152. " Tapioca, 133. " Tomato, with Stock, 133. Tomato, without Stock, 147. " Veal, 143. " Vegetable, Mixed, 134. " Vegetable, Winter, 151. « Vermicelli, 133. " White, 143, 144. Souse, 248. Spaghetti, 309. Spanish Cream, 346. " Eggs, 199. Spice, Mixed, 32. Spinach, 296. Squash, Summer, 304. " Winter, 304. Stale Bread, 75. Starch, 456. " Corn, 456. Stearine, 459. Stew, Beef, 225. " Chicken, 258. ' * Mock Oyster, 173. " Mutton, 237. Stewing, 12. Sticks, 71. Stock, 121. " To Clear, 129. " To Make Dark, 127. '* To Strain, 127. To Remove Fat from, 128. Strawberries, 392. Stuffing for Fish, 163. " Chestnut, 256. '* Chicken, 257. Stuffing, Oyster, 258. Succotash, 284, 299. Sucrose, 458. Suet, To Chop, 435. Sugar, 458. " in Bread, 53. Sweetbreads, 243. Braised, 244. " Broiled, 243. " Creamed, 243. " Croquettes, 279. " Fried, 243. " Fritters, 244. Larded, 243. •' with Mush- rooms, 243. *' Scalloped, 243. Table of Cost of Fish, 174. " " " Food, 35. " " " Meat, 213. " " Proportions, 31. •A u f ii^e for Cooking, 24. ' " Weights and Meas- ures, 30. Tamarind Water, 420. Tapioca, 457. ' Apple, 833. ' Cream, 345. Fruit, 342. ' Jelly, 416. Tartar Sauce, 194. Tartare Sauce, 195. Tarts, 319. Tea, 111. '« Apple, 419. " Beef, 422-425. " Corn, 419. " Egg, 425. Herb, 420. Iced, 112. " Russian, 112. " Slippery-Elm, 419. Tea Cakes, 89. Terrapin, 185. " Chicken or Mock, 269. Thirded Bread, 67. Toast, 77. Cream, 79. Egg, 76. " French, 79. " for Garnishing, 79. " Milk, 78. 'V Water, 79. Toast Water, 419. Tomato Catchup, 404. " Salad, 313. " Sauce, 193,194. Tomatoes, 300. Scalloped, 300. Stewed, 300. Stuffed, 300. Tongue in Jelly, 230. " Smoked, 230. Tongues, Lamb's, 238. " Sheep's, 238. Tongues and Sounds, 173. Tripe in Batter, 231. " Broiled, 231. " Lyonnaise, 280. Tropical Snow, 392. Turkey, Boiled, 256. " Boned, 27, 265. " Roast, 256. Turnips, 305 Turtle, Green, 186. Tutti Frutti, 365. Vanilla, 431. " Sugar, 437, Veal, 239. " Birds, 275. " Croquettes, 279. Cutlets, 240 " Fricandeau, 240. " Fricassee, 240. " Loaf, 276. " Melton, 275. " Roast, 239. " Stew, 240. Vegetables, 289. Food, 291. " Hash, 230 Velvet Cream, 349. " Sauce, 190. Venison, 263, 426. Vermicelli. 309. Egg, 206. Vol-au-vent, 321. Wafer Biscuit, 96. Wafers, Gluten, 97. ^' Graham, 96. Waffle-iron, 98. Waffles, 97. " Corn Meal, S9. " Graham, 99. " Raised, 99. Washing Dishes, 438. Water, 10-13, 454. ■' Ices, 367, 369. Weights and Measures, 30. Welsh Rarebit, 282. Wheat, 37. Cracked, 110. " Flour, 39. ' Granulated, 110. Whey, 464. Whips, Cream, 353. * Newport, 353. Whole-Wheat Gems, 95. " *' Muffins, 89. Wine Jelly, 349. " Whey, 464. Wonders, 106. Woodcock, 263. Yeast, 46. Compressed, 49, ' Dry, 49. * Home-Made, 50. ' Hop, 63 * Potato, Raw, 62. ' " Boiled. 63. Yorkshire Pudding, 221.(1) THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL. I58B-2 TREIVSONT STREET, Established 1879. Incorporated 1883. Open daily from 9 a. m. to 5 p. m. First Term begins October 15. Second Tern begins early in Pebmary. During summer months, classes in Canning and Preserving Fruits; also, in Special Departments. Three courses of twelve lessons each. Pupils may take two or more of the three courses in one term. Those wishing to prepare for teaching should join the Normal Class at the beginning of the year. Applications for services of trained teachers should be made at the school, personally or by letter. Circulars, programmes, terms, &c., sent to any address. DEMONSTRATION LECTURES ON COOKERY, By MRS. LINCOLN, Superintendent of the Boston Cooking School, and of the Department of Cooking at the Martha's Vineyard Summer Institute. Schools or Societies in other cities, wishing one Demonstration or a course of Lectures, can secure Mrs. Lincoln's services by applying to her personally or by letter. For terms, address, Mrs. D. A. LINCOLN, 158^2 Tremont St., Boston, Wollaston, Mass., From October to June. From June to October.(2) THE HEALTH FOOD COMPANY OF NEW YORK is now in the tenth year of its existence. Its valuable and important work has been recognized and commended by thousands of physicians, by many writers for the medical and general press, and by multitudes of the sick and suffering who have found health and comfort through its products. It has had many imitators, but it has conscientiously adhered to its original mission of preparing PERFECT FOODS FOR SICK AND WELL Basing its work upon exact science, and being presided over by a scientific man, it has gained the support and co-operation of the scientific world. Prof. Albert N. Leeds, Public Analyst for the State of New Jersey and Professor of Chemistry in the Stevens Institute, has microscopically examined and chemi- cally analyzed most of the Health Food Company's products, and asserts their great excellence. (In our limited space we can only briefly quote from the Professor's published statement, but we are assured that he will cheerfully mail a copy of the pamphlet to any one who shall address him at the College named, situated in Hoboken, New Jersey.) He found in the Health Food Company's Whole Wheat Flour 16.74 per cent of albuminoids, chiefly gluten, thus showing its great superiority over all other bread-flours in general use. Of the Franklin Mills " Flour, said to be made from " entire wheat," he writes: " It contains 8.55 per cent of albuminoids, chiefly gluten, together with a very large percentage of cellulose or finely-ground bran. It is greatly lacking in nutritive elements." Prof. Leeds further testifies that the Glutens prepared by the Health Food Company are richer in the gluten element than any which he has been able to obtain, whether of American or foreign origin, and more than twice as rich as a so-called gluten made by Farwell & Rhines, of Rochester. He also finds by analysis that Robinson's Prepared Barley Flour " contains only 5.13 per cent of albuminoids, while the Health Food Company's barley flour, retail- ing for less than one-eighth as much, contains 13.83 per cent, showing it to be nearly three times as rich in substantial nutriment. The flours and foods of the Health Food Company are nourishing in health and remedial in sickness. Their good work is in the improvement of the blood-making processes, in better digestion, in increased nutrition. Many physicians have testified to the readi- ness of diseases to yield to their treatment when the patients have been sustained by the bland, soluble, non-irritating, nourishing nutriments prepared by the Health Food Company. Its products still stand at the head of the long list of food preparations for infants and invalids, for the sick who seek to recover health and strength, for the strong who desire to remain strong. It has elevated food and its preparation to the dignity of a science, and has sought to render itself wholly worthy of the warm encomiums so ably pronounced by scholars, physicians, and scientists, conspicuous among whom stand the Rev. John F. Clymer, Prof. Austin Flint, and Mrs. Laura Lyman Shipherd, Editor of " Home Interests" in the New York Tribune. Pamphlets, price-lists, and all particulars are freely mailed to all inquirers. Address, Health Food Company, N. E. Agency, 199 TREMONT ST., BOSTON.(3) THE CRAWFORD RANGE. USED BY MRS. LINCOLN. MADE BY Walker and Pratt Manfg. Co., Warerooms : 31 AND 35 UNION STREET, BOSTON, MASS.WOLLASTON FOUNDRY CO., MANUFACTURERS OF PIANO PLATES AND iCHINERY CASTINGS. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY OF FINE MACHINERY AND LIGHT CASTINGS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. ORDERS ADDRESSED TO WOLLASTON, MASS. A. A. LINCOLN, AGENT AND Treasurer. 60 UNION STREET, BOSTON. Telephone 745, 60 Union Street. At Office from 12 to i daily. Telephone 9303, WoLLASTON. T>iE WORLD'S BEST. The GARLAND OBL STOVE is one of the wonders of this progressive aee. Its power and capacity for cooking and heating purposes is ahnost unlimited. With the No. 3 stove, shown in the cut, all the cooking of an ordinary family can be per- formed with ease. Boiling, Baking, Broiling, and Heating Flatirons can be done satisfactorily, and without the heat, dust, smoke, and dirt of a coal fire. With the addition of a heating drum the Garland will warm a large room in winter. Thousands of farnilies can speak in praise of the Garland Oil Stove. Send for descriptive circular. BikusTow i^JTovJB com:i»aivy, 56 Union Street, Boston. Providence, E. I. 330 Water Street, New York. (0(5) SPECIALTIES. BEEF, PORK, LARD, HAMS, SA USA GES. VEAL, POULTRY, and GAME. SALTPETRED BEEF TONGUES, DRIED and SMOKED BEEF. DANIEL S. DAVIS, DEALER IN PROVISIONS. 8 BoYLSTON Market, BOSTON. PERKINS & ROBERTS, DEALERS IN Mutton, Lamb, and Veal 4= BOYX.STO]Sr MARKET, k I=SIh.s. . BOSTON. GOODS SENT TO ANY PART OF THE CITY. M. A, SNELL & CO., DEALERS IN Fresh, Salt, and Pickled Fish OTSTEES LOBSTERS CLAMS &c. Basement Nos. 1 and 2 Bovlston Market, ftiii^- BOSTON. HASTINGS & CO., Established in 1849, are still to be found at the old Place, 7 AND 8 ST. CHARLES MARKET, BEACH STREET, BOSTON. NO OLEO NOR BUTTERINE EVER SOLD. PURE JERSEY BUTTER in every form, and the FRESHEST of selected EGGS always on hand. Family Trade a Specialty.SILVER HOTEL VENDOME. i Dennison Mfg. Co. I Gentlemen: — I IVe have tried^ various powders for clean- ing our Silver Ware, and have found none equal to Silver White is for sale by all jewelers, grocers, and druggists. I>E]Nr]VI!SOT^ MFO. CO., 21 Milk Street, Boston. ^ PEOPLES ICE COMPANY. Telephone No. iy\%o. Capital, $100,000. Incorporated May 1, j^ije^, OTIS H. WEED, President. D. N. BADGER, Treasurer. OFFBCE, 194 TREMONT STREET, Sub-Office, Ice Depot and Stables, Corner Euggles and Culvert Streets, Near Boston and Providence Railroad, BOSTOIV. This Company have a large supply of Extra Clear Ice from Crystal Lake, Read- ville, Mirror Lake, Dedham, Quannapowitt Lake, Wakefield, and the spacious Lake at East Kingston, N. H., and are well prepared with good teams and drivers to furnish their patrons satisfactorily, at the lowest rates. Markets, Stores^ Hotels^ &^c.i supplied by the ton or hundred at the lowest market prices. Orders thankfully received and promptly attended to. COBB BATES, & YERXA, Importers and Grbgers, 680 to 692 Washington Street, 3 Bowdoin Square, 6 and 8 Faneuil Hall Square, I50ST01V. Also in CHELSEA, FALL RIVER, and TAUNTON. TRAINING SCHOOL FOR KINDERGARTNERS. OPEN FIRST WEEK IN OCTOBER. ' For terms and further information apply to Mrs. S. S. ROPES, CUSHMAN SCHOOL, PARMENTER STREET, BOSTON. (6) WHITE. Silver White. It does its •work quickly and perfectly, without injury to the plate. Yours, y. IF. WOLCOTT. Boston, March 22, 1884.(7) DEERFOOT FARM. The products o£ this well-known farm are justly celebrated, not only for their quality (which is the best that can be produced, from carefully selected stock, with the experience, and under the personal supervision, of its proj^rietor), but also for absolute purity and the neat form in which they are put up. The DAIRY PRODUCTS consist of rich Milk, a very thick sweet Cream and Butter, freshly made every day. The PORK PRODUCTS, which are entirely from young pigs, fed on corn and skim milk, are sugar-cured Hams, lightly salted ; dry-cured Bacon, equal to the best imported; Leaf Lard; Salt Pork, in small.kegs; Pigs'Feet, in hermetically sealed cans; and, during the winter season, the famous " Little Sausages " and loins of Pork for chops and roasting. Patrons are always sure of a ft-esh supply at the store, 59 Bromfield Street, where the goods are received daily. BURNETTS FLAVORING EXTRACTS are pure and of great strength. HOUSEKEEPERS who study their interests will demand of their grocers BURNETT'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS, and will find them the most economical as well as the most delicious of flavors. THE SUPERIORITY OF THESE EXTRACTS CONSISTS IN THEIR PERFECT PURITY AND GREAT STRENGTH. They are warranted free from the poisonous oils and acids which enter into the composition of many of the factitious fruit flavors now in the market. They are not only true to their names, but are prepared from fruit of the best quality, and are so highly concentrated that a comparatively small quantity only need be used. ENDORSED BY MRS. LINCOLN, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE BOSTON COOKINC SCHOOL./