Med K9722i I ( ■' ..... - i. ■ •>. '•. *';«i• • ■*. i - , • _ V .•6 \ (• *i V •* r >: r i. • j ■ / . u- :t^ / 4: ■THE LADY’S GUIDE,Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28098730THE LADY’S GUIDE TO THE ORDERING OF HER HOUSEHOLD, » AND THE ECONOMY OF THE DINNER TABLE. BY A LADY. LONDON: SMITH, ELDEE AND CO., 65, COENIIILL. M.DCCC.LXI. [77j(? Right of Tvanslation is vesej'ved.JWELLCOME INSTITUTE im.m Coll. 1 welMOmec Call No. fiTCONTENTS CHAPTER I. TAGE Inteobuctort I CHAPTER IT. On Cooks and Cooking 16 CHAPTER III. On Means of Improvement in Cooking .... 28 CHAPTER IV. General Remarks on Processes of Cooking . . 44 r CHAPTER V. On the Dessert and Table-Dressing .... 5.5 CHAPTER VI. On the Dining-Room 68 CHAPTER VII. Kitchen Apparatus and Utensils ..... 81VI CONTENTS. CHAPTER Vni. PAGE General Directions for Getting up a Dinner . . 95 Preliminaries 96 Receipt for making Stock, No. 1 ib. Calves’ Eeet Stock To make Glaze . . . . . Dinner-day Preparations .... Sauce a la Bechamelle, or General Sauce, No. 1 White Sauce, or General Sauce, No. 2. Various Preparations General Remarks 97 98 98-100 101,102 102 103 103, 104 105 Carte of Dinner, No. 1 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . . 108 Bill of Fare for Dinner in January 109 Provisions for Dinner, No. 1 110 Potage a ritalienne (Italian Soup) . . . .Ill Consomme aux Legumes (Vegetable Soup) . . . ib. How to prepare the Vegetables . . . .112 Filets de Soles a I’lndienne (dressed Fillets of Soles) . 113 Turbot, Sauce de Homard (Turbot, Lobster Sauce) ib. How to make the Sauce 114 Petits Vol-au-Vents d’Huitres (Croquets of Oysters) 114, 115 Quenelles aux TruflFes (Quenelles, with Truffles and Mushrooms) . . . . . • • 116-118 Cotelettes de Mouton, Sauce Tomate (Mutton Cutlets, with Tomato Sauce) 119 Poulets (Fowls), Jambon (Ham), how to cook and serve ....••••• 120, 121 Selle de Mouton (Saddle of Mutton), how to cook and serve Cabinet Pudding, with Apricot Sauce, how to make and serve Gelee (Calves’-Feet Jelly, for two moulds) . Gateaux d’Oranges (Orange Cakes) . . . • Creme a la Vanille (Vanilla Cream) . . . • Biscuits de Fromage (Cheese Biscuits) ..•■ Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons . . . • Remarks on Dessert, No. 1 121 ib_ 122 123 124 125 126 127CONTENTS. vii PAGE Carte of Dinner, No. 2 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . .128 Bill of Pare of Dinner in February 129 Provisions for Dinner, No. 2. . . . . . 130 Potage a la Brunoise (Soup Brunoise) .... 131 Potage a la Reine (White Chicken Soup) . . . ib. To make the Chicken Stock 132 Croquettes d’Huitres (Oyster Croquets) . . .133 Filets de Veau piques aux Champignons (Fillets of Veal, with Mushrooms and Quenelles) . . .135 To prepare the Mushrooms 136 Cotelettes de Mouton aux Concombres (Mutton Cutlets, with Cucumbers) 137 To prepare the Cucumbers 138 To make the Sauce 139 Dinde (Turkey, plain boiled, with Oyster Sauce) . ib. Pouding a I’Allemande (German Pudding) . . . ib. Gelee au Marasquin (Maraschino Jelly) . . . 141 Creme d’Ananas (Pineapple Cream) .... 142 Chartreuse d’Oranges (Mould of Oranges in Jelly) . 143 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 144 Remarks on Dessert, No. 2 145 Carte of Dinner, No. 3 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . . 146 Bill of Fare for Dingier in March 147 Provisions for Dinner, No. 3 148 Potage a la Julienne (Julienne Soup) .... 149 Potage aux Huitres (Oyster Soup) .... ib. Filets des Maquereaux a la Ravigote . . . .150 Saumon, sauce de homard 151 Croquettes de Lapereau (Croquets of Rabbits) . . 151 Sweetbreads larded. Tomato Sauce . . . .153 Directions and Remarks 154 Cotelettes de Mouton aux Pointes d’Asperges (Mutton Cutlets with Asparagus Heads) . . . .155 Gelee d’Orange (Orange Jelly) ib. Gateaux Genevoises (Genoese Cakes) . . . .157 Nougat, Creme a la Vanille 158 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 162 Remarks on Dessert, No. 3 163 Carte of Dinner, No. 4 (for 14 or 16 Persons) ... 164 Bill of Fare of Dinner in April 165CONTENTS. Vlll PAGE Provisions for Dinner, No. 4 166 Potage d’Asperges (Asparagus Soup) . . . . 167 Consomme a la Vermicelle (Clear Soup with Vermi- celli) .... lb. Escalopes de Saumon a I’Espagnole (Salmon Cutlets) . 168 Petits Pates a la Bourgeoise (Small Pates) . . . 169 Pigeons a la Perigueux (Stewed Pigeons) . . .170 Galantine de Veau (Galantine of Veal) . . . ib. Gateau, Creme d’Ananas (Cake, with Pineapple Cream) 172 Gelee a la Macedoine aux Emits (Jelly with Fruits) . 173 Meringues a la Vanille (Meringues with Vanilla Cream) ib. Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 174 Remarks on Dessert, No. 4 ib. Cakte of Dinner, No. 5 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . . 176 Bill of Fare of Dinner in May . . . . . .177 Provisions for Dinner, No. 5 178 Potage Printanier (Spring Soup) 179 Consomme de Volaille aux Quenelles (Clear Chicken Soup with Quenelles) ib. Whitebait 180 Bouchees a I’Anglaise (Veal Croquets) . . . 181 Fricassee of Chicken with Truffles . . . .182 Pigeons aux Haricots Verts (Pigeons with FrenchBeans) 183 Fricandeau de Veau (Veal Fricandeau) . . .185 Sorrel Sauce . 186 Gateau de Creme aux Groseilles (Gooseberry Cream Cake) . . 186 Gelee aux Fraises (Jelly with Strawberries) . . 188 Lemon Cheesecakes, or “ Maids of Honour ” . . ib. Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 190 Remarks on Dessert, No. 5 191 Carte of Dinner, No. 6 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . . 192 Bill of Fare of Dinner in June 193 Provisions for dinner. No. 6 . . . • • .194 Potage Puree de Pois Verts (Green Pea Soup) . . 195 Potage Blanc (White Soup) Filets de Saumon a la Hollandaise (Cutlets of Salmon) 196 Croquettes (Croquets) ... . . . Ris de Veau a I’Espagnole (Sweetbreads with Spanish Sauce)CONTENTS. IX PAGE Chartreuse de Eraises (Mould of Strawberries and Cream) Petits Puits d’Amour (Cake with Cream and Cherries) 200 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons . . . ■ . 202 Remarks on Dessert, No. 6 • 203 Carte of Dinner, No. 7 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . 204 Bill of Pare of Dinner in July 205 Provisions for Dinner, No. 7 ..... 206 Potage de Homard (Lobster Soup) .... 207 Potage a ITtalienne (Italian Soup) .... 208 Eougets a la Venetienne (Red Mullets) . . . ib. Rissoles 209 Blanquette de Volaille a IT voire (Chicken, with Ivory Sauce) 210 Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Milanaise (Lamb Cutlets with Parmesan Cheese) 211 Chartreuse de Praises (Mould of Strawberries and Cream) 213 Nougat a la Creme Noyau (Nougat Cream with Noyau) ib. Gelee au Vin de Champagne (Jelly of Champagne) . ib. Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons . . , .214 Remarks on Dessert, No. 7 215 Carte of Dinner, No. 8 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . .216 Bill of Pare of Dinner in August 217 Provisions for Dinner, No. 8 218 Potage aux Artichaux (Artichoke Soup) . . . 219 Consomme a la Pate dTtalie ib, Pricandeau des Carpes (Stewed Carp) .... 220 Saumon, Sauce de Homard (Salmon with Lobster Sauce) 221 Vol-au-Vent de Homard (Large Lobster Pate) . . ib. Timbale a la Mazarin (Timbal of Macaroni) . . 222 Langue de Mouton a I’Ecarlate (Sheep’s Tongue with Spinach) 22.3 Brioches 224 Creme a la Romaine (Roman Cream) .... 225 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 226 Remarks on Dessert, No. 8 227X CONTENTS. PAGE Caete of Dinner, No. 9 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . . 228 Bill of Pare of Dinner in September 229 Provisions for Dinner, No. 9 230 Potage a la Palestine (Artichoke Soup) . . . ih. Consomme de Levrau (Hare Soup) . . . .231 Bouchees a la Pompadour (Croquets) .... 232 Salmi d’Alouettes (Stewed Larks) .... 233 Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Chevreuse (Lamb Cutlets) . ib. Mirlitons 234 Bordure de Eiz a la Macedoine (Rice and Fruit) . ib. Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 236 Remarks on Dessert, No. 9 237 Carte of Dinner, No. 10 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . 238 Bill of Fare of Dinner in October 239 Provision for Dinner No. 20 (Single entrees) . . ib. Provisions for Dinner, No. 10 240 Potage de Macaroni a ITtalienne (Macaroni Soup) . 241 Potage de Levrau Clair (Clear Hare Soup) . . . ib. Tendons of Veal with Spinach 242 Boudins aux Champignons 243 Rabhit Curry 244 Apricot Pudding . 246 Gelee d’Ananas (Pineapple JeUy) .... ib. Biscuits Glaces a la Vanille (Iced Biscuits) . . . 247 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 258 Remarks on Dessert, No. 10 249 Carte of Dinner, No. 11 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . .250 Bill of Fare of Dinner in November 251 Provisions for Dinner, No. 11 252 Potage aux Carottes (Carrot Soup) .... 253 Mock-turtle Soup Anguilles a la Tartare (Eels in Tarragon Sauce) . . 254 Large Pate, with Mushrooms and Cocks’-combs . . 255 Tendons de Veau a la Marinade (Tendons of Veal) . 257 Cutlets of Partridges stewed Baba, or Polish Cake Gelee de Citron Fouettee (Lemon Jelly whipped) . 260 Creme au Chocolat (Choeolate Cream). . . • 261 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons . . . • 262 Remarks on Dessert, No. 11XI CONTENTS. FAQE Carte of Dinner, No. 12 (for 14 or 16 Persons) . . 264 Bill of Fare of Dinner in December 265 Provisions for Dinner, No. 12 266 Potage a la Crecy (Crecy soup) H>. Potage Mulligatawnie (Mulligatawny Soup) . . 267 Filets de Turbot a la Normandie (Fillets of Turbot) . 268 Boiled Cod and Oyster Sauce 269 Croquettes de Homard (Lobster Croquettes) . . ib. Sweetbreads with Salmon Sauce 270 Quenelles de Lapereau a la Perigord . . . .271 Soufflee a la Vanille (Vanilla Soufflee) . . . ib. Croqnante d’Oranges (Oranges in Caramel and Jelly) 273 Mirlitons au Chocolat (Chocolate Tartlets) . . . 274 Eamaquins 275 Plan of Table set for 14 or 16 Persons .... 276 Remarks on Dessert, No. 12 277 General Remarks on the preceding 12 Dinners . 278 Carte of Dinner, No. 13 (for 8 Persons) .... 282 BUI of Fare of Dinner in January 283 Provisions for Dinner, No. 13 (single entrees) . . ib. Potage de Queue de Boeuf (Oxtail Soup) , . . 284 Salmi de Perdrix (Stewed Partridges) . . . ib. Mutton Cutlets and Tomato Sauce .... 285 Noix de Boeuf Braise (Round of Beef Braised) . . 286 Apple Jelly with Cream 287 Carte of Dinner, No. 14 (for 8 Persons) .... 288 Bill of Fare of Dinner in February 289 Provisions for Dinner, No. 14 (single entrees) . . ib. Lapereaux a la Bourguignonne (Stewed Rabbits) . 290 Selle de Mouton (Saddle of Mutton) . . . .291 To make Potato Balls ib. Ponding au Chocolat (German Chocolate Pudding) , ib. Rice Pudding with Chocolate Sauce .... 292 Beignets de Pommes (Apple Fritters) . . . . ib. Scotch Woodcocks 293 Carte of Dinner, No. 15 (for 8 Persons) .... 294 BiU of Fare of Dinner in March 296 Provisions for Dinner, No. 15 (single entrees) . . ib.xii CONTENTS. PAQB Potage aux Legumes (Vegetable Soup) . . . 296 Mackerel with Gooseberry Sauce, &c.—Pried Soles . 297 Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers 298 Homard a ITndienne (Lobster Curry) .... t'6. Braised Fillet of Beef 300 Petits Babas (Little Babas) SOI Blanc Mange with Apricots 302 Carte of Dinner, No. 16 (for 8 Persons) .... 304 Bill of Fare of Dinner in April 305 Provisions for Dinner, No. 16 (single entrees) . . ib. Cutlets of Veal and Ham, with Italian Sauce . . 306 Beignets a la FrauQaise (French Fritters) . . . 307 Green Apricot Tart and Custard ib. Custard 308 Omelette aux Fines Herbes (Omelet with Herbs). . ib. Omelette au Naturel 309 Carte of Dinner, No. 17 (for 8 Persons) .... 310 Bill of Fare of Dinner in May 311 Provisions for Dinner, No. 17 (single entrees) . . ib. Potage, Queue de Boeuf Clair (Clear Oxtail Soup) . 312 Blanquette de Veau (Blanquette of Veal) . . . ib- Pouding a I’Allemande (German Marrow Pudding) . 313 Tartelettes de Cerises (Cherry Tartlets) . . . 314 Fondu 315 Carte of Dinner, No. 18 (for 8 Persons) .... 316 Bill of Fare of Dinner in June 317 Provisions for Dinner, No. 18 (single entrees) . . ib. Potage aux Croutons (Clear Soup, with Crust) . . 318 Souchee de Plaice (Souchee of Plaice) .... ib. Vol-au-Vent de Nesle (Vol-au-Vent of Cocks’-combs) 319 Beignets de Biz (Rice Fritters) 321 Biscuits a la creme 322 Charlotte de Groseilles (Gooseberry Charlotte) . . 323 Carte of Dinner, No. 19 (for 8 Persons) .... 324 Bill of Fare of Dinner in July 325 Provisions for Dinner, No. 19 (single entrees) . . ^b. Potage Clair a ITtalienne (Clear Macaroni Soup) . 326 Rissoles de Homard (Lobster Rissoles) . . . .326xm CONTENTS. PAQB Kis de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges (Lambs’ Sweet- breads, with Asparagus) 327 Croquettes de Riz (Rice Croquets) .... 328 Creme aux Praises (Strawberry Cream) . . . 329 Carte of Dinner, No. 20 (for 8 Persons) .... 330 Bill of Pare of Dinner in August . . • • .331 Provisions for Dinner No. 20 (single entrees) . . ib. Potage Blanc (White Soup of Vegetable Marrow) . - 332 Mutton Kidneys with Madeira . . . . • Blanquette de Volaille (Blanquette of Powls) . . 333 Compote dePommes (Mould of Apples in Jelly) . . 334 Pannequets a la Pranqaise (Prencli Pancakes) . . 335 Carte of Dinner, No. 21 (for 8 Persons) . . . .336 Bill of Pare of Dinner in September 337 Provisions for Dinner in September (single entrees) . ih. Giblet Soup 338 Pate de Venaison (Venison Pasty) .... 339 Charlotte de Pommes (Apple Charlotte) . . .340 Carte of Dinner, No. 22 (for 8 Persons) . . . . . 342 Bill of Pare of Dinner in October . . . . , • 343 Provisions for Dinner, No. 22 (single entrees) . . ib. Tomato Soup 344 Beignets d’Huitres (Oyster Pritters) .... 345 Tete de Veau a la Pinanciere (Calf’s Head) . . . 346 Croquettes de Pommes (Apple Croquets) . . .347 Omelette aux Confitures (Sweet Omelet) . . . 348 Tourte a la Pran9aise CPrench Tart) .... ib. Carte of Dinner, No. 23 (for 8 Persons) .... 350 Bill of Pare of Dinner in November 351 Provisions for Dinner, No 23 (single entrees) . . ib. Potage en Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup) .... 352 Salmi de Levrau (Jugged Hare) 353 Compote de Poires a la Cardinale (Baked Pears) . . 354 Creme a I’ltalienne (Italian Cream) .... 355 Carte of Dinner, No. 24 (for 8 Persons) .... 356 Bill of Pare of Dinner in December 357 Provisions for Dinner, No. 24 (single entrees) . . ib.XIV CONTENTS. PAGE Soupe aux Cotelettes de Mouton (Haricot Soup) . . 358 Cotelettes de Lard (Pork Cutlets) .... 359 Creme aux Confitures (Trifie) 360 Plum Pudding 362 Genekal Kemaeks 363 List of Viands for Selection 369 CHAPTER IX. Dinners for One or Two Guests 371 “ Daryols ” 375 “ Young Fowls in Almond Sauce ” 376 To make Clear Soup of Common Household Stock . . 378 Opaque Soup 379 January.—Dinner for 4 Persons 381 Ramifolle ib- Rice Cake Orange Fritters 382 French Fritters 383 February.—Dinner for 4 Persons ib. Boiled Mutton 384 German Marrow Pudding ib. Orange Cheesecake 385 March.—Dinner for 4 Persons 386 Lambs’ Sweetbreads Braised ib. Plain Brioches . . 387 Stewed Rlmbarb . 388 April.—Dinner for 4 Persons 389 German Filled Fritters ....... ib. A Gooseberry Pudding 390 May.—Dinner for 4 Persons 391 Fried Whitings ib- Laurentian Pudding ib- Open Gooseberry Tart 392 Jane.—Dinner for 4 Persons ib- Lambs’ Sweetbreads in White Sauce .... 393 Leg of Mutton German Fritters Meringues with Cherries ib-XV CONTENTS. PAGE July.—Dinner for 4 Persons 395 Braised Breast of Lamb 396 Boasted Fowl 397 Plum Tart ib. Croutons a la Creme ib. August.—Dinner for 4 Persons 398 Crecy Soup ib. Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes 399 Open Apple Tart 400 Apricots with Cream 401 September.—Dinner for 4 Persons ib. Mushroom Croquets 402 Celery with Tomatos ib. Pineapple Soufflee 403 October.—Dinner for 4 Persons 404 Tomato Soup ib. Babbits with Mushroom Sauce 405 Potato Pudding 406 Chocolate Pancakes ib. Apricot Pancakes 407 November.—Dinner for 4 Persons . .... ib. Mutton Cutlet . . ib. Bice Charlotte ib. December.—Dinner for 4 Persons 408 Genoese Trifle 409 CHAPTEB X. Rechaiiffes and Miscellaneous Beceifts . . . 4io Bechaufie of Boasted Loin or Fillet of Veal with Peas ib. Bechauffe of Lamb with Peas ..... 412 Bechaufie of Lamb with Spinach ib. Beef Bechaufie 413 Curried Beefsteak Pudding ...... 414 Bechaufies of Fish for Dinner and Breakfast: Salmon 415 Bechaufie of Cod for either Dinner or Breakfast . . 416 Bechaufie of Haddock ib. Dried Haddocks Coliflchets Pates a la Minute: Profitroles; Egg Croquets . . 418 Monacos: Potato Quenelles 419 Pate d’ltalie (Italian Paste for Soups) .... 420XVI CONTENTS. PAGE Croutons for Soup, &c 421 Cream Cheese ib. Burnt Otjions for Gravies 422 English Beignets ib. Chocolate Beignets 424 Poor Knights (a Swedish Dish) ib. Apple Turbans 425 Hasty Pudding 525 Daryols 426 Scotch Pineapple ib. To make Green and other coloured Sugar . . . 427 Cake for Charlottes, Gateaux d’Oranges, &c. . . 428 Wafer Biscuits 429 “ Petticoat Tails ” ib. Melted Butter 430 CHAPTER XI. Economical Cookery 432 Stewed Beefsteak in the Pot-au-Feu .... 434 Pot-au-Feu of Haricot Mutton 435 Pot-au-Feu of Fricandeau of Veal . . . . 436 Rechauffe of Game in the Pot-au-Feu .... 437 CHAPTER XH. Suggestions to the Benevolent ...... 439 CHAPTER XIII. The Dratving-Room 455 CHAPTER XIV. The Household 467 EERATA. Page 107, line 23,/or “biscuits” read “beignets” „ 114, „ 27, „ “Croguets” read “Pates” „ 157, „ 5, „ “ Genoises” read “ Genevoises ” „ 237, „ 13, „ “place” read “plate”1 THE LADY’S GUIDE, 'etc. etc. CHAPTER I. INTKODUCTOET. The ^‘Lady’s Guide” may be thought a presump- tuous title: a proposal to he the housekeeper’s guide or the cook’s guide, might have been made with a more becoming air of modesty; but it would have failed to express the intention of the following pages, which is not directly to teach cooks or other servants, but to aid young mistresses of families to reform their dinners, and to regulate their own households for themselves. One of the reasons why those people to whom we confide the care of our property, and the task of preparing food for our tables, perform their daily routine without much effort tow'ards improvement is, that most of them ax'e quite aware that theirINTEODUCTOKY. 2 respective mistresses understand very imperfectly the duties each servant has to do; it follows, ■ that if households are to he better served and domestics to be improved, the first step must be to incite ladies to take a greater degree of interest in every part of household work, so that they may better compre- hend what should be done, and, by that knowledge, obtam influence to guide the servants. In proposing to be the lady’s guide, the writer desires to disclaim any intention of advocating a re- sumption of antiquated fashions of domestic drudgery, or even of hinting at a return to those respectable though somewhat homely duties which were thought virtuous in the days of our great-grandmothers : the spirit of such advice as may be offered is quite the contrary. So far from counselling rigid self- devotion to household aflFairs, the aim wiU be to suggest methods for regulating these successfully at the smallest possible expenditure of time and thought. In all undertakings, great or small, the best plan to save time is to begin by acquiring a distinct apprehension of what is to be done, and afterwards considering how to do it: thus a small amount of attention bestowed at the beginning on an unattrac- tive subject, may be well repaid by the facility obtained in dealing with it; and more freedom from the annoyance of any claims of duty may be secured by due examination of the nature of those claims3 INTRODUCTORY. than by any attempt to ignore or neglect them altogether. Although, with a view to excite interest in all that concerns the household and its management, various topics will he touched upon, the guidance which it is proposed to oflFer will relate principally to the cooking department; since in that the need for improvement is more generally conspicuous and more painfully acknowledged than in any other. No apology, therefore, can he required for an attempt to supply that which every young mistress of a family feels the need of. It is in the task of pro- viding an inviting and yet frugal table, that the young wife finds her earliest perplexity: natural taste may serve, in the absence of experience, to arrange furniture and decorations; common sense and kind feeling may he safe guides in the general regulation of the servants; hut to make an indifierent cook produce a creditable dinner, is not an easy undertaking. The best intentioned efforts to ac- complish that difficult task can only issue in repeated failures, so long as the guiding head has not very clear ideas upon the subject; especially as the only books available ai’e mere lists of not very intelligible receipts. It may be asserted, without risk of contradiction, that few establishments of moderate extent and pre- tensions are to be found in which the daily fare is not a standing grievance. That proverbial hashed mutton, so provocative of gloomy looks, is for ever 1—2INTRODUCTOEY. 4 reappearing; and a greasy haricot, or a very tough stewed beef-steak, in succession, is scarcely calculated to brighten the brow of conjugal discontent: minced veal fit for the nursery, or mutton-chops requiring the digestion of a ploughhoy, following in their turn, are ahke unwelcome. These, perhaps, are the unfor- tunate results of a perplexing consultation which has been hut a dreary prelude to the day’s enjoyment. But something more elaborate may be aimed at: the cook refers to her “ company ” repertoire, and provides a choicer kind of material; hut she has no charcoal stove ready; and, for want of management, there is no good “ stock,” nor any of those various little essentials which are at hand on great occasions; so the solitary entree resembles very faintly -what her skill might, perhaps, produce when getting up a finished dinner. Thus the hope of delicate and pleasing fare becomes gradually fainter, until, in most cases, the attempt to provide agreeable variations to perpetual roast and boiled is finally abandoned as a hopeless effort; and the coarse food of heavy joints is accepted, with the consolatory reflection that, after all, it is well cooked and wholesome. This conclusion will not, however, bear examination; for, although plain roast and boiled meat may be more wholesome than badly done stews or stale rechauffes, yet it is neither more nourishing, nor more likely to suit a delicate digestion, than lighter dishes, provided the latter are skilfully prepared.INTKODUCTORY. If, from commenting on family dinners, we turn to those commonly produced for society, the need of considerable improvement appears still more urgent. We have only to consider the general quality of cooking, and those ambitious attempts at what are called “ made dishes,” with their miserable results, which we see in houses where failure could not possibly be attributed to any lack of best materials, in order to be convinced that nearly all cooks are ignorant and careless. Entree after entree passes untouched by the guests, whose appetites are satis- fied by joints of meat or poultry, often as much spoiled by cooking as the unfortunate entrees. Now, since custom forbids our inviting friends to feast with us off plain roasted and boiled meat, and we are therefore doomed to go on producing more elaborate dishes, whether they prove eatable or not, it is surely worth our while to prepare them so that they may not be wasted, and that these delicacies of the table may be rescued from their present unsatis- factory condition of mere prandial shams. It is, in fact, to culinary incompetence in this country—for in our deficiency in this respect we stand nearly alone among the nations—that must be attributed the purely English custom of dining off huge masses of flesh, too often suggestive of the butchery: a strange anomaly at the present time, when refinement in other respects is general through- out good society! The custom is no less than aINTEODUCTOEY. 6 relapse into the barbarism, which was eschewed by our ancestors from the Saxon times to about the sixteenth century. A vellum roll, entitled Forme of Cury, of the time of Richard the Second, which was published, together with another MS. of the same period, in the year 1770, shows that the system of cooking in the fourteenth century very closely re- sembled that of the modern French. Out of nearly two hundred receipts for the preparation of meats, poultry, game, and fish, half at least, by omitting only certain condiments, such as saffron, coriander seed, &c., might be produced as entries at the present day.* Throughout both manuscripts, no mention is to be found of joints of meat. Animals were undoubtedly roasted whole in great houses, and portions hewed or hacked off for the retainers; f but the want of knives as table implements j; indicates that joints * Such refinements in cooking as -were introduced into Britain by the Eomans, probably disappeared under the Danes, to whom neither oil nor butter were known as ingredients for the table. It is to be regretted that scarcely any Eoman works on cookery exist, except one of the time of Heliogabalus, which is said not to he very instructive. Eecords of made dishes are, however, of higher antiquity. The food brought to Isaac was not merely flesh of kid, hut “ savoury meat ” made from it. Even the Spartan broth, though a protest against luxury, does not indicate devouring of undisguised flesh. f Silver spits are mentioned, on which whole animals were roasted, in great houses. J In most of the illuminated MSS. of the fourteenth century, no knives are seen upon the tables, nor in the hands of the guests. In the Luterell Psalter a few knives and spoons are seen, but not nearly sufficient for the company.7 INTRODUCTOEY. were not produced at the dinners and suppers of the higher class: indeed their feasts consisted of little else than spoon meat.* Knives only came into general use in the time of Queen Elizabeth; and from their introduction we may date that of joints of meatj including the first appearance of the roast beef of Old England, on the tables of civilized society. To aid in daintily disposing of the sirloin, forks came into use in the time of James the First; f after which the art of composing made dishes declined in England, so that an improvement in manufactm’es helped to re-establish a barbarous custom in the way of diet. M. Beauvilliers, in the preface to his Art du Cuisinier, asserts that “until the time of Francis * Hence the cnstom of presenting spoons at christenings. Each person possessed and used his own spoon, of silver or wood as it might be ; in this respect, at least, we have ground for believing that our ancestors surpassed, in refinement, the Romans, who ate their fanciful and expensive messes with their fingers. Some suspicion as to the use of fingers still clings, however, to the happy possessors of apostle spoons, since ewers and basins formed an important part of table furniture; and it is recorded that “ Aftyr mete then waschen they.” t One iron fork only was included in the list of articles granted from the royal wardrobe to the Princess Joan in 1347. Piers Gaveston possessed three of silver for eating pears. In those days wooden platters w’ere called hoards. The lord and his lady ate off one board, by way of showing their affection. Honoured guests drank out of the same cup with the host; hence “the loving cup” handed round at city feasts, and the lately exploded invitations to take wine together.INTRODUCTORY. 8 the First, the French were completely ignorant of cooking; ” that all the science they possessed was confined to mere boiling, roasting, broiling, and fi’ying meat—just as the English do at present; the latter never having made any progress at all in the art of gastronomy.” He goes on to say, that “ to- wards the middle of the sixteenth century cooking and chemistry were revived, together with sur- gery;” and that ‘'the renaissance of all these was in France, and was the work of Gonthier d’Ander- nach, first physician to Francis the First.” The correctness of this statement is much impugned by the evidence contained in the Forme of Cury. All that can be said is, that if the French really used meat in its least disguised form till the period they assign to their improvement, they must have been far behind their much despised neighbours in refine- ment. To return from this little glance at the usages of ancient times, we may assert that, whether it be con- ceded that the introduction of joints of meat is a retrogression towards barbarism, or whether such rude fare may by any means be defended as suitable to civilized society, it is unquestionable that a vast number of people would prefer more delicate food if they could have it good and wholesome; and if to this certainty we add the probability, that all sorts of preparations, whether to be eaten or wasted.9 INTRODUCTORY. will continue to be made for ceremonious occasions, we must come to the conclusion that it is no un- worthy study for an English lady to discover how to please refined tastes, and prevent a foolish waste of trouble and expense. Whilst commending such cares to every young housewife, the question arises what is the best course she can adopt in pursuing such avocations. On this topic I venture to oppose my own opinion to one lately set forth in an influential Review. Should this seem presumptuous, I might urge that the reviewer’s counsels rest upon theory, whilst I speak from experience. The idea of young ladies learn- ing cooking with their grammar and geography seems absurd. A girl, at a time when her intellect is being developed, and her perceptions awakened to all that is true and beautiful, cannot be suitably employed in scrutinizing dinners, distinguishing successful dishes, and learning how to mend the failures; still less, were such a study thought appro- priate, would it be prudent to send her down into the kitchen to do servants’ work in servants’ com- pany. Even later, when the period for exertion as a young mistress has arrived, and catering for appetites has become part of her vocation, it does not follow that her meddling with the executive would prove in any degree effectual. Supposing that the reviewer’s " duchess ” were to gratify himINTRODUCTOEY. 10 just once—he asked but for one effort—by con- descending to cook her mutton-chop; she might, it is true, suffer no great harm from the single essay, but it would advance her very slightly indeed towards that expertness which can only he acquired by continued practice, while she would be laughed at by the handier kitchen-maid. The position of a duchess renders it ridiculous for her to aim at the accomplishment of rightly cooking mutton- chops, or even salmis: she has a grand chef, whose business it is to cook ; her silk dress and fair hands, therefore, could be soiled on no other principle than that of setting a good example to inferiors. The motive might be good or bad, but it may fairly be denied that ladies in less elevated positions would do wisely in following the example so cha- ritably set them, although they keep no chefs and are content with clumsy women cooks. It is hoped that the contents of the following pages may be found to show an easier and more effectual way to teach the cook and mend the dinners, than by ladies experimenting in the kitchen. The poorer classes in England, unfortunately, do not possess a natural aptitude for cooking; and until very recently no systematic attempts have been made to instruct young women in this useful art: witness their want of I’esources and of inge- nuity to make their few materials palatable. TheINTRODUCTORY. 11 genei’al run of cooks have consequently spent their childhood in untidiness and careless ignorance of culinary management. They enter service early, and pass a few years in sculleries doing dirty work ; then, or afterwards, as kitchen-maids, they pick up here and there some scanty knowledge, when they call themselves plain cooks,” and get engaged in that capacity, without having had opportunities of acquiring any correct ideas of cooking: nor, indeed, ideas of any kind how to do things nicely. As “ plain cooks ” it is possible that by daily practice they may attain to a certain degree of expertness in roasting and boiling, and, in a few cases, in frying and pastry making; but beyond this they have no means of learning, and often have no notion that there is much more to be learned. It is not impossible that a few of these incompetent cooks, from a desire to “ better ” them- selves, as they call it, may endeavour to attain a few improvements on their old routine. The mis- tress finds that the attempts are wretched failures; she sees that things are wrong, but cannot tell in what way, and still less is she able to guess how they should be mended—having been accustomed to look on cookery as a mystery beyond her powers, or possibly as one beneath her attention; and so the cook, thus discouraged, and having no one to teach her or correct her mistakes, falls back on her per-INTEODUCTORY. 12 petual roasting and boiling, and relinquishes everj attempt to produce variety, excepting on those rare occasions when unhappy guests are bidden to partake of the products of a clumsy effort to do something fine for company. The object of the following pages is, in the first place, to persuade young lady housekeepers who wish for nicer dinners than their plain cooks can provide for them, that it is easy to acquire that extent of information which would enable them to correct and guide those persons towards improve- ment ; and next, having excited in the reader some degree of interest in the study of cookery and of true economy, it is proposed to aid them in con- verting those same untaught persons into nice, neat- handed cooks, who, without pretending to emulate the performances of such accomplished artists as preside over Grosvenor Square kitchens, may send up to table nothing spoiled and nothing vulgar. There is every reason to expect that a person con- stantly exerting herself under the criticisms of a lady who has an intelligent appreciation of good cookery, and clear ideas of what is bad in cooking, will pro- duce dinners far more agreeable to partake of than the succession of messes called “ made dishes ” con- cocted by ignorant and unskilful pretenders who call themselves “ professed cooks.” In regard to the culinary part of this volume, anINTKODUCTOEY. 13 apology need scarcely be offered for adding another to the numerous works upon the subject; for without presumption, it may be assumed that none is needed for offering aid in difficulties, which, notwithstanding all that has been written, are still felt by almost all young housekeepers : by all, at least, whose circum- stances do not release them from household cares of this kind. Of such there may be a few who have devoted much thought and energy to the task of arranging a table so that it might become a credit to their husbands and a satisfaction to their friends, and who have entirely succeeded; these, above all others, are certain to receive graciously any addition to their power of perfecting the work which they have set themselves to do; and it is hoped that the larger number, including those who are yet in the depths of discouragement, will no less kindly accept the friendly help which is jDroffered to them. There will be, however, other subjects slightly touched upon, in which difficulties exist that are not so much felt, and where failures are ignored because there is no due appreciation of what success should accomplish. The few slight remarks on taste in ornamentine t le table and furnishing the house, do not presume to be more than suggestive, and serving to invite attention to those subjects. Much of the bad taste, waste of resources, and general ill-success of deco-14 INTEODUCTOEY. rative attempts, proceed from this cause, that those who direct the work do not care to inquire whether there are any rules of art which ought to he applied to it. It is not so much want of disposition to acquire the knowledge requisite for success, as utter ignorance of the fact that there is any knowledge which can he attained. Where there is no definite aim, there is not likely to he any pleasing interest excited; and since it is wearisome to do anything without an interest, it is a kindness to show those who have scarcely thought upon the subject, that all the small details of arrangement, whether for convenience or decoration in a house, may he subservient to a special aim: this may he to produce a model of grace or perfect keeping, or it may he simply the desire to gratify another who has some particular taste; hut whatever it is, a definite aim will awaken interest and make the work a pleasure. Though, on this principle, it has been thought pardonable to advert to some advantages that might result from rather more regard to taste in little things than is commonly bestowed, it may be that there is a risk of being reproached for advocating frivolity and promoting luxury; yet all those who do not renounce the elegant accessories of theix station must accept many that are unimportant in themselves, and the question is, whether those accessories shall be made pleasing or remain un-15 INTRODUCTOEY. satisfying. The effort to insure elegance may be defended on the principle that what is worth doing at all is worth doing well; we are always able to rescue any subject from frivolity by bestowing on it just the time and thought that it is worth: neither more nor less.16 CHAPTER II. ON COOKS AND COOKING. It is pleasing, gentle reader, to believe that you, who come to me to seek advice, are in that happiest of positions—a young wife, enjoying nearly all that heart could wish. Your happiness, it would seem, though very real, is yet not perfect; you have just arrived at the discovery that your new home is not altogether in perpetual sunshine, and the first shadow has fallen on it from the kitchen. No one can feel for you in your troubles more acutely than myself, for the same have been once my own. They fall, indeed, to the lot of nearly all in your position: many, like you, have had to look them in the face; and many, hke myself, have invented means to conquer them; but few are willing to revert to the remembrance of those early difficulties, and fewer still to record their own successful measures for the benefit of younger sisters. Without further preface, then, I shall respond to your appeal, in all the freedom of confidential gossip. I presume, by your seeking aid from my expo-17 ON COOKS AND COOiaNG. rlence, that you date neither from Grosvenor Square nor from Carlton House Terrace. I pi’esume, more- over, that the man whom you have lately made happy is not, as yet at least, in the enjoyment of that comfortable state of the exchequer which would supply a housekeeper with her fifty or sixty pounds a year wages, her perquisites from your larder and her percentage from your tradesmen; for such a person- age, were she in your service, ought not to require, and, if she did require, would not accept, criticism from either you or me. Having, then, assumed what is not the extent of your finances, I may, without prying impertinently into the secrets of your income, conclude that it ranges somewhere between one and two thousand a year, or that it may even fall some- thing below the smaller sum. You wonder that I define thus minutely your pecuniary circumstances ; but it is done to indicate the sort of income of those whom I conceive to be most likely to require counsel in their household difficulties, and to show that I am willing not to discourage any one who may glance over these pages, from attempting with the more modest of the sums just named to preside over a lady-like establishment. It often happens that young wives who have been used to large expenditure, contrast the narrow means of their husbands with the large income of their parents, and at once abandon in despair all ideas of aiming at refinement in their household and the table. 218 ON COOKS AND COOKING. This is a primary mistake much to he regretted. That good taste is far from being dependent on large ex- penditure, and that shahhiness and discomfort are not the necessary accompaniments of economy, are axioms that in the course of our acquaintance I hope to suc- ceed in proving to you. There are moral, as well as material advantages in surrounding home with an atmosphere of cheerful easy elegance. To effect this with narrow means calls for exertion : there must be energy and management; waste must be avoided; servants, as far as may be suitable, should be few in number, and in every department showy variety less thought of than perfection in the few things afforded. Some of these cares may be irksome, but the trouble would prove a much lighter penalty to pay for the lack of an ample purse, than that listless sinking into slovenly, ungraceful habits, which introduces a host of evils, besides isolating people from their equals in rank, perhaps from former friends. While speculating on the magnitude of your for- tune, and presuming that its limits forbade the acquisition of a first-rate cook, who, whether agree- able to you or not, would constitute herself house- keeper, I was perhaps rash in guessing at an income below which that relief to culinary anxiety becomes impossible. Personal requirements and other obliga- tions to expenditure are so infinitely various, that it is hard to fix a rule where any outlay falls into extra- vagance, which shall apply justly to all persons of19 ON COOKS AND COOKING. equal possessions; but one fact is certain, that the entire scale of household expense is enormously in- creased by the presence, or reduced by the absence, of a first-rate cook and housekeeper; at any rate, I assume that you have not engaged one, but have accepted the alternative of a good plain cook. I will suppose that you have sought for this alternative, and that your task has not proved easy. In the advertisements for places you will have noticed a subtle self-division of pi'etenders : there is the plain cook, the good plain cook, the good cook, the thoi’ough good cook, all ranging themselves modestly, with a great gulf still separatmg the good plain cook from the perfectly accomplished cook and housekeeper, far above them all. The fact is that there is very little to choose in the qualifi- cations of the four subordinate ranks, the word good being a most unwarrantable assumption in every case. The plain cook may by chance roast and boil toler- ably; the good cook can do a feAv things besides, but nothing well; and the lady who announces herself to be both good and thorough, who produces entrees, soups, and jellies, is probably the least Avorth hiring of all. Her soups are wretched potages, and the entrees nasty messes, Avhilst her conceit and vulgar style make it quite impossible to mend her, even if you knew how to set about it. Such, I fear, is the sort of blank which you have already drawn at the, register-office lottery; hence your first discomfort, 2—220 ON COOKS AND COOKING. and the compliment I enjoy of being consulted by you. As yet, perhaps, your discontent has been excited only by a vague sense that your dinners are not what they ought to be; if so, it may not be super- fluous to invite your intelligent notice to their special faults. I shall pass over your dally fare, taking it for granted that, disgusted with ill-made stews and hashes, you have reduced it to burnt or half-roasted and hard-boiled beef and mutton; and I shall presume that, although you are resigned to those inflictions, you are just now grieving over the failure, in respect to the repast, of your first dinner-party: your vexation having been, perhaps, deepened by a shade of discon- tent which has made this morning’s breakfast-table somewhat less sunshiny than usual. No doubt you long to be able, on the next occasion, to arrange a dinner which may not be disapproved, and yet you look back on yesterday’s without exactly under- standing where it failed, and of course without any idea whatever how to mend it. Shall I sketch its portrait? It will not be fair to look on, certainly; but to realize it may be instructive. Spving Soup.—Like greasy coffee and water in appearance; in taste, simply pepper, salt, and raw tm’iiips; a few hard green peas are seen floating in it. Boiled Turhot.—Boiled till it is soft and tasteless. Its lobster sauce a thick pink pudding; the taste of21 ON COOKS AND COOKING. the lobster would have suggested crab, could such a substitution have been imaginable. PdUs. — Large and hard enough for cricket- balls. Lobster Cutlets.—In material, a reproduction of suspicious sauce; the consistence not so much that of pudding as of close, tough sponge. Quenelles.—Are represented by some salted, spiced bread-puddings, without sugar. Chicken entrie.—Slices hardened and coated with a layer of stitfened cream; taste of the coating, pure raw flour. Between each slice is one of tongue—in aj)pearance, part of a boiled shoe-sole; in taste, just what the latter might be supposed to be. Boiled Fowls and Tongue.—The chicken entree substantially repeated, only in joints instead of slices. By way of variety, some loose, dark skin adorns the plate. The sauce is the same as the coating of chicken entree, but becomes still thicker in conseq^uence of waiting. Tongue the same as entree. Saddle of Mutton.—Slices cmding on the plate— very red. Ducklings.—Floating in fat, stuffed with onions, and well burnt. As for the sweets, I dare not attempt to describe them; no pen can do them justice. There w’as one great satisfaction for you—the jelly was not broken; it was stiff enough to have stood even rougher usage than the footman gave it, though he did shake it22 ON COOKS AND COOKING. most unmercifully. One more comfort, too, there is for you : there was a pleasing uniformity, in one respect at least, throughout the dinner—soup, entrees, jelly, ices, all were about an equal temperatm’e. The picture fills you with despair, and your first impulse is to send away your cook, and try another; hut I cannot flatter you that the change will aid you much. Another person of the same pretensions miffht do a few things rather better, but she would still be very inefficient. Any woman who might be equal to produce a presentable copy of your unlucky dinner, would find herself, by taking pains and in- A^esting a moderate sum, able to cross over that great gap, which, according to the classification of her former advertisements, separated her from the grand cook and housekeeper, whose large demands you Avisely think exceeds your means; you will, there- fore, have again none to choose out of but individuals of that ignorant class who are pleased to call them- selves good plain cooks, but whom anybody else would call no cooks at all. Since, therefore, you are not likely to find a woman disposed to do you service at the expense of her own interests, I suggest that you should educate a cook for yourself. It is a startling proposition; in your helpless state of ignorance, you can scarcely grasp the idea that such an enterprise is possible. You anti- cipate that a sort of self-immolation will be requisite to dive into all the mysteries of entrees, souflflees, and23 ON COOKS AND COOKING. salmisj and a liuncli’ed inconceivable inventions. And then not only the science, hut the practice; vv^hat sacri- fices can ever compass that? Such fears are not unreasonable, hut yet a little energy will carry you through the difficulty. I would propose that you should allow me to initiate you into a few of the first principles and simplest rules of cooking; by means of which knowledge, receipts will become intelligible. I hope to be able, for your convenience, to furnish a number of those receipts in terms easier to be under- stood than the common forms, and, at the same time, to make them more exact. A distinct set of direc- tions will be afforded you, simplified also both in method and in language, how to proceed with all that forms the groundwork of good cooking. Carefully arranged “ cartes ” of dinners Avill be presented to you, and the mode of getting them up described; and various other receipts offered for your choice, which, after you have insj)ected them, you may hand to your cook. By noting, wdthout intermission, the success or failure of the production, you wdll soon become qualified to make intelhgent criticisms or offer perti- nent remonstrances. If you accept this proposition, there will be a few preliminaries to be considered before you enter on your new line of duty. We are obliged to anticipate the necessity of bestowing a daily lesson on the cook, whom you have yet to hire. Like other lady house- keepers, you have, no doubt, been in the habit of24 ON COOKS AND COOKING. affording a morning interview to ascertain what provisions remain, and to be able to order what may be wanted. Whether the common practice of visiting the kitchen daily, and making a personal inspection for that purpose, is a good one, I shall dare to doubt; and I will state my reasons for that opinion when saying a few words on the management of servants. In the meantime, as far as regards your cook’s progress in her art, I would suggest that, whether you prefer to send for her, or go yourself into yoim kitchen, you will find a little lecture every morning, commenting upon the proceedings of the previous day and advising on the details of the next planned dinner, a most useful practice—I might almost say an indispensable one, although it need not occupy much time. It will be needful always on those occasions to give a reason for every remonstrance, referring as often as possible to general rules. A habit of dis- criminating and advising will soon become easy to you, and every encouraging remark you may offer on some small success, every notice of a failure, if the instance be of no more importance than some badly mashed potatoes, will keep up a woman’s interest in her work, and help her forward in a course of improvement. Servants like to believe in their mistress’s wisdom as much as they dislike her interference with the executive, and not only will your cook learn to25 ON COOKS AND COOKING. confide in your judgment, but the conviction that nothing she does is too mean to he noticed, and that every little act is sure to he justly appreciated, praised or blamed as it deserves, will give an impulse to her exertions; whilst she will go about her work a blither woman, enjoying the kindly thought that her smallest success will give you pleasure. There is one effort which must he made before you can possibly he qualified to act the part of monitor or critic—you must learn by observation what the result of good cooking really is. You must know what the various dishes which are brought to you at the best tables look like, and what they taste like: of course I mean at houses where the scale of the establishment is a tolerable security that the cook may know his or her business well. I shrink from making this last proposal to you, because I know that it will seem the least attractive of any I can offer. To spy about, instead of listening to your neighbour, seems scarcely ladylike; you feel that it would be still worse to partake of dishes not as it were mechanically, or just to satisfy a slender appetite, but with a predetermined criticizing purpose. A little practice, however, will relieve you from the necessity of abstracting your thoughts from conver- sation, and you will be able to observe with quiet self-possession; whilst, on those unlucky days (too often to be anticipated) when you have drawn a blank in the lottery of amusing neighbours, youON COOKS AND COOKING. 26 may console yourself for a few degrees of more than common heaviness in small talk by doing a little extra service in the way of your own household interests. A comparison of what you have perceived in other houses to be worthy of imitation will then have to be made with that which is produced at your own. It is true that very strict observation becomes a still more oppressive duty at home than it is abroad; there is greater difficulty when you have to divide your attention between your cook’s performances and the conversation of people who are your guests: besides, another trial that has to be endured is the impera- tive necessity to betray no mortification that any shortcomings may happen to excite. But practice will make this easy too, and to obviate the last- mentioned danger, it will be a good safeguard to keep in mind when accidents occur that most proba- bly your guests are less observant than yourself, and that even should they see all that you do, if they are partaking of a good dinner on the whole, a single blemish is sure to obtain indulgence. And now let me add a word of further caution. It would hardly have been offered, but to avoid the chance of being misunderstood. There are not many young lady housekeepers of the present day who take kindly to the study of their tables, and some of those who do, discredit the accomplishment by displaying it; yours, I know, willON COOKS AND COOICLNG. 27 be pursued with reticence, prudently, unobservedly, as well as unremittedly: to be over solicitous about wbat you give your friends to eat, or to be critical or commendatory about wbat your friends give to you, though easy faults to fall into, are such as your good taste will spontaneously recoil from. Nothing could betray you into them but an exaggerated idea of the effort which your new duties call on you to make. It will be well to modertite that idea: to be earnest is the pet virtue of the day; but it is one which becomes, when out of place, if not a vice, that which is hated worse—a bore. There are some people who can only work at railway speed, and slumber when they advance more slowly; some who can do nothino; unless their efforts are concentrated. In great things it is best to energize, especially in mental labour; for accumulated intellectual, like mechanical, power becomes multiplied by unremitted application ; but in little things, some are better done at leisure. A capital housekeeper in an after-dinner group of ladies is always voted unendurable, and our studies in the art of cooking will proceed more gracefully and more surely also, if we let them keep their proper places in the shade.ON MEANS OF 28 CHAPTER III. ON MEANS OF IMPKOVEMENT IN COOKING. Should you approve the plan which was proposed in our last conversation, it will he necessary to choose with judgment a cook to educate; for your experi- ment will, of course, be wasted if you try it on a person incapable of profiting well by your instructions. Should you choose one who has lived in a family of inferior station, there is little doubt but that she will have contracted stupid, slovenly habits; at the least, a bad style of serving up the few things she can do : this would cause you much additional trouble to reform; if, indeed, you could ever entirely succeed: it is so much harder to unteach than to teach. Your beginner must be able to roast, boil, and fry well; for these are kinds of work which no lady can either teach or do: it is not possible to explain the sort of dexterity they require, which can only be gained by repeated practice. Roasting, especially of game and poultry, is rarely done in full perfection anywhere but in kitchens of large and rich establish- ments. The best chance, therefore, of meeting with a person who possesses those accomplishments, is toniPKOVEMENT IN COOKING. 29 seek one who has been second kitchen-maid under a good housekeeper or man cook, and who has had the entire charge of that duty for at least a year : an upper kitchen-maid, who has enjoyed the opportunity of learning much else besides, would aspire to high wages, and not be likely to submit to your directions. Supposing, then, that you are satisfied with the choice of your servant and pupil, I proceed to act as guide in the progress of her education. It is plain, however, that before your own work can well begin, some little insight into the subject ought to be obtained : teaching and learning often progress well together in the same person, but at least a little learning must precede the teaching. You must know what good cooking really produces, with rather more exactness than you are likely to do if you have never before been called on by responsibility to bestow any special notice on the subject; you must take a further step, and advance towards a clear apprehension of some of the first principles of the art, and you must learn in a certain degree how to apply those principles to particular productions: so far, at least, as to know in what the error has consisted where anything is wrong. It will not be superfluous here again, once for all, to explain that nothing is less to be desired than that you should experiment in your own person with sieves and saucepans; unless, indeed, you should intend to become permanently your own cook: aON MEANS OF 30 line of duty wliicli is happily not the fashion of our time and country. It is all very well for German ladies to abdicate their position, and give up all their graceful privileges of leisure and opportunities of continual cultivation for the sake of doing what other classes have to get their living by; hut English ladies know that their time can be more usefully employed: directing intelligence, together with a good system of command, is far more effectual than active in- terference. Therefore, without descending to the kitchen, a steady course of advice and remonstrance will be quite sufficient; for—provided always that the mistress has sufficiently obtained clear and correct ideas of what she has to teach—her recommendations and criticisms will lead to success far more surely than any practical assistance she can give. It is quite certain that her trials would be awkward; they would hurry the cook, probably disturb her temper and increase her self-sufficiency ; and then the failures, which are almost sure to follow a first attempt under such circumstances, would put an end to all chance of future influence. On the other plan, that of non-interference, a servant can apply the directions she has received alone; unhurried by the mistress’s presence, she does her best to use her own intelligence, and repeats her trials if she fails ; the praise she gets when she partially succeeds is all her own, and further advice sends her back with eagerness to strive after perfection. Moreover, what to \31 IMPEOVEMEXT IN COOIONG. experience she gains by her repeated efforts abides Avith her—it is her OAvn and not another’s—and she believes in methods, which she might doubt if they were only told to her: it is easy to forget others’ teaching, but not one’s own experience. It is time, however, that a certain remonstrance, which you probably ere this have felt disposed to in- terrupt me with, should be anticipated and answered on my part. It is easy to imagine that you mentally address me thus: ‘‘ Hoav can you, who apparently live in the same sphere with ourselves—who, ac- cording to your own showing, have not frequented kitchens, nor gained any personally practical expe- rience—how can you have come into possession of so much pretended culinary knowledge as to be a fit monitor to teach us in our difficulties ? Is it likely that a lady should know as much as working cooks, or proA’e a better guide than any of the half-hundred cookery books that have been written, and many of them read, to little purpose ? ” The doubt is reasonable, yet I trust I may dispel it; even though obliged, in order to obtain your confidence, to launch a little further into egotism than one would willingly do: especially as the explanation must involve some personal confessions. I must relate how, like yourself and many other wives, there was once in my case a beginning with a small household, including in it a very ignorant cook. In those days such a torment was even less inevitable than at present; for there was less gradation of32 ON MEANS OF acquirements between the very commonest and the most accomplished than is now pretended to; so in that newly set up household the cook’s capacity was o£ the lowest, whilst people had to he received and fed whose own artists in that line were of the highest order. It is needless to revert to the many mortifi- cations then experienced, to the conviction that the table must he a punishment to guests, and to the host little short of a disgrace; it is more to the purpose to relate how those mortifications goaded me to a firm resolve to mend the state of things, and to tell what course I took to do so. At that time it was a plan frequently adopted to make the lady s-maid to some extent the housekeeper; and nothing was easier than to get mine, whilst on visits to the houses of those ill-used guests whose much-enduring friend- ship my wretched cook had tried so cruelly, to use her opportunity to observe and learn. Conversa- tions on hills of fare and dainty dishes occupied unceasingly the time of dressing. (And here, in a parenthesis, I must observe that it was no small benefit to discover, beyond the special advantages of those discussions, that of a topic of mutual in- terest which superseded at the same time unsuitable gossip and the alternative of ungracious silence.) The housekeeping lady’s-maid learnt a good deal by her own acuteness, and by my constant harping on the contrast between dishes by the French cook and their miserable counterfeits at home; she officiated to someIMPEOVEMENT IN COOIONG. 33 extent at liomej and after many failures trained the cook to a perceptible amelioration of old defects. There was even on the table a faint show of some- thing like refinement: still the improvement was manifestly supei’ficial; and thus I was driven to hooks. The study of Monsieur Tide’s very scientific cookery hook (which, though of old date, is full of valuable information) helped me greatly: by com- paring a number of his directions, it was possible to gain an insight into the principle on which he worked, and the meaning of many mysterious pro- cesses became plain; these were descanted on, and partly understood in the executive department; and by degrees receipts were translated, handed to the lower regions, and very tolerably followed out in practice. In course of time, when the lady’s-maid house- keeper’s dynasty came to an end, a new difficulty arose ; a sort of revolution was just then in progress in the notions and pretensions of servants in general, and among the cooks not one of the smallest capability could be found who would submit to be governed by a housekeeper; therefore when the favourite, well-taught maid manded, and left her place, there w as a prospect of greater trouble in endeavouring to indoctrinate another (especially with a remote chance that tlie cooks would condescend to be taught second- hand) than in spending any amount of time directly on the latter. Such cares, therefore, as keeping stores, 334 ON MEANS OF and weekly accounts, ordering provisions, and paying tradesmen, were easily divided between mistress and cook. This concession was made to offended dignity in the person of the cook, without any very onerous duties being undertaken by the mistress : although that of paying tradesmen was always included in them. Then began the system, which has ever since been found sufficient for its purpose. In place of those former discussions about dinners and provisions at the dressing table, the first quarter of an hour after breakfast daily was devoted to the cook. The first point aimed at was to gain her confidence in respect to my ability; so the interview was enlivened by all the stores of wisdom I was able to produce. I ransacked every corner of my memory for compre- hensive principles and small details, and got up my subject from books; as those always can who have their choice of ground to show off upon. I made great use of those mysterious sources, French and German, whence I drew quotations; in short, I bore down upon her with such a weight of learning that she was fiiirly dazzled by the illusion which established me in her eyes as a wonderful authority on culinary subjects. After this conquest of the cook’s respect, the task was easy to persuade her to set to work in adopting my suggestions: nothing remained to do but to produce receipts as wanted, to be emphatic in enjoining care just where it wasIMPEOVEMENT IN COOiaNG. 35 most required, and to make a good display of the minuteness of my own observation to enforce any disputed plan, at times when there was a manifest leaning to revert to clumsy habits. The information I acquired in the way thus described will be summed up in the several remarks which accompany each receipt: those remarks are, in fact, the substance of my daily exhortations, which were more or less enlarged, as circumstances required; and thej'- are offered here as a means to facilitate the lessons which I propose you should begin to give the young person whom you have chosen for your experiment in culinary education. If I may be allowed once more to cite my own experience, I can state this fact for your encouragement—that of all the young women with whom I have pursued the plan, notone has failed to profit by it: difference in rate of progress according to various capacities, hindrances, temporary disappointments, of course there have been; but in the end, everyone has been able to pro- duce a dinner sufficiently creditable to establish for a house the character of good taste in hospitality. It might, however, only lead to disappointment, were I to affirm that to furnish the cook with receipts, and to descant duly on them, must always ensure complete success: in most instances a little perseverance can scarcely fail to do so; yet there may be exceptions. A trifling instance illustrative of this occurs to me at this very time: the most satis- 3—236 ON MEANS OF factory of all the cooks whose improvement I have striven to promote, cannot, or will not, follow faithfully a very simple receipt for wafer biscuits, which will be included among the miscellaneous receipts; it has been worked fronr for me by several persons, when the most delicious little productions have resulted; but no such success has been attained by this clever cook. I have complained, and referred her year after year to the original paper in the handwriting of the excellent old lady who gave it me; thereby showing that it is no imperfect version of her directions:—it avails nothing; and it seems settled that I am not to have those biscuits, though I ask them from one who will do almost everything else I can desire. This little incident may persuade some not to think that they are hopelessly unfortunate when now and then a trial fails to turn out as might be wished, and en- courage them not hastily to abandon further efforts. Only a very small portion of the information which I shall draw up for your guidance, is in- tended to find its way directly into the kitchen or the housekeeper’s room: it will be no very heavy task to transcribe receipts when wanted, in a fair copy-book sort of hand, for the benefit of the cook. The remarks appended to each receipt are for your private study; it is meant that you should teach your- self by them, and then perform the part of Oracle m retailing your easily acquired knowledge: it would never do to reveal the secret source of so muchIMPROVEMENT IN COOKING. 37 discriminating power ; which, it may be hoped, will inspire the learner with confidence as well as admi- ration : for her to see your private monitor, might be as much a disenchantment as buying Punch. At the risk of seeming tedious in setting forth the use of regular morning conversations, it may be useful to say yet a few more words about them, since they are to be the chief means of educating a cook. Supposing that the young woman you will have chosen proves able to roast and fry perfectly well, seems intelligent, and is willing to improve,—you will then pi’oceed with her instruction; but it must be with method, as to the order of the lessons by which you are to help her: to hand over to her a heap of receipts at once, or to suppose that by any number of directions she could at once get up one of the large dinners hereafter to be described, would be unreasonable; you should rather choose first some simple dishes for your family table which are an advance in art beyond mere dressing of joints. You will, yourself, fii’st become acquainted with the few general principles which you will find in the next chapter. There is scarcely any receipt you would choose for your beginner, which will not afford an opportunity for insisting on one of those principles; you should mention it on giving out the receipt, and comment on the observance or neglect of it in the following day s notice of the way it has been executed. If any dish should have proved a signal failure, itON MEANS OE 38 would be well to ask for your manuscript receipt. There is a good occasion here to doubt, politely, whether you may have transcribed correctly—you may think the fault might, by possibility, not be the cook’s; this soothes down the disappointment, and puts her in good humour to listen to your lesson: it is astonishing what management the tempers of these officials want; and Avill, I fancy, continue to do so while cooks exist. By this, or some other kind way, you make all smooth; and then, having previously studied privately the remarks appended to the re- ceipt, you go on to ask for a minute detail of the cook’s manner of proceeding: in the course of her statement you will be sure to detect small particu- lars, the neglect of which has caused the failure, whilst your previous knowledge will help you to descant on them. It is desirable never to let trials be given up till complete success has followed; if a difficulty be half conquered, and then put by to be tried again some other time, all the ground lately gained is wasted: it is far better to go on whilst experience is fresh, and after a final triumph let it be practised repeatedly. After a number of minor things have been successfully accomplished, the great undertaking of sending up a company’s dinner may be attempted. Here, in the beginning, it would be very prudent to resist the wish to set before the guests all the curio- sities which are usual on such occasions: it is better39 BITROVEMENT ENT COOKING. to fill up the entries with simpler things which you know you can have perfect in their kind, and to let the cook creep on by degrees to substitute more difficult dishes. One point, however, is worth remem- herino;—that rather hio-her seasoning will be wanted for a large dinner than would he satisfactory in the same dishes for a tete-a-tete repast; the suc- cession of dishes makes that seem insipid which alone is quite piquant enough: cutlet sauce, for instance, will "want more flavouring ingredient than would be pleasant eveiy day. When you resolve to introduce into your carte a new entree or soufflee, or something elaborate, by all means have it well rehearsed; choose it for some quiet visit of a friend, or afford it, though expensive, for yourselves: any- thing is better than harassing a cook with experiments at a time of bustle, for nothing can repay the loss of her feeling able to set about the day’s work with confidence in herself. In getting up a dinner, every minute has its appointed occupation, which, if post- poned, throws all the rest into confusion; time lost, therefore, in trials, causes hurry and loss of temper, and the dinner is likely to display positive failures in other parts, where you had reason to expect that everything would be right. When great dinners begin to be within the reach of your cook’s attainments, you will transcribe for her that chapter, or the essential parts contained in it, which treats of the mode of proceeding theON MEANS OF 40 day before a dinner-party: a very little practice will bring her into a good habit of arranging all pre- paratory work. You will previously have ascertained that she is perfectly able to produce those sauces described in the proceedings of the eventful day, such as b^chamelle, velout^ &c. &c.: but these, in fact, are wanted in equal excellence, though in smaller quantities, at your every-day table ; you can therefore have no doubt whether they are thoroughly understood. There is little hope of any great advance being made in your cook’s expertness, if you permit her to be satisfied with occasional efforts at times when you have visitors, whilst she bestows httle pains upon her daily work, sending up your daily repast in untidy, and consequently in uncertain fashion. This you might be tempted to endure, from want of perseverance in keeping up the system of daily comments ; or you niay c^irtail the latter from dislike to seem always striving after little luxuries and delicacies for personal gratification j but any such slight feeling of self-reproach may be set at rest by recurring to a simple duty—the principle that every- body ought to do the best they can for others’ comfort. With this well borne in mind, no work will be too mean or slight to claim the best of efforts; and thus whilst you insist on no remission of endea- vour for the comfort of the head of the house, there may be the same thought for that of all the house-41 IMPEOVEJMENT IN COOKING. liolcl: economy as well as comfort will be promoted by this, for careless cooking is as wasteful as it is dis- agreeable. Neatness in sending up the daily dinners is also a most useful practice, showing respectful care, and making many little ways habitual which, if only considered needful when strangers are pro- vided for, become a trouble to remember: numerous Avays of decorating small dishes, which I shall mention afterwards, such as garnishing, sending np cut papers where appropriate, and other devices, may give a comfortable, finished look to the simplest table. Our fourteenth century ancestors were by no means indifferent as to the aj^pearance of their dinners; there is mention made in most of their receipts of “ flourishing ” or garnishing: they used the word “ flourish,” which, of course, originally meant to strew with flowers, in the sense of to decorate with various materials, such as saffron, powder douce (white sugar), and other things. Before closing this conversation, we may antici- pate the pleasant time when a satisfactory degree of success will have crowned your efforts, and pos- sibly have brought Avith it ambition for some higher flights: Avhen all that is performed for yourself and all you offer to your guests is palatable, Avhole- some, and unmistakably nice, and your table has an air of unpretending elegance, the desire may arise for a superior degree of finish, and the addition of some of those difficult performances Avhich adorn theON MEANS OF 42 dinners of magnificent establishments. No doubt this might be effected, but scarcely by your own instruc- tions : not, at least, without more pains and thought than even my strong advocacy of self-help on the part of lady housekeepers would desire to impose. To have a perfectly good dinner for your husband as well as visitors is a duty ; but there is no moral exigency to provide a very smart and fashionable one; there- fore, the extreme task of observing, studying, exhort- ing, and correcting till that luxury is arrived at, may well be spared all those who have not a special liking and talent for the work. The readiest method would be to afford a short coiirse of lessons from a first-rate professor: but it is right to warn you that the danger of losing all the fruits of your former trouble may be the consequence. When a young woman has obtained accomplishments enough to entitle her to seek great wages, attendant kitchen-maids, and many other things which are dazzling prizes to the imagi- nation of all her class, what can be expected but that she will yield to the temptation of “ bettering herself,” as the phrase is? Even should you have made a compact for a period of service, discon- tent and vain longings will put an end to all your influence, and probably to the practice of much that you have taught. A safer way of affording an in- sight into modern refinements is to engage some very good man-cook now and then to send up for you a pattern dinner : but, without actually dissuading youIMPKOVEMENT IN COOKING. 43 from this, I must remind you that all such persons are most troublesome, and they consume materials so recklessly that they will be likely to bewilder all your sober ideas upon that head, if not totally to ruin confidence in the moderate though sufficient estimates of what is actually requisite, to which you have tried to accustom youi’ cook’s ideas. Where there is a good restaurant within reach, as is the case always in London, a select entree or two may well be supplied from it; the cooks of those establish- ments will come to set them up, and they will serve as examples, and the plan will not be attended with any of the difficulties of those previously mentioned. Of course it must be a first-rate house to order from, as an entree vulgarly served up would be worse than no help at all.GENERAL REMARKS ON 44 CHAPTER IV. GENERAL REMARKS ON PROCESSES OF COOiaNG. Haying now finally arranged, fair reader, that you should have a promising young kitchen-maid, and endeavour to improve, if not altogether educate her, till she may serve your purpose as a cook, a few general remarks upon the principles of cooking may be useful to yourself. The first and most important observation for the benefit of all who, like yourself, perhaps enjoy but moderate means, is this: to aim at the most perfect style of cooking is the best economy, and the neglect of careful finish is the most fertile som’ce of waste; the most costly materials are thrown away when ill prepared, for they fail to produce any satisfaction, while the most simple and inexpensive may furnish an attractive dinner. In fact, it is not luliat you cook, but how you cook : you may boil away a quarter of a hundredweight of meat for soup, and by omitting some little careful process—the skimming, or the clearing, or the preparation of the vegetables—bring a distasteful mess to table; while a much smallerPKOCESSES OF COOKING. 45 portion of material, by nice management, will pro- duce soup delicate and appetizing. Among many processes, those which most require to be understood, are braising, reducing, thickening, blanching, flavouring, and clearing: of these braising stands first in importance. Braising is a sort of boiling; differing, however, in important particulars ; boiling is done in water, in large pots or pans, the water being in large quantity as compared with the bulk of the thing boiled, and the pot being placed on a hot fire, uncovered or else slightly closed: braising is done in broth, or stock, which is a stronger sort of broth highly flavoured; the pan is smaller than for boiling, and the quantity of liquid less; the pan is placed in gentle heat, which is ajDplied above as well as underneath, so that the cover must be impervious: braising, moreover, requires a certain quantity of fat, generally bacon, to lay beneath the meat and also cover it, and to have a variety of flavouring materials in the pan; a piece of white paper being placed over all. More precise directions will be given in parti- cular receipts for braised dishes; but the above com- parison of the modes of boiling and braising are given to exemplify the different objects of the two processes: they are, in fact, quite opposite; yet that they are so, is one of the last things which a common cook ever thinks about. Nothing is more frequent than to be told, in answer to a complaint that a stewed beef steak is hard and sti’ingy, “ It’s very strange: itGENERAL REMARKS ON 46 onglit not to be, for I boiled it bard for an immense time, and if it wasn’t tender then it never would be.” Of course it never would be; the boiling fast had effectually prevented that, besides the omis- sion of other things not dreamt of in the cook’s philo- sophy. The object of boiling fast is to extract the juices contained in the fibres of the meat; if it is con- tinued long enough in plain water, the water will become good broth, and the meat become only a bundle of hard dry strings. The object of braising is to keep the juices in the fibres ; the gentler, and more equally applied heat, partly tends to this effect, which is further promoted by the liquid used being not water but stock, which already contains the same juices as the meat: so that if a current were to take place there would only be an interchange of particles; but the smaller quantity of liquid, which does not wholly cover the meat, reduces the liability to a cur- rent through it. Bacon is put into the braising vessel with the meat, because the equal application of the heat forces the oily substance into the fibres, making them juicy and tender. At the end of the process the meat will be Avhat in cooking is called “ short,” so that it may be cut with a spoon ; the bacon will have nearly disappeared, and the flavour of the vegetables and spices will have been drawn into the meat so as to pervade it throughout. I trust that this description of what takes place47 PEOCESSES OF COOKING. in the two processes will satisfy your reason and induce you to take that of braising under your peculiar patronage. It is obvious that meat thus treated, will be more nutritious than if boiled to hard strings.* It is far from certain that the cook will trouble herself to comprehend it all; but in default of her complete intelligence, your time will not have been quite wasted in giving a little lecture on the subject: she will at least be convinced that conside- rable intelligence and science are required in cooking, and will very likely go to her next trial a little elevated in her own estimation. When she has once been persuaded to do the thing completely, she cannot fail to appreciate the advantage; and that will be a great conquest, ensuring final triumph over all that is now disgraceful in your dinners : no dinner can be worthy of contempt that contains one or two well- braised dishes. But I am hurrying on too fast: we are supposing the cook to be a convert to the prin- ciple; but she has yet to be instructed in several ways of practising it. Having spoken generally of applying heat and using vessels for braising, it remains to state how to effect the first, and how to choose the second. Braising is seldom attempted in England, except by superior cooks, and then it requires an expensive apparatus: there is a charcoal stove to be lighted, and a special kind of copper stewpan to be used, which has * See Liebig’s Researches, section iii. p. 122.GENERAL REMARKS ON 48 a lid that sinks an inch or rather more below the rim of the pan: this has a double purpose—it forms a closer cover and leaves a sort of hollow dish, into which red-hot pieces of charcoal are placed, and re- newed from time to time as they get cool; the heat from the stove beneath being thus balanced by the heat above. It is worth while occasionally to take this trouble even for private dinners; but the char- coal is expensive, as well as the copper pans, which soon wear out: and there is another and greater objection, that the atmosphere of burning charcoal is injurious. Fortunately there is another method by which the same process may be managed. High and low in France have their p6t-au-feu, a glazed jar of brown coarse ware, from eight to ten inches high, rather wide in proportion to the height, with a lid of the same material: these, in poorer French houses, are filled with all sorts of scraps. We will consider that use of them in time; at present the p6t-au-feu presents itself only as a substitute for the braising pan. Some dishes which are larded may be better managed in the conveniently flat braising pan, on the charcoal stove; but everything may taste as good when done in the p6t-au-feu, if it is filled with the same materials. To make a fricandeau, for instance, there will be the bacon, and the stock, and all the rest of the ingredients, as well as the covering of white paper : as the lid of the glazed pot will fit less closely than that of a stewpan, it must be carefully tied downPEOCESSES OF COOKING. 49 with cloth or paper. The best place for it is, a very slow oven, or it may be at the side of the fire or the top of the oven. A very long time will be required to make a good fricandeau in this way: at least a whole day; but it can be done without much trouble or attention, and there is no chance of failure. The most valuable use of the p6t-au-feu is in the dwellings of poor people. We will, however, not talk of that at present, but continue our inquii’y into the principles of cooking. Reducing is a process so simple and intelligible, that it seems scarcely needful to commend it to a young cook’s notice: for it might be supposed that her own intelligence would be sufficient to point out the use of it; yet very few but superior cooks ever think of concentrating the strength of soups and sauces by boiling them quickly till the quantity be- comes much reduced. French cookery books abound in directions for this process. Milk, thus reduced to half its bulk, is a good substitute for cream; and nearly all sauces are better for being begun with an excess of liquid, and strengthened by being reduced in quantity. Thickening seems such a trivial subject as scarcely to merit being noticed among principles of cooking, but the general caution to beware of leaving materials mtroduced for that purpose in a raw state, is worth insisting on. Innumerable are the dinners, parts of which are made uneatable by flour which remains 4GENERAL REMARKS ON 50 uncooked: in white sauce, especially, the fault is more the rule than the exception. Blanching, clari- fying, and clearing will all he sufficiently described in receipts where they will have to be applied; but one general remark about clearing may be insisted on as applicable to almost everything—that is, not to seek out all sorts of substances to add to the soups, jellies, coffee, or whatever it may be, but to trust to the fire and to patience: the other inventions, even when they effect their end, spoil the composition. There is one rule, without an exception, in regard to flavouring savoury dishes, which a cook should be taught in the beginning, and never be permitted to forget: it is, that tastes proper to every dish should be produced by the combination of a large number of ingredients, whether vegetables, herbs, or spices, whilst each must be used in very small proportion. Tlavours should be balanced, and no one should predominate. It may be laid down as indisputable, that whenever a soup or sauce or savoury com- position of any kind has a prominent taste of any one thing, it is wrong, and betrays itself to be the work of a clumsy, vulgar cook. Spices are of all things the most dangerous to use in excess, and require the greatest care in preserving a due subordi- nation to each other: indeed, so strong is the dislike felt by almost everybody to a distinct taste of nut- meg, or cinnamon, or other spice, that it seems to be the expression of an instinct. A curious fact isPEOCESSES OF COOIONG. 51 noted by Dr. Paris, which accounts for this natural antipathy, that certain spices and other stimulants, taken separately, are injurious, but that they become the reverse if taken in conjunction with others. He says, “ If any one spice, as the dried capsule of the capsicum, be taken into the stomach, it will excite a sense of heat and pain; in like manner will a quantity of pepper ; but if an equivalent quantity of these two stimulants be taken in combination, no such pain is produced, and a pleasant warmth is ex- peiienced, and a genial glow felt over the whole body; and if a greater number of spices be joined together, the chance of pain and inflammation being produced is still further diminished.” He goes on to quote Dr. Pordyce, who considered that the tiuth of this law was illustrated by the maxim in cookery, never to employ one spice if more can be procured. The Forme of Cury shows that ancient English cooks adopted thoroughly this maxim, probably with- out knowing the reason, but following natural instinct. There are few of the receipts in that book which do not include four or five kinds of spices ; one of them being generally pouderfort or poucbe mar- chand, which are supposed to have been preparations of various spices, something like modern curry powder. A copy of one of these receipts may amuse you. “ Sawgeat, Take pork and seeth it wel, and gride 4—252 GENERAL REMARKS ON it smale, and medle'it with aysen andbrede, ygrated; do thereto powder fort and safron, with pyn and salt; take and close littell ball i foiles of sawge; wite it with a baton of aysen^ and fry it.” This receipt will be more intelligible in modern English, thus :—Take poi'k and seethe it well, and grind it small, and mix it with eggs and bread grated ; do thereto powder fort and saffron, with pepper and salt; take and wrap up little balls in leaves of sage ; wet it with a batter of eggs; and fry it. There is another for a sauce, called “Yerde sawse,” or green sauce, which is a singular mixture both of spices and herbs. I will copy it, supplying the contractions which make it tiresome to read in the old version:—“Take parsley, mynt, garlik, a little wild thyme and sage, a little cinnamon, ginger, pepper, wine, bread, vinegar and salt, and grind it small with saffron. Mess it forth.” A great variety of herbs is found in almost every receipt, showing they were aware of the method of moderating one taste by another. In one receipt for a salad, there are fourteen herbs and vegetables, though neither lettuces nor celery: it was simply mixed with raw oil, vinegar, and salt. Whilst on the subject of flavouring, a caution will not be wasted against the adoption of certain imita- tions for that purpose, which are now substituted, very often in the place of real materials. Essences which pretend to be orange-flower, pineapple, bitter53 PEOCESSES OF COOKING. almonds, and various otlier flowers and fruits, are nothing better than chemical combinations formed O from substances of a repulsive character. Among the least disagreeable instances, I may mention highly decayed cheese, and an oil called fusel oil which is in itself most offensive, but which by different chemical changes furnishes imitations of pleasant tastes and perfumes. These artificial essences are, of course, apt to become changed, and resume their disagreeable character. The essence of vanilla, which is often depended on as the very finishing stroke of a suite of entremets, sometimes loses its power totally, so as to make the best calculations end in disappointment; as a rule, then, it is a bad method to try to save tx’ouble by having essences at hand instead of the real substances. Orange-flower water and rose-water, being purely distilled, may be considered exceptions to this warning, o Everything that can be got in its natural state to flavour soups and other savoury dishes, should be preferred to the use of bought sauces, although the sauces may have been originally composed of a collection of the same ingredients: there is only this possible excuse for using Harvey sauce, and many of the same sort of compositions, that minute quantities of numerous things can be got at easily in that way, and so the danger will be avoided of any predominating flavour; but there is this disadvantage, that the ingredients are apt to arrive in the soup inGENERAL REMARKS ON COOKING. 54 an impaired condition: the taste of fresh tarragon far surpasses that in tarragon vinegar, essence of celery is coarse compared with the fresh vegetable, mushroom ketchup is no real substitute for fresh mushrooms, and so on with almost everything.CHAPTER V. ON THE DESSERT, AND TABLE DRESSING. You are becoming, dear reader, almost weary of our protracted dissertations about cooks and dinners ; although our conversation so far has been merely preliminary to those directions for actual practice which will, we hope, be effectual to reform your daily table, and to substitute for that monstrous “ company ” dinner which so afflicted you, one which may be acceptable to your guests and creditable to your husband’s house. Before we proceed, then, to serious business, a little recreation may be ex- cusable, and as the dessert and dinner-table orna- mentation have risen lately into notice, they may serve to enliven the dulness of our subject. A short time ago, the dessert was little better than an afterthought—a sort of appendix to the grand composition of a dinner entertainment; now it claims precedence, and has become the favourite object of a lady’s supervision. Perfect arrangements also in regard to serving the dinner, carving and waiting, which formerly were much allowed to take theirON THE DESSEET, 56 cliaiice, have now by a change in fashion become questions of considerable importance; and what we have to say about them may conveniently be disposed of whilst the cooking business waits its further share of our attention. To begin, then, with the decoration of the table. I remember long ago, when Tancred appeared, and the two cooks in May Fair were described as des- perately puzzled where to find a person qualified to dress the tables,” that a sort of prophetic longing seized me: the notion of a dressed table, a pic- turesque escape from certain miseries of those early days, seemed like a vision of delight. At that time it was only in any houses of extreme magnificence that there was anything dreamt of as pleasant to look at during dinner, beyond the perpetual heirloom ^pergne crowned by its flaunting bouquet, and the no less in- evitable silver wine-coolers, with their two champagne bottles looking like two pistols ready to go off. The table groaned under soups and huge turbots, to be replaced by haunches of mutton and boiled turkeys ; while, from the very beginning, flanks and corner dishes stood in close array as if for the very purpose of getting cold, with all the short- comings of one’s cook staring one full in the face for almost a weary hour. This trial at length over, dishes were snatched away, by huge pairs of arms, protruded between every two unhappy guests, at risk of ruin to the silks and coiffures; then ensued a horrid57 AND TABLE DBESSING. pause^ often prolonged till terrors of some dire cata- strophe in the kitchen possessed one fearfallj. Those were hard days for young housewives : youj at least, are spared these things, dear reader; and more than that, yon have fallen on a lucky time, one of transi- tion, when fashion has not as yet so fixed her arbitrary decrees, but that you are free to use your own tasteful discretion in deciding on various details, without the uncomfortable dread of sinning against established customs. It is true that by beginning your household cares at this happier period you escape many trials endured by dinner-givers of former generations: you are spared the painful exhibition of your cook’s perform- ance; it may be truly said of your repast, like Eve’s, “No fear that dinner cool; ” and no worse disgrace can henceforth overwhelm a failing entree than to be glanced at, rejected, and forgotten; yet, as a counter- poise to all this great relief, a new trouble is invented for your particular acceptance. You have now my former vision of the dressed table actually within your power; but to realize it fully, lies with you. The dessert now demands your care, and cannot, as in former days, be trusted to the servants; fruits must be judiciously selected, flowers arranged, and everything designed artistically: and what a tempting variety lies ready for your choice in table furniture! ormolu, silver, porcelain, parian, crystal, damask. What a luxurious contrast to the oldON THE DESSEET, 58 mahogany, redolent of oil, turpentine, and bee’s-wax, which hid itself from ladies’ presence just before you left the nursery, though it is reported to exist still with all its abominations at Albion and Thatched House dinners. The covering of the table reminds me of one curious exception to the rude character of the furniture of the middle ages. You will not suppose, perhaps, that table-cloths were used at all in those remoter times, and therefore find it difficult to believe, that a material so delicate as silk should have been ever used as covering for the boards of ancient lords and barons: very rough boards indeed they were, and merely laid on trestles, which all disappeared to- gether with the feast; yet the fact is recorded, and some illuminated manuscripts show that the covering at the sides was looped up into folds. Is it possible that growing luxury and French commercial treaties may introduce silken table-cloths at our parties? Since temperance is happily in fashion, might not the amended manners of our modern lords of feasts qualify them to be more safely trusted than those of old with such perishable fabrics? Fancy a pale pink taffeta as a ground for silver and biscuit china! or a white embroidered satin for ormolu ! It is no wish of mine, however, to suggest new luxuries, but rather to advocate good tasteful ma- nagement of simple means ; a snow-white damask is fair enough for any eyes, and one of my suggestions59 AND TABLE DRESSING. will be to plead that it may be never too much hidden. One of the agreeable features of the present transi- tion state is the variety to be observed at various houses. It is pleasant to notice a different style of decoration, together with eveiy different row of faces, individualizing, as it were, each separate entertain- ment, and to feel always that the hostess’s thought has been busy to afford a pretty sight to look on during the short pause that succeeds the grace: yet 1 often think that her success might have been more complete, if some more definite plan had ruled the composition. The dressing of the table, like that of our houses or ourselves, should have its own peculiar character; it may be rich and solid, light and fresh, simple or showy, but it should be a whole in design; and the unity should not be interfered with by unmeaning small additions. The effect of a handsome service may be entirely spoiled by covering the table with too many objects, although they may be costly and sepa- rately pretty. Thus a simple neat dessert set may be made to look quite vulgar by dotting it about with little glass dishes, fiower-pots, or single biscuit figures : whereas, if only six or eight of the larger pieces had been used, with a pretty centre ornament, a pair of torchettes, and a couple of vases of well-ari’anged flowers, leaving out all the small scraps of sweet- meats and tiny decorations, the effect would have been60 ON THE DESSERT, charming. But then much would depend upon the taste in filling those few pieces: fruits grouped together like a Gibbon’s carving, flowers composed like a Van Huysom picture, contrasting their forms and har- monizing their colours, confectionery heaped with uniform design; all this would satisfy the eye far more than the most costly profusion of table furniture arranged without a method. If you have any parti- cular wish to offer to your guests the usual contents of all those little dishes, the^^ had better be left on the side-table to be handed; though I should rather advise you to retrench them altogether, for after a good dinner no one cares about them, and the repeated handing of dishes will have become a bore for at least the past half-hour. In regard to flowers, plants always look fresher than cut flowers, and their forms p)roduce more grace- ful effect, but they rarely look well if placed singly; especially in those old heavy silver wine coolers, the mould being covered with a mass of dark green moss absorbing light, and giving out a far from pleasant odour; a glass or vase of moderate size may be made to hold plants enough for effective grouping by taking them from the pots and removing some of the earth : it requires judgment to select the plants, which must be suitable in height and form as Avell as in colour. Some little pains also may prove worth bestowing, to give the table an air in accordance AA'ith the season: in summer, for instance, a little more room mightAND TABLE DEESSING. 61 be allotted to each guest, and dishes might be fewer than at other times, showing the pure white damask, and producing a sensation of free space and quiet; fruits, on the other hand, should be piled in rich heaps, showing their fresh bloom; there should be dewy-looking plants, and more green than other colours, and no bonbons to spoil the delicate tints of fruits and flowers by their showy contrasts; ice in abundance, with moderate lighting, would give a cool effect, and dispose people to feel re- freshed, and quietly conversable: then again in winter, chairs might be closer drawn, the table set a little fuller with ornamental objects, confectionery and gay bonbons might brighten up the dull toned clustering grapes and oranges, and a profusion of light would give a festive tone, and encourage kindly gaiety. A good remark was made in a letter to The Times, from the Sybarite of Berkeley Street, during the late notable dinner controversy. He advised plenty of light to be placed about the room at dinner, and not too much on the table: the hint was new to me; it was tried, and the plan was found a good one—it saves fatigue to the sight, and prevents a shadow- side of objects on the table from being presented to the company. There remains one subject, the most essential of all to the enjoyment of a dinner-party—that is, the waiting: for everybody knows that great reform isON THE DESSEET, 62 ■wanted, either in the system of waiting, or the manner of the waiters. Unfortunately, the lady’s rule is hardly competent to work out the needed change in this particular ; it is not her province to tutor the men-servants: at least it ought not to he. It is a pity that our masters do not take this one small part of household duty more diligently on themselves, and not, as is the usual practice, omit to regulate, till things become intolerable, and then make a change impulsively; for it often happens by this style of governing, that a servant who might by management and forbearance be made a good one, is turned away, for one who never can become efficient. But to return to our grievances about waiting at dinner: a mistress may at least hear in mind that nothing so distinguishes the style of perfectly appointed houses from vulgar imitations, as the quiet self-possessed movements of the attendants ; she can tell her butler so, and after having insisted on her dislike to noise and hurry, she may desire that when help is wanted, those waiters may be chosen who are least given to faults in that particular. There is a general opinion that the plan of not placing the dinner on the table obliges an increased number of attendants; but this seems to be a mis- take, for as much trouble is saved by exploding the manoeuvre of bringing in and setting on a whole course as is now required for side-table carving: also the time formerly expended in waiting for the grand63 AND TABLE DRESSING. arrival of each course, as well as in the above manoeuvre, was very much greater than is now taken by handing dishes to the guests; therefore I think that we are in a better position than formerly, to try if some newly organized system of waiting may not enable us to be equally well served by fewer people. Could this be accomplished the advantages would be numerous : there would be less chance of bustle in the dining-room, and a saving of inconvenience below stairs, where strangers (having to be fed and enter- tained just at a busy time) perplex the^’egular set of servants; there would be also considerable reduc- tion of expense. If it were urged that dinners could not be elegant without a train of attendants, it mio-ht be suggested that to reduce their number would give a more modest, less pretentious air to our hospi- tality, which would tend to the improvement of our manners, and evince true refinement. To become more practical in my suggestions, let us suppose a table laid for eight persons dressed in its best; as attendants, only two persons, a butler and footman, or one of thos'e with a page, or neat waiting-maid, and let us suppose somebody stationed outside the door, to do nothing but fetch up and carry off dishes one by one. There might be a sort of drill exercise as follows :— Whilst guests are being seated, person outside brings up soup. Tootraan receives soup at tlie door.64 ON THE DESSERT, Butler serves it out. Footman hands it. Both change plates. Footman takes out soup, and receives fish at the door, whilst butler hands wine. Butler serves out fish. Footman hands it (plate in one hand, and sauce in the other). Both change plates. Footman brings in entree, whilst butler hands wine. Butler hands entree. Footman hands vegetables. Both change plates. And so on. The carving of the joint seems the only little difficulty; this must be placed on the table and be carved by the host; should, however, this be thought too much of a return to a departing custom, the delay recjuired to cut eight portions at the side-table would not prolong the dinner unreasonably: if the society is pleasant, where is the need of hurry ? The saving of trouble by the proposed drill would be effected by simultaneous action. Without some such system, somebody is always changing plates, somebody else is perpetually at your elbow with65 AND TABLE DRESSING. wine^ somebody else with ice, and a needless fuss is made when waiters dodge about in order that the ladies may be served first. Ice-handing may be saved altogether by placing some between every two guests; and water, as well as salt, should be before every one. Not long ago there was a picturesque mode intro- duced of using ice at table: two large blocks on vases were placed at each side of the plateau. No doubt this would afford a fairy-like effect, with light gleaming on the broken surface, and a few delicate ferns hiding the framework which would be wanted to secure drainage; moss with so much wet would become unpleasant, and appear too dark in contrast with the brilliant ice. But to return to the proposal for reducing the number of attendants: should it be thought imprac- ticable, we must at least try to persuade them to be quieter; for, according to the present mode of pro- ceeding, the misery of a racket is continual and almost unbearable. It n!ust be conceded, however, that when small rooms are crowded with more guests than they were meant to hold, it is most difficult, with the best intention, to avoid confusion ; as josthng of servants, popping of corks, and clatter of plates, sound close in the ears of every one : moreover, the poor lady chosen for the honour of precedence gets placed with her shoulders at the door, where winds are rushing m, and servants rushing out with trays, and she pays dearly for her seat of dignity, whilst no peace for 566 ON THE DESSERT, comfortable conversation is enjoyed by anybody. Yet, it is bard to reproach host or hostess for their large assemblies; they find their dinners so ex- pensive and so troublesome, that no one can wonder they should try to crowd into each party as many guests as possible. Let us hope that our reforms are tending towards simplicity and economy, and that when we shall have retrenched extravagance and saved trouble to the utmost, and made it a rule to offer only as much as is indispensable for graceful hospitality and what is consistent with our means and position, then all those people whose rooms are calculated only for the comfort of some eight or ten persons may adopt the wiser plan of inviting no more than that number, and of opening their houses oftener. With such a change, however, another care will claim attention; but not one, dear’ reader, 'w hich ought to occupy yourself alone. When guests are to be few, the host muslf help to settle who will best suit to make a pleasant meeting: you can mix a crowd together, but a select knot of friends must be suited to each other. When you have been so lucky as to assort your company successfully, very delightful will your parties prove; atfording something like the rational enjoyment of society, and, shall I add in all humility, proving so many occasions of mental cultivation for the benefit of us poor women : for, be it noted, that the only opportunities67 AND TABLE DRESSING. we cau have of joining in general conversation with the lords of the creation are at such meetings: an argument which was quite kept out of view in a late ciy for dinner abolition. The selection of small j)arties, which should impose no mconvenient expense, would, moreover, tend to impio've the ethics of our dinner-giving customs ; instead of merely conning over our obligations as we now so often do, whenever it becomes inevitable to invite what has been called «a meeting of our cre- ditors,” we shall be much more amiably employed when we are able to sit down "on hospitable thoughts intent, and consult with kindly consideration who amongst our friends will most enjoy the pleasure of meeting one another. 5—268 CHAPTER VI. ON THE DINING-EOOM. Our last conversation was, perhaps, rather too discur- sive and speculative to be positively practical; if so, it is possible that by entering a little closer into detail on some of the topics we then touched upon, a few suggestions worthy your attention may occur. We imagined the possibility of a new system of attendance at table, which, by better organization of the waiters, might introduce a less expensive plan of receiving friends at dinner; we hoped that by some means meetings might be oftener as well as quieter, and (as nobody can be at ease in a fuss) pleasanter also than we are used to find them. But this was a mere aspiration, and the short sketch of how it might be realized was offered with but distant expectation of any one adopting the idea. In the meantime your friends must be invited, and you must fill your room; for large dinners are the fashion, and till the dream of more economical ones comes true, frequently occurring small ones would be a heavy demand upon the purse. You are doomed to ask your twelve or fourteen guests, making69 ON THE DINING-ROOM. fourteen or sixteen with host and hostess^ and you wish to know how many servants will be required to wait on them. First, there must be one to carve: it is of no use to engage any chance waiter whom your butler or footman may choose to patronize for that employment; you must have a person who makes that work his especial business, and he will be able to attend to little else; you will write for him an English bill of fare; this will be laid on the carving table, and he will know by that when to give notice that the moment has ari’ived for bringing in each dish according to the order of succession; he will also give out all sauces to the waiters to be handed: but I need not specify further, for he will know his duty, and the chief point for you to arrange is that your servants do not hinder by throwing other work upon him, which does not belong to his province. There must be another person to take charge of the wine : at least, according to the present fashion, it occupies one waiter’s whole attention. It is not for us to revolutionize in matters that are beyond our jurisdiction, yet we may be allowed to raise a faint remonstrance against the annoyance that it is to ladies to have the names of the various wines repeated every minute in their ears; or we might like to ven- ture a comment on the somewhat uncivilized habit among gentlemen of expecting to be supplied perpe- tually; but as there is so much to be thankful forON THE DINING-ROOM. 70 in the mitigated libations after dinner^ it will be more gracious to refrain from such expostulations, and endure the custom as it stands; whilst by a little gentle influence, the master might, perhaps, be per- suaded to direct that the wine persecution may be rather abated than carried to excess in his house. Two more waiters will be required to hand the entrees, and one, perhaps the page or footman of the house, will be exclusivelv entrusted with the * *J charge of sauces and vegetables : they will all, except the carver, find intervals for renewing plates. In cases where thei’e is but one dish of each entree, one waiter less may be required; but in general the above number, that is, five people for sixteen guests, cannot be reduced without risk of hurry: an extra person must be in all cases employed exclusively in bringing things as they are wanted from the kitchen to the dining-room door, Avhere everything must be handed in with as little fuss and opening wide of the door as possible. All unnecessary handing round of little things is better provided against; thus sauces, when they are proper to each dish and not of doubt- ful choice, should be served out by the carver on the plates: it is within your province to give a general order about that. Ice in summer should be within the reach of every guest; to carry it round, teases the company and occupies the servants. The misery of noise and bustle, which we lamented in our last communication with each other, may wellON THE DINING-EOOM. 71 occupy us once more for a few moments : those evils will have to be courageously combated, for a long time at least; that is, till your establishment becomes a pattern of perfection. You may well bestow a few words on the servant in charge every morning before a dinner party, to request their mitigation. I hope, in the meantime, that the few hints just thrown out as to saving useless handing, and appoint- ing every waiter to his own proper place and work, will gradually bring about relief. We have yet to consider the arrangements of the dining-room: nothing is more fatal to agreeable sensations on sitting down to dinner, than a table not well calculated for the number of the guests; hut as I have not yet had the pleasure of being at your parties, I am ignorant of the accommodation that your house affords, and it will he courteous to avoid insisting on appliances to comfort as absolutely indispensable, which may not be in your possession. As a general rule, then, a table for fourteen persons should not be less than eleven feet long and six feet wide, which allows rather more than two feet two inches for each chair at the sides; there will be two chairs at each end of the table; less room than this becomes a squeeze, distressing in the age of crinoline, though not so unbearable in winter as in summer: in the lattei season still more space might be accejitable. Chairs either above or below the common height of seat are a positive infliction, enough to destroyON THE DINING-EOOM. 72 all sensation of being at ease during the whole entertainment: timid talkers have been known to be actually made dumb by it. It is worse when chairs are of unequal height: a shy woman perched up above a small-sized gentleman feels in a pillory, or she is more than half suppressed in a low chair, trying to reach up to her soup-plate: this incon- venience is easily guarded against. There is one trifling subject on which, whilst yve are occupied about chairs and tables, a hint may be serviceable. It happens to be thought polite, in the ceremony of sitting down to table, to place ladies and gentlemen alternately with studious care, and an apology is generally offered when this arrange- ment fails; though why we should have nothing pleasant to say to our fair sisters, or why the men should be wronged bj’- having the opportunity afforded them of communicating their bright ideas to each other, does not seem clear: at any rate, nine times out of ten that arrangement does fail. It is curious to note how, almost as certain as the failure occurs, the remark follows that the right arrangement is a puzzle, or that it is very difficult, or that it can’t be done. If you wish to prove whether it can or not, make a simple diagram: place hostess at the top, and host at bottom, opposite to each other; there will then be a pair of ladies, and a pair of gentlemen somewhere; but place host and hostess not opposite, but diagonally to each other.ON THE DINING-EOOM. 73 and all will come right, so far as that difficulty is concerned. But there is still another possible mis- chance, equally producing lamentations and calling for apologies: the guests may have been paired off with design, hopeful that they will find each other pleasant; the last two reach the table, and are doomed to instant separation, one place remaining on either side. Now your diagram will show that this must he, if host and hostess are at cross corners, and his and her partner sit by them at the top and bottom ; but if the host place the lady he brings down next him—not at his side at the bottom, but next him at the side of the table—the difficulty vanishes. There ai*e further troubles after this, to sepaiate husbands and wives: this is sometimes a puzzle not to be solved by general rules; it is, however, worth thinking of beforehand. But we have been anticipating the arrangement of the guests, before the room is ready for them. There is one pressing need to be first prepared ^ comfortable atmosphere and safe ventilation: the very mention of the subject makes one shudder. There are two alternatives daily submitted to, each terrible to face : the first has closed wdndows, with suffocation, and dinner-smells intolerable ; faces down the table are then pale with faintness, or flushed with most unbecoming purple; those who do not lefuse the wine find this the most unbearable, but when it so happens that the interests of that halfON THE DINING-EOOM. 74 of the assembly who are intolerant of heat has engrossed all the charitable solicitude of the host, then it is that the other half, to whom, perhaps, a draught may be destruction, have a more cruel punishment to hear. Picture to yourself a dining-room in June, with a large window at one end, the door at the other: the party take their seats with the window wide open; how delicious ! the sun is still bright, the air so refreshing: hut it is a short enjoyment; the sun goes down, evening mists rise, perhaps an east wind sets in, lights and dinner raise the temperature within the room, and tlie air without gets colder every minute; then the draught rushes in, and as it sweeps down the table to the door at the other end, one rheumatic shoulder is hopelessly tried to he sheltered by a shawl; another fair young throat has no protection, and the cougli dates from that day which is, perhaps, to last till But we need not fall into the pathetic; although it is no fiction, but an every-day occurrence, that we are talking of: if v/e do not kill our guests, at least we malce them very miserable, and we may resume our prac- tical discussions without departing from the sub- ject; for happily the evil is not without a remedy. Nothing can be easier or simpler than to pro- vide for the perfect ventilation of a dinner-room, without inconvenience to anybody, by the following plan. Have a sheet of canvas or any other material the size of the whole window; make a broad75 ON THE DINING-EOOM. liem at the top of the canvas, into which run a wooden rod a foot longer than the width of the archi- trave, and have another rod of Avood exactly as lono- as the inside of the window frame is wide. This will he prepared before- hand : Avhen the time for dinner approaches, draw up the window blinds to the top and draAV down the upper sash two feet; fasten the caiiAms half way up the sash and flat against it, by pressing in the Avooden rod; a nail or hook may be fixed at each end to support it if needed; but if it fits tightly, it will stay without; then lift up the rod to AAdiich the upper end of the canvas is fastened, place the rod in front of the architrave, as high as the canvas can convenientlv be stretched, and put in a nail or hook below each end of the rod to keep it up. This is a very simple contrivance, although it has reqitired many Avords to aAmid the chance of not being understood. All the hooks may be per- manent, and the act of putting np Avill not occupy a minute. When this occasional blind is used, it will be found to leave room for a current of air to enter from without, and the heated air within76 ON THE DINING-EOOM. will pass out by the same opening; for there is always a double current; the cold air, however, though supplied in abundance, will not fall at once upon the company, but will first strike against the ceiling, where it will meet with a stratum of heated air, and be reflected downwards in a tempered condition. By this means there can be neither suffocating atmosphere nor chilly blasts. It is desirable, how- ever, in order to insure the full effect, that the occasional blind be fixed before dinner besins : O by moderate ventilation from the beginning the air never gets heated at all, and no draughts are ever set up; to neglect this precaution also at the time of sitting down to dinner, and prefer for a while the treacherous open window, is very dangerous, because those who suffer by it will most likely not remonstrate till the chill is felt and the mischief done. The use of these blinds in the height of summer makes good lighting of the dining-room as needful then as in the shorter days; perhaps it is required to be even more brilliant. In winter the drawing- room can be kept in half light for reception, and the dining-room may easily look cheerful by comparison; but in summer you pei’haps pass from a room lighted by a declining sun, and it is difficult to make an artificial light seem gay after such a glow. The suggestion of placing mucli light about the room.77 ON THE DINING-ROOM. and not too niucli ujdoii tho table, is even more applicable in summer than in winter, as it prevents too mucli beat near tbe guests, and equalizes it throughout the room. A valuable caution may here be given, to be very careful in using always candles of the purest Avax ; jf sent for through servants, or bought at an inferior place, a commoner sort is frequently substituted, and the appearance will not beti’ay the inferiority. The consequences of this are not tz’ivial, as a great pro- portion of the light expected is not realized, though the inconvenience of the heat is the same. But this\ not the worst evil: most, if not all, the inferior kinds of wax candles are made with stearic acid of tallow; this has a crystalline texture which would render the candle inconveniently brittle, and to obviate the brittleness, white arsenic is often used, Avhich in burn- ing gives out a highly deleterious gas; it will, there- fore, be prudent, for health’s sake as well as for the brightness of your room, to purchase yourself the very best wax, at the most trustworthy shop: in ball-rooms nothing IS more common than for furnishers who undertake to decorate and light the rooms, to use inferior cancUes; to any one who has had their atten- tion directed to the fact, the dull quality of the light, which no multiplication of the number of candles can remedy betrays the fraud at once. When the quan- tity of dangerous gases that must be diffused through the atmosphere of rooms so lighted is considered, it78 ON THE DINING-EOOM. is easy to account for the languid air and pale cheeks that are seen at the end of a London season ; heated rooms and late hours bear the reproach, but do not deserve it so much as poisonous exhala- tions. The light of wax candles is certainly more beau- tiful than any other; but where a diffused glow is required, there is nothing like a moderator lamp: one of those suspended as high as possible over a dinner- table, as an assistance to the candles, has a superior effect to candles without it. The arrangements of the dining-room, when only one or two friends are expected, are not unworthy of some consideration; for, without any approach to ostentation, or a display of finery, a certain degree of elegance conduces always to a cheerful meeting. On these occasions an impression of festivity, such as is suitable to large parties, is neither needful nor agreeable; it is more desirable to insure an air of comfort, leading to a feeling of quiet seclusion from the busy world. Light, brightening up the whole apartment, is out of place, and is better if concen- trated on the social group : a lamp suspended high is the most effectual way of diffusing a tranquil tone whilst affording sufficient light; a single cluster of wax candles in a tall torchette, is the next best plan. A glaring display of plate upon the sideboard is in the worst possible taste: on the other hand, every- thing, such as china, glass, and all that can possiblyON THE DINING-EOOM. 79 be wanted for the service, should be ready in the room, to avoid delay and the opening of doors to fetch it, whilst no more than is wanted should be there, to save fuss in taking it away again. At the table rather less space may be allotted to each person than is needed in a large party. There should be a glowing fire in winter, and ice near each guest in summer. The table ornaments should be few, and chosen for their beauty rather than their value, and the dessert should consist of few pieces well filled: a great show of finery detracts from that air of friendly comfort, which is so much to be preferred to vain display. Space opposite the host, as he will most Probably carve, must be left for dishes in succession; the space will be afterwards occupied by wine decanters: thus a bottom dish of the dessert will not be needed. As far as may be made convenient, it is desirable to liaA e the same things produced for youi’ private daily use, and the same little ceremony of being waited on observed, as when two or three friends are asked to join you. Though this plan may impose rather more constant work on the servants, yet it will save them much trouble and chance of mistakes when there is company; to you it will be a relief to be spared the duty of having to give particular orders on every occasion, as well as to be free from a sort of humi- liating consciousness that your daily service is not80 ON THE DINING-ROOM. fit for the reception of a friend or two : added to this, it is always pleasant to be secure that no little omis- sions or awkwardnesses will interrupt the free enjoy- ment of their society. Modest simplicity in all home arrangements has its charms; but it is worth while to depart a little from it to secure other advan- tages.81 CHAPTER VII. KITCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. After relieving our conversations, dear reader, of their business tone by a short escape from the kitchen to the more attractive dinner table, it is time to recollect that flowers and bonbons, lights and com- fortable arrangements, will not satisfy the appetites of your guests; so we must return to the duty of pro- viding for them. Before dinner can be cooked, however, the appa- ratus for the Avork must be considered; for unless that be suitable, there is poor chance of producing anytliing in great perfection. Most houses, even small ones, are provided with charcoal stoves and a hot hearth. The stoves are merely hollows in a stone or iron table to hold charcoal; the hot hearth is generally part of the same table, which has a small fireplace beneath with a flue to it, and the fire is lighted like a common stove with coal or cinders: this hearth is so constructed as never to become A^ei’y hot, and it is intended to receive whatever is finished to a certain point and may require to be kept at G82 KITCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. an even temperature without further boiling. The vessels which are intended to he placed on the hot hearth will he described presently. In many kitchens there are numerous charcoal stoves, in nearly all there ^ *! are three or four small ones; and when a dinner is going forward there are few cooks who do not delight to kindle every one of these stoves early in the day, and keep them always going. It is a wonder they should choose that sort of pleasure, for the influence of so much charcoal is not only exceedingly unwholesome, hut distressing, and many of them suffer to such an ex- tent as to feel almost incapable of continuing their work. It is bad not only for their health but also for our dinners, for the chances are that they are quite pro- strated when the time for fruition of all the day’s long preparation comes at serving up; but charcoal is expensive, at least in London, and to enjoy for once unlimited expenditure of a costly article has an all but irresistible attraction. It will be as well, not- withstanding, to ti’y what persuasion may effect towards abating some of the evils of the four char- coal stoves. There is one substitute very easily provided, which cannot be too highly recommended, not only as use- ful to decrease the use of charcoal, but available for every-day purposes. One of the ready-made stoves may be made, at a very small trouble and expense, to receive gas: as the hot hearth generally has a gas jet near it, a good light being indispensable for allKITCHEN APPAEATUS'AND UTENSILS. 83 t1ie delicate work whicli is performed at it, there is nothing to be done but to carry on the gas-pipe to the hollow, and to place in it an iron, pierced with a number of holes for so many jets. There are several forms of this iron which gas-fitters recom- mend; any will do. For every-day use this gas stove is so extremely convenient, that it is surprising any house should be without one; but the cooks should be cautioned against its continual use. It should be lighted only when little nice things are to be done, such as cutlets, croquets, sauces, &c., and extin- guished directly afterwards. All these things can be watched and managed much better that way than would be possible on an open fire, and with much less distress from heat. This advice about stoves, I give on the authority of an experienced intelligent cook. But as to the open fireplaces, let no mistress ever think of intermeddlino- with the management of those: it is every cook’s glorious prerogative to keep up a large blazing fire when there is next to nothing to be done, and to increase it to a huge furnace when there is much. Besides rendering the kitchen almost uninhabitahle from excess of heat, there is by this another disadvan- tage, that the oven, if heated by the fire, cannot be regulated, and the success of pastry and soufHees, which might be perfect at any other time, is not to be depended on when the fire is excessive. One "v\ ould think the glowing furnace could hardly ever be 6—284 KITCHEN APPAKATUS AND UTENSILS. required; but it is the cook’s privilege to judge, as I have said, and even the less furious but constant blazing fire is not to be remonstrated about: the waste of coals seems one of the standing consolations for her many troubles; though few can doubt that half the quantity would serve as well, or even better. She little thinks, however, that there is a point which all who dwell in this vast city have more at heart than the saving of their coals: what a mercy it would be if half the smoke from all the London kitchen chimneys were abolished, relieving in the same proportion our loaded atmosphere and its attendant fogs! This would be a joyful mitigation of our almost worst reproach; a comfort not to be relinquished out of kindness to our continental neighbours, who would lose their greatest satisfaction: when they visit us at present—knowing in their secret hearts that London is not only the largest and richest of all European cities, but, taking it for all in all, the grandest—they console themselves by railing at our atmosphere, and assert- ino- that an English sun in ordinary weather is totally invisible, and that when the sky is wonderfully clear it shines out like une lune endimancMe. Our cooks mio-ht take half their spiteful pleasure from them, if they would. But to do justice to the cooks, we must confess that they do not deserve to bear exclusively the reproach of not doing what is possible to abate the miseries of smoke. We might all contribute some-laTCIIEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. 85 thing towards the longed-for relief, if we would only take the trouble, and knew how to set about it. The trouble is but slight, yet that it will ever be taken universally is not very hopeful; there is that weak suggestion ever whispering its fallacy, when excuse is wanted for neglecting anything that everybody ought to do—" What can my single help in this work signify ? ” An unit in three millions! Tew stop to think what vast results might follow, if every unit were to say instead, " I at least will do my part.” But we are soaring into ethics, instead of putting coals upon, or rather into, our fires in the wisest way; that being the means to which I allude as promising relief to our smoke-laden atmosjDhere, and the especial topic which has beguiled us from our cooking business. As to this wisest way I do not tell it as a discovery: the good advice has been offered repeatedly in newspapers ; but as it does not / seem to have been widely noticed, the effort of an unit to disseminate it may prove a mite of contribu- tion to the public good. ^ The mode of feeding fires so as to reduce the quan- tity of smoke is as follows. Let the fire be laid in the morning, thus: fill the grate one-third up with small coals 111 a close fiat layer. Lay paper over the whole layer of coal; then first small sticks, then large sticks, till the grate is two-thirds full, the sticks forming a flat layer; then fill up the grate with cinders ; put a few small fresh coals into the open spaces between86 KITCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. the cinders; taking care that the layer of cinders mixed with coals fills np entirely to each side of the grate. When the fire is lighted^ of course beginning with the paper, it will he found, hy the time the sticks have been consumed, that the cinders above will have become a glowing crust. There will then he a hollow where the sticks have been, and the coals below will have a flaming surface. A few coals must then be introduced below the crust of cinders every quarter of an hour; a flat shovel, if the bars are tolerably open, will answer for that purpose. It will he found that many hours will elapse before the upper crust will give way, and that very little, if any, smoke will go uj) the chimney. The reason of this is easily explained: wdien heat is applied beneath fresh coals, or coals are thrown upon a fire (which comes to the same thing), there is not sufficient heat to produce perfect combustion; a great proportion of the coal escapes in the form of smoke, and is carried up the chimney by the draught; but by establishing a heated upper crust of glowing cinders, the smoke from the coals beneath is consumed in passing through the crust, to which crust it affords fuel to keep it in a glowing state. In this manner every particle of coal is utilized, whilst in the common way a very large proportion is wasted, or, still worse, sent abroad to be deposited on everything that we care to preserve in beauty. A considerable economy will obviously be the reward of such patriotic care for theKITCHEN APPAEATUS AND UTENSILS. 87 appearance of London architecture; as any oiae who will try the experiment will find what a large expen- diture of coals is saved. The above plan is not so applicable to the low- form of grates as to those of an older fashion; but the same principle may he proceeded on in the way of feeding fires. A clever friend amused him- self one winter with trying experiments, and found great success in ordering his servants to add fresh, coals at each side of the grate alternately, in small quantities. The last fed side became shortly a higher, hotter heap, which he called his wick; then the lowmr side was supplied, and the wick kindled that immediately info a bright flame, which blazed cheer- fully by the side of the wick, till it became the hottest and thereby wdck in turn. There was very little smoke emitted in this manner. One code of fire-mending duty can at least be enacted in every house, and servants may be made to observe it: that is, to mend the fire every half-hour, tlrrowing on a very small quantity each time, and choosing the hottest place; and above all, never to stir the fire, which is the sure destruction of the useful wick, and makes a fierce fire one hour and a low one the next. If people would take the ti’ciible to observe all this, there would be always a bright fire and very little smoke. But it is time that we finish this digression and return to the kitchen.88 lUTCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. It is fortunate for those who have small kitchen ranges, when the oven is heated by contact with the large fireplace, that, just now, pastry is not so much the fashion for dinners of ceremony. Where very delicate pktes, almost as light as foam, appear, it is in houses Avhere there are separate ovens. Soufflees, in the same way, are all but impossible to manage well where the heat of an oven cannot be well under control. The only advice to be given in such cases is to abstain from choosing those things which cannot be depended on; the repertoire to select from is large enough without them. We shall now proceed to inquire whether the culi- nary utensils in your kitchen are sufficient, because an adequate supply of these is more absolutely indis- jiensable than most young housekeepers imagine. This fact came to my own knowledge once in a way so marked, that its importance could not well be over- looked. In earlier days the kitchen furniture had accumulated without my having bestowed upon it any particular notice; no doubt it was ample for its purpose, but I was as ignorant of what it consisted as, I j)resume, you are likely to be. On a change of residence, a new kitchen had to be furnished, and what seemed, to my uninformed ideas, an amj)le array of pots, pans, &c., was provided. It hajDpened that shortly afterwards a large dinner was to be given, and there was only a new young cook, to whom I scarcely dared confide it. It was then still in the daysKITCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. 89 of those terrible three full courses^ imposing thrice in succession the excessive labour of dishing up ten or twelve elaborate performances, all to be ready at one minute; therefore a man cook was called in, for the double purpose of saving anxiety and affording a sort of lesson. He took the order, went to look round the kitchen, and returned shortly, politely declining to have anything to do with it, as there was, absolutely, nothing at all to get the dinner up with. Of course a negotiation ensued, and he proposed to send in a list of what was required for his Avork; all the articles in the list having been provided, he resumed his engagement, and performed it in most masterly style. Having kept the list he made out, I record it for your guidance. It is so far complete that, in the course of a dozen years very little has been added, and, though the expense was not a small one, it had to be incurred only once for all. If you really mean to give dinners, you cannot do Avith less; for the inconvenience of what is called make- shifts on such occasions is a hardship it would be cruel to impose on the cook, and to do so Avould be perilous to your own satisfaction. All the articles provided Avere of the medium size, which is sufficient for a small establishment. An ironmonger Avill understand that term, and it will now save trouble to transciibe the bill which indicates the names those tradesmen use.so KITCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. 1 strong copper stockpot and cover. 1 do. consomme pan and cover. 1 do. stewpan. 1 do. baking plate (for cutlets). 1 do. bain-marie case, containing 8 bain-marie pans, 1 soup pan, and 1 glaze pot. 2 strong copper round jelly moulds. 1 do. plain round mould. 2 do. fire pans and covers (braising pans). 2 do. omelet pans. 1 box round cutters. 1 „ French fluted cutters. 2 copper fluted border moulds (for aspic jelly). This list includes all the copper utensils wanted, unless dotible entrees of creams and jellies are required, when two more jelly moulds must he added. The above bill came to 27/. The names of most of the articles indicate their purpose, excej)t the mysteriously sounding one that cooks pronounce “ bamary.” The bain-marie on the day of a dinner is the most indispensable of all the apparatus. The case is placed on the hot hearth, at the side where there is no great degree of heat; a little water is put into the case, and the tray belonging to it is filled half way up with water, after having been lined with a coarse cloth; the bain-marie pots are placed on the cloth, and they contain the variovis sauces, which, after being finished, are put into them to be preserved unchanged by cooling or by extra boiling, till they are wanted. These bain-marie pots must on no account be ever used in any other way:KITCHEN APPABATES AND UTENSILS. 91 and here a general caution is in place, that copper pans ought never to he placed upon a common fire, unless it be now and then an omelet or cutlet pan, and then with greatest care not to burn them. It happens when delicate little things are to be fried in butter, and there is neither charcoal nor gas stoves going, that they must be used, for common ii-on fry- ing-pans would spoil the viands; but the destruction of copper pans by an open fire is a great argument for having a gas- stove ever at hand for nice little daily purposes. Besides the extravagance of soon destroying such expensive articles, there is a worse consequence of burning copper pans on common fires: their tin linings will very soon be worn away, and if the smallest surface of copper be exposed, the action of acids, salts, and even alkalies, will change it into verdegris, one of the deadliest poisons. The secret of many a dinner having “ disagreed ” Avith somebody, might be explained by the presence of small portions of this poison; therefore, every cook should receive an exhortation to be very particular in noticing that the tin linings are always perfect: when they want lining often, it is a proof that she has used the pans improperly ; for Avith care they will last jDerfect many years. The list just given is specially intended for getting up large dinners; it does not include a vast number of articles which are required besides, and necessary92 KITCHEN APPAEATUS AND UTENSILS. in every kitchen: yourSj perhaps, is not complete, and you may doubt, when a cook teases for this or that addition, whether the request is reasonable; a list of really needful utensils may, therefore, he acceptable. A fish kettle, A turbot do. 2 iron frying-pans. 2 do. pots. 1 preserving-pan. Dripping pans and ladles. 6 large iron spoons. 6 wooden do. 1 silver do. Flour dredger. 4 hair sieves (different sizes). 1 tammy do. 1 wire do. 1 whitebait sieve. 2 whisks. 1 cradle spit. 1 skewer spit, 1 bottle-jack. Scales and weights. Pestle and mortar. Chopping board. Block do. Saw, cleaver and steel. Coffee mill. Spice do. Salt box. Spice do. A box of larding-pins. 2 paste brushes. 1 glaze brush. Pans, bowls, &c. &c. When a party of fourteen or more persons has to be provided for, it adds much to comfort and elegance to have two dishes alike of each entree, one to be handed down each side of the table ; this occupies less time than for each entree to be obliged to make the whole circuit of the table, by which it arrives cold at the guests last served, who, besides, have to begin whilst their opposite neighbours have almost finished: although too much haste to get the dinner over is by no means desirable, yet too much lingering is equally objectionable; therefore, by having double entrees.KITCHEN APPAEATUS AND UTENSILS. 93 there is time for each kind to be brought in sepa- rately, and quietly partaken of. The entremets or sweets may be doubled in the same way; in winter time, however, the hot pudding, which is a large dish, is as well single. The plan of double entrees obviously causes a certain degree of increased expense, and a little more trouble in the work of sending up, though not in that of cooking; when economy is a consideration, a single set of entrees on the old plan, if good of their kind, will, in spite of new fashions, always be sufficiently creditable to your hospitality. It may be thought that the long French names given in the cartes have a pretentious air; if so, the descriptions may be omitted in transcribing for the table, and the entrees written merely Cotelettes de Mouton, Quenelles, and so on. The fact is, that the distinction between a ITtalienne, a I’Espagnole, and other such terms, relates chiefly to small details. Slight, however, as the differences are, it is worth a cook’s while to take the small extra trouble required to observe them; it takes no more time, and only demands a continual reference to the receipts, which is a most valuable habit. Most cooks can learn to do a thing once; but then they think they know it, and repeat it upon a general recollection, they make some small omissions, and on being rebuked for a failure, fall into discouragement, which ends in indifference about further exertion; therefore, it is a good thing94 laXCHEN APPARATUS AND UTENSILS. to expect attention to little nice distinctions^ 'which cannot well he carried in the memory. Though it is important to produce things correctly, those who partake of the dinners do not care about the technical names of the dishes, and only want to know generally what is coming upon the table; it is as well for them that they are not too curious, for some 'very grand cooks put printed cartes on the tables, which describe anything but the dinner they mean to give. You, at least, need pi’actise no such delusions j you can write down a truth-telling carte, making it look modest by leaving out the fine descriptions, and thus save a little trouble, which is always a point gained : the great secret of housekeeping is to spare no trouble that can make it perfect, hut not to waste a moment in doino* needless things. This observation about the cartes applies only to those intended for the company; the carte in English for the cook, being for her guidance, must have every detail.95 CHAPTER VIII. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR GETTING UP A DINNER. So far^ dear reader, our conversations have embraced topics which come, more or less, under your imme- diate supervision. That which will occupy us now relates to work which belongs entirely to your cook. We presujrpose that she is not much used to under- take the responsibility of a large dinner, althouglr she has practised most of the component parts on lesser occasions, and become competent to do them well when they are to be grouped into one grand exhibition ; it will, therefore, help her if we draw up a programme of her work. We begin with the pre- parations of the day preceding the eventful one, and will introduce in their places those receipts which she will then have to follow: these you will doubt- less copy and present to her. As a great deal of perplexity is occasioned by want of method in the order of proceeding, it will, p>erha]DS, not be unacceptable to your cook to have a short outline drawn up for her of the duties both of the dinner-day and that of preparation, in their proper96 GE^^ERAL DIRECTIONS EOR succession; these directions cannot, of course, embrace everything that has to be thought of, but by indi- cating the exact time at which certain works must be attended to, some degree of contrivance to crowd so much into a limited space of time will be spared, and thought will be left free to fill up intervals with others at discretion. As it will be impossible to give directions which shall serve equally for all bills of fare, I shall take dinner No. 1, and describe gene- rally how to set about it. For the more parti- cular directions, the cook will have the receipts to go by. Having ordered all things contained in the two lists of materials for the dinner, and arranged that they shall be furnished on the respective days when they are required, everything being at hand, and no risk of hurry or delay in having to send for them unex- pectedly, your cook begins her work the day before lighting the stove underneath the hot hearth. She will then proceed to prepare the stock No. 1 in the following way. It should be begun very early in the day. Stock No. 1. Put into the largest stockpot, which holds four gallons, twelve pounds of gravy beef cut into six pieces, six pounds of knuckle of veal, and four pounds of lean ham, after washing them all carefully:GETTING UP A DINNER. 97 add two turnips, six carrots, two heads of celery, six onions, of which one is to he stuck with cloves; a hunch of herbs, salt, whole pepper, and a dessert- spoonful of sugar; fill the pot with three gallons of water, cover it, and place it on the hottest part of the hot hearth. Let it stew eight hours tolerably fast, watch it from time to time, and skim off the fat as it rises; it will want looking at every quarter of an hour. Pass the broth or stock through a clean cloth into a jar; when it is cold, remove what fat remains on the top. The stock will be reduced to about two gallons, which will he the quantity required for the dinner. Most good authorities in cooking insist on the necessity of frying the meat and vegetables in a close stewpan before the general boiling begins; also of checking the boiling point repeatedly, by throwing in cold water, and several other plans. The above plan, however, in its simplicity, has been found to answer perfectly, whilst the difficulty of attending to so many directions is spared by it. Whilst this stock is in process of cooking, another may be going on as follows :— Stock No. 2. Put into a smaller stockpot four pounds of veal, one pound and a half of ham, one head of celery, two onions, a little whole white pepper, two hay-leaves, 7GEi^ERAL DIRECTIONS EOR 98 a small piece of mace, and a teaspoonful of white sugar, add three quarts of water, and boil it five hours. It will be reduced to two quarts, rather less than more. Strain it and put it away for next day’s use. The stock for jelly must next be prepared. Calyes’ Feet Stock. Put the four calves’ feet, after being washed, into a stewpan large enough to hold two gallons, add one gallon and a pint of water, cover it, and place it on the hot hearth to boil quickly; skim it occasionally, and continue to boil it till the meat parts from the bones easily, and the quantity is reduced to two quarts and a half-pint; pass it through a sieve, and put it away for next day’s use. When the stock No. 1 is finished, or nearly so, some glaze must be made: that is, if the cook should not happen to have by her some that is good. Most cooks contrive to have a little always ready made, as it is useful every day. To MAKE Glaze. Put a quart of the stock No. 1 into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of powdered white sugar. Do not put on the lid of the stewpan; reduce it byGETTING UP A DINNER. 99 boiling fast till it is only a quarter of a pint; if it is then not the thickness of honey, it must be reduced to a still smaller quantity. Keep it in a small close jar till wanted. Make the cake for the two gateaux d’oranges according to the receipt for cake for Charlottes (see Miscellaneous Receipts). The quantity given in the receipt, namely, one pound of corn-flour, &c., is suf- flcient for the two gateaux. Very little more remains for this day’s work: the stalks of mushrooms must be cut so as to make them look round, and the outside skin removed; the skins and stalks being taken care of to throw into soups and sauces. The mushrooms must be left all night in a quart of water into which the juice of one lemon has been squeezed, in order to whiten them. Vegetables for the soup must be neatly cut, and left in salt and water all night. Bread-crumbs for frying must be rubbed through the wire sieve and left to diy on a plate before the fire, and put away for the following day’s use. They cannot be too dry. Syrups for the orange gMeau, or any other entre- met which may be intended, should be also done on this day. For directions for making syrup, see Mis- cellaneous Receipts. The quantity there mentioned, namely, two pounds of sugar, &c., will be required for the two gateaux. 7—2100 GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR As all that we are now occupied withj is not meant to regulate the proceedings of any experienced woman who has been thoroughly educated, or who has found out the best routine for herself, but is intended to lead on an intelligent young person till she becomes equal to all your particular require- ments, it may be in place here to say a few words about the amount of help which is necessary, and will not be too much when a dinner is to be cooked. It need hardly be observed that the help of a professed cook is not intended, as in that case all this advice would be superfluous; but some assist- ance must be afforded. There Is a good rule to be observed, never to permit more than is actually I ... needed: a crowd in the kitchen is certain to consist of hinderers. Nothing can be depended on to issue from it successfully if one person is to meddle with this piece of work, and another with that, whilst the cook, distracted with confusion, is able neither to gain experience nor to progress towards establishing me- thodical habits. Two assistants will be sufficient for the dinner, which now occupies oui attention. An industrious kitchen-maid, or rather scullery-maid, will be occupied the whole of both days in cleaning and handing various utensils. Another person must not only wait continually on the cook during the dinner-day, but she will be wanted on the pre- vious one also, to do a hundred subordinate things as directed.101 GETTING UP A DINNER. All this being arranged, and the materials for the second day either at hand, or expected early, and the stove of the hot plate being lighted, the order of work is as followsBut first it must be noted that thoup'h the following statement of the morning’s business will include pretty nearly everything to be done, that of the afternoon cannot possibly do so. The order of the principal works and the hours when they must be disposed of are fixed, but a few things must remain for the cook’s own intelligence to deter- mine when it is best to do them. Bice (Carolina) for the beds of entrees must be set on early, on the comYnon fire in cold water. Then make the jellies according to receipt. Set the moulds to cool, but not in ice. Prepare meat for quenelles, and the panada; set them in a cool place till wanted later in the day. Prepare the oysters (or whatever it may be) for croquets; when finished in the glaze, according to the receipt, put the mass in a plate away to cool till the afternoon. Prepare cutlets for frying, and put them aside till wanted. Cut the cakes for the orange gateau. Whip the creams according to receipt, and put them in the moulds to cool, but not in ice. Prepare what vegetables are wanted for the dinner, and lay them in water. This completes the principal work that must be102 GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR disposed of in the morning. After the household dinner it will be resumed in the following order:— The bain-marie tray must now he lined, as before mentioned, with a cloth, and filled with water, then set it on the cooler part of the hot hearth. Begin the braising of the dressed fish, and then make the two sauces, as follow; which are to be the groundwork of all those that the different dishes will require. Sauce a la Bechamelle, or General Sauce No. 1. Put one pound of butter in d stewpan with tlmee ounces of flour; place it on the hot hearth and boil it gently for half an hour, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon; put it in a basin, and leave it half an hour to cool, then put it hack into the stewpan, and add a pint and a half of stock, a slice of best bacon, a pinch of white sugar, and the peel which was taken ofi' the mushrooms the day before, well washed and drained. Place the pan again on the hot hearth, let it simmer a quarter of an hour, skim it, if needed, and pass it through a hair sieve; then stir it gently, add a teacupful of good cream, and a little cayenne and salt; put it into a bain-marie pot, and set it in the bain-marie.103 GETTING UP A DINNER. White Sauce, or General Sauce No. 2. Put a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of flour in a stevvpan on the bot hearth; stir it twenty minutes, or till the flour is completely cooked. Add to it, by degrees, two pints of stock No. 2, and let it boil half an hour, stirring all the while; put it on a cool part of the hot hearth, and leave it to simmer gently for two hours, with the lid partly off. Pass it through a sieve, and add a quarter of a pint of thick cream, stirred in by degrees. Put it in the bain-marie for use, with the pot covered. Then make melted butter for the lobster sauce according to the directions given in the Miscellaneous Receipts ; put it in the bain-marie. The next proceedings are to finish the soups according to the receipts, and further to make the lobster ready for the sauce, as directed in the receipt; put it away for use. The cabinet pudding must be made next, and set aside for time of steaming. Attend to the roast joint, boiling fowls and ham, and make the paste for croquets. If the dinner is ordered for a quarter past seven, the time for further work will be as follows :— At three o’clock, light the charcoal stoves. At five o’clock, set the jellies in ice, and proceed to make up the croquets, and set them in a cool place104 GENERAL DIRECTIONS EOR not on ice. Make tlie quenelles, boil them, jDut them on a sieve to drain, and kee^D hot; cover them with a cloth. At a quarter before six o’clock, prepare the tui’bot and set it on the stove to boil. At half-past six, fry the croquets and parsley, and put them in the skreen on a sieve—not covered—to keep as hot as possible. Prepare the boiled rice, by rubbing it through a colander ; leave it in a saucepan to keep hot. Prepare for roasting game, dressing plain vege- tables, &c. &c. Everything being now in readiness, when the butler gives notice that half the company are arrived, begin the work of serving up: first dish up the dressed soles and turbot: set them in a warm place, and wait for the signal that dinner is ordered; then pour the soups into their hot tureens. These directions refer to the order of proceeding, as regards dinner No. 1. It will be very easy to substitute the variations that other dinners will require. The same stocks. Nos. 1 and 2, and the sauces, bechamelle, wdiite sauce, and melted butter, will always be required, and the time noted for cer- tain occupations in the afternoon will always be the same. The least experienced cook, by adhering to this ordei’, will soon establish a good method, and gain confidence by doing so.105 GETTING UP A DINNEE. A few general remarks may yet be added. The receipts just given for making stocks and sauces are much simpler than would be contended for, as absolutely necessary, by many professed cooks. They would insist on the distinctions of broth and grand stock, veloute, espagnole, consommd glazes, bechamelle, &c., and make a rule that most, if not all, must be worked separately from the beginning. But the less puzzling course of proceeding now proposed, has been found sufficient to produce all that is wanted in quite as great perfection; and as it has the merit of being within the youngest cook’s power of compre- hension, it is more likely to be followed without fear of disappointment. There is a plan also insisted on by culinary pro- fessors in regard to making stocks, which is, to reduce them once or oftener into the form of glaze, and moisten them again with broth. This is only an added difficulty, and it involves many chances of failure; whilst the result, though it may possibly be successful in very skilful hands, is not so superior as to be worth the additional perplexity and labour. The two sauces. Nos. 1 and 2, are not meant merely for large dinners; they will have to be made, one or both of them, for almost daily use. There is no way of j>roducing them fit for a gentleman’s table, with any less degree of care and minuteness, than the receipts just given require; the only difference that106 GENERAL DIRECTIONS EOR may be allowed is, to use any nice soup or gravy that may be at band, for making becbamelle instead of preparing fresh stock, and to use veal broth instead of white sauce. Becbamelle, although better fresh, will keep a day or two; by having a little always ready, a luncheon dish may be frequently supplied from a small material, or a nice addition made to a dinner if a chance guest should arrive. The luxury of having these things executed with great exactness is the reverse of being extravagant: the difference between them and the gravy of a com- mon hash is just sufficient to convert an uninviting rechauffe into a delicate little entree: for instance, the remnant of a fowl, which would be but a shabby production hashed up with common gravy, roughly flavoured, may form an attractive variety in a small dinner, when served up neatly with a perfect becbamelle. Before concluding our someAvhat menial discussion, I must add one or two minute rules which have been strongly urged on my attention by the same judicious cook who has furnished the foregoing order of pro- ceeding. The first is, scrupulously to attend to the direc- tions about skimming both soups and sauces. Let no one think that in a well-appointed cuisine there can be no need of such a caution: the prelude to many an otherwise first-rate dinner is a clear soup with an odious taste of grease. A very small over-107 GETTING UP A DINNER. siglit can produce it; and one method of guard- ing against it, is to adopt the unvarying habit of having a separate spoon in every pan that may he on a stove, and a basin of water ready to put every one in when done with: I am assured that to stir a soup whilst serving, with a spoon from a greasy stewpan, is quite sufficient to do the mischief, and spoil the two days’ woi’k. As a general exhortation to the cook, too much cannot be said about strictly adhering on all occa- sions to the quantities laid down for thickening, as well as to the time of cooking after the thicken- ings have been added: failure in this particular may be traced in the cooking of many who profess to be accomplished. A useful caution may be added on the same autho- rity about the cleansing of the stewpans: one must be kept exclusively for dressed fish ; and though for that the utmost pains ought to be expended on its cleanliness, yet for any other entree the use of it would be ruinous. Frying-pans are of even more consequence to be thoroughly purified; and those used for biscvTits or omelets must be used for nothing else. The utmost attention must also be bestowed on jelly-bag strainers and pudding-cloths, which must be washed in boiling water, without soap or soda.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 108 of iinner, |ta, i. (for 14 OR 16 PERSONS.) MENU du Janvier, 18.. Potage a I’ltalienne. Consomme aux Legumes. Filets de Soles a I’Indienne. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Petits Vol au Vents d’Huitres. Quenelles aux Truffes. Cotelettes de Mouton, Sauce Tomates. Poulets, Jambon. Selle de Mouton. Faisan. Grouse. Cabinet Pudding. Gelees. Gateanx d’Oranges. Creme ala Vanille. Biscuits de Fromage. TJemarii.—Either Diner or Menu may he with equal propriety written at the head of the Carte. The above should he neatly copied on cards the size of the diagram, which will he laid on the table ; four if the table is laid for fourteen persons, six if for sixteen. The dntrtes throughout are written in tlie plural number, indicating double sets; this will, of course, be altered when there are only single sets ordered.109 DINNEES EOE EACH MONTH. If ices follow this dinnei', vanilla cream and inille-fruits water will be most suitable; there being no vanilla in the entremets: in the three winter months, however, ices are superfluous, as they can hardly he called a suitable luxury. The following is the English version of the pre- ceding carte, and is required for the kitchen:— BILL OF FAEE, Dinner of the of January, at a Quarter past Seven, Queen’s Soup, with Italian Paste. Clear Vegetable Soup. Fillets of Soles (Sauce on the dish). Turbot, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Croquets of Oysters. Quenelles, with Truffles and Mushrooms. Mutton Cutlets, with Tomato Sauce. Fowls and Ham. Sauce in tureen (to be put upon each plate). Saddle of Mutton. Cauliflowers. Mashed Potato. Pheasant. Grouse. Bread Sauce. Sea-kale. Cabinet Pudding. Jelly. Cake filled with Oranges. Vanilla Cream. Cheese Biscmts. Remarks.—Two copies of the above must be written—one for the cook, one for the carver: the sauces and vegetables are noted to remind both. It may be well to write English only for the cook, and add the French names of the entrees for the side-table, as some servants name the dishes as they hand them.110 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR The following list will save much consideration, and the huny of sending for trifles at the moment they are wanted: the calculation is made liberally; therefore, if the bills show a larger consumption, it will be known that there is reason to complain. PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 1. Calculated for Double Entrees, Jellies, Orange-Cakes, and Creams. To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 ,, fat bacon. 1 set of calves’ feet. 3 lbs. fillet of veal. I5 lb. veal fat, or udder. 2 small necks of mutton. 1 small ham. 3 dozen eggs. 2 baskets of small mushrooms, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, pot herbs, sugar, spice, &c. A packet of Brown and Poi- son’s corn-flour. To be in the Kitchen tL Saddle of mutton. 5 lbs. of turbot. 3 fine soles filleted. 1 large lobster. 3 dozen oysters. 2 fowls for boiling. \ lb. of isinglass. 2 pint bottle of trufiles. i „ capers. Pint bottle of tomato sauce. Harvey sauce. Anchovy sauce. Mango pickle. 1 oz. dried cherries. 2 „ sAveet almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds. 2 „ citron. 1 lb. of apricot marmalade. 1 „ of orange „ 1 „ of preserved pineapple. 16 oranges. 12 lemons. Morning of the Dinner. 1 pheasant. 2 grouse. Cauliflowers. Seakale. Potatoes. 3 pints of double cream.Ill DINNERS EOE EACH MONTH. PoTAGB A l’Italienne.—{Italian Soup.) Take three quarts of the stock No. 2, put it in a stewpan, cover, and boil quickly one hour; lift the lid on one side for the last quarter of the hour—the quantity will thus he reduced to two quarts; add one teacupful of that white sauce (veloute) No. 2 which is ready in the bain-marie, and a teaspoonful of sugar ; taste, and add salt carefully, if wanted; take two ounces of Italian paste,* made not longer than two or three days before ; boil the paste in water with a pinch of salt; take it from the water; set the stew'- pan on the hot hearth till just before serving; then throw in the Italian paste and one wineglassful of sherry. A teaspoonful of powdered Parmesan cheese may be sprinkled on the top when quite ready for the table ; if that is not at hand, cheese must be omitted, as no other will do. Remarks.—This soup should he a pale straw colour, a little opaque, and not thicker than thin cream. Like all other soups, it must be served very hot, and not leave the kitchen till the moment it is wanted. Consomme aex Legumes,—( Vegetable Soup.) Take four quarts of stock No. 1; boil it hard in a stewpan for full two hours; lift the lid on one side for the last half-hour; it will then be reduced to two quarts and be clear; set the stewpan on one side of the hot hearth till wanted; when the souji * See Miscellaneous Receipts.112 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR is to be served, throw in the vegetables, and let it simmer five minutes. To prepare the Vegetables. Cut carrots and turnips into small pieces shaped alike, enough to fill a teacup; set them in cold water with a pinch of salt for half an hour; boil them till quite tender in a little stock No. 1, and dry them; put some butter into a saucepan, place it on the stove, and beat it whilst it melts; add a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and a teaspoonful of glaze; boil it five minutes, beating all the time; put in the vegetables and boil for another five minutes, this time stirring gently; take out a few pieces, lay them on a plate; if the butter dries quickly, making a clear glazed covering, they are finished; if not, boil and stir again. Take them out and keep them on a plate in a warm place till wanted. N.B.—This preparation of the vegetables can be done at any time in the afternoon. Remarks—This soup should be the colour of barley-sugar, and quite clear. Cooks have many inventions for clearing, such as adding cold water, eggs, isinglass, and the carcases of chickens, or straining through a jelly-bag. All these plans spoil it, and some are wasteful. Boiling at a high temperature for a long time is sufficient to make it brilliant, and no other means should be resorted to. The most common fault is an acrid, raw taste, which, proceed- ing from the vegetables, pervades the whole: this acrid taste can only be avoided by the glazing process; and it will possibly be necessary to insist upon its being done, as many professed cooks avoid the trouble under the pretence that it is not neces- sary ; but it makes just all the difference between a delicate and a common soup.113 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. Filets de Soles 1 l’Indienne. {Dressed Fillets of Soles.) The fish must be ordered to come ready filleted. There will be four pieces from each sole; if of mode- rate size cut each piece in two, if the fish is large into three portions; roll each round, not too close, and tie with thread to keep it in shape. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with buttered paper; place in the soles with as much stock No. 1 as will half cover them; put anotlier buttered paper on the top, and no lid. Stew for an hour very gently on the hot plate. Take away the stock, and leave the fish in the pan to keep warm, not in a place hot enough to dry it. Put into another small stewpan half a pint of stock No. 2, and the stock from the fish, with a tablespoon- ful of bechamelle, and the same quantity of Harvey sauce, of anchovy, and of mango pickle, and a little cayenne and salt; simmer for five minutes, and put it in the bain-marie; just before serving, add a table- spoonful of sherry and a small bottle of capers. Take off the strings from the fillets, lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. {Turbot, Lobster Sauce.) Turbot must be boiled, after being soaked in water and a teacupful of vinegar for half an hour. Before 8SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR 114 putting it into the fish-kettle, squeeze a lemon over it; fill the pan with cold water and a little salt, and boil gently. Bi’eak up the coral of lobster and place it on paper in a slow oven for half an hour, then pound ft in a mortar, and strew the fish with it when served. Tlie Sauce. Chop the meat of the tail and claws of a good sized boiled lobster into pieces, not too small. Half an hour before dinner, make half a pint of melted butter (see Miscellaneous Receipts); put the lobster into the saucepan with the melted butter; add a pinch of the coral, a small pinch of cayenne, and a little salt; set it in the bain-marie till wanted. Kemarks.—This process seems so simple that it hardly needs a comment, yet nothing is rarer in cookery than good lobster sauce. The means of spoiling it are, chiefly, by chopping the lobster too small—or, still worse, pounding it—inserting contents of the head, or using flour, or milk, or anchovy or any sauces; the addition of anchovy is a ruinous fault which most cooks commit. It should not be a half-solid mass, nor a thin liquid with pieces floating in it, but the lobster must be distinct, in a creamy bed. The excellence of the sauce will depend chiefly on that of the melted butter; therefore too much stress cannot be laid on the necessity of attending to the directions given in the Miscellaneous Receipts. Petits Vol au Vents d’HuItkes. {Croquets of Oysters.) Make puff paste of half a pound of flour and half a pound of butter as follows :—Make uj) a paste of the flour, the yelk of an egg, a teaspoonful of lemon-DI2>NEES EOE EACH MONTH. 115 juice, a pincli of salt, and as much cold water as is wanted ; roll it out thin, wash the butter, and dry it on a cloth; lay it on the paste, turn up the edges of the paste over the butter, and roll it out thin; make a thin layer of paste into a roll, as you would a roll pudding, and leave it in a cold place for a quarter of an hour; then roll it out flat, and make a roll again of the layer, and leave it again a quarter of an hour; do this three times; the last time it is made into a roll, set it on ice till it is wanted. Roll the paste out (not too tliin); cut it by a middle-sized round cutter into eighteen pieces, put a smaller cutter on each round of paste and press it gently, not to cut more than a third of the way through; bake them on a tin very lightly; when done, lift out the flakes in the middle which have been cut; put the pates on a cloth and keep them in the skreen or warm place till near the time for serving. Have the oysters pre- pared thus:— Have a dozen and a half of oysters; trim and beard them; put them in a stewpan with a tablespoon- ful of stock No. 2 ; simmer them for five minutes; take them out; chop them the size of peas ; add four tablespoonfuls of the oyster liquor, three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed in it, a pinch of cayenne, a little nutmeg, four tablespoon- fuls of cream; simmer the whole for five minutes, stirring carefully all the time. Hill the pastry the last thing before serving; serve nine in each dish, 8—2SPECIAL INSTIiECTIOXS I OR 116 on a piece of writing paper, fringed at the edge, not very deeply. Tops of pastry are gone out of fashion. Quenelles aux Teuffes. (^Quenelles, with Truffles and Mushrooms.') Take three pounds of the whitest part of veal— cliicken is better, hut veal will do; remove all the skin and sinews; chop it into small pieces, and pound it till very smooth ; pass it through a tammy sieve; do the same with a pound and a half of veal fat, or, instead of the fat, what the butchers call udder. Make twelve oimces of panada as fol- lows : Beat up half a pound of butter; whilst beating, dredge in a quarter of a pound of flour; boil it well till it is a thick paste; cool it. Place your pounded meat in one heap, your fat by it in another, your panada in a third; put a piece from each heap in turns into a mortar, and keep pounding, as you add them, for at least half an hour; then break two eggs, and put them in by degrees, pounding all the time; add two table- spoonfuls of stock No. 2, and two of bechamelle; pound it altogether for another quarter of an hour. When this is done, try if it is the right con- sistence by putting a piece the size of a w^alnut into a saucepan of boiling water and boiling it as you would poach an egg; if it cuts solid, like dough, add to the mass in your mortar some more fat and117 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. more becliamellej and pound again well; if it should crumble down and not hold well together, add another egg, and pound as before; if it can be cut easily with a spoon, and the edges are smooth and as solid as a hard-hoiled egg, it is right. Then form it into shapes as follows :— Dip a silver tablespoon in water; place as much quenelle in the spoon as it will hold, the quenelle standing up a little above the bowl of the spoon ; dip another spoon in water, and press the hollow of the bowl on the top of the quenelle ; turn the quenelle out gently into boihng water, and boil for ten minutes. (As quenelle is used in many forms, the time re quired for boiling will depend on the size.) Dish up by making a foundation of prepared rice; arrange the quenelles in a circle; place small mushrooms in the middle, the tops uppermost, in sufficient number to rise even with the quenelles ; strew over the mush- rooms half of a half-pint bottle of French truffles, cut to the size of a nut; pour some hechamelle into the dish. Remarks.—Nothing marks the performance of an accomplished cook more than very good quenelles; therefore they are introduced as an entree by themselves in the first bill of fare. According to the newest fashion, they are less used than formerly for the main com- position of a dish, but as, in one form or another, they are still introduced into every good dinner, it is desirable to make their perfect production the earliest of an improving cook’s attain- ments. This entree, besides, is so old a favourite, that when well made it can never be unwelcome. Every one calling herself a cook fancies she can make quenelles, but nearly all make stupid118 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR imitations. Several idle methods are substituted for the somewhat tedious process described in this receipt; the temptation is great to take an easier course, and it is likely that you may have to listen to many plausible excuses, and often have to insist on the true method before you will convince your cook that it is the right one. ^ Probably you yourself care little for such delicacies, and were right enough, in past days of young-lady freedom from responsibility, to let them pass unnoticed; now, however, it will be Avise to learn what they are like at some house irhere the cuisine has a reputation, and then taste at your own table and compare. To help this inquiry, it will be useful to state what quenelles should he, and what they commonly are, and the reasons. Quenelles should be white and smooth, light, and of even tex- ture, yet firm, and of the consistence of a moderately hard boiled egg; in taste rich, yet free from any particular fiavour: no taste of spice, herb, or sauce should be perceptible. The commonest fault is, that they crumble down on being cut, like a boiled bread- pudding, Avhilst the delicate flavour is wanting. You may then safely reproach the cook with having introduced a large proportion of bread-crumbs soaked in milk, thereby saving more than half the work of pounding. Now the use of so much pounding is thoroughly to assimilate the materials, and it cannot be dispensed with. The cook then will drop her plea on the head of expediency, and fall back upon economy: but this most politic of excuses will probably merely afibrd you occasion for a little lecture on thrift in general, showing how false saving is real extravagance, and how a spoiled produc- tion at one-half the due expense is wasted by the whole value of that half, the thing when done being worthless; and should you tremble to extinguish a rare spark of economizing spirit, you could proceed to eulogize all sorts of saving substitutions in cases where the result can really be successful. But to return to our quenelles. Through another common fault, you may find that, Avhen cut into, the mass is marbled, hard and soft in little patches, with a taste of potted meat, quite unlike the real thing; this will prove that prepared meat has been used instead of raw meat fresh pounded, and an over quantity of eggs added : the saving of immediate trouble by this is manifest, but the error fatal. Again, a taste of nutmeg or onion, or anything predominant, proves the introduc- tion of flavouring materials; Avhereas the small quantity of good stock and bechamelle, containing a variety in minute portions, is ordered, not only to moisten the mass, but to insure that all indivi dual flavours may be sufficiently subdued.DINNEKS FOR EACH MONTH. 119 The above receipt is not copied from any book, but is the sub- stance of a lesson given many years ago by a superior c/ic/in Paris who brought into the salon his silver casseroles, &c., and was very energetic in insisting that no part of his laborious process should be considered needless trouble: it has been used often, and has never failed. A caution may be useful in regard to truffles: always buy them at some first-rate shop; being expensive, they are frequently adulterated. There is an inferior sort in France, pale in colour, which are dyed and sold for the best. EngUsh truffles are not worth using. CoTELETTES DE MOUTON, SaUCE ToMATE. {glutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.) Cut away all but ten bones each of tw.o small necks of mutton; chop off the long part of tbe bones to witbin two inches of the meat, and trim off part of the fat; put these two prepared pieces into a braising pan^ with some slices of bacon underneath them; lay round slices of onions and carrots, half the (quantity of turnips and celery, a small bunch of potherbs, and a few corns of allspice; cover the mutton with slices of bacon, and fill up with stock No. 1, to be even with the bacon; let it simmer very gently for three hours, take out the mutton, and leave it to get cold. When cold, divide the cutlets and trim the ends neatly; thin them if too thick ; put them in a stew- pan, with a .pint of stock No. 2 ; let it simmer gently on the stove an hour; add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, the same of muslaroom ketchup, and a tea- spoonful of mango pickle ; leave it on the hot liearthSPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOE 120 till wanted; warm a pint of preserved tomato sauce and keejD it in the bain-marie. To dish them np, make a circle an inch deep of prepared rice, large enough to hold the cutlets; lay them resting on each other with the bony ends inwards; keep the dish out- side the circle free from rice; cover the cutlets with hot glaze, and pour some of the tomato sauce in the middle, the rest into the dish; there must be none on the cutlets. This is for two entrees of ten cutlets in each. Eemarks.—These cutlets should be a darkish colour, and look moist and shiny: this will depend on the goodness of the glaze. The tomato sauce, if bought, must be from a trustworthy shop; as it is apt to be adulterated. PouLETS.—(Foiols.) Jambon.—{Ham.) Set the fowls for one hour in cold water, then they are to be plain boiled. For the sauce, use a pint and a half of bechamelle and a teaspoonful of white sauce ; reduce it to a pint; put into it equal quan- tities of mushrooms and trufdes, and pieces of quenelle the size of a nut; leave it in the bain-marie to keep warm, and remain till wanted. Serve the sauce in a sauce tureen, to be put on each plate by the carver. Eemarks.—One of the most common faults in dinners is the distasteful sauce for plain boiled chickens ; it is generally cream thickened with flour, which is only half boiled, retaining a most unpleasant flavour; or, if boiled enough, is more like paste thanDINNEKS FOE, EACH MONTH. 121 anything else. Nutmeg sometimes adds a coarse taste to the sticky composition. The excellence of the sauce depends on the perfection of the bechamelle described at page 102. It is a bad plan to pour the sauce into the dish with the fowls; for it is thus wasted or gets cold; it is also a bad plan to hand it to the guests, as they are apt to take a little off the top, and the cook finds afterwards that all her best materials, the truffles and quenelles, are left unpartaken of; the whole dish having been changed from a recherche to a common one. Selle de Mouton.—{Saddle of Mutton.') Remaeks.—The saddle of mutton is all but inevitable; in the following bills of fare some other pieces de resistance will be suggested, but scarcely recommended. The saddle is so confi- dently expected by, at least, half the company that they think themselves ill-used when it is absent; till fashion changes, there- fore, it will be politic to accept its perpetual presence as an insti- tution and to abstain from revolutionary efforts. The saddle of mutton must be ordered several days before; although we are not condemned to a close view of its sprawling back with its steamy (not balmy) exhalations, yet the odour of a huge joint fills the room unpleasantly ; this evil is mitigated by having moderately sized mutton, which is more likely to be tender and juicy. A fine saddle of Moor mutton would be large enough for the party. Currant-jelly sauce has become rather old- fashioned. Cabinet Pudding.—( With Apricot Sauce.) Soak six sponge cakes in as much wine, or wine and brandy, as they will take up; heat the whites and yelks of six eggs separately, and mix the two together. Butter a plain-shaped mould and line it with buttered writing-paper ; place the cakes in it, standing up round the sides and one in the middle;SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 122 scatter amongst them one ounce of dried cherries, one ounce of cut citron, three hitter almonds, and half an ounce of sweet almonds, all cut into long pieces; steam the whole for one hour. Beat up a pound of apricot jam with a quarter of a pound of sugar; let it simmer; then add a wine- glassful of brandy. Turn out the pudding, and pour over it the apricot sauce so that it shall glaze all the top and sides and fall into the dish. Remarks.—The paper lining of the mould is -worth insisting upon, as well as the plan of steaming instead of boiling ; to steam without the paper (which will remain in the mould) leaves great doubt as to how the pudding may turn out. Gelee.—{Calves'-feet Jelly, for Two Moulds.) Put into a stewpan six pints of calves’-feet stock, prepared the day before (see p. 98), with one pound of white sugar, the juice and peel of three lemons, and one ounce of good isinglass ; warm it on the stove. Beat the whites and shells of twelve eggs together in a bowl, and pour the stock, just warm, upon them; beat all for ten minutes ; return all to the stewpan, and boil for twenty minutes; pass it through a jelly-bag; when quite clear, add a pint of sherry and two wineglassfuls of pale brandy; let it cool; dip the moulds in water, and pour in the jelly, when it is so cool as to be just not too thick to pour; place the moulds on ice for the last hour before turning123 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. out. Previously to turning out, dip the mould for one moment in hot water. RESLtEKS.—In winter, as well as summer, this quantity of isinglass will require to he set on ice for one hour, but only for that time, and not till the jelly is set. To apply ice whilst the jelly is hot destroys the glutinous property; and it can then never set properly, nor be made to hold together, except by freezing strongly, which impairs the flavour: if cooks understood this, they would be saved many disasters. Great care must be taken of the jelly-bags ; they must be wrapped up carefully in paper, and then tied in a cover, and be dipped in boiling water before using. Gateaux d’Oeanges.—{Orange Cakes.) The two cakes must be made the day before of one pound of corn-flour (see cake for Charlottes, in Mis- cellaneous Receipts). Take the rinds off sixteen oranges; remove all the white, and pull the divisions asunder separately; dissolve one pound and a half of sugar, having first put a tahlespoonful of orange-juice into the pan; boil the sugar to a clear syrup, and pour it hot upon the pieces of orange; let it stand to cool, then take the sjnrup from the orange, and boil it with one pound of orange marmalade; when cool, stir in a wineglass of brandy (or maraschino). Fill the cakes with the oranges, and place some in a neat pattern on the tops ; fill up with the syrup, and pour some over the sides and in the dishes.124 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Ceeme a la Vanille.—{Vanilla Cream.) Boil a stick of vanilla in a teacupful of milk for ten minutes, stirring well all the time; when the milk is reduced to nearly one-half, pour it, boil- ing, into a cup containing two ounces of shredded isinglass; strain the milk, and cool it without letting it quite set; add it in a bowl to a pound of pounded sugar and three pints of double cream, and two wineglassfuls of best pale brandy: whip the cream till it seems a sponge; mix, and let it stand an hour and a half before filling the moulds; dip the moulds first in cold water; place the moulds on ice an hour before turning out. No exact time can be stated for the whipping, as it depends upon the nature of the cream and tem- perature ; but care must be taken not to go on too long, as it may turn to butter: sometimes ten minutes are sufficient, or it will take from that time to half an hour. If vanilla in sticks cannot be had, put in some essence of vanilla; it is impossible to say how much, as the essence differs so much in strength: about a teaspoonful should be abundant for the two moulds. If any quantity of stick vanilla is bought, it must be kept carefully in leaden paper, as it loses its perfume very rapidly.DI2?NERS FOR EACH MONTH. 125 Biscuits de Fromage.—{Cheese Biscuits.) Grate a quarter of a pound of cheese into two ounces of flour; rub into it one ounce of butter; add a pinch of cayenne^ some salt, and the yelk of one egg; mix it into a stiff paste; cut the paste into strips and roll them into sticks the size of a pencil, and about five inches long; put them on a buttered paper; bake them in a quick oven; put them on a cloth or paper near the fire till wanted.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR 126 Table Set for 14 or 16.DINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 127 References to the pheoedino'Diageam. a Centre, ivith six candles, and dish for flowers—white primuias and pink hyacinths. b 1 High group of fruit — oranges, Ribston pippins, grapes. b 2 High ip-oup of fruit — oranges, American apples, pears, grapes, c 1 Lady apples. e 2 Tangerine oranges. Cakes, piled high — ornamented with fruits made of confectionery. ee Crystallized fruits piled up high^ ornamented with bonbons. // Torchettes of three candles each. ffg Water-jugs and glasses. A A Sugar. Eesiarks Oil Table and Dessert.—This diagram of a table is given more as a suggestion than a rule; the arrangement of centre- piece torchettes, &c., must, of course, depend on what the house affords. Various modes of setting out a dessert will follow, some of which may be found suitable to the means of everybody. The chief points to be observed are not to crowd the table, and not to use dishes, some high, some low, some small, and some great; but to preserve a simple uniform design: also, rather to afford a few dishes handsomely filled than to add a number of little things which no one cares for. Single plants have a poor effect; they had better be grouped together in the centre or on each side of it. This dessert No. 1 supposes an epergne holding lights and a glass dish; the fiowers to be primulas and hyacinths. To arrange them' let the primulas be low plants in good flower; take them frorn the pots, shake off much of the mould, and having lined the glass with paper (not too white), press in the roots. Do the same with two pink hyacinths, which are to be in the centre. Cover the mould lightly with moss, and sprinkle all moderately with water. List of Materials to be ordered for Dessert No. 1. 18 oranges. 8 American apples (fine colour). S Eibston pippins. 8 pears. 4 lbs. of Jersey grapes. 18 lady apples. 18 Tangerine oranges. 2 lbs. of cakes. 3 lbs. of crystallized fruits. Bonbons and fruits made of sugar. 2 fine pink hyacinths, grown in the same pot. 4 low white primulas.128 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR n| iinn^r, 9^* (for 14 OR 16 PERSONS.) « MENU du Fevrier, 18 Potage a la Brunoise. Potage a la Reine. Filets de Saumon a ITtalienne. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Croquets d’Huitres. Filets de Veau piques aux Champignons. , Cotelettes de Mouton aux Concombres. Dinde. Jambon, Selle de Mouton. Faisan. Wild Ducks. Pouding a I’Allemande. Gelces au Marasquin. Cremes d’Ananas. Chartreuses d’Oranges.129 DESTNERS FOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 2. « *o* Dinner of the of February, at a Quarter after Seven. Soup Brunoise, White Chicken Soup. Fillets of Salmon (Sauce on the dish). Turhot, Lobster Sauce. Oyster Pates. Fillets of Veal with Quenelles, Mushrooms, and Truffles. Mutton Cutlets with Cucumbers. Boiled Turkey and Ham, Oyster Sauce sent separately to he put upon each plate. Saddle of Mutton. Cauliflowers. New Potatoes. Mashed Potatoes. Pheasant (Bread Sauce). Wild Ducks (Lemon-juice and Cayenne in a small jug and saucer). Seakale. German Pudding (Brandy Sauce on the dish). Maraschino Jelly, coloured tops. Pineapple Cream. Mould of Oranges in Jelly. 9130 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 2. For Double Entrees, &c. KX To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. 1 set of calves’ feet. 3 lbs. best part of fillet of veal. 2 small necks of mutton. 1 small ham. 2 baskets of mushrooms. 4 dozen eggs. 2 cucumbers. 10 oz. of isinglass. Carrots (French if possible), turnips, onions, celery, sweet herbs. ^ pint bottle of truffles. 3 „ „ capers. Hervey and Anchovy sauce. Mango pickle. 1 oz. dried cherries. 2 „ sweet almonds. 1 „ bitter do. 2 „ citron. i lb. of preserved pineapple. 14 fine oranges. 12 lemons. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. 5 lbs. of turbot. 2 slices of salmon. 1 large lobster. 3 dozen oysters. Turkey for boiling. 1 pheasant. 2 wild ducks. Caulifiowers. New potatoes. Seakale. 1 pint of single cream. 2 quarts of double cream.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 131 PoTAGE A LA Bkunoise.—{Soup Brunoise.) Boil four quarts of stock No. 1 in a stewpan for two hours, and reduce it to two quarts by boiling it away quickly. Prepare vegetables as follows:—Cut some carrots, turnips, and parsnips into little dice the size of boiled rice; let them lie eight hours in salt and water. Heat four ounces of butter in a stewpan, and put in the vegetables; boil them, stirring all the while, till they begin to take a brownish colour; dry them on a sieve, put them in the pan again, with a pint of stock No. 1, and some rice boiled very tender; there must be a teacupful of the vegetable altogether, and half the quantity of rice; let the stock boil till it is reduced to half a pmt; keep it hot, and add it to the soup the last thing before serving. PoTAGE A LA Reine.—( White Chicken Soup.) Take the breasts of three fowls, without the skin; wrap them separately in a thin slice of bacon, and then in a piece of white paper; put them into a braising-pan, with slices of bacon tmder them, a few pieces of veal, an onion in slices, two carrots sliced, and a very small bunch of herbs; lay some more bacon on the top of the papers, and pour in a teacupful and a half of stock No. 2. Butter another paper, and lay it over all. Cover the pan, and let it stew gently on the hot plate half an hour; then 9—2SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 132 put some hot charcoal on the lid for another half- hour. Take the chicken out of the stock, and set it on a plate to cool. Strain the stock which remained in the hraising-pan through a sieve, and put it into a small stewpan, with two large spoonfuls of fresh crumbs of Trench roll; boil it, mashing all the time W'ith a spoon, till it is the thickness of panada. Mince up the chicken-breasts, and put them in a mortar, with twenty sweet and two hitter almonds, which have been very finely chopped; pound it very fine; then add the panada, and pound again for half an hour; add to it the stock made from the rest of the chickens ; mix it by degrees, till it becomes the thickness of cream ; pass it through a sieve, and put it in the bain-marie. A few minutes before serving up, add a quarter of a pint of cream, and let it warm in the soup. To make the Chicken Stock. Boil the three carcases, without the heads and lungs (saving the livers for pates or any other pur- pose), in four pints and a half of water, with a small onion sliced, a teaspoonful of white sugar, and a little salt; let it boil two hours, and skim it occasion- ally ; pass it through a sieve; if it is hot reduced to three pints, boil it away to that quantity; let it cool, and then skim carefully, and use it to add to the chicken, as before described.133 DINNEES EOK EACH MONTH. Cboqfettes D’HufTRES.—{Oyster Croquets.') For a party of sixteen, eigliteen croquets will be sufficient; they will require three dozen oysters of the size used for sauce, and they must be sent with all their liquor ; take off the beards and hard parts. Put both oysters and juice into a small saucepan; set it on the charcoal stove till the oysters are just set: they must not be hard; then take out the oysters, and add half an ounce of shredded isinglass to the juice, and leave it by the side of the stove whilst you chop the oysters into pieces the size of pepper- corns; simmer the juice till the isinglass is quite dis- solved ; then retuim to it the chopped oysters, add a very little cayenne and salt, and a tablespoonful of thick cream; stir and pour the whole into a soup plate; put it in a cold place. Make a paste as follows :—Dry some flour before the fire; take four ounces of bntter; rub it into as much flour as it will take up, and add as much water as will make a thick paste; knead it well; roll it out as thin as possible without breaking it into holes: it should be no thicker than a sheet of papei; leave it half an hour in a cool place. When the oysters have become a stiff jelly, cut it with a knife into eighteen squares; place each piece ^ piece of the rolled-out paste, cut large enough to cover it all over. Bring up the edges of the paste and fasten them, so as to make a completeSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 134 case without any opening; double the paste as little as you can help; give each a gentle roll on the paste-hoard to make it perfectly round: the size should be that of a small egg. Crush a tablespoonful of vermicelli to lengths of half an inch, mix it with bread-crumbs, cover the croquets well with yelk of egg, and lay the crumbs on thickly. Set them aside till a quarter of an hour before beginning to send up the dinner; then put a pound and a half of very fresh lard into a shallow stewpan; set it on a char- coal fire, let it boil: you will know when it is ready by dipping a finger into water, and letting the drop from it just touch the lard; if it flies off with a fizz the lard is hot enough. Drop the croquets carefully in one by one, and keep turning them gently with a spoon; take each out as it becomes a nice pale yellow brown, and set them in the screen as close as may he to the fire till wanted. Wash and dry parsley: fi.y in the same lard till it is crisp, and garnish the croquets with it. Remarks.—Good croquets should be liquid inside when cut into; the walls should be thin and crisp, and the contents should have a distinct flavour of their material. The most common fault is to he solid, which is the consequence of using flour or bread-crumbs, or not having enough of the juice to make a jelly. Cooks put in flour or crumbs, because the mass is easier to handle. The over thickness of the walls proceeds from want of dexterity to roll the paste thin enough, and manage the closing without doubling. You can only recommend your cook to practise this with care. .... The want of taste proceeds from having dissolved the isinglassDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 135 in water,instead of in thejuice; there is so little space for material that the latter will not bear diluting. As this dish can be made as well in a small quantity, and is by no means costly, it will be well to order it for private use, till a young cook is perfect. If she is obliged to fry them on an open fire, she must be cautious not to set the chimney on fire. Filets de Veau piques aux CuAMPiaNONs. (Fillets of Veal with Mushrooms and Quenelles.') Take four pounds of the whitest part of fillet of veal; cut it into pieces four inches long, two and a half niches wide, and rather less than an inch thick; beat them well: there must he eighteen pieces. Round off the corners of the pieces and lard them. Two hours and a half before dinner-time cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of the best fat bacon, two bay-leaves, a slice of carrot, a slice of onion, and add half a teacupful of stock No. 2. Lay in the fillets on the bacon, side by side; they may just touch; hut he careful not to let them lie one upon another. Butter a piece of writing paper, and lay it on the top of the larding without pressing. Place the stewpan on the hot plate, and leave it without a lid to simmer gently for two hours. Raise the paper every quarter of an hour, and see that the stock is not wasting too fast; if that is the case, add a spoonful more stock at a time, when wanted: if it is simmering at the proper heat it will not waste so as to require more moisture; too much would spoil it. When the time comes to serve, place the fillets on a sieve, heat aSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS POR 136 salamander, and brown the heads only of the lardlngs, till they are a pale yellow; arrange a bed of prepared rice round the entree dish: there must be no rice in the middle ; set the fillets neatly in a circle, nine in each dish. Take half a pint of bechamelle and half a pint of white sauce, warm them together, fill up the middle with quenelles cut into dice an inch in size, and mushrooms; sprinkle the top with truffles; cut them, if they are too large, to the size of the quenelles. To prepare the Mushrooms. Peel and trim the mushrooms the day before, and put them in water with a tablespoonful of lemon- juice to remain all night; put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter and half a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice; let them stand on the hot plate till they are tender: it may require two hours, but a little more or less ; take the mushrooms out of the butter, put them into a bain-marie pot, and just cover them with a little stock No. 2, and leave them in the bain-marie till wanted. Remarks.—The fillets must look moist and almost white, with yellow tops of the larding. The common fault is for them to turn dark-coloured, which would prove that they had been on too hot a part of the hot plate, and not sufficiently Avatched to see that they were not eooking too fast, and the moisture wasting away. This error will also harden them, which will entirely spoil the entree. Many cooks fill up the centre of the dish with rice before the mushrooms; this saves material, but spoils the dish.137 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. It will be prudent not to trouble a young cook with the work of larding; it wants a good deal of practice, and even when learned, takes up too much time: the poulterer may be ordered to call for the fillets, when they are beaten and trimmed; he will do it better. When a cook wants to learn larding, she must have a lesson fi’om a person whose business it is, as the art cannot well be acquired from description. He will inform her of the right sort of bacon to use; common bacon being of no use; it is sure to fail, and be a disappointment. COTELETTES DE MoUTON AUX CONCOMBEES. (^Mutton Cutlets with Cucumbers.') Take two necks of small mutton, the bones of which are cut the proper length: cut the cutlets with a hone in each, beat each separately, then thin the meat off each side, removing all the fat. Scrape the ends of the bones—there must he an inch and a half of the scraped bone; lay them in a plate, and leave them in a cool place to get firm after being worked. Previously to finishing them, have bread-crumbs ready which have been passed through a wire sieve, and left for several hours to dry. Mix with the crumbs, when you use them, a little white pepper, some salt, and a little parsley chopped very fine. Egg the cutlets, and cover them with the crumbs, and fiy them in fresh butter; take care they are a pale yellow brown.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 138 To prepare the Cucumbers. Have two cucumbers of moderate size, peel them, cut them down the middle into two lengths, cut each of these into pieces three inches long, pare off the edges and round the ends. Take out the seeds, lay the pieces in salt and water for two hours, put them on a sieve to dry. When dry, put them into a preserving jar with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of white sugar; set the jar in a cool oven for about an hour; watch carefully that they are not turning yellow; if they are, take them out. Pour off the juice, and add a teasjDoonful more of white sugar and a teaspoonful of vinegar; let the jar stand in the screen an hour or two, and half an hour be- fore serving set it in the bain-marie: the colour should be bright green. Dish up the cutlets by making a bed of pre^^ared rice round the outer part of the dish; set the cutlets neatly on it, the ends being all inwards; place the cucumber in the middle; have the sauce ready and pour it in the dish. If the cucumbers do not look a sufficiently bright green, strew over the top a little green sugar. (For directions to make green sugar, see Miscellaneous Receipts.) Some cooks make little frills of paper for the ends of the cutlets, but they are rather old- fashioned.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 139 To mahe the Sauce. Put a pint of stock No. 1 in a stewpan; boil it away to half a pint; then put it in a bain-marie pot, and add two tablespoonfuls of good glaze, one of Harvey sauce, one of Worcester sauce, and half a teaspoonful of mango pickle. Set it in the bain- marie till wanted. Dinde.—{Turkey plain boiled with Oyster Sauce.) Take a pint of the bechamelle sauce, heat it, and add a teacupful of hot single cream; pour it over the turkey. Serve in a sauce tureen oyster sauce, as follows:— Take a pint of bechamelle, add to it a teacupful of hot cream; stew the oysters, after removing the hard parts and beards, for five minutes in their own liquor, with a blade of mace and cayenne; add the oysters to the bechamelle, not using the liquor they have been stewed in. It will be observed that this differs from oyster sauce for fish which will be afterwards described. PoTTDiNa A l’Allemande. {German Pudding.) Pare off the crust from three French rolls, pour over the crumb as much boiling cream as will cover them.140 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR When they are fully soaked, take them from the cream and let them cool. Beat three ounces of butter to a cream; beat the yelks of four eggs, or four and a half if they are not very large; beat also separately the whites of three. Mix the creamed butter and the yelks of eggs, together with three ounces of dried cherries, three-quarters of an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, and four large tablespoonfuls of white powdered sugar; beat these for a quarter of an hour, then add the whites of three eggs, and then the soaked bread; mix the bread well in, and beat it for another quarter of an hour. Butter a piece of white paper very thickly; line the mould with the paper: it must be a plain round or oval shape; have ready six ounces of ratafia buscuits which have been browned in the oven and bruised fine; spread the ratafia crumbs over the inside of the buttered paper, press them back evenly into the butter; then put in the pudding gently, so as not to move the crumbs. Put it into a steamer for one hour, hlake a sauce thus : put three ounces of butter into a small stewpan, and beat it to a cream whilst it is warming; add at the same time three ounces of sugar finely pounded and sifted. When the butter and sugar are well beaten together, moisten a small teaspoonful of best arrowroot in a tablespoonful of sherry; add it to the butter and let it just thicken on the stove. Then throw in a wine- glassful of sherry; be very careful to stir withoutDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 141 ceasing, and see that the arrowroot is not in lumps; pour the sauce over the pudding: the sauce must be made the very last minute. Remahks.—This pudding is not described exactly in any English cooking-books. There is no fear of failure if all the directions are attended to. The cook must be particiRarly charged to steam, and not to boil it. Gelee au Marasquin.—{Maraschino Jelly.) Make the jelly as for dinner No. 1, but when well cleared, put to it, instead of a pint of sherry, only half a pint, and half a pint of maraschino; put a tea- cupful while hot, after being thus finished, into a basin, and put into it as many drops of prepared cochineal, as will make it a fine red colour; have the moulds by you dipped in water, and have also, ready blanched, half an ounce of pistachio nuts chopped very fine; put half a teaspoonful in every other compartment of the top of the mould; put a teaspoonful of the plain jelly without colour into each top that has the pistachio nut, and a teaspoonful of the pink jelly into each of the others: they must be very carefully filled, so that the jelly does not run from one to the other. Set the mould in a cool place, but not on ice, till the tops are set, then fill up with the jelly, which has been standing covered up whilst you filled the tops : it will be quite hot enough, and on no account must be warmed again, for it spoils the jelly to re-warm it; and if put in too hot, it will melt the tops, andSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 142 they will run into the mould and spoil its appear- ance. Place the mould in a cool place, hut not on ice, till two hours before serving. This jelly may be flavoured with noyau, or any liquem’, instead of maraschino; or it may be flavoured with a double quantity of maraschino, leaving out the wine. Creme d’Ananas.—{Pineapple Cream.') Put three quarters of an ounce of isinglass into a teacup, and fill it two thirds up with milk quite hot, but not boiling. Let the milk stand till cool, and strain it; add to it three pints of the best double cream, with two ounces of finely pounded white sugar; have half a pound of preserved pineapple ready; be careful that it has not fermented; cut the pineapple in small pieces, either strips half an inch long, or square. Put it into the cream with the syrup: the sweetness must be judged of by trial, as the strength of the syrup varies; add sugar if required. ^V^hip it well with a whisk, till it is all froth; let it stand in a cool place for half-an-hour; then press it into the mould, which must be wetted, with a spoon; let it remain in a cool place, and set it on ice only one hour before serving. This quantity is meant for the last fashion of moulds, which are smaller than were made a few years ago. They are quite sufficient for double entre- mets, but if large moulds are used, of course the143 DINNEES EOR EACH MONTH. quantity must be increased; it will not do to attempt to make tbe moulds take less by not quite filling them. Chartreuse d’Oranges. {]\£ould of Oranges in Jelly.') Make the jelly as directed for dinner No. 1; two- thirds of the quantity will be sufficient; it may have either brandy or noyau to flavour it in the same pro- portion. Have fourteen fine oranges, peel them, re- move with great care all the white rind, divide them into quarters, and remove all the white and the seeds. Let them lie half an hour in a preserving jar, with a glass of brandy poured over them; pour out the brandy, and put it again on the top twice, that all may be wetted; then add what remains of the brandy to the jelly; place the pieces of orange neatly in the mould after wetting it; when a quarter full, pour in some jelly just to the top of the orange; let it stand till the jelly is set; then put in some more orange, and fill the mould: do not heat the jelly a second time. Set the mould on ice only two hours before serving. There may be more or fewer oranges according to fancy, but three for each mould will be sufficient. The same may be done with Tangerine oranges, not put in so close : they are very nice, but expensive.144 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR Table Set for 14 or 16.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 145 Refeeences to the a Design in silver or ormolu. bb Baskets of plants—pinks, hyacinths, or heaths, surrounded by irhite primulas. ec Assiettes montdes; two or three heights holding bonbons. dd Torchettes. PRECEDING Diagram. ee Groups of fruit—oranges, grapes, American apples, Alberts. ff Sponge cakes ornamented. gg Dried apricots, not candied; pears the same. hh Tangerine oranges, lady apples. iiii Two fruits in syrup, orange rings, and candied ginger. Directions ani> Remarks.—This arrangement supposes the possession of some work of art in silver, ormolu, or china, as well as a suspended lamp. The centre design should be rather high: sufficiently so, at least, to surmount the other pieces of the service, as a composition falling in the middle has an uncomfortable effect, Objects, though beautiful in themselves, had better not be intro- duced when the general effect is sacrificed by their presence. The flowers, or rather plants, are managed differently in this dessert to any we have yet proposed. There should be two baskets, or rather circles, of wicker-work (for they do not want bottoms) ten or eleven inches in diameter, five inches high, and very little more spread at top than at the bottom. They may be painted white, with gold edges at top and bottom, or be gilded all over. A tray of tin must just fit in each. By this means, when the plants are taken out of the pots, there will be good room for them without their standing above the sides of the basket. The white primulas must be of equal height, and have good bloom: four will be enough for each basket, or even three might do. Arrange the outside leaves to lie prettily over the edge of the baskets. There are several other flowers that suit for this arrangement, but they must all be low in growth. The two large groups of fruit are intended to be high; the groundwork of one being apples, of the other oranges, filled up with moss; the bunches of grapes should be tied together over the moss, and the summit grouped up with filberts; a lady apple or two, or Tangerine orange, may be inserted to fill up spaces. The four smaller dishes in this dessert may be left out with advantage. 10 oranges. 18 American apples, or 5 com- mon, and 5 Newtown pippins. 1 lb. of filberts. 2 ornamented sponge cakes of middling height. 2 lbs. of dried apricots. 2 lbs. „ pears. 1 lb. „ orange rings. 1 lb. candied ginger. 9 Tangerine oranges. 9 lady apples. 6 or 8 low white primulas. 4 pink hyacinths, or 2 pink heaths, bonbons, stamped papers. 2 lbs. preserved fruits in syrup* 10146 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Df ginnuii, So. 3. (FOK 14 or 16 PERSONS.)DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 147 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 3. Dinner of the of March, at a Quarter past Seven. Julienne Soup. Oyster Soup. Fillets of Mackerel (Sauce on the dish). Boiled Salmon, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Croquets of Rabbit. Sweetbreads larded, Tomato Sauce. Mutton Cutlets, with Asparagus Heads. Fowls. Ham. Sauce, in a tureen, to be handed. Fore-quarter of Lamb, Mint Sauce. Cauliflowers. New Potatoes. Salad. Ducklings. Larded Capon. Seakale. Orange Jelly. Genoese Cakes. Nougat. Plombiiire. 10—2148 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOE PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 3. Eor Double Entrees, &c. To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 ,, knuckle of veal. 3 „ fat bacon. 4 j, lean ham. 1 set of calves’ feet. 2 small necks of mutton. 1 small ham. 1 rabbit. 4 dozen eggs. French carrots, onions, celery sweet herbs. ^ lb. of isinglass. I pint bottle of truffles. ^ pint bottle of capers. Pint bottle of tomato sauce. Anchovy sauce. Harvey sauce. Mango pickle. Two sticks of vanille, or a bottle of essence. 1 Seville orange. 12 sweet oranges. 8 lemons. To be in the Kitchen the 2 very fine calves’ sweetbreads. Saddle of mutton. 4 fine mackerel. 5 lbs. of salmon. 1 large lobster. 4 dozen oysters. 2 fowls for boiling. 2 ducklings. Morning of the Dinner. 1 capon to be larded. 1 pint of single cream (for soup and sauces). 2 quarts of double cream (for the nougat). Cauliflowers. New potatoes. Seakale.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 149 PoTAGE A LA Julienne.—{Julienne Soup.) Make tlie soup the same as the vegetable soup at page 111. The difference is in the vegetables; they must consist of young French carrots, young white ends of onions, some pieces of celery, lettuce, and sorrel, all in equal quantities, and cut to nearly equal sizes. The soiTel and lettuce must be boiled sepa- I’ately, and not more than five minutes, so as not to change their colour. These vegetables must all be glazed in the same way as directed at page 112, but the sorrel and lettuce must be put in when the rest are nearly done, and watched that they do not turn yellow; take them out instantly if they show signs of doing so. PoTAGE Aux Huitees.—{Oyster Soup.) Take four dozen oysters, cut off the beards and hard parts; put the hard parts in a mortar and pound them as small as possible; add the yolks of ten hard fi'iid pound all together: add to it the liquor from the oysters, and mix it well. Take two quarts of stock No. 2, put it in a stewpan with the eggs and other things which have been pounded; simmer it gently for half-an-hour, and strain it: then add the oysters, and simmer it, stirring for five minutes. Have ready the yolks of six raw eggs, very well beaten, add them gently to the soup, stirring all the time one waySPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 150 round, till it becomes as thick as cream, and smooth; it must simmer very gently whilst thickening, but not boil; the last moment before serving, put in a teacupful of boiling cream; serve it with a French roll moisteued'in the soup. Filets des Maqueeeaux A la Ravigote, {Fillets of Mackerel.) Split three fine mackerel having soft roes; take away the hones, cut away the heads and the fiaps and fins; wipe them very carefully with a dry cloth : cover the bottom of a stewpan with buttered paper; place in the six pieces of mackerel; add as much stock No. 1 as will half cover them; put another buttered paper on the top: let them simmer very gently on the hot plate or stove without a lid ; take away the stock, and leave the fish covered to keep warm and moist. Prepare a ravigote as follows:—Take four water- cresses, three sprays of fresh tarragon, and the same of chervil, three leaves of sorrel, two green leaves of celery, two bay leaves, and a sprig of parsley; pour over them half-a-pint of boiling water, and let them infuse for three-quarters of an hour; then boil away the water to half its quantity after taking out the vegetables, which are not used further. Put the stock from the fish into a small stew-pan with the infusion of the vegetables ; add a teacupful of stockDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 151 No. 2, and if it makes together more than half-a-pint, reduce it by boiling till it is that quantity; then beat an ounce of butter while melting to a cream; add it to the sauce;, simmer it for a few minutes, add a tea- spoonful of finely-chopped fennel, and the roes of the fish cut into pieces the size of a small nut; put the whole in a bain-marie pot, and just before serving, stir in a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Pour the sauce over the fish when it is served. Saumon, Sauce de Homakd.—{Boiled Salmon.) Is better boiled with some scraped horseradish in the water. Lobster Sauce.—(Seepage 113.) Croquettes de Lapereau.—{Croquets of Rabhit) Take some cooked rabbit, remove all skin, chop it into little dice rather smaller than peas; do the same with some ham fat or cooked bacon; do the same with two or three truffles: there must be a large teacupful, half of it rabbit, a quarter ham, and a quarter truffles. Before chopping the truffles, put a little butter in a saucepan, and simmer them in it for ten minutes, taking care to stir continually; lay them to drain. Take a pint of good stock and a spoonful of glaze;SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOE 152 boil them down to a quarter of a pint; throw in the pieces of rabbit and other things, stir it all well, and pour it into a soup plate and put it in a cold place. When it is a strong jelly, cut it with a knife into eighteen pieces and cover each with paste, and finish them as directed at page 134. Great care must be always taken to make the pastry walls thin, and let the frying be a very pale colour. Mushrooms may be used when truffles are not at hand. These croquets may be made of any sort of meat, chicken, game, or poultry of any kind; they are insipid without the ham or bacon : care must be taken that the stock is a very strong jelly. They may also be made without the walls of paste, by covering them with yolk of egg and then with bread crumbs; this must be done twice over, and great care must be taken to turn them as soon as the first side gets set, or else the jelly will be apt to melt before the outside is crisp enough to hold it. A few remarks about the use of bread crumbs for frying will be appropriate here. It was mentioned at page 99 that they should be prejDared the day before the dinner, but that referred chiefly to frying fish or cutlets, or anything that requires to be fried for a long time; for those purposes the best plan is to grate stale bread, pass the crumbs through a wire sieve, and dry them in a screen for six hours; after that they may be put away in paper in a very dryDINNEKS FOR EACH MONTH. 153 plac6j and would be better for use after having been . kept several days. It would not be safe, however, to use for croquets crumbs that have been made only the day before, as there would be a danger that the walls might give way and the contents escape. For croquets, fritters, or anything that has to be fried very lightly, the following plan is preferable:—Pull some dry crumb of bread, or roll, into pieces, lay them on paper, and leave them in a cool oven till they are quite crisp, and have just begun to turn a little yellow; crush them with a rolling-pin, and pass the crumbs tlu'ough a wire sieve. The yelk of egg must be covered more thickly with crumbs done this way than with those merely dried, because they will not swell so much. Ris DE Veau a la Sauce Tomate. (^Sweetbreads Larded, Tomato Sauce.) Have two fine veal sweetbreads, which the butchers call heart-sweetbreads; trim all skin and cartilage very carefully away. Lay them in cold water for an hour; change the water once during the time; if they are not plump and white at the end of the hour, change the water and leave them another hour. Lard them, or send them to be larded. Take a braising-pan large enough to hold the sweetbreads side by side; lay two slices of bacon at the bottom and some pieces of veal. Lay the sweetbreads in the154 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR pan, just touching but not pressing on each other; fill up with pieces of bacon between the sides of the pan • and the sweetbreads. Pour in very good stock just high enough not to touch the larding, which must stand up free. Butter a piece of paper, and lay it lightly on the top of the larding. Let it simmer very gently on the hot plate, without a lid, for one hour. Look at it occasionally to see that the stock does not waste, and add a little if it does. Then take away the paper, put on the lid, leave the pan on the hot plate and cover the lid with red hot charcoal; renew the charcoal as it cools, for about three quarters of an hour; but the lid must be taken off now and then during the last half of the time, to see that the larding is not turning dark or the stock wasting, as the sweetbreads must not get dry ; when the larding shows the smallest sign of going to turn yellow, they are done; set the pan in a cool place on the stove till about time to serve: the above braising should not be done long before serving. To serve, lay the sweetbreads on the dish, have a salamander hot and colour the tops of the larding the tint of pale barley sugar; then put some clear, very pale glaze gently on, so as not to hide the larding. Warm a bottleful of preserved tomato sauce : if it is too thick add to it a little stock No. 2, and pour it on the dish. Remarks.—This is one of the most difficult things for a beginner to do well, as it not only requires attention and judgment, but also an acquaintance with what the appearance is which ought to be155 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. aimed at. The whole dish must look moist, the sweetbreads nearly white, and the larding transparent and standing up distinct and firm almost like glass, white at the bottom and pale yellow at the top. The directions here given cannot fail to ensure success, if they are only followed with sufilcient attention. It will he well to copy the receipt in a large, plain hand, and beg the cook to have it by her all the time, and follow it word by word, not trusting to a general understanding of what is to be done—at least, not till she has had much practice. This recommendation need not he repeated for other receipts, as it will more or less apply to all, and is of the greatest importance. Experienced cooks do not use the salamander, hut let the colouring of the larding take place in the braising. This requires very great care and practice to know when the time approaches for the colouring, to prevent its being done too much: a few minutes would spoil the whole; at first, therefore, it is safer to stop the braising before the colouring begins, and then use the salamander. Avery common negligence among cooks is that of not removing all the skin and tough pieces which seem to tie the body of the sweetbreads together. The cook should be warned against this neglect, for notliing is so disagreeable as having those tough pieces in the plate: the fault is so common, that many people refuse the entree on that aceount. It will be quite necessary, with a young cook,to send the sweetbreads to the poulterers to be larded, as it is even more difidcult to do than larding veal or beef. COTELETTES DE MOUTON ATJX PoiNTES d’AsPERGES. {Mutton Cutlets with Asparagus Heads.) The cutlets must be prepared, braised aud served, as directed on p. 119 ; they must be glazed lightly, and boiled asparagus heads put in the middle of the dish: bdchamelle sauce in the dish instead of tomato. Gelee d’Orange.—{Orange Jelly.) Take a Seville orange, rub a lump of loaf sugar on the rind; as the essence of orange-peel gets on theSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 156 sugar, scrape it off with a knife, and rub again till the outside of the orange is all taken off by the sugar. Do a lemon in the same way. Have twelve fine sweet oranges, rub off all the peel upon sugar in the same way; then cut the oranges in halves; scoup out all the juice and pulp with a silver spoon into a basin; take out the seeds as they fall in, to prevent their giving a bitter taste. Add the juice of the Seville orange and the lemon, taking out the seeds, pass it all through a sieve, and press the pulp to get all the juic6 out. Have three pints of the calves’ feet stock ready. Put ten ounces of sugar into a small stewpan with a few spoonfuls of the stock; set it on to boil ten minutes, stirring very carefully; into another stewpan put six ounces of isinglass, put into it half- a-pint of the stock, set that on the hot plate, heat it without letting it boil, stirring all the time, till the isinglass is dissolved. The remainder of the stock must be just warmed in a basin; add to it the sugar, the isinglass, and when just cool enough to be going to set, put in the juice of the oranges, and stir it gently. Put the mould in cold water, and set it on ice only'two hours before serving. Orange jelly is not intended to be clear. It is of consequence to remember never to let isinglass boil, as so high a temperature destroys the glutinous property, and the material is simply wasted. In the same way extreme cold prevents the jelly stiffening, for which reason observe strictly157 DINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. tlie direction not to put it for too long on ice. Judgment should be used as to the quantity of sugar, which must he added to or reduced in proportion as the oranges are sweet or sour. » Gateatjx Genoises.—{Genoese Cakes.) Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, add to it half-a-pound of powdered sugar, the yelks of four eggs beaten a quarter of an hour; then add half a pound of finest flour, and beat another quarter of an hour; add a little salt and a small glass of brandy, beat again a whole hour; as soon as beaten, put it into a baking tin lined with buttered paper; turn up the edges of the paper above the edge of the tin, see that it is sufficiently buttered; the cake must be put in half an inch thick; bake it in a moderate oven and watch that it does not burn; it must be a light colour; take it out of the tin and put it directly in a cool place. When quite cold, cut it with cutters to any shape you like, either like leaves, or rings, or oblongs, all alike sufficient for a dish. Have some icing sugar, beat up the white of an egg to froth, mix it up with two ounces of the sugar; roll up a piece of strong white paper to the shape that grocers make up pounds of moist sugar; there must be a hole at the narrow end the size of a quill: put in the sugar and squeeze out either little dx’ops or a long thread in a pattern on the cake, as you fancy. Peel158 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR an ounce of pistachio nuts by throwing them into boiling water for a few minutes; take off the skins and put them into cold water, wipe them dry and chop them fine; lay a little of the sugar and egg very thin in any pattern you like, between the icing, and lay on the pistachio nuts; let the icing dry in a screen or before the fire; serve the cakes on a dish piled up in a pyramid, first placing a paper on the dish, cut at the edges into a fringe. Rejukks.—The icing sugar is to be bought at any confec- tioner’s; it is not equally good at all places, therefore care should be taken to go to a good shop. If pink sugar is wanted, a few drops of cochineal colouring, also to be bought, may be added. The icing is not at all difficult to do, and may be used for orna- menting charlottes or gateaux of any kind. Nougat, Ck£me A la Vanille. Blanch a pound of sweet almonds in hot water, throw them as fast as they have the skins removed into cold water, dry them, and cut them into long flakes, each almond making six or eight; put them on a tin into a slow oven, watch them, and as soon as they turn yellow, withdraw them; keep them warm whilst you put six ounces of powdered sugar well dried, into a stew-pan; set it on a quick fire, and stir it hard with a wooden spoon; wliilst it melts let it begin to turn yellow without browning. Every now and then put a little on a plate, draw it uj3 with a spoon, and see if it hardens into threads; theDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 159 instant it begins to do so throw in quickly the hot almondsj and work them into the sugar by stirring forcibly; then have a tin or cop^^er mould ready buttered, and pour in the nougat hot. Take a whole lemon and press the nougat all round the sides in equal thickness before it gets cold. Leave it to harden, and lift the mould off, taking care not to break it. Before the nougat is cold, cut a round circle with a sharp knife on the top, which will be separate when turned out. There is another way: put the almonds without browning them, into a stewpan with the sugar, and when the sugar begins to become barley sugar, as known by trymg it with a spoon, then throw in a tablespoonful of water, and work it about well with the wooden spoon; it may be put into a mould of any shape, but it is the fashion now to have them very high. This receipt has been given because nougats being extremely used at present, those who are not within reach of a good confectioner may like to know how to make it, and no doubt may succeed very well, if not quite at first, with a little practice. Confectioners vary in the way of producing a nougat, some make it hard and dark-coloured, some make it softer, and some ornament it with various sugar ornaments : the plain moderately coloured surface is the best. The nougat may be made the day before the dinner. Tor an inexperienced cook, whose whole attention has to be concentrated on her work for two whole160 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR clays, it is scarcely worth while to add such an anxiety. When a confectioner is at hand, there may he some trifling saving in making such things at home, but should the attempt cause other things to be neglected, it might turn out a very poor economy. Whether the nougat is made at home or not, it must be filled a short time before its turn comes to appear at table, and must be done as follows: take off the round piece, cut out at the top, and put the cream through the hole. If the nougat is the size of a large cake, it will require a quart of the best double cream. Put the cream in a china bowl with a quarter of a pound of finely pounded sugar. Take half a stick of Vanilla, and simmer it for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time in half a teacupful of new milk ; when cold strain it, and pour the milk into the cream ; whip it with a whisk till it is a strong froth, never leaving off; when it is froth put it on a hair sieve, which is covered with a piece of muslin, and set it in a cool place to drain till wanted to fill the nougat. If the weather is very hot the cream may be put on ice for not more than ten minutes, but it is better without. It is impossible to say how long it will take to whip, as it depends on the Aveather: it may require either ten minutes or half an hour. Plombi^res, Nesselrode puddings, and biscuits glaces of all kinds, cannot be well made at any house, where a very first-rate cook is not kej)t. AllDIXXEES FOR EACH MONTH. 161 attempts at such things will end in disappointment; they are to be had of any confectioner, but are only good at some places. Some are included in the cartes to suggest that they are suitable to the dinners, but they can be left out, and the dinners will be sufficiently creditable, if well done, without them. A good hot pudding is preferable in the winter months, while at other seasons a well-made tart is always an acceptable substitute. !For example:— In the latter end of April, tart of green goose- berries. In May, tart of green apricots. In June, tart of raspberry mixed with currants. In July, tart of cherries. In August, tart of apricots. In September, tarts of greengages, peaches, plums, or apples. 11162 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR163 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. Eeference3 to the precedinq Diagram. « Centre epergne ivltli lights, plants, yellow azalea surrounded by Van- tliol tulips. bi Figm-es in biscuit china not less than a foot high. c Fruit—^grapes, and American apples. e Fruit—grapes, and pineapple. dd Macaroons, sponge biscuits. ee Oranges, half preserved. ff Dried fruits piled up, a few bonbons. gg Dried cherries, candled ginger. hh Fruits in syrup. Directions and Remarks for Dessert, No. 3.—The glass of the epergne will have to be arranged, in this dessert, with some attention. It is proposed to use plants, as in the preceding; but the azalea must be low and full of bloom, or it will have no effect. Could no effective plant be procured, it would be better to substitute a white heath, or white azalea, or two or three white hyacinths. It will require the tulips to be well-grown, three in each pot, all the same height ; a good deal of the mould must be taken away to get them low enough. They will look best if dark ones are together on one side, next them some bright scarlet, and shaded on to quite light on the opposite side. Four pots of three blooms each will do—but six would be better. A few ferns might hang over the sides of the glass; but not the maidenhair: though it would look lovely at first, even with water in the glass it will not last through the dinner. In arranging the two chief groups of fruits, it is here intended to recommend mounted shallow oval dishes ; the fruit to be laid rather carelessly on them—not piled up symmetrically. If there are two sorts of grapes, the purple look best, with pale- coloured American apples, and the white with the pine; lay the pine a little inclined on one side, and balance the composition by a cut branch of the vine with some tendrils. It would be admis- sible at this season to use an artificial branch and leaves; and a few smaller ones might be arranged among the bunches of grapes, and let to fall over the sides of the dish. They are to be had so well made that the picture would be pleasing. Remember that these groups are not to look formal. Four of the dishes in this dessert may be omitted, and the table will look quite as well. We are in March, getting to a season when the table is not wanted to look crowded. Though there are lights provided for the centre of the table, they will not supersede the addition of a suspended lamp, which is always effective. 4 lbs. of grapes. [apples. 8 light coloured American 1 pineapple, or melon. Artificial vine leaves, with short stem and tendrils. 12 sponge biscuits. 1 lb. macaroons. 1 lb. dried cherries, lib. candied ginger. 2 lbs. of fruits in syrup. 11—2SPECIAL INSTRUCTIOES EOE 164 (Knrte flf ga, (for 14 OR 16 PERSONS.)165 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 4. Dinner of the of April, at a Quarter past Seven. —*04 Asparagus Soup. Clear Soup, with Vermicelli. Salmon Cutlets (Sauce on the dish). Turbot, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Cucumber. Small Pates. Stewed Pigeons. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers. Galantine of Veal. Saddle of Mutton. Cauliflowers. New Potatoes. Mashed Potatoes. Guinea-fowl. Leveret. Asparagus. Cake with Pineapple Cream. Jelly with Fruits. Meringues with Vanilla Cream. Biscuits Glaces of Chocolate.166 SrECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 4. To te in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. grayy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. 1 set of calves’ feet. 2 necks of lamb. 1 breast of veal. 4 dozen eggs. 150 heads of asparagus. French carrots, celery, onions, sweet herbs, &c. Sugar and spice. 1 basket of mushrooms. 2 large cucumbers. ^ lb. of isinglass. A packet of Brown and Poison’s corn flour. ^ pint bottle of truffles. J pint bottle of capers. Harvey and Anchovy sauces. Mango pickle. 1 bottle of best preserved fruit. lb. of pineapple preserve. 1 stick of varicelle, or essence. 10 lemons. Vermicelli. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Saddle of Mutton. 5 lbs. of Turbot. 3 slices of salmon. 1 lobster. 1 lb. of Cambridge sausages. 8 young pigeons. 2 fowls for boiling. A young leveret. 1 capon or poulard. Guinea-fowl. Cauliflower. 100 asparagus. 1 pint of single cream. 3 pints of double cream.167 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. PoTAGE d’Asperges.—{Asparagus Soup.) Take one hundred and fifty heads of asparagus, cut off the tops of twenty-five: they must be only the ends, and not longer than half an inch; boil the rest; cut off all the tender portions, and rub them through a tammy sieve; add only a litttle salt to season: warm two quarts of stock No. 2, rub two ounces of butter in two ounces of flour and add it to the stock; then mix in the asparagus pulp and a teaspoonful of white sugar ; boil it a quarter of an hour; stirring in gently a quarter of a pint of cream: the tops, boiled separately, must be throv/n in when serving. There must be nothing used to flavour it but the asparagus. Consomme a la Veemicelle. ( Clear Soup with Vermicelli.) Put into a stewpan three quarts of stock, about the same strength as stock No. 1; let it boil quickly an hour and a half, when it will be quite clear and reduced to two quarts; the lid must be set on one side the last half of the time. Boil a teacupful of raw vermicelli in clear stock, or water, put it in a sieve to drain, and add it to the soup the last thing before serving.168 SPECIAL IXSTEUCTIOXS FOR Escalopes de Salmon A l’Espagnole. (^Salmon Cutlets.') Take three slices of salmon, divide them, after skinning, into pieces the size of a small veal cutlet. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter, heat it whilst melting, then put in the pieces side by side; powder them with salt and pepper, and let them simmer half an hour. Reduce a pint of stock No. 2 to one half by boiling, put it to the fish, and let it simmer again half an hour. Take out the stock. Rub a tea- spoonful of flour in one ounce of butter, mix it with the stock and boil, stirring without ceasing for ten minutes. Skim off the butter; add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a little pinch of nutmeg, cayenne and salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; pour the sauce on the scallops. Remarks.—This is an excellent dish, but it requires to be done on a moderate stove or hot-plate, and to have very great attention that it may not to he allowed to burn at any part of the process. The method differs from that of dressed soles and salmon, and it will be worth while to tell a young cook not to fancy that one way would be as good as another; and she is not to suppose that the order to use or to leave out a paper, and other trifles, has not a meaning; for unless these receipts are followed with the paper in hand, and strictly adhered to, there will be no chance of success.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 169 Petits Pates A la BouRaEOiSE.—{Small Pdtis.') Prepare some puff paste as at page 115. Prepare for the contents of the pates as follows. Have half a pound of best pork sausages (if they are not at handj mince up boiled bacon fat); soalc the crumb of two French rolls in stock Ho. 1, and add some salt and pepper, and a very little nutmeg; add a table- spoonful of chopped truffles; put it in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of stock, and one of good glaze, a tablespoonful of cream, and the yelk of one egg; simmer it for five minutes, stirring carefully; set it on a plate to get cold. When the paste has been left long enough to be cold, roll it out very thin, but not so thin as to endanger its breaking; then cut it with a cutter into rounds two inches across, and lay a piece of the pre- pared meat the size of a walnut in the middle of each; damp the edges of the paste and lay another round on the top, press it on, leaving the middle of the top nicely raised. Put yelk of egg on the middle, and set the patds in a moderate oven: they must be baked the last thing before serving, and they require extreme care in watching whilst in the oven, as they may be spoiled in one minute; they must look a very pale colour and the egged part a bright yellow.170 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Pigeons A la Pebigueux.—{Stewed Pigeons.) Take eight young pigeons, cut off the claws and ends of the wings; dress them nicely in a close shape. Place slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, lay in the pigeons side by side, all with their breasts uppermost. Add one sliced carrot, one onion with a clove stuck in it, a teaspoonful of sugar and a very small bunch of herbs. Pour in half a pint of stock No. 1, cover the pigeons with some more bacon and a buttered paper; let them simmer gently for one hour. Just before serving make a sauce as follows: cut truffles into little dice rather larger than a pea; of these there must be a small teacupful; put them into a small pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and simmer them for five minutes; add the stock from the pigeons, and if it makes more than half a pint boil it away to that quantity; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, cayenne and two tablespoonfuls of port, or white wine. Serve with the breasts uppermost, and lay a little glaze on each; pour the sauce into the dishes: this is for the two entrees, four pigeons in each dish. Galantine de Veau.—(^Galantine of Veal.) Have a fine breast of veal, take the meat from the bones, and trim the edges neatly all round. Have ready a sufflcient number of slices of best ham, fat and lean together, to cover the surface of the veal.DINNEES EOE EACH MOjSITH. 171 Previously to doing tliis, make half a pound of force- meatj as follows: chop some ready cooked veal and ham, fat and lean together, into small pieces ; add to it two ounces of cooked mushrooms, and the same of truffles; pound these in a mortar for half an hour, or more; then add a pinch of cayenne, some salt, two pinches of pounded mace, and mix all these by pounding. Spread the slices of ham on the veal, and the force-meat on the layer of ham; then roll the veal very tightly, the skin being outside, and hind it evenly with a broad tape the whole length of the roll. Butter the outside of the roll, lay it on a drip- ping pan, and set it in a moderate oven, neither hot nor too cold, for ten minutes. Then put it in a braising pan, and fill the sides all round with the bones of the veal and any trimmings you may have, laying some underneath so as to keep the roll from touching the pan; cover the top of the roll with fat bacon, put in one whole onion, two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, three blades of mace, and lay over all a buttered paper; pour in one pint of stock No. 2, cover the pan closely, and set it on a moderately hot part of the stove for three hours and a half: watch it towards the end to see that the stock does not waste. Take out the veal and take off the band, pass the stock through a sieve, skim the fat off carefully, and put both veal and stock back into the stewpan, with tw’O table-spoon- fuls of wine; then cover the pan and put a little172 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOK liot charcoal on the lid for a quarter of an hour. Serve with the sauce poured over the veal into the dish, and lay some mushrooms and truffles round the galantme. Great care will he required to replace the roll in the stewpan after the hand is taken off: the hands may he left on during the charcoal hraising, if the cook is unpractised, as it would spoil all if the shape were to give way. A good galantine ought to he so tender, or what the cooks call short, as to he cut with ease with a spoon. French heans or peas might he added in the dish, if preferred to mush- rooms and trufiles. Gateau, Creme d’Ananas. (Cake with Pineapple Cream.') Make the cream as directed for vanilla cream at page 124, and flavour it with pineapple instead of vanilla; it will require half a pound of preserved pineapple cut into small pieces; add the syrup, three pints will he sufficient; when ready have as many savoy biscuits as will line the two moulds; dip the moulds in cold water; take a little of the jelly made for the macddoine and set it to cool; pom* in a little and move the mould about so that a small quantity of jelly shall line it all over; then cut the biscuits so as to he able to fit them in with the rounded ends meeting at the bottom of the mould; place some more of the biscuits upright, just touching each other all round tlae inside, with their top faces]against the jelly; thenDINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 173 press in the cream with a spoon, and put it to cool; set it on ice for half an hour before serving, and tmm it out the same as jelljv Gelee a la Macedoine adx Fruits. (Jelly with Fruits.') Make the jelly as directed at page 122: itwillrequire one pint less, in consequence of the room to be taken up by the fruit, but the same quantity must be made, as some will be wanted for the g&,teau: have a pint bottle of preserved fruits; after dipping the moulds in water, place half the fruits intended for each mould in neat order on the bottom; pour in enough jelly to cover them; let it stand in a cool place till it is set, then put in the remaining fruits and fill up: attend to the directions already given at page 122, about clearing, &c. Meringues a la Yanille. (Merinrjues with Vanilla Cream.) The meringues shells will be best bought at a good confectioner’s; if wanted in the country they will keep in a close tin for a long time. They are to be filled with the same cream as the nougat, page 160. It may be flavoured with pineapple if preferred to vanille.174 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Table Set for 14 or 16.175 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. Keferences to the preceding Diagram. a Epergne, holding six iights and a glass dish. Plants—white azalea surrounded by pink primulas. 56 TaU vases, or glasses of cut flowers. ee High ornamented cakes. dd White grapes with lady apples, dark grapes with Tangerine oranges. ee Crystallized fruits, with a few bon- bons. ff Orange rings, and knots, uith a few bonbons. Remarks on Dessert, No. 4.—The azalea in the centre group may be changed for white hyacinths or a heath. If the azalea has not abundance of bloom, and the growth is not low and even, the heath would be preferable, or a pale yellow one might look well, as it would be nearly white by candle-light. Two tall vases, or glasses, of cut flowers are introduced into this dessert by way of variety, but their adoption is not much recommended. The flowers would look best not grouped into a formal bouquet, but placed lightly in; none but those cut with long stalks wi]J look well. There may be light yellow and pink azaleas, some scarlet geraniums, and a few tall, thin fronds of ferns. The top and bottom cakes may be tall and highly ornamented. The two side groups of fruit may be arranged carelessly as the colours may suit best. Materials for this Dessert. pound of white grapes. „ of purple grapes. 2 ornamented cakes. 12 lady apples. 12 Tangerine oranges. 3 lbs. of crystallized fruits. 1 lb. orange rings. 1 lb. knots. This is rather a small dessert, and will depend much for its success upon the beauty of the service. If the dishes are tall and choice in pattern and material, it will look better than if more crowded. The tall vases may be replaced to advantage by statuettes; twotorchettes of three hghts each ivill be indispensable if there is no suspended lamp.176 SPECIAL IXSTRUCTIOXS FOR 0| |ta. 5. (rOK 14 OK 16 PERSONS.) MENU du Mai, 18-- Potage printanier. Consomme de Volaille aux'Quenelles. Saumon, Sauce de Homard. Whitebait. Boucliees a I’Anglaise. Fricassees de Poulets aux Trutfes. Pigeons aux Haricots Verts. Fricandeau de Yeau. Selle de Mouton. ■ Oison. CEufs de Plmder. Gateaux de Creme aux Groseilles. Gelees aux Fraises. Creme a la Vanille. Maids of Honour,177 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 5. ... .to*"" ■ Dinner of the of May, at a Quarter past Seven. Spring Soup, Clear Chicken Soup with Quenelles. Salmon boiled, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Whitebait, Lemon-juice (to be handed in a little jug). Bread and Butter (to be handed). Veal Croquets. Ericassee of Chicken with Truffles. Pigeons stewed, Erench Beans in the middle. Ericandeau of Veal with Sorrel Sauce (in the dish). Saddle of Mutton. Cauliflowers. Early Potatoes. Young Goose. Plover’s Eggs. Peas. Gooseberry-Cream Cake. Jelly with Strawberries. Cream with Vanille. Maids of Honour. 12178 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 5. Fob Double Entkees, &c. 104 To be in tbe Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. 1 set of calves’ feet. 8 lbs. best part of fillet of veal. 3 fowls. 8 young pigeons. 4 dozen eggs. French carrots, turnips, celery, onions, sweet herbs. Sugar, spice. I lb. of isinglass. 1 pint bottle of trufiles. Harvey and anchovy sauce. Mango pickle. 2 sticks of vanilla. 6 lemons. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Saddle of mutton. 5 lbs. of salmon. 2 quarts of whitebait. 1 large lobster. White wine. Drandy. A young goose. 24 plover’s eggs. 2 quarts of double cream. Half-pint of single cream. 2 dozen strawberries. 1 pint of gooseberries. 2 lbs. early potatoes. 1 quart of peas. Cauliflowers. 3 pints of French beans.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 179 PoTAGE Printanier.—(Spring Soup.) This is made the same as vegetable soup (see page 111), except as to the vegetables. These must consist of small heads of asparagus, young peas, small radishes cut into thin slices, and small young onions, of which the white part only must be used, cut the size of the asparagus heads. They do not require to be glazed in butter, but must be soaked for an hour in salt and water, and very sufBciently boiled in some stock, with a teaspoonful of sugar ; drain them on a sieve, and put them to the soup the last thing. The quantity of vegetables must be one-third asparagus, one-third peas, and the other third, half radishes, and half onions: a teacupful in all. Consomme de Volaille atjx Quenelles. (Clear Chicken Soup with Quenelles.) Take the best part of the breast of two fowls, skin, chop, and pound it, and pass it through a tammy sieve; do the same with half a pound of veal udder, and make with it quenelle, as directed page 116. Make the soup by boiling the remainder of the fowls from which the breasts have been taken for three hours, in four pints of water, with a small onion and a teaspoonful of white sugar; skim it occasionally; strain the stock and set it to cool; when cold, take off all the fat, and put it in a stewpan with three pints of stock No. 2; simmer it away till it is 12—2SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 180 reduced to two quarts. Thicken it slightly by rubbing an ounce of flour in an ounce of butter; add salt, a very small pinch of mace, and a little cayenne; skim off any butter that may rise; simmer the soup for a quarter of an hour; cut the quenelles into pieces the size of a nut, and put them in when serving; add a glass of sherry. This must be thinner than cream, not quite clear, and very smooth; the colour pale yellow. Whitebait. Have two quarts of whitebait; wash them very carefully; put them on a sieve to dry; then lay them on a cloth; separate them, touching them with the Angers as little as possible; dredge flour over them; leave them for ten minutes; turn them, with as little touching as you can, and flour the other sides ; leave them on the cloth till wanted in a cool place: they may stay two or three hours in a draught of air. As soon as the soup is sent up, begin to fry. Have ready beforehand a stewpan, just large enough to hold the whitebait sieve, with two pounds and a half of lard boiling; put half the whitebait gently into the whitebait sieve; put the sieve into the boiling lard; keep moving the sieve gently up and down; watch till the flour is beginning to colour: they will take about ten minutes. Take out one and see ifDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 181 it is crisp; put them on a hair sieve quite close to the fire till wanted; do the same to the other half. Serve them on a silver dish or plate, without paper or cloth under them: they must he served after the other fish. Brown bread and butter in slices, very thin and well buttered, must be sent up with whitebait, and handed with lemon-juice. The lemon-juice should be in a very small silver or china jug. Bofchees a l’Anglaise.—{Veal Croquets.') Take out all the inside of half a pound of some very fresh Cambridge sausages; put the meat into a small stewpan with half as much of cooked veal, chopped into small pieces; add three tablespoonfuls of good glaze, or, if you have not so much to spare, boil away a pint of stock No. 1 quickly till it becomes that quantity; add three tablespoonfuls of cream, some salt, and a little cayenne; simmer it on the fire for one minute, and put it in a cold place not on ice; wdien the time approaches for serving, cut the mass into sixteen pieces; they must be rather larger than a dessertspoonful; dip them in beaten yelk of egg, cover them with bread crumbs, and fry a light brown. This differs very little from other croquets. They may for variety be enclosed in thin paste, or made up in a three-cornered shape.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 182 Fricassee de Poulets aux Teuffes. {Fricassde of Chicken with Truffles.) Take tliree fine fowls; remove all the flesh from the breast; cut each half of the breast into two pieces lengthways ; put the rest of the chickens into another pan, and boil them quickly for two hours in as much water as will cover them ; take out the stock, put into it an onion and a little parsley, and reduce it one half; strain it. Bleach the chicken by setting it in a stewpan in cold water; put it on the fire ; when the water is just hot, change it for some cold; do this three or four times till the chicken is white; when it is white, drain it. Put a quarter of a pound of butter hi a stewpan; add the chicken, simmer it gently, and throw in a pinch of flour; then add to it the stock from the carcases, and some mushrooms which have been ■vvell washed and trimmed; stew gently one hour; take out the stock, and reduce it by boiling to the quantity wanted for the sauce. Make a thickening of the yelks of three eggs, a teaspoonful of flour, and two tahlespoonfuls of cream; boil this gently for five minutes, stirring carefully; add it to the sauce, then simmer again all together for another five minutes. Serve by making a circle round the dish of prepared rice; lay on the pieces of chicken in even shape; pour the sauce over the pieces and let it fall outside the fillets. Have some truffles warmed in a183 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. little butter; cut them in long strips, and lay them in a neat form on each of the slices of chicken. Fill up the centre with young French beans cut in small pieces; they must be boiled in water, and then put into a small pan with a piece of butter, and a spoon- ful of good stock: stir it while the butter melts. Cooks have other troublesome plans to blanch the chicken, but the above is sufficient if done often enough. Pigeons aux BLa.ricots Yerts. (Pigeons with French Begins.') Have eight young pigeons; take off the legs, and thighs, and necks ; cut them in halves; cut away the breast and back bones, and also the pinions of the wings; there is to be nothing left in each piece but the meat of half a breast, and the wing bone with it. Put the legs and bones to stew in a pint of stock Ho. 1; let it boil gently for an hour, and then take out the bones and boil the stock away to a large teacupful. When this stock is made, cut two slices of fine bacon into small dice, and put them into a braising-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter; set it on the stove and stir till the bacon is brown. Pub a tablespoonful of flour into another ounce of butter; add it to that in the pan, and simmer it ten minutes, stirring all the time; then add half a teacupful of the stock made from the bones. Set in the cut pigeons, laying them carefully side by side, so184 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR as not to spoil their shapes. Cover the pan, and simmer all gently for one hour ; watch it that it does not burn, and add from time to time a spoonful more of the stock; take out the pigeons and add to the stock some parsley, one onion, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Return the pigeons to the pan, and if there is more stock in it than will reach half way up, pour it off to that quantity; then set the pan on the hot plate, and put charcoal on the top for a quarter of an hour; look at the pigeons every five minutes to see that the heat is not too great, and that they do not burn. When ready to serve, take the pigeons from the pan, add to the stock any that remains, and warm all together; strain the stock, and season it with salt and a little cayenne; add a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a tahlespoonful of port wine. Make a flat circle of prepared rice; set the pigeons on it, eight in each dish, with the wings all outwards; have three pints of young French beans ready boiled; pile up half in the centre of each dish, and pour the sauce into the dishes. Remaeks.—It may be observed that this process differs a little from the method which prevails in most of the other made dishes; but it is important to adhere exactly to the above directions. The pigeons ought to look rather dark, but fresh, plump, and moist. If they do not, it will be for want of sufficient watching, and of care to keep up the proper quantity of stock in the pan. It would be well to tell the cook that, although they ought not to be glazed, yet if she should so far fail on a first trial as to make the pigeons look dry, she must put a spoonful of their own sauce on each wing.DESfNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 185 Fkicandeau DE Veau.—{Veal Fricandeau.') Have five pounds of the finest part of a fillet of veal; lay it with the outside or skin part uppermost; heat it well; trim it to a neat shape; keep the skin whole; lard it all over the top. Lay four slices of bacon fat on the bottom of a braising-pan, and the veal upon them ; put round the veal two onions with two cloves in one of them, two sliced carrots, a bunch of parsley and eschalots, a very small bunch of herbs, a little mace, half a teaspoonful of sugar; fill the pan, one-third as high as the veal, with stock No. 2, and fill up all spaces between the veal and the sides of the pan with pieces of fat of bacon; cover the top of the larding with buttered thick white paper; cover.the pan, and let it simmer very gently for four horn’s; see that the stock has not wasted too much, renew it if it has. Put on the cover, and lay charcoal on the top for about a quarter of an horn’; look at it from time to time, and when the tops of the larding begin to turn yellow, take it out. Serve it with sorrel sauce in the dish; put a little pale clear glaze on the top, dropping as little on the larding as pos- sible. If the colour is not yellow enough, it may be carefully salamandered. This fricandeau should be so tender as to be cut with ease; if it is soft and stringy, it must have been done too fast: it should be firm as well as short and tender.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 186 Sorrel Sauce. Talce out the stock and strain it; wash three hand- fuls of sorrel; bruise it in a mortar, and pass it through a sieve; add the sorrel to the stock; rub two tablespoonfuls of flour in three ounces of butter; add it to the stock and simmer it, stirring well, for a quarter of an hour. Gateau de Creme aux Groseilles. (^Gooseberry-creayn Cake.) Take a pint of round-shaped green gooseberries; put them into a preserving jar, only large enough to hold them ; set it in a saucepan of hot water; put the pan on a stove with a very gentle heat; watch care- fully that they do not break or flatten: they will take about an houi\ Take out one from time to time to try if it is tender without being soft; turn them out with car-e while hot, and lay them on the top of a large hair sieve; put them to drain, and remove any that have become misshapen. Have a syrup ready made of half a pound of sugar and two table- spoonfuls of water, boiled for a quarter of an hour. AVhen the syrup is nearly cold, put it in a wide basin, and take the gooseberries carefully one by one off the sieve, and put them in the syrup. This must be done the day before the dinner. The cake will also he made as directed on page 200.187 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. On the morning of the dinner, cut the cakes out in the middle, leaving the walls rather more than half an inch thick; moisten the inside with a wineglassful of wine and brandy mixed, or with wine alone; take care not to wet any one part too much, so as to weaken the walls. Then make a cream as follows: put six ounces of isinglass into a large teacup; heat a teacupful of milk, so as not to boil, and pour it on the isinglass; when it is cool but not set, strain it; have a pint and a half of best double cream; put the lukewarm isinglass and milk into it, with five ounces of finely powdered sugar, and two wdneglassfuls of brandy; whisk it till it is a froth, and set it in a cool place for half an hour. Then put half into the middle of each cake; they need not be quite full; set them to cool, but not on ice. The last thing before serving, put in the gooseberries; let a few stand up above the top, w'ithout covering the edges of the cake. Throw the syrup over the gooseberries till it fills the space between them, and glazes their tops; if they do not look a very bright green, sprinkle over all some green sugar, made as directed in miscellaneous receipts: this is an improvement to the appearance in any case.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOR 188 Gelee aex Fkaises.—{Jelly with Strawberries.') This jelly must be made the same as that in dinner No. 1, page 122. Have a pound of very bright coloured, middling sized strawberries; put a very little jelly in the mould; let it cool a little, and then lay the strawberries in each compartment or knob of the moulds, the brightest part towards the outside; then fill up the moulds so as just to cover the straw- berries. Set it to cool for half an hour, not on ice, but in a cool place; then fill up with the jelly, which by that time, in consequence of being in lai’ge quantity, will not be too much set, if it has been left in a moderately warm place: to heat it again would spoil it. If strawberries are scarce, they may be bought by the dozen, and two dozen might in that case be sufficient. Lemon Cheesecakes, or “ Maids of Honour.” Rub the rind of two large lemons with sugar; scrape off the sugar into a bason, as it becomes wet with the lemon essence; add a quarter of a pound of finely powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yelks of four eggs, and the juice of one lemon; put it in a stewpan; beat it with a wooden spoon whilst on a moderate stove till it thickens: it must not boil; set it in a bason to get cold. This189 DINNERS EOE EACH MONTH. iTiay be clone the day before. Make pufiF paste by three rollings as before directed; roll it out about a quarter of an incli thick; butter small sized p^te pans thickly; cut the paste the proper size with a cutter, and lay it in the pans, notching round the edges with a sharp knife; the lemon being cold, stir into it a tablespoonful of rich cream, and half fill each cheesecake; bake them with great care in a moderate oven; take them out of the tins imme- diately ; keep them warm in the screen on a cloth. Remarks.—These are the old-fashioned “maids of honour,” •which w'ere made at Richmond in Queen Charlotte’s time. This receipt is the genuine one, and rery good.190 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR Table set for 14 or 16.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 191 RErERENCES TO THE a Torchette of six lights. lb Baskets of gloxinias. cc Groups of fruit—oranges, American apples, surrounded by a pineapple or melon, and small pomelo. PRECEDING Diagram. d Oranges in syrup, e Compote of fruit. ff Savoy biscuits, macaroons. hh Orange rings, crystallized fruits. Remaeks on Dessekt, No. 5.—There are not many fresh directions required for arranging this table. The gloxinias must be small plants in good flower: the rich green leaves will probably entirely conceal the rim of the basket; they may, therefore, perhaps, be placed in it without taking the mould out of the pot. A symmetrical high pile of fruits will suit the style of the gloxinias, which is rich and heavy. A few bright lady apples, put in to fill up spaces, may relieve the grapes with ad- vantage. The oranges in syrup will be prepared on the day they are wanted : they must have all the rind removed, so as to look as clear and yellow as possible; then have boiling syrup poured over them, and be left to cool. Some of the rind must be cut as thin as possible, and then with a rolling cutter made into strips a quarter of an inch wide. These strips must be boiled for a few minutes in water, with some pink colouring, and -when they have taken a rich tint, be dipped in the syrup, and placed in neat form round the oranges when they are served : the syrup, when cold, will be served in the dish, with a tablespoonful of brandy in it. If the weather is hot, ice may be on the table in frosted glass-stands; but it is seldom welcome so early in the season. The plants in the two baskets may be changed, if more convenient, for dwarf rose-trees, with wreaths of forced lilies of the valley taken out of their pots. The quantity of fruit to be ordered will be about— 12 Newtown pippins, or 6 com- mon apples and 6 Ame- rican. 12 oranges. 8 Tangerines. 8 lady apples. 4 lbs. of grapes. 1 small pomelo. 1 pineapple, i lb. of Savoys. 1 lb. of macaroons. 1 lb. of orange rings. 1 lb. of crystallized fruits. 1 compote of preserved fruit.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS POR 192 (for 14 OR 16 VERSONS.) MENU du Jilin, 18 Potage puree de Pois Yerts. Potage Blanc. K>t Eilets de Saumon a la Hollandaisc. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Croquettes. Bis de Veau a I’Espagnole. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Concombres. ) ) \ / ) Poulards et Langue. Selle de Mouton. — Petits Poulets. Pigeonneaux. ) ) Chartreuse de Fraises. Gelce au Marasquin. Petits Puits d’Amour. Nesselrode Pudding.193 DmrEES FOE EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 6. Dinner of the of June, at a Quarter before Eight. Green Pea Soup. White Soup. Cutlets of Salmon, dressed with sauce on the dish. Turbot, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Croquets. Sweetbreads with Spanish Sauce. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers. Fowls. Tongue. Saddle of Mutton. Early Potatoes. Asparagus. Spring Chickens. Young Pigeons. Peas. Mould of Strawberries with Cream. Maraschino Jelly. Cakes with Cream and Cherries. Nesselrode Pudding. 13I 194 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS POR PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 6. Eor Double Entrees, &c. KX To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. 1 set of calves’ feet. 2 necks of lamb. 1 tongue. 4 dozen eggs. 2 baskets of small mushrooms. I lb. of isinglass. French carrots, turnips, onions, celery, sweet herbs. 1 packet of Brown and Poison’s corn-flour. 1 pint bottle of trufiles. 1 „ capers. Harvey and anchovy sauce. Mango pickle. 12 lemons. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. 2 flne calves’ sweetbreads. Saddle of mutton. 5 lbs, of turbot. 3 slices of salmon. 1 lobster. 2 fowls for boiling. 3 spring chickens. 6 young pigeons. 5 pints of green peas. 3 cucumbers. Asparagus. Early potatoes. Strawberries. Cherries. Gooseberries. 5 pints of double cream. 1 pint of single cream.195 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. POTAGE PUBEE DE PoiS VeBTS. {Geeen Pea Soup.) Boil a quart of green peas freshly gathered in three pints of water, with a sprig of green mint and a dessertspoonful of sugar; drain them and pound them, and pass them through a tammy sieve. Take three pints of stock No. 2; stir in the peas, mixing them in by degrees; set it on the stove, with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed into one ounce of butter; add salt, and simmer gently, stirring all the time, for a quarter of an hour; boil a teacujDful of very young peas in water, and throw them in when serving, with a teaspoonful of mint boiled and flnely chopped. PoTAGE Blanc.—( White Soup.) Put three quarts of stock No. 2 into a stewpan; reduce it by boiling to two quarts. Blanch a . quarter of a pound of sweet almonds; pound them Avith a little water till they are very smooth; add to them a teacupful of the stock, and put it in a small stewpan with two blades of mace and two ounces of flour rubbed into two ounces of butter; simmer it gently, stirring all the time, for a quarter of an hour; then add another pint of the stock, simmer it again for ten minutes, pass it through a sieve, and stir in by degrees a pint of good 13—2196 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR cream; mix it with the remaining quart of stock, and set it on a cool part of the hot plate till wanted. Filets de Salmon a la Hollandaise. {^Cutlets of Salmon.) Have three slices of salmon; leave on the skin; cover the stewpan with buttered paper, and lay them in side by side; put to them half a pint of stock No. 1, which should not reach to the top of the slices. Cover them with a buttered paper; stew with the pan uncovered very gently for half an hour. Take away the stock, and keep the salmon hot; boil the stock in another small pan with a pint of stock No. 2, and a tablespoonful of bechamelle; reduce it one-third, stirring all the time—that is, till there is a pint and a half of sauce ; add half a teacupful of chopped pickled gherkins the size of peas, a tablespoonful of white wine, a little cayenne, and salt if wanted. Serve with the sauce poured over. Croquettes.—( Croquels.) Take any cold meat, fowl, or rabbit, there may be at hand, except beef; cut it into small dice; boil some mushi’ooms, cut the same size as the meat and in the same quantity, in stock either 1 or 2—it will require two tcacupfuls in all for the two dishes;197 DINNEES FOR EACH LIONTH. put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, melt it, and add two ounces of flour, and simmer for half an hour, stirring all the time. Take half a pint of stock No. 2, and boil it in another stewpan till it is reduced to a teacupful; add it to the flour and butter, with a quarter of an ounce of isinglass dis- solved in a tablespoonful of water, and mix it alto- gether with the meat and mushrooms; beat up two eggs, white and yelk together, add them to it, and simmer for one minute; set it on a plate to become cold. When dinner-time approaches, take a table- spoonful of the meat at a time, roll it in dried flne bread-crumbs, and shape it by pressing it into an oblong form lilce an egg (or any other shape you please); then beat up two yelks of eggs to one white, dip in the croquets, and bread-crumb them a second time; fry them a very pale yellow brown. Ris DB Veau 1 l’Espagnole. {^Sweetbreads with Spanish Sauced) Two large sweetbreads will be sufficient; trim them carefully; cut them each into eight pieces, the whole thickness of the sweetbread; trim away any hard tendons; lay the pieces in cold water for two hours, and change the water once; line the braising-pan with six slices of bacOn, and lay in some pieces of veal and lean ham; put in the sweetbreads, cover them with more bacon, and All198 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR np, but not quite to the top of them, with stock No. 2; cover them with a buttered paper, let them simmer gently on the hot plate with the lid off for an hour, take off the paper, put on the lid and cover it with charcoal. Then take out the stock; leave the sweetbreads in a warm place, still covered by the bacon, till wanted; strain the stock; add to it a teacupful of good b4chamelle, a tea- spoonful of sugar, and a little salt and cayenne; have some muslmooms, ready boiled in butter, and cut into small dice; do the same with truffles, two tablespoonfuls of each when cut; put them into the sauce, with half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a wineglassful of white wine. Have some cauliflower ready boiled, and peel off as many pieces the size of a walnut as there are pieces of sweetbread. Serve by laying the sweetbreads on the silver dishes, and. a piece of cauliflower between each: the sweetbreads must stand up to look as high as possible. Pour the sauce over the whole; if the sauce does not make it look bright and moist enough, drop a little clear glaze on each piece. A piece of truffle the size of a small nut may be put on each piece, or the truffles may be cut into strips an inch long and laid on with the sauce of gherkins. This is an improvement, but is not necessary.199 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. Charteeuse de Feaises. (^Mould of Strawberries and Cream.') Cliarti’euse is made in a plain round mould like a pudding mould; it should be rather smaller than for a pudding. If the dinner is early in June, sti'aw- herries may be scarce; if so, half the quantity of what is commonly used may he made to serve thus:— Make for the jellies that day a pint more than they require; as soon as the jelly moulds are filled and put away, pom’ some of the pint into the moulds, which have been wetted: it is better for the jelly to be rather cool; move about the mould to let the jelly line the sides. The strawberries must have been nicely picked and each cut in two; place the strawberries with the cut sides outwards against the jelly at the bottom and all over the sides; take some more jeUy in a spoon, and let it fall upon the strawberries and as much between them as you can. Have the cream prepared as at page 124 : it had better be flavoured only with brandy; when the jelly is tolerably set, put in the cream, press it down evenly with a spoon, and let it cool; it must be put on ice for one hour before serving. See that the cream is rather sweeter than for other purposes, as the acidity of the strawberries will require it. When strawberries are plentiful, they need not be cut.200 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Gelee ATT Maeasqijin.—(^Maraschino Jelly.^ (^See page 14-1.) Petits Puits d’Amour. (Cahe with Cream and Cherries.') IMake a flat cake of half a pound of butter beaten to a cream; add to it half a pound of sugar finely powdered; beat the two well together for a quarter of an hour, with a pinch of salt; add six ounces of finest flour, and two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded very finely in a mortar: mix these all with a small glass of brandy, and beat them for one hour at least. Line a flat baking-tin with buttered paper, and turn up the edges of the paper an inch high: see that it is all well buttered; pour in the cake an inch thick, bake it, and take care that it does not get high coloured; when cold, cut it into round pieces two inches across with a cutter; take half the pieces and scoop them out a little in the middle; take the other half, and with a cutter smaller by half an inch each way make them into rings; set these rings on the scooped-out rounds: put a little sjrrup to make them stick together, and form walls half an inch thick. Whip up a pint of cream with a quarter of a pound of sugar on which a lemon has been rubbed before pounding; add to the cream before whipping it a201 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. tablespoonful of brandy; set tbe whipped cream on a sieve to drain. Have a quarter of a pound of cherries and as many small gooseberries preserved in syrup as directed, page 186; stone the cherries before they are put m syrup, and take care that they are j)lump; also take care that the gooseberries are round. Put the cream into the hollow of the cakes; press it in \vith a dessert-spoon, and let a httle stand up on the top, but not upon the edges of the cake; make a close circle, on those edges, of cherries, for one half, and gooseberries for the other; sprinkle a little green sugar over the gooseberries. Remarks.—Though this seems a long receipt, it is neither difficult nor troublesome to do. These little cakes are very nice for a supper dish. In winter the edges may be ornamented with icing and pistachio nuts, or with candied cherries, or with small bonbons; the cream may be flaroured ivith vanilla for a variety.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 202 Table Set for 14 or 16. I203 DIN^NEKS EOR EACH MONTH. Kefebences to the pkeceding Diagbam. a Design in silver, ormolu, or China. 66 Low baskets—pink heaths or epa- cris, surrounded by white campa- nulas. cc Torchettes, six lights each. dd Groups of fruit—grapes, peaches, nectarines, pineapple, aud melon. ee Cakes without coloured ornaments. ff Red currants, white currants. gg Strawberries, raspberries, or cherries. hhhh Frosted glass stands holding ice. ii Sugar and waterjugs, &c. Remarks on Dessert, No. 6.—The plants proposed for the baskets in this dessert form the prettiest arrangement of any. The campanulas are to be growing in pots, and must be the dwarf sort of small white harebell. If they are in full bloom, when removed from the pots and pressed together in a circle standing with their little heads three or four inches above the rim of the baskets, they look like silver bells; and under a bright light have a most fairy-like effect. The middle may be filled with any pink fiowers, but they must be growing, as a bouquet would be too close and heavy for the hght rather spread appearance of the campanula stalks. The same arrangement is very pretty in an epergne glass; perhaps prettier, as there is more chance of light being seen through the white bells, which is so becoming to them. The group- ing of the fruit in this dessert should be rather picturesque than massive, and not piled up to any great height. I have not mentioned before that some very dry moss may be placed in the dish and concealed by leaves. The common plan of showing moss is ugly. Tliis concealed dry moss will support the upper end of the pineapple; and grapes may be laid on the bottom of the pineapple to balance it: a moderate sized pine is preferable, as a very large one could hardly be so treated. Peaches and nectarines will show here and there, and make up the composition. Leaves and tendrils may be introduced at pleasure. Nectarines will show best with white grapes, and peaches with the purple grapes aud green melon. It is diflicult to say how much firuit will be required for this dessert, as it depends on the size of the different sorts; if ordered at a fruiterer’s, it will be about the following:— 4 lbs. of grapes. 6 or 8 nectarines. 6 or 8 peaches. 1 pineapple, 1 small green melon. 2 lbs. of strawberries. 1 lb. of red currants, 1 lb. of white currants. 2 lbs. of raspberries. 12 sponge biscuits. 12 light vanilla biscuits or macaroons.204 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS POE 0f ginmir, ga, 7. (foe 14 OE 16 PEESONS.) MENU du - JuiUet, 18- Potage de Homard. Potage a I’ltalienne. Eougets a la Venetienne. Eilets de Morue, Sauce d’Huitres. Eissoles. Blanquettes de Volaille a I’lvoire. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Milanese. Poulets et Langue. Selle de Mouton. Dindonneau. Pluviers. Chartreuse de Praises. Gelees au Vin de Champagne. Nougat.DI^TNEES FOR EACH MONTH. 205 Codfish with oyster sauce has been inserted in this carte, in order to avoid the lobster sauce which is so indispensable for either turbot or salmon, that being too like a repetition of the soup; but it is scarcely appropriate for a ceremonious dinner at this season; very fine boiled soles and shrimp sauce might be substituted: if neither are approved, the soup might be changed to oyster or any other white soup, and the lobster soup reserved for December, when cod and oyster sauce is never out of place. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 7. Dinner of the of Jiily, at a Quarter before Eight. Lobster Soup. Itahan Soup. Red Mullets dressed (sauce on the dish). Slices of Cod, Oyster Sauce, Rissoles. Chicken with Ivory Sauce. Lamb Cutlets with Parmesan Cheese. Fowls. Tongue (sauce for fowls on each plate). Saddle of Mutton. Potatoes. French Beans. Turkey poult larded. Plovers. Peas. Moulds of Strawberries and Cream. Jelly of Champagne. Nougat Cream with Noyau.206 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 7. Foe Double Enteees, &c. To be in the Kitchen the 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 8 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. 1 set of calves’ feet. 2 necks of lamb. 1 tongue. 3 fowls. l^basket of mushrooms. Day before the Dinner. French carrots, turnips, onions, celery, &c. f lb. of isinglass. 1 pint bottle of truffles. Harvey and anchovy sauce. Mango pickle, &c. 2 sticks of vanilla or essence. 12 lemons. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Saddle of mutton, 6 small lobsters. 3 slices of cod. 3 dozen oysters. 2 fowls. Turkey poult. 6 golden plovers. 4 baskets of strawberries. 2 quarts of peas. French beans, potatoes.207 DESTNEES FOE EACH MONTH. PoTAGE DE Homaed.—(Lobster Soup.) Take tlae meat from the claws, bodies and tails of six small lobsters; take away the brown skin outside the meat and the bag in the bead, beat the fur, dune and small claws in a mortar; put it, together with the crmnb of a French roll, a pinch of ground white pepper, a little salt, two anchovies, a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs and a small piece of lemon- peel into a stewpan with two quarts of water, let it boil for an hour, then strain it off. Bruise the coral in a mortar, add to it foui* ounces of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and a tablespoonful of flom\ Add this to the stock just made. Cut the meat of the tails of all the lobsters in pieces, about half an inch square, or rather less ; do the same to the claws of five, and add it all to the stock; simmer it gently till the lobster is sufficiently cooked; boil a pint of good cream and mix it gradually, stirring all the time. Chop up the claws of one lobster very fine, and mix with it a tablespoonful of crumbs of bread soaked in the soup; add a pinch of cayenne, a little salt and the yelks of two eggs; make it into a paste with a tablespoonful of flour, and then roll it into small balls ; boil them in a stewpan in a little of the soup for five minutes, and put the balls and soup which they have been boiled in into the soup when serving.208 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR PoTAGE A l’Italienne.—{Italian Soup.) Boil three pints of full grown peas in three pints of water until tender enough to be pulped through a coarse sieve; then put the pulp into the water in which the peas have been boiled, with a good-sized Cos lettuce sliced into small pieces, two cucumbers pared and sliced, and a pint of young peas; add a quart of stock. No. 1, stew gently till the vegetables are quite tender, then add a teaspoonful of white sugar, a pinch of salt or more, if required, and a tea- spoonful of chopped mint; rub four ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, and boil, stirring gently, for ten minutes. This soup is excellent when very carefully made. Note.—The lobster soup in this dinner may be changed for any other white soup, if it is not approved. Rougets a la Yenetienne.—{Bed Mullets.) Have eight or six red mullets, according to the size; the preparation requisite is to wash and dry them, and take out the gills and the inside, but to leave the liver ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan with an onion and carrot sliced, two bay-leaves, a small piece of mace, a bunch of herbs, and twelve whole peppers ; melt the butter and lay in the mullets, throw over them a wine- glassful of sherry, add half a teacupful of stock209 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. No. 2, and cover it with a buttered paper; set it on the hot plate of moderate heat, and let it simmer for half an hour; take out the stock, strain it, put to it two ounces of flour rubbed into two ounces of butter; simmer it for ten minutes, skim ofF any butter that may rise to the top, add a tablespoon- ful of lemon-juice, a little cayenne and salt, and half a glassful more sherry; pour the sauce over the flsh, which must be sent up very hot. Filets de Mortje, Sauce d’Huitres. {Slices of Cod, Oyster Sauce.) Rissoles. Take half a pound of veal ready cooked and cold, having removed all outside and skin; also a q^uarter of a pound of cold lean ham, and two ounces of the fat of the same, a little finely chopped parsley, and one spoonful of good glaze; chop the meat ■and ham very fine, and pound it altogether for half an hour, then add the yelks of two eggs by degrees, pounding all the time; add a smafl”pinch of grated nutmeg, and the same of.pounded mace, and a little salt and cayenne pepper. Make the rissoles into shapes all alike; they may be long, or nearly square like pincushions, but not balls; when shaped, set them aside to cool, then egg them and cover them with crumbs of crushed crofltons, and fry 14210 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOR them in fresh butter: crisp some parsley: set the rissoles on a cloth in the screen to dry and keep warm till wauted. There must be nine rissoles in each dish. Remarks.—This seems very easy, and if followed without alter- ation there will be no fear of failure ; hut nothing is so common as hard close rissoles, which are a disgrace to any cook. The chief way of making them badly is to insert bread-crumbs into the mass whilst pounding, and to neglect to pound the length of time stated to he necessary. Blanquette de Volaille a lTyoiee. {^Chicken loith Ivory Sauce.') Take three fowls, cut the breast and wing part of each into three long slices, that*will make eighteen slices, nine for each dish; blanch them by joutting them in a stewpan with cold water, set it on the fire till hot, then change for cold; repeat this till the chicken is white and plump. Put the rest of the chickens into a pan with as much water as will cover them, boil quickly for two hours; take out the stock and boil it away to one pint, with an onion sliced and some salt. Then line a stewpan with two slices of bacon, put in the slices of fowl, let some strips of bacon lie next the pan all round, add two onions sliced and a pmch of nutmeg, cover the slices with bacon and add one teacupful of the stock; cover the pan and let it simmer gently for an hour and a half; take outDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 211 the stock and sti'ain it, and add the remainder of the stock from the carcases, boil it down to a quarter of a pint; make a thickening of the yehcs of three ecgs and a teaspoonful of flour, beat these together and add two tablespoonfuls of cream; simmer this, stirring all one way for five minutes, add the stock and simmer, stirring the same way for another five minutes; make a bed of rice in the middle of the dishes, and place on the chicken in a neat heap ; pour the sauce over it. Make some quenelles of veal as directed, page 117 ; chop some truffles and mushrooms fine, and pound them up with the quenelles; boil the quenelles in one piece, and cut it into squares, an inch in size; place them, piled up tolerably high, on the top of the blanquette, and lay the rest on the dish. Great care must be taken that the sauce does not curdle; it should look like smooth cream: the French fashion of thickening with eggs is adopted in this entrde ; but, though suitable in this instance, it is not generally recommended. This may seem a repetition of Fricassee de Poulet, but the dish when finished is very different. CoTELETTES d’AgnEAH 1 LA MiLANAISE. (^Lamh Cutlets with Parmesan Cheese.') Prepare fourteen cutlets, by trimming them veiy neatly ; scrape the bones and leave only one inch in H- 14—2SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 212 length beyond the meat; dip them in melted butter, cover them ■with bread-crumbs, salt and pepper, and fry them till the meat is well cooked. Then beat up four eggs, the whites and yelks together, dip in the cutlets, have some dried bread-crumbs ready mixed with an equal quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, cover the cutlets with the crumbs and press them well on the egg to make as close and thick a covering as the egg will hold together. Pry the cutlets again in butter a delicate light brown; serve by placing the cutlets in the middle of the dishes in a small circle resting against each other with the ends uppermost; there may be a small bed of rice paste to keep them in their places, but not more than can be helped. Boil some macaroni broken an inch long, in suffi- cient stock No. 1; when tender take away the stock, add two ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese ; heat it till it begins to simmer, and with it fill up the space in the middle of the cutlets; let a little of the macaroni appear above the top of the cutlets. Pour a sauce into the dish, made thus. Put half a pint of stock No. 2 into a stewpan, add to it a quarter of a head of garlic (or a slice of onion), and a few pieces of chopped mush- rooms ; rub an ounce of fiour into an ounce of butter; simmer it ten minutes, strain it through a sieve, and boil it away one half. Tomato sauce is veiy good with this dish, instead of the sauce just described.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 213 CnAETREIISE DE EbAISES. (Jifoulds of Strawberries and Cream.') Have two pounds of fine bright-coloured straw- berries and pick them. Make a cream as at page 124, and fiavour it with brandy or liqueur instead of vanilla; when the cream is ready, dip the moulds in water, and with a spoon line the bottom and sides of the moulds with the cream; set the straw- berries side by side in the cream till they make a complete covering of the inside of the moulds; then put in the whole of the cream intended for each mould, pressing it in with a spoon: attend to the directions about cooling and icing. NouaAT 1 LA Ceemb Noyau. (^Nougat Cream xoith Noyau.) This will be made the same as page 158, substi- tuting noyau or any other liqueur for the milk con- taining the vanilla: it will not require quite so much sugar. Gel:ee au Vin de Champagne. {Jelly of Champagne.) This jelly, instead of sherry and brandy, will re- - quire half a bottle of champagne for the two moulds, or more if it is desired to be extremely good; the champagne must not be put in till the jelly is very cool. A few white grapes would look well at the bottom of the mould, in the same way as the straw- berries, page 188.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 214 Table Set for 14 or 16. ^ o ^ oDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 215 Refehences to the pbecedinq Diagram. a Torchette with six lights. bb Blocks of rough ice. cc Bdskets or iow China vases of roses and ferns. dd Groups of fruit—grapes, pineapple, melon, peaches, and nectarines. ee Torchettes of three lights each. jy Strawberries, raspberries. g Mulberries. h Cherries. i Sponge biscuits. k Vanilla biscuits or macaroons. nil Glass stands of ice. Remarks on Dessert, No. 7.—The month of July is chosen to introduce a novelty; on each side the centre torchette place blocks of rough ice, in pieces of about ten or twelve pounds each; they may be cut into neat shapes, but not too symmetrical; flat vases of silver, china, or terra-cotta may be used to support them, and hold the water as it melts, care being taken that there is no danger of the water dripping as it melts upon the table-cloth. A few very light ferns would look well, shading the ice here and there, or drooping over the vases; if terra-cotta is used, it must be of the palest tint, as baked earthen colour would look heavy. Moss must not be introduced : it would destroy the light effect, and give an unpleasant smell. Silver wine coolers might be used, but would not look nearly so well as terra-cotta vases, which are easily attainable. The baskets proposed to be on each side are those low circles of wicker-work already described, flve inches high and lined with tin. In July, they would look better white and gold, than gilded all over. A very delicate fern, or some fronds of maiden-hair, may form the middle, and the rest be filled up with rich cut roses : arrange the tints of the roses not promiscuously, but passing from light to darker. The light may either form the centre part and lead down to the sides, or the arrangement may be reversed; or the whole group of roses of a single pink tint, con- trasted with the light green ferns, would be as pretty as any; but differently tinted ones mixed about would spoil the whole table. The groups of fruit may be arranged according to the hints already given; it will be desirable to keep the top and bottom compositions low, and not too formal, so that the eye may be carried upwards past the roses to the ice, and to the lights above. A great quantity of light will be required to be reflected on the ice; therefore, the extra torchettes in this instance, which should not be very high, would look well, even if there should be a sus- pended lamp.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR (fob 14 OK 16 PERSOXS.) . MENU du Aout, 18 Potage aux Artichaux. Consomme a la Pate d’ltalie. Fricandeau des Carpes. Saumon, Sauce de Homard. Vol au Vent de Homard. Timbale a la Mazarin. Langues de Mouton a I’Ecarlate. Poulets et Jambon. Selle de Mouton. Grouse. Pliiviers. Petits Brioches. Gelee aux Raisins. Creme a la Romaine. Biscuits glaces au Chocolat.217 DIimERS rOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 8. Dinner of the of August, at Half-past Seven. Artichoke Soup. Clear Gravy Soup with Italian paste. Stewed Carp. BoUed Salmon (Sauce handed). Large Lobster Pate. Timbal of Veal in Macaroni. Sheep’s Tongues with Spinach. Fowls and Ham (Sauce on the plates). Saddle of Mutton. French Beans. Potatoes. Grouse. Plovers. Autumn Peas. Little Brioches. Jelly with Grapes, Roman Cream. Chocolate Biscuits.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 218 PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 8. For Double Entrees, &c. To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean bam. 3 „ fat bacon. Set of calves’ feet. 16 sheep’s tongues. 1 small ham. 1 small fowl for croquettes. 4 dozen eggs. Carrots, turnips, onions. Celery, sweet herbs. Sugar, spice, &c. J lb. of isinglass. Tarragon Vinegar. Macaroni. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Saddle of mutton. 3 fine carp. 3 salmon trout weighing 2 lbs. each, or 1 large one at 6 lbs. 1 lobster. 2 fowls for boiling. Grouse. 4 golden Plovers. 1 bunch of grapes. 10 artichokes. 2 quarts of best cream. Peas, French beans.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 219 PoTAftE AUX ArTICHAUX. (^Articliohe Soup.^ Clean the bottoms of ten artichokes from the leaves and the chokes, and let them soak for half an hour in a little water; then drj them. Put three ounces of butter in a small stewpan, and stew the artichokes in it gently, moving them constantly with a wooden spoon for half an hour. Mash them, and rub them through a tammy sieve; put them into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of sugar, a very small piece of mace, and two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and finely pounded; add to it a pint of stock No. 2, and three ounces of flour rubbed into three ounces of butter. Let it simmer, stirring all the time for a quarter of an hour; strain it through a tammy sieve, and add a pint more of stock No. 2. Stir in gently half a pint of good cream, and set it on the hot plate till wanted. Consomme A la PIte d’Italie. {Clear Soup loith Italian Paste.) Put four quarts of the stock No. 1 into a stewpan, add two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, boil it down with the lid set on one side to two quarts; when it will be quite clear; a sprig of fresh tarragon must be boiled in it, and taken out when the soup is poured into the tureen: taste it and add salt ifSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 220 nGcessary. Boil some Italian paste till it is tender in a little stock No. 2, and put it into the soup the last thing before serving. Remarks.—This soup is not intended to have any strong flavour; it must be brilliantly clear and very hot; it will be spoiled by the common practice of adding Harvey, anchovy or any other sauces. The Italian paste is best made at home two days before it is wanted: the way of preparing it will be found among the Miscellaneous Receipts. Feicandeau des Caepes.—Carp.) Take off the skin and fins of tliree fine carp, remove the flesh from the back bone, and lard the flesh with bacon. Line a braising-pan with two slices of bacon, add two slices of onion, twelve grains of whole pepper, and a single piece of mace; tlu’ow two glasses of port wine over the fish, and put in a teacupful of stock No. 2; and cover it with a buttered paper; let it simmer gently. Remove the paper and put hot charcoal on the lid for half an hour; then take out the stock and juice, and lift the carp out of the pan; take hold of the ends of all the small bones, and pull them out carefully, so that none shall remain. Strain the stock, thicken it a very little by two teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed into an ounce of butter; simmer it all for full ten minutes. If the quantity is less than a pint, add some stock No. 2 to make it up; if it is more, simmer it away or put some by; skim it if any butter rises to the top. Add a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice andDINNERS EOE EACH MONTH. 221 another glass of port; pour the sauce over the fish on serving. Saumon, Sauce de Homaed. {Salmon, with Lobster Sauce.) Boil the salmon and serve it with sauce in a tiu’een (see page 114). Should salmon trout he pre- ferred, it must be put with a pint of bechamelle into a stewpan; add to it an eschalot chopped very small; simmer it for five minutes, stirring carefully the whole time; let it keep warm whilst you heat two tablespooufuls of salad oil to a cream; add it to the sauce with two tablespoonfuls of white wine, a tea- spoonful of anchovy and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, with a little cayenne and salt. The use of preferring salmon trout would he to avoid the lobster sauce, because a lobster entree follows. Yol au Yent de Homaed.—Lobster PdU.) Make pulf paste as at page 114; roll it out, leaving it two inches thick, and cut it into shapes according to form and size of your dishes; mark them with a knife, that is, cut them half through, rather more than an inch from the edge. Bake them in a very moderate o't'en. When they are done a very light colour without being in the least burnt, take them from the oven, put them on a cloth on a dish, and lift off the flakes of the inner parts, and put themSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 222 away till wanted. Prepare the lobster as follows:— have two moderate sized lobsters, take out the meat of the tail and claws, and cut into pieces an inch in size; take a pint of bdchamelle, put it in a stewpan, add the lobster, a little cayenne and salt, simmer it five minutes, and add a teacupful of cream ; the last thing before serving, put half into each vol au vent, and sprinkle some coral on the top. Remarks.—If by any chance the pastry should he baked too much, so as to look the least brown or even yellow, it would be necessary to keep it for another day’s private use, and make some more at once; for a vol au vent not looking white and delicate, w-ould quite disgrace a dinner: if there should not be time to make another, it would be better to enclose the lobster in thin paste, and turn it into croquettes. Timbale A la MhzKRm.—{Timhal of Macaroni.) Make two-thirds as much quenelle as directed at page 116; if chickens are plentiful, breasts of them may be substituted for veal, or half chicken and half veal may be used: the proportion of veal fat or udder must be attended to. The quenelle being ready, but not boiled, make the timbal as follows. Boil two pounds of large macaroni in three quarts of water, some pepper-corns and salt, drain it on a sieve and leave it to be cold; then cut it all into pieces rather more than half an inch long; take a round plain mould, the same as is used for puddings; butter it well, and place the pieces of macaroni with their ends on the bottom of the moulds, sticking upright223 DINNEKS EOR EACH MONTH. side by side quite close; lay rows of them round the side in the same way, lying one upon the other with the cut ends against the side; then wet a spoon with hot water, and put in the quenelle, pressing it down against the macaroni with the back of the spoon; it must be completely full. Butter a paper, and place it on the top of the quenelle. Steam it for an hour. A sauce should be served in the dish composed of one pint of bechamelle with a teacupful of cream and a spoonful of glaze, added to it tlie last thing. Langtie de Mouton a l’Ecarlate. {Sheep’s Tongues loith Spinach.) Fourteen sheep’s tongues will be required for two entrees; put them into a braising-pan with some bacon at the bottom, a few mushrooms, one eschalot, a bay-leaf, a bunch of herbs, an onion, some whole pepper, and a teaspoonful of sugar; throw a glass of sherry over the tongues; cover them with another slice of bacon, and add of stock No. 2 enough to reach nearly to the top; cover them and let them simmer for an hour and a half; put some hot char- coal on the lid for the last quarter of an hour. Take them out and strain their stock; place them on their sides on a dish, and put another dish upon them with a weight; and leave them so to get cold ; then trim off any ragged parts and put them in aSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 224 small deep stewpan with their own stock; cover them with a piece of paper, and set them on the hot plate to warm quite through; then dish them up like cutlets. Make a pur^e of spinach by boiling some; squeeze all the water out of it, and lay it on a sieve to drain; then rub it through the sieve with a tablespoonful of the stock from the tongues; mix it up with two ounces of butter, some cayenne, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice; put it in the middle of the tongues, glaze over them tops with their own sauce, and put the rest of the sauce in the dish. Brioches. Rub half a pound of flom’ into half a pound of butter, with a pinch of salt; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar finely powdered; beat two eggs, whites and yelks together; blanch and chop a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, three bitter almonds and half an ounce of candied ginger into small pieces. Put a teaspoonful of German yeast into a tablespoonful of cream with a small pinch of carbonate of soda; mix all these together, kneading them as little as you can help, to get it all an even mass; no time should be lost while mixing; set the paste, with a cloth laid over it, in a moderately warm place for an hour. Make cases of paper, twisted up at each end, the size of a tablespoon and shape of a boat; butter them well and fill them with a silver tablespoon, puttingDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 225 the paste into each just as much as it will hold. Let them bake half an hour in a very moderate oven; watch that they keep a pale colour. Break up some white of egg, but do not froth it; moisten the brioches with it and sift over some finely powdered sugar; lay them before the fire for five minutes; serve them piled up with fringed white paper on the dish : there need not be sauce. Cbeme a la Romaine.—{^Roman Cream.') Blanch eight ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter; chop them very fine; put them into a moderate oven, watch them and take them out the moment they begin to turn a little brown. Have on the hot plate a quart of new milk just boiling, with twelve ounces of powdered sugar and the yelks of twelve eggs which have been beaten; stir it all one way till the yelks are set. Take it off the stove, stir it two minutes and pass it through a tammy. Set It again on the stove, stir it, and when quite hot, but not boding, add to it an ounce and a half of isinglass. Let It cool till it is lukewarm, and stir in a pint and a half of double cream, whipped to a froth, with two glasses of maraschino or noyau. * Have twelve pre- served apricots ready; put the cream into the moulds one-third full, let it set, lay on half of the apricots, and fill the moulds another third full; put in the other apricots, and fill up the moulds. Let them stand on ice for an hour before servino-. 15SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 226 Table Set for 14 or 16.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 227 References to the a centre design ^1111 lights and glass ; plants, maiden - hair, and pink Queen Margarets. bb two groups of fruit—apples, apricots, grapes, pineapple, and melon. PRECEDING Diagram. cc peaches, nectarines. dd sponge cakes. ee pears, figs. / mulberries, white and red currants. ggg;/ stands of ice. Remarks on Dessert, No. 8.—It is convenient here to intro- duce, for the middle of the centre group, some very light exotic fern: the maiden-hair surpasses all in being appropriate, as it is not only so beautiful, but the fronds in a well-grown plant cluster so thickly. Of China-aster the dwarf kind must be chosen for the circle round it. If the different pots vary in colour, do not place them alternately a light and dark, but try to arrange them in gradation of tint from light to dark, the latter passing again into the light: the effect of this is very pretty. At least six pots may be got into a glass ten or twelve inches in diameter, for the roots being slender will bear compression ; a few fronds of small fern may decorate the edge. The Allosorus crispus is very pretty for that purpose; but anything light will do. In August it is well to banish dried fruits and trust only to fresh ones. The two groups on each side the centre can hardly be too rich, and may be filled up by any of the same as are on the side dishes; but this must be done with judgment. A fashion has been introduced of filling up little spaces between fruits in a composition with small fiowers, but it seems to be a solecism in taste, destroying all breadth of effect, showing off neither fruit nor flower to advantage, and giving a patchwork sort of look to the whole table. One of the consequences of sticking little flowrets about is, that they lose their freshness before the dinner is over. The Flemish masters of flower painting, it is true, mixed flowers in their fruit pictures, but they formed a mass of relief, and were never dotted all over the composition. An enterprising innovator on the present fashion of desserts, might try to mix flowers and fruits in large masses for a top and bottom group. Some plan would have to be devised for supplying the flowers with mois- ture. The fruit required will be— 8 bright-looking apples. 8 apricots. C lbs. of grapes. 1 pineapple, 1 melon. 12 peaches, 12 nectarines. Sponge cakes; if ornamented with sugar, to be without colour. Peas, figs, mulberries, and white and red currants. 15—2SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 228 djitrtc of ginner, Ju. 9. (for 14 OR 16 PERSONS.) MENU du Septembre, 18. Consomme de Levrau. Potage a la Palestine. Smelts. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Bouchees a la Pompadour. Salmi d’Alouettes. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Cbevreuse. Poulards et Langue. Hanche de Veuaison. Grouse. Pluviers. Mirlitons. Bordures de Riz S. la Macedoine. Meringues, Creme a la Vanille.229 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 9. -•O Dinner of of September, at Half-past Seven. Hare Soup. Artichoke Soup. Fried Smelts. Boiled Turbot, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Croquets. Stewed Larks. Lamb Cutlets. Fowls and Tongue (sauce to be on the plates). Haunch of Venison (port-wine sauce, currant jelly, to be handed separately). French Beans, Potatoes. Grouse. Plovers. Peas. Mirlitons. Border of Rice, with fruits. Meringues.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIOXS FOR 230 wli- lO PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 9. Fok Double Entrees and Entremets. To be in the Kitchen the 12 lbs. of gravy beef, 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. ,, fillet of veal. a set of calves’ feet. 1 hare. 2 necks of lamb. 4 dozen eggs. Carrots, turnips, onions. Celery, sweet herbs. Day before the Dinner. Tarragon, parsley. Sugar, spices. Rice. Isinglass. ^ pint bottle of truffles. Tarragon vinegar. Harvey sauce, anchovy do. Mango pickle. 1 ounce of ratafias. 1 oz. candied orange flowers. 1 stick of vanilla. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner, 5 lbs. of turbot, 20 smelts. 1 lobster. 2 dozen larks. French beans. Half a peck of Jerusalem arti- chokes. 8 peaches. 8 apricots. 8 greengages. PoTAGE A LA Palestine.—{Artichoke Sotip.) Half a peck of Jerusalem artichokes must he very carefully peeled and washed, then dried and sliced;231 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter; let them simmer gently on a slow fire till they are thoroughly done; they must be stirred and Avatched that they do not burn, as the smallest change of colour would make them unfit for soup ; then add to them three pints of stock No. 1; set it on the stove; stir it well together; then let it simmer very gently with the lid lifted on one side for an horn’; it must be watched and stirred occasionally; add a little salt, a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a pinch of nutmeg; rub the Avhole through a tammy, and just before serving, put to it a pint of boilino; cream. O Consomme de Leveatj.—{Hare Soup.) Cut up a hare—an old one will do—and put it into an earthen jar, which holds three quarts, with thi’ee slices of good ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with four cloves, six allspice, and a blade of mace; fill up Avith two quarts of water ; close the jar with the lid and several folds of paper tied closely over the lid ; put it in the oven for two hours; take it out and remove all the meat of the back and best part of the wings and legs, also the liver; cover the jar again and put it back in the oven for two hours more; chop up the meat and pound it very fine; rub four ounces of Hour into five ounces of butter; mix it by pounding with the meat; add232 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TOR a sj)Oonful of glaze and half a pint of stock No. 1; mix all well together; then take the stock from the jar, strain it, and add to it the pounded meat; put it into the stewpan, and let it simmer twenty minutes. Make sixteen forcemeat halls of the liver chopped up, two tahlespoonfuls of bread crumbs, and two tablespoonfuls of nicely prepared chopped suet; make them up with the yelks of two eggs, cover them with egg and bread crumbs mixed with a little chopped parsley, fry them pale, and tlu’ow them into the tureen at the moment of serving. Bouchees a la PoMrADOUB.—(Croquets.) Make some quenelles as directed page 116, either of the breasts of two fowls or a pound of veal; the other materials in proportion. When finished all but boiling, add half a teacupful of cream, and as much of mushrooms boiled and rubbed through a sieve ; then make them into shapes as directed, with two dessertspoons instead of tablespoons; they will therefore be smaller than quenelles for an entree; boil them till they are half done through; put them in the larder till near dinner-time; then cover them with yelk of egg and veiy dry bread crumbs, and fry them a light yellow; fry a little parsley and put it on the top.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 233 Salmi d’Alouettes.—{Stewed Larks.) Roast rather lightly two dozen larks with pieces of bacon on the breasts ; when done put by all but six; put the six, having taken away the bacon and the bones, into a mortar; pound them a little, but not so fine as for a purde; put them into a small stew- pan with a quarter of a pint of stock and a glass of white wine ; rub one ounce of flour into an ounce of butter; add to it the gravy that has been saved from the roasting of the larks; simmer it carefully for ten minutes, and add a little cayenne; then put in all the larks and re-warm them in the sauce. Place the larks on the dish, each upon a thin piece of bread fried lightly in butter; throw the sauce over all. CoTELETTES d’AgNEATJ A LA ChEVEETJSE. {Lamb Cutlets.) Two necks of lamb having had the fat removed, must be braised like the mutton in dinner No. 1, that is, laid in a braising-pan with some bacon underneath, with vegetables, spice, and stock No. 1; it need not, how- evex’, be simmei’ed more than two hours. When cold, cut it into cutlets; but do not trim away any of the meat; boil three onions in milk, and rub them through a sieve; cover over the cutlets with the onion sauce, and gi’ate upon that a little Pai’mesan cheese; press the cheese into the sauce so as to be234 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS POli smooth; then cover them with yelk of egg and very dry bread crumbs ; fry them a light brown. Warm half a pint of bechamelle, with a few chopped mush- rooms and truffles; make a bed of prepared rice, place the cutlets on it, and put a few more mush- rooms and truffles in the middle. Mielitons. Line twenty small deep tartlet pans with some rich hut thin puff paste, and lay in each a spoonful of orange paste, or marmalade rather dry. Pound one ounce of ratafia cakes and half an ounce of candied orange flowers ; mix these with three eggs, the whites and yelks beaten together, one ounce of butter beaten to a cream, and three ounces of sugar; beat it all well together in a bason with a wooden sj)oon till it is a rich thick cream : it will take half an hour at least. The tins, lined with puff paste, being previously ready with the orange, pour the mirliton batter into each, nearly, but not quite, as much as they will hold; sifting powdered sugar over the tops; bake them a very light brown: the mirlitons should rise above the edges of the tartlet. Boeduee de Biz a la Macedoine.—{Rice and Fruit.) Take half a pound of best Carolina rice, wash it, and put it into an enamelled saucepan, with as much235 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. fresh milk as will cover it, a bay-leaf, and a small piece of cinnamon; cover the saucepan, and set it near the fire to simmer gently; do it the first thing in the morning of the previous day and leave it till the afternoon or evening ; then take off the lid; if the milk is all soaked up, add a few spoonfuls more, or a little cream, which will be better. Add two ounces of powered white sugar, take out the bay-leaf and cinnamon, set it on to simmer, and stir it very hard till it becomes quite smooth and so thick that it is difficult to stir; if there is the smallest appearance left of grains of rice, add a teacupful of milk; stir it well up, and set it by the fire again for two or three hours longer; put it into the border mould, * which is used for asj)ic jelly: have three peaches peeled, stoned and cut in two, three apricots done the same, and four greengages stoned, very smooth, but not over ripe; put them in a stewpan with two ounces of sugar; let them simmer very gently indeed for ten minutes; then have half a pint of jelly ready, flavoured with brandy; use a small plain mould that will go into the middle of the border; put in the fruit, and fill up with jelly; put both fruit and rice on ice for two hours before serving; turn out the rice, and put the jelly as you turn it out into the middle of the rice. Meringues, Creme a la Vanille. {See page 124.)SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 236 Table Set for 14 or 16.DINJSTERS FOR EACH MONTH. 237 EeFEI!ENCES to the PEECEDINQ DlAOnAlt. a torchette of six lights. bb baskets pink Cliina-asters, sur- rounded by small white and purple fuchsias. c M-hite grapes, nectarines, pine. d purple grapes, peaches, small melon. ee pears and apples. ff cakes. gg crystallized fruits. Remarks on Dessert, No. 9.—This arrangement supposes the absence of a suspended lamp, therefore three torchettes will he required. The baskets of flowers, in case there should be none at hand either of china or basket work, may be managed by making circles of pasteboard thus; have a suflScient number of laurel leaves, and with a little gum fasten them upright against the pasteboard; if tins to line these should also be wanting, a place fitting the bottom, and a thick paper lining coming up the inside of the pasteboard, would support the mould of the plants sufficiently. The China-asters must be dwarfs and thickly grown; they may be all colours, but pink alone has the best efiect with the green baskets and white table-cloth. The white and purple fuchsias must hang outside the baskets, and will have a very nice efiect. This sort of makeshift basket, though plain and unpretending, will look far better than a heavy wine cooler with a single plant doing duty where it was never intended to be put. A few rare wine coolers are to be seen in a light form of vase, which would look well on a table, but the common pattern ought not to come nearer than the sideboard. The two groups of fruit are intended to be flat; they will be sufficiently handsome without the pine and melon! The torchettes will be better omitted if there is a suspended lamp, and be well replaced by statuettes of biscuit china, or a pair of China vases, provided their design is not clumsy. materials required 4 to 5 lbs. of grapes. 1 melon. 1 pine. 10 bright-coloured apples. 18 pears. 6 nectarines. 6 peaches. FOR THE DESSERT. 1 lb. of filberts. 12 sponge biscuits. 1 lb. macaroons. 2 lbs. of crystallized fruits. China-asters, and 4 or 5 plants of fuchsias very low in growth.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR d[<trt(t of Dinnoii, Jo. lo. (FOR 14 OR 16 PERSONS.) MENU dll Octobre, 18 Potage de Macaroni. Potage de Lerrau Clair. *o*_ Filets de Soles frits, Sauce. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. •O* Tendons de Veau, aux Epinards. Boudins aux Champignons. Rabbit Curry. Pate de Venaison. Selle de Mouton. Faisau. Perdreaux. Apricot Pudding. Gelee d’Ananas. Biscuits glaces a la Vanille.239 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 10. Dinner of of October, at a Quarter past Seven. .r Macaroni Soup. Clear Hare Soup. Pried Fillets of Soles (sauce handed). Turbot, Lobster Sauce (to be banded). Tendons of Veal, with Spinach. Puddings of Quenelle. Rabbit Curry. Venison Pasty. Saddle of Mutton. Cauliflowers. French Beans. Pheasant. Partridges (bread sauce and fried crumbs handed). Vegetable Marrow. Apricot Pudding. Pineapple Jelly. Iced biscuits.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOR 240 PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 10. Eor Double Entrees and Entremets. To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. 1 „ calf s udder. 1 „ breast of veal for tendons and quenelles. 4 dozen eggs. Carrots, turnips. Onions, celery. Tarragon parsley. Sweet herbs, sugar, spice, &c. Isinglass. Tarragon vinegar. Bottle of Harvey sauce. „ anchovy do. Mango piokle. ^ pint bottle of truffles. 1 foreign pineapple. Macaroni. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Saddle of mutton. 3 fine soles, filleted. 5 lbs. of turbot. 1 large lobster. Venison. 1 pheasant. 3 partridges. 2 rabbits. 12 apricots. Vegetable marrow. Cauliflowers, French beans.241 DINNEKS POR EACH MONTH. PoTAGE DE Macaroni a l’Italienne. {Macaroni Soup.) Bieak two teacupfuls of raw macaroni into pieces half an inch long, put it into two quarts of stock No. 2, and boil it for a quarter of an hour; put it by the side of the hot plate to simmer gently till the stock is re- duced one half, and skim the top. Add more stock, till there are two quarts and a pint in the stewpan, season with salt: rub two tablespoonfuls of flour into a quarter of a pound of butter, and mix it by degrees with the soup ; boil it gently without the lid till it is reduced to two quarts; just before serving, add a teacupful of cream, and throw on the top whilst in the tureen two ounces of Parmesan cheese finely grated. PoTAGE DE LeveAU ClAIE. {Clear Hare Soup.) Have an earthen pot or jar to hold four quai-ts prepare the hare very cai-efnlly, cut it into pieces, leave the liver whole and put it in the jar with three slices of good ham, a hunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with four cloves, six allspice and a blade of mace; fill up with three quaits of water: there must be a lid to the pot, which must be tied down closely with a cloth; let it stand in a moderate oven five hours • take out the liquor and strain it through a cloth, add sufficient of stock No. 1, to make it up three quarts 16SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR 242 and boil it down quickly, uncovered, till it is reduced to two quarts, when it will be clear*; add to it a teaspoonful of white sugar and two glasses of port, or white wine. Have ready a teacupful of tapioca which has been passed through a cullender to leave out the larger grains; it must have been boiled in water till clear, but not long enough to make grains run together in a jelly; strain off the water and add it the last thincr. o Kemakks.—The tapioca may be left out and quenelles used instead, made as follows;— Take the meat of the back of the hare from the jar after the stock is taken from it, chop it well and then pound it and mb it through a sieve; pound the liver separately and then pound altogether; add the yelks of two eggs and a little cayenne, and pound it well, boil it in a mass till done, which must be judged of by trying. Pull it to pieces with a fork to the size of large nuts: the pieces should look rather ragged, and be put in the soup. These ragged pieces are the newest fashion. If they are not liked, which is probable, as the look is rather untidy, the quenelle . may be cut into slices and made into dice, or rounded by a cutter. Tendons de Veatj aux Epinaeds. (Tendons of Veal with Spinach.) Take the tendons of a breast of veal, that is, the o-ristle Avbich is at the ends of the bones, and cut them about three inches long. Place them in a stew- pan which has had fat pieces of bacon laid at the bottom, put in half the tendons, and some pieces of veal, then another layer of bacon, then, the restDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 243 of the tendons, and cover them again with bacon; fill up the sides with some pieces of ham and veal, two onions sliced, two shces of lemon, a bunch of herbs, one bay leaf, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, add stock No. 2, just up to the top of the bacon, and let them simmer gently for three hours; when they are done very tender, take the stock from them, strain it, add a pint more of stock No. 1, boil it all down to half a pint, take one ounce of flour and rub it into one ounce of butter, put it in the sauce and simmer for ten minutes; add a tablespoonful of sherry, and a teaspoonful of lemon j nice. Boil some spinach, and mash it, add a table- spoonful of glaze, an ounce of butter, a pinch of white pepper, and a teaspoonfnl of vinegar; put it in a stewpan and mix it well up together; lay the tendons in the middle of the dish, make a small wreath round them of the spinach, have a little clear glaze, and put it on the tendons, and pour the sauce into the dish. Remarks, These tendons are good if they are very tender, so as to be more like jelly than a sohd^^substance; they depend on the sauce for their taste; therefore it must be rich. Boudins aux Champignons. Have two platefuls of button mushrooms as white and fresh as possible, peel them, wash them in several 16—2244 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR waters, and set them on a sieve to drain: chop them into small square pieces, put them in a stewpan with a little butter and a teacupful of stock No. 2, simmer ten minutes and strain them. Then make quenelle as directed page 116 ; either of veal or chicken, or both mixed; when the quenelle is finished pounding, add one-half of the minced mushrooms, stir the pieces in without breaking them more than you can help, make up the quenelle into four pieces, three inches long and the shape of a short roll pudding: great care must be taken to boil them sufficiently. Then put the remainder of the minced mushrooms into a sieve with the stock they \vere simmered in; and rub them through; put them in a small stewpan with a teacupful of stock No. 2, and simmer it for five minutes, boil a teacupful of good cream and add it to the sauce, add half a teaspoonful of white sugar and a little salt; if the sauce is not as thick as thick cream, mix the yelk of an egg by degrees with the sauce and simmer for five minutes, stirring all the time. Lay the boudins two in each dish and pour the sauce over them; lay a few pieces of truffles in pattern on the top of each boudin. Rabbit Cuert. Cut two rabbits in pieces, remove the rib bones so as to make neat square-looking pieces, and fry themDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 245 in butter till tbej are a delicate brown; slice four large onions, fry the onions in the same pan (after the rabbits are taken out) with some more butter, one head of garlick sliced, and one eschalot also sliced. Have a quart of stock No. 1, put into a stewpan, and simmer the rabbit and onions for half an hour on a moderate stove, then add some salt, two tablespoon- fuls of curry powder, one tablespoonful of curry paste, and two of flour rubbed in butter; stir these in with the rabbit and onions ; cover the pan closely and leave it to simmer gently for two hours; add one tablespoonful of lemon pickle, slice half an ounce of sweet almonds, and put them in; have a tea- cupful of boiling cream to stir in the last minute before serving. Boil a pound of Patna rice, after careful washing, lay it on a sieve and see that the grains are whole and separate; cover it with a cloth till wanted, and keep it quite hot; serve up by putting the rabbit in the middle, and make a ring of rice round it; .cut up some pieces of pickled walnut and green gherkins about the size of a small nut, place them alternately on the rice. This seems a long process; it is, however, very easy to attend to the above directions: any shorter way will not produce a good curry.246 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR Apeicot Pudding. This pudding is very like the German pudding: it,is made of the crumb of two French rolls; boil half a pint of single cream^ and soak them in it whilst hot, let it cool, have ready eight preserved apricots, cut them into pieces as large as a nut. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, add it to the bread and apricots with four tablespoonfuls of white powdered sugar, and the yelks of three eggs well beaten; mix all together; and beat it for a quarter of an hour, then add the whites of the three eggs beaten to a froth, then the bread, mix all together and beat it for another quarter of an hour. Boil twelve apx’icots in a quarter of a pound of sugar; when they are quite done, strain the syrup, and if there is more than a quarter of a pint, boil it down to that quantity, moisten a small teaspoon- ful of arrowroot in a tablespoonful of sherry or madeira, add it to the syrup, and simmer till the arrowroot begins to thicken; place the twelve apricots round the base of the pudding, and pour the syrup over it. Gelee d’Ananas.—{Pineapple Jelly.) Pare a pineapple of about two pounds in weight, cut it into thin slices, and put it into a basin. Make a syrup of a pound and a half of sugar.247 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. tliG juicG of four leixiouSj and a quai’t of wator, boil it till it is clear, and strain it, skim it through a tammy over the pineapple. Set the bason.in a stewpan of boiling water, and let it boil for four minutes; cover the bason over closely and leave it three or four hours, by which time the flavour of the pineapple will have mixed with the syrup; strain the syrup through a cloth into another bason, set that again in a stewpan of water, and when quite hot, add four ounces of isinglass; strain it into the moulds. This jelly is offered by way of variety; it is, however, not so generally liked as wine or liqueur jelly, which may be substituted. West Indian pines are very good for the purpose. Like all other jellies it must not be put on the ice too soon. Biscuits Glices a la. Vanille.—(Iced Biscuits.) These cannot be made at home well, except by a very experienced cook, who is also a confectioner.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 248 Table Set for 14 or 16. f oOo O ■ Q 0249 DINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. References to the preceding Diagram. o eperpne with lights: plants, dwarf yellow chrysanthenuinis, sur- rounded by small fuchsias. 1)1} assiettes montdes, holding bonbons. cc groups of fruit, grapes, apples, pine- api)le, and melon. d medlars. e raisins. / almonds in the shell. g walnuts. Ml cakes, ornamented. a crystallized fruits. k pears. I apples. Eemarks on Dessert, No. 10.—It is difficult at this season to find suitable plants for an epergne, and as the closing year inspires a craving for all that is bright and full of iivartn colour, the delicate verdure of ferns now becomes unsuitably cold and almost cheerless. We have returned to the assiettes montees, and bon- bons, which, though less strictly in good taste than statuettes, look gayer, and serve their purpose of enlivening the gloomy season. In the country house, the conservatory or greenhouse may perhaps afford some good substitute for chrysanthemums aud fuchsias, which are less attractive than one- could wish; they might, how- ever, be set up with success. A blazing fire and more than usual light about the dining room will be the best aids to the cheerful appearance of the table. FRUITS REQUIRED 4 lbs. of grapes. 2 dozen bright-coloured apples, 1 pineapple. 1 melon. 1 dozen medlars. 2 lbs. of raisins. FOR THIS DESSERT. 1 lb. of almonds in the shell. ^ a hundred of walnuts. 2 lbs. of ornamented cakes. 2 lbs. of crystallized fruit. 8 Eibston pippins. 8 fine pears.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR dliirtil H Sinner, Ja. n. (for 14 OR 16 FERSONS.) MENU du Novembre, 18. Potage aux Carottes. Plain Mock Turtle. Anguilles a la Tartare. Saumon, Sauce de Homard. Vol au Vent aux Cretes de Coq. Tendons de Veau a la Marinade. Cotelettes de Perdreaux. Dindon au Langue. Selle de Mouton. Grouse. Wild Ducks. Baba. Gelee de Citron, Fouettee. Creme au Chocolat.DINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 251 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 11. Dinner of of November, at a Quarter past Seven, Carrot Soup. Mock Turtle. Eels in Tarragon sauce. Boiled Salmon, Lobster Sauce (to be handed). Large Pate, Mushrooms, Cocks’ Combs, and Tendons of Veal. Cutlets of Partridges, stewed. Boiled Turkey and Tongue. Oyster Sauce. Saddle of Mutton. Vegetable Marrow. Potatoes. Grouse. Wild Ducks (lemon-juice handed in a small jug, cayenne, and small saucer). Seakale. Baba, Lemon Jelly, whipped. Chocolate Cream.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 252 PROVISIONS FOR DINNER NO. 11. Foe Double Enteees and Entremets. To be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean ham. 3 „ fat bacon. Half a calf’s head. An ox-tongue, or Russian tongue. 4 lbs. of breast of veal, for tendons and quenelles. 2 baskets of mushrooms. 4 dozen eggs. Carrots, turnips. Tarragon, eschalots, sweet herbs, &c. Onions, celery, parsley. Sugar, spice. Isinglass. Bottle of Harvey sauce. „ anchovy. Mango pickle, 4 ounces of dried cherries. 1§ candied citron. Hay saffron, German yeast. 12 ounces of Vanilla chocolate. Carbonate of soda. A bottle of cocks’ combs. „ truffles. 6 ounces of isinglass. To be in the Kitchen Saddle of mutton. 3 or 4 eels, 5 lbs of salmon. 1 lobster. 2 dozen oysters. A turkey, 2 wild ducks. 6 young partridges. the Morning of the Dinner. 2 grouse. Seakale. Vegetable marrow, early pota- toes. 12 lemons. 5 pints of double cream. 1 „ single, new milk.253 DINNEKS FOR EACH MONTH. POTAGE ATJX CAEOTTES. {Carrot Soup.) Take twelve carrots, scrape the outsides, and lay them in salt and water for an hour. Cut them in small pieces and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of good butter and a tablespoonful of sugar; let them simmer, stirring w^ell for ten minutes; add a pint of stock No. 1 and stew till the carrots are quite tender. Take them out and pound them very fine, rub them through a wire sieve; rub a tahle- spoonful of flour into two ounces of butter, and boil it in a small stewpan with a teacupful of stock ; add this to the carrots, and put to them sufficient of stock No. 2 to make full two quarts; then simmer it for half an hour, and add a little cayenne ; just before serving, add half a teacupful of cream. Mock Tcetle Soup. Have half of a calf’s head with its skin left on, the brains taken out and properly cleaned; lay it in cold water to soak for two hours. Put it in a stewpan Math three quarts of water, two pounds of ham, an onion stuck with cloves, a sliced carrot, a head of celery, two bay-leaves and some parsley; boil gently for tw'O hours; then strip the head of the skin and take out the tongue; and boil the head again two hours. Cut the skin into pieces an inch square; if they are254 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOR not perfectly tender, almost like jelly, put them into a quart of stock No. 2, and boil them till they become so. Take the pieces from the stock, and add that stock to the stock from the head, strain it and boil till it is reduced to rather more than two quarts. Put three ounces of butter rubbed into two ounces of flour, into a pan, add a teacupful of the soup and simmer it for twenty minutes; skim it and add it to the soup; stir and simmer all together for ten minutes ; put in the pieces of skin, a little cayenne and salt, two glasses of sherry and a tea- spoonful of white sugar. Remarks.—The old-fashioned moek turtle with balls and brains, &c., is quite gone out of use, except for the family. This soup should be perfectly smooth and opaque, in colour rather yellow, and of the thickness of cream. Anguilles a la Tartare. {Eels in Tarragon Sauce.^ Prepare as many eels as will make twelve pieces three inches long; clean them thoroughly, taking care to w'ash well the blood from the backbone, and let them soak in water one hour; then put a buttered paper on the bottom of a stewpan, put in the eels Avith a carrot, sliced, two onions, three sprigs of parsley ; throw a tablespoonful of white Avine on the eels, add salt, a small bunch of herbs, a bay-leaf, two heads of cloves, and six white peppercorns: put in a tablespoonful of stock No. 2, and coA^er AvithDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 255 another hutterred paper; let them simmer half an hour, take them out and let them cool; then cover them with yelk of egg and very fine well-dried bread- crumbs; fry them a pale yellow, and serve them with sauce a la Tartare made as follows:— Put two small eschalots chopped very fine into a preserving pot, with a teaspoonful of chopped chervil and a tablespoonful of tarragon, also chopped small, two tahlespoonfuls of vinegar, a little salt and a teacupful of the stock from the eels. Put a tea- cupful of oil on a plate, and with a knife held flat against the plate, heat it till it becomes a cream: it must be perfectly white, with no globules of oil re- maining. Add it to the chopped herbs, and put the earthen pot into a saucepan of boiling water; stir it till it is hot, and pour it into the dish with the eels: the sauce must be made the last thing before serving. Yol au Vent aux Cretes de Coq. {Large paid, Mushrooms and Cocks'-combs.) Make a puff paste the same as directed page 115, except that there must he three quarters of a pound of butter to half a pound of floui’. Cut thin pieces for the bottom of the vol au vent, according to the form and size of the dishes they are to be sent up on; lay them on tins; roll some paste rather thicker, and cut it into long slices not quite an inch wide, lay them on the edge of the paste, neatly all round.256 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Bake it very lightly, and see that it does not get a high colour. Then make some quenelles made of veal or chicken, as at page 116, and boil them; also have a quarter of a pound of cock’s-combs, well blanched, a quarter of a pound of young, very white, button mushrooms, well washed and soaked, and a teacupful of truffles cut the size of nuts. Put the cock’s-comhs into a small stewpan with a pint of stock No. 2. Let them sim- mer till the cock’s-comhs are quite tender and the stock reduced to half a pint; then add a teaspoon- ful of flour rubbed into two ounces of butter, and a little cayenne and salt. Put in the mush- rooms and the truffles and simmer for flve minutes; then stir in a teacupful of cream, boiled and hot, stir gently and add the quenelles last: they must be cut into square pieces, an inch each way. Leave this in the bain-marie till serving time, then pour the sauce with its contents into the middle of the paste. This is an excellent dish and not difficult to make if the above directions are adhered to; but it is at the present time rather gone out of fashion for fine dinners : something rather lighter is preferred for the first entree, therefore any of the croquettes or rissoles may be substituted, if thought proper. This vol au vent might be made good without the truffles.DINNEES EOE EACH MONTH. 257 Tendons de Veau a la Makinadb. {Tendons of Veal.') Take tlie tendons of a breast of veal, cut into pieces two inches long, boil them in stock No. 1 for three hours, then lay them when cold in a marinade made of a teacnpfnl of vinegar, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, an onion sliced, a little grated rind of lemon, and a pint of water to soak for three hours ; then put them and the marinade into a stewpan and let them boil five minutes j when they are cold and it is time to serve, dip them in batter, and fry them in butter a very delicate yellow; fry some parsley and put it on the dish. The tendons must be so tender, after the first boiling, as scarcely to hold together. Instead of being fried, they may be boiled and served in any rich sauce, brown or white. CoTELETTES DE PeEDEEATTX. {Cutlets of Partridges Steioed.) Take six young partridges, cut off the breasts toge- ther with the wings; take off the skins, beat them lightly with the handle of a knife,"cut off the two end pinions and leave the wing-bones. Put the remainder of the partridges into a stewpan with two slices of ham, two pints of water, one onion, two sprigs of parsley, one bay-leaf, two cloves and a little salt; 17SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 258 let it boil gently for two hours, take it off, strain the broth, and reduce it by boiling to half a pint. Put the partridge cutlets into a braising pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; set it uncovered on a moderate hot plate, and let it boil, moving them gently about so as not to burn or change colour ; then put in a glass of white wine, and the half pint of reduced broth, cover them with paper, and then with the lid; put a little charcoal on the top of the pan, keep the pan in a very moderate part of the hot plate for three quarters of an hour, then take out the broth, and set the pigeons to keep warm, skim the broth, and strain it; add cayenne and salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed into half an ounce of butter; boil it a quarter of an hour stirring all the time, and strain it again through a tammy. Make a bed of prepared rice in a circle in the dish, lay on the partridge cutlets, the breasts length- ways round the dish, pour the sauce all over them : it will be better for a few truffles placed in the middle. This is meant for six pieces in each dish, which is enough for fourteen people.; if the party numbers sixteen, there must be seven partridges. Dindon et Langue. {Boiled Turley and Tongue.)259 DINNEES FOR EACH MONTH. Baba, or Polish Cake. A large-sized baba will require a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a half of butter, a quarter of a pound of finely powdered sugar, four ounces ot dried cherries, each cut in half, an ounce and a half of candied citron, a good pinch of saffron, a wineglass- ful of brandy, the same quantity of rum, a quarter of an ounce of salt, ten eggs, and three quarters of an ounce of German yeast. Mix the brandy and rum together and stir the yeast well into it, adding half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; mix all these things together and make an even paste, kneading it as little as is necessary to make it so. Have a tall cake mould ready, and butter it very thickly; put in the paste, filling it only one half full; then lay a cloth over the mould and set it in a warm place to rise: it must not be within reach of the fire and must not be in a draught of air; it must stand one hour, or until it is found that the paste has risen up to fill the mould nearly to the top; a double-buttered paper must then be fastened round the mould, so as to rise two inches above it, to keep the cake in shape. Several folds of thick paper must also be wrapped all over it, especially at the bottom, to prevent too much heat from the bottom of the oven; it must then be put in, great care being taken that the oven is not overheated, as it requires very moderate heat and very equal; the baba must be watched, to see that it 17—2260 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR does not turn brown at any side. An hour and a half is about the time it will take to bake it, but it may be a little more; on taking it out of the oven, j)Owder it over with white sugar. Remarks.—This cake happens at the present time to be very- much the fashion; it is in fact only a light superior sort of bun- loaf. Some small habas will he described afterwards which are more manageable; as they are equally in vogue, it would he well to gain some experience in making them before trying on this large scale. It must also be remembered that there is an addi- tional difficulty in managing the moderate heat of an oven when it forms part of the range whilst a large dinner is in preparation and there is so much more fire in the grate than there is daily: nothing is so important as to avoid chances of sudden disappoint- ment, which may put the whole routine into confusion, worse than the loss of a haha. Gelee de Citkon Fouettee. {Lemon Jelly Whipped^) Pour half a pint of boiling water on two ounces and a half of isinglass, let it stand till the isinglass is melted; add to it a pint and a half of warm water, the rinds of four lemons cut very thinly, and the juice of eight, with a pound and a quarter of sugar; boil it for ten minutes, strain it through a sieve; let it remain till nearly cold, then beat up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth; add them to the jelly and whisk it till it is like white sponge; put it in the moulds, after being wetted, and set it on ice only the last half hour before serving.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 261 Ce£me au Chocolat. (^Chocolate Cream.) Grate twelve ounces of vanilla chocolate into a stewpan, with twelve ounces of sugar, eight yelks of eggs, beaten, and a pint and a half of double cream; stir it, without ceasing, on a moderate hot plate till it begins to thicken; be careful not to let it boil, in order that the eggs may not set and curdle, strain it through a tammy ; pour half a pint of boiling new milk on three ounces of isinglass, strain and add it to the rest, stir it gently; have ready another pint of cream, whipped to a froth, mix it in gently and put it into the moulds.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 262 Tfible Set for 14 or 16.263 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. Eefehences to the a Centre epergnewith six lights, flowers, white dwarf chrysanthemums, sur- rounded by scarlet geraniums and ferns. hb Oranges, apples, grapes, filberts, melon, and pineapple. pnECEDiNG Diagram. cc Lady-apples, Tangerine oranges. dd Assiettes montdes, irith bonbons. ee Crystallized fruits. //Fancy cakes, decorated wdth bonbons. Remarks on Dessert No. 11.—In the centre group of flowers the rule generally recommended of using only growing plants may he departed from. T-lie circle of scarlet geraniums would hardly be glowing enough in single bloom; to obtain a great mass of coloirTj cut flowers must he resorted to. When this is done it is the easiest plan to use a wire frame on the glass dish; a row of geranium leaves may cover the edge of the dish, either with or without light ferns hanging over. The circle of scarlet geraniums should be surmounted by white chrysanthemums; these may be growing if a very full well-grown dwarf plant is at hand, if not, cut ones may do, hut are not so elegant. It is always a tempta- tion to use for ferns the lovely exotic maidenhair; hut as it will scarcely last crisp-looking through the dinner-time, it is safer to adopt some light drooping English fern. The Pteris tremula, an exotic but not a rare fern, is the prettiest of all for decoration, and lasts well. The common maidenhair {Adiantum nigruni), if the fronds are well-grown, is always pretty for edging flower designs. The groups of fruit are supposed to he arranged in a pyramid, surmounted, one by a melon and the other with a pine; oranges and apples mixed forming the base. Some people place the grapes at the bottom, hanging down round the dish, which has a very inelegant effect; a leaf and tendril here and there would be an _ improvement, hut heavy grapes, if used in that way, must be equally arranged all round, or there would he a want of balance, and the composition would be ugly. This profusion of expensive fruit is merely a suggestion: less may be made to look abundant. The season is now returning when the table admits of decoration; and cakes as well as dried fruit may be more showy, and the dishes he filled up with bonbons. 12 oranges, not too large. 12 bright Newtown pippins. 4 lbs. of grapes, filberts. 1 pineapple, 1 melon. 2 lbs. of crystallized fruit. 2 fancy cakes. 18 lady-apples. 18 Tangerine oranges. Bonbons. Cut geraniums, &c.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 264 Ramaquins. .,.v b| ginimt, g0. 12, (for 14 OR 16 PERSONS.) MENU du, Decemlire, 18. Potage a la Crecy. Potage Mullagatawnie. Filets de Turbot a la Normandie. Morue bouillie a I’Anglaise, Sauce aux Huitres. Croquettes de Homard. Quenelles de Lapereau a la Perigord. Ris de Veau aux Salpicons. Dindon et Jambon. Bceuf roti. Faisan. Snipes. Soufflee a la Vanille. Croquante d’Oranges. Creme d’Ananas. Mirlitons au Chocolat.DINNEES EOE EACH MONTH. 265 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 12. tot - Dinner of of December, at Quarter before Seven. Crecy Soup. Mullagatawny Soup. Fillets of dressed Turbot (sauce on dish). Boiled Cod, Oyster Sauce (sauce to be handed). Lobster Croquettes. Quenelles of Rabbit, with truffles. Sweetbreads, Salpicon Sauce. Boiled Turkey and Ham. Sirloin of Beef. Cauliflower. Vegetable Marrow. Pheasant. Snipes. Sea-kale. Vanilla Soufflce. Orange Jelly. Pineapple Cream. Chocolate Tartlets. Ramaquins.266 Mango pickle. rabbits. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR to to PROVISIONS FOR DINNER, NO. 12. Eor Double Entrees and Entremets. To be in the Kitchen 12 lbs. of gravy beef. 6 „ knuckle of veal. 4 „ lean bacon. 3 „ fat ham. A small ham. baskets of mushrooms. 4 dozen eggs. Carrots, turnips. Onions, celery. Tarragon, parsley. the Day before the Dinner. Sweet herbs, sugar, spice, &c. Isinglass. 1 bottle of truffles. Harvey sauce. Anchovy. 1 bottle of tomato sauce. Curry powder, and curry paste. 2 sticks of vanilla or essence. Preserved pine-apple. Chocolate. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Sirloin of beef. 5 lbs. of crimped cod. 3 slices of turbot. 2 dozen oysters. 1 lobster. Turkey. 2 sweetbreads. 1 pheasant. 8 snipes. 2 dozen ripe oranges. Seakale. Cauliflowers. Vegetable marrow. PoTAGE A LA Ceect.—{Creci/ Soup.) Take six carrots, two heads of celery, two onions, peel and wash them, lay them for tv/o hours in salt and water. Put them into a stewpan with aDINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 267 quarter of a pound of butter, and some pieces of ham, and let them, boil gently till the vegetables are tender; take out the ham, dry the vegetables on a sieve and pound them well, moisten them with some good stock, add a tablespoonful of sugar, and rub them through a wire sieve. Take three quarts of stock No. 1, boil it till it is reduced to two quarts, add to it the vegetables. Rub a tablespoonful of flour into an ounce of butter, mix it by degres with some of the stock, and let it boil half an hour; just before serving, add a teacupful of cream. Serve with bread cut in dice and fried. Eemarks.—This soup should he opaque, the colour of carrots, and perfectly smooth; if the carrots should appear to separate, it -will be a proof that there has not been sufficient pounding, and that the thickening has been omitted: it requires to be extremely hot. PoTAGE MulligatawiNIe.—{Mulligataiomj Soup.) Take three quarts of stock No. 1, put it in a stew- pan with two onions, two carrots, one turnip, half a head of garlic, one eschalot, a bunch of sweet herbs and a pound of lean ham. Simmer for two hours covered with the lid; pass it through a sieve, skim off the fat, put it in a stewpan and boil it away, uncovered, to two quarts; take half an ounce of curry powder, a tablespoonful of curry paste, two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix the three together and stir them into the stock; boil it a quarter of an hour.268 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOR stirring it the whole time, add a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and a pinch of salt; set it on the plate till serving, then have a teacupful of good cream boiled, stir it in, hot, gently. Boil a jDound of Patna rice to be handed. • Remarks.—It will be necessary to ascertain, before making this soup for a party, Avhat is the strength of the curry powder. It differs not only as sold at different places, but even real Indian curry powder bought at the same place, cannot be depended on for equal strength. Care must be taken not to make the soup too strong of the powder: besides being disagreeable to many people, it would be an injustice to the rest of the dinner, which would not be fairly appreciated. PiLETS DE TuEBOT A LA NoRMANDIE. (^Fillets of Turbot.') Have five pounds of turbot, take it off the bones, and cut it into pieces three inches long and two inches wide; there must be sixteen pieces. Put the bones and fins into a stewpan Avith half a pint of water, boil it a quarter of an hour, strain it and cool it. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with buttered paper, place in the pieces of turbot with a tablespoon- ful of the stock from the bones; put another buttered paper on the top and no lid ; let it stew very gently for an hour; take away the stock and juice and set the fish to keep warm, but not to dry. Put into another stewpan the stock from the fish, half a pint of stock No. 2, a tablespoonful of bdchamelle, a teaspoonful of anchovy, the same of mango pickle, a269 DIXNEKS FOR EACH MONTH. teaspoonful of the coral from a lobster well bruised, and half a teacupful of the tail, cut into small pieces; simmer for five minutes ; pour the sauce over the fish on serving it. Moeue a l’Anglaise, Sauce aux Huitres. {Boiled Cod and Oyster Sauce.) The slices of codfish must have a little salt and vinegar put on them and then boiled. For the sauce, the oysters must be trimmed; then simmered for five minutes in their own liquor. Then put into a very well made melted butter, with a tablespoonful of the liquor which they .have been boiled in. Croquettes de Homard.—{Lobster Croquettes.) Take a small lobster, boiled; chop the tail and claws into pieces smaller than a pea, bruise the coral, dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of water, add to it the lobster, and simmer it five minutes with a little cayenne, a very little nutmeg, one teaspoonful of anchovy, and a little salt; rub half a teaspoonful of flour into butter, the size of a walnut, and add it; let it simmer five minutes, take it off, and, while cooling, add one tablespoonful of good cream; put it on a plate and let it stand in a cool place till wanted. Make a paste: take four ounces of butter, rub itSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 270 into as much flour, well dried, as will take it up, add as much water as will make a thick paste, knead it veiy well and roll it out thin, he very careful that it does not hrealc into holes. Then cut the sheet of paste into squares of two inches; when the lobster is cold take a spoonful of it, lay it in the middle of the square, turn over the paste cornerways, like a cocked hat, moisten the edges of the paste and take care that they adhere; push up the croquette to make it look as high and plump as you can, then cover the top with yelk of egg and strew on it some vermicelli broken into pieces a quarter of an inch long; hake them very lightly and watch, with care, that thev do not burn. These may be made any shape, long, like Angers, or round; great care must be taken that the inside does not bake out, for, by that, they will be spoiled. Ris DE Veau aux Salpicons. (^Sweetbreads loith Salpicon Sauce.) Two sweetbreads must be trimmed very carefully of all skin and tough parts, and prepared as directed at page 153. They must be sent to be larded, one with truffles, and the other with green gherkins. Proceed with stewing, braismg, salamandering, and glazing as at page 153 the same. Make a sauce as follows, and pour it in the dish: cut some mush- rooms and bottoms of artichokes into dice the sizeDINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 271 of small peas, in quantity all together to fill a small teacup. Boil them in a half of a pint of good stock; take the stock in which the sweetbreads have been braised, strain it, and reduce it to a quarter of pint, add it to the stock with the mushrooms and arti- chokes, and add half a teacupful of chopped truffles; leave it in the bain-marie till wanted. Quenelles de Lapereau a la Perigoed. Take off the flesh of two rabbits, remove all skin and tendons, chop it small, pound it veiy fine and pass it through a tammy; do the same with half the quantity of veal fat; and make some panada; then proceed with the quenelles as directed at page 116; when the pounding and mixing is completed, cut up some truffles into small dice, as much as will fill a teacup, mix them with the quenelles and finish them as at page 116. When served have some pieces of truffles cut half an inch long, thinner than larding bacon, stick them upright on the quenelles, fill up the middle of the dish with young French beans, boiled veiy tender, and mixed with a small piece of butter; pour the sauce into the dish. SouFFLEE A LA Vanille.—{Vanilla Souffie'e.) Boil half a pint of cream, or new milk, put in a stick of vanilla, and let it simmer a few minutes.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOE 272 stir it all tlie time, then set it on one side of the hot plate for half an hour, see that it is not hot enough to simmer, and withdraw the vanilla. Then into another stewpan put three ounces of flour, or ground rice, two ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of butter, a little salt, and one egg, the white and yelk beaten together, mix all these well together, and then add the cream with the vanilla flavour; stir well on the stove until it begins to boil; stir it while boiling for two minutes, and add the beaten yelks of five eggs; continue stirring till the eggs are set: put it on one side to cool, while you Avhip the five whites into a very fine froth; and having added them to the batter, pour it into a soutflee dish, which must not be more than half full. Butter some thick cartridge paper, put it double round the outside of the dish, and set it in the oven to bake; it will take three quarters of an hour; the oven must be very moderately heated. The soufflde may also be made with the same proportion of potato flour or arrowroot, instead of common flour; potato flour is the lightest of all. Nothing is so unfortunate for the appearance of a dinner as a burnt soutflee; therefore great care must be taken to regulate the heat of the oven.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 273 Ceoqtjante d’Orarges. {^Oranges in Caramel and Jelly.^ For two croquantes, talce two dozen jSne oranges, the rijDest you can get for this season of the year; peel them, take off as much as possible of the white inner rind; divide them into quarters, and remove all seeds and white part of the divisions. Do not bruise them so as to lose the juice; then break two pounds and a half of very fine white sugar into lumps, and put it into a stewpan with just as much spring water as Avill cover it; set it on a hot stove and let it begin to boil; then put in a pinch of tartaric acid; as soon as the sugar begins to rise up in large bubbles, put in a knife, take a little on the point, and dip it in a basin of cold water which must be set beforehand ready for that purpose. If the sugar sets instantly and will snap in breaking, it is done ; then talce the stewpan instantly from the fire; have a sharp two-pronged fork ready, . or a small wooden skewer; stick each piece of orange quickly on to it, and by that means dip the orange into the sugar. You will have plain round moulds ready, rubbed over thinly with salad oil. Place the pieces after dipping each in the sugar round the inside of the moulds at the bottom, lying a little on each other, the outer part against the sides of the mould; leave the middle of the mould dear; then make another circle above the first, lying the other 18SPECIAL INSTPvUCTIONS EOR 274 way, and then a third and a fourth, which will finish to line the sides of the moulds; let it stand in a very cool dry place till wanted. - Make a whipped cream the same as for meringues; flavour it with brandy or liqueur of some kind; fill the moulds up with it the last thing before serving, then place a piece of white paper on the top of the mould ; and put the dish over it as when you turn out jelly: it need not be put on ice at all. Remarks.—This form of worldng sugar is managed well by many cooks, hut it is properly the business of the confectioner. Sugar in the brittle state just described is called caramel; chemists are ac- quainted with yarions curious changes that sugar undergoes, under different temperatures ; a certain degree of heat converts it into barley-sugar, and a higher, amonnting to nearly 300 degrees of Fahrenheit, makes it caramel, that state necessary to produce this dish of croquante of orange. Sugar turns quite black at 400 degrees, and at 500 bursts into flame. It wdU be understood, therefore, why the stewpan should not be allowed to stand an instant on the fire after the proper degree of heat has been attained. Creme d’Ananas.—(See page 172.) Mirlitons ATI Chocolat.—(Chocolate Tartlets.) These are nearly the same as fruit mirlitons: fourteen deep small tartlet pans are lined with thin puff paste, but no jam put in. Then beat two eggs, yelks and whites together; mix an ounce of butter beaten to a cream, and one ounce and a half of suo-ar, and two ounces of scraped chocolate; beat itDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 275 all tosetlier in a basin for half an liour. Pour the batter so made into the tins, lined with paste; they must be only half full; powder them thickly with sugai’j and bake them very lightly. Ramaquins. Any time in the morning, grate half a poun of cheese, either Cheshire or Gloucester; put it in a mortar with three ounces of butter, a pinch of raw mustard, a little cayenne and salt, pound for a quarter of an hour, then add the yelks of two eggs beaten : pound again ten minutes, then add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a strong froth, and a tablespoonful of cream, pound all another ten minutes, take it out of the mortar, set it on a plate in a cool place till wanted; it may stand several hours without injury: fill some paper ramaquin cases about three parts full, and set them in a very moderate o\ en for half an hoiu’; take great care that they do not turn brown: they must be served instantly with a fringed paper on the dish beneath them. Remarks. It is as ■well to caution against using carbonate of soda, as many cooks do; combinedI'witli cheese, it is sure to be unpleasantly pressed, and is only an idle way to save pounding. 18—2SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 276 Table Set for 14 or 16.277 DINNEKS EOK EACH MONTH. jREFEHENCES TO THE PRECEDING DlAGBAH. a Eperf^ne, holding lights and glass dish; group of holly and mistletoe. ib Assiettes montees, holding bonbons. cc Groups of fruit—grapes, oranges, apples, pine, and Marie Louise pear. dd Tangerine oranges, and lady apples. e Dates, decorated ivith bonbons. / Raisins and almonds, with bonbons. ff Dried figs, bonbons. A Half-dried cherries, and candied ginger. ii'ii Biscuits, viz.;—sponge-cakes, ma- caroons, vanilla biscuits, fancy bis- cuits. Kemarks and Directions for Dessert, No. 12.—Like the preceding desserts this supposes that there is a suspended lamp ; two torchettes of three lights each, must be added if there is not one. The centre of the epergne in honour of Christmas is designed without growing plants, which are replaced by holly. It would look well with dark-leaved holly in the middle, but that will look gloomy, unless more red berries are added than are likely to be found in any branches; they may be easily fixed by some very fine wire. Having arranged these in close form in the middle of the glass, fill up in a circle round with white variegated holly and mistletoe; the latter may fall a little over and have some of its white berries added to the stems by wire to increase the effect. With a brilliant light they will look very pretty. The arrangement can of course be reversed, and the white grouped in the centre. But the effect is not quite so good. In the top and bottom groups of fruit, the foundation of one may be American apples, of the other, common oranges, not too large. Tlie grapes will lie over them, and be surmounted in one disb by a pine, in the other by a large Marie Louise pear. For a December party the table can hardly be over-ornamented with bonbons, and the heavily piled up fruits at each end are more admissible than in summer. For the first time common dried fruits, such as figs, raisins, &c. are introduced in a dessert. They are not orna- mental, and after a large dinner are rarely attractive. It is in general, therefore, thought better taste not to crowd the table with such things, as they spoil the effect of prettier objects. 12 oranges. 12 American apples. 4 lbs. of Jersey grapes. 1 pine. 1 large Marie Louise pear. 18 lady apples. 18 Tangerine oranges. 2 lbs. of raisins, ^ lb. of sweet almonds. 2 lbs. of figs. 2 „ dates. 1 „ dried cherries, 1 lb. of candied ginger. Cakes and bonbons.278 Geneeal ReMAEuKS.- The twelve dinners just described contain ample for sixteen people, both in regard to quantity and variety. If the entree dishes should happen to be round, they would require less to fill them, and if the moulds should be of the modern reduced size, a rather smaller provision for filling each sweet entremet would be sufficient. When buying dishes, the con- venience of the round form and small size is worth remembering; for they can be made to hold a large quantity if required, whilst they look pretty with a small one when the party is not so large, which a heavy oblong silver dish never can. The foregoing dinners have, in fact, variety enough for twenty persons, and would only require the cutlets to be rather more numerous, two pounds in addition of the boiled fish, and the eternal saddle of mutton to be ordered of the lai’gest size; all the rest would be abundant. If, however, a greater succession of dishes should be thought desirable for a party of that size, one entree and one entremet chosen from other dinners would easily be added; but care must be taken to select that which will not be a repetition: such, for instance, as a blanquette de volaille, followed by boiled fowls. There is one of these repetitions which cannot always be easily avoided, for at dinner parties the boiled turbot or salmon is as much a matter of right to the guests as the saddle or haunchGENERAL REMARKS. 279 of mutton; tliereforo tlie iiievitablo lobster sauce is stationaiy, and pates and croquets of the same material become rather unmanageable to keep in their proper places. Some care has been taken to marshal the entrees with this difficulty in \dew, but not always with success. We will now consider these dinners with a view to reducing them. They may any of them be made appropriate for eight persons, by retrenching one soup, one fish, and one entree; the ever-recurring boiled chickens may be omitted, together with one of the dishes of roasted game, and one of the entremets or sweets. The work of discarding will be easier than that of adding; yet even this requires a certain degree of consideration. It is not unusual to hear cavillers on the topic of dinner-giving say that twenty people meeting together to dine, might just as well be satisfied with some plain roasted beef in company as they would be alone at home, and that it would be more reasonable as well as pleasanter for all parties, if ladies would provide for their guests just the same as they would do for their husbands. The fallacy in this remark consists in overlooking the fact, that the every-day fare would appear in company under very different circumstances ; all the acces- sories of a dinner-party—the lights, the dress, the little display of family treasures in the way of plate and china—would create a disagreeable con-GENERAL REMARKS. 280 trast between such bright and gay things and plain heavy mutton, potatoes and rice pudding: the want of keeping would be painful. Without taking into account the rapidity with which a single pi^ce de resistance would be discussed, and the sudden con- clusion of the feast, it will be allowed that there is a sort of fitness in the rule that the larger the O company, the more need there is for ceremony; and therefore for more display, including that of an elaborate cuisine. In this point of view, a dinner for eight people may properly consist of plainer materials than a dinner for sixteen; but there is another reason for rejecting out-of-the-way dishes, when the party is small: where there are fewer things to choose out of, it is not safe to run the risk of any of the guests finding them all dis- tasteful ; which might happen, unless some of them are of a simple character: if, for instance, in order to sj>are a superabundance, the boiled fowls are omitted, it is well to provide that one entree shall be plain cutlets, Avhich are things that can offend nobody; in the same way, of the two fishes, that which is made up with sauces (what the cooks call ‘‘ dressed ”) had better disappear; and the clear gravy soup should be preferred to purges, which are richer. Twelve dinners will now be presented for your consideration, drawn up with a view to be suitable for eight persons. They will consist for the mostGENEEAL EEMAEKS. 281 part of different soups, entrees, and entremets to those described in the twelve foregoing dinners. You m'ay perhaps find that in order to produce variety, the proposed simplicity is to a certain degree departed from. I shall remark where recourse may be had at pleasure to some plainer alternative. In o-ettino; up these smaller dinners, the previous day’s preparation "will be, tliougb on a smaller scale, much the same as those for sixteen people : the stocks will he made the same way, two (]^uai'ts and a half of No. 1 will he required, and one quart of stock No. 2 ; there must also he a small quantity of glaze reduced from stock. On the dinner day, the same routine will he followed by making at least a pint of very p’ood bechamelle as a foundation for all sauces, as to well as a small quantity of white sauce; muslmooms all the year round are indispensable for good sauces, and if not wanted for the entree will he valuable additions to every soup.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOE d[(irfc of iinitor, go. 13. (for 8 PERSONS.) MENU du Janvier, 18 Potage de Queue de Boeuf. Morue, Sauce d’Huitres. Salmi de Perdrix. Cotelettes de IMouton a la Sauce Tomate. Noix de Boeuf Braisd. Faisan. Mince Pies. Gelce de Pommes a la Creme. Kamaquins.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 283 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 13. I ■•♦O* ■ - Vinner of the of January, at a Quarter past Seven. Oxtail Soup. Crimped Cod, Oyster Sauce (to be handed). Stewed Partridges. Mutton Cutlets (Tomato Sauce in the dish). Stewed Beef, Pheasant (Bread Sauce). Mince Pies. Apple Jelly (with Cream). Ramaquins. Pkotisioxs for Dixxer, No. 13 (Single Entrees). List of what must be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 10 lbs. of round of beef. 8 „ gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. '2 „ fat bacon. 2 ox-tails. 1 basket of mushrooms, carrots, &c. 1 ounce of isinglass. 4 lemons. 6 fine apples. 1 bottle of tomato sauce. 1 „ Harvey sauce, mango pickle, Indian soy. Slince meat, spices, &c. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. 1 neck of mutton. 3 slices of crimped cod. IJ dozen of oysters. 2 dozen eggs. 2 partridges. Pheasant. 1 pint of cream. Seakale, cauliflowers.284 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR PoTAGE DE Queue de Bceuf.—{Ox-tail Soup.) Cut up two ox'tails, after having washed them well, put them into a hraising-pan with two slices of bacon underneath them, two carrots, sliced, two onions stuck Avith four cloves, some allspice, pepper, salt, a teaspoouful of sugar, and a hunch of sweet herbs; cover it with another slice of bacon and a quart of water, and stew gently for two hours. Take it out, choose ten of the middling-sized joints and put them by to keep warm; put the other joints, with their stock and vegetables, into another stewpan with tAvo quarts of stock No. 2, let it boil for half an hour; skim it and strain it through a sieve, return it to the stewpan; rub four ounces of flour into four ounces of butter, put it to the soup Avith the best pieces of joints Avhich had been set to keep Avarm. Simmer it all, stirring continually for a quarter of an hour ; add salt and cayenne, if wanted, and, the last thing before serving, two glasses of Avhite wine. This soup should be of rather a pale colour, and almost but not quite as thick as cream ; it should be helped Avith only one joint in each plate. Salmis de Peedeix.—{Stewed Partridges.) Take tAvo partridges that have been roasted: they will be more suitable if only lightly done; cut them up neatly into joints and leave the carcases; take offDINNEKS EOR EACH MONTH. 285 the skins, place them in a stewpan with as much good stock as will scarcely cover them ; set the pan in a moderate heat, covered, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put the carcases in another small stewpan; with two eschalots, a slice of lemon, a teacupM of stock, and a little cayenne and salt. Boil the carcases half an hour, take them out of the pan, strain the stock, and add it to the other pan, con- taining the joints. Put it back into the stewpan which had held the carcases, thicken it with a table- spoonful of flour, rubbed into two onnces of butter; boil it gently for ten minutes and add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, half a teaspoonful of sugar, a table- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, a teaspoonful of mango pickle, a teaspoonful of Indian soy and a tablespoon- ful of port wine; pour the sauce over the partridges into the dish: the joints look nicest, not laid flat, but neatly piled up in a heap with a nice round looking piece at the top. If partridges, not before cooked, are used, they must be cut up as directed and fried in butter and left to cool; then proceed as with ready roasted ones. CoTELETTES DE MOTJTON A LA SaUCE ToMATE. {Mutton Cutlets and Tomato Sauce.) They will be better plain crumbed and fried for this dinner than the braised cutlets ; the salmi being286 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TOR rich, and the braised beef, which is to follow, being the same. Noix DE Bceup Bkaise.—{Round of Beef Brais2d.) Have eight or ten pounds of the silver side of a round of beef; lard it with large pieces of bacon, about half an inch in thickness. Mix up into a powder some coarse salt, half an ounce of saltpetie, some fine herbs, six pounded cloves, twelve grains of allspice, an ounce of chopped onions and one ounce of brown sugar; put the beef into an earthen crock rub the powder well into the surface and leave it six or eight days closely covered, with paper tied over the lid. When wmnted to be cooked, brush off the powder, beat the beef well and trim it into a neat shape; then put it into a braising-pan with a few slices of bacon, two carrots, two bay leaves, and half a pint of stock No. 1; let it simmer gently for three hours and a half, or four hours; then take out the stock and strain it, return it to the stewpan or put it all into a braising~pan with twelve small white onions and as many pieces of carrot cut the same shape ; throw in a glass of white wine, cover the top of the pan with charcoal and let it braise for half an hour. Take half the stock and reduce it almost to a glaze; serve with the vegetables and stock round and pour the glaze over the beef. Tomato sauce may be used instead of the glaze, and looks well.287 DINNEKS FOR EACH MONTH. Gelee de Pommes a la Ceeue. {Apple Jelly with Cream.) Put half a pint of cold water into a stewpaii, and put into it six fine apples, which are known to boil clear, sliced without peel or core; simmer it till the apple is well broken down, then strain it through a fine tammy, and add four omices of powdered sugar. Pare eight more middling-sized apples, and take out the cores; pour the syrup just made upon them; simmer them till they are broken, and let them stand to get cold; then put them into a stewpan, with the rind and juice of a lemon, the white of four eggs beaten to a froth, and one ounce of isinglass; add to this the shells of the eggs, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; then pass it througk a thick tammy; put it in a circular mould with a hollow in the middle; and set it on ice for an hour before turning out. Make some cream as if for meringues, flavour it with a glass of brandy or some liqueur, and fill the centre of the jelly. Vanilla or pineapple will not do to flavour the cream, not being sufficiently decided in taste to suit the apples. Ramaquins.—(5'ee page 275.)SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR ^iW'k oj ginner, |la. 14. (for 8 PERSONS.) MENU du Fevrier, 18 Potage Julienne. •o* Turbot, Sauce de Homard. ■ ' — Vol au Vent d’Hmtres. Lapereaux a la Bourguignonne. Selle de Mouton. ."♦O* Perdrix, KX Pouding a I’Alleniagne. Beignet de Pommes. Scotch Woodcocks.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 289 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 14. Dinner of the of February, at a Quarter past Seven. Julien Soup. Turbot, Lobster Sauce (sauce to be handed). Oyster Pate. Stewed Rabbits (with mushrooms). Saddle of Mutton (with potato balls). Partridges (bread sauce). German Pudding (brandy sauce on the dish). Apple Fritters. Scotch Woodcocks. Pkotisions for Dinner, No. 14 (Single Entrees). Provisions to be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner, 8 lbs. of gravy beef. 3 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. i pint bottle of tomatos. 3 ounces of candied ginger. 1 „ sweet almonds. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Saddle of mutton. 4 lbs. of turbot. 1 lobster. 1 ^ dozen of oysters. 2 rabbits. 3 partridges. 2 French rolls. 1^ pint of single cream, 8 apples. 19SPECIAL INSTRUCTION'S FOR 290 Lapereaux a la Bourguignonne.—{Steioed Rabbits.) Cut two rabbits after being washed and set to drain into nicely shaped joints ; leave out the head: have half a pint of very small onion heads and as many button mushrooms half boiled in a little milk, or water; flour the pieces of rabbit and fry them with the half-boiled onions and mushrooms till they are about half fried; take out the mushrooms together with the rabbit, and leave the onions' in the frying- pan and fry till they begin to brown; then put all into a stewpan with a teacupful of stock No, 2; let it boil briskly, stirring it all the time for five minutes; add one ounce of flour, rubbed into one ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley; let it simmer, stirring all the while for ten minutes ; add a little cayenne, and salt to the taste; and two wineglassfuls of Sauterne if you have it, if not, one of sherry or Madeira; give it all one slight simmer to heat the wine; serve it, by placing the rabbit joints in a heap in the middle; when you have put half the pieces neatly on, pour on some of the sauce; arrange the rest of the rabbit so that no bones or corners shall stick out, and pour over the rest of the sauce; let the onions and mushrooms be placed round the dish.DESTNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 291 Selle de Mouton.—(^Saddle of Mutton.') As this will probably be carved at the table, it will be necessary to send it up a little ornamented; make a dozen potato balls as follows, and lay them a few on the top of the mutton, and a few on the dish; glaze the mutton over with a glaze brush before laying on the balls. To make Potato Balls. Boil or steam four large potatoes; peel and diy them thoroughly, mash them in a basin with two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, a little cayenne, a tablespoonful of cream, and the yelk of one egg ; put it in a mortar and pound it five minutes; shape it into balls the size of a walnut, cover them with yelk of egg and bread crumbs; fry them in butter. As tliese are not meant merely for ornament, but are very good, it will not do to fry them in anything but butter. The best clarified lard or dz’ipping is too coarse to use for potatoes, which take a greasy taste very easily; the same may be observed of bread sippets. PouniNG ATJ Chocolat. {German Chocolate Pudding.) Beat three ounces of butter to a cream; add to it three ounces of flour; let them warm together in a 19—2SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR 292 stewpan; then add three ounces of powdered choco- late, three ounces of sugar, and half a pint of cream; boil it gently till the flour thickens; then add the yelks of five eggs, and beat it all together for half an hour; beat the whites of three eggs to a froth; mix it in gently; line a mould with buttered paper, and fill it to within two inches of the top; steam it one hour. Serve it with hot custard (see page 320). Rice Pudding, with Chocolate Sauce. A plainer pudding may be substituted as follows:— Put a quarter of a pound of ground rice, one pint of cream, and half a stick of ~Vanilla into a stewpan; let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; withdraw the Vanilla; add one ounce of butter, and the yelks of four eggs; let it cool; beat it for half an houi, beat up the whites of three eggs to a froth, and mix it in gently; steam as above. Serve with half a pint of custard, with one ounce of powdered chocolate stirred well into it. Beignets de Pommes.—{Apple Fritters.) Peel some apples that are known by trying to become soft and clear on being baked in tarts ; cut them into slices not too thin : take out the seeds and soak them for two hours in brandy; then put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin; melt one ounce of fresh butter in two tablespoonfuls of water.DINNEKS FOR EACH MONTH. 293 do not make it hotter than is requisite just to melt the butter; and add a dessert-spoonful of brandy; work the flour into a paste, adding the brandy, water, and butter by degrees ; knead it all well together, then beat up the white of an egg to a froth, and beat the batter all together; dip in the apple slices and fry them in butter; cover them with powdered white sugar, and serve very hot a few at a time. Scotch Woodcocks. Split six anchovies, bone them and wash them well, and warm them before the fire. Take two esHS, and whisk them whites and yelks together with a table- spoonful of good cream; put them into a saucepan, and stir them continually over a clear fire till they become thick. Have a little tongue or hung beef ready grated. When these are prepared, toast a round of bread half an inch thick, and butter it well; lay the anchovies upon it while quite hot, and spread over them the boiled eggs, and sprinkle the tongue on the surface; serve whilst quite hot.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOR 0| iimw,r, 15. (foe 8 PEESOKS.) MENU du Mars, 18.. Potage de Legumes. Maquereau aux Groseilles. Soles frites. Homard a I’lndienne. Filets d’Agneau Fricasses. Filet de Boeuf Braise. Pigeonneaux. Petits Babas. Blanc Mange aux Abricots.295 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 15. • *04 * Dimer of the of March, at a Quarter past Seven. Vegetable Soup. Mackerel (with gooseberry sauce, garnished with fried soles). Lobster Curry (with rice). Lamb Cutlets (with cucumbers). Braised Fillet of Beef. Young Pigeons. Little Babas. Blanc Mange (with apricots). Provisions foe Dinner, No. 15 (Single / Entrees). List of what must be in the Kit 8 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. 2 baskets of mushrooms. 2 cucumbers. Young carrots, turnips, onions, celery, herbs. To be in the Kitchen ti 8 lbs. of best part of round of beef. 4 mackerel. 1 large lobster. len the Day before the Dinner. Indian soy, Harvey sauce, &c. 1 pot of apricot marmalade. 1 oz. dried cherries. 1 candied orange. Saffron. German yeast. Patna rice. Curry powder, and curry paste. Morning of the Dinner. 1 quart of green peas. 4 young pigeons. 1 pint double cream. 1 quart of gooseberries.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 296 PoTAGE Aux Legumes.—( Vegetable Soup.) Take two cabbage lettuces and one Cos lettuce; wash them, lay them in cold water for an hour, then cut them up into small strips; have two cucumbers peeled and sliced, a handful of sorrel also chopped up, two sprigs of tarragon, and two green onions chopped fine, and a little chervil. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, melt it, and set in the vegetables; stir it well till all the butter is taken up by the vegetables. Put two ounces of floiu’ into two ounces of butter, add it to the vegetables, then simmer it for ten minutes, and skim off any butter that may rise. Put into another stewpan two quarts of stock No. 1, add to it the vegetables, and boil it briskly, stirring well, for half an hour. The stock will be reduced to three pints; then add a pint of green peas, one dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a little pepper and salt; simmer it till the peas are tender. This, though a very nice soup, may not be thought suitable for a dinner-party. In that case any of the clear soups may be substituted. Where there is a garden any vegetable may be added for common use, as celery, carrots, and sliced onions. It is very good niade with thinner broth than the stock prepared for a dinner-party, and even water may be used, with a small quantity of gravy from any roasted meat, or a little glaze.297 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. Maqueeeau aux Geoseilles. Soles Feites. {Mackerel loith Gooseberry Sauce, ^c. Fried Soles.) Boil the mackerel iii a fish-kettle with a few pieces of fennel; four mackerel will he required for eight people. Make some melted butter of a quarter of a pound, as directed in Miscellaneous Receipts. Boil a quart of gooseberries till they are tender—the goose- berries must be not too young, as they ought to have an acid flavour; but they must not be turning ripe; rub the gooseberries through a sieve, add them to the butter with half a teaspoonful of white sugar, stir it to be quite smooth, and put in two table- spoonfuls of cream. Serve the sauce in a tm’een. A small tureen of fennel sauce had better be also sent up, as some people do not like gooseberries with fish; it is, however, quite an old English custom. The French invented the name, and still call gooseberries groseilles aux maquereaux, though they do not adopt the dish. Soles will be cut into fillets and fried; then placed round the mackerel, if the dish is to be set on the table. Shrimp sauce even more than any other requires perfectly well-made melted butter. In London, where shrimps are sent ready picked from the shells, there is no temptation to boil the heads in the sauce; it is done sometimes by country cooks, but it is a bad plan, spoiling it entirely.298 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOR Filets d’Agneau Fkicass^s. (Lamb Cutlets ivith Cucumbers.') Cut as many even-sized steaks as you can from a leg of lamb; put them in a stewpan, with some lemon-peel, salt, and a blade of mace, and eight white mushrooms, with some millc. Let the steaks simmer gently till they are quite tender; take them from the milk; pound up the mushrooms in a mortar, with a little salt and cayenne. Then put tlie steaks into a small stewpan with a teacupful of stock No. 2, a pinch of flour rubbed into a piece of butter the size of a nut, and a teacupful of cream, and the pounded mushrooms; let it simmer very gently, stirring all the time for ten minutes. Serve it in the form of a blanquette, that is, in a heap. Have a few more very small mushrooms ready boiled, and put them into the sauce the last thing. Some very neatly shaped sippets should be fried in butter, and laid in the dish. A shoulder of veal may be done whole the same way, and surrounded by either French beans or small pieces of cauliflower: the mushrooms are essential to its being good. Homabd a lTndienne.—(Lobster Curry.) Take out the meat of the tail and claws of a fine lobster, with the inside of the head chopped into very small pieces, and pound it as fine as possible299 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. in a mortar; rub it tlirougli a fine sieve, then put it back into tlie mortar, and add to it three ounces of butter; mix it, and pound for ten minutes ; then put in the whites and yelks of two eggs, with salt, cayenne, and a small pinch of nutmeg; pound it again for half an hour: it can scarcely be too much pounded. Make it into the shape of a lobster, put it into a mould made the shape of a lobster, and boil it till it is quite done through. It will talce a quarter of an hour. To make the sauce, put the body and shells, broken up, into a saucepan, and let it boil for an hour in a pint of water; strain it, and reduce the quantity by boiling to one teacupful; add to it a teacupful of bechamelle, half a teaspoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of flour; simmer it, stirring for ten minutes ; then add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a dozen blanched sweet almonds, chopped not very fine. Have a quarter of a pound of Patna rice boiled and nicely drained, so that the grains will lie separate. Place the lobster on the dish, pour the sauce all over it, and sprinkle the gi’ains of rice both on the lobster and the dish; make a little pattern on the top with some of the coral finely bruised; some small pieces of pickled walnut may also garnish the dish according to fancy. Remarks.—The least expert cook need not he afraid of succeed- ing in this dish: it may be put into a well-buttered mould of any shape, if preferred. It is very nice for lunch, and good cold for breakfast for those who like savoury things; for breakfast, it must be served in a cold mayonnaise sauce.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 300 Filet de Bceup Braise au Vin de Madere. {^Braised Fillet of Beef.') Take eight pounds of the silver-side of a round of beef, that piece which is whiter and of closer grain; prepare it neatly, and lay the skin part uppermost; trim off the skm; lard it with large larding bacon closely and deeply; line a stewpan large enough with pieces of bacon ; add tlu'ee carrots cut in slices, three onions, two heads of celery, one stuck with four cloves, some whole peppei’, a pinch of nutmeg, a bunch of herbs, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a little salt; put pieces of bacon to fill up round the sides of the pan, and pour two glasses of white wine over it, and fill up, not quite to the top of the beef, with good stock No. 1. Let it boil for ten minutes without the lid; then cover the top of the larding with three sheets of buttered paper, put on the lid, and set moderately hot charcoal on it, and leave in a very moderately hot part of the hot plate to simmer four hours, renewing the charcoal occasionally. Take out the stock, pass it through a tammy, and throw back to the beef that which will not go through; boil down the stock to a pint and a half, and thicken it a very little with a tablespoonful of flotu’ rubbed into a quarter of a pound of butter; simmer it a quarter of an hour, and add a glass of white wine, and a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, and a little cayenne. Lay the beef on the dish; if the larding301 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. looks white, pass a salamander over it, and then put on a little glaze : pour the sauce into the dish. When you take the beef out of the braising-pan, do not put the vegetables and other things which have been braised with it on the dish. This dish is inserted in the dinner by way of variety, thereby departing from the rule recom- mended of providing a plain joint for a small party: it can be changed at pleasure for a saddle of mutton or a plain sirloin of beef. Petits Babas.—{Little Babas.') Take half a pound of flour and half a pomid of butter; rub the butter in the flour with a pinch of salt; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, finely powdered; beat five eggs, whites and yelks together. Put a tea- spoonful of German yeast into a tablespoonful of cream, with a single pinch of carbonate of soda ; beat these together for one minute. Mix up all these into a paste with a tablespoouful of brandy, one ounce of preserved cherries, each cut in half, one ounce of candied orange, and a pinch of powdered saffron; knead it all, only just enough to mix it; the paste must not be handled more than necessary, and the whole mixing should be done quickly. Set it with a cloth laid lightly over it in a warm place, but not so near the fire as to be hot: by the side of a moderate302 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR fire will do, but not in the front of it; let it remain so for one hour. Make some cases of paper, the size of a tablespoon and the shape of a boat, by screwing the paper up at each end; butter them well, and fill them just up to the top of the paper; use a silver tablespoon to fill them. They must be laid on a baking tin, and baked in a moderate oven for half an hour, watched very carefully that they do not begin to burn, for the outsides must be quite a pale brown ; break up a little white of egg—it need not be a froth; cover the baba tops as you take them from the oven, and sift some very finely powdered white sugar over them; lay them before the fire five minutes, and serve. These are excellent without sauce, but may be served with sauce of wine or brandy if preferred; the sauce must not be in the dish with the babas: sixteen will be wanted for the party of eight, and they may be served in a pyramid, a piece of white fringed paper being laid on the dish. Blanc Mange atjx Abkicots. (^Blanc Mange with Apricots.) Boil a pint of new milk with three bay-leaves, and a small piece of cinnamon, for ten minutes; put one ounce of isinglass into a cup, pour some of the boiling milk upon it, let it stand five minutes, add it to the milk with a pint of rich cream; add a quarter of aDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 303 pound of sugar; set it on the stove; simmer it twenty minutes, stirring all the time with a silver spoon; strain it through a muslin sieve into a basin: add two tahlespoonfuls of brandy, and stir it till it is nearly cold; when it is just lukewarm, pom* it in the wetted mould. In March, hlanc mange need not be set on ice at all; in very hot weather, it must not he more than half an hour. Turn it out and make a circle round it of preserved apricots.304 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS POE iirtc uf Sinner, ga. 16. (for 8 PERSONS.) MENU du Avril, 18.. Potage a la Pate d’ltalie. Saumon, Sauce de Homard; Garni de Soles Erites. Petis Vol au Vents d’Huitres. Cotelettes de Veau. Quartier d’Agneau. K>« Poulard Pique. Beignets a la Pran9aise. Tourte d’Abricot a la Creme. Omelette aux Fines Herbes.DINNEES FOR EACH MONTH. 305 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 16. Dinner of the of April, at Half-past Seven o’Clock. *<>• Soup—Italian Paste. Mackerel, with Fried Soles round the dish (Fennel Sauce and Shrimp Sauce handed). Small Oyster Patties. Veal Cutlets (with Ham). Quarter of Lamb. Fowl (larded). French Fritters. Green Apricot Tart aud Custard. Omelet with Herbs. PnoTisioNs roK Dinnee, No. 16 (Single Enthees). List of what must be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 6 lbs, of gravy beef. _ 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. 2 „ fillet of veal. 2 dozen eggs. Vegetables. 1 ounce of sweet almonds. Orange-flower water, Italian paste, made the day before. To be in the Kitchen the Morning of the Fore-quarter of lamb. 2 dozen oysters. 2 soles filleted. 2 lbs. of salmon. 1 lobster. Dinner. Capon, larded. 1 pint of green apricots. 1 „ single cream. New milk, &c. Asparagus. 20SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 306 PoTAGE A LA Pate d’Italie.—{See page 219.) Petits Vol au Vents d’Huitees. Small Oyster Pates.—{See joage 114.) Cutlets op Veal and Ham, 'with Italian Sauce. Have two pounds of fillet of veal; cut tliem into small round cutlets, very neatly trimmed; cut some slices of raw or half-done ham, the same size as the veal; fry them in fresh butter, till they are a pale brown. Chop two eschalots very fine, and steep them in water for half an hour; then dry them, put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and a few muslu’ooms chopped very fine; let them become brown on the stove, stirring all the time; add to it a teacupful of b^chamelle, and a teacupful of stock No. 2 ; take the veal and ham out of the frying-pan, and add them to the sauce in the stewpan; simmer it all for three minutes, and set it in the bain-marie till wanted. The last thing before serving, add to it one tablespoonful of white wine, a teaspoonfiil of emon-juice, and a little salt and cayenne. Serve by placing the veal and ham alternately in a circle, and pour the sauce into the dish. Mushrooms and truffles, or any green vegetable, may be placed in the middle: the dish is very good with cucumbers prepared with vinegar, as for mutton cutlets.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 307 Bekjnets a Ll F11AN9AISE.—(^French Fritters.') Beat two eggs, yelks and whites separately; mix them with a teacupful of milk and flour enough to make a thick batter; put it into a pan, and fry it a pale brown; when cold, pound it in a mortar. Beat up the yelks of four eggs, and the whites of two; mix them with the pounded pancake, a spoonful of orange flower-water, one ounce of blanched almonds beaten to a paste, and two ounces of white sugar; pound it all well in the mortar, and beat it half an hour; drop the batter about the size of nuts into a large quantity of butter very hot; take out the fritters as soon as they are a pale brown and lay them on paper. Tourte d’Abricot a la Cr:^ms. {Green Apricot Tart and Custard.) Make some pufi* paste as at page 114; cut a piece rolled tolerably thick, the size to suit the dish; cut also strips an inch wide, and place them round the tart to double the edge. Have a pint of green apricots, prick them with a pin all over, and boil them in water till they are half done; take half a pound of white sugar and half a pint of water and make a syrup, and finish boiling the apricots in it till they are perfectly tender; if tire syrup is too thin, take out the apricots and boil it awav till it is thick •/ 20—2SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 308 enougli; add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Bake the pastry till it is rather more than half done, then put in the apricots and syrup and finish the baking ; take care it is not highly coloured. Custard. Half a pint of new milk boiled with the rind of one lemon cut as thin as possible, and a bay-leaf or laurel leaf; boil it ten minutes, add half a pint of cream, and boil ten minutes more; strain the cream and milk into a bason; add white sugar to suit the taste; when cold, beat the yelks of six eggs a c^uarter of an hour; strain them, mix them with the cream, set it on a stewpan on the stove, and stir it with a silver spoon tiU it thickens ; do not let it boil nor leave off stirring for a single instant; add two tablespooiffuls of pale brandy. Serve the custard in a glass dish to be handed with the tart. Observe, that to make custard, the stewpan must be extremely clean : wine would curdle the custard. Omelette aux Fines Herbes. (^Omelet with Herbs.) Beat up the yelks of five eggs; grate very fine a tablespoonful of lean ham ready cooked; chop up a teaspoonful of eschalot very fine, half a teaspoonful of parsley, and add it with a pinch of cayenne and a little salt; mix it well together with a spoon. Beat309 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. up the five whites to a froth, and whip the whole together for ten minutes ; remember that the yelks and herbs may stand any time after being beaten to- o-ether, but the whites must be made into a froth when ready to fry and added instantly; have a quarter of a pound of fi’esh butter ready melted in the omelet pan, but not boiling; pour in the butter and fry till the eggs are set, when it will be a delicate brown; it does not want turning, but must have the top salamandered as it lies on the dish. The plan among French cooks is often merely to break the eggs into the pan with the herbs; stir it all up together and fry—but this gives the omelet a curdled, untidy look; it is mentioned here because some people have a prejudice in favour of that sort of omelet; great care in both ways is required not to let it burn, and the greatest possible attention is wanted that the pan be exceedingly clean. If a plain omelet should be preferred, it will be made as follows:— Omelette ae Nateeel. Make it the same as the omelette aux fines herbes, leaving out the ham, eschalot, parsley and cayenne, and using only a little salt. If the omelet is for break- fast, it will be more delicate if done thus. Butter a soup plate, and pour in the batter. Set a large deep frying-pan on the fire with boiling water in it; set the soup plate in the water, and leave it till the egg is set. Salamander or not as you like.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR (ilaric of ghmor, |Jo, 17. (foe 8 PERSOKS.) MENU du Mai, 18- Potage— Queue de Boeuf Clair. Saumon, Sauce de Homard. Croquettes. Blanquette de Veau aux Champignons. • <>• Selle de Moutou. Canetons. Pouding a I’AHemande. Tartelettes de Cerises. — Fondu.dinners eor each month, 311 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 17. — Dinner of the of May, at Half-past Seven o'Clock. Clear Oxtail Soup. Salmon, Lobster Sauce (handed). Croquettes. Blanquette of Veal. Saddle of Mutton. Ducklings. Green Peas. Cherry Tartlets. German Marrow Pudding. Eondu. / Provisions for Dinner, No. 17 (Single Entrees). List of what must he in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 8 Ihs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. 1 neck of veal. To he in the Kitchen the 1 small saddle of mutton. 4 lbs. of salmon. 1 lobster. 2 ducklings. I lb. of marrow. 2 ox-tails. Young carrots, turnips, celery, herbs, &c. Morning of the Dinner. 2 Prench rolls. 1 lb. of cherries. 1 quart green peas. Early potatoes. Asparagus, i pint of single cream.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 312 Queue de Boiup Clair,—{Clear Oxtail Soup.') Cut up tM^o ox-tails into joints; put them into a stewpan with two slices of bacon undex’ them; put in two whole carrots, two whole onions with four cloves stuck in them, a few grains of allspice and whole white pepper, a little salt, a spoonful of sugar, and a bunch of sweet herbs; fill up to the top of the joints with stock No. 1, and lay two other slices of bacon on the top; close the pan, and let it simmer very gently indeed for two hours. Take out the joints and choose out only the middling sized ones; cut up the carrots into dice; put the chosen joints and carrots back into the pan with two spoonfuls of its own stock, strained, to keep warm. In another stew- pan put the rest of the stock strained, and three quarts of stock No. 1; boil it fast for full two hours; lift the lid for the last half-hour and let it reduce to two quarts, when it Avill be clear. When ready to serve, put in the joints with the carrots; drain both before the fire for a few minutes before putting them into the soup, that the stock about them may not spoil the clearness ; add salt and cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of white sugar. Croquettes a la Bourgeoise.—(^See page 169.) Blanquette de Yeau.—(^Blanquette of Veal.) Take a neck of veal; cut the meat off the bones, and make it into nice small cutlets, rather thin; rubDINNERS FOR EACH MONTII. 313 tliGin ovGi’ witli flour; put tlieni into a. braising-pan witli two slices of fat bacon, a little parsley, and an onion, and just enough stock No. 1, which has been boiled down to one half its quantity, as will all but cover them; put a buttered paper on the top; let it braise, simmering very gently for two hours; then talce them out, strain the stock, and add to it a tea- cupful of bechamelle; add a tablespoonful of lemon- juice, and one tablespoonful of white wine; if the sauce looks thin, ad.d a teaspoonful of flour, rubbed into a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and simmer it ten muiutes; serve by laying the cutlets in the middle of the dish, piled up a little one upon another ; pour the sauce over. Fry some sippets of bread, and make a wreath of them all round the bottom of the blanquette. Remarks.—This may he made of a shoulder of veal. It is an improvement to add some mushrooms to this dish, and also truffles; this, indeed, may he said of almost every entree. Some cooks mince up the veal into small pieces, and lay them in a heap, pour- ing the sauce over all; it is not so good as this, and looks like a rechaufice. PoTJDiNa A l’Allemande. {^German Marroio Puddmg.) Soak the crumb of two French rolls in a pint ot hot cream; or in a pint and a half of fresh milk, boiled till it is reduced to one pint; soak half a pound of beef marrow in water, changing the water twice; cut it into very small pieces, and add itSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 314 to the bread and cream, a little nutmeg and three eggs, the yelks and whites beaten separately; beat it all well up together, and add a wineglassful of brandy. It may be steamed in a mould lined with paper, or put into a dish and baked: if baked, there should be a light puif paste put round tlie edge of the dish; if steamed, it is an improvement to line the mould with ratafia biscuits, rather browned and pounded. Tartelettes de Cerises.—{Cherry Tartlets.') Make a short crust as follows :—Half a pound of flour, and half a pound of butter rubbed into it slightly; a pinch of salt, and a small pinch of carbo- nate of soda, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar; beat the yelk of one egg, with half a teacupful of cream; mix it all up together, handle it as little as you can to get it mixed; make it into a large ball; cover it with a damp cloth, and lay it on the marble slab till wanted. The cloth must be kept damp. Roll out the paste full half an inch thick, and line the p&te pans; lay a small piece of crust of bread in the middle of each; bake them about half an hour, and mind they are a pale colour. Have a pound of cherries; pick and stone them; hold them over a basin as you stone them, to save the juice; put a quarter of a pound of broken sugar into a small stew- pan ; add the cherry-juice; if there are not two table-315 DINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. spoonfuls of it, add water up to that quantity; boil the syrup briskly for ten minutes, stirring it all the while; put in the cherries wliile boiling; boil them for only one minute, put them into a basin to get cold. Fill the tartelettes with the cherries piled up, with as much of the syrup as they will hold; put a fringed white paper on the dish under them. Fondu. Grate a quarter of a pound of cheese, and pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and the yelks of eight eggs; boil a quarter of a pint of cream with two tablespoonfuls of flour; when cold, mix it well with the cheese and eggs, pounding for flve minutes ; whip up the whites of the eight eggs into a strong froth; put it altogether into a basin with a pinch of salt and a little cayenne, and whip it for a quarter of an hour; butter the fondu dish well, and pour in the batter; place a thick buttered paper round the whole outside of the fondu dish, and let it stand four or five inches above the edge ; it must be baked in a hot, but not a scorching oven, and will require about an hour; take care not to open the oven door till the fondu has been in twenty minutes. The management to prevent burning must be with the oven and the fire, as the fondu cannot be taken out till the minute it is wanted. To serve, take off the paper, have the silver case of the fondu dish hot, and put the dish into it.SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 316 d| Sinner, Jta, 18. (foe 8 PEHSONS.) MENU du Juin, 18. Potage aux Croutons. Smelts. Souchee de Plaice. Vol au Vent de Nesle. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Pointes dLVsperges. Selle de Mouton. Poulard Pique. Beignets de Riz. Charlotte de GroseiUes,DINNEES EOE EACH MONTH. 317 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 18. Dinner of the of June, at Eight o’Clock. Clear Soup (with crusts). Smelts. Souchee of Plaice, Brown Bread and Butter (handed). Vol au Tent of Cock’s Combs, &c. Lamb Cutlets, Asparagus Heads. Saddle of Mutton. Larded Guinea-fowl. Peas. Rice Fritters. Gooseberry Charlotte. Peotision for Dinner, No. 18 (Single Entrees). List of what must be in the IGtchen the Day before the Dinner. 6 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal, 2 „ lean bam. 2 „ fat bacon. 1 throat sweetbread. 1 small basket of mushrooms. To be in the House the 1 small saddle of mutton. 6 small plaice. 12 smelts. 1 larded guinea-fowl. 1 pint of asparagus heads. Turnips, carrots, &c. &c. 1 ounce of isinglass. 1 bottle of truffles. 1 „ cock’s combs. Carolina rice. 6 lemons. Morning of the Dinner. 8 small French rolls, the size of walnuts (must be ordered to be made). 1| pint of double cream. 1 q,uart of peas.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 318 PoTAGE AUX Croi1tons.—( (7Zear Soup loiili Crust.) This iSi niucli the same as soup a la jardiniere, with the additions of crusts to he made as follows :— Have eight small French rolls made the size of an egg; rasp them and take out the crumb; leave the crust, as much in their own shape as possible; put them into a very cool oven on white paper to diy for half an hour. Half an hour before dinner, put the crusts into a deep pie dish, and just cover them with some stock boiled away almost to a glaze ; set the dish on a trivet on a cool part of the hot hearth, till the stock is almost dried up. Have vege- tables of all sorts cut in thin strips—carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few small green peas, French beans, asparagus heads, and small pieces of white cauliflowers all boiled; the carrots, turnips, onions, and celery must be glazed in butter as before directed; put all the vegetables into the soup after it has been cleared by boiling away, as directed page 111; put in the crusts the very last moment. This way of preparing the crusts is what the French call gratiner, that is, to make them absorb a rich stock. SoucHEE DE Plaice.—{Souche'e of Plaice.) Lay the fish carefully in a small fish-kettle with a bunch of parsley, a little salt, and just sufficientDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 319 water to cover them. Put the kettle by the side of the stove where the heat is so moderate that they will scarcely simmer; cover the kettle closely and remove the lid every five minutes to skim off any cream that may rise; watch that the fish do not break, which they will do if the heat is sufficient to make them approach to boiling; if there seems no danger of breaking, they may remain by the stove three quarters of an hour; then add a tablespoonful of vinegar. Serve up the fish in a silver dish or any one deep enough to hold the broth; separate the bunch of parsley, and lay the pieces on the fish. Send up some thinly cut slices of brown bread and butter. Almost any small fish are good dressed in this way. Trout are excellent done so; but they must be exceedingly fresh for this purpose. Eels and soles are also very good; but they may be very gently simmered for at least an hour, as, though also liable to break, they will bear more cooking. Yol ah Yent de Nesle. (PoZ au Vent of CocKs Combs.) Make a puff paste as directed page 114; a good way may be adopted of forming the vol au vent shell thus: Roll out the paste after it has been three times rolled and left on ice till wanted; itSPECI^VL INSTEUCTIONS POE 320 must be an inch in thickness: lay it on the baking tin; then cut it nicely with a sharp knife, using the edge of a tin or mould of any kind of the shape you wish to guide your knife; cut sharply and press as little as you can on the top of the paste; then mark a shape by another mould one inch smaller all round, and cut the paste half through in that shape; cover the edge of the paste all round with yelk of egg, but mind the egg does not go over the edges of the rim, as it would prevent the paste from rising equally. Then bake in a very moderate oven; watch, when it begins to rise, slip a trivet under the tin, and when it is about half done, take a long slip of doubled paper and pin it round the outside edge of the vol au vent to protect it from too much heat: it will take an hour to be thoroughly baked; watch it^towards the end to see that it does not scorch. When the vol au vent case is done, take it from the oven, and without delay remove the piece in the middle : it will come off flake by flake; see that you leave sufficient at the bottom to support the sauce which it is to hold, and put ha some flakes at the bottom where the cutting has been, for fear there shoidd be cracks. Have the inside ready, which must be made as follows :— Blanch, by repeated soaking in watei’, a set of calf’s brains; and also prepare a throat sweetbread by steeping it in tepid water for two hours, then321 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. scalding it and cooling it in water. Let the brains and sweetbread boil, till sulRciently done, in as much stock No. 2 as will just cover them. Prepare also some quenelles, l^age 116; mould twelve in tea- sj)oons, and boil them lightly; have twelve button mushrooms, twelve pieces of truffles, and twelve cock’s combs; put all these together in a stewpau with a teacupful of b4chamelle sauce; rub a tea- spoonful of flour into a piece of butter, and add it with the calf’s brains and sweetbreads cut into pieces the same size as the quenelles; let all simmer together very gently for ten minutes, stir- ring with great care not to break the quenelles or the brains: put the whole into the case, and serve. Beignets de Riz.—{Rice Fritters.) Boil a quarter of a pound of Carolina rice in a quart of new milk, with a pinch of salt; it must simmer with the top closed very gently for six or seven hours, till the milk is all absorbed; stir it • occasionally, be careful it is not near enough to boil or burn; whilst the rice is still warm, bruise it with a spoon, and add an ounce of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of orange- flower water; beat the yelks of two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and mix them up well with the paste; let it cool, and cut it into pieces the size of a walnut. Have some butter heated in an 21SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 322 omelet pan; put a dozen of the heignets on a sheet of white paper, and lay the paper gently in the boiling butter : the heignets will swell and leave the paper; when they have become a pale yellow, take them out, and put them on a cloth ujjon a sieve to dry; take out the paper, and fill it again till all are done. Serve while very hot with sugar powdered thickly over, and send up lemon-juice in a diminiitive jug to pour over when taken on the plate. These heignets may be changed with advantage for a very nice little entremet. Biscuits 1 la Ckeme.—{Cream Biscuits.) Mix together the yelks of six eggs and three ounces of powdered sugar; pound four hitter almonds in a tahlespoonful of orange flower water; strain it through a muslin, and add it to the yelks and sugar. Beat up the white of four eggs to a strong froth, and in another bason whip a quarter of a pint of rich cream to a froth; then mix all three—yelks, whites, and cream—gently together; put the hatter into eight small round paper cases, the same as used for ramaquins; dust some sugar over them, and hake for five or six minutes in a tolerably hot oven. Serve immediately, as they are apt to fall. The biscuits may he flavoured with vanilla, or liqueurs instead of almonds.DINNER EOR EACH MONTH. 323 Chablotte de Ghoseilles.—(^Gooseberry Charlotte.) Make a cake tlie day before, as directed in the Misce]Ianeons Receipts; cut it out till tlie walls are half an inch thick. Boil a pint of gooseberries till they are quite tender ; dry them on a sieve; mash them up and rub them through a sieve. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, by pouring on it half a teacupful of milk hot, but not boiling. Have half a pint of best double cream; add to it the mill?; and isinglass, and the gooseberry pulp, with three ounces of powdered white sugar and a pinch of grated nutmeg; taste to see Avhether it is sweet enough, if not, add a little more sugar; which will be wanted, or not, according to the age of the gooseberries. Whip the cream till it is a froth; let it stand half an hour; then put it into the cake; press it in gently with a spoon, as you put it in by degrees; let it stand up as high as you can conveniently make it; sprinkle over the top a little green sugar. It must remain in a cool place, but not be on ice. The outside of the cake may be plain or glazed with some gooseberry syrup.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOR 324 of gimicr, 50* 19. (for 8 PERSONS.) MENU du Juillet, 18 Potage Clair a I’ltalienne. Rouge ts. Rissoles de Homard. Ris de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges, Selle de Mouton. Oison. -*<>*- Croquettes de Riz. Creme aux Praises. Pondu.325 DINNEES FOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 19. Dinner of the of July, at a Quarter before Eight o'Clock. K>. Clear Macaroni Soup. Red Mullet. Fried Soles (Shrimp Sauce).’ Lobster Rissoles. Lambs’ Sweetbreads (with Asparagus). Saddle of Mutton. Green Goose. Rice Croquets. Strawberry Cream. Fondu. Provisions tor Dinner, No. 19 (Single Entrees). List of what must be in the Kitchen 6 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. To be in the Ivitchen the 1 small saddle of mutton. 6 red mullets. 2 soles filleted. 6 lambs’ sweetbreads. 1 large lobster. the Day before the Dinner. Macaroni. Parmesan cheese. Rice. Morning of the Dinner. 1 young goose. 1 pint of asparagus heads. 2 baskets of strawberries. Macaroon cakes. 1 pint of double cream.326 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR PoTAGE Clair a l’Italienne. {Clear Macaroni Soujp.^ Put two handfuls of macaroni^ broken into pieces of half an inch, into a quart of stock, and boil it for a quarter of an hour; let it simmer gently till the stock is reduced one half; add more stock till it makes two quarts; rub one tablespoonful of flour into three ounces of butter, and mix it by degrees; add half a teacupful of cream; boil it gently for five minutes, and grate one ounce of Parmesan cheese upon the top. Rissoles de Homaed.—{Lobster Rissoles.') For nine or ten rissoles, one large, or two small, lobsters will be required; take out the meat, and pick out what is in the head, as well as the coral; chop it into pieces the size of a pea; add a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of salt, the yelk of two eggs, two ounces of butter; mix all well together; set it aside in a mass till wanted, in a very cool place. Make a common paste of a quarter of a pound of floui', and three ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, rubbed to- gether, and mixed with sufficient water to make it very thick; roll it out as thin as you possibly can to hold together—it must not be thicker than silver paper; put the lobster in, and make it up into the shape of cutlets; egg them, and cover them withDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 327 vGi'y fine and dry brcad-cruinlDS \ fry tlieni in frcsli buttei’j and serve very hot with a fringed paper on the dish; keep out a little of the coral, and sprinkle it over the top; this shows what the contents are, and looks pretty. Remarks.—Nothing is so often badly made as lobster rissoles. The chief of faults is to pound them, the consecLuence of which is to produce a close clinging substance like sponge, as disagreeable to eat as it is indigestible. The next fault is to put in anchovy sauce, and, still worse, nutmeg; both spoiling the peculiar flavour of the lobster. The covering of paste is recommended here, because it is an easier plan than merely covering with egg and bread crumbs; the last is more correct, but as the mass will not hold to- gether so well as if made with isinglass or glaze, it is difficult to keep the rissoles in shape. Since a few trifling breaks in the paste will not be of so much consequence in these as in croquettes, more attention may be devoted to the thinness of it than to the fear of little holes. i Ris DE Veau aux Pointes ©’Aspeeres. {Lambs’ Sweetbreads with Asparagus.^ One entree will require six lambs’ sweetbreads; or three calves’ throat sweetbreads will do. They L • must be steeped in water, then scalded for five 1 minutes, then put into cold water, and the same i repeated till they are white and plump; set them in a small braising-pan with buttered paper underneath, ! and a piece of bacon ; also a blade of mace, a little t. pepper and salt, and half an onion ; put another piece ' of bacon on the top, and a buttered paper ; cover the [ pan, and braise it on a hot plate, with some 1 iSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 328 charcoal on the top, for half an hour; put them on a dish to cool, and cut them into nice equal-sized slices like cutlets, removing any skin or gristle that may he easily got at, and shape them close together again; put them into a stewpan with a teacupful of h(^chamelle, heat them, add a tahlespoonful of good cream, and the last thing, before serving, a tahlespoonful of sherry; stir it carefully; put the sweetbreads in the middle of the dish, piled up into a pyramid; throw over them the sauce, and make a wreath round of asparagus heads or pieces of cucumber prepared as at page 138 : the cucumber is the nicest and prettiest. Remember, if the green is not very bright, to sprinkle over a little green sugar (see Miscellaneous Receipts). French beans are very good, or peas would do. Remarks.—Calves’ sweetbreads are of two sorts—the heart and the throat. There are many little dishes that the throat sweet- breads are just as useful for; that just given for example. Lambs’ sweetbreads have not quite so good a flavour, but are useful for vol au vents and other made-up dishes. CilOQTJETTES DE Riz.—{Rice Croquets.) Boil a quarter of a pound of Carolina rice in milk, with a pinch of salt; it must simmer very gently, and the milk may be put in from time to time; when the rice has absorbed all the milk, it will be done enough; it will take six or eight hours; then add to it a quarter of a pound of white sugar in powder, crush six macaroons, and take the outer rind of a lemon asDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. o2y thin as possible, and mince it very fine, also an ounce of fresh butter, and the yelks of two eggs weH beaten; mix all this very forcibly together, and let it cool; then cut the paste into pieces the size of a small egg, dip them in yelk of egg, and cover them with very fine bread crumbs; fry them like other ci’oq^uets, and serve them covered with powdered sugar. Sauce with wine or brandy in it may be served in the dish, or handed. Creme aux Fraises.—{Siraioberry Cream.) Have a pint of best strawberries, of a bright pink colour : the large overgrown sorts are not suitable ; pick them, and put them m a basin with a quarter of a pound of poimded sugar; leave them for twelve hours; put them on a sieve to drain ; the strawberries may be just pressed with a silver spoon, but must not be rubbed tlirough, as it will make the syrup thick; then add the juice which has run through to a pint of double cream; add a tablespoonful more sugar; pour half a teacupful of boiling milk.on three quarters of an ounce of isinglass; let it stand five minutes; put it into the cream; then whip it with a whisk till it is a froth: the cooks call the proper state a strong cream; ” wet the mould, cut a few fine strawberries in two, put one into each knob at the top of the mould; then fill up with cream; put it on ice only one hour before dinner.330 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Biscuits de Fromage. (foe 8 PEHSONS.) Potage Blanc. , ■<>» Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Rognons de Mouton au Vin de Madere. Blauquettes de Volaille. Selle de Mouton. Pigeonneaux. Compote de Pommes. Pannequets a la Fran9aise. ■ - ' ■DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 331 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 20. — Dinner of of August, at a Quarter before Eight o’clock. White Soup of Vegetable Marrow. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Mutton Kidneys (with Madeira). Ericasseed Chicken. Saddle of Mutton. French Beans, Potatoes. Pigeons, or Grouse. Vegetable Marrow. Mould of Apples, in Jelly. French Pancakes. Cheese Biscuits. Pkotisioks fok Dinner, No. 20 (Single Entrees). List of what must be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 6 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. 2 „ fat bacon. 8 mutton kidneys. 1 basket of small mushrooms. To be in the Kitchen the 1 saddle of mutton. 5 lbs. of turbot. 1 lobster. 5 pigeons, or 3 grouse. Carrots, turnips, celery, herbs, &c. 2 small fowls. 2 set of calves’ feet. 1 oz. of isinglass. Ratafia biscuits. Morning of the Dinner. 3 vegetable marrows. Apples. Peas, French beans. Potatoes, &c.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOR 332 PoTAGE Blanc.—(^White Soup of Vegetable Marroio.') Peel four fine vegetable marrows; take out the seeds and cut the marrow into slices; put it into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, some salt, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a little cayenne, and one onion sliced; let it stew on a very moderate fire till the vegetable is quite done to a pulp ; rub it through a sieve, then put it back into the stewpan, and add two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed ■with a pint of stock or any nice broth you may have; simmer it all for a quarter of an hour, and add more salt if wanted; then stir half a teacupful of cream or new milk boiled down to half its quantity; stir it while it heats altogether, and serve. Some dice of crumb of bread, fried a light colour in fresh butter, may be sent up or not at pleasure; or some croutons are also very nice. This is a very nice soup, but may be changed for Julienne if preferred. Rognons de Mouton au Vin de Madere. (fMutton Kidneys with Madeira.') Trim nicely six or eight mutton kidneys; cut them in two lengthways, and then slice each piece into eight or ten slices; put them into a stewpan with some small sized mushrooms sliced into nearly the same shape as the kidney; add a pinch of nutmeg, some white pepper, and half a teaspoonful of sweet herbsDIN2nEKS for each month. 333 very finely clioppecl; put in two ounces of butter; set it on the stove and stir it welb whilst it simmers briskly, for ten minutes; then add a teacupful of stock No. 1, and a tablespoonful of glaze; mix it all up together with another ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of flour, and stir it well whilst it simmers for a quarter of an hour; add a little cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of white wine. Serve by laying the whole in the middle of the dish, and make a wreath round it of leaves of puff paste very lightly baked. Remarks.—This entree is given here by way of variety, as it is good and may be liked; but it is perhaps more suitable to family parties where it may be ascertained that it would be acceptable. Any one of the entrees proposed for dinners of 16 may be substi- tuted for this one. Blanqtjette de Volaille.—{Blanquette of Foiuls.) Proceed as at page 210. Two fowls will be suffi- cient ; serve them by arranging in a heap, which is the chief distinction of a blanquette from a fricassee. If this entree is wanted for a smaller party, a single fowl would be enough, and a few small slices of ham or tongue may be laid between those of the fowl. A nice and very pretty finish may be made of bottoms of artichokes; boil six of them and lay them round the dish ; pour over some of the sauce, and lay a truffle in the middle of each. In August, a few of the late season peas may be laid on each, instead of the truffle, or a circle of peas only may be used.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOR 334 Compote de Pommes.—{J\£ould of Apples in Jelly.') Take ten small russets, or any small apples that by trial are known to boil clear; peel them very smoothly, and take out the cores with a cutter: the apple must not be divided ; set them in a stewpan ; sift half a pound of white sugar over them, add a teacupful of water; add the peel of two lemons cut very thin, some of it cut into strips the size of thin twine; put a piece of paper closely over all; set the pan on a very moderate stove; watch them very carefully, and as they get clear take them out; some will be ready before the rest, and must be directly removed, to prevent their softening too much; place them on a sieve, and let them get cold. Make one pint of jelly as at page 122 ; flavour it as there directed, with wine. The mould must be a plain one like a pudding mould; wet it and put in the jelly a quarter of an inch deep ; lay in a few of the strips of lemon-peel in any neat form; let the jelly set; then lay in five of the apples and a few more strips of lemon-peel; lay on those the other five apples, and fill up with the jelly; set it on ice one hour before turning out. The syrup must be saved, and will help to make an excellent apple tart, or may be used with rice another day.DINNERS EOE EACH MONTH. 335 Pannequets a la PEAN9AISE.—{French Pancakes.') Mix up four ounces of flour, three ounces of sugar, and a pint of cream; beat it for flve minutes, then add the yellis of six eggs, and the wliites of three, both beaten a little separately. Beat the whole for half an hour; add six ounces of powdered ratafla biscuits, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water; beat agaua a few minutes, and fry the batter in thin pancakes the size of the inside of a plate; put a plate on the dish they are to be served on, with a paper to cover it: do not turn the pancakes, but lay them on the plate with the brown side under- neath; sprinkle the top with sugar, then lay on another pancake the same way, and so on as many as you like, with sugar between each; lay sugar on the top and salamander it. Biscuits de Peomage.—page 125.)SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS FOR 336 Biscuits de Fromage. djiartii 4 9^* 21. MENU dll Septembre, 18- / / \ / Potage. Saumon, Sauce de Homard. Tendons de Veau. Pate de Venaison. Selle de Mouton. Perdreaux. Les Artichaux. Charlotte de Pommes. Gelee an Marasquin.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 337 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 21. Dinner of - of September, at Half-past Seven o’Clock. Giblet Soup. Salmon, Lobster Sauce (to be banded). Tendons of Veal, Sauce Robert. Venison Pasty. Haimcb of Mutton. Cauliflower. Vegetable Marrow. Partridges. Artichokes. Apple Charlotte. Maraschino Jelly. Peotisioks foe Dinnee, List of what must be in the Ki 6 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. 2 sets of goose giblets. 4 lbs. of venison. 3 lbs. of breast of veal. ^ set of calf’s feet. To be in the Kitchen th Small haunch of mutton. 5 lbs. of salmon. 1 lobster. 3 partridges. lo. 21 (Single Enteebs). hen the Day before the Dinner. 12 baking apples. Anchovies. 1 ounce of isinglass. 6 lemons. Vegetables—carrots, turnips, celery, spice, herbs, onions &c. Morning of the Dinner. Artichokes. Cauliflower. Vegetable marrow. 22SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR 338 PoTAGE.—{Giblet Soup.) Put two sets of goose giblets nicely trimmed and cleaned into a stewpan full of boiling water; boil them quickly for five minutes ; drain them in a sieve; throw them into cold water ; do this twice ; remove the skin from the necks and pinions ; cut the gizzards and livers into pieces of about an inch and a half square ; place the giblets in a stewpan with one head of celery, two carrots, two onions, two cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, and some salt; add to them a quart of stock No. 2, and cover the stewpan, and let them boil very gently for two hours; if the gizzards are then not quite tender, boil it again, still very gently, till they are; take out the giblets, throw them into cold water, and, having washed off any herbs, trim them into neater shape if they look ragged. Skim or strain the stock they have been boiled with, and put it in a stewpan, with as much more stock No. 2 as will make three pints; put it on the hot plate with three ounces of fiour rubbed into three ounces of butter; let it simmer a quarter of an hour very gently, stirring all the time; then let it stand in a cooler part of the stove and skim off any butter that may rise; then add a little cayenne; put in the giblets; let them heat well through; it will require about ten minutes’ sim- mering, during which time stir carefully; the last thing, throw in two wineglassfuls of sherry and aDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 339 tablespoonful of lemon-juice : send it very hot to table. Remaeks.—This soup can hardly fail to be good. The common fault of giblet soup is having the skin of the pinions and necks left on; all skin is strong and unpleasant in taste, and a disagree- able substance to eat. Giblet soup is also apt to be greasy; it will be well to recommend great care in skimming the stock and wash- ing the giblets after they are taken from the first stewpan. Pate de Venaison.—{Venison Pasty.) It -will be necessary to have a pasty mould of tin, opening with a hinge. Make a short paste of half a pound of butter, a pound of flour, the yelk of one egg, a pinch of salt; mix all into a stiff paste wdth sufficient water; knead it well, and roll it out an inch thick; butter the mould very thickly, and line it with this paste. Prepai’e the venison: any part will do; cut the lean part into small pieces about an inch square; do the same with half as much of the fat, and put it on one side to be used afterwards; put the lean into a small stewpan with half a pint of water, and let it simmer very gently for one hour; put it with its own gravy into a bason and let it get cold; at the same time let the fat simmer in another small stewpan for only half an hour; drain the fat; put it into the bason with the lean; when the meat is nearly cold in the bason, stir into it a glassful of poi’t wine and tvo tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, with a little white pepper and salt; when the meat is quite cold, put it 22—2340 SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS FOE in the pastry; press it to fill the paste entirely. Make a puff paste by rolling three times as at page 114; roll it out half an inch thick, and place it on the top ; cut the edges clean; cut out some leaves, of any shape you like, of the same puff paste rolled out as thin as possible ; bake these on a buttered paper. Bake the pasty about one hour in a moderate oven; watch it very carefully, and if the top seems at all becoming coloured, put a buttered paper upon it to protect it; when done set it to keep warm in the screen: just before serving, open the tin carefully where it has been closed, remove the pasty, cover the top with the yelk of an egg, lay on the leaves in pattern, touch them with the yelk of an egg, and set it before the fire for five minutes. The water that the fat has been boiled in will have some fat on the top when cold, which is well worth taking cai’e of. Chaelotte de Pommes.—{Apple Charlotte.) Make an apple marmalade of such as are known by trial to bake clear and soft as follows :—Take as many, according to the size, as will fill the mould when baked, peel them, remove the core and seeds, and cut them in quarters; put them iu a bason of water into which you have squeezed the juice of a lemon ; leave them a quarter of an hour; then diy them; chop them small, and put them into a stewpanDINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 341 without water; stir them as they get cooked, and add half their weight of white sugar; bruise two cloves, and chop a piece of lemon-peel very fine, and add it to them; leave the marmalade whilst you prepare the moidd; cut some pieces of white bread the thickness of bread and butter two inches wide and as long as the mould is high ; if the mould is smaller at the top than the bottom, narrow the bread a very little at one end in order that they may fit; cut some pieces for the top, so that they may fit nicely ; then let some butter melt in a soup plate, and dip the pieces of bread into it; dust them all over with sugar, the edges especially; butter the mould and set the pieces of sugared bread in quite close to each other so as to line it completely; put in the marmalade; make a little hole in the middle of the apple with a spoon, and fill it up with currant jelly or preserved apricots ; then cover the bottom with slices of bread; cover the mould, and bake it in the oven till the bread is a pale brown; turn it out, and serve. Eemaeks.—The difficulty in making an apple Charlotte is to know when it is just enough baked; nothing but experience can teach this point: it is worth learning. The French do not usually bake them in an oven, nor make the Charlotte in a tin mould, but in a stewpan of the size required, which is surrounded by hot charcoal, hot charcoal being also placed on the lid; the lid is taken off occasionally to see if the bread is turning brown.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR giunitr, Jo, 22. MENU du Octolire, 18. Potage aux Tomates. Truites et Smelts. Beignets d’Huitres. Tete de Veau a la Financiere. Selle de Mouton. Faisan. Croquettes de Pommes. Omelette aux Confitures. Tourte a la Franyaise. •<>* Ramaquins.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 343 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 22. Dinner of of October, at Half-past Seven o'Clock. Tomato Soup. Salmon Trout and Smelts. Oyster Fritters. Calf’s Head. Saddle of Mutton. Cauliflowers. Potatoes. Pheasant (Bread Sauce). Artichokes. Apple Crocjuets. Sweet Omelet. French Tart. Ramaquius. Pttovisioirs FOK Dinker, No. 22 (Single Entrees). Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. Turnips, carrots, onions, herbs, celery, &c. 2 bottle of truffles. 1 basket of mushrooms. 6 lemons. 2 dozen eggs. List of what must be in the 5 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 ,, knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. A small calf’s head. One ox cheek. 2 baskets of mushrooms. To be in the Kitchen the 1 small saddle of mutton. 2 salmon trout. 8 smelts. dozen oysters. 1 pheasant. 6 fine baking apples. Jlorning of the Dinner. 1 dozen fine ripe tomatos. Artichokes, cauliflowers, pota- toes, &c. 6 apricots, 8 plums, and 8 green- gages.344 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR Tomato Soup. This soup may be made of the fleshy part of the ox-cheek, or of any good part of the meat. It will require for two quarts of soup only one pound of meat, besides the stock No. 1, which will be in readiness. Put the pound of beef or ox-cheek into a stewpan with a piece of bacon under it, three carrots, two onions stuck with cloves, one turnip, a head of celery, a little allspice, pepper, and salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a small bunch of sweet herbs; add half a pint of stock No. 1; let it be covered, and place it on a rather hot place on the stove for five minutes; then place it on a moderate one, and let it simmer for an hour and a half; take out the beef, and cut it up with a sharp knife into pieces rather smaller than a nut; take out the vegetables, and strain the stock; put it into the stewpan with the pieces of meat, and let it simmer another half-hour. Cut the vegetables into neat pieces; then put nearly two quarts of stock No. 1 into another stewpan; add the meat with its stock and the vegetables; thicken it very slightly by one tablespoonful of flour in one ounce of butter; let'it boil for a quarter of an hour. Boil separately in water twelve fine ripe tomatos; set them on a sieve to drain; then with a spoon take out all the pulp, leaving the skins quite dry; pass the pulp through a tammy, and add it to the soup just before serving, with one teaspoonful of lemon-juice and a little cayenne.DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 345 Have a small teacupfiil of Carolina rice boiled tender, and add it to tlie soup. Remarks.—As some people like a stronger taste of tke tomato than others, it is a good plan to send the sauce up separately in a sauce-tureen; the rice is also sometimes handed by itself. Beignets d’Hditees.—(^Oyster Fritters.) Make a very stiff beignet paste as follows:—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, put it in a stew- pan, and just warm it, then beat it to a cream; beat up the whites of two and the yelks of three eggs, whites and yelks separately, with the creamed butter, a pinch of salt, a pinch of carbonate of soda, and one teaspoonful of the oyster liquor; add a quarter of a poimd of flour, and beat it hal’d for a quarter of an hour; it should be very thick, but if it should get too thick to beat, add another spoonful of oyster liquor. Beard a dozen and a half of oysters, dip them in the butter, and set into the frying-pan in boiling butter; let as much butter cling about them as possible, and it should spread out like a pancake; take a knife and turn up the edges of the batter over the oysters whilst they are being fried. Remarks.—These should look rough at the top and rather high; if they are flat they look very shabby. They 'will require to be done in a good deal of butter, in a small pan, and be crisp. The colour must be very pale, and the fritters ought to have a trans- parent barley-sugar look. Serve in a heap, with a fringed paper on the dish.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 346 Tete de Veau a la Financiere.—{Calfs Head.) A' small calf’s liead without the neck part will make this entree. Take out the bonCj and take out the brains and tongue; blanch the head by putting on the fire whilst the water boils, then let it boil for ten minutes; take it out and set it in cold water for ten minutes: do this twice, and then set it on a cloth to di’ain. When cold, cut it into | neat pieces all alike; they must be the size of a | mutton cutlet, but not quite so tliick; there will be ten or twelve of them; rub them over with lemon-juice; then put a buttered paper at the bottom of a braising-pan, and lay on the cutlets; put in a carrot, a head of celery, an onion stuck with two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pepper- corns, a small bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and a teaspoonful of white sugar; add to it half a pint of stock No. 2 ; cover it with a thick piece of paper well buttered, and cover the pan with the lid; set it on the hot plate to braise gently for two hours with hot charcoal on the lid; for the last half-hom’, lay the cutlets on a sieve to drain; stram the stock j and reduce it by boiling to a glaze; serve by placing j the cutlets round the dish, and put a little of this glaze | on each; put the brains, which will have been plain boiled, in the middle; cut tlie tongue in two, spread it out and lay it on the middle of the brains: pour some b(ichamelle sauce into the dish, which mustDINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 347 liave a, few pieces of niusliroom (and truffle, if tlie lattei’ is at hand) warmed up in it; a little cayenne and lemon-juice should also he added. This way of doing calf’s head is easy and good; hut it is made a more elegant dish when the hrains and tongue are not used, and the middle of the dish is filled up with vegetables, peas, or French heans. If spinach is used, it must he mashed up with a little hutter, some glaze or good hechamelle, and a tahlespoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar, with white pepper and salt. The tongue and hrains are ugly things, and may as well he made useful the following day for a private dinner. Ckoquettes de Pommes.—{Apple Croquets.) Bake half a dozen apples that are known to hake clean, with a clove in each, and a piece of lemon- peel; when the core has been taken out, remove all the pulp, and pass it through a sieve; put a quarter of an ounce of isinglass into a teacup, and fill it half full with hot water, not boiling. If the isinglass does not dissolve, set the cup in a pan of hot water till it does; strain it, and add to the Avater a quarter of a pound of white sugar; add it to the apples, and heat well for half an hour; turn it out, and set it to cool. Have a paste made of a quarter of a pound of flour with tliree ounces of hutter rubbed together with a teaspoonful348 SPECIAL INSTEUCTIONS EOR of sugar, made up thick with water; roll it as thin as you can. Enclose a large tablespoonful of the apple in each piece of paste; make the edges secure, then cover them with yelk of egg and very fine bread crumbs, and fry till they are a light yellow. Crumbs made of dry sponge-cakes, macaroons, or any sweet biscuit, would be better than bread. Omelette aux Confituees.—{Sweet Omelet) Make the omelet the same as Omelette au Naturel, page 309; let the omelet be rather thin in the pan; when the egg is nearly set, place some apricot jam on the top, and double the omelet over the jam. Lay it doubled on the dish; j^our a little butter over the top; then dust it thickly over with powdered white sugar; have a salamander ready heated, and brown the sugar till it is rather crisp. Toeete a la Feancaise.—{French Tart) Make a fine puff paste; roU it out an inch in thickness; cut it into a round the size of a cheese plate; place another cutter an inch smaller all round, and cut half through the paste; lift away the flakes that you have cut through: this must be done very carefully in a cool place. Make some strips of the pieces you remove, and with them make bars dividing the inside of the tart into three partitions;DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 349 put crumb of bread to fit the spaces between the bars; bake it a very light colour in a rather quick oven for about three quarters of an hour; cover it whilst baking with a buttered paper if there seems any fear of its turnmg yellow; take it from the oven; remove the bread, and if the spaces are at all filled up with the rising of the pastry, cut the pastry away with a sharp knife. The fruit must be ready pre- pared as follows: have some nice coloured apricots; peel them, and remove the stones; cut them in half; also eight greengages, or ten if small; peel them; take out the stones, and leave them whole; and do the same with six or eight red plums, according to the size : wine-sour plums, if they are to be had, are the proper fruit. Set all three in separate small stew- pans, with a teaspoonful of water each, and two tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar; let them simmer five minutes very gently, take them out of their syrup, put them in separate basins, and add to the syrups in the stewpans three tablespoonfuls more of sugar to each of the plums, and two to the apricots; boil the syrups for five mmutes; pour each syrup on to its own fruit; let them stay till nearly cold; then put the fruit one sort into each division of the tart as you withdraw it from the oven. Break the stones, blanch the kernels, and put them on their own fruit, and serve. This tart, which is very pretty, may be made with preserves, when, after putting it into the tart, it must be replaced in the oven for three minutes.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR (L'nHc of Sinner, JI0. 23. (for 8 PERSONS.) MENU dll - Novembre, 18- Potage au Tortue. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Petits Pates d’Huitres. Salmi de Levreau. Selle de Mouton. Woodcocks. Compote de Poires a la Cardinale. Creme a I’ltalienne. Eondu.351 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 23. Dinner of of November, at a Quarter past Seven o'Clock. Mock Turtle Soup. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Oyster PMes. Jugged Hare. Saddle of Mutton. French Beans. Potatoes. Woodcooks. Artichokes. Baked Pears. Italian Cream. Fondu. Pnovisioxs FOK Dinner, No. 23 (Single Entrees). List of what must be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 5 lbs. of gravy meat. j 3 ,, lean ham. 1 calf’s head. Bacon. 1 i lb. of rump steak. 1 hare. To be in the Kitchen the A smalt saddle of mutton. 6 lbs. of turbot. 2 dozen oysters. 1 lobster. Turnips, carrots, onions, celery, herbs, shalots, &c. 4 largest baking pears. 5 ouuce of isinglass. 4 „ candied ginger. 2 dozen eggs. Morning of the Dinner. 4 woodcocks. Artichokes. French beans.SPECIAL INSTKUCTIONS EOR 352 PoTAGE EN Toettje.—{Mock Turtle Soup.) Scald a calf’s head, and take off all the meat from the hones and put the meat into cold water; then put it into a stock-pot with the tongue, some slices of knuckle of ham, two onions stuck with four cloves, two carrots, one head of celery, a hunch of herhs, a hay-leaf, some salt,, and a teaspoonful of sugar; add a pint of stock No. 2 ; cover it with the lid, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Take out the meat and tongue; strain the stock through a tammy; add to it as much stock No. 2 as will make it five pints. Cut up the head into neat pieces an inch square or rather more, and the tongue the same; set the stock on the fire with the meat and tono'ue; let it hoil till it is reduced one pint, that is, till there remains in all two quarts; then ruh a quarter of a pound of flour into a quarter of a pound of hutter ; add it to the soup; let it simmer gently, stirring carefully all the while, for a quarter of an hour; add a tahlespoonful of lemon-juice, and a little cayenne and salt to taste; put in a teacupful of wdrite wine the last thing. The brains must be made into bails, thus: bruise them when boiled with a spoon; add two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley; beat up the yelks of two eggs; mix all together, and let it get cold; then take a small piece, cover it with yelk of eeg, make it the shape of a ball by rolling it in breadDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 353 crumbs ; make all the mass thus into balls ; then fry them a very light brown in some very fresh butter ; lay them on a cloth to keep hot till serving, and put them in the soup the last thing. If there should be too much meat to look well in the soup, keep some out for another day, and make up soup for it with some fresh stock. Salmi de Leveau.—{Jugged Hare.') Cut up a young hare into joints after washing it, and trim them nicely; drain them and sprinkle them with salt. Have a three-quart jar made with a cover; put into the bottom a pound and a half of rump-steak, half a pound of fat bacon cut in slices, a large onion stuck with cloves, twelve whole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs; put in the pieces of hare, and half a pint of stock No. 1; lay a few slices more of bacon on the top, cover the jar with the lid, and tie two or three folds of thick paper very tightly over the top; set in a large pan of boiling water for half an hour, then take it out, wipe the jar dry, and place it in the oven, provided it is cool; if the oven should be too hot, place it on a very cool part of the hot hearth, or by the side of the fire, for about eight hours ; take the hare out; lay it on a dish; then strain the contents of the jar through a cullender 01 open sieve mind it is not a close one; put the hare back into the jar with half a pint of its 23 own354 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR stock; cover it close, set it in a -warm place and keep it hot; put the rest of the stock in a stew- pan, set it on the hot plate with a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of flour, some cayenne pepper, and salt if avanted; stir it while it simmers for a quarter of an hour ; add two glasses of port wine, two tablespoonfuls of clear red currant jelly, and a teaspoonfnl of sugar; warm it, stirring well, but do not let it boil; put it into the bain-marie till wasted. The liver should be boiled, pounded fine in a mortar, and added with thickening to the sauce. Place the pieces neatly in the middle of the dish, some of the roundest at the top, and pom' the sauce over them. For an entree for company this is more elegant Avithout forcemeat balls, which are common both in taste and appearance; if they are liked,' they can easily be added for the family. Compote de Poires a la Cardinale. {Baked Pears.') Have four of the large hard English baking pears ; peel them, and cut them in halves; put them in a stewpan with a glass of port wine, two ounces of white sugar, two cloves, and two tablespoonfuls of water; cover them and let them simmer very gmitly for tA^ hours; for the last half-hour, put in aDINNEES FOR EACH MONTH. 355 piece of cinnamon; take away the juice, strain it, and serve with the juice on the dish. Cbeme a l’Italienne.—{Italian Cream.) Have three pints of best double cream; dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in half a teacupfu of milk: the isinglass may he in a cup, and the milk hot, but not boiling, poured over it; let it stand till cool, hut do not set or strain it; add it to the cream; add six ounces of finely pounded sugar, and a wine- glassful of brandy; cut a quarter of a pound of ginger, either candied or preserved, into pieces rather larger than a pea; whip it with a whisk till it is a frothy cream all alike, and let it stand in a cool place for half an hour. Have the mould ready; dip it in cold water, and fill it, pressing the cream into the mould with a silver spoon; stand the mould in a cool place (but not in ice), until one hour before serving. Ihis quantity is meant to fill a large-sized mould, ■svhich will not he too much for eight people when there are hut two sweets; smaller moulds, holding three pints the two, would he enough for double entrees. 23—2356 SPlfCIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR iimujr, |t0. 24. (FOK 8 PERSONS.) MENU du Decembre, 18 Soupe aux Cotelettes de Mouton. Morue Bouillie, Sauce d’Huitres. Rissoles de Homard. Cotelettes de Lard. / Bocuf Eoti. Dindon Roti. Creme aux Confitures. / r \ ) Plum Pudding.DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 357 BILL OF FARE OF DINNER, NO. 24. K>« Dinner of of December, at a Quarter past Sei^en o'Clock. Haricot Soup. Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce (to be handed). Lobster Rissoles. Pork Cutlets (Apple Sauce in the dish). Sirloin of Beef. Roasted Turkey (Bread Sauce handed). Trifle. Plum Pudding (Brandy Sauce handed). Provisions foe Dinner, No. 24 (Single Entrees). List of what must be in the Kitchen the Day before the Dinner. 5 lbs. of gravy beef. 2 „ knuckle of veal. 2 „ lean ham. 2 „ fat bacon. 1 „ neck of mutton. 3 „ loin of pork. 1 „ suet. Turnips, c.arrots,bay-leaves, &c. 1 ounce of citron. 1 „ candied peel. 1 lb. of raisins. 1 „ best currants. 1 ounce of sweet almonds. 2 „ bitter almonds. 1 „ isinglass. 3 dozen eggs. Spices, &c. To be in the Ivitchen the Morning of the Dinner. Sirloin of beef. 6 lbs. of crimped cod. 2 dozen oysters. 1 lobster. Turkey sausages for forcemeat. Apples. 6 lemons. 1 pint double cream. 1 „ single cream. 6 sponge biscuits. Brandy.358 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS EOR SOTJPE AUX CoTELETTES DE MOTJTON.—(Hai'icot Soup.) Trim a neck of mutton of great part of the j fat; put it into a braising-pan with some slices ] of bacon underneath it; lay round it two turnips, two carrots, two onions stuck with cloves, two heads of celery, a hunch of herbs, some whole pepper, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, some salt, and a very little allspice, a small sprig of tarragon; fill up with stock No. 1 to the edge of the mutton, and cover the top of the meat with bacon; let it simmer very gently for three hours. Take it out, let it get cold, skim and strain the stock and save . the v'egetables ; then cut the mutton off the bones, > and make cutlets ten or twelve in number neatly trimmed, half an inch thick and the size of a large half-crown—there must he no fat on them ; put them into the frying-pan with some fresh butter, boiling at a great heat; let them stay only just long enough for the outside to become slightly coloured. Put , into another stewpan the strained stock, and as much more of stock No. 1 as will make two quarts; rub three ounces of flour into three ounces of butter, | and add it to the stock with a small dessertspoon- j fill of white sugar, a teaspoonful of mushroom | ketchup, and twenty drops of Indian soy; simmer | it for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the while; j put in the cutlets the last thing, and some vege- tables ; if those which have been braised hold wellDINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 359 tofjetlisrj cut a few neatly shaped pieces off each, about enough to fill a teacup and put them in; if they are too soft, some fresh vegetables must be boiled and glazed in butter; it will be seen Avhen the first braising is finished whether the vegetables are fit for use: that will depend on the heat of the stove they have been braised upon. Remarks.—This may not he considered a soup for ceremonious parties, but if this dinner is intended chiefly for gentlemen, it will certainly be liked; if not, a clear Julienne soup may be substituted, which is suitable for all occasions. CoTELETTES DE Lakd.—(^Porh Cutlets.) Cut ten or twelve meat cutlets without bone from the loin; leave a nice portion of fat to each, and take care they are not thinner than an inch. They require neither flour or crumbs, but must be fried a nice light brown in butter; lay them on a sieve and sprinkle them with finely powdered sage, and put them as close as possible to the fire till the minute they are wanted. Have some sauce ready, made thus: put the trimmings of the cutlets and some of the bones, without any fat, into a small stewpan with a pint of water, three leaves of sage, a small onion, and a little salt and pepper; cover it, and let it stew several hours ; pass it through the sieve, and reduce the stock to half a pint by boiling; then thicken it with half an ounce of butterSPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR 360 and half an ounce of flour; add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and ten drops of Indian soy to colour it. Make apple sauce thus: peel six apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the core and seeds; put them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of water; set it on a moderate stove covered closely till the apple is done and clear; sweeten it to taste with white sugar, and half an ounce of butter; beat it well up, place the cutlets round the dish, put the apple in the middle, and pour the sauce into the dish. In another way, some French beans cut small and plain boiled may be heaped up in the middle • of the dish, the gravy poured in the middle, and the apple sauce put round the outside of the cutlets ; they are better without a bed of rice. Remarks.—This is a dish fit to present to any company, if it be served very hot; but all depends on that. No amount of remonstrance can be out of place if the cook should fail in that particular merit: the entree would be merely Avasted if served cold, and as there are but two entrees to this dinner, it Avould fall very short. The frying of the cutlets also should be done as short a time as possible before serving up, as keeping hot is not the same thing as coming hot from the pan. The only difierence between these cutlets and pork chops is, that the latter have the bone left with the meat, and are cut a little thicker still. Ceeme aux Confitures.—{Trifle.) A rather larger dish is better to serve a good trifle in than the entree dishes now in use ; a glass dish, therefore, may be substituted with advan-DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 3G1 tao'e. Place at the bottom of the dish six sponge hiscnitSj closely side by side; pour over them as much white wine as they will absorb; then cover the biscuits with ratafia cakes, and pour a little of the wine upon them. Make a custard of half a pint of cream boiled with the rind of one lemon cut very thin and two bay-leaves; boil it ten mi- nutes, then add another half-pint of cream, and boil ten minutes more; strain the cream into a bason, sweeten it to your taste. '^Vhen cold, beat the yelks of six eggs a qua^’ter of an hour; strain them with the cream, set it on the fire, and stir with a silver spoon till it thickens; put this to cool whilst you whip up a pint of cream; sweeten the cream with sufifar Avhich has been nibbed on a lemon, and add to it one tablespoonful of brandy; as the froth rises, take it off in a spoon, and lay it on a dish, and leave it to become a little firm. This being done, cover the cake with raspbeny jam; pour over it the custard, and pile up the froth of cream as high as possible; some pink sugar and green sugar may be placed on the top, according to fancy. This is a very old-fashioned dish, but so good that it is a pity to let it become obsolete: it is, besides, so simple to make that there is no chance of failure.362 THE PLUM PUDDING. Plum Pudding. Chop very finely a pound of suet—it must be extremely fresh and carefully picked from all skin, half a pound of flour and half a pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of citron, one ounce of candied orange and lemon peel, half a nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of salt, a pound of best currants carefully washed and dried on a cloth, a pound of raisins well picked and stoned, half an ounce of bitter almonds, one ounce of sweet almonds chopped, six eggs beaten yelks and whites together, and a glass of brandy ; mix it up together, with as much milk as will make it too thick to be poured, but not thick enough to be handled as paste : it only wants mixing well together—no kneading or beating—■ and must be made six hours before it is put into its mould; then line the bason or mould with a buttered paper, press in the pudding, lay a buttered paper on the top, tie a thick pudding-cloth closely over it, and boil for six hours: for Christmas day stick a pretty branch of holly with its red berries on the top, Avith a little frill of cut white paper where the stick goes in. Serve with sauce made of half a pint of very nice melted butter, a wineglassful of br^indy, and sugar to the taste.363 THE PLUM PUDDING. Remarks. And so our double cycle of ceremonious dinners ends with a plum-pudding. Where could we find a more appropriate climax for our English bills of fare, or so fit a dainty either to close the culinary year or to begin the next? Are we not weary, dear reader, of our cookery—weary of contri\dng the best, easiest, and least wasteful ways of catering for fastidious appetites—weary even of settling how we shall most clearly describe the composition of our plum-pudding ? Let us repose a moment and talk about it. As to its history I am not very learned; but I know at least that we cannot assign to its existence any very high antiquity. In the compilation of re- ceipts made by Richard the Second’s “ master cooks,” we find no trace of it; nor is there any in that other manual of ancient cookery, dated A.D. 1381, which we have already alluded to. Most of the materials were, however, at the cook’s command at that period. They had spices and used them in profusion, also almonds and raysons of Corance, and they were beginning to use sugar to replace their honey ; there was almost everything but the genius to combine them. Regretting, then, that our antiquarian re- searches will not help us to the knowledge of when plum-jnidding came first to light, we may at least affirm that at whatever time it might have appeared in England, it is still virtually non-existent in foreignTHE PLUM PUDDING. 364 lands. I look for it in vain in a German manual of cooking, whilst a French one only gives “plum-pou- ding,” converted by the addition of milk into a sort of poi'ridge, boiled in a cloth, and accompanied by an inexplicable sauce. The cloth, however, ought not to be quarrelled with, since it is a decided ame- lioration of the pouding’s ” earlier treatment; for the first essay our neighbours made upon it was to col- lect all the materials, and throw them into a boilino- O pot without either cloth or mould. It would seem that, after breakfasting on ragoilts and wine, their tastes are too delicate to accept anything so strong and coarse as an English plum-pudding, and therefore they disdain to do it justice ; however, we shall not desert it on that account, but rather treasure and admire it the more. And truly a wonderful composition is this same plum-pudding! Let us forget for a moment all that is sentimental about its histoiy—those remem- brances of childish glee, and later soberer happi- ness, when at Christmas gatherings we have seen it in its glory—and consider it in itself as a marvellous product of modern civilization. How few ever think that every quarter of the globe has contributed to the small conglomeration which they see upon their plates ! Horace’s supper, even if the wines had really come from Chios and all the exotic dainties had been genuine; or Monte Christo’s dinner with its fishes from the mouths of the365 THE PLUM PUDDING. Volgca and from the Italian lakes, and his wines from the Archipelago and the Cape—must have been commonplace in composition, compared with om’ chief Christmas dish. Think of its materials— spices from India and every island of the Pacific, raisins from Asia Minor, currants from Corinth, almonds from Italy, citrons from Spain, oranges from St. Michaels, brandy from France, sugar from Jamaica: there remain only the flour and the eggs that can possibly belong to us; and we are not sure that the last has not travelled from France, and the first from America. Yes, we forget: there is one ingredient, not the most refined, yet honestly home-produced— the suet, a genuine portion of the roast beef of Old England; and so, in spite of foreign contributions, we may call it a national dish, and a monument of the country’s unrivalled commerce. But national though it be, the plum-pudding may, in one sense, be called cosmopolitan; for when Christmas comes round, it will be welcomed in India, in Canada, in Africa, and now even in China, as well as by friends (to some, dearer than any) in that especially English continent on the opposite face of the earth, who will honour it duly, not on our Christmas day, but on our ChristmasTnight: for they are banished, alas! half the clock-round away from us. Everywhere the plum-pudding is at home: let us hope, in a parenthesis, that every- where, it may be produced from a receipt as good as366 GENEKAL REMAEXS. that which we have been discussing. But we have not traced yet all the haunts of our plum-pudding at home: it is not for the parlour only, but for all tables; for the noisy kitchen, and even—in a mitigated form of indigestibility—for the quiet nursery; for the cottage and the workhouse. Let us delight to think that it is carried by kind hands also into the Avretched tenements in squalid corners of this great city and all other cities of the Queen’s dominions great and small. But this reminds us that we have yet work that must he done; so we must return to business. We have been hitherto spreading tables for those who are, to a certain degree, luxurious, if not over- wealthy ; bnt there are yet the quiet dinners of a few familiar friends to be provided for, and the daily home dinners to be made nice and neat. There are those to be assisted who are obliged to observe a strict economy; and last, not least, there is the task to be accomplished of teaching our poorer neighbours hoAv to improve their miserable, and yet waste- ful, mode of cooking. But before we proceed so far, there are yet a few words to be said about the work we have already accomplished. The number of what used to be called “ made dishes ” which^are described in these twenty-four dinners, forms a meagre list compared with that367 GENERAL REMARKS. coutained in most cookery books: in more than one standard modern work on the subject may be found five hundred pages or more of nothing but receipts. Yet the apology that I should now like to make is, not for affording so few, but for offering so many. There are but a certain set of materials to combine hi various ways, and there are only a certain number of productions which most people like. Imagine, then, fifteen hundred receipts ! Who is to decide which is the best method of arriving at this certain limited number of acceptable productions ? It would take a cook about five years to experiment on one each day, after her mistress had expended the best part of a morninff in choosino; which she should besin upon. In the way of information, the principle of selec- tion rather than that of accumulation seems most likely to afford available assistance to a young cook. All, therefore, that can be requmed at dinner-parties has been described in the preceding pages; and in each instance that one method out of many has been chosen ivliich has been found the best, and most easily and effectually practicable. A much more limited repertoire than the one here offered would afford abundant variety for an accomplished dinner giver. If it were not that the method of proceeding, in nearly all the receipts, has been reduced to a certain uniformity and simplified by the previous compositionGENEKAL KEMAEKS. 368 of tlie requisite stocks, I should fear that the pro- posal for you to place even this limited number of receipts hr the hands of your yet partially accom- plished artist would be highly injudicious ; but you will observe that to begin with those stocks ready produced, or at least thoroughly understood, shortens every receipt one half, and leaves leisure for the remaining directions to be easily followed. By this plan, every new receipt that is worked out will be found in a manner explanatory of those which have gone before, and appear like a repetition of an old lesson with certain variations; the old arid the new being illustrative of one another. As, in both these sets of dinners, you may like to make some variations, by way of rendering it easy to choose other dishes that may not spoil the arrange- ment of the carte, a list is here made out, with all the component parts classed. Whatever may not be approved of in any dinner has only to be sought for in the list, and anything else included in the same bracket may be adopted without further considera- tion. It is hoped that this plan may save both time and trouble.369 LIST OF DISHES FOR SELECTION. POTAGES. Page rConsomme aux Legumes 111 Potage a la Brunoise - 131 a la Julienne - 149 Consomme a la Vermi- celle - - - - 167 J Potage Printanier - - 179 I aux Croutons - 318 de Queue de Bccuf Clair - - - - 312 Consomme a la Pate d’ltalie - - - 219 .Potage de Levrau Clair - 241 Pago f Potage a ITtalienne - 111 de Legumes 208 a la Reine - - 131 Potage aux Huitres - 149 d’Asperges - - 167 Puree de Pois Verts 195 Consomme de Volaille aux Quenelles - - - 179 , Potage Blanc - - - 195 j de Homard - - 207 aux Articliaux - 219 a la Palestine - 230 de Macaroni - 241 aux Carottes - 253 a la Crecy - - 266 Mulligatawnie - 267 en Tortue - - 352 ^Giblet Soup - - - 338 ENTREES. Petits Vol- au Vents d’Huitres - - - 114 Croquettes d’Huitres - 133 Beignets d’Huitres - - 345 '’Petits Vol au Vents de Homard . . - 391 Croquettes de Homard - 269 Vol au Vent de Homard- 221 •< A la Mazarin - - - 222 'Homard a I’Indienne - 298 Rissoles de Homard - 326 Vol au Vent de Nesle - 319 Beignets d’Huitres - - 345 Blanquette de Volaille a TIvoire - - - 210 Fricassee de Poulets aux Truffes - - - 182 'Pigeons a la Perigueux - 170 Pigeons aux Haricots Verts 183 ■< Salmi d’Alouettes - - 233 Cotelettes de Perdreaux - 257 .Salmi de Perdrix - - 284 ^Quenelles aux Truffes - 116 Filets de Veau aux Cham- pignons "- - - 135 Ris de Veau a la Sauce Tomate - - - 153 Ris de Veau al’Espagnole 197 Tendons de Veau aux Epinards - - - 242 Boudins aux Champignons 243 Tendons de Veau a la Marinade - - - 257 Quenelles de Lapereau a la Perigord - - - 271 Lapercaux a la Bourgui- gnonne . . _ 290 Ris de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges - - - 327 Filets d’Agneau Fricasses 298 Rognons de Mouton au "V^in de Madcre - - 332370 LIST OF DISHES FOR SELECTION. Page "Cotelettes de Mouton a la Sauce Tomate - - 285 Cotelettes de Mouton Braisees aux Concom- bres - - - - 137 Cotelettes de Mouton aux Pointes d’Asperges - 155 Langue de Mouton a I’Ecarlate - - - 223 Eognons de Mouton au Vin de Madere - - 332 ^Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Concombres - - 1C4 Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Milanaise - - - 211 Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Chevreuse - - - 233 Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Pointes d’Asperges - 316 Blanquette de Veau aux Champignons - - 312 ;^Filets d’ Agneau Fricasses 298 RELEVEES. Pate de Venaison - - 339 I Noix de Boeuf Braise - 286 Tete de Veau a la Finan- Galantine de Veau - - 170 ciere - - - - 346 Poulets et Jambon - - 120 ENTREMETS. 'Gateaux d’Oranges- - 123 Chartreuse d’Oranges - 143 Gateaux Genevoises - 157 J Gateau d’Ananas - - 172 GMeau aux Groseilles - 186 Chartreuse de Praises 199, 213 Bordure de Riz a la Mace- doine - - - - 234 ''Creme d’Ananas - - 142 Meringues a la Vanille - 173 Creme a la Vanille - - 124 Creme a la Romaine - 225 Creme au Chocolat - - 261 Creme aux Praises - - 329 Italian Cream - - 355 'Trifle - - - - 360 ^Genoese Trifle - - 409 j rGelee d’Ananas - - 246 Gelee au Marasquin - 141 Gelee d’Orange - - 155 Gelee a la Macedoine - 173 Gelee aux Praises - - 188 Gelee au Vin de Cham- pagne - - - 213 Gelee aux Raisins - - 216 .Gelee de Citron Fouettee 260 Nougat - - 158,213 Meringues a la Vanille - 173 Petits Puits d’Amour - 200 ^Cabinet Pudding - - 121 German Pudding - - 139 Apricot Pudding - - 246 Baba . - - - 259 Petits Babas - - - 301 Petites Brioches - - 224 l^Laurentian Pudding - 391 /^Maids of Honour - - 188 Mirlitons . - - 234 J Mirlitons au Chocolat - 274 I Tourte d’Abricot - - 307 l^Tourte a la Pran5aise - 348 (■Nesselrode Pudding - 192 J Biscuits Glacesa la Vanille 247 (Biscuits Glaccs au Chocolat 164 ^Ramaquins - 275 Fondn - - 315 J Biscuits de Fromage - 125 Anchovy Toast - 404 .Scotch Woodcocks - - 293371 CHAPTER IX. DINNEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. The same relief from successive courses spread out in all their ostentatious savoury expansion, which we -find so pleasant at ceremonious dinners, has already extended to those which are provided for the sociable reception of a couple of friends; in regard to these frequently-recm-ring occasions the new arrangement has this added merit, that it enables the possessors of a moderate income to enjoy one of the best luxuries of richer people—namely, that of being wholly free from questions about trouble or expense whenever a feAV gmests are to be added to the family party. Not long ago it was hy no means a trifling afiair to the misti’ess of a second-rate cook when it was deter- mined to invite a friend or two : ordering the dinner was always a perplexity; the difficulty consisting in arranging a satisfactoi’y display without providing twice as much as the party would require. There was no escape from the imperious custom enforcing a complement of dishes. The usual discussion with 24—2372 DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. the cook used to pass glibly over the first course: soup, or fish, or both would be ordered to occupy their usual places on the table, and remain whilst dinner should be announced j not at all to the im- provement of either, but to the satisfactory solution of the standing difficulty as to the appearance of the table: it was when the debate turned on the chief course that the perplexity began. The cook would naturally insist upon a joint, and the mistress would suffo’est some nice side-dish in addition: four people only to be fed—what more could they want? But that was not the question: the table must be covered; there must positively be a top dish—what lady ever sat at the head of her table without a dish before her ? And then the proposed side-dish must be matched; perhaps a modest innovation might be insinuated: set the entree at the top, and let vegetables do duty at the sides. Impossible ! the notion has its merits, but is decidedly a shabby one; so at last the joint was ordered, and had to be supported in established form by three dishes, two of which at least would be des- tined to retire again untouched. We need not refer to the aggravated repetition of these difficulties in the matter of the second course, nor describe the tedious ceremony dmfing dinner; but one gone-by disadvan- tage may be noticed: the cook might have been depended on to do one or two things nicely, but in a hurry could hardly be expected to get through so many with success.DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 373 It is no ^vollcl6^ that, itiicIgi’ sucli circunistaiicGS, people often reflected twice or tlirice before they changed the domestic soup and cutlet into a heavy and wearisome display, and we may well he thank- ful for the change which saves the puzzle and the waste, and leaves us free to ask our friends; incur- ring for the pleasure of receiving them only the trouble of choosing some small addition to the family dinner. Still a certain degree of judgment is desirable. Some soup, a small dish of fish, a light entree, a small joiiit, and something sweet, comprise, it is true, all there is to think about; but unless the predilec- tions of the expected guests are known, only those things are suitable which nobody refuses. Much will depend on the resources of the larder, especially when friends are staying in the house; but Avhen the choice is altogether free, the aid of a few cartes for small dinners may help to make an easy task still lighter. The table will, however, require some little deco- ration, instead of the banished superabundance of the repast: it may be very simple and yet very pretty. Unless there is a suspended lamp, a torchette will occupy the centre during winter, to be replaced, when not used, by a vase or basket of flowers, or design either in china or biscuit ware: a pretty water-jug and goblets, a glass or silver sugar basin, and three dishes for dessert, are ample. Space before the host374 DINNEES EOK ONE OE TWO GUESTS. will be left for the piece de resistance, which he Avill probably carve; the entree and sweets will be handed. It is worth while, for the most sociable party, to write out the short carte, and lay it on the table; the trouble is but small, and it may be useful for the guests to know what is to be expected, especially when the dinner is not exactly according to the com- mon rule of entree and then plain joint: for instance, in one of the followino; cartes there is a dressed breast of lamb, and some person who has an aversion to things stewed might be glad to know that a plain roasted fowl would follow; the carte would thus save the lady the inelegant necessity of talking about her dinner: nor is this a mark of foolish pretension, any more than other refinements, so long as there is an obvious purpose to be served ; especially if French names are avoided. The custom of using French names has probably been continued because there are some which have no English equivalent: it would be a relief were a professor of the culinary art to invent a nomenclature, and let us dine in honest English; this is a satis- faction which w^e have apparently a right to enjoy, since the prototypes of many modern French entrees are to be found in old English records. The famous mortrews* were nearly identical with quenelles and * The receipt is as follows:— “ Take hens and pork, and seethe Iheiu together; take theDINNEKS FOK ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 375 Raysols (rissoles); Galgut;)Tie and many others are in the Roll of Cury. One reasonable motive at liver of hens, and pork, and hew it small, and grinde it all to dust; take bread grated and do (put it) thereto, and temper it with the self broth, and alye (bind it together) with yelks of eggs, and cast thereon powder fort; boil it, and look that it be stonding (stand- ing, or stiff).” The cnriosities of this ancient cookery book are most amusing. One more specimen shall be copied, chosen partly for its quaint though vague style, and partly because the name is still applied to a German tartlet, which will be given among the miscellaneous receipts:— “ Daryols. “ Take creme of cowe milk and almonds; do thereto eggs, white sugar, saffron, and salt; meddle it (mix it); do it into a coffyn of two inches deep; bake it well.” The same desire to assert a primitive claim to a knowledge of the art of cookery has lately been expressed in Germany. Herr Bernhard Otto, in editing a curious old manuscript of receipts, says in his preface that “ some ladies have been eager for the publication of the work, in order to convince gastronomic Ger- many that, notwithstanding the present ascendancy of the French cuisine, there exists a record of a national system of cooking which our forefathers once practised with as entire success as our Western neighbours now practise theirs.” The old manuscript cookery book in question is known to be at least three hundred years old; for it was found at the late demolition of part of the refectory of the monastery of St. Paul at Leipzig, together with an earthen lamp and an iron poker, in a niche which had been walled 'up at the Reformation. The ladies of Leipsig, according to the editor’s statement, have tried many of the receipts thus brought to light, and are enchanted with the results; but as nearly all the savoury dishes are meat and poultry stewed in equal parts of wine and vinegar, with sour fruits, saffron, and spices in large quantities, English taste will scarcely be so delighted with them. There are, however, many curious things, in the mode of cooking, including one remarkable refinement. Raw flour is rarely ordered to be used for thickening; but, instead, bread soaked and rubbed through a sieve, or crushed toast, or sometimes crumbled gingerbread for savoury dishes! One of the376 DINNEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. least might prompt us to abandon our foreign descrij>- tions—the fear of being as little correct in the use of them as some French cookery hooks are Avhich con- tain “ Missies Plies ” for mince pies, and “ Maclie potetesse ” for mashed potatoes. It Avill be convenient to prelude the dinners for four persons with a feAV words about soups. Whenever it is known the day before that soup for two addi- tional persons Avill be wanted, the obvious duty will be to order materials in proportion to the quantity of stock that Avill be required; about tlmee or four pints will be sufficient to boil away for clear soup, and leave a little for any entree that may be ordered ; but it often happens that dinners so small are only ordered in the morning, and to risk an unfinished soup for the entertainment of even the most intimate acquaintance Avould be imprudent. I eceipls is nearly identical vvi th an invention of M. Soyer, named by him Eritadella, or Eamifolle: the latter will be given slightly altered in the next dinner for January, The Leipsig manuscript, which is supposed to have been com- piled by the cook of the community, gives no very severe idea of a monastic table; one extract may serve as an example:— “ Young Fowls in Almond Sauce. “ Do you wish to send up young fowls in almond soup, take toasted bread, cut off the crust and burnt part, and lay it in a dish, and stew it ivith small raisins. Pound almonds with good wine, and let it stew; season it Avith cinnamon. Lay the boiled fowls on the toast, and pour over them the wine and almond soup; streAv the top over with cinnamon. This is much used in towns and castles, as Hans Bomnitz reports.” The receipts for fast-days are quite as luxurious, but there are not many of them.DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 377 remember an observation made to me in my early days of bousekeej)ing by a bachelor friend who was somewhat of an epicure, “ Whatever you do, take care about the soup : it stamps the whole dinner ; if it is wretched stuff, nobody cares what you may give to follow it: it is not to be forgiven.” This was rather severe, but in a measure true; therefore a few directions, to avert the chance of such disasters, will be useful: they are derived from a most reliable practical authority. To send for soup meat on the morning of a dinner and set about the work according to the general directions already given, will not answer, because there would not be sufficient time for all the pro- cesses which are absolutely required. Every cook should adopt the rule of seldom or never being with- out a certain quantity of nice stock ready by her. In great kitchens the supply is made regularly twice a week, and large quantities of j^i’ovisions are used for it; we are, however, supposmg here only the resources of a small establishment where economy would hardly permit a proceeding on so large a scale. In the smallest establishment, however, there will be materials to use up almost every day which may furnish some nice stock gravy, such as from roast meat, trimmings of cutlets, or last I’emnants of joints, with the bones: all these stewed long and slowly with vegetables, herbs, and a small piece of lean ham, will afford as much as the family arc likely to want;378 DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. if not required for every-day soup, it maybe used to make some becliamelle or any other sauce; if it should not be wanted for either, it may be boiled away for glaze, which is always useful. Supposing on the day that four persons have to be provided for, that sufficient of this stock from scraps is ready, and that clear soup is wanted: it will not do to try to boil it clear, as might be done with regularly made stock; and if bones have been used there is still less chance of succeeding by that means. The way to proceed will rather be as follows:— To MARE Clear Soup of common Household Stock FOR Tour Persons. Put a pint and a half of stock into a stewpan ; beat up the white of an egg together with the shell crushed until it is a froth; add it to the cold stock, and beat all for a few minutes; then set it on a quick fire; stir it till the egg rises in scum; let it boil gently for five minutes, and then set it for a short time on the top of the oven; pass it through a cloth; add cayenne pepper and salt as required, and a teaspoonful of white sugar. If vegetables are to be added, they must be carefully prepared and glazed in butter as already described (page 112): to put crude vegetables of any kind into soup would be worse than nothing—peas alone do not require glazing. This soup may be varied by macaroni, vermicelli, or home-made Italian paste, or tapioca.DINNEliS EOE ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 379 all which must he boiled and put in the last mo- ment before serving: crohtons also may make another variety. This way of proceeding may turn out very nice clear soup, either for every-day use oi* for the small party; it may happen that by an accidental want of management the only stock at hand is poor or small in quantity; even then there can never be an excuse for being without a little glaze and some burnt onion, both which are made at leisure and wdll keep a month or more. Supposing these to be at hand, resort may be had to a nice opaque soup, according to the following receipt:— Opaque Soup. Put a pint and a half of any weak stock or Avater into a stewpan v.dth two slices of ham or bacon; a little of all sorts of vegetables, herbs, and a few whole allspice; cover it, and let it simmer gently for an hour or longer if there is time; let it stand to cool for an hour, then skim and strain it; put it back •into the stewpan with a tablespoonful of glaze, and half a teaspoonful of burnt onion, some cayenne, salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar; rub a tablespoonful of flour into an ounce of butter; boil it all for a quarter of an hour, stirring till it is quite smooth; the last thing before serving add a wineglassful of sherry. Either macaroni or Italian paste is a suitable addi- tion. In winter, it may be made more seasonable by380 DINNEES EOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. using port wine instead of slieny, and adding a teaspoonful of soy. In summer, the addition of half a teacupful of cream will improve it; the white wine may still be used, but the cream must be only put in at the last minute before serving. Green pea soup may be improvised when there is a scarcity of stock : as follows:— Proceed as directed for opaque soup, leaving out tlie wine ; have a pint of peas ready boiled; rub two- thirds of them through a sieve, and add it with an additional teaspoonful of sugar; put in the rest of the peas whole, and boil it up for a minute. It is worth while to remark that it only requires strict attention to the minute details just given, in order to produce good soups daily at small expense ; but if that attention is not bestowed, distasteful broth will be the result. Many people with limited esta- blishments do not order soups daily, supposing them extravagant; but with a good system they are not so at all: it is a good plan to expect them to be sent up constantly and perfectly nice, and then the cook will never be at a loss how to proceed when guests are added to the party unexpectedly. In the fol- lowing cartes, suitable soups will be mentioned, which can be changed, if there is not sufficient notice for preparing them, for any of those just described.DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 381 JANUARY.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Clear hare soup. Slices of cod-fish, and oyster-sauce. Ramifolle. Rolled ribs of beef. Rice eakes. Orange fritters. Ramaquins. Ramifolle. Chop very fine a quarter of a pound of cooked veal or chicken, and as much boiled ham or bacon, and two tablespoonfuls of mushrooms; soak two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, in some good stock; mix all these together Avith a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne; add two eggs, and mix all thoroughly. Butter a plain round mould, cover it with buttered paper, and then with a cloth; steam it half an hour. Serve it with either bechamelle or Avhite sauce. When mushrooms are not to be had, it will be good with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley instead. Calves’ liver and ham, without white meat, make a good variety ; in that case it should be serA'ed with brown sauce. Rice Cake. Boil a teacupful of Carolina rice in a pint of milk, with two bay-leaves, till the rice is tender and the milk all taken up. Withdraw the leaves, and put in382 DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. a little grated lemon-peelj and a quarter of a pound of sugar; add the yelks of two eggs, a tablespoon- ful of brandy, and a tablespoonful of rich cream or good milk; set it in a basin till nearly cold. Butter a tin pudding mould very thickly, and cover the butter thickly with dry bread-crumbs. Place in the rice carefully so as not to displace the crumbs ; tie a buttered paper tightly over the top of the mould, turn the top downwards on a tin, set it underneath the charcoal stove, or (if there is a good clear fire) underneath the grate, for two hours. It can be done any part of the day, and turned out at dinner-time: the outside ought to be aia even yellow brown. Serve with wine or brandy-sauce, or with fruit syrup sauce of any kind. Orange Fritters. Peel two oranges, removing all the white part, and cut them into rounds across, five slices each; set them in a teacup with a tablespoonful of brandy and a little powdered sugar; let them remain an hour. Then make a batter of a quarter of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of butter, and a tablespoonful of the juice and the brandy from the orange, a teaspoonful of the orange rind scraped, and a tablespoonful of white sugar; beat up the yelks of two eggs and the white of one to a froth separately; put in the yelks, and beat the batter for a quarter of an hour; add the wdiite froth, and beat for another quarter of an hour.DINNEKS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 383 Cover the slices with the hatter, and fry in butter a light brown; sprinkle over a little fine white sugar, and serve on a piece of white paper fringed at the bottom of the dish. French Fritters mat be substituted. Make a large common pancake of egg, new milk, and flour; fry it till it is completely browned; dry it before the Are, then pound it in a mortar; add to it the yelk of two eggs beaten, a dessertspoonful of floui', a pinch of salt, one ounce of blanched sweet almonds, and three bitter almonds, pounded fine, and one ounce of sugar; pound it for a quarter of an hour; add the white of one egg beaten to a froth, and pound again; have a large quantity of butter or any fresh lard in a small omelet pan; when it boils, drop in the batter about the size of a walnut; sprinkle them with sugar; serve on white paper. K>*— FEBRUARY.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Soup a la Reine. Boiled Haddock. Oyster fritters. Boiled mutton with capers. German marrow pudding. Orange cheesecakes. Soup h la Reine, see page 131; this may be changed for opaque soup (page 379). For oyster fritters, see page 345.384 DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. Boiled Mutton. It is only tlie middle end of a neck of mutton which is nice for the table. Use about four pounds, well trimmed ; remove the neck bones, and make it quite square; lay it in cold water for two or three hours, during which time change the water several times. Then have some water boiling in a saucepan ; plunge the mutton in for one minute, take it out, and put it into some quite cold water; then, lastly, into the boiling water, and let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Make very nice melted butter, and put into it half a bottle of capers ; send the sauce in a boat to be kept hot, and put some plam melted butter over the mutton, because some people may not like capers. It is so common a complaint that boiled mutton is ugly and untidy looking, that few people like to order it; especially when there are guests. By attending to these few slight directions, this difficulty will be overcome, and the meat improved. It need scarcely be observed that the remaining part of the neck can always be made useful for the household. German Marrow Pudding. Soak the crumb of a French roll or fine bread in half a pint of cream or milk boiled down to one half. Chop up the marrow of two marrow-bonesDINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 385 very fine; beat the yelks of four eggs and the whites of two separately; add them to the bread and marrow, with half a glass of brandy and a little chopped citron, candied ginger or orange-peel; beat it well for half-an-hour; line the edge of a pudding- dish with puff-paste, and bake one hour. There must be a buttered paper placed round the dish, and a trivet to keep it from the bottom of the oven. When nearly done, put a little butter on the top, and sift some white sugar over it. This pudding may be varied by leaving out the brandy and chopped fruit, and adding some vanilla and the whites of all the four eggs; then lining a mould with buttered paper, and steaming the pudding an hour and a half; in this case serve with wine sauce, having a little vanilla in it. Orange Cheesecake. Rub part of a quarter of a pound of sugar on the rinds of two oranges, and half a lemon. It would be better if one was a Seville orange. Squeeze the juice of the oranges and half the lemon juice; add a quarter of a pound of butter; put it in a stew- pan ; set it on a cool fire or stove, and stir carefully till the butter is melted; then beat three yelks of eggs, leaving out the whites; stir them well in; let it just simmer, but not boil; put it by in a bason till wanted. Make a puff-paste, line a flat tart-tin with 25386 DINNEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. the paste, not thinner than half an inch; pour in the orange cheesecake, and bake half an hour in a quick oven; dust it with a little sugar the last thing. The cheesecake composition, instead of being used when made, may he tied down and kept in a cool dry place for a month or more in winter time. Add two tahlespoonfuls of cream at the time of using. MARCH.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Spring soup. Boiled sole, fried -whitings. Lambs’ sweetbreads. Pigeon pie. Brioches. Stewed rhubarb. Kamaquins. Lambs’ Sweetbeeads bkaised. It will require a sweetbread for each person, as they are hut small. Trim them very carefully, re- movmg all the skin and hard parts; lay them in water for two hours with a pinch of salt; take them out; lay them in a small stewpan with a slice of bacon underneath, with half a pint of good stock and a blade of mace, two slices of carrot, a slice of onion, a bay leaf, and a small bunch of sweet herbs; lay over all two slices of bacon, and over that a buttered paper; cover it close, and let it simmer either on the hot hearth or over a very slowDINNERS FOE ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 387 fire for an hour. Take out the sweetbreads, strain the stock by passing it through a- sieve, and skim off all fat. Put the stock back into the stewpan; add a teaspoonful of glaze, and half a glass of wine ; boil it for a quarter of an hour, till it begins to thicken; lay in the sweetbreads, and simmer it for five minutes; then braise by covering with the lid and putting on some hot coals for ten minutes. Serve by pourmg the sauce over the sweetbreads. Remaeks.—Addition may be made by filling the dish round ■with vegetable; if no other is at hand, some pieces of caulifiower may be used. Mushrooms and truffles are always desirable—the first especially—but not absolutely necessary. These sweetbreads may be had any time from March to August, and not being so •■ expensive as calves’ sweetbreads, are a useful resource to vary dinners for the family; if carelessly cooked, however, they are not good. Plain Bbioches. Take a quarter of a pound of flour, with a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into it, add a small pinch of salt, the same of carbonate of soda, one table- gpoonful of white sugar finely powdered, half an ounce of sultana raisins or dried currants; and one egg, the wliite and yelk beaten together ; put half a teaspoonful of German yeast into a tablespoonful of milk; mix it all together, but do not handle or knead it more than to make an even mass; set it, with a cloth laid lightly over it, in a moderately warm place —it must not be within reach of the heat from a 25—2388 DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. fire; let it remain an liour; then butter a paper, and lay it on a tin; take out a spoonful of the mass with a silver spoon and lay it on the paper, as nearly the shape and size of a small apple as you can without touching it much, and repeat this till all is used; bake in a v^ery moderate oven for half an hour, and take care the brioches do not burn : moisten the tops with white of egg, just broken up, not frothed, and sift some white sugar thinly over the tops ; lay them for a few minutes before the fire. Remarks.—In these brioches the raisins may be left out, as they are good without; but any kind of sweetmeat, fruit or almonds may be added. Sauce may be sent up with them, or not. They are very nice cold, for lunch, and may be made in a mould and eaten as a cake; but the mould must only be filled half full. Though the receipt is long, the trouble of making is very small. Stewed Rhubarb. Cut a pound of rhubarb into pieces an inch long, put it into a preserving jar, and set the jar in a saucepan on the fire for half an hour; take it out without breaking the pieces, and lay them on a sieve to drain; make a syrup of half a pound of sugar and a teaspoonful of the rhubarb juice; boil it ten minutes; let it cool; then add to it the rhubarb, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Serve it cold, in a flat glass dish, and be careful not to mash up the rhubarb in taking the pieces out. Tliis will keep good several days.389 DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. Ehubarb marmalade may be made wbicb will keep still longer, and is useful to serve with any pudding. Cut a pound, put it into a stewpan, and simmer it for half an bour; then add a pound and a quarter of white sugar; boil it fast for ten minutes, and tie it down in ajar for use. APRIL.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Spring soup. Mackerel. Roast leg of lamb. Plover’s eggs. Gooseberry pudding. German filled fritters. German filled Fritters. Have some dinner rolls made tbe size of an egg ; grate off tbe crust, cut a piece out of one side tbe size of a sbilling, and scoop out tbe crumb; mix up a teacupful of cream witb cbocolate, or orange marmalade, or pineapple, or else flavour it witb vanille; then fill tbe bollow of tbe I’olls and press tbe tops down again into tbeir places; set them Mpriglit in a shallow dish or stewpan, and leave them in a cool place till half an bour before dinner; then beat up some butter to a cream, pour it all over them, and dust sugar over that, and set them in tbe oven for about five minutes till they are a pale yellow colour. Serve them very hot. Tbe Germans eat witb them cream boiled, SAveetened, and flavoured witb whatever tbe fritters are filled witb.390 DINNEKS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. A GoosEBEimT Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of very fresh beef suet, two ounces of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of white sugar. Chop the suet as fine as possible, and rub it’ together with the butter, into six ounces of fiour, then add the sugar and a pinch of salt; mix it all up into a paste with water; make the paste as stiflF as you can work it; have the basin or mould very well buttered, and thickly sugared with moist sugar; line the basin with the paste rolled out to a quarter of an inch; stew a pint of gooseberries with a tablespoonful of water and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, till they are quite tender, and set them to cool; fill the paste with them and the syrup they have been boiled in; close the paste carefully at the top of the basin, and bake it half an hour in a moderate oven. Make a syrup of tlmee tablespoonfuls of white sugar, and a tablespoonful of water; let it boil fast on the fire, or gas-stove, five minutes; add to it two table- spoonfuls of wine, and pour it over the pudding. Remarks.—It may seem a strange waste of trouble to teach anybody how to make a gooseberry pudding, which is a common, not particularly attractive dish, and seems not much worth the attempt to make it otherwise; yet it is one of the very things ■which is especially worth attention, as it may he made a rival to the best of Charlottes or other still more approved entremets. By following this receipt exactly, there is little doubt that the baked gooseberry pudding will be found a valuable addition to the daily list. Rliubarb may be done the same way with equal success Observe particularly that there is an ample quantity of butter and sugar put inside the basin.DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. .391 may,—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Asparagus soup. Fried whitings. Lobster pates. Loin of mutton. Lawrentian puddings. Open gooseberry tart. Sea-kale. Fried Whitings. It is a mucli neater plan always to send up fried fish on white papers, fringed at the edge, than on nap- kins. Papers stamped for the purpose may be bought. For lobster pS,tes, prepare the lobster as at page 222, but chop it rather smaller, and finish like Yol au Vents d’Huitres, page 114. If it should not be convenient to make them, Pates h la Minute (see Miscellaneous Receipts,) may be substituted; they are something like the Bouchees a I’Anglaise, but simpler, and are much used in France. Laurentian Pudding {called Beautiful Puddings). Beat up the yelk of as many eggs as you wish to .make puddings, then warm the same number of ounces of butter, and sift as many ounces of white sugar. When the butter is warm, beat it a few minutes, then add the eggs, and next the sugar, by degrees, beating all the time; then beat it all for ten minutes; butter some small cups, or round tins; put into each a teaspoonful of the batter, and lay on that half an apricot or as much apricot marmalade:392 DINNEKS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. fill up tlie cups, and bake the puddings in a rather hot oven for twenty minutes; turn them out with the bottom part uppermost. They may be served dry on paper, or with apricot or any other pudding sauce : a teaspoonful of brandy in each pudding is an improvement. Open Gooseberry Tart. Have a pint of gooseberries well picked, put them in a jar, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water: there must be no water in the jar. When the goose- berries are softened, but not flattened, pound six ounces of white sugar, and put it on the top of the gooseberries; let it melt through them; put the jar in a cool place, pour off the syrup, boil it, and pour it over the fruit; repeat the same four times. The syrup will become quite thick, but must not have any water added to it. Make a puff paste, line a tart tin, and bake it lightly, but completely; remove any of the paste which has risen in the middle, and let it get cold ; put in the fruit, and pour the syrup over them, and sprinkle them rather thickly with green sugar. »<>> JUNE.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Green pea soup. Boiled turbot and lobster sauce. Ericasseed sweetbreads. Leg of mutton. German fritters. Meringues, with cherries. Asparagus.DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 393 Lambs’ Sweetbreads in White Sahcb. Trim four sweetbreads with the greatest care, then hlancli them by putting them into cold water ; set them on the fire till they almost boil, hut not quite; put them again directly into cold water, and repeat the same till they look white; then let them lie for ten minutes in cold water; set them in a stewpan with half a pint of veal broth or stock; lay over them a slice of bacon, and cover them with buttered paper; cover the pan closely, and let them simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter. Make a rich white sauce, by putting a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, with three tablespoonfuls of flour; stir it whilst it melts, till it is quite smooth; then strain the stock in which the sweetbreads have been cooked, and skim ofiP any fat, and add it to the butter and flour; simmer it, stirring all the time, for half an hour; add some cayenne and salt, and half a teacupful of cream; pour the white sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve with French beans round the dish. Leg of Mutton. For four persons a large leg would be very ugly; if a small one cannot be had without being bespoken, a loin or a neat square piece of the breast had better be substituted. The leg should have a cut paper on the bone, and the loin or breast will require potato balls, nicely fried.394 DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. Geeman Fritters. Make a thick batter as follows:—Boil a quarter of a pint of milk; pour it hot into a basin wdth two eggs beaten, fhe whites and yelks separately ; add to it flour and a pinch of salt, beating it well all the time till the batter is so thick with flour that a tea- spoon will stand upright in it; cut six round slices of French roll not quite half an inch thick ; pour wine over them till they will soak up no more; cover them with a layer of the batter> and fry them a very light yellow; sprinkle a little white sugar over them and serve. Another way is to pound half an ounce of sweet almonds and two bitter almonds as fine as possible; add them to the batter, which will take rather less flour. These fritters are wdiat the Germans call Weinschnitten, and is one of their best sweet dishes. A Swedish modification of the same idea will be given under their name of “ poor knights.” Meringues with Cherries. Have five single small meringue shells; then pre- pare half a pound of fine cherries, take out the stones, put them in a basin, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar with a tablespoonful of water, and pour the syrup, boiling, on the cherries; let them stand an hour. Take away the syrup, boil it again, and pourDINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 395 it on the cherries, and repeat the same three times, then leave the cherries in the syrup till wanted. Whip up half a pint of cream with sugar and brandy, or any flavour you may choose; let it stand on a sieve, in a cool place, to get a little Arm, or on ice: place the half meringue shells, like little saucers, in a circle, touching each other; put the cherries into them carefully, without the syrup, after having let them drain a few moments; pile up the cherries in meringue shells, making a pyramid with a single cherry at the top; then carefully, with a spoon, lay the cream in the centre of the dish, where the meringues leave a space: make it as high a heap as you can. Tliis may be done with any small fruit; strawberries or raspberries look even prettier than cherries. It is a German idea, and not common here: it must not be dished up till just when wanted, and care must be taken not to let the syrup get into the meringues, as they would be liable to melt with too much moisture. Meringue shells will keep for months in a tin case, so that in the country, by having them ready, a pretty entremet may be always at hand. JULY.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Julienne soup. Slice of salmon, lobster sauce. Braised breast of lamb, with peas. Roasted fowl, egg sauce. Dressed crab. Plum tart.396 DINNEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. Braised Breast of Lamb. Have about foui’ pounds of the best part of a breast; take out all the bones; stew the bones in a quart of water, with half a carrot sliced, one onion, a sprig of mint, and a bay-leaf; close the pan, and let it simmer on a slow fire two or three hours; then take off the cover aiid boil it, stirring occasionally till the water is reduced to one pint; then strain it and skim the fat off carefully; add a teaspoonful of chopped mint, with a little cayenne and salt; sprinkle the mint on the lamb; then roll it up and bind it round with a tape; set it on a dripping-pan in the oven, tolerably hot, for ten minutes, and then put it into a stewpan with a pint of stock ; cover it with a buttered paper, and close the lid; set the pan to stew on the top of the oven for one hour; add a pint of peas, not too young; cover again, and let it stew for another hour and a half; rub two ounces of butter into two tablespoonfuls of flour, and add to it a tablespoonful of white sugar ; let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; take out the lamb, remove the bands, and serve with peas and sauce in the dish; glaze over the top of the lamb. This is a convenient dish for a small family, as it is equally good warmed a second day. The lamb taken from the peas is also, when cold, good and neat-looking for breakfiist or lunch.DINNERS EOR ONE OR T\VO GUESTS. 397 Eoasted Fowl. Tlie fowl may be larded, or not. Tlie goodness of tlie egg sauce will depend wholly on the melted butter, which must be most carefully done according to the receipt. The egg must not be chopped too small, and only just warmed in the butter. Egg sauce, if like a pudding, had better be omitted altogether; Plum Tart. To which may be added or substituted the fol- lowing :— Croutons a la Crejee. Have some fresh crotltons (see Miscellaneous Re- ceipts), made of French roll; they must be chosen of nearly an even shape, about the size of a walnut, and be a nice light yellow colour; lay them before the fire on a plate, put on each a piece of butter the size of a bean, and let it dry in without changing the colour of the croutons: if the fire is low, they may be put in a Dutch oven ; let them -get cold; pick a pint of black currants, without breakincp the skins, put them into a stewpan, cover it closely, and simmer on a slow fire for a qiaarter of an hour; add six ounces of powdered white sugar, lay it on the currants, and let the pan remain on the fire for another quarter of an hour: do not stir the fruit, nor put in a spoon, but shake the pan gently, now398 DINNEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. and then: set it to cool. Then whip up half a pint of cream, well sweetened with very fine sugar, into a froth; do not add flavouring of any kind; when ready to serve, make a circle of the crofitons, touch- ing each other, at the edge of a round, glass dish; then make a circle inside the croutons, of the whipped cream, and fill up the middle with the fruit. This little entremet is very nice and neat-looking; it may be varied in a great many ways. One is to lay slices of fresh cream-cheese next the crofitons; hut this is only good with black currants, and not to everybody’s taste. Any other fruit may be used with cream, and Devonshire cream may be substituted for whipped cream. — ■-♦<>» -■ ■ AUGUST.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Crecy soup. Broiled herrings or fried smelts. Lamb steaks en papillotes. Grouse or roasted duck. Apple tart. Apricots, with cream. Late peas. j Crect Soup. Wash three carrots, a small head of celery, and half an onion'; let them soak for half an hour in salt and water; stew them gently for two hours in a pint of water or stock, with a slice of ham or bacon;DINNEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. 399 take out tlie vegetables, dry them, chop the celery aud onion into small j)ieces, and pound them in a mortar with some of the stock they were boiled in till they ai’e completely smooth; rub them through a wire sieve; strain the remainder of the stock, skim it, and put it with the vegetable into the stewpan, with as much more stock as will make a pint arid a half; if there is no stock, add water and a table- spoonful of glaze; rub one dessertspoonful of flour into half an ounce of butter, and add it with a tea- spoonful of sugar, a little cayenne and salt to the soup; simmer it for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. Cut some dice of bread or roll, fry them in fresh butter, and throw them in the last moment before serving; at the same time add a tablespoonful of cream. This soup must be perfectly smooth, and as thick as thin cream ; it is very useful for family use, as it may be very good with little or no ready made stock: its perfection will depend much on the pains bestowed on pounding the vegetable, which must not .appear to separate in grains. Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes. Cut eight cutlets off a breast of lamb, the holies must be entirely removed; chop up mint into fine pieces to the quantity of a tablespoonful, and make a small teaspoonful of equal quantities of chopped400 DINXEES FOE ONE OE TWO GUESTS. parsley, eschalot, and mixed fine herbs with a little cayenne and salt; mix this with the chopped mint, and add, if you have it, a tahlespoonful of chopped mushrooms. Then cut some round white papers, and butter them; rub a little butter on each cutlet, and sprinkle the mixed herbs on it; inclose them in the papers, and roll the edges round a small piece at a time, inwards, one after the other, so as to make the edge look like a cord; it is of consequence to make the edges tight, so that no gravy shall escape. Lay the cutlets in thin papers in a frying-pan and fry them thoroughly over a slow fire; it should be a charcoal or gas stove. Have some spinach boiled, mash it up with a spoonful of glaze, some butter, a little pepper and salt; add a tablespoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar; lay the spinach in the middle of the dish, and the cutlets, still in their papers, resting on it. This dish is not very common in England, but is good, for two reasons—the juice is kept in the meat and the cutlets are served very hot; there is no great dexterity required in doing them. Open Apple Taet. This will be made of rich putf paste. Butter the tin, roll the paste not very thick, and bake it lightly. Prepare the apples by putting them, sliced, into a saucepan, with two cloves and rasped lemon-peel;DINNEES EOE ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 401 boil till they become a pulp; sweeten with white sugar and beat it up with an ounce of butter; put it cold into the pastry; ornament the top of the apple with strips or forms of pastry in neat pattern, well covered; set it in the oven for ten minutes. Some quince marmalade, in small quantity, laid on the apple, is liked by some people. Apeicots with Ceeam. Cut six flesh apricots in half; break the stones and take out the kernels. Boil a quarter of a jiound of sugar with a tablespoonful of water; when it boils, pour it over the apricots; let them stand an hour. Remove the syrup, boil it again, and repeat the same three times; set them to cool. Sweeten half a pint of cream, flavour it with a tablespoonful of brandy, and whip it to a froth ; lay the apricots on a dish in a heap, pour the syrup over with the kernels, and make a wreath round of the whipped cream. ■ SEPTEMBER—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Giblet soup. Boiled trout. Mushroom croquets. Roasted loin of mutton. Celery, with tomatos. Pineapple soufflee. Ramaquins. 26 i402 DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. Mushroom Croquets. Prepare a dozen rather small mushrooms; chop them small, and put them into a saucepan, with a tahlespoonful of strong glaze and a tahlespoonful of water; let them simmer a few minutes, put them into a deep saucer, and set them in a cold place. Make a small joiece of short paste, roll it very thin indeed. When the mushroom is quite cold, cut it into six pieces, enclose each in paste, taking care to join the edges; cover them with yelk of egg thickly, and roll them in very dry bread-crumbs; fry them a delicate brown, and serve with some fried parsley : they must he as large as a bantam’s egg. If there is not enough good glaze, a little isinglass must be dissolved and used instead: a tablespoonful of grated ham, ready cooked, might be added to the chopped mushrooms. Celery with Tomatos. Boil a dozen fine tomatos, drain them on a sieve, and then scoop out the inside of each with a wooden spoon; pass the pulp through a sieve, stew three heads of celery in a little stock for one hour and a half, drain them on a sieve, then put them whole into a stewpan, with the pulp of tomato, a little cayenne and salt, and half a teacupful of stock; warm it and serve with the mutton.DINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 403 Pineapple Sottfelee. Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two of white sugar, three eggs, the whites and yelks beaten separately, and a pinch of salt; whip it with a wdiisk for a quarter of an hour; pour in by degi’ees half a pint of milk, which has been boiled down to one half, or else half the quantity of milk and half of cream; keep whipping whilst you add the milk or cream, and continue to do so ten minutes after all is mixed. Chop up two ounces of either fresh or preserved pineaiiple; butter a soufflee dish ; put in the batter; cover the dish with paper, and let the paper stand tlu’ee inches above it; bake it in a moderate oven, not too cool, for about an hour; put a small piece of butter on the top, dust over it some white sugar, and salamander it lightly. This is a piainei’ soufflee, and moi’e quickly made than the former receipt. It may be flavoured with any fruit or with lemon-peel or vanilla. It is nice for an every day pudding, and if there is no fruit in it, it may be eaten with some cold butter. It may be baked in a common pudding-dish, but always requires the paper roimd the dish, and to be finished with butter and sugar, and’salamandered. 26—2404 DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. OCTOBER.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Tomato soup. Baked haddock. Stewed beefsteak with Italian paste. Partridges or rabbits, with mushroom sauce. Potato pudding. Chocolate pancakes. Anchovy toast. Jerusalem artichokes. Tomato Soup. If there is not time to begin the day before, use two pints of any stock that may be at hand; if the stock is not sufficiently good, add a tablespoonful of glaze. Chop up into pieces half an inch square some cold roasted beef, or half a pound of fresh beefsteak; take care there is no fat nor any hard part or skin; stew the meat very gently in a tea- cupful of the stock, with the lid closed for two hours; then add the rest of the stock, and boil it away to a pint and a half; put six|^or eight toma- tos into a preserving pot; set it in a saucepan, and when the tomatos are tender, rub them through a sieve; add a teaspoonful of lemon j uice, and a teaspoonful of flour rubbed into a piece of butter; simmer the tomato in the soup for ten minutes, and serve with the pieces of meat in it. Baked Haddock.DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 405 Rabbits tvith Mushroom Sauce. Take the meat of the back from the bone and cut it into four pieces, and take off the legs and shoulders; boil down the bones for two hours; then boil away the stock to a quarter of a pint; lay a piece of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, and set on it the pieces of rabbit, with one onion and a bunch of herbs; cover it with bacon, fill up with the stock, and simmer gently for one hour. Make the sauce as follows:—have half a poiuid of white young mushrooms, peel them, cut the stalks, and wash them in several waters; dry them on a sieve; mince them small; put them into a small stewpan, with two ounces of butter beaten to a cream ; simmer it gently for ten minutes, stirring all the while; add a teaspoonful of flour rubbed into some butter, and a teacupful of the stock from the rabbit; simmer it all gently for a quarter of an hour, and rub it through a sieve; add a teacupful of cream, and pour it quite hot over the rabbit. ■ This is intended as a substitute for the partridges, if convenient; in that case, it will precede the stewed beef-steak. Stewed Steak.—(See Pot-au-Feu.)406 DINNEKS FOK ONE OR TWO GUESTS. i whilst it dries; put it in a basin to cool, then add Potato Pudding. Steam four large potatoes, dry them well before the fire, rub them through a fine sieve, and grate into them the rind of a lemon; put it into a small saucepan, with two ounces of butter, and stir it, two ounces and a half of sugar, and a teacupful of cream or milk, boiled away one-half, also another ounce of butter, a little pinch of salt, the yelks of three eggs; beat it all for half an hour, then add the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth; line a mould with buttered paper, fill it, put a buttered paper on the top, and steam it for half an hour. Make a clear sauce of arrowroot and quince mar- malade, and pour it over the pudding. If that is not liked, serve with wine or brandy sauce. Chocolate Pancakes. Two ounces of fine flour, and two tablespoonfuls of milk, the whites of two eggs, and the yelks of four beaten separately; add a tablespoonful of sugar, and a pinch of salt, beat it well for half an hour, with two tablespoonfuls of cream; fry of this batter some very thin small pancakes, only browning them on one side ; lay them on a plate with the unfried side uppermost, grate over them a layer of chocolate thick enough to cover the surface entirely, roll up the pancakes, cover the tops with sugar, and I •A kDINNERS FOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 407 lay them on a buttered tin; put a trivet on the bottom of the oven, and the tin upon it, and bake them for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Apricot Pancakes (for variety). Make the same batter, but add one ounce of sweet almonds pounded very fine, and some grated lemon- peel ; instead of chocolate, lay apricot marmalade thinly over the unfried sides, roll them up, and bake the same way. NOVEMBER.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Ox-tail soup. Slices of cod and oyster sauce. Mutton cutlets, with tomatos. Roasted hare. Rice apple charlotte. Mutton Cutlet. For this dinner the cutlets will be more suitable 'plain, as there is no roasted joint. Rice Charlotte. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, nicely washed, put it in a stewpan with a pint of new milk, a bay- leaf, and a small piece of cinnamon; simmer in a close stewpan for six hours, when the milk will be taken408 DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. up. Pick out the bay-leaf and cinnamon; put into it while hot two ounces of butter, and two ounces of pounded sugar; beat it all up together in a basin ; then butter the inside of a mould—any mould will do, either of tin or earthenware; put in the rice, and press it with a wooden spoon against the sides ; put no rice at the bottom of the mould, but line the sides completely, an inch thick; leave it for a quarter of an hour ; when not quite cold take a clean, sharp knife, and pass it round between the rice and the mould; turn it carefully out; fill it half up with sweetmeat of any kind; then fill up with custard; whip up the white of one egg to a froth, and lay it on the top; sprinkle it with sugar, and salamander it. Have a very few pistachio nuts chopped fine; and sprinkle it on the edge of the rice, and against the sides. Coloured sugar—green or pink sugar—may be used if pistachio nuts are not at hand. This takes very little more trouble than a common pudding; if begun directly after breakfast, there is time for it to be finished for dinner. Instead of the sweet- meat, it may be filled up with apple prepared as at page 340. ■ •Cx DECEMBER.—DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS. Haricot soup. Slices of codfish fried, anchovy sauce. Rabbit croquets. Loin of beef. Mince-pies. Genoese trifle.DINNERS EOR ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 409 Genoese Trifle. Have five sponge biscuits, put tliem on the disli, and lay two on the top; mix two wineglassfuls of sherry and a tablespoonful of brandy; let it soak gradually into all the biscuits ; cover the two top ones with currant jelly; blanch, and split an omicc of almonds ; cut each half almond into three pieces; take those which are of an even size and stick them closely through the currant jelly into the bis- cuits. Make a rich custard of the yelks of four eggs, half a pint of milk or cream, and sugar ; chop up what remains of the almonds with two bitter almonds, mix them with the custard, and pour it cold into the dish: a round glass dish is suitable. This is-very nearly the old-fashioned tipsy cake, and an easy and excellent Christmas dish.410 CHAPTER X. EECHALTFES, and mSCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. As nothing is more useful for a small family than good rechauffes, a fe\v are now given, which, if done carefully, will be found equal to fresh-cooked dishes. There is only one general remark required about rechauffes, that any small entree with its sauce that merely has to he rewarmed, should not be put into a saucepan, but into a small glazed jar, and the jar placed in a pan of boiling water. Rechauffe of Roasted Loin or Fillet of Veal, I WITH Peas. It is better to proceed with the cooking as soon as the veal returns from its first appearance at the dinner table; the whole of the gravy will be at once transferred to the braising-pan, and the meat will be better for not being allowed to set before being re-cooked. Either trim it all neatly, or separate as much as is intended for the stew; put it into a braising-pan, and lay beneath it, and round it, any pieces that may have been trimmed off; add a small bunch of sweet herbs, a small whole onion, a bladerechauffes. 411 of mace, and pepper and salt; lay on tlie top a tliick layer of fat bacon, and put in a pint of veal broth or chicken broth, as well as the gravy from the dish; if there is no broth at hand, mix the gravy with a pint of water: but on no account use mutton broth, which would spoil the whole. Cover the pan closely, and let it simmer on the top of the oven for an hour. Take out the veal and bacon together, and set them aside; then let the stock boil for five minutes, and strain it. The next day, or when the veal is wanted to be finished, remove any fat from the stock; put the veal and stock into a stewpan, with a pint of peas, not very young; cover the pan, and stew this altogether very gently for two hours: the top of the oven is still the safest place. Ten minutes before serving, add two ounces of butter rubbed into one of flour; stir it whilst it simmers for ten minutes; take out the veal, and stir in a tablespoonful of sugar; serve with the peas and sauce in the dish. It looks nicer with a little glaze put with a brush upon the top of the veal. Veal may also be done the same way, with French beans instead of peas; but the beans, after being cut into small pieces, must be boiled separately, and added to the stew only a quarter of an hour before serving. This is good for breakfast, if any should remain, sent up without the sauce and vegetables. Galantine of veal, if intended for breakfast, is improved by having some chopped pistachio nuts412 KECHAUFFES. rolled up with it, which also looks very pretty. In all other respects, follow the receipt already given. Rechauffe of Lamb, with Peas. Any piece of lamb may be done the same way as the loin and fillet of veal. It will require scarcely so much time to stew. If it is a leg of lamb which has been cut into, it would not be neat-lookino- to o stew in that form, but a finished fresh-looking dish may be contrived by dividing the bone where slices have been cut from ; stew the thicker end, and place it when done on the dish like a small fillet: it looks in that way unlike a rechauffe, so as to be producible to guests. Lamb with Spinach. If any part of a loin of lamb, especially the chump end, has been left, of sufficient size to be worth making a rechauffe, divide it entirely where it has been cut, and trim it, to look neat; stew it with vegetables in some good stock, but do not use bacon, only one very small onion and a little mint; it will require only an hour and a half; boil the spinach sepa- rately, pass it through a coarse sieve, and mix it with two ounces of butter, some salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, white pepper, and a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice; lay the lamb on the dish, set the spinach round it, with sippets of bread fried in butter till quite crispRECHAUFFES. 413 laid on tlie spinach. The stock, after stewing the lamb, may be boiled away till there is only a teacup- ful ; or one-half the stock may be taken, and a table- spoonful of glaze added to it: the last is the better plan. There need be no thickening, and no cream ; pour the sauce over the lamb. The small-cut fillet off a half-used leg, or any piece that can’ be cut square, is suitable to be redone this way. Beef. Beef is the least manageable for a rechauffe of any meat. 1 he chief plan to be suggested, that is not commonly practised, is to roast the silver side of the lound. About ten or twelve pounds of this should have a little salt sprinkled over it the day before it is to be cooked, it will then be tied [into a neat shape before it is roasted. From this piece of beef a much larger quantity of pure, clear gravy, without fat, wiU proceed than from any other, and by using this gravy a nicer hash can be made from this piece of beef Bian would be possible from the loin . or ribs. A little care is required in making the hash. The beef is best cut very thin; put cold into a stewpan with the cold gravy, pepper, and salt; simmer it for ten minutes; more time would harden It; less, would leave it with a raw taste: it may be served with some nicely-fried sippets of bread or some fried potato chips. The best vegetable with It IS French beans. The simplicity of this rdchauffdKECHAUFFES. 414 is its chief recommendation; but if that advantage is not estimated, the gravy may receive the addition of a tablespoonful of walnut catchup, a teaspoonful of mushroom catchup, a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of Indian pickle, and a teaspoonful of burnt onion; and with all this, thickening must he added, according to the quantity of the sauce, in the proportion of an ounce of flour and as much butter to the pint. For those who like curry, one of the best rechauffes that can he made is curried beefsteak-pudding. The pudding must be made with a tolerably thick crust, in the proportion of half a pound of the best beef- suet, carefully prepared and chopped very small, to a pound of flour, and it must be boiled not less than five hours. Cukhied Beefsteak Pudding. Slice two large onions into thin pieces ; put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; fry them brown; then add a pint of stock, and simmer it for an hour. Mix up two tablespoonfuls of flour and one of curry powder into a smooth paste"* with'some of the gravy of the pudding, stir it into the onions and stock, and simmer for ten minutes. Cut up what remains of the crust with a round cutter two inches across; put the pieces with the beef and the pudding gravy into the stewpan with the onions, and simmer it all very gently forEECHAUFFES. 415 half an hour. Serve, by laying the beef in the middle of the dish, range the sippets of crust round, and pour the sauce over all. Boiled rice may be placed I’ound the dish, or sent up separately. Deco- rate the rice with some small pieces of gherkins and pickled walnuts. Kechauffes of Fish fok Dinner and Breakfast. Salmon. Whenever salmon is to be rewarmed the skin must be taken away the instant it leaves the table after its first appearance; it is better, when it is not to be served up again whole, to remove also the bones and fat part near the fins. A neat slice will be as good the second day steamed, with lobster sauce poured over to hide the removal of the skin. If the slice is broken it may be divided into flakes, put into a dish or mould, a few bread crumbs sprinkled amongst it, and the dish filled up with the remaining lobster sauce, or a little white sauce; then cover the top with crumbs, lay a little butter on the top, and bake .it for a quarter of an hour, or till the crumbs begin to brown. For breakfast, divide the fish into flakes when it is hot after the fii’st cooking, and put on it a tablespoonful of vinegar; put it, when wanted, into a small stewpan with cayenne, and salt, and butter, in proportion of two ounces to a pound of fish; let it simmer, stirring gently, till the butter is absorbed, and the fish^begins to turn brown : it may be served416 EECHAUEFES. at once, or else, laid on a disli, be covered with crumbs, Avith a small piece of butter, and set in the oven, or in a Dutch oven before the fire, for ten minutes. RECnAUFFE OF CoD FOR EITHER DiNNER OR Breakfast. Whilst hot, remove the skin and bones; when wanted to be rewarmed, divide the fish into flakes; put it into a stewpan, with butter in proportion to a quarter of a pound to one pound of fish; add a tablespoonful of good stock, or two of remaining oyster sauce with the oysters; also a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, and a little cayenne; let it simmer, and stir it forcibly with a wooden spoon till the butter and sauce is all taken up by the fish: it must be done the last moment before sending up. A tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce, and as much anchovy sauce, will be required if stock is used instead of oyster sauce. Rechauffe of Haddock. Haddock, either boiled or baked, is good if dressed the same way as salmon, but the vinegar must be omitted. It is not of so much consequence to remove the skin while the fish is still hot, as it is less oily than the skin of salmon; still it is always a good plan if any fish is to be rewarmed, to take away the skin.417 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. Deied Haddocks. These are nicely prepared for breakfast by broiling them; then take all the fish from the skin and bones, break it up, and put it in a dish, mixed with the same q^uantity of bread crumbs and a little cayenne ; put an once of butter in pieces among the crumbs, and some of it on the top; set it in the oven or before the fire till the outside becomes a little brown. COLIFICHETS. Put one ounce of flour into a saucepan, beat it whilst warming on the fire, and continue to do so whilst you add by degrees a tablespoonful of flour; when the floui IS all in the butter, add some salt and cayenne, and stir it till it all begins to thicken; then put to it half a pint of hot cream, or else some milk that has been boiled till it is reduced in quantity; let it simmer ten minutes, add the yelk of an egg which has been beaten, and let it simmer five minutes more. Have ready some hard boiled yelks of eggs, as many as you like, and also half a dozen very light cracknel biscuits; cut the biscuits into either two or three equally-sized pieces. When you are ready to serve, cut the yelks of eggs into four pieces each, put them in the sauce, and let them warm; then set the biscuits in your dish, and pour the sauce whilst very hot over them. This very simple and cheap dish is a nice little 27418 MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. substltuto for an entreo^ either to vary the every-day dinner, or to make out with other thines for an O unexjDected visitor. Pates a la Minute. Make any kind of paste that may be conveniently done (good puff paste would be most suitable) ; then cut some slices of German or EiiMish sausage, and o o’ take off the skin, line some pate-pans with the ]iaste, and lay in the sausage. If you happen to have a little rich stock or glaze, put half a teaspoonful cold on each; if not, they will do dry; cover with a piece more paste, press it once round the sausage- meat, and bake them lightly. Eua Croquets. Put two eggs and half an ounce of butter into a saucepan, and beat them continually for five minutes; then stir in some salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs; let them cool, then make them into balls, cover them with yelk of egg and crumb, and fry them in butter. Profitroles. Have some very small round dinner rolls, rasp the outsides, cut off a small piece from one end, and scoop out most of the crumb; fill them with someMISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 419 chopped meat and ham, •warmed in a little bechamel sauce, or in a little glaze ■with equal quantities of water and cream or milk. Wet the edges of the tops which were cut off with some yelk of egg, and press them down again; then dip the profitroles in milk; lay them for a few minutes on a sieve, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them in butter. Some chopped mushrooms are a good addi- tion to fill them with. Monacos. Rasp a French roll and cut it into thin slices, or else cut thin slices of bread; cut the slices into round pieces with a cutter ; chop and pound a little of any sort of cooked meat or ham, season it, and lay a little on half the rounds; cover them with the other rounds, making little sandwiches; mis up an egg with a teacupful of milk, leave the menaces in it till they have soaked it all up, fry them a light brown, and serve them dry or with some white sauce. They are very nice with soup. Potato Quenelles. Boil two large potatoes, dry them, and rub them through a sieve; cut a round of white bread thin, take off the crust, toast it, butter it on both sides with a good deal of butter and set it before the fire to 27—2420 ]\IISCELLAKEOUS EECEIPTS. become crisp; then cut it into small dice, and put it with all its butter to the potatoes; beat up two eggs, the white and yelk together, and add to them a small pinch of chopped parsley; mix it all well up together into a mass, and make it into any shape you like; boil them for a quarter of an hour in a pint of water with a little salt in it. A little grated ham may be added, but they will be found very good without. Serve them up with a little nice white sauce or b(^chamel. They are very like real quenelles, and, if made into small balls, are good in any kind of soup. Pate d’Italie.—(^Italian Paste for Soups.) Take one ounce of flour, a pinch of salt, a quarter of an ounce of butter, and half the yelk of an egg; add a few drops of hot water, and make it into a very stiff paste ; beat it for half an hour with a roll- iug-pin; roll it thin; cut it into small shapes; lay the pieces on a sheet of white paper, and set it near the fire to dry gradually for four or five hours : it may be in the screen, if the fire is not very large. The paste will keep ten days in paper, in a dry place; but it is better made the day before it is wanted. To boil the paste for soup, put it into boil- incT water with a little salt in it; boil it for twenty minutes, and drain the water from it. This paste will serve for all purposes for which macaroni is used, and is better.421 MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. Cloi&tons eoe Soup {or to he used with Cheese or Batter.) Pull either roll or white crumb of bread to pieces, set it oil papei', and diy it in a cool oven till it is pale yellow. When used for soup, set some pieces a second time in the oven on a plate, with a small piece of butter on each, and let them become a little browner than before. Put them in the soup the last moment before servino;. Ceeam Cheese. There is nothing more useful than to know how to make a nice cream cheese. Take a small table- napkin, dip it in boiling water, squeeze it, and lay it inside a sieve (the size of the sieve depends on the quantity of cream); put a little salt to the cream, and pour it in not more than two inches deep: less will do; set the sieve upon a plate, and lay a cover over it to keep off the dust; change the plate be- neath the sieve every day. The cheese will be ready either in a week or fortnight, according to the weather. It is worth while to do this with even so little as a teacupful of cream which will not keep for other purposes, and cream which has begun to get a little sour is equally good for the purpose.422 MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. Burnt Onions tor Gravies. Peel and chop fine half a pound of onions, put them in a stewpan that is not tinned, add a pint of •water and half a pound of brown sugar; boil the onions a few minutes before adding the sugar, then boil gently till all becomes nearly black and throws out bubbles of smoke ; have ready nearly half a pint of boiling vinegar having cayenne pepper boiled in it. Mix it, little by little, with a wooden spoon; and, when cold, bottle it, or tie it down in jars, for use. English Beignets. Beat up the yelks of three eggs, and beat the whites separately to a stiff froth; add three ounces of white sugar, grate into it a little lemon-peel, add a small pinch of salt, and mix with this half a pmt of millc; butter a flat pudding-dish well, and bake the custard in it for half an hour. Leave it to get quite cold. This may be done the day before. Turn out the custard upon a large flat dish; cut with a tin cutter round pieces two inches across—they will be the depth of the pudding, about an inch and a half; have the yelks of two eggs beaten up in a large plate, lay each piece as you cut it on the egg, and lay the egg over the top and sides with a knife; have well-dried crumbs in another plate; lay theMISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 423 pieces on tlie crumbs^ and cover tliem. thickly with them ; fry them in butter, which must be boiling when they are put into the pan. It requires care to turn them without breaking. Lay them on a paper before the fire to dry, and put them on another to serve; sprinkle a little white sugar over them; wine sauce may be served with them or not, at pleasure. It seems an unwonted little piece of flattery that a German cook should imagine a most delicate little composition, and then call it an “ Englische Beig- net.” We had better accept the unusual compli- ment to our despised cuisine and naturalize the stranger as speedily as possible ; for it is the nicest and prettiest little addition that was ever offered to take its turn with any common pudding: it may be added that it is also the easiest to make, for, in place of skill, it wants nothing but the practice of those two best of every cook’s virtues—care and ex- cessive neatness. She may be reminded, on giving her this receipt, that her butter must be of the freshest, and her frying-pan a curiosity of cleanli- ness. These beignets, though so simple, have the appearance of a little n:iystery of art, and are, there- fore, worthy to form a part of an elaborate dinner; for that purpose they may receive various additions : dried cherries and preserved fruits of all sorts, cut in pieces, or pounded almonds, may be included in the custard before it is baked; or the custard may be flavoured with vanilla, chocolate, brandy, or liqueurs.424 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. A German receipt for some with chocolate differs in a small degree from the above; it is as follows:— Chocolate Beignets. Scrape two ounces of vanilla chocolate, and pound two ounces of sugar, and boll them for a few minutes in half a pint of cream or new milk; set it to cool; tlien mix a little of the cream with half an ounce of ground rice, and put it all together with the yelks of three eggs; let it simmer. Put it into a dish; when cold, make it into equal forms, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them in butter. Poor Knights, a Swedish Dish. Cut a Drench roll across, and take off the crust; if there is no roll at hand, cut slices of white bread without crust half an inch thick, any neat shape all alike; soak them in half a pint of hot milk, which has two ounces of butter dissolved in it; let them drain for five minutes on a sieve, fry them in butter; the butter must boil before they are put in; they must be fried till they are a light brown and crisp; set them on a dish, put a layer of any sort of preserved fruit, then another of the bread, and so on ; sift a little white sugar on the top slice of bread. To make these richer, put on each slice, before the preserve, a teaspoonful of brandy or wine.425 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. Apple Tuebans. Peel some good baking apples very tliinly, scoop out the api^le-core with a vegetable cutter, fill up the space with brown sugar, butter, and a little finely chopped lemon-peel; put two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar into a teacup, with two teaspoonfuls of water ; let the sugar melt, and cover the outside of the apples with it; then lay well-dried crumbs thickly all over the sugar; set them on a tin in the oven, or in the Dutch oven, turning them as they become brown; they will fall a little flat; dust some white sugar over to serve. Some custard may be sent up W’ith these if liked. Hasty Puddikg. Half a pint of milk, set it on the fire, weigh out t three ounces of flour, keep dropping in the flour :i little by little as the milk warms, stirring it all the i) time with one hand as you drop the flour in with the other; then boil, stirring for five minutes; set it d by the side of the fire; beat up the yelk of one egg, 7i with one ounce of butter, and a tablespoonful of ii white sugar; set the saucepan on the fire, stir in f the butter and egg, and let it just simmer for one f minute ; pour it into a buttered dish ; place the dish t in the Dutch oven for a quarter of an hour to di’y () the top; lay an ounce of butter in small pieces on IMISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 426 the top, and sift the butter thickly over with sugar; let it stand close to the fire till the sugar is a little browned, or salamander it, which is better. Dabioles. Line twelve small p&,te-pans with thin puff paste; then make a cream to fill them with as follows:—put half an ounce of fiour into a cup with an egg (white and yelk together), mix it till it is quite smooth. Crush six ounces of macaroons, and mix the powder with the yelks of three eggs and two ounces of sugar, add to this the paste of flour and egg, and beat it all with a spoon for half an hour: then add a tea- cupful of cream and a little orange-flower water, and beat it again for ten minutes; put a piece of butter the size of a nut into each p&te-pan after it is lined with paste, and then divide the batter amongst the twelve; sift a little sugar and some candied orange-flowers on the darioles. They must be baked in a cool oven till they begin to turn yellow; serve them on a fringed paper the moment they leave the oven. Scotch Pineapple. Take some large oranges and as many apples of the same size, peel them, cut the oranges in slices across, leave the slices from the ends taking only those which are nearly the same size, and remove theMISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 427 seeds; do the same with the apples; lay a slice of apple, sprinkle it with white sugar, then one of orange, and sprinkle it again; put a teaspoonful of brandy on each slice of the orange; and so on, alter- nate slices with sugar between each, and brandy only on the orange ; put one of the end pieces on the top: it may be decorated with bonbons, if for a small pai’ty. This has quite the flavour of pineapples. To MAKE Green Sugar and other Colours. Have a pound of quite young spinach, wash it very clean, dry it, put it in a moi’tar, and pound it with the juice of a lemon; put it in a sieve to drain: do not squeeze it, but let whatever will drain without touching fall into a plate; pound half a pound of fine loaf sugar, but not finely; pass it through a colander; drop the spinach-juice on it by degrees till all the sugar is coloured; lay it on sheets of white paper, in a w'arm place, but not near the fire, to dry; in three or four hours, or when quite dry, put it in a dry bottle and cork it tightly. Sugar may be done the same way, with w'ater coloui’ed from saucer pink. Yellow sugar is made the same way, with a pinch of hay saffi’on in a table- spoonful of Avater, strained, and some lemon-juice added to it.428 ]\IISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. C.1EE FOR Charlottes, Gateaux d’Oranges, etc. Have one pound of Brown and Poison’s corn flour, one pound and a quarter of white sugar powdered and sifted, one pound and a quarter of butter, and six eggs; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, then mix them all, in the following succes- sion, in a large bowl, beating with a spoon all the time: first the butter, wdiich must be beaten alone to a cream, then add the sugai’, then the yellcs of eggs, then the flour, lastly, the wdiites of eggs in froth; flavour with lemon or vanilla, and whip it for two hours with a whisk ; butter the inside of the moulds, and cover the outsides of them with paper. Bake it two hours in a slow oven; it must be a verj^ light brown. It i§ important not to omit the outside paper, which protects the sides from scorching. This is a very nice cake for . tea, dessert, or luncheon. When the coni flour cannot be had, common flour will do, but not nearly so well; espe- cially for a Charlotte russe, where the advantage of a corn flour cake is that it can be cut so easily. If common flour is used there must be two more eggs. This is the quantity for two Charlottes russes. The moulds to be used for them are plain, round, and five or six inches high.mSCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 429 Wafer Biscuits. Rub a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a bandful of fine flour, make it into a stiff, smooth paste with warm milk and the white of an egg beaten to a froth; beat the paste with a rolling-pin for at least half an hour, or longer (the goodness of the biscuits depends on the length of time that they are beaten); take small pieces and roll them out to the size of a saucer; they must be so thin that, when held to the light, they can be seen through: they cannot be too thin. Bake them very lightly. Petticoat Tails. This is a genuine receipt of a cake much Jiked in Scotland; it is chiefly given for its amusing name, which is a corruption of petits gateaux tailles. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, which soften before the fire, and mix it well with two ounces of white pounded sugar; then leaven in with the above half •pound of flour. Make all up into a ball, then roll it out to neai'ly the size of a dinner-plate, raising the edge of the cake a little, and marking it over with the quill end of a feather; move the cake on to a tin plate, having a piece of paper below the cake; then mark off in the middle of the cake a round space the size of the mouth of a wineglass, and from that mark eight segments.MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 430 Melted Butter. For a pint of melted butter use half a pound of fresh butter; put it in a saucepan on one side of the hot hearth—^when there is no hearth, on a very slow fire; beat the butter with a wooden spoon as it melts, and continue beating till it is even and white, like cream; simmer it for five minutes, beating all the time. This receipt was given long ago by a French valet, Avho was proud of this particular accomplish- ment, and displayed it in every kitchen that he went into : he had a favourite little lecture for the cooks, beffinning thus:—“Now, melted butter is melted butter; it is not de trash; it is not flour and water and butter; nor flour and milk and butter; but it is de butter and nothing else.” Your English cook will object that his plan takes a great deal more material than is wanted for the gruelly or puddingly sort of stuff that she miscalls melted butter; but the most sparing housewife scarcely needs reminding that a little of a good thing is better than a great deal of a bad one. It is to be regretted that it is not easy now to meet with those minikin butter-boats holding just enough for two persons, which were in fashion when real melted butter was probably more the rule than it is at present; it would be worth a young mistress’s while to search for one, and if of silver all the better, as it keeps the sauce hotter. The worst sin of pre-MISCELLANEOUS EECEIPTS. 431 tended melted butter is using flour, which sin appeal's in the most aggravated form when the compost is half-boiled, leaving a disagreeable raw flavoiu’. Tlie reason why butter by being beaten changes from a semi-transparent and semi-solid substance into a white thick liquid, will be easily understood by a slight glimpse into natural jfliilosophy. Butter is constituted of small globules, each globule being a sac or cell which contains fluid; by beating, the walls of these minute cells are broken and the contents poured out, all mixing together: this proves that there is a scientiflc object in beating, namely, to change the nature of the butter to one more suited to the purpose. Of course, butter thus beaten can never return to its original state. The same change takes place in oil when it is beaten for a mayonnaise.432 CHAPTER XL ECONOMICAL COOKEKY. It will be obvious that most of tlie dishes which compose the foregoing small dinners, may be chosen in turn as suitable for the every-day table of a family; but although several suggestions not very common will be found among them, those additions are hardly sufficient to afford much relief to that want of variety which everybody complains of. In undertaking to be the lady’s guide the greatest difficulty is the duty of helping to order a neat, pretty, satisfactory repast for every day; the task of providing for state occasions was a less perplexing one. We hardly thought, dear reader, when we began to discourse on your disasters and their remedies, what minute refinements of the culinary art we should be beguiled into examining; and had we looked such a course of study fairly in the face beforehand, we should probably have recoiled from entering upon it; but having advanced bravely so433 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. far, we will not shrink from the lesser labour that remains: indeed, what I have now to suggest may possibly make it easier and shorter than }mu expect to find it. The idea which presents itself with this view, is to resort to the system adopted by all classes in France. It must be confessed that the palm of superiority in taste, which we have been used to resign in all things to our neighbours, seems, in one I’cspect, that of dress, to be passing from their hands : we get hideous exaggerations of fashions from them, and seem ourselves to be inclining somewhat towards the wiser restraint of simplicity; but in the cuisine they are still undeniably pre-eminent, and wonderfully triumphant over deficiencies in their materials. It has been said that French cooks would be the best in the world, if they had anything to cook: the sarcasm is unjust, for they are the best, in spite of having nothing comparatively good; we may, therefore, thankfully receive a lesson from them. We have seen in our practical course of study, that almost every well-made entree is produced by the protracted application of heat, moderate in degree, applied equally to all parts of a vessel, whilst the substance cooked has but little liquid added to it, and no opportunity is afforded of evaporation. On the hot hearth all these requisites are obtained in an expensive way, and not without much care and atten- 28434 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. tion on the part of the cook, who is exposed to the iTiiwholesome atmosphere of charcoal; now these re- quisite conditions may all he supplied with economy, without trouble, and without injury to health, by the adoption of the pot-an-fen. The apparatus is no more than an earthen pot or jar holding from one to two quarts, having a cover; and the use of a common fire only, is all that is required. The follow- ing three receipts will serve as examples for the way of using this simple apparatus. The first, for cooking beef steak, supplies a good family dish, and the pro- duct, if not all used, may be served another day, without being in any sense a rechauffe; that for haricot mutton will answer the same conditions, and the third will insure the efficient cooking of a dish which is seldom well done in England, whilst every country inn in France is able to produce it. The fricandeau, served cold for breakfast or lunch, is one of the most useful things that can be made. Stewed Beef Steak in the Pot-ah-Feu. The steak, from one to two pounds in weight, may be done flat, or rolled; if the latter way is chosen, chop up a little parsley and onion very fijie, add a pinch of pounded mace, two cloves, and six allspice; sprinkle this over the steak, and roll it up lightly, and tie it; lay two slices of bacon on it, with one clove, two or three allspice, another small onion, and four small carrots; put in the roll, and cover with a piece435 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. of bacon, but add no more vegetables. Set the jar for ten minutes in boiling watei', then by the side of the fire or in a very cool oven for six hoiu’s or more; it should not be opened till wanted, and is better always kept warm. When it is to be used, take out the roll of beef and vegetables, strain the stock, and thicken it with two ounces of butter and the same of flour; simmer it ten minutes, then add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of walnut ketchup, some cayenne and salt, half a tea- spoonful of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Serve by pouring the sauce over the top of the beef: the carrots may be sent up with it, or a few French beans may be cut into small pieces, and put into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, and a teaspoonful of sugar; let them simmer, shaking the pan occasionally (not stirring), for five minutes, then lay them round the beef. Another good way is not to serve it Avith any vegetable, but to boil a teacupful of Italian paste and put it in the sauce. There is scarcely any meat which will not be good if done in the same Avay. A very little practice and consideration Avill teach any thoughtful cook what vegetables, herbs, and condiments are most suitable to each. Pot-atj-Feu or Haeicot Mutton. Cut a neck of mutton into as many neat cutlets as you can, trim off the fat, and cut the bones; put 28—2ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 436 Tiny pieces that remain, v/itli the pieces of bone, into a saucepan, and boil them quickly for two hours with the lid on, to make some broth; let it cool and skim it: if you happen to have some good broth or stock, it is not necessary to do this. Dust some flour over the cutlets, put them in a fryingpan with a veiy little butter, and fry them very slightly till the out- sides ai’e just a little done : they must by no means be done throughout; then line the jar with slices of bacon, cut six carrots into neat pieces, two onions whole, a head of celery, a small piece of parsley, some salt and white pepper, a good teaspoonful of sugar; lay the cutlets on the bacon, and cover them with some more; pour in broth just up to the top of the cutlets, close the jar tight, and let it stand in a moderate heat for six hours. Before serving, skim the sauce; if it is too thin, reduce it by boiling, and thicken very little with flour and butter: remember to simmer the thickening sufficiently to cook the flour: the carrots alone will be served with the sauce. Pot-au-Feu of Feicandeau of Veal. In order to make this good, some strong stock or broth should be ready. The veal ought to be the fine part of the fillet; about three or four pounds will make a handsome fricandeau: it must be trimmed to a neat shape, the skin part outside rolled a little round, and tied; it would be better larded with bacon, but will be very good Avithout. Line the jar437 ECO^iOMICAL COOKERY. Avitli two slices of bacon, put in tbe fricandeau, put any scraps of veal that may have been trimmed off round it, with two carrots, two onions sliced, a little p0pp0i’j very few grains of allspice, some salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar; lay a slice of bacon on the top, and fill up with the stock nearly to the top of the veal; set the jar for ten minutes in a pan of boilino- water, then let it stand for at least ten hours in A'ery slight heat. The plan recommended to poor people to put the jar under the grate for part of the time, covering the top with a tin or slate, is excellent for everybody. It may be served with sorrel sauce or spinach round it; if with spinach, boil it sepa- rately, mash it up in a saucepan, with a small piece of butter, a spoonful of vinegar, some white pepper, and two spoonfuls of the stock of the pot-au-feu; take the rest of the sauce, boil it away a little, and pour it very hot over the fricandeau when serving. RkCHAUFFE OF GaME IN THE PoT-ATJ-FeU. • If a partridge should leave the table whole, an excellent dish for another day may be made in the jar, as follows:— Put half a pound of common beef-steak at the bot- tom of the jai’, one slice of onion, a small sprig of parsley, half a blade of mace, two allspice ; lay the partridge in, and cover it with slices of fat bacon; add half a pint of water ; close the jar tight, and set438 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. it on the oven for an hour and a half; leave it in the larder closed till wanted. When it is to be served, set the jar again near the fire till wanned through; take out the partridge, strain the gravy, thicken it with one ounce of flour and some butter, add two tahlespoonfuls of sherry and a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, with a little cayenne and salt, and a pinch of sugar; garnish the dish with lemon. It must he served very hot. Serve up some fried potato chips with it in another dish. A pheasant is better still when done exactly the same way ; hut this mode of cooking is not suited to game which has been cut. If that should ever he wished to reapj)ear hot, it must be divided neatly into joints, and made with care into a salmi; which is a very different thing from common hashing. The closed jar is not so useful for cooking poultry, excepting for any which may be suspected of age and toughness ; in which case it may be made excellent, either put in fresh or after being roasted. It will require bacon, white stock, a very few vegetables, and less spice than is good with game. Rabbits that are not extremely young are cooked with great advantage by the same means; but it must be remem- bered that the closed jar is not intended for slices of meat of any kind. Calves’ feet and lambs’ feet may have the first part of the preparation as well done in the jar as in a stewpan, and with much less trouble.439 CHAPTER XII. SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. In the grand kitchen^ with its hot plates and bain- maries, and its white-paper-capped chefs, the pot-au- feu is never heard of, or if heard of, is despised; in the comfortable kitchen, with its neat range and bright saucepans and tidy cooking maid, it may be sometimes welcomed as an easy method of producing luxm’ies, and an aid to management; but in the poor kitchen, or rather in the miserable tenement where there is one room and but little fire, and still less to be cooked upon it, the pot-au-feu is a Crock of gold ”— at least it might be if any charitable friend would take it there. Shall I confess, dear reader, that a strong •belief that the poorer classes might find in it a resource in hard times, and an approach to the enjoyment of luxuries, as well as a means of economy hitherto unknown to them, first prompted the idea of writing about cookery and households. The work was begun in the hope that some young lady housekeepers would be glad to accept advice about the ordering of their tables, and find in it relief from perplexity, and a440 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. saving of time and thought commensurate with im- provement of their daily fare; and that then they might charitably desire to extend a certain measure of assistance in the same direction to those who, in their w’’ay, are still worse managers than they ever were themselves. And so the book has grown:— all the dinners for fine company have been com- posed, their mode of cooking simplified, the fruits and flowers grouped, the plate and lights and vases ai’ranged; various refinements of the table among friends have been proposed, and all the little inven- tions for the private delectation of the single lady in her comfortable lodging have been imagined, wdth the- ulterior aim and hope, that a few of my readers might be persuaded to introduce this “ Crock of gold” — the pot-au-feu ”—into the dwellings of the poor. Everybody longs more or less to better the condi- tion of those whose misery offers a painful contrast to their own comfort. The desire may not always issue in efiPectual exertion, but all feel it; even should it only spring, as it does, in selfish natures, from the wdsli to be relieved from sights and thoughts wdiich disturb their own comfortable sensations. To the minds of such as these, the question now and then presents itself, “ What shall I do, and where shall I begin?” But answers are ever ready—not answers really, but excuses—such as, “Want is the offspring of intemperance and idleness! ” And then the oftenSUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 441 misapplied quotation follows—Tiie poor shall nevei cease,” and so the impulse ends. But so it will not end with those who desire to 'he practical as well as sentimental; although the work that they would gladly do is obstructed by a thousand difficulties. For their encouragement there is one undoubted fact, that in this country posith’e destitution is as rare as bad management and waste leading to distress are common. This fact opens a wide field for hopeful labour: for it proves that to disseminate plans for better economy, if such could be invented, might meet the exigencies of those who are unthrifty but not devoid of means, and thereby eventually diminish the number of those who are actually destitute. It would be a great gain if poor people could be initiated into the pleasures of good housekeeping: if they could be led to enjoy, and even invent, little ^^jmforts for themselves, a fresh interest in life would ^ be opened to them. At present their indulgences in regard to food are gratified without judgment for the moment or prudence for the future: they seize wasteful luxuries whilst they have the means, bestow- ing no thought upon the future day, when neces- saries may scarcely be obtained. The extent to which extravagant articles of food are indulged in, so long as money is in hand, would astonish any one who does not know that in the general strike of 1859, tradesmen who supply the working classes found that442 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. it was in poultry, choice vegetables, and the dearer kinds of meat that their custom chiefly fell off*: in fact, poor people indulge often in expensive articles which many prudent persons in a higher walk of life habitually refrain f?om. This may partly he defended by supposing that they crave for delicacies, because their way of preparing common things is so distaste- ful, whilst it is probable that the costly viands are not much less spoiled under the same management. There is reason to hope that were they to adopt an easy, tidy, saving way of cooking, it might lead to contentment with ordinary materials, whilst a more prudent way of spending money might result in the accumulation of a little store for time of need. The pot-au-feu, which affords to the lowest class in France a good dinner almost out of nothing, is nearly unknown among the English : it is stated that the Spitalflelds weavers, following the tradition of their French origin, still use it with advantage: but in general there is a national prejudice, the dislike to “ messes,” which is unfavourable to the extension of the custom. “ Stews are not to our taste; we do not want messes, made of nothing,” would be the objection made in most tenements where it might be pi’oposed. But the ready answer would be, " It need not be a mess, nor by any means made out of nothing: it is not meant to stand in place of a good piece of roasted meat when you can get it; but when you cannot, then your closed jar, with what costsSUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 443 but little in it, will afford you some good nourisliing soup; or you may cook some wholesome but coarser and cheaper sort of meat in it, such as you would not like if roasted, and you will find it turn out as tender and as nice as any that may be set before the fine folks who meet to dine at the great houses in your neighbourhood.” The apparatus for the pot-au-feu is just what the single lodging-room affords, a small fire: for this purpose, the smaller almost the better; an earthen jar, a small space to set it in: perhaps the hob. In a model lodging-house thei’e will be the little oven, and, in old-fashioned grates, there is room underneath the fire: which is the most desirable position that can be found; whilst a piece of tin or slate wdll serve to keep the ashes from falling on the top of the jar. Such trifles as this last have to be thought of when any new thing is to be proposed: a poor woman, who took kindly to the plan, bewailed that the hearth underaeath the grate, a place of which she was able to perceive the advantage, could not be used, because the ashes fell upon the jai’, so she desisted from further experiment, never thinking of looking for a tile or broken plate; however, she adopted the elaborate contrivance when once suggested to her. The mention of this not very ingenious acceptor of the pot-au-feu will indicate that it is not an alto- gether untried experiment which is now proposed to the consideration of visitors amongst the poor; it has.444 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. in fact, been made in several quarters, and Las met with success sufficient to encourage further efforts. One or two incidents of its progress may he men- tioned. The case of one poor girl, Nora D., has been related to me by one of my friends, through whose instrumentality the French mode of cooking was made known to several poor families. Nora is the daughter of two poor old people, one paralyzed, the other ill and weak in intellect, neither of them being able to work or even help themselves; the very small sum that she earned by going out to iron was so insufficient to support them that when my friend first visited her she had been obliged to propose to them the refuge of the workhouse. This was a prospect intolerable to the poor couple; they were in despair at the idea of being separated, for they had a more than common isolation to expect, because neither of them could speak a word of anything but Irish. Nora soon comprehended the advantage of the pot-au-feu; it had a very special one for her, for hitherto, even when her little earnings were enough to buy a dinner, she had to go out to work, and tlie old people. were in no condition to cook it for them- selves : all she could do was to leave them some bread and tea, and the mother -was just able to take it from before the fire. My friend gave her ajar and cover, and she set to work on the new system. Each day she put into it three pennyworth of meal, a penny- worth of rice, two onions, which cost a halfpenny.SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 445 and a halfpenny worth of flour. This was left safely by the fire when she went out early in the morning, and by noon there was a nice cup of soup for each of the two old people; a few spoonfuls of the strong- gravy from the jar and a little water served for both all through the rest of the day Avhenever they desired to have it, and there was always a scrap of hot meat with vegetables ready for Nora when she came home tired at night. Since then, when times have been occasion- ally worse than usual with her, a pennyworth of bones, a halfpennyworth of onions, and a pennyworth of potatoes, has made some nice soup for all; but even her great days of meat and rice have cost her less than the bread and butter and tea which was their unvarying diet before. Nora believes that the pot-au- feu has saved her poor parents from the workhouse. This is not the only instance of poor people having rejoiced that they had “ never known what it was to want a drop of broth,” since they had used the plan; but one other only, testif3dng to a different kind of advantage, shall be cited. The benefactress of Nora B. gave the same directions and a jar to a poor man in a decline. He was unable to work, and his wife Vi^ent out to earn a living for them both. Like many in his complaint he wanted nourishment, and he had the meat he wished for, but not the means to cook it suitably: the tough steak broiled on a low fire was wholly unadapted to his weakly state ; he ate it, but invariably suffered pain in consequence. After he446 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. became possessed of the jar his little piece of beef or mutton, done gradually with all its juices in it, was quite a different thing to him; he lived on it for the greater part of last winter, and experienced none of the discomforts from it which the cruder food had given him. A few experiences such as this would convince the most prejudiced objector against stews and “ messes ” that well-done meat is also the most digestible. Receipts for the cottage j)ot-au-feu are very simple. Nora B.’s practice can scarcely be improved, but it may be varied almost without end; for everything that is in good condition is suitable, and scarcely any hind of meat or vegetable is incongruous, seasoned with some spice or a little vinegar, as it may be fancied. When times are hard, two pennyworth of bacon will make a savoury dinner for a whole family if the jar be filled uj) with rice, an onion, and potatoes, with a little water: and one of the chief advantages is that not a scrap is ever wasted. Every droj) of gravy that is left may be returned to the jar; every small spare crust may go into it, and come out again at the next day’s dinner part of an agreeable substitute for more solid food. If the day should afford something worth sending to the bakehouse, or a piece of meat large enough for roasting, so much the better; but if not there are the ever ready con- tents of the jar offering a satisfactory alternative. In regard to the general management of the pot-SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 447 au-feuj it would be worth while to explain to those who mean to try the plan, that if a solid piece of meat is to be cooked in this way, as much heat as can be managed must be ajDplied to the jar for tlie first ten minutes : it would be a good jDlan to plunge the meat into a saucepan full of ready boiling water, and keep it on the fire for that time; then to arrange it in the jar with whatever can be afforded, and leave it in any place where it may most conveniently receive an equal gentle heat; there it may stay a day or two days, or even more. The jar must, however, be entirely emptied twice a week, and the inside scalded Avith hot Avater before fresh proAusions ax’e put in. In giving preliminary directions, that of tying down the cover very closely must not be omitted. The neatness of this mode of cooking is an obvious advantage, especially favourable to the comfort of poor peoide ; it supersedes the saucepan, which takes so large a space on the small fire, saving the business of cleansing the banished saucepan : the dirty work of cleaning is, in fact, as far as the outside is concerned, not much attempted; and, as for the badly tinned inside, it is impossible to purify it: the jar, on the contrary, Avith its glazed surface, is easily made clean and Avholesome; thus both labour and imtidiness are spared. To all the immediate advantages that might attend the adoption of this simple system, there may be added an indirect one to be found in the effort to448 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. disseminate it whicli may serve to commend it to the favour of the benevolent. It might prove, for a time at least, just what everybody longs for who under- takes the duty of district visiting : that is, a genuine, honest reason for intruding into other people’s dwell- ings ; not an excuse such as everybody invents (more or less clumsily, because always disingenuously), because all feel they ought to have one, but a real true reason, which requires no excuse. No one, no lady at least, can do much in visiting, without most painful misgivings as to the tendency of such a way of trying to do good; the principle, to begin with, of walking into other persons’ private habitations with a view to set their conduct and principles to rights, is utterly repugnant to any but a truly Pharisaic dis- position. By a natural impulse the attempt is always made to disclaim the notion altogether; but the object is transparent, and the mind that is intended to be worked upon for good rebels; and if 'the person visited does not happen to be destitute, or does not hastily determine to seize the opportunity and feign distress, her natural response, inward if not spoken, is, “ What then do you come for ? ” Any way the visitor’s position is an awkward one, except on those extraordinary occasions when she finds the people whom [she proposes to reform ill or starving; it is possible that in a few instances great charity and great tact may help her through, and she may Avin confidence, and become a friend whose good officesSUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 449 may one day be tliankfiiUy resorted to; but tliose are sadly rare exceptions: for tlie most part the lady visitor remains always the intruder, only tolerated to be cheated. ' Could we persuade ourselves that we do not develop among the poor a disposition to impose, by introducing a direct temptation to become covetous and deceitful, the evil of not being welcome might be borne ■with, and we could bear to be cheated whilst we did not feel guilty of having taught the way; but there is one responsibility which is not to be tranquillized by any doubts. There is a vice which no lady visitor can avoid the reproach of having carried with her into places where it was little known beLre; it follows step by step as she mounts the common stair, and creeps behind her like her shadow into every poor room. She enters one for the first time;' she finds in it that wonderful amount of charity, active, self-devoting, giving freely out of scanty means, which has no parallel in other classes: she hears from Mrs. Jones ho-w her friend Mrs. Brown downstairs is the very kindest soul in all the world; how she sat up with her in her illness and minded the child when she went out to char, and even helped her with her rent, “ though Mrs. Brown had hard to do to find her own.” She leaves in a glow of admiration; she revels in the virtues of the poor, and dreams that night about a whole population of good Samaritans. She returns 29450 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. to the lodging-house again and agam; hut it is not long before she gets from Mrs. Jones a not veiy gentle hint, that she has been three times to visit Mrs. Brown and only once to her; “as to Mrs. Brown and her deserts, Mrs. Jones could not say after all as they was so very much to speak about more than other people’s; she did know, of her own knowledge, almost, where that money went to as was given when the child was in the measles: for her part she never got nothing but a ticket, and that did not go to ginshops.” And so ends the lady visitor’s beatic vision about charity among the poor; that demon jealousy which crept in behind her is esta- blished in its stead, and no preacliing of hers will ever dispossess it. Some better impulse may, if she withdraws the cause that fixed it there. All this is actually occimring hourly; yet I should be sorry to be guilty of arguing against the duty of systematic district visiting, impossible though it is to be blind to some of the inevitable consequences, and wise as it surely must be to examine it in comiection with all the inseparably depending evils. It remains, after all, a perplexing, paradoxical sort of obligation: no one feels happy in refusing it, and no one can be happy in performing it, unless they indulge in a delusion as to the effects both on the minds of those they visit and on their own. Thi^ last is a significant topic, which our subject does not require us to follow out; it will be enough to hintSUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 451 that to -work for the sake of satisfying Lady Bounti- ful impulses; to he pleased with the sensation of having done something, and he comfortable because it Avas unpleasant, Avithout inquiring Avhat the ulterior tendency of that unpleasant something might he, is conduct that can scarcely pretend to issue from a healthy priuciple: to see the eAul of your Avork and go on doing it, is Avorse; and so I feel disposed, in this matter of district visiting, to raise a joyful Eureka over the pot-au-feu, Avhich affords an honest, valid reason for knocking at the doors of our poor neigh- bours. With it no apologies are Avanted; Ave only say, “ Here is a plan AAdiich AA^e ourselves find ex- tremely useful; Ave Avish to tell you all about it, and, if you like, to put you in the Av^ay to folloAV it.” One caution may be permitted—never to propose the neAv plan merely as a saving one; there are feAv poor people, hoAvever ill they may be off, Avhose tempers Avill not resist the notion that a lady is coming to advise them hoAV to make a good mess out of bones and rubbish. Some may remember the hubbub that Avas raised Avhen a noble philanthropist in the last time of scarcity advised the poor to help out their scanty diet Avith a pinch of curry-poAvder; it Avas called a folly and an insult, yet it was a most excellent suggestion, so far as it went: not suited, of course, to every taste, but for those who like spices, a meal so pleasant, nourishing, and comforting, could not he got by the use of any other material at the same 29—2452 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. exj^ense. Two pennyworth of boiled rice, a scrap of onion, a penny slice of bacon, and a pinch of curry- powder (value a halfpenny), would make an excellent repast for father, mother, and children, at any time; but it would be a comparatively luxurious one when there was nothing else but bread, and little enough of that for threepence halfpenny, at the high prices of that time; we may as well add that a little vinegar woidd have made the curry perfect; but no one tried it: the proposition sounded mean, and so was scouted. As to the advantage of the closed jar, therefore, when there are only bones and bi’ead to put into it, it will be best to let our poor friends find out how com- paratively well they may be fed by it when the time comes for want to prompt them to it; or, if the possibility of such an application of the way of cook- ing should be stated, it might be a judicious plan to advert to it in reference to peoj)le who are in a worse condition of life than those are supposed to be to whom the pot-au-feu is being recommended. The saving of trouble and fuel, the neatness, the cleanliness of the plan, and the superior cooking of the meat that is so prepared, the variety that may replace the finishing up of a cold, dry piece of beef or mutton—all these will be the safest points to dwell upon. Without seeming to be enthusiastic in estimating the benefits which might follow the acceptance of a better and cheaper mode of cooking by the poor.SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. 453 we might reckon that neater rooms would he one result, and that many little comforts might he fur- nished hy the spare resources which would be hus- banded through better management. Few can doubt that the way to bring the adult portion of our lower class within the influence of religious teaching is to introduce among them some of the refinements of the higher; none find their way to any place of worship in rags, very few from rooms where the furniture is broken rubbish and the chance of dinner doubtful; whilst au approach to what some people call the vanities of life is favourable to church- going. The occupants of a tenement, poor it may be, but which is in order and is even decorated in its little way, feel a certain satisfaction which prevents the crushing sense of incongruity on emerging into contact with the x'ich and prosperous. These go forth, whilst others linger in their uncared-for sloven- liness and dirt; they join in the service and feel its adaptation to their wants, perhaps more keenly than some who critically know it better; they enjoy the music which torments more tutored ears, and pick up here and there a little from the sermon, listening less w'earily because they believe that they only fail to profit hy great part of it because it is so very wise and learned. To go and preach to the ragged people who remain at home is not of half such value as it would be to help them into a condition which would454 SUGGESTIONS TO THE BENEVOLENT. prompt the wish to go and join their fellow-Christians in their prayers, and learn together with them. Without insisting further on the above argument, we may at least believe that one good tendency of better cooking would be a certain increased confi- dence in the future, derivable from the knowledge that, if bad times should come, the narrowed means might be made to produce comforts never thought possible before ; thus a certain sense of independence would result, which is one of the best foundations on which to elevate the national character: or if all this be thought too speculative, we may in some way turn to good account the advantage which will have been gained by carrying from door to door our offered pot-au-feu. Having had a legitimate excuse for opening an acquaintance, it will be fair to keep up the intercourse and turn to any higher purpose the opportunities that may arise.455 CHAPTER XIII. THE DRAWING-KOOM. I OFTEN think that there is great roona for improve- ment in the mode of furnishing our houses. If, after paying half a dozen visits any morning, we were to task our memories to reproduce the picture of some particular drawing-room that we had entered, we should find ourselves extremely puzzled. Houdin himself could not have remembered one house from another, for even his wonderful perception would have been insufficient to seize on any characteristic by which to fix it distinctively in his memory. The rooms themselves may have varied in shape, size and aspect; the furniture may have been dissimilar in every way, and yet, though he might have been able to snatch and hold in remembrance a thousand objects they contained in detail, he would have failed to realize the impression of any one as a whole. To common eyes our London drawing-rooms in general offer nothing but unbroken sameness, and the sensation produced on entering them is that of unattractive, wearisome monotony; they may all beTHE DRAWING-ROOM. 456 described as enclosures, formed by four walls, filled with a motley assemblage of objects, the contents being neither mean nor ugly in themselves, but so incongruous and so scattered, without plan, that the imagination is no more affected than it would be by so many handsome scraps of silk in the composition of a piece of patchwork. It seems a pity that so much rich workmanship, which is seen in almost every house, should in one sense be wasted: for if furniture is made for the object not only of use but of decoration, it must be confessed that, whatever may remain of the utility, the decorative pretension, in nine cases out of ten, is a purely wasted effort. In architecture the most uncultivated person can decide at the first glance on entering a building whether it excites emotion: if it produces any defined impression, such as of grandeur, graceful beauty, or solemnity, there is a palpable effect, and the work of art is proved to be a masterpiece; but if, in spite of many excellent details, no impression of any kind is made on the imagination, it is proved, as a wmrk of art, to be a failure. Now, as all our houses pretend to be something beyond mere com- fortable shelters from the weather, they must be judged according to this principle, and therefore be accounted failures. There is no inevitable cause why this should be; it only shows a use of means without a guiding mind. No one now, on entering a moderately sized house457 THE DKAWING-EOOM. in London, being unacquainted with the occupants, could form the least coiiception of their character or pursuits from anything which meets the eye ; and yet every lady who has her di-awing-room to fit up might make it, if she chose, a sort of appropriate “ setting ” for her domestic existence, which should bear the impress of her own peculiar character. If, however, the possibility of such a reflection of indi- viduality should he thought too ideal or impracti- cable, at a time when refinements in manners smooth away everything demonstrative, and the very exist- ence of much contrast in character is obscured by conventional politeness, at least the almost infinite varieties of taste might be expressed, and each pei’son’s peculiar fancy might, by a little plan and care, be so far embodied as to avoid that tedious sameness which vulgarizes most of our dwellings. To effect this it would be necessary to bestow a certain degree of attention on established rules of composition, as well as on those for the arrangement of colour; as, without a certain degree of knowledge on these points, no original combinations are likely to prove satisfactory. An adequate study, however, of the first principles of decorative art would be neither difficult nor wearisome. Of course, in a long row of houses, all constructed on the same plan, having the same aspect, and being finished alike, there can be no great opportunity for distinctive style to be kept up, even by the mostTHE DEAWING-EGOM. 458 judicious furnishing; the utmost that can be looked for under such levelling circumstances is, that in each instance a certain congruity should he preserved in the style of objects collected together, whether for use or ornament, and also that a particular key-tone of colour should be sustained in every room; but an equally tiresome sameness is commonly found in buildings where no similarity of structure can be offered in excuse, and where the absence of dis- tinctive character can only be attributed to want of system and intelligence in the work of fitting up. One sees old-fashioned rooms with heavy mouldings, ornamented ceilings, and small windows, robbed of their character of aristocratic repose, by all sorts of thin frippery and weak colours ; and again, one sees airy modern houses, with thin, slight finish and mean decorations, deprived of a certain, fresh, cheerful effect which might belong to them, by the introduc- tion of heavy furniture, “ rococo ” objects, and dingy tints. In every house and every situation alike, all sorts of things are collected together, whilst every colour in the rainbow is scattered about, conveying to the eye the imj)ression of no colour at all: nothing, in short, but a sense of weak confusion. Drawing-rooms are capable of receiving many varieties of perceptible character; as, for instance, there is the grand style, which may again be divided into the gorgeous and the brilliant, the sombre and the dazzling; there is the simple style, which admits459 THE DEAWING-EOOM. of tlie varieties of grave or gay; also an impression may be conveyed of the literary pursuits of the occupants^ or of artistic occupation and tasteful in- dustry; or the room may have an air of mere comfortable seclusion. Now, it seems to me that most rooms we may enter, even while we should consent to retain the chief part of their furniture as we find it, might yet he made to assume any one of those distinctive characters, through the mere rejec- tion of unsuitable interpolations; and this as much by bringing objects into better juxtaposition, as by re- arranging colours throughout, so as to produce one single pervading tone. Of course it would be im- possible, in many instances, to aim at the magnificent style, which requires a collection of objects rare and costly; but even that might often be attained, by means of judicious arrangement, in rooms of which the first impression is no pleasanter than that which one experiences on entering a curiosity shop. The above remark, if a true one, is encouraging to many people who, without a large command of •means, might desire to redeem the look of the place they live in from the type of vulgar sameness; for it proves that, although they may not find it conve- nient to reject old furniture and purchase new, it is possible to succeed in producing characteristic and j)leasing effects, by clever management of objects which are not exactly what would have been selected as most suitable to the style proposed, and that by aTHE Dli A WING-ROOM, 460 better use of colour, and care in grouping, many tilings may be made consistently decorative, and sub- servient to produce a striking vvliole, wliicli otherwise would appear to be so much unmeaning rubbish. In regard to colour, having previously determined what shall be the character of the room, it will be necessary to ascertain what tints and what degrees of tone or strength of hue will best accord with it. If the idea projiosed be to make some approach towards the magnificent, it is self-evident that this must be aided by much positive colour in full tone. If the brilliant is aimed at, there must be still more pure colour, in light tints. If you want the tranquil, there must be very little pure colour, and in its place a large pro- portion of neutrals, whilst the tone must not be too faint. And if the simply neat is to be the rule, there should be nearly all neutrals, pale or otherwise, as you desire to incline to the impression of cheerful or grave, into which this class may be subdivided. A good balance of colour is the next point to be considered: strong contrasts are admissible only when a showy or brilliant effect is intended; as, for instance, green would be placed near red, and orange near blue; whereas, to produce a gorgeous appearance suitable to the magnificent style, you would place a rich purple near the red, and a warm, full brown near the orange. Those who are famihar with the theory of colour will understand what I mean; for those who have not studied this interesting461 THE DEAWIXG-KOOM. l)ut by no means difficult subject, I may try to state shortly what is meant by contrast and balance of coloui’. There are three colours called primitive colours— red, blue, and yellow; if you take any one of these three, and mix together the remaining two, you produce a harmonious contrast: or, as it is called, a complementary coloui’, because the mixed colour would make up with the primary the complement or whole of the three primitive colours. Thus, green, being composed of blue and yellow, is the comple- ment of red; orange, being composed of red and yellow, is the complement of blue; and purple, being composed of red and blue, is the complement of yellow. You have only to think of what two colours green, orange, and purple are made, and you know that the remaining primary colour is its complement or contrast; the primary and the com- pound of the two remaining, are said to be comple- mentary to each other. Now it is known, not only by experiment but by a course of reasoning very easily to be understood, but which it would detain me too long to explain, that when two colours complementary to each other are placed side by side, the impression on the eye of the intensity of both is heightened; therefore it is easy to perceive that, if you want colours to look brilliant, you must place them in contrast, a primary near its complementary; and if you wish them to462 THE DEAWING-EOOM. look rick and yet quiet, you must avoid contrasts, and use two mixed colours, or a primary near a mixed colour which does not contain the remainino- O two, and is therefore not its actual complement: such as purple near crimson, which is a very rich and quiet combination; the purple tones down the crimson, Avhereas green Avould heighten it. Purple and scarlet placed near each other, also form a rich composition, and heighten the intensity of both; because, if you examine, you will find they are both mixed colours containing together the complemeuts of each other. Purple is red and blue, scarlet is red and yellow; therefore there are the three colours, the red being in both predominating. The tendency is to richness rather than brilliancy, because the com- plement is made up, but there is no actual contrast. Two primary colours used without the third being somewhere introduced, never satisfy the eye, because they want the complement; and the three used pure, in juxta-position, though it is the principle of Moorish decoration, produces an effect too dazzling for domestic purposes. Every colour looks Avell with gold, be- cause gold is not a pure colour, but is broken Avith a little red, and its metallic lustre heightens while it harmonizes the effect of colours. Perhaps this slight introduction may induce some to Avhom the subject is new to pursue it further; they will be well repaid, not only by the pleasure to be found in it, but by the usefulness of the463 THE DEAWING-EOOj^r. knowledge, which will he found applicable in a thousand ways. It will at least be understood by the explanation attempted, why complementary colours used in equal jDroportions can only be admissible where a yery showy effect is intended; it is better taste whenever pure colour is used to let it be repeated in large masses, and to introduce here and there a smaller proportion of its complementary to heighten it, or else to use a broken colour to tone it down. If two mixed colours are used, they should also be rm- equally distributed, so that the impression on entering the room may be of some pervading tint. The fault generally committed is the introduction of a number of tints without regard to their arrangement, and the scattering of little bits of pure colour all about, destroying every chance of value in themselves, or of due relief being afforded to any of the objects in the room: little scraps of embroidery, cushions, screens, table-covers, chintz covers, anti-macassars— terrible things!—distract the eye, and ruin every chance of harmony and especial character. Chintzes, with their mixture of colours eternally repeated and their glazed reflecting surfaces, disturb effect and waste a chance, in its use for covers, of introducing a good mass of single tint. Some very choice patterns in small boudoir rooms look some- times pretty; but all figuring on draperies tends to obscure the shadows on the folds, which form the464 THE DRAWING-ROOM. most beautiful and picturesque incident in furniture. Carpets of mixed colours, and papers of the same, are also chances wasted of a pleasing mass of tint: the gay carpet lifts the ground into imominence, whereas it should appear flat and solid to the eye, full in tone, and small in pattern. The pattern also should be reasonable : that is, it should not represent anything impossible, such as a raised object, because no such object could be walked upon with comfort: any pattern, therefore, which is thrown up by shadow on one side of it, is unreasonable. Walls should always be considered in the light of a background to afford the best relief to all the objects in the room. Neutrals, by which is meant tints composed of black and white, modified slightly by various colours, are the most suitable; and an unglazed surface insures a certain tranquillity of effect: glazed or much gilded surfaces are influenced by every changing light, and cannot therefore be depended on as effective backgrounds. The wall and ceiling decorations generally fall to the decision of upholsterers; but though those per- sons ought to know their business, great mistakes are commonly made by them. We observe some- times light arabesques where the general finish of the rooms and the situation point to the rich and solid style as the only character preservable; or we see heavy graining and deep tone of colour where a light cheerful style is quite as plainly indicatedTHE DEAWING-EOOM. 465 by the situation and the thin finish of the house. As a general rule, both as to the wall decorations and the furniture, excess of ornament is a fault in private houses—at least, in rooms intended for con- stant occupation. It is perplexing for the eye to wander from one dazzling point to another, finding no repose; and even to occasional visitors it is dis- tracting to the pleasure of society. Too much ornament is also a waste of means; for no object, or group of objects, can sustain their due decorative value, where there is no interval or depth of setting to display them. But though it is a fault to crowd in too many merely ornamental objects, those which are intro- duced ought to be arranged with a view to pi’oduce their full effect. A number of pretty things scat- tered about look only like so much lumber, and are, as means of decoration, wasted. Suppose a drawing- room moderately furnished: besides the usual com- plement of useful articles, there may be an ornamental cabinet, a few oil pictures, some China vases, a bronze or marble statuette, and some scraps of good China or Paris trifles in ormolu. If the statuette is placed in one part of the room, perhaps, with the light behind it, the vases in another—if the pictures are hung one on each wall, the pretty cabinet standing alone with a few of the trifles on it, and the rest placed here and there in every corner—any visitor might enter and depart without observing any one of all these 30THE DRAWING-EOOM. 466 tilings; but place tlie cabinet in the fullest light, group on it the vases and the statuette, use some ormolu to finish the composition, and range the pic- tures over and on each side of it, and there would be a point of attraction in the room which no eye could fail to rest on—rendered all the more satisfy- ing if a piece of di'apery, in good folds, could be arranged near it; and should the room, also, bear throughout a well-preserved tone of colour, then an impression might be carried away that would identify and fijc it on the memory. I specified oil paintings, in choosing a set of objects that might be made decorative, because water-colours would not be very conducive to the effect of our ima- ginary group; they generally lack depth of colour, and the glancing lights fit’orn the reflecting surface of the glasses defy all calculation as to how the whole will appear. Water-colours are appropriate only to small rooms or cabinets, where they are too near for reflections of light to be much seen, and where no great effect in the way of decoration is attempted.I 467 CHAPTER XIY. THE HOUSEHOLD. Our domestic duties in regard to the people who wait on us, is a topic on which I wish to make a few remarks, hut not without the utmost diffidence; for it seems presumptuous to make suggestions for good management, whilst I believe that the most inexpex’ienced young mistress, with no other guidance I than good sense and a generous temper, may often i succeed better than the oldest, most experienced i housekeeper, with all her plans and regulations. C There is another reason for hesitatine; to intrude C advice upon the subject, which is, that it is far from .easy to lay down general rules for circumstances ♦ which vary infinitely; difficulties to be met with in li the good government of different households beino- * as various as the shades of character in the people Of to be governed. The following remarks, therefore, t will rather refer to principles than to the establish- t ment of practical rules for particular occasions. I However presumptuous it might appear, for the J 30—2468 THE HOUSEHOLD. reasons just stated, to offer advice for the Improve- ment of our domestic system, there can be no ques- tion that reform is wanted in it somewhere; of this we are perpetually reminded by the lamentations which abound, not only about the difficulty of finding tolerable servants, hut about the still greater trouble which most people experience in managing those comfortably whom they have found. Even the most flattering, recommendations do not seem to be any security against cause for these lamentations about the degeneracy, the irregularities and inca- pacity of servants; and sometimes we end the recital of the plagues they are to us by a desperate, though perhaps not very sincere, aspiration that we could do without them altogether. It is certainly a shorter method of dismissing an annoying subject to wish the whole cause removed, than it would be to make a rational examination into the nature of the evils, to inquire into their causes, and endeavour to And out the way to mend them. Whether the fulfilment of such a wish would or would not prove an advantage in the present instance, is not worth discussing, because it Is at once disposed of by the fact, that in our complex state of civilization it has become totally impossible to realize any such idea. We need not, therefore, inquire what amount either of sincex’ity or benevolence there may be in the proposition to do without attendants; it would be very difficult to modify the usages of society so as469 THE HOUSEHOLD. even to reduce tlie number, and the need of being waited on is not likely to diminish amongst those who can afford to pay for it: the only wise course, there- fore, is to consider whether we could do anything to improve a system which we find established; and a little examination may perhaps show that there are means which might be made to work, steadily though slowly, to that end. These means and their tendencies are far from being proposed as any new discoveries : they will only be discussed from the belief that they are not sufficiently employed, or even thought about. The first requisite to ensure a better class of persons for service—such as will have higher ideas of a servant’s duty, and more desire to improve and be more ready to become attached to the employer— is to imbue them, by some means or other, with a stronger sense of the value of their position. This will hardly be disputed; yet the way to bring about that high estimation of service above other various states of life among the lower class is not so obvious, and has to be sought by indirect advances. Some- thing might be done by bestowing still greater care thamis at present usually considered needful on their personal comforts and enjoyments; something more by taking greater pains with the details of family government. Having done all this to the utmost, it will then be fair to resort to the most promising of all measures for the desired end: namely, that of making the admission to our houses very much more470 THE HOUSEHOLD. difficult than it ever has been; so that those V’ho actually enjoy the privilege may he led to regard it as a boon, and a reward for special qualifications which are needed for their position. In regard to improving the condition of servants, it may he remarked that, notwithstanding the received opinion (which in general is a just one) that servants’ lives are easy and their cares few; yet there are many masters and mistresses who cannot feel other- wise than conscious that they might make better arrangements, if they were so disposed, for the happiness of their households: and that without much, or any, interference with their own convenience. There are others who, with every vague wish to make those dependent on them comfortable, bestow hut little consideration on the matter, seldom devise plans especially suited to circumstances as they arise, and take no pains to ascertain that the few regula- tions they make with a kind intent are ever fully carried out. It is not intended by this to imply a sweeping reproach for the utter neglect of their duties by masters and mistresses; on the contrary, there is a general and sincere disposition to fulfil them, whilst it is certain that in most houses little can he safely added to the liberty and liberal fare habitually accorded to servants; yet all is not done that might be towards inducing a spirit of thankfulness and contentment, and what is done to that effect might sometimes be better directed.THE HOUSEHOLD. 471 We will imagine, however, that every little failure in kind and liberal arrangements has been remedied, and servants’ welfare been as considerately cared for as the various circumstances will allow; yet after all it will appear that the best chance of success in attaching them to our service does not lie so much in multiplying indulgences as in establishing a far more strict and steady rule than they are usually accus- tomed to. It is not by excessive liberty that people are made happy, but by having the limits of the liberty they enjoy exactly defined: an even, suie government, which represses all notions of the possi- bility of encroachment, leaves all actually permitted privileges to be enjoyed in cjuiet confidence. Theie is much less risk of exciting irritable tempers and rousing an impatient sense of control, by good, clear laws, both in regard to the duties expected and the indulgences permitted, than there would be by the fullest possible allowance of discretionary liberty; under which supervision and repeated checks can never be dispensed with. Such rules save all vexa- tious feeling of being subject to an arbitrary power, and the more imperative good rules are, the sooner will the habit of observing them be acquired, and they will become light and pleasant. When every- body knows exactly what must be done, and what liberty may or may not be enjoyed, there remains a sense of freedom from all tiresome restraint. For this reason no single infringement of any rule should everTHE HOUSEHOLD. 472 be passed by -without remonstrance: it may cost a little trouble to interfere^ or one may shrink from the appearance of being severe or vexatiously strict in noticing a first fault; but a second occasion is sure to follow, and then it will be found that silence on the first has changed what would then have been a mere remonstrance into a sort of injustice, which is felt to be a grievance, and resented accordingly. It was never objected to before,” is the common phrase, showing that one unnoticed fault has been sufficient to be seized on as a precedent. There is nothing so fatal to a guiding influence as the imputa- tion of caprice; false kindness in passing by en- croachments puts all previous ideas about the necessity of obedience into confusion: it is in vain to pretend not to see what ought to be objected to if seen; conscience sharpens the offender’s wits, who not only understands, but laj^s plans to turn the discovery to account. Therefore there is no more important rule in the management of servants than that of making eAmry command very exactly nnderstood, and never being indulgent or wilfully blind on the occasion of a first disobedience. Ser- vants are not spoiled by a large measure of regular indulgence, even though the time allowed for recrea- tion and many other enjoyments and means of com- fort conceded to them should far exceed what falls to the ordinary lot of people of the class from whence they are taken; or even though these indulgences473 THE HOUSEHOLD. should be far more ample than is really necessary. But servants are spoiled by having their privileges ill-defined, and their degree of liberty unsettled: there is room left in that way for continual abuses and never-ending grasping, whilst nothmg is enjoyed with thankful satisfaction. Besides the check which a mistress is at last compelled to exercise, and the misery of perpetual supervision, there is another evil which accompanies a carelessly defined system: no reserve can possibly remain of any pleasant little margin beyond established rules, whereby excep- tional favours may be asked and granted, and a means of bestowing pleasure kept in hand which no one would willingly, or at least wisely, resign. There are other ways besides judicious regulations by which a servant’s life may be made happier: something might be done by a more cordial style of intercourse than has become the established form between the employed and their employers. The genuine foundation of improvement in this respect can only be laid in true benevolent feeling; and with- out venturing to insinuate that our young house- Vives fail generally either in knowledge or practice of Christian duty, or in gentleness and kindness, yet it cannot be disputed that a conventional mode of regarding the relation between ourselves and servants has established itself, which seems to put them at a distance from our sympathies: we maintain, on our part, a degree of cold reserve which we should neverTHE HOUSEHOLD. 474 think of assuming to any other class of fellow-crea- tures, and which repels their better feelings, prevents any sentiment of gratitude, and throws them into an attitude of distrust and selfishness. The consequence of this unamiahle system is to make them hang toge- ther as a class; every feeling belonging to which is antagonistic to our own. This uncomfortable state of things, which we all feel and regret more or less, is as much to he attri- buted to the force of a had habit which we fall into without reflection, as to any real want of kindly feel- ing : the custom of maintaining repulsive reserve of manner has become so universal that a sort of awkwardness seems to accompany any attempt at freer intercourse; whilst a certain doubt whether we are outstepping the bounds of propriety, or compro- mising our dignity, seems to check our better impulses. This often makes a sincerely meant kindness seem like an ungraceful act of condescension; and yet, were it not for this mistake, innumerable opportmiities might be met with of improving our influence, and using it to develop good qualities, which are now overlooked or wasted; and many now unthought of chances might be found daily of affording pleasure, and receiving in return unexpected little offices of kindness, if they were only sought for with judgment and used with hearty good-will. Many young mistresses, in consequence of this universal adoption of a cold, distant demeanoui, notTHE HOUSEHOLD. 475 only feel shy in making prompt remonstrances, but are afraid to enter into conversation with their ser- vants, feeling doubtful where to find the proper medium between dignified reserve and a free, cheerful manner which ought to be observed in addressing them. There need be little fear, however, that a frank address would ever occasion disrespect, rollowing the dictates of instinctive good taste, mere gossip would of course be avoided; but many little topics might be seized on for a passing remark which would be unobjectionable and valuable, although they might mean little besides a momentary expression of good will. Other trifling subjects might be found capable of beuig turned to still better accomit; a cheerful word of kindness merely brightens up the receiver, but some intelligent remark about the work in hand does more: it excites a servant’s energy, and renders many a little toil interesting and pleasant, which would otherwise seem dull, and not worth an effort at perfection : little discussions now and then might remind her that everything she does is noticed, and if some better plan should be sug- gested, and the reason given, the remark wmuld have its use even beyond the improvement of the work: it would make her feel agreeable confidence in serving a mistress who knows exactly what she wants, one who will not be blind or ignorant when pains have been bestowed, but who will perceive every success- ful effort, and reward it with kind approbation. ForTHE HOUSEHOLD. 476 instance, a few moments might he well spent in the drawing-room over such an unimportant subject as looping up a drapery; the beauty of the folds might he admired, or some more graceful method of arranging them be suggested; or perhaps, whilst discussing a change in the manner of grouping some ornamental furniture, you might point out how it might have a more picturesque effect, give your rea- sons for the composition, show the value of the light upon it, or notice any change in which taste can be displayed. On some other occasion, you might call the housemaid to help you to arrange your flowers, more for her sake than yours; it would be a pleasant change to her to spend a little time enjoying their perfume and admiring their fresh beauty, and should you happen to throw in a few words about your principle of grouping, regarding it as a picture, or explain slightly the meaning of conti’ast and har- mony in colour, she will at least be pleased and flat- tered with the pains you take, and, if intelligent, may perhaps date from that moment new ideas, to remain with her, and grow by observation. If so you will have taught her, for the first time, how to see, and she will have shared the best part of your own art- education : that is, the acquirement of power to observe, to feel beauty, and be grateful for it. We might burn our pictures when we have painted them, or practise music without listeners, 'with no great loss, because the real gain would still remain with477 THE HOUSEHOLD. us—the eye to see that which it before was blind to perceive^ the tutored ear open to harmony which it before was deaf to. There is no greater kindness to be done to any fellow-creature than to help them to a new sense of the beauty of created things; and it is a mistake to suppose that a housemaid is not , capable of the enjoyment. One chief use in this sort of communication with our servants, is to remove a notion on their part that they are thought to be little better than so many machines, whose work is neither understood nor noticed. The truth is that no work is too small to be worth an effort, or too mean to have a prin- ciple of duty imparted to the doing of it: if it be only the dusting of a chair, it may be well done or it may be ill done, and the determination to do it in the very best way, takes away the monotony of labour, whilst the wish to please an observing and kind employer, raises the little act into a virtue. I have only hinted at some small opportunities of awakening an interest in common work; there are a thousand such ways by which a mistress may influence her servants without their being aware of her intention, and by which she may rouse their energies, and excite them to work—first for love of her, and next for love of doing right; and so she may make their lives more happy. Fresh instances of this kind will occur continually, and the power of turning them to profit will grow by exercise.478 THE HOUSEHOLD. I need scarcely add that to tolerate any approach to familiar gossip, is very different from the sort of intercourse alluded to: this is a dangerous habit, which grows fast, as we all know, especially with ladies’ maids; its worst variety occurring when the tongue is permitted to run on about their former mistresses. It is good policy to check this at its very first beginning—for it is hopeless afterwards to do so—^by lectures regarding the respect due to private families: there is no stopping the propensity when once indulged. There is every inducement, besides the sense of propriety, for a stand against this evil; one, and not the smallest, being the con- viction that the toleration of it will, at some future time, recoil upon one’s self: a conviction which is all the more unpleasant, because it is impossible to feel secure that the tittle-tattle will be very accurate which will one day amuse another mistress at one’s own expense. To take a book whilst dressing is a sure refuge, and one which might be used sometimes for the benefit of both parties. A little ingenuity may often succeed in bringing the subject read about within a less educated person’s comprehension, and a remark now and then upon it may awaken curiosity and excite a wish for information. Then, if any real interest should be apparent, the present of some easy manual of instruction would encourage a desire for useful knowledge: this would be a valued act of kindness after the wish to learn has once been479 THE HOUSEHOLD. roussdj but it would be of no use at all to offer it before. Curiosity may be easily provoked on some points of history and geography, especially if the allusion made to them has reference to passmg events 5 even some desire to know a little about natural science may be excited in the same way, and it is wonderful what new life may be imparted to ignorant people by fresh ideas about the works of nature. Any pleasure that can divide the interest of the day with its dmner and supper, even in the faintest degree, is a great gain. Numerous instances occur to me which prove that the attempt to promote rational enjoyment amongst servants, and to make them happier by that means, is neither fruitless nor visionary; but I refrain from anecdotes, and only assure young mistresses that if they will use their casual opportunities to that effect they will not find their trouble um-ewarded: success, of course, will vary, and, as in all other things, it will depend on the judgment and caution with which the object is pursued. If any one should be afraid that servants would be set up above their sphere by little inroads into litera- ture or glimpses of natural science, they might remem- ber, amongst several better answ-ers, one which is, at least, fiattermg to our own pride: we must all have noticed how our dependants, uncultivated as their own tastes are, admire our attainments; and there can be no doubt that, as they come to understandTHE HOUSEHOLD. 480 a little of these things themselves, and to appreciate tlieir meaning and value, they 'will be able to compare their very small progress ■with our own, and hold us still more in respect for our superior education. But this is not an amiable motive: a better may be urged for supplying them with easy lessons on history, or elementary treatises on the wonders of creation; wdth this reflection, that if w^e go on following the old Lady Bountiful fashion of trying to do them good, that is, affording them abundance of books for Sunday reading, and nothing for the w^eek day, the Sunday books being for the most part extremely dull we have no right to wonder, when we visit the kitchen or the housekeeper’s room, that we should detect Avell-thumbed translations of Eugene Sue or Balzac peeping out of corners, or as we enter, chance to see them huddled behind the woi’kbasket. Whilst on the subject of our relations towards our servants, a few words may be permitted about a feel- ing wdrich is very common, but which if analyzed seems scarcely reasonable—the jealousy of being imitated by them. It seems hard to object to their picking up some of oru’ crumbs of refinement: since we are enjoying a superior state of cultivation, it seems strange to regret that another class should advance a little step upwards through our influence; for if our habits and manners are really superior, their imperfect copy must be better than their own rougher type: it maybe but in a very minute degree thatTPIE HOUSEHOLD. 481 tlieir attempts to emulate our tastes and pursuits improve the character of the amusements of their leisure hours^ but that degree is gain to them. Some will say that our refinements do not suit their station; but real elevation of manners and feeling are suitable to everybody. A more plausible objection is the temptation which the imitation of a higher class affords to extravagance, the last being chiefly appli- cable to the subject of dress; but even on this some answer may be attempted. When the lady’s-maid copies her mistress’s fashions, she actually abandons much unmeaning finery; whenever it is the lady’s taste to put on one bow it is the maid’s to put on two, therefore the imitation is a saving as well as an improvement. It would certainly be more pic- turesque as weU as more economical if there were class costumes; but as there is nothum of that kind for women in this country, and never like to be, the higher class costume belongs in a certain way to all : there is only the distinction between finery in good taste and finery in bad taste; and as the best is as a general rule the simplest, an imitation of it must be an advantage. But we have rather wandered from our inquiry how to make the state of service smoother and happier, so that it should be more highly valued. Among other considerations to that effect it may be well to think a little more compassionately than we often do about some of the difficulties of the 31THE HOUSEHOLD. 482 condition of servants; sucli reflections might lead to plans for relieving many grievances. It is hard for a number of individuals to be brought together without regard to the suitableness of their characters, whilst there are no ties of relationship to guide their conduct towards each other. We complain of quarrels in the servants’ hall, and forget how diffi- cult it must be for all sorts of tempers to meet, finding daily cause for irritation, and yet accommodate one another; whilst we take little pains to save them from occasions for disputes, and. still less to avoid giving excuse for jealous feeling, which is the common rock they split upon. One most fertile source of pride and jealousy is the division into two sets or classes, which is sanctioned in most households, even in small establishments; this fosters absurd notions of exclusiveness, and creates distinctions where none really need exist: the only real difference between the upper and the under sets being that the latter are younger and do harder work for less wages, as they all come out of the same class and are about equal in education. If there were no mention ever permitted of such words as «upper” and « under,” and all were obliged to meet for their evening recreation, there would be much more chance of harmony ; and if a common tea-table were insisted on, to which the young hard workers might bring their best manners and cleanest dresses, making it the most sociable and pleasant of the daily inci-THE HOUSEHOLD. 483 dents, it would be far better than the common plan of leaving tlie so-called inferior set to get an uncom- fortable meal with heart-burnings, whilst butler and lady’s-maid proudly enjoy their tete-h-tete in secluded dignity; the latter arrangement having its special dis- advantages of another character besides the quarrels of two disunited parties. Perhaps it would prove to our advantage, as well as to the comfort of our servants and the improve- ment of their principles, if we were to trust them rather more than is usually done; that is, to trust property in some degree more to their discretion, and to let them know we do so. It is not meant that it could ever be right to place temptations in their way which can be effectually avoided: the lock-and-key system is excellent when it can be applied thoroughly, without exception or possibility of evasion; but it is worse than useless when used imperfectly, because it does away with all idea of trusting in the probity of the person tempted. To peep about and guard one’s property, whilst after all it must remain, to a great deg^’ee, in a servant’s power’, only encourages abuse on occasions which escape one’s vigilance; whilst the servant misses the restraining consciousness of being treated hke an honourable beins:. O This consideration applies chiefly to the kitchen department; in which there is always opportunity for abuses which the sharpest eye cannot detect. After a lady has been perpetually prying into holes and 31—2THE HOUSEHOLD. 484 corners, the cook can still, if she pleases, cheat in a thousand ways. She may still he in league with that certain set of abettors in all household frauds who stop beneath the mistress’s windows before her last sleep is over every morning. There is a shabby little cart drawn by a miserable pony; the cart holds dirty vessels to receive food for pigs, but there are clean vessels besides, into wdiich goes furtively from almost every house as much good food as would supply the family for the day. No lady’s sm’veil- lance can hinder this ; although the abuse might be partly hindered by forbidding the existence of what is called a pig-tub in the house: this order, at least, any one is able to enforce, because a visit to the offices could not fail to reveal the offending presence, how- ever cleverly concealed. It is, in fact, a nuisance, for which no fitting place can be provided in a London house, and the very little that could honestly be dis- posed of in it had much better be the portion of the dustman; the latter receives no payment for his rubbish, the owner of the cart does ; therefore to per- mit the keeping of such a receptacle is to institute a certain difficulty between the cook and her conscience to determine what may honestly or fraudulently be set aside as refuse. Still, after the pig-tub abolition, and the exercise of all possible vigilance, the visit of the cart with its worst temptations cannot be pre- rented, and the best chance of safety from wrong dealing consists in making an open show of confi-485 THE HOUSEHOLD. dence and trust in the discretion of the cook; thus making a tacit appeal to her principles of honesty. Of course every housewife should learn what is the reasonable amount of weekly consumption—a piece of knowledge which may easily he acquired, and she would also daily inquire what provisions remain and what are wanted, and advise what to provide; but having performed those duties, she can check unfair practices much better by examining each week’s bills than by poking every morning into the larder, and searching out abuses. Her visits being expected, she would, of course, see nothing but what she is meant to see, nor could she judge by what remains of any provisions, whether that which has dis- appeared has been honestly disposed of, or other- wise. There is yet another evil in perpetual supervision— that many little abuses must be passed by silently^ either blindly, or from doubt as to the propriety of protesting against them, or from a dislike to a most unpleasant duty which might bear the semblance of meanness. Such silence becomes immediately a sanction, and the unnoticed abuse is practised after- wards without restraint; therefore, since no lynx-eye can possibly detect all abusep, and pretending to be blind is the most fatal of mistakes, surely it is pleasanter as well as safer to throw one’s interests upon the conscience of the person who has the power to defraud in spite of the closest scrutiny, and to use486 THE HOUSEHOLD. instead occasional, but not too frequent inspec- tions ; which are much more likely to reveal an objectionable state of things than daily inquisi- tions. I know that many young housekeepers think an essentially inquisitorial system part of their bounden duty; but that which I venture to suggest has proved by experience to be more effectual, more economical, iind more conducive to the comfort of all parties. The rest of the servants are more disposed to be satisfied when there is an absence of too miich in- terference with details of the larder, for they are much more likely to be kept within reasonable bounds by one of themselves than by a mistress; and the cook is more willing to take pains for their gratification, by management and additional pains in cooking, when she will have all the credit to herself; therefore, though we may seem to have been occu- pied with mere economical considerations, the last few remarks belong quite as much to our present question, which is, how to make service more de- sirable than it now appears to be. There is one means of promoting the comfort of servants — a very easy one, but worth noticing, because it is sometimes neglected—which is, to be very punctual in paying wages : a short delay may cause a great deal of ill-humour, and a long one destroys all chance of proper government; for it is plain that, the moment a master becomes his servant’sTHE HOUSEHOLD. 487 debtor, both parties are placed in a false position. As tbis neglect proceeds often from mere forgetfulness, it is a o-ood plan to make a rule that we slioulcl be reminded when time for payment occurs. Many other means might be mentioned by whicli the state of domestic service might be impi'oved. It is desirable, not only to make it an enviable con- dition for persons of their class, but to make them, feel that it is so; and nothing Avould make them value it properly so much as increased difficulty in obtaining it. At present, those whom we hire to do us service seem to have no idea that the arrange- ment is equally for the benefit of both parties, and that it is as much needful for their convenience as our own. It is true, they might do other work, whilst we could not live as we do witbout servants ; but if they had the power of reasoning a little fur- ther, they might see that, without being waited on, most of our refinements on which the mechanic is employed must be abandoned. Whether correct or not, the servants’ notion is that we require them more than they require us ; hence the common result that the compact entered into, viz. to afibrd payment, abundant food, and a certain degree of liberty on the one part, and to do a stated amount of duty on the other, is in many cases strictly ob- served by the employers, and left unfulfilled by the employed, who care little about earning recommen- dations ; for, as they believe that they are wanted.THE HOUSEHOLD. 488 they think that they shall get places without very close inquiry. They are perfectly correct in the latter part of this assumption; and it is our own fault that recom- mendations have become almost unmeaning forms, and that the entrance into private houses is not re- garded by them as a boon and the reward of merit, but as a right, for the exercise of which it is not w'orth while to make any moral preparation. When, according to the prevailing custom, we give almost the same sort of character to everybody who has not committed any flagrant offence, suppressing every doubt whether the person can be safely admitted into another family, we encourage misconduct in the bad, take away restraining influence from the waver- ing, and do a grievous injustice to the good; whilst we deprive ourselves of any real guarantee for the respectability or efficiency of those whom we take into our houses. It seems but an act of justice to reserve domestic service as a privilege for those only who are worthy of it. There are many persons in the lower classes who may not deserve to be called bad characters, and may yet be very unfit to be inmates of a private family : those who have undisciplined tempers, strong passions, and weak principles, are not calculated for a life which presents the very difficulties and tempta- tions that they are not able to withstand; it is a mercy to exclude them, and thus oblige them to seek489 THE HOUSEHOLD. mechanical employment of some kind, where they may be less likely to fall into error, or where their errors may he less prejudicial to others than in the close contact of the members of a household. Viewing the claim to enter seiwice in this serious light, the great mistake at once becomes apparent of the plea, We must not take the bread out of the poor creatures’ mouths,” so often used to excuse the practice of passing persons known to be unworthy into other places. Vague recommendations, in which truth is suppressed and falsehood too often implied, are resorted to for this purpose; and though mis- givings about the integrity of the act may be hushed by pretended feelings of benevolence, it is to be feared that a selfish desire to save further trouble is too often the real motive. Consideration for better servants ought to stop this practice; for it is a positive injustice to all who deserve well, the value of whose character is lost when all are described alike. In doubtful cases, even, when misconduct has not been flagrant, and yet when we could not with a good conscience pass a servant into another family, it would be right to have the courage to say, ‘‘You have not given me reason to believe that you are sufficiently temperate or firm enough against temptation to be sure that a future employer’s pro- perty will be safe with you; ” or, “ You have not sufficient command of temper to make other fellow- servants comfortable;” or, “You are not cleverTHE HOUSEHOLD. 490 enough to be useful. You have made a mistake in choosing service for your living. I must tell the truth to any one who inquires about you, and the consequence is that you must gain your bread some other way. Had you a proper sense of the value of a servant’s station, you would have qualified your- self better for it: you must not fill the place of one more worthy.” This would be just to all others in the house who have earned a different testimony; and, perhaps, that \erj person would have improved if either he or she had entered service under the restraining certainty of what would be the conse- quences of ill-conduct. To begin a perfectly conscientious system of action on this subject will require courage and good judgment, a sense of responsibility and strict prin- ciples of justice, and it must take time for it to become the settled habit of society: until then, the full benefit as regards the influence on servants cannot be realized; but we might all do something towards it, be more earnest in our endeavours to be just in the duty of giving recommendations, and warn our servants when we engage them of our principles and practice in that respect. It may faix’ly be expected that good candidates will multiply when the life they seek wiU be under- stood to be a great gain, a bettering of their con- dition, and an opportunity for cultivation not enjoyed by others of their class; and they will qualify491 THE HOUSEHOLD. themselves better, in proportion to the value they set upon it, and to the difficulty they find in securing it. No endeavour to govern households happily can ever be effectual, whilst the ideas both of employers and the employed remain so vague as to the true nature of the tie which connects them. So long as nothing is thought of in the arrangement beyond mutual convenience, and no obligations are acknow- ledffed but maintenance on one side and service on O the other, it is no wonder that the interests of the two parties are held to be in opposition, and the con- duct of both, by a sort of tacit consent, so shaped as to reap the largest point of selfish advantage. It seems strange how many kindly-meaning people accept with an almost reproachful conscience that veiy institution in society which they might seize with thankfulness as a golden opportunity for good : they seem to imagine that they are enjoying an unfair indulgence when they admit the poorer classes to attend upon them; instead of rejoicing, as they might, in the power of letting them participate in some of the comforts of the richer class, and of welcoming them to come within the improving infiuences of the better educated. The idle wish that we could escape from the trouble of managing our households by doing without servants, is not at all more unreasonable than many of the pretended moral objections which have been raised by certain peopleTHE HOUSEHOLD. 492 against tlie custom of being waited on. Two popular female authors, one on each side the Channel, have been earnest in denouncing the attendance of ladies’- maids: the one looks on such service as a selfish, almost vicious, indulgence on the part of the person who receives it; the other shudders at an offence to the dignity of human nature in the persons of those who render it. There is much to be said in answer to the charge of selfishness : we might notice how much the advan- tages are at least equalized, how the poorer classes are preserved from total isolation, and how their living in contact wdth the richer induces many habits of neatness, and some refining ideas which they carry back into their own state of life. This cannot fail to be ap>preciated by all who visit among the poor in London. They must obsei’ve the superior management of mothers of families who have been in service, compared with the helpless abandonment in the struggle against want among those who have seen nothing out of their own sphere; how the one wdll struggle and contrive, and succeed in keeping- up a decent appearance, whilst the other is satisfied with dirt and squalor. But this is merely an ulterior advantage: much might be said of those more imme- diate ; noticing the comfortable life of servants, as compared wfith that of many who have to earn their bread by labour—their light toil, their abundant fare and good lodging, their freedom from anxiety,493 THE HOUSEHOLD. and tlieir never-falling satisfaction in managing their little funds, always more than sufficient for their personal wants. It is pleasant to sum up all these advantages, and to feel that we are perhaps more than absolved on the score of selfishness. The clever Frenchwoman’s reproach scarcely deserves such care- ful refutation: it seems incongruous to appeal to Christian principles in replying to objections which emanate fi-oin such a source; hut as the same idea suggests itself to other minds differently constituted, it is worth while to ask, what becomes of the dignity of human nature, if we keep in mind the words, “ I am among you as he that serveth ? ” These exalt all acts of human service, mutual or otherwise, and give us an assurance that our domestic system is not, as some would represent it, a blot on the face of Christendom, and an anomaly capable of being governed by no better law than selfish calculation; but that it is a just institution, a connection of poor and rich, honourable to both parties, because capable of being governed by the law of love. It may not be safe to assert that this better alternative is the actual state of things ; but only that it might be so, without waiting for any period of millennial perfection. Encouragement for all young housekeepers may be found in the assurance, which is warranted by experience, that after all, in spite of our mistakes and vexations, thei'e is more satisfaction, even now,THE HOUSEHOLD. 494 in the relation between masters and servants, than it is the fashion to allow. We talk over only the annoying incidents, and expect perfection amongst fallible creatures; we compare their independent manners with instances of that old traditionary devo- tion, which probably were as much exceptions to the general rule of the period as signal examples of attachment are at present, and which, when they did occur, belonged to the remains of serfdom, and could scarcely, therefore, be reproduced in the times we live in: but I am convinced that no household can have subsisted many years without numerous occasions for mutual good feeling having arisen, and much happiness having been experienced by both parties in the exercise of genuine benevolence.INDEX. *** The li., wherever appended, indicates Receipt. Agneau, cotelettes d’, 211,233,399. k. filets d’, 298. b. Alouettes, salmi d’, 233. r. Amour, petits puits d’, 200. b. Ananas, creme d’, 172. r. gelee d’, 246. r. Anguilles h, la Tartare, 254. r. Apple fritters, 292. r. jelly, with cream, 287. b. tart, open, 400. r. turbans, 425. r. Apples, mould of, in jelly, 334. r. Apricot pudding, 246. r. sauce, 121. r. tart, 307. r. Apricots, with cream, 401. b. Artichoke soup. See Potages. Asparagus soup. See Potages. Baba, or Polish cake, 259. e. Babas, petits, 301. e. Beauvilliers’ Art du Cuisinier, 7, 8. Beef, braised fillet of, 300. r. braised round of, 286. b. rechauffe of, 413. b. Beefsteak, stewed, 434. r. pudding, curried, 414. e. Beignets h la Franpaise, 307. e. chocolate, 424. r. de huitres, 345. b. de pommes, 292. r. de riz, 321. r. English, 422. e. See Fritters. Bills of Fare. See Dinners. Blancmange, with apricots, 302. r. Blanquette de veau, 312. r. de volaille ti I’ivoire, 210 r. Biscuits glacis, 247. e. d la creme, 322. r. Bordure de riz a la Macddoine, 234. b. Bouchdes d I’Auglaise (veal croquets). See Croquets and Veal, ii la Pompadour, 232. r. Boudins aux champignons (puddings of quenelle), 243. r. Braised round of beef, 286. e. Braising, process of, 45-7. Bread-crumbs, use of, for frying, 152-3. Brioches, petites, 224. r. plain, 387. r. Butter, melted, 430. b. Cabinet pudding, with apricot sauce, 121. R. Cake for charlottes, 428. r. with cream and chendes, 200. r. Cal ves’-feet jelly, 122. r. Caramel, 273, 274. Carottes, potage aux. See Potages. Carp, stewed, 220. r. Cartes of Dinners ;—See Dinners, Carving, 64. Celery, with tomatos, 402. e. Cerises, tartelettes de. See Cherry tartlets. Chairs, arrangement of, 71, 72. Champignons, boudins aux, 243. b. Charlottes, cake for, 428. e. de groseilles, 323. r. de pommes, 340. e. rice, 407. r. Chartreuse de fraises, 199, 213. e. d’oranges, 143. b. Cheese biscuits, 125. r. Cheesecakes, lemon. See “ Maids of honour.” Cherry tartlets, 314. e. Chicken (boiled), sauce for, 120. e. stock, 132. R. with ivory sauce, 210. b. Chocolate cream, 261. e. pudding, 291. r. Clearing process, 50. Coal, waste of, 84. Cocks’-combs, vol au vent of, 319. K.INDEX, 496 Cod (boiled), with oyster sauee, 2G9. R. Colifichets, 417. e. Colours, harmonies of, 461. Consomm4 it la pate d’ltalie, 219. r. si la vermicelle, 167. r. aux legumes. 111. R. de levrau, 231. r. de volaille aux quenelles, 179. r. See PoTAGES and Soup. Conversations, culinary, 34, 37. Cookery, ordinary, in Britain, 5, 6. economical, 432. r. Cooking, chapter on, 16-27. lists of utensils required for, 90,92 means of improvement in, 28-43. processes of, 44-.'54. Cooks, female, 10-12. caution to young, 168. advertisements for, 19, 20, 22. Cotelettes d’agneau h, la chevreuse, 233. R. k la Milanaise, 211. R. de mouton aux concombres, 137. R. sauce tomate, 119, 285. R. Cream cheese, 421. r. biscuits, 322. R. Koman, 225. R. See Creme. Crecy soup. See Potages and Soup. Creme b, I’ltalienne, 3_55. R. k la Romaine, 225. R. h la Vanille, 124, 158. R. aux confitures, 360. R. aux fraises, 329. R. d’ananas, 142,172. R. SeeCream, Croquante d’oranges, 273. R. Croquets, 134,151, 196, 232, 328. R. apple, 347. R. egg, 418. R. lobster, 269. R. mushroom, 402. R. oyster, 114, 133. R. veal, 181. R. Croutons k la creme, 397. R. for soup, 421. R. potage aux, 318. R. Cucumbers, preparation ot, Ida. Culinary utensils, lists of, 90-92. Curry powder, 268. rabbit, 244. R. Cury, Forme of, 6, 51, 375. Custard, 308. R. Cutlets, lainb, en papillotes, 39J. R. pork, 359. R. 1 . . 127 No. 7 . . 215 2 . . 145 8 . . 227 3 . . 163 9 . . 237 4 . . 175 10 . . 249 5 . . 191 11 . . 263 6 . . 203 12 . . 277 I/O «A>AA«.A <-** or and directions on, 55-67. Dining-room, chapter on, 68-80. Dinners, general directions for get- ting up, 95-107. Dinners, carles of, for fourteen or sixteen persons :- No. 1 (January) 2 (February) 3 (March) 4 (April) . 5 (May) 6 (June) . 7 (July) . 8 (August) 9 (September) 10 (October) . 11 (November) 12 (December) lists of provisions for No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 110 130 148 166 178 194 No 7 8 9 10 11 12 108 128 146 164 176 192 204 216 228 238 250 264 , 206 , 218 230 , 240 , 251 . 266 remarks on, 278-281. Dinners, cartes of, for eight per- sons :— No. 13 (January) 14 (February) 15 (March) 16 (April) . 17 (May) . 18 (June) . 19 (July) . 20 (August) 21 (September) 22 (October). 23 (November) 24 (December) lists of provisions for 282 288 294 304 310 316 324 330 336 342 350 356 No. 13 14 , 15 . 16 . 17 , 18 . 283 289 295 305 311 317 No. 19 20 . 21. 22 23 24, , 325 331 336 342 . 351 357497 INDEX. Dinners fcr four persons:— January 381 February 383 March 386 April 389 May 391 June 392 July 395 August 398 September 401 October 404 November 407 December 408 Dinners, for one or two guests, 371-409. preparations on the eve of, 96-99. preparations on the day of, 103, 104. Drawing-room, the, 455-466. Dressing the table. See Dksserts. Economical cookery, 432. Education, culinary, proposed, 22, 23; its feasibility demonstrated, 23-6 ; choice of a pupil, 28, 29; ordinary result of improve- ment, 42; observation of other tables, 25, 26. Eels, in tarragon sauce, 254. r. Egg croquets, 418. r. Entremets, list of, 370. Entries, list of, 369. Escalopes de saumon h I’Espagnole, 168. R. See Salmon. Essences, flavouring, 52-4. Fare, bills of. See Dinners. Filets de saumon it la Hollandaise. See Salmon. de turbot h, la Normandie. See Turbot. de veau piquds anx champignons. Fish, rdchauffds of, 415-417. r. Fire, improved lighting of, 85, 86. Flavouring, u.sual modes of. 50. “Flourishing,” old word for “gar- nishing,” 41. Flowers, natural, for table ornamen- tation, 227. Fondu, 315. r. Forks, when introduced in Britain, 7. Fowl and ham, 120. Fraiscs, geMe aux, 188. r. chartreuse de, 199, 213. r. French cookery, early, 7, 8. fritters, 307. r. See Fritters and lleignets. Fricandeau de carpes, 220. r. de veau, 185. r. Fricassee of chicken with truffles, 182. R. Fritters, apple, 292. r. French, 307. r. German, 394. r. orange, 382. r. oyster, 345. r. rice, 321. r. See Beignets. Galantine de veau, 170. r. Gateau.x de creme aux groseilles, 186. R. d’oranges, 123. r. Genevoises, 157. r. Geld, it la Maeddoine aux fruits, 173. R. au vin de Champagne, 213. r. d’ananas, 246. r. de citron fouettde, 260. r. de pommes it la creme, 287. r. d’orange, 155. r. See Jelly. General remarks on processes of cooking, 44-54. Genoese cakes, 157. r. triffe, 409. r. German cookery, early, 375. fritters, 394. r. pudding, 139, 291, 313, 384. r. Giblet soup, 338. r. Glaze, how to make, 98, 99. Gonthier d’Andernach, the first re- former of early French cookery, 8. Gooseberry charlotte, 323. r. cream cake, 186. r. pudding, 390. r. tart, open, 392. r. Green pea soup, 195. r. Guests, arrangement of, 66, 72-3. Haddocks, dried, 417. r. Hare soup, 231, 241. r. jugged, 353. r. Haricot soup, 358. r. Homard, potage de, 207. r. it ITndienne, 298. r. Household, the, 467-494. Ice, at dessert, 215. at table, 65. Iced biscuits, 247. 32INDEX, 498 Italian soup, 208. k. paste for soups, 420. k. Jelly, apple, with cream, 287. r. au vin de Champagne, 213. r. maraschino, 141. r. with fruits, 173. r. with strawberries, 188. r. Jugged hare, 353. r. Kidneys,mutton,with l\Iadeira,332. r. Kitchen, apparatus and utensils for, 81-94. Lamb, braised breast of, 396. r. cutlets with cucumbers, 298. r. cutlets with Parmesan cheese, 211. R. recliauffes of, 412. R. • See Agneau. Langue de mouton li l’ecarlate,223. R. Lapcreau, croquettes de, 151. r. h la Bourguignonne, 290. r. Larding, process of, 137. Larks, stewed, 233. • R. Laurentian pudding, 391. R. Lcipsig, ladies of, 375. Levrau, consomme de, 231. R. salmi de, 353. R. Light, distribution of, 76, 78. Lobster p3,t4, large, 221. r. curry, 298. r. rissoles, 326. r. Macaroni soup, 241, 326. k. timbal of, 222. r. Macedoine, bordure de riz k la, 234. r. JIaids of honour (lemon cheese cakes), 188. r. Maquereau aux groseilles, 297. r. filets de, k la Ravigote, 150. R. Maraschino jelly, 141. r. Means of improvement in cooking, 28-43. Melted Butter, 430. r. Meringues 5, la vanille, 173. R. with cherries, 394. r. Mirlitons, 234. R. au chocolat, 274. R. liliscellaneous receipts, 417-431. Mock-turtle soup, 253. 352. r. Moderator lamp, 78. Monacos, 419. r. Moruc h rAuglaise, sauce aux huitrcs, 269. R. Mortrews, 374. R. Moss, use of, at dessert, 203,215. Mould of strawberries and cream, 199, 213. R. of oranges in jelly, 143. r. Mouton, soupe aux cotelcttes de, 358. R. Mullets, red. See Rougets. Mulligatawny soup, 207. R. Mushrooms, preparation of, 136. r. Mutton, boiled, 384. r- kidneys, with Madeira, 332. r., leg of, 393. saddle of, 121, 291. R. Mutton cutlets, with cucumbers 137. R. with tomato sauce, 119, 285. K. Nesselrode pudding, 160, 192. Noix de boeuf braise, 280. r. Nougat, creme it la Vanille, 158. r. k la creme noyau, 213. R. Omelet, sweet, 348. r. aux fines lierbes, 308. R. au naturel, 309. r. Onions, burnt, for gravies, 422. r. Orange cakes, 123. r. cheesecake, 385. r. fritters, 382. r. ! jelly, 155. r. Oranges in caramel and jelly, 273. R. mould of, in jell}', 143. R. Otto, Bernhard, 375. 0^1ens, lateral metallic, 88. Oxtail soup, 284. r. clear, 312. r. Oyster croquets, 114,133. r. fritters, 345. R. P.alestine, potage a la, 230. R. Pancakes, apricot, 407. r. h, la Franpaise, 335. _r. Partridges, cutlets of, stewed, 257, Pate d’ltalie, 420. k. Pate de venaison, 339. R. Patds 5, la minute, 418. R. large, with mushrooms and cocks’-combs, 255. R. lobster, 221. r. Pears, baked, 354. R. „ Perdreaux, cotelettes de. See 1 ar- • tridges.Ds^DEX. 499 Petticoat tai/5(petits gateaux taillds), 4->y. B. Pigeons, stewed, 170. k. stewed with French beans,183. b. Pineapple cream, 142. b. cream cake, 172. b. jell3', 24C. B. soufflee, 403. b. Plaice, souchee of, 318. E. Plombiferes, IGO. Plnm-puddiiig, 362. r. Poires il la cardinale, compote de, 354. B. Pork, cutlets of, 359. e. POTAGES :— il la Brnnoise, 131, r. a la Crecy, 266. b. a la Julienne, 149. b. a la Palestine,.230. e. !l la Eeine, 131. e. il ritalienne, 208. e. aux artichaux, 219. r. aux carottes, 253. e. aux croutons, 318. aux h nitres, 149. r. aux Idgumes, 296. e. blanc, 195, 832. e. Clair a I’ltalienne, 326. r. d’asperges. 167. r. de homard, 207. r. de legumes a I’ltalienne, 208, e. de levrau clair, 241. e. de macaroni ^ ritalienne, 241, 326. R. de queue de boeuf, 284. k. de queue de bceuf clair, 312. en tortue, 253, 352. e. list of, 369. mulligatawnic, 267. r. purde de pois verts, 195, e. printanier, 179. r. See CoxsoMME and Soup. Potato balls, 291. e. quenelles, 419. e. Pot-au-feu, observations on, 439-454. of haricot mutton, 435. e. of veal fricandeau, 436. Profitroles, 418. b. Provisions, lists of. See Dinxers Pudding, apricot, 246. r. au chocolat, 291. e. beefsteak, curried, 414. r, with apricot sauce, German, i39, 291, 313, 384. e. Pudding, gooseberry, 390. r. Luurcntiuu, 391. b. Nesselrode, 160, 192. plum, 362. B. potato. 406. E. quenelle, 243. e. rice, 292. e. Puits d’amour, petits, 200. e. Quenelle, puddings of (Boudins aux champignons), 243. r. Quenelles de lapereau it la Perigord, 271. R. Quenelles, potato, 419. r. Rabbit curry, 244. r. Rabbits, stewed, 290. e. with mushroom sauce, 405. Ramaquins, 275. e. Rami lb lie, 381. r. Receipts, miscellaneous, 417-31.' Rechaulfds, 410-16. Red mullets. See Rougets. Register-office, hazards of the, 19-20 22. Relevees, list of, 369. Rice and fruit, 234. e. Rice cake, 381. e. fritters, 321. r. pudding, with chocolate sauce, 292. B. Ris de veau it I’Espagnole, 197. e. See Sweetbi'eads. Rissoles, 209, 326. r. Rognons de mouton au vin de Maddre, 332. b. Roman cream, 225. e. Rougets it la Venetienne, 208.. e. Round of beef braised, 286. r. Saddle of mutton, 121, 291. e. Salmi d’alouettes, 233. e. de levrau, 35.3. b. deperdrix, 284. e. Salmon, cutlets of, 168, 196. r. with lobster sauce, 221. e. Sauces :— it la bechamelle, 102. lobster, 114. r. necessity for careful skimming of, 106. shrimp, 297. tomato, 119. e. Verde saivse, 52. E. white, 103.500 INDEX, Scotch pineapple, 42G. r. Servants, domestic, their conduct and position. See Household. Selle de mouton. See Mutton. Sheep’s tongue, with .spinach,223. r. Shrimp sauce. See Sauces. Smoke nuisance, 84-5. Soles, dressed fillets of, 113. e. frites, 297. Souchee de plaice, 318. r. Soufflde h la vanille, 271. r. pineapple, 403. r. Soup : clear, with Italian paste, 219. e. clear macaroni, 326. e. giblet, 338. r. green pea, 195. r. hare, 231, 241. r, haricot, 358. e. how to make clear of common household stock, 378. e. macaroni, 241. e. mock-turtle, 253,352. r. opaque, 379. e. observations on, 376. oxtail, 284, 312. r. spring, 179. e. tomato, 344, 404. necessity for careful skimming of, 106. white, 195, 332. e. See Consomme and Potages. Spices used in flavouring, 50-2. Spring soup, 179. R. Stoves, 81, 82. gas-stoves, 82, 83. Strawberry cream, 329. r. Strawberries and cream, mould of, 199, 213. E. Sugar, remarks on, 274. green, 427. r. Sweetbreads, lambs’, braised, 386. r. lambs’, with asparagus, 327. R. in white sauce, 393. r. larded, with tomato sauce, 153. e. with salpicon sauce, 270. r. with Spanish sauce, 197. r. See Eis de Veau. Sweet omelet, 348. r. Table, old way of dressing, 59. proper mode, 59. waiting at, 61-3. Tables, dining, 58. Tartelettes de cerises, 314. r. Tarts: French, 348. r. fruit, 161. R. green apricot, 307. r. open gooseberry, 392. e. plum, 397. E. Tendons, calves’, with spinach, 242. R. See Veal. Timbal of macaroni, 222. e. Tomato soup, 344, 404. r. Tongue, sheep’s, with spinach, 223. R. Tourte la Fran(;aise, 348. e. Trifle, 360. R. Genoese, 409. r. Turbans, apple, 425. r. Turkey (boiled), 139. e. Turbot, fillets of, 268. r. lobster sauce for, 114. e. how to dress, 113, 114. Turtle soup, mock, 253, 352. e. Vanilla cream, 124,158. r. soufflde, 271. R. Veal croquets, 181. r. fillets of, with mushrooms and quenelles, 135. e. fricandeau of, 185. R. galantine of, 170. R. rechauffe of, 410. R. tendons, 242, 257. R. Veau, tete de, 346. r. Vegetable marrows, white soup of, 332. E. Venison pasty, 339. r. Ventilation, importance of, 73. plan proposed for dining-room, 73-76. Verde sawse, 52. R. Vol-au-vent aux cretes de coq,255. R. de homard, 221. e. de Nesle, 319. r. Wafer biscuits, 35, 36, 429. Waiting at table, 61-3. Wax candles, 77, 78. Whitebait, 180. R. Whitings, fried, 391. R. Wife, advice to a young, 17-27. Woodcocks, Scotch, 293. e. London: Printed by Smith, Elder and Co., 15j, Old BaUey, E.C.*'/ ■■' %K.« if ^ mv ^;. ■f'ri- . 'NST'V-' ■* , .'-■k •"•■''■£' * *'*■• V-: ■■■»■" -i■ ‘ • ■ ' ■ ‘*’^!^-.'4'.;A.;• ’ jC '•'♦ ‘ . ^ ' - «-v'"‘ .j :ii|S^^|; > S?*: -'S-lSN f-'. •r.V^V "* ‘ ..N V . i.'. / ^ '-'lx .,v: ;► •’, ■ :I • > ■;-4 V P' i. i' ■ ■•* •?■ •V • * r '1;- >;• V ^ C‘< r^tv._^ If*- .r '. . V . 'M ' ' N- ■ ■ ' ■'^ ■ e- • t ■' • ■> ■•'' V • Tvr ■ ■■ k" VV . ; 5. ' .