THE FRUGAI HOUSEWIl DEDICATED TO THOSE WHO ARE NOT ASHAMED OF ECONOMY. BY MRS. CHILD, AUTHOR OF THE “ MOTHER’S HOOK," THE “ LITTLE OIOI ’S BOOK,” ETC. I I I A fat kitchen nmketh a lean will. Franklin. “ Economy is a poor man’s revenue; extravagance a rich man’s ruin.” lEigljtf) lEDitfon. CORRECTED AND ARRANGED ilY THE AUTHOR. n TO UTHICH ABE ADDED, . .v ' • • . •. HINTS TO PERSONS OF MODERATE FORTUNE. |$ SOME VALUABLE RECEIPTS, • ETC. ETC. LONDON: PRINTED FOR THOMAS TEGG, CHEAPS' Tj N. IIAILES, PICCADILLY ; BOUDBRV AND KEBBY, OXFOP; Wj ALSO B. CK1I HM AND CO., CLASGOlL 1832. tnPTT-Tc~/ C c trrz. The University Library Leeds ☆ ☆☆ v / LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: (Do m h Chi 0106 9762Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530725THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE. LONDON : PRINTED FOR THOMAS TEGO, CHBAFSIDB.THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE. DEDICATED TO THOSE WHO ARE NOT ASHAMED OF ECONOMY. F&tohici'1* 0,-ffc-. BY MRS. CHILD, AUTHOR OF THE " MOTHER’S BOOK,” THE “ LITTLE GIRL’S BOOK,” ETC. A fat kitchen maketh a lean will.—Franklin. “ Economy is a poor man’s revenue; extravagance a rich man’s ruin.” lEtgljlIj lEDition. CORRECTED AND ARRANGED BY THE AUTHOR. TO WHICH ARE ADDED, HINTS TO PERSONS OF MODERATE FORTUNE. SOME VALUABLE RECEIPTS, ETC. ETC. LONDON: PRINTED FOR THOMAS TEGG, CHEAPS1DE ; N. HAILES, PICCADILLY ; UOWDERY AND KERRY, OXFORD STREET J AISO R. GRIFFIN AND CO. GLASGOW. 1832.C. WHITTINfiHAM, CHISWICK. nxio ONrvERsmr LIBfiAHY* LEEDS.THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE. INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER. The true economy of housekeeping is simply the art of gathering up all the fragments, so that nothing be lost. I mean fragments of time, as well as materials. Nothing should be thrown away so long as it is possible to make any use of it, however trifling that use may be; and what- ever be the size of a family, every member should be employed either in earning or saving money. “ Time is money.” For this reason, cheap as stockings are, it is good economy to knit them. Cotton and woollen yarn are both cheap; hose that are knit wear twice as long as woven ones; and they can be done at odd minutes of time, which would not be otherwise employed. Where there are children, or aged people, it is sufficient to recommend knitting, that it is an employment. In this point of view, patchwork is good eco- nomy. It is indeed a foolish waste of time to tear cloth into bits for the sake of arranging it q.new in fantastic figures ; but a large family may be kept out of idleness, and a few shillings saved, by thus using scraps of gowns, curtains, &c.2 THE FRUGAL In the country, where grain is raised, it is a good plan to teach children to prepare and braid straw for their own bonnets, and their brothers’ hats. Where turkeys and geese are kept, handsome feather fans may as well be made by the younger members of a family, as to be bought. The sooner children are taught to turn their faculties to some account, the better for them and for their parents. In this country, we are apt to let children romp away their existence till they get to be thirteen or fourteen. This is not well. It is not well for the purses and patience of parents; and it has a still worse effect on the morals and habits of the children. Begin early is the great maxim for every thing in education. A child of six years old can be made useful; and should be taught to consider every day lost in which some little thing has not been done to assist others. Children can very early be taught to take all the care of their own clothes. They can knit garters, suspenders, and stock- ings; they can make patchwork and braid straw ; they can make mats for the table, and mats for the floor ; they can weed the garden, and pick cranberries from the meadow, to be carried to market. Provided brothers and sisters go together, and are not allowed to go w-ith bad children, it is a great deal better for the boys and girls on a farm8 HOUSEWIFE. to be picking blackberries, than to be wearing- out their clothes in useless play. They enjoy themselves just as well; and they are earning something to buy clothes, at the same time they are tearing them. It is wise to keep an exact account of all you expend—even of a paper of pins. This answers two purposes ; it makes you more careful in spending money, and it enables your husband to judge precisely whether his family live within his income. No false pride, or foolish ambition to appear as well as others, should ever induce a person to live one farthing beyond the income of which he is certain. If you have ten shillings a day, let nothing but sickness induce you to spend more than nine shillings ; if you have five shillings a day, do not spend but four; if you have half that sum a day, be satisfied to spend less. To associate with influential and genteel people with an appearance of equality, unquestionably has its advantages; particularly where there is a family of sons and daughters just coming upon the theatre of life ; but, like all other external advantages, these have their proper price, and may be bought too dearly. They who never reserve a farthing of their income, with which to meet any unforeseen calamity, “pay too dear for the whistle,” whatever temporary benefits they may derive from society. Self-denial, in pro- portion to the narrowness of your income, will eventually be the happiest and most respectableTHE FRUGAL 4 course for you and yours. If you are prosperous, perseverance and industry will not fail to place you in such a situation as your ambition covets; and if you are not prosperous, it will be well for your children that they have not been educated to higher hopes than they will ever realize. If you are about to furnish a house, do not spend all your money, be it much or little. Do not let the beauty of this thing, and the cheapness of that, tempt you to buy unnecessary articles. Doctor Franklin’s maxim was a wise one, “ No- thing is cheap that we do not want.” Buy merely enough to get along with at first. It is only by experience that you can tell what will be the wants of your family. If you spend all your money, you will find you have purchased many things you do not want, and have no means left to get many things which you do want. If you have enough, and more than enough, to get every thing suitable to your situation, do not think you must spend it all, merely because you happen to have it. Begin humbly. As riches increase, it is easy and pleasant to increase in hospitality and splendour; but it is always painful and in- convenient to decrease. After all, these things are viewed in their proper light by the truly judicious and respectable. Neatness, tasteful- ness, and good sense, may be shown in the management of a small household, and the arrangement of a little furniture, as well as upon a larger scale; and these qualities are always praised, and always treated with respect ando HOUSEWIFE. attention. The consideration which many pur- chase by living beyond their income, and ot course jiving upon others, is not worth the trouble it costs. The glare there is about this false and wicked parade is deceptive; it does not in fact procure a man valuable friends, or extensive influence. More than that, it is wrong —morally wrong, so far as the individual is con- cerned; and injurious beyond calculation to the interests of our country. To what are the in- creasing beggary and discouraged exertions of the present period owing? A multitude of causes have no doubt tended to increase the evil; but the root of the whole matter is the extravagance of all classes of people. We never shall be prosperous till we make pride and vanity yield to the dictates of honesty and prudence! We never shall be free from embarrassment until we cease to be ashamed of industry and economy. Let women do their share towards reformation. Let their fathers and husbands see them happy without finery ; and if their husbands and fathers have (as is often the case) a foolish pride in seeing them decorated, let them gently and gradually check this feeling, by showing that they have better and surer means of commanding respect. Let them prove, by the exertion of ingenuity and economy, that neatness, good taste, and gen- tility, are attainable without great expense. The writer has no apology to offer for this cheap little book of economical hints, except herTHE FRUGAL 6 deep conviction that such a book is needed. In this case, renown is out of the question, and ridicule is a matter of indifference. The information conveyed is of a common kind; but it is such as the majority of young housekeepers do not possess, and such as they cannot obtain from cookery books. Books of this kind have usually been written for the wealthy : I have written for the poor. I have said nothing about rich cooking ; those who can afford to be epicures will find the best of infor- mation in the “ Seventy-five Receipts.” I have attempted to teach how money can be saved, not how it can be enjoyed. If any persons think some of the maxims too rigidly economical, let them inquire how the largest fortunes among us have been made. They will find thousands and millions have been accumulated by a scrupulous attention to sums “ infinitely more minute than shillings.” In early childhood, you lay the foundation of poverty or riches in the habits you give your children. Teach them to save every thing,—not for their oxen use, for that would make them selfish—but for some use. Teach them to share every thing with their playmates; but never allow them to destroy any thing. I once visited a family where the most exact economy was observed, yet nothing was mean or uncomfortable. It is the character of true economy to be as comfortable and genteel withHOUSEWIFE. 7 a little, as others can be with much. In this family, when the father brought home a package, the older children would, of their own accord, put away the paper and twine neatly, instead of throwing them in the fire, or tearing them to pieces. If the little ones wanted a piece of twine to play scratch-cradle, or spin a top, there it was in readiness; and when they threw it upon the floor, the older children had no need to be told to put it again in its place. The other day, I heard a mechanic say, “ I have a wife and two little children; we live in a very small house; but, to save my life, I cannot spend less than one hundred and fifty a year.” Another replied, “ You are not economical; I spend but one hundred.” I thought to myself,— “ Neither of you pick up your twine and paper.” A third one, who was present, was silent; but after they were gone, he said, “ I keep house, and comfortably too, with a wife and children, for eighty a year; but I suppose they would have thought me mean, if I had told them so.” I did not think him mean; it merely occurred to me that his wife and children were in the habit of picking up paper and twine. Economy is generally despised as a low virtue, tending to make people ungenerous and selfish. This is true of avarice; but it is not so of eco- nomy. The man who is economical, is laying up for himself the permanent power of being useful and generous. He who thoughtlesslyTHE FRUGAL a gives away ten shillings, when he owes a hun- dred more than he can pay, deserves no praise, —he obeys a sudden impulse, more like instinct than reason: it would be real charity to check this feeling; because the good he does maybe doubtful, while the injury he does his family and creditors is certain. True economy is a careful treasurer in the service of benevolence; and where they are united, respectability, prosperity, and peace will follow. ODD SCRAPS FOR THE ECONOMICAL. If you would avoid waste in your family, attend to the following rules, and do not despise them because they appear so unimportant; “ many a little makes a mickle.” Look frequently to the pails, to see that nothing is thrown to the pigs which should have been in the grease-pot. Look to the grease-pot, and see that nothing is there which might have served to nourish your own family, or a poorer one. See that the beef and pork are always under brine; and that the brine is sweet and clean. Count towels, sheets, spoons, &c. occasion- ally ; that those who use them may not become careless. See that the vegetables are neither sproutingHOUSEWIFE. 9 nor decaying: if they are so, remove them to a drier place, and spread them. Examine preserves, to see that they are not contracting mould; and your pickles, to see that they are not growing soft and tasteless. As far as it is possible, have bits of bread eaten up before they become hard. Spread those that are not eaten, and let them dry, to be pounded for puddings, or soaked for brewis. Brewis is made of crusts and dry pieces of bread, soaked a good while in hot milk, mashed up, and salted, and buttered like toast. Above all, do not let crusts accumulate in such quan- tities that they cannot be used. With proper care, there is no need of losing a particle of bread, even in the hottest weather. Attend to all the mending in the house once a week, if possible. Never put out sewing. If it be impossible to do it in your own family, hire some one into the house, and work with them. Make your own bread and cake. Some people think it is just as cheap to buy of the baker and confectioner; but it is not half as cheap. True, it is more convenient; and therefore the rich are justifiable in employing them; but those who are under the necessity of being economical should make convenience a secondary object. In the first place, confectioners make their cake richer than people of moderate income can afford to make it; in the next place, your domestic, or yourself, may just as well employ your own time as to pay them for -theirs.THE FRUGAL 10 When ivory-handled knives turn yellow, rub them with nice sand paper, or emery ; it will take oft’ the spots, and restore their whiteness. When a carpet is faded, I have been told that it may be restored, in a great measure (provided there be no grease in it), by being dipped into strong salt and water. I never tried this ; but I know that silk pocket handkerchiefs, and deep blue factory cotton will not fade, if dipped in salt and water while new. An ox’s gall will set any colour, silk, cotton, or woollen. I have seen the colours of calico, which faded at one washing, fixed by it. Where one lives near a slaughter-house, it is worth while to buy cheap fading goods, and set them in this way. The gall can be bought for a trifle. Get out all the liquid, and cork it up in a large phial. One large spoonful of this in a gallon of warm water is sufficient. This is likewise excellent for taking out spots from bombazine, bombazet, &c. After being washed in this, they look about as well as when new. It must be thoroughly stirred into the water, and not put upon the cloth. It is used without soap. After being washed in this, cloth which you want to clean should be washed in warm suds, without using soap. Tortoise shell and horn combs last much longer for having oil rubbed into them once in a while. The covering of oil flasks, sewed together with strong thread, and lined and bound neatly, makes useful table mats. A warming-pan full of coals, or a shovel of1 1 HOUSEWIFE. coals, held over varnished furniture, will take out white spots. Care should be taken not to hold the coals near enough to scorch; and the place should be rubbed with flannel while warm. Spots in furniture may usually be cleansed by rubbing them quick and hard with a flannel wet with the same thing which took out the colour; if rum, wet the cloth with rum, &c. The very best restorative for defaced varnished furniture is rotten stone pulverized, and rubbed on with linseed oil. Sal-volatile, or hartshorn, will restore colours taken out by acid. It may be dropped upon any garment without doing harm. Spirits of turpentine is good to take grease spots out of woollen clothes; to take spots of paint, &c. from mahogany furniture; and to cleanse white kid gloves. Cockroaches, and all vermin, have an aversion to spirits of turpentine. An ounce of quicksilver, beat up with the white of two eggs, and put on with a feather, is the cleanest and surest bed-bug poison. What is left should be thrown away: it is dangerous to have it about the house. If the vermin are in your walls, fill up the cracks with verdigris green paint. There are two kinds of green paint; one is of no use in destroying insects. Lamps will have a less disagreeable smell if you dip your wick-yarn in strong hot vinegar, and dry it. Britannia ware should be first rubbed gentlyTHE FRUGAL 12 with a WQolIen cloth and sweet oil, then w'ashed iu warm suds, and rubbed with soft leather and whiting. Thus treated, it will retain its beauty to the last. Eggs will keep almost any length of time in lime water properly prepared. One pint of coarse salt, and one pint of unslacked lime, to a pailful of water. If there be too much lime, it will eat the shells from the eggs; and if there be a single egg cracked, it will spoil the whole. They should be covered with lime water, and kept in a cold place. The yolk becomes slightly red; but I have seen eggs, thus kept, perfectly sweet and fresh at the end of three years. The cheapest time to lay down eggs is early in spring, and the middle a.nd last of September. It is bad economy to buy eggs by the dozen as you want them. New iron should be very gradually heated at first. After it has become inured to the heat, it is not as likely to crack. It is a good plan to put new earthenware into cold water, and let it heat gradually until it boils, then cool again. Brown earthenware, in par- ticular, may be toughened in this way. A handful of rye, or wheat bran, thrown in while it is boiling, will preserve the glazing, so that it will not be destroyed by acid or salt. Clean a brass kettle, before using it for .cook- ing, with salt and vinegar. Skim-milk and water, with a bit of glue in it, heated scalding hot, is excellent to restore old,HOUSEWIFE. 13 rusty, black Italian crape. If clapped and pulled dry, like nice muslin, it will look as well, or better, than when new. Wash-leather gloves should be washed in clean suds, scarcely warm. The oftener carpets are shaken, the longer they wear; the dirt that collects under them grinds out the threads. Do not have carpets swept auy oftener than is absolutely necessary. After dinner, sweep the crumbs into a dusting-pan with your hearth- brush; and, if you have been sewing, pick up the shreds by hand. A carpet can be kept very neat in this way; and a broom wears it very much. Buy your woollen yarn in quantities from some one in the country whom you can trust. The thread shops make profits upon it, of course. It is not well to clean brass andirons, handles, &c. with vinegar. It makes them very clean at first, but they soon spot and tarnish. Rotten- stone and oil are proper materials for cleaning brasses. If wiped every morning with flannel and Jamaica rum, they will not need to be cleaned half as often. If you happen to live in a house which has marble fire-places, never wash them with suds; this destroys the polish in time. They should be dusted, the spots taken off with a nice oiled cloth, and then rubbed dry with a soft rag. Feathers should be very thoroughly dried before they are used. For this reason they c14 THE FRUGAL should not. be packed away in bags when they are first plucked. They should be laid lightly in a basket, or something of that kind, and stirred up often. The garret is the best place to dry them, because they will there be kept free from dirt and moisture, and will be in no danger of being blown away. It is well to put the parcels, which you may have from time to time, into the oven, after you have removed your bread, and let them stand a day. If feather-beds smell badly, or become heavy, from want of proper preservation of the feathers, or from old age, empty them, and w’ash the feathers thoroughly in a tub of suds ; spread them in your garret to dry, and they will be as light and as good as new. Jamaica rum, constantly used to wash the hair, keeps it very clean, and free from disease, and promotes its growth a great deal more than Macassar oil. Brandy is very strengthening to the roots of the hair; but it has a hot drying tendency, which rum has not. If you wish to preserve fine teeth, always clean them thoroughly after you have eaten your last meal at night. Rags should never be thrown away because they are dirty. Mop rags, lamp rags, &c. should be washed, dried, and put into the rag bag. There is no need of expending soap upon them : boil them out in dirty suds, after you have done washing.1-j HOUSEWIFE. Linen rags should be carefully saved; for they are extremely useful in sickness. If they have become dirty and worn by cleaning silver, &c. wash them, and scrape them into lint. After old coats, pantaloons, &c. have been cut up for boys, and are no longer capable of being converted into garments, cut them into strips, and employ the leisure moments of chil- dren, or domestics, in sewing and braiding them for door mats. If you are troubled to get soft water for wash- ing, fill a tub or barrel half full of ashes, and fill it up with water, so that you may have lye whenever you want it. A gallon of strong lye put into a great kettle of hard water will make it as soft as rain water. Some people use pearl- ash, or potash ; but this costs something, and is very apt to injure the texture of the cloth. If you have a strip of land, do not throw away suds. Both ashes and suds are good manure for bushes and young plants. When awhite Navarino bonnet becomes soiled, rip it in pieces, and wash it with a sponge and soft water. While it is yet damp, wash it two or three times with a clean sponge dipped into a strong saffron tea, nicely strained. Repeat this till the bonnet is as dark a straw colour as you wish. Press it on the wrong side with a warm iron, and it will look like a new Leghorn. About the last of May, or the first of June, the little millers, which lay moth eggs, begin toTHE FRUGAL 10 appear. Therefore brush all your woollens, and pack them away in a dark place covered with linen. Pepper, red cedar chips, tobacco,—in- deed, almost any strong spicy smell,—is good to keep moths out of your chests and drawers. But nothing is so good as camphor. Sprinkle your woollens with camphorated spirit, and scatter pieces of camphor gum among them, and you will never be troubled with moths. Some people buy camphor wood trunks for this purpose; but they are very expensive, and the gum answers just as well. The first young leaves of the common currant bush, gathered as soon as they put out, and dried on tin, can baldly be distinguished from green tea. Cream of tartar, rubbed upon soiled white kid gloves, cleanses them very much. Bottles that have been used for rose-water should be used for nothing else; if scalded ever so much, they will kill the spirit of what is put in them. If you have a greater quantity of cheeses in the house than is likely to be soon used, cover them carefully with paper, fastened on with flour paste, so as to exclude the air. In this w’ay they may be kept free from insects for years. They should be kept in a dry cool place. Pulverized alum possesses the property of purifying water. A large spoonful stirred into a hogshead of water will so purify it, that in aHOUSEWIFE. 17 few hours the dirt will all sink to the bottom, and it will be as fresh and clear as spring water. Four gallons may be purified by a teaspoonful. Save phials and bottles. Apothecaries and grocers will give something for them. If the bottles are of good thick glass, they will always be useful for bottling cider or beer: but if they are thin French glass, like claret bottles, they will not answer. Woollens should be washed in very hot suds, and not rinsed. Lukewarm water shrinks them. On the contrary, silk, or any thing that has silk in it, should be washed in water almost cold. Flot water turns it yellow. It may be washed in suds made of nice white soap; but no soap should be put upon it. Likewise avoid the use of hot irons in smoothing silk. Either rub the articles dry with a soft cloth, or put them between two towels, and press them with weights. Do not let knives be dropped into hot dish- water. Jt is a good plan to have a large tin pot to wash them in, just high enough to wash the blades without wetting the handles. Keep your castors covered with blotting paper and green flannel. Keep your salt-spoons out of the salt, and clean them often. Do not wrap knives and forks in woollens. Wrap them in good strong paper. Steel is in- jured by lying in woollens. If it be practicable, get a friend in the country to procure you a quantity of lard, butter, and18 THE FRUGAL eggs, at the time they are cheapest, to be put down for winter use. You will be likely to get them cheaper and better than in the market; but by all means put down your winter's stock. Lard requires no other care than to be kept in a dry, cool place. Butter is sweetest in September and June; because food is then plenty, and not rendered bitter by frost. Pack your butter in a clean scalded firkin, cover it with strong brine, and spread a cloth all over the top, and it will keep good. If you happen to have a bit of salt- petre, dissolve it with the brine. Dairy-women say that butter comes more easily, and has a peculiar hardness and sweetness, if the cream is scalded and strained before it is used. The cream should stand down the cellar over night, after being scalded, that it may get perfectly cold. Suet and lard keep better in tin than in earthen. Suet keeps good all the year round, if chopped and packed down in a stone jar, covered with molasses. Pick suet free from veins and skin, melt it in water before a moderate fire, let it cool till it forms into a hard cake, then wipe it dry, and put it in clean paper in linen bags. Preserve the backs of old letters to write upon. If you have children who are learning to write, Buy coarse white paper by the quantity, and keep it locked up, ready to be made into writing books. It does not cost half as much as it does to buy them at the stationer’s.19 HOUSEWIFE. Do not let coffee and tea stand in tin. Scald your wooden ware often; and keep your tin ware dry. When mattresses get hard and bunchy, rip them, take the hair out, pull it thoroughly by hand, let it lie a day or two to air, wash the tick, lay it in as light and even as possible, and catch it down as before. Thus prepared, they will be as good as new. It is poor economy to buy vinegar by the gallon. Buy a barrel, or half a barrel, of really strong vinegar, when you begin housekeeping. As you use it, fill the barrel with old cider, sour beer, or wine settlings, &c. left in pitchers, de- canters, or tumblers; weak tea is likewise said to be good : nothing; is hurtful which has a toler- able portion of spirit, or acidity. Care must be taken not to add these things in too large quan- tities, or too often: if the vinegar once gets weak, it. is difficult to restore it. If possible, it is well to keep such slops as I have mentioned in a different keg, and draw them off once in three or four weeks, in such a quantity as you think the vinegar will bear. If by any carelessness you do weaken it, a few white beans dropped in, or white paper dipped in molasses, is said to be useful. If beer grows sour, it may be used to advantage for pancakes and fritters. If very sour indeed, put a pint of molasses and water to it, and, two or three days after, put a half pint of vinegar; and in ten days it will be first rate vinegar.20 THE FRUGAL Barley straw is the best for beds; dry corn husks, slit into shreds, are far better than straw. Straw beds are much better for being boxed at the sides ; in the same manner upholsterers prepare ticks for feathers. Brass andirons should be cleaned, done up in papers, and put in a dry place, during the sum- mer season. If you have a large family, it is well to keep white rags separate from coloured ones, and cot- ton separate from woollen ; they bring a higher price. “ A penny saved is a penny got.” Always have plenty of dish-water, and have it hot. There is no need of asking the character of a domestic, if you have ever seen her wash dishes in a little greasy water. When molasses is used in cooking, it is a prodigious improvement to boil and skim it before you use it. It takes out the unpleasant raw taste, and makes it almost as good as sugar. Where molasses is used much for cooking, it is well to prepare one or two gallons in this way at a time. In winter, always set the handle of your pump as high as possible before you go to bed. Ex- cept in very rigid weather, this keeps the handle from freezing. When there is reason to appre- hend extreme cold, do not forget to throw a rug or horse-blanket over your pump; a frozen pump is a comfortless preparation for a winter’s breakfast. Never allow ashes to be taken up in wood, or21 HOUSEWIFE. put into wood. Always have your tinderbox and lantern ready for use, in case of sudden alarm. Have important papers all together, where you can lay your hand on them at once, in case of fire. Keep an old blanket and sheet on purpose for ironing, and on no account suffer any other to be used. Have plenty of holders always made, that your towels may not be burned out in such service. Keep a coarse broom for the cellar stairs, wood shed, yard, &c. No good housekeeper allows her carpet broom to be used for such things. There should always be a heavy stone on the top of your pork, to keep it down. This stone is an excellent place to keep a bit of fresh meat in the summer, when you are afraid of its spoiling. Have all the good bits of vegetables and meat collected after dinner, and minced before they are set away, that they may be in readiness to make a little savoury mincemeat for supper or breakfast. Phials, which have been used for medicine, should be put into cold ashes and water, boiled, and suffered to cool before they are rinsed. If you live in a town, where it is always easy to procure provisions, be careful and not buy too much for your daily wants while the weather is warm. Never leave out your clothes line over night; and see that your clothes pins are all gathered into a basket.THE FRUGAL 22 Have plenty of crash towels in the kitchen; never let yonr white napkins be used there. Soap your dirtiest clothes, and soak them in soft water over night. Use hard soap to wash your clothes, and soft to wash your floors. Soft soap is so slippery, that it wastes a good deal in washing clothes. Instead of covering up your glasses and pic- tures with muslin, cover the frames only with cheap yellow cambric, neatly put on, and as near the colour of the gilt as you can procure it. This looks better; leaves the glasses open for use, and the pictures for ornament: and is an effectual barrier to dust as well as flies. It can easily be recoloured with saffron tea when it is faded. Have a bottle full of brandy, with as large a mouth as any bottle you have, into which cut your lemon and orange peel when they are fresh and sweet. This brandy gives a delicious flavour to all sorts of pies, puddings, and cakes. Lemon is the pleasantest spice of the two ; therefore they should be kept in separate bottles. It is a good plan to preserve rose-leaves in brandy. The flavour is pleasanter than rose-water; and there are few people who have the utensils for distil- ling. Peach-leaves steeped in brandy make excellent spice for custards and puddings. It is easy to have a supply of horse-radish all winter. Have a quantity grated while the root is in perfection, put it in bottles, All it with strong vinegar, and keep it corked tight.HO 11 SEW I FE. 2.) It is thought to be a preventive to the un- healthy influence of cucumbers to cut the slices very thin, and drop each one into cold water as you cut it. A few minutes in the water takes out a large portion of the slimy matter so inju- rious to health. They should be eaten with high seasoning. Where sweet oil is much used, it is more economical to buy it by the bottle than by the flask. A bottle holds more than twice as much as a flask, and it is never double the price. If you wish to have freestone hearths dark, wash them with soap, and wipe them with a wet cloth ; some people rub in lamp-oil, once in a while, and wash the hearth faithfully afterwards. This does very well in a large, dirty family; for the hearth looks very clean, and is not liable to show grease spots. But if you wish to preserve the beauty of a freestone hearth, buy a quantity of freestone powder of the stone-cutter, and rub on a portion of it wet, after you have washed your hearth in hot water. When it is dry, brush it oft', and it will look like new stone. Bricks can be kept clean with redding stirred up in water, and put on with a brush. Pulverized clay mixed with redding, makes a pretty rose colour. Some think it is less likely to come oft’, it mixed with skim-milk instead of water. But, black-lead is far handsomer than any thing else for this purpose. It looks very well mixed with water, like redding; but it gives it a glossy ap-24 THE FRUGAL pearance to boil the lead in soft soap, with a little water to keep it from burning. It should be put on with a brush, in the same manner as redding; it looks nice for a long time when done in this way. Keep a bag for odd pieces of tape and strings; they will come in use. Keep a bag or box for old buttons, so that you may know where to go when you want one. •Run the heels of stockings faithfully; and mend thin places as well as holes. “ A stitch in time saves nine.” Poke-root, boiled in water and mixed with a good quantity of molasses, set about the kitchen, the pantry, &c. in large deep plates, will kill cockroaches in great numbers, and finally rid the house of them. The Indians say that poke- root boiled into a soft poultice is the cure for the bite of a snake. I have heard of a fine horse saved by it. A little salt sprinkled in starch while it is boiling, tends to prevent it from sticking; it is likewise good to stir it with a clean spermaceti candle. A few potatoes sliced, and boiling water poured over them, makes an excellent preparation for cleansing and stiffening old rusty black silk. Green tea is excellent to restore rusty silk. It should be boiled in iron, nearly a cup full to three quarts. The silk should not be wrung, and should be ironed damp.25 HOUSEWIFE. Lime pulverized, sifted through coarse muslin, and stirred up tolerably thick in white of eggs, makes a strong cement for glass and china. Plaster of Paris is still better; particularly for mending broken images of the same material. It should be stirred up by the spoonful as it is wanted. Some think it an improvement to make whey of vinegar and milk, and beat it well up with the eggs before the lime is put in. I have heard of iron mended with it. A bit of isinglass dissolved in gin, or boiled in spirits of wine, is said to make strong cement for broken glass, china, and sea-shells. The lemon sirup, usually sold at a trifle per bottle, may be made much cheaper. Those who use a great quantity of it will find it worth their while to make it. Take about a pound of Ha- vanna sugar; boil it in water down to a quart; drop in the white of an egg, to clarify it; strain it; add one quarter of an ounce of tartaric acid, or citric acid; if you do not find it sour enough, after it has stood two or three days and shaken freely, add more of the acid. A few drops of the oil of lemon improves it. If you wish to clarify sugar and water, you are about to boil, it is well to stir in the white of one egg while cold; if put in after it boils, the egg is apt to get hardened before it can do any good. Those who are fond of soda powders will do well to inquire at the apothecaries for the suit- able acid and alkali, and buy them by the ounce, DTHE FRUGAL 2(> or the pound, according to the size of their families. Experience soon teaches the right proportions; and, sweetened with a little sugar or lemon sirup, it is quite as good as what one gives five times as much for, done up in papers. The case is the same with Rochelle powders. When the stopper of a glass decanter becomes too tight, a cloth wet with hot water and applied to the neck, will cause the glass to expand, so that the stopper may be easily removed. Glass vessels, in a cylindrical form, may be cut in two, by tying around them a worsted thread, thoroughly wet with spirits of turpentine, and then setting fire to the thread. Court plaster is made of thin silk first dipped in dissolved isinglass and dried, then dipped several times in the white of egg and dried. When plain tortoise-shell combs are defaced, the polish may be renewed by rubbing them with pulverized rotten-stone and oil. The rotten-stone should be sifted through muslin, ft looks better to be rubbed on by the hand. The jewellers afterwards polish them by rubbing them with dry rouge powder; but sifted magnesia does just, as well,—and if the ladies had rouge, perhaps they would, by mistake, put it upon their cheeks, in- stead of their combs ; and thereby spoil their complexions. The best way to cleanse gold is, to wash it in warm suds made of delicate soap, with ten or fifteen drops of sal-volatile in it. This makes jewels very brilliant.27 HOUSEWIFE. Straw carpets should be washed in salt and water, and wiped with a dry coarse towel. They have a strong tendency to turn yellow; and the salt prevents it. Moisture makes them decay soon ; therefore they should be kept thoroughly dry. Rye paste is more adhesive than any other paste; because that grain is very glutinous. It is much improved by adding a little pounded alum, while it is boiling. This makes it almost as strong as glue. Red ants are among the worst plagues that can infest a house. A lady, who had long been troubled with them, assured me she destroyed them in a few days after the following manner: She placed a dish of cracked shagbarks (of which they are more fond than of any thing else) in the closet. They soon gathered upon it in troops. She then put some corrosive sublimate in a cup; ordered the dish to be carried carefully to the fire, and all its contents brushed in ; while she swept the few that dropped upon the shelf into the cup, and, with a feather, wet all the cracks from whence they came with corrosive sublimate. When this had been repeated four or five times, the house was effectually cleared. Too much care cannot be taken of corrosive sublimate, especially when children are about. Many dreadful accidents have happened in consequence of carelessness. Bottles which have contained it should be broken, and buried ;28 THE FRUGAL and cups should be boiled out in ashes and water. If kept in the house, it should be hung' up high, out of reach, with pojson written upon it in large letters. The neatest way to separate wax from honey- comb is to tie the comb up in a linen or woollen bag; place it in a kettle of cold water, and hang it over the fire. As the water heats, the wax melts, and rises to the surface, while all the im- purities remain in the bag. It is well to put a few pebbles in the bag, to keep it from floating. Honey may be separated from the comb, by placing it in the hot sun, or before the fire, with two or three colanders or sieves, each finer than the other, under it. SIMPLE REMEDIES. Cotton wool, wet with sweet oil and paregoric, relieves the earache very soon. A good quantity of old cheese is the best thing to eat, when distressed by eating too much fruit, or oppressed with any kind of food. Physicians have given it in cases of extreme danger. Honey and milk is very good for worms; so is strong salt water; likewise powdered sage and molasses taken freely. For a sudden attack of quinsy or croup, bathe the neck with bear’s grease, and pour it down the throat. A linen rag soaked in sweet oil,HOUSEWIFE. 20 butter, or lard, and sprinkled with yellow Scotch snuft', is said to have performed wonderful cures in cases of croup; it should be placed where the distress is greatest. Goose grease, or any kind of oily grease, is as good as bear’s oil. Equal parts of camphor, spirits of wine, and hartshorn, well mixed, and rubbed upon the throat, is said to be good for the croup. Cotton wool and oil are the best things for a burn. A poultice of wheat bran, or rye bran, and vinegar, very soon takes down the inflammation occasioned by a sprain. Brown paper, wet, is healing to a bruise. Dipped in molasses, it is said to take down inflammation. In case of any scratch, or wound, from which the lock-jaw is apprehended, bathe the injured part freely with lye, or pearlash and water. A rind of pork bound upon a wound occa- sioned by a needle, pin, or nail, prevents the lock-jaw. It should be always applied. Spirits of turpentine is good to prevent the lock-jaw. Strong soft soap, mixed with pulverized chalk, about as thick as batter, put in a thin cloth or bag upon the wound, is said to be a preventive to this dangerous disorder. The chalk should be kept moist, till the wound begins to discharge itself; when the patient will find relief. If you happen to cut yourself slightly w'hile cooking, bind on some fine salt: molasses is likewise good. D 230 THE FRUGAL Flour boiled thoroughly in milk, so as to make quite a thick porridge, is good in cases of dy- sentery. A tablespoonful of rum, a tablespoon- ful of sugar-baker’s molasses, and the same quantity of sweet oil, well simmered together, is likewise good for this disorder; the oil softens the harshness of the other ingredients. Black or green tea, steeped in boiling milk, seasoned with nutmeg, and best of loaf sugar, is excellent for the dysentery. Cork burnt to charcoal, about as big as a hazel nut, macerated, and put in a teaspoonful of brandy, with a little loaf sugar and nutmeg, is very efficacious in cases of dysentery and cholera morbus. If nut- meg be wanting, peppermint-water may be used. Flannel wet with brandy, powdered with Cayenne pepper, and laid upon the bowels, affords great relief in cases of extreme distress. Dissolve as much table salt in keen vinegar as will ferment and work clear. When the foam is discharged, cork it up in a bottle, and put it away for use. A large spoonful of this, in a gill of boiling water, is very efficacious in cases of dysentery and colic. Among the numerous medicines for this disease, perhaps none, after all, is better, particularly where the bowels are inflamed; than the old fashioned one of English mallows steeped in milk, and drank freely. Every body knows, of course, that English mal- lows and marsh mallows are different herbs. Whortleberries, commonly called huckleber-31 HOUSEWIFE. lies, dried, are a useful medicine for children. Made into tea, and sweetened with molasses, they are very beneficial, when the system is in a restricted state, and the digestive powers out of order. Blackberries are extremely useful in cases of dysentery. To eat the berries is very healthy; tea made of the roots and leaves is beneficial; and a sirup made of the berries is still better. Blackberries have sometimes effected a cure when physicians despaired. Loaf sugar and brandy relieves a sore throat; when very bad, it is good to inhale the steam of scalding hot vinegar through the tube of a tunnel. This should be tried carefully at first, lest the throat be scalded. For children, it should be allowed to cool a little. A stocking bound on warm from the foot, at night, is good for the sore throat. An ointment made from the common ground- worms, which boys dig to bait fishes, rubbed on with the hand, is said to be excellent, when the sinews are drawn up by any disease or accident. A gentleman in America says that he had an inveterate cancer upon his nose cured by a strong- potash made of the lye of the ashes of red oak bark, boiled down to the consistence of molasses. The cancer was covered with this, and, about an hour after, covered with a plaster of tar. This must be removed in a few days, and, if any protuberances remain in the wound, apply more32 THE FRUGAL potash to them, and the plaster again, until they entirely disappear: after which heal the wound with any common soothing salve. I never knew this to be tried. If a wound bleeds very fast, and there is no physician at hand, cover it with the scrapings of sole leather, scraped like coarse lint. This stops blood very soon. Always have vinegar, cam- phor, hartshorn, or something of that kind, in readiness, as the sudden stoppage of blood almost always makes a person faint. Balm-of-Gilead buds bottled up in Jamaica rum, make the best cure in the world for fresh cuts and wounds. Every family should have a bottle of it. The buds should be gathered in a peculiar state; just when they are well swelled, ready to burst into leaves, and well covered with gum. They last but two or three days in this state. Plantain and house-leek, boiled in cream, and strained before it is put away to cool, makes a very cooling, soothing ointment. Plantain leaves laid upon a wound are cooling and healing. Half a spoonful of citric acid (which may always be bought of the apothecaries), stirred in half a tumbler of water, is excellent for the head- ache. People in general think they must go abroad for vapour baths; but a very simple one can-be made at home. Place strong sticks across a tub of water, at the boiling point, and sit upon them,HOUSEWIFE. 33 entirely enveloped in a blanket, feet and all. 1 he steam from the water will be a vapour bath. Some people put herbs into the water. Steam baths are excellent for severe colds, and for some disorders in the bowels. They should uot be taken without the advice of an experienced nurse, or physician. Great care should be taken not to renew the cold after; it would be doubly dangerous. Boiled potatoes are said to cleanse the hands as well as common soap; they prevent chops in the winter season, and keep the skin soft and healthy. Water-gruel, with three or four onions sim- mered in it, prepared with a lump of butter, pepper, and salt, eaten just before one goes to bed, is said to be a cure for a hoarse cold. A sirup made of horse-radish root and sugar is excellent for a cold. Very strong salt and water, when frequently applied, has been known to cure wens. The following poultice for the throat distemper has been much approved:—The pulp of a roasted apple, mixed with an ounce of tobacco, the whole wet with spirits of wine, or any other high spirits, spread on a linen rag, and bound upon the throat at any period of the disorder. Nothing is so good to take down swellings, as a soft poultice of stewed white beans, put on in a thin muslin bag, and renewed every hour or two. The. thin white skin, which comes from suet,THE FRUGAL 31 is excellent to bind upon the feet for chilblains. Rubbing- with Castile soap, and afterwards with honey, is likewise highly recommended. But, to cure the chilblains effectually, they must be attended to often, and for a long time. Always apply diluted laudanum to fresh wounds. A poultice of elder-blow tea and biscuit is good as a preventive to mortification. The ap- proach of mortification is generally shown by the formation of blisters filled with blood; water blisters are not alarming. Burnt alum held in the mouth is good for the canker. The common dark blue violet makes a slimy tea, which is excellent for the canker. Leaves and blossoms are both good. Those who have families should take some pains to dry these flowers. When people have a sore mouth, from taking calomel, or any other cause, tea made of low blackberry leaves is extremely beneficial. Tea made of slippery elm is good for the piles, and for humours in the blood; to be drank plen- tifully. Winter evergreen is considered good for all humours, particularly scrofula. This plant resembles the poisonous kill-lamb, both in the shape and the glossiness of the leaves: great care should be used to distinguish them. Some call it rheumatism-weed; because a tea made from it is supposed to check that painful disorder.HOUSEWIFE. 33 An ointment of lard, sulphur, and cream of- tartar, simmered together, is good for the piles. Elixir proprietatis is a useful family medicine for all cases when the digestive powers are out of order. One ounce of saffron, one ounce of myrrh, and one ounce of aloes. Pulverize them ; let the myrrh steep in half a pint of brandy, or rum, for four days ; then add the saffron and aloes: let it stand in the sunshine, or in some warm place, for a fortnight; taking care to shake it well twice a day. At the end of the fortnight, till up the bottle (a common sized one) with brandy, or rum, and let it stand a month. Tt costs six times as much to buy it in small quan- tities, as it does to make it. The constant use of malt beer, or malt in any way, is said to be a preservative against fevers. Black cherry-tree bark, barberry bark, mus- tard-seed, petty morrel-root, and horse-radish, well steeped in cider, are excellent for the jaundice. Cotton wool and oil are the best things for a burn. When children are burned, it is difficult to make them endure the application of cotton wool. I have known the inflammation of a very bad burn extracted in one night, by the constant application of brandy, vinegar, and water, mixed together. This feels cool and pleasant, and a tew drops of paregoric will soon put the little sufferer to sleep. The bathing should be con- tinued till the pain is gone.36 THE FRUGAL A few drops of the oil of Cajput on cotton wool is said to be a great relief to the toothache. It occasions a smart pain for a few seconds, when laid upon the defective tooth. Any apo- thecary will furnish it ready dropped on cotton wool for a trifle. A poultice made of ginger, or of common chickweedj that grows about one’s door in the country, has given great relief to the toothache, when applied frequently to the cheek. A spoonful of ashes stirred in cider is good to prevent sickness at the stomach. Physicians frequently order it in cases of cholera morbus. When a blister occasioned by a burn breaks, it is said to be a good plan to put wheat flour upon the naked flesh. The buds of the elder bush, gathered in early spring, and simmered with new butter, or sweet lard, make a very healing and cooling ointment. Night sweats have been cured, when more powerful remedies had failed, by fasting morning and night, and drinking cold sage tea constantly and freely. Lard, melted and cooled five or six times in succession, by being poured each time into a fresh pail-full of water, then simmered with sliced onions, and cooled, is said, by old nurses, to make a salve, which is almost infallible in curing in- flammations produced by taking cold in wounds. Vinegar curds, made by pouring vinegar into warm milk, put on warm, and changed prettyHOUSEWIFE. 37 frequently, are likewise excellent to subdue in- flammation. Chalk wet with hartshorn is a remedy for the sting of bees; so is likewise table-salt kept moist with water. Boil castor oil with an equal quantity of milk, sweeten it with a little suggr, stir it well, and, when cold, give it to children for drink. They will never suspect it is medicine; and will even love the taste of it. A raw onion is an excellent remedy for the sting of a wasp. As molasses is often given to children as a gentle physic, it will be useful to know that West India molasses is a gentle cathartic, while sugar- bakers’ molasses is slightly astringent. If a fellon or run-round appears to be coming on the finger, you can do nothing better than to soak the finger thoroughly in hot lye. It will be painful, but it will cure a disorder much more painful. AVhiskey, which has had Spanish flies in soak, is said to be good for ringworms; but I never knew an instance of its being tried. Unless too strong, or used in great quantities, it cannot, at least, do any harm. Washing the hands fre- quently in warm vinegar is good for ringworms. When the toe-nails have a tendency to turn in, so as to be painful, the nail should always be kept scraped very thin, and as near the flesh as possible. As soon as the corner of the nail can E38 THE FRUGAI. be raised up out of the flesh, it should be kept from again entering, by putting a tuft of line lint under it. GRUEL. Gruel is very easily made. Have a pint of water boiling in a skillet; stir up three or four large spoonfuls of nicely sifted oatmeal, or rye, in cold water. Pour it into the skillet while the water boils. Let it boil eight or ten minutes. Throw in a large handful of raisins to boil, if the patient is well enough to bear them. When put in a bowl, add a little salt, white sugar, and nutmeg. EGG GRUEL. This is at once food and medicine. Some people have very great faith in its eflicacy in cases of chronic dysentery. It is made thus: boil a pint of new milk; beat four new-laid eggs to a light froth, and pour in while the milk boils; stir them together thoroughly, but do not let them boil; sweeten it with the best of loaf sugar, and grate in a whole nutmeg; add a little salt, if you like it. Drink half of it while it is warm, and the other half in two hours. ARROW-ROOT JELLY. Put about a pint of water in a skillet to boil; stir up a large spoonful of arrow-root powder in a cup of water; pour.it into the skillet while the water is boiling: let them boil together three orHOUSEWIFE. 39 four minutes. Season it with nutmeg and loaf sugar. This is very light food for an invalid. When the system is in a relaxed state, two tea- spoonfuls of brandy may be put in. Milk and loaf sugar boiled, and a spoonful of fine flour, well mixed with a little cold water, poured in while the milk is boiling, is light food in cases of similar diseases. calf’s foot jelly. Boil four feet in a gallon of water, till it is reduced to a quart. Strain it, and let it stand till it is quite cool. Skim off the fat, and add to the jelly one pint of wine, half a pound of sugar, the whites of six eggs, and the juice of four large lemons; boil all these materials together eight or ten minutes. Then strain into the glasses, or jars, in which you intend to keep it. Some lay a few bits of the lemon-peel at the bottom, and let it be strained upon them. TAPIOCA JELLY. Wash it two or three times, soak it five or six hours, simmer it in the same water with bits of fresh lemon-peel, until it becomes quite clear ; then put in lemon juice, wine, and loaf sugar. SAGO JELLY. The sago should be soaked in cold water an hour, and washed thoroughly ; simmered with lemon-peel and a few cloves. Add wine and40 THE FRUGAL loaf sugar when nearly done; and let it all boil together a few minutes. BEEF TEA. Beef tea, for the sick, is made by broiling a tender steak nicely, seasoning it with pepper and salt, cutting it up, and pouring water over it, not quite boiling. Put in a littie water at a time, and let it stand to soak the goodness out. WINE WHEY. Wine whey is a cooling and safe drink in fevers. Set half a pint of sweet milk at the fire, pour in one glass of wine, and let it remain perfectly still till it curdles; when the curds settle, strain it, and let it cool. It should not get more than blood-warm. A spoonful of rennet water hastens the operation. Made palatable with loaf sugar and nutmeg, if the patient can bear it. APPLE WATER. This is given as sustenance when the stomach is too weak to bear broth, &c. It may be made thus,—Pour boiling water on roasted apples ; let them stand three hours, then strain and sweeten lightly:—Or it may be made thus,— Peel and slice tart apples, add some sugar and lemon-peel; then pour some boiling water over the whole, and let it stand covered by the fire more than an hour.HOUSEWIFE. 41 MILK PORRIDGE. Boil new milk; stir flour thoroughly into some cold milk in a bowl, and pour it into the kettle while the milk is boiling : let it all boil six or eight minutes. Some people like it thicker than others; I should think, three large spoonfuls of flour to a quart of milk was about right. It should always be seasoned with salt; and if the patient likes, loaf sugar and nutmeg may be put in. In cases of fever, little sail or spice should be put into any nourishment; but in cases of dysentery, salt and nutmeg may be used freely: in such cases too, more flour should be put in porridge, and it should be boiled very thoroughly indeed. STEWED PRUNES. Stew them very gently in a small quantity of water, till the stones slip out. Physicians con- sider them safe nourishment in fevers. VEGETABLES. Parsnips should be kept down cellar, covered up in sand, entirely excluded from the air. They are good only in the spring. Cabbages put into a hole in the ground will keep well during the winter, and be hard, fresh,THE FRUGAL • 42 and sweet in the spring. Many farmers keep potatoes in the same way. Onions should be kept very dry, and never carried into the cellar except in severe weather, when there is danger of their freezing. By no means let them be in the cellar after March ; they will sprout and spoil. Potatoes should likewise be carefully looked to in the spring, and the sprouts broken off. The cellar is the best place for them, because they are injured by wilt- ing; but sprout them carefully, if you want to keep them. They never sprout but three times; therefore, after you have sprouted them three times, they will trouble you no more. Cabbages need to be boiled an hour; beets an hour and a half. Parsnips should boil an hour, or an hour and a quarter, according to size. New potatoes should boil fifteen or twenty minutes; three quarters of an hour, or an hour, is not too much for large old potatoes; common sized ones, half an hour. In the spring it is a good plan to cut off a slice from the seed end of potatoes before you cook them. The seed end is opposite to that which grew upon the vine; the place where the vine was broken off may be easily distinguished. By a provision of nature, the seed end becomes watery in the spring ; and, unless cut off, it is apt to injure the potatoe. If you wish to have potatoes mealy, do not let them stop boiling for an instant; and when they are done, turn the water off, and let them steam for ten or twelve43 HOUSEWIFE. minutes over the fire. See they don’t stay long enough to burn to the kettle. Potatoes boiled and mashed while hot, are good to use in making short cakes and puddings; they save flour, and less shortening is necessary. It is said that a bit of unslacked lime, about as big as a robin’s egg, thrown among old watery potatoes, while they are boiling, will tend to make them mealy. I never saw the experiment tried. Asparagus should be boiled fifteen or twenty minutes; half an hour, if old. Green peas should be boiled from twenty minutes to sixty, according to their age; string- beans the same. Corn should be boiled from twenty minutes to forty, according to age; dan- delions half an hour, or three quarters, according to age. Dandelions are very much improved by cultivation. If cut off, without injuring the root, they will spring up again, fresh and tender, till late in the season. Beet-tops should be boiled twenty minutes ; and spinage three or four minutes. Put in no green vegetables till the water boils, if you would keep all their sweetness. When green peas have become old and yellow, they may be made tender and green by sprinkling in a pinch or two of pearlash while they are boil- ing. Pearlash has the same effect upon all summer vegetables, rendered tough by being too old. If your well-water is very hard, it is always an advantage to use a little pearlash in cooking.THE FRUGAL 44 The best sort of catsup is made from tomatoes. The vegetables should be squeezed up in the hand, salt put to them, and set by for twenty- four hours. After being passed through a sieve, cloves, allspice, pepper, mace, garlic, and whole mustard-seed should be added. It should be boiled down one third, and bottled after it is cool. No liquid is necessary, as the tomatoes are very juicy. A good deal of salt and spice is neces- sary to keep the catsup well. It is delicious with roast meat; and a cupful adds much to the richness of soup and chowder. The garlic should be taken out before it is bottled. Celery should be kept in the cellar, the roots covered with tan, to keep them moist. If the tops of lettuce be cut off when it is be- coming too old for use, it will grow up again fresh and tender, and may thus be kept good through the summer. It is a good plan to boil onions in milk and water; it diminishes the strong taste of that vegetable. It is an excellent way of serving up onions, to chop them after they are boiled, and put them in a stewpan, with a little milk, butter, salt, and pepper, and let them stew about fifteen minutes. This gives them a fine flavour, and they can be served up very hot.HOUSEWIFE. 4-5 HERBS. All herbs should be carefully kept from the air. Herb tea, to do any good, should be made very , strong. Herbs should be gathered while in blossom. If left till they have gone to seed, the strength : goes into the seed. Those who have a little patch of ground will do well to raise the most i important herbs; and those who have not, will do well to get them in quantities from some friend in the country; for apothecaries make very great profit upon them. Sage is very useful, both as a medicine for the headache, when made into tea, and for all kinds of stuffing, when dried and rubbed into powder. It should be kept tight from the air. Summer savory is excellent to season soup, broth, and sausages. Asa medicine, it relieves the colic. Pennyroyal and tansy are good for the same medicinal purpose. Green wormwood bruised is excellent for a fresh wound of any kind. In winter, when wormwood is dry, it is necessary to soften it in warm vinegar, or spirit, before it is bruised, and applied to the wound. Hyssop tea is good for sudden colds, and disorders on the lungs. It is necessary to be very careful about exposure after taking it; it is peculiarly opening to the pores.46 THE FRUGAL Tea made of colt’s-foot and flax-seed, sweet- ened with honey, is a cure for inveterate coughs. Consumptions have been prevented by it. It .should be drank when going to bed; though it does good to drink it at any time. Hoarhound is useful in consumptive complaints. Motherwort tea is very quieting to the nerves. Students, and people troubled with wakefulness, find it useful. Thoroughwort is excellent for dyspepsy, and every disorder occasioned by indigestion. If the stomach be foul, it operates like a gentle emetic. Sweet-balm tea is cooling when one is in a feverish state. Catnip, particularly the blossoms, made into tea, is good to prevent a threatened fever. It produces a fine perspiration. It should be taken in bed, and the patient kept warm. Housekeepers should always dry leaves of the burdock and horse radish. Burdocks warmed in vinegar, with the hard stalky parts cut out, are very soothing, applied to the feet; they produce a sweet and gentle perspiration. Horse radish is more powerful. It is excellent in cases of the ague, placed on the part affected. Warmed in vinegar, and clapped. Succory is a very valuable herb. The tea, sweetened with molasses, is good for the piles. It is a gentle and healthy physic, a preventive of dyspepsy, humours, inflammation, and all the evils resulting from a restricted state of the system.HOUSEWIFE. 47 Elder-blow tea has a similar effect. It is cool ' and soothing, and peculiarly efficacious either ; for babes or grown people, when the digestive <. powers are out of order. Lungwort, maiden-hair, hyssop, elecampane t and hoarhound steeped together, is an almost certain cure for a cough. A wine-glass full to be taken when going to bed. Few people know how to keep the flavour of 1 sweet-marjoram; the best of all herbs for broth and stuffing. It should be gathered in bud or j blossom, and dried in a tin-kitchen at a moderate il distance from the fire; when dry, it should be ii immediately rubbed, sifted, and corked up in a bottle carefully. English mallows steeped in milk is good for ; the dysentery. CHEAP DYE-STUFFS. A few general rules are necessary to be observed in colouring. The materials should be perfectly I clean; soap should be rinsed out in soft water; the article should be entirely wetted, or it will spot; light colours should be steeped in brass, tin, or earthen; and, if set at all, should be set with alum. Dark colours should be boiled in iron, and set with copperas. Too much cop- peras rots the thread. 1 he apothecaries and hatters keep a compound48 THE frugal of vitriol and indigo, commonly called “ blue composition.” An ounce vial full may be bought for nine-pence. It colours a fine blue. It is an economical plan to use it for old silk linings, ribbons, &c. The original colour should be boiled out, and the material thoroughly rinsed in soft water, so that no soap may remain in it; for soap ruins the dye. Twelve or sixteen drops of the blue composition, poured into a quart bowl full of warm soft water, stirred (and strained, if any settlings are perceptible), will colour a great many articles. If you wish a deep blue, pom- in more of the compound. Cotton must not be coloured; the vitriol destroys it; if the material you wish to colour has cotton threads in it, it will be ruined. After the things are thoroughly dried, they should be washed in cool suds, and dried again ; this prevents any bad effects from the vitriol; if shut up from the air without being washed, there is danger of the texture being de- stroyed. If you wish to colour green, have your cloth free as possible from the old colour, clean, and rinsed, and, in the first place, colour it a deep yellow. Fustic boiled in soft water makes the strongest and brightest yellow dye ; but saf- fron, barberry bush, peach leaves, or onion skins, will answer pretty well. Next take a bowl full ot strong yellow dye, and pour in a great spoonful or more of the blue composition. Stir it up well with a clean stick, and dip the articles you have already coloured yellow into it, and they willHOUSEWIFE. 49 take a lively grass green. This is a good plan for old bombazet curtains, dessert cloths, old flannel for covering a desk, &c.; it is likewise a handsome colour for ribbons. Balm blossoms, steeped in water, makes a pretty rose colour. This answers very well for the linings of children’s bonnets, for ribbons, &c. It fades in the course of one season; but it is very little trouble to recolour with it. It merely requires to be steeped and strained. Perhaps a small piece of alum might serve to set the colour in some degree. In earthen or tin. Saffron, steeped in earthen and strained, makes a fine straw colour. It make a delicate or deep shade, according to the strength of the tea. The dry outside skins of onions, steeped in scalding water and strained, makes a yellow very much like “ bird of paradise” colour. Peach leaves, or bark scraped from the barberry bush, colours a common bright yellow. In all these cases, a little piece of alum does no harm, and may help to fix the colour. Ilibbons, gauze handkerchiefs, &c. are coloured well in this way, especially if they be stiftened by a bit of gum-arabic, dropped in while the stuff is steeping. The purple paper, which comes on loaf sugar, boiled in cider, or vinegar, with a small bit of alum, makes a fine purple slate colour. Done in iron. White maple bark makes a good light-brown slate colour. This should be boiled in water, F50 THE FRUGAL set with alum. The colour is reckoned better when boiled in brass, instead of iron. The purple slate and the brown slate are suitable colours for stockings; and it is an economical plan, after they have been mended and cut down, so that they will no longer look decent, to colour old stockings, and make them up for children. A pailful of lye, with a piece of copperas half as big as a hen’s egg boiled in it, will make a fine nankin colour, which will never wash out. This is very useful for the linings of bed-quilts, comforters, Ac. Old faded gowns, coloured in this way, may be made into good petticoats. Cheap cotton cloth maybe coloured to advantage for petticoats, and pelisses for little girls. A very beautiful nankin colour may likewise be obtained from birch-bark, set with alum. The bark should be covered with water, and boiled thoroughly in brass or tin. A bit of alum half as big as a hen’s egg is sufficient. If copperas be used instead of alum, slate colour will be pro- duced. Tea-grounds boiled in iron, and set with cop- peras, make a very good slate colour. Log-wood and cider, in iron, set with copperas, makes a good black. Rusty nails, or any rusty iron, boiled in vinegar, with a small bit of cop- peras, makes a good black,—black ink-powder done in the same way answers the same purpose.HOUSEWIFE. ol MEAT CORNED, OR SALTED, HAMS, &c. When you merely want to corn meat, you have nothing to do but to rub in salt plentifully, and let it set in the cellar a day or two. If you have provided more meat than you can use while it is good, it is well to corn it in season, to save it. In summer, it will not keep well more than a day and a half; if you are compelled to keep it longer, be sure and rub in more salt, and keep it care- fully covered from cellar-flies. In winter, there is no difficulty in keeping a piece of corned beef a fortnight or more. Some people corn meat by throwing it into their beef barrel for a few days; but this method does not make it so sweet. A little salt-petre rubbed in before you apply the common salt, makes the meat tender ; but in summer it is not well to use it, because it pre- vents the other salt from impregnating; and the meat does not keep as well. If you wish to salt fat pork, scald coarse salt in water and skim it, till the salt will no longer melt in the water. Pack your pork down in tight layers; salt every layer; when the brine is cool, cover the pork with it, and keep a heavy stone on the top to keep the pork under brine. Look to it once in a while, for the first few weeks, and if the salt has all melted, throw in more. This brine, scalded and skimmed every time it is used, will continue good twenty years. The rind of52 THE FRUGAL the pork should be packed towards the edge of the barrel. It is good economy to salt your own beef as well as pork. Six pounds of coarse salt, eight ounces of brown sugar, a pint of molasses, and eight ounces of salt-petre, are enough to boil in four gallons of water. Skim it clean while boil- ing. 1*01 it to the beef cold ; have enough to cover it; and be careful your beef never floats on the top. If it does not smell perfectly sweet, throw in more salt; if a scum rises upon it, scald and skim it again, and pour it on the beef when cold. Legs of mutton are very good, cured in the same way as ham. Six pounds of salt, eight ounces of salt-petre, and five pints of molasses, will make pickle enough for one hundred weight. Small legs should be kept in pickle twelve or fifteen days; if large, four or five weeks are not too much. They should be hung up a day or two to dry before they are smoked. Lay them in the oven on crossed sticks, and make a fire at the entrance. Cobs, walnut-bark, or walnut- chips, are the best to use for smoking, on account of the sweet taste they give the meat. The smallest pieces should be smoked forty-eight hours, and large legs four or five days. Some people prefer the mutton boiled as soon as it is taken from the pickle, before it is smoked ; others hang it up till it gets dry thoroughly, and eat it in thin slices, like hung beef. When legs of meatHOUSEWI FE. 53 are put in pickle, the thickest part of the leg should be placed uppermost, that is, standing upright, the same as the creature stood when living. The same rule should be observed when they are hung up to dry; it is essential in order to keep in the juices of the meat. Meat should be turned over once or twice during the process of smoking. The old-fashioned way for curing hams is to rub them with salt very thoroughly, and let them lie twenty-four hours. To each ham allow two ounces of salt-petre, one quart of common salt, and one quart of molasses. First baste them with molasses; next rub in the salt-petre; and, last of all, the common salt. They must be carefully turned and rubbed every day for six weeks; then hang them in a chimney, or smoke- house, four weeks. They should be well covered up in paper bags,' and put in a chest, or barrel, with layers of ashes, or charcoal, between. When you take out a ham to cut for use, be sure and put it away in a dark place, well covered up; especially in summer. Some very experienced epicures and cooks think the old-fashioned way of preparing bacon is troublesome and useless. They say that legs of pork placed upright in pickle, for four or five weeks, are just as nice as those rubbed with so much care. The pickle for pork and hung beef should be stronger than for legs of mutton. Eight pounds of salt, ten ounces of salt-petre, and fiveTHE FRUGAL 54 pints of molasses is enough for one hundred weight of meat; water enough to cover the meat well—probably, four or five gallons. Any one can prepare bacon, or dried beef, very easily, in a common oven, according to the above direc- tions. The same pickle that answers for bacon is proper for neats’ tongues. Pigs’ tongues are very nice, prepared in the same way as neats’ tongues; an abundance of them are sold for rein-deers’ tongues, and, under that name, con- sidered a wonderful luxury. Neat’s tongue should be boiled full three hours. If it has been in salt long, it is well to soak it over night in cold water. Put it in to boil when the water is cold. If you boil it in a small pot, it is well to change the water, when it has boiled an hour and a half; the fresh water should boil before the half-cooked tongue is put in again. It is nicer for being kept in a cool place a day or two after being boiled. Nearly the same rules apply to salt beef. A six pound piece of corned beef should boil full three hours; and salt beef should be boiled four hours. The salter meat is, the longer it should be boiled. If very salt, it is well to put it in soak over night; change the water while cooking; and observe the same rules as in boiling tongue. If it is intended to be eaten when cold, it is a good plan to put it between clean boards, and press it down with heavy weights for a day or two. A small leg of bacon should be boiled three hours;HOUSEWIFE. 55 ten pounds, four hours; twelve pounds, five hours. All meat should boil moderately; furious boiling injures the flavour. Buffalo’s tongue should soak a day and a night, i and boil as much as six hours. CHOICE OE MEAT. If people wish to be economical, they should : take some pains to ascertain what are the cheapest : pieces of meat to buy; not merely those which i are cheapest in price, but those which go farthest when cooked. That part of mutton called the rack, which consists of the neck, and a few of the rib bones below, is cheap food. It is not more than three-pence a pound ; and four pounds will make i a dinner for six people. The neck, cut into pieces, i and boiled slowly an hour and a quarter, in little more than water enough to cover it, makes very nice broth. A great spoonful of rice should be washed and thrown in with the meat. About twenty minutes before it is done, put in a little thickening, and season with salt, pepper, and sifted summer-savory, or sage. The bones below the neck, broiled, make a good mutton chop. If your family be small, a rack of mutton will make you two dinners,—broth once, and mutton chop, with a few slices of salt pork, for another; if your family consist of six or seven, you can have two56 THE FRUGAL dishes for a dinner. If you boil the whole rack for broth, there will be some left for mince- meat. Liver is usually much despised; but, when well cooked, it is very palatable ; and it is the cheapest of all animal food. Veal liver is by some considered the best. After you have fried a few slices of salt pork, put the liver in while the fat is very hot, and cook it through thoroughly. If you doubt whether it be done, cut into a slice, and see whether it has turned entirely brown, without any red stripe in the middle. Season it with pepper and salt, and butter, if you live on a farm, and have butter in plenty. It should not be cooked on furiously hot coals, as it is very apt to scorch. Sprinkle in a little flour, stir it, and pour in boiling water to make gravy, just as you would for fried meat. Some think liver is better dipped in flour before it is fried. It is good broiled and buttered like a steak. It should be cut into slices about as thick as are cut for steaks. The heart, liver, &c. of a pig is good fried; so is that of a lamb. The latter is commonly called Iamb fry; and a dinner may be bought for a few' pence. Be sure and ask for the sweet-bread; for butchers are extremely apt to reserve it for their own use; and therefore lamb fry is almost always sold without it. Fry five or six slices of salt pork; after it is taken out, put. in your lamb fry while the fat is hot. Do it thoroughly; butHOUSEWIFE. 57 i be careful the fire is not too furious, as it is apt i to scorch. Take a large handful of parsley, see that it is washed clean, cut it up pretty fine ; then pour a little boiling water into the fat in which your dinner has been fried, and let the parsley cook in it a minute or two; then take it out in a spoon, and lay it over your slices of meat. Some people, who like thick gravies, I shake in a little flour into the spider, before pouring in the boiling water. Bones from which roasting pieces have been cut, may be bought in the market for a trifle, from which a very rich soup may be made, be- sides skimming off fat for shortening. If the bones left from the rump be bought, they will be found full of marrow, and will give more than a pint of good shortening, without injuring the richness of the soup. The richest piece of beef for a soup is the leg and the shin of beef; the leg is on the hind-quarter, and the shin is on the fore-quarter. The leg rand, that is, the thick part of the leg above the bony parts, is very nice for mince pies. Some people have an objection to these parts of beef, thinking they must be stringy; but, it boiled very tender, the sinews are not perceived, and add, in fact, to the richness of a soup. The thick part of a thin flank is the most pro- fitable part in the whole ox to buy. It is not so handsome in appearance as some other pieces, but it is thick meat, with very little bone, andTHE FRUGAL 58 usually costs about four-pence the pound. It is good for roasting, and particularly for corning and salting. The navel end of the brisket is one of the best pieces for salting or corning, and is very good for roasting. A bullock’s heart is very profitable to use as a steak. Broiled just like beef. There are usually five pounds in a heart, and it can be bought for about two shillings. Some people stuff and roast it. The chuck, between the neck and the shoulder, is a very good piece for roasting, for steaks, or for salting. Indeed, it is good for almost any- thing; and is cheap. The richest, tenderest, and most delicate piece of beef for roasting, or for steak, is the rump and the last cut of the sirloin. It is peculiarly ap- propriate for an invalid, as it is lighter food than any other beef. But if economy be consulted instead of luxury, the round will be bought in preference to the rump. It is heartier food, and of course less can be eaten; and it is cheaper in price. The shoulder of veal is the most economical for roasting or boiling. It is always cheap, let veal bear what price it may. Two dinners may be made from it; the shoulder roasted, and the knuckle cut off to be boiled with a bit of pork and greens, or to be made into soup. The breast of veal is a favourite piece, and is sold high.HOUSEWIFE. 59 The hind-quarter of veal and the loin make two good roasting pieces. The leg is usually stuffed. The loin has the kidney upon it; the fore-quarter has the brisket on it. This is a sweet and delicate morsel; for this reason some people prefer the fore-quarter to any other part. I Always buy a shoulder of pork for economy, ! for roasting, or corning to boil. Cut off the leg to be boiled. Many people buy the upper part ' of the spare-rib of pork, thinking it the most gen- jteel; but the lower part of the spare-rib toward Ithe neck is much more sweet and juicy, and there is more meat in proportion to the bone. The breast, or shoulder, of mutton are both nice, either for roasting, boiling, or broth. The breast is richer than the shoulder. It is more economical to buy a fore-quarter of mutton than a hind-quarter; there is usually two-pence dif- ference per pound. The neck of fat mutton makes a good steak for broiling. Lamb brings the same price, either fore-quarter or hind-quarter; therefore it is more profitable to i buy a hind-quarter than a fore-quarter; espe- cially as its own fat will cook it, and there is no need of pork or butter in addition. Either part is good for roasting or boiling. The loin of lamb is suitable for roasting, and is the most profitable for a small family. The leg is more suitable for boiling than for any thing else ; the shoulder and breast are peculiarly suitable for broth. I he part that, in lamb is called the loin, inTHE FRUGAL no mutton is called the chop. Mutton chop is con- sidered very good for broiling. Pig’s head is a profitable thing to buy. It is despised because it is cheap ; but when well cooked it is delicious. Well cleaned, the tip of the snout chopped off, and put in brine a week, it is very good for boiling: the cheeks, in par- ticular, are very sweet; they are better than any other pieces of pork to bake. The head is like- wise very good baked about an hour and a half. It tastes like roast pork, and yields abundance of sweet fat for shortening. COMMON COOKING. It is necessary to be very careful of fresh meat in the summer season. The moment it is brought into the house, it should be carefully covered from the flies, and put in the coldest place in the cellar. If it consist of pieces, they should be spread out separate from each other, on a large dish, and covered. If you are not to cook it soon, it is well to sprinkle salt on it. The kid- ney, and fat flabby parts, should be raised up above the lean by a skewer, or stick, and a little salt strewn in. If you have to keep it over night, it should be looked to the last thing when you go to bed; and, if there is danger, it should be scalded.61 HOUSEWIFE. VEAL. Veal should boil about an hour, if a neck piece; if the meat comes from a thicker, more solid part, it should boil longer. No directions about these things will supply the place of judgment and experience. Both mutton and veal are better for being boiled with a small piece ot salt pork. Veal broth is very good. Veal soup should be slowly stewed for two hours. Seasoned the same as above. Some people like a little sifted summer-savory. Six or seven pounds of veal will roast in an hour and a half. Fried veal is better for being dipped in white of egg, and rolled in nicely pounded crumbs of bread, before it is cooked. One egg is enough for a common dinner. calf’s head. Calf’s head should be cleansed with very great care; particularly the lights. The head, the heart, and the lights should boil full two hours; the liver should be boiled only one hour. It is better to leave the wind-pipe on, for if it hangs out of the pot while the head is cooking, all the froth will escape through it. The brains, after being thoroughly washed, should be put in a little bag, with one pounded biscuit, or as much crumbled bread, seasoned with sifted sage, and tied up and boiled one hour. After the brainsf*2 THE FRUGAL are boiled, they should be well broken up with a knife, and peppered, salted, and buttered. They should be put upon the table in a bowl by themselves. Boiling water, thickened with flour and water, with butter melted in it, is the proper sauce; some people love vinegar and pepper mixed with the melted butter; but all are not fond of it; and it is easy for each one to add it for themselves. BEEF. Beef soup should be stewed four hours over a slow fire. Just water enough to keep the meat covered. If you have any bones left of roast meat, &c. it is a good plan to boil them with the meat, and take them out half an hour before the soup is done. A piut of flour and water, with salt, pepper, twelve or sixteen onions, should be put in twenty minutes before the soup is done. Be careful and not throw in salt and pepper too plentifully; it is easy to add to it, and not easy to diminish. A lemon, cut up and put in half an hour before it is done, adds to the flavour. If you have tomato catsup in the house, a cupful will make soup rich. Some people put in biscuits; some thin slices of crust, made nearly as short as common short-cake; and some stir up two or three eggs with milk and flour, and drop it in with a spoon. A quarter of an hour to each pound of beef is considered a good rule for roasting; but this isHOUSEWIFE. 6 5 too much when the bone is large, and the meat thin. Six pounds of the rump should roast six quarters of an hour; but bony pieces less. It should be done before a quick fire. The quicker beef-steak can be broiled, the bet- ter. Seasoned after it is taken from the gridiron. ALAMODE BEEF. Tie up a round of beef so as to keep it in shape ; make a stuffing of grated bread, suet, sweet herbs, quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, a few cloves pounded, yolk of an egg. Cut holes in the beef, and put in the stuffing, leaving about half the stuffing to be made into balls. Tie the beef up in a cloth, just cover it with water, let it boil an hour and a half; then turn it, and let it boil an hour and a half more; then turn out the liquor, and put some skewers across the bottom of the pot, and lay the beef upon it to brown ; turn it that it may brown on both sides. Put a pint of claret, and some allspice and cloves, into the liquor, and boil some balls made of the stuff- ing in it. MUTTON AND LAMB. Six or seven pounds of mutton will roast in an hour and a half. Lamb one hour. Mutton is apt to taste strong; this may be helped by soaking the meat in a little salt and water, for an hour before cooking. However, unless meat is very sweet, it is best to corn it, and boil it.6'4 THE FRUGAL Fresh meat should never be put in to cook till the water boils; and it should be boiled in as little water as possible; otherwise the flavour is injured. Mutton enough for a family of five or six should boil an hour and a half. A leg of lamb should boil an hour, or little more than an hour perhaps. Put a little thickening into boiling water; strain it nicely; and put sweet butter in it for sauce. If your family like broth, throw in some clear rice when you put in the meat. The rice should be in proportion to the quantity of broth you mean to make. A large tablespoonful is enough for three pints of water. Seasoned with a very little pepper and salt. Summer-savory, or sage, rubbed through a sieve, thrown in. PORK. Fresh pork should be cooked more than any other meat. A thick shoulder piece should be roasted full two hours and a half; and other pieces less in proportion. The slight sickness occasioned by eating roasted pork may be pre- vented, by soaking it in salt and water the night before you cook it. If called to prepare it on short notice, it will answer to baste it with weak brine while roasting; and then turn the brine off, and throw it away. ROAST PIG. Strew fine salt over it an hour before it is put down. It should not be cut entirely open; fillHOUSEWIFE. G5 it up plump with thick slices of buttered bread, salt, sweet-marjoram, and sage. Spit it with the head next the point of the spit; take oft the joints of the leg, and boil them with the liver, with a little whole pepper, allspice, and salt, for gravy sauce. The upper part of the legs must be braced down with skewers. Shake on flour. Put a little water in the dripping-pan, and stir it often. When the eyes drop out, the pig is half done. When it is nearly done, baste it with butter. Cut off the head, split it open between the eyes. Take out the brains, and chop them fine with the liver and some sweet-marjoram and sage; put this into melted butter, and, when it has boiled a few minutes, add it to the gravy in the dripping-pan. When your pig is cut open, lay it with the back to the edge of the dish ; half a head to be placed at each end. A good sized pig needs to be roasted three hours. SAUSAGES. Three teaspoons of powdered sage, one and a half of salt, and one of pepper, to a pound of meat, is good seasoning for sausages. MINCE MEAT. There is a great difference in preparing mince meat. Some make it a coarse, unsavoury dish; and others make it nice and palatable. No economical housekeeper will despise it; for broken bits of meat and vegetables cannot so g 2THE FRUGAL G6 well be disposed of in any other way. If you wish to have it nice, mash your vegetables line, and chop your meat very fine. Warm it with what remains of sweet gravy, or roast meat drippings, you may happen to have. Two or three apples, pared, cored, sliced, and fried, to mix with it, is an improvement. Some like a little sifted sage sprinkled in. It is generally considered nicer to chop your meat fine, warm it in gravy, season it, and lay it upon a large slice of toasted bread, to be brought upon the table without being mixed with potatoes; but if you have cold vegetables, use them. BEANS AND PEAS. Baked beans are a very simple dish, yet few cook them well. They should be put in cold water, and hung over the fire, the night before they are baked. In the morning, they should be put in a colander, and rinsed two or three times; then again placed in a kettle, with the pork you intend to bake, covered with water, and kept scalding hot an hour or more. A pound of pork is quite enough for a quart of beans, and that is a large dinner for a common family. The rind of the pork should be slashed. Pieces of pork alternately fat and lean, are the most suitable; the cheeks are the best. A little pepper sprinkled among the beans, when they are placed in the bean-pot, will render them less unhealthy. They should be just covered with water when put into07 HOUSEWIFE. the oven; and the pork should be sunk a little below the surface of the beans. Bake three or four hours. Stewed beans are prepared in the same way. The only difference is, they are not taken out of the scalding water, but are allowed to stew in more water, with a piece of pork and a little pepper, three hours or more. Dried peas need not be soaked over night. They should be stewed slowly four or five hours in considerable water, with a piece of pork. The older beans and peas are, the longer they should cook. Indeed, this is the case with all vegetables. SOUSE. Pigs’ feet, ears, &c. should be cleaned after being soaked in water not very hot; the hoofs will then come oft' easily with a sharp knife; the hard, rough places should be cut off; they should be thoroughly singed, and then boiled as much as four or five hours, until they are too tender to be taken out with a fork. When taken from the boiling water, it should be put into cold water. After it is packed down tight, boil the jelly-like liquor in which it was cooked with an equal quantity of vinegar; salt, as you think fit, and cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, at the rate of a quarter of a pound to one hundred weight: to be poured on scalding hot.THE FRUGAL 68 Tripe should be kept in cold water, or it will become too dry for cooking. The water in which it is kept should be changed more or less fre- quently, according to the warmth of the weather. Broiled like a steak, buttered, peppered, &c. Some people like it prepared like souse. GRAVY. Most people put half a pint of flour and water into their tin-kitchen, when they set meat down to roast. This does very well; but gravy is better flavoured, and looks darker, to shake flour and salt upon the meat; let it brown thoroughly, put flour and salt on again, and then baste the meat with about half a pint of hot water (or more, according to the gravy you want). When the meat is about done, pour these drippings into a skillet, and let it boil. If it is not thick enough, shake in a little flour; but be sure to let it boil, and be well stirred, after the flour is in. If you fear it will be too greasy, take off a cupful of the fat before you boil. The fat of beef, pork,.tur- keys, and geese, is as good for shortening as lard. Salt gravy to your taste. If you are very particular about dark gravies, keep your dredging box full of scorched flour for that purpose.HOUSEWIFE. GG POULTRY. i There are various ways of deciding about the age of poultry. If the bottom of the breast bone, which extends down between the legs, is soft, and gives easily, it is a sign of youth; if stiff, the poultry is old. If young, the legs are lighter, and the feet do not look so hard, stiff, and worn. I There is more deception in geese than in any other kind of poultry. The above remarks are applied to them; but there are other signs more infallible. In a young goose, the cavity under the wings is very tender; it is a bad sign if you cannot, with very little trouble, push your finger directly into the flesh. There is another means by which you may decide whether a goose be tender, if it be frozen or not. Pass the head of a pin along the breast, or sides, and if the goose i be young, the skin will rip, like fine paper under i a knife. Something may be judged concerning the age of a goose by the thickness of the web between the toes. When young, this is tender and trans- parent; it grows coarser and harder with time. In broiling chickens, it is difficult to do the inside of the thickest pieces without scorching the outside. It is a good plan to parboil them about ten minutes in a skillet, covered close to keep the steam in ; then put them upon theTHE FRUGAL 70 gridiron, broil and butter. It is a good plan to cover them with a plate while on the gridiron. They may be basted with a very little of the water in which they were broiled ; and if you have company who like melted butter to pour upon the chicken, the remainder of the liquor will be good use for that purpose. Three quarters of an hour is enough for com- mon sized chickens to roast. A smart fire is better than a slow one; but they must be tended closely. Slices of bread, buttered, salted, and peppered, put into the stomach (not the crop) are excellent. Chickens should boil about three quarters of an hour. If old, they should boil longer. In as little water as will cook them. Chicken broth made like mutton broth. FRICASSEED CHICKEN, BROWN. Singe the chickens; cut them in pieces; pep- per, salt, and flour them; fry them in fresh but- ter, till they are very brown : take the chickens out, and make a good gravy, into which put sweet herbs (marjoram or sage) according to your taste; if necessary, add pepper and salt; butter and flour must be used in making the gravy, in such quantities as to suit yourself for thickness and richness. After this is all prepared, the chicken must be stewed in it for half an hour, closely covered. A pint of gravy is about enough for two chickens; I should think a piece of butter71 HOUSEWIFE. .about as big as a walnut, and a tablespoonful of flour, would be enough for the gravy. The herbs should, of course, be pounded and sifted. Some, rho love onions, slice two or three, and brown them with the chicken. Some slice a half lemon, ind stew with the chicken. Some add catsup. FRICASSEED CHICKEN, WHITE. The chickens are cut to pieces, and covered ;>vith warm water, to draw out the blood. Then iut into a stew-pan, with three quarters of a pint if water, or veal broth, salt, pepper, flour, butter, place, sweet herbs pounded and sifted; boil it lalf an hour. If it is too fat, skim it a little. I Just before it is done, mix the yolk of two eggs Avith a gill of cream, grate in a little nutmeg, stir t up till it is thick and smooth, squeeze in half a emon. If you like onions, stew some slices with lie other ingredients. TO CURRY FOWL. I Fry out two or three slices of salt pork; cut le chicken in pieces, and lay it in (he stew-pan ®vith one sliced onion; when the fowl is tender, ake it out, and put in thickening into the liquor, , *ne spoonful of flour, and one spoonful of curry- , owder, well stirred up in water. Then lay the hicken in again, and let it boil up a few minutes. It half a pint of liquor is enough for one chicken. . tbout half an hour’s stewing is necessary. The nice of half a lemon improves it; and some like spoonful of catsup.72 THE FRUGAL CHICKEN BROTH. Cut a chicken in quarters; put it into three or four quarts of water; put in a cup of rice while the water is cold ; season it with pepper and salt; some use nutmeg. Let it stew gently, until the chicken falls apart. A little parsley, shred fine, is an improvement. Some slice up a small onion and stew with it. A few pieces of biscuit may be thrown in if you like. A common sized goose should roast an hour and a quarter. The oil that drips from it should be nearly all turned off; it makes the gravy too greasy; and it is nice for shortening. It should first be turned into cold water; when hardened, it should be taken off and scalded in a skillet. This process leaves it as sweet as lard. Ducks do not need to be roasted more than i half an hour. Butter melted in boiling flour and water is proper sauce for boiled lamb, mutton, i i veal, turkeys, geese, chickens, and fish. Some ; people cut up parsley fine, and throw in. Some a people like capers put in. Others heat oysters tj through on the gridiron, and take them out of the shells, and throw them into the butter. A good sized turkey should be roasted two hours and a half, or three hours; very slowly at first. If you wish to make plain stuffing, pound a biscuit, or crumble some bread very fine, chop 6fi73 HOUSEWIFE. some raw salt pork very fine, sift some sage (and summer-savory, or sweet-marjoram, if you have them in the house, and fancy them), and mould them all together, seasoned with a little pepper. An egg worked in makes the stuffing cut better; but it is not worth while when eggs are dear. About the same length of time is required for boiling and roasting. Pigeons may be either roasted, potted, or stewed. Potting is the best, and the least trouble. After they are thoroughly picked and cleaned, put a small slice of salt pork, and a little ball of stuffing, into the body of every pigeon. The stuffing should be made qf one egg to one biscuit, an equal quantity of suet, or but- ter, seasoned with sweet-marjoram, or sage, if marjoram cannot be procured. Flour the pigeons well, lay them close together in the bottom of the pot, just cover them with water, throw in a bit of butter, and let them stew an hour and a quarter if young; an hour and three quarters if old. Some people turn off the liquor just before they are done, and brown the pigeons on the bottom of the pot; but this is very troublesome, as they are apt to break to pieces. Stewed pigeons are cooked in nearly the same way, with‘the omission of the stuffing. Being- dry meat, they require a good deal of butter. Pigeons should be stuffed and roasted about fifteen minutes before a smart lire. Those who H74 THE FRUGAL I like birds just warmed through, would perhaps think less time necessary. It makes them nicer to butter them well just before you take them off the spit, and sprinkle them with nicely pounded bread, or biscuit. All poultry should be basted and floured a few minutes before it is taken up. The age of pigeons can be judged by the colour of the legs. When young, they are of a pale delicate brown ; as they grow older, the colour is deeper and redder. A nice way of serving up cold chicken, or pieces of cold fresh meat, is to make them into a meat-pie. The gizzards, livers, and necks of poultry, parboiled, are good for the same purpose. If you wish to bake your meat-pie, line a-deep earthen or tin pan with paste made of flour, cold water, and lard; use but little lard, for the fat of the meat will shorten the crust. Lay in your bits of meat, or chicken, with two or three slices of salt pork; place a few thin slices of your paste here and there ; drop in an egg or two, if you have plenty. Fill the pan with flour and water, seasoned with a little pepper and salt. If the meat be very lean, put in a piece of butter, or such sweet gravies as you may happen to have. Cover the top with crust, and put it in the oven, or bake-kettle, to cook half an hour, or an hour, according to the size of the pie. Some people think this the nicest way of cooking fresh chickens. Wh en thus cooked, they should be parboiled before they are put into the pan, and the waterHOUSEWIFE. 70 they are boiled in should be added. A chicken pie needs to be cooked an hour and a half, if parboiled; two hours, if not. If you wish to make a pot pie instead of a baked pie, you have only to line the bottom of a porridge pot with paste, lay in your meat, season and moisten it in the same way, cover it with paste, and keep it slowly stewing about the same time that the other takes. In both cases, it is well to lift the upper crust a little while before you take up the pie, and see. whether the moisture has dried away; if so, pour in flour and water well mixed, and let it boil up. Potatoes should be boiled in a separate vessel. If you have fear that poultry may become musty before you want to cook it, skin an onion, and put in it; a little pepper sprinkled in is good; it should be kept hung up, in a dry, cool place. If poultry is injured before you are aware of it, wash it very thoroughly in pearlash and water, and sprinkle pepper inside when you cook it. Some people hang up poultry with a muslin bag of charcoal inside. It is a good plan to singe in- jured poultry over lighted charcoal, and to hold a piece of lighted charcoal inside a few minutes. Many people parboil the liver and gizzard, and cut it up very fine, to be put into the gravy, while the fowls are cooking ; in this case, the water they are boiled in should be used to make the gravy.THE FRUGAL* 76 FISH. Con has white stripes, and a haddock black stripes; they may be known apart by this. Had- dock is the best for frying; and cod is the best for boiling. A thin tail is a sign of a poor fish; always choose a thick fish. When you are buying mackerel, pinch the belly to ascertain whether it is good. If it gives under your finger, like a bladder half filled with wind, the fish is poor; if it feels hard like butter, the fish is good. It is cheaper to buy one large mackerel for nine-pence, than two at four-pence half-penny. Fish should not be put in to fry until the fat is boiling hot; it is very necessary to observe this. It should be dipped in flour before it is put in ; and the skinny side uppermost, when first put in, to prevent its breaking. It relishes better to be'fried after salt pork, than to be fried in lard alone. People are mistaken, who think fresh fish should be put into cold water as soon as it is brought into the house; soaking it in water is injurious. If you want to keep it sweet, clean it, wash it, wipe it dry with a clean towel, sprinkle salt inside and out, put it in a covered dish, and keep it on the cellar floor until yoit want to cook it. If yon live remote from the seaport, and cannot get fish w hile hard and fresh, vTet it with an egg beaten, before you flour it, to prevent its breaking.HOUSEWIFE. it Fish gravy is very much improved by taking out some of the fat, after the fish is fried, and putting in a little butter. The fat thus taken out will do to fry fish again; but it will not do for any kind of shortening. Shake in a liLtle flour into the hot fat, and pour in a little boiling water; stir it up well, as it boils, a minute or so. Some people put in vinegar; but this is easily added by those who like it. A common sized cod-fish should be put in when the water is boiling hot, and boil about twenty minutes. Haddock is not as good for boiling as cod; it takes about the 'same time to boil. A piece of halibut which weighs four pounds is a large dinner for a family of six or seven. It should boil forty minutes. No fish put in till the water boils. Melted butter for sauce. Salt fish should be put in a deep plate, with just water enough to cover it, the night before you intend to cook it. It should not be boiled an instant; boiling renders it hard. It should lie in scalding hot water two or three hours. The less water is used, and the more fish is cooked at once, the better. Water thickened with flour and water while boiling, with sweet butter put in to melt, is the common sauce. It is more eco- nomical to cut salt pork into small bits, and fry it till the pork is brown and crispy. It should not be done too fast, lest' the sweetness be scorched out.THE FRUGAL 78 Salted shad and mackerel should be put into a deep plate and covered with boiling water for about ten minutes after it is thoroughly broiled, before it is buttered. This makes it tender, takes oft the coat of salt, and prevents, the strong oily taste, so apt to be unpleasant in preserved fish. The same rule applies to smoked salmon. Salt fish mashed with potatoes, with good butter or pork scraps to moisten it, is nicer the second day than it was the first. The fish should be minced very fine, while it is warm. After it has got cold and dry, it is difficult to do it nicely. Salt fish needs plenty of vegetables, such as onions, beets, carrots, &c. There is no way of preparing salt fish for breakfast, so nice as to roll it up in little balls, after it is mixed with mashed potatoes ; dip it into an egg, and fry it brown. A female lobster is not considered so good as a male. In the female, the sides of the head, or what look like cheeks, are much larger, and jut ’ out more than those of the male. The mouth of a lobster is surrounded with what children call “ purses,” edged with a little fringe. If you put your "hand under these to raise it, and find it springs back hard and firm, it is a sign the lobster is fresh; if they move flabbily, it is not a good omen. Fried salt pork and apples is a favourite dish in the country; but it is seldom seen in towns. After the pork is fried, some of the fat should beHOUSEWIFE. . 7!) taken out, lest the apples should be oily. Acid apples should be chosen, because they cook more easily; they should be cut in slices, across the whole apple, about twice or three times as thick as a crown piece. Fried till tender, and brown on both sides—laid around the pork. If you have cold potatoes, slice them and brown them in the same way. PUDDINGS. i • FLOUR OR BATTER PUDDING. Common flour pudding, or batter pudding, is easily made. Those who live in the country can beat up five or six eggs with a quart of milk, and a little salt, with flour enough to make it just thick enough to pour without difficulty. Those who live in towns, and are obliged to buy eggs, can do with three eggs to a quart, and more flour in proportion. Boil about three quar- ters of an hour. *■ BREAD PUDDING. A nice pudding may be made of bits of bread. They should be crumbled and soaked' in milk over night. In the morning, beat up three eggs, with it, add a little salt, tic it up in a bag, or in a pan that will exclude every drop of water, and boil it little more than an hour. No puddings80 THE FRUGAL should be put into the pot till the water boils. Bread prepared in the same way makes good plum puddings. Milk enough to make it quite soft; four eggs;-a little cinnamon; a spoonful of rose-water, or lemon-brandy, if you have it; a teacupful of molasses, or sugar to your taste, if you prefer it; a few dry, clean raisins sprinkled in, and stirred up thoroughly, is all that is neces- sary. It should bake or boil two hours. RENNET PUDDINGS. If your husband brings home company when you are unprepared, rennet pudding may be made at live minutes’ notice; provided you keep a piece of calf’s rennet ready prepared soaking in a bottle of wine. One glass of this wine to a quart of milk will make a sort of cold custard. Sweetened with white sugar, and spiced with nutmeg, it is very good. It should be eaten immediately; in a few hours it begins to curdle. CUSTARD PUDDINGS. Custard puddings sufficiently good for common use can be made with five eggs to a quart of milk, sweetened with brown sugar, and spiced with cinnamon, or nutmeg, and very little salt. It is well to boil your milk, and set it away till it gets cold. Boiling milk enriches it so much, that boiled skim-milk is about as good as new milk. A little cinnamon, or lemon-peel, or peach-leaves, if you do not dislike the taste, boiled in the milk,HOUSEWIFE. 81 and afterwards strained from it, give a pleasant flavour. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. RICE PUDDINGS. If you want a common rice pudding to retain its flavour, do not soak it, or put it in to boil when the water is cold. Wash it, tie it in a bag, leave plenty of room for it to swell, throw it in when the water boils, and let it boil about an hour and a half. The same sauce answers for all these kinds of puddings. If you have rice left cold, break it up in a little warm milk, pour custard over it, and bake it as long as you should custard. It makes very good puddings and pies. dird’s nest pudding. If you wish to make what is called “ bird’s nest puddings,” prepare your custard,—take eight or ten pleasant apples, pare them, and dig out the. core, but leave them whole, set them in a pud- ding dish, pour your custard over them, and bake them about thirty minutes. APPLE PUDDING. A plain, unexpensive apple pudding may be made by rolling out a bit of common piecrust, and filling it full of quartered apples; tied up in a bag, and boiled an hour and a half; if the apples are sweet, it will take two hours ; for acid things cook easily. Some people like little dumplings, made by rolling up one apple, paredTHE FRUGAL 82 and cored, in a piece of crust, and tying them up in spots all over the bag. These do not need to be boiled more than an hour: three quarters is enough, if the apples are tender. Take sweet or pleasant flavoured apples, pare them, and bore out the core, without cutting the apple in two. Fill up the holes with washed rice, boil them in a bag, tied very tight, an hour, or hour and a half. Each apple should belied up separately, in different corners of the pudding bag. CHERRY PUDDING. For cherry dumpling, make a paste about as rich as you make short-cake; roll it out, and put in a pint and a half or a quart of cherries, ac- cording to the size of your family. Double the crust over the fruit, tie it up tight in a bag, and boil one hour and a half. CRANBERRY PUDDING. A pint of cranberries stirred into a quart of batter, made like a batter pudding, but very little stiffer, is very nice, eaten with sweet sauce. WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING. Whortleberries are good in flour puddings. Make your pudding just like batter puddings; but considerably thicker, or the berries will sink. Two hours is plenty long enough to boil. No pudding should be put in till the water boils. Leave room to swell.HOUSEWIFE. 33 PLUM PUDDING. If you wish to make-a really nice, soft, cus- tard-like plum pudding-, pound six biscuits, or dried crusts of light bread, fine, and soak them over night in milk enough to cover them; put them in about three piqts of milk, beat up six eggs, put in a little lemon-brandy, a whole nut- meg, and about three quarters of a pound of raisins which have been rubbed in flour. Bake it two hours, or perhaps a little short of that. It is easy to judge from the appearance whether it is done. The surest way of making a light, rich plum pudding, is to spread slices of sweet light bread plentifully with butter; on each side of the slices spread abundantly raisins, or currants, nicely prepared; when they are all heaped up in a dish, cover them with milk, eggs, sugar, and spice, well beat up, and prepared just as you do for custards. Let it bake about an hour. One sauce answers for common use for all sorts of puddings. Flour and water stirred into boiling water, sweetened to your taste with either molasses or sugar, according to your ideas of economy ; a great spoonful of rose-water, if you have it; butter half as big as a hen’s egg. If you want to make it very nice, put in a glass of wine, and grate nutmeg on the top. When you wish better sauce than common, take a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, mould them well together with youra 4 THE FRUGAL hand, add a little wine, if you choose. Make it into a lump, set it away to cool, and grate nut- meg over it. HASTY PUDDING. Boil water, a quart, three pints, or two quarts, according to the size of your fandly; stir five or six spoonfuls of flour thoroughly into a bowl of water; when the water in the kettle boils, pour into it the contents of the bowl; stir it well, and let it boil up thick; put in salt to suit your own taste, then stand over the kettle and sprinkle in flour, handful after handful, stirring it very thoroughly all the time, and letting it boil be- tween whiles. When it is so thick that you stir it with great difficulty, it is about right. It takes about half an hour’s cooking. Eat it with milk or molasses. If the system is in a restricted state, nothing can be better than rye hasty pud-’ ding and West India molasses. This diet would save many a one the horrors of dyspepsia. CHEAP CUSTARDS. One quart of milk boiled; when boiling, add three tablespoonsful of ground rice, or rice that is boiled, mixed smooth and fine in cold milk, and one egg beaten ; give it one boil up, and sweeten to your taste; peach-leaves, or an^ spice you please, boiled in the milk.85 HOUSEWIFE. COMMON PIES. MINCE PIES. Boil a tender, nice piece of beef—any piece that is clear from sinews and gristle; boil it till it is perfectly tender. When it is cold, chop it very fine, and be very careful to get out every particle of bone and gristle., The suet.is sweeter and better to boil half an hour or more in the liquor the beef has been boiled in; but few people do this. Pare, core, and chop the apples fine. If you use raisins, stone them. If you use cur- rants, wash and dry them at the fire. Two pounds of beef after it is chopped; three quarters of a pound of suet; one pound and a quarter of sugar; three pounds of apples; two pounds, of currants, or raisins. Put in a gill of brandy; lemon-brandy is better, if you have any prepared. Make it quite moist with new cider. I should not think a quart would be too much; the more moist the better, if it does not spill out into the oven. A very little pepper. If you use com meat, or tongue, for pies, it should be well soaked, and boiled very tender. If you use fresh beef, salt is necessary in the seasoning. One ounce*of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves. Two nutmegs add to the pleasantness of the fla- vour; and a bit of sweet butter, put upon the top of each pie, makes them rich ; but these are not necessary. Baked three quarters of an hour. If iTHE FRUGAL an your apples are rather sweet, grate in a whole lemon. CHERRY PIE. I * Cherry pies should be baked in a deep plate. Take the cherries from the stalks, lay them in a plate, and sprinkle a little sugar and cinnamon, according to the sweetness of'the cherries. Baked with a top and bottom crust three quarters of an hour. WHORTLEBERRY PIE. Whortleberries make a very good common pie, where there is a large family of children. Sprinkle •a little sugar and sifted cloves into eacl) pie. Baked in the same way, and as long, as cherry pies. apple'pie. When you make apple pies, stew your apples very little indeed ; just strike them through, to make them tendeh Some people do not stew them at all, but cut them up in very thin slices, and lay them in the crust. Pies made in this way may retain more of the spirit of the apple; but I do not think the seasoning mixes in as well. Put in sugar to your taste; it is impossible to make a precise rule, because apples vary so much in acidity. A very little salt, and a small piece of butter in each pie, makes them richer. Cloves and cinnamon are both suitable spice. Lemon-brandy and rose-water arc both excellent. A wine-glass full of each is sufficient for threeHOUSEWIFE. b7 or four pies. If your apples lack spirit, grate in a whole lemon. CUSTARD PIE. It is a general rule to put eight eggs to a quart of milk, in making custard pies; but six eggs are a plenty for any common use. The milk should be boiled and cooled before it is used; and bits of stick-cinnamon and bits of lemon-peel boiled in it. Sweeten it to your taste with clean sugar; a very little sprinkling of salt makes them taste better. Grate in a nutmeg. Bake in a deep plate. About twenty minutes are usually enough. If you are doubtful whether they are done, dip in the handle of a silver spoon, or the blade of a small knife; if it come out clean, the pie is done. Do not pour them into your plates till the minute you put them into the oven; it makes the crust wet and heavy. To be baked with an under crust only. Some people bake the under crust a little before the custard is poured in; this is to keep it from being clammy. CRANBERRY PIE. Cranberry pies need very little spice. A little nutmeg, or cinnamon, improves them. They need a great deal of sweetening. It is well to stew the sweetening with them; at least a part ot it. It is easy to add, if you find them too sour for your taste. When cranberries are strained, and added to about their own weight in sugar, they make very delicious tarts. No upper crust.THE FRUGAL 88 RHUBARB STALKS, OR PERSIAN APPLE. Rhubarb stalks, or the Persian apple, is the earliest ingredient for pies, which the spring offers. The skin should be carefully stripped, and the stalks cut into small bits, and stewed very tender. These are dear pies, for they take an enormous quantity of sugar. Seasoned like apple pies. Gooseberries, currants, &c. are stewed, sweet- ened, and seasoned like apple pies, in proportions suited to the sweetness of the fruit; there is no way to judge but by your own taste. Always remember it is more easy to add seasoning than to diminish it. PIE CRUST. To make pie crust for common use, a quarter of a pound of butter is enough for half a pound of flour. Take out about a quarter part of the flour you intend to use, and lay it aside. Into the remainder of the flour rub butter thoroughly with your hands, until it is so short that a hand- ful of it, clasped tight, will remain in a ball, without any tendency to fall in pieces. Then wet it with cold water, roll it out on a board, rub over the surface with flour, stick little lumps of butter all over it, sprinkle some flour over the butter, and roll the dough all up; flour the paste, and flour the rolling-pin ; roll it lightly and quickly; flour it again; stick in bits of butter; do it up; flour the rolling-pin, and roll it quickly and lightly; and so on, till you have used upHOUSEWIFE. your butter. Always roll from you. Pie crust should be made as cold as possible, and set in a cool place ; but be careful it does not freeze. Do' not use more flour than you can help in sprinkling and rolling. The paste should not be rolled out more than three times ; if rolled too much, it will not be flaky. COMMON CAKES. In all cakes where butter or eggs are used, the butter should be very faithfully rubbed into the flour, and the eggs beat to a foam, before the ingredients are mixed. GINGERBREAD. , % A very good way to make molasses ginger- bread is to rub four pounds and a half of flour with half a pound of lard and half a pound of butter; a pint of molasses, a gill of milk, teacup of ginger, a teaspoonful of dissolved pearlash stirred together. All mixed, baked in shallow pans twenty or thirty minutes. Hard gingerbread is good to have in the family, it keeps so well. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter and sugar rubbed into it; half a pound of sugar; great spoonful of ginger, or more, according to the strength of the ginger; a spoonful of rose-water, and a handful of caraway i 200 THE FRUGAL seed. Well beat up. Kneaded stiff enough to roll out and bake on flat pans. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. A cake of common gingerbread can be stirred up very quick in the following way. Rub in a bit of shortening as big as an egg into a pint of flour; if you use lard, add a little salt; two or three great spoonsfuls of ginger; one cup of mo- lasses, one cup and a half of cider, and a great spoonful of dissolved pearlash, put together and poured into the shortened flour While it is foam- ing; to be put in the oven in a minute. It ought to be just thick enough to pour into the pans with diificulty ; if these proportions make it too thin, use less liquid the next time you try. Bake about twenty minutes. If by carelessness you let a piece of short-cake dough grow sour, put in a little pearlash and water, warm a little butter, according to the size of the dough, knead in a cup or two of sugar (two cups, unless it is a very small bit), two or three spoonfuls of ginger, and a little rose-water. Knead it up thoroughly, roll it out on a flat pan, and bake it twenty minutes. Every thing mixed with pearlash should be put in the oven imme- diately. CIDER CAKE. Cider cake is very good, to be baked in small loaves. 'One pound and a half of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, half91 HOUSEWIFE. a pint of cider, one teaspoonful of pearlasli; spice to your taste. Bake till it turns easily in the pans. I should think about half an hour. ELECTION CAKE. Old-fashioned election cake is made of four pounds of flour; three quarters of a pound of butter; four eggs; one pound of sugar; one pound of currants, or raisins if you choose; half a pint of good yeast; wet it with milk as soft as it can be and be moulded on a board. Set to rise over night in winter : in warm weather, three hours is- usually enough for it to rise. A loaf, the size of common flour bread, should bake three quarters of an hour. SPONGE CAKE. The nicest way to make sponge cake, or diet bread, is the weight of six eggs in sugar, the weight of four eggs in flour, a little rose-water. The whites and yolks should be beaten tho- roughly and separately. The eggs and sugar should be well beaten together ; but after the flour is sprinkled, it should not be stirred a mo- ment, longer than is necessary to mix it well; it should be poured into the pan, and got into the oven with all possible expedition. Twenty mi- nutes is about long enough to bake. Not to be put in till some other articles have taken off the first few minutes of furious heat.THE FRUGAL. 9*2 WEDDING CAKE. Good common wedding- cake may be made thus : Four pounds of flour, three pounds of butter, three pounds of sugar, four pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, twenty-four eggs, half a pint of brandy, or lemon-brandy, one ounce of mace, and three nutmegs. A little molasses makes it dark coloured, which is desirable. Half a pound of citron improves it; but it is not neces- sary. To be baked two hours and a half, or three hours. After the oven is cleared, it is well to shut the door for eight or ten minutes, to let the violence of the heat subside, before cake or bread is put in. To ipake icing for your wedding cake, beat the whites of eggs to an entire froth, and to each egg add five teaspoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, gradu- ally ; beat it a great while. Put it on wdien your cake is hot, or cold, as is most convenient. It will dry in a warm room, a short distance from a gentle fire, or iu a warm oven. LOAF CAICE. Very good loaf cake is made with two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, two eggs, a gill of sweet emptings, half an ounce of cinnamon, or cloves, a large spoon- ful of lem®n-brandy, or rose-water; if it is not about as thin as good white bread dough, add a little milk. A common sized loaf is made byHOUSEWIFE. 93 these proportions. Bake about three quarters of an hour. A handy way to make loaf cake is, to take about as much of your white bread dough, or sponge, as you think your pan will hold, and put it into a pan in which you have already beat up three or four eggs, six ounces of butter warmed, - and half a pound of sugar, a spoonful of rose- water, little sifted cinnamon, or cloves. The materials should be well mixed and beat before the dough is put in ; and then it should be all kneaded well together, about as stiff as white bread. Put in half a pound of currants, or raisins, with the butter, if you choose. It should stand in the pan two or three hours to rise; and be baked about three quarters of an hour, if the pan is a common sized bread-pan. If you have loaf cake slightly injured by time, or by being kept in the cellar, cut off all appear- ance of mould from the outside, wipe it with a clean cloth, and wet it well with strong brandy and water sweetened with sugar; then put it in your oven, and let the heat strike through it, for fifteen or twenty minutes. Unless very bad, this will restore the sweetness. CARAWAY CAKES. Take one pound of Hour, three quarters, of a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, a glass of rose-water, four eggs, and half a teacup of caraway seed,—the materials well rubbed toge-THE FRUGAL 04 (her and beat up. Drop them from a spogn on tin sheets, and bake them brown in rather a slow oven. Twenty minutes, or half an hour, is enough to bake them. DOUGH NUTS. For dough nuts, take one pint of flour, half a pint of sugar, three eggs, a piece of butter as big as an egg, and a teaspoonful of dissolved pearl- ash. When you have no eggs, a gill of lively emptings will do; but, in that case, they must be made over night. Cinnamon, rose-water, or lemon-brandy, if you have it. If you use part lard instead of butter, add a little salt. Not put in till the fa,t is very hot. The more fat they are fried in, the less they will soak fat. PANCAKES. Pancakes should be made of half a pint of milk, three great spoonfuls of sugar, one or two eggs, a teaspoonful of dissolved pearlash, spiced with cinnamon, or cloves, a little salt, rose-water, or lemon-brandy, just as you happen to have it. Flour should be stirred in till the spoon moves round with difficulty. If they are thin, they are apt to soak fat. Have the fat in your skillet boiling hot, and drop them in with a spoon. Let them cook till thoroughly brown. The fat which is left is good to shorten other cakes. The more fat they are cooked in, the less they soak. If you have no eggs, or wish to save them,05 HOUSEWIFE. use the above ingredients, and supply the place of eggs by two or three spoonfuls of lively emptings; but in this case they must be' made five or six hours before they are cooked,—and in winter they should stand all night. A spoonful or more of rum makes pancakes light. Flip makes very nice pancakes. In this case, nothing is done but to sweeten your mug of beer with molasses; put in one glass of rum ; heat it till it foams, by putting in a hot poker; and stir it up with flour as thick as other pancakes. FRITTERS. Flat-jacks, or fritters, do not differ from pan- cakes, only in being mixed softer. The same ingredients are used in about the same quantities; only most people prefer to have no sweetening- put in them, because they generally have butter, sugar, and nutmeg put on them after they are done. Excepting for company, the nutmeg can be well dispensed with. They are not to be boiled in fat, like pancakes; the griddle should be well greased, and the cakes poured on as large as you want them, when it is .quite hot; when it gets brown on one-side, to be turned over upon the other. Fritters are better to be baked quite thin. Either flour or rye is good. Sour beer, with a spoonful of pearlash, is good both for pancakes and fritters. If you have any cold rice left, it is nice to break it up fine-in warm milk; put in a little salt;THE FRUGAL 9(5 after you have put milk enough for the cakes you wish to mike (a half pint, or more), stir in flour till it is thick enough to pour for fritters. It does very well without an egg ; but better with one. To be fried like other flat-jacks. Sugar and nutmeg are to be put on when they are but- tered, if you like. SHORT CAKE. If you have sour milk, or butter-milk, it is well to make it into short cakes for tea. Hub in a very small bit of shortening, or three tablespoon- fuls of cream, with the flour; put in a teaspoonful of strong dissolved pearlash into your sour milk, and mix your cake pretty stiff, to bake in the griddle, on a few embers. When people have to buy butter and lard, short cakes are not economical food. A half pint of flour w ill make a cake large enough to cover a common plate. Rub in thoroughly a bit of shortening as big as a hen’s egg: put in a tea- spoonful of dissolved pearlash ; wet it w’ith cold water; knead it stiff enough to roll well, to bake on a plate, or in a griddle. It should bake as quick as it can, and not burn. The first side should stand longer to the fire than the last.HOUSEWIFE. 97 BREAD, YEAST, ETC. It is more difficult to give rules for making bread than for any thing else; it depends so much on judgment and experience. In summer, bread should be mixed with cold water; during a chilly, damp spell, the water should be slightly warm; in severe cold weather, it should be mixed quite warm, and set in a warm place during the night. If your yeast is new and lively, a small quantity will make the bread rise; if it be old and heavy, it will take more. In these things I believe wisdom must be gained by a few mistakes. Flour Bread should have a sponge set the night before. . The sponge should be soft enough to pour; mixed with water, warm or cold, ac- cording to the temperature of the weather. One gill of lively yeast is enough to put into sponge for two loaves. I should judge about three pints of sponge would be right for two loaves. The warmth of the place in which the sponge is set should be determined by the coldness of the weather. If your sponge looks frothy in the morning, it is a sign your bread will be good; if it does not rise, stir in a little more emptings; if it rises too much, taste of it, to see if it has any acid taste; if so, put in a teaspoonful of pearlash when you mould in your flour; be sure the pearlash is well dissolved in water; if there are little lumps, your bread will be full of bitter spots. . ICTHE FRUGAL OB About an hour before your oven is ready, stir in flour into your sponge till it is stiff’ enough to lay on a well floured board, or table. Knead it up pretty stiff’, and put it into well greased pans, and let it stand in a cool or warm place, ac- cording to the weather. If the oven is ready, put them in fifteen or twenty minutes after the dough begins to rise up and crack; if the oven is not ready, move the pans to a cooler spot, to prevent the dough from becoming sour by too much rising. Common sized loaves will bake in three quarters of an hour. If they slip easily in the pans, it is a sign they are done. Some people do not set a soft sponge for flour bread; they knead it up all ready to put in the pans the night before, and leave it to rise. White bread and pies should not be set in the oven until the brown bread and beans have been in half an hour. If the oven be too hot, it will bind the crust so suddenly that the bread cannot rise; if it be too cold, the bread will fall. Flour bread should not be too stiff. To make Rice Bread.—Boil a pint of rice soft; add a pint of leaven; then, three quarts of the flour; put it to rise in a tin or earthen vessel until it has risen sufficiently; divide it into three parts'; then bake it as other bread, and you will have three large loaves. Heating ovens must be regulated by expe- rience and observation. There is a difference in wood in giving out heat; there is a great differ-HOUSEWIFE. 1)9 ence in the construction of ovens; and when an oven is extremely cold, either on account of the weather, or want of use, it must be heated more. Economical people heat ovens with wood, fagots, brush, and such light stuff. If you have none but hard wood, you must remember that it makes very hot coals, and therefore less of it will answer. A smart fire for an hour and a half is a general rule for common sized family ovens, provided brown bread is to be baked. An hour is long enough to heat an oven for flour bread. Pies bear about as much heat as flour bread. If you are afraid your oven is too hot, throw in a little flour, and shut it up for a minute. If it scorches black immediately, the heat is too furious; if it merely browns, it is right. Some people wet. an old broom two or three times, and turn it round near the top of the oven till it dries; this prevents pies and cake from scorching on the top. When you go into a new house, heat your ovep two or three times, to get it seasoned, before you use it. After the wood is burned, rake the coals over the bottom of the oven, and let them lie a few minutes. Those who make their own bread should make yeast too. When , bread is nearly out, always think whether yeast is in readiness; for it. takes a day and night to prepare it. One handful of hops, with two or three handsful of malt and rye bran, should be boiled fifteen or twenty minutes, in two quarts of water, then strained, hung on to100 THE FRUGAL boil again, and thickened with half a pint of rye and water stirred up quite thick, and a little mo- lasses; boil it a minute or two, and then take it off to cool. When just about lukewarm, put in a cupful of good lively yeast, and set it in a cool place in summer, and warm place in winter. If it is too warm when you put in the old yeast, all the spirit will be killed. In summer, yeast sours easily; therefore make but little at a time. Bottle it when it gets well a working; it keeps better when the air is corked out. If you find it acid, but still spirited, put a little pearlash to it, as you use it; but by no means put it into your bread unless it foams up bright and lively as soon as the pearlash mixes with it. Never keep yeast in tin; it. destroys its life. There is another method of making yeast, which is much easier, and I think quite as good. Stir rye and cold water, till you make a stiff thicken- ing. Then pour in boiling water, and stir it all the time, till you make it as thin as the yeast you buy; three or four tablespoons heaped full are enough for a quart of water. When it gets about cold, put in half a pint of lively yeast. When it works well, bottle it; but if very lively, do not cork your bottle vcry tight, for fear it will burst. Always think to make new yeast' before the old is gone; so that you may have some to work with. Always wash and scald your bottle clean after it has contained sour yeast. Beware of freezing yeast.10L HOUSEWIFE. Milk yeast is made quicker than any other. A pint of new milk with a teaspoonful of salt, and a large spoon of flour stirred in, set by the tire to keep lukewarm, will make yeast fit for use in an hour. Twice the quantity of common yeast is necessary, and unless used soon is good for nothing. Bread made of this yeast drie6 sooner. It is convenient in summer, when one wants to make biscuits suddenly. A species of leaven may be made that will keep any length of time. Three ounces of hops in a pail of water boiled down to a quart; strain it, and stir in a quart of rye meal while boiling hot. Cool it, and add half a pint of good yeast; after it has risen a few hours, thicken it with flour stiff enough to roll out upon a board; then put it in the sun and air a few days to dry. A piece of this cake two inches square, dissolved in warm water, and thickened with a little flour, will make a large loaf of bread. Potatoes make very good yeast. Mash three large potatoes fine; pour a pint of boiling water over them ; when almost cold, stir in two spoon- fuls of flour, two of molasses, and a cup of good yeast. This yeast should be used while new. K 2THE FRUGAL 102 PRESERVES, ETC. Economical people will seldom use preserves, except for sickness. They are unhealthy, ex- pensive, and useless to those who are well. Barberries preserved in molasses are very good for common use. Boil the molasses, skim it, throw in the barberries, and simmer them till they are soft. If you wish to lay by a few for sickness, preserve them in sugar by the same rule as other preserves. Melt the sugar, skim it, throw in thp' barberries; when done soft, take them out, and throw in others. A pound of sugar to a pound of fruit is the rule for all preserves. The sugar should be melted over a fire moderate enough not to scorch it'. When melted, it should be skimmed clean, and the fruit dropped in to simmer till it is soft. Plums, and things of which the skin is liable to be broken, do better to be put in little jars, with their weight of sugar, and the j^rs set in a kettle of boiling water, till the fruit is done. See the water is not so high as to boil into the jars. When you .put preserves in jars, lay a white paper, thoroughly wet with brandy, flat upon the * surface of the preserves, and cover them carefully from the air. If they begin to mould, scald them by setting them in the oven till boiling hot. Glass is much better than earthen for preserves; they are not half as apt to fermetft.103 HOUSEWIFE. CURRANT JELLY. Currant jelly is a useful thing for sickness. It it be necessary to wash your currants, be sure they are thoroughly drained, or your jelly will be thin. Break them up with a pestle, find squeeze them through a cloth. Put a pint of clean sugar to a pint of juice, and boil it slowly, till it be- comes ropy. Great care must be taken not to do it too fast; it is spoiled by being .scorched. It should be frequently skimmed while simmer- ing. If currants are put in a jar, and kept in boiling water, and cooked before they are strained, they are more likely to keep a long time without fermenting. CURRANT WINE. Those who have more currants than they have money will do well to use no wine but of their own manufacture. Break and squeeze the cur- rants, put three pounds and a half of sugar to two quarts of juice and two quarts of water. Put in a keg or barrel. Do not close the bung tight for three or four days, that the air may escape while it is fermenting. After it is done ferment- ing, close it up tight. Where raspberries are plenty, it is a great improvement to use half raspberry juice, and half currant juice. Brandy is unnecessary vyhen the above mentioned pro- portions are observed. It should not be used under a year or two. Age improves it.104 THE FRUGAL RASPBERRY SHRUB. Raspberry shrub mixed with water is a pure, delicious drink for summer; and in a country where raspberries are abundant, it is good eco- nomy to make it answer instead of Port and Catalonia wine. Put raspberries in a pan, and scarcely cover them with strong vinegar. Add a pint of sugar to a pint of juice (of this you can judge by first trying your pan to see how much it holds); scald it, skim it, and bottle it when cold. COFFEE. As substitutes, for coffee, some use dry brown bread crusts, and roast them; others soak rye grain in rum, and roast it; others roast peas in the same way as coffee. N one of these are very good; and peas so used are considered unhealthy. Where there is a large family of apprentices and workmen, and coffee is' very dear, it may be worth while to use the substitutes, or to mix them half and half with coffee; but, after all, the best economy is to go without. French coffee is so celebrated, that it may be worth while to tell how it is made; though no prudent housekeeper xVill make it, unless she has boarders, who are willing to pay for expensive cooking. "Idle coffee should be roasted more than is common with us ; it should not hang drying over the fire, but should be roasted quick; it should105 HOUSEWIFE. be ground soon after roasting, and used as soon as it is ground. Those who pride themselves on first-rate coffee burn it and grind it every morn- ing. The powder should be placed in the coffee- pot in the proportions of an ounce to less than a pint of water. The water should be poured upon the coffee boiling hot. The coffee should be kept at the boiling point; but should not boil. Coffee made in this way must be made in a biggin. It would not be clear in a common coffee-pot. A bit of fish-skin as big as a sixpence, thrown into coffee while it is boiling, tends to make it cleaj. If you use it just as it comes from the salt fish, it will be apt to give an unpleasant taste to the coffee: it should be washed clean as a bit of cloth, and hung up till perfectly dry. The white of eggs, and even egg shells, are good to settle coffee. Rind of salt pork is excellent. Some people think coffee is richer and clearer for having a bit of sweet butter, or a whole egg, dropped in and stirred just before it is done roasting, and ground up, shell and all> with the coffee. But these things are not economical, except on a farm, where butter and. eggs are plenty. A half a gill of cold water, poured in after you take, your coffee-pot off the lire, will * usually settle the coffee. If you have not cream for coffee, it is a very great improvement to boil your milk, and use it while hot.10G THE FRUGAL CHOCOLATE. Many people boil chocolate in a coffee-pot; but I think it is better to boil it in a skillet, or something open. A piece of chocolate about as big as a dollar is the usual quantity for a quart of water; but some put in more, and some less. When it boils, pour in as much milk as you like, and let them boil together three or four minutes. It is much richer with the milk boiled in it. Put the sugar in either before or after, as you please. Nutmeg improves it. The chocolate should be scraped fine before it is put into the water. TEA. Young Hyson is supposed to be a more pro- fitable tea than Hyson ; but though the quan- tity to a pound is greater, it has not so much strength. In point of economy, therefore, there is not much difference between them. Hyson tea and Souchong mixed together, half and half, is a pleasant beverage, and is more healthy than green tea alone. Be sure that water boils before it is poured upon tea. A teaspoonful to each person, and one extra thrown in, is a good rule. , PICKLES. When walnuts are so ripe that a pin will go into them easily, they are ready for pickling. They should be soakcc\ twelve days in very strong cold salt and water, which has been107 HOUSEWIFE. boiled 'and skimmed. A quantity of vinegar, enough to cover them well, should be boiled with whole pepper, mustard-seed, small onions, or garlic, cloves, ginger, and horse-radish; this should not be poured upon them till it is cold. They should be pickled a few months before they are eaten. To be kept close covered; for the air softens them. The liquor is an excellent catsup to be eaten on fish. Put peppers into strong salt and w'ater, until they become yellow; then turn them green by keeping them in warm salt and water, shifting them every two days. Then drain them, and pour scalding vinegar over them. A bag of mustard-seed is an improvement. If there is mother in vinegar, scald and strain it. Cucumbers should be in weak brine three or four days after they are picked; then they should be put in a tin or wooden pail of clean water, and kept slightly warm in the kitchen corner for two or three days. Then take as much vinegar as you think your pickle jar will hold; scald it with pepper, allspice, mustard-seed, flag-root, horse-radish, &c. if you happen to have them ; half of them .will spice the pickles very well. Throw in a bit of alum as big as a walnut; this serves to make pickles hard. Skim tire vinegar clean, and pour it scalding hot upon the cucum- bers. Brass vessels are not healthy for preparing any thing acid. Red cabbages need no other pickling than scalding, spiced vinegar poured uponTHE FRUGAL 108 them, and suffered to remain eight or ten days before you eat them. Some people think it im- proves them to ke'ep them in salt and water twenty-four hours before they are pickled. If you find your pickles soft and insipid, it is owing to the weakness of the vinegar. Throw away the vinegar (or keep it to clean your brass kettles), then cover your pickles with strong, scalding vinegar, into which a little allspice, gin- ger, horse-radish, and alum have been thrown. By no means omit a pretty large bit of alum. Pickles attended to in this way will keep for years, and be better and better every year. BEER. Beer is a good family drink. A handful of hops, to a pailful of water, and a half-pint of molasses, make good hop beer. Spruce mixed with hops is pleasanter than hops alone. Bpx- berry, fever*bush, sweet fern, and horse-radish make a good and healthy diet drink. The winter evergreen, or rheumatism weed, thrown in, is very beneficial to humours. Be careful and not mis- take kill-lamb for winter evergreen; they resem- ble each other. Malt mixed with a few hops makes a weak kind of beer; but it is cool and pleasant; it needs less molasses than hops alone. The rule is about the same for all beer. Boil the ingredients two or three hours, pour in a half- pint of molasses to a pailful, while the beer is scalding hot. Strain the beer, and when aboutHOUSEWIFE. 109 lukewarm, put a pint of lively yeast to a barrel. Leave the bung loose till the beer is done work- ing ; you can ascertain this by observing when the froth subsides. If your family be large, and the beer will be drank rapidly, it may as well remain in the barrel; but if your family be small, fill what bottles you have with it; it keeps better bottled. A raw potatoe or two, cut up and thrown in, while the ingredients are boiling, is said to make beer spirited. Ginger beer is made in the following propor- tions:—One cup of ginger, one pint of molasses, one pail and a half of water, and a cup of lively yeast. Most people scald the ginger in half a pail of water, and then fill it up with a pailful of cold; but in very hot weather some people stir it up cold. Yeast must not be put in till it is cold, or nearly cold. If not to be drank within twenty-four hours, it must be bottled as soon as it works. Table beer should be drawn off into stone jugs, with a lump of white sugar in each, securely corked. It is brisk and pleasant, and continues good several months. Potatoe cheese is much sought after in various parts of Europe. 1 do not know whether it is worth seeking after or not. The following is the receipt for making:—Select good white potatoes, boil them, and, when cold, peel and reduce them LTHE FRUGAL 110 to a pulp with a rasp, or mortar; to five pounds of this pulp, which must be very uniform and homogeneous, add a pint of sour milk and the requisite portion of salt; knead the whole well, cover it, and let it remain three or four days, according to the season; then knead it afresh, and place the cheeses in small baskets, when they will part with their superfluous moisture ; dry them in the shade, and place them in layers in large pots or kegs, where they may remain a fortnight. The older they are, the finer they become. This cheese has the advantage of never engen- dering worms, and of being preserved fresh for many years, provided it is kept in a dry place, and in well closed vessels.Ill HOUSEWIFE. GENERAL MAXIMS FOR HEALTH. Rise early. Eat simple food. Take plenty of exercise. Never fear a little fatigue. Let not children be dressed in tight clothes; it is neces- sary their limbs and muscles should have full play, if you wish for either health or beauty. Avoid the necessity of a physician, if you can, by careful attention to your diet. Eat what best agrees with your system, and resolutely abstain from what hurts you, however well you may like it. A few days’ abstinence, and cold water for a beverage, has driven off many an approaching disease. If you find yourself really ill, send for a good physician. Have nothing to do with quacks; and do not tamper with quack medicines. You do not know what they are; and what security have you that they know what they are? Wear shoes that are large enough. It not only produces corns, but makes the feet mis- shapen, to cramp them. Wash very often, and rub the skin thoroughly with a hard brush. Let those who love to be invalids drink strong green tea, eat pickles, preserves, and rich pastry. As far as possible, eat and sleep at regular hours. Wash the eyes thoroughly in cold water every morning. Do not read or sew at twilight, or by112 THE FRUGAL HOUSEWIFE. too dazzling a light. If far-sighted, read with rather less light, and with the book somewhat nearer to the eye, than you desire. If near- sighted, read with a book as far off as possible. Both these imperfections may be diminished in this way. Clean teeth in pure water two or three times a day; but, above all, be sure to have them clean before you go to bed. Have your bed-chamber well aired; and have fresh bed linen every week. Never have the wind blowing directly upon you from open win- dows during the night. It is not healthy to sleep in heated rooms. Let children have their bread and milk before they have been long up. Cold water and a run in the fresh air before breakfast. Too frequent use of an ivory comb injures the hair. Thorough combing, washing in suds, or rum, and thorough brushing, will keep it in order; and the washing does not injure the hair, as is generally supposed. Keep children’s hair cut close until ten or twelve years old; it is better for health and the beauty of the hair. Do not sleep with hair frizzled, or braided. Do not make children cross-eyed, by having hair hang about their foreheads, where they see it conti- nually.HINTS TO PERSONS OF MODERATE FORTUNE. When clouda are seen, wise men put on their cloaks. Shakspeare. FURNITURE. The prevailing evil of the present day is extra- vagance. I know very well that the old are too prone to preach about modern degeneracy, whe- ther they have cause or not; but, laugh as we may at the sage advice of our fathers, it is too plain that our present expensive habits are pro- ductive of much domestic unhappiness, and in- jurious to public prosperity. Our wealthy people copy all the foolish and extravagant caprice of foreign fashion, without consideration. Flowever, it is not to the rich I would speak. They have an undoubted right to spend their thousands as they please; and if they spend them ridiculously, it is consoling to reflect that they must, in some way or other, benefit the poorer classes. People of moderate fortunes have likewise an unques- tioned right to dispose of their hundreds as they please; but 1 would ask, Is it wise to risk your114 HINTS TO PERSONS OF happiness in a foolish attempt to keep up with the opulent ? Of what use is the effort which takes so much of your time, and all of your income? Nay, if any unexpected change in affairs should deprive you of a few yearly hundreds, you will find your expenses have exceeded your income; thus the foundation of an accumulating debt will be laid, and your family will have formed habits but poorly calculated to save you from the threat- ened ruin. Not one valuable friend will be gained by living beyond your means, and old age will be left to comparative, if not to utter poverty. There is nothing in which the extravagance of the present day strikes me so forcibly as the manner in which our young people of moderate fortune furnish their houses. A few weeks since, I called upon a farmer’s daughter, who had lately married a young phy- sician of moderate talents, and destitute of for- tune. Her father had given her, at her marriage, all he ever expected to give her: viz. five hun- dred pounds. Yet the lower part of her house was furnished with as much splendour as we usually find among the wealthiest. The whole five hundred had been expended upon Brussels carpets, alabaster vases, mahogany chairs, and marble tables. I afterwards learned that the more useful household utensils had been forgot- ten ; and that, a few weeks after her wedding, she was actually obliged to apply to her husband for money to purchase baskets, iron spoons,MODERATE FORTUNE. 115 clothes-lines, &c.; and her husband, made irrit- able by the want of money, pettishly demanded why she had bought so many things they did not want. Did the doctor gain any patients, or she a single friend, by offering their visiters water in richly cut glass tumblers, or serving them with costly damask napkins, instead of plain soft towels? No; their foolish vanity made them less happy, and no more respectable. Had the young lady been content with Kid- derminster carpets, and tasteful vases of her own making, she might have put two hundred and fifty pounds at interest; and had she obtained five per cent., it would have clothed her as well as the wife of any man, who depends merely upon his own industry, ought to be clothed. This would have saved much domestic disquiet; for, after all, human nature is human nature; and a wife is never better beloved, because she teases for money. EDUCATION OF DAUGHTERS. There is no subject so much connected with individual happiness and national prosperity as the education of daughters. It is a true, and there- fore an old remark, that the situation and pros- pects of a country may be justly estimated by the character of its women; and we all know how hard it is to engraft upon a woman’s character habits and principles to which she was unaccus- ;ss ti110 HINTS TO PERSONS OF toraed in her girlish days. It is always extremely difficult, and sometimes utterly impossible. Is the present education of young ladies likely to contribute to their own ultimate happiness, or to the welfare of the country ? There are many honourable exceptions; but we do think the general tone of female education is bad. The greatest and most universal error is, teaching girls to exaggerate the importance of getting mar- ried; and of course to place an undue importance upon the polite attentions of gentlemeu. It was but a few days since, I heard a pretty and sensible girl say, “ Did you ever see a man so ridiculously fond of his daughters as Mr. ? He is all the time with them. The other night, at the party, I went and took Anna away by mere force; for I knew she must feel dreadfully to have her father waiting upon her all the time, while the other girls were talking with the beaux.” And another young friend of mine said, with an air most laughably serious, “ I don’t think Har- riet and Julia enjoyed themselves at all last night. Don’t you think, nobody but their brother offered to hand them to the supper-room ?” That a mother should wish to see her daughters happily married is natural and proper; that a young lady should be pleased with polite atten- tions is likewise natural and innocent; but this undue anxiety, this foolish excitement about showing off the attentions of somebody, no matter whom, is attended with consequences seriouslyMODERATE FORTUNE. 117 injurious. It promotes envy and rivalship ; it leads our young girls to spend their time between the public streets, the ball-room, and the toilet; and, worst of all, it leads them to contract en- gagements, without any knowledge ol their own hearts, merely for the sake of being married as soon as their companions. When married, they find themselves ignorant of the important duties of domestic life ; and its quiet pleasures soon grow tiresome to minds worn out by frivolous excitements. If they remain unmarried, their disappointment and discontent are, of course, in proportion to their exaggerated idea of the eclat attendant upon having a lover. The evil increases in a startling ratio: for these girls, so injudiciously educated, will, nine times out of ten, make inju- dicious mothers, aunts, and friends; thus follies will be accumulated unto the third and fourth generation. Young ladies should be taught that usefulness is happiness, and that all other things are but incidental. With regard to matrimonial speculations, they should be taught nothing ! Leave the affections to nature and to truth, and all will end well. How many can I at this mo- ment recollect, who have made themselves un- happy by marrying for the sake of the name of being married ! IIow many do I know, who have been instructed to such watchfulness in the game, that they have lost it by trumping their own tricks ! One great cause of the vanity, extravagance and idleness that are so fast growing upon our118 HINTS TO PERSONS OF young ladies, is the absence of domestic education. By domestic education, I do not mean the send- ing daughters into the kitchen some half dozen times, to weary the patience of the cook, and to boast of it the next day in the parlour. 1 mean two or three years spent with a mother, assisting her in her duties, instructing brothers and sisters, and taking care of their own clothes. This is the way to make them happy, as well as good wives; for, being early accustomed to the duties of life, they will sit lightly as well as gracefully upon them. But what time do modern girls have for the formation of quiet, domestic habits? Until six- teen they go to school; sometimes these years are judiciously spent, and sometimes they are half wasted; too often they are spent in acquiring the elements of a thousand sciences, without being thoroughly acquainted with any; or in a variety of accomplishments of very doubtful value to people of moderate fortune. As soon as they leave school (and sometimes before), they begin a round of balls and parties, and staying with gay young friends. Dress and flattery take up all their thoughts. What time have they to learn to be useful? What time have they to cultivate the still and gentle affections, which must, in every situation of life, have such an important effect on a woman’s character and happiness? As far as parents can judge what will be a daughter’s station, education should be adapted to it; but it is well to remember that it is alwaysMODERATE FORTUNE. 119 easy to know how to spend riches, and always safe to know how to bear poverty. A superficial acquaintance with such accom- plishments as music and drawing is useless and undesirable. They should not be attempted un- less there is taste, talent, and time enough to attain excellence. I have frequently heard young- women of moderate fortune say, “ I have not opened my piano these five years. I wish I had the money expended upon it. If I had employed as much time in learning useful things, I should have been better fitted for the cares of my family.” By these remarks I do not mean to discourage an attention to the graces of life. Gentility and taste are always lovely in all situations. But good things, carried to excess, are often produc- tive of bad consequences. When accomplish- ments and dress interfere with the duties and permanent happiness of life, they are unjustifiable and displeasing; but where there is a solid foun- dation in mind and heart, all those elegancies are but becoming ornaments. Some are likely to have more use for them than others; and they are justified in spending more time and money upon them. But no one should be taught to consider them valuable for mere parade and attraction. Making the educa- tion of girls such a series of “ man-traps,” makes the whole system unhealthy, by poisoning the motive.120 HINTS TO PERSONS OF In tracing evils of any kind, which exist in society, we must, after all, be brought up against the great cause of all mischief—mismanagement in education; and this remark applies with pe- culiar force to the leading fault of the present day, viz. extravagance. It is useless to expend our ingenuity in purifying the stream, unless the fountain be cleansed. If young men and young women are brought up to consider frugality con- temptible, and industry degrading, it is vain to expect they will at once become prudent and useful, when the cares of life press heavily upon them. Generally speaking, when misfortune comes upon those who have been accustomed to thoughtless expenditure, it sinks them to discou- ragement, or, what is worse, drives them to des- peration. It is true there are exceptions. There are a few, an honourable few, who, late in life, with Roman severity of resolution, learn the long neglected lesson of economy. But how small is the number, compared with the whole mass of the population ! And with what bitter agony, with what biting humiliation, is the hard lesson often learned ! How easily might it have been engrafted on early habits, and naturally and grace- fully “ grown with their growth, and strengthened with their strength !” Yet it was but lately that I visited a family, not of “ moderate fortune,” but of no fortune at all; one of those people who live “ nobody knows how;” and I found a young girl, about sixteen,MODERATE FORTUNE. 12L practising on the piano, while an elderly lady beside her was darning her stockings. I was told (for the mother was proud of bringing up her child so genteelly) that the daughter had almost forgotten how to sew; and that a woman was hired into the house to do her mending! “ But why,” said I, “ have you suffered your daughter to be ignorant of so useful an employment ? If she is poor, the knowledge will be necessary to her; if she is rich, it is the easiest thing in the world to lay it aside, if she chooses ; she will merely be a better judge whether her work is well done by others.” “ That is true,” replied the mother; “ and I always meant she should learn ; but she never has seemed to have any time. When she was eight years old, she could put a shirt together pretty well; but since that, her music, and her dancing, and her school, have taken up her whole time. I did mean she should learn some domestic habits this winter; but she has so many visiters, and is obliged to go out so much, that I suppose I must give it up. I don’t like to say too much about it; for, poor girl! she does so love company, and she does so hate any thing like care and confinement! Note is her time to enjoy herself, you know. Let her take all the comfort she can, while she is single !” “ But,” said I, “ you wish her to marry some time or other ; and, in all probability, she will marry. When will she learn how to perform the duties, which are necessary and important to M122 HINTS TO PERSONS OF every mistress of a family?” “ Oh, she will learn them when she is obliged to,” answered the inju- dicious mother; “ at all events, I am determined she shall enjoy herself while she is young.” And this is the way I have often heard mothers talk! Yet, could parents foresee the almost in- evitable consequences of such a system, I believe the weakest and vainest would abandon the false and dangerous theory. What a lesson is taught a girl in that sentence, “ Let her enjoy herself all she can, while she is single!” Instead of repre- senting domestic life as the gathering place of the deepest and purest affections; as the sphere of woman’s enjoyments as well as of her duties; as, indeed, the whole world to her; that one per- nicious sentence teaches a girl to consider matri- mony desirable, because “ a good match” is a triumph of vanity, and it is deemed respectable to be “ well settled in the world;” but that it is a necessary sacrifice of her freedom and her gaiety. And then how many affectionate dispositions have been trained into heartlessness, by being taught that the indulgence of indolence and vanity were necessary to their happiness; and that to have this indulgence, they must marry money! But who that marries for money, in this land of pre- carious fortunes, can tell how soon they will lose the glittering temptation, to which they have been willing to sacrifice so much? And even if riches last as long as life, the evil is not remedied. Education lias given a wrong end and aim to123 MODERATE FORTUNE. their whole existence; they have been taught to look for happiness where it never can be found, viz. in the absence of all occupation, or the un- satisfactory and ruinous excitement of fashionable competition. The difficulty is, education does not usually point the female heart to its only true resting- place. That dear English word “ homo” is not half so powerful a talisman as “ the world.” In- stead of the salutary truth, that happiness is in duty, they are taught to consider the two things totally distinct; and that whoever seeks one must sacrifice the other. The fact is, our girls have no home education. When quite young, they are sent to schools where no feminine employments, no domestic habits, can be learned; and there they continue till they “ come out” into the world. After this, few find any time to arrange, and make use of, the mass of elementary knowledge they have acquired ; and fewer still have either leisure or taste for the inelegant, every-day duties of life. Thus pre- pared, they enter upon matrimony. Those early habits,' which would have made domestic care a light and easy task, have never been taught, for fear it would interrupt their happiness; and the result is, that when cares come, as come they must, they find them misery. I am convinced that in- difference and dislike between husband and wife are more frequently occasioned by this great error in education, than by any other cause.124 HINTS TO PERSONS OF The bride is awakened from her delightful dream, in which carpets, vases, sofas, white gloves, and pearl earrings, are oddly jumbled up with her lover’s looks and promises. Perhaps she would be surprised if she knew exactly how much of the fascination of being engaged was owing to the aforesaid inanimate concern. Be that as it will, she is awakened by the unpleasant conviction that cares devolve upon her. And what effect does this produce upon her character9 Do the holy and tender influences of domestic love render self-denial and exertion a bliss ? No! They would have done so, had she been properly educated; but now she gives way to unavailing fretfulness and repining; and her husband is at first pained, and finally disgusted, by hearing, “ I never knew what care was when I lived in my father’s house.” “ If I were to live my life over again, I would remain single as long as I could, without the risk of being an old maid. ' ITow injudicious, how short-sighted is the policy, which thus mars the whole happiness of life, in order to make a few brief years more gay and brilliant! I have known many instances of do- mestic ruin and discord produced by this mistaken indulgence of mothers. / never knew but one, where the victim had moral courage enough to change all her early habits. She was a young, pretty, and very amiable girl; but brought up to be perfectly useless ; a rag baby would, to all intents and purposes, have been as efficient a125 MODERATE FORTUNE. partner. She married a young lawyer, without property, but with good and increasing practice. She meant to be a good wife, but she did not know how. Her wastefulness involved him in debt. He did not reproach, though he tried to convince and instruct her. She loved him; and weeping replied, “ I try to do the best I can; but when I lived at home, mother always took care of every thing.” Finally poverty came upon him “ like an armed man;” and he went into a remote town to teach in a school. His wife folded her hands, and cried; while he, weary and discouraged, actually came home from school to cook his own supper. At last, his patience, and her real love for him, impelled her to exertion. She promised to learn to be useful, if he would teach her. And she did learn! And the change in her habits gradually wrought such a change in her husband’s fortune, that she might bring her daughters up in idleness, had not experience taught her that economy, like grammar, is a very hard and tiresome study, after we are twenty years old. Perhaps some will think the evils of which I have been speaking are confined principally to the rich; but I am convinced they extend to all classes of people. All manual employment is considered degrading; and those who are com- pelled to do it, try to conceal it. A few years since, very respectable young men at our schools cut their own wood, and blacked their own shoes.126 HINTS TO PERSONS OF Now, how few, even of the sons of plain farmers and industrious mechanics, have moral courage enough to do without a servant; yet when they leave school, and come out into the battle of life, they must do without servants; and in these times it will be fortunate if one half of them get what is called “ a decent living,” even by rigid eco- nomy and patient toil. Yet I would not that servile and laborious employment should be forced upon the young. I would merely have each one educated according to his probable situation in life; and be taught that whatever is his duty is honourable; and that no merely external circum- stance can in reality injure true dignity of cha- racter. I would not cramp a boy’s energies by compelling him always to cut wood, or draw water; but I would teach him not to be ashamed, should his companions happen to find him doing either one or the other. A few days since, I asked a grocer’s lad to bring home some articles I had just purchased at his master’s. The bundle was large; he was visibly reluctant to take it, and wished very much that I should send for it. This, howover, was impossible; and he subdued his pride; but when I asked him to take back an empty bottle which belonged to the shop, he, with a mortified look, begged me to do it up neatly in a paper, that it might look like a small package. Is this boy likely to be happier for cherishing a foolish pride, which will for ever be jarring against his duties? Is he in reality oneMODERATE FORTUNE. 127 whit more respectable than the industrious lad who sweeps shops, or carries bottles, without troubling himself with the idea that all the world is observing his little unimportant self? For, in relation to the rest of the world, each individual is unimportant; and he alone is wise who forms his habits according to his own wants, his own prospects, and his own principles. TRAVELLING AND PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS. There is one kind of extravagance rapidly in- creasing in this country, which, in its effects on our purses and our habits, is one of the worst kinds of extravagance; I mean the rage for tra- velling, and for public amusements. The good old home habits of our ancestors are breaking up—it will be well if our virtue and our freedom do not follow them ! It is easy to laugh at such prognostics,—and we are well aware that the virtue we preach is considered almost obsolete, •—but let any reflecting mind inquire how decay has begun in all republics, and then let them calmly ask themselves whether we are in no danger, in departing thus rapidly from the sim- plicity and industry of our forefathers. Nations do not plunge at once into ruin—go- vernments do not change suddenly—the causes which bring about the final blow, are scarcely perceptible in the beginning; but they increaseHINTS TO PERSONS OF 12U in numbers, and in power; they press harder and harder upon the energies and virtue of a people; and the last steps only are alarmingly hurried and irregular. A republic without industry, economy, and integrity, is Samson shorn of his locks. A luxurious and idle republic! Look at the phrase!—'The words were never made to be married together; every body sees it would be death to one of them. And are not ice becoming luxurious and idle ? Look at our steam boats, and stages, and taverns! There you will find mechanics, who have left debts and employment to take care of themselves, while they go to take a peep at the theatres, or the opera dancers. There you will find domestics all agog for their wages-worth of travelling; why should they look out for “ a rainy day?” There are hospitals enough to provide for them in sick- ness ; and as for marrying, they have no idea of that, till they can find a man who will support them genteelly. There you will find mothers, who have left the children at home with Betsey, while they go to improve their minds at some public place. If only the rich did this, all would be well. They benefit others, and do not injure themselves. In any situation, idleness is their curse, and un- easiness is the tax they must pay for affluence; but their restlessness is as great a benefit to the community as the motions of Prince Esterhazy, when at every step the pearls drop from his coat. People of moderate fortune have just as goodMODERATE FORTUNE. 129 a right to travel as the wealthy; but is it not un- wise? Do they not injure themselves and their families? You say travelling is cheap. So is staying at home. Besides, do you count all the costs? The money you pay for stages and steam boats is the smallest of the items. There are clothes bought which would not otherwise be bought; those clothes are worn out and defaced twenty times as quick as they would have been at home; children are perhaps left with domestics or strangers; their health and morals, to say the least, under very uncertain influence ; your sub- stance is wasted in your absence by those who have no self-interest to prompt them to careful- ness; you form an acquaintance with a multitude of people, who will be sure to take your house in their way, when they travel next year; and finally, you become so accustomed to excite- ment, that home appears insipid, and it requires no small effort to return to the quiet routine of your duties. And what do you get in return for all this? Some pleasant scenes, which will soon seem to you like a dream; some pleasant faces, which you will never see again; and much of crowd, and toil, and dust, and bustle. I once knew a family which formed a striking- illustration of my remarks. The man was a farmer, and his wife was an active, capable woman, with more of ambition than sound policy. Being in debt, they resolved to take fashionable boarders130 HINTS TO PERSONS OF from Boston, during the summer season. These boarders, at the time of their arrival, were pro- jecting a jaunt to the Springs; and they talked of Lake George crystals, and Canadian music, and English officers, and “ dark blue Ontario,” with its beautiful little brood of lakelets, as Wordsworth would call them; and how one lady was dressed superbly at Saratoga; and how ano- ther was scandalized for always happening to drop her fan in the vicinity of the wealthiest beaux. All this fired the quiet imagination of the good farmer’s wife; and no sooner had the boarders departed to enjoy themselves, in spite of heat, and dust, and fever, and ague, than she stated her determination to follow them. “ Why have we not as good a right to travel, as they have?” said she; “ they have paid us money enough to go to Niagara with; and it really is a shame for people to live and die so ignorant of their own country.” “ But then we want the money to pay for that stock which turned out unlucky, you know.” “ Oh, that can be done next summer; we can always get boarders enough, and those that will pay handsomely. Give the man a mort- gage of the house, to keep him quiet till next summer.” “ But what will you do with the chil- dren?” “ Sally is a very smart girl; I am sure she will take as good care of them as if I were at home.” To make a long story short, the farmer and his wife concluded to go to Quebec, just to showMODERATE FORTUNE. 131 they had a right to put themselves to inconve- nience, if they pleased. They went; spent all their money; had a watch stolen from them in the steam boat; were dreadfully sea-sick off Point Judith; came home tired, and dusty; found the babe sick, because Sally had stood at the door with it, one chilly, damp morning, while she was feeding the chickens ; and the eldest girl screaming and screeching at the thoughts of going to bed, because Sally, in order to bring her under her authority, had told her a frightful “ raw-head- and-bloody-bones ” story; the horse had broken into the garden, and made wretched work with the vegetables; and fifty pounds of butter had become, fit for the grease-pot, because the hoops of the firkin had sprung, and Sally had so much to do, that she never thought of going to see whether the butter was covered with brine. After six or eight weeks, the children were pretty well restored to orderly habits; and the wife, being really a notable and prudent woman, resolved to make up for her lost butter and vegetables, by doing without help through the winter. When summer came, they should have boarders, she said; and, sure enough, they had boarders in plenty; but not profitable ones. There were forty cousins, at whose houses they had stopped; and twenty people who had been very polite to them on the way; and it being such a pleasant season, and travelling so cheap, every one of these people felt they had a right to take a132 HINTS TO PERSONS OF journoy; and they could not help passing a day or two with their friends at the farm. One after another came, till the farmer could bear it no longer. “ L tell you what, wife,” said he, “ I am going to jail as fast as a man can go. If there is no other way of putting a stop to this, I’ll sell every bed in the house, except the one we sleep on.” And, sure enough, he actually did this; and when the forty-first cousin came down on a friendly visit, on account of what her other cou- sins had told her about the cheapness of travel- ling, she was told they should be very happy to sleep on the floor, for the sake of accommodating her, for a night or two; but the truth was, they had but one bed in the house. This honest couple are now busy .in paying off their debts, and laying by something for their old age. He facetiously tells how he went to New York to have his watch stolen, and his boots blacked like a lookingglass; and she shows her Lake George diamond ring, and tells how the steam boat was crowded, and how afraid she was the boiler would burst, and always ends by saying, “ After all, it was a toil of pleasure.” However, it is not our farmers who are in the greatest danger of (his species of extravagance; for we look to that class of people, as the strongest hold of republican simplicity, industry, and virtue. It is from adventurers, swindlers, broken down traders,—all that rapidly increasing class of idlers, too genteel to work, and too proud to beg,—thatMODERATE FORTUNE. 133 we have most reason to dread examples of ex- travagance. A very respectable tavern-keeper has lately been driven to establish a rule, that no customer shall be allowed to rise from the table till he pays for his meal. “ I know it is rude to give such orders to honest men,” said he, “ and three years ago I would as soon cut off my hand as have done it; but now, travelling is so cheap, that all sorts of characters are on the move; and I find more than half of them will get away, if they can, without paying a farthing.” With regard to public amusements, it is still worse. Rope-dancers, and opera-dancers, and all sorts of dancers, go through the country, making thousands as they go; while, from high to low, there is one universal, despairing groan of “ hard times,” “ dreadful gloomy times!” These things ought not to be. People who have little to spend, should partake sparingly of useless' amusements; those who are in debt should deny themselves entirely. Let me not be sup- posed to inculcate exclusive doctrines. I would have every species of enjoyment as open to the poor as to the rich ; but I would have people consider well how they are likely to obtain the greatest portion of happiness, taking the whole of their lives into view; I would not have them sacrifice permanent respectability and comfort to present gentility and love of excitement; above all, I caution them to beware that this love of excitement does not grow into a habit, till the NHINTS TO PERSONS OF 134 fireside becomes a dull place, and the gambling table and the bar-room finish what the theatre began. If men would have women economical, they must be so themselves. What motive is there for patient industry, and careful economy, when the savings of a month are spent at one trip to Nahant, and more than the value of a much de- sired but rejected dress is expended during the stay of a new set of comedians ? We make a great deal of talk about being republicans; if we are so in reality, we shall stay at home, to mind our business, and educate our children, so long as one or the other need our attention, or can suffer by our neglect. PHILOSOPHY AND CONSISTENCY. Among all the line things Mrs. Barbauld'wrote, she never wrote any thing better than her essay on the Inconsistency of Human Expectations. “ Every thing,” says she, “ is marked at a set- tled price. Our time, our labour, our ingenuity, is so much ready money, which we are to lay out to the best advantage. Examine, compare, choose, reject; but stand to your own judgment; and do not, like children, when you have pur- chased one thing, repine that you do not possess another, which you would not purchase. Would you be rich ? Do you think that, the -single pointMODERATE FORTUNE. 135 worth sacrificing every thing else to ? You may then be rich. Thousands have become so from the lowest beginnings by toil, and diligence, and attention to the minutest articles of expense and profit. But you must give up the pleasures of leisure, of an unembarrassed mind, and of a free, unsuspicious temper. You must learn to do hard, if not unjust things; and as for the embar- rassment of a delicate and ingenuous spirit, it is necessary for you to get rid of it as fast as pos- sible. You must not stop to enlarge your mind, polish your taste, or refine your sentiments; but must keep on in one beaten track, without turning aside to the right hand or the left. * But,’ you say, ‘ I cannot submit to drudgery like this; I feel a spirit above it.’ ’Tis well; be above it then; only do not repine because you are not rich. Is knowledge the pearl of price in your estimation ? That too may be purchased by steady application, and long, solitary hours of study and reflection. ‘ But,’ says the man of letters, ‘ what a hardship is it that many an illiterate fellow, who cannot construe the motto on his coach, shall raise a fortune, and make a figure, while I possess merely the common conveniences of life.’ Was it for fortune, then, that you grew pale over the midnight lamp, and gave the sprightly years of youth to study and reflection? You then have mistaken your path, and ill employed your in- dustry. ‘ What reward have T then for all my labour?’ What reward! A large, comprehensive136 HINTS TO PERSONS OF soul, purged from vulgar fears and prejudices, able to interpret the works of man and God. A perpetual spring of fresh ideas, and the conscious dignity of superior intelligence. Good Heaven ! what other reward can you ask ! ‘ But is it not a reproach upon the economy of Providence that such a one, who is a mean, dirty fellow, should have amassed wealth enough to buy half a nation ?’ Not in the least. He made himself a mean, dirty fellow, for that very end. He has paid his health, his conscience, and his liberty for it. Do you envy him his bargain? Will you hang your head in his presence, because he out- * shines you in equipage and show? Lift up your brow with a noble confidence, and say to your- self, ‘ I have not these things, it is true; but it is because I have not desired or sought them; it is because I possess something better. I have chosen my lot! I am content, and satisfied.’ The most characteristic mark of a great mind is to choose some one object, which it considers im- portant, and pursue that object through life. If we expect the purchase, we must pay the price. “ There is a pretty passage in one of Lucian’s dialogues, where Jupiter complains to Cupid, that, though he has had so many intrigues, he was never sincerely beloved. £ In order to be loved,’ says Cupid, ‘ you must lay aside your aegis and your thunderbolts; you must curl and perfume your hair, and place a garland on your head, and walk with a soft step, and assume aMODERATE FORTUNE. 137 winning, obsequious deportment.’ ‘ But, replied Jupiter, ‘ I am not willing to resign so much of my dignity.’ £ Then,’ returned Cupid, ‘ leave off desiring to be loved.’” These remarks by Mrs. Barbauld are full of sound philosophy. Who has not observed, in his circle of acquaintance, and in the recesses of his own heart, the same inconsistency of expectation, the same peevishness of discontent. Says Germanicus, “ There is my dunce of a classmate has found his way into Congress, and is living amid the perpetual excitement of intel- lectual minds, while I am cooped up in an igno- rant country parish, obliged to be at the beck and call of every old woman, who happens to feel uneasy in her mind.” “ Well, Germanicus, the road to political dis- tinction was as open to you as to him; why did you not choose it?” “ Oh, I could not consent to be the tool of a party; to shake hands with the vicious, and flatter fools. It would gall me to the quick to hear my opponents accuse me of actions I never committed, and of motives which worlds would not tempt me to indulge.” Since Germanicus is wise enough to know the whistle costs more than it is worth, is he not unreasonable to murmur because he has not bought it? Matrona always wears a discontented look when she hears the praises of Clio. “ I used to write her composition for her, when we were at school together,” says she ; “ and now she is138 HINTS TO PERSONS OF quite the idol of the literary world; while I am never heard of beyond my own family, unless some one happens to introduce me as the friend of Clio.” “ Why not write, then; and see if the world will not learn to introduce Clio as the friend of Matrona?” “I write! not for the world! I could not endure to pour my soul out to an undiscerning multitude; I could not see my cherished thoughts caricatured by some soul- less reviewer, and my favourite fancies expounded by the matter-of-fact editor of some stupid paper.” Why does Matrona envy what she knows costs so much, and is of so little value? Yet so it is, through all classes of society. All of us covet some neighbour’s possession, and think our lot would have been happier, had it been different from what it is. Yet most of us could obtain worldly distinctions, if our habits and inclinations allowed us to pay the immense price at which they must be purchased. True wisdom lies in finding out all the advantages of a situation in which we arc placed, instead of imagining the enjoyments of one in which we are not placed. Such philosophy is rarely found. The most perfect sample I ever met was an old woman, who was apparently the poorest and most forlorn of the human species —so true is the maxim which all profess to believe, and which none act upon invariably, viz. that happiness does not depend on outward circumstances. The wise woman, toMODERATE FORTUNE. 139 whom I have alluded, walks to Boston, from a distance of twenty-five or thirty miles, to sell a bag of brown thread and stockings ; and then patiently foots it back again with her little gains. Her dress, though tidy, is a grotesque collection of “ shreds and patches,” coarse in the extreme. “ Why don’t you come down in a waggon ?’’ said I, when I observed that she was soon to become a mother, and was evidently wearied with her long journey. “ We ha’n’t got any horse,” replied she; “ the neighbours are very kind to me, but they can't spare their’n ; and it would cost as much to hire one, as all ray thread will come to.” “ You have a husband—don’t he do any thing for you?” “ He is a good man; he does all he can; but he’s a cripple and an invalid. He reels my yarn, and specks the children’s shoes. He’s as kind a husband as a woman need to have.” “ But his being a cripple is a heavy mis- fortune to you,” said I. “ Why, ma’am, I don’t look upon it in that light,” replied the thread- woman; “ I consider that I’ve great reason to be thankful he never took to any bad habits.” “ How many children have you?” “ Six sons and five darters, ma’am.” “ Six sons and five daughters 1 What a family for a poor woman to support!” “ It’s a family, surely, ma’am; but there an’t one of ’em I’d be willing to lose. They are as good children as need to be—-all willing to work, and all clever to me. Even the littlest boy, when he gets a farthing now and then for140 HINTS TO PERSONS OF doing a chore, will be sure and bring it to ma’am.” “ Do your daughters spin your thread?” “ JNo, ma’am; as soon as they are old enough, they go out to sarvice. I don’t want to keep them always delving for me; they are always willing to give me what they can; but it is right and fair they should do a little for themselves. I do all my spinning after the folks are abed.” “ Don’t you think you should be better off, if you had no one but yourself to provide for?” “ Why, no, ma’am, I don’t. If I hadn’t been married, I should al- ways have had to work as hard as I could; and now 1 can’t do more than that. My children are a great comfort to me; and I look forward to the time when they’ll do as much for me as I have done for them.” Here was true philosophy ! I learned a lesson from that poor woman which I shall not soon forget. If I wanted true, hearty, well principled service, I would employ children brought up by such a mother. REASONS FOR HARD TIMES. Perhaps there never was a time when the de- pressing effects of stagnation in business were so universally felt, all the world over, as they are now. The merchant sends out old dollars, and is lucky if he gets the same number of new ones in return; and he who has a share in manufac- tures has bought a “ bottle imp,” which he willMODERATE FORTUNE. 141 do well to hawk about the street for the lowest possible coin. The effects of this depression must of course be felt by all grades of society. Yet who that passes through Bond-street at one o’clock, and sees the bright array of wives and daughters, as various in their decorations as the insects, the birds, and the shells, would believe that the community was staggering under a weight which almost paralyzes its movements ? “ Every thing is so cheap,” say the ladies, “ that it is in- excusable not to dress well.” But do they reflect ivhy things are so cheap ? Do they know how much wealth has been sacrificed, how many families ruined, to produce this boasted result ? Do they not know enough of the machinery of society, to suppose that the stunning effect of crash after crash, may eventually be felt by those on whom they depend for support? Luxuries are cheaper now than necessaries were a few years since; yet it is a lamentable fact, that it costs more to live now than it did formerly. When silk was nine shillings per yard, seven or eight yards sufficed for a dress; now it is four or five shillings, sixteen or twenty yards will hardly satisfy the mantuamaker. If this extravagance were confined to the wealthiest classes, it would be productive of more good than evil. But if the rich have a new dress every fortnight, people of moderate fortune will have one every month. In this way, finery becomes the standard of respectability; and a142 HINTS TO PERSONS OF man’s doth is of more consequence than his character. Men of fixed salaries spend every farthing of their income, and then leave their children to depend on the precarious charity and reluctant friendship of a world they have wasted their sub- stance to please. Men who rush into enterprise and speculation, keep up their credit by splen- dour; and should they sink, they and their fa- milies carry with them extravagant habits to corrode their spirits with discontent, perchance to tempt them into crime. “ I know we are extravagant,” said one of my acquaintance, the other day; “ but how can I help it? My hus- band does not like to see his wife and daughters dress more meanly than those with whom they associate.” “ Then, my dear lady, your husband has not as much moral dignity and moral courage as I thought he had. He should be content to see his wife and daughters respected for neatness, good taste, and attractive manners.” “ This all sounds very well in talk,” replied the lady; “ but, say what you will about pleasing and intelligent girls, nobody will attend to them unless they dress in the fashion. If my daughters were to dress in the plain, neat style you recommend, they would see all their acquaintance asked to dance more frequently than themselves, and not a gentleman would join them in a walk.” “ I do not believe this in so extensive a sense as you do. Girls may appear genteelly without143 MODERATE FORTUNE. being extravagant; ancl though some tops may know the most approved colour for a ribbon, or the newest arrangement for trimming, I believe gentlemen of real character merely notice whether a lady’s dress is generally in good taste, or not. But, granting your statement to be true, in its widest sense, of what consequence is it? How much will the whole happiness of your daughter’s life be affected by her dancing some fifty times less, than her companions, or wasting some few hours less in the empty conversation of coxcombs? A man often admires a style of dress, which he would not venture to support in a wife. Extra- vagance has prevented many marriages, and rendered still more unhappy. And should your daughters fail in forming good connexions, what have you to leave them, save extravagant habits, too deeply rooted to be eradicated. Think you those who now laugh at them for a soiled glove, or an unfashionable ribbon, will assist their po- verty, or cheer their neglected old age? No; they would find them as cold and selfish as they are vain. A few thousands in the bank are worth all the fashionable friends in Christendom.” Whether my friend was convinced, or not, I cannot say; but. I saw her daughters on the parade, the next week, with new French hats and blonde veils. It is really melancholy to see how this fever of extravagance rages, and how it is sapping the strength of our happy country. It has no bounds; it pervades all ranks, and characterizes all ages.HINTS TO PERSONS OF 144 I know.the wife of a pavior, who spends her one hunched a year in “ outward adorning,” and who will not condescend to speak to her husband, while engaged in his honest calling. Mechanics, who should have too high a sense of their own respectability to resort to such pitiful competition, will indulge their daughters in dress- ing like the wealthiest; and a domestic would certainly leave you, should you dare advise her to lay up one farthing of her wages. “ These things ought not to be.” Every man and every woman should lay up some portion of their income, whether that income be great or small. HOW TO ENDURE POVERTY. That a thorough, religious, useful education is the best security against misfortune, disgrace, and poverty, is universally believed and acknow- ledged; and to this we add the firm conviction, that, when poverty comes (as it sometimes will) upon the prudent, the industrious, and the well informed, a judicious education is all powerful in enabling them to endure the evils it cannot always prevent. A mind full of piety and knowledge is always rich ; it is a bank that never fails; it yields a perpetual dividend of happiness. In a late visit to the alms-house at , we saw a remarkable evidence of the truth of this doctrine. Mrs. was early left an orphan. She was educated by an uncle and aunt, both ofMODERATE FORTUNE. 145 whom had attained the middle age of life. Theirs was an industrious, well ordered, and cheerful family. Her uncle was a man of sound judgment, liberal feelings, and great knowledge of human nature. This he showed by the education of the young people under his care. He allowed them to waste no time; every moment must be spent in learning something, or in doing something. He encouraged an entertaining, lively style of conversation, but discountenanced all remarks about persons, families, dress, and engagements; he used to say, parents were not aware how such topics frittered away the minds of young people, and what inordinate importance they learned to attach to them, when they heard them constantly talked about. In his family, Sunday was a happy day; for it was made a day of religious instruction, without any unnatural constraint upon the gaiety of the young. The Bible was the text book; the places mentioned in it were traced on maps; the man- ners and customs of different nations were ex- plained ; curious phenomena in the natural history of those countries were read; in a word, every thing was done to cherish a spirit of humble, yet earnest inquiry. In this excellent family Mrs. remained till her marriage. In the course of fifteen years, she lost her uncle, her aunt, and her husband. She was left destitute, but sup- ported herself comfortably by her own exertions, and retained the respect and admiration of a large o146 HJNTS TO PERSONS OF circle of friends. Thus she passed her life in cheerfulness and honour during ten years; at the end of that time, her humble residence took fire from an adjoining house in the night time, and she escaped by jumping from the chamber win- dow. In consequence of the injury received by this fall, her right arm was amputated, and her right leg became entirely useless. Her friends were very kind and attentive; and for a short time she consented to live on their bounty; but, aware that the claims on private charity are very nume- rous, she, with the genuine independence of a strong mind, resolved to avail herself of the public provision for the helpless poor. The name of going to the alms-house had nothing terrifying or disgraceful to her; for she had been taught that conduct is the real standard of respectability. She is there, with a heart full of thankfulness to the Giver of all things ; she is patient, pious, and uniformly cheerful. She instructs the young, encourages the old, and makes herself delightful to all, by her various knowledge and entertaining conversation. Her character reflects dignity on her situation ; and those who visit the establish- ment come away with sentiments of respect and admiration for this voluntary resident of the alms- house. * * s* * * Sr What a contrast is afforded by the character of the woman who occupies the room next hers! She is so indolent and filthy, that she can with147 MODERATE FORTUNE. difficulty be made to attend to her own personal comfort; and even the most patient are worn out with her perpetual fretfulness. Her mind is continually infested with envy, hatred, and dis- content. She thinks Providence has dealt hardly with her; that all the world are proud and un- grateful; and that every one despises her because she is in the alms-house. This pitiable state of mind is the natural result of her education. Her father was a respectable mechanic, and might have been a wealthy one, had he not been fascinated by the beauty of a thoughtless, idle, showy girl, whom he made his wife. The usual consequences followed—he could not earn money so fast as she could spend it; the house became a scene of discord; the daughter dressed in the fashion ; learned to play on the piano; was taught to think that being engaged in any useful em- ployment was very ungenteel; and that to be engaged to be married was the chief end and aim of woman; the father died a bankrupt; the weak and frivolous mother lingered along in beggary, for a while, and then died of vexation and shame. The friends of the family were very kind to the daughter; but her extreme indolence, her vanity, pertness, and ingratitude, finally exhausted the kindness of the most generous and forbearing; and as nothing could induce her to personal ex- ertion, she was at length obliged to take shelter in the alms-house. Here her misery is incurable.148 HINTS TO PERSONS, ETC. Sbe has so long been accustomed to think dress and parade the necessary elements of happiness, that she despises all that is done for her comfort; her face has settled into an expression which looks like an imbodied growl ; every body is tired of listening to her complaints; and even the little children run away, when they see her coming. May not those who have children to educate learn a good lesson from these women ? Those who have wealth have recently had many and bitter lessons to prove how suddenly riches may take to themselves wings; and those who cer- tainly have but little to leave, should indeed beware how they bestow upon their children the accursed inheritance of indolent and extravagant habits.FAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. TINCTURE OE RHUBARB. Put into a stone bottle a gallon of the best brandy, to which add rhubarb, two ounces; raisins, stoned, one pound; senna, coriander seed, cardamomum seed, fennel seed, of each half an ounce; cochineal, a quarter of an ounce; saffron, two drachms; and stick licorice two ounces and a half; all well pounded; cork it lightly, and shake it twice a day for six weeks, then strain it off, and bottle it for use. N. B. A small quantity of the brandy may be reserved to wash the seeds, &c. after the straining. A VALUABLE STOMACHIC TINCTURE. Cascartlla bark bruised, and orange-peel dried, of each one ounce; brandy, or proof spirit, one pint: let the ingredients steep for a fortnight, and decant the clear liquor. Take two or three teaspoonfuls in a wine glass of water twice a day. This is a sovereign remedy to strengthen the stomach; and in most nervous and languid chronic complaints of that organ, will be taken with the greatest advantage.150 FAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. EXCELLENT BITTER FOR THE STOMACH. One ounce of gentian root sliced, one ounce of fresh rind of lemon, two drachms of cardamomum seeds bruised, three drachms of Seville orange- peel; pour a pint and a half of boiling water over the ingredients, let it stand an hour closely covered, then decant the clear liquor, and take a wine glass full two or three times a day. PAREGORIC ELIXIR. Purified opium, flowers of benjamin, and oil of aniseed, one drachm each; camphor, two scruples; steep all in a pint of good brandy, let it stand ten days, occasionally shaking it up, then strain. A teaspoonful in half a pint of water-gruel, taken the last thing at night, says Dr. Kitchiner, is a most effectual medicine to remove coughs and colds. He adds, it is also excellent for children who have the hooping cough, in doses of from five to twenty drops in a little water. FOR A COUGH. One drachm of aromatic spice; one drachm and a half of spirits of lavender; two ounces of sirup of orange-peel; made into an electuary. A tea- spoonful to be taken when the cough is trouble- some.FAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. 151 SOOTHING BEVERAGE FOR A COUGH. Two ounces of figs, two ounces of raisins, two ounces of pearl barley, and half an ounce of licorice root. Boil them together in a pint and a half of water, and strain off the liquor. A tea- cupful to be taken night and morning. A NOURISHING JELLY FOR A SICK PERSON. Put into a stone jar, or jug, a set of calf’s feet, cut in pieces, a quart of milk, five pints of water, a little mace, half an ounce of isinglass, and a handful of hartshorn shavings. Tie some brown paper over the jug, and put it into the oven with household bread. When done, strain it through a sieve; and when cold, take off the fat: some of it may oc- casionally be warmed up with wine and sugar. It is good taken as broth, with herbs. POWDER FOR RHEUMATISM. A quarter of an ounce of Turkey rhubarb, half an ounce of gum guaiacum, one ounce of nitre, one ounce of sulphur, and one ounce of flour of mustard, all finely pulverized, and well mixed together. One teaspoonful to be taken in a wine glass of cold water on going to bed.152 FAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. EYE WATER. Infuse in boiling water till cold, half an ounce of poppy heads, and the same quantity of chamo- mile flowers. Strain this mixture, and add two tablespoonsful of vinegar, and one of brandy. Apply it warm, night and morning. FOR CHILBLAINS. Take salammoniac, half an ounce, vinegar, three quarters of an ounce, nitre, as much as will lay on a shilling, mix well together.—In the first place rub the parts affected with camphorated spirits of wine, let it dry in, then rub the parts affected with the above. BLACKBERRY JAM. This conserve is the greatest, the most innocent, and certainly the least expensive treat that can be provided for children; and (with the exception of treacle) is the aliment of all others useful in regulating the bowels. The generality of jams and jellies are made with white sugar, and the proportions are weight for weight with fruit: hence the obvious objections to their frequent use among children are the constipating nature of the loaf sugar, and the enormous quantity that must be eaten of it before a sufficient bulk of the pre- serve can be obtained. The indispositions to which young persons arc liable probably proceedFAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. 153 from the acid formed in the stomach from their indulgence in sweet things. The cheapness of this delicate jam is astonishing; at the expense of ninepence or tenpence, they might provide their little families with three pounds of a wholesome luxury. To make it, add to every pound of the berries half a pound of the coarsest moist sugar, and boil it rather more than three quarters of an hour, keeping it stirred all the time. RECEIPT FOR MOCK CREAM. Mix half a tablespoonful of flour with a pint of new milk; let it simmer five minutes to take off the rawness of the flour; then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boiling, and run it through a fine sieve. RADISH. The boiled roots of this vegetable form an ex- cellent dish when served up in the same way as asparagus. TO STRENGTHEN VINEGAR. Let it be repeatedly frozen, and separate the upper cake of ice or water from it. ESSENCE OF VINEGAR. During the intense frosts of winter, if some vinegar be put into shallow dishes, the watery parts will be converted into ice—while the spi-154 FAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. rituous or acetous basis remains in a fluid state: by repeating this process, a pint of strong- vinegar may, in very cold seasons, be reduced to a few tablespoonsful of the essence. ESSENCE OF CELERY. Proof spirit, two ounces. Celery seed bruised, half an ounce, avoirdupoise weight. Let it steep for a fortnight: set the bottle, for the first two or three days, where it will receive a heat of from sixty to eighty degrees, Fahrenheit’s thermometer. Ohs.—A few drops will immediately flavour a pint of broth, and are an excellent addition to pease and other soups; the salad mixture of oil, vinegar, &c. TINCTURE OF LEMON-PEEL. A VERY easy and economical way of obtaining and preserving the flavour of lemon-peel, is to fill a wide mouthed pint bottle half full of brandy, and when you use a lemon, pare the rind off very thin, and put it into the brandy; in a fortnight it will impregnate the spirit with the flavour so strongly, that a teaspoonful will be enough to give a zest to half a pint of grog. TO PRESERVE GAME OR POULTRY IN HOT WEATHER. Game or poultry may be preserved for a long time, by tying a string tight round the neck, so as to exclude the air, and by putting a piece of charcoal into the vent.155 FAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. KEEPING MUSTARD. Dissolve three ounces of salt in a quart of boiling water, and pour it hot upon two ounces of scraped horse-radish; cover down the jar, and let it stand twenty-four hours: strain, and mix it by degrees with the best Durham flour of mus- tard, beat well together for a long time till of the proper thickness : put into a wide mouthed bottle, and stop closely: it will keep good for months. METHOD OF PRESERVING ANIMAL FOOD SWEET. Veal, mutton, beef, or venison, may be kept for nine or ten days perfectly sweet and good, in the heat of summer, by lightly covering the same with bran, and hanging it in a high and windy room; therefore a cupboard full of small holes, or a wire safe, so as the wind may have a pas- sage through, is recommended to be placed in such a room, to keep away the flies. TO SWEETEN MEAT, FISH, ETC. THAT IS TAINTED. W HEN meat, fish, &c. from intense heat, or long- keeping, are likely to pass into a state of corrup- tion, a simple and pure mode of keeping them sound and healthful is by putting a few pieces of charcoal, each the size of an egg, into the pot or saucepan, wherein the fish or flesh are to be boiled. Among others, an experiment of thisFAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. 15G kind was tried upon a turbot, which appeared too far gone to be eatable: the cook, as advised, put three or four pieces of charcoal, each the size of an egg, under the strainer, in the fish kettle; after boiling the proper time, the turbot came to table perfectly sweet and firm. TO PRESERVE EGGS. Put into a tub or vessel one bushel (Winchester measure) of quick lime, thirty-one ounces of salt, eight ounces of cream of tartar; mix them toge- ther, with as much water as will reduce the composition to that consistence that it will cause an egg to swim with its top just above the liquor; then put the eggs you wish to preserve with the liquor, which will keep them perfectly good for two years. SUBSTITUTE FOR TABLE BEER. As small beer is apt to become sour in warm weather, a pleasant beer may be made, by adding to a bottle of porter ten quarts of water, and a pound of brown sugar or molasses. After they have been well mixed, pour the liquor into bottles, and place them, loosely corked, in a cool cellar. In two or three days it will be fit for use. A spoonful of ginger, added to the mixture, renders it more lively and agreeable to the taste. TO CORRECT STALE BEER. If beer becomes too stale, a few grains of car- bonate of potash added to it at the time it. isFAMILY RECEIPTS, ETC. 157 drank, will correct it, and will make draught beer as brisk as bottled ale. HOW TO JUDGE THE PROPERTIES OF NUT- MEGS. The largest, heaviest, and most unctuous of nut- megs are to be chosen, such as are of the shape of an olive, and of the most fragrant smell. A TEST WHEREBY TO TRY MUSHROOMS. To ascertain whether what appear to be mush- rooms are so or not, a little salt should be sprin- kled on the inner or spungy part. If in a short time afterwards they turn yellow, they are a very poisonous kind of fungus; but if black, they are to be looked upon as genuine mushrooms. They should never be eaten without this test, since the best judges may be occasionally deceived. TO PREVENT SEA SICKNESS. Drop a few drops of vitriolic aether upon loaf sugar, and let it dissolve in your mouth; or drink a few drops of aether, added to a solution of sugar, in water, to prevent its immediate evaporation. pRURAL ECONOMY, ETC. ECONOMY IN FUEL. Let the coal ashes, which are usually thrown into the dust bin, be preserved in a corner of the coal hole, and make your servants add to them from your coal heap, an equal part of the small coal or slack, which is too small to be retained in the grate, and pour a small quantity of water upon the mixture. When you make up your fire, place a few round coals in front, and throw some of this mixture behind; it saves the trouble of sifting your ashes, gives a warm and pleasant fire, and a very small part only will remain un- burnt. By this method a saving of nearly one third may be made in the consumption of coals. DESCRIPTION OF AN ECONOMICAL PIT FOR PRESERVING VEGETABLES, ETC. SIR, It is with much pleasure that I now send you a description of the economical pit used for preserving vegetables during the winter, and for raising early salads, potatoes, and other tender esculents, in the spring: indeed, it would be tedious to mention the various articles that may be preserved and forwarded in this simple con-RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 159 trivance; the advantages I have derived from it for the last ten years enable me to speak with certainty of its utility: it may perhaps be more useful here than in the south; but to those who are desirous to have the table well supplied with vegetables during winter, its advantages will, I think, be obvious from the following details:—In the month of October, or sooner, according to the season, I begin to fill the pit by lifting all the Cape brocolis, cauliflowers, lettuces, and endives: of the two first, all such as are about to show their heads, some few a little forwarder, others somewhat later, so as to keep up a succession for use. In removing the plants from the different quarters of the garden, care is taken to keep as much earth about the roots as can conveniently be done, and at the same time a few of the outer leaves are trimmed off. They are then put into the pit, which must be prepared with a layer of earth at the bottom, sufficiently deep for the roots of the plants. I generally proceed by planting in rows across the pit, placing the tallest plants at the back, and keeping the rows sufficiently distant to allow a free circulation of air; twelve or fifteen inches between the rows, and about five or six inches in the row, are sufficient distances for brocolis and cauliflowers. They must be kept as upright as possible, and as high in the pit as the covers will allow: when planted, they receive a little water to settle the mould about the roots. The lettuces, endives, and other dwarf vegetables160 RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. that are put in, require the pit to be more filled; either rotten tan or decayed leaves will do, with a little earth on the top to raise the level of the surface within the pit sufficiently high, that plants may receive the benefit of the sun and air. The whole of the plants in the pit are occasionally attended to, and all decayed yellow leaves re- moved. As much air is given every day as pos- sible. In the autumn, when the weather is mild and dry, the covers are frequently taken off alto- gether during the day. I endeavour at all times to prevent the pit being saturated with moisture. When the weather is rainy, the covers are lowered on the tilts, and they are shut down every night. During the winter, if the frost sets in severe, I frequently put on a covering of litter about the covers, to exclude the frost more effectually. I have known the pit covered up in this way, night and day, for a fortnight and three weeks together, without the vegetable suffering in the least; and, as a proof, this winter I had plenty of fine cauli- flowers for the table till the end of January, with a constant supply of endives and other vegetables. I never hesitate to lift the covers during severe frost to gather the vegetables as they are wanted, but of course the pit is covered up again imme- diately after. When the winter crops are re- moved from the pit, I prepare it for the spring vegetables, such as radishes, lettuces, cauliflower plants, celery, early peas, and potatoes, all of which I can get at least three weeks earlier inRURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 10)1 the pit than on the open borders. I have also used it frequently to raise tender annuals, and to protect dahlias, which have been potted previous to turning them out in the borders, and for any half hardy plants in summer. I likewise use it for ridge cucumbers, vegetable marrow, and New Zealand spinach. In the garden here, there are two of these pits, one a hundred, and the other about sixty feet long, by three and a half feet wide. The cost of the whole was trifling. The wood of which the covers are made is common Scotch fir, rough from the saw, and though in use for ten years, it is still quite sound : the straw, which also forms part of the covers, and is firmly interwoven between the framing, has been renewed twice during that period, and some repairs have been given for the third time this season. TV ans. Hort. Soci. A Stewart. UNWHOLESOME BREAD. Fresh baked bread is extremely unwholesome —a loaf should not be cut till it has been baked at least twenty-four hours—and should be kept in an earthen pan with a cover. Cut the loaf as even as possible; pare off all burned and black parts of the crust, and cut no more bread at a time than you are pretty sure will be wanted. P *2RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 1G2 NEW KIND OF PEA. In the Belfast Botanic Garden we have to notice a thing, says the Northern Whig, hitherto un- known—it is a sowing of peas, the produce of a crop that has been reaped and was sown in March. They look well, and will be in bloom in a day or two; and should the autumn prove favourable, seed will be obtained from them in time for the November sowing. This pea was discovered by the Curator of the Garden, and is known by the name of Bishop’s Early Dwarf: its earliness is not its only good quality; its pro- ductiveness and fitness for table equally recom- mend it. SUBSTITUTE FOR TEA. A patent was granted in February, 1831, to a tea-dealer, “ for a new mode of preparing the leaf of a British plant for producing a healthy beverage by infusion.” According to the speci- fication, the British plant in question is the haw- thorn, from which the leaves may be taken from the month of April to September inclusive; they are at first to be carefully picked and cleansed, then to be well rinsed in cold water and drained; and whilst in the damp state they are to be put into a common culinary steamer, where they are to be subjected to the action of the vapour until they change from a green to an olive colour; the leaves are then to be taken out and dried upon a hotRURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 163 plate well heated, and are to be continually stirred up and turned over till they are thoroughly dry, in which state they may be preserved for use. When required for that purpose, an infusion is to be made in the same manner as tea, and sugar and cream are to be added to suit the taste of the drinker. ALE FROM MANGEL-WURZEL. Ten pounds weight of mangel-wurzel to a gallon of water will make an excellent beverage: fifteen pounds to the gallon will make better: but a capital drink may be composed of one-third malt and two-thirds mangel-wurzel. The method is first to mash and clean the roots well, and after scraping off the rind to slice and boil them down to a pulpy state: squeeze out the liquor from the pulp so as to leave the latter quite dry: set the liquor to boil with hops in the proportion of six ounces of hops to nine gallons of the other : then work it with yeast in the usual way. Thus a cottager by boiling his pot over the fire of a winter’s night may have his beverage whenever he likes—for the roots may be kept in a cool place during the year round. To cultivate mangel- wurzel is the easiest thing imaginable. Set single seeds on well manured ridges six or eight inches between the plant, and eighteen inches apart— hoeing down and keeping clean from weeds is all that is now necessary.RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 1(U PURIFYING DWELLINGS. Take six drachms of powdered nitre, six drachms of oil of vitriol, mix them in a teacup, by adding to the nitre one drachm of the vitriol at a time; the cup to be placed during the preparation on a hot hearth or plate of heated iron, and the mixture stirred with a tobacco-pipe or glass rod; the cup to be placed in different parts of the contaminated chamber. PREVENTING MOTHS IN FURS OR WOOLLENS. Sprinkle the furs or woollen stud’s, as well as the drawers or boxes in which they are kept, with spirits of turpentine, the unpleasant scent of which will speedily evaporate, on exposure of the studs to the air. Some persons place sheets of paper, moistened with spirits of turpentine, over, under, or between pieces of cloth, &c. and dnd it a very effectual method. USEFUL HINTS RELATIVE TO BEDCLOTHES, MATTRESSES, ETC. The purity of feathers and wool employed for mattresses and cushions ought to be considered as a drst object of salubrity. Animal emanations may, under many circumstances, be prejudicial to the health; but the danger is still greater, when the wool is impregnated with sweat, and the excrementitious parts of persons who have experienced putrid and contagious diseases. Bed-RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 165 clothes, and the wool of mattresses, therefore, cannot be too often beat, carded, cleaned, and washed. This is a caution which cannot be too often recommended. It would be very easy in most situations, and very effectual, to fumigate them with muriatic gas. MOSS MATTRESSES. M attresses made with fine moss are now get- ting; into general use in Russia and Sweden. They are filled to a depth of twelve inches, are very elastic and wholesome, and the cost of re- newing; them is of course trifling. O O PRESERVATION OF LIFE FROM FIRE. A SOCIETY for this purpose is forming in the city of London. The following are some of its re- commendations, well worthy of attention. Sweep chimneys regularly—sweep frequently with a broom the lower part of the chimney within reach. Beware of lights near combustibles— beware of children near fires and lights, or of trusting them with candles. Go into dangerous places in the day-time only. Do not leave clothes to dry unwatched either day or night—do not leave a poker in the fire—see that all be safe, before you retire to rest. Every family should have a fire- escape—as a knotted rope, or fringed rope (with a noose at one end to fasten it to a bed, &c. or to a staple, or to a pulley near a window), a rope ladder with wooden steps, and a large strong sack1G6 RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. with a rope to let down children. There are many other fire-escapes. Many might have been, many may be, saved from the dreadful death by fire— can the science and humanity of the age be ex- erted in a better cause, or one more neglected?— When a fire happens, put it out in its earliest stage; if suffered to extend itself, give the alarm. Beware of opening doors, &c. to increase the fire by fresh air. Muster the whole family—see that none are missing—try to be as collected as possible. First save lives, then property. Think of the ways of escape; by the stairs if no better way—creep along a room where the fire is, and creep down stairs backwards on hands and knees (heated air ascends)—come down stairs with a pillow before your face and a wet blanket round the body, and hold your breath—or try the roof of the adjoining house. Throw out of the window a feather-bed to leap upon in the last extremity —fasten fire-escapes to the bed-posts first—send children down by a sack fastened to a rope, taking care of the iron spikes and area—then lower yourselves. When a fire happens, let every respectable neighbour attend. (He will protect and save both lives and property; and the state of the fire police will be publicly known, felt, and the evil remedied.) Send instantly for engines both of the parish and of the insurance companies, and the parish and other ladders. Look for the nearest fire-plug—send instantly for all the watchmen, constables, and beadlesRURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 167 (Statute 14 Geo. III. c. 70, s. 75), and see they attend and are active—(let the state of the parish engines and ladders, as also defaulters, be marked and reported)—send for ropes and fire-escapes (if any near), and a bed for the inmates to jump out upon—inquire the number of inmates, and what is become of them. Any thing may be conveyed to the persons in danger by first throw- ing a stone at the end of a string (on the principle of Captain Manby’s invention) into the room; and to that string may be fastened a rope, ladder, sack, &c. with directions for their use, or any thing else. Use ropes, ladders, and fire-escapes as early as possible. NEW FIRE ESCAPE. Darby’s fire and burglary alarm, for which a patent has been taken out, has the appearance of a wardrobe: wires connected with it are attached to the various doors and windows, and in the event ot thieves breaking in, or fire taking place, a bell alarms the inmates of the house, and at the same instant it lights a candle, and presents a tablet showing the name of the apartment where either of those disagreeable agents are carrying on their work of destruction. TO TAKE RUST FROM IRON. I ake eight pounds of hog’s lard, and dissolve it in four ounces of camphor over the fire; when dissolved, take it off, and when nearly cold, stir103 RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. into it as much black lead powder as will make it of a leaden colour; apply it hot to the iron, and in two days wipe it off. FLY' WATER. Dissolve two drachms of the extract of quassia in half a pint of boiling water; add a little sugar or sirup; then pour the mixture ou plates. The flies are extremely partial to this enticing food, and it never fails to destroy them. TO DESTROY ANTS. Ants that frequent houses or gardens may be destroyed by taking flour of brimstone half a pound, and potash four ounces: set them in an iron or earthen pan over the fire till dissolved and united; afterwards beat them to a powder, and infuse a little of this powder in water; and wherever you sprinkle it the ants will die, or fly the place. TO DESTROY BEETLES. Take some small lumps of unslacked lime, and put into the chinks or holes from which they issue, it will effectually destroy them; or it may be scattered on the ground, if they are more numerous than in their holes. DESTROYING RATS. The works at Hurlet, in Scotland, were lately overrun with rats to such a degree that, it became absolutely necessary to adopt summary measuresRURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 169 for totally extirpating the destructive vermin. The following means were resorted to, and they were attended with the most perfect success. A number of corks, cut down as thin as sixpences, were roasted or stewed in grease, and then placed in the way of the rats. The dish was greedily de- voured as a special delicacy, and, as was antici- pated, they all died of indigestion. TO DESTROY SLUGS, CATERPILLARS, ETC. Put in an iron pot a pound of quick lime, and a pound of sulphur. Stir them about quickly; and, whilst doing so, put in six pounds of water, which is to boil. Snails will immediately leave any place watered with this composition ; and, if trees are watered with it, any caterpillars upon them will die instantly. TO DESTROY THISTLES, ETC. A farmer states, that “ having once a pasture field, that seemed one entire bed of common thistles, and having occasion to carry manure across it to another field, I observed all the thistles completely killed wherever the carts went; I therefore set to, and rolled the whole field with a cast-iron roller, once in the latter end of May, and twice in the beginning of June. The field has been free from thistles ever since. The expense was only three shillings per acre. Fern and coltsfoot I have exterminated in the same way.”RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 170 CURE FOR THE AMERICAN BLIGHT. Melt about three ounces of resin in an earthen pipkin, take it from the fire,.and pour into it three ounces of fish oil; the ingredients perfectly unite, and when cold, acquire the consistence of honey. A slight degree of heat will liquefy it, and in this state paint over every infected part of your tree, using a common painter’s brush. This I prefer doing in spring, as soon as the hoariness appears. The substance soon sufficiently hardens, and forms a varnish, which prevents any escape and stifles the insects. After the first dressing, should any cottony matter appear round the margin of the varnish, a secoud application to these parts will, I think, be found to effect a perfect cure. EFFECT OF HOT WATER ON FLOWERS. The following fact is deserving of record, as an interesting addition to what has hitherto been discovered on the subject of vegetable physi- ology, and as enabling the lovers of flowers to prolong for a day the enjoyment of their short- lived beauty. Most flowers begin to fade after being kept twenty-four hours in water; a few may be revived by substituting fresh water; but all the most fugacious (such as the poppy, and perhaps one or two others, excepted) may be completely restored by the use of hot water, tor this purpose place the flowers in scalding water,RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. 171- deep enohgh to cover about one-third of the length of the stem, and by the time the water has become cold, the flowers will have become erect and fresh; then cut oft' the coddled ends, and put the flowers into cold water. WATER COLOUR FOR ROOMS. Take a quantity of potatoes and boil them—then bruise them, and pour on boiling water until a pretty thick mixture is obtained, which is to be passed through a sieve. With boiling water then make a thick mixture of whitening, and put it to the potatoe mixture. Toigive colour, if white is not wanted, add the different-coloured ochres, lamp black, &c. according to circumstances. This paint dries quickly, is very durable, and has a good appearance to the eye. LAMP GLASSES. A very simple but effective precaution is em- ployed in Paris, to prevent the breaking of lamp glasses by the sudden application of heat. Be- fore they are used, a glazier cuts or scratches the base of the glass with a diamond, and afterwards sudden heat may be applied without danger. TO MEND CHINA. Take a piece of flint glass, beat it to a fine powder, and grind it extremely fine on a painter’s stone with the white-of an egg, a^d it joins China172 RURAL ECONOMY, ETC. without riveting, so that no art can break it in the same place. A GOOD AND CHEAP BLACKING. ' Ivory black, two ounces; brown sugar, one ounce and a half; sweet oil, half a tablespoonful. Mix them well, and then gradually add half a pint of small beer. TO RENDER SHOES WATER-PROOF. Mix a pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow wax, two ouuces of turpentine, and half an ounce of Burgundy pitch, carefully over a slow fire. Lay the mixture, whilst hot, on the boots or shoes with a sponge or soft brush; and when they are dry, lay it on again and again, until the leather becomes quite saturated, that is to say, will hold no more. Let them then be put away, and not be worn until they are perfectly dry and elastic; they will afterwards be found not only impenetrable to wet, but soft and pliable, and of much greater durability.TNDEX Advice, General . . . Page 1—8 Brine . . Page Alamode Beef . . . G3 Britannia Ware . . . . . ii American Blight . . 170 Brooms . . Animal Food, to preserve 155 Broth ....... Ants, to destroy . . . 1C8 Bruises Apple Pie 86 Buffalo’s Tongue . . . . 55 Apple Pudding . . . 81 Burdock Leaves . . . . 46 Apple Water .... 40 Burns Arrow-root’Jelly . . 38 Butter . 18 Ashes, Care of . . . 20 Cabbages Ashes for Land . . . 15 Cakes . 89 Asparagus 43 Calf’s-foot Jelly . . . . Balm of Gilead . . . 32 Calf’s Head . 61 Batter Pudding . . . 70 Cancers Beans and Peas, cooked 66 Canker Bed-bug Poison . . . 11 Carpets . . . . . . . Bedclothes .... 164 Castor Oil, boiled . . . . 37 Beef, cooked .... 62 Catsup Beef, salted .... 51 Celery •. . 44, 154 Beef Soup 62 Cement Beef Tea 40 Cheapest Pieces of Meat. . 55 Beer 108, 156 Cheeses ....... 16, 109 Bees, Sting of . . . 37 Cherry Pie Beetles, to destroy . . 168 Cherry Pudding . . . . Bird’s-nest Pudding . 81 Chickens Bitter for the Stomach 150 Chicken Broth . . . . Blackberry Jam . . 152 Chicken fricasseed . . . . 70 Blacking, cheap . . . .. 172 Chicken Pie Bleeding Wounds . . 32 Chilblains 33, 152 Blisters of Burns broken 36 China, to mend . . . . Bottles of Rose-water . 16 Chocolate Bottles, Vials, &c. . . 17 Cholera Morbus . . . . 30, 36 Brass Andirons, &c. . 13 Chopped Hands . . . . Brass Kettles .... 12 Cider Cake Brasses in Summer 20 Clothes Line, &c. . . Bread, Yeast, &c. . . 97 Clothes washed . . . . Bread Pudding . . . w Cockroaches Bread, unwholesome . 161 CodINDEX 174 Page Coffee 104 Colds 32, '45 Colouring 47 Combs . . . . . . . 10,20 Cooling Ointments .... 31 Corn 43 Cougb, for a 150 Cough, Beverage for . . . 151 Coughs 40 Court Plaster ' 20 Cranberry Pie i 87 Cranberry Pudding ... 82 Croup, or Quincy .... 29 Cucumbers 23 Cucumbers, pickled . . . 107 Currant Jelly 103 Currant-leaf Tea 10 ,Currant Wine 103 Curry Fowl ...... 71 Custards, cheap 84 Custard 'Pie 87 Custard Pudding .... SO Cut Wounds ...... 29 Dandelions 43 Diet Bread 91 Dish-water 20 Dough Nuts 94 Ducks ........ 72 Dye Stuffs 47 Dysentery . . . .30,31,47 Dyspepsia 40 Earache 28 Earthen Ware 12 Education of Daughters 115, 150 Eggs 12 Egg Gruel 38 Election Cake 91 Elixir Proprietatis .... 35 Eye Water 152 Faded Carpets, Cloth, &c. . in Feathers, and Feather Beds 13 Fevers 35,40 Fire Escape, new .... 107 Fire, Preservation of Life from 105 Fish, fried ....... TO Page Fish, salt 77 Flour Pudding 79 Flowers 170 Fresh Meat in Summer . 21, 00 Fresh Wounds 34 Fried Pork and Apples . . 78 Fritters, or Fiatjacks . : . 95 Fuel, Economy in ... . 158 Furniture 113 Game, to preserve .... 154 Geese 72 Gingerbread 89 Ginger Beer 109 Glass, cut 20 Glass Stoppers ..... 20 Gloves, white . . . . 11,10 Gold cleansed 20 Gravy for Fish 77 Gravy for Meat 08 Gravy for Poultry .... 75 Green Peas 43 Gruel 38 Haddock 70 Hair ........ 14 Hams, cured 53 Hasty Pudding 84 Headache 32, 45 Heardis 23 Herbs 45 Honey 28 Horse-radish 22 How to endure Poverty . 144 Icing for Cake 02 Inllamed Wounds .... 35 Inflammation 29 Iron 12, 107 Ironing 21 Jaundice 35 Knife Handles in Kn i ves, washed' 17 Lamb, cooked 03 Lamp Glasses 171 Lard IS Leaven 101 Lemon Brandy 22INDEX 175 Page « Page Lemon-peel, Tincture of . 154 Paper 18 Lemon Sirup .... 25 Parsnips . > 42 Lettuce 44 Pastry 88 Loaf Cake 92 Pea, new kind of ... . 162 Lobster 78 Peas, dry 67 Lockjaw . . .... 29 Peas, green • 43 Mackerel ‘ 76 21 Mangel-wurzel .... 163 Philosophy and Consistency 134 Marble Fireplaces . . . 13 Pickles . * ' 106 Mats for the Table . . 10 Pictures, covered .... 22 Mattresses ... 19,164, 165 Pie Crust 88 Maxims for Health . . 111 Pig, roasted 64 Meat, Choice of . . . 55 Pigeons . 73 Meat, corned and salted 51 Piles ‘34 ,46 Meat Pie 74 Plum Puddings 83 Meat in Summer . . . 21 , 60 Potatoes 43 Meat, tainted ...» 155 Potatoe Cheese 109 Milk Porridge .... 41 Pork, cooked 64 Mince Meat 65 Pork, salted 52 Mince Pies 85 Poultry, injured 75 Mock Cream 153 Poultry, young or old . . 09 Molasses 20 , 37 Poultry, to preserve . . . 154 Mortification 34 Preserves 102 Moths 15, 164 Provisions 21 Mushrooms ..... 157 Prunes,stewed 41 Mustard, to keep . . . 155 Puddings ....... 79- -84 Mutton corned and dried 52 Pump Handle 20 Mutton and Lamb, cooked 63 Purifying Dwellings . . . 164 Navarino Bonnets . . . 15 153 Nerves, excited .... 46 Rags 14, 15 , 20 Night Sweats .... 36 Rats, to destroy .... 108 N utmegs 157 Raspberry Shrub .... 104 Ointment of Elder Buds 36 Reasons for Hard Times 140 Ointment of Ground Worms 31 Red Ant? 27 Ointment of House Leek 32 Rennet,Pudding .... 80 Ointment of Lard . ... 36 Rhubarb or Persian Apple Ointment of Lard and Snlph ur 35 Pie 88 Oil, sweet' 23 Rheumatism, Powder for . 151 Old Clothes 15 Rice Bread 98 Onions 37 42, 44 Rice Pudding 81 Onion, a raw, is an excellent Ring-worms 37 remedy for the Sling of a Run Rounds 37 Wasp 29 Rusty Crape 12 Ovens, heated .... 98 Rusty Silk 24 Pancakes 94 Rye Paste 27INDEX 170 Page Sago Jelly 39 Salt Fisli 77 Salt Fish, warmed ... 78 Sauces for Pudding ... 83 Sausages 05 Sea Sickness, to prevent . 157 Shoes, water-proof . . . 172 Short Cake 9(i Sick Person, Jelly for ... 151 Silk, washed ....... 17 Sinews, contracted ... 31 Slugs, to destroy .... 109 Soda Powders 25 Sore Mouth 34 Sore Throat 31 Soup 1 02 Souse ........ 07 Sponge Cake 91 SpotsonFurniture,Cloth,&c. 11 Sprain 29 Starch 24 Stewed Prunes ..... 41 Sling of Bees 37 Stockings 24 Stomachic Tincture . . . 149 Straw Beds 20 Straw Carpets 27 Suet . . . 18 Sweet Marjoram .... 47 Swellings 33 Table Beer, Substitute for . 150 Tapioca Jelly 39 Tea 100, 102 Teeth 14 Thistles, to destroy ... 109 Page Throat Distemper .... 33 Tincture of Rhubarb . . . 149 Toe Nails 37 Tongue 54 Toothache 30 Tortoiseshell Combs ... 20 Towels 22 Travellingand PublicAmuse- ments 127 Tripe 08 Turkeys . . , . . . . 72 Vapour Bath 32 Veal, cooked 01 Vegetables 41—44 Vegetable Pit 158 Vinegar 19 Vinegar, Essence of . . . 153 Vinegar, to strengthen . . 153 Walnuts, pickled .... 100 Wash-leather Gloves ... 13 Water Colour for Rooms . 171 Water, Fly 108 Water, purified 1G Water, soft 15 Wedding Cake 92 Wens. ........ 33 White Kid Gloves . . . 11, 10 Whortleberry Pie .... 80 Whortleberry Pudding . . 82 Wicks of Lamps .... 11 Wine Whey 40 W oollens, washed .... 17 Woollen Yarn 13 Worms 28 Yeast 99 THE END. C. Whittinghain, Chiswick.R i II POPULAR BOOKS PUBLISHED BY THOMAS TEGG, 73, CHEAPSIDE; AND SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. ft II ! 9 I K THE MOTHER’S BOOK, by Mrs. Child, printed at the Glasgow University Press, foolscap, bound in cloth, and lettered, Third Edition. Price 4s. THE LITTLE GIRL'S OWN BOOK, with 110 Cuts;' boards. Price 4s. 6rf. A DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY, comprising the j most Eminent Characters of all Ages, Nations, and Professions, by R. A. Davenport, printed at the Chiswick Press, 355 portraits, 12mo. fancy cloth, boards. Price 12s. The same Work, bound in Turkey Morocco, gilt edges. Price 16.?. AINSWORTH’S LA'iaN AND ENGLISH DIC- TIONARY, improved by Dr. Dymock, in one thick vo- lume, ISmo. seventh edition, with Index of Proper Names. Price 7s. The same in roan and lettered. Price 7s. Grf. WALKER’S PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY IN MINIATURE, Revised and Corrected by R. A. Daven- port, printed at the Chiswick Press, on a pearl jpe, ISmo. cloth boards. Price 5s. The same Work, neatly bound in roan. Price 6s. The same Work, bound in Turkey Morocco. Price Ss. BARROW’S (DR. ISAAC) WORKS, with Life, Su- mary, Notes, &c. by the Rev. T. S. Hughes, 7 vols. post Svo. (Valpy's Divines). Price 21. 12s. Oil. BOURRIENNE’S LIFE OF NAPOLEON (National Library), 3 vols. 12mo. plates. Price 1/. Is. CHILD S (The) OWN BOOK, illustrated with 300 cuts. The Second Edition, improved; boards. Price 7s. Grf. The same Book, bound, gilt edges. Price 8s. Grf. GALT’S LIFE OF BYRON (National Library), 12m plates. Fourth Edition. Price 6s.