C t AS Cookery, WITH practical IRecipes, PREPARED BY HELEN EDDEN, M.C.A. jfirst=class Diplontee, IR.tLS.iI. <Bol& & Silver /ifte&allist. LONDON : ANDREW CHURCHMAN, 16, KING STREET, HAMMERSMITH, W.T869577-/ A LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden 30106023328593PREFACE. The success which has attended the sale of my former Cookery Books has led me to issue a new and revised edition containing many fresh recipes. This, book has no pretension to be a complete Cookery Book, but these recipes are written at the request of many pupils and ladies x who have attended my Classes and Lectures, therefore I have endeavoured to explain fully and clearly, the necessary ingredients required for each dish, and the best method of preparing and cooking the same. Now that gas is recognized as the best medium for cooking, having great advantages over coal, both as regards rapidity, cleanliness and economy, my aim in this book is to be a help to those who have already a Gas Stove or are desirous of having one, therefore I have appended a few useful hints as to their management. First and foremost the Stove should be kept scrupulously clean. The oven well washed after using (if any grease has been spilled) with hot water and soda. The stoves are lined with enamel, therefore they can be washed as easily as a plate and dried with a cloth. The stewpans for use should be kept clean and bright. Iron saucepans may be used if •quite free from soot as the soot would fall off and choke the boiling burners, causing an unpleasant smell. By simply turning a tap and applying a light it is in readiness for what- ever is required to be boiled, and the oven is perfectly heated in ten minutes, the heat throughout being uniform and from -day to day exactly the same temperature, and can be regulated6 PREFACE. at will to the greatest nicety. The gas range should only be lighted the moment it is required and turned off immediately the cooking is done. For Roasting.—Light the gas and turn it full on in the oven, allow the door to remain open until condensation has ceased, just about a minute or two, then close the door for ten minutes. Open the ventilator and put the joint in the oven, hanging it on the hook provided, to one of the shelves or to the top of the oven according to the size of the joint. Meat roasted in a gas oven requires only ten minutes- to the pound, such as shoulder or neck of mutton, etc., but thicker pieces, viz., sirloin of beef or legs of mutton would require a little longer than that. On putting the joint in the oven to roast, allow the gas to be full on for ten minutes, in order to thoroughly seal up the meat outside and form a casing to keep in the red juices. Then lower the gas to one half and open the ventilator. Wring a cloth out in hot water and wipe the meat over thoroughly before cooking, in order to have it perfectly clean. If roasting a leg of mutton, hang the leg the thickest end upward so that the greatest heat of the oven, which is at the top, shall be at the thickest end of the meat, the shank bone being down by the gas burners, where the heat is less, every part will be evenly cooked- Puddings and Pastry may be cooked at the same time, placing them on the grid shelf, over the meat and underneath- the browning shelf. The use of the solid or browning shelf is to cut the oven in two, giving the greatest heat just under the browning shelf, and a cool oven above, so that in every stove one can have two ovens, one very hot and one cooler. For Boiling,—Turn the gas full on but do not allow thePREFACE. 7 flames to come up the sides of the saucepan, concentrate the heat underneath as much as possible. As soon as the con- tents of the saucepan come to boiling point, turn the gas nearly out, and it will keep gently simmering. To Bake Pastry.—Let the oven get thoroughly hot, the temperature should be about 240. Place the pastry on baking sheets, immediately under the solid or browning shelf and turn the gas down to half, diminishing the heat from time to time, and placing the pastry on the top of the browning shelf to finish off. Pastry requires a sharp quick oven to set it, and to keep the butter in; as soon as the pastry is set aud beginning to brown, the heat must be reduced. For Cakes.—A moderate oven is required, not so hot as for pastry, but when the cake is rising and browning, say in 5 to xo minutes, lower the gas considerably, and when nearly done, turn the gas quite out in the oven to let the cake soak well. If a large cake taking 2 hours to bake, lower the flames to half-an-inch on putting it in the oven, and after 10 minutes lower the gas and reduce the heat every half-hour, turning the gas quite out for the last half-hour. If the cake takes only an hour to bake, reduce the heat every quarter of an hour and turn it quite off the last quarter of an hour, and so on in proportion for either large or small cakes, placing them always upon an open grid shelf and underneath the solid or browning shelf till risen and brown. Small cakes such as Rock Cakes, require a sharper oven to set them into shape, but the heat must be reduced after 2 or 3 minutes. Any Cake burnt underneath is due to too much gas being used.8 PREFACE. To Bake Bread.—A half quartern loaf will take 40 minutes exactly, both the grid shelves may be filled with as many loaves as they will hold with the browning shelf over them. Reduce the gas for bread every ten minutes, and quite out for the last ten minutes. As regards Grilling.—The grills of different stoves vary somewhat in construction, but the method of grilling is very similar. Always light the gas and let the griller get red hot, and the gridiron underneath in the pan must be hot too. Then grease the bars and place the steak on the gridiron. Be careful not to allow the flames to touch the meat. Give the steak a fierce heat for one minute to seal up the outside and form a casing to keep in the red juices, then lower the flame a little and let it cook gently for about five minutes ; then turn the steak with a spoon or blunt knife or the steak tongs, turn up the gas to give the raw side of the steak a fierce heat for one minute, and then lower the flames to one half for the remaining five minutes. Chops will take about seven minutes (the same method as above being observed), and Cutlets five minutes. Meat cooked by the gas griller as above is very tender and juicy, and extremely nourishing, palatable and digestible. The grill is also very nice for grilling bacon and fish, and making toast, and cannot be equalled for Omelettes. Lastly, the one secret of Cooking successfully and economically with gas, is first of all to get the oven and browning shelf very hot with the gas full on, and to turn it down very low for Cooking. HELEN EDDEN, M.C.A.GAS COOKERY. SOUPS. motes on Soups. Never put vegetables in making stock in hot weather; add them to flavour the soup the day it is wanted. Always pour boiling stock on to the vegetables to keep their colour ; using cold stock will discolour them. Remove the scum before the stock comes to the boil. StOCfc. Ingredients.-—2 lbs. Meat and Bones, 2 quarts Water, 1 Onion, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, 1 stick of Celery, Parsley, Marjoram, Lemon Thyme, and a Bay Leaf,, a little Salt and Pepper. METHOD.—Shred the meat finely and put it in two quarts of cold water to soak for half an hour with the bones, then let it come very slowly to the boil, remove the scum, add the vegetables, cleaned and cut up into dice, and the herbs tied together with a piece of string. Let all simmer gently for four or five hours, and then strain into a basin ; when cold remove the fat from top. Note.—Use beef if for brown stock, and veal or chicken for white stock ; and when boiling turn theSOUPS. IO gas down very low. The bones may be boiled again the second day with fresh vegetables, and will make good second stock. Hsparagus Soup. Ingredients. —2 large bundles of Asparagus, yz pint Cream. 1 Yz pints of White Stock, Pepper and Salt to taste. METHOD.—Break off the heads of asparagus as far as they are tender, and throw them into boiling water and salt, with the lid off the saucepan. When soft enough rub them through a hair sieve, and add the stock and seasoning and the cream. Pour into a bright or enamelled stewpan, and bring nearly to the boil and serve at once. Hand sippets of dry toast. GooD Brown Soup. Ingredients.—3 pints of good Brown Stock made from Beef, 2 ozs. Butter, ozs. Flour, 2 ozs. lean Ham or Bacon (chopped), 6 Mushrooms (chopped), 3 Shalots (chopped), 1 Carrot (chop- ped), Bouquet Garnis, Seasoning, 1 glass Port or Sherry, a little Browning. Method.—Take two ounces of butter and put in a stewpan, when hot, throw in the ham, vegetables and seasoning and cook for five minutes, then add the flour, and cook for two or three minutes; gradually add the boiling stock, and let all simmer for one11 SOUPS. hour. Pass through a wire sieve, return to saucepan and add the wine and the browning if required. Clear Soup. Make some good stock according to the first recipe. When the stock is quite cold, remove the fat and put the stock into a clean stewpan, add one carrot, turnip, onion, and celery cut up in rather large pieces, and one pound of raw beef which has just been passed through the mincing machine. Stir well in the cold stock and then put it on to boil, whisk well until just on boiling point, remove the whisk, put the lid of stewpan partly over and let it simmer for 15 minutes. This will harden the scum and clear the soup. Then strain through a clean serviette in a colander, into a basin or the soup tureen. A wine glass of Madeira may be added at the last, or omitted, according to taste. jflemtsb Soup. Ingredients.—Turnips, Onions, Celery, Leeks and Arti- chokes, about 2 of each, 3 pints White Stock, 2 Eggs, y2 pint Milk. Method.—Stew them in three pints of the liquor left from a boiled leg of mutton, and when tender pass them through a hair sieve. Return to the saucepan and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs and half a pint of milk or cream, cooking as for a custard, and on no account letting it come to the boil or the eggs12 SOUPS. will curdle, but allow the eggs to cook thoroughly or there will be a raw taste. <$rav>£ Soup. Ingredients.—i lb. Beef, i lb. Bones, 2 ozs. Butter, 3 pints of cold Water, 1 Carrot, 1 Onion, 1 Turnip, Pepper and Salt, 1 oz. Flour, 1 Mushroom. Method.—Cut the meat in small pieces, break the bones, and cut up all the vegetables finely. Put the butter in stewpan, and when hot put in the meat, bones, and vegetables, and brown them well; then stir in flour, add seasoning and the cold water, let all simmer gently for three hours, strain and serve. Remove all scum as it rises. Ibadcot Soup. Ingredients.— '/z pint Haricot Beans, 1 Onion, ]/z pint Milk, 1 quart White Stock, teaspoonful Salt, 5 White Pepper- corns, 1 blade of Mace. Method.—Soak the beans in cold water for 12 hours. Then put the stock on to boil, and add the beans, the onion sliced, mace and seasoning. Let it boil gently for four hours. Pass all the contents through a wire sieve, return to stewpan, add the milk, and stir well; when it is thoroughly hot it is ready to serve. Note.—Turn the gas on full, but do not let the flames appear up the sides of stewpan ; concentrateSOUPS. the heat as much as possible in the centre of the stewpan underneath, and whenever the contents boil, always turn the gas at least half-way off. IRtCmes Soup. Ingredients.—Half an Ox Kidney, I Carrot, Turnip, Onion, Salt and Pepper, 2 oz. Flour, 1 oz. Butter, 3 pints of Hot Water, 1 tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. Method.—Cut up the kidney into small pieces, also the vegetables, and fry all together in the butter for five minutes, then stir in the flour and seasoning and add gradually the hot water. Let it come to the boil and then allow it to simmer gently for an hour and a half. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return to the stewpan and add the mushroom ketchup, and if the soup is not dark enough in colour add a few drops of caramel. Let it come to the boil and serve with fried croiitons of bread. Xeutil Soup. Ingredients.—y2 pint red Lentils, 1 oz. Butter, 1 Onion, a little Celery, Pepper and Salt, 1 quart of Stock or Water. Method.—Fry the onion and celery, finely chopped, with the lentils in the butter, add the pepper and salt, and pour on to them a quart of boiling water. Let all boil until the lentils are soft. Pass all through a colander or wire sieve. Return to the saucepan, make quite hot and serve.14 SOUPS. /IDulliGatawns Soup. Ingredients.—1 lb. Veal, 1 Apple, 1 Onion, 1 Lemon, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, 1 oz. Cocoanut, 1 quart Water, oz. Curry Powder, 1 oz. Flour. METHOD.—Cut the veal into dice, and soak for half an hour in one quart of cold water. Then let it very gradually come to the boil. Then cut up the turnip, apple, carrot, onion, and add them, also the oz. of grated or dessicated cocoanut, and let it simmer for two hours. Then pass all through a wire sieve, and return to stewpan. Mix the curry powder and flour together, add enough cold water to mix it, and pour into the boiliug soup, stirring it well for a few minutes till it thickens. Then add about a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and serve with with boiled rice, handed separately. Note.— Use an old saucepan and an iron spoon, as the curry will discolour the utensils very much. /Ifoutton 3Brotb. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of lean neck of Mutton, 1 oz. Rice, 1 Turnip, 1 Carrot, 1 Onion, 1 Leek, a little finely chopped Parsley, Salt and Pepper. Method.— Put the mutton in two quarts of cold water, and let it stand in the saucepan for half an hour before putting it on the gas. This will serve to draw out the juices of the meat ; then add the trimmings of!5 SOUPS. the vegetables, pepper and salt, and let it simmer gently for one hour and a half, removing the scum as it rises. Then take out the meat, and it may either be served separately with some caper or parsley sauce, or it may be cut into dice and returned to the broth just before serving. Strain the broth, and then throw in the rice and boil rapidly, and add the vegetables cut into thin strips or fancy pieces ; when they are cooked add the parsley, and serve. ©£ Cbeefe Soup. Method.—Put the ox cheek into a large stewpan and cover it with cold water ; bring it to the boil and skim it well. Then add one carrot, bay leaf, turnip and onion, celery, twenty peppercorns and salt, marjoram, thyme and parsley, a sprig of each. Let it simmer gently for five hours, then take out the ox cheek and strain the stock into a basin. When cold, skim the fat from off the stock, and to finish off the soup put 3 ozs. of butter into a stewpan, and when that is melted stir into it 3 ozs. of flour, 1 teaspoon- ful of pimento, and cook it well; add two quarts of the stock and bring it to the boil, and let it simmer for half an hour ; add, just before serving, 1 gill of sherry, a little caramel and cayenne pepper. The cheek may be made hot in the oven and a thick piquant sauce poured over it, and served as a luncheon dish.i6 SOUPS. Hornato Soup. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of Tomatoes, 3 Shalots, 1 stick of Celery, 1 Bay Leaf, 1 oz. Butter, 2 ozs. lean Ham or Bacon, 10 White Peppercorns, J4 teaspoonful Salt, x pint White Stock. Method.—Put the oz. of butter, chopped ham, and shalots and celery with the bay leaf, peppercorns, and salt into a saute pan and simmer for five minutes, stirring all the while with a wooden spoon, then add the tomatoes sliced, and boil altogether for 15 minutes. Pass through a hair sieve and return to stewpan ; add the pint of stock, and thicken with *4 oz. of cornflour in the same manner as the white soup. Serve with fried bread, cut into dice. NOTE.—Only turn on a very little gas for the first five minutes, then half way on when boiling, and be careful to use neither an iron spoon, stewpan, or wire sieve, or the colour of the soup will be spoiled. Tinned tomatoes may be used if fresh ones cannot be obtained. White Soup. Ingredients.— 1 lb. Potatoes, 1 Onion, 1 Bay Leaf, 1 oz. Butter, 5 White Peppercorns, l/2 teaspoonful of Salt, % oz. Cornflour, 1 leaf of Celery, 1 quart of White Stock, y2 pint of Milk. METHOD.—Take a quart of the liquor that a leg of mutton, chicken, rabbit, or veal has been boiled in, and put it in a stewpan and let it come to the boil. Peel17 SOUPS. the potatoes thinly and cut in slices, also the onion and celery. Put the butter into another stewpan and let it get hot, then cook the vegetables in the butter, with the bay leaf, for five minutes, add the pepper and salt and pour on to them the quart of boiling stock, and let all cook together until tender, then pass all through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, return to stewpan and add half a pint of milk; when boiling mix the cornflour with a little cold water and pour into the soup, simmer for five minutes. Note.—This soup will take about half an hour to make. Be sure to place the stewpan on the centre of boiling burner, and when boiling turn the gas down one-half. <Soot> Mbite Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of good White Stock, made from Chicken or Veal, X pint Milk, X pint Cream, yolks of 2 Eggs, a little Lemon Peel, 1 oz. of Cornflour, 1 blade of Mace, Pepper and Salt to taste. Method.—Put the white stock when made and the fat removed, into an enamelled stewpan and let it get hot, add the mace and lemon peel and seasoning. Mix the yolks of the eggs with the cornflour and milk and cream, pour into the stock, and cook gently for 15 minutes. Strain and serve. BFISH AND FISH ENTREES. Uo Clarify jfat. Take about 6 lbs. of beef and mutton fat, cut it into •dice, and put it into a thick iron stewpan half filled with cold water; stir this every now and then with an iron spoon, and let it boil quickly over the fire until the liquid is perfectly transparent, and only little scraps of brown floating about in it. It will take from two to three hours. When it is nearly clarified the fat is apt to splutter ; so be careful not to stand over it, as the fat attains a very high temperature. Let it stand and cool a little before straining into a basin through a fine strainer or hair sieve. This fat will keep for months, and may be constantly used. IRules for ffrgina. Always use sufficient fat to cover whatever is to be fried, such as soles, whiting, rissoles, &c. Be sure that the fat is boiling; before attempting to fry it should be perfectly still, and a faint blue fume coming from it.19 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. If the fat be not boiling, the fish or rissoles would absorb the grease, neither would they brown properly. Be sure to strain the fat after using, so as to get rid of the little dark crumbs that are sure to have floated off in the frying. Never leave the fat on the fire after the blue fume is visible, unless you are ready to use it for frying, or it will burn, get hotter and hotter, and at last ignite. Dressed Bloaters. Ingredients.—Two ozs. of Bread Crumbs, % teaspoonful of Mustard, '/* teaspoonful of finely-minced Onion, 2 teaspoonsful of chopped Parsley, 2 Bloaters. Method.—Mix it all well together. Split two bloaters down the back, remove the backbone, and place this mixture on the cut side of each. Butter a baking sheet, and place the bloaters on with the mixture on the top of each, and a few little pieces of butter on the top of the crumbs. Bake about ten minutes in a moderate oven. Bresseb Crab. One crab, remove all the meat of the crab from the shell, and mix it with 1 tablespoonful of oil and 1 of vinegar, pepper, salt and cayenne to season. ThenFISH AND FISH ENTREES. 20 re-fill the shell and garnish with lobster coral and parsley. Stewefc lEels. Ingredients.—2 lbs. Silver Eels, 1 quart of good Beef Gravy, l'Y ozs. of Flour, y2 gill of Port Wine, Pepper and Salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Mushroom Catsup, a little Lemon Juice. Method.—'Put the gravy on to boil in a stewpan, and when it boils put in the eels; they should be well washed first, and cut up into pieces about two inches long. Let them simmer very gently about half an hour. Take them carefully out with a fish slice and then thicken up the gravy. Mix the flour, pepper and salt, smoothly with the port wine, mushroom catsup,, and lemon juice, adding about one gill of water;, strain this into the gravy, keep stirring until it boils and let it boil for ten minutes. Return the eels to get hot, and serve up quickly. fish Cafees. Ingredients.— 1 lb. of any kind of cooked Fish, 1 lb. cold Potatoes (passed through a wire sieve), 1 oz. Butter, yolk of one Egg, Pepper and Salt, 2 teaspoonsful of Essence of Anchovy, a few drops of Lemon Juice. Method.— Put the 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, and when melted add the fish cut into small flakes, the potatoes, seasoning, and the yolk of egg; cook21 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. well, stirring and mixing until the mixture leaves the side of the stewpan and clings in a ball round the spoon. Turn on to a plate and spread flat; let it get quitp cold, then shape into cakes, brush over with egg, cover with bread crumbs, place them in a frying basket, and plunge into boiling fat sufficient to cover them and fry a golden brown ; drain them on paper and serve in a circle with fried parsley in centre. jfisb Cutlets. Ingredients.—i lb. cold Fish, i oz. Butter, i oz. Flour, i gill of Water or Fish Stock, i teaspoonful of Essence of Anchovy, Cayenne Pepper and Salt, i Egg, X lb- fine Bread Crumbs. Method.—The fish should be chopped up finely, then melt I oz. of butter in a stewpan, add the flour and mix smoothly; then gradually add the stock or water, and stirring all the time, boil it till it forms a smooth thick white sauce and clings in a ball round the spoon, leaving the sides of the stewpan perfectly clean ; then add the fish, anchovy essence, and sea- soning ; mix all well together and turn out on to a plate to cool. When cold, shape this mixture into cutlet form, egg and bread crumb each one and lay them in a frying basket, and plunge them into boiling fat and fry a light brown ; insert a parsley stalk in the thin end of each cutlet, dish in a circle, and garnish with parsley.22 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. tfrlefc plaice or Soles dfilletefc). Ingredients.— i Plaice, i Egg, yz lb. Bread Crumbs, i tablespoonful of Flour, clarified Fat sufficient to cover. Method.—Well dry the fillets in the flour, whip up the egg on a plate with a knife, take a brush and cover each fillet well with the egg, take a large sheet of kitchen paper and put the bread crumbs on, then lay each fillet carefully in the bread crumbs and toss the crumbs well over till every part is covered, press the crumbs firmly on with a broad-bladed knife. Be careful that the fat is boiling; if so, it will be quite still and a faint blue fume coming from it. Then put the fillets in and fry them a golden brown ; take them out with a fish slice and lay them on a piece of paper to drain. Then pile the fillets high on a dish and serve with fried parsley. Soles and whiting may be fried in the same manner. fflsb fritters. Make the same batter as for apple fritters. Have the fish filleted and cut in convenient pieces, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice on each fillet, cover with the batter, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat, having the fat about two inches deep in the pan ; drain on some kitchen paper. Serve on a dish with fried parsley as a garnish.23 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. jpisb (Steameb). Fish should never be put into the water ; it is always preferable to steam it, thereby producing a much better flavour. Let the water be boiling, and add a little salt to it, then put the fish on the strainer and steam gently until the skin of the fish is cracking. ©rtefc Iba&bocfc, Take a Yorkshire pudding tin and half fill it with water, add about y^, gill of milk and let it come to the boil over a gas burner. Then trim the haddock with a pair of scissors and cut off the fins, and put it into the boiling water and milk ; let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Take it up with a fish-slice, draining it as much as possible, and send it to table on a hot dish. Put a little butter on it and a sprinkle of pepper. If liked, poached eggs may be served as a garnish, or 2 or 3 tomatoes cut in slices and made hot in the oven. Ifoabbocfe (Stuffefc anb 3BabeD). The haddock may be cooked in a similar manner to the mackerel. Stuff the inside of the fish with the mixture and sew it up, then truss it in the shape of the letter S, or with the tail in the mouth, like whiting. Egg and bread crumb, and bake for half an hour. Note.—Gas on full for ten minutes. Bake the fish on the top of the browning shelf, and when the fish isFISH AND FISH ENTREES. 24 put in reduce the flame to one-half, and after that gradually reduce the heat. Xobster Soufflees. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Flour, 1 gill Milk or Fish Stock, yz gill Cream, Cayenne, Salt, 1 Hen Lobster, yolks of 2 Eggs, the whites of 3 whipped stiffly. Method.—Butter some small moulds thickly. Then make a very stiff panada with 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. flour, fish stock, and cream ; add cayenne and salt. Take the coral from the lobster, dry it, and pass through a sieve. Pound half of it with the meat from the lobster, and add it to the panada. Then beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, and then the whipped whites must be added lightly. Fill the moulds half full, and steam them very gently for about 20 minutes. Turn out carefully, and serve with white fish sauce poured over, and garnish with the lobster coral. flfoullet (lRe&). Put the mullet into a greased baking tin with 1 oz. of butter and a glass of sherry and 1 teaspoon of anchovy sauce, cover with a greased paper and bake slowly for 15 minutes. Take up the fish, place the pan on a gas burner and stir in 1 teaspoon of flour and some lemon juice, a tiny piece of shallot, cayenne and salt. Pour this over the fish and serve.FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 25 /Hiacfeerel, Stuffed an& 3Bafte&. Ingredients.—2 Mackerel, 1 oz. Bread Crumbs, ]/2 oz. finely chopped Parsley, ]/2 teaspoonful mixed Herbs, 1 Egg, Pepper, Salt, a little grated Lemon Peel, 1 oz. Dripping, X oz. Raspings. Method.—Split the mackerel down the back and remove the roe ; throw the roe into boiling water for one minute, then chop it and add to it the herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and seasoning. Mix with the egg, and spread over one of the mackerel. Lay the other on the top, place in a deep baking tin, cover with a greased paper, and brush some dripping over the top. Bake for about half an hour. When done, place the fish on a hot dish, and garnish with alternate rows of parsley and raspings. Serve with anchovy sauce. ©Esters, ffriefc. Ingredients.—1 doz. Oysters, X lb- Bread Crumbs, 1 Egg, a little Flour and Pepper. METHOD.—Beard the oysters, then dry them well in the flour and pepper, egg and crumb them, and fry in boiling fat for one minute. Garnish with water-cress and lemon. Make a little sauce, with the oyster liquor and milk, and serve in a sauce boat.2 6 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. ©Ester patties a la IRusse. Ingredients.—yi lb. Cassolette Pastry, i dozen Oysters, i oz. Butter, yz oz. Flour, J4 gill Oyster Liquor, y. gill Cream, Cayenne, Salt, a few drops of Lemon Juice, i hard-boiled Egg. Method.—Bake pastry in open tartlets, with raw rice or crust of bread in the centre. Make a sauce with the flour, butter, and oyster liquor; mix in chopped white of egg, cream, and seasoning. Fill tartlets with the mixture ; lay the oyster on the top, and just warm in the oven. Decorate with the yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, and serve up very hot. Dressed plaice or Uurbot. Ingredients.—i Plaice, i oz. Butter, i dessert spoonful of finely-chopped Parsley, Salt and Pepper, i gill of picked Shrimps or Prawns, 2 ozs. of Bread Crumbs, Raspings. Method.—Place the fish on a board, the white side up, and cut it down the centre with a sharp knife and raise the fillets on either side. Mix the parsley, salt, pepper, prawns, and bread crumbs together, and stuff the plaice under the fillets. Then melt the butter and brush a fireproof dish over with it; lay the plaice on the dish, brush the rest of the butter over the fish, squeeze a little lemon juice over, and cover withFISH AND FISH ENTREES. 27 raspings. Bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Garnish with lemon, parsley, and prawns. DevtUefc* prawns. Ingredients.—1 pint Prawns, Salt, Cayenne, and chopped Parsley. Method.—Flour the prawns, put them in the frying basket and plunge into boiling fat for one minute. Have the parsley, cayenne, and salt sprinkled over a cloth ; toss the fried prawns into this and shake them gently till all are well seasoned. Serve imme- diately with thin bread and butter, and garnish with lemon. Saumon au Parmesan. Ingredients.—1 Salmon Steak, y2 oz. grated Parmesan Cheese, Pepper and Salt, a few Raspings, oz. Butter. Method.—Butter a fireproof dish and lay the salmon on ; then butter a piece of paper to cover the fish entirely, and bake it in a moderate oven about 15 minutes. Then remove the paper, and cover the salmon with the grated cheese and seasoning, putting raspings on the top last of all. Then return it to the oven for five minutes, or place under the grill; if the latter, use white bread crumbs. Serve with a garnish of cucumber, arranged in thin slices around the dish.FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 28 Salmon Steal?. Ingredients.—i Steak, i pickled Gherkin, i pickled Onion, i Anchovy, Cayenne Pepper and Salt, 2 tablespoonsful of Salad Oil. Method.—Chop the gherkin, onion, and anchovy finely, and then season it and mix in the salad oil, or, if the oil is disliked, use I oz. of butter melted. Rub this all into the salmon on both sides, and wrap the fish in buttered paper. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven, and serve in the paper. (Mlleb Salmon Steal?. Ingredients.-—1 slice Salmon, y2 oz. Butter, Cucumber. Method.—Light the grill burner and let it get red- hot. Then place the salmon on the gridiron and grill about three minutes on one side, and turn it and give it three minutes on the other side. Serve on a hot dish, place the butter on the top, and garnish with slices of cucumber. JButtereb Sbrlmps. Ingredients.—X pint picked Shrimps, 2 ozs. Butter, Salt and Cayenne Pepper, Croutons of Bread, filleted Anchovies, Eggs (2), Lobster Coral. Method.—Egg and bread crumb the rounds of bread and fry in boiling fat. Fry the shrimps in theFISH AND FISH ENTREES. 2 9 butter a few minutes, add the salt and cayenne pepper, and thicken with the yolk of one egg. Pile the mixture on the croutons, and garnish with a filleted anchovy on each dipped in lobster coral. ^fricassee of Sbrimps. Ingredients.—Y pint picked Shrimps, i oz. Butter, a little chopped Onion, Parsley and Thyme, Salt and Pepper, Y oz. of Flour, Y gill of Stock, Y gill Milk. Method.—Make the butter hot in a small stewpan, and fry vegetables until brown ; then add the flour, pepper and salt, and the half-gill of stock and the milk. Let it boil up well, stirring all the time, and then put in the shrimps to get hot. Garnish with lobster coral This mixture is nice to fill Dresden patties with or cassolette cases. Sole a la pannesan. Ingredients.—i pair Soles filleted, i oz. Butter, i oz. Flour yi gill of Fish Stock, yz gill of White Wine, 2 tableSpoonsful Parmesan Cheese, i tablespoonful of Cream, Salt, and Cayenne Pepper. Method.—Make a panada with the butter, flour, fish stock, and milk, and cook it well; then add the cream, cheese, and seasoning. Spread this on the fillets and cook as for Sole a la Venetienne. Make30 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. the remains of the sauce thinner by adding more milk, and on dishing up the fish pour the sauce over. Sole a la Denetienne. Ingredients.—Half an ounce of Butter, the same of Flour, ]/2 gill of Fish Stock, X pint of picked Shrimps, 4 mushrooms, y2 teaspoonful of Lemon Juice, Salt and Cayenne. Method.—Fillet the soles and spread this mixture on the skin side of the fish, and roll up or fold in two. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and fish stock, into which mix the shrimps and mushrooms, chopped finely ; add the lemon juice and seasoning. Having spread this mixture on the fillets, place them on a buttered baking sheet in the oven, covered with but- tered paper, for 10 minutes. Dish them in a circle, pour Venetienne sauce over, and garnish with 1 gill of shrimps and a few mushrooms. Mbltobalt. Spread a cloth on the table and dredge plenty of flour on it, then toss the white-bait gently in the cloth till quite dry and then into the frying basket. The fat for frying must be smoking hot, at a temperature of not less than 400 degrees. Plunge the white-bait in for one moment, that they may be crisp but not brown.31 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. Let them drain on some kitchen paper, and serve them piled high on a dish. Brown bread and butter and a cut lemon should be handed with them. XL0 bev>tl Mbite^bait. After the first frying, sprinkle black pepper and cayenne over, but no more flour, and plunge them again into the fat to brown. Half a pint of white-bait makes a good dish.COLD ME A T COOKER Y. JSeef IRissoles. Ingredients.—i oz. Fat or Butter, i oz. Flour, i gill Stock or Gravy, i Onion (cooked), i teaspoonful of chopped Parsley, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, a little grated Lemon-peel, i lb. cold meat (minced), Egg and Bread Crumbs. Metpiod.—Make a thick sauce with the butter, flour and stock, then add the onion, meat, parsley, lemon, and seasoning ; mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Then make up in balls, egg and bread crumb each one, and fry in boiling fat. JSouDlnettes of flfteat. Ingredients.— X lb. cold Meat, X lb. cold sieved Potato, l/z oz. Butter, Y Onion, 2 Eggs, a little Parsley, Pepper and Salt, Vermicelli or Bread Crumbs, X lb- Short Crust. METHOD.—Fry the chopped onion in the butter, then add the other ingredients, potato, meat, parsley, pepper, and salt, and mix all thoroughly with the yolk of one egg. Roll out the pastry very thinly, cut out the rounds with a cutter, put a teaspoonful of the meat in the centre. Beat up the eggs on a plate,COLD MEAT COOKERY. 33 moisten the edges and fasten the pastry firmly, then egg and bread crumb, or egg and vermicelli each one, and fry in boiling fat. Cblcfcen Croquettes. Ingredients.— i oz. Butter, i oz. Flour, i gill White Stock, i tablespoonful of Cream, '/2 lb. minced Chicken, 2 ozs. of Ham, a squeeze of Lemon Juice, Salt, and Cayenne. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, then mix in the flour, cayenne, and salt till quite smooth, and gradually add the stock. Cook this until it leaves the sides of the saucepan (stirring all the time) and clings in a ball round the spoon. Then take it off the gas and mix in the minced chicken and ham, cream, and lemon juice. Turn this mixture out on to a plate to cool. Then shape into balls or corks, and egg and bread crumb, frying them in boiling fat a light golden brown. 2>e\nlle& Cbicfcen or Curbed Xeqs. Ingredients.—1 teaspoon Mustard Powder, 1 teaspoon Chutnee, 1 teaspoon Anchovy, 2 teaspoons Salad Oil, Cayenne, and Salt. Method.—Mix these well together and smear well over the legs, cutting slashes to let the mixture get well in. Then grill and send to table very hot. To make a sauce, add 1 gill of stock to the above in- gredients. CCOLD MEAT COOKERY. 34 Conusb pasties. Ingredients.—Yz lb. cooked Beef, Y* lb. cold boiled Potatoes, i boiled Onion, 2 tablespoonsful Brown Sauce, a little Salt and Pepper. Method.—Mince the meat, potato and onion finely, add the seasoning and sauce, and mix well. Then make some short crust and cut into rounds about 4 inches in diameter. Place a tablespoonful of the mix- ture in the centre of each round. Beat an egg up on a plate, and brush round the edges of each ; press the edges firmly together and form into a frill on the top. Brush all over with egg, and put into a quick oven for twenty minutes on the grid shelf, underneath the browning shelf, gradually reducing the heat. Dresbeit patties. Ingredients.—1 stale Tin Loaf, 1 gill of Milk, 1 Egg, Bread Crumbs. Method.—Cut a round of bread inch thick, take a cutter and cut out 9 or 10 rounds, and with a smaller cutter cut out space in middle not quite through, and scoop out with a knife. Cut out rounds also for tops with smaller cutter about ^ inch thick. Roll them all in the egg and milk on a shallow plate. Then bread crumb, and fry them a light golden brown. Fill them with rissole mixture, fish cutlet mixture, or potted meats, heaped up, and the little rounds on top. Garnish with parsley.COLD MEAT COOKERY. 35 Game, Soufflees of. Ingredients.—6 paper souffle cases, well buttered, 3 ozs. Game, 1 Truffle or Mushroom, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 gill Stock, 2 Eggs, and seasoning. Method.—Make a panada with the butter, flour and stock, cook well, then add the game and mushroom finely chopped, and stir in the yolk of one egg. Whip 2 whites stiffly and add ; fill the cases and bake 10 to 15 minutes. Garnish with a button mushroom in •centre and some bread crumbs. Game, Cassolettes of. Line some moulds with cassolette pastry (see recipe) and bake. Fill with this mixture—% lb. cooked game cut in strips, lb. mushrooms cut in strips, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, cayenne, salt and lemon juice, cooked in 1 oz. of butter. Garnish with whipped white of egg and lightly brown in oven. fllieat ant) potato IRtssoles. Ingredients.—1 oz. Butter, X lb. minced Meat (cooked), X lb. cold Potatoes, 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley, a little Nutmeg, Pepper and Salt, 2 Eggs, X lb. Bread Crumbs. Method.—Make the butter hot in a stewpan (and, if liked, fry a teaspoonful of finely-chopped onion); C 236 COLD MEAT COOKERY. then add the meat and sieved potatoes, parsley and' seasoning, and yolk of one egg. Then, when well blended, turn on to a plate to cool. Make into balls,, egg and bread crumb, and fry in boiling fat sufficient to cover. flbeat witb Scrambled Eggs. Cut y lb. cold meat in very thin shreds and make it hot in a saucepan with a tiny piece of butter, then add 3 teaspoonsful of stock and 3 whole eggs, stir lightly with a fork until the eggs are cooked and just creamy, then pile up on toast and serve this with, spinach. Cold meat of any kind may be used for this dish. flIMnce, witb potato Mall. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold Meat, 2 lbs. Potatoes, 2 ozs. Butter,, yolks of 2 Eggs, Parsley, 1 tablespoonful of Milk. Method.—Make some stock with bones of meat,, and with the stock some good brown sauce nicely seasoned. Let this boil well, and put in the meat,, finely minced, five minutes before serving. Draw the stewpan off the fire, and on no account let it boil when the meat is in, or the meat will be tough. Pass the potatoes through a wire sieve, then put the butter in a.COLD MEAT COOKERY. 37 •stewpan, add the potatoes and the yolks of 2 eggs ; mix well, and cook gently until the mixture leaves the sides of the stewpan ; then turn on to a board and shape it into a high wall, place it on a hot dish, put the mince in the centre, and decorate with poached eggs or baked tomatoes on the top, and sprigs of parsley round. /JIMnce witb potato Cassolettes. Take some large potatoes, and peel them thinly and ■cut them in half lengthwise; then scoop out the potato in the centre, leaving about ^-inch all round in thickness, basket shape. Parboil these potatoes and ilet them drain. When dry, brush them over with an egg, and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat a golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper, and fill them with any kind of hot mince or calf’s brains. flIMnce witb Eggs. Take any cold meat and mince it finely, add half the quantity of bread crumbs, season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix these all well together and fill some scollop shells. Break one raw egg on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven until the egg is quite set but not hard. Serve at once, garnished with parsley.COLD MEAT COOKERY. 38 petite Boucbees of Colb fiDeat or Game. Ingredients.—X lb. mashed Potatoes, 2 ozs. Meat, yolk of 1 Egg, Pepper and Salt, 1 Mushroom, X gill Sauce. Method.—Butter some little moulds and sprinkle over some red crumbs, then line the moulds with the above potato puree. Take 2 ozs. of any kind of meat or game and 1 mushroom, cut these up finely and mix with y2 gill of good brown or white sauce, fill the moulds, cover over with potato puree and bake 20 minutes. Serve on fried croutons of bread, and pour some good white or brown sauce into the entrde dish. IRoman pie. Ingredients.— X lb. cold Meat (minced), 2 ozs. grated Cheese, 3 ozs. cooked Maccaroni, 1 cooked Onion, Pepper, Salt, and Mustard, X oz. Butter a little Vermicelli. Method.—Grease a plain mould with the butter, and sprinkle the vermicelli over. Line the mould with short crust. Mix all the ingredients together and moisten with a little milk; put it into the mould. Then cover the top with the pastry, and bake on lower shelf or top of the oven until the paste is cooked. Turn out and serve with brown sauce or tomato sauce. Savoury flbeat jfrittevs. Take x/2 lb. of French pastry, season with pepper and salt, and stir in about 3 ozs. of cooked chicken andCOLD MEAT COOKERY. 39 I oz. of ham or tongue, minced finely, also I teaspoon of finely chopped parsley. Make into small balls and fry a golden brown. A y lb. of any cold cooked meat may be used fot this dish. Scollops an£> Baas. Cut some slices of cold meat about y inch thick ; chop up some parsley and mix with the bread crumbs, also pepper and salt. Now brush the slices of meat over with an egg beaten up, and dip each piece in the seasoned bread crumbs. Fry in 2 ozs. of butter, lard, or dripping, and serve with a poached egg on each scollop.MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. Beef fftUets with 1borse=rat>isb Sauce. Ingredients.—i lb. Fillet of Beef; i gill of whipped Cream, 2 ozs. grated Horse-radish, Salt and mixed Mustard tea- spoonful), i tablespoonful White Vinegar, Sauce ; 2 ozs. Butter. Method.—Saute fillets in the butter; glaze them, and arrange on bed of mashed potatoes, with horse- radish sauce in the centre, and brown sauce round. Garnish with watercress. Whip the cream stiffly, and add horse-radish, mustard, vinegar, and seasoning. Beef ifUlets witb ©asters. Ingredients.—lbs. Fillet of Beef, 2 ozs. Butter, 1 Shalot (chopped fine), 1 Tomato (in slices), 6 Mushrooms (cut small), Pepper and Salt, 1 dozen Oysters, 1 glass Madeira, ]/z pint Espagnole Sauce, a little Lemon Juice, 1 Bay Leaf. Method.—Cut the beef into neat fillets, beat flat with a cutlet-bat, and shape again. Put the butter into a saute-pan. and when hot add the shalot, tomato, mushrooms, bay leaf, pepper, and salt; add the fillets. Saute for ten minutes, turning the fillets frequently. Dish the fillets on a bed of mashed potato. Parboil the oysters, and reduce their liquor. Add the liquor of41 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. the oysters to the Espagnole sauce, and also the wine, lemon juice, and glaze. Simmer altogether for ten minutes, then warm the oysters in the sauce and pour it round the base of the entree. Calf’s Xix>er ant> Bacon. Ingredients.—yi lb. Liver, % lb. streaky Bacon, 1 oz. Flour, 1 teaspoonful of Salt, yi teaspoonful of Pepper. Method.—Cut the liver into slices about inch thick and wash it well in warm water, so as to clear it of all blood and to leave the little holes clear. Dry it in a cloth. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt together on a plate, and dip each piece of liver in it, in order to thoroughly dry and season it. Make the frying- pan hot and put in the slices of bacon and fry them first, and put them on a dish to keep hot whilst the liver is being cooked in the fat left in the pan. Give the liver a fierce heat for one minute, then lower the gas and cook it very gently for four minutes ; then turn it over, giving a fierce heat again for one minute to seal up the outside, lowering the gas and cooking very gently to finish. If cooked in this manner, the liver will be perfectly tender. Dish in a circle, alter- nately liver and bacon, with mashed potatoes, if liked, in the centre ; and if gravy is liked with it, shake a teaspoonful of flour into the pan and mix it into the fat, letting it cook until brown, then add gradually 1 gill of hot water or stock.MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. 42 Cbicfeett, Botleb. Putthe chicken into some kitchenpaperwell buttered, tie it up Avith string and plunge it into some rapidly boiling stock, let it boil quickly for 5 minutes, then lower the gas and keep just below boiling point for one hour. If a very large fowl give it an hour and a half. Make the white sauce or parsley sauce with some of the stock the chicken has boiled in, half of stock and half of milk. Cbtcfeen a la Campagne. Ingredients.—% lb. Chicken Meat (cooked), 3 Eggs, 1 oz. Butter, 1 gill Cream, 1 gill White Sauce. METHOD.—Pound the butter, chicken, cream, and white sauce in mortar, add the eggs one at a time and pass through a wire sieve. Clarify some butter and grease some small moulds ; fill some little tins and steam them steadily for twenty minutes. Turn out carefully, and pour white sauce over, to which has been added one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Cbicfeen a la 2)enut>off. Ingredients.—1 Fowl, 2 Shalots, 1 Truffle, 6 Mushrooms, Bouquet Garni, ]/2 pint Espagnole Sauce, 1 gill Tomato Sauce, y2 gill Sherry, small piece Glaze, Pepper and Salt, 2 ozs. Butter. Method.—Cut up the fowl into neat joints, but do not take the back. Put the butter into the stewpan with the shalots, truffles, and mushrooms cut into small43 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. pieces ; then add the herbs and seasoning. Put in the pieces of fowl and fry all for about ten minutes, then add the Espagnole sauce, tomato sauce, sherry, and glaze. Place the lid on the stewpan, and put it into a moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. Dish the fowl by piling the pieces on the centre of an entree dish. Skim the sauce and strain it over and round. Garnish the top with small cress or watercress. Cbicfeen Curtiefc. Ingredients.—i Fowl, 2 ozs. Butter, 1 Onion, 2 Shalots, 1 blade Mace, 1 tablespoonful Curry Powder, 1 tablespoonful Chutnee, 1 Apple, % pint White Stock, Salt, a squeeze of Lemon Juice. METHOD.—Cut the fowl as for a fricassee, and trim the pieces neatly. Put the butter into a stewpan, slice the apple, onion and shalots, and fry them in the butter without browning for ten minutes. Then add the pieces of fowl; shake the curry powder over therrg and stir for seven minutes. Take a little stock and mix the curry paste smoothly, then add the remainder and mix with the fowl ; put in the salt and mace, and simmer very slowly for about forty-five minutes. Skinq take out the mace, and dish. The lemon juice should be added about five minutes before serving. Note.—The above is a white curry; for a brown curry fry the onions brown, also fry the curry powder before adding the stock. Brown curry is generally44 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. made from beef, and requires cooking quite two hours. Veal may be used for a white curry instead of fowl. Both beef and veal should be cut into pieces about two inches square. Cbicfeeit a la Sierra flborena. Cook this in exactly the same way as the partridges, or, if preferred, cut it up first into neat joints. A Creme be IDolaille. Butter a soufflee mould with cold clarified butter. Pound a quarter of a lb. of raw meat from the breast of a chicken in a cold mortar, and season it with pepper and salt to taste. Whip up half a pint of good thick cream. Pass the chicken through a wire sieve, and gradually mix the cream in with it. Try a spoonful of the mixture by poaching it, and if not light enough add a little more cream. Put the mixture into the mould, knocking the mould gently on a cloth, so as to fill the mould evenly. Steam very gently, and serve with a creamy white sauce, either Bechamel or Supreme. Cutrrs of IRaw flbeat. Ingredients.—i lb. Meat, 2 ozs. Fat, 1 Onion, 1 Apple, 1 dessert spoonful Curry, 1 dessert spoonful Flour, ]/2 pint Stock. Method.—Fry meat, onion and apple, and a little curry powder in fat. When browned, take up and45 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. stir in flour and curry off the fire ; add stock, and when it boils return meat, and let all simmer gently one hour. Serve with rice. Rhubarb may be used instead of apple. The acid fruit softens the fibre of meat. Bucfe, Salmi of. Ingredients.—i Duck, 2 Shalots, 1 Anchovy, % pint Brown Sauce, gill of Port, Pepper and Salt, 2 tablespoons Salad Oil, 1 Lemon. Method.—Cut the duck into neat joints and fry it brown in some butter or oil. Drain away the fat, and add all the other ingredients. Let it stew gently for an hour, then dish up the pieces of duck, and strain the gravy over. Garnish with lemon. Game SoufUee. Ingredients.—>2 lb. Meat from a cooked Pheasant, Harer or Partridge, 2 ozs. Flour, 2 ozs. Butter, a little Onion, Parsley, Pepper, and Salt, yolks of 4 Eggs, whites of 6, 1 gill Stock, (brown). Method.—Make a panada of the flour, butter, and stock, mince the game, and pound all well in a mortar, adding the yolks of eggs one at a time, and the seasoning. Pass all through a wire sieve, and add the whipped whites last, and thoroughly mix. Bake or steam in a souffiee mould three-quarters of an hour. Serve with good brown sauce if steamed.MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. 46 3uggeb Ibare. Ingredients.—i Hare, 2 lbs. Steak, X lb. Butter, X lb- of Bacon, 6 ozs. Flour, X gill of Vinegar, X gill of Mushroom Ketchup, 1 gill of Port, Pepper, Salt, and a little Caramel. Method.—Cut the hare into neat joints, and the steak into pieces about 2 inches long. The bacon must be minced finely. Then put the butter and bacon first of all into a deep saucepan, place the steak on the top of the bacon and the hare on the steak ; no water is to be used. Let this simmer gently for four hours, or it might be put in the oven in a deep earthenware jar. When the hare is sufficiently cooked take out the pieces. Mix the flour, pepper, and salt in a basin with the vinegar, ketchup, and port very smoothly, and add a little caramel to make it a nice dark brown color. Pour this into the saucepan, stirring all the while, and let it boil for about a quarter of an hour. Then put in the pieces of hare again to get thoroughly hot, and serve with forcemeat balls and red currant jelly. Jrtsb Stew. Ingredients, i lb. scrag end of Neck of Mutton, 2 lbs. of Potatoes, X lb. of Onions, Pepper and Salt, 1 tablespoonful of Mushroom Catsup, X pint Water. Method.—Cut the meat into neat pieces, peel and slice the potatoes and the onions. Then into a thick saucepan first a layer of meat, then potatoes, and then onions, sprinkling pepper and salt over each; then47 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. another layer of meat, potatoes and onions, and so on. Add the half-pint of cold water or stock; let it come slowly to the boil, remove the scum, and gently simmer for two hours. The vegetables should be cooked to quite a pulp. Add the mushroom catsup just before serving. Turn the gas very low, and it will cook nicely. Ifd&ness a I’JtaUenne. Ingredients.—3 Sheep’s Kidneys, % lb. Sausage Meat, 2 ozs. Butter, t Shalot, 6 Mushrooms, 3 sprigs Parsley, Pepper, and Salt, 2 Eggs, Bread Crumbs, ]/z pint Sauce Italienne. Method.—Skin the kidneys, cut them in halves. Chop the shalot, parsley, and mushroom. Put the butter into a saute-pan, and, when quite hot, saute the kidneys with the shalot, parsley, mushroom, and sea- soning for seven minutes ; then take them out and let them cool a little. Take a sixth portion of the sausage meat, pile it up on the cut side of the half kidney, and shape with a knife dipped in hot water till the kidney looks like a cone. Proceed with each piece in the same manner, and then roll the cones in bread crumbs; dip them in beaten egg and roll again in bread crumbs, taking care to preserve the shape. Just before the kidneys are required, fry in boiling fat, in a wire basket, and drain on kitchen paper. To dish this entree, prepare a small dish of spinach ; pile it up in the centre of an entree dish, stand the cones round /48 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. the base of the spinach, and pour the Italian sauce round. Note.—Serve very hot. Mutton, Ibarlcot. Ingredients.—2 lbs. best end of Neck of Mutton, 2 Carrots, 2 Onions, 2 Turnips, 2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Flour, pints of Water, Pepper, and Salt. Method.—Cut the mutton into neat pieces about inches long and fry it in the butter. Then take out the meat and add the flour, mixing it well into the butter and letting it brown. Add the trimmings of vegetables, fry for a minute or two, and then mix the water gradually. Let it come to the boil, put back the pieces of meat, and let it all simmer gently for an hour and a half. The vegetables should be cut into dice and boiled separately. For serving, place the meat round the edge of dish, strain the gravy over, and arrange the vegetables in a pile in the centre. NOTE.—Turn very little gas on to fry the meat, and full on for the gravy to boil, then reduce the flame to a quarter of an inch or less. ©j IRt&nep, Stewefc. Take an ox kidney and cut it up in pieces the size of a walnut. Make 2 ozs. of bacon fat hot and cook the kidney for five minutes. Then stir in a table- spoonful of flour, y2 gih of sherry, ]/2 teaspoonful ofMEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. 49 lemon juice, and pint of water or stock. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir gently until it boils ; then let it all simmer for ten minutes, and serve them up very hot. pig’s 3frg. Ingredients.—y2 lb. Pig’s Fry, yi. lb. Potatoes, l/2 lb. Onions, i teaspoonful of Sage, Salt, and Pepper. Method.—Slice all these ingredients, chop the sage finely, and mix with the pepper and salt. Then put in the fry, onions, and potatoes in alternate layers in a deep pie dish, leaving potatoes on the top at last, and sprinkle the seasoning of sage, pepper, and salt over each layer. Bake about one hour and a half, and pour in about a gill of boiling water before baking. pigeons a la /HMrabeau. Ingredients.—3 Pigeons,Watercress, Brown Sauce, Sausage Meat. Method.—Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast-bone, and braize gently for half an hour; when cold, spread with a layer of sausage meat. Egg and bread crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Dish with brown sauce or tomato sauce round, and serve some good bread sauce with it. Garnish with watercress. NOTE.—That the birds must be lightly pressed be- tween two dishes after braizing, and allowed to get DMEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. 50 cold before spreading with the sausage meat. Quenelle meat may be used when pork is out of season. partridges a la Sierra /ilborena. Ingredients.—2 Partridges, 2 slices of Bacon, 2 Onions, 6 Peppercorns, Salt, 2 Bay Leaves, l/2 gill Vinegar, y2 gill Port Wine, Yz pint Stock, 2 tablespoonsful Salad Oil. METHOD.—Truss the partridges and fry them in the salad oil for five minutes, with the onions cut in quarters, the bay leaves, and seasoning. Then add the stock, vinegar, and wine. Firmly cover the lid of the stewpan and stew very slowly for two hours. Dish the birds, and strain the gravy round. IRabbit pie. I rabbit cut in neat joints, and gently simmered for an hour, then put it in a pie dish and season with flour, pepper, and salt mixed, adding about 3 slices of pickled pork, cut up into tiny pieces ; cover with pastry, and bake for about ^ of an hour. Steafc and Ifcidnep pie. INGREDIENTS.— 1 lb. Steak, half an Ox Kidney, 1 oz. Flour, mixed with a little Pepper and Salt, Y pint hot Stock. Method.—Cut up the steak and kidney and dip each piece in the seasoning, and place lightly in a pieMEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. 51 dish. Cover the pie with pastry, either short crust or rough puff, make a large hole in the centre, decorate with some of the pastry and brush over with egg. Bake about ll/2 hours; a very hot oven for the first few minutes, then lower the gas considerably, leave the pie underneath the browning shelf until the pastry is Brown and then put the pie on the top of the browning shelf to finish cooking. When done, pour in the hot stock through the centre hole on the top. Steak, (Brillefc. Light the grill burners and turn the gas on full for one minute until the grill is red-hot; then place the meat underneath the burners on the gridiron, and turn the gas down so that the flames do not touch the meat; and if it be a chop, give it a fierce heat for one minute and then a gentle heat for three minutes on •one side, then turn it and cook the same on the other side, and it will be nicely cooked and brown. If a ■steak, allow it seven minutes on one side and five on the other, giving a fierce heat at first. Serve on a hot •dish, and put a little butter on the top. Steak, Stewefc. Ingredients.—i lb. thick Rump Steak, 2 ozs. Butter or Dripping, 1 Onion, 1 Carrot, 2 Mushrooms, 1 oz. Flour, 1 pint •Stock or Water, 1 teaspoonful Caramel or Browning. D 252 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. METHOD.—Fry the steak in a thick stewpan in 2 ozs. butter or dripping till brown on both sides. Take it up, and now add the flour and vegetables, chopped finely ; fry these for five minutes, then add the stock or water; stir till it boils, then add the caramel. Put the steak into the hot gravy, and very gently simmer for two hours. Garnish with little pieces of carrot or button mushrooms, cooked separately. Strain the gravy over the steak when dishing it up. If the stewpan be placed over a gas burner with as little flame under as possible, it will need no further attention whilst simmering, Steak, Stuffed Ingredients.—i lb. Steak, 2 ozs. of Dripping, 2 teaspoonsful Parsley, X teaspoonful of Salt and Pepper mixed, 2 ozs. of Bread Crumbs, X teaspoonful of Lemon, Thyme and Marjoram chopped finely, 1 dessert spoonful of Milk, 1 Egg. Method.—Have the beef cut rather thin in one large slice. Mix the stuffing and spread over it, and then roll it up and sew it. Make the dripping quite- hot in a stewpan and fry it a nice brown ; then take it out and make the gravy by frying in the hot dripping oz. of flour and a small onion chopped, till brown ; then add half a pint of hot water, bring it to the boil, replace the stuffed steak, and simmer it gently for two hours.MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. S3 Scollops. Ingredients.—]/z lb. Steak, i teaspoon of Flour, i oz. Butter, i small Onion, i Mushroom, Salt and Pepper, i gill of Stock, fried Sippets or toasted. Method.—Chop the steak finely, mince the onion and mushroom finely, and fry all in the butter for five minutes. Then add the stock, and simmer gently for half an hour over just a glimmer of gas. Sweetbread. Ingredients.—i Heart, Sweetbread, y2 pint Haricots Verts. METHOD.—Blanch the sweetbread by putting it in cold water and bringing it to the boil; take it up and lightly press. When cold cut it into fillets, and braize gently for twenty minutes. Dish on a bed of mashed potato, with the haricots verts in centre, and pour white sauce over the fillets and round. For a brown entree, •egg and crumb the fillets after braizing, fry, and serve with good brown sauce. Deal, Stewed. Ingredients.—2 lbs. Veal, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, 1 Onion, 1 stick of Celery, 5 White Peppeixorns, teaspoonful of Salt, 3 pints of cold Water. Method.—Bone the veal, roll it up and tie in a nice shape with string. Then put the bones, pepper-54 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. corns, and salt into a stevvpan with the water. Let it come to the boil and well skim it. Then cut up the turnip and carrot in fancy shapes, and put the trimmings in the stock to flavour it, with the sliced onions and celery. Lay the veal on the top and steam it gently for an hour. When ready to serve, place the veal on a hot dish and cover with parsley sauce, using half a pint of the veal stock to half a pint of milk, and garnish with the carrot and turnip. The pieces of carrot must be thrown into boiling water and boiled for about 20 minutes, and the turnip for io minutes. Note.—Turn gas full on till the water boils, then turn it down one-half; and after the veal has been in a quarter of an hour, leave only just a glimmer of gas, and that will keep it simmering gently. Deal ©lives. Ingredients.—7 thin slices of Fillet of Veal, yi of an inch thick, 7 thin slices of streaky Bacon, 3 ozs. Bread Crumbs, 2 ozs. Suet finely chopped, 1 teaspoonful of chopped Parsley, '/2 tea- spoonful of chopped Herbs, a little grated Lemon Rind, Salt and Pepper, yolk of an Egg, 2 ozs. Butter, 1 pint Brown Sauce. Method.—Lay a thin slice of bacon on each fillet, and then a layer of stuffing. Roll each fillet up and tie it so as to keep the stuffing in. The stuffing is made of the bread crumbs, parsley, suet, herbs, lemon rind, and seasoning, and mixed with the yolk of one55 MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. egg. Then make the 2 ozs. of butter hot and fry the fillets brown, and let them stew very gently in the brown sauce for one hour. Add the lemon juice just before serving, and dish them either in a pile or in a circle with mashed potatoes in the centre, and pour the brown sauce over. Beef Olives may be made in the same way, omitting the bacon.SUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. Brisket of Beef Sptceb. Weigh the meat and allow half an hour to each pound and half an hour over. Let it cook very gently and plunge it into hot water. Tie up in a muslin bag i blade of mace, some cloves, allspice, and pepper- corns. Boil I carrot and I turnip with it. Take up the meat when done, slip out the bones at once, and then press the meat between two dishes with a weight on the top. Leave till quite cold. Then glaze the top with the above stock boiled down to 2 tablespoonsful, if not dark enough, add a drop or two of browning. Cbfcfcen, Bonefc ant> Stuffeb. Bone the chicken, with the exception of the wings and legs, and then stuff it with this forcemeat; y2 lb. minced veal, ^ lb. beef suet, y lb. bread crumbs, a few mushrooms and truffles, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon peel. Mix this with two eggs, stuff the chicken, and truss into shape and roast it.SUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. 57 Cbicfcen, Galantine. Ingredients.—i Chicken, yi. lb. Sausage Meat, yi lb. fillet of Veal, pickled Walnuts, Gherkins and Chillies, a little ground Pimento, Pepper and Salt, 2 hard-boiled Eggs, 2 ozs. of Ham or Tongue. Method.—The chicken must first of all be boned. To do this cut off the neck, leaving as much of the skin as possible on ; cut the wings off at the first joint, and the feet. Then commence to bone by dividing the bones at the shoulder and taking out the merry- thought, continue to press the flesh off the carcase with the thumb and divide any sinews with a sharp knife. The fowl should not be drawn, but the carcase taken out whole. On coming to the leg divide it at the joint, being careful not to cut the skin, and get the carcase out whole; then bone the legs and wings, scraping the flesh off with a knife. Take a pair of scissors and cut it down the back, and spread it out as large and as flat as possible. The veal should be put through the mincing machine and mixed with the sausage meat. Mix the pimento (one teaspoonful) with some pepper and salt, and sprinkle some of this seasoning on the chicken ; then half the sausage and veal spread evenly over and half of the other ingre- dients cut in strips, sprinkle more seasoning, then the rest of meat seasoning and pickles. Roll this up tightly and sew it up, tie it in a cloth and plunge it into boiling water and let it simmer for an hour and a half or braize it for two hours. When cooked take it58 SUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. up and take off the cloth, roll it up tightly in a clean one and press it between two dishes with a weight on the top. When quite cold, brush it over with one or two coats of glaze, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and cucumber. Colb Creme be Uolaille. Ingredients.—y? lb. cold boiled Chicken, i gill of Supreme or Bechamel Sauce, 2 tablespoonsful of Aspic Jelly, a little Cayenne Pepper and Salt, 1 oz. Butter. METHOD.—Pound the chicken in a mortar (after passing it through the mincing machine) with the butter, then mix in the white sauce and seasoning, and then pass it through a sieve. Lastly add the aspic jelly, just melted so as to mix thoroughly with the chicken. Line some small moulds with a little aspic jelly and decorate with truffles or chopped ham or tongue, etc. Turn out when cold. Cucumber Cassolettes of Salmon. Ingredients.— 1 Cucumber, 2 Tomatoes, y2 lb. cooked Salmon, 1 Egg, 1 gill of Cream, 1 teaspoonful of Vinegar, y teaspoonful of Tarragon and % teaspoonful Chili Vinegar, Pepper and Salt. Method.—Prepare this by scooping out the centre of the cucumber, and cut the pieces about one inch long. Stuff it with the fish, cream and seasoning, and59 SUTPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. garnish the top with a little lobster coral and dish with chopped aspic jelly, standing each piece on a slice of tomato. 3ftsb Savoury Cream. Ingredients.—X lb. dried Haddock (cooked and chopped small), X pint whipped Cream, X pint Aspic Jelly. Method.—Melt the jelly so that it will mix in with the haddock and cream, blend all together and fill some paper ranciequin cases. Garnish with lobster coral or red crumbs, and set on ice for an hour before serving. Came pie. Ingredients.—i lb. Flour, X lb. Butter, X pint Water, a pinch of Salt, i Egg. Let the butter and water boil until the butter is quite dissolved, then pour it hot on to the flour and form into a stiff paste. i Partridge or small Pheasant, X lb. lean Veal, minced, % lb. Pork, minced, season with Allspice, Pepper and Salt. METHOD.—Cut the game into small joints, and fill the pie with alternate layers of the minced meat and the game, brush the pie over with an egg and bake for I hours. The oven must be very hot for the first few minutes, and then turn the gas very low down for an hour and then quite out.SUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. 6o Ifounting JSeef. Ingredients.—About io lbs. of Silver-side of Beef, 2 ozs. Saltpetre, 2 ozs. Allspice, 2 ozs. Black Pepper, X lb. Salt. Method.—Rub the saltpetre well in and lay by for twenty-four hours, then rub in all the other ingredients and let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it every day. Fillet with tape and put it in a pan, pour some melted suet over, and cover the top of the pan with a plain crust of flour and water, and bake in a slow oven for twelve hours. Have the gas flames half an inch long until the crust is set and then reduce as low as possible. plovers’ Eggs lit Hsplc. Ingredients.—6 Plovers’ Eggs, 1 pint Aspic Jelly. Method.—Decorate six dariole moulds with aspic jelly. Boil the plovers’ eggs hard; lay them in cold water until cold, then peel them ; pour a little melted aspic jelly into the decorated moulds ; place an egg in each, with the pointed end downwards, so that when the moulds are turned out the point will be upright. Half fill with jelly and set on ice; when quite firm fill up the moulds with jelly. Place on ice, and when set turn out. Dish on chopped aspic jelly. Note.—These aspics can be dished on salad, but in that case plenty of chopped aspic should be sprinkledSUPPER DISPIES AND COLD ENTREES. 61 over the salad, and a border of aspic arranged round the dish. In all cases where salad is used for supper dishes or savouries, a little mayonnaise sauce should be incorporated with it. Petits poulets be Dolaille. Ingredients.—X lb. of cooked Chicken Meat finely minced, 2 ozs. Tongue (cooked), X g'U White Sauce (good), X gill Aspic Jelly, Cayenne, Salt and Mace. Method.—Mix the chicken with the sauce, and pound it well in a mortar. Pass through a wire sieve, and add the aspic jelly and seasoning ; set in little chicken moulds, thinly coated with aspic. Chop the tongue up finely, pound it also and set, with a little aspic jelly, in little tongue moulds. Serve on salad, dressed with mayonnaise sauce. Quails a la Strasbourg. Ingredients.—6 Quails, X lb- Foie Gras, X pint good Stock, a little sliced Carrot, Onion, and Turnip, Bouquet Garni, i Shalot, X gib Port, I Clove, Salt, and io Peppercorns, I gill Tomato Sauce, I pint Aspic Jelly, 2 tablespoonsful Mayonnaise Sauce, 6 slices Bacon, Glaze. METHOD.—Bone the quails and stuff them with the foie gras ; roll each bird in a piece of bacon and tie it up. Then pour the stock into a stewpan and set it to boil up. When it boils, place in it the vegetables, the62 SUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. bones of the birds, the flavourings and seasonings and the wine. Lay in neat order the quails on the top of the vegetables, and braize forty-five minutes. Take out the birds, remove the bacon, and press them lightly between two dishes. Melt together the tomato sauce, glaze, and one gill of aspic jelly, and when nearly cold completely mask the quails with it. Set them on ice, and then dish up on salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce, with chopped aspic arranged round each quail, and a border of the same round the dish. Garnish with cut cucumber. IRabbit, JBonefc anfc StuffcC*. Ingredients.— i Rabbit, ]/2 lb. Sausage .Meat, i hard-boiled Egg, pickled Walnuts, Gherkins and Chillies, 2 ozs. Ham. METHOD.—Bone a rabbit ; spread over half the sausage meat, the egg, ham, and walnuts, gherkins, and chillies in strips ; then the other half of meat in same manner. Tie up tightly in a cloth, and boil in stock for two hours. Take it up and press lightly. When cold, cut in cutlets, arrange in saute-pan, and cover with aspic jelly. Dish on chopped aspic jelly, varnished with endive and radish. o GurKeg Galantine. This must be boned exactly like the chicken, then spread the same stuffing over and put a whole tongueSUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. 63 in the middle of the turkey, the tip of the tongue towards the breast. The tongue must be cooked first. Roll up the turkey so that the stuffing comes all round the tongue and sew it up. Tie up in a cloth and boil for two and a half hours or braize for three hours. Finish off and glaze. Deal anfc Ifrant flMe. Ingredients.— iyz lbs. Veal Cutlet, %. lb. Ham or Bacon, 1 tablespoonful finely chopped Parsley, the grated rind of half a Lemon, 1 teaspoonful of Salt, y2 teaspoonful of White Pepper, 2 hard-boiled Eggs. METHOD.—Cut the veal into small pieces, and like- wise the bacon. Mix the parsley, lemon rind, salt, and pepper on a plate, and dip each piece of veal in ; then arrange a layer of veal and then of bacon in a pie dish. Divide each egg into eight pieces and put these at intervals in the dish; add one gill of cold water. Put the bone from cutlet on to boil in half a pint cold water with a bay leaf and a blade of mace ; reduce to one half, and pour in pie dish when taken out of the oven. For the crust use rough puff pastry. NOTE that the oven be hot when the pie goes in, then bake it for an hour and a half, giving it a gradually decreasing heat; place the dish on grid shelf first under the hot plate, and put it on the top of the hot plate to finish, with a buttered paper over the crust.HOT PUDDINGS. Hpple an£> ©range jfritters. Ingredients.—2 Apples, 2 Oranges, X lb. Flour, 1 gill tepid Water, 1 tablespoonful of Butter or Salad Oil, a pinch of Salt, the whites of 2 Eggs, a little Castor Sugar. METHOD.—Prepare the batter first by putting the flour through a sieve into a basin ; make a well in the centre, melt the butter in the warm water or add the salad oil, and mix this gradually with a wooden spoon to the flour, so that there be no lumps, and beat it well for five minutes ; then put the whites of eggs on a shallow plate, sprinkle a pinch of salt over, and whip up stiffly with a knife, then mix lightly with the batter. The oranges should be peeled and divided into sections, taking out the pips and as much pith as possible. Sprinkle them well with castor sugar, dip in the batter, have some frying fat hot about two inches deep, dip an iron spoon into the fat, then take a piece of orange covered with batter and slip it quickly into the frying fat and fry a light fawn colour ; drain on some kitchen paper, and serve piled up high on a dish. The apples should be pared thinly and the core taken out with a cutter, then cut in thin slices so as to form rings. Put these in the batter, and take out with a skewer and plunge in the boiling fat.HOT PUDDINGS. 65 apple Dumplings. Ingredients.—X lb. Short Crust, 3 Apples, 3 Cloves, 1 oz. Castor Sugar. Method.—Choose good baking apples about the same size as each other; pare them thinly, and cut out the core with a cutter. Roll the pastry out to about ^4 of an inch in thickness and cut out six rounds, so that each round will cover half the apple. Then fill the centre of the apple with castor sugar and one clove. Moisten the edge of paste with a little water, and put another round of paste on top and join the edges neatly. They will take about 20 minutes to bake. Dust some castor sugar over before serving. Batter ipu&&mg (goofc). Ingredients.—3 Eggs, 1 pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter, 3 ozs. Flour. Method.—Grease a basin well with the butter, and also a piece of paper to go over the top. Pass the flour through a sieve into a basin, make a well in the centre, then put in the eggs and add the milk, very gradually stirring all the time, and when mixed beat for five minutes. Steam for 1y2 hours. Breafc pufc&xng. Ingredients.—1 lb. of scraps of Bread, 1 pint of Milk, 2 Eggs, 3 ozs. Sugar, a little Nutmeg, 2 ozs. Suet, X lb. Currants. Method.—Boil the milk and pour it on the scraps of bread : let it soak, and then beat it up finely with a EHOT PUDDINGS. 66 fork. Add the suet—chopped very small, the nutmeg, sugar and currants, and beat in the eggs one at a time. Bake for half an hour in a slow oven, placing it first under the browning shelf and then on the top of it. This pudding may also be steamed for an hour instead of baked. Caramel pufc&lngs. Take some plain dariole moulds and put a good teaspoonful of castor sugar in each, with a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stand these on a tin in the oven or on the top of a gas burner turned low down until the sugar turns a deep brown. Then take up each mould and turn it round and round so that the caramel entirely covers the mould, and let it get quite cold. Then make a custard with four eggs and a pint of milk ; sweeten and flavour, and fill the moulds. Let them steam very gently about ten or fifteen minutes until the custard is set and firm. Turn out most care- fully. The caramel will partly run off and form a sauce. Christmas plum pushing. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of Raisins, i lb. of Currants, i lb. Bread Crumbs, I lb. Suet, I lb. Flour, X lb. ground Almonds, X lb. Candied Peel, X a Nutmeg (grated), X lb. Castor Sugar, X teaspoonful Salt, 2 teaspoonsful of Carbonate of Soda dis- solved in 1 pint of Milk, and 6 Eggs. Method.— Stone the raisins, chop the suet finely, and put all the dry ingredients into a basin and mixHOT PUDDINGS. 67 thoroughly. Then add the eggs one at a time, and, lastly, the milk and soda. Put into buttered basins or moulds with a butter paper over, and steam five hours. Serve with a good custard sauce, to which has been added ^ gill of good brandy. Cbulm Xeigb flMibbing. Ingredients.—2 lbs. Apples, 1 Lemon, 1 oz. Castor Sugar oz. Flour, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Butter, 1 gill Water. Method.—Butter a pie dish, peel and core the apples and stew them till tender in the water; and then add the peel of one lemon grated, with a squeeze of lemon juice. Stir in the sugar and butter and flour, and lastly beat in the yolks of eggs one at a time. Bake in a quick oven, and make a meringue mixture with the whites of eggs and put over the top. Dariols a la Manilla. Ingredients.—1 gill Milk, 1 gill Cream, 1 oz. Flour, 1^ ozs. Castor Sugar, 1 oz. Butter, Essence of Vanilla, 1 Egg. Method.—Line some deep moulds or patty pans with some good short crust, and fill them with this mixture. Cream the butter and sugar together, then stir in the flour and add one egg ; mix well, and gradually add the cream and milk, and lastly the68 HOT PUDDINGS. flavouring. Fill the moulds about three-parts full, and bake for 20 minutes. Turn out carefully. jfrencb lp>ufc£>ma. Butter a pudding mould and line it with preserved cherries, then thin slices of French roll, next ratafias, then cherries, French roll and so on, until the mould is full. Mix two eggs with half a pint of milk, y2 oz. of castor sugar and a little nutmeg. Pour over the pudding, let it soak a little while, cover with a buttered paper and steam one hour. fritter Batter. Ingredients.—% lb. Flour, 1 gill Warm Water, 1 oz. Butter, or Salad Oil, 1 Egg. Method.—Put the flour through a sieve into a basin, make a.well in the centre and drop in the yolk of the egg. Melt the butter in the warm water, or add the salad oil and mix this gradually with the flour and egg. Whip up the white of egg to a strong froth and mix in lightly. For savouries, add a little cayenne and salt. For sweets, the castor sugar should be sprinkled over just as the fritters are going to be served. Fish, meat and tripe, etc., may be used, or any kind of fruit, such as bananas, apples, oranges, apricots.69 HOT PUDDINGS. pine apple, etc., for fritters, the batter well covering what has to be cooked and fried a golden brown in deep frying fat. (BolDen Xemon jpu&fctng. Ingredients.—1 gill boiling Water, 1 oz. Corn Flour, 1 oz. Butter, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 Lemon, 2 ozs. Pastry. Method.—Mix the corn flour with a little cold water and pour the boiling water on to it. Then stir in the butter and sugar, the lemon juice and grated lemon peel. Lastly, mix the yolk of egg and stir in ; pour into a pie dish, decorated at the edge with the pastry, and bake quarter of an hour. Use the white of egg to decorate the top and garnish with cherries. tmyncfe puddings. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Flour, 2 ozs. Sugar, 2 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful Essence of Vanilla, % teaspoonful Baking Powder. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar together, mix the flour and baking powder and pass through a hair sieve on to a piece of paper. Beat in one egg with the butter and sugar, add half the flour, and when well mixed add the other egg and rest of flour. Bake in well buttered dariole moulds for ten minutes, and;o HOT PUDDINGS. serve with jam sauce. Place these under the browning or solid shelf to bake. 3-nfcian fritters. Ingredients.— i oz. Flour, i oz. Butter, i gill of Hot Water,, yolks of 2 Eggs, the whites well whipped, Castor Sugar and Jam. Method.—Make a panada of the flour, butter and water, cooking it thoroughly ; then take the saucepan off the gas, and when a little cool beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time and stir the whites lightly in- Fry in hot fat about the same temperature as for French pastry, letting the fat get gradually hotter after the fritters are in. Drop in pieces the size of a walnut,, and when they are risen and golden brown in colour,, drain on some kitchen paper and serve immediately piled high on a dish paper with plenty of castor sugar over. Serve with jam or marmalade in the centre. 3am SoufBee. Ingredients.— 3 tablespoons Jam or y2 oz. Butter, the whites of three Eggs, Castor Sugar. Method.—Butter a pie dish thoroughly ; then put the jam in a basin. Whip up the whites of eggs very stiffly and mix them lightly into the jam. Then pour into the buttered pie dish and sprinkle castor sugar thickly on the top. Bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes till it is well risen and set.HOT PUDDINGS. n flliannalafce putting. Ingredients.—X lb. of Bread Crumbs, X lb- Suet, 2 ozs. of Marmalade, 2 ozs. Moist Sugar, 2 Eggs, X 0z- of Butter. Method,—Well grease a basin or mould with the butter. Chop the suet finely and mix all the in- gredients well together, and put the mixture into the basin. Cover with a buttered paper and steam it four hours. Serve with marmalade sauce made as follows :—Put 2 ozs. of marmalade into a small stewpan with 2 ozs. of loaf sugar and 1 gill of water. Let it boil quickly for five minutes, and strain it round the pudding on the dish. IRuremberf} pubMngs. Ingredients.—X pint Golden Syrup, X lb. Flour, X lb. Suet, X teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, 1 oz. Candied Peel, 1 gill Milk, 1 Egg. Method—Mix the milk and golden syrup together, chop the suet finely. Mix suet, flour and candied peel together, then add the mixed milk, soda and syrup. Grease some small moulds, and steam half an hour, or altogether in one large mould for 2 hours. Serve either with plain boiled custard or golden syrup. ©nielette am; pommes. Ingredients.—1 lb. Apples, 1 oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, 3 ozs. Sugar.HOT PUDDINGS. 72 Method.—Peel and slice the apples and stew the apples with the sugar and one gill of water until tender, then stir in half the butter and the yolks of the eggs, one at a time. Butter a deep pie dish with the rest of the butter. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and add to the apples, and pour the mixture into the pie dish and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. ©melette, Sweet. Ingredients.—3 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful of Castor Sugar, 1 dessert spoonful of Orange Flower Water, 1 oz. Butter, 1 table- spoonful of any Preserve. Method.—Make a syrup of the sugar and orange flower water, then mix it well with the yolks of eggs ; whip the whites up very stiffly and add. Make the butter very hot in omelette pan, turn in the mixture, stir quickly once or twice, and cook it gently over the grill burner for two or three minutes. Then place the pan under the grill burner to brown it quickly. Turn it out on to a paper sprinkled with castor sugar, and place on it the tablespoonful of jam, previously warmed. Fold the omelette, and serve quickly on a hot plate. pancakes. Take the same batter as for Yorkshire Pudding, and let it stand for some time before it is wanted. When ready to use pour it into a jug. Put some lard intoHOT PUDDINGS. 73 a small saucepan to get hot, and pour about a tea- spoonful of this hot lard into the frying pan for each pancake. Then pour a thin layer of the batter into the pan, and cook it gently until set and brown under- neath. Then take up the pan, give it a shake to see the pancake is free, and give it a sharp toss so as to turn the pancake over. Then cook for half a minute, and turn it out on to a paper covered with castor sugar. Squeeze some lemon juice over and fold up quickly. Half a pint of batter makes nine to twelve small pan- cakes. IRatafia jpufc&htgs. Ingredients.—i pint of Milk, 3 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful Vanilla Essence, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar, X lb- Ratafias. Method.—Beat up the eggs with the castor sugar, add the flavouring and the milk gradually. Pour this into a greased pie dish, and put the ratafias so as to cover the whole of the top. Bake in a steady oven. Note.— If the gas oven has been in use, the gas may always be turned out for custards ; the oven will be quite hot enough to cook them. IRtce putting. Ingredients.—1 pint Milk, 2 ozs. of Rice, 1 oz. Sugar, X oz. Butter. METHOD.—Well wash the rice, and then put all these ingredients into a well buttered pie dish, and bake slowly for two hours.HOT PUDDINGS. 74 Suet flMifctung. Ingredients.—i lb. Flour, 6 ozs. Suet, i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Method.—Pass the flour and baking powder through a sieve into a basin, shred the suet finely, and then chop it till it is as fine as bread crumbs. Mix well with the flour, and add gradually some cold water to form a stiff paste. Have ready a saucepan of boil- ing water, plunge the pudding cloth in it, then wring and flour it and tie up the pudding, allowing it to boil one hour and a half, and be very careful not to let the water cease boiling, or the pudding will be heavy. Note.—That the gas be full on till the water boils, then turn the gas down low and it will keep boiling. Sultana puD&ing. Ingredients.—X lb. Flour, X lb. Sultanas, X lb. Suet, X lb. Castor Sugar, 2 ozs. Candied Peel, 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder, a little Nutmeg or Grated Lemon Peel, X pint °f Milk, 1 Egg. Method.—Sieve the flour, shred and chop the suet finely. The sultanas must be well picked and cleaned with flour, and the candied peel cut in thin shreds. Mix all the dry ingredients together, then beat up the egg in the milk and thoroughly mix. Bake for half an hour in a greased tin. Note.—That the gas be full on for ten minutes, then reduce it to one-half and put the pudding on grid75 HOT PUDDINGS. shelf under the browning shelf, and gradually reduce the gas, turning it out the last five minutes. Uaptoca putting. Ingredients.—i pint Milk, 2 ozs. Tapioca, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 Egg, ]/2 oz. Butter. Method.—Cook the tapioca in the milk over the gas for a few minutes. Remove from the gas, let it cool slightly and stir in the butter, sugar and egg, well mix, then pour into a buttered pie dish, and bake for about 20 minutes. Ureacle Uart. Line a pie dish with short crust. Mix together one gill of golden syrup with two ounces of bread crumbs. Add the grated rind of one lemon, and the juice. Pour this into the pie dish and bake in a slow oven about half an hour. Danilla SoufUee. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 gill Milk, the yolks of 3 Eggs and the whites of 4 whipped to a strong froth, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, and a few drops of Essence of Vanilla. Method.—The soufflee mould must be well buttered with 1 oz. of clarified butter, and also a band of buttered paper tied tightly round and about two inchesHOT PUDDINGS. 76 above it. Then make a panada with the butter, flour and milk, and dissolve the sugar in the milk first. Let the mixture cool, and add the yolks of the eggs one at a time and beating each well in. Lastly, add the whipped whites and then the vanilla. Pour this mixture into the mould and steam it gently about an hour. Turn it out carefully and serve with any kind of jam sauce. West IRtoing Ingredients.—The weight of two Eggs in Flour and Sugar, a few drops of Vanilla Essence, 2 tablespoonsful of Jam, 1 tea- spoonful Baking Powder. Method.—Butter a small pie dish and put in the layer of jam. Whip the eggs and sugar for 5 minutes, and lastly, stir in the flour, baking powder and flavouring. Put this mixture on the top of the jam and bake about half an hour. lorfesMre pufc&ing. Ingredients.—X lb* self-rising Flour, 1 Egg, X pint Milk, pinch of Salt. Method.—Pass the flour through a sieve into a basin, add a pinch of salt ; make a well in centre and break an egg into it, add a little of the milk, and mix gradually and smoothly. When half the milk is in,HOT PUDDINGS. 77 beat it well for ten minutes and then mix in the rest; let the batter stand for at least half an hour before using. This may be used for pancakes, boiled batter and baked batter puddings.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. Xenton Sells?. Ingredients.—6 Lemons, iJ/z pints of Water, 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar, i inch of Cinnamon, 2y2 ozs. leaf Gelatine, 4 Cloves, 2 Eggs. Method.—Take a bright clean stewpan, and put into it the pint and half of water, the juice of six lemons, and the rinds of two peeled very thinly ; add the sugar, cinnamon, cloves, and gelatine. Put the stewpan on the fire and stir with a wooden spoon until the gelatine is melted, then add the crushed shells of two eggs and the whites half whipped. Take a whisk and whisk the contents of the stewpan until the jelly is come to the boil. Stop whisking as soon as that occurs, and let the scum formed rise quite to the top of the stewpan ; then turn out the gas and leave it for 20 minutes for the scum to harden. Then take a clean cloth or serviette, fixing the cloth on to the four legs of a chair turned upside down : pour some boiling water through first to make the cloth hot, and then strain the jelly through, placing a basin underneath. The basins must be changed three times ; the first time the jelly will be cloudy, the second time clear, and the third time brilliant. The mould should79 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. be rinsed in boiling water, and then in cold, and left wet. Be careful not to pour the jelly into the mould until nearly cold. mine 5elly. Any kind of wine jelly may be made from the pre- ceding recipe by substituting half a pint of wine in place of the half-pint of water, and using three lemons instead of six. Hngelica anfc Cberrs Cream. Ingredients.—i pint Milk, y pint Cream, y oz. leaf 'Gelatine, i y2 ozs. Castor Sugar, i teaspoon Essence of Vanilla, y lb. glac£ Cherries, 2 ozs. Angelica, cut in small pieces, 2 ozs. ground Rice. Method.—Boil the milk and stir in the ground rice, dissolve the gelatine and strain in, then add the sugar, fruits and flavouring. Whip the cream and add last. Then fill paper ramequin cases, and decorate with a cherry in the centre and a little angelica. JBiscuit Cream. Ingredients.— 1 pint Double Cream, 1 Lemon, 1 gill of Fruit Pur^e, lb. Ratafia Biscuits, y oz. Gelatine. Method.—Whip the cream stiffly, and stir in the lb. of ratafia biscuits (very finely powdered and passed through a sieve). Pass greengage, strawberry80 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. or apricot jam, or fruit, through a sieve until there is a gill of puree. Dissolve *4 oz. of g-elatine in a little water and strain into the puree, and add the juice of one lemon. Now mix all lightly together, and pour into a mould and set. ©range Cream. Ingredients.—4 Oranges, % pint Milk, 2 Eggs 2 ozs. Castor Sugar, 1% ozs. leaf Gelatine, y2 pint double Cream, 1 gill orange juice. Method.—Make a custard with the eggs, sugar, and milk, and boil one orange peel in the milk. Dis- solve the gelatine in water and add to the gill of orange juice. Mix all together, add the whipped cream when the custard is cool, and pour into a mould decorated with some sections of Tangerine oranges in clear jelly. HMne^apple Cream. Ingredients.—3 gills of Pine-apple Purde, 3 gills of double Cream, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar, ozs. of leaf Gelatine, a few Pistachio Kernels. Method.—Take a tinned pine-apple, remove the brown specks, and chop it well. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water and add to the puree with the castor sugar. Now whip the cream stiffly, and mix all lightly together and pour it into a mould, decorated with pistachio nuts and a little clear jelly. When set, turn it out by dipping the mould into warm water.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 81 Hpiicot 3ce. Ingredients.—gills of Fruit Purde, ij£ gills of Water, 3 ozs. Castor Sugar, 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar, Slightest squeeze of Lemon, whipped whites of 2 Eggs. Method.—Stew the fruit and loaf sugar together for puree, and pass it through a sieve. When cool, add the rest of the ingredients and place it in the mould, freeze the mixture and turn out by dipping the mould in cold water. Strawberry 3ce Cream. Ingredients.—1 lb. Strawberries, 1 dessert spoonful of Lemon Juice, J4 pint Double Cream, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. Method.—Pass the strawberries with the sugar through a hair sieve, then add the lemon juice, whip the cream stiffly, mix well with the puree, and freeze. Strawberry 3ce SanDwicbes. Put the ice cream when frozen between ice wafers, and keep in ice, till ready to serve. Hlmonb Cbeese Cake. Ingredients.—lb. ground Almonds, lb. Castor Sugar, Yz oz. Jordan Almonds, yolks of 2 Eggs, the whites whipped stiffly. METHOD.—Mix the ground almonds and sugar together with the yolks of two eggs, then add the FJELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 82 whites. Line some patty pans with rough puff pastry or short crust, and fill with the mixture, putting half an almond, blanched, on the top of each cheese cake. Bpdcot j£qqs. Ingredients.—Sponge Cakes, Apricots, i gill of double Cream, oz. Castor Sugar, Nutmeg or Pistachio Kernels. METHOD.—Cut the penny sponge cakes in half lengthwise; then place half an apricot on the top, with a little of the syrup out of the tin or bottle. Whip the cream and add the castor sugar to it, and put the cream all round the apricots ; then grate a little nutmeg on the top, or blanch and chop a few pistachio kernels and sprinkle over, to represent parsley over poached eggs. angelica Martlets. Line some fluted moulds, after having been well buttered, with some good short crust, and fill them with the following mixture:—2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. sugar, i oz. cake crumbs, i oz. preserved cherries, i oz. an- gelica, oz. cornflour, I egg. Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the egg, and then the corn- flour, cake crumbs, cherries, and the angelica chopped. Then fill the cases and bake ; when done, turn them carefully out of the moulds, and decorate the top ofJELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 83 the tartlet mixture with a cherry and a few pieces of angelica in strips. Hpple Soufflee Ingredients.—i'/z pints of Milk, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 tea- cup of Carolina Rice, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Butter, 1 lb. Apples or Preserve. Method.—Boil the rice in the milk with any flavouring that is liked until thoroughly cooked, then mix in the butter, and the yolks of two eggs when a little cool. Put a layer of preserve or stewed apples in a buttered pie dish, and then the rice on the top. Bake in a cool oven till the eggs are set. Whip the whites of the eggs stiffly, add a little castor sugar and a few drops of flavouring essence, and pile it in rocky heaps on the top of the soufflee when baked. Return to the oven to set. This may be served either hot or ■cold. 35uea£> Cbeesecafees. Ingredients.—1 gill of stale Bread Crumbs, X pint Milk, 2 Eggs, 2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Currants, a little grated Lemon Peel. Method.—Pour the boiling milk on to the bread crumbs, stir in the butter next, then add a little grated lemon peel and the other ingredients, and beat in the •eggs one at a time. Line some patty pans with pastry, and put a spoonful of this mixture in the centre. Bake about 15 minutes.84 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. Botlefc Custarfc. Ingredients.—i pint Milk, 3 Eggs, sweeten to taste and flavour. Method.—Put the milk in a stewpan, with the sugar and any flavouring, to get hot. Stir the yolks; and whites of the eggs in a basin to thoroughly mix them, and pour the hot milk on, stirring all the time. Now strain it back into the stewpan to remove the tread of the egg and cook the custard well, constantly stirring until it thickens. Cook it over a very little gas and be careful it does not reach boiling point or the eggs will curdle. Pour into a jug to cool, and when cold fill the custard cups. The same mixture for a baked custard strained into a buttered pie dish instead of the stew pan. Great care must be taken not to let the milk come to the boil in the oven. Caramel Malnuts. Take some Marzapan and form in oval shapes.. Place the half of a peeled walnut on either side and insert a little stick or skewer at one end. Then make some caramel with lb. of loaf sugar, % gill of water, a little lemon juice, and 3 drops of acetic acid. Boil this to the snap over a glimmer of gas, dip the walnuts in quickly, giving them a thin coating of the caramel all over. Let them dry on an oiled plate or slab, and serve in fancy cases.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 85 Chocolate fllioulO. Ingredients.— 1 qt. Milk, 2 ozs. Chocolate (powdered), 3 tablespoonsful of Corn Flour, 2 ozs. Sugar. Method.—Put the chocolate, milk and sugar, into a saucepan, and let it boil very slowly. Mix the corn flour smoothly with some milk and then pour it into the saucepan, stirring all the while, and letting it boil for five or six minutes to thoroughly cook the corn flour. Then rinse out a mould with cold water, pour the mixture in and let it set. Cocoaitut Jce. Ingredients.—1 grated fresh Cocoanut, 2 lbs. Loaf Sugar, small piece of Butter, 1 tablespoonful of Cream, Cochineal. Method.—Take the cocoa milk and add water to make pint; add the sugar and boil well for ten minutes; then stir in the grated cocoanut and boil another ten minutes. Take off the fire, add cream, and beat well until it commences to set. Pour half of it quickly into a buttered soup plate; add to the rest a little vanilla and cochineal, and pour it on to the top of the other if set enough to bear it. When cool, cut in strips or diamond shapes. Cornflour Blancmange. Ingredients.—1Y ozs. of Cornflour, 1 oz. Loaf Sugar, 1 pint of Milk, Yz teaspoonful of any Flavouring Essence.86 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. Method.—Put the milk, sugar and flavouring on to boil, and mix the cornflour with a little cold milk smoothly and pour it into the saucepan at once. Let it come to the boil and gently cook for five minutes. Pour into a mould which has been thoroughly rinsed with cold water and left wet. A few drops of cochineal may be added if a pink colour is desired. Fruit blancmanges may be made by substituting y2 pint of any fruit syrup, and only using y2 pint of milk. Croutons a la Creme. Cut some slices of stale bread about one inch thick. Take a round or oval cutter and cut out as many croutons as are required. With a smaller cutter scoop out part of the centre to form a little basket; then fry them lightly in butter, fill with jam or crushed straw- berries, and decorate on the top with whipped cream passed through a rose forcer. Beuonsbire Junftet. Ingredients—i quart of Milk, i large tablespoonful Essence of Rennet, 2 tablespoonsful of Brandy or Liqueur, 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar, Nutmeg, % pint clotted or whipped Cream. Method.—Warm the milk, letting it attain a tem- perature of about ioo°. Dissolve the sugar in the milk and add the flavouring. Then pour it into a deepJELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 8/ glass dish and add the rennet, stirring quickly for one minute. Grate a little nutmeg over, and stand it aside in a warm place to set. When cool, add the clotted cream on the top, or whip up J^-pint double cream stiffly and arrange on the top of the junket. Dutch JFlummerp. Ingredients.—2y2 ozs. leaf Gelatine, 1 Lemon, juice and rind, 1X pints Water, 1 gill of Sherry, 4 Eggs, 2%. ozs. Loaf Sugar. Method.—Boil lemon rind and sugar in the water, strain and add the lemon juice ; pour on to the beaten eggs and cook as for custard. Dissolve the Gelatine in a little water, strain into custard, add the sherry and pour into a mould. dfvutt Gateau. Ingredients.—1 pint Plums, or Prunes, stoned, 1 pint Water, X Loaf Sugar, a squeeze of Lemon juice, 1 oz. Gelatine, Cochineal. METHOD.—Make a syrup with the water and sugar, and gently simmer the fruit until cooked, removing all scum, then dissolve the gelatine in a little water, strain it in and thoroughly mix, add the lemon juice, and pour into a border mould. Serve with whipped cream in the centre, or make a thick custard with 1 egg, cornflour and milk.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 38 jFruxt SalaO. This may be made with any ripe fruits in season, mixed in a bowl. Then make a syrup with i lb. loaf sugar and yi pint water, well boiled for ten minutes, add a small wine glass of Curagoa or Chartreuse or any liqueur and pour it over the fruit. Either serve in a large china bowl or on small ice plates, and stand on ice or in a cool place until wanted. Geneva Wafers. Ingredients.—i Egg, \y7 ozs. Butter, ozs. Flour, ozs. Sugar. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the egg, and when that is well beaten in, add the flour. Butter a baking sheet and drop a tea- spoonful on, spreading it out as thinly as possible in a circle. Place these in a cool oven, and when done slip a knife under, and either roll them with the fingers or round a stick, so as to form little cones or finger shapes. They may be filled with whipped cream, cornflour custard, or jam. Gooseberry JFool. Ingredients.— i pint Gooseberries, i pint Cream or Milk, 3 Eggs, Castor Sugar to taste. METHOD.—Stew the gooseberries with the sugar and a little water till soft, then pass them through aJELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 89 sieve. Return them to the saucepan and mix in the yolks of three eggs, cooking them as for a custard, and not allowing them to boil. Let it cool, and add the cream well whipped ; but if milk is used, it may be added while the mixture is hot. Gooseberry /iberinoue. Ingredients.—1 lb. Gooseberries, % lb. Loaf Sugar, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Sponge Cake Crumbs. Method.—Stew the gooseberries and sugar in a gill of water and pass through a sieve ; mix in the butter, cake crumbs, and yolks of two eggs, and bake in a pie dish lined round the edge with short crust. Whip the whites stiffly, and make a meringue mixture on the top when baked. Grounb IRice /Iboulb. Ingredients—3 ozs. ground Rice, 1 pint of Milk, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, strip of Lemon Peel to flavour, or a few drops of Vanilla. METHOD.—Put the pint of milk on to boil with the sugar and flavouring, and mix the ground rice with the rest of the milk in a basin smoothly. Pour the boiling milk on to it, and then return all to the sauce- pan and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Rinse a mould out with cold water, then pour in the ground rice and let it set. Turn out when cold and serve with any stewed fruit.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 90 3ce ipufcbing. Ingredients.—3 Eggs, 2 ozs. Sugar, X pint Milk, 1 dessert spoonful of Maraschino, 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla. Method.—Make a custard with eggs, sugar, and milk, and flavour as directed. Partly freeze, and then mix in y2 oz. of preserved cherries, and oz. citron cut up small, and one gill of cream stiffly whipped. Then close the machine and freeze stiffly. 3ce£> IResselrofce putting. Ingredients.—X pint Cream, 1 gill of Milk, the yolks of 2 Eggs, % oz. ground Almonds, X lb. Loaf Sugar, X gill Brandy, Xlb. Preserved Fruits, cut small. Method.—Make a custard with the eggs, sugar, milk and cream. When cold add the almonds and brandy and then freeze, and when half frozen add the fruits. Then freeze until quite stiff, and pack it tightly into an ice mould, putting lard round the edge where the mould joins, so as to prevent the ice and salt getting in. Bury it in a pail in ice and salt, and dip the mould in cold water when needed to turn it out. Xemon Gbeesecafees. Ingredients.—3 yolks of Eggs, 2 whites of Eggs, X lb. Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. Butter, rind of 1 Lemon grated, juice of 2 Lemons, 1 stale Sponge Cake rubbed through a sieve.91 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. METHOD.—Mix all these ingredients well together, and stir over a glimmer of gas until the eggs are cooked and the mixture thick. Do not let it boil. Bake in patty pans, lined with short crust or rough puff pastry. Xemon putting (IRtcb). Ingredients.—X lb. Castor Sugar, 2 Lemons, 1 gill of Cream, 3 ozs. Sponge Cake Crumbs, 3 Eggs. Method.—Grate the lemon peel and squeeze out all the juice. Put it into a basin with the cake crumbs, sugar and cream ; beat in the eggs one at a time. Line a pie dish with some good short crust about two inches deep, and decorate the edge with little stars or rounds cut out of the pastry with a fancy cutter. Bake until the eggs are set and the pastry a light brown. This may be served either hot or cold. Xemon Curb. Ingredients.—3 Eggs, ]/2 lb. Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. Butter, 3 Lemons. Method.—Grate the lemon rind and squeeze all the juice and strain it. Put all the ingredients into a stewpan and thoroughly mix over a slow fire. Be careful not to let it boil. Bake in patty pans lined with short crust.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 92 Xemon dustar&. Ingredients.—2 Eggs, ]/z pint Water, rind and juice of 1 Lemon, 1 oz. Loaf Sugar. METHOD.—Peel the lemon thinly, and boil the peel in the water with the sugar for five minutes. Strain into a basin, add the juice of lemon, and then pour it on to the eggs. Stir over the fire till thick and the eggs well cooked ; on no account let it boil. Serve cold in custard cups. /TCmrmalafce Custarfcs. Ingredients.—X lb- Short Crust, 1 oz. Marmalade, 1 oz. Butter, X oz. Castor Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 tablespoonful Milk, yz oz. Corn Flour. Method.—Line some patty pans with short crust and fill with the mixture. Cream the butter and sugar together, then add one yolk of egg and beat it in well, then the cornflour, milk and marmalade. Mix well, and put about a tablespoonful into each patty pan. Bake in a moderate oven about a quarter of an hour. Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, add 1 oz. castor sugar, and place it on top of the baked tartlets. Return to the oven to set. flfcermQues. Ingredients.—3 whites of Eggs, X lb. of Castor Sugar. Method.—A board is used for these to bake on, soJELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 93 that the inside should remain soft; if they were baked on a tin they would be hard all over. Cover the board with a piece of oiled paper. Then take a cold basin and break into it the whites of the eggs, taking great care that none of the yolk goes in. Have a cool and dry whisk, and put a pinch of salt on the whites and whip them to a very strong froth, then stir in the sugar (which must have been sifted), and shape them like an egg very quickly with two dessert spoons and a knife dipped in cold water. Lay them on the oiled paper, sift more sugar over, and dry them well in a warm oven. When thoroughly set, turn them over and scoop out the soft part. Put them on a clean piece of paper on the board and let them dry again in the oven, the soft side up. When cold fill them with whipped cream, flavoured and sweetened. IRormanfcs pippins. Ingredients.—i lb. Pippins, i quart of Water, y2 lb. Loaf Sugar, 4 Cloves, i wineglass of Port, a little Lemon Peel, Blanched Almonds and Cochineal. Method.—Boil the pippins for 2 hours in the water and sugar, with the lemon peel and cloves. Then add a glass of port and boil half an hour longer ; add a very few drops of cochineal. Place the pippins in a glass dish, pour the syrup over and garnish with some blanched almonds stuck in the pippins.94 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. IRougat. Ingredients.—X lb. Castor Sugar, X lb. Jordan Almonds, 1 tablespoonful Lemon Juice, X gib of Water. Method.—Blanch the almonds, cut into three lengthways, and bake in oven a light fawn color. Melt the sugar in a saucepan, with the lemon juice and water, and cook till it is a clear golden brown. Put the almonds in and stir well. Turn out on to an oiled tin or pastry slab. ©range Custard. Ingredients.—X pint Orange Juice, X lb. Castor Sugar, 2 Eggs, a small piece of Orange Peel.. Method.—Put all these ingredients in a saucepan and stir it gently over a glimmer of gas till it thickens, taking care it does not boil. Take out the orange peel, and when cool pour it into glasses. plum Cbeese. Ingredients.—i pint Plums, i pint Water, X lb- Sugar, i oz. leaf Gelatine, a little Cochineal. METHOD.—Stew the plums in the water with the sugar until thoroughly cooked. Pass all through a hair sieve. Then dissolve the gelatine in a little water and strain into the puree, add a little cochineal if re- quired. Pour into a mould to set.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 95 Queen’s putting. Ingredients.—X lb. Bread Crumbs, X pt. of Milk, 1 Lemon, X lb. Castor Sugar, iX ozs. Butter, 2 Eggs, Jam. Method.— Boil the rind of the lemon in the milk with the sugar and pour over the bread crumbs. When well soaked take out the peel, stir in the butter and the yolks of eggs one at a time ; then put a layer of jam in a pie dish and the above mixture on top, and bake for half an hour. When cooked, whip up the whites of eggs stiffly, add 2 ozs. of castor sugar and some essence of lemon ; put this on the top and put it in a cool oven to set. To be eaten cold. Note.—Gas flames about quarter an inch long for this pudding, as it should cook slowly. Strawberry SalaD. Put some picked strawberries into a large basin and toss them about in castor sugar to sweeten and bring out the flavour. Add a little vinegar, and continue tossing them gently till all is absorbed. Pile them up on a dish and serve with dessert. Strawberries anb 3fro3en Cream. Ingredients—2 lbs. of Strawberries, X pint Double Cream, X lb. Castor Sugar. Method.—Crush some strawberries with a fork, and sprinkle them well with castor sugar and lay them96 JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. in a deep dish or bowl. Have the cream frozen and place it on the top of the strawberries when ready to be served. A small glass of liqueur may be added if liked. Strawberry Gateau. Take a round sponge cake about 6 inches in diameter and cut a lid off, moisten the cake outside with jam and stick round either meringue finger bis- cuits or Savoy. Tie round with a ribbon. Then fill up to the brim with strawberries and whipped cream. Place the lid on and put some more whipped cream on the top, garnished with strawberries. Cberry Cake Gateau. Make as above, using crystallized cherries. Coffee. Ingredients.—yi lb. Castor Sugar, X lb. Golden Syrup, 2 ozs. Butter, the juice of half a Lemon. METHOD.—Put all these ingredients in a thick iron saucepan and boil for 15 or 20 minutes, As soon as it is boiled to the snap (try by putting a little on a plate), pour it on to a buttered tin.JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. 9/ Urifle. Ingredients.— i large Sponge Cake, X lb. Ratafia Biscuits,. X pt. Sherry and Brandy mixed, X lb. Glace Cherries, 2 ozs. Angelica, X pt. boiled Custard, X pt. whipped Cream. Method.—Soak the cake with the wine and brandy, previously placing it in a deep glass dish. When thoroughly soaked, pour the custard over. Lastly pour the whipped cream over and decorate with the: ratafias, cherries and angelica. Uurfeisb Sweet. Ingredients.-—i pt. of Milk, X oz. leaf Gelatine, i oz. Loaf Sugar, Essence of Vanilla, 2 Eggs, 2 ozs. of Turkish Delight. Method.—Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the milk, add the eggs and the flavouring. Cook as for a custard, and when it has sufficiently thickened add the Turkish delight cut in small dice. Stir it occasionally as it cools and then pour it into a mould or let it cool in a basin, and pile it up in a rocky form on a dish. G1, SALADS AND SAVOURIES. Hsplc Jellp. Ingredients.—pints of Stock, Y pint Sherry, X pint °f Tarragon, Malt and Chili Vinegar mixed, juice and rind of I Lemon, i Carrot, I Turnip, i Onion, i Bay Leaf, i Stick Celery, ]/z teaspoonful of Salt, io White Peppercorns, whites and shells of two Eggs, T-Yz ozs. leaf Gelatine. METHOD.—Put all these ingredients in a clean stew- pan free from grease (with the exception of the shells and whites of eggs) ; stir over the gas till the gelatine is melted, then add the shells and whipped whites, and whisk briskly till just on boiling point. Let the scum boil up well, then stand on one side for a quarter of an hour to harden the scum, and strain through a tammy cloth, scalded and fixed on a stand. NOTE.—That a kitchen-cloth, well boiled and free from soap or soda, will do quite as v/ell as a tammy cloth. Calves’ jpeet 3ellp. Two calves’ feet, well washed, and chopped each into four pieces. Blanch them and then put them into three quarts of cold water, and let them boil gently for six hours, and be careful to skim it well. StrainSALADS AND SAVOURIES. 99 into a basin, and when quite cold remove all the grease from the top. If for a sweet jelly, flavour and clear the same as the lemon jelly, leaving out the Gelatine. Co Clear HUy. Take the calves’ feet jelly and carefully remove all the fat from the top, by dipping a clean cloth into boiling water and wiping over the top until all is removed. Then turn the jelly into a clean, bright stewpan ; season to taste. Put i lb. raw beef twice through the mincing machine then mix it in a basin with a little water, and whisk in with it the whites of two eggs and the shells. Mix this in with the jelly in the stewpan well, and lastly add one turnip, carrot, onion, celery, cut up, and some tarragon, malt and chili vinegar, mixed, about I gill, and I gill of sherry. Whisk till it comes to the boil. Let a good scum form, and strain it through a serviette or tammy cloth. Salafcs. Salads should be freshly gathered, well washed in salt and water, then carefully picked over, and well rinsed. Then put them in a clean cloth and shake them well in order to dry them thoroughly, and lay them on the top of a sieve. Salads should be broken up with the fingers, and not cut with a knife. If tomatoes will not peel easily, plunge them into boilingSALADS AND SAVOURIES. 100 water for one second. The skin of the tomato should always be removed for salads. Lettuce, watercress, tomatoes, radishes, chervil, tarragon, beetroot, sorrel, young dandelion leaves, mustard and cress, endive, and cucumber, are a few of the vegetables that may be commonly used. Salafc Cream, Ingredients.—Yolks of 2 Eggs, ]/2 teaspoonful of Mustard,. X teaspoonful of Salt, X teaspoonful of Pepper, 1 gill of Oil, 1 gill of Vinegar, X gill Milk or Cream. Method.—Place the yolks in a basin with mustard, pepper and salt. Work well with a spoon, and add the oil and vinegar alternately till all is mixed ; then mix in the milk or cream, one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and sugar to taste if desired. This will keep for some time. Salafc Dressing. Ingredients.—Yolks of 3 Eggs, Salt 2 teaspoons, Pepper and Mustard mixed 1 teaspoon, Sugar 1 oz., Oil 10 ozs., Vinegar 6 ozs., Cayenne to taste. Method.—Place the yolks in a basin, mix sugar, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne with them, work well with a wooden spoon, then gradually work in all the oil, and lastly the vinegar. This may be bottled and kept for use.SALADS AND SAVOURIES. IOI Salab /HM£ture (jftencb). Ingredients.—i tablespoonful of Vinegar to three table- spoonsful of Oil, Pepper and Salt. Method.—Put the vinegar first, and stir in the salt and pepper, and then add the oil and mix thoroughly. Cbicfeen Salab. Take small pieces of chicken and lay in the above seasoning for one hour before serving ; then take them out. Break up some salad and mix it well in the same seasoning in a basin. When serving, arrange salad and chicken on a dish, pour some mayonnaise sauce over, and decorate with some hard-boiled eggs. j£qq anb beetroot Salab. Hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, both cut in round thin slices and arranged alternately on a dish with the French salad mixture poured over makes a nice winter salad, or tomato may be used instead of the beetroot. Xobster Salab. Season the lobster the same as the chicken for one hour, but not longer, before serving, as the lobster would get tough. Arrange on a dish with the salad, pour some mayonnaise sauce over, and decorate withSALADS AND SAVOURIES. 102 hearts of lettuce, and a little lobster coral sprinkled over the sauce. Pour a little aspic jelly on the dish when using silver ones, and let it set, then the salad mixture will not tarnish it. Portuguese Salat*. Set a border mould with clear aspic jelly, and in it first a decoration of lobster coral. Let that set; then add a layer of hard-boiled yolk of egg, passed through a sieve. Then, when that is set, put in pieces of lobster, caviare, truffle, capers, and anchovies filleted. When set, turn out and fill the centre with small salad, and some finely-chopped aspic jelly round the dish. TTomato Salat*. Ingredients.—Tomatoes, Chervil and Tarragon. Method.—Peel the tomatoes and cut them in slices with a very sharp knife. Arrange them in rows on a dish and pour the French salad mixture over. Sprinkle some finely-chopped tarragon and chervil on the top. Mutter Salat*. Cold boiled potatoes, beetroot, onion, carrot, parsnip, etc., cut in thin slices, with any kind of cold meat cut in thin slices the same size as the vegetables. Arrange103 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. alternately on a dish, and pour some salad dressing over. JSiuDs’ IRests. Ingredients.-—4 hard-boiled Eggs, % lb. Sausage Meat, I Egg, y lb. crushed Vermicelli, Watercress. METHOD.—Put the eggs into the boiling water and let the water cover them ; then boil them gently for 15 minutes. Take them out and place them in a basin of cold water, and when they are cold shell them. Divide the sausage meat into four portions, and cover each egg entirely with the sausage meat; flatten each end and get them cork shape. Roll them in a little flour, brush them all over with a well-beaten egg, cover with the vermicelli, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. The fat must cover them. Drain on paper, cut them in halves with a very sharp knife, and dish on watercress. Boucbees of Cbeese. Ingredients.—}( lb. Macaroni, yi pint Milk, % pint Tomato Pur<fe, 3 ozs. grated Parmesan Cheese, 1 oz. Butter, y oz. Flour, Salt, Cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful made Mustard. Method.— Boil the macaroni tender in water, then strain it and cut it in small pieces. Melt the butter in stewpan, add the flour and milk, and tomato puree and seasoning; cook well, then stir in the macaroni and two ounces of cheese. Pour into104 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. buttered cases, put rest of cheese on the top, and put in a hot oven to brown, or under the grill. Serve very hot. Euttereb Eggs. Ingredients.—4 Eggs, i oz. Butter, i tablespoonful of Cream or Milk, Pepper and Salt, Toast. Method.—Put the butter in the omelet pan or small saucepan and turn on very little gas. Beat up the eggs, cream, and seasoning together, pour them into the butter and cook lightly, stirring continually. Serve very hot on toast. To vary this add when the eggs are cooked, asparagus tops, or kidneys, or shrimps, or anything tasty cooked and made hot in a little butter, and then mix with the eggs and serve very hot. Cbeese aigrettes. Ingredients.—y2 pint cold Water, i oz. Butter, X lb. Flour, 3 yolks of Eggs, 2 whites of Eggs, Cayenne, Salt, i'/z ozs. Parmesan Cheese. Method.—Let the water and butter boil, then add the flour and cook thoroughly. Add the seasoning and beat in the eggs one at a time, then stir in 2 ozs. of cheese. Drop a teaspoonful of this mixture into boiling fat, having sufficient fat to cover them. Serve piled high on a dish with the rest of the grated cheese sprinkled over.105 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. Cbeese jfonbue. Ingredients.—X lb. Breadcrumbs or slices of Bread, X lb. Cheese, 2 ozs. Butter, 2 Eggs, X pint Milk, Mustard, Pepper, and Salt. Method.—Spread some thin slices of bread with butter, then cover them with thin slices of cheese. Sprinkle over them mustard, pepper, and salt; lay them in a buttered pie dish. Now beat up the yolks of eggs in the milk and pour over; let it bake about of an hour. Whip the whites of eggs stiffly and place on the top when baked ; return to the oven and lightly brown, sprinkling over it some grated cheese. Cbeese fritters. The whites of two eggs stiffly whipped ; add a little grated cheese and pepper. Mix lightly and fry in boiling fat, dropping in pieces about the size of a small walnut. Cbeese /Ibacavonl. Ingredients.— i oz. Butter, ]/z oz. Flour, X pint Milk, 1 tea- spoonful Mustard, Cayenne Pepper, Salt, X lb. Macaroni, 2 ozs. Parmesan Cheese. Method.—Well wash the macaroni and boil until tender, throwing it into boiling water. When well cooked, strain it and cut the macaroni into pieces an inch long. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, add the seasoning and the cooked macaroni. Lastly, stir in i*4 ozs. of grated cheese. Pour thisSALADS AND SAVOURIES. io6 mixture into a buttered pie dish, shake the remaining cheese over the top, and brown it quickly in a hot oven. Note.—This may be browned underneath the grill burners on the top of the stove. Cbeese ffmffs. Ingredients.—2 ozs. puff Pastry, 1 oz. grated Parmesan Cheese, Cayenne Pepper, and Salt. METHOD.—Roll the paste out very thin, and then lay the cheese and seasoning on the top. Fold it up and roll out again in a thin sheet, cutting out rounds the size of half a crown, and fry them in boiling fat. Drain and serve piled high on a dish, with some grated cheese sprinkled over. Cbeese IRamequitts. Ingredients.—2 oz. slice of Crumb of Bread warmed in 1 gill of Milk, 2 ozs. of grated Cheese, the yolks of 2 Eggs and the whites whipped stiffly, Cayenne and Salt. METHOD.—Make the gill of milk warm, and pour it on to the slice of bread and let it soak well. Then beat it up with a fork and add the yolks of eggs, seasoning and cheese, and when well mixed add the whites of eggs lightly to the mixture. Oil the ramequin cases, fill them three parts full, and bake about ten minutes.107 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. Cbeese Soufflees, Jceb. Ingredients.—3 ozs. Parmesan Cheese, '/z pint good White Sauce, ]/z pint Aspic Jelly, Cayenne, Mustard, Ramequin Cases. METHOD.—Grate the cheese, add the sauce cold, and jelly just liquid, also the seasoning, and whip all well together. When beginning to set, fill the ramequin cases, put them in an air-tight can, pack some ice round and freeze. Garnish with raspings. Cbeese Straws. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. grated Cheese, 3 ozs. Flour, Cayenne and Salt, yolk of 1 Egg, and a little Water. METHOD.—Mix all these ingredients into a firm paste, roll out thinly, and cut into straws. Bake them in a moderate oven a pale straw colour. Place these on the top of the browning shelf to bake gradually. Cbeese Cartlets. Ingredients,—2 ozs. grated Cheese, 1 oz. Bread Crumbs, 1 Egg, 1 tablespoonful Milk, Y lb- Rough Puff Pastry, Pepper, Salt. METHOD.—Put pastry in open tartlets : mix the other ingredients together, and put in before the pastry is baked. Then put in oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, and serve very hot.SALADS AND SAVOURIES. io8 S>abl 3Bart. Ingredients.—i oz. of Dripping, i Onion finely chopped, i teaspoonful Curry Powder, a little Salt, y2 pint red Lentils, i pint of Water or Stock. Method.—Make the dripping quite hot and fry onions dark brown. Add the curry and salt, cook for five minutes, then add the lentils and stock, and boil for half-an-hour. Serve rice as for curry in a separate dish. t£qqs, Hncbovs. Ingredients.—3 Eggs, Anchovy Essence, y2 oz. Butter, Cayenne, and Salt. Method.—Boil the eggs hard, then shell and cut them in half, removing the yolks into a basin. Pound the yolks with the other ingredients, and fill the half whites with this mixture, piled rather high and rough. Put a sprig of tarragon in each. Or put the mixture through a forcer on to salt bis- cuits, and decorate with white and yolk of egg in centre. JEcjgs with Cream anb Cbeese. Ingredients.— Buttered Panakins, Cream, grated Cheese, Eggs, Pepper and Salt. Method.—Put an egg in each panakin, and a109 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. tablespoonful of cream on the top with a pinch of grated cheese, salt and cayenne pepper. Have some boiling water in a saute pan ; place the panakins in this and poach lightly, then brown them in the oven or under the grill. IRitmess Devilled Skin and cut the kidneys in halves, and gently cook them in a little bacon fat, about 2 ozs., sprinkle them with cayenne and salt, add a dessert spoonful of sherry and a few drops of Worcester sauce or any relish. Make quite hot and serve. Xobster Cremes. Ingredients.—1 Hen Lobster, 1 hard-boiled Egg, y2 pint Cream, y2 oz. Gelatine, 1 gill Fish Sauce (white), Cayenne, Salt, Aspic Jelly. Method.—Decorate some tiny moulds with clear aspic jelly and lobster coral, then a layer of yolk of egg (hard-boiled) put through a sieve. Chop up the lobster finely, white of egg, add the fish sauce, in which dissolve the gelatine. Whip the cream, mix all together and pour in decorated moulds. Serve with chopped aspic jelly.SALADS AND SAVOURIES. 110 /Ifcacarom a I’Stalienne. Ingredients.— lb. Tomatoes, 3 ozs. Macaroni, 2 table- spoonsful of Stock, ozs. of Cheese, 1 oz. Butter. METHOD.—Boil the macaroni (see recipe page 105). Then slice the tomatoes and stew them in the stock, pass through a sieve when done. Put the ounce of butter into a stewpan with the cheese and macaroni, then add the puree of tomatoes ; season with pepper and salt and serve very hot on a dish. /Hbusbrooms farced. Ingredients.—6 cup Mushrooms, 2 ozs. chopped Ham, 2 ozs. Bread Crumbs, 1 tablespoonful White Sauce or Cream, % teaspoonful Shalot, ]/2 teaspoonful Parsley, 2 ozs. Butter, Cayenne and Salt. METHOD.-—-Peel the mushrooms and remove the stalks. Mince stalks, ham, shalot, and parsley, and sautd in butter for six minutes ; then add bread crumbs and seasoning, and stuff the mushrooms. Place on a baking sheet and put in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Garnish with raspings on top and serve on fried croutons of bread. ©pster Cassolettes. Ingredients.—6 Oysters, 1 tablespoonful of Bechamel Sauce, ]/2 Truffle (chopped), 2 Mushrooms (chopped), Season- ing, 6 ozs. Butter, 1 Egg, Bread Crumbs.111 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. METHOD.—Blanch and beard the oysters, chop them into about four, mix them with the sauce, truffle and mushroom, and keep warm in a stewpan. Take the butter, divide it equally into six pieces, roll each piece into the shape of a cork, then roll in bread- crumbs and shape again ; egg it well, and again roll in the crumbs. Take a sharp knife, in order to mark a lid, then place the cassolettes when all are prepared in a frying basket, dip in very hot fat, and fry a light fawn colour. Drain for a minute or two on kitchen- paper, then with a pointed knife raise the lid marked by the knife, and drain the melted butter from the inside into a basin; fill each cassolette with the oyster mixture and replace the lid ; serve on a folded ser- viette. Garnish with parsley. NOTE.—Chicken or game can be prepared in the same manner, but would be more suitable for a breakfast dish. ©yster Savoury. Ingredients.—6 Oysters (blanched and bearded), i'/z ozs. Bread Crumbs, oz. of Butter, a little grated Lemon Peel, Cayenne and Salt, the yolk of one Egg. METHOD.—After the oysters are blanched and bearded, chop them small and put them into a stew- pan with the butter. When the butter has melted, add all the other ingredients and cook over the gas till very hot. Pile this mixture upon some croutons, and garnish with lobster coral.112 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. prawns in Bspic. Ingredients.—3 dozen Prawns, 1 pint Aspic Jelly, a few sprigs Tarragon and Chervil. METHOD.—Take six small dariole moulds, set them in a basin of pounded ice. Melt half the jelly, run a little all round a mould ; then decorate it with leaves of the tarragon and chervil at the bottom, pour on a little aspic to cover the leaves and set again. Then place at equal distances the prawns in slanting lines of two prawns in each line up the sides of the mould, and between each line a decoration of tarragon and chervil leaves. Run a little aspic over these decorations to set them ; then proceed to fill up the mould with melted aspic. Prepare the other five moulds in the same manner and set on ice. When firm, dip each mould in a basin of warm water, and turn on to a dish. Arrange the little aspics on the dish, and fill up the spaces left with chopped jelly. \ \ A IRolls a la IRegime. Ingredients.—7 small Rolls, 1 Crab, 1 tablespoonful Mayonnaise Sauce, 1 tablespoonful of whipped Cream, Salt and Cayenne to taste. Method.—-Scoop out the crumb from the rolls; then take the crab clear from the shell, and chop it up finely; add the sauce, cream, and seasoning. Whisk all well together, and fill the rolls with the mixture.113 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. Decorate with yolk of egg, rubbed through a sieve, white of egg chopped finely, and lobster coral. Dish on salad. Savoury ©melet. Ingredients.—1 oz. Bacon Fat, 2 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley, a little Shalot minced, and cooked Ham grated, Pepper and Salt. Method.—Work the yolks of eggs well, and mix in parsley, shalot, ham, pepper and salt. Whip up the whites as stiffly as possible and add to the other ingredients, mixing them lightly but thoroughly. Make the fat very hot in omelet pan, and turn in mixture and stir with a spoon for five seconds, cooking very gently. As soon as it begins to set, fold the omelet towards the handle of pan and tilt the pan ; when firm underneath, hold the pan under the grill to brown the top. Serve very hot. Note.—Omelets want a gentle heat. Cook them on the top of the grill with flames very low, and turn the gas on full to brown it underneath the grill. Scotch Moohcock. Ingredients.—yi oz. Butter, yz oz. Flour, 1 gill of Milk, Cayenne Pepper, Salt, 1 oz. grated Cheese, 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Sauce, 2 Eggs. Method.—Butter two slices of toast and boil one egg hard ; melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, H114 SALADS AND SAVOURIES. pepper, and salt, and then the milk. When it boils, stir in the anchovy sauce and the yolk of one egg and cheese. Pour this mixture on to the toast, and decorate one with the chopped white of egg, and the other with the yolk. tomatoes Stufiefc. Ingredients.—6 ripe Tomatoes, 2 ozs. of Bread Crumbs, 2 ozs. of Ham, 1 teaspoonful of Parsley, Pepper and Salt, and 2 Shalots, 1 Egg. Method.—Choose the tomatoes all the same size, then take a small cutter and cut out the centre half- way through, and fill the cavity with the above ingredients, all finely chopped, mixed with the raw egg, and piled rather high. Butter a baking dish and bake them about twelve minutes. Chicken or spiced beef may be substituted for the ham.PASTRY. IRules for pastry. Make the pastry in the coolest place in the house, and have cool hands. Use a cold marble slab or pastry board and a straight rolling pin, and very cold water. Always finger it lightly, and make it quickly. Pastry should always go into a hot oven, so as to set the •crust and prevent the butter or lard from running out; the oven door should never be slammed, as it shuts in a current of cold air and prevents the pastry rising, On taking pastry out of the oven, do not let it stand in a draught, but keep it in a warm place to cool gradually, or the steam that is coming from it will condense and render the pastry heavy. Always place pastry underneath the browning shelf in hot oven, and reduce the gas flames every five minutes or every ten minutes. Cassolette pastry. Ingredients.—6 ozs. Flour, 2 ozs. Butter, yolk of Egg, Cayenne and Salt, Lemon Juice a squeeze, very little Water. METHOD.— Rub the butter into the flour, sprinkle in cayenne and salt, and mix with yolk of egg lemon116 PASTRY. juice and water to a smooth stiff paste. Knead and roll out once. JTafep pastry. Ingredients.—i lb. self-rising Flour, X l'3- Butter, X lb. Lard, cold Water. Method.—Sieve the flour and rub in all the lard lightly; then mix with the cold water and roll it out. Take one-third of the butter and put it on the pastry in flakes. Fold the pastry into three and roll out again. Repeat this twice more and it is then ready for use. jfrencb pastry. Ingredients.—X pint boiling Water, 2 ozs. Butter, 5 ozs. Vienna Flour, 3 Eggs. Method.—Let the butter dissolve in the boiling water, and then mix in the flour, stirring briskly until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan and forms a thick uniform mass. Let it cool a little, then add the eggs one at a time. Bake in a moderate oven. Either shape the pastry in dessert spoons, or drop it in rocky lumps on the buttered baking sheet, or roll it in long finger shapes. When baked, make an incision and fill with whipped cream or good custard. This mixture may be fried in hot fat, dropping in a tea- spoonful at a time.PASTRY. I 17 plain pastry. Ingredients.—1 lb. Flour, ]/z lb. Lard or Dripping, 1 tea- spoonful of Baking Powder, sufficient cold Water to form a paste. Method.—Sieve the flour, and then rub in the lard or dripping with the tips of the fingers till it is as fine as bread crumbs; then add the baking powder and mix well, and gradually use sufficient water to form a stiff' paste. Roll this out once and bake in a quick oven. puff pastrp. Ingredients.—]/z lb. Vienna Flour, ]/z lb. best fresh Butter, 1 teaspoonful of Lemon Juice, cold Water (iced if possible) to mix, yolk of 1 Egg. Method.—Wash the butter in cold water and squeeze it dry in a clean cloth to a square shape. Pass the flour through a hair sieve into a basin ; make well in centre of flour and put in the lemon juice and yolk of egg. Now mix it with cold water to a paste the consistency of the butter. Turn it on to a pastry board and knead it well. Then roll out to three times the size of butter in length, place the butter in the centre and fold over in three, pressing the edges firmly together to keep the air in. This must now have seven rolls. Give it one roll, fold over in three, and put away in a cool place on ice for at least a quarter of an hour ; then give it two rolls more, and again put it away on ice, and so on until the seventh roll, keepingPASTRY. the rough edge always on the right-hand side, where the last was folded over. The pastry requires to be Rj-inch thick for patties, and j^-inch for tartlets. Bake in a quick oven, placing it always under the hot plate in oven to rise, and gradually reducing the gas flames every five minutes. IRatsefc pie Crust. Ingredients.—I lb. Flour, X lb- Butter or Lard, X pint boiling Water, a little Salt. Method.—Pass the flour through a sieve, make a well in the centre. Put the lard into a saucepan with the water, and when dissolved pour into the flour; mix well, and then turn it out on to the board and knead it. Let it cool before shaping it into the form for a pie. IRougI) puff paste. Ingredients.—X lb. Flour, 3 ozs. Butter, 3 ozs. Lard, X teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. Method.—Pass the flour through a sieve, and break up butter and lard in lumps the size of a walnut in the flour; make a well in the centre and add the lemon juice and sufficient cold water to form a paste. Roll this out and then fold in three, keeping the rough edge to the right-hand side. Repeat this three times, so that the paste is rolled four times altogether. It is then ready for use, and must be baked in a quick oven.119 PASTRY. Short Crust. Ingredients.—^ lb. Flour, 2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Lard, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, yz teaspoonful Baking Powder. METHOD.—Rub the butter and lard lightly into the flour ; then add the baking powder and castor sugar, and mix into a stiff paste with cold water. Roll this out once and it is ready for use. Suet Crust. Ingredients.-—1 lb. Flour, 6 ozs. of Suet, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, cold Water. METHOD.—Shred and chop the suet finely and put it into a basin. Then pass the flour and baking powder through a sieve on to it. Mix all to a stiff smooth paste with a little cold water, and roll out once. For a richer crust use lb. suet, and if for a meat pudding add a pinch of salt. Superior Short Crust. Ingredients.—5 ozs. Butter, ^ lb. Vienna Flour, yolk of 1 Egg, pi oz. Castor Sugar. Method.—Rub the butter lightly into the flour, then add the castor sugar ; make a well in the centre and mix with the yolk of egg, adding as little water as possible. Roll this pastry only out once.BREAD AND CAKES. Ifoome flbake Break. Ingredients.—i % lbs. Flour, ]/2 oz. Yeast, i teaspoonful Castor Sugar, a little Salt, X P'nt of tepid Water. Method.—The flour and salt should be passed through a sieve into a basin, then make a well in the centre. In a small basin put the German yeast and sugar, and cream them together till they form a liquid. Add the tepid water ; mix these well together and strain it into the centre of the flour. Work some of the flour into it and set it in a warm place to rise for half an hour ; then mix in all the flour, cover it up, and let it rise for two hours ; then knead it well on a floured board for ten minutes. This quantity is sufficient for a cottage loaf. Divide it in two portions one larger than the other, and make each into a smooth ball without cracks, placing the smaller one on the top of the other, and pressing the forefinger into the centre on the top. Put this loaf on a baking sheet and set it to rise in a warm place, then put itI 21 BREAD AND CAKES. into a hot oven, and give it a gradually decreasing heat. Note.—That in a gas oven the half quartern loaf will take exactly 40 minutes. Put the loaf in when the oven is hot, then turn the flames down to half an inch, in ten minutes’ time to quarter of an inch, and gradually decrease the heat, turning the gas quite out for the last ten minutes. 7Hnfermente& 3Bvea&. Ingredients.—1 lb. Flour, ]/2 pint Milk or Water, 2 tea- spoons Baking Powder, or use self rising Flour. Method.—Pass the flour and baking powder through a wire sieve and mix the milk in smoothly. Divide the dough into equal parts and form little cottage loaves. They will take from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour to bake. Lower the gas every five minutes, and place them under the browning shelf. A hot oven is required. IDtenna JBrea£>. Ingredients.— 1 lb. Vienna Flour, ]4. oz. German Yeast, 1 teaspoonful Castor Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 oz. Butter, 1 gill of tepid Milk. METHOD.—Cream the yeast and sugar and add the milk and butter, by warming the butter first in a stewpan and then adding the milk, letting it just get122 BREAD AND CAKES. lukewarm, and mixing it with the yeast. Pour this into the flour, which should be passed through a sieve, beat in the egg, and having formed a dough, set it to rise for an hour and a half in a warm place, covered over with a cloth. When the dough is well risen, knead it well and form it into fancy twists and rolls. Place them on a floured baking sheet and let them prove in a warm place for io or 15 minutes; then place in the gas oven underneath the sheet deflector in a quick oven. Lower the gas after the first five minutes, and when the bread is nearly done, brush it over with milk and return it to the oven to finish off and glaze. Breakfast IRolls. Ingredients.—1 lb. Self Rising Flour, y. pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter. METHOD.—Pass the flour through a sieve, rub in the butter, moisten with cold milk till it forms a light dough, stirring with a knife. Knead a little, then take off pieces and roll them. Put on floured tins and bake in a quick oven for quarter of an hour, having previously brushed over each a little milk or egg. plain Biscuits. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, 1 gill of Milk, yz lb. Flour. Method.—Melt the butter, add the milk, and thenBREAD AND CAKES. 123 mix it with the flour. Work it into a smooth paste and roll it out thinly. Cut into rounds with a cutter and place on a buttered baking sheet; prick them with a fork. Five minutes to bake. /IDacaroon Biscuits. Ingredients.—]4. lb. ground Almonds, 1 lb. Castor Sugar, 1 oz. ground Rice, 4 whites of Eggs. Method.—Place the almonds, sugar, and ground rice in a basin, then whisk the whites stiffly and add. Then lay out teaspoonfuls of the mixture on wafer paper, and bake in a hot oven. Take out the browning shelf. Bath Buns. Ingredients.— 1 lb. Vienna Flour, V2 oz. German Yeast, 1 teaspoonful Castor Sugar, 1 gill tepid Milk, 2 ozs, Sultanas, 2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. Candied Peel, 3 Eggs, 2 ozs. crushed Lump Sugar. METHOD.—Cream the yeast and teaspoonful of castor sugar together, add the tepid milk and strain into half the flour to form sponge. Let it rise an hour, then rub the butter into the other y2 lb. of flour, adding sultanas, castor sugar, and candied peel, and the sponge from the other basin. Now beat in theBREAD AND CAKES. 124 eggs well, one at a time with the hand, and set it to rise again. When well risen, form into eight rocky buns, sprinkle the crushed lump sugar on top, also a few comfits ; let them prove, and then bake. Place them on a grid shelf underneath the browning shelf in oven, reducing the gas every five minutes. Cocoanut JSuns. Ingredients—X'lk. self rising Flour, 3 ozs. Butter, X Ik. Castor Sugar, X Ik. dessicated Cocoanut, 1 Egg, 1 gill Milk. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and cocoanut, then the eggs and the milk. Take two forks and place the mixture in rocky cakes on a baking sheet. Bake ten minutes. Cornflour JSuns. Ingredients.—X Ik. Cornflour, 2 ozs. Sugar, 2 ozs of Butter, 2 ozs. of Flour, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, 2 Eggs, Vanilla Essence. Method.—Cream the sugar and butter, beat in one egg, mix the flour, corn flour and baking powder together, add half of it to the mixture in basin, then the other egg and the remainder of flour and corn- flour ; lastly, the essence of vanilla. Bake in patty pans ten minutes.BREAD AND CAKES. 125„ ffreitcb Buns. Ingredients.—X lb. self rising Flour, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar,, the grated rind of 1 Lemon, 2 ozs. Butter, 1 Egg, X gill Milk, 1 oz. Candied Peel, a few Comfits. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour, then add the lemon rind, castor sugar, and the candied peel chopped. Mix with the egg and milk, form into buns, and place a few comfits on the top of each. Bake about fifteen minutes. Dictoria Buns. Ingredients.—X lb- Flour, 2 ozs. Corn Flour, 3 ozs. Sugar, 3 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Citron, 1 Egg, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar, then add the egg, and after it is well beaten the citron chopped finely and the flour, baking powder, and corn flour mixed. Butter some patty pans, and put about a tablespoonful of the mixture in each. Bake about ten minutes. Bribe Cake. 1 lb. Flour, X lb- Butter, 1 gill Rum, 1 gill Treacle, X lb. Sugar, iX lbs. Currants, X lb. chopped Sultanas, X lb- mixed Peel, some grated Nutmeg, X lb- ground Almonds, 7 Eggs. Method.—Pass the flour and grated nutmeg through a sieve together, add the currants, sultanas,BREAD AND CAKES. 126 peel and almonds, also the sugar. Then melt the butter and treacle in a stewpan, remove from the fire and add the rum. Pour this into the basin, and well mix. Lastly, beat in the eggs one at a time. Bake in a moderate oven for 2 hours. The gas must be nearly out after the first ten minutes, and turned quite out for the last half hour. Cbern? Cafee. Ingredients.— i oz. Paisley Flour, 5 ozs. Vienna Flour, X lb. of Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. preserved Cherries, 2 Eggs, 1 tablespoonful of Milk. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar, then beat in the eggs one at a time. Pass the Paisley and Vienna flour through a sieve, and add lightly to the mixture. Stir in the milk, and lastly the cherries, and pour into a buttered cake tin. Christmas Cafce. Ingredients—X lb. Butter, 'A lb. Castor Sugar, 5 Eggs, 10 ozs. Flour, 6 ozs. Sultanas, 6 ozs. Currants, 3 ozs. mixed Peel, grated Lemon or Nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, then beat in the eggs one at a time, clean the fruit and shred the peel, mix the flour and baking powder together, pass127 BREAD AND CAKES. through a sieve, then gradually add all these in- gredients together, and mix thoroughly. Bake for one hour in a moderate oven, turn out the gas and let it remain another half hour to soak. Cornflour Cafee. Ingredients.—y2 lb. Corn Flour, 6 ozs. Butter, 6 ozs. Castor Sugar, 3 Eggs, a few drops of Essence of Lemon or the zest of 1 Lemon, 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar well, then add the corn flour and baking powder, and just melt the butter and stir in quickly. Line a cake tin with buttered paper, and bake one hour. NOTE.—The oven should be hot when the cake goes in ; after ten minutes or so gradually decrease the heat, and turn the gas entirely out for the last quarter of an hour. Bougb Cafee. Ingredients.—% quartern of Dough, X lb. Butter or Drip- ping (melted), % lb. moist Sugar, X lb. Currants. Method.—Beat the butter or dripping into the dough, then add the sugar and currants, mixing well with the hand. Put it in a cake or bread tin, greased and floured, set it in a warm place to prove, and then bake for half an hour, gradually decreasing the heat.128 BREAD AND CAKES. Genoa Cake. Ingredients.—X lb. Butter, X lb. Sugar, io ozs. Flour, X lb. Sultanas, 2 ozs. Candied Peel, 3 yolks of Eggs, 2 whites whipped stiffly. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs one at a time, and beat well in. Then stir in flour, sultanas and candied peel, and lastly the whites of eggs. Line the cake tin with buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake one hour, decreasing the heat every quarter of an hour. Genoese Cake. X lb. Butter, X lb. Flour (Vienna), 6 ozs. Castor Sugar, 5 Eggs. Method.—Whisk the eggs and sugar in a basin for a quarter of an hour, over boiling water, then remove and whisk for 15 minutes longer. Very gently sift in the flour, and lastly add the butter just melted. Mix thoroughly with a spoon or whisk, but do not whip it after the flour is added. This is used for jam roll and a variety of gateaux and fancy sweets. GtncjerbreaO Cake. Ingredients.—X IS. Flour, X lb- Treacle, X lb- Butter, 2 ozs. Candied Peel, X lb. moist Sugar, 2 Eggs, X gill of Milk, X oz. ground Ginger, X teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda.BREAD AND CAKES. 129 Method.—Mix flour and ginger together and pass through a wire sieve into a basin ; then add the peel cut in thin shreds. Put the butter, treacle, and sugar into a stewpan and set it just over a glimmer of gas so as to melt slowly and not burn. Then add it, when melted and only lukewarm, to the flour. Dissolve the soda in the milk, beat the eggs slightly with a fork, then mix altogether and stir well. Pour into a greased Yorkshire tin and bake for half an hour or 40 minutes. Note.—Place the Yorkshire pudding tin on a grid shelf just underneath the hot plate, with the gas flame p2-in. long. In ten minutes lower the gas to j^-in., and in ten minutes more lower still, and turn gas out for the last few minutes, or move cake to the top of oven or lower shelf to finish. Xuncb Cake. Ingredients.—X lb. Flour, X lb. Butter, X lb. Currants, X lb. Sugar (sifted), 2 Eggs, 2 teaspoonsful Baking Powder, 1 teacupful of Milk. Method.—Cream the sugar and butter together, then beat in one egg and half the flour and baking powder, then the other egg and the remainder of flour and baking powder; add currants and milk, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. I130 BREAD AND CAKES. /iftaftetra Cafee. Ingredients.—X lb. Flour, X lb. Butter, X lb Sugar, 3 Eggs, 1 tablespoonful of Milk, Citron. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar well to- gether for five minutes with the hands, and beat in the eggs separately for five minutes each, then sift the flour and add it by degrees, the milk last of all. Clarify the butter for buttering the mould, and line it also with buttered paper. Bake about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, and put some citron on the top of the cake, which should be smoothed with a knife. UMum Cake. Ingredients.— X lb. Flour, X lb- Sultanas, 2 ozs. Candied Peel, 2 Eggs, 3 ozs. Butter or Dripping, X lb. Sugar, 1 gill Milk, X teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Method.—Rub the butter in the flour ; add the sultanas and peel; mix the baking powder thoroughly with the castor sugar and add next. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the milk and mix with the ingredients. Lastly, whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add very lightly to the mixture. Pour into a cake tin lined with buttered paper and bake an hour. IPoun& Cafees. Ingredients.—X lb. Flour, X lb. Currants, X lb. Sugar, 4 Eggs, X lb- of Butter, X lb Sultanas, 2 ozs. Peel.131 BREAD AND CAKES. Method.—Whip the sugar and eggs for ^ hour, then add the flour, and a little baking powder and the currants ; melt the butter and pour in last. Bake in little tins for 20 minutes, or the whole cake 1^3 hours. GHueeit Cakes. Ingredients.-—X lb. Sugar, X lb. Butter, 2 Eggs, 5 ozs. Flour, ]/2 oz. Currants, a little Nutmeg or Lemon Peel (grated). Method.—Cream the sugar and butter, and beat in the eggs one at a time ; add the flour lightly, lastly the currants and flavouring. Bake in patty pans ten minutes in a hot oven. IRock Cakes. Ingredients.—y2 lb. Flour, X lb. Dripping, % lb. Currants, % lb. Castor Sugar, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Candied Lemon Peel, 1 tea- spoonful Baking Powder. Method.—Sieve the flour, then rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers till it is as fine as bread crumbs, then add all the dry ingredients. Beat up the eggs with a fork, and mix all together well. Have ready a baking sheet greased and floured, take two forks and arrange the mixture in little rocky heaps. Bake about ten minutes in a quick oven. A fierce heat for 2 or 3 minutes, gas nearly out to finish.BREAD AND CAKES. 132 Sardinian Cafte. Ingredients.—X lb. Flour, X lb. Butter, X lb. Sugar, 3 Eggs, 3 ozs. Currants, 3 ozs. Sultanas, 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Method.—Pass the flour through a wire sieve, and then add the currants and sultanas well cleaned and picked ; mix the baking powder with the castor sugar, and having mixed all the dry ingredients together in a basin; add the eggs well beaten, and lastly, the butter, which should be melted and poured in. Bake for one hour in a cake tin lined with buttered paper. Shrewsbury Cafees. Ingredients.—3 ozs. Butter, 3 ozs. Castor Sugar, 6 ozs. Flour, 1 Lemon, 1 Egg. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar well, then beat in the egg, add the flour and grated lemon rind, and about six drops of lemon juice. Knead it and roll out thinly, cut into small rounds, and bake ten minutes a pale lemon colour in a slow oven. Soba Cafee. Ingredients.—1 lb. Flour, X lb. ground Rice, X lb. Cur- rants, X lb. Butter or Dripping, X lb- Candied Peel, X lb. Sugar, 2 Eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda dis- solved in half a pint of cold Milk.BREAD AND CAKES. 133 METHOD.—Pass the flour through a sieve and rub in the butter ; add the currants, candied peel and sugar, then beat in one egg and add half the milk, and then the other egg and the rest of the milk and soda. Beat well for two minutes and bake in a moderate oven about one hour and a half. Sponge Cafte. Ingredients.—3 Eggs, their weight in Castor Sugar and 4 ozs. Flour, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 1 teaspoonful Essence of Vanilla. METHOD.—Line a cake tin with some buttered paper. Whisk the yolk of eggs and sugar for 15 minutes over a saucepan of hot water then stir in the flour, baking powder, and essence of vanilla. Whip the whites stiffly and add lightly to the mixture, pour into the cake tin, and bake in a hot oven about half an hour, gradually turning down the gas until the cake is cooked. Oven temperature for sponge cakes 360°. Small Sponge (lakes. Ingredients.— '/z lb. Eggs, yi lb. Castor Sugar, 6 ozs. Flour, 1 teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar, y2 teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. Method.—Butter and flour the little moulds, and dust them over last of all with castor sugar. Beat the134 BREAD AND CAKES. eggs and sugar for twenty minutes over a basin of hot water. Pass the flour, cream of tartar and carbonate of soda through a sieve together, and stir lightly into the beaten eggs and sugar. Fill the moulds and dredge a little sugar over the top. Bake a quarter of an hour. Watfein Cafte. Ingredients.—X lb. each of ground Rice and Flour, 6 ozs. of Butter, X lb. Castor Sugar, 4 Eggs. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar well to- gether. Pass the flour and ground rice through a sieve and mix well. When the butter and sugar is creamed add one yolk of egg ; beat it in and add one fourth of the flour and rice. Then the second yolk and so on. Lastly, whip the whites of the eggs stiffly, and add them lightly to the mixture. Bake about three quarters of an hour. Cocoanut Iftocfes. Ingredients.—X lb- grated Cocoanut, X lb- Castor Sugar,, the whites of 2 Eggs. Method.—Whip the whites stiffly, add the cocoa- nut and sugar, mix lightly, and bake on wafer paper in a cool oven ten minutes or so.13 5- BREAD AND CAKES. ©ingerbreaD IRuts. Ingredients.—X lb Flour, i ozs. Dripping, i gill Treacle, X oz. Ground Ginger. Method.—Melt the dripping and treacle, and mix with the flour and ginger, stir well and then knead. This quantity should make about 12. Cafee 3cmg. Ingredients.—X lb. Icing Sugar, i white of Egg, juice of half a Lemon. Method.—Rub the icing sugar through a hair sieve ; put the white of egg and lemon juice in a clean basin, work well with a wooden spoon, adding the sugar gradually till all is in and the mixture smooth. Spread a layer over the cake, dipping the knife in cold water, and ornament the edges with the same icing through a forcer. Hlmonfc 3cing. Ingredients.—X lb. ground Almonds, 6 ozs. icing Sugar, the white of i Egg, i teaspoonful of Lemon Juice, i teaspoonful of Orange Flower Water. Method.—Place the white of egg and lemon juice in a basin, work it well, and gradually add the other ingredients till it forms a stiff paste. Spread on the top of cake, and dry in a cool oven.BREAD AND CAKES. 136 Blmonfc paste 3ctng. Ingredients.—X lb. ground Almonds, 3 ozs. icing Sugar, 1 white of Egg, 1 large tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water. Method.—Boil the sugar and orange flower water for six or seven minutes, then add the almonds. Take it off the gas and mix in the white of egg. Turn out on to an oiled plate and let it cool. Then roll out or form into fancy shapes. Cbocolate Mater 3ctng. Ingredients—X lb. icing Sugar, sifted, 1 oz. Cocoa, 4 tea- spoonsful Water, 1 teaspoon Lemon Juice. Method.—Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir briskly over a glimmer of gas, until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Do not allow this to boil, and pour it over the cake at once. (Xoffee Jctng. Ingredients.—X lb- butter, X lb- icing Sugar, Essence of Coffee. Method.— Cream the butter and sugar together smoothly, and add about one dessert spoonful of strong coffee essence gradually. This icing is used for sponge cake mixtures. When the cake is iced, keep it in a cool place until wanted.137 BREAD AND CAKES. Xemon XHHateu 3dng. Ingredients.—X lb. Icing Sugar, sifted, 2 teaspoonsful ot Lemon Juice, 2 teaspoonsful of Water. Method.— Put these into a saucepan, and just let them mix and get quite smooth and cream}', stirring briskly over a glimmer of gas. This must not boil. Scones. Ingredients.—1 lb. self rising Flour, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. Sultanas, 3 ozs. Butter, X pint Cold Milk. METHOD.—Take a basin and sieve the pound of flour, in which rub the butter and add the sultanas and castor sugar. Mix all well together and add not quite the half-pint of cold milk. Turn out on to the board and knead well. Form it into two rounds and place them on a flat baking sheet, and cut each round across and across, so as to form six scones from each round. Brush them over with an egg, and prick them on the top with a fork. Bake in a quick oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Note.—That the scones must be placed on the open grid shelf under browning shelf at the first, and the gas is lowered every five minutes. Mbole /llieal Scones. Ingredients.—1 lb. Whole Meal, 1 teaspoonful of CarbonateBREAD AND CAKES. 138 of Soda, 2 teaspoonsful of Cream of Tartar, i oz. Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. of Butter, and half a pint of Milk. Method.—Rub the butter into the meal, then mix the soda, cream of tartar, and sugar together and mingle all well in the basin, mixing it into a stiff dough with the milk. Form into two rounds, and cut each round across and across into six. Bake on a greased baking sheet about twenty minutes, and brush over with a little milk when half baked. Uea Scones. Ingredients.-—18 oz. Flour, 2 oz Castor Sugar, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Sultanas, X oz- Carbonate of Soda, X oz- Cream of Tartar, X pint Milk, 1 white of Egg, whisked. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour, and mix the sugar, soda, and cream of tartar together and add, with the Sultanas. Mix with the milk and white of egg to a stiff dough and form into four rounds, brush over with the yolk, and bake for 15 minutes in a hot oven. When half baked they should be turned right over. Swiss IRoll. Ingredients.—2 Eggs and their weight in Castor Sugar, 2 tablespoonsful of Milk, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 1 tea- spoonful Essence of Vanilla, 3 ozs. Flour. Method.—Beat the eggs and castor sugar well together for fifteen minutes, the first seven minutes139 BREAD AND CAKES. over boiling water, mix flour and baking powder together and pass through a sieve. Then mix all well together and add the milk, and pour it on to a baking sheet lined with kitchen paper, spread flat with a knife, and bake for seven minutes. Spread with jam and roll up, and sprinkle some castor sugar over. Note.—Place the Swiss roll on the open grid shelf in the middle of oven under the hot plate, and only have gas flames half an inch long. Lower the gas still more after five minutes. Hfternoon Cea Cakes. Ingredients.—X lb. Vienna Flour, 2 ozs. Butter, X oz. Castor Sugar, yolk of 1 Egg, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, 1 gill of Milk. Method.—Rub the butter into ^ lb. of the flour, and put the baking powder with the other lb. of flour, to be added after the butter is rubbed in. Add the castor sugar, beat the egg with the milk, and mix quickly. Roll the dough out and cut in any fancy shapes, and brush over with milk when partly baked. To be eaten hot, split and buttered. Mlsbecb Cea Cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. Self Rising Flour, X lb. of Castor Sugar, 3 ozs. Lard or Butter, 1 Egg, iX gills of Milk. Method.— Rub the butter into the flour, then addBREAD AND CAKES. 140 the sugar. Beat the egg with the milk, and mix it into a stiff dough. Form it into small rounds about the size of a saucer, and bake on a greased baking sheet about a quarter of an hour. Then split them open and butter them, and send them to table hot. Jftorfesbire Uea Cafees. Ingredients.—^ lb. Self Rising Flour, 1% gills Milk, i oz. Butter, i Egg, i oz. Castor Sugar. Method.—Pass the flour through a sieve into a basin, and warm the butter and milk in a stewpan, being careful it is not too hot. Strain this into the flour, add the sugar and egg well beaten up ; mix these all into a dough and knead it well for two minutes. Divide this into two smooth, round balls, have two small round cake tins ready, greased and floured; put one portion into each, pres- sing it down in the tin, then bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Brush the top over when baked with equal quantities of milk and castor sugar to glaze it. The cakes should be cut into rounds, toasted and buttered, and served hot. Uictoda Sanbwicbes. The same ingredients exactly as for Swiss roll. They may be baked in round tins or soup plates, well buttered. Place one round on the top of the otherHi BREAD AND CAKES. when baked, and spread jam between. Allow it to cool, and then cut out in diamond shapes, and decorate if liked with white icing or pink, two different coloured jams on top. Note.—The same method for baking as the Swiss roll. Miggs. Ingredients.—i lb. Flour, % oz. German Yeast, i teaspoon- ful of Castor Sugar, iy2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Carravvay Comfits, 1 Egg, Nutmeg, \y2 gills of Milk. Method.—Cream the yeast and sugar together, melt the butter in a saucepan and add the milk; make it just tepid and pour it on to the yeast. Put the flour and a little grated nutmeg through the sieve together into a basin, and mix in the milk and yeast to form a dough, then beat in the egg and let it all rise well in a warm place. When well risen knead it a little and form into rounds or diamond shaped pieces. Sprinkle some carraway comfits on the top of each. Let them prove, and then bake in a quick oven. JlJorfcsbire parkin. Ingredients.—1 lb. fine Oatmeal, y lb. Butter, Lard, or Dripping, y lbs. Golden Syrup, % lb. of Moist Sugar, y2 tea- spoonful of Baking Powder, ]/2 oz. Candied Peel, 1 Egg. Method.—Pass the oatmeal through a sieve into a basin, shred the candied peel and add the baking142 BREAD AND CAKES. powder. Melt the dripping, sugar and golden syrup together, and mix thoroughly. Beat in one egg and bake in a well buttered Yorkshire pudding tin about half-an-hour.SA UCES. Becbamel Sauce. Ingredients.—\'/z ozs. Butter, i oz. Flour, io Peppercorns, Salt, a little Nutmeg, Bouquet Garni, yz Carrot, i Onion, i Shalot, 6 Mushrooms, yz pint White Stock, i gill Cream. Method.—Put the butter and flour into a stewpan, mix it well together with a wooden spoon; add the nutmeg, peppercorns, and salt, and melt over the fire, stirring all the time. Cut the carrot, onion, shalot, and mushrooms in small pieces ; add them to the butter and flour, moisten with the stock, and stir over the fire till thoroughly mixed together ; throw in the bouquet garni, add the cream, and let the sauce sim- mer by the side of the fire for half an hour ; strain through a tammy or hair sieve into a basin for use. JBueab Sauce. Ingredients.—yz oz. Butter, y pint Bread Crumbs, yz pint Milk, i small Onion, 2 Cloves, 1 blade of Mace, Cayenne, and Salt. Method.—Stick the cloves in the onion whole and boil in the milk adding the mace, pepper, and salt.144 SAUCES. When it boils pour it on to the bread crumbs, turn it again into the saucepan and let it stand on the hot plate. Just before serving, take out the onion, cloves, and mace, and stir in the ]/2 oz. butter. Half a gill of cream is a great improvement. JBrown Sauce. Ingredients.—pint Stock or Water, i Carrot, i Onion, i oz. Butter, oz. Flour, a little Pepper and Salt, a little Browning. Method.—Mince about a teaspoonful each of onion and carrot. Put the butter into a small stewpan, and when melted stir in the flour quite smoothly, and let the flour cook well in the butter ; then add the minced vegetables and seasoning, and let all fry together until brown. Then add the half-pint of water or stock gradually, stirring well until it boils. Let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, skimming it well. Then strain it and it is ready to serve. This sauce may be varied in flavour by adding one tomato finely minced ; another time one mushroom, or a pickled gherkin, and so on, cooking them with the carrot and onion, add a few drops of browning. Cbateaubnant Sauce. Ingredients.— i oz. Butter, ]/z oz. Flour, i gill White Stock, yolks of 2 Eggs, 1/l teaspoonful Lemon Juice, I dessert spoonful chopped Parsley.145 SAUCES. Method.—Melt the butter, add flour, and cook well, but do not let it brown, then add the stock gradually. Let it boil well for five minutes. Strain in the yolks of eggs ; add lemon juice and parsley, also salt and pepper. Note.—Be careful not to let sauce boil after adding eggs, but cook them well to remove raw taste. Chestnut Sauce. Ingredients.—% lb. Chestnuts, 2 tablespoonsful of Cream, % pint Milk, Pepper and Salt, 1 oz. Butter, % oz. Flour. Method.—Boil the chestnuts until tender and then pound them well in a mortar. Put the butter in a stewpan with three or four peppercorns, and when melted add the flour, then add the cream, salt and chestnuts, and by degrees y2 pint of boiling milk. Strain and serve with turkey. ]£qg Sauce. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, 2 ozs. Flour, ]/2 pint White Stock, y2 pint Milk, 6 White Peppercorns, y2 teaspoonlul of Salt, 2 hard-boiled Eggs. Method.—Melt the butter, add the flour and seasoning, and mix well. Then add the stock and K146 SAUCES. milk gradually, stirring well until it boils, and allow- ing to simmer for ten minutes. Then strain, and add the chopped-up whites of two eggs. The yolks should be passed through a wire sieve, and used to decorate the fish or fowl. Use fish stock if for fish, and meat stock if for meat. Bspagnole Sauce. Ingredients.—3 ozs. Butter, \ l/z ozs. Flour, j_X pints good Stock, X lb. lean Veal or Beef, 2 ozs. lean Ham, 1 tablespoon- ful of Glaze, 6 Mushrooms, 1 Carrot, 1 small Onion, 2 Shalots, 1 glass Sherry, Bouquet Garni. Method.—Take one and a half ounces of the butter, spread it over the bottom of a stewpan ; then lay in the veal, cut in dice, also the ham ; pour into the stewpan half a pint of the stock, and set the pan on the fire to boil till nearly reduced to a glaze, then take it off the fire, add the lump of glaze, and reduce it again till a thick brown glaze ; add the pint of stock, also the carrot, onion, shalots, mushrooms, and a small bouquet garni. Set it by the side of the fire to simmer for two hours, and then strain through a tammy into a basin. Take another smaller stewpan, and mix in it the butter and flour ; pour upon it the stock, previously taking off all the fat, and mix well over the fire ; then let the sauce simmer again by the147 SAUCES. side of the fire, to throw up all the butter that the roux is mixed with. Strain, and the sauce is ready for use. ffrtefc Crumb Sauce. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Ham (chopped), 1 Shalot (chopped) a little grated Nutmeg and Mignonette Pepper, y2 pint Brown Sauce, 4 tablespoonsful fried Bread Crumbs, juice of X a Lemon, small piece of Glaze, 1 dessert spoonful chopped Parsley, Salt. Method.—Put the ham, shalot, nutmeg, seasoning, and sauce into a stewpan, and simmer by the fire for twenty minutes ; then strain it into a stewpan con- taining the fried crumbs, add the lemon, glaze, and parsley. Stir all well together, and it is ready for use. (Note.—The brown sauce should be thinner than for ordinary use. (Berman Sauce. Ingredients.—1 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 gill of Water, y2 a ■wineglassful of Sherry or Brandy, the yolks ol 2 Eggs. Method.—Place all these ingredients in a stewpan and whisk to a stiff froth over just a glimmer of gas. Take care the sauce does not boil, but cook the eggs well.148 SAUCES. Jtalienne Sauce. Ingredients.—2 Shalots, 6 Mushrooms, 1 dessert spoonful Salad Oil, wine-glass Sherry, 1 sprig Thyme, 1 Bay Leaf, pint Espagnole Sauce. Method.—Chop the shalots and mushrooms and put them into a stewpan with the thyme, bay leaf, and oil ; fry them, without burning, until a good brown ; then add the sherry and reduce to half the quantity. Then add the espagnole sauce, and simmer by the fire, and as the oil is thrown to the surface, free the sauce from it by skimming. When the sauce is cleared, strain, and it is ready for use. Note.—Espagnole is the same as good brown sauce. If the use of oil is objected to, substitute butter. Jam Sauce. Ingredients.—1 gill of cold Water, 2 large tablespoonsful of Jam, 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. Method.—Put these all into a stewpan and boil rapidly for ten minutes. Strain it round the pudding. Xemon Sauce. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Loaf Sugar, 1 gill of Water, juice of y2 a Lemon, a little Cochineal.SAUCES. 149 METHOD.—Put the sugar, water, and lemon juice into a stewpan and boil rapidly for ten minutes ; add the cochineal and pour round the pudding. flliaEonnaise Sauce. Ingredients.—Yolks of 3 Eggs, yi. a gill of Tarragon, Malt and Chili Vinegar mixed, pint of Salad Oil and a little Salt. Method.—Put the yolks of the Eggs in a basin and add the salt. Then very gradually drop in the oil, stirring one way, and having the basin, if possible, on ice. Add the vinegar and the oil alternately, and when half of it is made, one dessert spoonful of boiling water will prevent the sauce from curdling. flDeltefc Butter. Ingredients.—1 oz. Butter, ]/2 oz. Flour, 1 gill of Milk, 1 gill of Hot Water, 3 white Peppercorns, a little Salt. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, then mix the flour smoothly in it, add the seasoning, and gradually stir in the gill of water and gill of milk. Let it come to the boil, stirring it all the time, and then let it simmer for ten minutes, so as to thoroughly cook the flour. Strain and serve. For a thicker sauce add ]/2 oz. more flour.SAUCES. 150 /HMut Sauce. Ingredients.—X pint of Vinegar, 1 oz. Sugar, 1 tablespoon- fu! finely chopped Mint. Mix and serve. Lemon juice instead of vinegar is a great improve- ment. ©nton Sauce. Ingredients.—1 lb. Onions, X pint melted Butter, 5 white Peppercorns, Salt. Method.—Boil the onions in water until tender and chop them finely ; make half-pint melted butter sauce, adding peppercorns and salt; then add the onions. Mix them well with the sauce and serve very hot. ©pster Sauce. Ingredients.—1 doz. Oysters, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 gill of Oyster Liquor, 1 gill of Milk, X gill of Cream, Lemon Juice, Cayenne and Salt. Method.—Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, then strain and take away the beards. Make the sauce by putting the butter into a stewpan. Let it melt, then add the flour, pepper and salt, and mix thoroughly. Add the oyster liquor gradually, then the milk, stirring constantly. When it boils add theSAUCES. 151 cream and let all simmer for a quarter of an hour, then draw off the fire, add the lemon juice and the oysters and serve at once. parsles Sauce. Make this the same as the recipe for melted butter, only in the place of the gill of water use a gill of stock taken from the stewpan in which the fowls or veal or mutton is cooking. This gives the sauce a very nice flavour. A dessert spoonful of finely-chopped parsley should be added after the sauce is strained. The parsley must be thoroughly washed after chop- ping, so as to remove the acrid taste, and a quantity of green colouring matter that would discolour the sauce. piquant Sauce. Ingredients.— 1 Onion, 1 tablespoonful of Vinegar, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, yz pint Stock, 1 Carrot, 1 teaspoonful mixed Pickles. Method.—Chop the vegetables and pickles small, and fry them brown with the flour in the butter : then add the vinegar, and lastly the stock, stirring till it boils. Simmer gently for ten minutes, skim well, and strain.SAUCES. 152 Soubise Sauce. Ingredients.—2 Onions, yolk of 1 Egg, and 1 gill of White Sauce. Method.—Boil the onions until tender. Chop them finely and mix them with the white sauce, and pass all through a hair sieve, adding pepper and salt as required. Then pour into a stewpan with the yolk of one egg, and bring nearly to the boil. Sweet Sauce. Ingredients.—1 oz. Butter, y2 oz. Corn Flour, % pint Milk, 1 oz. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Method.— Melt the butter and add the flour in the same method as the other sauces, then add the milk, and lastly the sugar, and boil well, stirring all the time. To vary the flavour, the rind of a lemon or a bay leaf may be boiled in the milk. Strain round the pudding. {Tomato Sauce. Ingredients.—6 ripe Tomatoes, 2 Shalots, 1 Bay Leaf, 1 sprig of Thyme, 2 ozs. raw Ham, 1 teaspoonful Chili Vinegar, 1 teaspoonful white Wine Vinegar, 1 oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Corn Flour, 1 gill of Stock, Peppercorns, Salt. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry in it the ham, shalots, thyme, and bay leaf, until aSAUCES. 153 light brown ; then add the vinegar, tomatoes, and gill of stock, and stir over the fire until very soft. Pass through a hair sieve ; return to a stewpan, and add the cornflour, mixed smoothly with the stock. Note.—This sauce can be made with tinned tomatoes. IPenetienne Sauce. Ingredients.—1 oz. Butter, 2 ozs. lean Ham, 1 teaspoonful of chopped Carrot and Shalot, 8 Peppercorns, 1 oz. Flour, 1 Bay Leaf, 1 gill of Fish Stock, 1 gill of Milk coloured with Coral or Spawn. Method.—Fry the vegetables in the butter with the ham, then add the flour smoothly, and pepper and salt, then the fish stock and milk. Pound some lobster spawn (black) in a mortar and put this in to the sauce, and when it comes to the boil the sauce will be a brilliant red colour. Strain and it is ready for use. MMte Sauce. Ingredients.—1 y2 ozs. Butter, ozs. Flour, 1 Bay Leaf, blade ',of Mace, 4 white Peppercorns, y2 saltspoonful of Salt, y2 pint of Milk, % pint of white Stock or Water. Method.—Put the butter into a stewpan to melt, add the flour, and mix smoothly. Cook the flour wellSAUCES. 154 in the butter (but be careful not to let it brown) with the bay leaf, mace, and seasoning. Add the stock and milk gradually, stirring until it boils. Let it simmer for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain and serve.VEGETABLES. Bsparaaus. Scrape the asparagus, wash it well, and cut it all one length. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, with water about three inches in depth, and a little lemon juice in the water. Tie the asparagus in bundles and stand it upright, so as to leave the tender green above the water. Fit a lid tightly on, and boil rapidly for about 20 minutes. Dish on toast and serve with oiled butter, lemon juice and cayenne. Carrots. Scrape the carrots and let them lie in cold water until wanted ; then plunge them into boiling water with a little salt. Keep the lid on and boil slowly. Cauliflower. This should be well washed in salt and water, then plunged top downwards into boiling water, the lidVEGETABLES. 156 kept off, and boiled rapidly until tender. Serve with melted butter poured over. Celerp witb Wbite Sauce. Cut the celery about three inches long, and boil it tender in white stock or milk. Then take I gill of the stock or milk, whichever the celery has been stewed in, add i gill of cream or milk, mix oz. of flour with one egg and salt, and let this sauce cook smoothly. Take the celery up, let it drain well on a sieve, then dish it up and pour the sauce over. (Breen Vegetables. These must be well picked and washed, then plunge them into plenty of boiling water with a little salt, and let them boil very rapidly with the lid off. potatoes. Wash the potatoes first, then peel very thinly and keep in cold water; put them in plenty of cold water with a little salt, and bring them slowly to the boil; strain the water off when nearly done, and let them finish cooking in their own steam. New potatoes must be put into boiling water, and should be scraped instead of being peeled. When they are cooked strain157 VEGETABLES. them, and put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, make it thoroughly hot, and toss the potatoes about in it for a minute, and then serve. potato Beiqnets. Ingredients.—1 lb. Potatoes, 1 oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, Pepper and Salt. Method.—Boil the potatoes and pass them through a wire sieve. Put 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan and let it melt; then add the potatoes and the yolks of eggs one at a time. Cook until the mixture leaves the sides of stewpan clean. Then whip up the whites of egg very stiffly, and add lightly to the potatoes. Have ready some boiling fat, take a dessert spoon and drop in rough pieces about the size of a walnut, and fry a golden brown. Drain them on some kitchen paper,, and serve. potato Croquettes. Ingredients—1 lb. cold boiled potatoes, 1 dessert spoon finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt, the yolk of one egg, 1 oz. butter. Method.—Pass the potatoes through a wire sieve, make the butter hot in a saucepan, then mix in all the ingredients and cook for a minute or two. Turn out on to a plate to cool. Then form into pear and appleVEGETABLES. 153 shapes, egg and breadcrumb, fry a golden brown, drain, and insert a parsley stalk at one end. potato IRtbbons or Chips. Cut the potatoes in rounds inch thick, then cut into ribbons or chips, and fry in boiling fat. Drain and serve. potatoes, Saute. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Butter, Potatoes, chopped Parsley, a little Salt. Method.—Make the butter boil up in a saute pan or stewpan, then skim. Peel the potatoes thinly, and cut in rounds, or chips, or straws : dry them well, and toss into the boiling butter and fry a golden brown. When dishing them up, sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley and a little salt. Or they may be fried for a minute on the top of the stove, and shaken well to prevent them sticking to the pan and then put them in the oven for half an hour. potatoes, Surprise. Ingredients.— 6 Large Potatoes, X lb. Sausage Meat, 1 tablespoonful of Flour, 1 white of Egg. Method.—Wash the potatoes and cut them in halfVEGETABLES. 159 lengthwise; scoop out the centre, leaving about a quarter of an inch thickness all round. Fill the cavity with sausage meat, and join the potatoes neatly again with flour and white of egg. Bake in a quick oven about forty minutes. IRice. To % lb. of rice allow half a gallon of water. Put the water on to boil and add a dessert spoonful of salt. Well wash the rice in several waters, then throw it into the boiling water, and see that it boils rapidly for exactly fifteen minutes. Then strain through a colander, and pour over it a quart or so of cold water. Put it into a clean stewpan, and place it over the gas to get thoroughly dry and hot, stirring continually with a fork. Spinacb. Spinach should be picked a leaf at a time, and well washed in several waters. Then put it into a clean stewpan with no water, with the exception of the water clinging to the leaves ; put in a little salt, and set it over a glimmer of gas. As the water draws out let it boil very quickly with the lid off. It will take about ten minutes or so. Strain it on a sieve and squeeze all the moisture away, then chop it finely withVEGETABLES. i6o a knife on a board. Make I oz. butter very hot and return it to the stewpan, add pepper and salt. Send to table very hot. XTurnips. Peel the turnips thickly, just as far as the inner rim, and keep in cold water or they will turn black. Then boil the same way as carrots, but they will take rather less time. Drain them in a colander and pass them through a wire sieve. Put 2 oz. of butter into a stew- pan, i tablespoonful of milk, a little salt and white pepper, add the turnips, and let all get thoroughly hot together. Then turn into a vegetable dish and serve.INVALID COOKERY. JSeef Cea. Ingredients.—]/z lb. Gravy Beef, y2 pint cold Water. Method.—Put the meat twice through the mincing- machine, and then let it soak in the water for twenty- minutes. Put it now in a jar and tie it down with paper and string, or cover very closely. Place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the water gently simmer for hours. If beef tea be wanted at once, after soaking the meat for twenty minutes, place it in a stewpan and bring the temperature to about 200 degrees. Be very careful never to let it boil. Strain and serve at once. JBlacfe Currant Cea. Ingredients.—1 oz. of Black Currant Jam, y pint of Water. Method.—Boil for five minutes, then strain into a cup and serve either hot or cold. Stewefc Cbop. Cut the fat from a nice thick mutton chop, and place the chop in a pie dish half full of water. Add a L162 INVALID COOKERY. little salt and pepper, and cover with two potatoes peeled and cut in thin slices. Cover with a dish, and place in a moderate oven to cook gently. It will take about an hour and a half. Serve it in the dish it is cooked in. Cbicfeen or Deal Cream. Ingredients.—lb. raw Chicken Breast or Veal Cutlet, % gill of Cream whipped, 1 egg, seasoning. Method.—Chop the meat finely and pound it, season, and add the yolk of egg and the whipped cream. Lastly, stir in the white of the egg, whisked to a stiff froth. Put in small moulds well buttered and steam very gently for about fifteen minutes. Clear JBarley Mater. Ingredients.—1 pint boiling Water, 2 ozs. Pearl Barley, 1 Lemon, 1 oz. Loaf Sugar. METHOD.—Blanch the pearl barley by putting it on in cold water and bringing it to the boil. Strain the barley and throw the water away. Then put the barley in a jug and pour on to it the pint of boiling water, sugar, lemon peel and juice. Cover the jug, and when the mixture is cold strain it. patent JBarlep. Barley Water for Invalids.—Take of the patent barley one ounce, mix with a wine-glassful of163 INVALID COOKERY. cold water, pour this into a stewpan containing one quart of boiling water, stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes; then flavour with a small bit of lemon peel or cinnamon, and sweeten according to taste. Note.—When the patent barley is used to make a summer beverage, only half an ounce must be taken. Cornflour pudding. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Cornflour, 1 pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 Egg, grated Lemon Rind. Method.—Put the milk on to boil ; mix the corn- flour with some water to a paste, and pour into the boiling milk, stirring it for two or three minutes. Then add the sugar and peel, and beat in the egg. Pour into a buttered dish and bake for a quarter of an hour. Cornflour Soufflee. Ingredients.—1 oz. Cornflour, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, ^ pint Milk, Essence of Vanilla, 2 Eggs. METHOD.—Prepare the cornflour as in the previous recipe, but only beat in the yolks of eggs. Whip up the whites very stiffly, and add lightly to the mixture just before pouring it into the buttered pie dish. Bake in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour, placing it under the browning shelf to rise and brown.INVALID COOKERY. 164 jBqq Cream. Ingredients.—Yolks and whites of two Eggs, 1 oz. of Castor Sugar, juice and grated rind of half a Lemon or Orange. Method.—Put the yolks of eggs, castor sugar, and rind and juice of lemon in a gallipot, and put the gallipot in a saucepan of boiling water. Cook gently, stirring all the time, and when it begins to thicken,, stir in the whites of the eggs whipped to a strong froth, and mix them well in. Then set it to cool, and serve in small glasses. jfrmt Xemona&e. Ingredients.—The juice of 1 Lemon, 1 oz. Castor Sugar,. 2 ozs. of any ripe Fruit, such as raspberries, strawberries, etc.,, rubbed through a hair sieve, l/2 pint cold Water. Method.—Mix these well and strain into a large tumbler, add a small piece of ice and serve. This is a refreshing beverage during the hot weather. Cruel. Ingredients.—X oz. of Groats, ]/2 pint of Milk, 1 Lemon (half the rind), pinch of Salt or Sugar. Method.—Mix the groats smoothly with a little cold milk to a paste, put the remainder on to boil with the lemon rind, pour in the groats and simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain into a breakfast cup and let the invalid drink it, not spoon it. This should be of the consistency of cream.165 INVALID COOKERY. patent Groats. Gruel.—Take of the patent groats, one table- spoonful, mix with a wine-glassful of cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stewpan containing nearly a pint of boiling water, or milk, stir the gruel on the fire while it boils for ten minutes; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter, or if more agreeable, some sugar, and a small quantity of spirits. Note.—When gruel is made for an invalid, butter had best be omitted. 3nvaU& pu&tmtcj. Ingredients.—1 oz. chopped Suet, 1 oz. Flour, 1 oz. Bread Crumbs. 1 oz. Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 tablespoonful Milk. Method.—Mix and steam for half an hour. 3cefc /UMlfe Xemonafce. Ingredients.—2 Lemons, X lb- of Loaf Sugar, 1 quart of fresh Milk. Method.—Boil the milk with the sugar and the peel of one lemon. Then let it cool and add the juice of two lemons. Strain through a flannel bag or tammy cloth, and set on ice until it is required for use.166 INVALID COOKERY. Xtnseefc Zca. Ingredients.—i oz. whole Linseed, X oz. Liquorice Root. Method.—Four one pint of boiling water over the above, and place it on the stove or in a warm tem- perature for three hours, and then strain it off. This should be made fresh every day. fllMlft anfc Sofca Mater. Make one gill of milk hot, then add one gill of soda water. /nMncefc JSeet Half a pound of gravy beef, pass twice through the mincing machine, add a very little water and pepper and salt, and warm it over the gas for ten minutes, but do not let it boil. pigeon JSrat3e&. Ingredients.—J4 pint Stock, i Carrot, i Turnip, Celery, a little Salt, i Pigeon. Method.—Cut the vegetables one inch thick in slices, and put into a stewpan with the stock. Lay the pigeon on the vegetables and braize gently for one hour. Take up the pigeon and make some white or brown sauce with the stock and pour over it. Garnish with watercress.167 INVALID COOKERY. pigeon pufc&mg. Ingredients.—1 Pigeon, ]/z lb. Flour, 3 ozs. Suet, Pepper, Salt. Method.—Chop the suet finely, and make into a light paste with the flour. Butter a basin or mould just deep enough to hold the pigeon, and line it with the suet paste. Then put in the pigeon seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and cover over with the paste. Steam gently for one hour and a half. Savours Custard. Ingredients.—X pint clear Soup or Beef Tea, 2 Eggs, Butter. Method.—Make the soup or beef tea warm, add the eggs. Strain this mixture into buttered dariol moulds or a cup, and steam them gently for a quarter of an hour. Turn the custards out when cooked. Sole, JSakeD. Ingredients.—1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Raspings, 1 Sole, Pepper, Salt, Lemon Juice. Method.—Butter a fire-proof dish, and squeeze on a few drops of lemon juice, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt. Then lay the sole on. Brush the fish well over with butter, then add the seasoning and cover well with raspings. Bake for about ten minutes in aINVALID COOKERY. 168 moderate oven, and serve on the dish it is baked in. Garnish with parsley. Sole witb Sauce. Ingredients.—Fillets of Sole or Plaice, the yolk of i Egg, i gill of Milk, Pepper and Salt, ]/2 oz. Butter. Method.—Place the fillets of fish on a buttered baking sheet; either roll them up or twist them into shape. Cover them with a buttered paper, and bake them from five to seven minutes. Then slip them on to a hot plate, and pour this sauce over:—Mix the yolk of an egg gradually with I gill of milk, add a little pepper and salt, strain it into a saucepan, and cook it gently and thoroughly, but do not allow the sauce to boil. A few drops of lemon juice is a great improvement.SUNDRIES. Browning for Gravies. Ingredients.—y2 lb. Loaf Sugar, i pint Water, a little Butter. Method.—Grease a small old saucepan with a little butter, put in the sugar, sprinkle with a few drops of water, and let it take a deep brown colour. Then remove from fire, add the water, and let the burnt sugar dissolve in it. Strain and bottle for use to color gravies and soup. Champagne Clip. Ingredients.—i quart bottle of Champagne, 2 bottles Soda Water, 2 ozs. Castor Sugar, 1 wine-glass of Liqueur. Method.—Mix all these ingredients together in a bowl, and stand on ice for 1 hour. Serve in glass jugs when required. Claret Cup. Ingredients.—1 bottle of Claret, 3 bottles of Soda Water, y2 lb. Loaf Sugar, 1 wine glass Curagoa, some thinly sliced Lemon Peel and Cucumber, a little grated Nutmeg, a sprig of Borage. Serve this in a punch bowl.170 SUNDRIES. Coffee. Ingredients.—Allow i oz. of freshly roasted Coffee to each person and X pint of boiling Water. Method.—Put the coffee into a pot, pour the boiling water over and let it just come to the boil twice. Let it stand and settle and then pour it out. Coffee, 3ce£>. Ingredients.—i pint Coffee, X pint Milk, X pint Cream, whipped, X lb- Sugar. Method.—Mix all these ingredients together and freeze until the mixture is quite creamy. Cbutneg. Ingredients.—iX lbs. Loaf Sugar, X lb. Salt, t]/z ozs. Garlic, X lb. Onions chopped finely, X lb- Ginger, 2 ozs. dried Chillies, X lb. Mustard Seed, % lb. Raisins stoned and chopped, 3 pints Vinegar, 2 cloz. Apples. Method.—Soak the ginger two or three days in part of the vinegar, then boil the apples tender in the remainder. Pound the rest of the ingredients in a mortar (except the mustard seed); mix well with a wooden spoon. Put it into jars and tie it down. The chutney will keep for a year or two.SUNDRIES. 171 Cbutnep, 5itbian. Ingredients.—1 oz. Cayenne, 2 ozs. Garlic, X lb. Powdered Ginger; Salt, Tamarind Pulp, Raisins, Golden Syrup, and Vinegar, y2 lb. or y pt. of each. Method.—Chop the garlic and raisins finely, then mix all well together, and keep in jars or bottles closely covered. Dripping, to Clarify, Method.—Put the dripping into a saucepan with half a pint of water, let it boil, then pour it into a basin. When cold remove the fat and throw away the water underneath. forcemeat JBalls. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Bread Crumbs, 1 dessert spoonful of finely chopped Parsley, 1 teaspoonful of Thyme, Basil and Marjoram (mixed), Pepper and Salt, the grated rind of 1 Lemon, 1 oz. of Beef Suet finely chopped, 2 Eggs. Method.—Mix these ingredients into little balls with one whole egg, then roll in a little flour, egg and bread crumb, and fry in boiling fat a golden brown, and use. Glencar 5am. Ingredients.—i lb. Figs, 6 ozs. Candied Lemon Peel, 4 lbs. Preserving Sugar, 4 lbs. Rhubarb.172 SUNDRIES. Method.—Cut up the figs very finely, also the candied lemon peel and the rhubarb, leave all mixed together for 24 hours. Then boil until it jellies. /IlMitce flfceat. Ingredients.—1 lb. each of Suet, Sultana Raisins, Currants, Apples and Sugar, 1 Nutmeg (grated), the peel and juice of 2 Lemons, lb. of Candied Peel and lb. of ground Almonds, 1 gill of Sherry and 1 gill of Brandy. Method.—Pass the suet, raisins, currants, candied peel, and the apples (peeled and cored), through the Mincing Machine ; grate the nutmeg and the lemon peel. Mix all the ingredients well and tie down in jars for use as required. tfliocfe jfoie (Bras. Ingredients.— ^ lb. of Calf’s Liver, % lb. fat Bacon, 3 Shalots (chopped finely), 6 Mushrooms (chopped finely), 15 Pep- percorns, Bouquet Garni, a pinch of Mace, 2 Cloves, and a little grated Nutmeg. Method.—Soak the liver in water for some time before using, thoroughly cleanse and dry it, then cut it into small pieces. Cut the bacon into dice and fry in a saute-pan, then add the liver, shalots, mushrooms, bouquet, spices and seasoning, fry until the liver is a light brown and cooked. Take out the bouquet- garni and turn the liver farce into a mortar and pound well; pass the mixture through a wire sieve on to aSUNDRIES. 173 plate, and use in the preparation of entrees or for a savoury of aspic jelly. Note.—The livers of game or chickens make a most delicious farce, and two truffles chopped and added after the foie gras has been passed through the sieve are an immense improvement. The spices can be omitted if objected to. ©range flDarmala&e. Ingredients.—6 lbs. Seville Oranges, 6 Lemons, 10 lbs. of preserving Sugar. Method.—Cut the fruit in quarters and take out the pulp free from pips and skins. Let the peel soak in water with a little salt for three or four days, changing the water daily, then boil the peel in plenty of spring water till tender. Drain it and cut in very thin slices, add the pulp and sugar to it, with the juice of six lemons. Boil it gently till quite clear, re- moving the scum as it rises, and stirring gently for about half an hour. flMcfele for ZlDeat. Ingredients.— 1 oz. Bay Salt, 1 oz. Prunella Salt, 1 oz. Salt- petre, 2 lbs. common Salt 1 lb. brown Sugar, l/2 gallon of Water. Method.—Rub the saltpetre into the meat, mix the other ingredients with the water. Put the meat into it for eight or nine days.174 SUNDRIES. pickle for Ibams. Ingredients.—X lb. bruised Juniper Berries, X lb. of Black Pepper, X lb- of Saltpetre, 3 lbs. of moist Sugar, 2 lbs. Salt. Method.—To be mixed together and well rubbed in, turning the hams every day for a month. Then send them to a bakehouse for five or six weeks to be dried and smoked. The above quantities will be enough for two hams. pickle for ZTongues. Ingredients.—1 oz. Saltpetre, 1 oz. Salt Prunella, 1 oz. Bay Salt. Method.—To be well rubbed in and turned every day for a fortnight. Quenelle /llieat. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean Veal or Chicken, 2 ozs. Rutter, 2 ozs. Vienna Flour, I gill of White Stock, 2 whole Eggs and 1 extra yolk, a little grated Nutmeg or ground Mace, 1 table- spoonful of Bechamel Sauce, Seasoning. Method.—Mix the butter and flour together in a stewpan, add the stock and cook until quite thick, and the panada leaves the sides of the pan clean, then turn on to a plate to cool. Cut the chicken or veal into small pieces, removing all the skin ; pass it through the mincing machine. When the panada is coolSUNDRIES. 175 enough, put half of it into a mortar, add one egg and half the meat, also the nutmeg and seasoning ; pound these well together, then add another egg, the remainder of the meat and the sauce or one table- spoonful of cream ; pound again, and lastly mix in the extra yolk. Put the quenelle mixture into a basin. Butter a Saute-pan, shape the quenelles with two dessert spoons and a knife by dipping one spoon in hot water, filling it with the meat and shaping it oval with the knife ; then dipping the other spoon in hot water and scooping the mixture from the first spoon to the second, and finally slipping the quenelle into the saute-pan from the second spoon. Proceed in this manner until the whole of the meat is made up into little egg-shaped pieces, then pour into the saute- pan sufficient boiling water to cover the quenelles, poach for ten minutes, turning the quenelles once ; when cooked, lift them out of the water, drain them and dish them in a circle on mashed potatoes, pour over and round them Bechamel or white sauce, and garnish with peas in the centre. Note—This quenelle meat is used in the preparation of many entrees. Sage anfc ©mon Stuffing. y lb. bread crumbs, 4 onions and 10 sage leaves finely chopped, 2 ozs. butter, pepper and salt.176 SUNDRIES. Sausage flfeear. Ingredients. —1 lb. Pork, 1 lb. Veal, 1 lb. Beef Suet, ]/2 lb. Bread Crumbs, half the peel of a Lemon grated, 6 Sage Leaves, Nutmeg, Pepper, Salt, Thyme, and Marjoram. Method.—Pass the pork, veal and suet, through the mincing machine, mince the herbs, and mix all the ingredients well together. Form them into sausages, egg and bread-crumb, and fry. Spice for flfteat. Ingredients.—Yz oz. Ground Ginger, y2 oz. Pimento, y2 oz. Nutmeg, 1 oz, Mustard, 1 oz. grated Lemon Peel, 1 oz. Black Pepper, 2 ozs. Salt, y. of a teaspoonful Cayenne. Method.—Mix these ingredients allvery thoroughly together, and keep in a covered tin or closely corked bottle for use. This is nice for seasoning meat pies, stews, &c., using one or two teaspoonsful. Sprup for tfruit. Ingredients.—1 lb. Loaf Sugar and V2 pint of Water. Method.—Put these into a stewpan and boil quickly for five minutes, and then stew any fruit tender in it. The fruit will take from five to ten minutes. Dish it carefully, let the syrup get a little cold, and pour it over the fruit. Use a bright sauce- pan or an enamelled one, and a wooden spoon, and the fruit will keep its colour.SUNDRIES. 177 Garnishes. Every dish that is sent to table should be prettily garnished so as to render it pleasing to the eye and more appetising. For Savouries; aspic jelly, truffle, lobster coral, finely chopped parsley, slices of lemon, or cucumber and radishes, hard-boiled eggs, the yolk passed through a wire sieve and the white cut into fancy shapes, chervil, endive, tarragon, watercress, small salad, tomatoes, raspings, etc., are the general decora- tions ; one or more of the above being used for a garnish according to the dish. As regards Sweets, crystallized violets or fruits, angelica, pistachio kernels, gold and silver leaf, silver dragees, fresh fruits, whipped cream or meringue mixture, etc., are often used, and various coloured icings.GLOSSARY. Blanch—To blanch is to parboil or to scald. Almonds, pistachios, etc., are blanched to remove their husks, and oysters, sweetbreads, &c., put into cold water and just brought to the boil. Bouquet Garni consists of 2 sprigs of thyme, 1 of marjoram, 1 bay-leaf, and a nice piece of parsley, all tied together with thread or string. Braising signifies the simmering of meat with a small quantity of stock and vegetables over a slow fire. The meat is generally raised above the stock by being laid on the top of the vegetables. Espag?iole—Rich brown sauce. Friter—To fry in a large quantity of clarified fat. Glaze—Stock boiled down to a jelly and well skimmed. Panada—A thick sauce or paste made with 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, and 1 gill of stock or water ; generally used for croquettes, rissoles and quenelle meat. Puree—Fruit or vegetables that have been passed through a sieve. Roux is the thickening of butter and flour used for sauces, or some kinds of soups. Sauter—To fry in a small quantity of fat or butter. THE END.INDEX.INDEX. SOUPS. PAGE l’AGE Notes on Soups 9 Soup, Kidney 13 Stock 9 ,, Lentil 13 Soup, Asparagus ... IO ,, Mulligatawny 14 ,, Brown (good) IO ,, Mutton Broth 14 ,, Clear ... II ,, Ox Cheek 15 ,, Flemish II ,, Tomato 16 ,, Gravy 12 ,, White 16 ,, Haricot 12 ,, White (good) 17 FISH AND FISH ENTREES. To Clarify Fat ... x8 Mackerel, Stuffed ... 25 Rules for Frying ... * ... 18 Oysters, Fried 25 Bloaters, Dressed ... 19 Oyster Patties 26 Crab, Dressed 19 Plaice, Dressed 26 Eels, Stewed 20 Prawns, Devilled ... 27 Fish Cakes ... 20 Saumon au Parmesan 27 Fish Cutlets 21 Salmon Steak 28 Fried Plaice 22 „ Grilled ... 28 Fish Fritters 22 Shrimps, Buttered... 28 Fish, Steamed ... 23 ,, Fricassee... 29 Haddock, Dried 23 Sole a la Parmesan 29 ,, Stuffed ... ... 23 Sole a la Venetienne 30 Lobster Soufflees ... ... 24 White Bait .. 30 Mullet ... 24 ,, Devilled 3i COLD MEAT COOKERY. Beef Rissoles ... 32 Meat with Scrambled Eggs 36 Boudinettes of Meat 32 Mince with Potato Wall ... 36 Chicken Croquettes 33 ,, with Potato Casso- Chicken Legs, Devilled 33 lettes ... 37 Cornish Pasties • •• 34 Mince with Eggs ... 37 Dresden Patties ••• 34 Petites Bouchees of Meat... 38 Game Soufflees ••• 35 Roman Pie ... 38 Game Cassolettes... • •• 35 Savoury Meat Fritters 38 Meat and Potato Rissoles - 35 Scollops and Eggs ... 39181 INDEX. MEAT DISHES AND HOT ENTREES. PAGE Beef Fillets with Horse- radish Sauce ... ... 40 Beef Fillets with Oysters ... 40 Calf’s Liver and Bacon ... 41 Chicken, Boiled ... ... 42 ,, a la Champagne... 42 ,, a la Demidoff ... 42 ,, Curried .. ... 43 ,, a la Sierra Morena 44 Creme de Volaille ... ... 44 Curry of Raw Meat ... 44 Duck, Salim of ... ... 45 Game Soufflee ... ... 45 Hare, Jugged ... ... 46 Irish Stew ... ... ... 46 PAGE Kidneys a 1’Italienne ... 47 Mutton, Haricot ... ... 48 Ox Kidney, Stewed ... 48 Pig’s Fry 49 Pigeons a la Mirabeau ... 49 Partridges a la Sierra Morena 50 Rabbit Pie ... ... ... 50 Steak and Kidney Pie ... 50 Steak, Grilled ... ... 51 ,, Stewed ... ... 51 ,, Stuffed ... ... 52 Scollops ... ... ... 53 Sweetbread ... ... ... 53 Veal, Stewed ... ... 53 Veal Olives... ... ... 54 SUPPER DISHES AND COLD ENTREES. Brisket of Beef, Spiced .. 56 Chicken, Boned and Stuffed 56 ,, Galantine ... 57 Cold Creme de Volaille ... 58 Cucumber, Cassolettes of Salmon ... ... 5^ Fish Savoury Cream ... 59 Game Pie 59 Hunting Beef ... ... 60 Plovers'Eggs in Aspic ... 60 Petits Poulets de Volaille... 61 Quails a la Strasburg ... 61 Rabbit, Boned and Stuffed 62 Turkey, Galantine... ... 62 Veal and Ham Pie... ... 63 HOT PUDDINGS. Apple and Orange Fritters 64 Apple Dumplings ... ... 65 Batter Pudding, Boiled ... 65 Bread Pudding ... ... 65 Caramel Pudding ... ... 66 Christmas Pudding... ... 66 Chulm Leigh Pudding ... 67 Dariol Vanilla Pudding ... 67 French Pudding ... ... 68 Fritter Batter Pudding ... 68 Golden Lemon Pudding ... 69 Hayrick Pudding ... ... 69 Indian Fritters ... ... 70 Jam Soufflee ... ... 70 Marmalade Pudding ... 7r Nuremberg Pudding ... 71 Omelette aux Pommes ... 71 Omelette, Sweet ... ... 72 Pancakes ... 72 Ratafia Pudding ••• 73 Rice Pudding ••• 73 Suet Pudding ... 74 Sultana Pudding ... ... 74 Tapioca Pudding 75 Treacle Tart ... 75 Vanilla Soufflee ... 75 West Riding Pudding .. 76 Yorkshire Pudding... ... 76182 INDEX. JELLIES, CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. Lemon Jelly PAGE 78 Gooseberry Fool ... PAGE 88 Wine Jelly .. 79 ,, Meringue 89 Angelica and Cherry Creams 79 Ground Rice Mould 89 Biscuit Cream 79 Ice Pudding 90 Orange Cream 80 Iced Nesselrode Pudding ... 90 Pine Apple- Cream... 80 Lemon Cheesecakes 90 Apricot Ice .. 81 ,, Pudding (rich) 9i Strawberry Ice Cream 81 ,, Curd 91 ,, ,, Sandwiches 81 ,, Custard 92 Almond Cheese Cakes 81 Marmalade Custards 92 Apricot Eggs 82 Meringues ... 92 Angelica Tartlets ... 82 Normandy Pippins... 93 Apple Soufflee 83 Nougat 94 Bread Cheesecakes... 83 Orange Custard 94 Custard, Boiled 84 Plum Cheese 94 Caramel Walnuts .. 84 Queen’s Pudding ... 95 Chocolate Mould ... 85 Strawberry Salad ... 95 Cocoanut Ice 85 Strawberries and Frozen Cornflour Blancmange 85 Cream ... 95 Croutons a la Creme 86 Strawberry Gateau... 96 Devonshire Junket... 86 Cherry Gateau 96 Dutch Flummery ... ... 87 Toffee 96 Fruit Gateau 87 Trifle 97 ,, Salad 88 Turkish Sweet 97 Geneva Wafers SALADS 88 AND SAVOURIES. Aspic Jelly ... Calves’ Feet Jelly ... PAGE 98 Cheese Puffs PAGE 106 98 ,, Ramequins... 106 To Clear Jelly 99 ,, Soufflees, Iced 107 Salads 99 ,, Straws 107 Salad Cream 100 ,, Tartlets 107 ,, Dressing 100 Dahl Bart ... 108 ,, French Mixture IOI Eggs Anchovy I08 ,, Chicken IOI Eggs with Cream & Cheese 108 ,, Egg and Beetroot IOI Kidneys, Devilled ... 109 ,, Lobster IOI Lobster Cremes IO9 ,, Portuguese ... 102 Macaroni a ITtalienne no ,, Tomato 102 Mushrooms, Farced no ,, Winter 102 Oyster Cassolettes ... no Birds’Nests... 103 Oyster Savoury in Bouchees of Cheese I03 Prawns in Aspic ... 112 Buttered Eggs IO4 Rolls a la Regime 112 Cheese Aigrettes ... IO4 Savoury Omelet ”3 ,, Fondue 105 Scotch Woodcock ... 113 ,, Fritters io5 Tomatoes, Stuffed 114 ,, Macaroni ... 105183 INDEX. PASTRY. PAGE PAGE Rules for Pastry ... IIS Raised Pie Crust ... IlS Cassolette Pastry ... ... IIS Rough Puff Paste ... 118 Flaky Pastry ... 116 Short Crust... 119 French Pastry ... 116 Suet Crust ... 119 Plain Pastry ... 117 Superior Short Crust 119 Puff Pastry ... ... 117 BREAD AND CAKES. Flome-made Bread... ... 120 Cake, Sardinian 132 Unfermented Bread 121 ,, Shrewsbury ... 132 Vienna Bread ... 121 ,, Soda ... 132 Breakfast Rolls ... 122 ,, Sponge 133 Biscuits, Plain ... 122 ,, Small Sponge 133 ,, Macaroon ... 123 ,, Watkin 134 Bath Buns ... ... 123 Cocoanut Rocks 134 Cocoanut Buns ... 124 Gingerbread Nuts ... 135 Cornflour Buns ... 124 Cake Icing ... i35 French Buns ... 125 Almond Icing i35 Victoria Buns ... 125 Almond Paste Icing 136 Cake, Bride... ... 125 Chocolate Water Icing 136 ,, Cherry ... 126 Coffee Icing 136 ,, Christmas ... 126 Lemon Water Icing i37 ,, Cornflour ... 127 Scones 137 „ Dough ... 127 Whole Meal Scones 137 ,, Genoa ... 128 Flat Tea Scones 13S ,, Genoese ... 128 Swiss Roll ... 138 ,, Gingerbread... ... 128 Tea Cakes, Afternoon 139 ,, Lunch ... 129 ,, Wisbech 139 ,, Madeira ... 130 ,, Yorkshire 140 ,, Plum ... .. 130 Victoria Sandwiches 140 ,, Pound ... 130 Wiggs ... _ ... 141 ,, Queen ... 131 Yorkshire Parkin ... 141 ,, Rock... ... 131 SAUCES. auce, Bechamel ... ... 143 Sauce, Mayonnaise ... 149 99 Bread ... 143 99 Melted Butter ... 149 99 Brown ... 144 99 Mint ... 150 99 Chateaubriant ... 144 9 9 Onion ... 150 99 Chestnut ... 145 9 9 Oyster 150 99 Egg ... 145 9 9 Parsley ... 151 99 Espagnole ... 146 9 9 Piquant ... 151 99 Fried Crumb ... 147 99 Soubise ... 152 99 German ... 147 99 Sweet ... 152 99 Italienne ... 148 99 Tomato ... 152 99 Jam ... 148 99 Venetienne ... - 153 99 Lemon ... 148 99 White ... 153184 INDEX. VEGETABLES. PAGE PAGE Asparagus ... 155 Potato Croquettes ... 157 Carrots 155 ,, Ribbons or Chips 158 Cauliflower ... 155 ,, Saute 158 Celery ... ... 156 ,, Surprise 158 Green Vegetables ... ... 156 Rice ... 159 Potatoes ... 156 Spinach 159 Potato Beignets ... 157 Turnips 160 INVALID COOKERY. Beef Tea ... 161 Patent Groats 165 Black Currant Tea... ... 161 Invalid Pudding 165 Chop, Stewed ... 161 Iced Milk Lemonade 165 Chicken or Veal Cream ... 162 Linseed Tea 166 Clear Barley Water ... 162 Milk and Soda Water 166 Patent Barley ... 162 Minced Beef 166 Cornflour Pudding ... 163 Pigeon, Braized 166 Cornflour Soufflee ... ... 163 ,, Pudding ... 167 Egg Cream ... ... 164 Savoury Custard I67 Fruit Lemonade ... ... 164 Sole, Baked 167 Gruel ... 164 Sole with Sauce I6S SUNDRIES. Browning for Gravies 169 Mock Foie Gras ... 172 Champagne Cup ... 169 Orange Marmalade 173 Claret Cup ... ... 169 Pickle for Meat 173 Coffee ... 170 ,, Hams ... 174 Coffee, Iced ... 170 ,, Tongues 174 Chutney ... 170 Quenelle Meat 174 ,, Indian ... 171 Sage and Onion Stuffing 175 Dripping, To Clarify ... 171 Sausage Meat 176 Forcemeat Balls ... 171 Spice for Meat 176 Glencar Jam ... 171 Syrup for Fruit 176 Mince Meat ... 172 Garnishes ... 177 Glossary of Terms 178Two Articles that should be in euery Home. BROWN & POLSON’S “Patent” CORN FLOUR For Blancmanges, Sweets, Vegetable Sauces, etc., Sweetest in Flavour, Purest and Best. . . BROWN & POLSON’S RAISING POWDER “PAISLEY FLOUR” Trade Mark. Certain in Action, Simple to Use, . . Secures Success in Home Baking.THE BEST SOUP THICKENER IS ROBINSON’S PATENT . . . BARLEY. . KEEN, ROBINSON & Co., Ltd., LONDON. Man-afactuvei^s of KEEN’S MUSTARD.The West Surrey Central Dairy Company’s PURE, RICH, THICK CREAM This Cream is delicious with CANNED APRI- COTS, PEACHES, and BARTLETT PEARS, for Dessert, and with Fresh Strawberries, Tea axrd Coffee, Ice PuddiiLg:, Whipped Cream, &c. Simply pour milk on a warmed Shredded Wheat Whole “ Biscuit ” For the easiest and best Breakfast or Lunch. StevveO or otber fruit to taste. “SHREDDED WHEAT” is the most convenient and most nourishing and most Natural Food, and sells at a popular price.Daintier than ever for the Table. Improved Process of Manufacture. See the Trade Mark word, “ CEREBOS ” on every Tin. CEREBOS TABLE SALT IN these days of keen competition the doctrine of the “survival of the fittest” must largely operate. The first condition necessary to success is a vigorous mind and healthy body. ‘Cerebos’ Salt is largely recommended by Doctors, because it provides material for strengthen- ing the frame work of the bod)', and forming bone and brain substance. Increase your chances of success in life by using ‘Cerebos’ Salt, and so invigorating mind and body.