1 1' hi f4cAi.wf^v ■( > ■ ■. I \ ! V tr N « / # \t?i: ^CULINARY JOTTINGS.CULINARY JOTTINGS. A T/?BAT/S£: IN THIRTY CHAPTERS ON REFORMED COOKERY BASED UPON MODEM ENGLISH, AND CONTINENTAL PRINCIPLES, WITH nviEJivT-cjs FOI^ LITTLE DINNERS WORKED OUT IN DETAIL, AND AN ESSAY ON OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA, BY “ W y V E R w,” AUTHOR OF SWEET DISHES,” ‘ FURLOUGH REMINISCENCES.” //e.- ^ ^ FIFTH EDITION. Madras: HIGGINBOTHAM AND CO. 930 appointment in Jnoia to ?ji8 IRopal f^isbtwsa tfje iBrinte of OTalcg, anO 90uIjli0|)ctB to tlje JHaOraa ISniticraitB. Calcutta; THACKER SPINK AND CO. Bombay; THACKER AND 00,, Limited. 1885.if ^ D '-r ^ ^ 7 ^ ( MADRAS: I'BINTKl) BY HIGGISBOTHAM AKH CO., 1 2 — — & 165, MO\JJ»T ROAD. 104’ 164 WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. (S.TPEEFACE TO THE FIFTH EDITION. —♦— f HE Jottings have again undergone very careful revision. By pruning unnecessary matter, and simplifying the recipes wherever possible, space has been found for considerable addi- tions without adding materially to the bulk or cost of the book. It is hoped that the endeavours thus made to effect improve- ment may prove successful, and that the public by whom the four earlier editions have been so kindly received will have reason to be satisfied with Wyvern. O0T.4.CAMUND, 1st July 1883.■ 1 t A*- /••A \PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION- —♦— tWI NG to the unavoidable delay attending the transmission of proofs between Simla and Madras, the fourth edition of the Culinary yottings has been nearly twelve months in my publishers’ hands. For this I offer my sincere apologies. I have endeavoured to corredl and improve what I have already published, and have added one hundred pages of new matter. Three articles on curries and mulligatunny which appeared in the Pioneer have, by the kind permission of the Proprietors of that journal, been introduced; the subjedl of vegetables has received still closer attention; and among a number of new recipes several will be found for the treatment of rice which I hope will be found useful. Vegetarians (who perhaps might be more accurately described as non-consumers of animal food) will, I trust, discover some acceptable hints in this edition, while those who are anxious to adopt the new form of menu, will find their task explained and simplified. ]Vyyern. Calcutta, Feby. 1883. \ .AUTHOR’S PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION- ♦ I first began to write about Cookery I flattered myself that I had undertaken a very easy, and plea- sant task. I thought that my jottings would be composed currente calamo, and that I should be able to carry out my projeft with satisfadlion land success. But at the hour of launching my frail shallop from the shore, I am compassed about with grave doubts concerning its seaworthiness. Alas! :— “ My conscience hath a thousand several tongues. And evei’y tongue brings in a several tale. And every tale condemns me for" a very Icarus. Lo! the wings of my ambition have melted, and I have fallen into the sea of blighted hope. I am only conscious of failure. I undertook much, what have I performed ? Whilst, however, I frankly acknowledge my many shortcomings, I derive some consolation in trying to believe that, there may nevertheless be a few things recorded in the pages of my book which will be found useful. If this hope be realized, and if the Ladies OF Madras—to whom, in all humility, I dedicate the first fruits of my labours—discover here and there a word of assist- ance when perplexed about their daily orders, I shall be bounti- fully rewarded, and the winter of my discontent will indeed be made glorious summer. I have to tender my best acknowledgments to the Proprietors of the Madras AthencBiim and Daily News for the permission t they have kindly given me to republish my culinary articles which appeared originally in that journal; I have to express my gratitude for the hints I have received from friendly in the science of cookery; and to own that I have obtained the most valuable aid from the writings of Jules Gouffe, and the “ G. C.” )Vyvern. Madras, ist November i8y8.Chapters, CONTENTS. —♦— Z. I. II. III. - IV. V.- VI. VII.- VIII.- IX.- X.- XI.- XII.- XIII. - XIV. - XV.- XVI.- XVII.- XVIII.- XIX.- XX. - XXI. - XXII.- XXIII.- XXIV.- XXV.- XXVI.- XXVII.- XXVIII, XXIX. XXX. Introduction • . . . . —The menu ..... —The cook and his management . —Certain kitchen reouisites . -In the store-room .... —On stock, and clear soups -Thick soups AND purees —Regarding our fish . -Hints about entrees . concluded . -Sauces .... -Sauces—continued -Sauces—concluded . -Roasting and braising -Boiling AND steaming . -Our vegetables -Vegetables—. -Rechauffes -The savoury omelette. -On luncheons . . , -Fritters -Salads . , -Hors d’ceuvres ■Savoury toasts •Eggs, maccaroni, and cheese Notes on the curing of meat ■Pastry-making, et cetera . •A FEW NICE PIES —Our curries . . ‘ ‘ -CURRIES-F0;i^*«„,rf, mulligatunny -Camp cookery . '‘^onny PAGE. I • 4 . 12 • 17 . 24 • 30 • 43 • 52 . 60 . 69 • 78 . 87 . 94 . 102 . 114 . 126 . 140 . 16S • 177 ■ 1S5 195 203 212 222 234 251 25S 272 285 298 314X CONTENTS. PAGE. Preliminary NOTES . • • • • • 333 ♦ ■ Menu. • I.—For a party OF EIGHT • • 335 II.— Do. do. . • 341 III.— Do. do. • • 347 IV.— Do. do. • 353 V.— Do. do. • • 359 VI.— Do. do. . • 365 VII.— Do. do. • • 371 VIII.— Do. do. . • 377 IX.— Do. do. . . 382 X — Do. do. . • 390 XI.—For A Dinner OF SIX . . 398 XII.— Do. do. . . 403 XIII.— Do. do. . . 409 XIV.— Do. do. . . 415 XV.— Do. do. . . . 420 XVI.— Do. do. . . 425 XVII.— Do. do. . . 430 ''XVIII.— Do. do. . • 434 XIX.—For a party OF SIX . ■ . 437 XX.— Do. do. . . 444 XXI.—For a little HOME DINNER . . 450 XXII.— Do. do. . • 453 XXIII.— Do. do. . . 458 XXIV.— Do. do. . • 463 XXV.— Do'. do. . . . 466 XXVI.— Do. do. . . 470 XXVII.— Do. do. . • 474 XXVIII.— Do. do. . • 478 XXIX.— Do. do. . . . 482 XXX.— Do. do. . . 487 . ADDENDA. To preserve meat by fumigation . . . 467 Our kitchens in india ■ 496"Introduction. “ The subject of Cookery is worthy of study, and one to which English people would do well to give their attention. If that man is a benefactor to his race who makes two blades of grass grow where only one did before, the art must be worth cultivating that enables a person to make one pound of meat go as far, by proper cooking, as two by neglect and inattention.”—Dr, Lanhester’s “ Qood Food.” 'T'(^7'HILST reform slow, yet sure, has of late years been creeping into our style of living in India, the want of a hand-book on culinary science— locally considered—of a more modem description than that time-honoured and, in its day, excellent work “ Indian Domestic Goohery” must have been long felt by the busy housewife of Madras. Our dinners of to-day would indeed astonish our Anglo- Indian forefathers. With a taste for light wines, and a far more moderate indulgence in stimulating drinks, has been germinated a desire for delicate and artistic cookery. Quality has superseded quantity, and the molten curries and florid oriental compositions of the olden time—so fear- fully and wonderfully made—have been gradually banished from our dinner tables. For although a well-considered curry, or mulligatunny,— capital things in their way,—are still very frequently given at breakfast or at luncheon, they no longer occupy a posi-2 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. tion in the dinner menu of establishments conducted accord- ing to the new regime. A little treatise on cookery, then, showing the reader how to accomplish successfully, with the average means at his disposal in this country, some of the many tasty dishes spoken of in the modern English and continental books upon the subject, will, I am sanguine enough to hope, be received with kindly toleration, if not with cordiality, by those who consider it worth while to be interested in matters culinary. Thirsting for some instruction of this kind, I remember buying, some few years ago, a little book which had just then been published at Madras, and which promised by its title to provide the thing needful. Alas ! how sorely dis- appointed was I with my purchase, for the work had assuredly been written for the Anglo-Indian in England rather than for the Englishman in India. With the exception of dishes of purely native origin, little or no instruotion worth following was given to the Madras housewife, whilst there was much dangerous counsel prof- fered which should be most carefully avoided. The most reprehensible customs were, in point of fact, laid down over and over again as precepts. Concerning these, I will say nothing now, for I propose to devote a separate chapter to the important subject of the cook-room, and to expose the besetting sins of our native cooks whenever they occur to me. The book to which I refer has not, as far as I am aware, been followed here by any fresh work, and I think, I may say that at any rate its pages scarcely contained the sort of instruction we look for now-a-days. In taking upon myself, therefore, the task of humbly ministering to the reformed taste of the horn’, I am encouraged by the reflec- tion that I am, so to speak, a breaker of fresh gi’ound.3 INTRODUCTION. Madras, Isi November 1878. I propose to carry out my sclieme in a series of cliapters commencing with cook-room experiences, the judicious management of the cook, and some general remarks on the equipment of the store-room and kitchen; then to take the salient features of a dinner one by one, and when I have discussed soups, fish, entrees, &c., &c., to submit a number of menus, worked out in detail, adapted to our resources in this part of India. I know full well that to several accomplished disciples of Brillat Savarin at Madras, I can impart nothing new. On the contrary, it would better become me to sit at their feet and listen, than to rush in where they have hesitated to tread. To this talented coterie, I appeal for forbearance. I entreat them to be merciful inasmuch as they are very strong. I feel, indeed, that in their presence, I may truly say with Ramasamy, that I am “ a very poor man,—I beg your pardon.” No. I address my jottings to the many who yearn to follow reform, but who cannot discover the method of doing so; who,—to quote the words of a very hospitable friend,— “like nice things better than nasty things,” yet have hitherto failed to penetrate the secret of success; and who view with daily sorrow the lamentable parody of dinner which it seems good to their cooks to place before them. I shall treat of cosy, sociable little dinners of from two to ten people, rather than of the elaborate banquets of the great; and the main object before me will always be to study economy in conjunction with the system I advocate. Wtveen.0X3I^:F>TEI5 X. ♦ The Mem. tLL who have studied the reformed system of dinner- giving will, I think, agree with me when I say that the menu of a dinner anywhere, hut in India espe- cially, should be reduced to the smallest compass possible. An hour at the outside should suffice for the discussion of the daintiest of bills of fare, so to ensure this, we should strike out of it all unnecessary encumbrances. Let the little card be clothed in the white garb of simplicity and completeness, and I am prepared to declare that all our lady guests, and a majority of the men we entertain, will rejoice at the result. A cosy dinner to be perfect should be, it seems to me, a highly finished cabinet picture with every atom of detail carefully worked out, rather than a large pretentious canvas with an infinite amount of color expended in order to pro- duce a satisfactory impression. Every line of the little menu should, therefore, be written with a loving hand, and both lights and shadows should be considered, for our guests must e’en partake of each dish we offer them. Soup, fish, two well contrasted entrees served separately, one joint only, game, and a dressed vegetable, one etitremets sucre, an iced pudding, cheese with hors d' auvres and des- sert, will be found, if thoughtfully composed, ample fareTHE MENU. 5 for even the most hypercritical gourmet we can bid to our table. In the studied completeness of such a dinner as this will repose its chief attraction :—^in good wine, no lack of ice, the brightest plate, snowy linen, well-toned light, and tasteful adornment of the table; with all minutite remembered—from des petits pains in the deftly-folded napkins, to the artistic salad which in all modern menus is not expressed yet, like salt, understood to be present. An extra jomt may, of course, be given, but if the two sntrees be really nice, and the game about to follow be the adLtiTn ^ recognize the necessity of the And here, it may not be altogether unprofitable to con- sider attentively certam points connected with the modern banquet upon which opinions differ, and concerning which fXsr “ “ “ Wia ^ associated ord®t, erol? tl 0* tie *»«•». and in cause oareMl “ to trace their In the days of old, our forefathers divided their bills of fare into a number of courses Thn« ! ! comprised the first course - ' ’ .1 .®. and fish simplified matters and iL a ^ ^ great ertent, of course T^’ *“ “ before us in two” service-T ^ ^anoe, is placed tableexemplified in the following Premier service Potage Poisson Entries ^Uelevis Soup. ... Fish. ... Side-dishes. ... Joint, or remove.6 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. r... The roast (game or poultry). Second service ^^^^Fntremets ... Savory and sweet dishes. I Fromage ... Cheese. [^Dessert ... Dessert. In addition to the above, the custom of presenting oysters before the soup is becoming daily more fashionable, and many people have adopted the practice of sending round hors d’ oeuvres, in the continental manner, as a pre- lude to the repast. A matter of this kind is obviously a matter of taste, touching which no writer on cookery should take upon himself to lay down an arbitrary law. I am personally decidedly in favour of the oyster, or, when oysters cannot be got, of a single, well selected, hors d’ oeuvre. The dainty atom titivates the palate, as it were, and prepares it for the soup that is about to come. When, however, a relish of this description is given, it will be found decidedly advantageous, be it noted, if plates con- taining it be put upon the table in the places laid for the guest before dinner is announced. The time that would be taken up in handing the dishes roimd, is in this way economised. Considerable diversity of opinion exists, I know, concern- ing the next point, viz., whether the entrees should precede the releves or follow them. Brillat Savarin’s injunction was—“ let the order of serving be from the more substan- tial dishes to the lighterand Sir Henry Thompson says :—“ As a rule, to which there are few exceptions, the procession of dishes after the fish is from the substantial to the more delicate, then to the contrasts between more piquant flavour and sweetness.” Now, if we are to discuss this point properly, it seems to me that there is another very important factor in the debate that must not be lost sight of, viz., the rot, or roast. To this item of the menu Brillat Savarin gave, and Sir Henry Thompson gives, let us remember, its full and dis-7 THE MENU. tinct value; and it can hardly be denied that, if the rot be served correctly, the releve must be put further forward in the bill of fare. What, then, is the rot ? Well, from personal observation, I am constrained to say that this is a matter upon which many dinner-givers appear to he somewhat hazy. The rot is, correctly speaking, a service of roast poultry or game: it should be accompanied by a nice salad, and it is^’often garnished with potato chips and water-cress. An entremets de legume may either be handed round with it, or follow it separately. In Brillat Savarin’s time the truffled turkey appeared as a rot, and Sir Henry Thompson recommends the presentation at this period of the feast of the truffled It is, therefore, pretty evident that if we serve om. rot, TZ ,7^° “I^Wedly correct interpretation- We are now at liberty to consider the relevl Strictlv speaking, this word cannot be translated “ ioint ” It qT, properly be interpreted the “remove ” . 7 menu the dish of whieh French piece de resistance oi the dinn^^^'^T^t '' as the ’•f possible, not to be roasted A . 1 have named it Z t authorities fricandeau, or a whole fiUet T tables. Thus, the reZe..' be^oresler^nelX'^ as a made-dish, and is scarcely what an r ^ when he speaks of the “ joini” ^ Englishman meansCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 8 It need scarcely be said, then, that if this system be fol- lowed in its entirety, the rot and the releve being carefully selected, the service of two light entrees between them is both intelligible and artistic. In favour of the older English custom it has been argued, with considerable justice, that delicate works of culinary science—such as entrees are supposed to be—should be pre- sented while the palate is yet fresh, and while the diner is thoroughly able to detect and appreciate the niceties of flavour, crispness, tenderness, and so forth; that a slice of plainly roasted or boiled meat, with a selected vegetable, should follow; then a morsel of game, and the entremets. Advocates of this very excellent method, it will be observ- ed, do not pay any particular attention to the rot. When game is out of season, they present a savory entremets immediately after their releve, and send round their salad with the saddle or sirloin. Thus, in the space marked in the printed menu for “ rots,” we occasionally see “ aspic de foie gras” with “ asperges en branches,” and no rot whatever. Of the two systems the older one is certainly the simpler. The correct introduction of the rot is really the novel feature of the new menu—poulet au cresson, salade,” for example, never figured in the old bill of fare in the place of game— and by its introduction the releve, altered a good deal in character, is of necessity pushed out of its original place. It will always be conceded, I thiuk, by partisans of both systems, that each possesses merits of an undeniable character. The old method, as we have seen, is the simpler, and consequently the easier of the two, while the new may be voted more truly artistic. In adopting the latter, how- ever, it is a sine gud non that all the principles of the dinner be observed, and faithfully carried out. We cannot miss a single point, or our little feast will become a fiasco.THE MENU. 9 We must not sei've, that is to say, pintade au cresson as a releve, or “ jambon au made^'e” as a roi—trifling errors that I have noticed at certain banquets modelled according to the new regime. Neither can we forget the salad, which, with its plain dressing of oil and vinegar (not a thick eggy one, I beg) should accompany the roi as a matter of course. If unable to follow the rules of the revised menu accurate- ly, owmg to an indifferent market, or some other unavoida- ble reason, the wise dinner-giver should fall back upon the older form, and be contented with a less pretentious festival. The superiority of the new order of things consists in a more ai’tistic distribution of light and shadow. If we rob e pmture of an effective ray of sunshine here, and forget a judicious touch of shadow there, we can hardly complain II our efforts result in disappointment. At the commencement of these remarks, I spoke of the ave long been accustomed to a once understood and generally it the new arrangement will be adopted, I do not think that the new tound longer than the old.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 10 table of eighteen people, with vegetables following it, and a large disb containing slices of a saddle of mutton garnished with divers vegetables, also carried round. The waste of time, not to mention the positive nuisance of such a method of service, need scarcely be dilated upon. At a large party I would always hand roxmd the entremets de legume with the rot, and in composing the dinner, I would select the entremets so as to harmonize with the roast game or poultry—-petits pois au heurre with wild duck or teal, epinards d la creme with quails, &c., &c. If the essential need of brisk service be kept in view, people who have declared themselves in favour of the new form of menu, and are determined to carry it out correctly, ought not only to deserve but to command success; while those who have already achieved a reputation with the older one, will do well not to bid adieu to a system which, if somewhat less artistic, provides, at all events, a very reliable and decidedly enjoyable way of entertaining their friends. But in either case you cannot make your dinner too simple in detail, and the fewer servants you employ to carry it out the better. How distressing it is to see a herd of attendants, mobbing each other like a scared flock of sheep, at a time when everything should be as orderly, and as quiet as possible. To ensure calm service, pare down the number of your dishes to the fewest possible, and for eight guests never allow more than four servants, besides your butler, to attend the table. If these remai'ks be correct, as far as a small dinner of eight is concerned, how much more do they apply to large banquets ? In the case of official entertainments, success is too frequently marred by very indifferent service. The indirect cause of this is, as a rule, an over-crowded me7tu. With a great many guests it is, of course, necessary to call in a quantity of waiters who have never workedTHE MENU. 11 together before, and an undisciplined crowd of native servants will most certainly ruin the best dinner that ever was cooked, unless you reduced the work they have to per- form to the best of your ability. At such dinners as these even I would never give more than two really good entrees, served separately, and with- out aray dishes of vegetables accompanying them; then, say, a white vegetable with potatoes for the turkey, and French beans, or peas, with potatoes for the saddle. The menu should invariably indicate the particular vege- table you intend to serve with the releve, thus -.—Selle de mouton aux haricots verts, Fricandeau au chou-fleur. Piece de l^ufbraisee au celeri, Quartier d’agneau aux petits pois, ^c. To save time, a portion of the vegetable named should be elped the meat, potatoes alone being handed round IS the essence of ignorance, and of bad taste to send a number of vegetables round with the joint. Almost as bad, in fact, as the practice of serving them with the entrees. ^ At a large dinner, you sometimes see turnips, cabbages ca^iflowers French beans, and potatoes (occupying five waiters) going round together. For the Angl-laxon O 7- Masses of incongruous diet may be necessarv at a \ j favelled of h™n 2 opportmxities of forming reHned notions coSlr™\l T7 “ally weli mont, andindifferentiy se^rXI. The Cook and his Management. tFTER some years of observation I have come to the conclusion that if yon want to put nice little din- ners upon your table, you must not only be pre- pared to take an infinite amount of trouble, but you must make a friend of your chef. Unless amicable relations exist between the cook and his mistress or master, the work will never be carried out satisfactorily. There will be a thousand and one annoying failures, youi- mind will never know what repose means, and, in the end,—utterly wearied with the daily struggle against petty larceny, carelessness, ignorance, stupidity, and an apparently way- ward desire to thwart your desires to the utmost,—you will resign the baton to your butler, and submit in sheer desperation to that style of dinner unto which it may please him to call you. I do not allude to people happy in the possession of a butler absolutely capable of composing, with very little aid, a fairly good menu, and able to dii’ect the cook in the manipulation thereof. There are, I know, a few estimable men of that kind to bo found—in point of fact, I am ac- quainted with three or four—but alas! they are rare to meet, and even the cleverest of them requires a little di- plomatic supervision, or ho will dx’ift into a groove of din- ners, and tii’e you with repetitions. Ai'e not the accounts, fTHE COOK AND HIS MANAGEMENT. 13 also, of thie erudite maitre d’hotel full often prone to cause, —even at the pretty writing table of the cosy boudoir,— gi-eat searchings of heart ? In other words, must you not pay for your luxury, and even murmur not in the presence of the artist who spares you so much trouble ? Those who are not gifted with patience, those who are not physically strong, those who have important calls upon their time away from home, and, of course, those who do not feel capable of directing culinary operations, cannot do better than entrust the management of their kitchens to alien heads ; but all who are equal to the task, should take the helm ia their own hands, remembering that ancient canon,—“ if you want a thing well done do it yourself.” ’ I place those who have not patience first on the list of persons whom I deem incapable of managing their cooks I do so advisedly, for of all failings inimical to the success- ful direction of a native servant, a hasty temper is the most fatal. The moment you betray irritation and hasti- ness m your manner towards Ramasamy, he ceases to ollow you. His brain becomes busy in the consultation 0 his personal safety, and not in the consideration of the plat you maybe endeavouring to discuss with him. In this ma ter I, of course, address my readers of the sterner httle put out, do they not contrive to veil their feelings ^et never h;": sident of a Re^H I intimately the Mess Pre- ^ 1. ^ forgotten I fancy at Ban galore) who possessed to an eminent degree the ounTf necessary for his difficult position He^as uu ^ ledged connoisseur in wines excelled iu 7 of a and rejoiced in a bountiful doyellpZZTtZ 214 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. bump of management. Long association, however, with one of the best Messmen a Regiment ever had in England had spoilt my friend for the up-hill task of managing Ramasamy. The consequence was that the ordering of a dinner with him was generally productive of un mauvais quart d’heure. I remember, one special day, hearing my friend’s voice raised to its highest pitch; presently the door of the little room he occupied as an office flew open, and out rushed the cook, followed by his preceptor violet in the face with wrath. The unhappy menial, in a state of hopeless mental aberration, had taken down that he was to boil the pate de foie gras, and ice the asparagus !* I was called in as interpreter and peace-maker, and many a morning after that did I convey my friend’s orders to the mess cook. I was obliged, however, to demand an empty room, for even during my interpretations the Pre- sident’s patience would evaporate, and the walls would ring with language that was fashionable when George the Third was King. There are two ways of imparting the details of a menu to your native cook:—one through the medium of your butler, the other by conversation with the man himself. Eor many reasons I advocate the latter plan. Some cooks do not care for the butler’s interference, and in many establishments, the cook and butler do not pull. Butlers, again, ai’e prone to conceit, and often pretend to under- stand what you want done, rather than confess their ignorance. You may perhaps remember the same failing in your munshi who never admitted himself to be puzzled by the most intricate passage in English that you could place before him. So I prefer to get the cook alone, and talk to him very * I do not mean to insinuate by this that iced asparagus is not a delicions entremets; in the case in point, however, the mistake made by the cook is obvious.—W. iTHE COOK AND HIS MANAGEMENT. 15 gently in his own patois. I encourage him by a bland demeanour, and if obliged to speak retrospectively of a failure, I strive to do so with a smile. Ton will soon get round Eamasamy when he finds that yon never indulge in “ very bad ’ busing he then gains confidence in you and learns rapidly. Between ourselves too, surely an artist who can actually compose a petit pate a la financiere,'* a “ kramouslcy aux Jiuitres,” or a “ supreme de volaille^' deserves some consideration at our hands. The patois is easily acquired, and you will soon find yourself interpret- ing the cherished mysteries of Francatelli or GoufEe in the pigeon English of Madras with marvellous fluency. You will even talk of “putting that troople,” “ mashing bones all,” “ minching,” “ chimmering,” &c., &c., with- out a blush. There can be no doubt that in our Eamasamy we possess admirable materials out of which to form a good cook. The work comes to him, as it were, of its own accord. But we should take heed lest he grow up at random, cling- ing affectionately to the ancient barbarisms of his fore- fathers. We should watch for his besetting sins, and root them out whenever they manifest themselves. We should, moreover, remember that a dish once success- fully presented will not necessarily appear so again unless the artist be reminded de novo of the secrets of its compo- sition. Mint, as a flavouring agent, save with green peas, in certain wine “ cups,” and in bond fide mint sauce, is one of the banes of the cook-room ; its use, and that of any parsley except the curled English variety, should be considered absolutely penal. The very smell of “ country” parsley is assuredly sufficient to warn the unwary, and yet many native cooks bring it home daily. The weed has been called “ parsley” ever since they can remember, and they16 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. fail to appreciate tlie wide difference between it, and the real herb. All native cooks dearly love the spice box, and they all reverence “ Worcester Sauce.” Now, I consider the latter too powerful an element by far for indiscriminate use in the kitchen, especially so in India where our cooks are inclined to over-flavour everything. If in the house at all, the proper place for this sauce is the cruet-stand where it can be seized in an emergency to drown mistakes, and assist us in swallowing food that we might otherwise decline. But it should be preserved from Ramasamy with the same studious care as a bottle of chloroform from a lady suffering from acute neuralgia. Spice, if necessary, should be doled out in atoms, the cook ought never to have it under his control. Does every housekeeper appreciate sufficiently the invaluable trimmings of meat, skin, and bone, which remain, say, after a number of tasty choplets have been prepared for the grid-iron from a neck of mutton ? Do all know that Ramasdmy’s domestic curry often gains, whilst we lose, the nice savoury sauce which should have accom- panied our entree; but then, if “ missus din’t give arder for using bits all,” can Ramasamy, a child of this world, be blamed ? In the various receipts which I hope to give, you will always And a few lines reserved for the treatment of the scraps, and as each bad habit of the cook-room occurs to me, I will endeavour to expose and explain it to the best of my power.III. 4 Certain Kitchen Requisites. SLLOWiNG then, that our native cooks are, hy na- ture, adapted to their calling, and that hy judi- cious treatment we can develop the talent which they possess, one of the next things for consideration is our kitchen equipment, and the kind of utensils which will be found best suited for Ramasamy’s use, bearing in mind the sort of dishes we shall hereafter call upon him to prepare. In introducing novelties of European construction to the Indian cook-room it is, a sine qua non to proceed with cau- tion. Ramasamy is intensely conservative, and a sworn foe to innovations. Perchance there are amongst my readers some who can look back with a sigh to sundry patented culinary nicknacks brought out from England, in happy anticipation of grand cook-room reforms, to India, which, misunderstood from the first, were either soon cast aside as worthless from barbarous treatment, or diverted to uses which would drive the inventors crazy to think of. I call to mind having observed an instance of this kmd when staying once with a friend on the Hills. The water for my bath was brought, I noticed, in the outer vessel of a “ Warren’s patent cooking pot.” “ Yes ” said my host sorrowfully when I mentioned the occurrence, “ I could never prevail upon my fellows to use the thing in18 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the kitchen, so they do what they like with it: the inner vessel makes a capital tom-tom for heating a sholah.” Left entirely alone, with articles of his own selection around him, the native cook is, however, a singularly in- genious creature. All men who have been accustomed to a nomad life under canvas—far from the busy hum of cantonments—will, I think, agree with me in this. Given a hold in the ground, and a couple of stones for her range, with a bundle of jungle sticks, a chatty or two, perhaps a degehee, and a fan, wherewithal to prepare a dinner, can you picture to yourself the face of Martha, the “ thorough good cook” of an English household ? An amusing episode happened some few years ago which struck me at the time as illustrative to a degree of Rama- s^my’s opinion of the British system of cookery. I hap- pened to be with a Regiment at Secunderabad which, for reasons coimected with the antiquated barracks we occu- pied, was ordered to move into a standing camp. Our Colonel, an exceedingly young and fortunate officer, was a rampant soldier of the new school. His brain was ever busy with new ideas: it was even reported that he slept with “Wolseley’s soldier’s pocket-book” and “The Rules for Signalling in connection with Outpost duty” under his pillow. The order to march into camp delighted him. After issuing his orders concerning the geometrical lines in which he wished the tents to be pitched, not even for- getting the whitewashing of the tents’ pegs, he turned his attention to the kitchens. Here was an opportunity for practically establishing a “ Wolseley’s field kitchen.” Two officers who had recently passed successfully through the Garrison course of instruction were accordingly sent for, and, as a personal favour to the Commanding Officer, requested to go out to the camping ground, and lay out a series of broad-arrow kitchens for the Regiment. TheCERTAIN KITCHEN REQUISITES. 19 work was done, and we marcked into camp tke next day. Whilst the men were busy at stables, the Colonel rode about inspecting everything; presently he came upon the neatly excavated kitchens, but, to his astonishment, found them deserted! Not a cook was to be seen ! Orderlies flew to find out where on earth the men’s breakfasts were being cooked, and in a few minutes, the whole corps de cuisine was discovered squatting at work more suo in a dry nullah hard ^7- Colonel furiously demanded why the proper kitch- ens had not been used, and “ all this abominable mess prevented ? Presently a cook of greater daring than his colleagues replied “ What sar ! that had sense hitchin, sar, I heg your pardon; too much firewood talcing : see sar this praper hitchin only." In the face of such an irresistible argument, the Colonel (albeit irritated beyond measure) was constrained to abandon his cherished project. ^ When presenting Ramasamy, therefore, with novel uten- sils, let us guard against his denouncing them as “ bad sense. We must patiently show him how to use them, proving, if -we possibly can, by practical illustration, the satisfactory results, saving of time, and so forth, to be gained by their means. Anything complicated should, of course, be avoided. As far as my personal experience goes, I confess that ave found Ramasamy by no means difficult to teach. T cooks take readily to the mincing machine, an nd that my chef fully appreciates the vegetable cu er, root-lmife, dishing-up fork, gravy strainer, wire ‘‘Warrp^^’^ fiT^i “-Ortar, wire frying basket, Warrens fish kettle and vegetable steamer,” and the I^arding is one to a nati^^^ ° ^^i naturally native; as a rule also I think that they surpassCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 20 Europeans in boning poultry, an operation wbicb Martha rarely attempts. I cannot too strongly recommend the adoption of that invaluable utensil a “ bain-marie” or shallow trough, which, filled with hot-water and kept over a moderate fire, affords a hot bath in which the various little sauce- pans containing sauces, etc., can be set, and so kept hot without deterioration. A bain-marie complete, with a set of saucepans made to fit it, can be purchased at any hard- ware shop, or you can have one made to order to fit your saucepans in copper, iron, or block tin; the first material will, of course, outlast the other two. The digester is a vessel that may be given to Ramasamy without hesitation ; and he is keenly alive to the value of the stew-pan. In the matter of frying-pans he is not hypercritical: I do not think that he perceives the differ- ence between a/riiwe-pan and an omeZe^/e-pan. He dis- likes anything heavy, and generally asks for a small iron pan. I quite agree with a friend whose experience in culinary matters is great, who advocates a deep-sided, heavy iron frying-vessel,—a frying kettle, in short, rather than the ordinary frying-pa» of commerce, steady over the fire on account of its own weight,—for all real friture work, and, of course, a handy vessel for saute work with a still lighter one for omelettes. The large pan he recommends can be made in any Indian bazar, and, when used in con- junction with the frying basket, will certainly be found most valuable. Like many English cooks, the native is apt to discard the gridiron and take the frying-pan for many things which ought invariably to be cooked in the former vessel: this tendency requires watching, for in many of the receipts I shall give, broiling is essential. I hesitate to pronounce any opinion upon the metal best adapted for kitchen utensils, for, upon this point difierent21 CERTAIN KITCHEN REQUISITES. people think differently. Copper is, we all know, uni- versally recommended on account of its durability. You see nothing else in the kitchens of restaurants, clubs, &c., and in all establishments where the demands upon the chef are frequent and elaborate. If treated with ordinary care, no evil should result from its use. Enamelled iron- ware looks nice when new, but the slightest carelessness destroys the enamel, and when once cracked, it may be considered done for. Plain wrought-iron vessels, tinned, are serviceable, and block tin for certain utensils is not to be despised. The lately introduced grey enamel ware is likewise serviceable, and at the same time light. In my own kitchen, I have a mixed collection which answers its purpose well enough. With regard to the equipment necessary for an ordinary establishment, I can safely recommend :— A Warren’s cooking pot. 4 Stew-pans of sizes. 6 Sauce-pans assorted. 1 Large sauce-pan with steamer. 1 Iron 3-gallon digester. 1 Braising-pan. 1 Friture--paxL (or frying- kettle). 1 Saute--p&n. I Omelette--pa,n. I Eluted gridiron. 1 Tin fish kettle and drain- er. 1 Ordinary iron-kettle. 2 Spits of sizes. I Bain-marie, capable of holding four or five small sauce-pans. In addition to this,—the heavy portion of the equip- ment,—the cook should have :— 3 Iron spoons of sizes. 3 Wooden spoons. 1 Basting ladle. 1 Fish slice. 1 Set of skewers. 1 Set of larding needles. I Meat saw. 1 Chopper. 2 Plain pudding moulds. 1 Cake mould. 2 Plain border moulds. I Flour dredger.22 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 1 Sugar dredger. 1 Pepper box. 1 Bread grater. 1 Set of vegetable cutters. 1 Disbing-up fork. 2 Common forks. 5 Cook’s knives in sizes. 1 Root knife. 1 Mincing knife. 1 Toasting fork. 1 Block tin colander. 2 Tin gravy sti'ainers. 2 Pointed gravy do. 1 Wire sieve. 2 Hair sieves of sizes. One mincing machine, a for a small supply of pepp sugar, &c. 1 Wire frying basket. 3 Jelly moulds of sizes. 2 Border do. of do. 1 Paste j agger. 1 Set of pastry cutters. 1 Dozen patty pans. \ A dozen mince pie pans. 1 Baking sheet. 2 Baking tins. 2 Bread or cake tins. 2 Souffle tins of sizes. 1 Set of freezing utensils complete. 1 Coffee mill. a tin box with divisions ■corns, salt, ground pepper, A wooden slab, (or marble if you can get one) for pastry, with rolling pin is necessary, and also a pestle and mortar. A stone or iron one is best for India; I have lost two Wedgwood mortars—broken through careless use on a stone-paved floor. I strongly recommend that every cook should have at least four common earthenware bowls, two of them with lips, for setting stock, gravies, &c., &c., and it will be found as well to give him a few cheap crockery sundries for exclusive use in his kitchen. If not, portions of your breakfast and dinner sets will find their way to the cook- room, and the list of killed, wounded, and missing will become alarming. I think the following sufficient for a small kitchen : two jugs, two cups and saucers, a wine-glass for measurement, six plates, three soup plates, two large and two small dishes, two small basins, and three wire23 'CERTAIN KITCHEN REQUISITES. covers to protect meat, &c., from flies : tliese articles may obviously be of tbe commonest ware or of enamelled iron. A cupboard fitted with a lock and key should be given to the cook for the safe custody of the many small articles I have enumerated, and a set of shelves for his utensils. The cook-room table should be roomy and strong, and to ensure its cleanliness, it should be continually scalded down with boding water and soda, and well rubbed over with sand paper. Lastly, no kitchen should be without a clock. A cook of ordinary intelligence can, without difficulty, be taught to mark the progress of the hands, and work by time, rather than by guess-work. It is hardly necessary, I hope, for me to point out the intense importance of cleanliness in the kitchen, and in all utensils connected therewith. If you cannot go to the kitchen yourself, it is essential that you should hold weekly inspections of all your cooking utensils, which should be spread out on a mat in the verandah for that purpose. Give out washing soda, for you cannot keep things clean without it; and be very particular about the cloths that are used by the cook. There is a horrible taste which sometimes clings to soups, sauces, etc., which a friend of mine specifies as “ dirty cloth taste.” This is eloquent of neglect, and dirty habits in the kitchen. Sieves will do for many things, but there are some compositions which must be strained through cloths, we cannot, therefore, be too attentive with reference to that part of our kitchen equipment. For a few remarks concerning our kitchens in India, please turn to the end of the book.♦- In the Store-room. visiting the vast collections of tinned provisions, sauces, &c., at some of the large establishments at the Presidency, I have often wondered how a lady, commencing house-keeping, is guided in selecting the things she requires for her store-room. A majority, no doubt, of the fair chatelaines of Madras, do their shopping at their boudoir writing tables, filling up lists at the dic- tation of the butler at their elbow; for few, I take it,—■ very few care to go to the fountain head for what they want. Now, a butler’s ideas about stores are, on the whole, very mixed: he worships “ Europe articles” and delights in filling the shelves of the store-room with rows of tins ; of which some may perhaps be useful, but many need never be bought at all at Madras, and so remain for months un- touched, lumbering the shelves of the cupboard. It has struck me, therefore, that having satisfied ourselves con- cerning the equipment of the kitchen, a few words regard- ing the choosing of stores may be acceptable. ; I have long come to the conclusion that the fewer acces- sories you use in the way of hermetically sealed provisions in the cooking of a diimer the better. In Madinas we have I all the materials for soup-making at hand, we have ex- i cellent fish, very fair flesh and fowl, good wild fowl and ‘25 IN THE STORE-ROOM. game when in season, and vegetables from Bangalore and the Neilgherries in addition to the standard produce of the country. If, therefore, we concentrate our attention sufficiently upon what we can get from market, our demand on tinned food should be very small indeed. Take now, for instance, a tin of the ordinary preserved mushrooms, those made you know of white leather, what is the use of them, what do they taste of ? Yet people giving a dinnerparty frequently garnish one entree at least with them, and the Madras butler would be horrified if his mistress were to refuse him that pleasure. The stewed “ black Leicestershire” are the best preserved mus^ooms to be had, but even between them and the tresh fungus, there is a great gulf fixed. few pars ago I met an officer of the Artillery, who after haring served in various parts of the world, had iust been appointed to a command in this Presidency Con versation happened to turn npon cookery, and the Colonel soon proved himseU to be a man who had for years studied oMndLTir “T;. ® experience Indian life, and he expressed himself agreeablv sur prised rather than otherwise, at the style of living to which he had been mtroduced. “But” he said » ^ me from your dinners of ceremon;!^- ^ hld C'T he told me, quite unexpectedly a few evenings before "IL’ fourth lVhrwas't’rTany’‘L^^^^^^^^ GTiest and ^ buvirea to dine as a Mess feuest, and that was a verv difFerpui- n • v expense had been incurred he nh / Considerable “~on te“u“s 326 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and muslirooms; and tlie tinned vegetables were ruined by being wrongly treated by the cook. “ There are few men,” the Colonel went on, “ who have had more to do with preserved provisions than I have, but until I attended this big Indian dinner, I never saw such things actually regarded as delicacies, and put upon the table to the exclu- sion of the good fresh food procurable in the market.” This is the proper way of looking at this question. There will be times and places, when and where you will be obliged to fall back upon Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and be thankful. Until those evil days come upon you, how- ever, do not anticipate your penance, but strive to make the food you can easily procure, palatable and good by scientific treatment. I look upon tinned provisions in the hands of Rama- samy as the cloaks of carelessness, and slovenly cooking. He thinks that the ‘ tin’ will cover a multitude of sins, so takes comparatively little pains with the dish that it accompanies. There are many ladies who, when giving out stores for a dinner party, have no hesitation in issuing ‘ tins’ to the value of many rupees, but if asked for extra cream, butter, eggs, and gravy-meat,—the true essentials of cookery,— begin to consider themselves imposed upon. The poverty of our cookery in India results almost wholly from onr habit of ignoring these things, the very backbone, as it were, of the cook’s art. If an English cook, surrounded with the best market supplies in the world, be helpless without her stock, her kitchen butter, and her cream and eggs, how much more should Ramasamy be pitied if he be refused those necessaries, for his materials stand in far greater need of assistance. In the matter of firewood and charcoal too, I am aware that there is often a difference of opinion between theIN THE STORE-ROOM. 27 cook and his mistress, and I am inclined to tkmk that Ramasamy is generally in tke wrong. Still, we skonld be carefnl lest we limit bis supply of fuel too closely espe- cially on a dinner party day. I once was a guest at a bouse where tbe dinner was served perfectly as far as tbe joint, wben a sudden collapse took place; tbe game and dressed vegetable were stone-cold. Tbe excuse tbe next day was, “ charcoal all done finish, and Missis only got godown key in tbe pocket.” Unless yon have tided to find out practically what can be done with tbe fish, flesh, fowl, and vegetables of this country, by studious cookery, you will scarcely believe tbe extent of your power, and bow independent you really are of preserved provisions. It is absolutely annoying to read tbe nonsense people write about our style of living in India. I remember an article beaded “ Curry and Rice” which once appeared in Vanity Fair. Tbe writer wrecked on tbe rock upon which many drift, who, with a little knowledge of tbe peculiarities of some particular part of the country, sit down with impudent confidence to treat of India generally, quite forgetting that tbe Peninsula is a large one, and that tbe manners and customs which obtain in one district, may never have been beard of in other parts of tbe Empire. Tbe article was not applicable to any part of tbe Madras Presidency, and judging from the winter’s suggestions as to tbe cookery of a tin of beef with yams, and worse still, tbe fabrication of soup from the fowl bones you picked and left at luncheon, I should say that Vanity bad picked up not only an ignoramus, but an uncleanly ignoramus, as a contributor. Our friends at Home were told by this audacious man that no dinner was complete in India without a “ burning curry,” and that none was successful “ without Europe tins.” I think that, as we go on, I shall be able to prove that at Madras, at all events, we can do pretty well without either.28 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Althougli I am strongly against th.e use of tinned things to the extent that many allow, there are nevertheless many articles which you must have in the store-room :— pickles, sauces, jams, bacon, cheese, maccaroni, vermicelli, vinegars, flavouring essences, the invaluable truflle, tart fruits, biscuits, isinglass, arrowroot, oatmeal, pearl barley, cornflour, olives, capers, dried herbs, and so on. Grated Parmesan cheese (sold in bottles by Crosse and Blackwell) should never be forgotten, the salad oil should be the best procurable, and no store-room should be without tarragon vinegar, anchovy vinegar, French vinegar, and white wine vinegar. Amongst sauces I consider “ Harvey” the best for general use ; Sutton’s “ Empress of India,” is a strong sauce with a real flavour of mushrooms ; Moir’s sauces and “ Reading sauce” are very trustworthy, and thei'e are others which, no doubt, commend themselves to different palates, but I denounce “ Worcester sauce” and “ Tapp’s sauce” as agents far too powerful to be trusted to the hands of the native cook. Sutton’s essence of anchovies is said to possess the charm of not clotting, or forming a stoppage in the neck of the bottle. I have a deep respect for both walnut and mushroom ketchup, soy, and tomato conserve. Then as special trifles, we must not forget caviare, olives farcies, and anchovies in oil. The cook should be carefully shown the use of flavour- ing essences, and also that of dried herbs. He ought also to be taught never to run out of bread crumbs. Stale fine crumbs should be made every now and then, and kept corked down in bottles for use when required. The very unsightly appearance presented by fish, cutlets, etc., crumbed with fresh spongy crumbs should warn us, for stale bread is never to be had when we suddenly want it. Red currant jelly is very useful ; the store-room should never be “ out” of it. I shall treat of tinned vegetables hereafter in their proper place. Macedoines, fonds d’arti-29 IN THE STORE-ROOM. chaiit, petits pois, haricots verts and asperges are, of course, excellent, and the dried Julienne will be found admirable for soups. Preserved fish is not required at Madras, and we can get on without tinned meats, soups, and potted luxuries, for we can make better things at home. In sweet things, however, we are not so independent, and jams, jellies, tart-fruits, dried and candied peel, currants, raisins, ginger, &c., &c., must all have room in the house-keeper’s cupboard. Of the invaluable qualities to the Anglo-Indian of good tinned butter, I shall speak on a future occasion. In a chapter on stores it is impossible to pass over, without a few words of commendation, the excellent pre- served fish, vegetables, and fruits, which have, of late, been imported from America. Besides being capital in quality these “ canned” delicacies are decidedly cheap. The old English firms have now to compete with dangerous rivals. Let them look to their laurels. Messrs. Brand & Co.’s preparations for invalids, potted meats, soups, and strong essences of beef, chicken, &c., are specialites in their way vastly superior to anything for- merly in the market of a like description. Messrs. Moir and Son have however taken up the subject recently with great success.■V. On Stock, and clear Soups. ITH a keen appreciation of tke importance of the subject, and of the difficulties with which it is surrounded, I now proceed to place before my readers a little collection of hints and wrinkles about soup-making which I have gathered from time to time from a variety of sources. Some, by practical experience, gained by hond fide work in the kitchen, some given to me by friends, and some picked out of different works on the culinary art. In my extracts from books, I shall endeavour to record, as much as possible, such advice only as I have tested myself, and I shall try to make my gleanings simple and concise. To begin then; there are, we. know, three distinct classes of soups :—the clear, the thick, and the puree. We recognise clear soups in the menu under different names. For instance, we meet consomme de volaille, and potage d la printaniere, but whereas the word consomme is invariably applied to clear soups, we find potage frequently used for thick also, to wit;—potage d la Beine, potage d la bonne femme, ^c. Let us distinguish between thick soups and purees in this way:—The former owe their consistency to the addition of some artificial thickening, such as flour, egg yolks, &c., the latter, on the other hand, derive their thick characteristic from the ingredients that compose them being rubbed through a tamis, or through a wireON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. 31 sieve, and, communicated to tlie stock in tke form of a tliick pulp, as in the case of puree d' artichauts, puree de legumes, puree de gibier, ^c. A soup partaking of the character of a thinnish puree helped up hy artificial aid in the way of thickening, is called by some writers a potage d la puree. The bisque again is a puree, strictly speaking, of Cray fish (aicx ecrevisses) or of lobster {de homard), but it can be made successfully with crab, prawns, and shrimps; indeed a nice bisque can be made with any fish.— So much for names. Let us now turn our attention to beef consomme for we may regard it as the foundation upon which nearly every soup is based. “ Stock,” says a capital writer on cookery, “ is to a cook what the medium or the water is to the painter in oils or in water colours. It may be defined, generally speaking, as a solution in water of the nutritive, and sapid elements contained in meat and bones : salt and spices added to it to make it savoury, and if to this you add the flavour of various vegetables, you have soup.” We must remember, however, to start with, that soup in India must be made in one day. We cannot fall back upon the never-empty stock pot of the English kitchen : our’s must be made daily, and, to guard against waste, only in sufficient quantity for the day’s consumption. In saying this I have, of course, mainly before me the climate of Madras, and of the plains of Southern India. At the Hill stations and during the cold weather in the northern part of the country, the method obtaining in British households may, no doubt, with care, and slight modification, be fol- lowed. Our soup, then, being actually an ephemeral production, how should we proceed ? “ For the type of all stock- making, says the G-. C. “ there can be no better recipe taken then that of the French pot-au-feu,'’ let us therefore32 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. consider attentively tlie following recipe for tliat most valuable of culinary operations. Put a piece of soup-meat,—say of four pounds weight, in the proportion of three pounds of flesh to one of bone,— (the recipe can, of course, be followed by adding or reducing as you may require but preserving like proportion) tightly bound with a string, with two ounces of salt and the bones separately broken up, into a stock pot filled with water, so as to completely cover the meat. Put the pot by the side of the fire and let it become gradually heated. As this takes place, a scum will form upon the surface which must be carefully removed as it rises. When nearly boiling, a coffee cupful of cold water should be thrown into the pot to accelerate the rising of the scum. The clearness of the soup will depend remember, upon all the scum being taken off, and upon the water being kept from boiling point until it is all removed. This having been done; put into the saucepan the following vegetables wliich should have been previously carefully cleaned and cut up, viz. :—a couple of large white onions, a clove of garlic, two large or three small carrots, two or three tuimips, six leeks, one head of celery, a bunch of curly parsley, and two cloves in the onion. Then put in, tied up in a piece of muslin, some thyme, marjoram, and a handful of whole pepper, —a tea-spoonful each of di*ied thyme and marjoram will be quite enough. It will be found that by adding the vegetables, the boiling of the broth will be thrown back ; as soon however as the bubbling recommences, watch the vegetables carefully, and remove them when they are done. If you leave them in the stock pot after they have been cooked, they will spoil the soup. Remove the muslin bag also. You can next put in a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom ketchup ; when the pot-au-feu is, so to speak, thus com- pleted, it must be left to simmer slowly from three to four33 ON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. hours. The soup should now be strained into a basin and left to get cool, so that any remaining fat may be effect- ually skimmed off. The clear liquor is then fit to be warm- ed and served with maccaroni, bread sippets, or vegetables, &c., according to the kind of soup you wish to have. Observe that in order to carry out this recipe, an open, roomy vessel is necessary; a closed pot like a digester must not be used. This is, to my mind, the simplest recipe you can follow to achieve a bright clear consomme. It is, of course, im- perative that you proceed exactly as described. First, the meat covered with cold water, and brought very slow- ly to the boil, being very carefully skimmed the while. Next, when the skimming is completed, the vegetables,— to be removed when done, the little bouquet of sweet herbs, the sugar, and a small allowance of sauce and ketchup. Now, a period of three hours to simmer, followed by straining. The liquor you have after this is actually beef consomme or strong broth quite clear and pale. Removing the fat whilst the simmering is going on is obviously a very important stage which cannot be too patiently manipulated. The fat so obtained is invaluable for frying purposes. It should be melted after it has settled, and strained through a piece of muslin. It may so happen that, owing to insufficient skimming in the early stage of the proceedings, you find to your sorrow that the consomme is not as clear as you could wish. You must therefore clarify it. There are two good ways of doing this. The simpler, and I believe, the more effica- cious of the two is to put into the cool broth some very small fragments of raw beef, free fz’om fat, put it on the fire again till it boils, let it settle, and then strain. Per- haps, however, you may not have saved a bit of meat for this contingency, so you must attain your object with theCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 34 white of an egg, thus :—Break an egg, and throw the white and the shell together into a slop basin,—be care- ful not to let an atom of the yolk go in,—beat the Avhite and shell up to a stiff froth, and mix it, flake by flake, very completely with the cool soup. Put the soup into a saucepan, and set it on the Are, stuu-ing well till it boils. Take it off immediately, cover it close, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, and then strain it off through the tamis, or haii’ sieve. Let me here point out the cause of another misadven- ture in the satisfactory appearance of a clear soup,—one that often occurs in consomme with maccaroni, vermicelli, and pearl-barley. You have got your stock as bright and clear as sherry, but after adding the ingredients just men- tioned “ a change comes over the spirit of your dream,”— the soup turns cloudy. The reason is this : preserved fari- naceous food of the maccaroni class often contains dirt, —dirt that you do not perceive, and which can only be removed by parboiling. Accordingly, whenever you in- tend to add it to consomme, you should hoil it independently in plain water in order that the outside dirty part may be washed off by becoming dissolved. Plain washing in water is not enough; besides, washing maccaroni is the act of an ignoramus. There is another feature in a clear soup which I have reserved for special attention, and that is the colouring. Now, an idea prevails amongst numbers of English people that a soup to be good and strong must be dark-coloured. Old-fashioned people speak of your modern consomme as a weak, washy composition only flt for foreigners. But if you take the very self-same liquor and brovTi it with a lot of burnt onion, and thicken it with flour and butter, they are perfectly satisfied. Did you ever make jug- ged beef tea for a sick friend, the strongest possible essence of raw lean beef ? Was not the liquor so obtainedON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. 35 as clear as sherry, pale-coloured, with a quantity of granulated particles of the beef floating in it ? Well when stramed that would have been consomme without the flavouring produced from vegetables and the bouquet T s^elysiro«g-enough for the veriest John Bull that ever talked nonsense about cookery. Now, if you desire to impart a golden brown tint to your clear soup, or a darker tint, (which the gods forfLd) never use burnt onion upon any account. You must achieve your object by a browning {caramel) made thus—put a quarter pound of white sugar into a copper or enamelled pan ; set it over the fire, and stir it till it is melted; then edthebrowBtmtyouwMt,rfdapmtofwatertoit boil ' S tWb i ° “ P"* “to the eoup prior ae“:irer If you can obtain a small bottle of French-madp c and’ also -!•-lour, Messrs. Moir and Son now provide ZlZZpZnt handed" ro^™“ ekarMu™ f “f te ao™ a ^“™r“nr readers who write to England for^th forget to ask for a little boftle of Ameriel o”? *° S“rprt7hTr”“ “«““acksr:?o:: with a patent stopper to e^X^oltstte olVaT"''^" a time; two drons in oooV. u • saake out a drop at enough, and the flavour is very^ToT t chilli-vinegar for this purpose. ^ ^ supersedingCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 36 The next important feature for consideration in soup- making is the adding of ■wine, -which, I think, may be regarded as very essential. Madeira or Marsala is better than sherry for most soups. A rich, full, fruity -wine,—■ inexpensive for -want of age, and scarcely to be recom- mended for after dinner drinking,—is the class best adapted for kitchen use. If sherry be preferred, it ought to be a fruity one, and sound, not a cheap extraordinary compound, composed of molasses, washings of sherry casks, and the most -villainous brandy; but honest sherry, lacking age, perhaps, yet hond fide wine. “ There is a good saying,” observes an author on cookery, that is appropriate here :— “ It is no use spoiling the ship for the sake of a ha’porth of tar,”—it is, I think, no use spoiling a good soup for the sake of a spoonful of wine.” Be careful, however, not to overdo the soupQon of -wine that you add to a clear soup ; a good table-spoonful is, to my mind, enough for a tureen filled for eight persons. Thick soups, especially those made of game, mock-turtle, giblet, kidney, and the like, take a larger share of wine : hare soup requires port or burgimdy, -wild duck and teal soup also, whilst potages of snipe, partridges, quails, jungle-fowls, &c., are, I think, better enriched with Madeira, or Marsala. I have hitherto purposely omitted saying anything con- cerning the treatment of the meat and vegetables of which a pot-au-feu is made, being anxious to keep strictly to the subject which we have been discussing,—the cookery of a clear consomme. Before I go on with soup-making, how- ever, I beg par parenthese as it were, to turn back to that period in the preparation of the soup when we strained the consomme from the meat, bones, and vegetables, which had made it. In the Madras kitchen the soup-meat is regarded,' I ; believe, as the perquisite of the cook’s maty, which, being j interpreted, may be understood to mean really that of the jON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. 37 cook himself. Whether this custom be susceptible of reform or not, I hesitate to say, but there can be no doubt at all that, by giving way to it, we often deny ourselves a dish which would be exceedingly nice for a change,—one which, on the continent, is sent to table as a matter of course. In small establishments, or for the quiet dinner alone I can strongly recommend a trial of home-made bouilli which should be treated in this way : ’ Let us assume that the recipe for pot-au-feu has been strictly carried out as far as the straining stage, and that all the vegetables, or as many of them as were procurable have been used : now, place the meat on a dish, remove the string that bound it, and serve it upon a bed of mac- carom previously boiled till tender, and a puree obtained by rubbmg all the vegetables through the wii’e sieve, mois- tened with a portion of the houillon or consomme-, or on a bed of stewed cabbage, with the other vegetables neatly arranged round it, in the clear broth. ^ _ Don’t rush away with the Anglo-Saxon idea that there « no goodness” (Martha’s word) in soup-meat. “ There xs, says the G-. C., “ as much nutriment in it, when eaten ciated in this country, are made frn ^ appre- the tinned soups are composed ? It J a il - every atom of meatl thus 4CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 38 preserved provision dealers. The potted meat yon see in a confectioner’s window at home, neatly capped with melted hntter, is hiade from the beef which produced the stock of the mock-turtle (I bet anything it is “ mock- tnrtle, ’) he advertises at a shilling a basin—enterprising man! I once tested this myself. Having before me a large piece of soup-meat apparently full of nutiument, I determined as an experiment, to make potted meat of it. Martha, my cook, looked sourly on,—I little knew that I was robbing her of the price of that meat from the nearest pastry-cook,—and called it, for her part, a “ hawful mess”; but we, who ate it, found it delicious. In London, and all large towns in England, a regular private trade in soup- meat, dripping, and fragments, is carried on between our cooks and the keepers of refreshment rooms, which both parties regard as perfectly legitimate. But to return to the subject of soups. Although we may succeed in mastering the difficulties of the comomme, or foundation of soup-making, we must not forget that our work may be spoiled by the introduction of some barbarism peculiar to the Indian kitchen. An idea prevails with some people that clear soups require to be assisted with gelatine, or isinglass, to give them a sort of glutinous con- sistency. Ramasamy has discovered a very pernicious sort of starch which he produces from a raw-potato, and by this compound the soup in many houses, I know, is ruined. The potato imparts a crude, inky flavour to the consomme which is hard to describe on paper, but is fatal in its effect upon the palate. It kills all the flavour of the meat and vege- tables. Ramasamy should be cautioned on no account to use what he calls “ potato-thickening” again, in any cir- cumstances whatever, and, once for all, let me observe ,’ that clear soups require no isinglass. The consomme cannot# be too bright, light, and clear. ;i “ Country parsley,” to my mind, spoils any soup. It is) t39 ON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. nearly as bad as too much spice, and rmfortunately onr natives are very fond of it. I have interdicted its use in my kitchen under pain of a fine. Tarragon is the best flavouring herb you can use in a clear soup, (consomme d I estragon) but we have only the vinegar in India, not the plant itself, and a leaf or two is, what we desire in soup I brought out from England and have also received by post, some dried tarragon leaves which I have found highly satisfactory, and can safely recommend others to try Unfortunately tarragon is not included in Crosse and Blackwells dried herb list, so you must write, if sulE- ciently enthusiastic, to a friend who has a large kitchen garden, and beg him to fill a bottle or two with tarragon leaves carefully dried for you. In London any green- S'octobr*''”'^^^^ Basil, which can be procured in bottles, is the best of T on soup- making, with a code of general rules on the subject^ thoro.ghty ZJtZr ^my Clean before you commence oners tinno, - „ good scalding with hot-water in which a lumn of n- soda has been dissolred will niTiT J. ^ of washing take away that smoky «nT wlTh a” Ma owing . onr wfod tires, ant:Lryi:Xr “ Use soft water rather than hard. two sWnTongr4“^^^ P™ons,40 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. water shonld be poured round meat and bones that have been previously cooked. 5. A quart of water to half a pound of meat and bone is said to be the outside you can allow in England, but a smaller proportion will be found advisable in India—a quai’t to a pound for instance. In any circumstances there must be sufficient water to cover the meat and bone. 6. Remember that slow boiling, and retarding actual boiling as much as possible, are important points to start with. 7. Do not cover up your pot closely, the steam should evaporate to assist the strength of the soup, and keep it clear. 8. Skim frequently during the early stage of your pro- ceedings,—a cup of cold-water thrown into the pot causes the scum, or albumen, to come up quickly, and, of course, retards boiling. 9. Use a wooden spoon. 10. Put in your vegetables, flavouring herbs, &c., after the skimming is finished, and let them simmer till they are done. 11. Wash your vegetables very carefully before adding them. 12. As soon as the vegetables which are put into the pot-au-feu are done, they should be removed, and the heat imder the soup-kettle maintained at simmering point. 13. It will take four or five hours to extract the essence from a few pounds of beef, so begin as soon as you can, and don’t hurry the work. 14. It is better to season too little than too highly, so be very careful wheil adding pepper, hei'bs, &c.41 ON STOCK, AND CLEAR SOUPS. 15. There is nothing to be gained by keeping the meat simmering when once it is thoroughly done. The consoimni IS at its best when the meat which made it is done to a nicety, viz., in about five hours. Boiling “to rags” is a useless proceeding. JV'.B.—Remember that you will never succeed in obtain- ing a nicely flavoured clear soup, unless the proportions of meat and vegetables are carefully maintained. For three pounds of meat and one of bone, aoufie gives the following weights of vegetables carrots, ten ounces ; large onions, ten ounces; leeks, fomdeen ounces; celery, one ounce; turnips, ten ounces; parsnip, two ounces. As leeks ai’e not often found in the Madras market, I would substitute another large onion, about five ounces arsmps are only procurable on the Neilgherries, their weight may be made up with some extra carrot. Turnins un ess gathered fresh and young, are apt to be very strong ■ b ^ ounces of them wiH Concerning vegetable consomme, I speak later on. written out in llmU card-boarrl tr> b u jour butler and pasted upon edia»:“?;tL^tiTL“ht“ Tw r ko brieay described as follows”!? may intfthTd!g?stoprPr"\“?’’”^ -.f and api: coCib acrewed down on a gooI^tri^tr^S 1?“' leavmg bis tunnycutch to watch the boiW ! T does IS to see that there is plentv of fi ^ plenty of firewood under theCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 42 digester. As may readily be supposed boiling point is speedily reached in'this way of managing matters. In an hour or so the cook retiirns and finds the water he put into the pot reduced to about one-third of its original quantity; this is, of course, a very strong broth, he accordingly strains it ofE, and calls it his “ first sort gravy.” He then returns the meat, &c., to the pot again, covers it with water, and lets that boil away. The liquid thus produced, I need scarcely say, is terrible to look upon, and very nasty to taste, the whole essence of the meat having been fritter- ed away by the first process. It is a dull, greasy-looking fluid like dish washings. Nevertheless Ramasamy strains it off and calls it the “ second sort gravy.” He next amal- gamates the two “ sorts,” browns the mixture with burnt onion, and clarifies it with the white of an egg. Having got it clear, he rasps some raw potato into it to obtain a nice glutinous starch, and when the soup seems sufficiently gummy, he strains once more and sends it to table. Setting aside other considerations, pray observe the wastefulness of this awful process. It is not exaggeration to say that half the quantity of soup-meat and bone required by the ignorant native cook might be saved if he could be prevailed upon to follow the laws of intelligent cookery.-VI. Thick soups and purees. row about thick soups, apart from purees .—these are perhaps more popular with the majority of English people, than the thin clear. There is an expression of richness and of strength in them which cannot fail to captivate the Briton. He, therefore, that would gratify his countrymen, must frequently offer them a soup which is in itself a meal. I made the acquaintance of a little French woman in London whose husband kept a pastry cook’s shop and was a c/ie/ indeed. Asking one day in a hurry for e^nj clear soup they could give me, Madame Gr^goire arched her eyebrows and said “Ah ! it would not pay us to tTe and°" “^°«k-tur- t ready; for a clear soup, we must have notice of a few hours.” And we excha7p<1 Z w “““ Z!t midst of July, apotage d la printaniere. -In ’ oLl° “"P nt times : n little cosy dfa^ /oflTv i. ” h-ve soup a slL oT, *° disouss-a cheese But T h -+7^ ^ vegetable, and your cneese But I hesitate to recommend souns of th,-= i for a Madras dinner nartv i ^ ® ainner party,-to be placed before men whose44 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. labours all day have been sedentary, and ladies who have lunched well, and passed their day in graceful repose. And it is mainly for them, be it remembered, that I com- pose what a friendly critic terms my “ menus mignons.” There is one feature about thick soups which is w’orthy of attention, and that is that you need not be so scrupu- lously careful in the making of the stock, or in selecting the materials of which the stock is made, for you have not to think of that clearness which is the salient feature of your consomme. Thick soups can therefore, be made of the bones of cooked meat, and scraps that would never do for potage a la Julienne for instance. Let us take as a type of a really good thick soup that called potage a la bonne femme, which, is made in this way. Prepare a quart of stock, and keep that by your side ; now cut up a good-sized (Bombay) onion into very thin rounds, and place them in a sauce-pan with two oimces of good tinned butter. Take care not to let the onion get brown, and when it is half done, throw in a quarter of a pound of sorrel leaves, a lettuce, and a bunch of parsley, all finely shred, add pepper, salt, half an ounce of flour, and keep stirring for five minutes. You then add a dessert-spoonful of pounded loaf-sugar, and half a cupful of the stock, freed from fat, and not coloured. Let the mixture reduce nearly to a glaze, when you gradually stir in about a quart of the stock ; and let the soup simmer for a quarter of an hour. You now must px'epare about a dozen pieces of bread cut very thin about two inches long, and an inch wide, taking care that there is crust along one of their long sides, and you must dry these thoroughly in the oven. When it is time to send up the soup, you remove the superfluous fat from it, and set it to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Now, prepare a liaison made as follows:—Break two eggs in a basin, beat them well asTHICK SOUPS AND PUREES. 45 for an omelette adding two ounces of butter, dip a coffee- cup into the soup, and mix that quantity with the egg and butter, adding another cupful when the butter is melted. Take the soup off the fire, pour it over the slices of bread, next add the liaison, and serve in three minutes. This should be enough for six basins. The eggs must be tho- roughly beaten, if not, pieces of the white will foi-m in flakes in the boiling soup, and spoil its appearance. This leads me to an important point in most thick soups, and purees, and that is the addition of cream, or milk with the yolks of eggs. It will be found in some recipes for these soups that hoiled cream is ordered to be added. The distinction is important: not merely is the risk of curdling avoided, but the flavour imparted to the potage is different. All know, for example, how different is the taste of coffee that is made with boiling milk, from that to which cold mflk has been added. When therefore you add cream to soup, boil it beforehand separately. Milk IS a substitute for cream especially if a yolk of an egg be added to it, but be careful in adding the yolk lest the soup be curdled. To do this, boil the milk first atten- ive y, and pour it through a strainer into the soup; next make the tureen hot, and just before serving, throw into It the yolk of the egg, and a little butter; take a spoonful of the soup, and work it well with the yolk, en add more soup, spoonful by spoonful, mixing tho- hZ°i / \ remainder of the soup which should, of course, be as hot as possible. _ Whether you add eggs, cream, or milk to soup, it is a line qua non that the process be carried out of the fire, i e vessel containing the soup must be lifted’ from the fire before you go to work. and'ft?white, and the brown. The principlee followed in both are very I46 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Himilar; the main difference, of course, consists in the sort of meat used, and the employment of roux, or liaison as the case may be. Roux is simply melted butter, with flour added to it, according to the quantity of soup you want to thicken. The butter must be melted first, the flour being dredged in by degrees, and stirred vigorously at the bottom of the sauce-pan until thoroughly incorporated, and velvety. As soon as it turns brown, the roux is ready. This is what is wanted for brown soups. For a white, the liaison must not be allowed to take colour; you must commence adding the soup to it as soon as the flour and butter have been sufficiently worked together. In making these soups, the utmost care should be taken not to over-do the thickening. In the case of a white soup, this error is almost more fatal than in that of a brown. You might as well offer your guest a basin of arrowroot “ conjee,” or any nice gruel, for the savoury flavour of the soup is easily overpowered. A little prac- tice will teach a cook how much flour, is necessary to obtain the desired consistency of a thick soup, and he should bear in mind that the full effect of the thickening does not assert itself until the soup, which has been added to it, comes to the boil. Observe that you add the soup to the roux, not the roux to the soup. The addmg should be done by degrees, if you want the soup to be smooth and creamy. If, after coming to the boil, you find the soup too thin, you must proceed as follows :—mix a little more ro«« very carefully in a small sauce-pan, add a cupful of the soup to it, and when quite smooth, and free from lumps, pour it by degrees into the soup, off the fire, through a pointed gi’avy strainer, stirring vigorously as you do so. W hen quite mixed, replace the vessel on the fii’e, and let it boil up.47 THICK SOUPS AND PUREES. I have given several recipes for thick soups such as mock-turtle, ox-tail, giblet, &c., in my menus, and if the few general rules I have laid down be carefully noted, I think that my readers will experience very little difficulty in carrying them out satisfactorily. And now, we come to the puree which, to my mind, is perhaps one of the most important features of the whole study of cookery. In India this form of preparing our meat and vegetables ought to be much more generally understood and practised than it is. In a puree we can work into a palatable and wholesome condition, meat that from its poverty or tough- ness, would be sorry fare indeed if boiled, or roasted. An ordinary little dish of neatly trimmed mutton-chops (nicely grilled over a clear fire) becomes an artistic entree if served roTmd a nest of mashed potato, containing a delicate puree of vegetable, such as celery, peas, asparagus, tomato, spinach, &c., whilst common onion sauce, thus treated, is promoted to the dignity of sauce souhise. Old partridges and jungle fowl, the remains of cold poultry, and of all game, can be turned to capital account in a puree. Even an ancient, and extraordinarily tough “ moorghee” may be thus rendered fit to eat. For the sick, and for those suffering from tooth-ache, food cooked in this manner is invaluable, whilst there can be no doubt that it must be good for children. In order to be able to accomplish the making of purees satisfactorily you must possess a strong pestle and mortar, a large hair sieve, a wire sieve, and a mincing machine. If you desire to make a puree of meat of any kind, an immense amount of labour is saved by first using the mincer, the work in the mortar is then reduced to a mini- mum, and the pounded meat will soon be ready to pass through the sieve.48 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. In using the. sieve, by the way, caution your cook that he must always put whatever he wishes to pass through it, at the shallow end, placing the sieve over a large bowl, or dish, big enough to receive it, and rubbing the puree tlirough it with a large wooden spoon. From time to time he must invert the sieve, and scrape ofE the portion of the puree which always adheres to the reverse side of the hair, or wire. A cook must be patient in the use of this utensil, and achieve his object by perseverance, rather than by boisterous work. If you hear too heavily on the hair, your sieve will soon bulge, and ere long the hair will part company from the wooden cylinder to which it is attached. Purees, as soups, are prepared in this way ;—You first must make as good a bowl of stock as you can from hones, meat, scraps, (hones of ham and bacon especially valuable) sufficient for the number of people you have to cater for. Let it get cool and remove the fat that rises to its surface. You should flavour your stock to the best of your capa- bilities with dried sweet herbs, onion, parsley, a carrot or two, celery, &c., or such vegetables as may be available, with salt and pepper to taste. The better your stock, or foundation, the better your puree. Suppose, now, that you want to make potage d la Crecy, which in plain terms is carrot puree:—boil as many carrots as you think will suffice for the quantity of soup you have to make in the stock made as aforesaid : when thoroughly done, drain them, and pass them through the sieve. Now, miv the pulp so obtained with sufficient of the stock tb make a puree a little thinner than you wish your soup eventually to be. Melt a piece of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, and work a little flour into it, gradually adding the puree, and stirring without ceasing till the soup comes to the boil, when it will be found of the proper consistency. Skim, if necessary, and serve.THICK SOUPS, AND PUREES. 49 The pith of this recipe, and of all receipts for purees, lies in the liaison of melted butter and flour which must be worked into the soup as described, and at the period indi- cated. Why ?—well, have you ever noticed carrot, or pea-soup, which, when sent to table, instead of looking the creamy red, or green puree that you desired, presented the appearance of a thin gi’avy soup, with a quantity of the vegetable pulp at the bottom of each basin—the stock and the pulp not having amalgamated? This result was caused by the omission of the process I have described which is necessary to blend the two together, Grecy soup should be served with bread cut into dice and fried in butter; or crisped on a buttered tin in the oven after having been soaked in a little of the stock. Croutons,, ti-eated in this way, should accompany all vegetable purees. Purees of celery, Jerusalem artichokes, (Palestine soup,) onion, and turnips, if the stock be kept free from colour, can be served as white soups, and cream, or the substitute already described, will be found an improvement to all of them. U Potage a la reine,” a very old white soup, is really a puree of fowl or turkey, and an excellent white potaae very like it, can be produced from a rabbit. Those artistic entrees -creme de homard,” -crime de volaiile,’^ -creme d artickaiits,” ^c., are merely consolidated purees. The guenelle again, is only meat worked to that condition, and bound with bread-crumb, or paste, and eggs. The puree of chestnuts is a well-known delicacy at elaborate banquets at home and abroad, whether in^tho orm of soup, or as a sauce to accompany white entrees and especially the turkey. The Indian nut commo2 known as the ‘promotion nut,” and fresh almonds make capital if carefully treated, and I daresay that thLCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 50 are other aiits to be got in India that wonld well repay the trouble of a trial, in the same way. All green vegetable purees derive enrichment in appear- ance by the judicious addition of “ spinach-greening” which is, in itself, the liquor obtained from spinach boiled, drain- ed, worked through the sieve, and then squeezed through a piece of muslin. I have seen people quite deceived with a soup made with dried peas and coloured with “ spinach- greening” in imitation of piiree de pois verts. A pinch of sugar ought not to be forgotten in making these soups. The enterprising cultivators of asparagus at Madras ought now and then to indulge their guests with that excellent soup puree d’aspei-ges,” which however ranks next, I take it, to the still more artistic “ consomme aux points d'asperges." You can make a capital green puree any day at Madras with French beans j and with one tin oi petits pois (thought- fully assisted with spinach-greening if the peas have lost colour) you can produce a very perfect puree of green peas for about eight people. A very inviting-looking soup of bright colour can be made from tomatoes, following exactly the receipt for “ Crecy,” and substituting tomatoes for carrots. Brown purees are, of course, those made of game such as hares, partridges, snipe, wild duck, teal, etc. In this way you can always advantageously dispose of tough old birds. A good puree de gibier, of hare, or of any game- bird, is, without doubt, soup which is with justice widely popular. It is essentially the soup of the hungry man. A basin of it, to use a homely phrase, “ goes a long way.” It carries your thoughts back to winter fires, to old-fashion- ed, yet generous fare, and to the glorious appetite with which you spread your napkin before you after a day with the hounds, a tnidge after wild partridges, or a long drive through the keen frosty am of some by-gone Christmastide !THICK SOUPS, AND PUREES. 51 These soups are what house-keepers call “ rich,” for in their composition you must employ port, or Madeira, red currant jelly, butter, cream, yolks of eggs, &c. One of the greatest cooks of the age propounds half a bottle of old port for his hare soup! and all game soups take a goodly share of wine. The points to observe in the making of these purees are, first, to get every atom of flavour you can out of the bones, scraps, and giblets, which is done by simmering them watchfully in stock. Then to work all the meat you can pick from the birds to a stiff paste in a mortar (having fii’st minced it in the machine) passing it through the sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, and so forth. Next to blend the pulp of the game with the stock in the way I have previously described. And lastly, to follow with accuracy whatever recipe you have taken as regards the flavouring elements. Do not leave out anything if yon can possibly manage it. Dried sweet herbs, (thyme and marjoram,) are as necessary in game soups, as is basil in turtle ; and red currant jelly is indispensable. Spice is often mentioned in recipes for these soups. I do not recom- mend it. In fact, beyond the two cloves inserted in the onion used for the stock, I would carefully omit it. As I intend to give detailed instructions for game purees in their turn in my menus, I will not pursue the subject any fmther in this chapter. Neither will I discuss the treatment of tinned soups j ust yet, for I shall reserve that branch of Indian soup-making for consideration hereafter in a chapter devoted to “ Camp cookery.” N.B. Caution your butler to be careful to help the soup at a dinner party with judgment. One ladleful in each basin is ample."ViZ. Regarding our Fish. SISH, under skilful hands, offers,” says Brillat Savarin, “ inexhaustible resources of gustatory enjoyment j whether served up entire, in pieces, or sliced ; done in water, in oil, or in wine ; hot or cold ; in all cases it receives a hearty welcome.” We, who live at Madras, on a coast which yields a perennial supply of good fish, (to borrow a well-known figure of speech) should surely lay these words to heart. With a market as fairly well supplied as ours, we ought never to be at a loss for variety, or for scope to exercise our cook’s ingenuity. The fair hostess should always be able to soothe herself with the reflection that with the fish, at all events, her guests will he well satisfied. Now, do we avail ourselves, as we ought to do, of the many opportunities we undoubtedly possess of turning Madras fish to a good account ? I certainly think not: indeed I fear that only a few of us appreciate the true value of this most excellent article of our daily food. At the ordinary Madras dinner party, you may rely almost for certain on having boiled seer fish, with a sauce, and a few slices of cucumber and beetroot, or a spoonful of salad ! on the side of your plate. Or the fish may be pomfret, similarly served. “ Tartare," “ a parody of hollan- daise,” and melted butter with essence of anchovy, com-REGARDING OUR FISH. 53 pose apparently the whole repertoire of sauces within the reach of the local chef. N-B.—I have never been able by the way to trace the origin of the Madi-as custom of serving a portion of salad with a thick eggy dressing on the same plate as the slice of hot fish. To put salad on a hot plate is to begin with an unpardonable offence, while the association of salad with hot fish is incongruous in the extreme. The same remai'k applies to the service of cold cucumber and beet-< root with hot fish. Delicately stewed cucumber, hot, little orlys of oysters, ovpetits bouchees of prawn or lobster, may accompany the fish, if you like; otherwise it should be presented with its sauce alone. The proper time for serV" ing the salad is with “ the roast,” when it should be sent round on separate plates, and as cold as possible. Now, without wishing for one moment to question the sterling merits of plain-boiled fish, I confess that for a din- ner party I strongly advocate dishes of a more artistic : nature. There are so many easy recipes for cooking fish i nicely, that an effort to produce a little novelty in this feature of the menu can scarcely result in failure. In Eng- land where you have many varieties of fishes, and some of the best of them only to be seen in the market during their I especial seasons, a little sameness in the style of cooking I may not perhaps strike you. You may boil and fry plainly • every day in the week, if each day you are able to present : a different fish. Not so with us in Madras. Our supply IS good enough, but it lacks diversity; and it is on this account particularly that I am anxious to direct the atten- lon 0 my readers to a few easy ways of relieving the monotony which I have pointed out. It may be urged that your fish is brought home from I market too late in the evening for the successful aocom- I plishment of studied effects, and perhaps your butler will take pains to thrust that fact before you. Regard suchCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 54 an excuse, please, as a mere evasion, for, in point of fact, fisli takes so short a time to di’ess thoroughly, that an hour should suffice for the most elaborate recipe. I always bear in mind the time that is necessary for the production of the dishes I select for my menus. Again, many people hesitate to offer their guests a dish of dressed fish, fearing that it may be considered too rich. This is absurd, for there are plain, as well as rich methods of varying this branch of cookery ; and, in composing your menu,, you should select one in harmony with the soup which precedes, and entree which is to follow it. Thus : if your soup be of a thick creamy kind, and your first entree (say) a vol-au-vent, let the fish be served in aspic iced, and with sauce ravigote or tartare. But if you give a clear consomme delicately flavoured, and order an iced entree to succeed the fish, you can indulge in a “ matelote aux champignons” or seer “d la creme de crevettes.” A tliick soup, fish with lobster sauce, followed by an entree with cream in its composition, would form, for instance, a combination of good things obviously inartistic in design, and one which few could enjoy with impunity. As I observed in an early chapter of my “ jottings,” the charm of a dinner according to the new regime consists in the harmony of its lights and shadows. N.B.—If you follow the new style of menu,, and present the releve after the fish, you need have no apprehension. With regard to the service of dressed fish, especially if it be preceded by a clear soup. Fish, we all know, I hope, may be boiled, fried, baked, roasted, stewed, or grilled; and by every method can tasty dishes be prepared. I will begin with the principles to be observed in boiling fish, and take the other styles of cookery in the order I have named. After having thoroughly cleansed, and wiped the fish.REGARDING OUR FISH. 55 mb it over •with a little vinegar, and place it on the drainer of the fish-kettle, so that when done it may be lifted out without risk of breaking up. Put plenty of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, into the water in which the fish is to be boiled. Let the water be cold, and in suflBcient quantity to cover the fish. Place the kettle on a brisk fire, and boil the fish as fast as possible. Skim off all scum that rises, and take care to suspend operations, the moment the fish is done. Overboiled fish is nasty to eat, and ugly to look upon: ■underdone fish is unfit for human food. The cookery books allow ten minutes per pound as a fair average of the time required for this operation; but so much depends upon the thickness of the fish to be boiled, that the cook should test it now and then with the point of a skewer, and as soon as the flesh parts easily from the bone, let him decide that it is ready. Never let your fish, after it is done, remain soaking in the water in which it has been cooked; drain it at once, or it will become what cooks call “ woolly.” If ready too soon, let it rest on the drainer over the hot kettle, and cover it with a napkin. If you have no fish-kettle, put your fish on a dish, tie a napkin round it, and boil it: when done, you can then lift the dish out of the pan without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Be very particular to drain every drop of water from the fish before you serve it, or the sauce you send up with it will be ruined. Connoisseurs in the art of cookery recommend that fish should be boiled in a “ Court houillon,'’ in which case the process is thus described by the G. C. : “ Having placed the fish in the fish-kettle with enough cold-water to cover it, add a glass of vinegar, some slices of carrots and onions, and a clove of garlic; then sweet herbs, and spices tied up m a muslin bag, with pepper, salt, and parsley or celery.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 56 The proportions of all these must depend upon the quan- tity of fish to be boiled, the skill of the cook, and the taste of the company.” When nearly done, half draw the fish- kettle from the fire, and let the fish simmer gently till the moment of serving. A mixture of white wine such as chablis, santerne, or hock, and water, in equal parts, may be used instead of the vinegar and water. Fish cooked “ au blett” is also considered a delicacy. The preparation is exactly like court bouillon, red wine being substituted for white. Court bouillon a la Nantaise is made of milk and water in equal parts, salt, and pepper in proportion. The art of frying fish consists in being prodigal in the use of the medium which you employed to cook with. The fish should be absolutely immersed in a bath of boiling fat or oil, which should be carefully tested so that you may be convinc- ed of its temperature. “If your fat be not sufficiently heated,” says the authority I have already quoted, “ the fish you want to fry will turn out a flabby and greasy mess, instead of a crisp, appetising dish.” For nearly all fish- frying, the frying basket is an invaluable utensil, used, of course, in conjunction with the deep-sided /nVttre-pan. Fish, fried in the English fashion, is generally egged and bread-crumbed. The Italians, who are perhaps the best ‘ frysters’ in the world, either flour their fish, or dip it in batter. Both methods are, to my mind, vastly supe- rior to the bread-crumbing process. If, however, you must use crumbs, see that they are stale, and well sifted; not the pithy lumps, both great and small, too often set before you, because Ramasamy will not look ahead, and rarely, if ever keeps a bottled supply of stale, well rasped bread in hand. To obtain a satisfactory result, proceed as follows : Having crumbled some stale bread as small as you can inREGARDING OUR FISH. 57 a napkin, pass the crumbs through a stiff wire sieve; then place the plate containing them into the oven to dry thoroughly. To apply them properly, beat up two eggs with a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and the same of water. This mixture should be brushed over the fish like varnish, and the fish should then be turned over in a napkin, con- taining the dry crumbs. For flom’ing :—dip the fish in milk, and then turn it over in a napkin containing some flour. A recipe for fry- ing hatter will be found in the chapter reserved for the discussion of that process of cookery. Under the head of baking we come to that very excellent method of treating fish which is familiar to most of you as “ au gratin'' The cook can, in this way, produce very pleasant results, with very little toil. You can commence as plainly as possible, and go on to the most elaborate and fanciful dishes, the principles in all being similar. The fish, to begin with, should either be whole, in fillets, or slices. The pie-dish should be well buttered; tomatoes, maccaroni, mushrooms, truffles of course, finely-minced parsley, shallot, lime peel, and such fines herhes as you can command, should be used for the more elaborate composi- tions ; whilst parsley, shallot, and butter alone with fine bread-crumbs will suffice for the plainer dish for ordinary occasions. A gravy made from the bones and trimmings, with a few pepper corns, a minced shallot and a glass of light white wine, like chablis, hock, or sauterne, may be gently poured round your dish when it is packed ready for the oven : but the liquid ought never to come up to the level, quite, of the top layer of the fish in the pie-dish. In connection with maccaroni and tomatoes, you should try a dusting of grated parmesan. Rolled anchovies, and prawns, form, with tmffles and mushrooms, the most appropriate garnish for an artisticCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 58 “ au gratin,” and cream is often judiciously introduced to enrich the combination. Fishes carefully stuffed, and baked •whole, are generally nice : it is a method very "yv'eH suited to fresh -water fish, and a delicious way of cooking a Madras mullet, or a dish of whitings. The best dish of stewed fish is the “ matelote” which, strictly speaking, should be composed of eels, but may, I think, be equally well followed in dressing any firm-fieshed fish. As I shall speak of this dish in my menus, I need only say en passant that it is rich, vinous, spicy, and con- sequently generally appreciated by the muscular Chiustian. Broiling fish sounds simple, but under this head there are a few toothsome recipes not to be despised. Let a good cut of seer be divided into nice cutlets. Parbdll them in the morning, and set them to marinade all day in salad oil, minced shallot, parsley, vinegar, a clove of garlic, a few whole pepper corns, and a little lime peel. Take them out, wrap them -with the shallot, &c., in well-oiled papers, broil over a fast clear fire, and serve with a nice sharp bro"wn sauce like sauce Robert. Take care that the bars of your grid-iron are well oiled, for they are apt to burn delicate morsels like fillets of fish en papillotes. Fish of fairly good size can be roasted “ d la hroclie.” The method is recommended for mullet, murrel, and all fish whose shape adapts itself, as it were, to the spit. Stuff the fish, wrap it in oiled paper, tie it to the spit, and baste continually with melted butter and white wine. Remove the paper before serving. The Bouillabaisse may be attempted at Madi*as with a result sufficiently satisfactory to wan-ant my being bold enough to record a simple recipe for it, adapted from that of the “ G. C.” as follows :—REGARDING OUR FISH. 59 Take any sort of small fish, such as small pomfret, whitings, soles, mullets, or rohal,—the greater the variety the better,—and for two pounds of mixed fish, slice up two Bombay onions, two fairly large tomatoes emptied of their seeds and cut into quarters, and one carrot; prepare a couple of slices of lime with the pithy skin cut off, a hag containing six cloves, a dozen pepper corns, a clove of o-arlic, and the peel of a lime pared as finely as possible ; a salt-spoonful of saffron, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one pod of capsicum sliced, will also he wanted : put the whole into a stew-pan, and add to it a wine-glass of salad oil, one of chahlis, and a pint and a half of cold water, boil for about hdlf an hoim, and, just before serving, add a heaped up table-spoonful of freshly-chopped curled parsley. The parsley is absolutely indispensable. Serve the fish, in a deep dish, with some of the broth round it, sending up the rest of the broth fii-st, poured boiling hot over some slices of stale bread. Remove the bag of condiments, of course, before serving the houillahaisse. The dish will not be as good, to be sure, as that which some of my readers may have enjoyed in the south of France, but if the ingredients I have named be used without any omissions, a very fair imitation will certainly be produced. Having thus sketched the various ways of preparing fish for the table, I must request my readers to note the recipes I have given in my detailed menus, remembering that my object has been to suggest dishes, which, in my humble opinion, will be found more pleasing than the ordinary plainly boiled lumps of fish, which, with the stereotyped concomitants, I have so strenuously condemned too often greet the diner out in Madras.Hints about Entrees. SINE persons out of every ten with whom I con- verse on culinary matters seem to be more exer- cised in their minds regarding their entrees than about the whole of the arrangements of their dinner put together. The really presentable side-dishes that the average Ramasamy can master may, as a rule, be counted, I am told, upon the fingers of one hand: and these are generally so well knowm that a lady is oft times at her wit’s end to compose her menu. So precious, indeed, has the knowledge of a new entree become, that the happy mistress of a novelty might be fairly excused were she to refuse to divulge the secret to her dearest friend. It must be a humiliating sensation, I admit, after having eaten oyster patties with your friend on Monday, to be forced to bid him partake of the same dish with you on Thurs- day j conscious perhaps, that the pastry at your house is not a whit better than that which you thought so indiffer- ent at his. The oyster patty, by the way, is one of Rama- samy’s few art studies. Now, I cannot but allow that the apprehension with which this part of the bill-of-fare is so generally regarded, is well-founded and natural. There are, of course, entrees and entrees. Though a few may bo easy, some are beyond our reach in this country owing to a variety of reasons,HINTS ABOUT ENTREES. 61 and many, owing to tlie ambiguous wording of cookery book receipts, seem equally inaccessible. Tben tbe task of ordering disbes from works composed for people with English cooks, kitchen ranges, and the best market in the world at their disposal, is far from easy. Even those who fancy themselves to be pretty good cooks find, every now and then, in the pages of their pet author, knotty points which require much consideration to settle. But if you will patiently follow me, not rushing to the conclusion that I only write for the benefit of a few enthusiasts like myself, I firmly believe that I shall be able to smooth down much that appears rugged; and help you towards the selection and accomplishment of many tasty dishes, which, if neither elaborate, nor very scientific, will still be found practicable, and generally worthy of a second trial. First, let us divide entrees into three distinct classes :— the plain, the half-rich, and the fanciful. In the first class I would place such dishes as the mutton cutlet (neck chop) grilled, fried, or stewed; the epigramme; fillets of meat, turkey, fowl, rabbit, or pigeon ; grenadine; entrees of meat, that is to say, plainly cooked, accompanied by carefully devised sauces, or really good purees of vegetable. For class the second, I would reserve all compositions of meat requiring the mincing machine and the mortar,— delicate combinations which demand attentive flavourino-— such as cassolettes, croquettes, croustades, quenelles, houdins, timbales, rissolettes and mixed ingredients en caisses. Whilst in the superlative class should be entered, I think, the supreme, the vol-au-vent, the JcramousJcy, the studied ragout, the artistic salmis, and any entree out of class the second when raised from its ordinary form to a higher level by treatment d la financiere, d la Beine, d la Perigueux, and so on. 662 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Quite in a special parenthesis by themselves ought to be kept all plats which can be served cold, such as the chaud-froid, chartreuse, petits galantines, truffled cutlets, &c., for in a climate such as this an iced entree cannot fail to attract attention, whilst for providing contrast, and other reasons, I shall speak of presently, it is invaluable. Having thus arranged the various dishes which come under the head of entrees in a systematic form, the task of selection therefrom must be governed by the sort of dinner you intend to give, the different items that compose your menu, and the capabilities of your cook. As a rule, you should generally, for the sake of contrast, select one dish from class one, and the other from either class two, or three; or an iced entree followed by one from either of the two richer classes. I have already advised you never to attempt to give more than two entrees, and I repeat the advice now, be your dinner a banquet for forty covers, or a party of eight friends. The menu of the best mess dinner I ever attend- ed in India (given to a late Governor of Madras whose taste in culinary matters was proverbial) contained but one iced, and one elaborate entree. These were, of course, served separately, and to provide against delay, there were (for forty guests) four dishes formed of each compo- sition. In ordering your entrees, you should carefully consider the amount of work yonr cook will have upon his hands at the critical time of serving them, and bear in mind that the more he has to do then, the more likely will he be to make mistakes. Is it not unfair to expect your cook to serve equally well two hot entrees demanding attentive manipula- tion up to the last moment ? Select, thei'efore, for one of your side-dishes something that can be prepared before- hand, and be easily heated when lequiied, so that yourHINTS ABOUT ENTREES. 63 chefs attention need not be distracted from tbe other. On these grounds the iced entree is a grand invention. It can be made early in the day, and then set in the ice-box, ready to follow the fish or releve, as the case may be, with- out delay, and the sauce can also be similarly treated. Dishes that merely require heating in the oven are a god- send to a cook, for he can compose them at his leisure during the afternoon, and put them aside till within a few minutes of the time when they are wanted, keeping their sauces nice and hot in the bain-marie pan. But the un- happy man who has (say) to turn out a delicately grilled dish of cutlets a la Maintenon, with kramouskys aux huUres to follow—^independently of game, joint, sweets, &c., all needing a watchful eye—is surely to be pitied. There is another point to watch when choosing your e^itrees, and that is their general relationship with each other, or with the other dishes that compose your menu. Artists in ordering dinners go as far as to say that nothing should be repeated. Tou must not give, for instance, a consomme de volaille, and presently follow it with croquettes de volaille, or even fowl as a rot. Mutton appeariug in a side-dish must not be seen again in any form. Two white meats ought not to be introduced side by side. Though following this maxim to the best of our power, we cannot always rely on being able to carry it out thoroughly in Madras. The market supply is alas! too meagre, as a rule, for us to pick and choose as we might wish. To return to our class list of entrees, I cannot too strongly urge you to go in for dishes from class one more than you do. Can anything be more acceptable than a nice juicy little chop from a neck of mutton, on whose sides the marks of the grid-iron are plainly visible, reposing against a circle of really well-mashed potatoes, or of savoury rice, holding in its centre a puree of celery, petits pois, or sauce soubise ? The grid-iron is invaluable : the64 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. chop comes to table full of gravy, yet not underdone ; it has, to use a kitchen phrase, “ seen the fire” (browned) in places, and is absolutely free from the grease which so often mars a dish of chops cooked in the frying pan. For the little Club-dinner, this class of entree is always popular. I noticed that a plain cutlet such as I have described, or a plain fillet of beef, figured in almost every Club menu, I had the pleasure of discussing when last at home. Plea- sing variety can be secured by the cook if he will change his sauce, or his puree. Choose the nech chops for these entrees. The fillet of mutton is that tender strip of meat which runs down the inside of the saddle under the kidney. If of sufficient thickness, this delicate morsel, cut into nice pieces, and broiled over a clear fire, is worthy of Lucullus himself. It is the thing for an invalid, or one comiog round after an illness. The fillet of beef is the undercut of the sirloin, which the butcher will cut out for you in the market here if you wish it. But I have found good fillets produced thus :— Buy a really good joint of the ribs of beef, and cut out lengthways the good tender meat neai’ the end of the bone, with any fat there may be attached to it. Bones, and flap, and trimmings can be counted in the allowance of gravy-meat, and the tender meat you have cut out will trim into capital fillets for entrees, or cook whole as a filet de hceuf pique, aux champignons, au puree d’oseille, ^c., as a relev e. Fillets of fowls and game ai*e formed by cutting off neatly the whole of the breast meat right dowm to the wing joint; this you can divide into fillets according to the size you require. the long strip of good meat which runs down either side65 HINTS ABOUT ENTREES. of the back bone. Well larded "with fat bacon, and cooked grrenadira-fashion, "with Espagiiole, or sauce souhise, yon may do worse than present a dish of these fillets to yonr best friend. Whether your entree be a fillet of beef or mutton, of fowl or of game, or the neatly trimmed neck chop to which I have alluded ; and whether you intend to grill, to stew, or to fry it, you will find it vastly improved by being set en marinade from early morning until the time draws near for cooking it. I shall use this word frequently in my menus, let me therefore explain its meaning as applied to the process which I now take the opportunity of noticing. The word marinade, as you all know, really means pickle, but viewed in the light in which we now regard it, it would be better to describe it as a mixture, the com- ponent parts of which can be varied at pleasure, in which meat should be soaked for several hours before it is cooked. Its immediate effect is to preserve the outside of the meat which has “ felt the knife” moist and juicy, to prevent its “ turning,” and to lend that subtle flavour to it—so hard to describe—but which just makes the difference between our ordinary cutlet, and that which we remember having eaten at some restaurant abroad, or at the table of a friend who possessed a really well educated cook. The common form of marinade for beef and mutton is composed of salad oil and vinegar in the proportion of four of the former to one of the latter, with one large Bombay onion sliced, one clove of garlic chopped up, twelve whole peppers, six cloves, a tea-spoonful of salt, a couple of tea- spoonfuls of dried thyme or marjoram, a table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a strip or two of vary finely pared lime peel. This mixture can be preserved for daily use, with slight additions from time to time, and the flavourCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 66 can be modified by changing the sweet herbs, or with' drawing them. The taste of game can be imparted to cold, cooked mutton by placing the meat in a marinade composed of a wine-glass each of vinegar, portwine, and mushroom ketchup in which a table-spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved; with a tea-spoonful of “ spiced pepper,” some pepper corns, salt, a chopped onion, and a dessert- spoonful of marjoram and thyme blended. A hash of cold mutton collops that have lain a few hours in this prepara- tion is very like that of venison, and the fillets of an Indian hare, (a little underdone in the roasting) similarly steeped all day, are really excellent. In this particular instance you must strain the marinade, and add it to the thick gravy in which the hash or fillets have to be simmered. Marinade need not be made in extravagant quantities. It should cover the bottom of the dish on which you place the meat, your object being gained by occasional turning, and basting. When wanted, the cook should lift the meat from the dish, let it drain a minute or so, and then pro- ceed to business. Independently of the method in which you purpose to cook them, a great deal depends upon the careful trimming of a dish of mutton cutlets. How uninviting do these miniature chops look when they have been cut anyhow from the joint to which they belonged ? First, saw off the ends of the row of bones level, and cut off the outer flap; now take a very sharp knife, and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of them, and, lastly, sever them with a single stroke of the chopper. Now, lay them on your board, and give them a few strokes with your cutlet bat, trim them into shape, and then place them in the marinade. The hungry67 HINTS ABOUT ENTREES. man may be able, no doubt, to eat the cutlets his cook may send him, “ rough hew them as he may,” but for an entree, we must study appearance. Little paper frills placed round the ends of the bones of the cutlets before serving, give a finish to your entree. A cutlet to be grilled should be dipped at once in a little j melted butter, or salad oil, and broiled over a clear fire. If to be stewed, it should be first browned by being turned frequently in a saw^e-pan with a little melted butter ; the previously prepared gravy and vegetables should then be put into the stew-pan, in which the cutlet should simmer gently till done. The whole success of a stew depends upon simmering. If the cook carelessly allow the gravy in the pan to come to the boil, the cutlets (or anything I else) will be done for. How often are hashes, and rechauffes of cold meat sent to table as hard and tasteless as leather, simply because the cook permitted them to boil ? Hashes and salmis of cold meat and game may be defined, properly speaking, as carefully composed sauces in which meat is placed cold, and then gradually heated until sufificiently hot to serve. My own rule with a salmis is to take it off the fire as soon as the steam rises freely from the surface, to turn it immediately into a silver dish heated with scalding water, and send it up. Hashes and salmis are much improved if the cold meat composing them be soaked in the sauce for some time before cooking. The process of bread-crumbing a cutlet deserves far more care than a great majority of cooks bestow upon it. To do this really nicely (for an entree), you should proceed in this way. Lift your cutlet from the marinade, drain it a moment, then dip it into the following composition: two eggs, one dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and one dessert-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 68 spoonful of water, well beaten together. Then turn it over and over in a plateful of fine, stale bread-crumbs which have been dried in the oven, pounded, and thoroughly sifted. It should then be laid aside for half an hour, after which it should be dipped again, and again rolled in ci’umbs. Amongst the crumbs may be sprinkled some finely-minced parsley and shallot, with Bome powdered dried sweet herbs, and grated cheese is sometimes added with marked effect. The frying should be conducted in abund- ance of boiling fat, and the colour of the cutlets should be a pale golden brown. All thrifty cooks should carefully save the scraps of trimmings, the outer flap, and the ends of bone, which were cut off in shaping the cutlets, for from them the basis of the sauce which is to accompany the dish can, with a little assistance, be composed. Veal is occasionally procurable at Madras. If you suc- ceed in getting a nice dish of cutlets, remember that it is downright necessary to lard them with strips of fat bacon. Veal is apt to be dry in England where the calf is fattened for the market. In India it is far drier, and if cooked without the assistance of bacon, veal cutlets are positively wooden. N.B.—Let the sauce prepared for your entree of cutlets be sent round, piping hot, in a boat. If poured round the cutlets, it makes them sodden, and loses its effect entirely.Entrees—concluded. fTAVINa discussed the general methods of cooking X cutlets, and fillets, we ought next to consider a few good sauces to accompany them, but as I have resolved to devote a chapter to that branch of the cook’s art, I must ask you to follow me now in a brief resume of wrmkles regarding the higher classes of entrees. Under class the second we come to that very useful style of entree which I have called the “half-rich.” For these “ made-dishes” you begin to call to your aid the mmcing machine and mortar, and, unless your experience be above the average, success will almost wholly depend upon your following with accuracy every line of the recipe you may select. A welMavoured oasmlette, croquet W.„ or if mcely cooked, and served with a good , puree, or a macedoine de legumes, is worthy of Jkce xn any me,but the slightest slovenly work is thn^""!^ Ramasamy has been taught to believe that outlets be composed of c^xopped meats so he often sends to table under that title a Lh of orogZtts with a fragment of bone inserted in each of them. I need hardly remind my readers, for instance, of the 0 ic en cutlets” which forms the standing plat of theCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 70 Madras Hotel. I know that some cookery books describe as cotelettes, certain artistic mixtures of meats, with bits of bone introduced to make them look like true cutlets, but I would prefer omitting the bones, and calling such dishes by their proper names, for they undoubtedly belong really to the tribe of croquettes, boudins, ^c. Chicken, ox and sheep’s tongues, tender mutton, ham, bacon, oysters, pigeons, turkey, rabbit, the livers of all poultry, of rabbits, and game,—whether previously cooked or not,—provide materials out of which these entrees can be made. It is in the judicious blending of two or more of them together, in the thorough pounding and incorpo- ration thereof, in the selection of the condiments he em- ploys to improve them, and so on, that the skill of the good cook can be detected. If you preserve your own ox tongues in this country, and keep one generally ready for use, you will have a very valuable thing to fall back upon for “ made” entrees. Cured sheep’s tongues, too, are very useful, and a little lamb's liver is sometimes a good thing to have at hand in case of need. Calves’ liver cut into dice, and fried with some shallot in the pan in which some fat bacon has been melted, then set to get cold, and pounded in the mortar with some cold veal,* forms the well-known minced meat which surrounds & pate de foie grras and all French fates. The frying-pan should be rubbed with garlic before operations are com- menced, and the minced onion must go in with the liver. If you add to the mixture when pounded the minced trim- mings of any truffles you may have been using, the flavour will be exactly that of the pate. A little jar of this com- position, made at home, will be found well worth the * Use the white breast-meat of a cold roast chicken if yon cann(^ get veal in this country. The melted bacon must be pounded with the liver.—W.71 ENTREES—CONCL UDED. trouble it costs to mako, wben you are preparing (say) a dish of CToguettes de volaille and want to improve the flavour of them. The hints I have already given regarding the bread- ciTimbing of mutton cutlets, hold good with reference to the crumbing of croquettes. If possible, indeed, you should be more particular in preparing your crumbs. Bread crisped in the oven and then pounded in the mortar pro- duces the chapelure used by French cooks. The sauces that should accompany this kind of entree require the utmost study, and will be treated of here- after. Rissoles, and rissolettes are very tasty if well done, and served hot. ^ They may he described as a savoury salpicon, or mince, divided into small portions, each of which should be enclosed in little wrappers of delicate pastry: these, pinched closely all round, should be fried a golden yellow in abundance of boiling fat. They are then served dry on a napkin, garnished with crisply fried curled parsley. Cassolettes^ are little drums of potato or rice, hollowed out, filled with a delicate mince, and capped with either a cover made of the same substance as the case, or with a cm-1 of crisply fried hacon, a turned olive, or a slice of Boudins are preparations of pounded meats steamed, and quenedes somewhat similar in composition but poached. Recipes will be found for each of these methods of cookery m the menus. Touching the highest class of entrees, it is impossible to m-t submit I u little more expense than you did in classes one and two utter, cream truffles, mushrooms, special gravy meat 4c., must not be shirked, but be given to the cook wTth a72 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. liberal hand. As your Gouffe bids you, so must you proceed without a murmur. We do our utmost to give oui’ guests, here in sultry Madi’as, a vol-au-vent, when we should know quite well that it is almost impossible to produce, in a temperature that rarely falls below 80 °, the exquisitely light puff pastry from which the dish derives its name. The best attempts present the appearance of layers of talc laid one over the other in an oval-shape and baked a pale brown. Now, I maintain that it would be better to give up our fruitless efforts, and employ one of the ornamental earthenware dishes made specially for this purpose, and to be had of all good dealers in glass and crockery in London. Small ones for dishes era caisses are also sold. We could then send up our ragout a la financiere, or a la reine, without misgivings, in a pretty dish becomingly garnished, and bury the unhappy memories of the light puff paste we never could achieve. But whilst thus proposing to abandon as fruitless our attempts to place before our guests a true vol-au-vent,— conquered by the climate in which we live, and not through carelessness or want of culinary skill,—I, by no means, wish to say that we should cease to bestow our attention upon entrees which can be made of pastry of a less volatile nature. There are some Madras cooks, I know, who can turn out very good light fate pastry. To such men you can entrust, of course, petits pates, timbales, saVpicon bouchees, and those artistic croustades for which pastry is employed instead of ? the easier substitute of hollowed-out rolls. The knack of making nice light pastry is, however, far from common. Neither reading, nor even practical demonstration, will ; teach it. So unless you are certain that your cook possesses the gift, never permit him to waste good mate-^ I'ials in idle experiments. An entree of pastry, if not. unmistakably good, is a blot upon the face of your menu.73 ENTREES—CONCL UDED. In. nearly all recipes for tlie sauces of liigli class entrees contained in good works upon cookery, tke use of butter is unsparingly advocated, and cream is also very frequently prescribed. In an early chapter of my jottings, I men- tioned that I would far sooner recommend a little extra expense with regard to these items, than in the wholesale distribution of »Eui’ope stores.” I repeat the opinion emphatically now. The dinner cooked with an adequate allowance of cream and butter, requires but little aid from Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. Unfortunately, however for those who desire to follow this precept at Madras, our supp y 0 milk IS meagre in quality and quantity, and absm’dly expensive. The only way to obtain a little butter fit to eat, if you do not maintain a dairy of your own, is to have a cow milked at your door, and to set the milk so obtained for ream in your own larder. I have never tried to find out le exact cost of a pound of butter thus made but an Ot milk at one rupee (the current rate) will not yield more cost" you°L f youi’ pound of butter will ^ porter once toM a ™ 7CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 74 that our so-called “kitchen butter” might be equally vaguely described. What, then, can people of moderate incomes do ? For, I take it that even wealthy folk at home wotdd hesitate to pay six shillings a pound for the butter used by their cooks ! The most economical remedy for this evil is to use preserved butter. The “ Copenhagen” (cow brand), “ Normandy,” and “ Denmark,” at one rupee fourteen annas a pound-tin, are especially free from brine, or taint of any kind, and can be thoroughly recommended. One tin, carefully used, ought to suffice for the cooking of a dinner for eight per- sons, (assuming even that the menu contain a full amount of dishes requiring butter in their composition) and, in my humble opinion, the result will generally be found to justify that amount of extravagance. Before I pass from the consideration of side-dishes to that of the sauces that should accompany them, I feel it incumbent upon me to repeat that vegetables ought never to be handed round with the entrees. This quaint practice of our fore-fathers has been long since abandoned by those who give dinners of the reformed type. The modem entree is, of course, presumed to be a plat complete in itself, and perfectly independent of other as- sistance. When stated in the menu, a vegetable may, of course, accompany an entree but it should be deftly associat- ed with the composition it accompanies, and be moulded in the same dish. A great many entrees require no vegetables. Who, for instance, could possibly eat potato and cauliflower, with a hramousky, or with, a, petit pate a la financiered The crisp batter in the former, and the pastry in the latter case, supply the necessary accompaniment of the delicate composition each contains. Apart from its being palpably inartistic, there are other reasons which prompt the abolition of sending round vege-ENTREES—CONCL UDED. 75 tables with entrees. I refer to tbe time that is wasted in doing so, and the complication it adds to the service. Whilst the matter-of-fact objection to the practice is, that by the time they are really wanted for the joint, vegetables that have been hawked about with the entrees are cer- I tamly mangled and cold, if not wholly expended; for few , people prepare relays of potatoes, &c., to follow those sent I up with their side-dishes. f Lastly, let me say a few words about the and helping of entrees. garnishing As a general rule, oar native cooks, assisted I dare sav by the bntler are mnoli given to the ornamentation of their side-dishes. Wow, whilst folly prepared to pander as mnoh as possible to the “ lust of the eye,” I warn yon to be careful lest these efforts to make thkgs look pretty be overdone Shoes of raw encumber shoufd be seLelv interdicted, for they impart an inky flavour to the entrL re^d which they may be trimmed; and funny deS s ideSt „e b ■‘U'ercritical mind an arrInX ” curled, and the bulb th ’ * • 5'!v” stripped and actually Irthl 1 a'’‘'“‘I'''**®- I escaped eatino a ’ ’’arely oatalophe, seeing th”t I hid been a sad my side Let tli ^ agreeable companion above attain this end, the French clefJ^ ^ Which he makes out 0/0"76 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. ground-rice moulded: socles for cold entrees are even some- - times made of melted wax candle consolidated with bees’ wax. A flat socle for ordinary hot entrees is easily made with rice, which should he boiled, pounded, and then moulded with a wooden spoon into an oval or round block according to the shape of the dish. When moulded, it should he brushed over with egg and colored in the oven. For cold entrees, spread the block over with fresh butter. Having thus obtained a firm foundation, the entree itself becomes, as it were, a superstructure erected upon the socle. Nothing looks more slovenly than an entree arranged :. on the level of the dish itself. Dishes that require careful helping ought certainly never to be handed round at a dinner party. I have observed that ladies frequently refuse an entree on account of the difficulty of helping themselves. A fair patroness of mine whose menage is worthy of her artistic skill, tells me that she has made up her mind (and rightly, say I,) never to permit her admirable mayonnaise d la Gouffe to be handed round to her guests again. One person, she says, • ■ would take a little of the aspic, the next some of the salad, < the third—engaged, perhaps, in pleasant chatter, with a pair of bright eyes full upon him—might absently secure} a fragment of the garnish! and so on, all in heart-rending^ ignorance of the science and care bestowed upon the dish. In any circumstances I strongly recommend that all iced entrees be helped from the side table, with a portion of the sauce upon each plate, and passed round to your guests without delay. For, in a climate as warm as this, speedy helping at the side table -will prevent the possible contingency of liquefaction. Indeed all entrees might be thus served with manifest advantage. The menu card in i front of you tells you what is coming, and in this way you ; would be spared, at all events, the unpleasantness of havingentrees—concluded. 77 a ot Sliver dish with its savoury contents thrust in between you and the lady you have taken in to dinner ; conversation would never be annoyingly interrupted; pretty costumes and dress coats would be less liable to be baptized with hot gravy, whilst much valuable time would be saved.* Sauces. SHE consideration of sauces may certainly be regarded as the most interesting part of the study of cookery. So much, indeed, is to be gained by this branch of the art, that I might almost call it the most important. Whether for fish, for flesh, or fowl, the assistance thus con- tributed is invaluable. Without penetrating very deeply into the mazes of elaborate cookery, if you once master the broad principles of sauce-making, you need never be at a loss for variety in your dishes ; you will be able to improve good meat, and make that which is indifferent palatable ; whilst with cold things you will rarely fail to turn out little rechauffes which will be at once tasty, and economical. Now, I do not consider it a difficult thing to teach a native cook the fundamental rules of this part of his work, for they are simple. The labour is so slight that, if suffi- ciently devoted to your task, you can select a recipe and absolutely show the man step by step how to carry it out. For a demonstration of this kind, you must, of course, order all the ingredients you may require beforehand, and have a mineral oil-stove, or brazier of charcoal, brought into a sheltered verandah, or spare room. The trouble this may cost you will, in nine cases out of ten, be amply repaid, for with the native mind practical proof is far more effective than theoretical discussion.79 SAUCES. For sauce-making, in general, you must possess four or five small sauce-pans in sizes, a Iain-marie pan to set them in, a small pair of scales, two wooden spoons, a plated spoon of each size, a flour dredger, a couple of earthenware howls, a block tin perforated strainer (a pointed one for choice) with handle, a wire sieve, a hair sieve, and a mortar. The materials you will call into play from time to time will he:—butter, flour, eggs, pepper, salt, onions, limes, a few cloves of garlic, spices, the contents of your cruet- stand, say:—Harvey, and mushroom ketchup; anchovy, chilli, tarragon, and French vinegars ; besides mustard, with pickled gherkins, capers, and red-currant jelly. Care- fully-made gravy, broth, or stock, will generally he want- ed, for which special provision must he made, hut for ordinary sauces, you can generally manage to make enough broth from scraps and trimmings. In doing this you have the consolation of knowing that there is nothing wasted. Sundry spoonfuls of red or white wine will he necessary now and then, and if you wander beyond the Rubicon of moderation to the realms of high art, you will naturally ask for champagne, truffles, cocks-combs, cream, mushrooms, and olives. Of all writers upon cookery none has dealt more clearly with the subject of sauces than Jules Gouffe. His work may appear difflcult to understand in places, and his recipes may seem frequently composed upon too large a scale to be useful to mistresses of small establishments, but in th© system that he has adopted with regard to this important feature of kitchen work, he has hit the right nail upon the head. He classes as fundamental sauces,—from which nearly the whole category may be said to have sprung,— those well-known names Espagnole, Veloute, Allemande, Eechamel and Foivrade; and even of these, the fii’st two may be considered as the parents of the rest.80 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. There are nevertheless several standing sauces which must be spoken of independently; for instance, melted butter (soMce blanche), Hollandaise, souhise, maitre d'hbtel, bread sauce, mayonnaise, tartare, remoulade, ravigote, Hobert, piquante, Sfc. Let us take these first, for they are perhaps more simple, and oftener in request than Espag- nole, veloute, and their various descendants. Failure in the composition of melted butter (satice blanche) is so common, that I will commence with a few hints with regard to that homely preparation. The pith of this sauce consists in melting your lump of butter {good butter mind) first at the bottom of your sauce-pan, then to add the flour, which soon amalgama.tes with the melted butter, and tlien by degrees the water, or milk and water (boiling) with a pinch of salt. Work this well with a wooden spoon till it is soft and creamy to look upon, pass it through your tin strainer into a hot sauce boat, and, a.s you serve it, add a pat of fresh butter the size of a rupee, which will, of course, melt of its own accord, and give that ‘ buttery’ flavour which you desire—not that ‘ flour- and-watery’ one so suggestive of the composition you would employ for flxing scraps in an album. For a pint of white sauce, you will require two ounces and a half of butter, two ounces of flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pint of broth, or milk and water. Use two ounces of butter, and the flour first, and save the extra half ounce of butter to finish with. A pinch of sugar assists all white sauces. Please observe that milh is not absolutely necessary in j making “ white sauce.” The chief objection to its use is, | that, in this country, it causes the sauce with which it may * be used to turn sour the next day. I consequently advo-1 cate the use of broth, made from chicken bones or mutton I scraps, instead of milk. Broth enriches the sauce, and if81 SAUCES. strong, makos it ogual to sauce blonde. Tb.6 wator in wliicli peas, carrots, onions, celery, and leeks, have been boiled may be used advantageously for this purpose. If required for fish tbe liquor in wliich tbe fisb was boiled reduced by rapid boiling ; or a brotb made from the bones, fins, and trimmings separately simmered should be used. The common error in making white sauce is the stirring of flour into the sauce, which produces the effect required at the expense of double the necessary quantity of flour ; for the lumps strained off are utterly wasted. A too spar- ingr use of butter is another cardinal mistake. With half a pint of sauce blanche you can work out several tasty recipes given by the “ G. C.” as follows ;— Beat up the yolk of an egg, and the juice of a couple of limes ; strain, and add to your melted butter just before serving; off the fire mind, or the sauce will curdle. Beat up the yolk of an egg with a table-spoonful of cream, and add in the same way. Throw in just before serving a table-spoonful of minced parsley, fennel, or chopped capers, and you will have :—- sauce au persil, sauce au fenouil, or sattce aux cdpres. Stir into it after it is made, a dessert-spoonful (or more if liked) of anchovy, Harvey, ketchup, or any sauce you fancy. For sauce aux fines herbes, flavour a pint of milk by boil- ing up in it a minced Bombay onion, a tiny bit of garlic, and a handful of parsley : when well flavoured, strain the milk through muslin and stir it by degrees into a sauce- pan in which a couple of ounces of butter and two of flour have been mixed ; thicken gently by bringing the mixture to the boil, strain, and add, just before serving, a table-82 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. spoonful of minced curled parsley, a dessert-spoonful of chopped garden cress, and half one of chopped green stem of spring onion. A squeeze of a lime may be judiciously added to this sauce. Fillets of pomfret, or any fish that you can fillet nicely, stewed gently in milk thus flavoured, with the same thick- ened and poured over them when done, are excellent. Small rings of sliced gherkins added to plain melted butter form the sauce auz cornichons you remember abroad ; a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar should accompany the rings. Melted butter for sweet entremets such as cabinet pud- ding, et hoc genus omne, should be made exactly in the same way as sauce blanche, with sugar instead of salt, with milk, or milk and water, and an egg beaten up in brandy, sherry, or liqueur. By adding strong broth or stock to the butter and flour, 1 instead of milk and water as in satice blanche, you produce sauce blonde which forms the basis of several useful S3/TXC0S* i Maitre d’hotel is simply sauce blonde with a bountiful | supply of finely minced parsley, a half pinch of spiced pepper, finished off the fire with the yolk of an egg, and a squeeze of lime juice. Mincing parsley requii’es attention. If done when the | leaves are wet, the pieces will all stick together, and much | of the juice will be lost. Parsley must be washed and | then carefully dried in a cloth, after which it can be chop- | ped as finely as possible. Maitre d'hotel butter, I may add par parenthese is made thus :—To two ounces of iced fresh butter, add the juice of one lime, a dessex’t-spoonful of chopped parsley free from moistxu’e, a little white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form msimm83 SAUCES. It with your butter bat, and set it in the ice box. A nice juicy, grilled chop, or a little grilled fillet of beef, served with a piece of mattre d'hotel butter melting over it, is a French method of captivating the appetite. Sauce d lapoulette is worthy of distinction among ordi- nary white sauces. Its chief points are : first, that it is thickened with the yolks of eggs instead of flour; secondly, that it is garnished with button mushrooms. It is a creamy looking sauce the colour of a rich custard. Make an ordinary thin sauce blonde with one pint of chicken broth, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, pepper and salt to taste : stir well for a quarter of an hour, and it will be a thin white sauce : then add en bain-marie one by one the strained and well beaten yolks of three eggs, finish off mth a pat of butter, and a couple of table-spoonfuls of cnopped mushrooms. _ The pulp of some large sweet onions that have been simmered in milk till tender, and passed through the sieve w en worked into sauce blonde, with a spoonful of cream or igh days and holidays, gives you sauce soubise. Equal portions of boiled carrot, French beans, turnip or kndkbol, cut into small dice, with a few peas, asparac^us points, and haricot beans, and gently heated in sauce blonde, form that charmmg assistance to a dish of grilled cutlets or any plain entree, called macedoine de Ugumes. Be care’ ful not to mash the vegetables, so do not overboil them in the first instance.* ^ CutTr+w"" delicious variation of sauce soubise. P 0 parboiled Bombay onions, and put them into a aauce.pan with an onnce o£ Ltter, a pinch “ d a aaiUpoonfuI of aalt; add a table-apoonfnl of prL™^ “d -moisten with a Lakfast^ » ADy/o«r of these vegetables are enough for a mac6dome.- -tv.84 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. cupful of brotli; let them cook slowly, and when the onions are done, add a table-spoonful of finely grated mild cheese (Parmesan for choice), stir the mixture, pass it through a sieve, and mingle it with half a pint of rich sauce blonde, or—for your birthday, wedding day, or the christening day of your first baby—with boiling cream. There is no sauce more popular with judges of good food than Hollandaise; in perfection it is a grand sauce, and not very easy to make. In its homely form it may be described as sauce blanche, to which a few yolks of egg.s have been added, and a squeeze of lime juice. In its more elaborate treatment, it becomes a custard of yolks of eggs water, vinegar or lime juice, and butter. Some are in favour of vinegar, others prefer lime juice, which they work thus : Beat up the yolks of three eggs in a little water in which a salt-spoonful of pounded allspice has been dissolved, add salt to taste, and about three ounces of fresh butter. Put this mixture into a small sauce-pan, and plunge it into a bain-marie, or stew-pan large enough to receive it, full of boiling water ; steam your mixture in this way till it thickens, and stir iu your lime juice to finish with. Gouffe’s recipe may be condensed in this way:—reduce two table-spoonfuls of vinegar on the fire with a little salt and pepper added to it, till about a tea-spoonful remains:— strain, and add to it two table-spoonfuls of water, and two yolks of eggs ; put this on the fire and heat it thoroughly,' stirrino- it well with a wooden spoon, and add four ounces of butter ounce by ounce by degrees, with a little water now and then to prevent its cuz-dling. This process had better be carried out in a bain-marie, for you thus obtain the amount of gentle heat which is necessary to preserve the sauce in a velvety condition without risk of any kind. Those capital compositions mayonnaise, tartare, remoul-SAUCES. 85 ade, ravigote, are better known as cold sauces, but there are hot forms of preparing tartare and the two last named not often presented. They are descended from sauce piquante which is simply made in this way :— Fry in two ounces of melted butter an ounce of minced onion with an oimce of chopped carrot, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, one of garden cress, and one clove of garlic. "When of a golden hue, add equal parts (claret-glass each) of vinegar, and water, or broth and vinegar, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one of sugar, strain, and serve hot. Some chopped trufl9.es, gherkins, capers, or mushrooms may be added with good effect, and a spoonful of ketchup, or Har- vey, is often given to it as a finishing touch. This sauce is not thickened. For hot tartare, add a large spoonful of mustard to the above, and use tarragon vinegar. For ravigote, you thicken with a little flour, and add a very little white wine, and minced shallots with some lime- juice instead of vinegar. For remoulade, use neither lime nor wine, but incorporate with your frying onions and green herbs, a table-spoonful of salad oil, and add a dessert-spoonful of French mustard to finish with. Sauce poivrade (viaigre) is made like sauce piquante, ■with tnis exception, that after the straining, you thicken the liquor 'wnth butter and flo'ur, it may be served either white or brown as you may desire.. If you want it white, the onions must not be allowed to take colour in the frvino- stage. ^ Gouffe’s brown poivrade is enriched with Espagnole, and his poivrade blanche with veloute. But these are fii’st class sauces, of which more anon. Sauce Robert belongs to this family Chop up a fine sweet onion, throw the mince into a sauce-pan with an 8CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 86 ounce of butter. Let it take colour, then add an ounce of flour by degrees, and when that has been well worked, half a pint of gravy, pepper and salt at discretion, and a pinch of sugar. When thoroughly mixed, and piping hot, pass the sauce through the tin strainer, catching up all lumps, and, at the last moment, stir in a table-spoonful of vinegar, and one of mixed mustard. Excellent with pork, veal, duck, and goose. Mustard sauce is made in this way :—Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a small sauce-pan, blend with it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a heaped up tea-spoonful of French mustard with a pinch of salt: when thoroughly mixed, add half a pint of broth or water : let it come to the boil, then strain through the pointed strainer into a hot sauce-boat. If Durham mustard is used, a little vine- gar must be added. These sharp relishes go well with fish, and, as a change, are welcome with cutlets, etc. u\ . <Sauces—continued. I^F the whole category of simple sauces none is more generally maltreated than “bread-sauce.” Deli- _ Clous when properly made, it is positively a re- pulsive mess when wrongly treated. Ton have no doubt lamented many a time over the wretched compound which your cook persists in sending up under this title; and I lave heard people say that true “bread-sauce” cannot be de in In^a. Now, I have tasted quite as nasty a com- position as Eamasdmy’s in England, in fact even there you auee, now served at the jmiior United Service Club in des™1erTe'’T'“’'’ “V be thus a tea ennf„? o eeqmrements, over which he pours perhaps (but bX'm ”“‘7 and a qululL of L for certain) a spoonful of milt; this to the oonsistencv t/thfok up a miiture which mav 7 P°™*Se> ““1 finally sends bread poultice ! ^ plainly described as spiced Setting aside other consideration a f anything be more disagreeable than the^LZ^ bitL"CULINARY yOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 88 of a whole clove, or a pepper corn, in any disli or sauce ? Common sense accordingly dictates that when the use of these condiments is necessary, we should strain the liquid in which they have been placed before serving it. The back-bone of “ bread-sauce” is the flavomunor of the milk with which it is made, to begin with; that done, to strain it carefully over your grated crumbs; then to re-heat it, and finish it off with a good table-spoonful of cream at the moment you serve it. In the absence of cream, the yolk of one egg, beaten up in a little milk till it looks creamy, may be added, off the fire, just at the last, but cream should be used if possible. To flavour the milk, you must take a good sized white onion, peel off the outside skin, cut it into quarters, and put them, with a dozen pepper corns, six cloves, a blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt-spoonful of salt, into a sauce-pan containing not less than half a pint of good milk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch youi* sauce-pan narrowly, and use a very low fire to retard the boiling- stage. Remove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk looks frothy: let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing the operation until the onion is done, and adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evapora- tion. Now, strain it off thi-ough a piece of muslin into a bowl, and add to it, spoonful by spoonful, the stale bread- crumbs you have ah’eady prepared, till your eye tells you that you have attained the right consistency; then heat the sauce up again, and finish it as I have already de- scribed. I can always rely upon making as good a “ bread-sauce” here as I ever ate in England, but then I would never attempt it unless I had all the ingredients at my command. There can be no evasion of the milk. Water at once jiro-SA UCES—CONTINUED. 89 mmmm duces the poultice I have condemned, and the spoonful of cream, must be added if you desire success. This sauce richly deserves the trouble I have prescribed, and it -will be found in the end economical, for by its aid a carefully-roasted fowl provides an enjoyable meal; whilst fillets of partridges, or chicken, bread-crumbed, nicely fried, and garnished with a crisp curl or two of fried bacon, assume at once a superior character. A young pigeon, spHt, and gifilled over a fast fire, besprinkled with fried bread-crumbs, and assisted by good bread-sauce, forms a nice luncheon for a lady whose husband’s days are spent at office, or for a convalescent beginning to mend after a long illness. To contmue simple saucesthat known as Sauce ail pauvre homme is produced by first frying a minced onion m a little butter until it assumes a golden brown tint, and then pouring in a little broth made from scraps, with a tea-spoonful of vinegar: you must give this a boil, and hen strain It by degrees into another sauce-pan contain- g melted butter and flour; work this well with a wooden spoon and add a pinch of salt, one of sugar, a little pepper and some nunced parsley. «P«ppei, Dutch sauce as eaten in Holland, the Teritahle ‘ Sollan- daise, is butter plainly melted in n co -aouan with eitea m a sauce-pan, flavoured mth a little pepper, a little salt, and the squeeze of a lemon; this is allowed to settle over the flre^H t *tCULINARY yOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 90 chokes; one table-spoonfnl is enough for one artichoke, and the plates should be really hot.* Hollandaise made with eggs is knowm abroad as Hollan- daise jaune. “ Horse-radish sauce” is the grand standard adjnnct to our national food, “ the roast beef of old England,” and beef in India cries out for help far more piteously than its rich relation far away. Horse-radish grows well at Ootaca- mund, and I once grew some with success at Bangalore, but the scraped root of the moringa, or “ drum-stick” tree, provides so good a substitute that we may rest contented with a sauce thus composed :—Scrape as finely as you can a cupful of the root shavings, simmer them in half a pint of chicken broth ; when done, thicken the broth custard- wise with the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; add pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg, and serve in a sauce-boat. A richer recipe suggests the addition of a cofEee-cupful of cream with the yolks of the eggs, and then to let the sauce remain on the fire en bain-marie, stirring well until it is very hot (but not boiling) and serving it in a hot sauce-boat. The cold form of this sauce is perhaps the easiest, and I think as nice as any t:—^you simply rasp the moringa, or horse-radish root, till you have a cupful of fine scrapings, and mingle them with an ordinary mayonnaise, or tartare sauce, iced. Cream is, of course, a great addition, but the usual mixture of eggs, oU, mustard, and vinegar, will give you a good result. And this leads me to discuss at once the two sauces I have just mentioned. * A tea-apoonfnl of anchovy viuegar is in this case better than lime- juice.—W. + Most delicious with cold roast beef.—W.91 5^ UCES—CONTINUED Mayonnaise sauce is certainly one of the most useful, and popular of all the sauces we attempt out here. In order- ing it, if you know what to say, and give good materials, you may be certain of success. Be sure that the oil you give is thoroughly good, or the result will be very painful; and examine your mustard, vinegar, and eggs. Assuming that these are all satisfactory, set to work in the followmo- manner ;— ° Commence with the dry ingredients, and put into a soup-plate, or slop-hasiu, the cold, very hard-boiled yolks o two eggs, a salt-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of mustard powder, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallot, and a dust of white pepper. Bruise these together thoroughly with the back of a silver spoon. Now, add a little oil, and work your materials to a paste, dropping in the oil patiently by degi’ees until you get it nice and moist; next throw in the yolks of two raw eggs, and contmue your working, adding oil without measui’e, and 3udgmg by your eye when you think you have made ^ough sauce, for the tarragon vinegar you finally add ^11 not he more than a good table-spoonful. The moment e vinegar is ^dded, the sauce wHl assume a creamy fT theT’ sufliciently, will be ready or the block tm strainer (to get rid of “onion atoms” mps o egg, &c.,) and then for the table. If made on • D j p ssiDle, to be made as near the time of fnl Lv ™ “ d-^ert-spoon.92 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. of the raw yolks in conjunction with the hard-boiled (they produce the thick creaminess you want), the liberal use of good oil, and the addition last of all, in sparing quantity, of the tarragon vinegar. You do not want an acid sauce at all, remember. English cooks, as a rule, ruin their mayonnaise and salad dressings, by measuring the oil and vinegar they use in equal portions ! No artist measures these ingredients.* You might as well expect a painter to tell you the number of grains of the colotirs he used in painting a picture. You must not omit a little onion, but whilst permittiug the flavour “ scarce suspected to animate the whole,” you must on no account permit the “ atoms to lurk within the bowl”—the ladies in Sydney Smith’s days were perhaps less critical in the matter of this fragrant bulb, than are our fair enslavers in the present year of gi’ace. “ Tartare sauce" is the same as the above, without the use of hard-boiled eggs : raw yolks alone should’ be used, and the oil and vinegar should be added in the following proportions; a tea-spoonful of the latter, to two table- spoonfuls of the former, well beaten together, and often times repeated till enough sauce is made. “ Bemoulade” is a mayonnaise sauce with chopped gherkins, parsley, chives and capers, added. For chives, try the green stalks of a few young onions. The mustard used must be French, and a drop or two of garlic-vinegar is a sine qua non. “ Bavigote” is also mayonnaise with chopped shallots anchovies, celery, cress, and sweet herbs. Gri’een remoulade and ravigote are made in the same way, the colour being produced by parsley juice, and spinach- greening. * Gonffe’s calculation represents the quantity of vinegar as barely one-eiglitb of the oil.—W.93 SA UCES—CONTINUED. Not long- ago I observed in tbe Qtieen newspaper a ques- tion from a lady wbo was apparently in great distress about mayonnaise sauce. She complained that she could not get the mixture as tliiclc as she desired, and bego-ed for instruction. Two answers were given the following week : one of them urged the lady to thicken with flour or arrowroot, and the other advocated mashed potato ! blow, I need scarcely say that this was a case in which the blind attempted to lead the blind. Mayonnaise and tar- tare sauces should be thickened by beating the oil and raiu yolks together perseveringly. With patience the mixtui-e can, in this way, be made to stand as stifflv as thick batter.0E3I^:F>'T’EIS I2SiXX. ♦ Sauces—concluded. tNOW pass to the consideration of a few standard high ^ class sauces, which, with a little care and attention, ■ will be found practicable in every well-conducted | Madi’as kitchen. To aid you in this branch of the cook’s j art, you cannot possess a better guide than Jules Gouffe, whose admirably systematic method of discussing sauces has never been approached by any authority on culinary mysteries. Unfortunately, however for the inexperienced reader, Gouife’s work is rather the treatise of a Professor addi*essed to students who have already matriculated, than a vade mecum for beginners. So unless you are fairly au fait in practical kitchen work, you will hardly derive much easy aid from the Royal Cookery Book. You must have some knowledge of the ingredients which may possibly be spared, and of those which must, on no account, be omitted, for even in Gouffe’s recipes there are sometimes things named which are not absolutely essential. Yon ought to know something of stock-making, and understand the value of game bones, poultry bones, fragments of ham, _ &c., and the sort of flavour these things produce, helped by certain vegetables. If, by experience, you have picked • ujj a knowledge of equivalents so much the better. I can, -- in short, readily believe that those who have never _ bothered theix’ heads about cookery, would find it almost ^95 SA UCES- CON CL UDED. impossible to direct a native cook from tbe pages of the gi’eat chef. In saying this I speak from experience. I first read Gouffe before I had taken to practical cooking work, and before I had actually made sauces, &c., ladle in hand, in an English kitchen. Since going through that ordeal, I have again come across the book, and I find that much that I had formerly to skip as too complicated, now seems easy enough. I propose now to place before you in the simplest way I can Gouffe’s fundamental sauces. Those who are ac- quainted with that author, will observe that in the first place I shall reduce the recipes to a much shorter compass, and in the next, that I shall omit everything that is not down-right necessary to produce a fair result. GoufFe propounds the following saucas as the found- ation of nearly all those of a high class that you are likely to encounter :— 1. Espagnole. 2. Veloute. 3. Allemande. 4. Bechamel. 5. Marinade. 6. Poivrade. Of these veloute, allemande, and bechamel are so closely allied, that I shall confine myself to the last. Marinade and poivrade I have already alluded to. Espagnole is, of course, worthy of close attention. My fundamental sauces will then be reduced to two:—one brown, the other white,—which I think will be found ample for the Indian kitchen. Veal stock plays an important part in Gouffe’s recipes. Unfortunately for us we can never reckon on obtaining that delicate meat. Nevertheless, while freely admitting its value, I do not look upon veal as a sine qua non in sauce-making. A really carefully made chicken consomme, assisted by a ham or bacon bone, and on special occasions96 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. with a good fowl, provides you with an excellent equiva- lent. With regard to Espagnole which, as many of you no doubt know, is a rich, thick, hroivn s&iice, I would simplify GoufEe’s receipt as follows :—Get ready a couple of sheep’s trotters chopped in pieces, with a ham or bacon bone, or a few lean slices of either, any raw cutlet trimmings you may have, and two pounds of beef gravy meat cut into squares. Now cut up a couple of onions and throw them into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, fiy them a golden yellow then add a breakfast-cupful of broth, or water, and the pieces of meat previously prepared; shake the pan every now and then, and let the meat take colour; now, add water enough to cover the meat, &c., completely, reduce the fire, and let the contents of the pan come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully during that period; when the surface seems nicely clear of grease and scum, add a cupful of cold water and two carrots sliced, a turnip, a good piece of celeiy, a clove of garlic, half a dozen of pepper corns, a spoonful of dried sweet herbs tied up in a bag, a bunch of parsley, some burnt sugar colouring, and salt to taste. No spice. As soon as the vegetables have been cooked, remove the pan from the fire, pick out the vegetables, and place it so that it may simmer slowly for a couple of hours. Now, lift it up, and strain off your gravy : there should be quite a pint and a half of it. Next, take a sauce-pan and melt two ounces of butter at the bottom of it, stir in two ounces of flour and make a roux, when the colour satisfies you, add by degi’ees, stirring as you do so, the pint or so of strong gi’avy that you strained from the stew-pan. Let the contents of your sauce-pan come to the boil, stirring the whole time, then strain the sauce through your tin strainer into a clean sauce-pan, and set the vessel in the hain-marie to remain hot till wanted. Any fat that may rise dui’ing the thickening process should be skim-97 SA UCES—CONCL UDED. med off, but if tbe gravy be properly made, and skimmed before it is added to tbe roux, there -will be very little to take off in tbe bain-marie stage. Tbe bain-marie, remem- ber, IS a vessel containing boiling water, and kept over tbe fire, in wbicb you immerse sauce-pans containing made- sauces to preserve them bot for use. Espagnole sauce, therefore, is simply a good, rich, brown meat gravy, thickened with flour. It only possesses the flavour derived from the vegetables, and from tbe ordinary meat that you have employed to make it. Using this sauce as your medium or basis, you can proceed to compose a number of rich preparations as Mlovrs-.-Financiere, Bordelaise, Frovenqale, Genevoise, Matelote, Chateaubriand, Begenee, Italienne, and Beforme, with others too numerous to mention. Tbe specialites of tbe sauces I ave enumerated, consist in tbe distinct flavouring of the roT^T which they are really made, with mush- ooms, timflles, essence of game or of pigeons, poultry, fish bam (concerning which I shall speak later on) wine A o! rr vegetables, and so on eful pemsal of the receipts given, hereafter in my me,ms, ought to guide you, when once you have achieved an undeniable foundation with your Espagnole. Game fragments, poultry, mushrooms Sro mr, i- XZi' foi such ingrriiento would impart a distinct flavour to the sauce Th^ nl ! a glass of Madeira, and simmer fo^ ten a httle pepper, a pinch of sugar, and salt, and tL7oltj 9CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 98 stir in half a pint of Espagnole to complete the sauce, and when thoroughly hot, it is ready. Take now Financiere sauce for, let us say, a ragout of that name:—Choose a nice tender fowl, lightly roast it, and save the choicest fillet meat for your ragout: take the legs, thighs, skin, bones, liver, giblets, scraps, and trim- mings, and proceed to make an essence of them thus :—Break up the bones, and, with the remnants aforesaid, make the strongest broth you can, fiavoured with an onion, a bit of celery, a spoonful of dried herbs, a sliced carrot, and two or three pepper corns. Reduce it as strong as possible, and tlien strain. Now, take equal portions of mushrooms and of truffles; cut them up, and toss them in melted butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, and when you have worked them well thus, for two or three minutes, add your fowl- essence, with a glass of sherry, and complete the sauce with your pint of Espagnole. The ragout (which should be garnished with whole button mushrooms, sliced truffles, cocks-combs, sweet-bi-eads, tongue, grated ham, and sip- ].)ets of crisply fried bacon) is merely a careful stew of fowl fillets, in the sauce I have described. As the fillets have been j)reviously cooked, they will mei-ely require gently heating up in the sauce. Tt will be observed that the specialites of the two sauces just given are a flavour of ti’uffles and Madeira in Perigueuz, and of chicken essence with mushrooms, truffles, and sherry in Financiere. Bechamel, which I select as the best type of a fiinda- inental white sauce, should be made in this way :—Take the same ingvedients that I have detailed for Espagnole, and commence by slicing up the onion, and shaking the i*ings in an ounce of melted butter at the bottom of the stew-pan; do not let them take colour, but add your meat* * Veal, if procurable, instead of beef.—W.5-yl UCES—CONCL UDED. 99 and bones at once, and cover them ■with ■v^^ater, omitting the bro-wning stage : go on no-w to make a clear consomme; instead of burnt-sugar colouring, add a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar plain, and all the vegetables. If this be carefully prepai'ed and skimmed, you will obtain a pellucid broth which should be strained, and kept ready for use presently. Take a sauce-pan, and melt a quarter of a pound of “ cow-brand,” or any good preserved butter in it; fry gently in that for ten minutes a sliced cai-rot and a sliced onion; before they take colour, add two ounces of flour, stir for five minutes, and add by degrees your clear broth, half a pint of cream, a small tinful of mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; stir over the fire till boiling, and then permit the sauce to simmer slowly for an honr, taking off all fat that may rise. At the end of the horn, you can strain the Bechamel into a sauce-pan, and place it in the bain-marie. Before using, a gill of cream may be finally stirred into the sauce as you take it from the bain- marie. Veloute is exactly like this omitting the cream when you add the stock, and also the chopped mushrooms: it is therefore less expensive and not quite so rich. Allemande is veloute flavoured "with chicken essence, and chopped mushrooms : it is thickened "with yolks of eggs, and no cream is needed in its composition. With these for your bases, you can make the following rich white sauces: oyster, lobster, supreme, venitienne, poivrade blanche, rich soubise, champignons blanches, puree de celer%, and other rich white purees. In fact all sauces which, in their simple form, are made with sauce blanche, or sauce blonde, may be served in a superior manner by using veloute, or Bechamel as their groundwork. I have already described the making of chicken or rather fowl essence; the same principles being observed100 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. yon can obtain valuable flavouring gravies from all poul- try bones, especially from those of a turkey. The giblets should never be thrown away, for they assist a gravy greatly. In like manner game bones are very valuable. Essences of mushrooms, of truffles, vegetables, and ham, are obtained by stewing them cut into small pieces in con- somme. A dash of Madeira or sound Marsala is necessary with game essences, while chablis and sauterne give assistance to flsh gravies which are used, of course, to improve sauces like creme d’ancJiois, creme de crevettes, and all flsh sauces. Reduced vinegar, i.e. vinegar boiled until half or more of its quantity has evaporated, and wine similarly reduced, produce valuable flavoring agents. Mirepoix is a strong broth made from meat and vege- tables, flavoured with wine and sweet herbs, and strained, hut not thioliened. It is used as a flavouring medium. D'TTxelles, ovfines herhes, is composed as follows :—Chop up six ounces of fresh mushrooms, six ounces of fresh parsley, and two ounces of shallot, put the mince into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter and a seasoning of salt and black pepper ; fry on a brisk Are for five minutes, and put the mixture in a jar for use as required. D’Uxelles sauce is made by adding a table-spoonful of this preparation to half a pint of Espagnole sauce. This should be made when mushrooms are procurable during the rains, it will be found most useful as a flavoring and finishing agent. Let us suppose that you have made a sauce in every way satisfactorily, but find that it is scarcely thick enough. You must then employ a liaison or thickening to correct the error. Liaison for a white sauce may be made of floui, and a little milk and water, or white stock, like sauce hjlanche. or sauce blonde only a little thicker. For a brown'101 UCES—CONCLUDED. sauce the same, with brown gravy. In either case the liaison mixed separately is stirred through a strainer into the sauce ofE the fire : when this has been done, the sauce- pan is replaced on the fire and stirred until the desired thickness is obtained. Yolks of eggs are also used for liaison: they must be beaten up with a little hot-water, or stock, and added to the sauce off the fire, the thickening being very carefully conducted afterwards over a low fire as in custard-making. The sauce must be allowed to cool for two or three minutes before the egg thickening is put into it. This thickening is used in poulette sauce ior fricassees and certain soups. I have now, I think, given you a sketch of sauce-making in its various stages. Details for nearly every standard sauce not at present described, will be found in my menus.oiE3;^:E=TETe Roasting and braising. IVE me,” says the Englishman, “ a good .cut of a well-cooked joint, with a nicely boiled potato, and a fresh vegetable, and I will ask for nothing more.” Now, it must he admitted, that honest slices of meat constitute the favorite dinner of a Briton. Go into a Club dining-room, or into any large London tavern sucli as “ Simpson’s,” “ The Rainbow,” &c., &c., and you will find two-thirds of the men assembled there dining “ off the joint.” And verily the well roasted haunch or saddle of mutton,’ the sirloin or round of beef, the fillet of veal, and the loin or leg of pork, are dishes peculiar to England, of which we may well boast. Our artistic neighbours across the channel are wont to sneer at our love of great joints, which they fail to cook as well as we do, for although in deference to the insular taste “ ross biff” frequently figures in a Parisian menu, I think that men are unanimous in saying that it never comes up to the home-fed, home-served sirloin. Our penchant for solid food follows us withersoever we wander away from home, and we find John Bull in India as fond of his beef and mutton, as he was when “ a humble cottager in Britain.” He sighs for a Southdown saddle or a Scotch sirloin, and is apt to turn away sorrowfully from the meagre travesty of a joint, which, after much103 ROASTING AND BRAISING. trouble, tbe sharer of his joys and sorrows contrives to place before him. Now, although a vast quantity of wretched meat is sold in the Indian market, I think that people who are willing to pay a good price, and whose servants are not unusually dishonest, can generally get fair beef and mutton at the large stations of this Presidency. A really bad servant will, of course, cheat you with greater cruelty in buying your meat than in anything. At some places the beef is better than the mutton, and vice versa, but I think that, if not haggled with over his prices, a batcher is generally to be found who can supply you with eatable meat. Owing to the calamity which befell us in 1877, and the two previous seasons of scarcity, our market has, for the past few years, been hardly as well supplied as it formerly was ; never- theless, good meat is to be got. The comparative scarcity, however, of eatable meat is in a great measure due to ourselves. If the butchers were certain of sales at remunerative prices, they would pro- duce a far better article than they do, but when people grumble at an extra anna charged on a seer of well-fed meat, you can scarcely expect much improvement. The expenses attending sheep-feeding are pretty well proved by the statistics of the old-established mutton clubs in the mofussil. The members, it is true, get capital meat, but it costs them, first and last, very nearly what it would in England. Native graziers can hardly be expected to turn out equally good mutton at a cheaper rate. Setting aside the joints that you occasionally get when a stall-fed ox has been slaughtered, or a gram-fed sheep cut up; and without considering the exceptionally good meat of mutton clubs, it is the duty of the chronicler of those ‘ jottings to treat of the average produce of the country, and to endeavour to provide his readers with a104 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. few useful hints as to the cookery thereof. Let us there- fore take the ordinary joint of beef or of mutton which Ramasamy brings daily from bazar for “ Master and Mrs. only” :—the diminutive sirloin, the ribs scarcely larger than the loin chops of a Leicestershire sheep, the three- and-a-half pound leg of mutton, or the wizen loinlet,—and let us assume that the meat, though small, is fairly good,— what shall we do with it ? In a country where it is impossible to keep cooked meat, the fact of a joint being small, need hardly be considered a drawback, but we have before us a good deal of bone in proportion to the meat, and very little fat. I say boldly that plainly roasting such a fragment is a mistake. Unless the joint be of a fair size, and above the average as to fat like the saddle, or the specially fine sirloin we buy for a dinner party, I would never roast it. The morsel can ill afford to lose the little gravy it possesses which the stab of the spit is bound to di'aw, and which we rarely see sent to table, for Ramasamy appreciates it as an adjunct to his curry. The only way to cook little joints, such as those I have indicated, is to braise them. You thus obtain all the nourishment the meat can give, and a tasty and tender dish into the bargain. This admirable method of cookery is far too rarely adopted : so for the benefit of those who do not understand the process, I had better mention that braising consists in placing meat in a closed pan, with some made-gravy or stock round it, vegetables cut up, and a judicious allowance of salt and pepper. In this the meat is very slowly simmered, whilst it is browned exter- nally by live coals placed on the &rom«y-pan lid. There is thus heat from above and below the pan, and the joint is cooked in its own gravy, while it derives additional flavour from the vegetables, &c., associated with it.ROASTING AND BRAISING. 105 To braise a little Indian joint successfnlly, you must first bone it, tben trim it, tie it witb a string into a neat shape, give it a dust of salt and pepper, and put it on one side, whilst you make the best broth you can from the bones you cut out, and the trimmings. This should occupy the cook all morning. Having obtained all you can from the bones, strain off your broth, let it get cool, skim off the fat, and now proceed to cook the meat. Melt some butter or fat at the bottom of your stew-pan first, and turn the meat about in till it begins to take colour, then add your broth (a pint and a half or thereabouts for 3 lbs of meat will be found enough) with two carrots, four good sized onions, a tea-spoonful each of marjoram and thyme, pepper, and salt: let it simmer gently for an hour. Turn the meat, add a couple of onions, and (says Gouffe) a gill of brandy, let the pan simmer for an hour more,—keeping live coals on the lid throughout the pro- cess,—and the braise will be complete. Lift out the joint, and keep it on a hot dish, whilst you strain off the gravy remaining in the stew-pan,—it will be half the amount you originally poured in, but much stronger. You can now send up the joint with the gravy plainly poured round it; or you can pass the vegetables, with which the meat was braised, through the sieve, thicken the gravy, and add the pulp of the vegetables to it. ' In this manner you can successfully dress a leg of i mutton, a loin of mutton, a small sirloin, a piece of the ribs ora fillet of beef, in fact all small joints. Larding with strips of fat bacon will vastly improve the braise, especially when the meat is very lean, and if you can make some strong broth from any meat and bones, or if you can spare a little stock from the soup-kettle, you need not bone the joint. The vegetables, &c., should, in this case, be boiled in the stock separately, wine should be added to flavour it, I and the joint should be cooked in the mirepoix thus made.106 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Poultry, ducks, and geese, are far better braised than roasted, unless you keejJ a fowl-yard of your own, and feed and kill tlie birds at home. To braise poultry well, you must make the gravy from the giblets, and trimmings of the birds, assisted by a little gravy-meat. In fact all braises are better if you help the gravy with a little extra meat. The French throw in a glass or two of light white wine when braising poultry, and Madeira or Marsala is a sterling aid in cooking mutton or beef in this method. A slice of bacon is very effective with all braised meat. If you must roast your little joint, see that it is not spitted,—that is, thrust through by the spit; with a little care, a small Indian joint can easily be tied to it. Do not let your cook use coarse wooden skewers, but make him tie a joint into a shape, for every stab inflicted in it, will rob the piece of meat of its juiciness. Tastes vary so strangely as to the “ doing” of meat, that it is impossible to give a rule for roasting. It is, however, essential to use an equal fire throughout the process, and to guard against cooking the outside too fast. Frequent basting is a sine qua non, and you should di*edge a little flour over the meat to finish with, to produce a crisp, brown, frothy surface. You should preserve the fat of your sii’loin, or loin of mutton, by tying over it a wrapper of buttered paper. The French place their small joints in marinade, a cus- tom I strongly advocate for the poor meat of this country, when you intend to roast or grill it. Here is their method of cooking a loin of mutton en papillate :—Trim the loin nicely, and let it lie fi-om morning till roasting time e7i marinade, composed of a breakfast-cupful of salad oil, two onions, and a carrot, sliced fine as for Julienne, with some whole peppers, salt, chopped parsley, and a107 ROASTING AND BRAISING. tea-spoonful of powdered dried sweet herbs. Let the joint he turned several times during the day, and haste it often. When to be dressed, pack it, with its vegetables and all, in a well oiled paper, and roast it carefully, bast- ing it with the oil that composed the marinade ; when nearly done, remove the paper, brush off the vegetables, baste with melted butter, and serve, when nicely browned, with other vegetables independently cooked, and some gravy. Though the inexperienced reader will hardly believe me, I can assure him that when finally set before him, he will fail to trace the presence of oil (the hete noir of Englishmen) whilst he will be surprised at the juici- ness, and good flavour of the meat. I In roasting Indian poultry, invariably lard the breast with fat bacon, or tie a fiap of bacon over it. Birds cannot be kept too moist when roasting. A large sweet onion, and a lump of preserved butter should he put inside the carcass of a fowl, and the hasting should be carefully attended to. The slower the roasting the better. I have often found that a fowl baked in a slow oven till about three parts done, and then finished in front of the fire, was excellent. It should be occasionally hasted wdth melted butter whilst in the oven. The bacon tied over the breast should he removed during the last five minutes of the cook- ing, when the bird should be lightly dredged over with flour, and liberally basted with melted butter to produce the brown, crisp, blisters, which always make a fowl look inviting. If permitted to follow the customs of the coola’oom, the uneducated Ramasamy will send up your roast fowl— hardly as large as an English chicken,—with its breast strangely puffed out and distorted with a horrible com- pound which he calls “ stuffing.” This you carefully avoid eating on account of its nastiness, hut few, I take it, boldly order their cooks never to perpetrate the ati’ocityCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 108 again, being under an impression that stuffing is necessary- in roasting poultry. The only birds that should be stuffed in the crop are turkeys, and exceptionally fine capons. Who amongst you ever saw a roast fowl in England, stuffed ? The bar- barous practice has become common out here, and ought to be put down as utterly wrong. Moisture, which is so necessary in roasting, should, as I have already observed, be secured by either larding the fowl with fat bacon, or tying a slice of bacon over the breast. I however advo- cate a stuffing for the inside of a fowl intended for braising as follows :—^well mashed potato, and boiled sweet onion, in the proportion of two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter. The mashed potato, of course, contains butter, spiced pepper, a little milk or cream, or the yolk of an egg, and helps to preserve the juiciness of the bird ; the flavour it imparts too is, I think, agreeable. This with a little chopped sage may be used for ducks. An author for whom I entertain the greatest respect urges the practice I have mentioned of putting one sweet onion, and a lump of salt butter, inside every chicken, or fowl, to be roasted. But this cannot be called “ stuffing.” A turkey, on the other hand, requires carefully made forcemeat, and, as you all know, there are many varieties thereof. Truffles, and chestnuts form the epicurean stuff- ing of the roast turkey, and one of oysters is propounded for the boiled bird. I leave these elaborate compositions alone, for receipts can be easily hunted up for them when a special occasion may demand a “ dindon truffe d la Peri- gord,” or a “ dinde braisee d la financiere,” ^c., ^c. The stuffing, I am anxious to discuss, is the ordinary one we remember in England for turkeys, veal, hares, and so on :—a firm, green-tinted forcemeat, flavoured with pleasant herbs, and a suspicion of lemon-peel; a forcemeat which cuts clean with the slice of the breast of your turkey, orROASTING AND BRAISING. 109 fillet of veal, and is nice whetlier hot or cold. Not a greasy mess, pale brown in colour, and lumpy, which, at the first cut of the knife, oozes out, and encumbers the clisii in a most untempting' mannop. In order to be sure of making the real thing, if you have not (as you ouffkt to have easily enough at Madras) the plants themselves growing in pots handy, see that you have a bottle of dried thyme, and one of marjoram, and a good bunch of fresh curly parsley, which should also be growing in boxes. Having these ready, work as follows — are a good sized lime as finely as possible avoiding the s ightest particle of white pith, and mince the peel as small as possible: weigh six ounces of dry, well sifted stale bread-crumbs : measui-e a dessert-spoouL of chopped thyme (green) and one of marjoram (g-reenl nr table-spoonful of the dried leaves powdered—half and haM^ stick . mince the parsley fine to the extent of a heaned un able-spooriul, chop up three ouncee of fresh or tatter .£ suet cannot he get: min all these togethe; tw with stuffing will be fit tf*" ■ together, and the xnincingTf all Z ' upon the fine corporlon : thf suZtuTA “'n possible. The colour will be of "" p-Hed ,„u use the ^uLuii^'or;::: u?! r- given : supposing, however tfiat nrra ^ ^ and that you cannot e-et f \ ^ lierbs, colour by^a good snoLfurf the tasteless, and the colour ia° it is almost carefully made, is Martha’s^Tdtaryvfir 'T T' mg. Md ought to taste, juat as nice here is^haT so well remember at home. ^ which we 10110 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS, 111 mincing parsley, and all green herbs, be careful that, after washing them well, the leaves are well dried in a cloth; if chopped wet, the juice escapes, and the mince is never finely and evenly granulated. Forcemeats are, of course, added to, and pei*haps im- proved, by chopped ham, tongue, liver, mushrooms, bacon, a little anchovy, a casual oyster, and, of coiu’se, truffles. The addition of these things should, however, be thought- fully carried out, and the proportions on no account left at haphazard to the tender mercy of the average Ramasamy. The mixture which tradition has handed down to the Anglo-Indian kitchen for the stuffing of ducks and geese is nearly as disagreeable as that for the fowl. Whilst the latter may be described as a consolidated and greasy rela- tion of the “ bread poultice” that I denounced, when treat- inty of “ bread sauce,” the former owes its flavoui’ to violent onion, crude sage, and slices of half-boiled potato, mixed together lumpily and lubricated with some chopped fat. Let me speedily tell you that potato has no place whatever in the best duck stuffing, and that the crude taste you dislike so much arises from the sage being chopped raw, and the onion being a common one instead of the mild kind called “ Bombay,” or “ Bellary.” Duck stuffing should be made in this manner :—Take three Bombay onions the size of Badminton balls, wash, ]ieel, and boil them in two waters to extract the acrid flavour. Whilst these are boiling, take eight tender look- iuf sage leaves, and scald them in boiling water for five minutes, take them out, and when the onions are tender, turn them out, di-ain them dry, and proceed to mince them with the sage leaves, very fine. Add to this, five ounces of bread-crumbs, and dust over the mixture a liberal allow- ance of spiced pepper (which I give later on) and salt: when nicely worked together, add an ounce of butter orROASTING AND BRAISING. Ill suet cut into dice and bind the ingredients with three eggs, it will now be ready for use. The proportions of this stuffing may be relied on : it is mild, yet pleasantly flavoured, and, “ leaves not a trace of sad memory behind.” Goose stuffing is made in a similar way, and the com- position is a pleasant addition to some joints of pork : let my friends on the Hills try a loin, boned, rolled, and stuffed with this, and roasted over a bright fire. In all stuffings, and forcemeats, whether required for roast, boiled, or braised poultry ; for the dainty galantine or the savoury pie, there are few things more useful to have at hand than “ spiced pepper." It saves an infinity of trouble, and is an invaluable thing for a thousand dishes. I have been very successful with one that I con- cocted from Goiiffe’s receipt, which I feel it my duty to tell you of, and ui'ge you to go and do likewise. You can bottle it, and take what you require from time to time. j ounce dried thyme leaves,.., j do. do. marjoram, j do. do. savory, 5 ounce nutmeg, I do. cloves, f do. whole black pepper, f do. Nepaul pepper, pound the above ingredients thoroughly in a mortar, and when ground to powder, pass it through a fine sieve : bottle it, and coi'k it down sectirely. If you desire to make what Gouffe calls “ spiced salt,” mix one ounce of the above with four of salt. Spiced pepper is constantly wanted, and lends that nice sausage flavour to savoury pies, i*olled beef, brawn, savoury pdtes, and all forcemeats. Amongst the many barbarous tricks of Native cooks, .. (■ from the bottle.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 112 there is an especial one which I ought to have brought to prominent notice before. I refer to the method which obtains in the cookroom of removing the feathers from poultry, geese, ducks, and game. I cannot call it “ pluck- ing,” for, as many of you know, the feathers are got rid of wholesale by plunging the bird into scalding hot-water ! The immediate effect of this ignorant habit is to harden and parch the skin of the fowl, to prevent the proper exudation and admission of moisture during roasting, and to render the flesh dry and tasteless. Birds must be plucked by hand, and their small down must be singed. To ensure this being done in your kitchen, order all birds to be brought for inspection when trussed for cooking, and the smallest experience will enable you to detect the parchment-like skin of the scalded bird, from that of the hand-plucked one, which will be cool and soft, with an unmistakable freshness which the other cannot have. A basket containing the feathers should also be shown, for they will expose scalding in a minute. It is needless to say that game is ruthlessly spoiled by this trick of the kitchen, and even the chicken destined for a curry is robbed of half its flavour by being scalded flrst. The practice is, of course, the offspring of idleness,—a sub- terfuge to escape trouble. I would also point out that the common way of killing poultry in this country is inhuman, and, in a culinary point of view, utterly wi’ong. Setting aside the cruelty of cutting a fowl’s throat, and throwing it on the ground to bleed to death in agony, what an idiotic thing it is to waste the very part of the bird from which its gravy, and juiciness are derived ! White meats are bled in England simply to produce the necessary tint, but they lose much of their nutritious quality by the process. They, how- ever, can afford to do so. Our poorly flavoured birds can ill endure the loss of an atom of the richness that theyROASTING AND BRAISING. 113 may possess. I maintain, therefore, that a merciful, and instantaneous death, by a heavy blow from a wooden mallet, would be pleasanter for the fowl, and far better for us :—the blow should be given on the back of the head. Besides those .1 have mentioned there are still two evil practices to be noted to which Native cooks are prone. The first, is that of parboiling joints and poultry before roasting them: the second, is that of keeping joints, &c., far too long on the spit. As a rule, Ramasdmy commences operations much too soon, and then keeps the meat on the spit before a low fire until it is wanted. Strict orders should be issued to prevent the first of these errors, and a table, showing the time that various joints require in roasting properly, should be hung up in the kitchen to prevent the second. If the spit be protected from draughts with a screen, and the fire evenly maintained, and sufficiently brisk for the operation in hand— A large tnrke}’, 8^ fts A lien-tnikey, 3^ fts A capon, 4 fts. A fowl, 3 fts. A iiigeon will A duck A goose, 6 fts. A Imre A partridge ... A snipe A florican or pheasant A saddle of mutton, 7 fts. A sirloin of beef do. A loin of pork, 3 fts. A loin of mutton, 3 fts. take an hour and three-quarters. „ forty-five minutes. ,, fifty minutes. *9 half an hour. „ a quarter of an hour. „ twenty-five minutes. „ an hour and a half. „ half an hour. ,, a quarter of an hour. „ ten minutes. „ half an hour. „ an hour and a half. ,1 an hour and three-quarters. M fifty minutes. It thirty-five minutes.—♦— Boiling and Steaming. SOILING,” says tlie G. C., “ is one of the simplest and most economical modes of preparing food. Meat loses less weight in boiling than in any process of cooking, and the water it has been boiled in can always be turned to good account; besides which, although it may be an open question whether boiled meat is more nutritious than roast or boiled meat, it is beyond dispute more wholesome and easily digested.” Under the head of “ soup-making” I have already dis- cussed the method of boiling meat required for soup : the “ pot-au-feu” being my example of how meat should be treated when the object is to extract its juices. We must now consider what has to be done in preparing boiled meat for the table, and note where the two processes differ. For the “ pot-au-feu" it is necessary to put the meat and salt into cold water first,—alone: to watch it come slowly to the boil, skimming the scum that rises very carefully : when the surface is clear, and the water boiling, to add the vegetables, &c. ; to let it boil till the vegetables are done, to remove them, and then to let the contents of your pot simmer for three or four houi’s. But for a piece of boiled beef, a fowl, leg of mutton, or whatever it may be, destined foi' the dinner table, you must put the meat, tied neatly in the shape required with twine, into hot water to begin115 BOILING AND STEAMING. with. Like the pot-au-feu it should he watched, and skim- med, and the salt, and flavouring vegetables, and herbs, added when the scum has been removed. The water, let me observe, must not be boiling, it should be as hot as you can bear to touch, and the early stage of coming to the actual boil should be retarded as much as possible. Boiled meat at the English dinner table is often spoiled by being “ galloped,” as cooks say, that is, done too fast. Meat thus maltreated cannot fail to be tough. You must simmer your hump, or your ham, just as carefully as you would the meat of a pot-au-feu. When once boiling-point has been attained, ease ofi the Are a little, and endeavour to obtain a uniform heat below the pot that will just keep its surface, as it were, alive. An occasional bubble, is what you want, with gentle motion, the water muttering to you, not-jabbering and fussing, as it does when boiling. If you follow this process, you will never have to send a boiled leg of mutton away from the table because of its being too underdone inside to be flt to eat. Remember that the liquor in which a joint has been boiled is weak stock. If reduced by being simmered with the lid of the cooking vessel removed, it can be turned to account in many ways, especially for the enrichment of white sauce. The common error made by cooks in England, just as much as by our Ramasamy, consists in their keeping up the high pressure too long, whereby the outside of the joint is rapidly done, and the inside scarcely cooked at all. The joint looks done, and is consequently sent up with the unsatisfactory result which I have pointed out. Simmering a joint of meat is undoubtedly a troublesome process in India. The cook’s attention must be kept up throughout the work. He cannot lift the pot to the hob, or change its position on the range, as the English cook116 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. can so easily do. He must be ever watchful about his fire, and guard against there being too much, or too little firewood under his vessels. In fact, I doubt whether it is possible for Ramasamy to conduct the simmering pro- cess satisfactorily with only the common appliances of the cookroom at his command. Those who possess ranges, or cooking stoves, should count themselves especially for- tunate. Their cooks can regulate the heat they want at will. But, with a common cookroom fireplace, the difficulty of maintaining the unvarying gentle heat so highly essential, appears to me to be very great. During the boiling of a joint, the water should, at all times, be kept so as to cover it. If there be any loss by evaporation, it should be made good at once by the addi- tion of hot water. No matter what kind of meat you boil, you will find it improved by the addition of a few vegetables. Custom has ruled that we should put in carrots, and turnips, with boiled beef ; turnips, or sweet onions, with boiled mutton ; onions with a rabbit, &c., yet true cooks add a judicious assortment of herbs, &c., to evenj boiled dish. A large sweet onion, some celery, a carrot, parsley, a sprig of mar- joram, or thyme, a little bag of fiavouring materials such as a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole peppers, and the peel of a lime, should always go into the pot with a boiling fowl. Unless you have tried them, you have no idea how these things improve the taste of boiled joints. It is a very capital plan to hoil a fowl in the soup-stoch. Herein you have the true essence of economy—no waste. The soup gains all the fowl loses in the boiling, whilst the fowl derives richness and flavour by being done in the stock. One lot of vegetables and herbs suffices for both, and absolutely nothing is thrown away but the muslin bagBOILING AND STEAMING. 117 which contained the spices, garlic, &c.* I need hardly remind you that in suggesting this to Ramasamy you will meet with opposition. He will tell you, in all probability, that “ mixted the fowl and soup-meat, cannot come the good taste,” and when you insist upon a trial, he will go away sorrowful, for the broth produced in boiling a fowl in the ordinary way, is his perquisite (or rather we do not ask for it) and “ mixted with rice only,” makes, with a chilli or two, a bowl of “ pish-pash.” Nevertheless, the fact exists beyond a doubt that a fowl is vastly improved by being thus cooked ; it remains for you to decide whe- ther, as a matter of policy, it would be wise to vex “ your best friend” by ordering so great an innovation. I confess that the man who, with his eyes open, wars against his chef, is generally the loser before the campaign is ended. Time in boiling meat can scarcely be fixed arbitrarily. If you follow the advice I have given, you will find fifteen to twenty minutes per pound a reliable allowance. Dis- cretion and experience will enable you to decide what orders to give. Large and deep joints such as humps, legs of mutton and of pork, silverside of beef, and hams, will naturally require a more liberal allowance than fowls, tongues, galantines, bacon, rabbits, &c. There are few things that are boiled as important as the ham. So much depends on the cook’s knowledge of the process, that many a ham is spoiled through ignorance. I think it advisable, therefore, to give you the following- rules which I hope will be found easy enough : It is of course a sine qua non that you soak the ham for twenty-four hours, changing the water at least three times (I am speaking of hams in canvas, or skin, not of those in * The fowl ehonld rot be put into the soup-kettle until nil skim- ming has been completed, and the soup brought to the boil.—VV.118 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. tins) ; when thus well soaked, scrub the ham well, and trim it, scraping off all discolorations. Now, place it in your ham-kettle, and cover it with cold water (for a festival a bottle of Madeira or Marsala should be poured in with the water) and let it come gently to the boil, removing all scum that may rise. When quite clear, throw in three carrots, a head of celery cut up (leaves and all), three Bombay onions, a bag containing a clove of garlic, a dozen whole peppers, and some pieces of lime peel, with hunches of parsley, thyme, and marjoram : boil on till the vegetables are done, and then let the kettle simmer gently for four or five hours. When done, let it remain till nearly cold, then lift the ham from the water, and detach the outer skin (it will roll off easily) and dredge some fine crust raspings, or some pounded baked crumbs over it. An ancient Indian custom may still be met with, where civilization has not yet penetrated, of sticking an army of cloves into the skin of a ham. Fine your cook a rupee for this desecration and it will not occur again. The ham should either be dredged over as I have described, or, if wanted for a ball supper, wedding breakfast, luncheon party, or grand picnic, it should be glazed, a recipe for which process will be found elsewhere. Old cookery books give you the funniest nostrums con- ceiming the cookery of a ham. Wisps of hay, juniper berries, coriander seed, ale, and even leather shavings, are laid down as flavouring adjuncts. Saltpetre is advised to add to the redness, and in England you find local prejudices in favour of the addition of different wines : in one county elder-wine, in another cowslip-wine, and so on. The end of all things, after all, is to get a really well-cured ham, if you secure that, and cook it as I have described, you will not require any leather shavings, but remember that on '■! . t ^ i ■ i ■119 BOILING AND STEAMING. important occasions a bottle of Madeira or Marsala crowns your best eiforts with supreme success. Some of the best modern writers on cookery urge us to give up the salting of beef for boiling. “ Such a prac- tice,” says one of them, “ cannot be too strongly condemn- ed ; for whilst it impairs the wholesomeness of the meat, and makes it less digestible, it considerably diminishes the nutritive properties of it, and, boil it as you will, a piece of salt-beef is never so tender as a piece of fresh beef.” We, Anglo-Indians, can scarcely bring ourselves to accept this advice in its entirety; our hiimp being in itself specialite worthy of admiration in any land. Neither will Englishmen ever be prevailed upon to deny themselves those delicious slices of cold boiled salted silverside, with which they are wont to regale themselves at breakfast, and at luncheon at home. Nevertheless, small pieces of beef, boiled fresh with vegetables are very acceptable. I do not, for instance, think that an ordinary Indian brisket is worth salting; it generally comes to table hard, and dry, not having sufficient depth of flesh. Boiled fresh, with the allowance of vegetables I have mentioned, this joint will be found nice enough, and if laid upon a bed of previously boiled maccaroni, and smothered in bright tomato sauce, you might indeed go further and fare worse. I fully agree with the old rhyme ;— “ a turkey boiled is turkey spoiled,” and I cannot understand any one maltreating that noble bird so cruelly. A funny idea exists I know (one handed down from grand-mama) that if you give roast mutton or beef at a dinner party, the fowls or turkey must be boiled I What absurd nonsense. You offer your guests the choice of white or brown meat, each dressed in its most tempting form, you do not bind yourself to give them roast, or boiled. If the white meat be equally nice boiled, like fowls, a leg of pork, a knuckle of veal, &c., you mLy, ofCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 120 course, so serve it, but do not I’un away with the erroneous notion that you must boil (and so spoil) your turkey because your other joint happen to be a saddle, or a sii-loin. The process of steaming has become familiar to many people in India on account of the introduction of Warren's cooking-pot, and vegetable steamer. I have been told that during the recent campaign in Afghanistan, this utensil was found invaluable, and I can well believe it. The term “ steaming” is frequently applied not only to the Warren process, but also to the cooking of meat and vegetables placed in hermetically closing utensils, which, in turn, are plunged into larger vessels filled with boiling water. Warren’s system needs no description for detailed in- structions accompany every vessel. Its chief recommen- dation consists in its simplicity and economy. Meat well braised may be said to be equally nutritious, for it is in like manner cooked in its own vapoui’ and juices ; but in the matter of fuel braising is by far the more expensive method, while the careful regulation of the heat, &c., cost^ infinitely more trouble than the simple boiling of a War- ren’s pot. The one process requires the hand of a chef: the other can be managed by any one. The not uncommon practice of partly roasting a joint after it has been nearly cooked in a Warren’s pot is erro- neous. The result can at best be that of meat half-boiled, half-roasted,—“ neither fi.sh, nor fowl, nor good red her- ring,” so to speak. A good cook ought, by the clever- treatment of the gravy made by the meat, to be able to diversify both the appearance and flavour of the joint, adding to its attractiveness by a tasteful garnish of mac- caroni or vegetables. The utmost cleanliness is absolutely necessary in the use of Warren’s pot.121 BOILING AND STEAMING. Somewliat similar in treatment is the process of Jugging. There is, I think, a dish called by Ramasamy “ boiled chaffs" (boiled chops), cooked in this manner, which is familiar to every one in this part of India, and really deserving of attention, for it is susceptible of improvement, and far greater development. A nice steak; a dish of neck cutlets ; the blade bone of the shoulder, boned and flattened; a tender fowl, boned and flattened ; game simi- larly prepared, and even fish, can thus be dressed very daintily. I advocate the making of a vessel specially for “ jugged” . dishes, as follows :—An oval tin, ten inches long, and seven and a half inches across; one inch and three- quarters deep. The tin should have its upper edge turned outwards like a pie-dish, half an inch wide, so that a flat cover may be pasted closely to it, and it should have a ring at each end to serve for handles. The cover should be an oval sheet of tin slightly larger in its measurements than the interior of the tin itself. A vessel of this kind I can strongly recommend. I have found mine invaluable. Let us first take Ramasamy’s “ boiled chaffs."—Choose a good neck of mutton, and trim the little chops as neatly as possible. With the trimmings of meat and bone make a broth, assisted by an onion, some pepper corns, any scraps of beef, chicken bones, cold game, lean ham or bacon, in short any useful sundries. When done, skim, and strain it, you ought to have a breakfast-cupful of it. Now, scald the tin and cool it in cold water, cover the bottom of the tin with slices of onion, and arrange the chops thereon, covering them with two Bombay onions sliced fifie, a carrot sliced, a young turnip sliced, a stick of celery cut into half inch lengths, two tomatoes sliced and drained, and a bunch of curled parsley. Then add to the broth a liqueur glass of brandy, a table-spoonful of 11122 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. musliroom ketchup, a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same of sugar. Pepper the chops pretty freely with black pepper before covering them. When arranged, pour in the broth, and seal the lid of the tin, all round the rim, with stiff paste, fixing it securely. Now, put the tin into boiling water, and keep it on the fixe for two hours. At the time of serving, the lid should be cut off, and the tin, wrapped in a napkin, should be placed upon an ordinary dish, and sent to table immediately. Follow the same directions in “ jugging” a steak, or a blade bone: in the case of the boned fowl, a little bacon, or some sliced bologna sausage, will be found an improve- ment, the broth being made, of course, from the bones and giblets. With game birds I would add a little sweet herb seasoning. Fish should be done in this way:—Trim the fish in fillets, season them with pepper and salt, cover the bottom of the tin with slices of Bombay onion, dotting in a dozen pepper corns, and two cloves; put a layer of fillets over the onion, and pepper them with black pepper; put in now a layer of sliced tomatoes, sprinkle some roughly-chopped curled parsley over them,-and a table-spoonful of chopped capsicums ; pour in a little broth made from the fish bones and trimmings, with a glass of chablis, sauterne, or hock, cover the tin closely, and boil. A clove of garlic may be introduced in this dish by those who appreciate the faint- est suspicion of that fragrant bulb, and the fine rind of a lime also. If made of two or thi’ee sorts of little fishes, with a pinch of saffron, and, instead of the broth, a libation com- posed of one table-spoonful of salad oil, two table-spoonfuls of chablis, and three of water, the effect will be'pleasing to those who have eaten, and enjoyed a bouillabaisse, for the broth produced by the fish and ingredients I have named is not unlike that excellent composition. ^123 BOILING AND STEAMING. In my last chapter I dwelt upon the invaluable culinary process known as braising, and tried to point out the special adaptability of that method of cookery to the treat- ment of the small and often indifferently fed meat of this country. I did not however allude to a simpler yet scarcely less noteworthy kind of braise by which is produced that very excellent dish called BCEUF 'a la MODE : There is per- haps no name in the Trench vocabulary de cuisine more frequently “ taken in vain” by English cooks, as well as by poor Ramasamy, than this. As a rule they apply the term to a joint of cold roast beef when warmed up en rechauffe, and sent to table smothered with a thick sauce browned with burnt onion, and surrounded by sodden vegetables ! Now, hoeuf d la mode is very far from being a rechauff'e. On the contrary, it is a carefully selected piece of fresh meat scientifically stewed with vegetables. Its rich, self-made gravy is not thickened, and its garnish should be composed of vegetables separately trimmed and cooked for that purpose. No better recipe can possibly be found than that given by Grouffe quoted by Sir Henry Thompson as follows :— “ Take about 4 lbs. (2 kilos') of thick beefsteak cut square. Take nearly f lb. (3 hectos) of raw fat bacon, cut off the rind, which should be put aside to blanche, and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third of an inch thick, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat, and tie it up as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water, two calves’ feet already boned and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire adding a little less than one ounce of salt (30 grammes). Make it boil, and skim it as for pot-au-f eu; next, having skimmed it, add fully one pound (500 grammes) of carrots.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 124 one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the comer of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for fonr hoiu's and a half. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves’ feet, and keep them covered up hot until serving.” “ Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy ; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for serving, add the calves’ feet each having been cut into eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of corks, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves’ feet, the carrots, and onions round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat keeping the surplus for the next day. Taste it in order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef d la mode should be very relishing : sometimes a clove of garlic is added. I do not mention this as a necessary item, but as one which must be decided by the lady of the house.” Those who desire to enjoy the true loeuf a la mode will do well to follow this recipe in its entirety. Observe that the piece of meat should be cut eti bloc from the rump steak and have no bone. The white wine may be chahlts, sauterne, graves, or hock. The remains of a good bottle of champagne left the night before—‘still,’ yet perfectly sound—would be admirable. Four sheep’s feet may be used instead of the calves’. The boiling should, in the first instance, be retarded (as in the case of the pot-au-feu) by the addition from time to time of a little cold water. This will cause the scum to rise, all of which should be taken off befoi’e the addition of the vegetables. I would always put in a leek if I could get one, and some pieces of celery also. Please note that the gravy should be boiled125 BOILING AND STEAMING. down a little to add to its strength, but not thickened with butter and flour. Larger pieces of beef can be cooked in this manner, in- gredients in proportion to the extra weight being added. Indeed Gouffe says :—“ I advise in regard of all braised meats, whether beef or veal, that the portions should be rather too large than too small; a long process of cooking succeeds always better with such than with tiny portions. A second excellent dish can always be made, cold, with the addition of jelly. It appears to me better then, to eat twice following of a good dish thus varied, than to cook the small quantity which suffices only for one meal.” This advice can be followed with advantasre during: the cold season, and at our Hill stations.India. I have often wondered how this spark of civiliza* ♦ Our Vegetables, ^y^^RITICS of Englisli cookery seem to agree in saying tkat, wanting as we are, as a rule, in our general knowledge of kitchen work, our ignorance of the treatment of vegetables is greater than in every other branch of the art. Until comparatively lately, the imi- versal method of serving vegetables at an English dinner table was with the joint alone. Dressed vegetables, or entremets de legumes, were never heard of. Of late years, however, facilities in the way of travelling abroad have been great, and by degrees the Briton has come to appre- ciate a dish of vegetables, specially prepared, such as he liked so much in Paris, at Dieppe, Nice, Monaco, or Pau ; and Martha has been “ worritted,” on the return of the family to England, to “ mess about the cauliflower with cheese,” or send up the green peas in solitary grandeur. A fillip has, in this way, been given to vegetable cookery in England, and people with any claims to i^efined taste have at last come to perceive the absolute barbarism of heaping up two or three sorts of vegetables on the same plate with roast meat and gmvy. Prom time immemorial tinned asparagus,—served alone, has occupied a prominent place in the menu of a dinner inOUR VEGETABLES. 127 tion became kindled, and why the example thus given was never more generally followed with regard to other vege- tables. It will be, I think, admitted nem con that we live in a climate out here especially demanding vegetable diet. With the thermometer indicating 90° or thereabouts, plain animal food is not only distasteful to many, but absolutely unwholesome. We cannot, therefore, devote too much attention to the cookery of vegetables. Let us consider what we have got under three heads:— (a) —English . vegetables grown in India. (b) —Country vegetables. (c) —Vegetables preserved in tins. At different periods during the year we can get in Madras :—potatoes, green peas, cauliflowers, cabbages, spinach, artichokes (Jerusalem), and globe artichokes from the Hills, French beans, carrots, parsnips, turnips, knolkhol, celery, marrows, leeks, cucumbers, tomatoes, lettuces, beetroot, endive, and onions : all under head number one. Under head number two we have, brinjals, bandecai, various beans, country cucumber, and greens (which cook well as spinach), moringa pods, small tomato or love apple, maize, (muclca cholum) sorrel, pumpkin, yams, onions large and small, garlic, and sweet potato. For head number three, which we will take separately, we must consult the list of preserved French, and American vegetables published by any well-known Firm. ^ I have omitted asparagus, seakale, and salsify, from my list under the first head, as those excellent vegetables have not yet been cultivated by the gardeners of Bangalore or the Neilgherries in sufficient quantity to form a portion of the vegetable supply of our markets. For the benefit128 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. however, of such enterprising amateurs as may be able to grow them privately, I will mention how each should be treated by the cook hereafter. Potatoes perhaps claim the most important place in our consideration, so let us take them first. The boiling of a potato has long been considered one of the tests by which the merits of a cook should be decided. “ Can she cook a chop, and boil a potato ?” is often the modest query of pater familias in England, and in nine cases out of ten you may wager your best hat that she can do neither. Nevertheless, I have come to the conclusion that cooks are in many cases wrongfully blamed in the matter of potato-cooking, that is to say, that their failure is often attributed to the wrong cause. We all know that the potato grows capriciously according to the weather it may have enjoyed, or have suffered from. A crop will sometimes prove mealy, and light, for the table, and at other times waxy, and heavy. It is therefore obvious that we should find out the merits or demerits of the tubers we buy, before we give our orders regarding their treatment in the kitchen. We ought not to expect all potatoes to turn out equally floury as a matter of course, and blame the cook if he fail so to serve them. There are fortunately so many ways of cooking potatoes that we need never be at a loss for a recipe. If nice and mealy we can, of coui’se, boil, or steam them,—the latter method for choice,—and serve them plainly : but if waxy, we must proceed differently. Whether boiled, or steamed, a potato ought not to be peeled; if it be very old, you cannot avoid removing the skin and eyes, but, in a general way, a potato is far better cooked “ in its jacket.” When done, the skin can be removed, if you wish, in the kitchen, and the dish beOUR VEGETABLES. 129 served plain, or in any one of the ways I shall presently speak of. The “ G. C.,” says :—“ After they have been carefully washed, put your potatoes, unpeeled, into a sauce-pan, filled with cold-water to the height of about an inch, then sprinkle them with salt, and place a wet cloth on the top of them. The sauce-pan should be then put on the fire, and in about half an hour, drawn upon the kitchener (at the side of the fire) to remain hot till the potatoes are wanted.” Choose potatoes as much of a size as you can for boiling : do not boil a large and two small ones together if you can help it. When potatoes are boiled in the ordinary fashion ; that is, placed in a sauce-pan with a due allowance of salt, and covered well with cold water, they should be lifted, and drained after half an hour’s cooking, and then be returned to the hot, empty sauce-pan, covered with a wet cloth, and placed at the margin of the fire to keep hot, and to dry themselves thoroughly. In boiling potatoes in the ordinary method, it is a good thing to check the rate of cooking, every now and then, by adding a little cold water, and the time ought to be,—after boiling commences,—from eighteen to twenty minutes. “ Steamed potatoes” should be scraped, picked, and wiped, after having been set for five minutes or so in cold- water. Then place them in the steamer over boiling water, and let them steam till done : the time may vary from twenty to forty minutes : the fork (or a skewer) should go through them easily, if not, they are not done. A minute in a fast oven will dry them if needful. New potatoes should be scrubbed, rubbed with a coarse cloth, and boiled or steamed according to taste : you cannot expect them to be very mealy, of course, and with some people their waxiness constitutes their chief cham,CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 130 Having boiled or steamed our potato satisfactorily, let us see in bow many ways we may serve it, presuming that we bave turned it out as flourily as we could desire. First, of course, it may be sent up plainly, either in its skin, or crumbled in to tbe disb made bot to receive it. Secondly, it may be turned out upon a wire sieve, be rubbed through it with a wooden spoon, and dished plainly in that form as “ potato-snow” pommes de terre rapees. Lastly, it may be mashed, and I maintain that time mashed potato can only be produced from a mealy tuber. A good way to mash potatoes is to break them up first in the dry hot sauce-pan in which' they were boiled, working them well with a wooden spoon, and adding as much butter as you can spare, a little milk, and some salt. When fairly well mashed, to pass them through the sieve so as to catch the knots, and then to form them as you like,—browning the mould in front of the fire, or in the oven before serving. If you want to get that foreign taste, which many people fancy in mashed potatoes, try the following method:— when your potatoes are nicely boiled, and drained, turn them back into their sauce-pan, which, during the drain- ing, you must ruh lightly with garlic : go on as previously described, be liberal with your butter, and instead of the milk, add a little stock from the soup kettle. A dust of pepper, and a little nutmeg, will complete the puree, for remember that mashed potato abroad goes by the name of puree de pommes de terre, and is sent to table not nearly as stiffly moulded as ours. Mashed potato brings ns to more elaborate forms of potato cookery, viz.:—d la Duchesse, croquettes, ^~c. Potatoes d la Duchesse should be well worked through the sieve, enriched with the yolks of two or three eggs, and a gill of cream, and given a delicate flavouring of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley: then rolled into131 OUR VEGETABLES. balls, and either fried gently in butter, or browned in the oven on a buttered tin, having been previously brushed over with egg, and bread crumbed with very fine stale crumbs. 'A la “ Gr. C.”—A Bombay onion, boiled very soft, should be beaten, hot, with four times its bulk of potato; butter, cream, pepper, the yolks of two eggs, and salt should be added, and the whole passed through the sieve : roll this mixture into balls, and treat them as laid down for the lh(chesse. Boulettes de pommes de terre are very tasty :—Mash eight fairly-sized potatoes, pass the puree through the sieve, work into it the yolks of five eggs; season it with a little finely-minced parsley and marjoram; moisten it with enough cream to bring it to the consistency of thin paste ; add salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg; lastly, add the whites of three of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Pre- pare a bath of boiling fat, and then fry the boulettes by passing tea-spoonfuls of the paste one after the other, into the fat. As each little spoonful reaches the fat, it will swell up, and as soon as it turns a rich golden yellow, it is done. These can only be successful when the potato is dry, and floury. Croquettes can be made of cold mashed potatoes left from a previous meal. You must work them very much as pre- viously described, flavouring them with a little chopped parsley, a very little shallot, a little chopped thyme or mar- joram, or spices if you like ; form them into rolls or tablets, and fry them a golden brown. The art of the cook will be made manifest by his presenting you with a tasty-looking morsel, of the right colour, and delicately flavoured. Change can, of course, be obtained by selecting herbs, (fee., according to your pleasure. In frying croquettes, duchesses, ^c., it is a sine qua non to132 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. use plenty of fat, and to see that it is boiling. If tbe fry- ing medium be not hot enough, and insufficient in quantity, you will never get the golden colour which perfection demands. Waxy potatoes, with the exception previously men- tioned of new ones, should never be served plainly boiled : you should direct them to be cooked in one of the follow- ing ways :—d la rnattre d'hotel, d la Lyonnaise, sautees, d VAmericaine, ^c. Potatoes sautees (not to be confounded please with potatoes frites) should be treated in this manner:—Boil your potatoes, then slice them moderately thickly, and toss them in plenty of butter in your frying-pan till they colour nicely, pour the brown butter over them, and give them a dust of salt. For maitre d'hotel pi’oceed as above, adding a few drops of lime juice, a heaped up table-spoonful of very finely chopped curled parsley, and half a cupful of broth.* Potatoes d la Lyonnaise are achieved by first fiying a Bombay onion (chopped small) in butter till it begins to brown, then adding a wine-glass of broth with your pieces of potato, tossing them till coloured, and finally giving them a dust of pepper and salt. For d la Proven^ale, proceed as above, adding a little finely pared lime-peel, some chopped parsley, an atom of garlic, salt, pepper, and a dust of gi’ated nutmeg. When serving, sprinkle a little lime juice over the potatoes. Potatoes d V Americaine :—Cut up yom’ boiled potatoes into thick slices ; flavour a little milk with onion, spice, pepper, and salt; strain and thicken it, as laid down for melted butter, with butter and flour, till you have a nice * Or the slices may be tossed ia mattre d’h6tel butter, with a few spoonfuls of broth.—W.133 OUR VEGETABLES. sauce blanche; place your slices of potato in this, and heat them up to boiling point: take the sauce-pan off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg, add a large spoonful of chopped parsley, with a pat of butter the size of a rupee, and serye* Potatoes a la Earisienne are slices of potato gently heated up in sauce soubise. Waxy potatoes, pressed through the sieve, and served like vermicelli,—a favorite dish of Eamasamy’s,—ought to be most strenuously interdicted. There is perhaps no nicer way of serving potatoes with chops, steaks, grilled chicken, roast pigeons, &c., than in the form of “chips,” i.e., Fommes de terre frites. An invalid, as a rule, takes a fancy to a potato thus plainly cooked, and it is a quicker way of doing it than by any of the other recipes. In th» Srst place, after washing tie potatoes well, peel tliekness-abont to net ri/ t IT" ™ =■ o'®™ oloa to get nd of tie moistnre. Wipe them tioronghly and pread a sheet of blotting paper ready for draL^g the S nJiw! h T’ “llowanoe of beef in vo ,r°f ^ y™ “0® frying medium) m yonr/„tere-pan, or a shallow stew-pan ; when onite boiling, drop m yoiir potato slices—there should be enmgh fat to completely cover them—tcni let them, as it were bL herein : watch them as they are cooking nar^oX k ” ng and moymg them about continually, and as Mon M m 'nd“ nrtf ® 5'°“ “®® rich yellow wtr ais^ withwi“;te;rt^gi^^^^^^^^ The mam points to note here are first tb,n „ i xi.. •, ness of the slices, for if cut both tu;k and tti^’Se 12134 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. will be done more quickly than the former, and it is no easy thing to fish out the pieces that have taken colour from those that have not. Drying the chips well is essen- tial number two, plenty of fat the third, and careful drainage when done the fourth. • Pommes de terre frites may be trimmed into various shapes,—filberts, dominoes, long nax’row strips, &c.,^and cooked exactly as “ chips.” Uniformity in size is again necessary, and careful wiping before cooking. The cook must be a bit of an artist too in designing his patterns, or there will be sad waste in the cutting. A set of French vegetable cutters will be found most useful and economical for trimming purposes. Ignorant cooks are apt to confound “ potato chips,” with “ fried potatoes ;” this should be explained away. “ Fried potatoes,” Pommes de terre sautees, are slices of boiled potato tossed about in butter in the so?x^e-pan till lightly coloured. The “ chips,” Pommes de terre frites, are thin slices of raw potato absolutely boiled in fat in the friture-'p&n. “ Mock new potatoes” make a nice dish for a change, and can be contrived out of a waxy tuber that refuses to be boiled flourily. Boil the potatoes as usual, and when nearly done, cut them into pieces the shape and size of a pigeon’s egg: make a flour and butter sauce b lane lie slightly flavoured with mace, and put the pieces of potato into it. Simmer the potatoes in the sauce, and when thoroughly done, serve. Chopped parsley, a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, and a lump of butter, may be added at the last moment. Peas (petits pois) may be boiled, cooked in the jar, or stewed. It is a sine qua non that boiled peas be young and fresh. You never get a dish of peas equal to those135 OUR VEGETABLES. gathered in your own garden : those bought in the Indian market are, as a rule, far too old, having been allowed to attain the largest size possible. I have eaten peas from my own garden at Bangalore, and Secunderabad, as delicious as could be desired. They were small, because the pods were cut with their contents scarcely more than three parts developed, but for flavour and tenderness, they could not have been better. During our winter season at Madras we can grow our own peas, and surely the trouble is slight when we consider the result. For boiled peas :—Put one quart of water with a tea- spoonful of salt, one of sugar, and half an ounce of green mint on the Are : when it boils, pour in a pint measure of shelled peas ; boil quickly; when done, drain, and turn them out upon a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, sprinkle a little salt and finely-pounded sugar over them, work the pan till the butter melts, and is blended with peas, then empty them upon a hot dish and serve. (Gouffe.) “ Peas in the jar.”—This is to my thinking the best way of cooking peas. You get the whole flavour of them, they are rarely overdone ‘ to a mash,’ as boiled peas in clumsy hands often are, and even old peas become tender and eatable by such treatment. Having shelled half a pint of peas, put them into a two-pound jam jar, with a screw ^ block tin can with a closely fitting top,—(the vessel must be completely closed) and put in with them a table-spoonful of tinned butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a dozen mint leaves, and a very little black pepper. Cover the vessel down tightly, and immerse it in a stew-pan, or tam-mane half full of boiling water. Set the latter on the fii-e and boil briskly : the peas should be examined in half an hour by which time, if very young, they should be done. The French tinned peas are excellent when thus heated up. A quarter of an hour is ample: they should beCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 136 drained from tlie ‘ tin’ liquor, and washed in ‘ two or three waters, as cooks say; that is, fresh water should be poured over them two or three times. The fresh butter, mint, &c., resuscitate the peas wonderfully. Old peas may be stewed (petils pois accommodes) thus :— Put a lump of butter into a stew-pan with a Bombay onion sliced, a bunch of mint and parsley, and a tea-spoonful of salt; cook this awhile till the onions take a pale colour, and then add the peas, with as much broth as will just float them: simmer this patiently till the peas are thoroughly tender, then take up the pan, strain the liquor> sjDread out the peas on a dish and pick out the pieces of onion; now thicken the liquor with butter and flour, add- ing a tea-spoonful of sugar, and lastly, the peas again • stii’ well, bring the sauce-pan to steaming point, and serve. But, after all, there is no way of turning old peas to a satisfactory account as good as the puree. For this, boil them as previously described, and then work them through the sieve. When you have got them through, add butter, a little black pepper, salt, a very little sugar, with a spoonful of cream or good milk, and serve in a small mould. The flavour of lettuce is strongly recommended by some writers as a help to peas, and onions are also advocated. The lettuce should be shred, and put in with the peas to start with, and the onion should go in whole, both being removed when the peas are served. A slice of fat bacon is a capital thing to slip in with “ jugged peas.” Peas form a favorite entremets alone ; they should be, of course, carefully dressed, and served as hot as possible. - The following styles are recommended:— 1. Petits pois au beurre,”—boiled, or jugged peas, served with a pat of fresh butter melted in a small sauce- pan, and mixed with them at the last moment.OUR VEGETABLES. 137 2. “A la creme,"—a coffee-cupful of boiling cream poured over them just as you serve. 3. ‘ Au janibon,”—finely minced bam, tossed in butter and ligbtly fried, mixed with boiled, or jugged peas. 4. “ Au lard, the same method, using bacon instead of ham. The bacon atoms should be nice and crisp. 5. The “puree," previously described. Fbench beans (haricots verts,) are well worthy of our attention, for we can get them when other vegetables are out of season. They are, besides, the correct accompaniment of the roast saddle, the roast loin, and, of course, of venison. Now, there is a very common and very grievous mistake, which cooks—in India especially—are prone to make. They slice the pods of this bean into thin strips. By doing this, nearly all the fiavour of the bean is lost. The pods which must he gathered young, should be simply peeled all round to get rid of the delicate fibre, their ends should be nipped off, and they should then be plunged into hoilinq water :—a pinch of soda will preserve their bright green ^ tea-spoonful of salt and one of sugar should be mixed with the water. If quite young, there will he no fibre to remove. preserve the green tint, the following plan is also Mi'wo“Ja,he:i the he'I- ’ i strainer, pom-ins V, 1 11 P IS equally efficacious with globe arti chokes, cabbages, &c. (Audot.) ^ ie tiurorthro adopted steaming them ian'o ^ The pods mav hf ordinary vegetable steamer, pods may be cut across mto lengths of an inch and a138 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. half to facilitate operations. Be sure that the beans are quite yonng, or they mil be tongh. As soon as the fibre round the pods becomes stringy, they are too old. Having cooked the beans to your satisfaction, yon can serve them in the following excellent methods, and always secure a nice entremets with them if you like :— 1. “ Aux fines herbes.”—Turn them out into a hot dish, melt a lump of butter in a little sauce-pan with some finely- chopped parsley, some common garden cress, some finely- minced shallot if approved, some pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg,—^pour over the beans, and serve. 2. “ Au sauce blanche."—Make a sauce blanche with flour and melted butter, some of the water in which the beans were cooked, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; stir into this the yolk of a raw egg, or a spoonful of cream, give it two or three drops of lime-juice, and add as above. 3. “ Au sauce au fromage."—Make a sauce blanche as above, enrich it with the yolks of two eggs and a little milk or cream, dredge into it a table-spoonful of mild grated cheese, and pour it over the beans piping hot. 4. “ Au lard."—Mince some fat bacon with a little shallot, and work them awhile in the sauce-pan : add the boiled French beans, toss them about for a minute or two, and serve. 6. “ A Za crbme."—Pour a coflee-cupful of boiling cream over the beans. 6. “ A la maitre d'hdtel."—Stir a table-spoonful of maUre d'hdtel butter into them when piping hot. j A well-made tomato sauce, soubise sauce, or a rich-; veloute, are all applicable to French beans : and a pnulefte'^ made of butter, a little flour, and some of the water in which the beans were cooked, thickened with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with salt, assists them gi’eatly.139 OUR VEGETABLES. French beans, cold, make a capital salad : I mnst, how- ever, reserve that form of serving them for discussion elsewhere. English people are apt to ignore the heans of haricots verts, kidney beans, scarlet runners, and dwarf beans, which when shelled green, and served in various ways are known abroad as flageolets. As a rule we try to eat the pods long after they have outgrown their edible stage, and have become stringy and tough. Now, the young hean when about three parts grown is delicious, and, omitting the mint, may be cooked as laid down for peas and served as recommended for haricots verts. Flageolets a la creme, a la poulette, or d la maitre d'hotel, make quite a first class entremets. Haricots verts panaches, a capital dish, is composed of young green pods and shelled beans mixed together. You can thus dispose of the old pods, and use the tender ones to the best advantage. This recipe will be found useful by those who grow their own beans. N. B.—The water in which peas or beans are boiled, “ eau de la cuisson,” is, remember, a weak stock. Use it when making your sauce blanche in preference to milk or plain water. The pepper used with these vegetables should be black, and freshly ground. For this you should possess one of the newly introduced pepper-mills.♦ Vegetables—concluded. 4^ ABB AGES (choutti) must be carefully washed, their dead and bruised leaves removed, and their stalks trimmed neatly. They must then be soaked in salt and water, (cold) to get rid of insects, caterpillars, &c. When satisfied that they are fit to cook, plunge them into boiling water with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a bit of soda and lift them as soon as your teat with the skewer assures you that they are done. Pressure is now necessary to get rid of the water, and when thoroughly drained, they can be sent up. Cabbages however are better done in the steamer, by which process they do not absorb so much water, so do not require such careful draining. The flavour of all green vegetables, indeed, is more snccessfully developed by. this system of cookery than by boiling. The only objection that may be urged is that their colour is rarely so bright. This may be overcome by placing a bag with wood ashes enclosed in it in the water. Vege- tables shonld be carefully prepared as if for boiling, some salt should be sprinkled over their leaves, and they should be placed, dry, in the perforated receptacle that fits into the top of the steamer. Water should then be poured into the lower vessel, filling it not more than half full. The steamer should then be placed over a brisk fire.141 VEGETA BLES— CON CL UDED. After steaming has set in, the contents of the receptacle should be examined now and then, and tested exactly as boiled vegetables are. I can strongly recommend Wai-ren’s vegetable steamer made of block-tin for this process. There are numerous methods of dressing greens,—after boiling or steaming them,—which ought to attract favoura- ble attention, and I can assure you that with a very little trouble you can turn out a most excellent series of dishes, which will well repay you, and raise the lowly cabbage to a much higher position in your estimation than it at present may occupy. Before I pass to the fanciful styles in which cabbages can be dressed, I ought however to call attention to a bad habit that the native cook often indulges in. I mean that of chopping up a plain boiled cabbage before serving it. Setting aside the ugly appearance that the dish presents when thus maltreated, the chopping is a wasteful practice. The cut-up cabbage dries quickly, and will hardly be found worth dressing up a second time ; whereas, if served whole, the portion that may be left after dinner, will remain nice and juicy, and will make a rechauffe in the form of a puree with potatoes and butter for breakfast; or, tossed in butter in the frying-pan with finely-minced herbs, it will be acceptable with the chop or kidney. Let a plainly cooked head of cabbage, therefore, be sent up simply divided into quarters, with a pat of fresh butter on the top of each, melting from the heat of the greens. 1. Here is a form of stewed cabbage (cliou au jus) that if the hccud be nice and young—is worthy of being eaten alone : Take a savoy or any good sort of cabbage, pick it carefully, aud let it soak in salt and water for an hour; if a large head, you must divide it into quarters, and even a small head had better be similarly ti’eated. When142 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. satisfied that the cabbage is thoroughly clean, either steam the quarters, or plunge them into boiling hot-water, and after boiling for a quarter of an hour, take them out and drain them. Now, mince a thick slice of bacon, and a little shallot, parsley, marjoram, and thyme, with a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste; put all in a stew-pan, and set it on the fire. As soon as the bacon melts, lay your cabbage quarters in it, and pour round them suffi- cient gravy to half cover them. Let this simmer gently till the cabbage is done. Then lift out the quarters, place them in a hot dish, and cover them up. Strain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the cab- bage. The better your gravy in this case, the better the result. If, therefore, you can spare some tui-key bones, or scraps of game, ham, or tongue to assist your ordinary stock, your entremets will be all the nicer. 2. Another good way, choii, au sauce blanche, may be described as follows :—Half-boil your cabbage, take it out, and drain it. Divide it into quarters. Make a nicely flavoured satice blanche (adding a little cream if you can spare it) place the quarters in this, complete their cooking therein, and serve, pouring the sauce over them. 3. Cabbages may be cooked with rice, and gravy (chou au riz) :—Par-boil the cabbage, cut it up into pieces the size of an egg, and put them with an equal quantity of half-boiled rice, into as much gravy as will cover them, simmer till done, then serve. Do not put in more gravy than is absolutely necessary, or the dish will turn out more like a potage than an entremets. Grated cheese should be handed round with this. 4. A novel dish, Feuilles de chou farcies, is recom- mended by a good authority which may be described in this way ;—Boil the head of cabbage till the leaves become pliant: take it from the water, gently detach a number ofVEGETABLES—CONCLUDED. 143 leaves whole, and dry them on a clean cloth. Have ready some pounded quenelle meat of chicken and ham, or tongue with an anchovy, or any artistic mixture of savoury meats bound with an egg. Arrange a dessert-spoonful of this on a cabbage leaf, which roll carefully up in the form of a sausage: wrap two or three more leaves round this, and tie them up with white tape. Make six, or eight of these, and simmer them gently in some good brown gravy till the leaves are done. Now, pick out your rolls, untie the tapes, dispose them tastefully in the hot dish ready for them, thicken the gravy and pour it over them : sippets of crisply fried bacon will form an appropriate garnish : serve. A little cooked cabbage cut small, forms an agreeable addition to a pot-au-feu, and should always accompany potage eroute au pot. A recipe for perdrix au chou will be found in the menus. Brussels sprouts (Ohoux de Bruxelles) are susceptible of delicate treatment; they can be cooked according to recipe number two just given for cabbage, au sauce llanche, and also (after having been boiled) in the following methods:— I- ‘‘A. la niaitre d hotel" :—tossed in butter in a sauce- pan, with some minced parsley and the juice of a lime sprinkled over them, and salt and pepper to taste. 2.—“ A la Lyonnaise” ;—fry a Bombay onion cut into thin rings in some butter; when a golden colour, add the sprouts, toss them together in the pan for a minute, and serve hot. “ Au jus” :—gently simmered in rich brown gravy, not thickened, but slightly flavoured with spice. 4.—“ Au beurre .—simply tossed in a good allowance of melted butter, with pepper and salt.144 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 5. —“ A la creme" :—served with a coffee-cupful of boil- ing cream poured over them. 6. —“ A la poulette" :—sent to table with a libation of good poulette sauce. Cold greens of all kinds, especially sprouts, are exceed- ingly nice eaten plain with a tartare sauce accompanying them. A dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and minced shallot is also a happy way of improving them ; and I can recommend you to try this :—cut some slices of bread into fancy shapes, or simple oblongs ; fry them in butter a golden brown, spread over them some hot minced greens, or pieces of sprouts, and serve them with a nice brown sauce, or with a layer of “ buttered-eggs” on the top of the greens. Cabbages of all kinds can be served a la puree, and in that way make a capital homely soup, or a pleasant accom- paniment to an entree. The CAULIFLOWER (Chou-fietir) is, of course, the queen of the cabbage kind, and well deserves our most careful consideration. In plain treatment, what I have said for cabbages generally, holds good for this vegetable also, viz. :—draining in salt and water, careful picking, and, if to be boiled, plunging into boiling water, with a tiny bit of soda to preserve the green tint of the leaves. When, boiled, or steamed, which is the better way, you must watch them carefully lest they be overdone. You can serve cauliflowers with a variety of sauces. Cut the stalk flat so that the cauliflower can sit up, as it were, the flower in the centre, and the leaves round it, pour about it a good tomato sauce, or a plain sauce blanche, bechamel, or sauce piquante, and dust some finely rasped crumbs over the whole.VEGETA BLES— CON CL UD ED. 145 After having been half-boiled, very small heads may be gently cooked in sauce hlanche; or the flower may be divided into sprigs, which can be cooked in clear gravy, or in sauce Handle, and served with an entree. But the great dish to be studied thoroug’hly is cauliflower “ azi gratin. This is as practicable with the remains of a cold boiled cauliflower, as with a fresh one. Dispose the pieces of cauliflower in a well-buttered dish that will stand the oven, pom- over them some melted butter; dust some grated cheese over them, pepper and salt, bake for ten minutes, and serve. With a fresh cauliflower you must boil or steam the head first till all but done, which you must test with a skewer, di-ain it thoroughly; then dissolve two ounces of Par- mesan, or any mild grated cheese, in a sauce composed as follows one ounce of butter, one and a quarter ounce of flour, one and a half pint of water, pepper, and salt. Next a,rrange the flower to the best of your power in a neat pie-dish; either whole if large enough, or in pieces with the green leaves introduced between each piece; pour the sauce well round this, dust a layer of cheese ovlr the sui-face, bake, and serve as soon as the top takes colour. A red-hot iron passed closely over the smTace of the dish will brown it nicely. For those who do not like cheese, the following “ait grahn is to be recommendedarrange your pieces of cauliflower as before explained, strew over them some fine stale bread-crumbs, with some olives, a few capers, and au ^ cupful of hot is b!tt and serve. Salad oil IS better than melted butter, but I fear that my country- men will shi'ink from such a ‘ foreign’ suggestion. Spinach (epinards) is a thing that we can get in the 13CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 14(5 most trying weatlier, and witli common care no entremets de legumes are more delicate than those which we can achieve with this vegetable. Having selected two pounds of leaves carefxilly, wash them well, blanch them by plung- ing them for a couple of minutes in scalding water, drain, and chop them up. Put into a stew-pan one ounce of butter, three quarters of an ounce of flour, and a pinch of salt, and one of sugar; stir this over the fire for three minutes,, then add the spinach leaves ; stir round for five minutes, and moisten with a coffee-cupful of milk, gravy, or stock ; stir for two minutes more, and then a breakfast- cupful of the milk or stock, stir for five minutes and take the pan from the fire. Now, mingle a little butter, with the spinach, or give it a spoonful of cream, or the yolk of an egg dissolved in a little milk, then turn it out upon a good hot dish, garnish it with sippets of fried bread, fieurons of puff pastry, or short-bread biscuits specially baked, for the dish, and serve. I mix a little grated cheese wdth the short-bread paste which I think goes well with the spinach, and some give the least suspicion of sugar ; I think that the savoury method is the better of the two. Short-bread biscuits for spinach may be made as fol- lows :—Put three ounces of floui’ into a bowl and mix into it two ounces of butter liquefied, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of sugar and an ounce of gi-ated cheese, roll out the paste, cut it into heart-shapes one-thii-d of an inch thick, and bake. Fieurons of nice puff-pastry are often given, and nothing can be nicer—as an entremets—than little patties made of puff-pastry, or short-bread crust, filled with carefully-made spinach puree, and capped with buttei’ed-egg. It is not at all necessary to pass spinach through a sieve. ^ If they are young, and tender, you should, after draining i and blanching the leaves thoroughly, chop them up, and^147 VEGETABLES—CONCLUDED. cook them as I have described. You can serve tbem witb a poached egg or two on the top of them ; or you can fry some slices of bread, butter tbem, and dress your minced spinach over them, with a cap, for each piece, of “ buttered- egg,” or a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter. A nice mild anchovy toast, kept hot in the oven, and served with a layer of spinach over its surface is very nice : whilst a little mound of chopped spinach, garnished with hard boiled eggs, forms an attractive centre for an entree of cutlets. A pleasing looking entremets of spinach is made by shaping the greens in a circle, and leaving a hollow centre to be filled with “ buttered-egg” coloured red with tomato-pulp. Endive (chicoree) may be treated exactly as I have de- scribed for spinach, but being a tougher leaf, it will require a little more time in the stew-pan. The young leaves of beetroot, “turnip tops” (leaves), and water-cress, are capable of similar dressing. Sorrel (oseille) which should be dressed in the manner described for spinach is not half enough used. Your cook will know it if you order “ sorley,”—(Bamasamy’s pro- nunciation of the double ‘ r’ being peculiar)—and nothing is nicer than a mutton (neck) cutlet or fillet of beef with a soiTel puree, for the pungent taste of the vegetable ®^Sg6sts a novelty to your palate. My readers who are in the habit of enjoying themselves on the Neilgherries ought to try a dish of pork cutlets with a. puree of sorrel {menu No. 12), for with a rich white meat, sorrel is especially agreeable. I mentioned this vegetable in connection with potage & la bonne femme when talking about soups, and I may add now that a plain gravy soup thickened, and flavoured with sorrel puree is farCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 148 from bad. In cooking sorrel, onion and a little sugar are essential, and lettuce leaves are a great assistance. This vegetable is largely cultivated by the Natives. Hind:—chookeh-paluk. The Jerusalem artichoke (topinamhour) is a vegeta- ble which, as a rule, people either dislike exceedingly, or are very fond of. I place it amongst the best we have. Wash the artichokes, peel and shape them nicely, drop- ping each one into salt and water at once to prevent its turning black ; when all are ready, put them into a sauce- pan with a gallon of cold-water, and two table-spoonfuls of salt; boil till tender (which will take about twenty minutes after boiling-point has been attained) and drain, j serving them with a nice saiice blanche. . j Or, when three parts done, you can lift them up, and simmer them till quite done, in rich brown gravy. Or, you can, when half-boiled, drain them diy, and bake them upon a well-buttered tin, serving them with plain melted butter, a dressing of oil, vinegar, minced shallot ■ ^ and salt, or any satice piquante you fancy. ; But, like the cauliflower, the Jerusalem artichoke is j : worthy of the epicure’s attention when sent up “ mt . ] gratin.” The combination being a puree of plain boiled y artichoke, slightly diluted with cream, and seasoned with ■> pepper, and salt: this, turned into a well-buttered pie-dish, its surface dusted over with finely grated mild cheese, and .»■ the whole baked until the top takes colour. Good milk ' with the yolks of two eggs may take the place of cream, ‘ or a satice blanche, but if perfection be desired, pray use cream. Instead of using a pie-dish the puree may be baked in some well-buttered coquille shells, and served upon a napkin. « ; ! V ■ vJ AVEGETABLES—CON CL UDED. 149 Another artistic method of doing this vegetable is this :— Cut half a dozen large ones, after they have been three parts boiled, into long strips about a quarter of an inch thick, dip them in the batter I describe elsewhere, and fry them a golden tint: these fritters are excellent; you can order them alone as an entremets^ or pile them in a pyramid as the central garnish of an entree. Jerusalem artichokes can be served in a mould, iced, with a mayonnaise sauce, or hot with a Parmesan, or rich white sauce. For the mould, follow this recipe:—Two pounds of the artichokes boiled in milk; half a pint of cream : four eggs : pepper and salt. Mash the artichokes, and pass them through the hair sieve, add the cream, the eggs well beaten up whites and all, and season with pepper and salt. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and steam it for one hour. Turn it out, and garnish it with tomato puree, Parmesan sauce, or a rich veloute. Or; —ice the mould, and turn it out, sending it up with a cold mayonnaise sauce in a boat. The name of this excellent entremets here is “ Topinambours d la Chetput,” but it is commonly called creme de topinambours. Undeniably good as the Jerusalem artichoke is, it is, of course, inferior to the Globe or leafy kind (artichaut). These are properly considered the choicest delicacies of the Neilgherry market by many people. A globe artichoke, like a cabbage, must be well soaked in salt and water to get rid of the insects which may be hidden between the leaves. Then it must be set head downwards in boiling water, with soda and salt, and boiled till the leaves part easily from the core. When done, you must drain it, and dish it hot: a little “ Dutch sauce,” in which a few drops of anchovy vinegar, or lime-juice have been introduced, forms an agreeable accompaniment.150 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Tliere are several high, class ways of serving globe arti- chokes which I, of conrse, dedicate to my readers who happen to be staying on the Hills. First let me give yon directions for the trimming of an artichoke secundum artem. Place the raw vegetable bottom downwards on a board, and with a sharp knife at once cut it straight down, dividing it in half ; then divide each half BO obtained so that you have four quarters : next pare out the ‘ choke’ which adheres to each quarter, as you would core an apple, and trim off the leaves leaving about an eighth of an inch of them unsevered and adhering to the trimmed quarters. Drop each piece as you trim it into cold water in which a lime has been squeezed, or a table-spoonful of vinegar poured, to prevent its turning black, and when you have prepared enough for the dish you require, throw the quarters into boiling water with a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a spoonful of vinegar ; and in about fifteen minutes, when nearly done, lift them out and drain them. They may be now finished off in these several ways:— 1. —As “ heignets" :—^by being cut iuto slices dipped in batter, and fried in boiling fat till of a bright golden tint. 2. —Or,—“ au sauce hlanche" or “ bechamel," in which they should be gently simmered. 3. —Or,—“ d la maitre d'hotel" :—tossed in butter, and served on a hot silver dish, with the melted butter, a squeeze of lime juice and a sprinkling of very finely chopped curled parsley. 4. —Or,—“ au gratin'':—the pieces neatly disposed upon a silver dish, with a little gravy round them to keep them from burning, dusted over with very finely sifted bread- crumbs, chopped mushroom, parsley, and a little shallot, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter on the top of each piece, then baked for ten minutes and served hot.151 VEGETABLES—CONCL UDED. 5. —Or, “ a V Italienne” :—as in the foregoing, substitut- ing a dusting of mild grated cheese for bread-crumbs, omitting the mushroom and chopped herbs, and merely adding the pepper, salt, and butter. 6. —Or, “ a V Espagnole” :—gently simmered in rich brown sauce. 7-—Or, “d la Lyonnalse” ;—the pieces heated in the oven very carefully, piled upon a hot silver dish, and a rich brown sauce (with finely minced onion fried, and a table-spoonful of minced parsley incorporated therewith) poured over them. —Or, a la poivrade” ;—trimmed as aforesaid, sim- mered in bla7ic, and served with sauce poivrade. Artichoke bottoms (fonds d’a^tichauts entievs) are trim- med in this way ;—Out the tops of the leaves horizontally? parallel with, and close down to the top of the “/owd.” Tiim all leaves that may adhere to the fond quite closely all round, and pare ofE the stalk smoothly. Now, plunge the artichoke bottoms into boiling salt and water, and blanch them to facilitate the scooping out of the “ choke,” which should be done with a silver spoon. With arti- chokes thus prepared you can turn out:— Fonds d articliauts d la harigoule :—Having scooped out the chokes, and drained six artichoke bottoms of a fair size, give them a dust of salt and pepper, put them on a clean dish, and prepare this ‘ farce’four ounces of finely minced bacon, a quarter ounce of butter and the same weight of flour, a coffee-cupful of broth, and one table- spoonful of very finely minced parsley, one table-spoonful ot finely minced mushrooms, and one dessert-spoonful of finely chopped white onion. Stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes, and then fill the hollows of the arti- choke bottoms with it. Tie a very thin slice of bacon over each fond, and put them in a stew-pan with a breakfast-152 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. cupful of good gravy. Put the stew-pan into the oven, and bake for twenty minutes, ascertain if tender, then dish up and serve. [Gouffe.] Audot recommends that the fonds be placed upon lean slices of veal or pork, which should be laid at the bottom of a braising-pan ; that the gravy should be poured in, and that the process should be that of braising. ^ov fonds d'articliauts d la ProvenQale, prepare the arti- chokes as above without the ‘ farce,’ place them in a pie- dish with enough salad oil to keep them moist and safe from burning, and with six cloves of garlic, pepper, and salt. Put the dish into the oven, and bake: when the fonds are tender, remove the garlic, give them a dust of pepper and the squeeze of a lime, dish up, and serve. People who dislike oil, and a ‘ far-off’ suspicion of garlic can, of coui’se, use melted butter, and slices of shallot. Fonds d'articliauts a, la hechamel, or d la creme, make a very excellent entremets. Trim as already described, sim- mer them in blanc, and serve either with hechamel sauce, or boiling cream. I have been successful with fonds d'articliauts d la moelle. Cook the fonds till tender in blanc. Prepare some beef marrow—i.e., cut the marrow into pieces, and blanch them in scalding water. Take as many coquilles as you have fonds, put a little of the marrow into each shell, over that place a fond, fill the cavity of the fond with marrow, heat the coquilles hot, and just before you serve, pour over each a little Espagnole sauce. If you have no coquilles, pastry cases answer very well: make them in round patty pans. Cold boiled artichoke bottoms can be mashed xip witli cream, and a little butter, seasoned -ndth pepper and salt, top-dressed with crumbs, and baked in a little pie-dish, or in silver coquille shells. r; ■t tVEGETA BLES— CON CL UDED. 153 Or, the mixtxu'e can be placed inside little pastry patties like oyster patties and served on a napkin (Boucliees d'arti- chauts). This latter method is equally practicable with Jerusalem artichoke puree, and if your cook can make light pastry, these little patties, will be found very nice indeed. Remember when writing your menu, with regard to these two vegetables, that the ‘ artichatif is the globe or leafy kind. The Jerusalem artichoke should be called ‘ topinambour.’ Turnips, (navels,) do not require much discussion; it should be remai-ked, however, that when nice and young, they are well worthy of attention, especially as garnishes for entrees, stews, &c. Think of appearance when serving them, and shape the roots into little cones or ovals, of an equal size. I once saw a dish of turnips served d la creme which was quite worthy of separate service as an entremets: the roots had been cut into pieces and shaped about the size of a bantam’s egg, boiled to a turn, and served with a coffee-cupful of boiling cream poured over them to finish with. Trimmed in the same way, young turnips can be sent up d la poiilette, or d la bechamel. The French dish of young turnips called navels glaces ought to be very popular. Trim the turnips into shapes like small pears, or cones, and boil them till nearly done in salt and water; drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan with plenty of melted butter, and sprinkle them bountifully with powdered sugar, stii' gently over the fire until they begin to brown, and then add a spoonful or two of clear stock : pepper and salt should now be given, let them simmer till quite tender and serve them in theii’ own sauce.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 154 It is recommended by some to let the sugar fox-m a sort of caramel round the turnips before adding the stock: in that case you must put the turnip pieces (when the caramel stage has been reached) into a separate sauce-pan, wash out the first one with a little stock, pour that over them, and stew gently as in the other recipe. Caramel is, of coiu'se, sugar slowly melted over the fire, till it has attained a rich brown tint. Pax’snips, knolkhol, and small round onions, (of the size usually pickled) are susceptible of similar treatment, and any brown entree may be garnished with vegetables glaces in this form. The puree of tuimips with cream is, of course, well known, and all root vegetables make toothsome additions to your ordinary dish of meat, or cutlets, as purees, or mixed cunningly as a macedoine de legumes. Small‘early’ carrots (carottes) and parsnips (panais) may be ti'immed a uniform size, boiled gently, and finally tossed in butter, in a frying-pan, with pepper, salt, and ' ^ some finely-powdered sugar. Or, they may be similaidy treated, and sent up A /a maitre d’hotel, aux fines herbes, ^c. ' 1 CaiTots cut into round balls, gently simmered till ten- der in blanc, and then dressed with sauce blonde, or A la poulette, make a charming central garnish for a dish of cutlets, which, when thus presented, should be called “ A la Nivernaise." Carottes A la Flamande are worthy of close considera- tion :—Choose a pound and a half of tender cax’rots, blanch them in scalding water, scrape off their tough skin, and trim them in slices the eighth of an inch thick. Put the pieces into a stew-pan with one ounce of buttei’, a pinclx .155 VEGETA BLES- CON CL UDED. of salt and one of sugar, and a coffee-cupful of water. Cover the pan, and simmer for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to ensure even cooking. When done, remove the pan, let its contents cool a little, and then stir in two yolks of eggs, a coffee-cupful of cream, and half an ounce of butter; add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley and serve. The ONION, (oignon,) can be made a good deal of either stuffed plainly, or with sheeps’ kidney, as I have described in my menus : indeed whether plainly boiled, or stewed, onions rarely fail to please those who are fond of them. A very presentable dish is “ oignons au gratin'' made in this way:—boil them in milk till tender ; cut them up as finely as possible and mash them, pass through a wire sieve, mix the pulp well, adding a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, pepper, and salt. Put the puree into a shallow pie-dish, strew a layer of grated cheese over the surface, and bake for a few minutes till the top takes colour. You must, of course, butter the pie-dish, and also sprinkle a little melted butter over the cheese. Onions, if of a moderate size, can be served d la creme, a la bechamel, d VEspagnole, ^c., and are invariably accept- able with the releve when so treated. Vegetable marrows, (courges d la moelle,) are very nice, and in their turn not to be passed over. I think the best way of cooking them is tO' steam, or bake them till all but done, then to lift, and drain them, removing the seeds, and shaping them into fillets, &c., as desired. You can then heat the fillets up in a previously made white,, or brown sauce flavoured to taste, and serve them as soonCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 156 as tender. Marrows should, of course, be peeled before steaming. Tbe vegetables marrow is also worthy of a place amongst entremets de le(jumes, when served “ au gratin,” baked in ; layers, or fillets, in a little stock, and dusted over with grated cheese; or as “ beignels” :—partly cooked, and cut into convenient pieces, which should he dipped in batter, and fried a golden brown in boiling fat. An uncommon dish with a marrow is that called “ mock whitebait” :—You parboil the marrow, and then cut it up . ; into a number of pieces about the size of the whitebait, ■} then roll them in flour, and fry them, at a gallop in seeth- ■ ing fat; lift them out and drain them when they turn a golden yellow, and serve with a dust of cayenne, and ' limes, cut in quarters, handed round with brown-bread , , and butter. Carefully avoid the awful English custom of serving I' marrows on sodden toast. y CuCTJMBEBS, (concomhres) may be cooked exactly as laid down for vegetable-marrows. They form a most pleasing and delicate garnish for boiled fish, or cutlets, when dressed d la poulette as follows :— Take a good sized cucumber, or two small ones; cut them lengthwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Cut them into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stew-pan with plenty of boiling water, half an ounce of butter, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Simmer them until three parts done; then drain the liquor off, and turn the pieces of cucum- ber out upon a clean dish, cut each piece in half and cover them up. Make half a pint of poulette sauce, put the pieces of cucumber into it, warm gently in the hain-marie,\ and serve— 1VEGETABLES—CON CL UDED. 157 Oi;, the pieces may be simmered until cooked, then drained, piled up on a hot silver dish, and served with a pat of maUre d'hotel butter melting over them. In this manner they are very nice with a dish of lamb cutlets. Small cucumbers and marrows may he stuffed, and cooked as follows :—(concombres farcis) Peel the cucumber, slice off a piece at one end, and pick out the seeds with a mai’row-spoon; stuff the hollow thus formed with a farce made of pounded meat, and bread-crumb, two-thirds of the former to one of the latter. Season the farce with pepper and salt, a little minced shallot and parsley, and bind it with a well whipped egg; fix on the end you removed with white of egg, and secure it with tape. The cucumber can now be baked, or gently simmered in some gravy which should be thickened and poured over it when done. Pumpkins, (potirons), may be treated much in the same manner as marrows and cucumbers. Beetroot, (Betlerave).—This root, chiefly used cold as a salad by itself, or mixed with other vegetables in salad, is by no means to be despised when served hot with a nice poulette sauce. Beetroot is far better baked than boiled. After having thus cooked it, cut it into slices, season them with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and cress, and give them a turn or two in a pan with a pat of butter and a few drops of vinegar. Dish up, and pour a poulette sauce over them. Beetroot leaves can be turned to excellent account either dressed as spinach, for which the tender' ones should be chosen, or as cardoons in which case the mid-rib of the tougher leaves should be cut out, and gently stewed in hlanc. Tomatoes, (tomates,) form a most valuable portion of our 14CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 158 vegetable produce. They are easily grown in this Presi- dency, and are often procurable when the stock of garden stuff has sunk to its lowest stage during the hot weather. Whether cut up cold in its raw state, and eaten as a salad, —or, in the form of puree as a soup, or sauce,—“ au gratin’’ as an entremets,—with maccaroni,—with fish, or w’ith other vegetables, as a garnish,—the tomato never fails to be a welcome friend. In Italy, Spain, and Southern France, it foimis a staple part of the daily food of all classes, and I believe that I am right in saying that it is a very wholesome vegetable in a hot climate. I give you elsewhere several dishes in which tomatoes play an important part, I will, therefore, confine myself now to two excellent recipes for serving them as an entremets. “ Au gratin’’;—Cut a slice off the top of each tomato as you would decapitate a boiled egg. With a dessert-knife scoop out the pulp and seeds from the shell as well as you can, put the cases so obtained on one side ; make a puree with the scooped out pulp, flavour it nicely like tomato sauce, strain off the seeds, and thicken it with fine bi’ead- crumbs : beat up some eggs (one for every two cases) and mix the whole well; add pepper and salt, stuff the cases therewith, give the surface of each a light dusting of grated cheese, bake on a buttered dish for ten minutes, and serve. Another method, which has the advantage of simplicity, may be followed in this way. Put an ounce of butter into a small stew-pan, throw into it a table-spoonful of finely minced sweet onion, put the pan on the fire and lightly fry the onion ; before the pieces take color, put into the vessel four or five large, or a dozen small tomatoes, cut up into small pieces. Stir well over the fire until the tomatoes are thoroughly cooked. Now, rub an au gratin dish with a piece of gai’lic, butter it, and pour into it the contents of159 VEGETA BLES-CON CL UDED. the stew-pan, dust over the surface a layer of Parmesan, Gruyere, or other mild cheese, and bake for eight or ten minutes : serve hot. “ A V-Italienne" :—Cut the tomatoes in halves, scoop out the pulp and seeds with a silver spoon, and place them on a baking dish npon which you have poui-ed a little of the best salad oil. Make a mixture of grated liavi, bread- crumbs, some finely minced shallot, parsley, marjoram, and thyme, seasoned with pepper and salt; mix this with the tomato pulp, and fill the cases, covering them com- pletely, shake an allowance of salad oil in drops over all, and bake for a few minutes, serving the dish intact as it comes from the oven. The proportion of crnmbs to the ham should be two spoonfuls of the former, to one of the latter, the flavouring herbs, &c., to taste at discretion. Chopped anchovies, olives, capers, mnshrooms and truffles, can be introduced if at hand, and butter (melted) may be used by those who do not like oil. Celery (celeri), is an exceedingly nice vegetable not only when sent round, raw, with cheese, but also when cooked in various ways as an entremets. In the latter case the heads should be very neatly trimmed and cut short, say five or six inches in length. They can then be split lengthwise in two or four pieces according to the thickness of the head. When pi’epared satisfactorily, the pieces should be plunged into fast boiling water, and as soon as tender, drained, turned out upon a hot silver dish, and served like asparagus with a pat of butter melting over them, a piping hot “ Dutch sauce” being sent round in a boat. Celery may be also stewed gently in weak stock, or blanc and then be presented a VEspagnole (covered with a thick rich brown sauce), or an jus in clear gravy.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 160 Blanc, which I have already mentioned with reference to vegetable cookery, is a kind of stock made as follows:— Cut up as small as possible a quai’ter of a pound of fat bacon, and a quarter of pound of beef suet, and nut the pieces with a bacon bone, or some broken-up chicken bones, into a stew-pan. Add a couple of carrots, and two large sweet onions cut up small, a bunch of curly parsley, a tea-spoonful of dried thyme or marjoram, a dozen pepper corns, a tea-spoonful of sugar and one of salt, and stir well over a brisk fire till the fat melts well, and the vegetables begin to fry in it. Do not let them brown, but pour in before that stage arrives enough warm water to cover the contents of the pan. Draw the pan to the edge of the fire. Cook the contents of it at first gently, gradually adding heat, and fijially encouraging evaporation by actual boil- ing, and stirring the contents of your pan to prevent them catching. When the liquor has diminished to about a quarter of its original quantity, strain it off into a bowl. When required, this vegetable essence should be carefully skimmed poured into a sauce-pan, and sufficient water should be added to cook the celery or other vegetable that may be put into it. Celery stewed in lilanc can be served advantageously a la nio'elle, i.e., with beef marrow. In this case you must pile the celery in the centre of the dish, thicken the hlanc in which it was cooked, and pour it over the pile. The marrow should be treated in this way :—Break the bone, take out the raw marrow, cut it into dice, blanch them for five minutes in scalding water, drain them, and heat them up gently in a little of the sauce en bain-marie. A dessert-spoonful each of this should be put into little croustades of fried bread, and served round the celery as a garnish. Cut your croustades square, out of stale bread, and hollow a little space in each to hold the marrow.VEGETABLES—CON CL UDEb. 161 Cardoons, (cardans) d la moelle are of course well known by those who have travelled abroad. I have seen tinned cardoons in India, but not the vegetable itself. Accord- ins: to M. Audot the strons: mid-ribs of the leaves of white beetroot (cardes poirees), and the tender stalks of globe artichokes (pieds d’arlichauts) form a nice substitute. The latter should be scraped free from their fibrous skin, and stewed in blanc as described for celery d la moelle. In order to blanch the artichoke stems, it is necessary, after the vegetable has been gathered, to bend the shoot down, and earth it up : the parts thus covered turn white, and you in this way obtain an excellent substitute for cardoons. Salsify—(salsifis ou scorsonera) is an edible root which we ought to grow abundantly in India. There are two kinds of this vegetable :—the white and the black. The former is called salsifis, the latter scorsonera. The one is gathered in its first year’s growth, the other not until it is two years old. I do not know whether any of our horti- cultm’al societies have yet introduced salsify or not; in case it may have been grown, I take the opportunity of recommending the previous recipe (viz. :—d la moelle') as equally applicable to the gently stewed roots of this plant. Salsify has a very perceptible flavour of the oyster (is indeed called the “ oyster plant” in Ajmerica), and forms several delicious entremets. The roots peel easily when boiled, and the pulp is as white as snow. Simply mashed with cream, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, with a covering of bread-crumbs strewn over it, and a little melted butter, then baked till brown, and served in coquilles, salsify presents an exact imitation of “ oysters scalloped.” Salsify puree with cream can be served wherever oyster sauce is recommended, with a tasty fillet of beef forCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 162 instance, it makes a most toothsonie 'patty, and as a white soup (puree) it can be sent up as a bisque d’huitres. Never peel black salsify (scorsonhra) before boiling, for, if cut, it “ sweats,” and loses much of its moisture. Boil first, and peel afterwards. This advice is the result of personal expeiuence. Asparagus, and seakale, if procurable, should be picked carefully, washed, and tied up in little bundles with all the heads level: then, with a very sharp knife, the stalks should also be cut level. Put the trimmed bundles into fast boiling water with a good allowance of salt and a little sugar. They should then be carefully di’ained, and served au naturel, with “ Dutch sauce,” or a plain dressing of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. The following wrinkle is given by the author of Food and Feeding;— “ Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the giant variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled standing ends (the green tips) upwards, in a deep sauce-pan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water —the steam sufficing to cook them, as they form the ten- derest part of the plant; while the hard stalky part is rendered soft and succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits. A period of thirty or forty minutes on the plan recommended will render fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be properly cooked, in the steam alone.” There is a custom followed by ignorant English, as well as by native cooks, of placing a slice of toasted bread in the dish destined to receive a bundle of asparagus, seakale, &c., over which they finally pour a plentiful bath of taste- less flour and water called “white sauce.” The toast is uttei'ly unnecessary, and the sauce—butter plainly meltedVEGETA BLES— CON CL UDED. 163 ought invariably to be handed round, piping hot, in a boat. A few drops of tarragon vinegar should be stirred into the “ Dutch sauce,” and the vegetable having been care- fully drained should be laid in a very hot dish, with a pat of fresh butter or maitre d'hotal butter placed on top of it to melt over all. Asparagus ought never to be served in the ordinary English fashion with common sauce hlanche. Fresh butter, melted, with salt, and a drop or two of vinegar, form its simplest and nicest aid. Tinned asparagus may be treated exactly in the same way after having been drained, gently washed (by pouring cold water over it) and heated up in the bain-marie, or in its own tin (drained and washed) placed in a vessel of hot water, the water reaching about half-way up the tin. Care should be taken to avoid over-doing tinned asparagus, and in turning it into the dish also, lest it break. “ Dutch sauce,” in a piping hot boat, should accompany it. A very^ nice way of serving tinned asparagus as an entremets IS iced, with pure cream also iced as its sauce, it is in this way, quite the best “ di’essed vegetable” for a not weather dinner. And this leads me to the subject of tinnedCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 164 OTir best exporters of preserved provisions to compete, in this particnlar branch of their business, with the great French and American firms. Compare the tinned green peas, or asparagus, exported by Crosse and Blackwell with the 'petits pois verts, or asperges we get from France. Of these I have already spoken; we may accordingly proceed to consider:— Tinned French beans, (haricots verts). These excellent vegetables should be turned out upon a sawie-pan tossed in butter until hot, and served. Or they may be treated in any of the methods already set forth for fresh haricots verts. They make excellent ptirees, and may be cooked with other vegetables in a macedoine de legumes. I strongly recom- mend them to be served d la creme, or d la poulette, with a saddle of mutton. Flageolets, another delicious tinned legume, should be served d la poulette, or d la creme, or plainly d la maitre d’hotel. They are very effective when associated with other vegetables “ d la macedoine." Fonds d’artichauts, if delicately handled, may be cooked up in any of the ways recommended for the fresh arti- choke. Points d’asperges are, as a rule, too soft to stand much manipulation. The safest plan is to heat them en bain- marie in their tin, and then to turn them into the soup or sauce in which they are to be served. They make an ex- cellent addition to a chaud-froid if placed carefully in the centre of the border of aspic. Pure iced cream is, in such circumstances, their best sauce. Macedoine de legumes as a central garnish for cutlets can hardly be surpassed. The macedoine must be gently heated up in a really good poulette, or bechamel sauce, and a spoonful of cream should be added if possible.VEGETABLES—CONCLUDED. 165 These excellent French tinned vegetables make, when cleverly amalgamated, a most delicious salad. For this they should be iced. I have the highest respect for all coimiry vegetables, and have given recipes for cooking beinjals, (hinegun), BANDEKAi, (bhindi), geeens, (bhagee), podolongkai, (chu- clwonda), moringakai, (mooringa), &c., which will be found amongst my menus. Indian’ corn, or maize, Tam., mueJcaclwlum; Hind., boota •, is capable of artistic treatment d VAmericaine,— stripped from the young pod, boiled like peas, and then di’ained, tossed in melted butter, peppered, salted and served. Plenty of butter is a sme qua non. Or the corn may be stripped off after boiling, and similarly treated. It is useless to attempt to serve Indian corn unless the cobs be quite young. All country beans, from the “ dufpin” bean downwards, may be cooked, when nice and young, as broad-beans (feves de marais) :—boiled, with plenty of salt in the water, till the skins crack, then peeled and tossed in butter, and served: or they may be sent up as a pu7-ee somewhat stiffly worked. The water in which beans are cooked should be boiling when they are first put in. Here is a good standard dish of beans (feves d la bour- geoise) :— Having boiled and skinned the beans, turn them into a stew-pan over a slow fire with a table-spoonful of tinned butter; mix with them a table-spoonful of flour, and mois- ten with some of the water in which the beans were boiled ; season with pepper and salt, and when nice and creamy, serve.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 166 Dried haricot beans (Soissons) are now procurable in India, a few leading firms having imported them in the bag from France, and America. These vegetables -will be found most valuable, for they are very nutritious and wholesome. They must be soaked for at least twelve hours, and then be jjlaced in cold w'ater with a little salt, and gradually boiled. When boiling point has been attained, the vessel should be drawn to the side of the fire, and its contents simmered till they are soft. They should be served with a pat of butter melting among them, a dust of freshly ground black pepper, and salt. Bacon, cut into dice and fried, may be introduced with them or they may be served a la 'poxdette, a la maitre d’hotel, or with brown sauce. When served in browm sauce with a leg of mutton, a sauce souhise accompanying, you have (jigot d la Bretonne. These beans (Lima) are exported from America in cans, already cooked. They can be served as above described. For country greens, follow the receipts given for spinach, sorrel, endive, and turnip-tops. A vegetable can always be got in the hot weather called (locally) “ mollat” the tender branches or stalks of which are edible, (“ mollay-keeray”). Treated as laid down for asparagus, you ■will find this vegetable worth trying. Be sure that the stalks are nice and young, cut them into three inch lengths, tie them in bundles, and boil them in boiling salt and water, then drain carefully, and serve them with a nice sharp sauce in a boat; or iced, -u-ith cream. The young leaves of this plant can also be dressed as spinach. Water-cress common on our Hills, and frequently grown in private gardens, can be dressed like spinach, and in that form will be found most tasty. Young PUMKINS, “ DIL-POSSUND,” Or MARROWS, gathered prematurely (when the size of a duck’s egg) boiled, andVEGETA BLES— CON CL UD ED. 167 served as described for artichoke bottoms, are exceedingly nice. Purees of sweet potatoes, and yams, if assisted by cream, are very eatable. Fritters of the former are nice if the slices be marinaded in a little brandy and lime-juice, and then dipped in a well-made batter. Tams may be treated in most of the ways recommended for potatoes. In short, if we look about us, and try our best to make the most of the vegetables of the country, by careful cookery of the reformed school, we need never be without a pleasant dish to relieve the ding-dong monotony of oiir market supplies. The more you hunt about amongst the produce of the native gardens, the more surprised you will be at the opportunities afforded you of practising your culinary ingenuity. For over a centmy we have been contented to see a few country vegetables sent up in curries, and in curries only, never attempting to develop their latent good qualities by artistic treatment. There are times when the supply of vegetables grown from English seed may fail us, or when we cannot expect to procure them ; when on the line of march, for instance, out in the j tingles, or when quartered at some little place far from the busy haunts of our fellow white men ; the amateur who has studied native vegetables will then dis- cover that his time has not been thrown away.4 Rechauffes. <2bi the art of dishing up nicely the remains of cold meat, fish, and vegetables, were more closely studied than it is, the fair chatelaine would not look upon cold mutton, cold beef, &c., with the feelings of despair that I fear too often possess her, there would be much less wastefulness, and our breakfast and luncheon tables would be far more easily supplied than they are. Has not some thrifty professor of kitchen lore actually dedicated a little book to the mysteries of cooking cold mutton, and how to penetrate them ? I have never seen the work, but, without boasting, I think I could fill a couple of chaptex’S myself upon a similar theme. The mistake most of us make is one on the side of same- ness. We pick up a tasty recipe for warming up fish, a cunning method of treating cold vegetables, or a marvel- lously good wrinkle about a hash, and ring the changes on our small stock of knowledge ad nauseam. The most ar- tistic rechauffe will lose its chai*m if repeated too often, and the appetite,—especially the Anglo-Indian appetite—soon tires of a flavour too frequently offered it. There is no fault that a native cook is more likely to acquire than tins, so we should take pains to remove from his control mate- rials which are likely to minister to his failing. Let all169 RECHAUFFES. youi* pungent sauces, and essences, be kept under lock and key, and give out, from time to time, tbe doles that are necessary for delicate flavouring. If you do this, your hashes will cease to be slices of meat, cooked up in hot water and Worcester sauce, thickened with flour; neither will your minces, croquettes, cassolettes, ^c-, be presented with a sauce similarly composed. There are certain hard and fast laws to be observed generally with regard to the treatment of cold meat, &c which ought never to be forgotten. Let me enume- rate them;— 1. Always cut off carefully all parts that have been browned in the previous cooking, such as skin, &c. 2. Use the trimmings, and all bones, assisted by any- thmg you may have to spare, to make the strongest broth you can for your rechauffe. 3. Be generous in your allowance of butter and eo-es and, d recommended in the recipe you are foUowingfdi not refuse a small modicum of cream. 4 Never be without red-currant jelly, olives, anchovies giated cheese grated bread-crumbs (bottled), mushroom- ketchup g^d vinegar, bottled garden herbs, and a mild sauce like Harvey. ^ ^ «. Try to maintain a little kitchen garden, in lame rarn’T parsley, marjl , thyme, garden-cress, and celerv Thp 1qo+ a he planted for its roof, she, the Sc. Id the cook with his flavouring agent. ‘hat has been once cook- ed, does not require to be boiled or stewed * „„„„ r,°. enbe a hash or a mince to him as meat gently warmed M m gravy or sauce separately made to receive You must now turn back to Chapter X in which I o ezplam the fundamental principles of sauce-making 15170 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. The success of the rechatiffe wholly depends upon the care bestowed upon the composition of the sauce in which it is heated up ; or by which it is enriched and diluted. This maxim holds good no matter what your dish may be : the hash, the salmis, the mince, the croq^iette, croustade, casso- lette, little patty, Icramousky, ^c., Sfc., all lean upon their Espagnole or veloute as the case may be. Cold fish of any kind gives us valuable material for little breakfast dishes. Fairly large slices of firm fish, not overboiled in the fii’st instance, may be advantageously warmed up whole, au gratin, or in a nicely-made white or brown sauce flavoured according to taste, and accompanied by pieces of cooked cucumber, or vegetable marrow. But if at all broken up, it is better to serve cold fish en caisses, or en coquilles, or to work it up into croquettes or crmis- tades. Broken fragments of cold fish are very nice when added to, and tossed about with, a goodly allowance of “ buttered-egg.” This can be served on toasts, or poured out upon a silver dish. A coloui’ing of tomato sauce is an improvement. Another tasteful way of serving cold fish is to cut it into small pieces, like a coarse mince, and toss it about in a hot sauce-pan containing some previously boiled, hot maccaroni, stirring in with it a bountiful supply of melted butter, and a little tomato puree (or sauce) ; when the con- tents of the sauce-pan are thoroughly well heated, turn them out on a very hot dish, and serve at once. This can, of course, be composed upon a charcoal fire in the veran- dah, hard by the dining-room door. Gentlemen, whose appetites require stimulating, may fancy some chopped green chilli, some cayenne or Nepaul pepper, or a few drops of “ Tabasco but, to my mind, the dish is better without a suspicion of the evil one. Cold fish is almost invariably presented to you by Ra- masamy in the form of what he is pleased to call “ fish-RECHAUFFES. 171 pudding.” This is sometimes nice, and sometimes very nasty. To be nice, a good deal of butter (good butter please, not fom'-annas-a-cup-composition,—“ I beg your pardon,”) is necessary witb the mashed potato, Tvith a little cream, or some fresh milk helped up with the yolk of an egg, and a few drops of anchovy sauce ; Ramasamy being at the same time entreated noi to make the mould into a jDretty pattern with quarters of hard-boiled egg, &c., an effect which cannot be achieved without free use of his finder and thumb. “ Twice-laid,” as this dish is called at Home, cannot be sent up better than in a simple mould like mashed potato, streaked with a fork outside, and baked till it takes a pale brown tint. Chopped hard- boiled egg may be stirred into the fish and potatoes with advantage. The besi fish pudding is that made of pieces of cooked fish steamed in a savoury custard. This is turned out like a pudding, and served with any nice fish sauce. Kegeree (hitchri) of the English type is composed of boiled rice, chopped hard-boiled egg, cold minced fish, and a lump of fresh butter: these are all tossed together in the fi-ying-pan, flavoimed with pepper, salt, and any minced garden herb such as cress, parslesy, or marjoram, and served smokina: hot. If youi’ cook be a good hand at puff-pastry, you may have worse fare at luncheon than petits pates of minced fish. The salptcon must be diluted with a rich sauce, and flavoured with whatever herb you like best. A far-off- thought of celery is not to be despised. For the sauce in which you mean to re-cook fish, do not forget the bones and trimmings. A broth made of fish bones, with a few pepper corns, a sliced sweet onion, a bit of celery, a piece of lime peel, and an anchovy instead .of salt, yields you a capital liquid which, when strained172 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and ’worked up with melted butter and Hour, generally produces a favourable impression. The chief features to be noted in cooking hashes and MINCES are much the same. Prepare the meat, after having carefully cut off all browned parts, as you may desire. Make the best broth you can with the trimmings and bones ; if you have any stock or gravy so much the better ; thicken slightly, and flavour this according to your taste, and the materials that may be within your reach; strain it if necessary, add a dessert-spoonful of Madeira, or Marsala, and then warm up your meat. A mince, or a hash, should be allowed to stand in its sauce, with a gentle heat under the sauce-pan, for as long a time as can be allowed; when required for the table, increase the heat, and the moment the sui’face steams, the dish is ready for service. “ But,” says the inquisitive disciple, “ what are you to do if you have no bones, no gravy, and no stock ?” to him I reply as follows :—After having trimmed the meat to your fancy, take all the skin and ugly fragments that remain, and place them on a separate plate. Now, choose a Bombay onion, and mince it fine; place a good sized sauce-pan on the fire, put a pat of butter at the bottom of it (say a couple of ounces if you can spare as much) melt it, throw in the minced onion, fry it a light golden brown, add hot water now gradually, and thi’ow in your scraps of meat, six pepper corns, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea- spoonful of salt, an anchovy, a piece of celery or its leaves, a carrot cut up, a bunch of curly paraley, the peel of a lime, and a table-spoonful of mushi’oom ketchup, with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and let the contents of your sauce-pan simmer away until you are satisfied that you have extracted all the good to be got out of your several ingredients. Taste the broth as it is cooking, and correct any errors that may occur to you on the spot: when ready, strain it into a bowl, and skim off any fat that may rise..173 RECHAUFFES. Now, take another sauce-pan, and go through the usual process of thickening the broth ; it will then be ready to receive the meat you desire to re-cook. A table-spoonful of Madeira, or Marsala ; a little red currant jelly, and port- wine ; some claret or burgundy if at hand ; the pnlp of a couple of tomatoes; or the strained yolks of two eggs, may be added to enrich jour plat. The egg should be stirred in after the sauce-pan has been removed from the fire. The tomato gives a piquancy to all hashes, and minces, superior to that which can be procured by vinegars. Your selection of the wine that you use must depend, of course, upon the sort of meat you are cooking up. In the case of a mince, remember, that when the meat has been passed through the machine, it must be diluted with a good thick sauce, in which it should be gently heated. Just before serving, it may be enriched with the raw yolks of a couple eggs—off the fire. Having done this, you can diversify the methods of serving it as follows :— 1. Make a light omelette. When all but ready to serve, spread your mince quickly on top of the omelette, toss the omelette in the pan lightly, and roll it off into the hot dish, enveloping the mince, and serve. This must not look like a “ roly-poly” pudding. The omelette should not be made as stiff as a batter dumpling as Ramasamy loves to serve it. I will tell you how to make an omelette, propeidy in my next chapter. 2. Make a case of mashed potato, with high sides like a vol-au-vent case, and pour your mince into it. 3. Hollow out a number of small dinner rolls, butter them, and fry them a golden yellow: pour your mince into them, put a curl of fried bacon on the top of each, heat them in the oven for five minutes, and serve.174 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 4. Make a number of little potato cases, and fill them in the same way : or if you have them, use the paper or china, cases so universally used in England now. 5. Make some light puff-paste, form it into patties like oyster patty pastry, bake, fill them when ready with the mince, heat thoroughly, and serve. 6. Or,—cut the paste in circles three inches in diame- ter, place a dessert-spoonful of the mince in the centre of each, fold them over, pinch the edges all round, and fry a golden yellow in a bath of boiling fat. 7. Serve it plain, on a hot dish, garnished with sippets of fried bread, fried cuids of bacon, and slices of lime, and put a poached egg or two on the top of it. With reference to the above, remember, that toasted bread is not fried bread. Ramasamy is apt not to distin- guish very carefully between the two; and whereas a crisp piece of fried bread is an agi’eeable adjunct to certain dishes ; sodden, slightly smoked toast is inexpressibly dis- agreeable anywhere. Bacon is valuable with all rechavffes of meat, and poached eggs are acceptable with hashes, and minces. Ham, I need scarcely say, if on hand, can be turned to the very best account, and tongue also, for that matter, to assist the flavouring of minces, croqiiettes, rissoles, et hoc genus omne. Minced ham or tongue with minced corned beef, mashed up with some well boiled potatoes, hard boiled egg, and plenty of melted butter, and cooked in the fashion of “ twice-laid,” is a nice dish for a change at breakfast. Maccaroni, and dustings of Parmesan (or any mild gi’ated cheese) vary the monotony of warmed-up meats immensely, and go well with nearly every cold vegetable. Try this sometimes :—Having made a really good white175 RECHAUFFES. sauce, lay your trimmed fillets of cold fish, rabbit, or chicken, in a shallcw pie-dish upon a layer of maccaroni, previously boiled till tender, pom’ the sauce over all, gar- nish -with slices of tomato, dust over all a dressing of grated cheese, bake till lightly browned, and serve. The same I’ecipe is practicable with brown meats, only make a brown sauce to start with, instead of a white. Batter plays its part effectively amongst rechauffes. Any nice mince, bound with egg, rolled in slices of cooJced bacon, then dipped in batter and fried in lots of fat, presents a toothsome hramoitslcy. Fish fillets, dipped in the same way, and fried, are nice; and so are fillets of rabbit, or chicken. If not overdone, thick slices of tender beef, or of mutton, may be dipped in melted butter, and broiled over a fast charcoal fire; or they may be marinaded (vide page 65), then bread-crumbed with nice stale crumbs, and fried a golden brown. These served with a macedoine de legumes, sauce souhise, horse radish sauce, tomato, or tartare are delicious ; but the meat must be really juicy, or, in plainer terms, must have been slightly underdone in the first instance. 'Apropos of batter, I must not forget to say, that pounded fish, incorporated with batter, that is to say, worked into it, and fried in seething fat by dropping the mixture into the pan by spoonfuls at a time, produces a dish of fritters most welcome at breakfast alone, or capital as a garnish for a lai’ger dish of fish. A remarkably nice little dish, also contrived with batter, is the crepe de poisson, or indeed of anything. The crepe is a pancake. Picture to yourself a nicely-made thin pancake ;—spread it out upon a flat dish, and cut it into pieces two inches wide, and three inches long. Upon the surface of each piece, place a thin slice of bacon slightly176 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. smaller each way than the crepe, over the bacon put a table- spoonful of any nice mince, well worked with an egg or two, and a little cold sauce to give it moisture and cohesion : then roll up your crepes, put them on a buttered tin, brush them with a whipped egg, bread-crumb them, and bake brown in the oven. Cold vegetables, such as cauliflowers, cabbage, Jeru- salem artichokes, and vegetable marrows, may be mashed up with potatoes, or alone, diluted with melted butter, cream, or milk with the yolk of an egg strained into it, dusted over with grated cheese, and cooked au gratin. Mixed vegetables may be cut into dice and warmed up in white sauce a la macedoine de legumes, and cold peas, cauli- flower, French beans, and cabbage, may be tossed in butter in a frying-pan, and served d la maitre d'hotel. You will find a good many recipes for the treatment of cooked vege- tables in the chapters I have devoted to that especial subject. No more useful present could well be given to a young lady commencing house-keeping than a set of silver, or silver-plated coguilles (scallop shells). Served in these in- viting looking little dishes, a mince, or a rechauffe of vege- tables, is worthy of a place at any table. A puree of arti- choke, capped with finely-gi’ated cheese, any cold fish, minced game, even the remains of a maccaroni au grattn, sent up in this tasty manner, seem ever so much nicer than in an ordinary way. The shells should be well buttered before operations are commenced, and the mince or chopped vegetable should be well diluted with sauce to keep it nice and moist. The sou-face should be sprinkled over with cheese or finely rasped crumbs. When quite hot, brown the ci'umbs with a hot iron salamander-fashion, and serve the shells tastily on a napkin. Crisply fried curly parsley may garnish them.♦ The Savoury Omelette. gREATHES there a man with soul so dead” that he can read the great Brillat Savarin’s account of the Cure’s omelette unmoved ? Short as the little story is, you feel yourself absolutely at table with the worthy padre,—a man of culture, and refinement. It is Friday, and the little banquet is kept strictly within the canons of the Church, yet there is an artist’s hand apparent in its subtle simplicity. The fish soup, the trout, the omelette, the salad, the cheese, and dessert; the snowy cloth, the choice china, and the “ old wine which sparkled in a crystal decanter,” tell us plainly that science, and good taste, can make even a fast enjoyable. But amongst all the daintiness that marks the little banquet, that omelette is undoubtedly the prominent feature. You can see it, you can smell it, you can almost taste it. Now, there is something cheering in this little chapter. We can throw oui-selves back in our long arm-chair, and, with half closed eyes, make that very omelette, here in India. Or one so like it, that we need hardly lament our inability to procure carp’s roes. This I hope presently to show you. There is another source of satisfaction in our musing, and that is, that with moderate forethought we ought never to be unable to make a good savoury omelette, whether in camp, at a traveller’s bungalow, at a picnic, or in the privacyCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 178 of oux’ back verandah in cantonment. Eggs, though neither as cheap, nor as plentiful as in days of yore, are still to be got: we can obtain charcoal, and a broken chatty to hold it: we can get an iron omeZeiie-pan, made to order, in the bazar: we need never be without a tin of “ Noi-mandy,” “ Denmark,” or “ cow brand” butter; or, failing that, a bottle of the best salad oil. Salt, pepper, and a bottle of dined parsley ought not to be beyond our reach, and an onion is not an expensive luxury. Thus provided, we ought to be in a po.sition to turn out a capital dish, very rapidly, at any time, and anywhere. Omelettes, as you all know, can be diversified ad libitum : we need never, therefore, be afraid of falling back upon them. Before I proceed to the discussion of oneZe^fe-making, however, let me point out that Ramasamy has been , led astray altogether with regard to this branch of his art. He sends you up a very nice pudding, symmetri- | cal in design, of a goodly consistency, and of a rich brown | colour. You almost requii’e a dessert-knife to help it. It | is, of course, lighter somewhat, than a ‘ roly-poly’ pudding I made of paste, but it greatly resembles that homely com- I position. It is a first cousin of the pancake, and Rama- | samy evidently uses the stuff of which it is made to coat I his plantains when bidden to make fritters. He stai'ts I wrongly to commence with, Avhen mixing his omelette, In addition to the eggs (the whites of which he Avhips I separately) he puts in a little floni’, some milk or a little 1 water, and, in point of fact, makes a lightish sort of ■ batter. This, I regret to say, he vigorously whips, and ■ fries in a fau amount of ghee, folding it into shape, and ■ keeping it on the fire till it is nice and firm, and coloured as I before described. That this is no more an omelette than our old friend “ the man in the moon” I need hardly a assm’e you. Native cooks are nevertheless very easily 9 iiTHE SAVOURY OMELETTE. 179 taught how to make one pi’operly, and rarely fail after a patient exemplification of the correct method. I must confess that with the exception of “ the Cure’s omelette" previously alluded to, I never picked up a wi-inkle concerning this excellent dish from a book. I have never come across a dissertation on OHieZet/e-making which seemed to have been written by a man who had made one himself. The manner in which I learnt, the little I know on the subject was as follows :—I was marching with a Regiment from Bangalore to Secunderabad. At a place called Pennaconda, in the Bellary District, I was most hospitably entertained by a Member of the Madras Civil Service. Though so far away from any civilized place, the dinner placed before me in the quondam public bungalow in which my host resided might have graced a petit table in the stranger’s room of a London Club. His breakfast was an equally artistic meal, and was concluded by an omelette,—made on the spot,—by my accomplished friend himself. If this imperfect essay happen to catch his eye, he will, I am sure, forgive the honest tribute of his grateful pupil. Calling for a slop-basin, he broke into it four ordinary country fowl’s eggs whole, and added the yolks only of two moi’e. He thus had six yolks, and four whites. These he thoroughly mixed by using two forks : he did not heat them at all. When thoroughly satisfied that incorporation had been effected, he flavoured the mix- ture with a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of very finely minced shallot, a heaped up table-spoonful of minced curly parsley (grown in his garden) and—to crown all—a table-spoonful of really rich cream. He stirred this for a minute, and, as far as its first stage was concerned, the omelette was ready. ST6 now left the dining-room for the verandah where there was a good charcoal fire in an iron brasier, (a half chatty would have sufficed of course) and upon it a pan about ten inches in diameter, very shallow180 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. with a narrow rim well sloped outwards. A pat of butter was melted in the pan, sufficient in quantity to thoroughly lubricate the whole of its surface, and leave a coating of moisture about an eighth of an inch deep over all. As soon as ready, quite burning hot,—the butter having ceased to splutter, and beginning to brown,—with one good stir round, the mixture was poured into the pan. At the moment of contact, the underpart of omelette formed, this was instantly lifted by the spoon, and the unformed por- tion allowed to run beneath it; the left hand, holding the pan, and playing it, as it were, from side to side: With one good shake, the pan (in less than a minute from the time of commencing operations) was lifted from the fire, and its contents rolled off into the hot silver dish at hand to receive it, in which a little melted butter, with some minced parsley and shallot, had been prepared. The omelette, as it rolled of its own accord from the pan, caught up, and buried within it, the slightly unformed juicy part of the mixture which still remained on the surface ; and, as it lay in the dish, was without any special shape, of a golden yellow colour, flecked with green, with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. An omelette ought never to be stiff enough to retain a rolled-up appearance. Being so rapidly cooked, it ought to be too light to present a fixed form, and, on reaching the hot dish, should spread itself rather, on account of its very frothiness. Books that counsel you to turn an omelette, to fold it, to let it brown on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, &c., are not to be timsted. If you follow such advice, you will only produce, at best, an egg pudding. Timed by the seconds hand of a watch an omelette of six eggs, cooked as I have described, took forty-five seconds from the moment of being poured into the pan to that of being turned into the dish. The omelette we have just discussed is that generally181 THE SAVOURY OMELETTE. known as aux fines herbes'’:—the ordinary one is simply made of eggs flavoured with salt. Though cream is an im- provement, it is not essential. I confess that I like a very little minced onion in all savoury omelettes, but this is a matter of taste, and where ladies are concerned, the fragrant bulb ought perhaps to be omitted. The general rules to be observed in omelette-mstkxn.g, then, may be thus summed up :— 1. Use a proper utensil, with narrow, well sloping sides; see that it is clean, and quite dry. 2. Do not overdo the amount of butter, or. salad oil, that you use for the frying. 3. Mix, do not beat the eggs, and never use more than six as in the Pennaconda omelette. It is better to make two of six, than one of twelve eggs. 4. Three eggs, mixed whole, make a nice sized omelette. 5. Be sure that your pan is ready to receive your mix- ture. If not hot enough, the omelette will be leathery, or you will have to mix it in the pan like “ scrambled eggs” —(oeufs brouilles). 6. The moment the butter ceases to fizz, and assumes a pale brown tint, the pan is ready, 7. Instantly lift up the part of the omelette that sets at the moment of contact, and let the unformed mixture run under it; repeat this if the pan be very full, keep the left hand at work with a gentle sea-saw motion to encourage rapidity in setting, give a finishing shake, and turn it into the hot dish before the whole of the mixture has quite set. 8. The omelette will roll over of its own accord, if the sides of the pan be sloped as I have described: it will not require folding. 9. Three quarters of a minute is ample time for the 16182 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. -whole operation, if the pan be properly hot -when the mix- ture is poured into it. 10. Have the hot dish close by the fire, so that you can turn the omelette into it instanter. A little melted butter, ■with some chopped parsley, may, with advantage, be put into the dish. It is above all things necessary to have a very brisk fire under the pan while the omelette is being cooked. A brasier filled with live charcoal is the best kind of fire, and the fan must be vigorously plied from the moment that the mixture is poured into the pan. As I said before, omelettes may be varied in many ways. If “ aux fines Jierbes,” curly parsley and shallot are neces- sary; minced marjoram or thyme, garden-cress (the com- panion, I mean, of mustard) or celery leaves, are agreeable, and many are fond of a spoonful of finely chopped green chilli, omitting the seeds of course. Chopped ham, chopped tongue, chopped bacon, and chopped corned beef are added to omelettes with good effect. The words “ mi jamhon," “ au lard,” “ au langue de hoeufi” specify the addition. I have found it better to fry the minced ham, &c., independently, keeping it handy for addition to the omelette during the rolling over stage, as it goes into the dish. Cold cooked vegetables, cut up and tossed awhile in melted butter separately, may be thus added with success. I recommend pieces of the fiower of the cauliflower, arti- choke bottoms cut into dice, or Jerusalem artichokes sliced, and cut up. Peas, the grains of Indian corn, chopped French beans, or the seeds of the bandecai or moringa pod are thus very pleasantly treated. In the case of an “ omelette aux legumes,” a dust of grated cheese gives a pleasing finishing touch when the omelette reposes in the hot dish. “ Omelette aux tomatesCut three or four ripe tomatoes183 THE SAVOURY OMELETTE. into quarters, pick out the seeds, and let tke watery juice I'un oif. Cut a sweet onion into tke thinnest slices possible. Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a small saucepan, cast into it the onion slices ; let them cook without browning; then add the drained tomato quarters, pepper and salt; toss the sauce-pan about till the tomatoes are cooked wliich will be in about ten minutes. Keep the mixture hot, and pour it over the surface of an ordinary omelette just as you are on the point of turning it out of the frying- pan. The omelette will roll over of its own accord envelop- ing the tomatoes within it as it passes into the dish. The “ omelette au Parmesan" (or any mild dry cheese) is a specialite, as simple as it is delicious. A table-spoonful of grated and finely sifted cheese to three ordinary eggs, salt and black pepper to taste, and a dessert-spoonful of rich cream, if possible, or new milk, compose the mixture. In- corporate the ingredients, and proceed as recorded in the previous directions. Remember that it should be served just before all the juicy mixture on the surface quite sets, so that there may be an exudation of creamy moisture in the dish, and don’t forget to dust over the surface a canopy of grated cheese. This must go from the fire to the plate, as it were. Delay in serving is hard on any omelette. And, now, we come to the Cure’s piece de resistance, con- cerning which I spoke at the beginning of this chapter. The salient feature of this plat was the combination of tunny, and carp’s roes by which it was flavoured. Half a slice of preserved tunny, and the soft roes of two herrings ft la sardine very finely minced together, with a little shallot, and a dessert-spoonful of parsley, should be tossed in butter awhile, and then stirred into a basin containing six well mixed eggs. Cook the mixture as already explained, and turn it out, when ready, into a hot dish containing a little melted butter, a few drops of lime juice and some minced shallot, and parsley. If you cannot get184 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. preserved tunny, a piece of lax, or nicely tinned salmon will be found an agreeable substitute, and cod’s roes will form a pleasant companion thereto. The Cure used fresh tunny, and fresh roes, but we may follow his recipe with preserved substitutes, if not too salt, and achieve a very fair result. Kippered seer-fish, made at home, with Madi’as fish-roe well soaked, ought to make a capital omelette of this kind. The seer-fish should be split, washed, and dried with a cloth; salt, sugar, and lime-juice being well rubbed in immediately ; the next day the rubbing must be repeated, and the fish artificially smoked by being hung over a fire constantly replenished with damp straw, &c. After this, it should be hung in the cook-room over the fire, and it will be ready for the table the third evening. If you can get fresh roe so much the better ; if not, Madras preserved roe, well soaked and boiled till tender, will be found an excellent substitute. j Omelettes may be cooked aux fines herbes, served upon a ’la bed of tomato puree, and dusted • over with grated cheese. | ] They may also be laid upon a puree of green peas, or of ; ■ spinach. They may be improved with minced game, and |J be associated effectively with mince of any kind. Chop- * j ped mushrooms or truffles (previously cooked, minced, and ■» | tossed in butter) are, of course, very delicious additions to them; and oysters may be introduced in the same way. Savoury omelettes are sent up with rich Espagnole, Peri- gueux, and Bechamel sauces, and may contain some finely f & minced kidney stewed in champagne. Almost all fish, ^ | prawns, lobster, &c., go well with them, and whether ? simple or elaborate, plain or rich, an omelette rarely fails, > —if properly made,—to win appreciation, and be thank- ] | fully accounted for. ' 1On Luncheons. )UNCHBON is a meal so popular amongst Britons botli ^ at Home and abroad, tbat the humblest treatise on cooking would be incomplete without a chapter specially dedicated to it. There are luncheons arge, and luncheons small. The former elaborate, very pleasant, and sociable, yet alas ! a little too alluring, and fatal in them effects upon the appetite for the rest of the ay. The latter more enjoyable perhaps than their more ostentatious connections, for they are reserved for a few kiuTuLr'"'^'’ temptation to luncheon parties for the bbath, when the unfair sex has no official care away from home, and though few sit down to dinner on that ay 1 neai y half past eight, the overwhelming I’ecollec- tions of the midday feast have hardly had tile to pass "oar relation of friend* Brill of onr Prenoh ter, membled ‘‘ at ten-military punctuality.’' At eleren .. - ’SST firaSr,186 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. o£ this kind, not long ago, the complete success of which has encouraged me to advocate its adoption in supersession of luncheons at 2 p.m. The Frenchman takes his cafe au lait, with a roll, as we take our chota hazri, which slight refection carries him satisfactorily till eleven, or even twelve o’clock; the dejeuner d la fourchette is then a sub- stantial meal. Cannot we, when there are no distracting office hours to think of, do likewise ? A breakfast party ends about the hour that luncheons begin. Both hosts and guests have, therefore, ample time to recover their appe- tites, and to indulge in a quiet afternoon’s rest, before the evening drive, and dinner. A pleasant luncheon or breakfast party should possess the following characteristics :—a judiciously selected list of guests, a prettily arranged table, a light yet artistic menu, with cups of claret, sauterne, hock, or chablis, iced ad libitum, and in no way spoilt by sugar. Liqueurs may be handed round to finish with, and the best coffee you can make should follow. In composing your menu, you should avoid adhering in any way to the order and style of a dinner. Thus, you must not give any soup at all, but lead off with oysters in their shells accompanied by brown bread and butter cut thin, limes cut into quarters, and vinegars and peppers of kinds. An old standing dish to commence a luncheon party used to be mulligatunny. If properly made, this soup is a meal in itself : there are so many condiments, spices, and highly flavoured elements in its composition,—not to mention the concomitant ladleful of rice which custom decrees,—that he who partakes of it finds the delicate power of his palate vitiated, as far as the appreciation of any dainty p lat that may follow is concerned, whilst the edge of his appetite is left unto him sorely blunted. So I say, reserve mulligatunny for your luncheon at home when alone, enjoy it thoroughly, rice and all, and—nothing more.ON LUNCHEONS. 187 Having discussed your oysters, some half dozen dishes or so may follow, carefully contrasted one with another, and by no means dinner-like in their order thus ;— An antipasto of oysters, or olives aux anchois. Fish fricaseed with cucumbers, orlys, or a mayonnaise. Fillets of beef piques with horse radish sauce or creme d’anoJiois, garnished with potato chips, or a dish of cotelettes d la Beforme, d la soubise, ^c. IVIaccaroni a I Italienne, or au jambon. Cold galantine of hen turkey, or capon, delicately sliced, and handed I’ound, with a salad. A Ceylon prawn curry swimming in creamy gravy, with pieces of vegetable marrow associated with it. A chaud-froid of snipes. Fruits in cream ; liqueur. This menu is obviously susceptible of the pruning knife. At least one of the dishes could easily be cut out, and c leese with green butter,” and hors d'ceuvres again, might follow the sweet dish. ° A really carefully executed mayonnaise is a grand lun- c eon dish, and a cauliflower, or any first class vegetable au graUn rs invariably acceptable. For a small luncheon IrlZ n I’ " cauliflower lorsdL "" ^^y<>^^^aise, a sweet, cheese, and ^together, and compose a little menu of mixed dishes in- die tWo/°°^^ dressed meat about the mid- dle theieof you cannot go far wi^ong. Spiced pressed beef or corned hump, lamb and mint sauce, pigeon pTe ot ^ ' e pio, or the galantme aforesaid, are the sort of Lhes from wluch you can select your central effect. It n'r “vit :CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 188 mayonnaise, a salad ought certainly to accompany the cold meat, and potatoes artistically dressed may go round. Canapes form a delicious luncheon dish, void:—cut some slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, and two inches long if heart-shaped, two inches in diameter if round, and two inches square if rectangular. Fry these a pale golden colour in butter, and set them on a dish to get cold. To complete the canape, first spread a layer of “ green butter” over each piece of fried bread, upon that place a layer of ' prawn or lobster meat pounded with butter, and slightly { seasoned with Nepaul pepper; smooth this with a dessert- | knife, place a leaf of lettuce (cut from the golden heart) upon the top of the prawn meat, and a piece of beetroot shaped with your cutter. Over each canape when thus prepared, and placed in the dish for serving, pour a dessert- spoonful of rich, thickly worked, mayonnaise sauce, iced. A little chopped olive, or chopped capers, or the two mixed, may be judiciously sprinkled over each cap of mayonnaise -j; dressing. The dish should stand on ice before serving. Instead of prawn meat, you can use cold chicken, finely sliced or pounded, an atom of the divine truffle might then ;• i be added to each canape, and the thinnest slice of tongue i ^ might cover it. Instead of lettuce, a few sprigs of the * , flowed- or cold cauliflower can be introduced, or any cold -• ; vegetable of a delicate kind, asparagus points to wit. • :• Fish may be used in this fashion :—caviare, cod’s roe, ■, lobster, herring a la sardine, sardines, lax, preserved tunny, ?- ^ and anchovies. Fancy some neatly picked fillets of the ' I last named fish, wiped free from oil, and the skin and .. i bones removed, reposing on the green butter ; over them . .1 a goodly sprinkling of sliced olives, then the lettuce leaf, ^ &c., as previously described—“ say, dost thou like the picture ?” y > In houses where the cook can really master an omelette . • t ■ i ■ iON LUNCHEONS. 189 properly, one witli Parmesan laid upon a fricassee of cauli- flower flowers, or upon a puree de topinambours, or com- posed auz points d’asperges, aux tomates, or aux truffes, may safely form an item of the choicest luncheon bill of fare. Here is a pretty little recipe for a filet de boeuf d Vltalienne which, to my mind, is worthy of attention, and well adapted for a mid-day festival. Take a tender fillet of beef (the undercut of the sirloin if possible) preserve it whole after trimming it into shape ; make an incision in it lengthways, and insert therein a long strip of bacon, fat and lean in equal parts, previously rolled in a fines herbes mince composed of a table-spoonful each of finely chopped mushroom, and parsley, a dessert-spoonful of minced shallot, and some pepper : tie up the fillet now, carefully, with tape. Take a good slice of bacon, mince it very small with thyme, marjoram, lime peel, a clove of garlic, half a sweet onion and a carrot, shake this mix- ture in a little butter at the bottom of a stew-pan, and when it melts, place the fillet upon it, and turn it gently till it browns nicely. Now, pour in a pint of tomato puree diluted with beef gravy to the consistency of ordinary pea- soup : simmer your fillet in this till it is done, it ought to be kept at least a couple of hours at a gentle heat: when ready to serve, strain ofE the sauce, place the fillet upon a very hot dish, remove the tape, garnish with glazed onions, haricots verts, Brussels sprouts, or any nice vegeta- ble, and pour a little of the sauce over it. Have ready some hot boiled, and drained maccaroni in a sauce-pan, empty all the sauee that remains amongst the maccaroni, shake into it a table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, toss the whole over the fire for a minute, and dish it separately in a very hot dish. Serve the two together immediately. Maccaroni, in the usual Italian fashion, is infinitely rapei-ior to our perpetual method of serving it. It makes an excellent luncheon dish. Boil the maccaroni in boilino-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 190 water in a sauce-pan (which may he rubbed with a clove of garlic) until it is tender; the moment it is tender, stop the boiling by adding a cup of cold water, if not, it will be sodden. Drain it carefully, as you do rice, and let it re- main in the hot sauce-pan. Now, stir into it a table- spoonful of the best fresh, or preserved butter (the new Denmark brand is quite first-rate) and as you work this about over the fire, an assistant should add by degrees a breakfast-cupful of fresh tomato pulp, a little salt and black pepper, and lastly, a heaped up table-spoonful of either grated Parmesan from the bottle, or any mild thoroughly powdered dry cheese: serve steaming hot without delay. The cheese should form long threads when lifted from the dish with the maccaroni. If you have any stock or consomme to spare, you can improve this dish by simmering the maccaroni therein after the draining stage. When the stock has been absorbed, add the tomato, &c. I could, of course, go on suggesting dishes, and describ- ing them ad infinitum,—for luncheons are little banquets which afford enthusiastic cooks a pleasant field for the exercise of their inventive faculties. I will, however, conclude my chat about luncheon parties with a receipt for a mayonnaise sauce which has been communicated to me by the artist W. H. H.:— Put the yolks of three large, or four ordinary Indian eggs, (raw) in a flat joint dish with a tea-spoonful of salt, and the juice of two limes, and beat them well: tip the dish on end at an angle of about 35 °, by slipping a thick book under the rim at one end. Open a fresh bottle of salad oil, and get an assistant to let the oil fall, in rapidly succeeding drops, upon the centre of the dish, whilst you continue beating the egg mixtui*e upwards to make it pass under the stream of di’ipping oil. Half a pint of salad oil 1 f \ I r i:191 ON LUNCHEONS. may be thus expended, and you will, by that time, have a sauce as thick as treacle, and of a golden yellow tint. Arrange jomt mayonnaise in its dish (W. H. H. recommends the juicy slices of a really well flavoured cold leg of mutton) shake a few drops of tarragon vinegar over it, with a dust of black pepper: arrange some well dried lettuce leaves, trimmed with a silver dessert knife, over the mayonnaise ; garnish as you like, with broken aspic jelly, gherkins, turned olives, capers, fillets of anchovy, balls of green or yellow butter, plain hard-boiled yolks of egg whole, &c., ice the sauce, and pour it over all. W. H. H. suggests that “ grace” should follow. He is right. A few words must now be said regarding miscellaneous luncheons :—the office snacklet, the lunch in the train, or alfresco out shooting, the “ tiffin” at home, a lady’s morceau, and the mid-day meal of the convalescent. Place aux dames. This is the time when a lady may indulge in mulligatunny, or her favorite curry, with its chutneys, and relishes of which I treat later on. A chicken neatly cut up as for a curry, then dipped in bread-crumbs, fried a golden brown, and served with mac- caroni, and tomato, or with good bread-sauce and fried parsley. Perdrix au chou, or two partridges, boiled, and smothered in onions as rabbits are cooked in England. The undercut of the saddle, cut out entire, grilled over a brisk fire, and sent up with a potato duchesse : or a juicy neck chop similarly served, with a pat of maitre d'hdtel butter melting over either of them. Braise a neck of mutton, or a breast, in gravy, with vegetables and some chopped bacon: slip a slice of bacon under the flap of either, and tie it in shape before you commence operations : when almost done, lift the little joint up ; strain off the gravy, skim it, and make a nice192 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. sauce with it such as piquante, poivrade, or Italienne. Put the joint in the oven after bread-crumbing it, to brown and finish cooking ; when ready, dish it surroxmded by boiled maccaroni over which the sauce should be poured at the last minute. Tomato pulp may be used for this pur- pose with marked effect, and some glazed turnips or carrots may garnish the dish, in which case the sauce should be served separately in a boat. A nicely roasted snipe, or pigeon barde, with potato chips. A single canape of prawn, or a little patty of puff-pastry filled with any tasty mixture. A savoury omelette, spinach on toast with “ buttered- egg,” or served with short-bread biscuits. A little plate of peas, tossed in butter with dice of fried ham or bacon. Goquilles of fish en rechauffe, or of any delicate vegetable. Indian corn, boiled, stripped with a fork from the cob, tossed in melted butter, peppered, and salted, is generally liked ; see that the cob is quite a young one. A cheese fondue en caisse. From these dishes the luncheon of a lady or an invalid ought to be easily selected. Savoury toasts of all kinds, from the homely Welsh rarebit upwards, are welcome on the luncheon table. I treat of them, you will find, in extenso in a separate chapter. The office snacklet is, as a rule, a sandwich followed by a slice of cake. The former is susceptible of infinite variety : here are a few good ones ;— Spread the bread with green or any fancy butter, and fill the sandwich with chopped sardines, and some bits of193 ON LUNCHEONS. pickle liere and there ; or with mixed chicken and tongue, a lettuce leaf and some mayonnaise sauce. Any potted meat worked up with butter, pepper, a touch of mustard, and a little chutney. Ham and beef sandwiches should make your nose tingle with mustard : be easy with the butter if you can dot in some nice pieces of fat. Pound a slice of cheese well, with a little fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little black pepper, and salt, add an anchovy, well wiped free from oil, and passed through the sieve with a little butter if too thick, mix thoroughly, give it a dust of Nepaul pepper, spread it on youn bread, and complete the sandwich. This is for one large, or two small ones remember, so cut your cheese accordingly. Hard-boiled eggs work up well for sandwiches, and may be either used plainly pounded with butter with a seasoning of pepper and salt, or added to other ingredients like chopped tongue, ham, or corned beef. Fillets of anchovy with slices of olive, embedded in pounded hard-boiled egg and butter, and lightly dusted with Nepanl pepper, compose a very eatable sandwich. I am especially fond of a lunch-let composed of one home-made roll, a small piece of Gruyere, and two ripe plantains, but the taste of eating cheese with fruit is I fear, un-English. ’ The traveller’s luncheon basket, and that of the sports- man are analogous. A friend of mine with whom I used to walk the paddy fields, adopted the plan of takino- out » digester pot, preriouely filled with stewed steak^a^d ysters, or some equally toothsome stew. This he trusted 0 his syce, who lit a fire somewhere or other in the marvellous way the natives of this country do, ’and, as 17 •194 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. sure as there are fish in the sea, had the contents of the pot steaming hot, at the exact spot, and at the very moment we required it. He was a bow-legged veteran, this syce, and a most trusty varlet. I almost think though, that our shooting became a little erratic after our stew, which was bountiful in quantity, rich in quality, and provocative of beer, of whisky and water, or brandy and soda, according to our supply thereof. A good cold lunch is the best for the open am, when work must follow. When I was going through the course of Garrison instruction, and accustomed to long days out surveying, I was partial to a galantine made of a small fowl, boned and rolled, vrith a block of tongue and some forcemeat introduced in the centre of it. A home-made brawn of tongue, a part of an ox head, and sheep’s trotters, well seasoned, and slightly spiced, was another specialite. A nice piece of the brisket of beef salted and spiced, boiled, placed under a weight, and then trimmed into a neat shape (the trimmings come in for sandwiches, potted- meat, or “ bubble and squeak”) is a very handy thing for the tiffin basket; and a much respected patron of mine recommends for travelling, a really good cold plum pudding in which a glass of brandy has been included. Cake is acceptable at every kind of luncheon; in fact, cakes were invented for that meal, for 5 o’clock tea, weddings, and for school-boys only. * ■- 1Fritters. ^ AILUE.B in the accomplislmient of the many excel- lent dishes which come under the head of “ fritters” may he fairly attributed to three things : the first, ignorance in^ making the batter; the second, a wrongly shaped utensil; and the third, an insufficient use of the frying medium. If you once master these cardinal points and can drum them into the head of your Ramasdmy, you will have at your command a tasty and, indeed, artistic method of cookery upon which you can always rely with ^nfidence. The charm of fritter cooking is its simplicity. he mixing of a good batter merely depends upon the accurate following of the recipe before you, whilst the culinary operation itself presents no difficulty whatever vessel used be a proper one. The beginner, as a rule oyeroomes this part of his edncation after a few trials, and thenceforward has no apprehension eenoerning success. remains of cold meats, pounded cheese, and lastly by As the mam point in this kind of frvino- poTyc- i- • proyiding a inti of fat for the thin„^to.'be.ooTC “3 96 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. is essential that we should choose a deep, rather than a broad and shallow vessel, for the operation. The ordinary frying-pan sold at hard-ware shops is of no use what- ever for this branch of the cook’s work. The pan you want should look like a stew-pan with double handles, and its sides cut down half-way ; its diameter need not exceed eight or nine inches, It may be as heavy as you like, for it must, of necessity, be kept steady over the fire when in use. A handle like that of an oineZeWe-pan is therefore unnecessary, for you never require to shake a /n'Zitre-pan. Opinions differ as to the best frying medium. The great Careme advocated the use of the fat skimmed from the surface of the pot-au-feu after having been carefully strained through muslin. Clarified suet, for which I give directions in my chapter on pastry, is favorably regarded by Gouffe. Butter is hardly to be recommended for this kind of frying as it heats very quickly and is apt to burn. Oil is, of course, an excellent medium, but it is difficult to get good out in India, and too expensive. Lard (imported) may be used, but I do not like it even in England for it always adheres to a certain extent to the thing fried. Good Indian ghee made at home, or procured fresh and then clarified as recommended for suet, is by no means to be desjDised; that sold on the Neilgherries is, as a rule, excellent. Besides your pan, for delicate fi-itter work there is nothing more useful than the wire frying-basket,—a cheap thins" enouffh, and not hard to make. Provided with this utensil, which may be described as an open-worh, draining- pan, slightly smaller in diameter than the/VZbire-pan, the whole process of wox’king may be thus described :— 1.—Make your batter, to begin with, according to one of the receipts hereafter given, and place it in its hov 1 on one side, covered up from flies, dust, <fec.197 FRITTERS. 2. —Prepare your fisli, meat, vegetable, fruit, or what- ever you are going to cook, and arrange the pieces on a flat dish, on a table handy, with the bowl of batter next to it. 3. —Take your friture--g&M, see that it is thoroughly clean, and dry. 4. —Set it on the griddle rest, over a good bright charcoal fire, and empty the fat, or whatever you use as a frying medium, into it bountifully. 5. —When melted, the fat ought to be quite two inches deep. 6. —Determine if the fat be hot enough by throwing a sippet of bread into it: if the sippet fizzes, and' produces large air bubbles, the fritter bath is ready. 7. —Now, dip your morsel-to-be-fried into the batter, which should be of sufficient consistency to coat it nicely ; plunge the frying-basket into the fat, and slide the fritter into it. 8. —The fritter must be covered by the fat, not partly in, and partly out of it. Fan the fire now vigorously. 9. —Let it frizzle, and when of a rich golden tint, lift up the basket, and hold it a moment or two over the pan so that its contents may drain. 10-—Lay each fritter, as you take it from the basket, on a dry clean cloth, or on a sheet of new blotting paper, to complete the draining. 11. When dry, dish it in a very hot dish, and, if a savoury flutter, give it a dust of finely powdered salt; if a sweet one, shake a canopy of powdered loaf sugar over it. 12. —Fritters can be fried one after another. Never put in more than the pan can easily hold at one time. The fat should now be poured through muslin into a clean bowl : it will harden, and be fit for work again, until it assumes a leaden tint, which may take place after it has198 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. been used two or three times. Fat in yvhich fish has once been fried must be reserved afterwards for fish only, as it acquires a fishy taste. If you follow these rules closely, you ought never to fail to turn out nice fritters, provided, of course, that yom- batter be properly made. I cannot too strongly impress upon you the necessity of attention to this part of the work which so many cooks slur over carelessly. I have adopted as a standard batter in my own kitchen one re- commended by the “ Gr. C.,” whose advice I have so often quoted in these pages. Friends who have tried it at my recommendation have generally commended it. You must proceed in this way :— Beat up the yolks of three eggs with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, one table-spoonful of the best salad oil, and four or five table-spoonfuls of cold water. Incorporate with this mixture three table-spoonfuls of flour and a salt- spoonful of salt. The flour should be dry, and the best imported. Work this now, with care, to a smooth ^ste, and continue to beat It for at least ten mio|tes. If the batter appear too thick, add a little water untn its consist- ency he satisfactory, i.e.:—it should cover the spoon when lifted out of it with a coating about the eighth of an inch thick. This stage having been reached, take the whites of the three eggs,' and whip them to a stiff froth : stir this into your batter at the time of using. This recipe may be reduced for a small dish of frittei's as follows:—two ordinary eggs, one table-spoonful of brandy, a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, two or three table- spoonfuls of water, and one and a half table-spoonful of flour. For sweet fritters, use sugar instead of salt. Another good batter is made thus :—Beat up equal parts of salad oil, and brandy,—say, a table-spoonful of each ; add the yolk of an egg, and incorporate with this, sufiicient199 FRITTERS. flour to make a thick paste, which you thin to the required consistency by the addition of water, reserving the whipped white of the egg to flnish with. I have more than once alluded to “ heignets" in previous chapters, and receipts for several will be found amongst my menus. The Jcrainousl-y* is, I think, the prince of all savoury fritters, and is susceptible of being composed in. many delicious ways. The oyster, pounded shell fish, minced fish of any kind, sweet-breads (when you can get them) or any delicately composed mince o^ fowl, or of meat, with tongue or ham, can be thus turned to an artistic account. Whatever yoiu’ salpicon, or minced composition, may be made of, the specialites of the Tcramouslcy are the little jacket of fat bacon in which it is enveloped, and the batter in which it is dipjsed. The bacon should be previously cooked, and cut into thin slices, two and a half inches long, and one and a half deep : two oysters, or a heaped up tea-spoonful of any salpicon, should be laid in the centre of each : the bacon must then be folded over it very neatly, and kept ready for the dipping process, which must be carried out cautiously. The frying should be conducted as already described. If you wish to/tnake JcramousJcys of chicken, turkey, or game, you sho]^ld mince the meat coarsely, the pieces being cut like little dice, bind the mince with the yolks of a couple of eggs or more, according to the quantity of the mince, and stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a little I’ichly made veloute ; let this get quite cold, and firm, then divide it into little portions and fill your bacon slices, ^linced truffles, and mushrooms, are, of course, undeniable improvements to any salpicon, * * Generally written ‘ Kromeaky,’ ‘ or cromesqni.’ I have adopted a different spelling having been assured by a friend whose anthoritv is unimpeachable that the dish is of llussian origin, and its name “ Kra- mousky.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 200 A fish kramoushy is easily accomplished : you need only mince the fish, stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a few spoonfuls of well made white sauce, add a little season- ing, with the yolk of an egg when off the fire, and set it to cool. In like manner, tinned lobster, tinned oysters, and any tinned fish, can thus be successfully treated. In using them, however, it is necessary to wash, and di’ain them from the liquid of the tin. The sauce should be made very carefully, so that it may freshen iip the fish as much as possible. An oyster, plainly dipped in the batter I have given you, and fried secundum artem, is perhaps as dainty a morsel as can be presented to the jaded appetite of an Anglo-Indian. Drain the oysters from them liquor in the tin, wipe them, and set them, en marinade all the day in a soup plate, with the juice of three limes, an onion sliced some whole peppers, and a few cloves ; turn them occasion- ally till they are wanted for the /ritere-pan. Oyster fritters thus treated, form an excellent garnish, and may be served with boiled or fried fish, or a dish of filets de bceuf. Here is a super-excellent idea of the “ G. C.’s” :—Split each oyster open, almost as wide, comjjaratively speaking, as you do a kidney, and insert therein a little of the fol- lowing composition :—toss on the fire in butter, with pep- per, salt and a spoonful of rich brown sauce, a dessert- spoonful each of minced mushroom, shallot, and truffle ; thicken this with the yolks of two eggs, give it the juice of a lime, and let it get cold. After putting a small allow- ance of this in each oyster, shut the sides together, dip it in the batter, and fry immediately. I have already indicated the vegetables which make good frittei’s, and here repeat my high opinion of that method of treating them.FRITTERS. 201 Try this :—pound a dish of boiled prawns in a mortar with some butter, and w'eak gravy ; when quite worked to a puree, incorporate it loitli the hatter, and drop the mixture by dessert-spoonfuls at a time, into your friture-p&n : let the fritters cook till they turn a rich golden colour, and are as crisp as biscuits, then drain, and serve them on a napkin, with crisply fried parsley. If you omit the praum puree, and simply fry spoonfuls of the plain batter, you will have beignets, or (as Rama- samy hath it) pan-cake fritters,” which may be either sent up as a savoury entremets, to be eaten with butter, pepper, and salt; or as a sweet one, when they must be dusted over with powdered sugar, and sprinkled with lime juice. In the latter case, a spoonful of brandy or liqueur shaken over the fritters improves their general effect. All fruit fritters can be cooked in the batter I have de- scribed. Peaches, apricots, pears, and apples make deli- cious fritters, the pine-apple is equally amenable to the fri- iwre-pan ; whilst oranges and our lowly plantain are not to be despised. For the four former fruits we must look to the tin ; those that come to us from America are specially to be recommended. Pine-apples, when in season, can be procured in the market; if out of season, the American tinned slices are capital substitutes. Oranges can be Used in their season, and the plantain is a perennial friend. Whatever fruit be chosen, let it be set en marinade in liqueur, brandy, or rum. Delicate fruits require liqueur, the pine-apple is better associated with rum, the plantain and orange are thankful for either rum or brandy. A wineglass is enough. The fruit, sliced, and prepared for the beignet, should be laid in a soup-plate, dusted over with sugar, and sprinkled with the brandy, or liqueur. After an hour, the slices should be turned over*, basted agam, and this should be repeated during the afternoon, until they are required by the cook. The brandy orCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 202 liqueur you use for the marinade should be mixed in the batter. Orange quarters and slices of ripe plantain may be used raw, but the slices of pine-apple must be stewed till tender. I cannot do better than wind up this chapter with a recipe for beignets souffles :— “ Put about a pint of water in a sauce-pan with a pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a table-spoon- ful of sugar, and the rasped peel of three lemons—when the whole boils, throw in gradually sufficient flour to form a thick paste, then let it remain ten minutes, and work into it, off the fire, two eggs complete, and the yolks only of two more, the whites of which you reserve for whisk- ing to a froth: add the froth, let it rest awhile, and then proceed to fry by dropping pieces of it the size of a walnut into boiling fat. The paste will swell in the process of frying, and if the fat be sufficiently heated hollow balls of a fine golden colour will be produced. Serve them piled upon a dish, with a plentiful dusting of powdered white sugar.” (Gr. C.) In this country it will be better to use a few drops of lemon essence than the rasped peel of a lime; and any essence, such as vanilla, ratafia, almond, &c., may be used as a change. If you omit the lemon and the sugar, and stir in with the flour a good allowance of finely grated Parmesan, you will achieve a “ beignet souffle au Parmesan” a truly tooth- some savoury entremets; and if you cook them plainly, without cheese, and only seasoned with pepper and salt, you will have a beignet which, when eaten with salt, pepper, mustard, and fresh butter, forms a savoury entremets not to be despised.4 Salads. ct± tN an early chapter of these jottings, I observed that amongst the accessories of an artistic dinner, a good salad, though not entered in the menu perhaps, was still expected to be present. On the continent we find the salad handed to ns, as a matter of course, with the “roi.” Pullet aucresson,—salade" is, of course, a familiar item in the French menu. This custom is being fast adopted in England by those who are quick to mark that which their neighbours do well. There can be no doubt whatever that this method of dressing raw vegetables, if correctly done, is wholesome, and a singularly commend- able staple of diet for people who live in hot climates, There are ailments to which the Englishman seems to be especially prone, which are comparatively unknown by Spaniards and Italians with whom raw vegetables, and oil are daily food. A careful study then, of what we can do in India in this branch of cookery, is worthy of every man’s attention. We all know that a salad demands two things :—its vegetable foxmdation, and its dressing, both of which may be a good deal varied. First, as regards the foundation of a salad. This may be composed of cooked, as well as of raw materials: the204 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. vegetables principally employed being, lettuces (cabbage, and coss), endive, tomatoes, onions, cucumbers, parsley, young radishes, garden-cress, and water-cress, in the latter condition; and in the former, beet-root, French beans, flageolets, potatoes, artichokes, cauliflower, turnip-tops, asparagus, cabbage, vegetable marrow, and young carrots. With cold cooked country vegetables, I have made capital salads ; young brinjals, the mollay-keeray, bandecai, coun- try beans, greens of sorts, and little pumpkins gathered very young, are all worthy of treatment in this way. Touching salad-dressing a great deal might be written, for concerning its composition cookery books seem to possess “ a thousand several tongues,” and every tongue to bring in “ a several tale.” Let us try and be con- tented, however, with a few standard ones, remembering that salads may be clothed in simplicity, as well as in grandeur. True connoisseurs, I think, adhere, as a rule, to the very simplest: that is to say, the simplest as far as the compo- nent parts, and the process of mixing them, are concerned. The artist’s hand and eye, and some little experience to boot are, of course, essential to acquire that nicety of judg- ment of quantity which a plain dressing demands. It is, therefore, the hardest to describe. Let me lead off with one general law for every salad, of which English people are, collectively speaking, ignorant. It is this :— Abstain from the vinegar bottle as much as possible. You do not want an acid dish at all. Vinegar is merely added to lend a peculiar flavoui- to the composition, and to assist it with an almost imperceptible pungency. That most pernicious advice :— “ Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And twice with vinegar procured from town”SALADS. should be shunned most studiously. The correct use of vinegar is, therefore, to my mind the feature which con- tains the main difficulty in mixing a salad. The following rules for plain salad-dressing may be trusted I think :— Pull the leaves of the lettuce from the stalk with your hand, rejecting all that are bruised and discoloured, turn those at all muddy into a basin, wash them well, and drain them thoroughly on a sieve, tossing them lightly in a cloth afterwards to get rid of every drop of water. Leaves that are quite clean ought not to be wetted at all. When dry, put the leaves into the bowl, and work them about with the wooden spoon and fork whilst an assistant sprinkles over them a libation of the finest oil you can buy. As soon as every leaf is thoroughly anointed,—glittering with a coating of moisture as it were,—shake over them a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and dust them with salt, and some coarse, freshly ground black pepper. The spoon and fork must be kept going during the addition of the vinegar drops, and also whilst the pepper and salt are being dusted into the bowl. The thing to avoid is a sediment of dressing. The leaves lying at the bottom of the bowl must, in that case, become sodden, and so the crispness you desire to maintain will be marred. A thorough lubrication is all that has to be accomplished. I picked this up several years ago from a French waiter at Verrey’s dining-rooms in London: it was surprising how much oil was caught up by the dry crisp leaves, and how Utile vinegar was put in as a finishing touch by this accomplished Garqon. Observe, pray, that it is quite out of the question to give fixed quantities with regard to the mixing of this kind of salad. The quantity of oil, and of the other in- gredients, must obviously depend on the quantity of green stuff. 18206 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. This is the only dressing possible in the case of an endive (chicoree) salad ; for which it is essential that the bowl be rubbed with garlic. Very finely minced onion, curled parsley, and garden- cress may be sprinkled over the lettuce leaves after the oil has been worked into them, but for dinner parties per- haps the “ violet” had better be omitted (valuable as it is) or its absence supplied by a drop or two of shallot vinegar. And this leads me to aromatic vinegars, “ without which,” to use the outfitters favourite form of advertise- ment, “ no salad-maker’s equipment can be considered complete” :— 1. —Tari’agon Vinegar, 2. —Anchovy Vinegar, 3. —Shallot Vinegar, 4. —Elder Vinegar, 5. —Garlic Vinegar. These are all procurable at the shops of the leading preserved provision merchants at Madras, but the salad artist should maJce his own peculiar vinegars, and use them, according to judgment, to vaiy the too-often repeated flavoui’S of ordinary compositions. Here are a few sugges- tions :— Fines herhes vinegar”:—To half a pint of tarragon vineo-ar, add a table-spoonful of minced garden-cress, a table-spoonful of minced marjoram, a clove of garlic, two small green capsicums shred, and one minced .shallot. Or : To the same vinegar, add the finely-pared rind of three limes, a dozen cloves, a dozen pepper corns, and the same green hei’bs and onion. The bruised seed of garden-cress, celery, and parsley, m equal portions,—say a tea-spoonful of each, a clove of207 SALADS. garlic, and two ordinary capsicums finely minced, make, when added to half a pint of tarragon vinegar, an invalu- able element of salad dressing. In speaking of capsicums, I only allude to the skin, not to the pith or seeds. A very few drops of the strongly flavoured vinegars I have described are, of course, ample to “ animate the bowl.” A cook’s ingenuity will aid him in concocting other varieties easily enough. When made, cork your bottle down tightly, seal it with wax, and set it in the sun,—an operation which presents but little difficulty in this country. In a week or two, you may strain the liquid, and take it into use. An excellent salad is that made by slicing raw ripe tomatoes, with a Bombay onion. The dressing given should be like that recommended for lettuce, only that, your al- lowance of oil must be abundant; and, inasmuch as tomatoes are sweet, there may be a little freer use of the vinegar cruet. As in all salads, tarragon, or any aromatic vinegar, may be employed advantageously in this one, and minced fines herbes may be sprinkled over the whole. Strips of green capsicum harmonize most pleasantly with a tomato salad. This is obviously a dish for the sterner sex, and one which no man would partake of just before a ball, on his wedding day, or at all during the halcyon period which generally precedes that ceremony. O ! why is our rose thus thornily encumbered ? Why was it ordained that man should never eat of the fragrant bulb without remem- bering it to his sorrow ? I once heard an amateur cook say tliat the forbidden fruit in the garden of Eden rmist have been an onion. “ Hence,” said he, “ the curse it cai’ries with it, and hence the universal dislike with which it is regarded by the ladies.” But this man was a free thinker.208 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. The other form of salad dressing is closely connected with mayonnaise sauce, and has many admirers. With some vegetable ingredients it undoubtedly works better than its plainer relative. In England, however, it is almost always spoilt by being overdosed with vinegar,—common, acid stuff without any flavouring,—and in nearly every cookery book of the average capacity, you are told to mix oil and vinegar in equal parts, which I have already denoimced. An old recipe called “ Dr, Kitchener’s salad mixture” embodies as many mistakes as could well be made in a dressing of this kind“ two table-spoonfuls of oil, or melted butter (!) two or three table-spoonfuls of vinegar.” The “ poet’s recipe” already alluded to is equally faulty. In point of fact, the part played by the vinegar in these dressings is really so small as regards measurement that a fixed amount can scarcely be laid down. In proportion to the oil, one-sixth is to my mind the outside allotment that should be given. This is a good every-day salad mixture:— Put the very-hard boiled yolks of two eggs into a slop basin, with a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard, a scant salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of miirced shallot. Bruise these with a wooden or silver spoon, and work them to a paste with a little salad oil. Add oil by degrees till your paste is about the consistency of batter, then toss into it one by one the raio yolks of three eggs, continue the working, and add oil, till you have a nice rich sauce coating the spoon pretty thickly: you can now dole out a dessert-spoonful of tarragon or other aromatic vinegar, and mix it thoroughly with the other ingredients; the sauce will become creamy the moment it receives the vinegar. Taste your sauce by dipping a leaf of lettuce into a spoonful of it, and finish it off, as regards further addition of oil or vinegar, according to disci'etion. The eye, and the palate are your surest guides : no true209 SALADS. salad-maker works by measure. As soon as you have got a creamy, well-flavoured sauce to suit your fancy, strain it through the little block tin strainer to get rid of every lump, and the little bits of onion. This should be done over the sauce-boat, which should be put into the ice box as soon as it is filled. If you want a thich sauce of this kind, lightly the oil with the raw eggs adding it by degrees, and the mixture will soon be stifE enough, especially if you put in another raw yolk. Use French mustard (moutard de maille) in preference to English. Never use Worcester sauce on any account whatever. N.B.—In all rich salad, or mayonnaise dressings, cream may be used instead of oil, or be added to a made sauce as a finishing touch. I recommend very strongly that the salad, nicely dressed in its bowl, and the icy-cold sauce in its boat, should be preserved separately, and handed round together. If you mix a salad of this kind before dinner, and let it soak, it deteriorates considerably before the time comes for its service. • Cover up your nicely selected well dried lettuce leaves, &c., and they will be crisp, if handed round with their sauce following them, on the arrival of “ the roast.” This advice holds good with mayonnaise. The meat or fish of which the dish may be composed becomes sodden, and dead, and the green accompaniments fall off in crispness if bathed in dressing. Besides, after the meal, a mixed mayonnaise or salad is wasted, whereas one with which the sauce was separately served may be turned to account. You have in the former case only to pick the meat out of the lettuce leaves, and place it on a separate dish. The plain salad I first mentioned must, of course, be mixed the very last thing before dinner, unless you can210 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. boldly rise from the table, and mix it yourself at the exact time that it is wanted. A salad of cold cooked vegetables (salade cuite) can be either served with plain, or rich dressing. For the finest of all see the recipe given elsewhere for salade Tiusse. Sliced potatoes, beetroot, French beans, and cucumber, go well together: while cauliflower and cabbage, both kinds of artichokes, and asparagus points, are admirable with a plain sauce. Salade 'a la ma tante is a combination of good things which will commend itself at once to the appreciative reader :—Take six cold boiled or tinned fonds dlarHelmuts, fill their hollows with cold boiled or tinned pointes d'asperges, cover the surface with cold sliced truffles that have been stewed in champagne or Madeira, and smother each dressed fond with a rich mayonnaise dressing:—serve straight from the ice-box. This should, of course, be classed as an entremets. The country vegetables I have already alluded to are nice with ordinary salad sauce, or mayonnaise dressing. Choose very young brinjals, boil, and when cold, slice them ; bandecais may be plainly arranged in rows; young pumpkins must be sliced, and gi’eens should be slightly boiled and drained. Strips of anchovies, well wiped from their tin oil, may be slipped into these salads with satis- factory results. The bandecai. Hind : bhindi, if gathered young and boiled till tender makes an excellent salad in this way :— arrange the bandecais on a flat dish placed over some crushed ice. With a dessert-knife slit each one open longitudinally ; in the slit put a flllet of anchovy, and over all, pour a little iced salad dressing. The young shoots or stalks of moUay, Hind, choolaee. boiled, drained, and cut up, make, when cold, a capital211 SALADS. salad; use a plain oil and vinegar dressing, and toss some chopped olives, onions, and a minced anchovy among the chopped stalks. Here is a nohle recipe for a mayonnaise 'a la gotjfpe for ■which I have to thank a fair, and most accomplished artiste no'w in Madras :— In an oval, or round cylinder-mould placed in ice, pour a very little 'well made liquid aspic jelly; as soon as it is all but set, dispose neatly therein a number of little balls of green butter, and pra^wn butter (q. v.) alternately, cover them ■with some more of the jelly, set them, and repeat the process in layers as it were until the mould is packed. You must ice the balls of butter before you put them in, and alternate them differently in each layer, so that the colours may be checkered. The mould can now be left in ice to consolidate thoroughly. When turned out, you can garnish it externally with balls of the same fancy butters, turned olives, strips of ancho^vy, and hard-boiled yolks of egg, and pack its hollow centre with the fish, or fowl, of which your mayonnaise is composed. Lettuce leaves culled from the golden heart should crown the centre, and be arranged ■with some whole boiled pra'wns in their shells round the margin of the dish outside the mould. The mould of jelly and its sauce should be kept in the ice box till the nick of time before ser^ping, when (in this case) the latter should be poured over the contents in the centre of the mould. For aspic jelly, vide Menu, No. 9. My up-country readers have only to make their fancy butter from tinned lobster meat, instead of prawns, to tui’n out just as grand a mayonnaise as this. For fancy butters, please follow me in the next chapter.—* Hors d’mvres. E must now consider those attractive accessories of an artistic dinner, luncheon, or breakfast party, which, under the title of hors d'oeuvres, are gradually becoming popular amongst English people whose minds have expanded under the beneficial influence of travel in foreign countries. Hors d’peuvres, as you all doubtless know, are little dain- ties, or kickshaws, carefully prepared, and tastefully serv- ed, which, on the continent, are offered to the diner to whet his appetite prior to the more important discussion of the bfinquet itself. In Italy the service of these trifles under the title of “ antipasto,'' precedes every meal as a standard custom. We have not yet acquired this agree- able fashion, notwithstanding that the sending around of three or four oysters to each guest, with a slice of brown bread and butter, &c., has for a long time, been no novelty either in England, or in Madras. Our custom, as a general rule, is to reserve the hors d'oeuvres to accompany the cheese, and to advocate a change would, I fear, be lost labour on the part of the author of these jottings. As far as lun- cheon, and breakfast parties are concerned, however, surely we might adopt the Italian custom as a novelty, and watch its effect upon our friends, before passing an opinion upon the suitability of the introduction ? ‘tiHORS D'CEUVRES. 213 Unlike tke greater part of our culinary labours, this pretty item of our menu need cost us but little trouble. We can obtain many excellent things wherewith to captivate the appetite, and we can make others which in theii- way are generally successful. Olives farcies, olives plain, ancho- vies in oil, sardines, sliced Bologna sausage, preserved tunny, lax, lobster, cod’s roes, seer-fish roes, reindeer’s tongues, ox tongue, devilled ham, potted meats, fancy butters, herrings d la sardine, pilchards in oil, caviare, oysters, pickles, cucumber, radishes, thin bread and butter, wafer biscuits, oaten biscuits, and last but not least “ Bom- bay ducks,” provide us with a goodly list from which to choose our tasty morsels. Hors d'asuvres should be served in a dish divided into compartments. Tongue, sausages, and ham, should be most delicately sliced. Preserved fish should be very carefully wiped free from all tin-oil, and re-dressed with the finest salad oil: if of a large kind, small portions should be cut to suit the dish. Potted meats should be fresh, home-made, and prettily shaped in a cone. Caviare should be turned out of the tin, and garnished with quarters of lime. Fancy butters must be iced, and served separately. Sardines can be greatly improved by being treated as “ Norwegian Anchovies.” Open a tin of the best sardines, take the fish out one by one, and place them on a dish. Wipe them free from oil, carefully pick off their skins and divide each sardine in half lengthwise. Give the fillets thus obtained a dusting of white pepper. Now, take an oval earthenware pot, see that it is dry and clean, slice a Bombay onion up, and put a layer of the rings at the bot- tom of the pot, with a cinnamon leaf, and a pepper corn or two. Arrange over this a layer of sardine fillets, and continue the process until the pot is filled, or the fillets are exhausted. Pour over the layers a marinade of oil and214 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. vinegar (one spoonful of the latter to four of the former) and in a few hours the sardines may be eaten. Sometimes sardines are too soft to fillet; in that case he contented with skinning them only. Oysters, of course, are never sent round with the cheese. When they appear before dinner, send them up in their shells, and be quick with their accompaniments. You sometimes see a hungry man polish off his bivalves before the lime, pepper, and bread and butter, have reached him. You can combat this contingency by breaking up the dishes containing these adjuncts into detachments, and serving them in two or three directions at once. But a far better plan is this. Before dinner is announced, put the plates of oysters with the slices of brown bread and butter upon them in each guest’s place, and send your vinegar and pepper round as fast as you can after they are seated. In selecting your hors dloeuvres to accompany the cheese try to avoid giving two fishy things on the same dish, thus :—do not give anchovies, and prawn butter together, or olives farmies and caviare ; but take, let us say, anchovy butter, devilled ham, and oat biscuit, or cream cheese, olives fargies, and wafer biscuit. Here are a few com- binations :— Anchovy fillets, watercress, butter, dry toast. Kippered seer fish, sliced tongue, oat biscuit. Herring a la sardine, potted tongue, dry biscuit. Cheese fingers, green butter, radishes. Cucumber, olives fargies, oat biscuit. Pilchards in oil, maitre d'hotel butter, pulled bread. The best cheese you can get, cut into dice, should accom- pany the above if served d VAnglaise at that period of the dinner.215 HORS D'CEUVRES. The garnishing of the compartments of the hors d’oeuvres dish should be tastefully done with knots of curled parsley, curled cress, a little bunches of fresh water-cress. A single cold canape, if very carefully composed, may be placed upon each guest’s plate as a prelude to the dinner when oysters are out of season. Cut some thin slices of stale brown or white bread, butter them as for sandwiches, and cut out of them a number of oblong pieces two inches long, and one and a half broad. Make sandwiches as follows;—Upon one of the pieces put a fillet of anchovy cut into strips, with a thin slice of olive here and there to fill interstices; smooth the combination over with some pounded hard-boiled yolk of egg, dust over with yellow pepper, and cover with one of the pieces of bread. Gar- nish each sandwich thus made with a turned olive, or a sprig’ of water-cress. Or sprinkle over each a canopy of grated ham, granulated hard-boiled yolk of egg, or cod’s roe. In like manner you can with a little forethought com- pose divers canapes, using caviare, sardines, fish-roe, green butter, strips of green cajjsicum, or of cucumber, and garnishing with tongue cut tastefully with a cutter, grated ham, or powdered hard-boiled yolk of egg. In making canapes, for service before dinner, care should be taken to keep them small. The dimensions I have given should not be exceeded and the bread should be cut thin. Home-made cream cheeses are not seen as often as they ought to be, and yet a child could make one, following any domestic cookery book recipe. There are few things more appreciated at the end of a dinner party than this most dain- ty little dish. A breakfast-cupful of pure cream will yield a pietty little cheese for a party of six. The method is simple enough. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with a large216 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. breakfast-cupful of rich cream, stir it well, and then pour the cream into a slop basin in which a clean piece of soft linen has been laid. When the cream has been thus turned into the cloth, draw the ends of the cloth together, holding the cream as it were in a bag, tie it tightly with string, and hang the bag in a cool place to drip ; when the drip- ping of moisture from the bag ceases, the cheese is ready : take the bag down, turn the contents out into a clean cloth, mould it into a circular form, or shape it in a neat square, and serve it on a dish garnished with green leaves. Let it stand in the ice-box till wanted. A day will be found sufficient for the making of this kind of cheese in warm weather and about forty-eight hours on the Hills. Use a porous sort of cloth for the operation, so as to encourage the escape of the whey from the cheese. It is sometimes advisable to change the cloth during the draining process. Fancy butters have of late become justly popular. There are many ways of making them. The objects you must keep in view when composing a fancy butter, may be thus summed up :—a pleasant flavour, a pretty tint, and novelty. To secure the first it is imperatively necessary that the basis upon which you work be beyond suspicion. The butter you use must be the best possible. If, there- fore, you cannot make it at home from cream you have set under yom' own eye, I strongly advise you to use that of a freshly opened “ Denmark” tin. You must wash the butter well with milk, and form it with your butter-bat, setting it in ice afterwards. The colouring is clap-trap work : you can get a nice green tint from “ spinach greening,” and a pretty orange scarlet from crab, or tinned lobster coral. Novelty rests with yourself : you can ring the changes upon pounded anchovies, sardines, soft lierring roes, lobster, prawns, crab, and pilchards : you can use capers, parsley, water-cress, garden-cress, gherkins, and olives. By the judicious selection of your ingredients, allHORS D'CEUVRES. 217 of whicli are agreeable in fancy butter, you will avoid sameness, and secure success. This is my recipe for a stock “ green-butter” :— 1. Weigh a quarter of a pound of butter such as I have described, and ice it. 2. —Boil a conple of good handfuls of spinach, drain them thoroughly, pass the leaves through the hair sieve, and save all the pulp, so obtained, in a bowl. 3. —Take six full sized anchovies from the tin, loipe them free from oil, pick out their back bones, pass them through the hair sieve, and save the pulp. 4. —Mince as finely as possible sufidcient curled parsley to fill a table-spoon generously. 5. —Mince also as finely as possible capers sufficient to fill a tea-spoon, heaped up. 6. —Having these ingredients ready, first colour the butter by working into it, as lightly as you can, enough “ spinach-greening” to secure the tint you require (it is always wise to order a little more spinach than you think you may want, to be on the safe side) then add the other things by degrees, and when thoroughly incorporated, trim the butter into a tasteful mould, or sundry pretty patlets, and set it in the ice-box. Maitre cVhotel butter I have already given (page 82.) It is quite worthy of a place amongst hors d’ceuvres. Prawn butter,—a highly delicious composition, should be made in this way :—Boil the prawns, clean them care- pound them to a paste in your mortar, mixing a little butter with them to assist the operation. Now, melt some butter in a sauce-pan, mix your pounded prawn meat in it, and as soon as it appears to have absorbed the butter (having been well stirred during the process and flavoured with a very little cayenne pepper, and powdered mace) 19218 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. take it out, let it get cold and mix it with your iced butter in the proportion of about half and half. The pounding must be thorough; there should be no granulated particles of prawn meat in the butter. Crab-coral butter, and lobster butter may be made ex- actly as the foregoing : in the case of the former, I would put in a couple of anchovies, as the coral is rather taste- less ; and in that of the latter, I would wash the lobster clean, getting rid of all oily, tinny juices. To do this, turn the contents of tin out upon a sieve, with a bowl un- der it to catch the liquor ; when the lobster meat drips no longer, pour over it a good jugful of clean cold water tuniing the pieces so that they may all come under the stream, then dry and pound it. Hai’d-boiled yolks of eggs may be passed through the sieve, and be made to form a part of any fancy butter. they tint plain butter yellow, and make a tasty pat if fla- voured with soft heri’ing roes, or cod’s I’oes, peppered, and sharpened with a few capers. Fish that is very salt must, of course, be soaked in water before it can be used; anchovies in oil do not need that ti’eatment. Gorgona anchovies, on the other hand, must be freed from brine by steeping. Home-made potted meats, if carefully made, so far sur- pass those which you get in tins, that I can hardly under- stand why they are so rarely attempted. Really good butter, and a very little pure gravy, attentively extracted from some fresh meat and bones, ai’e the chief corner- stones in such compositions. Ramasamy invariably over- spices his potted meat, cooks Hover the fire in some strange w'ay, and the less we enquire into the class of butter he uses the bettei’. Potted prawns should be made precisely as laid down for prawn butter, omitting the final amalgamation with219 HORS D'CEUVRES. butter. I will select home-made potted tongue as a trust- worthy method of using up meat advantageously Take one pound weight of tongue, home-cured, (do not hesitate to pay eight or ten annas for it when fresh : the sum will not ruin you, and you will get you money’s worth) four ounces of the best butter, a salt-spoonful of pounded mace, a coffee-cup of beef gravy, a tea-spoonful of “ spiced pepper” (q. v. page 111), and work them in tliis manner :—cut off the hard skin of the tongue, and pass the meat through your mincing machine : after that, pound it thoroughly in your mortar, adding the butter and gravy dmung the operation ; press the meat through youi’ wire-sieve to get rid of gristle, and lumps, work the spiced pepper and mace into it, and pat it down tightly in a jar : smooth the surface: melt a table-spoonful of the same sort of butter in a sauce-pan, and pour it over the surface ; let it get cold, and the work will be completed. This receipt is practicable, as to quantities, with cold corned beef, chicken and tongue (half and half), cold roast beef, and even mutton. Roast-beef, and mutton, require about three anchovies to the pound, as they have not the flavour of salted meat. Potted snipe, hare, partridges, &c., are excellent. Don’t forget the livers when you are potting birds, and turn back to page 70 for my recipe for “/oie gfrus forcemeat,” a little of which will encourage your game pate exceedingly. If you happen to have any spare atoms of truffles handy, slip them into the potted meat, and no man will blame you. Mock-crab is the name given to a very good hors d ceuvre in which cheese plays a prominent part; it is made in this way: a quarter of a pound of prawn meat, two ounces of good fresh cheese, a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, a dessert-spoonful220 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. of “anchovy vinegar,” and a liberal dusting of spiced pepper. Pound everything (omitting the prawns) and work the mixture till it looks like a very thick mayonnaise sauce, adding oil if necessary to obtain that result: when ready, mingle it with the prawn meat, pounded, &c., as in the former receipt, and trim it into a shapely little mould for serving. Even without any prawn meat a very good mock-crab can be made; a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce supplies the fishy flavour. “ Pulled bread” accompanies the cheese in the place of biscuits. You can make it easily enough, if you bake at home, as follows :—Make a pound loaf, and when the bread is all but done, take it from the oven, tear the crumb from the inside with a fork in irregular pieces, place them on a buttered baking tin and erisp them in the oven. Use coarse grained oatmeal for your oat biscuits, and send them up piping hot from the griddle. As a general rule the oat cake made in India is far too thin: the paste should be rolled at least a quarter of an inch thick before being cut into cakes. “ Cheese fingers” should be made in these proportions,— a quarter of a pound of puff paste, a pinch of salt, two ounces of grated Parmesan, or other mild cheese, and a very little cayenne, Nepaul pepper, or a few drops of “ tabasco.” Work the ingredients together, roU the paste out about half an inch thick, cut it into oblong shapes, about three inches long, bake and serve as hot as possible, on a napkin. “ Devilled ham” is sold in tins, it is as good a thing as can be got at a pinch, if you have no time to make a hors d’cBuvre at home. It is not as hot as its name would lead you to suppose ; it is merely potted ham well peppered. Buy your “ Bombay ducks” in tins from Treacher and Co., of that city. I discovered this in Piccadilly of all221 HORS D’CEUVRES. places in tlie ■world. Jackson and Co. import tke “ ducks” from Bombay neatly flattened out, floured, and packed in oblong tins. When you remember the number of hands through which the bazar-bought flsh passes, the flies that ha'^'e settled upon it, and the impossibility of washing di'ied fish, you will, I hope, agree with me that my recom- mendation is absolutely philanthropical. If desirous of obtaining the best potted meat in the market, buy Brand’s.I55:Z5CIII- ♦ Savoury Toasts. So dish is more thoroughly useful, or more generally popular, than the savoury toast. It is a kind of thing that can frequently be made at a pinch, when the larder is all but empty, and a hungry friend drops in unexpectedly. A dainty feeder will sometimes fancy it when he will scarcely look at anything in the way of food. If well made, it serves as a finish to a little home dinner, and it is equally acceptable at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. In its composition tasty scraps of all kinds can be used up successfully, without any great effort on the part of the cook, or loss of time. In common with almost every branch of cookery, this offshoot of the science is susceptible of elaborate, as well as of simple treatment; and may he fashioned to obey the dictates of extravagance as well as those of the strictest economy. Yet, generally speaking, savoury toasts of an ordinary kind ought to be favourably regarded by all thrifty house-keepers, inasmuch as they afford an easy and pleasant way of working up fragments of good food that might otherwise be wasted. The rules of toast-making are few, and very simple:— I.—Unless specially stated to the contrary in the recipe, the slice of bread destined to receive any savoury compo- sition should be delicately fried in butter till of a golden colour, rather than toasted in the ordinary manner. IfSAVOURY TOASTS. 223 kept waiting at all, ordinarily toasted bread becomes spongy or sodden, and soon loses its crispness. The easy process of toasting too, is frequently slurred over carelessly, and the bread is scorched, not toasted. If you watch a native servant in the act of toasting, you will generally find that he places the slice of bread as close to the glowing embers as possible. Setting aside the risk that the bread thus incurs of catching a taint of gas from the live char- coal, it cannot be evenly and delicately browned, neither can it attain that thorough crispness which is a sme qua non in propei’ly made toast. The slice of bread must be kept some little distance from the clear embers, being gradually heated through, crisped, and lightly and evenly browned by degrees. But, as I said before, bread fried in good butter is better, with a very few exceptions, than toasted bread for the sort of dishes we are going to discuss. 2.—A Savoury toast is not worth serving unless it be piping hot: it may be kept hot in the oven, to be sure, but it is never so good as when set before the hungry guest the moment it has been completed. In order to ensure this ‘ slickness’ (to borrow a trans-Atlantic term) let the cook be warned to have everything ready, but not actually to finish off the making of his toast till it is wanted. It is better to keep the table waiting for three or four minutes for a homie-bouche, than to serve immediately such a miser- able fiasco as a cold toast. The next thing to consider is the composition of a savoury toast, which I will endeavour to descx'ibe in a series of recipes. Let us commence with our time-honoured friend;— Anchovy toast. If you have a tin of anchovies in oil, the process is this :—Take six anchovies, wipe them free from oil, split them open, remove the spines, and pass the fish through your hair sieve ; put the pulp in a bowl, and stir into it the yolks of two raw eggs. Cut four niceCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 224 rounds or slices of bread, and fry them in butter till of a bright golden tint; arrange them on a very hot silver dish, and cover them up. Now, melt a table-spoonful of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan which should be dipped into a bam-marie or any vessel containing boiling water ; stir into the melted butter the anchovy pulp mixture, let it thicken and when quite hot, pour it over the four toasts, and send the dish up immediately. Or,—(to be made at the table, with anchovy sauce) choose a very hot plate indeed, put a lump of butter upon it, and let the butter melt; add the yolks only of two raw eggs well beaten, and stir into the mixture sufficient anchovy sauce to colour it a pale salmon pink—(if you put in enough to obtain a darker shade, it will be too salt)— add a dessert-spoonful of sherry and mix it well. Whilst doing this, a servant should, in this instance, be toasting slices of bread in the verandah hard by, and each slice should be brought in hot from the fire, tiumed over on both sides in the mixture, and passed round at once, one after another. A toast that has been well soaked in a sauce like this, and crisped in the oven afterwards, is far from bad. Anchovy toasts are sometimes sent up with tasty top- dressings, such as poached eggs, buttered eggs, and this sauce :—Beat up the yolks of four* eggs, and pour them by degrees into a small sauce-pan in which two ounces of butter have been melted over a very moderate fire, or in the bain-marie : add two table-spoonfuls of cream and a tea-spoonful of vinegar, continue to stir the sauce gently till it thickens nicely, and pour it over your anchovy toasts. This sauce should be carefully watched, for if permitted to approach boiling, it will curdle and become lumpy ; what you want is a very thick, creamy-looking custard. Purees of certain vegetables are very nice as top-dress-SAVOURY TOASTS. 225 ings for anchovy toasts ; especially those of spinach, beet- root leaves, peas, or any delicate greens. A number of nice toasts can be made with eggs ; from the plainly poached egg served upon a little square of bread fried a golden brown in butter, to the delicate “ roties des osufs brouilles aux truffes." Buttered eggs (amfs brouilles) are undeniably good if served quite simply, upon crisply fried bread, straight from the fire. Grated ham, finely minced tongue, and little dice of crisply fried bacon, are capital, if at hand, to garnish the sui-face of the eggs with ; and chopped herbs, anchovy, or the minced remnants of any fish like sardines, pilchards, or herrings, may be stirred into the eggs just before serving with marked advantage. Cold cooked vegetables, such as caulifiower, artichokes, aspara- gus, &c., may be cut up and mixed with the eggs in the same way,—in fact, a moment’s thought will generally enable a careful cook to make his buttered egg toasts ad- ditionally tasty by the introduction of some nice trifle left from a previous meal, which could scarcely be made use of in any other manner. Hard-boiled eggs make a very eatable toast in this way :—Grate a cofEee-cupful of corned beef, bacon-lean, or ham; cut four hard-boiled eggs into eight pieces each ; mix a good smice blanche rather thickly, flavour it with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and slip into it, so as to get thoroughly hot, the cut up eggs ; when steaming, poiu’ the contents of your sauce-pan over four nicely fried squares of bread, dust the grated beef over their surfaces and serve at once. The happy owners of dairies to whom cream is not an extraordinary luxury should tiy :— “ Boties des oeufs d la creme,'" which are simply poached226 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. eggs served upon crisply fried toasts, with thick boiling cream poured over them. Woodcock toast is one of the most recherche of all savoury entremets of this class. Numerous recipes are given for it, and its name is distorted by many writers upon cookery, some of whom present it to their readers under the meaningless title of “ Scotch-Woodcock.” In its un- pretending form this toast is exceedingly like one I have already given, viz. :—a better kind of anchovy toast with an egg-cream custard top-dressing, but real “ Woodcock- toast” should be composed as follows ;— Take two freshly boiled fowl’s livers,—[those of a goose, a turkey, or a couple of ducks, are better still, while the remains of eipdte de foie gras are superlatively the be.st]— pound the liver to a paste, mixing with it a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, or the flesh of one flsh pounded, a 'pinch of sugar, plenty of fresh butter, and the yolk of one raw egg ; dust into it a little spiced pepper, pass it through the sieve, and set it aside on a clean plate. Prepare four squares of golden-tinted, crisply-fried, bread, about half an inch thick, spread the liver paste over them and set them in a moderate oven to retain their heat, but not to burn. Now, pour a coffee-cupful of good cream into a sauce-pan, which must either be dipped into a bain-marie, or placed over a very low Are indeed ; stir into it, as it warms, the carefully strained yolks of two i-aw eggs, continue stu’i'ing one way till the cream thickens nicely and is quite hot (without boiling) and poui’ it over your toasts : the egg whites (whisked by an assistant to a stiff froth whilst you were heating and thickening the cream) should be laid on the top of all, and the dish sent up without delay. Or the preparation may be slightly varied as follows :— Fry the toasts, butter them, and set them in a mode- rate oven to keep hot. When heating the cream, stir intoSAVOURY TOASTS. 227 it the liver-paste as well as the raw yollcs of two eggs, and pour it over the toasts as soon as it is quite hot, and thickened sufficiently, capping your dish with the whisked whites. Kidney toast is generally far from being considered a veiy dainty one. Let me suggest two methods, one with the kidneys au naturel, the other made with those which you can cut out of a cold roast saddle :— (a) —Take four ordinary kidneys, and blanch them first of all in scalding water (as recommended in Menu No. 23) then lift them out, and dry them in a cloth. Make a strong broth or gravy out of any bones or scraps you may have, and stew the kidneys therein till they are nice and tender, then take them out, drain them, and pour the gravy in which they were cooked into a bowl. Now, cut up and pound the kidneys to a paste in your mortar with some butter, and pass it through your sieve. When ready, skim any grease that may have risen to the top of your gravy, and take a medium-sized sauce-pan, working as follows :—Melt a dessert-spoonful of butter at the bottom of the sauce-pan, stir into it a dessert-spoonful of flour, when creamy, add by degrees a breakfast-cupful of the gi-avy and lastly, kidney-paste until all is expended : flavour the yuree, with one table-spoonful port wine, one tea-spoonful red currant jelly, one dessert-spoonful anchovy vinegar, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Let the contents of your sauce-pan thicken properly by coming to the boil, and then pour the puree over four squares of hot fried toast. Let there be no delay in serving. If made exactly in this way, this toast will be found an excellent one. (b) —Cut the kidneys out of the cold saddle, together with all the fat belonging to them ; chop up as much fat as there is of kidney meat for the toast, and throw the remairiing fat, freed from all burnt skin, &c., into your228 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. frying-pan: now, fry in the melted fat a large round of bread till it turns a golden yellow, and has sucked up a good deal of the fat. Take it out, place it on a flat silver dish, cover its surface with the chopped pieces of kidney and the fat that you saved, pour the remaining melted fat over it, divide it into poi’tions, and put it in the oven. When quite crisp, and ‘ short,’ serve straightway without fear. Mustard, Nepaul pepper, and salt, should accom- pany, and hot plates should be placed before each guest. Savoury toast made of the remains of cold roast game are delicious. Teal, wild-duck, snipe, quails, and florican; young pea-fowl, spur-fowl, jungle-fowl, and even par- tridges, may be thus presented a second time, forming a kind of rechauffe which rarely fails to be appreciated. The method of preparing a game-toast is somewhat similar to that I have described for “ kidney toast” (a). The cold meat should be picked from the bones, and pounded with a little butter to a paste : the skin and bones (well mashed) should be set to make a good, strong, game-flavoured gravy wherewith to form a thick pwree in conjunction with the pounded meat, the process of blending which is precisely the same as that mentioned in the recipe pre- viously alluded to. Pour the <puree over hot fried toasts, and serve without hesitation. All purees of game composed for toasts should be mixed rather thickly so as to rest upon the toast, and not spread all over the dish. Nepaul pepper, and quarters of limes, should be handed round with them. I have already said that spinach, and other delicate greens—worked up in the form of purees—were very nice if served upon anchovy toast. They make capital toasts alone. A well made pxiree of spinach laid upon a crisply fried, and well buttered toast, is decidedly good; a poach-229 SAVOURY TOASTS. ed egg, or a layer of buttered eggs, can be added, of course, with additional effect. An excellent toast can be made with the tender leaves and stalks of the beetroot. After having been boiled and drained like spinach, they should be chopped up and heated in a sauce-pan with some butter, salt and pepper, and spread upon hot fried toast with as little delay as possible. Country greens, the leaves of the mollay-Tceeratj especially, and (with slight modification according to their peculiarities) nearly all vegetables can be dressed in this manner. Vegetable marrows and cucumbers should be trimmed in neat fillets, their seeds should be cut out, and the pieces thus prepared should be boiled in hot salted water. These may be warmed again in a good sauce blanche or a nice thick brown sauce, laid upon toasts, and sent up. Or they may be heated up in boiling cream, and similarly served. The poiats of asparagus, cauliflower flowers, artichoke bottoms, and similar dainty vegetables, form admirable materials for toasts : they deserve delicate treatment, and can well bear association with thickened cream, veloute au Parmesan, or creme d’anchois, Bande-cai (bJiindi) toast is so well known that I need scarcely do more than mention it, out of respect as it were, for, homely as it is, there are few toasts more palatable. Cream, when it can he spared is, of course, a vast improve- ment, and the following variation will be found nice for a change ;—Boil the bande-cais, and, when cold, scrape out the seeds and pulp from each pod into a small basin, using a silver spoon for the operation. Give the pulp a dusting of white pepper, and salt to taste, with a few drops of anchovy sauce. Ery rounds, or slices of bread, according to the number you want, in butter, and set them to keep crisp, and hot in the oven. Now, take a small sauce-pan, 20230 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. place it in the bain-marie, or over a very moderate fire, melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in it, stir into it the bande- cai pulp, and two good table-spoonfuls of cream with the yolk of one egg. Continue stirring one way until the contents of your sauce-pan look nice and thick, and steam- ing hot; then pour the mixture over the toasts, and serve. A dust of grated Parmesan cheese should be shaken over the surface of the toasts as an embellishment, and Nepaul pepper should he handed round. Very young Brinjals (binegun) may be treated exactly in the same manner as the foregoing, as also the pods of the moringa (“ drum-stick”) tree. Be sure that you select tender, pods for toast-makmg, or the result will disappoint you. A very superior dish of this kind can be concocted if you happen to be able to obtain the flower-pod of a cocoa- nut palm. Treat the buds of the embryo flower which the pod contains as laid down for bande-cai; that is to say, boil the flower, after you have cut it out of the pod, in salt and water till tender, then cut off the buds, and heat them up in a sauce-pan in thickened cream, or in milk thickened with the yolks of two eggs, pour them over hot fried toasts, which should be sent up immediately. The white stalhs of the flower, if quite young, can be served exactly like asparagus, i. e.:—boiled, laid iu a very hot dish, with plenty of butter melting over them, or maitre d'hotel butter if at hand, and assisted by “ Dutch sauce.” No toast is needed in this case. The cocoanut flower-pods can be obtained now and then at Madras, for the toddy-drawers cut them off when tapping the palms for sap. I can strongly recommend my readei's to try both the dishes I have mentioned. Sardine toast, herring toast, cod’s-roe toast, pil- chard TOAST, SALMON TOAST, &c., &c., are all nice, andSAVOURY TOASTS. 231 very easily made. Trim the fish free from oil, skin, fins, bones, &c., and chop it up on a plate, give it a dust of Nepaul pepper, with a very little salt, and knead it up with a little butter. Put a pat of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, proceed as if to make a sauce hlanche with a little milk, incorporate therewith the minced fish, add the yolk of an egg, and when thick enough and thoroughly hot, pour it upon slices of fried toast hot from the pan, and dish up quickly. The cold remains of all fish may be thus satisfactorily disposed of. “ Buttered eggs” go won- derfully well with fish toasts, either laid as a top-dressing over the fish mince, or mingled with it; and hard-boiled eggs may be cut up, and tossed with the fish in the sauce- pan just before serving. Cheese is another valuable ingredient in the hands of the toast-maker. Welsh rarebit, or “ Ramakin toast” as it is called by Ramasamy, is universally familiar to native cooks, and is a dish upon which they generally fall back in an emergency, or when “ Missis din’t give arders” for any anything else. Por a really good Welsh RAREBIT, you should have a sound fresh cheese, not over- strong, and proceed thus ;—Grate two ounces of the cheese, mix with it an ounce of butter, a dessert-spoonful of made- mustard, a little salt, a pinch of Nepaul pepper, and the yolks of two eggs. Mix well together in a basin, and work the mixture thoroughly smooth. Toast a couple of neat slices of bread very carefully, butter them on both sides, place them on a dish that will stand the oven, spread the cheese mixture over them pretty thickly, and bake for ten minutes. If you want a smooth yellow surface, neither too brown nor dry, place your toasts in a buttered pie-dish, and spread a sheet of common white paper over them : after ten minutes baking in a really hot oven, they will be ready, so remove the paper and serve forthwith. A good plain Cheese toast, made as follows, is not toCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 232 be despised:—Cut a few very tbin slices of a nice fresh cheese, or grate two ounces of a hard dry one: put the cheese upon a small well buttered baking tin, and place it in the oven; watch it carefully, and when it begins to dissolve, stir some butter into it, gpve it a dust of Nepaul pepper, and serve it upon crisply fried toasts quickly. To make a very toothsome cheese toast in the dining room I have found the following method successful. Take two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and mingle with it a des- sert-spoonful of mustard powder, a piuch of salt and dust of Nepaul pepper. Light a spirit lamp, and, in a little frying-pan placed over it, melt a dessert-spoonful of butter (tinned butter does capitally) ; when melted, shake evenly over the butter the powdered cheese, and stir well. As soon as the cheese looks creamy, stop, and pour it over some hot buttered toast brought in on the instant from the verandah. Mock crab toast.—This variety of Welsh rarebit is generally popular. Pound two ounces of cheese with a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a dessert-spoonful of made-mustard, and one of vinegar, a pinch of Nepaul pep- per, and a little salt, the yolks of two eggs, and a table- spoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly in a basin, and pro- ceed as directed for Welsh rarebit. A toast that might correctly bear the name of “ Rame- quin” is to be composed as follows :—Make the mixturO" exactly as laid down for “ Bamequins en caisses,” Chapter 24, and put it upon very carefully fried toasts, which should be aiTanged upon a silver dish, and baked for ten minutes, or until the cheese dressings on the toasts rise in the manner of fondues. If sei’ved at the nick of time, these little toasts will be found very good. Never use a rich ripe cheese, or one that is beginning to show the lovely tins of honorable age, in cookery. A233 SAVOURY TOASTS. little mildew from damp,in your bottle of grated Par- mesan, remember, will ruin any disb in which it may he used afterwards. Choose a good, fresh, hard, dry cheese, of a mild family, for toasts, &c.: between ourselves, indeed, I know of no more useful domestic sort than the round Butch. It is a cheap cheese, and inclined to be saltish in taste, but that is. of no consequence in cookery; all you have to do is to omit the item of salt mentioned in the recipe you may have selected. ‘ Dutch cheese’ grates easily, and is rarely inclined to mouldiness. Next to Par- mesan, I would sooner use it than any of the other com- monly imported kinds. I may have omitted a few good toasts in this chapter, I hope, however, that I have given several that will prove acceptable.4 :2s::2s:i‘v. Eggs, Maccaroni, and Cheese. Tt^TNDER tlie title wliicli I have selected for this chap- ter, I propose to place before you a few dishes of a savoury nature, some of which will be found, I think, suitable for the breakfast, or luncheon table, and some of them worthy of a place as entremets in the choicest of dinner menus. Although many people must be aware that there are numerous ways of cooking eggs nicely, why is it that so few attempt to go beyond the ordinary methods which have obtained in English kitchens since good King Arthur ruled the land ? It is the same with maccaroni: how rare a thing it is to see that most invaluable article of food dressed otherwise than in the time-honoured baking-dish. And, in the many uses of cheese, what ignorance we betray! Whether taken independently, and made the most of alone, or combined together, and treated in some artistic fashion, we possess ■ in these three things the ele- ments of certain dainty dishes which, in their Avay, are excellent. Singularly adapted to the climate in which we spend our exile, and inexpensive, they are at the same time invested with a certain amount of refinement that to many people is no slight recommendation. The accessories which arc more or less necessary in this branch of cookery arc :—good butter, cream occasionally,EGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. 235 a little clear gravy, herbs and onion as used for omelette making, the tomato, cold vegetables, and carefnlly sifted bread-crumbs. The remains of fish, game, and poultry; grated ham, corned beef, and tongue, and slices of saus- ages, may be also occasionally made use of by an ingenious cook. Let ns first consider a few ways of serving eggs :— “ (E%ifs sur le plat” :—This simple, yet capital method of doing eggs in a hurry, should be noted. Melt a table- spoonful of butter in an omeZeWe-pan, and slip two eggs into it, carefully avoiding breaking the yolks ; let them set in the butter, as a poached egg sets in water; the moment they are sufficiently firm, let them slide off into the hot dish ready to receive them, pouring the butter in which they were cooked over them. Put in the eggs the moment the butter melts ; for, when first they go in, the pan should not be too hot: a drop or two of tarragon vinegar may be shaken over the dished eggs, or a tiny bit of maitre d’hotel butter the size of a pea may be allowed to melt over each of them. If after dishing the eggs, you return the pan to the fire, and brown the butter before pouring it over them, you have “ ceufs au beurre noir.” Eggs broken gently over very thin shavings of cheese, (which have been placed in melted butter in an omelette- pan over the fire) and allowed to set, are called “ ceufs au fromaga”: they should be dusted with pepper, and salt before serving. I have frequently mentioned “ buttered-eggs”* in con- nection with fish, vegetable cookery, and toasts. By some, the dish is called “ scrambled eggs,” which is perhaps the more accurate title, being a translation of the French ‘ (eufs brouilles,’ the name given to it by our “ lively neighbours.” Do not forget the many ways in which you may serve this composition, and proceed to make it thus : * The “ ruvihled eggs” of Eamasauij'.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 236 Break three eggs into a bowl with a salt-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of cream or of milk, and a dust of pepper : mix them well: melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in your omeZe^ie-pan : pour in your mixture, stir it about unceasingly until it is lightly set, and turn it out. Tomato pulp may be mixed with the eggs, and any nice meat such as ham, tongue, corned beef, game, &c., may be minced up, and added to them. The cream is by no means necessary, neither is the milk, but with the poor eggs of the Indian fowl, I think the assistance they give is very perceptible. By adding grated cheese you have “ oeufs hrouilles fromage“ asparagus peas,” and truffles are also grand additions recommended by Gouffe. ^People who do not dislike the flavour of the onion will find their “ buttered eggs” improved if a few thin slices of white onion be fried in the butter before the egg mixture is poured into it. Remember that oeufs hrouilles are served in France in the same way as an omelette, i.e., spread upon a hot dish alone or above a puree of vegetable. Many people think that the composition should be associated with toast, and nothing else. “ CEufs au jus":—Suppose that you have a nice break- fast-cupful of gravy saved from the joint which was served at last night’s dinner. Choose a little pie-dish, and pour some of the gravy into it, so as to cover the bottom well; flavour it with a little minced shallot, or any sweet herb, set it in the oven, and when it is hot, break into it as many eggs as will fill the dish nicely without crowding; shake some bread-crumbs over the eggs, and some little pieces of minced anchovy, or the remains of any cold fish ; return the dish to the oven for three or four minutes, so that its contents may partly set; then pour the rest of the gravy evenly over the surface, add another layer of fine237 EGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. crumbs, and bake for five or six minutes. Be careful not to let the eggs harden. “ (Eufs a la Stiisse”:—Choose a shallow pie-dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom of the dish a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of well grated cheese a quarter of an inch deep : if wide enough to hold them without crowding, slip in one by one as carefully as you can,—to avoid brealdng a single yolk,—six eggs; give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and gently pour a little more cream over the surface, coating it over again with grated cheese. Let the dish remain in the oven until the eggs are set without being hard,—the time will depend upon the state of the oven,— brown the surface by passing a red hot iron backwards and forwards over it, about an inch above the cheese, and serve. The cream should be really thick and rich, or the effect of the little entremets will be “ poor indeed.” This dish may be added to by first placing a layer of previously boiled maccaroni in the pie-dish, the cream being poured over it, then the cheese, and so on. “ (Eufs au gratin:—Butter the bottom of a pie-dish previously well rubbed with shallot, and line it with some maccaroni already boiled in milk, pour round it half a pint of sauce blonde in which you have dissolved some grated Parmesan, or other mild well-rasped cheese, and upon that dispose a complete layer of hard-boiled eggs, sliced. A finely minced anchovy should be sprinkled over the eggs with pepper and salt or, better still, with a judicious dress- ing of “spiced salt” (q. v., page 111) for seasoning; and then a nice coating of bread-crumbs, and grated cheese mixed in equal proportions : drop a number of little bits of butter the size of a pea over the surface, and bake the dish till the top takes a golden brown tint. Slices of tomato, drained of their watery juice, and with their seeds picked out, may be laid upon the egg, or thin slices of 21238 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Bologna sausage ; and muslirooms, or truffle trimmings, may be chopped up, and sprinkled over them : there is obviously ample scope for culinary ingenuity in the enrich- ment of “ mufs au gratin.” CEufs farcis” :—Boil six eggs for half an houi-, take them out, and plunge them into cold water. When quite cold, peel off their shells, and, with a dessert-knife nibbed in butter, divide each egg in half, slicing a little piece of the rounded ends to admit of each half sitting upright upon a dish : now pick out the yolks, pound them with butter in a mortar, and proceed to dress them with any tasty trifles at your command, season the composition deli- cately, and fill the egg cases therewith, trimming the farce neatly, with a dessert-knife dipped in melted butter, in a convex-shape over each case,—for there will be more than enough mixtui’e to merely fill each cavity. For th.e farce, you can use finely minced olives, capers, anchovies, mush- rooms, and truffles ; very finely grated ham, the bruised liver of a chicken, the remains of a pate de foie gras, or a little sausage meat. A judicious selection of two or three of these ingredients, seasoned with “ spiced pepper” is what you require,—say, one tea-spoonful of mixed farce to each half yolk. Having dressed your cases to your mind, fry a little square of bread for each one, as for canapes (q. V.) and place them thex’eon : arrange them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, pour a little melted butter over each egg, and bake for five minutes. Some nicely fried bread-crumbs may be strewn over the dish when going to table. Eggs may, of course, be served in this manner very plainly farcis : a little minced curled parsley or marjoram, with a pounded anchovy, and some chopped olive, for instance, would not be a bad mixture when work- ed up with the hard yolks. CEufs farcis ai’c dclicioixs when served cold, in whichEGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. 239 form they should be sent up prettily garnished with curled parsley ujjon a flat China dish. Hard-boiled eggs may be fricasseed, or gently heated up, in a rich sauce like veloxcte, Hspagnole, or poulette ; and those who do not object to fried onions, might do worse than concoct a dish with their assistance in this way : “ CEufs aux oignons” :—Slice up a good sized Bombay onion, and fry the rings in a table-spoonful of butter till they are nice and yellow, add a little flour to the butter, and when it is mixed, pour in a breakfast-cupful of cream or fresh milk : give this a dusting with salt and “ spiced pepper,” and put into the sauce four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices ; simmer the sauce-pan till its contents are thoroughly hot, and serve garnished with curls of crisply fried bacon, alternated with neatly cut pieces of fried bread. If you stir a table-spoonful of good curry powder and a salt-spoonful of sugar into the melted butter and onions before adding the flour and cream, and cut the eggs in halves only, lengthwise, the dish will be “ cezt/s a VIndienne.” Plainly poached eggs served on toast, with this cm-ry sauce poured over them, are very nice, and more digestible than the hard boiled. ^ Supposing that you desire to err on the side of studied simplicity, cut four hard-boiled eggs in halves, trim them like ‘ oeufs farcis” to stand upright, set them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, and bake them until quite hot, then serve with a cap of maitre d’hotel butter, prawn butter (or any fancy butter left from last night’s dinner) meltino- over each half egg. The error will be pardonable. ^ ^^(Eufs aux topinambours"-.—This delicious entremets should be prepared in this wise :-Choosc four good sizedCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 240 Jerusalem artichokes, trim, boil, and set them to cool ; take four hard-boiled eggs, and cut them in halves ; out of the artichokes prepare eight flat slices, and place half an egg upon each slice with the rounded end uppermost: set them on a buttered dish, heat them thoroughly in the oven, and just before serving, pour over them some thickly worked “ veloute au Parmesan,” or some melted maitre d’hotel butter. A dusting of “ spiced salt” should be given on taking the eggs from the oven. This entremets is nicer still with artichoke bottoms,—the leafy kind, and with ceufs farcis instead of plain hard- boiled eggs. Maccaroni, and the numerous varieties of the Italian paste family of which it is the best known member, should invariably be plunged into boiling water to commence with—no matter whether you intend to cook them in milk, or stock, afterwards—in order to rid them of the imper- ceptible dirt which clings to them. Remember that mac- caroni is a much handled comestible, and that washing it in water is not enough. I adverted to this when speaking of soups (page 34), and described how the cleansing can alone be effected. Besides, maccaroni must not be wetted to begin with by any liquid not boiling. Mark these golden rules :—“ Washing maccai’oni is use- less and unnecessary, putting it to cook in cold water is a blunder, soaking it is a crime.” Treat it as our native cooks do rice,—here let me yield to Ramasamy, or his tunnycutch (?) the praise that either he, or she, deserves, and throw it into plenty of boiling water, test it occasion- ally with a fork, as soon as it is nice and tender, stop the boiling by a dash of cold water, lift the vessel, and drain it completely, retuiming the maccaroni to the hot pan. If you want to cook Italian pastes in milk or stock,241 EGGS, M ACC ARON I, AND CHEESE. wliichever you use sliould be boiling : parboil the paste in boiling water for five minutes to clean it, drain it carefully, and turn it into the stock or milk also boiling as the case may be to finish cooking. The accepted form of serving maccaroni with English- men is either swimming in white sauce round a boiled fowl, or turkey, or in a pie-dish “ att gratin.” In the former fashion it is generally presented in such a flabby, tasteless manner, that the general unpopularity of Italian pastes may be easily accounted for. The “ au gratin” is better understood perhaps, but even there, there is room for improvement. “ Maccaroni an, gratin —Fii’st boil the maccaroni as I have laid down, if in milk or stock, so much the better. Well butter a pie-dish, arrange the maccaroni therein neatly, give it a dusting with black pepper and salt, pour roimdit a large cupful of good sauce blonde (q. v., page 82) in which you have mixed two ounces of grated cheese : let this run well in amongst the bed of maccaroni, and shake over the surface a liberal coating of grated cheese. Make this thoroughly hot, in the oven, brown the surface of the cheese by passing a hot iron about half an inch above it, and send it up. Maccaroni “ au gratin” should be nice and moist: you can use cream instead of sauce blonde if you like, and tomato 'puree may be introduced in its composition. A little minced fish such as herring, prawns, lobster, or anchovy, may bo dotted about amongst the maccaroni, and with minced ham and chicken, or tongue and chicken, you can make a capital home-dinner entree, following in other respects the ordinary recipe. “Maccaroni d i’I^aKenne” will be found in Chapter XIX, (page 189). “Maccaroni d la Milanaise,” another excellent method.242 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. may be described as follows Boil two ounces of macca- roni, and keep it bot in its own pan after draining. Make a breakfast-cupful of good chicken broth flavoured with an onion, sweet herbs, and black pepper corns. With that make a nice “ veloute au fromage” in this way;—Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a dessert-spoon- ful of flour, mix them to a paste, and by degrees pour in the hot chicken broth; as this is thickening, add to it two ounces of gi’ated cheese, or Parmesan from the bottle, a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard, salt, and “ spiced pep- pex',” at discretion; continue to stir the sauce until it reaches a creamy thickness, when you can finish it off the fire by a table-spoonful of cream, or the yolks of two raw . eggs beaten separately. Now, stir the sauce into the hot boiled maccaroni, and serve immediately. The association of tomatoes with maccaroni seems to be as happy as that of green peas with a duckling, egg sauce with saltfish, or red ciu’rant jelly with a well hung saddle. These vegetables are generally applied in the form of puree, to achieve which you must cut them into quarters, trim them from stalk, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with an ounce of butter, and one onion sliced in rings, a few pepper corns, three cloves of garlic, a tea-spoonful of dried basil, and a little salt; boil till the quarters are quite soft, and then turn the contents of the sauce-pan out upon a hair sieve. Let the watery part escape, you do not want it, and when thus drained, pick out the garlic, and pepper corns, and rub the vegetable through the sieve with a wooden spoon : the pulp that comes through,—well pep- pered with black pepper,—must be heated again with a lump of butter and a little flour before it is mixed with the maccaroni. Maccaroni with “ co?iserva di pomi d’oro” is an Italian delicacy. The conserva is, as may readily be supposed, a rcgulax’ jam made by reducing a good quantity of the paresEGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. 243 aforesaid in a sauce-pan over the fire, stii-ring it without ceasing until it attains the consistency of thin paste. This well seasoned with salt and pepper may he preserved in bottles, and if securely corked, and waxed, will keep well. During then’ season, tomatoes absolutely rot in the ground in many a private garden in this Presidency; why permit such waste ? the trouble of making a few bottles of this conserve would be amply repaid in the hot weather when the plants have died down. A spoonful or two of the preserve, thinned with a very little stock, and with a pat of butter worked into it, would, at all times, be handy for dressing maccaroni. A dusting of finely grated cheese should, of course, accompany it. Here is a ‘ foreign composition’ which I commend to the attention of those who like Italian cookery :—Mince a couple of cloves of garlic, a shallot, three anchovies, boned and well wiped from the tin oil, and four olives, put the mince into a small sauce-pan with three table- spoonfuls of the best salad oil, boil till the bits of garlic and onion begin to brown, and then turn the mixture into a sauce-pan containing a large dish of hot-boiled macca- roni, stir it well, and serve. An Italian cook would probably put in half a dozen, or more, cloves of garlic : in the proportions I have given, however, I do not think the taste of the bulb will be considered more prononce than it is in chutneys, and numerous dishes made in India which we eat without murmuring. Several dishes will be found in my 5»e?msin which mac- caroni figures, for I have the highest opinion of its merits in savoury cookery. The rules I have given will, I think, be found reliable with respect to all kinds of Italian paste. Lasagne, Cctnnelli, Alostacciuoli, ^"c., and I sincerely hope that what I have said may be the means of drawing my readers attention to a comestible Avhich deserves far greater consideration than Englishmen, as a rule, bestow244 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. upon it. An inexpensive article of food which, with a little study, may be made a luxury, is surely a thing that the banished lover of good things can ill afford to despise. I think I am right in saying that there are very few establishments in India in which a day passes without the preparation of rice for the table. It is, as a rule, served plainly boiled, and in that form can rarely be found fault with. Friend Ramasamy commits, as I have endeavoured on several occasions to point out, mistakes of divers kinds, and of various degrees in the scale of culinary atrocities, but failure in the cooking of rice is certainly not one of them. Having at our command, then, a species of farina- ceous food, cheap, nutritive, of excellent quality, and which our cooks can dress to perfection, do we take full advantage of the many opportunities we possess of develop- in£T its resoui’ces ? I am inclined to think that we do not. I have therefore introduced the subject in close connection with maccaroni advisedly, for it will be seen that in the better treatment of rice, the laws that govern the cookery of Italian pastes are often similar. The boiling of rice is, as I have said, a matter of no difficulty to us in India. The native cook thoroughly understands the process, and invariably, I may say, sends an inviting looking dish to the table in which each grain appears to have been cooked independently, snowy white in appearance, and free from impurities of all kinds. A sodden mass of “ stodgy” rice as dressed by Mary Jane in England is a thing unknown to the Anglo-Indian Exile. There are, however, some who may like to know.how the task is performed, so for their benefit here is the recipe;— Having thoroughly sifted, and cleansed the rice, cast it into boiling water with a pinch of sugar, a salt-spoonful245 EGGS, MACCARONl, AND CHEESE. of salt, and the juice of a quarter of a lime. Stir the grains as they are cooking with a wooden spoon every now and then, and in about twelve minutes test them by taking of few grains out of the water, and pinching them between the finger and thumb. As soon as the- grain is tender, check the boiling by a dash of cold water, remove the vessel from the fire, and invert it, holding the rice securely -svith the lid yet leaving space enough for the escape of the water. W^hen quite dry, re-invert the pan, shaking the well drained grains of rice in the hot vessel in which they were cooked. Lastly, cover the pan with a clean cloth, and let it rest on the hot-plate, or over a very low fire to complete the drying. After this, the rice will be ready and may either be sent up as it is, or dressed accord- ing to one of the following recipes :— Biz d la NapoUlaiiie:—Empty the well boiled rice into a hot sauce-pan with plenty of butter: stir till thoroughly hot and well lubricated, add tomato pulp enough to moisten the whole nicely, and finish with finely grated Parmesan, Gruyere, or other mild dry cheese. Serve piping hot. When lifted with the fork, the grains of rice should carry with them long strings or tendrils of melted cheese as in the case of Maccaroni d V Italienne. Biz d r Italienne:—Melt an ounce of butter at the bot- tom of a sauce-pan which ought to have been previously well rubbed with a piece of garlic; shred an onion the size of a racquet ball very finely and fry it in the butter; stir into this, when of a golden yellow colour, two breakfast- cupfuls of well boiled rice; work it vigorously with a wooden spoon while an assistant shakes into the pan a couple of heaped up table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Gruy&re; garnish the dish with strips of anchovies, and serve it piled upon a fiat dish. Biz d la honne femvie :—As the foregoing, but stirring 22CULINARY yOTTlNGS FOR MADRAS. 24G into the mixture some finely rasped ham, or corned beef, and garnishing with curls of crisply fried bacon. Tliz a, V Indienne :—Commence as laid down for riz d V Italienne using, plenty of good butter. Omit the tomato pulp, and instead of the grated cheese, stir in a table-spoon- ful of well made currypowder, and garnish with prawns that have been tossed in butter with a pinch of safEron. Biz au cliou:—Boil some rice as for the above, and keep it ready in a dish. Cut up the heart of a tender cabbage (a ‘ savoy,’ or ‘sugar-loaf,’ for instance). Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a roomy stew-pan, cast into it a finely shred Bombay onion, and two cloves of garlic minced as small as possible: let the onion turn yellow, and then put in the shred cabbage, stir it about for three minutes with the butter and onions, and then pour over it enough broth or consomme to keep it from burning: stew gently now until the cabbage is cooked, then add the rice which should be vigorously stirred about for five minutes with the cabbage. The dish is now ready. Turn it out upon a flat dish, and smother it with grated cheese. A slice of nice bacon may, with advantage, be cooked with the cab- bage ; it should be cut into dice, and put in with the butter[and onion. For an ordinary head of cabbage, three breakfast-cupfuls of rice will be found enough. Biz d la Turque :—In this, and in the following cases, the rice is not wholly boiled beforehand. Put into a sauce- pan six coffee-cupfuls of broth or consomme into which sufficient tomato pulp has been stiiTed to slightly thicken it, flavour this with salt and black pepper to taste, and set the sauce-pan on the fire. As soon as the liquid boils, cast into it three coffee-cupfuls of well cleansed raw rice. Reduce the heat, and let the rice stew gently in the tomato-flavoured gravy. As the rice cooks it will absorb the liquid : watch it narrowly, and as soon as it has suckedEGGS, MACCARONI, AND CHEESE. 247 up the whole of it, stir into it an ounce of fresh butter. Just before serving, a dust of nutmeg should be added, and some raisins carefully picked and cleaned may be thrown in as a garnish. Another method Biz d la Milanaise, is to parboil the rice for five minutes, and then to fry it in butter with a shred onion until it begins to take colour. After that to add stock without tomato, but coloured with saffron. When the rice is cooked, the gravy may be thickened with flour, and the whole served hot with grated Parmesan. Some, in this case, add the stock by degrees, allowing the rice to drink it up as it were. As this process is conduct- ed, the grains gradually distend, and when ready to burst are fit to serve. No thickened gravy is served with this,—the true risotto of Italy,—but a pat of butter is melted among the grains, while Parmesan is liberally dusted over them. Biz d la menagere .—For this excellent plat, wash-and blanch six ounces of rice in boiling water for five minutes using a roomy stew-pan; cool and drain it on a sieve. Weigh a quarter of a pound of the best streaky bacon, dip it into scalding water for- a couple of minutes, and then cut it into inch dice. Pry these in a stew-pan till they turn yellow, add the rice, and a pint and a half of broth, with a salt-spoonful of pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring the rice every now and then to prevent its catching at the bottom of the pan. Now take it off the fire, and add half a pint of tomato puree or sauce. Mix thoroughly, and put the rice on a dish. Garnish with sausages, curls of fried bacon, croquettes of fish, or any savoury mixture you like, worked into small shapes, and tried a golden yellow. A little consideration of these recipes will, I think show what a useful article of food rice may be made. In select- ing a recipe remember that raw rice of a good quality248 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. swells to four times its original bulk when boiled. It therefore requires plenty of water when undergoing that process. Carolina rice takes even a deeper bath than Patna. Two quarts of water to six ounces is a good proportion for the latter, and an extra pint for the same weight of the former. The dash of lime oi* lemon juice produces whiteness. The immediate checking of ebulli- tion as soon as the grains are tender causes that dis- integration of the grains which is a sine qua non in well boiled rice. Indian corn (mdis) may be dressed with tomato pulp and grated cheese in the style of maccaroni a Vltalienne, or riz d la NapoUtaine. The “ FONDUE,” or “ cheese soujle,” is the dish par excel- lence of which, when successfully made, the good cook has just cause to be proud. It requires the most delicate management, and an atom will ruin the undertaking, for with all souffles, to fall short of perfection means failure. Pi’actice and experience go a long way towards turning out this piece de resistance satisfactorily, it is nevertheless one of those things in which the best hand may occasion- ally err; so, for a dinner party, beware of placing too great confidence in it, have another dish ready to go round in case the fondue fail to “ come off,” and do not enter it in your menu. Here is the best recipe I ever read for this dish :— “ Melt an ounce of butter in an enamelled sauce-pan, and stir into it a table-spoonful of flour. When the two are well amalgamated, put in a breakfast-cupful of hot milk, and about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture on a vei’y slow fire till it assumes the appearance of thick cream, and beware of its becoming too hot, or boiling, for that would be fatal. Now, put in one249 EGGS, M ACC ARON I, AND CHEESE. clove of garlic, a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, a dash of grated nutmeg, and some black pepper. Mix tborougbly, and if upon tasting you find that it is required, add a little salt. Keep on stm-ing the mixture at a very moderate heat for quite ten minutes, then remove the garlic, take the sauce-pan from the fire, stirring occasionally till the contents are nearly cold, then add the yolks of four eggs previously beaten up with a table-spoonful of milk, and well strained; mix well; lastly, incorporate swiftly with the mixture the whites of five eggs beaten to a froth, pour this into a deep round tin, and put it into the oven which must not be too hot. From twenty to thirty minutes baking will make the fondue ready for the table, to which it must be quickly sent, in its tin, with a napkin folded round it.”—(Gr. 0.) If the early stage of preparing the fondue mixture were conducted in the hain-marie-^a,n, there would be no risk of overheating it. A simpler recipe by the same author runs as follows :— Make a thickish paste in a sauce-pan with milk and flour, taking care that it is quite smooth : add to, and thoroughly mix with it as much grated cheese as you have used flotu’, and a little over, a small quantity of salt, a little flour of mustard, and some pepper. Beat up, if you have used as much as a pint of milk for the paste, three or four eggs. Incorporate them with the paste, then fill a tin, or° a number of small cases with it, bake a nice brown colour and serve. Brillat Savarin made a great fuss about his ‘^fondue” but the dish he concocted was simply “ oeufs hrouilUs au fromage." The modern '^fondue" must be baked. “ Bameqmns" or little fondues of cheese, are invariably popular. They are not hard to make : I choose a simple recipe which runs thus ;-Put one ounce of butter in aCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 250 roomy sauce-pan, with a quarter of a pint of water, a pinch of salt, and a dust of black pepper; boil it, and add two ounces of flour. Stir over the Are for four minutes, aud then mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan, and two eggs, one after the other. Put the paste thus formed on a buttered-baking sheet in lumps the size of a hen’s egg, flatten them slightly, brush them over with an egg, hake in the oven, and serve on a napkin very hot. “ Ramequins en caisses'’:—Take two ounces of mild grated cheese, and two ounces of white bread-crumbs; soak the crumbs in milk, and pound them in a mortar with the cheese, and a little butter, till the whole is well mixed; now season the mixture with pepper and salt, add- ing a tea-spoonful of mustard powder, and the yolks of three eggs. Finally beat up the egg whites to a stiff froth, mingle it with the mixture, and fill your paper cases, which should be well buttered to prevent their burning outside, or “ catching” the fondue within: hake them from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, and serve them as soon as they have raised their heads, and have slightly taken colour. Beignets d la PignatelU:—Put one pint of water in a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of butter, season with salt and pepper; boil, and add four aud a half ounces of flour, and one ounce of grated Parmesan. Stir over the fire for three minutes, then add sufficient eggs to turn the mixture to a smooth paste. Add to the paste one ounce of lean cooked ham finely chopped. When mixed, form the paste into fritters, and fry in plenty of hot fat. “ Beignets souffles au Parmesan” will be found elsewhere, and several dishes demanding cheese amongst the menus. JJ.B.—The best flour for fondues and souffles is potato flour, a recipe for which will be found in the menus. China souffle cases are nicer than paper ones.4— Notes on the Curing of Meat. different occasions in tMs work I have spoken of home-cured tongues, I now take the opportunity of jotting down a recipe for that useful operation, adding a few remarks upon salt meat which I think will he found useful. The general rules of this branch of kitchen work may be given as follows :— For salting purposes you should procure a wooden tub sufficiently large to hold a hump, a brisket of beef, or a fair sized leg of mutton. You cannot commence operations too soon in this cli- mate ; the fresher the meat for pickling, the better. Rub the meat, after having cleaned and carefully wiped it, with salt, &c., at once, and take great pains that no part is omitted: all indentations, and holes caused by skewers, should be scrupulously salted. If you keep the meat in brine, see that it is frequently turned, and basted. A common syringe is a capital thing to use for salting work,—especially for large joints,—squirt the brine all over the meat, penetrating all cavities and chinks. A good pickle brine need not be wasted: after you and of252 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. have cured one joint, boil the liquid up again, skimming off the scum, add a little saltpetre, salt, &c., and it will be fit to receive another piece of meat. Let us now proceed to cure a tongue of from three to four pounds weight. For which the following ingredients must be prepared;— Best bazar salt u lb. Saltpetre ....1 oz. Bay-salt (Ind-oopoo) 1 Spiced pepper ....1 >> Moist sugar 5 The juice of three limes and a sherry-glass of good vinegar; or, if no limes be procurable, two glasses of vinegar. First, rub the tongue—after cleansing and wiping it thoroughly—with the bazar salt and “ spiced pepper the operation will expend about a quarter of a pound of the former. When satisfactorily salted, put the tongue aside, and let it drain for the rest of the day to get rid of any blood that it may still contain. After rubbing in the salt, proceed to make the brine as follows :—Take a roomy enamelled sauce-pan and put in- to it the remaining bazar salt (about a pound) the bay- salt, saltpetre, the lime juice, and vinegar, and a pint and a half of cold water. Boil these over a low fii’e, removing all scum as it rises, when clear of scum and well boiled, the liquor may be set to get cold. Make a separate syrup with the sugar, diluting it with water in a small sauce-pan, and heating it gently till free from scum and smooth, then let it get cold. When the salt liquor and syrup are cold, they should be amalgamated, the work being done with a wooden spoon, and the brine being then completed should be poui’ed into the tub.253 NOTES ON THE CURING OF MEAT. The tongue, having been drained for six or eight hours, should be placed in the brine in the evening, where it ought to remain for a couple of days, being frequently turned over and basted during that period. On the evening of the second day’s soaking, the tongue must be di’ained from the brine, and then hung to dry in the smoke of the kitchen fire for a couple of days, after which it may be considered fit to use. Wrap it in paper during the smoking stage, and soak it a little before cook- ing in cold water. The above process can, of course, be depended upon for preserving tongues for much longer periods. I can recom- mend it to sportsmen who, after killing deer or bison in the jungle, hardly know what to do with the good meat thrown upon their hands. A brine tub for tongues and humps would not seriously increase their impedimenta, and a moderately quick servant could soon master the secret of curing. Artificial smoking can easily be manag- ed out in camp, and the ingredients I have named can be carried out of cantonment without much trouble. Never mind if a tongue seem to shrivel up after the smoking- stage; after the soaking which it must receive before cooking, it will revive wonderfully, and regain its original proportions. A tongue that has merely lain in brine for a couple of days may be cooked at once without smoking; soaking is then unnecessary; but a well smoked tongue requkes soakmg, according to the degree of dryness it may have attained, from two hours upwards. Tongues have an annoying habit of curling themselves round, contracting, that is to say, as they get cold after cooking. To combat this unsightliness, and straighten he tongue, Ramasamy is wont to thrust a good thick wooden skewer straight through it from end to end, which 23254 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. he withdraws before sending the dish to table, the conse- quence of which is that you find a strange ugly cavity in the centre of the tongue which spoils every slice you cut from it. If you want to straighten a tongue properly, you must place it upon a clean board,—the lid of a pack- ing case for instance,—in the position in which tongues are always presented to you in England; pin it down to the board by driving a strong steel carving fork through the root end, stretch it straight, and secure the tip by a sharp skewer also driven into the board: support the tongue in shape by weights on either side, and over the top of it, and let it get cold. When quite cold, you may release it, glaze it, let the glaze set, and then serve the tongue. “ Glaze" is not difficult to achieve if proper care be exercised during its making. Ton must boil down some clear strong gravy, like that laid down for “ aspic jelly,” and reduce it until it begins to thicken sufficiently to coat the spoon with which you are stirring it. Constant stir- ring is downright essential to prevent the glaze sticking to the bottom of the sauce-pan, and burning. As soon as satisfied with its consistency, pour it into a small jar. When cold, the glaze will solidify like hard jelly. When required for use, place the jar in which you have set it in the hain-marie and let the jelly melt; then dip a brush into it, and paint the surface of the tongue, or j oint, over thoroughly; when dry, the appearance will be that of a clear varnish. Colour the gravy beforehand with caramel according to the tint required. To cure a hump, brisket, aitch-bone, or piece of the silver side of beef, proceed as recommended for the tongue; you will probably require double the quantity of ingre- dients, but the principles are the same. Smoking is, of course, not wanted, and the joint can be lifted from the brine on the fourth day and cooked ; scarcely any soakingNOTES ON THE CURING OF MEAT. 255 will be then necessary. Syringe the brine well into the meat during the pickling period, and turn it frequently. A “ mutton ham” is a capital thing for rough travelling times, the meat should be cured exactly as the joints of beef just spoken of. “ Spiced ieef” is an excellent thing in its turn. Choose a nice brisket, or a fleshy piece of the flank for this opera- tion. Remove all bones. Rub the joint well with salt, and let it lie in the brine already described for about two days. Then spread it out flat, dry it, and lay a coating of the following spices over the inside (in the same manner as you would spread jam over the paste before making a rolypoly pudding) :—half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of pepper corns (ground), half an ounce of mace, a table- spoonful of finely minced parsley, half one of marjoram, the chopped rind of a nice yellow lime, peeled very finely, and a dust of Nepaul pepper : roll up the brisket and tie it tightly with a string. Stew it patiently until tender ; set it, when done, under a weight; when cold, remove the string, trim the joint neatly, glaze it, and when the glaze is dry, the beef may be considered ready for the table. A couple of glasses of Madeira mixed with the liquor in which the beef is cooked will improve the flavour greatly. Pressed heef should come to table in a rectangular shape : saltpetre is not wanted in its curing as we do not require the red colour which is generally liked in humps, briskets, &c. Choose a nice fleshy piece of the flank, with fat and lean, pretty equally balanced. Rub it carefully with salt, and “ spiced pepper,” and let it rest in brine (without saltpetre) for forty-eight hours : then drain it dry, wip6 it, and stew it gently till nice and tender. When done, set it on a dish with a weight above it, and let it get quite cold. The weight must then be removed, and the joint must be neatly trimmed in a rectangular256 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. form with a sharp knife. Its surface having been glazed, nothing remains to he done in the kitchen. “ Ox-head brawn” is not to be despised by dwellers in the plains to whom pork is denied. Skin and clean an ox- head, or purchase one already skinned : split it in two, cut out the eyes, break the bones of the jaws, remove the brains, and let the whole soak for an hour or two in cold water. Then put it into a stew-pan with water enough to cover it. Boil very slowly, and then add vegetables and flavouring as if for soup; when the meat is quite tender, and you can pick the bones away from it easily, strain the meat from the broth, and vegetables, free it from every fragment of bone, and cut up the meat whilst it is hot and juicy, era masse rather small, seasoning it with salt and “ spiced pepper” whilst doing so. If you have no spiced pepper, mix a table-spoonful of powdered dried thyme and marjoram blended, with a tea-spoonful of pep- per, and dust it freely into the meat: when seasoned well, cut up, and mixed, press the meat tightly down in a round brawn tin, and let it get cold. After which it can be turned out whole, and sliced for breakfast or lunch. The broth in which the meat was stewed should be blended with the soup stock for it will be gelatinous and strong, the proper basis in fact for a good “ mock turtle.” An excellent “ brawn” can be made with an ox-head, a well cured tongue, and a thick slice of bacon cut into dice. Stew the ox-head as in the foregoing recipe, and boil the tongue, cut up both with the bacon whilst they are quite hot, season as before explained, stir the chopped meats well together, press the whole tightly down in a brawn tin, and let it remain three or four hours with a heavy weight above it. When required, dip the tin into hoi? water to loosen the sides of the brawn, and it will slip out fully formed, and ready for the table. Minced ham, bacon lean, or Bologna sausage, may be257 NOTES ON THE CURING OF MEAT. sprinkled in "witli tlie seasoning. Be careful to cut up and work your brawn together whilst the meat is quite hot. Unless this he done, the brawn will not solidify satisfactorily. Turn the meat into the tin as soon as you can. Use an ordinary round cake tin, and place a heavy weight over the meat to press it firmly together. Calves’ heads make delicious brawn when associated with ox tongue and bacon, and judiciously seasoned. For brawn of pig s head, follow the rules already given for ox-head brawn.—♦— Pastry-making, ef cetera, tLTHOUGH it is generally admitted tliat the clever pastry-cook is, like the Poet, born, not made; or, in other words, that the art of making really good pastry is a gift, rather than an accomplishment, there can be no doubt that the chef of average capacity is capable of improving himself by studying the rules which govern this branch of his profession. Ramasamy stands in great need of instruction here, for his ideas of pastry are, as a rule, crude in the extreme. He is acquainted apparently with two standard compositions alone, which he distin- guishes by the terms “ butter crust,” and “ suet crust.” The former is a kind of short bread, the latter a humble apology for puff paste. His selection of the one or of the other, if left to himself, is guided by one law :—“ butter crust” for sweet things, and “ suet crust” for savoury. Concerning the former I have but little to say. In my opinion it is so very inferior to puff paste, that I recommend its use in no branch of cookery whatever. If a cook be wholly incapable of making eatable puff pastry, he may, of course, be permitted to fall back upou his “ butter crust,” but I would never allow him to do so unless quite satisfied of his incompetence. “ Suet crust,” on the other hand, is the “ subject of my story” for I think that with a little careful teaching Ramasamy is capable of achieving very fair results with it.259 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. Now, I tMnk that it would be a mere waste of time to jot down a great number of recipes for pastry. The ordi- nary domestic cookery book generally contains a dozen or more of them which tend, I think, to confuse rather than to instruct the student. In endeavouring to improve our native cooks, we should certainly cast aside all complica- tion, and reduce our instruction to the simplest formulse. So, let us do our best to confine their attention to three compositions as follows :— (a) puff paste. (h) pie-crust. (o) raised pie-crust. The first to be used for the vol-au-vent, all patties, hou- chees, fruit tarts, tartlets, puffs, cheese cakes, mince pies &c., &c. ’ ^ The second for all savoury pies made in the ordinary pie-dish, such as pigeon pie, chicken and beef steak pie &c., &c. ’ The third for savoury pies in raised crust, like the well- known pork pie, veal and ham pie, &c., of the English restaurant. If a cook can present a good sample of each of these pastes, he need not bother his head with varieties. Let us then rm through the ‘ a. b. c.’ of pastry-making, and make sure that our chef thoroughly understands the elementary part of this branch of his work: First, if you can possibly get one, you should use a marble pastry slab. As I said at page 72, in Madras the chief difficulty the pastry-maker has to contend against is the high temperature: a jugful of iced water poured slowly over the surface of the slab (since marble retains cold far- more readily than wood) is his surest safeguard In fact without iced water at his elbow, the cook can scarcely Hope to turn out really light puff pastry. I have heard a260 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. good many people speak in high praise of the pastry that they have eaten at certain hostelries on the Neilgherries, and express wonder that similarly excellent feuilletage is never placed before them here. Climate has a great deal to say to this, and without wishing to depreciate the ta- lent of the Coonoor or Ooty pdtissiers, we must remember the advantages that they enjoy in the matter of tempera- ture. The next golden rule is that which enjoins scrupulous cleanliness. Everything connected with this department must he as bright and clean as possible. A third law, which I think our cooks rarely obey, is the one that demands the careful weighing of ingredients. Ramasiimy converses about “ cups” of butter and “ table- spoonfuls” of flour. I do not think that he is nearly particular enough with regard to the accurate weight of the things he uses. Carelessness in this matter must obviously be the precursor of failure. The mere manipulation of pastry is, as I said before, a gift; still, every cook should remember that the less he thumps and mauls the dough the lighter it will he, and that the quicker the work is done the better. The pastry-maker should wash his hands before going to work in very hot water, and plunge them into iced water afterwards, drying them well before proceeding to business. The frequent use of iced water to cool the hands while working will contribute to the success of the undertaking. It is here essential to observe that a little practice will enable the cook to mix his dough, in the first instance with two strong wooden spoons, or with a wedgewood mortar pestle and one spoon. This I consider a matter of material consequence. Setting aside all hypercritical notions of cleanliness, it stands to reason that the less the jiastc is261 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. touched by the warm human hand, the better and lighter it will prove. Similarly, therefore, let the turns in the rolhng-out stage be done with two spoons. If the mixing stage were carried out in a roomy enamelled iron pan, or bowl, set in ice, the spoon process could be easily mana^d. Pastry should be made, if possible, in the morning before the real heat of the day has set in. Fruit tarts °are far nicer cold than hot, why not make them early then ? Or if you like them served hot, why not re-heat them in the oven at the time they are required ? For patties, louchees timbales tartlets, cheese-cakes, &c., this course is strono-ly to be advocated. The pastry cases ought to be made early^ be filled mth the salpicon, puree, jam, cheese-cakeLxture 01 confiture, be re-heated m the oven, and sent to table. A most important feature in pastry is its baking. Too slack or too fierce an oven, will destroy all the careful work I have ,nst described. A good /.ofoven is requhed to bmn “oigli on the siL%™ ><=• Bamasdmy is inclined to err those harsh Lk iT' f ’ 7““’’- ^ nose narsh, talc-like siabs of pale brown crust niMprl , if stricken with a feather. ‘ ® “ to crumble to atoms And now tor a few words touching ingredients — Jst%Wte“::'^J; ae best imported, and in a «Hould be dried fn the 0,: a^d^To Lin^i^T^ tl.e presence of damp in flour ruins pastry. ° ’ 24262 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. One of the chief causes of failure in attaining light crust is the moisture and oiliness of our butter. All Madras-made butter is full of water, and even English butter requires close pressure before the pastry-cook dare use it. Butter for this purpose should be firm, not frozen like a stone, but quite hard enough to cut into pieces. A judicious use of ice for this ingredient is therefore unavoid- ble if you desire to use it with success in pastry. It is on this account, I fancy, that Ramasamy has discovered that suet makes lighter puff paste in this climate than butter : it is firm, dry, and capable of being chopped up and strewn over the dough; whereas, in nineteen cases out of twenty, the butter he uses is in a semi-state of liquefac- tion, and utterly unfit to mix with the fiour. If, then, you cannot command a good supply of excel- lent butter, and undertake that it shall be iced as I have described, you will find it better far, as a rule, to use clarified beef suet for all ordinary pastry. Proceed in this Tvay : procure as much good, pale yellow, fresh suet from a sirloin of beef (that surrounding the kidney is the best), and cut it into pieces. Place a large sauce-pan or stew-pan on the fire, and fill it nearly full of water; when the water boils, throw in the fat. By degrees it will melt, the skin and impure fragments will sink, and a rich oil will float upon the surface of the water, which should be kept at a simmering pitch. When satisfied that the whole of the fat has melted, suspend operations, take the pan from the fii-e, and let it get cold ; when cold, the clarified fat will become congealed upon the surface of the water. Now, take it off in flakes, drain every drop of water from it, and put it into a clean sauce-pan ; melt it again, and strain it through a piece of muslin into an earthenware bowl. The fat will again consolidate,—in a firm, pale yellow cake, as it were, far harder than butter, though quite as sweet and clean, and the very thing you want for ordinary pastiy^ and263 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. delicate saute work. Suet thus clarified will keep perfect- ly good a long time, and is infinitely cleaner and nicer than raw suet freshly handled by the butcher, and good- ness knows by how many other people. Keep the bowl of suet in a cool place; in the ice-box if possible. The fat that is skimmed from the surface of the soup- kettle is just as valuable, for it is generally the melted marrow from the broken shin: you do not get much of it, I know, probably a breakfast-cupful, at the outside, but it is quite first-rate, and the favourite frying medium of the great Careme. The fat from the under-cut of a cold roast sirloin can be made use of exactly in the same way as the raw suet: clarify it according to the rules already given, and pour it into an earthenware bowl. Lard is imported here during the colder months of the year; it requires the assistance of ice to regain its original firmness of character, and then, if carefully used, it affords an excellent ingredient wherewith to compose a good light pie-crust. As I said before, the water used in pastry-making should certainly be slightly iced: it need not be as cold as that we like to drink, but it should be decidedly cold to the touch. For PUFF PASTE the following directions may, I think be depended upon:— ’ Having the following ingredients readya bowl of cold, well clarified suet, some dry well-sifted flour, a good ripe lime, some salt, and a jng of iced water, proceed as follows :-weigh a pound of flour, and turn it out upon your cold marble slab, make a hollow in its centre, and 11 it with half an ounce of salt, and a quarter of a pint of the cold water; mix the flour gradually with the water,CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 264 and when this is done, and the paste half mixed, sprinkle over it another quarter pint of water in which the lime has been squeezed. Mix it all now thoroughly, until it ceases to adhere to the slab, and pat it into a round ball. Now take one pound weight of the clarified suet, cut it up into dice, and flatten out the ball of paste to a thick- ness of about two inches, spreading the suet evenly over its surface; then fold the four sides of the paste to the centre enclosing the suet, and forming a square piece. Roll this evenly out a yard long, then fold over one-third of the length towards the centre, and fold the other third over it. This folding in three is called by cooks “ giving the paste one turn.” Be careful that none of the suet breaks through the edges of the paste as you roll it out. Having folded up the paste, let it rest for ten minutes in the ice-box, or on a very cold slab. Then give it two turns, rest ten minutes, then two turns more,—five rolls out in all,—lastly, gather the paste into a lump, and roll it according to your requirements. For patties, vols-au-vent, ^-c., seven turns are recom- mended by some authors. Keep the flour dredger at your elbow, and flour the rolling-pin well before each turn. The sooner the paste is used when it has been completed the better. If you have a little good iced butter, you may alter the above proportions as follows :—three-quarters of a pound of suet, and one-quarter of a pound of butter. The yolks of two eggs well beaten and strained may be mixed with the water. Baking powder may be used advantageously in pastry- making: here is Yeatman & Co.’s recipe for puff paste made in connection with their powder : Measure three breakfast-cupfuls of flour, carefully sifted, and two cupfuls of butter. Choose a cool place to voikPASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. 265 in, see that tlie flour is good and dry, the butter Arm and free from moisture, and All two shallow baking-tins with broken ice. Put the flour on a cool slab, mixing into it a heaped up tea-spoonful of the baking powder; when mixed, form the flour in a ring, as it were, and in the centre throw the yolk of an egg and a tea-spoonful of salt; add a little iced water, and gradually work the flour into it from the inside of the ring, sprinkling additional water as you requii-e it—about one breakfast-cupful altogether— until you have a smooth, flne dough, free from all sticki- ness. Pat this into a lump, and put it in the ice-box for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out about the size of a dinner plate ; put the butter upon it, and wrap the edges of the dough over it, carefully covering it: now turn it upside down, and roll it out very thin; reverse it again, and fold it in three. Place it after this on a baking-sheet- over one of the pans of broken ice, and put the other pan of ice %ipon it. Repeat this cooling process between each double turn, and use as soon as possible when flve turns have been completed. Although composed for English and American kitchens, observe the use of ice advocated in this receipt. Instead of the butter I would try the clarifled beef suet, that is to say, if I were unable to procure butter of undeniable quality, firm, cold, and quite free from water. The next description of pastry that demands our atten- tion is that which should be used for savoury pies, to • PiE-CTUJST. In this, I think, Ramasamy needs care- ful instruction. He makes no difEerence between his sa- voury pie ‘ suet-crust,” and that which he sends up under the name of a vol-au-vent. His chief aim being a pie- covering, raised an inch and a half or two inches high, composed of the harsh, talc-like layers to which I have already alluded. I need hardly point out that this is an entirely erroneous impression. Think of the cold pic^con-CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 266 pie at home, and you will remember no fuff pastry : your mind’s eye will rather picture a close crust about half, or three-quarters of an inch thick, glazed externally, with egg, and with the feet of the birds peeping invitingly from the centre : a firm plain paste that you cut out in a whole piece without its breaking into fragments; pale brown and crusty externally, and soft and white internally, with bits of jelly adhering to it. Well, that is the kind of crust that I am so anxious to impart to Ramasamy, for which the following recipe is, I think, reliable :— Put one pound of well-dried and sifted flour on the slab, or in an enamelled basin; make a hollow in the centre, and work into it a quarter of a pound of cold clarified suet cut into pieces, adding a tea-spoonful of salt. When mix- ed, sprinkle over it as much iced water as will bind it thoroughly: dredge some flour over the slab, and roll the paste out half an inch thick. Cut up another quarter of a pound of clarifled suet, and dot it over the surface of the paste, fold the paste over it, and roll it out again very thin ; fold it in three, set it in the ice-box for ten minutes, give it three more turns, and then roll it out half an inch thick when it may be cut to cover the pie. A French savoury pie-crust is made in this way :— Empty a pound of flour into a bowl, and rub lightly into it half a pound of clarified suet; add a tea-spoonful of salt, and complete the dough by adding to it by degrees a quarter of a pint of water in which two eggs have been beaten. Roll the paste out, give it two or three turns, and finish it as in the foregoing receipt. A plainer crust can be made by reducing the suet, and a richer and more volatile one by adding a couple of ounces or so of iced butter. Raised pie-crdst, or number three, is perhaps less understood by Ramasamy than the other kinds that I havePASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. 267 mentioned. It is a thing that people rarely attempt in this country under an impression, I fancy, that it is too difficult for the Indian chef. Yet, as a matter-of-fact, nothing can be more simple. Pies of this kind are inex- pensive, and whether for breakfast, the luncheon table, or the pic-nic basket, cannot be too highly commended. To be certain of success it is advisable to procure a raised pie- tin, which should have movable sides secured by a pin at either end so that the pie may be easily released when baked. A locally made tin of the following size will, in the absence of a proper utensil, be found useful:—Oval in shape, six inches and a half long and five inches across (top measurement), five and a half inches long, and four inches across (bottom measurement) : a movable bottom to fit the latter: depth of tin three and a half inches. The bazar tin-man will turn you out one of these tins in a few hours for a trifling sum. Made in a mould of this shape, the pie is, of course, larger at the top than at the bottom, with sloping sides. Having procured a tin, you should make the following short “pork-pie crust” to fit it:— Put half a pint of water into a sauce-pan, and let it boil; when boiling, stir into it a quarter of a pound of clarified suet, and one ounce of fresh butter with a tea-spoonful of salt. Stir till the fat has melted, and then pour the con- tents of the sauce-pan, boiling hot, into a bowl containing a pound and a half of well-dried flour. VV ork the mixture to a stiff paste adding a little water, if necessary, and turn it out upon a cold pastry slab; roll it out three-quarters of an inch thick, as evenly and level as possible, and let it get quite cold. Now, butter the tin, and cut an oval piece of paste a little larger than the bottom of it so that the edges may turn up, and be more readily fixed to the wall, or side-paste; next cut out a strip three and a half inches wide, and sufficiently long to go round the inside of the wall of the tin; fix the bottom of the wall to the268 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. oval piece at the bottom with white of egg, pinching them closely together; then fill the pie with whatever meat you have prepared, covering it over with an oval cap, cut like the bottom piece, cementing it with white of egg, and pinching it tightly to the top of the wall: brush the pie over with white of egg and bake it in a slow oven. Little pies require a slightly faster oven than large ones, but all raised pies should be slowly baked. This receipt for raised pie-crust is a Leicestershire one, and will be found similar to that used for pork-pies in that county. Fate hrisee crust, as used by French cooks for raised savoury pies, is composed by working the suet and butter into the dry fiour before any liquid is added. Eight ounces of iced butter, or clarified beef suet, should be allowed for a pound of fiour, a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to mix a very stiff dough. You can fill up these pies in many ways, here are a few recipes:— (a.) With mutton, a plain pie:—Choose a first class neck of mutton, cut the meat from the bones in one piece, divide that into slices an inch thick, and cut them into squares as for a dry curry, keeping the fat and lean separate: if the neck be a lean one, a few pieces of nice kidney fat from the loin may be taken to assist the pie : thoroughly season the meat, when it is cut up, with salt, black pepper, and a table-spoonful of chopped ciu-led parsley,—nothing else upon any account. With this the pie should be packed, as closely as possible, in alternate layers of f.at and lean. Unlike ordinary pies, in this case you must not pour in any gravy tvith the meat: the chief thing is the close arrangement of the meat: if put in loosely the outside pieces will be dry and leathery. When satisfactorily fill- ed, put on the oval cover, cement the edges with white of269 PASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. egg, and pinch them together firmly, brush the top over with a well-beaten egg, and bake the pie in a slow oven. While baking, you can simmer the hones and trimmings of the neck, with a couple of sheep’s feet cleaned and cut up, and make a clear yet strong broth; this, when cold, should solidify as jelly; flavour it with pepper and salt, and after the pie has been baked, pour a little of it through an opening in the top of the cover. Set the pie in the ice- box, and when quite cold, serve. (h.) With pork, when you can get it clean-fed as on the Hills, the process is similar to that just explained: choose the neck, and omit the parsley : the seasoning for pork pies is composed of black pepper and salt only, the proportion being two-thirds of the latter to one of the former. Receipts that mention sage, &c., are incorrect. Pack the pieces of meat as closely as you can, and bake the pie very slowly: a little liquid jelly made fz’om pettitoes and pork scraps may be poured in after the baking, but no gravy should be added before that operation. (c.) With game. If made with game, the birds should be boned, and some pieces of chopped bacon should be introduced here and there. Season with spiced pepper, and pour some liquid jelly (made from the bones, trim- mings, and a couple of sheep’s feet) into the pie after it has been baked. A liver and bacon forcemeat (vide page 70) is also necessary. Por a specially good game-pie, proceed as follows Bone two partridges, two quails, and four snipes, and cut out the back fillets of a good hare ; give the meat a dusting of spiced pepper, and cover it up. Next make a forcemeat as follows:—Take the livers of the birds and that of the hare, and mince them finely; mince the spare meat of the hare, and a quarter of a pound of ham and throw the whole of the mince into a frying-pan, in which 25CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 270 half a pound of fat bacon cut into dice has been tossed with a finely chopped shallot. Work the mince about for ten minutes, then empty the contents of the frying-pan into a mortar, and pound the mixture to a paste. Now cut eight fine truffles into dice the size of a pea, melt an ounce of butter in the frying-pan, and throw in the truffles; toss for a couple of minutes, and add a claret- glassful of Madeira; let the dice boil in this, and then pour them with the liquor into a bowl. You can now pack the pie as follows :— Spread a layer of liver paste over the inside of each bird, put a spoonful of truffles upon it, and roll the bird up; cut the hare into slices, and treat them in the same way : next put a layer of the liver paste over the bottom of the pie, dot it over with truffles, arrange the rolls of hare meat over that, spread some liver paste over them, a few truffles, and some thin slices of fat bacon: next arrange a layer of snipe, and continue until the pie is tightly filled; cover the topmost layer with fat bacon, sprinkled over with marjoram leaves, cover the pie closely and bake. When done, pour into it a little very strong jelly (lique- fied) made of the bones and trimmings of the game, two sheep’s feet, and the truffle liquor. It must be here observed that raised pies should not be made during the hot weather ; unless eaten immediately they soon turn sour ; but they will be found capital on the Hills, at Bangalore, and on the plains during the cold season. Savoury Puddings, though homely, and perhaps hardly to be recommended for dinner parties, are, in their way, not to be despised. The best paste for them, I think, is one made as follows :—Chop very finely six ounces of clai'i- fied suet, and dredge a little flour over it as you mince it. Mix with it one pound of flour, a tea-spoonful of .salt, andPASTRY-MAKING, ET CETERA. 271 sufficient water to make a smooth, pliant paste. Roll it out, and it will be ready for use. A basin is the best thing to use for the boiling : rub it well with butter, line it with the paste rolled at least half an inch thick, close over the top securely, tie the basin up with a cloth, and steam the pudding slowly for three hours. To ensure success, a pudding cannot be too slowly boiled. A really excellent beefsteak pudding can be made by preparing the beef as laid down for pies, viz. :— Cut the meat into thin collops, place a thin slice of cold cooked bacon over each collop, season this with spiced pepper, and roll each collop up. Line the pudding basin with paste, and fill it with layers of collops, pour in among the collops a little strong gravy, close the paste securely and boil for three hours. For BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PUDDING, roll an Oyster inside each collop. For beefsteak and kidney, cut the kidney into strips and treat them in the same way, rolling slices of kidney and bacon inside each collop. Excellent puddings are made with birds, boned, and rolled up with a slice of bacon, and any nice stuffing, inside them. Take a brace of partridges, for instance, and bone them, lay them out flat, putting a few thin slices of cooked bacon over them, over that strew some chopped mush- rooms, their livers chopped, a little minced shallot, and a good dusting of spiced pepper ; roll the birds up and put them into the pudding basin, pour in a little rich gravy made from their bones, &c., close the paste over them, and boil for three hours. This is obviously practicable with any game.^ few nice Pies. 'HILB in the high art studies of this branch of culinary science, the clever cook finds grand opportunities of displaying his skill, he possesses in its humbler subjects a ready method of practising economy, and of exercising his inventive ability. The savoury pie is indeed an admirable institution. In no manner can odds and ends of good food be more satisfac- torily disposed of. We like a hot pie, we like a cold pie ; it is welcome at breakfast, at luncheon, or at dinner ; at the pic-nic, the wedding breakfast, or the hall supper. And yet it must he confessed that we rarely eat a pie in India that can be compared with an ordinary home-made pasty in England. The superiority of British meat may, no doubt, account for this failure to a certain extent, and the climate of the “ plain country” may be against us, but I think the chief difficulty is susceptible of removal if we study the laws of pie-making and teach our cooks accord- ing to them. A very common fault committed by Ramasdmy in his concoction of a pie, is this :—he is apt, unless taught other- wise, to cook, or partly cook, the meat of which it is made before covering it with paste, and baking it. It is, I hope, unnecessary for me to point out that this is an altogether erroneous proceeding. Whatever materials you may choose —pigeons, chicken, steak, or game,—sec that they arc273 A FEW NICE PIES. laid in the pie-dish uncooked, and properly covered with paste according to the correct laws of cookery. Previously cooked meat may very often be made use of in a pie, I grant, but a good'* pasty’ can hardly be produced if the whole of its contents have been dressed beforehand. Having selected the meat for your pie, the first thing to remember is the gravy which must be made separately, and part of it poured in and amongst the layers in the pie- dish before the paste is laid over it. A little wine lends valuable aid to such gravies : the remains of a good bottle of champagne can be used with great advantage in pigeon- pies, chicken and ham pies, &c., and Madeira is wanted for game, venison, and hare pies. The gravy ought not to_^ZZthe pie-dish; about a breakfast-cupful will suffice for a pie of moderate size in the first instance. Prohibit most strenuously the use of Worcester, Tapp, or any strongly flavoured sauce of that kind; it is owing to Ramasamy’s predilection for the sauce bottle that one peculiar kind of taste prevails throughout his dishes, in his savoury pies especially. The seasoning is a matter demanding close attention: here the “spiced pepper” described at page 111 will be found of great assistance ; and minced mushrooms, minced truffles, and minced olives, (made from remnants you may have saved after an important day’s cooking) will come in most efficaciously. Finely chopped liver is a capital thing to shake over the crevices when building a pie, and little bits of chopped anchovy may be similarly used. Ham and tongue, either sliced, or grated, is welcome in every kind of ‘ pasty,’ bacon is almost as effective, and sliced Bologna sausage a very good substitute. Always rub your pie-dish with a shallot, before pack- ing it. It is customary to garnish the surface of a savoury pieCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 274 with quarters of hard-boiled eggs: if you have a few button mushrooms, you can use them for that purpose also, and strew some finely minced parsley over the whole. The cupful of gravy should be poured gently into the packed pie-dish the last thing, just to moisten the contents as it were. Assuming that the cook can make a good light pie-crust, and that the dish has been neatly covered in therewith, care must be taken about the state of the oven :—if too slack, the crust will be heaAry and dull, and if too hot, it will be burnt before the pie is completely cooked. The oven should be so hot that you cannot quite bear your hand inside it. Always leave an aperture in the centre of your pie- crust, which you can cover with an ornamental device in pastry towards the end of the baking. This is necessary as a vent for the escape of the gas which the cooking of the meat generates, and also aS an opening through which you can pour the rest of your gravy as a finishing touch after the pie is quite baked. The glazing of the crust should be done towards the end of the baking by brushing a well beaten up egg over its surface. If you bear these general rules in mind, I am sure that you will soon experience a marked improvement in the savoury pies that your cook may in future place before you. There ought to be little or no difl&culty in flavouring a pie even though circumstances may render it impossible for you to compose the really good gravy which I have recommended as so highly essential. Take an ordinary “ chicken and beef-steak pie” for instance: there ought to be some scraps left after cutting the beef to fit the pie-dish, and there must be some valuable trimmings available for broth-making when you have cut up and dressed the chicken—the neck, pinions, legs and feet, giblets, &c.A FEW NICE PIES. 275 With these materials the cook should make a fairly good broth, flavouring it with an onion, and any fragments of vegetable he may have at hand, a little mushroom ketch- up, some pepper corns, a dessert-spoonful of mixed dried herbs, the peel of a lime, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce or an anchovy finely chopped, a dessert-spoonful of vine- gar, a pinch of sugar, and salt to taste. When the scraps and bones have simmered secundum artem under careful supervision for an hour, a dash of Madeira may he stirred into the sauce-pan, and in a few minutes the broth may be strained ofE into a bowl. As soon as the fat, that the liquid may throw up, has been removed, the cook will have at his command a very excellent substitute for real gravy wherewith to moisten the contents of his pie : far better, at all events, than the water and Worcester sauce which Ramasamy is generally contented to use. A recipe for a really good “ beef-steak pie” will be found in Menu No. 28, and the following notes concerning a “ Do- mestic Pasty ” will, I think, commend themselves to house- keepers who know what it is to find a few pounds of good meat on their hands without an idea of what to do with them. When staying on the Hills some time ago, a question one day arose touching what could be done with the remains of a fine saddle of mutton. There was a piece of good cold-boiled pickled pork in the house, about a pound of gravy beef could be spared from the soup meat, and a nice chicken was also available. I decided upon making a pie. Having called for the saddle, I began by cutting as many slices as I could from the meat that remained untouched at the tail end ; each slice was trimmed free from burnt skin, &c., and laid upon a separate plate. About a pound and a half of these slices having been obtained, I next cut off all remnants of good lean that still adhered to the bones, and put them into a bowl. TheCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 276 bones were then broken np, and cast into a large stew- pan with every atom of skin, fat, gristle, &c., that I could find left in the dish after the trimming operation. The whole saddle was thus disposed of. Into the stew-pan with the mutton bones, and scraps, I threw six shallots, a dozen pepper corns, the peel of a lime, two carrots cut np, a bunch of parsley, a coarse stalk of celery with its leaves, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a bouquet of sweet herbs, the aforesaid pound of gi’avy beef cut up, and all the trimmings of the chicken,—neck, legs, feet, pinions and giblets. Having been covered with warm water, and simmered gently, in about three hours these various ingre- dients produced a pint and a half of very excellent broth which was strained off, and set to cool. The lean remnants which had been saved in the bowl were now pounded with a couple of anchovies in the mortar, and passed thi’ough the sieve. When the broth was quite cold, the fat was skim- med off, and a regular puree made with it and the pounded mutton. It was now time to pack the pie-dish, which was done in this way:—first a sprinkling of finely minced parsley, then a double layer of sliced mutton, over that a layer of sliced lean pork, another of mutton, and so on alternately, till there was just enough space left to accom- modate the joints of the raw chicken : these were neatly disposed on the top, with little bits of lean pork dotted in between them: the sui’face was garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and then the puree was patiently poured over everything, time being given for the liquid to settle in and amongst the contents of the pie-dish : when finished, the gravy came within an inch of the top of the pie; parsley minced small was shaken over the surface as a last touch. The cook now made the paste, and covered in the ‘ pasty’; it was baked, and at the end of the baking, some of the puree., which had been saved for the purpose, was gently poured into the pie throughA FEW NICE PIES. 277 the vent in the centre of the crust. An ornamental flower cut in paste was placed over the aperture, the crust was glazed, and in due course the dish was ready for the table. Observe the absence of any ready-made sauce in the con- coction of this simple composition. A little ‘ spiced pepper’ was sprinkled over the layers of meat, and some very finely chopped thyme and marjoram,—about a tea-spoonful in all,—was shaken over them also. The joints of chicken were those usually cut up for a curry. When cold, this pie was really excellent; there was not a bit of gi’ease in It; the meat lay prettily embedded in a delicious jelly; and the flavour was exactly that of an ordinary home-made pie in England. I did not put in any wine; I had no mush- rooms, and nothing expensive was used. Instead of the lean pickled' pork,-ham, leanish bacon, tongue, sliced Bologna sausage, or even slices of juicy corned beef, might have been used. A little consideration will enable the composer to vary both the contents and the flavour of his pies from time to time. Loch up the Worcester sauce, and trust to the meat herbs, and good gravy to produce a happy result. _ Bea^g in mind the rules I have given, and remember ing what was done in the case of the Domestic PiP’ ‘r f escribed, I think you may undertake any of the follow mg standard pies without any apprehensL :- !• Beef-steah and Oyster Pie ” TTnllrv-rn- +i, given in Menu No recipe • ’ fSiI* as tllG CUttinP* irn n-F +1^^ j! is concemed and n* & p oi tiie boef nice piece olitor TlaTe ^ beef coUope, tten a la.ec of iquor, beef again, oysters again, and so on till tbo i, • packed: season with “spiced pepper” and fi f >-0 peel. The 26CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 278 pint of good beef gravy, add tbe liquor you strained from the tin of oysters, the rind of a lime, a blade of mace, a glass of sherry and a table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup; heat up gently, skimming off the scum which the oyster liquor may throw up, and when thoroughly blended, strain the gravy off, and pour it into your packed pie-dish, reserving about a ooffee-oupful to pour through the top of the orust at the end of the baking. 2. “ Chiclcen and Tongue Pie.”—A chicken, an ox tongue, and six mutton cutlets from the neck. Cut up a chicken as if for curry, slice up a cold-boiled, home-cured tongue, and trim six nice mutton outlets from the neck as if for an entree. Throw the chicken scraps, the tongue skin and trimmings, and all the remnants of mutton left after shap- ing the cutlets, into a large sauce-pan with the materials for gravy flavouring recommended in the recipe for the “ Domestic Pie” and make a nice broth with them ; when the broth is nearly ready, give it half a glass of Madeira, and strain when it is finished. Pack the pie thus:—a dust of chopped parsley at the bottom, then the mutton cutlets, above them the slices of tongue, and the chicken at the top. Pour in the gravy, garnish the top with hard-boiled eggs, cover the pie with a good crust, and bake. 3. “ Babbit Pie.”—One good sized rabbit, half a pound of bacon, forcemeat, and a pound of gravy beef. Skin and wash a fine rabbit, cut it up in the usual way as if for a stew, and put the pieces to soak in cold water. When quite clean, drain them, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, and set them aside. Put the head, the lower joints of the legs, and all scraps of the rabbit, with the beef, and the usual ingredients for flavouring a gravy already laid down, into a large sauce-pan, and make the best gi’avy you can with them for the pie. When this has been done to your satisfaction, and the fat has'been skimmed off the surface of the liquor, proceed in this way : Make a plain force-A FEW NICE PIES. 279 meat as described for turkey, mingling witb it the liver and Hdneys of tbe rabbit very finely chopped, and spread a thin layer of it at the bottom of the pie-dish ; immediately above it put a layer of bacon slices, then the coarser joints of the rabbit, dusting them with “ spiced pepper, and filling the interstices between the pieces with forcemeat; put a second layer of bacon over the rabbit, and rabbit again above that, repeat the forcemeat dressing, and when the pie-dish is full, pour in the gravy till it almost reaches the level of the topmost layer. Garnish as usual, cover the pie with paste, and bake; time, if the oven be in a proper condition, about one hour and a quarter. 4. “ Hare Pie.”—This should be made like the fore- going ‘ pasty’ exactly, with two slight variations, viz. :—a glass of port, half a glass of good vinegar, with a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly should be mixed into the gravy, and a little pounded mace may be sprinkled over the meat in addition to the ordinary spiced pepper-. 5. “ Pigeon Pie.’’—A pound and a half of tender lean beef to three good pigeons, half a pound of leanish bacon, and a pound of gravy beef. The process is not very different from that of the pies already described. You must make the best gravy possible from the pound of gravy meat, the pigeon trimmings^ and any scraps at hand. The pigeons should be placed upon the tender beef, which should be cut into neat collops and blended with the bacon cut into thin strips as propounded for “ beef-steak pie,’* Menu No. 28. Do not cut the pigeons in halves : let them be prepared whole as if for roasting, and put some chopped bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, or “ spiced pepper,’* salt, and grated lime peal, inside each bird. Half a glass of Madeira or any sound white wine may be mingled with the gravy, the pie-dish should be rubbed with a shallot before it is packed, finely chopped parsley should be sprinkled over the bottom of the dish before the beefCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 280 collops are arranged upon it, and the pigeon’s livers with bacon rolled round them should be arranged on the surface. I have also found that mutton collops may be used with almost as good an effect as those of beef. I used the meat of the blade-bone of a shoulder, which was cut into neat pieces ; these were rolled with a slice of bacon inside them as directed for beef. 6. “ Snipe Fie.'”—When snipes are plentiful, as they often are in India, the cook ought to remember this delicacy. Supposing eight birds to be available, I woxild work in this way :—I would prepare sis of them, as if for roasting, for the pie; and two I would sacrifice for the gravy, which ought to be very first rate. For this pur- pose two pounds of gravy meat must be obtained, besides about a couple of pounds of the undercut, or tender rib- meat, for the pie. Having made as good a beef gravy as possible, I would throw into it the two snipe, and proceed to make a little puree (as explained in Menu JSTo. 16) pounding the meat of the birds, after they have been slowly simmered in the gravy, to a paste, and blending it with the gravy secundum artem. After rubbing the pie-dish with a shallot, I would fill up the bottom of it with little collops of the tender beef rolled with strips of bacon, “ spiced pepper” being dusted over each layer until all the beef has been used. I would lay the six snipes on the surface of the beef with slices of lean bacon, ham, tongue, or Bologna sausage, between each bird, garnish as usual, baptize the pie with the puree, saving some of it for the final process previously described, cover it with a nice light paste, and bake. Birds badly knocked about in shooting come in usefully for gravy. Partridges, and quails make good pies, but they require a sound and strong support in the way of fresh meat, and281 A FEW NICE PIES. good gravy. Beef,—tlie tender undercut, or rib-meat, forms tbe best basis you can devise: it should be cut up into collops, as I have frequently said before, and strips of bacon should be rolled round them. Or you can use the blade-bone collops of good mutton just described, or the neck cutlets; each cutlet should be trimmed neatly, with a strip of bacon wrapped round it. Excellent gravy can be obtained from the scraps left after trimming the beef or the cutlets, the remnants of the birds not wanted in the pie, and a pound of gravy meat, with the usual vegetables, and other flavouring ingredients often describ- ed. A little wine is almost a sine qua non with these game birds: Madeira, sound brown sherry, or any white wine—of which a glass is quite enough. A good “ Game pie” is a capital thing for the luncheon, or breakfast party. Snipe, quails, partridges, hares, pigeons, teal, wild duck, &c., &c., can be thus disposed of most advantageously: they must be assisted by tender beef, or good mutton collops ; slices of bacon, of ham, or of Bologna sausage must be introduced, and the gravy must be very attentively composed. A forcemeat made thus will be found undeniably valuable:—take the livers of all the game composing the pie, and make the composition de- scribed elsewhere as “ foie-gras iovcemesbi,” truffles and all, using the game livers instead of that of a calf. When ready, you can use it as follows :—spread a layer of it over the bottom of the pie-dish, and up the sides also : what remains should be introduced here and there amongst the layers of meat during the packing operations. As the game must be boned in the case of this particular dish, we shall have to mash all the bones with the pestle, and throw them into our stock-pot. Take a pound and a half of gravy beef, the mashed game bones, a bacon or ham bone, (or a few slices of either) two sheep’s feet cut up, and the vegetables generally used in soup-making, with a282 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. bouquet of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a little mixed spice, a dozen pepper corns, a little caramel for colouring, and salt to taste, and make the very richest gva,vy in the style of “ aspic jelly” stock. Menu No. 9. Instead of tarragon vinegar, add to the broth which you get after straining, one glass of Madeira, or fruity sherry, a tea- spoonful of reduced vinegar, one table-spoonful of red ciirrant jelly, and half a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, boil the gravy up again, and then set it to get cool prior to its being poured into the pie. The game of which the pie is to be made should be carefully honed, and if of a large kind, cut up into neat pieces ; skin, scraps, and trimmings should be cast into the stock-pot with the mashed bones. Arrange the meat when trimmed satisfactorily upon a large flat dish, dredge it over with flour, and give it a dusting of “ spiced pepper” which ought to be specially prepared for the occasion. After having rubbed the pie- dish well with a shallot, spread the thin coating of force- meat over the bottom of it, and up the sides, as already mentioned. Next, place a good layer of tender beef, or mutton collops, each rolled round a slice of bacon, over the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish, and then go on packing the game meat, with slices of ham, bacon, or Bologna sausage, dotted in here and there, and frequent dustings of “ spiced pepper” until the dish is fllled. For a special occasion, a bottle of truffles should be opened and used in this way:—Trim the truffles into dice, chopping up quite small the parings and trimmings which are left: this mince ought to be used in the liver force- meat : the dice should be tossed awhile in melted butter in a frying-pan, with a glass of Madeira, and a spoonful of good gravy and then cleverly put in amongst the game meat during the packing of the pie-dish. If mushrooms happen to be available as they often are during rainy weather, treat them, after cleaning and peeling them.283 A FEW NICE PIES. exactly like tke truffles : toss them a short time in butter in the frying-pan, if large, cut them into convenient pieces, or if buttons, put them in whole as you go on with your packing. Thus composed, and bountifully diluted with the aforesaid good gravy, our pie may be covered over with the best paste, baked, glazed, enriched with a second libation of rich gravy poured in through the vent to finish with, and served cold with confidence bordering upon exultation. ^ lie on the subject of good pies, I can scarcely do better than end this chapter with an excellent recipe for a pie, practicable with seer-fish as well as with salmon. Saltok pie, to be eaten cold :-Take one pound of salmon from the tm, and drain it from the tin liquor. If nice and firm, cut it into fillets with a dessert-knife. Make three-quarters of a pound of forcemeat as follows choose mther some fresh uncooked whiting, pomfret, or other fresh fish and having taken eight ounces of it pass it through a wme sieve, add four ounces of fresh butter, and W of fine white crumbs, pound all together in a mortar ^d season the with salt and pepper; moisten it with a cupful of vioixpoulette sauce, and bind the mixture with two raw eggs. Line a raised pie tin with for pork pie, fiH the bottom with a layer of the forcemeaT then a layer of the salmon, an inch thick, continuino- the packing till the pie is filled. Put a cover of over the top, Wh it over with white of egg, and fifk^ the pie slowly. When done, let it cool for haf an ho^ and then pour in, through a hole made in the ton cupful of rich fish broth, made from the bones Ind ^"' mmgs of the fresh fish, reduced to a glaze, and mix wfrh a coffee-cupful of essence of truffles made in this way^ Take the contents of a small bottle of truffles and h 7 Iho. for twenty »inntee brisMy in apintof e.ea’rStto284 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. broth, flavoured with a glass of Madeira, some sweet herhs, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Remove the sauce-pan from the fire, and when the liquid is cold, pick out the truffles (they will do for any other dish), and strain the cold essence. After having poured the essence into the pie, let it get quite cold, then turn it out of the tin, put it upon a napkin, and serve. If made with uncooked seer fish instead of salmon, the pie will he found excellent. There are, of course, many other pies concerning which I could give advice, I am, however, pretty confident that if you hear in mind the principles I have tried to make clear, you will rarely fail to succeed in composing a very eatable ‘ pasty,’ and win approval from those for whose delect- ation you may exercise your ingenuity. On the Hills, at Bangalore, and at many of the stations of this Presidency during the cold months, every one of the pies I have described will be found when cold to contain firm jelly,—not liquid gravy. If you desire to produce that cheerful effect at Madras, do not forget to place the pie upon ice for some little time before the meal at which it is to appear. The jelly is, of course, the united result of good gravy, and the juices of the various meats in the pie extracted by baking. During the hot weather on the plains, if you cannot ice the pie, it will be found a good plan to pour off the gravy after it has left the table, hot. This will prevent the meat turning sour. The gravy can be heated the next morning, and the pie can be warmed up. Cold pie, with- out artificial cold imparted by ice, is an impossibility with the thermometer at 90 °. ♦:2SLZ?SL-\rxxX. Our Gurries. 'E are often told by men of old time, whose long connection with the country entitles them to speak with the confidence of “ fellows who know, don’t you know,” that in inverse proportion, as it were, to the steady advance of civilization in India, the sublime art of curry-making has gradually passed away from the native cook. Elders at Madras—erst-while the acknowledged head-centre of the craft—shake their heads and say “ Icha- bod!” and if encouraged to do so, paint beautiful mouth- watering “ pictures in words” of succulent morsels cun- ningly dressed with all the savoury spices and condiments of Ind, the like of which, they say, we ne’er shall look upon again. Looking back myself to the hoiir of my arrival in India, I call to mind the kind-hearted veteran who threw his doors open to me, and, pouring in the oil and wine of lavish hospitality, set me upon his own beast, killed the fatted calf, and treated me, indeed, as a son that had been lost and was found. It rejoiced this fine old servant of honest John Company, I remember, to give “ tiffin” parties at which he prided himself on sending round eight or nine varieties of curries; with divers platters of freshly-made chutneys, grilled ham, preserved roes of fishes, &c. The discussion of the “ course,”—a little banquet in itself—used to occupy 27CULINARY JOrriNGS FOR MADRAS. 286 at least half an hour, for it was the correct thing to taste each cuny, and to call for those that specially gratified you a second time. Now, this my friend was, I take it, a type of the last Anglo-Indian generation ; a generation that fostered the art of curry-making, and bestowed as much attention to it as we, in these days of grace, do to copying the culinary triumphs of the lively Gauls. Thirty years ago fair house-keepers were wont to vaunt themselves upon their home-made curry powders, their chutneys, tamarind and roselle jellies, and so forth, and carefully superintended the making thereof. But fashion has changed, and although ladies are, I think, quite as fond of a good curry as their grandmothers were, they rarely take the trouble to gather round them the elements of success, and have ceased to he cumbered about this particular branch of their cook’s work. This is an important point, for if we enquire closely into the causes that have led to the alleged decay of the curry- making knack, we shall certainly find that the chief of them is want of care in the preparation of powders and pastes, and the loss of recipes which in days gone by were wrapped in silver paper, and preserved with miniatures painted on ivory, locks of hair, love sonnets, and other precious secrets of a lady’s escritoire. I say “ chief ” advisedly, for there can be no doubt that modern improvements in our cuisine, and modern good taste, have assisted in a measure in elbowing off the once delectable plats of Indian origin ; and that the best curry in the world would never he pex'mitted to appear at a petit- diner composed by a good disciple of the new regime. Curries now-a-days are only licensed to be eaten at breakfast, at luncheon, and perhaps at the little home dinner, when they may, for a change, occasionally formOUR CURRIES. 287 tlie piece tie resistance of that cosy meal. Having thus lost “ caste,” so to speak, it ought hardly to surprise us that curries have deteriorated in quality. The old cooks, who studied the art, and were encouraged in its cultiva- tion, have passed away to their happy hunting grounds ; and the sons and grandsons who now reign in their stead have been taught to devote themselves to more fashionable dishes. While, however, it cannot be denied that the banish- ment of curries from the menu of our high-art banquets, both great and small, is, for many reasons, indispensably necessary, there can be no doubt that at mess and club dinners, at hotels, and at private houses, as already shown, these time-honoured dishes will always be welcome. Has not the time arrived then for us to endeavour to resuscitate the ancient cunning of our cooks, and to take some pains to attain that end ? The actual cooking of a curry presents no special diffi- culty. A cook who is an adept with the stew-pan, and who has mastei’ed the art of slow, and very gentle simmer- ing, will, whether a Frenchman, an Englishman, or a mild Hindu, soon become familiar with the treatment of this particular dish. The knotty points are these First the powder or paste, next the accessories, and lastly the order in which the various component parts should be added. Concerning powders, it behoves us to proceed with cau- tion, or we shall soon lose ourselves in a maze of recipes. Speaking of them generally, however, it is not, I think, commonly known that curry-powders improve by keeping it carefully bottled. One of the causes of our daily failures is-undoubtedly the lazy habit we have adopted of per- mitting our cooks to fabricate their “ curry-stufF,” on the spot, as it is required. Powder shoald be made in large288 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. quantities under the eye of the mistress of the house, or that of a really trustworthy head-servant. It should then be bottled, and corked securely down. I shall presently give a very valuable receipt for a stock household powder, one that was surrendered to me by an accomplished clidlelaine, on the eve of her departure from India, as a token of the sincerest friendship. But for those who wish to avoid trouble and yet to have good curries, I strongly advocate the use of Barrie’s Madras curiy-powder and paste. I am not employed as an adver- tising medium. My advice is not the advice of a “ gent” travelling for Messx’s. Barrie and Co., it is the honest exhortation of one, my friends, who has the success of your curries very closely at heart. After more than twenty years’ experience of Banie’s condiments, I say boldly, that I am aware of no prepara- tions in the market that can equal them. At the “ Orien- tal Depot,” on the southern side of Leicester Square,—a sanctuary known, I fear, to too few Anglo-Indians at home—you can see, or could see, (for the little place may have been swept away for aught I know with Northum- berland House, Temple Bar and other structures of re- nown), sundry casks of Barrie’s curry-stuffs, chutneys, &c. I discovered the place by a mere accident, and the smell and the order-book convinced me that I had not made a mistake. The former was that of my friend Barrie, and the latter contained names of such high degree in connection with India that I immediately removed my hat. Unfortunately the depot is largely patronized by Lon- don grocers, who, over-wise in their generation, use the condiments they purchase as mere stock Avherewith to flavour some miserable concoction of their own manufac- ture. Two parts of arrowroot coloured with saffi’on, and one part of Barrie, for instance, is a mixture that can289 OUR CURRIES. hardly with justice be called “genuine Madras curry- powder,” notwithstanding its being bottled in a very pretty bottle, and priced two and six. I detected the presence of Barrie’s excellent mulliga- tunny paste at several places at home, especially at Mutton s at Brighton, where a basin of the potage Indien for lunch on a frosty day used to be a thing worth recording in a pilgrim’s diary with red letters. Assuming that we have procured, or made, a really good stock powder, the accessories next present themselves for our consideration. These are very important, for, with their aid, a clever cook can diversify the flavour, and style of his curries ; without them—be the powder or paste never so well composed—the dish will certainly lack finish, and the true characteristics of a good curry. Prominently among them stands the medium to be used for the frying of the onions, with which the process com- mences. This most assuredly should be butter. The quantity required is not very great, and surely it may be assumed that people who want to have a good curry will not ruin it for the sake of a “ two ounce pat of Dosset!” for be it noted, that tinned butter of a good brand is admirably adapted for this work. Among other adjuncts that may be written down as indispensable are the ingredients needed to produce that suspicion of sweet-acid which it will be remembered, forms a salient feature of a superior cui-ry. The natives of the south use a rough tamarind conserve worked, sometimes, with a very little jaggery or molasses, and a careful prepa- ration of tamarind is decidedly valuable. Why, however, should we not improve upon this with red currant jelly and if further sharpness be needed, a little lime or lemon juice ? In England, and I daresay in India also, chop- ped apple is sometimes used, and perhaps chopped mango, in the fool-days of the fruit, would be nice. A spoonful290 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. of sweetish chutney and a little vinegar or lime juice can be employed, but I confess that I prefer the red currant jelly as aforesaid. There are also certain green leaves which are undoubt- edly not to be despised as flavouring agents. By their means flavours can be effectively changed. I will speak of them again when discussing the process of curry-making step by step. Then there is that most important item the cocoanut. This, as everyone knows, is added to a curry in the form of “ milk,” i.e., an infusion produced by scraping the white nutty part of the cocoanut, and soaking the scrap- ings in boiling water. This, strained, is the “ milk” required in curry-making. The quantity to be used de- pends upon the natm-e of the curry. Malay curries, for instance, require a great deal of “ milk.” The point in connection with this adjunct, however, that must not be missed, is the period at which it should be added. If put in too soon, the value of the nutty juice will be lost, —cooked away, and overpowered by the spicy condiments with which it is associated. So we must reserve the “ milk,” as we do cream or the yolk of an egg in the case of a thick soup or rich sauce, and stir it into our curry the last thing just before serving. The strained milk extracted from pounded sweet almonds can be put into a curry very advantageously : it may be used alone, or be associated with cocoanut milk. One ounce of the latter, to twelve almonds, will be found a pleasant proportion. When cocoanuts cannot be got, almond milk makes a capital substitute. Curries cannot afford to dispense with the assistance of some stock or gravy. It is not uncommon to hear people say that they have eaten far better curries in England than in India, the chief reason being that Mary Jane willOUR CURRIES. 291 not undertake to make the dish without at least a break- fast-cupful and a half of good stock. Let us now consider attentively the actual details of cm-ry-making, and since we cannot proceed to work with- out a good powder or paste, we can hardly do better than commence operations by studying the recipe for a house- hold cuny-stuff, concerning which I have already spoken. If faithfully followed, it will, I am sure, be found most trustworthy. It runs as follows 4 lbs. of turmeric 8 lbs. of coriander-seed 2 lbs. of cummin-seed 1 lb. of poppy-seed... 2 lbs. of fenugreek ... 1 lb. of dry-ginger ... \ lb. of mustard-seed 1 lb. of dried chillies 1 lb. of black pepper corns Hind, huldi. „ dhunnia. „ jeera. ,, Jchush-lchush. ,, viaythi. ,, sont. „ rai. ,, sooka mirrch. „ kala mirrch. Do not be alarmed at the quantity, remembering my previous statement that curry-powder improves by keep- ing, if carefully secured. The amount when finj^lly mixed will fill about half a dozen bottles of the size in which tart fruits are imported. Accordingly, if disinclined to lay in so large a stock at a time, the obvious alternative of shar- ing some of it with a friend can easily be adopted. ^ The lady who gave me the receipt accompanied her kind action with a little good advice “ Weigh every- thing, ’ said she, “ most carefully, and even after the vari- ous ingredients have been cleaned, weigh them again, and a so weigh the husks, &c., that have been removed In this way alone will you be able to guard against the dis- appearance of half an ounce of this, or an ounce of that petty plferings that take from the curry-powder that which it cannot get again, and leave it poor indeed.”CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 292 Inasmuch, therefore, as short weight can he more easily- detected in fairly large than in small quantities, an addi- tional reason presents itself for making up the entire I’ecipe. The coriander-seed and fenugreek must each be parched very carefully, i.e., roasted like coffee berries, before being pounded, and the other ingredients should be cleaned and dried, each separately, and, when pounded, should be well sifted. In order to preserve the proportions after the seeds have been powdered and sifted, it is necessary to obtain much larger quantities of the various ingredients in the first instance. Coriander-seed, for example, is very oily and only a part of it will pass through the sieve ; twenty-four ounces of the seed will not yield more than eight oimces of powder ; eight ounces of turmeric root will give four of powder : cummin-seed loses about one-third of its origi- nal weight in the process of sifting, and dried chilli skin about half. Weights having been tested, then the whole of the powders should he mixed, a quarter of a bottle of salt being sprinkled in by degrees during the process. The bottles, thoroughly cleansed and dried in the sun, may now be filled and corked tightly do-wn, the tops being securely waxed over. Some recommend that, when the powder has been mixed, it should be browned in melted butter over the fire, then dried in the sun, and powdered again, in order to tone down the strong flavour of the cummin-seed. This is a stoch powder, the flavour of which can be varied by the use of certain spices, and gi-een leaves, gar- lic, onions, green ginger, almond, cocoanut, &c., at the time of cooking the curry. The spices, which should be used according to taste andOUR CURRIES. 293 discretion, are these cloves ('^aoo?^g'j, mace (jawatri), cinnamon (Jculmi darchini), nutmeg (jaephal), cardamoms (eelachi), and allspice (seetul cJiini gach). A salt-spoonful of one, or at most of two, of these aromatic powders blended, will suffice for a large curry. Dr. Kitchener’s precept, that the mixing of several spices is a hlundei, should never be forgotten. The green leaves that are often useful when judiciously introduced are :—fennel (souf), “ maytlii bajee, lemon- grass (tiggeci-ghcis), hiiy-leSiYes (tajipcttha,), “ IcaTay-pciuh, “ kotemear” leaves (green coriander), &c. When'green ginger is used it should be sliced very fine, and pounded to a paste; a dessert-spoonful being .suffi- cient for one curry. The indispensably necessary suspicion of sweet-acid can be produced most readily by a dessert-spoonful of powdered or moist sugar aud the juice of a lime, or a spoonful of vinegar. A table-spoonful of sweet chutney and the juice of a lime make a good substitute ; hut a table-spoonful of red currant jelly, with one of chutney, and a little vinegar of lime juice, form to my mind the nicest combination for dark curries. I strongly advocate the very capital plan of making a fresh paste of some of the above adjuncts, in sufficient quantity for the curry in hand, and blending it with the stock powder when cooking the latter. Here is a reliable x’ecipe :—One small onion, one clove of garlic, one dessert- spoonful of turmeric, one of freshly-roasted coriander-seed, one of poppy-seed, a tea-spoonful of Nepaul pepper, one of sugar, one of salt, and one of grated green ginger. Pound all these with sufficient good salad oil to make a paste. Also pound twelve almonds, and one ounce of cocoanut, with a littlo lime juice to assist the operation. Then mix the two pastes, and stir into them a salt-spoon- 28CU,L1NARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 204 ful of cinnamon or clove-powder. A heaped up table- spoonful of this paste to one of the stock powder will pro- duce a very excellent result. Additional heat can be obtained by those who like very hot crirries if red chilli powder be added to the above ingredients according to taste. This paste will keep if put away carefully and covered up. Having satisfied ourselves as to the composition of our powder and paste, We may now work out, step by stop, the process to be followed in cooking a chicken curry. Choose a nice young chicken—and here let me point out that large chickens nearly full grown ought never to be used in curries—and having cut it up neatly as for a fricassee, place the pieces aside, and dredge over them a little flour- Next take all the trimmings, neck, pinions, leg bones, feet, head, &c., with any scraps of meat that can be spared, and cast them into a sauce-pan with an onion sliced, a carrot sliced, half a dozen pepper corns, a bit of celery, a pinch of salt and one of sugar, cover them with cold water and make the best broth you can. When ready, strain the contents of the sauce-pan into a bowl, and skim it clean, A good breakfast-cupful of weak stock should thus be obtained. Lastly, make a breakfast-cupful of milk of cocoanut, or almond. Now take your stew-pan, and having sliced up six good shallots, or two small white onions, cast the rings into it, with two ounces of Denmark, Normandy, or other good tinned butter; add a finely-minced clove of garlic, and fry till the onions tum a nice yellow brown. Then add a heaped-up table-spoonful of the stock powder, and one of the paste, or, if you have not made the latter, two table- spoonfuls of the powdci*. Cook the curry-stuff witli tho onions and butter for a minute or two, slowly, adding byOUR CURRIES. 29S degrees a -vvine-glassful of tlie cocoanut milk, and then also by degrees the bx-eakfast-cupful of broth. The effect of this when simmered for a quarter of an hour will be a I’ich, tliick, curry gravy, or sauce. The stew-pan should now be placed en Iain-marie while we proceed to prepare the chicken. Take a frying-pan; melt in it an ounce of butter, or clarified beef suet, add a shallot cut up small, and fry for a couple of minutes. Next put the pieces of chicken into the suM^e-pan, and lightly fry them. As soon as slightly coloured, the pieces of chicken should be transferred to the stew-pan in which they should rest for at least half an hour, marinading, as it wei’e, in the curry gravy. After that, the stew-pan should be placed over a gentle fire, and if the liquid be found insuflicient to cover the pieces of chicken, stock, if available, or water, should be added. A gentle simmering process should now be encouraged, during which the bay-leaf, chutney, and sweet-acid should be added. If powder without fresh paste has been used, the pounded almond and cocoanut must now be put in, with a little spice and grated green ginger. The curry gravy should at this period be tasted, and if a little more acid or sweet be found necessary, the proper correction should be made. As soon as the pieces of chicken have become tender, thoroughly stewed, that is to say, a coffee- cupful of cocoanut “ milk,” (the infusion I previously mentioned), should be stffred in, and in three minutes the operation will be complete. a semi dry 01 diy cm'ry be required, the gravy must be still fm-ther reduced by simmering with the lid off, the pieces of meat being continually stirred about with a wooden sp^n to prevent their catching at the bottom of the pan When the proper amount of absorption has been attained, remove the pan and serve. Now, those to whom the slipshod method of curry.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 29(5 making, ordinarily followed by native cooks, is familiar, will, perhaps, think, that the process I have recommended is needlessly tronhlesome. The separate frying of the chicken, the period of rest in the bain-marie, ^c., may seem to them imnecessary. I am, however, perfectly con- fident that in order to produce a dish of a superior class, we must be prepared to take all this trouble, bringing an enlightened system of cookery to bear upon the condi- ments and ingredients which, so to speak, provide the curry flavour. I look upon a chicken curry as a fricassee, or hlanquette d V Indienne, and consider that it should cer- tainly be treated according to the principles of scientific cookery. The soaking of meat in the liquid cui’ry-stuff is an im- portant point, especially when previously cooked meat is to be curried. Remember how much better a salmis or a hash tastes if the meat of which it is composed has been marinaded for an hour or so, before being finally heated up, in the carefully-made gravy or sauce composed for it. This, I think, accounts for an opinion I once heard expressed by a friend of undoubted ability in culinary criticism, to the effect that he always found cm-ries of a certain kind better when warned up and sexwed as a rechauffe than when presented for the first time. If a gravy curry be kept during the night in a china cui’ry dish, and be resuscitated the next morning with some fresh butter, onions and a little gravy, it ought, if anything, to be found better than on the previous night, since the meat has become thoroughly flavoured by the curry gravy, while the latter has become reduced and so strengthened by the second simmering. These directions will be found pi’acticable with most ordinary meat curries. Those made of fresh fish, prawns, and shellfish, requh-e a somewhat diffei'eut process whileOUR CURRIES. 297 those of minced cooked meat, tinned or cooked fish, dress- ed vegetables, and hard-boiled eggs, merely require to be gently heated up in a carefully made curry gravy. The Malay or “ Ceylon curry” as it is sometimes called, is, of course, a specialite and there are Icubdis, quoormas, ^'c., that need separate consideration.♦— Cumes—continued, and Mulligatunny. SHE outward bound passenger to India is generally very favourably struck by the cun*y presented to him at a Ceylon hostelry. Heartily weary of the cuisine on boardship, at that period of his voyage, he would probably welcome any change with thankfulness. The prospect of a little meal ashore, “ be it ever so hum- ble,” is therefore especially enjoyable to him. It may, of course, be said that in such cii’cumstances the traveller is predisposed to deliver a kindly verdict; and that if the dish that pleased him so much in the hour of his eman- cipation from cuddy barbarisms were placed before him after a j)i'oper course of civilized diet, it Avould, by no means produce such an agreeable impression. It would, at all events, lack the charm of contrast, which, in the particular instance before us, could hardly fail to excite the warmest feelings of gratitude and satisfaction. The nautical curry is not, as a rule, a plat to dream of, —a triiunph to look back upon pleasurably, that is to say, with the half-closed eye of a connoisseur. A sea-faring friend with whom I once made a vei’y cheery voyage, grajihically described the composition as “ yellow Irish stew.” Those whose memory is retentive of trifles will no doubt call to mind Avithout diflS,culty a bright saffron- tinted swill, covering sundry knotty lumps of potato andCURRIES— CONTINUED. 290 a few bony atoms of mutton, with its surface beflecked, if I may so describe it, with glossy discs of molten grease. Not exactly the sort of dish to tempt a lady, still slightly affected by vial-de-mer, who has been urged by her stew- ardess to rouse herself, “poor dear,” and try and eat something. Having had this mess thrust before him day after day for three weeks, no wonder that the “ vacuus viator'’ finds something in the curry of Ceylon to delight him. “ Good! said I to myself, cheered at the sight” (a plump, freshly-roasted leveret), wrote Brillat Savarin con- cerning his experiences of a journey ; “ I am not entirely abandoned by Providence : a traveller may gather a flower hy the loay-side.” Regarding the Ceylon curry, then, as a “ flower by the way-side,” let us proceed to consider its composition with all due attention. As I observed in my last chapter, the dish is quite a specialite, peculiar originally to places where the cocoanut is extensively grown and appreciated. It is known by some as the “ Malay curry,” and it is closely allied to the moU of the Tamils of Southern India. Though best adapted for the treatment of shell-fish, ordi- nary fish, and vegetables of the cucumis or gourd family, it may be advantageously tried with chicken, or any nice white meat. We can describe it as a species of fricassee, rich with the nutty juice of the cocoanut, and very deli- cately flavoured with certain mild condiments. It ought to be by no means peppeiy or hot, though thin strips of red and green chilli-skin or capsicum may be associated with it. It therefore possesses characteristics very differ- ent from those of an ordinary cui-ry. The knotty point is the treatment and application of the cocoanut, which should be as fresh and juicy as possible, and of which there should bo no stint. In places where cocoanuts cannot be readily procured,300 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. a very good “ mock” Ceylon curry can be made -with tho milk of almonds, and from Brazil nuts an infusion can be concocted that very much resembles cocoanut milk. The condiments employed are onions, a very little garlic, green ginger, turmeric powder, a little powdered cinna- mon and cloves, and the chilli strips aforesaid. Coriander- seed, cummin-seed, cardomoms, fenugreek, chilli-powder, poppy-seed, &c., ought, on no account, to be used. The most agreeable combinations are prawns with cu- cumber, crab with vegetable marrow, or any firm-fleshed fish or tender chicken with either of those vegetables. For example, I will select a prawn and cucumber curry:— (a) —Take a good-sized cucumber, or two small ones, cut them lengthwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Cut them into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stew-pan with plenty of water, half an ounce of butter, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Simmer them until three parts done; then drain the liquid off, and turn the pieces of cucumber out upon a clean dish, and cover them up. (b) -^The prawns should be prepared very carefully; and here permit me to observe that if prawns are fresh, and properly cleaned, no evil effects need be dreaded by those who look upon them as dangerous. Throw two table-spoonfuls of salt into a gallon of water, put the pan on the fire, and when the water boils fast, slip into it about a pound and a half of prawns weighed in their shells. Boil, and as soon as the prawns turn a rosy pink, stop, drain them from the water, let them get cold, and shell them, removing their heads eompletely. Next pass a knife down the line of the back of each prawn, slightly open the groove as it were, and pick out of it the black gritty dirt that you will find there. Carry out a similar process with tho inner line, and cast the cleaned prawns301 CURRIES—CONTINUED. into a basin of spring water. Having washed them again thoroughly, pick them out, and dry them on a cloth. If very large, you must now divide them in halves length- wise, and sever each half in twain. Dust them over with flour, and put them on a dish. They are now ready. —Choose a very large cocoanut, the fresher the better, break it in half, and, with a cocoanut scraper, remove the whole of the white flesh, casting it into a bowl. Upon the raspings thus obtained, pour a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, leave it for a quarter of an hour, and then strain the liquid off. This is the best or “ number one" infusion, which must be put away, and not added to the curry till the last thing before serving. Return the raspings to their bowl, and pour over them a pint and a half of boiling water, stir well, and let the liquid stand for half an hour. It should then be strained, and the nutty atoms squeezed diy in muslin, so that every drop of the cocoanut essence may be secured. The liquor thus obtained is the “ num- ber two” infusion. Our preparations are now complete. (d)—Put two ounces of good tinned butter into a stew- pan, and mix into it, as it melts over a brisk fire, a white Bombay onion shred into rings, and a clove of garlic finely minced. Lightly fry, but do not allow the onions to turn colour before adding a table-spoonful of good flour, a dessert-spoonful of turmeric powder, a tea-spoon- ful of salt, and a scant one of sugar, a tea-spoonful of mixed cloves and cinnamon powder, and, by degrees, the “number two infusion.” A breakfast-cupful of thick chicken broth, or fish consomme—made by simmering some fish bones, prawn shells, and scraps of fish, in water, with an onion, a carrot, and some parsley—may now go in to assist the composition, together with a heaped-up table- spoonful of sliced green ginger, and three green chillies cut into Julienne-\SkQ strips. The liquid is now ready for the prawns, so remove the stew-pan from the fire, and 29302 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. place it in a bath of boiling water, to keep warm, while you add the prawns and the slices of partly-cooked cucum- ber. It will be found an excellent plan to permit the curry—now all but ready—to rest for about half an hour, at the expiration of which the pan may be placed over a moderate fire, and its contents brought to simmering point. When satisfied that both the prawns and vegetable are tender, the “ number one” infusion may be stirred in, and with it a tea-spoonful of lime-juice. Five minutes’ sim- mering will now complete our task, and the curry can be dished up, and served. It should be noted carefully that the water found inside a cocoanut is not “ cocoanut milk” according to the culi- nary vocabulary. The infusion is what should be used in curry-making. Fillets of any fii’m-fleshed fish, or even neat fillets of chicken, may be treated precisely in the manner I have described. As, however, it is necessary partly to cook prawns, crabs, lobsters, shrimps, &c., separately, a longer process of simmering will be necessary for raw fillets. The pieces of chicken should be lightly tossed in butter in a sowie-pan with a finely-shred onion, before being put into the curry sauce. The MOLT is prepared in this manner :—Melt a couple of ounces of butter, and fry therein an onion sliced into rings, and a clove of garlic minced, a few strips of green chilli, and some slices of green ginger ; stir into it a table-spoon- ful of flour, and add by degrees the “ number two infusion” just alluded to. Work this to the consistency of a rich white sauce adding a little broth if necessary, heat up some slices of cooked fish or chicken in it, and finish off, as already described, with “ number one infusion,” and a tea-spoonful of lime-juice. A little turmeric powder may be used if the yellow colour be considered desirable. If raw fish be used, the simmering process will be necessary.CURRIES—CONTINUED. 303 Old Indian cookery books give a number of recipes for KUBAB curries, for tbe most part of purely native design, and requiring condiments and ingredients which were per- haps appreciated by our forefathers who adopted an almost Oriental method of life. The best kubdb, to my mind, is one made of tender mutton or veal, and treated as fol- lows :— Cut the mutton into thickish pieces, about an inch square and half an inch thick j cut out of some slices of good bacon some pieces an inch square also, but about a quarter the thickness of the mutton ; cut up some pieces of parboiled white onion upon the same pattern as the bacon, and some thin slices of green ginger to match. Impale these mixed pieces upon small plated or silver skewers, or upon thinly-cut wooden ones, maintaining the order I have given, viz., first a piece of mutton, then a piece of bacon, then a bit of onion, and lastly, the thin slice of green ginger. Having repeated this until the skewer is filled, go on with another. When all have been completed, the Jmbdbs should be simmered in a good curry sauce as recommended for chicken curry. Before being added to the sauce, however, they should be lightly tossed in butter in a saute--p&n with an onion sliced, a tea-spoonful of salt and one of sugar. The introduction of the slice of bacon IS a very great improvement. The “ QUOOEMA,” if well made, is undoubtedly an excel- lent curry. It used, I believe, to be one of the best at the Madras Club, in days when curries commanded closer attention than they do now. Cut up about a pound, of very tender mntton without nny bone, and stir the pieces about in a big bowl with a dessert-spoonful of pounded green ginger, and a sprinkling of salt. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stew- pan, and throw into it a couple of white onions cut into304 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. rings, and a couple of cloves of garlic finely minced. Fry for about five minutes, and then add a tea-spoonful of pounded coriander-seed, one of pounded black pepper, half one of pounded cardomoms, and half one of pounded cloves. Cook this for five minutes, then put in the meat, and stir over a moderate fire until the pieces seem tender, and have browned nicely. Now, take the pan from the fire, and work into it a strong infusion obtained from four ounces of well-pounded almonds, and a breakfast-cupful of cream. Mix thoroughly, adding a dessert-spoonful of turmeric powder, and a tea-spoonful of sugar. Put the pan over a very low fire, and let the curry simmer as gently as possi- ble for a quarter of an hour, finishing off with the juice of a couple of limes. This, it will be perceived, is another curry of a rich yet mild description. The total absence of chilli, indeed, constitutes, in the opinion of many, its chief attraction. According to the ancient canons by which the service of curries was regulated, chutnexs of various kinds were considered as essentially necessary as the lordly platter of rice which, of course, accompanied them. These may be divided into two distinct classes : the preserved or bottled chutneys, and those that are made of fresh materials on the spot. Of the former I need say nothing: they are easily procured, and most people know the kind that suits them best. But concerning the latter, I think a little reflection will be found advantageous. There can be no doubt that the presentation of these chutneys,—the little Tiors d'oeuvres, so to speak, of the curry service,—has of late years passed quietly into desuetude. This has been the result, to be sxire, of the disappearance of curries from the memi of the modem diimer, and the very moderate degree of attention that they now command at our hands. Assuming, however, that those who still occasionally patronize the dish would rather see it at its best, and305 CURRIES—CONTINUED. served correctly than not, I will go on with a few recipes that will be found easy enough. Fresh chutneys should be served in saucers which should be tastefully arranged upon a tray. Four or five varieties can be presented together, so that there may be an oppor- tunity of selection. Caviare dressed with a few drops of lime juice and a dust of yellow pepper ; roes of fish pounded with a little butter j potted prawns ; potted ham; crab paste ; lobster paste ; and sardine paste, are hors dloeuvres that can accom- pany the chutneys and materially assist them. The best fresh chutneys are : tomato, cucumber, mint, brinjal, cocoanut, mango or apple, tamarind, and potato. For tomato chutney :—Remove the seeds and watery juice from two or three ripe tomatoes, chop them up with a quarter their bulk of white onion, and season the mince with a little saltadd a pinch of salt, two green chillies chopped small, and a little bit of celery also chopped, give the whole a dust of black pepper, and moisten it with a tea-spoonful of vinegar—anchovy vinegar for choice. For cucumber chMtney :—Cut the cucumber into thin strips an inch long y say three heaped up table-spoonfuls; mix with them a tea-spoonful of finely-minced onion, one of chopped green chilli, and one of parsley; moisten with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar in which a pinch of sugar has been dissolved, a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and dust over it salt and black pepper at discretion. Brinjal chutney is made in this manner:—Boil two or three brinjals, let them get cold, scrape out the whole of the inside of the pods, pass this through the sieve to get rid of the seeds. Rub a soup-plate with a clove of garlic, empty the brinjal pulp therein, dress it with a tea-spoon- ful of minced onion, one of green chilli, one of vinegar.306 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and a very little green ginger, season with salt and black pepper, pat the mixture into a little mould, and serve in a saucer. Cocoanut chutney consists of pounded cocoanut, flavoured with minced onion and green chilli, green ginger, and an atom of garlic, moistened with tamarind juice, and season- ed with red pepper and salt. Mint chutney is made in the same way, substituting pounded mint for cocoanut. Scald the mint leaves before pounding them. Mango or apple chutney is made like cucumber chutney with the addition of a tea-spoonful of chopped green ginger. Tamarind chutney is a good one:—Pound together a table-spoonful of tamarind pulp and one of green ginger, season it with salt, a tea-spoonful of minced green chillies, and one of mustard seed roasted in butter j mix thorough- ly and serve. Mashed potato chutney is flavoured with minced onion, green chilli, salt, pepper, vinegar, and a pinch of sugar. With these relishes, curries are undoubtedly far nicer than when sent up unassisted. Treacher’s tinned Bombay dudes when presented with curries only require crisping in a brisk oven. Papodums may either be toasted on a griddle over some clear embers, or fried in hot fat. Thin slices of raw brinjal, and green plantains, similarly fried, like potato chips, are nice with curries. ♦ MuUigatunny. If it be admitted that the knack of curry-making has gradually passed away from the native cook, I think it must also be allowed that a really well-made mulligatunny is, comparatively speaking, a thing of the past. Perhaps,MULLIGATUNNY. 307 then, a few words regarding this really excellent, and at times, most invigorating soup may be acceptable. In attempting this, I am anxious to address my observations to vegetarians, as well as to those who have no objection to eat meat, for I hope to be able to show that a very ex- cellent mulUgatunny can be made without any assistance from flesh or fowl. This preparation, originally peculiar to Southern India, derives its name from two Tamil words—molegoo (pepper), and tunnee (water). In its simple form, as partaken of by the poorer natives of Madras, it is, as its name indi- cates, a “ pepper-water” or sowpe maigre, which Mootoo- samy makes as follows :—He pounds together a dessert- spoonful of tamarind, six red chillies, six cloves of garlic, a tea-spoonful of mustard seed, a salt-spoonful of fenugreek seed, twelve black peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of salt, and six leaves of karay-pauk. When worked to a paste, he adds a pint of water, and boils the mixture for a quarter of an hour. While this is going on, he cuts up two small onions, puts them into a chatty, and fries them in a des- sert-spoonful of ghee till they begin to turn brown, when he strains the pepper-water into the chatty, and cooks the mixture for five minutes, after which it is ready. The pepper-water is, of course, eaten with a large quantity of boiled rice, and is a meal in itself. The English, taking their ideas from this simple composition, added other condiments, with chicken, mutton, &c., thickened the liquid with flour and butter, and by degrees succeeded in concocting a soupe grasse of a decidedly acceptable kind. Oddly enough, wo undoubtedly get the best mulliga- tunny now-a-days in England, where it is presented in the form of a clear, as well as in that of a thick, soup. In an artistic point of view, the former is infinitely the better of the two, as I shall endeavour to explain later on. Never- theless, the thick is by no means to be despised. The308 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. superiority of the English adaptation needs but little explanation, for it may safely be attributed to the fact that the soup is composed upon a really strong foundation in the shape of stock, an important point that most Indian cooks slur over. This reminds me of an anecdote, which an old friend and fellow-enthusiast on the subject of cookery, commimi- cated to me as follows :—He was at home on furlough, and happened to visit an old uncle, whose early years had been spent in the Navy. The Admiral (for the old gentleman had attained that rank) was of a somewhat dictatorial nature, and had acquired a habit of asserting his opinions with a closed fist and vehement superlatives. Conversa- tion one day turned upon mulligatunny, and the ancient mariner declared vociferously that he had never tasted the soup properly made since serving in the West Indies in the Penelope frigate in the year 1823, angrily shutting up his nephew for daring to observe that it could be fairly well prepared in the East. Now, my friend was far too wise in his generation to contradict his uncle, “ but,” said he, “ I determined to circumvent him.” Accordingly when, after some little time, the Admiral went up to London, he was lured into an ambuscade at his nephew’s house. “ I made the mulligatunny myself,” said my friend, “ the basis of which was a good veal stock, prepared, of course, the previous day. My method of procedure was as follows :—I cut up a large sweet onion into fine rings, and fried them in two ounces of good butter, till about to tui’n yellow. I then stirred in three table-spoonfuls of Barrie’s Madras mulligatunny paste, adding sufficient stock to bring the mixture to the consistency of mayonnaise sauce. This I tasted, and, finding that it requii-ed a little siib-acid, I administered a table-spoonful of red currant jelly and a few drops of lemon juice. Having stirred this in well, I put in a dessert-spoonful of Madras chutney, and309 MVLLIGATUNNY. added stock enough to produce a thin soup—about three pints in all. This I allowed to simmer (to extract the flavours of the various ingredients) for a quarter of an hour, while I pounded four ounces of sweet almonds in a mortar with a littie milk, using a breakfast-cupful al- together. When fully pounded, I strained the almond milk into the soup, and stopped the simmering. The next step was to pass the whole of the liquid through a tin strainer into a clean bowl to catch up lumps of onion, chutney, &c. The nmlligatunny having been skimmed, was now ready, all but the thickening. This process was carried out in due course, with two ounces of butter and two of flour. The soup was brought to boiling-point, and, off the fire, just before serving, a coffee-cupful of the best cream I could get was stirred into the tureen as the soup was poured into it, ’ When this was presented to the Admiral, the old gentleman was delighted, and, altogether forgettmg his previous asseveration, exclaimed that he had not eaten such a basin of mu-lligatv/nny since serving on the East India station in the GoeJcatrice in the year 1834. “I knew,” concluded by friend, “that the dear old man was thmking of ‘ calipash’ and ‘ calipee’ when he pitched mto me on the previous occasion, but I was not such an ass as to suggest that he had made a mistake.” This recipe of my friend’s may be taken as a very good guide for a mulUgatunny made with pure meat stock extracted from veal, mutton, beef, or fowl, and ready-made paste. Yolks of eggs may supply the place of cream, and coeoanut milk may be substituted for the lait d’amandes, ihe addition of either almond or eocoanut milk is, how- ever, a sine qua non, if the object be to obtain a soft, creamy, well-flavoured, thick muUigatunny. The strain- Is^wd^^ carefully, and the thickening Eice IS served with mnlligatunnij, but it is, I think, a 30CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 310 mistake to do so. We do not call for rice with hare soup, game soup, or mock-turtle ; why, then, should we ruin our appetites by taking rice with so satisfying a potage as onulUgatunny ? The custom has been handed down to us by our forefathers, who, of course, ate rice with their mulligatunny, as did the natives from whom they learnt the dish. The object in a clear mulligatunny is to present a bright, sparkling consomme of the colour of clear turtle, with a decided flavour of mulligatunny, and slightly peppery. Now, if you try to communicate the flavour with ready- made curry-powder or paste, in which there is a certain quantity of turmeric, you will experience considerable difficulty in getting your soup bright and clear. Foxmded coriander seed, too, is oily, and would probably cause trouble. So the easiest method is to put a muslin bag, containing the flavouring ingredients, into the soup kettle with the vegetables, and to remove it as soon as the con- somme is satisfactorily impregnated with the wished-for aroma. The pepperiness is best imparted with a few drops of tabasco as a finishing touch, or of chilli-vinegar if tabasco be unobtainable. The following proportions will, I think, be found satis- factory as far as the flavom’ing is concerned:—Two ounces of coriander seed, one ounce of cummin seed, one ounce of fenugreek or maythee, half an ounce of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, a dozen black peppercorns, and four or five leaves of Icurreaphool, or kodia neein (karay-pauk). All put into a muslin bag, without pounding or bruising, boiled with the soup, and removed as soon as the flavour is satisfactory. These quantities are estimated for above three pints of clear consomme; but as tastes vary in the matter of condiments, they are obviously susceptible of alteration at discretion. I would abstain from the use of all ordinary spices forMULLIGATUNNY. fear of disturbing the flavour derived from the cuiuy-stuff. The soup itself may be ordinary consomme, consomme de volaille or hlond de veau. Clear ox-tail thus flavoured is well-known at the Army and Navy Club in London under the name of queue de bceuf ii I Indienne. Fish consomme, i.e., a stock made from fish and vege- tables, makes a capital basis for a thick mulligatunny ; and a Usque or piiree of shell-fish, flavoured with curry- paste, is a right royal potage. Vegetarians can fall back upon a stock composed of vegetables, consomme de legumes. This, artfully flavoured with a good mulligatunny paste, thickened with flour and butter, and enriched with lait d’amandes, cocoanut milk, cream, or raw yolks of eggs, will be found to make a most excellent soupe maigre. The stock should be composed as follows :—Weigh, when trimmed and cut up, one pound, each, of carrots and onions. Throw them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of butter (tinned butter will do well), a bunch of parsley, and a couple of otmces of celery. Fry until the vegetables begin to take colour, then moisten with two quai’ts of hot water. Boil and skim, then put into the pan half an ounce of salt, a quarter ounce of black peppercorns, and a pint measure of shelled green peas. Simmer for three hours, skim off any oil that may rise from the butter, and strain the broth into a basin through a tamis. Be careful in using turnips. Unless they are very young they are apt to be overstrongly flavoured in this country. Leeks are invaluable ; if available I would put half a pound of them in with the carrots; a few sprigs of thyme or marjoram are also useful. A pint of French beans may be used instead of, or in addition to, the peas. This consomme is, with a dash of white wine, quite fit to serve alone. Maccaroni or vermicelli may be added to it as a garnish, and grated Parmesan may accompany it.312 CULINARY yOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. For ordinary mulUgatunny maigre, however, plain eau de cuisson may b& employed. This most nsefnl liquid is too often thrown away by ignorant native cooks, or an- nexed by the waiy ones for their own food. It is the water in which certain vegnetables have been boiled. As a matter of economy, house-keepers should make a note of this. Suppose yon want to make a salade cuite, i.e., a salad of cooked vegetables, the water in which the carrots, onions, leeks, peas, flageolets, French beans, and young turnips are boiled will provide yon with an excellent stock for ordinary white sauce, or mulUgatunny. The ordinary chicken or mutton mulUgatunny, made without assistance in the way of stock, may, with some little pains, be sent up in better style than our cooks, as a rule, are satisfied with. We do not want a thin yellow liquid with queer-looking leaves and bits of fHed onion floating in it. We ask fora smooth, creamy ^o^a^e, free from any lump or floating substance, and garnished with a few choice pieces of the chicken or mutton of which it was composed. Cut up a well-mirtured chicken or young fowl as if for fricassee, soak the pieces in cold water for a quarter of an hour, then slice up a couple of good-sized onions, and put them, with two table-spoonfuls of butter, into a stew-pan on a good fire. Fry the chicken and onions together till slightly browned, then pick out the chicken, and stir into the butter a couple of table-spoonfuls of mulUgatunny paste or curry-powder (Barrie’s “Madras,” if possible). Cook the paste or powder with the butter and onions for five minutes, and then stir in a couple of pints of warm water. Add the chicken j and if the pieces are not quite covered, put in water enough to do so. Let the contents come to the boil, then ease off the fire, £knd simmer for half an hour very gently. While this is going on, pound a couple of ounces of almonds in a mortar, with a coffee-MULLIGATUNNY. 313 capful of milk, give it a pinch of sugar, and let the mix- ture stand till wanted. Now, having ascertained that the chicken is quite tender, stir in a dessert-spoonful of good chutney, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a tea- spoonful of lime-juice, and, after five minutes’ simmering, strain off the whole of the liquid into a bowl. Pick out the nicest pieces of chicken for garnish, and put them aside. Now, skim the surface of the liquid, and, when quite clear of grease, proceed to thicken it, using a table- spoonful of butter and one of flour, and stirring in the soup slowly. All having been poured in, strain into the sauce- pan the almond milk, using a piece of muslin in order to catch up the bits of nut. Let the mulligatunny come to the boil, and serve. The chief points to observe are :—First, the use of a really good paste or powder ; next the simmering and ad- dition of a pleasant sub-acid; then the straining, skim- ming, and thickening ; and lastly, the introduction of the almond milk. Instead of almond milk, cocoanut milk (the infusion of the nut, I mean) may be used, and a table- spoonful of cream, or a couple of raw yolks of eggs, may be stirred into the tureen with the soup, by degrees, just before serving. The choice pieces of chicken should also be served in the mulligatunny. For mutton mulligatunny follow this recipe, substitut- ing a neck or breast of mutton for the chicken. It will be seen from these observations that, while there IS no difficulty whatevei’ in making mulligatunny of a superior, as well as of an ordinaiy kind, it is a soup that demands no little care and attention. Whether it is worth the trouble or not is a question that can only be decided by practical experiment. I have no hesitation in recom- mending the trial.Camp Cookery. SLTHOUGH no doubt there are many of my readers who have by long experience acquii-ed the knack of making themselves thoroughly comfortable under canvas, and who, being fond of nice food, and ati fait in culinary science, contrive to eat and drink in camp as luxuriously as in cantonment, there must be, I take it, a good many travellers, sportsmen, soldiers, and others whose duties demand several months of tent-lifeper annum, Avho would like to pick up a wrinkle or tAvo in the matter of cookery under difficulties. A friend of mine, who in addition to his passionate devotion to la cTiasse, possesses the keenest affection for his dinner, assured me, once upon a time, that good bread was the back-bone of happiness,—gustatory happiness, that is to say,—in the jungle. In cantonment even, this man despised the miserable travesty called bread furnished by the native baker. They say that he once saw it being made, never thought of it again without a shudder, and preferred a home-made roll for ever afterwards. He car- lued his roll with him, so to speak, into camp, and with the aid of a talented sei'Amnt, was able to bake hot, clean, Avhite bread daily, at a distance of many marches from an English dwelling place. He used Ycatmau’s baking poAvdcr, imported Australian or American flour, and a315 CAMP COOKERY. little salt. Butter and. milk were added in the case of lii.s fancy 'petit pain, and he occasionally mixed oatmeal with the flour for variety. I often envied my friend’s bread, yet never took the trouble to follow his example until comparatively lately. My conversion was brought about by Mr. Woolf of 119, New Bond Street, who introduced me to the “Acme cook- ing stove,”* and gave me many a seance with regard to the use of Teatman’s baking powder for which his Arm are the London Agents. The man who could remain un- convinced after one of Mr. Woolf’s pleasant demonstrations, would be a stoic indeed. Ton are shown how to make a * pound loaf,—“ cottage” pattern, in rolls, or in the tin. This is placed in the stove oven whilst you examine the numerous clever contrivances for the kitchen,—principally American inventions,—which form the specialites of the establishment. In less than half an hour the loaf, baked to perfection, is placed upon the table. Now here are two invaluable articles for the dweller in tents;—a composition, perfectly climate-proof, by which he can turn out an excellent loaf of light, clean bread; and the oven to bake it in. The “ Acme Stove” is cheap, portable, strong, and easily managed. It is fed by mineral oil, kerosine or paraflne, and in addition to the oven, provides the cook with a capital kitchen range adapted for boiling, stewing, frying, and even grilling. The size I recommend, after ripwards of two years experience of its working,—more than a year of that time having been spent at Madras,—is fitted with double wicks four inches wide. One of these stoves with its ordinary appurtenances can be purchased for £2, s.I5. For that sum you have a capital oven, with baking dishes * Now eclipsed by the “ Florence” which is worked exactly like the Acme bnt with untnerous improvements.—W.CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and a griddle, a radiator, a kettle, and a frying-pan. Ordinaiy sauce-pans of a certain diameter can be used with it. A Warren’s cooking pot, fitted to the stove, is furnished for £1-1, and a ginller for five shillings and sixpence. When not wanted for cooking, it can be used for heating a room, for which purpose, you use the radiator, or ornamental chimney, previously mentioned. Thus adjusted, it is also very useful for airing damp linen, or drying wet clothes; you have merely to place a large circular basket over it, and spread the things thereon, for the chimney is so contrived that the heat radiates laterally, • and there is therefore no chance of burning, scorching, or smoking. In camp, the first thing the Acme would do for you would be to boil the water for your tea: if a raw December, or January morning in the Deccan, or on the plateau of Mysore, you would not object to the operation being performed inside your tent, for the warmth would be very pleasant. It would then bake the bread for your breakfast, and warm up any rechauffe destined for that meal at the same time. During the day it would make the soup, and in the evening be available for work for dinner. I do not say that you could do without a charcoal fire, but the stove would do a large portion of the day’s cooking, and in a way vastly superior to any ordinary fire, either in camp or cantonment. In soup-making, for instance, and in stewing operations, you possess the power of producing the exact amount of heat you need by turning down the wicks at will. I have made a, pot-au-feu, in a Warren’s kettle placed upon my Acme, the like of which I defy a native cook to produce ■with a common cook-room fire, simply on account of this regulating power. A gallon flask of kerosine oil should be made to fit the stove box for short periods of camp life. If a man were settled in a standing camp, or out in his district for an indefiniteCAMP COOKERY. • 317 period, he would, of course, require a keg of oil. I use my stove for some hours daily, aud my mouth s expeuditure does not exceed ten quart bottles. Another of Mr. Woolf’s valuable inventions, which I can strongly advise the traveller to obtain, is the “ Lang spirit lamp”: the large one costs five shillings and six- pence, and is a never failing source of comfort on a jouj'ney. In camp it would be found a most useful appendage to the Acme stove for light work, such as boil- ing milk for coffee, cooking eggs in all sorts of ways, heat- ing sauces, frying bacon, &c. I use mine for omelettes almost every day in cantonment, for which work it is admirably adapted. With a “ Lang lamp” you can make a cup of tea or coffee in the train, by the side of the road, on arrival at a public bungalow, or under a tree whilst the lascars are pitching your tent: and by its aid, and that of a small frying-pan, you can devil a biscuit, fi’y a rasher, poach an egg, or cook a kidney, to accompany the tea or coffee. It is fed by methylated spirit, a gallon of which would last for at least two months. Having thus directed your attention to two excellent appliances for the camp kitchen,* I will return to the sub- ject of baking bread, for your servants can always contrive a field oven for you without difidculty, which, though infinitely inferior to that of the stove, will perform the task required of it fairly enough. But in wet weather, the owner of an Acme will, of course, laugh and grow fat, whilst his neighbour with only Ramasamy’s fine whether make-shift to fall back upon, will beg for bread. I have baked at home regularly now for over two years using, for ordinary bread, Yeatman’s baking powder, * There axe, I dare say, cookinf^ stoves, fed by mineral oils, patented by other firms, which are similar to the Acme in working and quite as good. I have confined my remarks to the one which 1 have thoroughly tested. 31318 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. American flour, salt, and water; for fancy rolls, tlie same with butter, and milk; and have discovered, after many experiments, that in this country, the proportions of baking powder to flour which are laid down in the paper of directions accompanying each tin, have to be increased. For eight ounces of flour, for instance, I And that I have to use two tea-spoonfuls of Yeatman. I may say without hesitation that very few bread- makers hit off perfection at starting. I struggled through many disheartening attempts, before I turned out the thing I wanted. The common mistakes are overworking the dough, and using too much liquid. The mixing of dough with the proper quantity of fluid can only be acquired by practice, and all beginners knead too heavily through over zeal. Watch a professor. The fau'-haired artiste who demonstrates bread-making at Mr. Woolf’s, makes a pound loaf with three-quarters of a tea-cupful of water; her touch is as light as a feather, and the dough is made with wonderful swiftness. I have taught my servant to use two wooden spoons to work his dough with, the result is satisfactory as regards the lightness of the bread, and to those who dislike eating food mauled by native Angers, the system is especially attractive. If by any chance your dough has been made too sloppily, and from its putty-like consistency, you feel convinced it will be heavy, bake it in a tin. The paraphernalia of the home-baker should be:—a large enamelled iron milk basin, two wooden spoons, a flour dredger, scales to weigh the flour, some patty-pans for rolls, some small tins for ditto, a baking-sheet, a half pound and pound loaf tin, and a cake tin: these various things are not expensive, they should be kept in the house (when in cantonment) away from the cook-room, as clean as possible, and be scrupulously reserved for their own purposes. Having provided yourself with this equipmentCAMP COOKERY. you should use Yeatman’s baking powder, the best import- ed flour you can get, oatmeal occasionally, salt, and either good butter made at home, or that of any well-known brand preserved in tin. Here is a reliable receipt for four nice breakfast or dinner rolls eisrht ounces of flour, one dessert-spoonful of good butter, two tea-spoonfuls of Yeatman’s powder, one salt-spoonful of salt, four table-spoonfuls of milk. Rub the butter into the flour with one of the wooden spoons after having spread the latter in the enamelled pan, sprinkle the salt over it, and mix your dough as lightly as you can, using both wooden spoons, and shaking the milk into the flour by degrees. When nicely formed, add the baking powder (last thing of all mark) stir it well into the dough, divide it into four equal portions, pat them into shape with the spoons, and place them in four patty-pans well buttered : These must be put on the baking-sheet, and slipped into the oven, which should have been heated to receive them to such a degree that you can hardly bear your hand inside it. The time taken in bak- ing depends upon the sort of oven you employ : as soon as the rolls brown very slightly, having risen into nice round forms, they are ready. This recipe may be altered to jive ounces of floui-, and three of oatmeal, for a change. “ French Bolls":—Half a pound of flour, a dessert-spoon- ful of butter, one small egg, two tea-spoonfuls of Yeat- man’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and four table-spoon- fuls of milk. Work the butter thoroughly into the floux. Beat the egg up briskly with the milk, and strain it into another cup, dust the salt over the flour, and gradually add the eggy-milk till the dough is formed; then mix the baking powder into it thoroughly ; form the dough into two nice oblong rolls, place them on a sheet of well butteredCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 320 paper, on the baking tin, and set them in the oven ; look at them after twenty minutes’ baking, and take them out as soon as their colour indicates that they are done. “Half pound plain loaf” ;—Half a pound of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of Yeatman’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and four or five table-spoonfuls of water. Work this as above, reserving the baking powder to the last, set the dough in a tin, or form it in the well-known “ cottage” shape, and bake. The ordinary cookery book receipts for fancy breads can be safely followed if you remember the proportion of the baking powder to the pound of flour, and, where eggs are propounded, make an allowance for the difference which exists between the English and the Indian egg. In rising Yeatman’s powder, do not let your made rolls, or bread, stand waiting for the oven : see that your baking appara- tus is all but ready before you commence making the bread. You will observe that I recommend the baking powder to be put into the dough, nob mixed with the flour in a. dry state to start with. In London Mr. Woolf follows the latter method. I cannot explain what causes it, but I have found that the bread never turns out so satisfactorily here, if the powder be put in early: the temperature may have something to do with this; at all events, experience seems to show that the powder expends its effect to a great extent, during the working of the dough, if mixed with the flour first; whereas, if put in as a finishing touch, the bread being rapidly consigned to the oven, the result is invariably satisfactory. I advise home-bakei'S to make rolls rather than large loaves. There is less waste with them. A roll is either eaten in toto or left untouched. If intact, you have merely to dip it in milk, and put it into the oven—damp; it will turn out again almost as freshly as a now roll. Brcail.CAMP COOKERY. 321 once cut, is apt to get dry, and with the exception of being sliced for toast, or grated for bread-crumbs, is not very presentable a second time. In baking, be very careful that youi' flour is well sifted and thoroughly dry. In a moist climate like this it is advisable to dry it in the oven before using it; the sifting must be carried out by a sieve. I have made very eatable bread with carefully sifted country floui’, the sifting of which is an imperative neces- sity, be It observed, unless you have no objection to a gravelly loaf. Now, let us discuss the animal and vegetable food of camp life, taking soups first Many people think that because they cannot get beef in camp, they cannot have a freshly-made soup. Now there are a few capital soups requiring no meat at all’ whicWe known as souses maigres.- I will give you nnwf ^ ^ of Bombay onions ; powder them well with flour, let them fry awLle in a stew-pan with plenty of butter; before they begin to rrieu bread. Grated Parmesan should accompany “ done, eerve with creiite“ita “’’I”*®'’ would assist the undertaking greatly “ “ But you need not condemn yourself to “ “'o.-careshee^, and fowls, rrhuXCULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 322 when you can shoot game, and lastly, when you are pro- vided with tinned soups, and preserved vegetables, espe- cially that excellent tablet called “ Julienne." In camp, bottles of dried herbs, and tinned provisions are, of course, indispensable, and you should be provided with potatoes, carrots, and onions before starting. Soups in tins can be turned to excellent account in this way :—Kill a good full-sized fowl, cut it up, and put it, giblets and all, into a stew-pan; cover it with water, and let it come very slowly to the boil, skimming off the scum which may rise during that process ; when the boiling stage has been attained, take the pan from the fire for a minute and throw into it a Bombay onion, cut into quarters, any fresh vegetables you may have brought out, a bag of mixed sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a dozen pep- per corns, a pinch of parsley seed, a few drops of celery essence, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea- spoonful of sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of salt. Now, let the pan boil again till the onion is soft, and then reduce the fire for the simmering stage. When the pieces of fowl are nice and tender, the broth is ready : long cooking will avail nothing : so lift up your pan, and strain off the broth into a bowl, it will be beautifully bright and clear; slightly tinted with caramel (page 35) and served hot with a dessert-spoonful of Marsala and a dissolved dessert- spoonful of “ Julienne” this consomme de volaille will be found suflB.cient for two hungry men. When used in con- nection with a tin of soup, the broth should be poured from the bowl into the pan again, and the tin of soup added to it ;* a slow process of boiling should now be commenced, during which any scum, the soup may throw up should be studiously removed, for all tinny impurities will thus be got rid of: when all but boiling, a table- * If a thich soap, like mookturtle for instance, you must thicken the conaommi with a little flour.—W.323 CAMP COOKERY. spoonful of Marsala should be added, and the soup served. The pieces of fowl if not over-cooked, may be served in the form of fricassee, or be bread-crumbed or dipped in batter and fried, and served with maccaroni and tomato conserve. Very valuable stock, remember, can be made from cold roast mutton bones—(do not try raxo mutton, the taste will be tallowy)—assisted by bacon skin, bones and trim- mings, a thick slice of Brunswick or Bologna sausage, and a chicken, or any game you can spare. Birds that have been mauled in shooting can thus be utilized. Purees of game can be made if you have taken out your utensils if not, you must make the game broth as strong as possible, helped by a fowl as stock, and thicken it with flour. The addition of Marsala or port is, of course, a sine qua non. Tinned fish served,—as you sometimes see salmon at a dinner party,—plainly, and hot is positively nasty, and in no way improved by a cold sauce like tartare. Who, after a moment’s reflection, could send up hot fish with a cold sauce ? Preserved salmon, fresh herrings, and other tinned fresh fish, if served with tartare or mayonnaise sauces should be served cold, after having been carefully drained on a sieve from all the tinny juices which adhered to them. Select nicely sized pieces, place them on a dish with any garnish you may have such as olives farcies, capers, sliced gherkins, and rolled anchovies, and send the sauce round in a boat. If you want a hot dish of tinned fish, you must choose the nicest pieces and gently warm them up in a rich matelote sauce, veloute or poulette, or you must wrap them in oiled paper and broil them a moment. All trimmings and odd bits can be saved and worked up as rissoles, or in any of the ways I have mentioned for cold fish in my chapter on rechauffes.324 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Fresh-water fish is often to be had by men out in camp. In cooking them, many recipes hereafter given for fillet^ fish may be followed : clean them thoroughly, wash them well to get rid of all muddy taste, scale, trim, and soak them after cleaning, in water. A fish like murrel may be treated like a pike :—after having been carefully cleansed, and trimmed, stuff it with turkey forcemeat (page 108) sew it up, trim it in a circular shape with its tail in its mouth and bake it in a pie-dish surrounded by chicken stock about half an inch deep. A glass of any white wine like hock, chablis, or sauterne may be put into the stock, an onion also, and any vegetables you can spare. The fish should be basted every now and then, and when it has absorbed the gravy and seems soft, take it out of the oven. Put a pat of maitre d'hotel butter on the top of it, and serve in its own dish with a napkin folded round it. A good sized murrel will take from twenty minutes to half an hour in baking. A stuflSng made with a tin of oysters, well drained and cut up, mixed with a half pint of bread-crumbs soaked in milk or stock, some spiced pepper, a little chopped very finely pared lime peel, and a couple of minced anchovies, all stirred together, and bound with a couple of eggs, is highly acceptable with a murrel. If you have no oysters, pound a good quantity of fresh-water sJvrimps, and mix them with the stuffing. Eels ought to be slightly boiled fii-st, whatever you do with them, you then get rid of their oiliness. After being thus treated, you can cut them into fillets for frying, for stewing, or for a pie. Bel fillets dipped in batter, and fried in oil or fat (lots of it) with a plain sharp sauce are delicious. The matelote will be found in the jwentw. Tinned Australian, and other preserved lumps of meat, are valuable additions to the store box of the jungle- wallah, but they require very delicate handling, because I they are almost always overdone. The really nutritious ^CAMP COOKERY. 325 part of a tin of Australian meat is tlie gravy that sur- rounds it. Ramasamy knows this, so beware of un- righteous dealing, see the tin opened, and have every atom of the gravy strained off into a bowl. In cold weather, during such nights as you have in the Deccan during December and January for instance, the gravy in these tins becomes a jelly, so before you open one, set it on the fii’e in a sauce-pan surrounded by hot water for ten minutes or so; then open it, and strain the gravy from the tin into a bowl; turn the meat out carefully upon your sieve, and pour some hot water gently over it; catch the water in a bowl below the sieve, and add it to the gravy. Now, the gravy of a two-pound tin of beef will, as a rule, give you an excellent stock for two basins of soup :—’skim the fat that may rise to its surface, and put it into a sauce-pan with a bag of dried sweet herbs, an onion cut into quarters, any vegetables you can spare, some pepper-corns, a pinch of spice, and salt according to the quantity : simmer this gently to extract the flavour of the things you have added, and in about a couple of hours you will have an excellent consomme, quite fit to be served as soup, with maccaroni, vermicelli, a couple of poached eggs, or Julienne, grated cheese accompanyiug; a table-spoonful of Marsala will be a grateful finishing stroke. Or it may be thickened like mock-turtle, and served with forcemeat balls. The meat should be treated in this way:—choose the nicest looking pieces, trim them neatly, and if of a fair size, brush them over with egg, bread-crumb them, and brown them in the oven, serving a good sauce,—tomato, souhise, or piquante for instance, with them. Or you can cut the meat into collops, and hash them very gently in a carefully made gravy. Lastly, you can mince it and serve it in many nice ways, (vide page 173). An excellent method may bo thus described:—Having 32CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 326 made yoiu' mince and flavoured it with a little chopped olive, anchovy, sausage meat, &c., bind it with a little good sauce thickened with a couple of eggs, and let it get cold: make a good sized thin pan-cake, take it from the pan when almost done, put it on a dish, and arrange some slices of cold cooked bacon upon it, lay the mince upon the bacon, give it a dust of spiced pepper, and fold the pan-cake over it: brush it over with an egg, bread-crumb it, and bake it a golden brown in your oven. The pan- cake should be just large enough to envelope the mince in one fold securely. If you look upon a tin of preserved meat as a dish that has been cooked once, and has accordingly to be dressed en rechauffe, you will not fail to turn it to good account. But warmed up as it comes from the tin, unaided, and carelessly dished, it presents an ii’regular mass of sodden and tasteless diet which few would care to touch unless driven to do so by the calls of ungovern- able hunger. Messes like Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s “ ducks and green peas,” “ Irish stew,” “ ox cheek and vegetables,” &c., should be avoided carefully, but if you find that your butler has sent such things to camp, you must pick the meat out of its sm’roundings, dress it with some fresh chicken meat, as a rissole, croustade or a mince, and cook the gravy and vegetables with some fresh chicken broth as a sauce. I have already spoken of tinned vegetables, (pages 163 to 166) and also of the produce of the country. The traveller ought to try and find out what country garden stuff can be got from the villages near his camp. The recipes I have given will be found easy, and the monotony of tinned food will bo much relieved by an occasional nicely dressed dish of common vegetables.327 CAMP COOKERY. I Avill conclude this chapter with thi-ee very reliable recipes for cooking a hare. If you have shot the hare yourself so much the better, for then you will not find its heart, liver and kidneys gone. Skin, clean, and wash the animal well, saving the three parts I have mentioned care- fully, and the blood. When quite clean, wipe the carcass inside and out, and let it soak in the marinade mentioned at page 66 all day, turning it every now and then. As the hour for cooking approaches, fill the hare with a well- made stuffing as for turkey (page 108). The kidneys and heart should be minced, and fried in fat bacon, with a little onion ; when done, the contents of the pan should be pom’ed into, a bowl to cool, and when cold, pounded to a paste, and mixed with the stuffing. The back of the hare should be larded, or covered with thin slices of bacon pinned down with little skewers, it should then be roasted a constant basting of melted butter or clarified beef suet being kept up throughout the process. When nearly done the bacon strips should be removed, and the back lights dredged with flour; the skin should be allowed to brown and run into crisp blisters : the hare should then be served,—with a sauce made as follows : First make a good pint of the best gravy you can • t butter in it, throw into it an onion finely shredded he on.on tm it colo™ nicely, then in Z .V r, chakmg the pan for a minnte on two • next a/d a ™t“ thet ’ ^ ^ ^ soaked, put it on theL'/yTntrvelAletatr^ and tJie sauce will thicken, throw i^trit tlm to a paeto, etir and ae.-ve very l^t. ™'328 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Ramasamy sometimes envelopes his hare in a coating of light hatter. Pray caution him never to do so again. “ Jugged hare” is perhaps the best dish for camp life ; by many it is considered in any circumstances the best. This is a simple recipe:—Proceed as in the foregoing receipt as far as the skinning and cleaning is concerned. When ready, cut the hare up into neat pieces, dredge them Tvith flour, and give them a fevr turns in the frying-pan with some butter till they take colour. Prepare beforehand a pint and a half of good strong stock (that of a fowl will do in camp) and choose a vessel that you can close securely with paste : put the pieces of hare into it, with two carrots, two or three large onions, an ounce of celery, the juice of two limes, a table-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt; pour in the stock, throw in a wine-glass of brandy, and seal the vessel as closely as possible; place it in a pan of cold water, and set it to boil, steaming the covered pot for three hours. When done, open the pot, stir into it a bumper glass of port, a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a lump of butter rolled in flour.* Serve with a dozen balls of stuffing made as for roast hare, and fried in butter. Instead of steaming the jar, it may be placed in the oven and baked for two or three hours. An excellent hash may be made of a cold roast hare in this w'ay :—Trim off as much of the meat as you can find in slices, and cut out what remains of the stuffing: break np all the bones and put them with the skin and scraps into a stew-pan with a large onion cut up, pepper-coms, a bit of celery if possible, and any vegetable, a little spice, any sauce that may have been left, a couple of glasses of red wine and enough water to cover the bones, &c., sim- mer these ingredients for an hour and a half, and then * Or you may etrain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, add the wine, &c., and pour it over tlic moat again.—W.CAMP COOKERY. 329 strain off the gravy. Thicken it with butter and flour, flavour it with a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a glass of vine- gar, and a little more red wine : heat up the slices of hare in this sauce taking care that they do not boil, and serve with the stuffing sliced and fried in butter as a garnish. I have found the process of “ jugging” very effective with venison, especially with j ungle-sheep. The neck and breast can be utilized in this manner. Many of the dishes detailed in the previous chapters, especially those spoken of under the title of “ Eggs, mac- caroni, and cheese,” will be found practicable in the camp ; amongst the menus, more than one nice recipe for cooking mutton, fowls, and chickens, has been recorded ; in short, if the pilgrim be blessed by the possession of an intelligent cook, and provided with a judicious assortment of culinary necessaries and stores, his tent life should never fail to possess amongst its many attractions that indubitably important one—a really good dinner. Note.—For various methods of treating preserved food of all kinds, see Wyvern’s annotated catalogue of Messrs. John Moir and Son’s provisions.i JPART II. THIRTY MENUS, OXJT ZI<r IDET^ZIj.T - ■ - -'r ^ V". < y<-, t*l k »■!■:_ - ->! v< -r f ■ . ; / '■ , . ' -- ie'i ’ • ' , •’•.•Ji > 7»i 7»i ,*v . r ..i- ' YTHiHt '\'.y<. > c:!z~fyx^K‘- v- .'-V- , t'NOTES, ,HE menus have been thorougbly revised and cor- rected. They are all susceptible of being doubled for larger parties than those for which they have been designed; and though each of them is given in French, the English names of all the dishes will be found in the margin of the detail of instructions. Those who are anxious to adopt the more modern form ^^enu wiU find a note at the end of each of the larger thet'object alteration is necessary to effect woL^ruttW dishes in this woik but the entremets sucres chosen for each bill-of-fare have been carefully described. Tie recipes giver, for tie treatment of fish anniv it ^ 1 be found, to tie varieties of the finny trib^^ bLt known and esteemed at Madras vi^ -—fl. ^ ^ * sole, grey mullet, and whiting. ’ ’ ’ whicV^^ cut-up and sdd ^ ^ salmon-shaped fish, 33334 NOTES TO MENU. the tui’bot or brill, but as it never reaches as great a size as either of those fish, it can be trimmed when desired in fillets, and cooked like soles. The sole and whiting can be treated exactly like the fishes of the same name at home. The only difference being that the Indian sole is, as a rule, wanting in the depth of flesh, possessed by the European variety when in proper season. The mullet is a far larger fish than the English grey mullet, and not nearly as rich. If taken in back-waters, it requires very careful cleaning to rid it of the muddy taste it acquires in such circumstances. Remembering the peculiarities of these fish, a little re- flection will enable my readers in other parts of India to apply the recipes I have given to almost any fish that may be at their disposal. A fish that can be easily dr’essed in fillets may be treated as a pomfr’et or sole. One that is large and firm enough to be sliced can be cooked as the seer. Long trout-shaped fish may be served as mullet, and can be baked whole, or roasted a la broche. Bony fish are best prepared in the form of puree:—boiled, passed through the sieve, and sent up as a souffle, or a creme. The becktie of Calcutta seems specially adapted to treatment as codfish ; at the same time it may be cooked in almost every way laid down for seer fish. The hilsa, again, approaches very closely if it does not surpass the mackerel, and may be dressed similarly. Those who may try to use this book in England should remember that ordinary eggs in India are far smaller than, those at home. I calculate that five Indian eggs equal three English. Again: the cream so often pro- pounded in my recipes is not nearly as thick and rich as English cream: the use therefore of cream may be tem- pered with discretion. Wyverx.iviEisrxj isro- —-4-— For a party of eight. Consomme aux quenelles. Seer aux concomlires. Creme de volaille truffee. Grenadins de boeuf a la Beamaise. Selle de mouton aux haricots verts. Galantines de cailles, sauce tartare. Epinards a la creme. Pain de fraises. Pudding” glace aux abricots. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Our first step must be the making of a bright, clear, consomme according to the directions quenelles given at page 33, to flavour which in this instance we must not forget a little dried basil, (which should go in with the vegetables) and a table-spoonful of Madeira to finish with. We can make the quenelles of fish, game, chicken, or of tinned lobster if we like. Let us choose prawn quenelles, and proceed as follows :—Pound a dozen and a half well- cleaned prawns with half their bulk of crumb of bread, soaked in stock; work in with the paste two whole raw eggs, and season it with a pinch of salt, a dusting of white, or Nepaul pepper, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy336 MENU FOR A PA RTF OF EIGHT. sauce : wlien thoroughly blended, and of the right consist- ency, form your tiny olive-shaped qttenelles between two tea-spoons, poach them for about five minutes in boiling stock or water, drain them, and add them to the soup at the last moment. Quenelles used as garnish for soups should be lighter and more delicate than ordinary quenelles. Various shapes may be obtained by pressing the mixture into the poaching pan through a paper funnel. 2. —This is a dish of neatly trimmed slices of seer, plainly stewed in a clear broth made Seer •with cucum- from chicken bones and the fish trim- bers. mings. Put into the broth with the fish a few slices of carrot, and onion, a table-spoonful of dried sweet herbs, and a glass of chablis : simmer gently, and when done, drain the fish, and strain the gravy. Thicken the latter with butter and flour, and add to it some previously cooked fillets of cucumber about an inch long, and half an inch thick, and the pieces of fish : heat altogether, till the stew steams freely, and serve. For directions for preparing the cucumber, see page 156. 3. —Here we have a mould of creme or pain de volaille, nicely truffled. Choose a large fowl. Mould of ciicken qj. prood sized chickens, and cut off ci'cam* ^ all the white meat you can for the puree. With all the bones, skin, and scraps assisted by two sheep’s feet, cleaned and cut up, and the giblets saved before the roasting, make as strong an essence as you can, following the rules for “ fowl essence” (page 98). Strain when done, let it get cold, skim it, and then proceed to thicken it; when as thick as a rich mayonnaise sauce, strain it, and set it in the hain-marie. You must treat your puree thus :—melt two ounces of fat bacon in a sa?tie-pan, throw in some pepper, salt, and the meat of the fowl; work them together for five minutes over a bright fire, then empty the contents of the pan intoMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 337 a mortal’, and pound the meat and bacon to a paste; add half their bulk of crumb of bread soaked in stock, and half a tin of white mushrooms, and when thoroughly incor- porated, pass the whole through a hair sieve. Moisten the puree with some of the sauce already described, while pounding it, and when finished, add four whole raw eggs. Now, butter a plain mould, and fill it with your puree, introducing a good allowance of trufiles cut into dice, and steam it as you would a pudding in your Wari’en’s pot, or in a stew-pan plunged into a larger vessel full of water. When done, let the mould get cold, and then turn it out. While the mould was being steamed, reduce the re- mainder of the sauce to a white glaze, let it get cool, and pom’ it gently over the mould (which should be set on ice) until the glaze coats it completely. When set, the pain is ready. If steamed in a border mould, the centre may be filled with pointes d’asperges, foncls d’artichauts, flageolets or macedoine de legumes moistened with pure iced cream. 4.—Choose a nice fillet of beef, or the tender meat of a piece of the ribs. Trim this into thick uafse^faahion^^* heart-shaped fillets of a size large enough for one person each; lard them with fat bacon, and set them to marinade all day, as described in Chapter VIII, page 65. When ready, di’ain them, and stew them gently in as rich a stock as you can make from the meat and bones you had over after shap- mg them, assisted by a glass of Marsala: when done, keep them hot in the bain-marie. For the sauce, proceed as follows put into a stew-pan the yolks of seven eggs, one ounce of butter, one pinch of salt, and a little pepf)er: stir over a low fire till the yolks begin to thicken : take the pan oil the fire and stir in oneMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 338 oimce of butter more : again stii- over the fire for two minutes and again remove the pan, adding another ounce of butter. Repeat the process again twice, using in all five ounces of butter, stir till the sauce is rich and creamy looking, finally adding a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vine- gai’, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. A little water added with the butter prevents curdling. Dish the grenadins round a ring of carefully mashed potato, introducing a slice of crisply fried bacon between each of them, and serve the sauce piping hot in a boat. In the hollow formed by the potato ring, you can put some flageolets ct la maitre d’hotel, or petits pois. 5. —Speaks for itself. Pray follow my advice about trimming your French beans, (page of mutton 2317^ them with a pat of with French beaus. ' _ , ^ butter boiling hot, added at the very last moment. The best way by far to cook the beans provid- ed they are young and tender, is in the jar like peas, (page 135) 01’ in the steamer of a Warren’s pot; trim the beans as explained already, and put them into the jar or steamer, with a table-spoonful of butter, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a large tea-spoonful of salt. Steam the jai' as described for peas : when done, di-ain the beans, and serve with a pat of butter boiling hot. Unless French beans are young and tender, it is useless trying to cook them in the jar. A tin of haricots verts should, in this case, be substituted. 6. —Buy eight fat quails, four sheep’s tongues, half a pound of lamb’s liver, and a couple of Quails boned and pounds of gravy meat. Make gravy at rolled, with tartare ^ i. sauce. once with the last, stew the tongues, and bone the quails : throw the bones into the gravy, and all scraps you may have of bacon,MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 339 &c., next trim your cold sheep’s tongues, and cut eight nice fillets, the size of a walnut, from the centre of them. Now, place your boned-birds, breast downwards, on a board, and dust them over with spiced pepper. Pro- ceed to make a forcemeat thus :—Melt a couple of thick slices of fat bacon in a frying-pan ; when melted, throw in three table-spoonfuls of the lamb’s liver, with those of the birds too, cut into dice, and one onion shredded finely ; cook the liver in this, and when done, empty the contents of your pan, melted bacon and all, into a mortar, throw in the remains of the sheep’s tongues which were left after making the fillets, a pinch of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, work this to a paste, pass it through the sieve, add some finely minced parsley, a dessert-spoonful of spiced pepper, a little grated lime peel, and a table-spoonful of chopped truffles (saved from entree No. 1) ; work this again thoroughly, and spread a layer of it over the flatten- ed quails : place one of the tongue fillets in the centre of each quail, and spread another layer of your forcemeat over each. Now, gather the birds into shape neatly, sewing the skin together securely, and stew the little galantines in the previously made gravy, with a little red currant jelly, a glass of sherry, and half a wine-glass of vinegar: when done, lift them out, drain ofE the gravy, and reduce it to a . glS'Ze (page 219) : paint your galantines over with the glaze when cold, arrange them upon a dish which should be set upon ice, and garnish your dish with parsley, and slices of lime. Sauce tartare, also iced, should accompany. dish (see page 146) I recommend you to try little shortbread bisctuts in which some finely grated mild cheese has been mixed; the cakes should be heart-shaped, or round, and quite crisply baked like chcc.sc-fingcrs. Spinach with cream.340 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. Mould of straw- berries. 8. —A simple, and refined cold sweet entremets. Dilute a pot of strawberry jam with suffi- cient water to make enough syrup to fill your mould, strain it, colour it a rosy pink with a drop or two of cochineal, and add a glass of liqueur or brandy; melt an ounce of gelatine, and strain it, when cold, into the syrup, stirring well:—decorate a plain mould with almonds, put it on ice, and pour your strawberry syrup into it by degrees; cover it over, and set it in ice for two hours; turn it out, and serve it with cold custard in glasses, or iced cream. If in season, you can, of course, make the syrup with fresh strawberries ; and when filling the mould, you may add to its attractive- ness by setting layers of whole fruit (fresh or preserved) in it in the style of a jelly. 9. —Make a cake case (see Menu No. IV,) with finger biscuits, or slices of sponge cake and Iced apricot cream jgj. fix’m. Make a rich custard, pudding. ° , flavour it with a dash of liqueur, and mix into it half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Work the mixture in the ice pail until it begins to freeze well, then stir into it a good allowance of chopped crystallized apricots and a coffee-cupful of rich cream well whipped. Mix well in the ice pail, and then fill a mould with the frozen mixture, completely covering it with lumps of ice. It should be left thus for an hour, when it will he ready to turn out and serve. The mould should be just large enough to be covered by the cake case. —To adapt this menu according to the new regime, serve the saddle after the fish, and instead of galantines of quails, let the birds be roasted with a slice of fat bacon over their breasts, and sent round with bread sauce, fried crumbs, and filbert chips of potato. A plain salade or water-cross should accompany the rot.IvlEKrXJ 1^0. zz. For a party of eight. Potage a la Julienne. Darnes de seer a la Perigueux. Filets de bcBuf an creme d’anchois. Cassolettes a la financiere. Selle de mouton aux petits pois. Quenelles de perdreaux en aspic. Aidicbauts en coquilles. CEufs a la niege. Creme de pistaclie glacee. Fromage, tors d’ceuvres. Dessert. Fi’encli preserved Julienne is now regularly Julienne soup. received by a well-known firm at * Madras. Armed with one of these tablets, you can achieve a Julienne soup which will at once show you what a lamentable burlesque of the true potage you have hitherto accepted without a murmur from your Ramasamy. Having made a good, strong, and clear consomme sufficient for your party, all you have to do is to cut off a portion of your Julienne tablet, which should be simply placed in a sauce-pan with a large allowance of boiling water, or weak stock, and allowed to cook until the pieces of vegetable detach themselves, and appear nice and tender: dram them when thus ready, and add them to 34342 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. your consomme with a pinch of sugar, and a table-spoon- ful of Madeira. Each tablet is marked for five portions. Remember that a portion is enough for two persons: I have found a table-spoonful of crumbled Julienne enough for three basins of soup. To preserve the tablet in this climate, I recommend you to break it up carefully, and cork it down in a dry bottle. For the benefit of those who cannot avail themselves of this excellent preparation, the following directions may be given:—Take equal parts of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery ; cut them all into thin strips not more than the eighth of an inch across, and an inch long. Put them into a sauce-pan with a couple of ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a little pepper, and a pinch of salt. Toss them lightly on the fire until they take colour slightly, say for five minutes or so, cover them with a little broth from the consomme and carefully remove the grease thrown up by the butter. Let the vegetables thus cooked remain in the gravy near the fire, nice and hot, until the time of serving, when they should be added with a few leaves of lettuce and of sorrel finely shredded to the rest of the consomme, bi'ought to the boil, finally skimmed, and sent up. 2.—Stew a couple of handsome slices of seer fish in a good broth made from bones and trim- Seer with truffle mingg^ assisted by an onion, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a dessert-spoonful of preserved thyme and marjoram, a minced anchovy, a dozen pepper corns, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of vine- gar, a table-spoonful of chablis or sauteme. Let the fish slices cook slowly in this broth, and when done, drain and place them in a very hot dish, carefully covered up. Strain the broth in which they were cooked, thicken it, add a little well browned gravy, and throw into it a coupleMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 343 of table-spoonfuls of cbopped truffles (previously tossed in a frying-pan in an ounce butter, and a table-spoonful of Madeira) and let tbe sauce simmer for ten minutes to extract tbe flavour of tbe truffles. Wben ready, pour it over tbe slices and serve. 3.—Broil tbe fillets (wbicb should be cut from tbe under- , , , , . cut of a sirloin, larded with bacon, and Fillets of beef with cinchovy crea.ni. iU3/rinaiClGCl all day) OYGr a uriglit firo, . and serve them round a cbaplet of masbed potato, in tbe centre of wbicb you may place a puree of spinach, or a bunch of water-cress. For tbe sauce (wbicb should go round very hot, in a boat) take six anchovies from the tin, wipe them dry, free them from the oil, and pass them through tbe sieve : add tbe pulp to about half a pint of good veloute (page 99) heat it up, and as you serve, enrich the sauce with a ladle- ful of good cream. 4. !Make your cassolettes as follows;—peel two pounds of potatoes, cook them as usual; wben ra^g°St. Fi^anS yolks of five fashion. eggs, add a little grated mace, a little salt, and stir them over tbe fire for five minutes. Now, pass them through the sieve : pat them to a paste, and flatten that out on your slab about two inches thick. Let it get cold: then with your cutter, cut It into cylinders (or little drums) two inches in dia- meter. Egg and bread-crumb each cylinder, and fry these potato drums till they are a bright golden yellow. Now carefully slice ofE the top of each drum (say) a quarter of an inch thick ; place the caps so obtained on one side, scoop out the interior of your drums very carefully, and put the cases out of the way, well covered up. As dinner ime draws near, fill up each cassolette, with a portion of ragout a la financiere, (q. v.) place the caps on the top of each, and a few minutes in the oven will bring them to344 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. perfection. The cases should, of course, be pi-epared early in the day, and the ragout also : the former should only he filled up just when required. Serve the cassolettes upon a napkin, and garnish them with fried parsley. 5.—Order your saddle some days beforehand and you will get a good one. Roast it, and currant jelly, pota- toes, and green peas dressed as you may like best, vide page 136. Quenelles of pav- tridge in jelly. 6.—These ai’e quenelles* of par- tridge meat, truffees, set in aspic jelly, iced, and served with sauce tartare. Artichoke scallops. 7.—This is a dainty little entremets de legume to be specially noted by people living on the Hills where globe artichokes reach perfection. At Madras we can occasionally try it when the vegetable is procurable. Its chief charm is that it looks nice, is easily eaten, and renders all the trouble of side-plates for leaves, &c., unnecessary. You must use silver plated coquille shells (easily and cheaply made locally), butter them, and fill them with plain artichoke puree made as follows :—Boil the artichokes ; when cold, strip them of their leaves, scraping ofi all the pulp which adheres to them with a silver dessert-knife : then extract the “ chokes,” and add the “ bottoms” of the artichokes to the leaf pulp. Mash the whole together with a silver fork, dust it with salt and pepper, mix a coffee-cupful of thick cream with it, stir it well, and fill the coquilles, dust over the surface a layer of very finely sifted bread-crumbs, sprinkle some little bits of butter over the crumbs, bake till thoroughly hot, brown the surface with a hot iron, and serve on a napkin. This is equally practicable with * For the process of making queueJles, vide Menu No. 6, and for aspic, see Menu No. 9.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 345 Jerusalem arfcicliokes (topinamhours) with, which a little grated Parmesan may be used. 8. —Beat up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth with three ounces of sugar. Have a pint and a half of milk previously sweeten- ed in a sauce-pan on the fire, and when it boils, drop your egg-froth in separate table-spoonfuls upon its surface. A few seconds will cook each spoonful of froth on one side, then turn it over, and when cooked on the other side, place it in a glass dish. When all the egg-froth is thus cooked, strain the milk free from the bits of eggs that may be in it, and make a rich custard with it, using the yolks of the eggs; fiavour this as you like best: when cold, pour the custard gently into the glass dish (not over the boiled whites) and the snow will rise, and float on the surface of the custard. Sprinkle over the snow balls, and siu’face generally, a few of those tiny sugar plums called " non pareil,” and serve. 9. —This is an ice flavoured with pounded pistachio . . nuts, a pale green colour, and highly Pistacuio cream ice. n . o j delicious. Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts, pound them in a mortar with six ounces of sugar and a few drops of rose water; when quite a smooth paste, add a pint of new milk very gradually. When the milk and paste have amalgamated, make a rich custard by placing the mixture en bain-marie, and adding the strained yolks of ten eggs : when the custard has formed nicely, strain it through a fine sieve ; whisk it well adding enough spinach-greening (page 50) to tint the mixture a very pale green, and *• freeze it, working into it a coffee-cupful of whipped cream in the usual way when half frozen. Note,—To adapt this menu, serve the saddle after theMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 346 fish, and instead the partridge quenelles give pintade au cresson, a guinea fowl roasted and served with water-cress, and a plain salad. Instead of the coquilles of artichoke, croustades d’artichauts, i.e., the same preparation of vege- table served in little oval saucers made of short-bread pastry may he substituted.iviEr<rxj KTO. III. 4 For a party of eight. Consomme de becassines. Darnes de seer a la Peg Woffington. Cotelettes do mouton a la Moscovite. Kramouskys anx bnitres. Chapon a la Fran^aise. Canards sauvages, sauce bigarade. Petits pois an beurre. Pain de pnineanx. “ Pudding” glace aux fraises. Fromage, bors d’ceuvres. Dessert. . 1.—Prepare a bright clear consomme for your eight covers. Slightly roast six snipes ; let Clear empe soup. them get cold, divide them into con- venient pieces, mash them in a mortar and throw the whole, with the exception of the livers of the birds, into the consomme; let it come to the boil, skimming carefully, and then remain simmering all the afternoon : towards. evening, strain the liquor from the bones, and set it to cool; pick from the remnants of the snipe sufficient meat to form a dozen tiny quenelles the size of an olive: pound this meat in a mortar with the saved livers, a pinch of salt, some chopped parsley, a little thyme, and a dust of Nepaul pepper, or spiced pepper; stir in a very little red currant jelly and a few drops of portwine; stiffen this348 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. with a little bread-crumb soaked in stock, and bind the whole with two eggs; let it get cold, roll it out, and divide it into little portions, form them between two tea- spoons, and 'poach till done just before serving the soup, into which they should be put at the last minute: the co-nsomme itself having been meanwhile clarified, assisted by half a glass of Madeira, and again heated almost to boiling point. 2. —Divide a cut of seer fish into eight nice collops about half an inch thick; flatten them Seev slices with Peg board, butter a pie-dish, poiu’ into it half a pint of broth made from the fish trimmings, and a glass of chablis or hock and lay them therein ; pepper and salt them, sprinkle them with some minced parsley, and a little shallot, and spread a sheet of buttered paper over them: bake for about ten minutes in a quick oven, and when done, remove the paper, and arrange the slices neatly in a hot dish. For the sauce :—To the liquor from the pie-dish add a quarter of a pint of cream, a table-spoonful of walnut catsup, and half one of anchovy sauce ; boil these together, and just before you remove the sauce-pan from the fire, stir in well a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, with a thought of red pepper. 3. —For this dish select the nicest choplets you can from a neck of mutton; trim them Mutton cutlets in yery neatly, lard them with fat bacon, the Eussian manner. / . , . . and introduce some pieces of trufllo judiciously here and there by making incisions with a sharp, pointed, root knife. Pieces of tongue may also be inserted in this manner : they should be cut square at the head and tapering to a point like nails. Meat treated by this process is called cloute by French cooks.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 349 When ready, stew the cutlets very tenderly in gravy made from the bones, flap, and trimmings ; take them out, and set them to get cold with a weight above tliem ; wlien cold, mask the cutlets on one side only with reduced bechamel, or Espagnole sauce. W^hen this mask or glaze has set, trim the edges neatly, and the cutlet is ready. You must now prepare the socle or stand upon which to arrange your cutlets. This is made of ground rice, and is not intended to be eaten. Wash a pound of rice, and boil it gently with a little salt. When soft, pound it in a mortar, and mould it to the shape required. In this case we want a circle about three inches high with a hol- low centre for a salad, and sloped gently on its outer rim to admit of the cutlets being laid upon it securely. When formed satisfactorily, the socle should be coated with butter or white sauce, and the cutlets arranged round its outer face. They should have their masked sides out- wards. The hollow centre of the socle should be fllled with a salade cuite of mixed cold cooked peas, Jlageolets, French beans cut in diamonds, stars of carrot, &c. The top of the socle may be formed sufficiently wide to admit of a garnish of white of egg, turned carrots, &c., being laid upon it. When completed, this eiitree should be kept in the ice box till wanted. With the exception of the mayonnaise dressing, which should be separately made, and poured over the salad just before serving, it can be made early in the day, and is consequently so much off the cook’s hands as the dinner hour arrives. It will be found vastly better than the everlastingpaie de foie gras en aspic. Iced cream may be used instead of mayonnaise dressing, and the salade may be composed of jlageolets, pointes d'asperges, ^c., alone. 4.—The difficulty in this dish is the hatter which should be most carefully considered. 35MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 350 Beat ap the yolks only of three eggs, with a table-spoon- „ . „ , fal of ’brandy, one of olive oil, and Oyster Kramousky8. ,, ^ three or four of cold water : mix into this three table-spoonfnls of flour, and a salt-spoonful of salt; beat this to a paste for ten minutes, preparing a rather thicker batter than you would for ordinary fritters: at the time of using, stir in the whites of the three eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Wash your oysters (about a dozen and a half good ones) early in the day. Parboil them, if fresh, beard them, and put them to marinade for two hours in the juice of three or four limes, a sliced onion, some whole pepper and a few cloves. Lift them out of this when wanted, cut them up, bind the mince together with a liaison of yolks of eggs and thick white saTice, and let it get cold and firm. Then divide it into six portions, each the size of an ordi- nary wine cork, and place them on six slices of previously boiled bacon ; roll up your bacon fillets, and fix them with white of egg ; dip them now into the batter, and lay them, ever so gently, in your frying basket, plunge this into a seething bath of fat, and fry a golden yellow. Serve prettily garnished with curly parsley. Instead of bacon, very thin wafer-like pancakes may be used cut into pieces the required size: and cow’s udder is recommended by some authors. 6.—The capon in this receipt should be braised, with a pint of good stock round it, an onion Capon in the Fi enoh carrots, sliced, half a glass of sherry, and pepper and salt to taste : a few slices of fat bacon should be pinned over the breast, and the larding needle may be used also. Braise gently till done. Lift the capon out of the pan, strain and reduce the gr&vy in which it was cooked, add a couple of table- spoonfuls of minced truffle, and pour this over the bird351 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. before serving; sippets of dry fried bacon, and slices of * lime may garnish the dish. Roast the wild ducks, and serve them with this j , sauce;—Pare as thin as possible the ■with Bigarade sauce. rino. ot two oranges (sweet limes), cut them into thin shreds and boil them in water for five minutes, drain, and put them aside. Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir, into it a dessert- spoonful of flour, and a breakfast-cupful of common stock (made with scraps, and the gillets of the ducks,) pepper, salt, and the juice of the oranges, with a pinch of sifted sug^, a table-spoonful of Marsala, and a tea-spoonful of c ilh vinegar ; now add the boiled rinds, stir till the sauce boils, and serve in a boat. 7.—Wash the contents of a tin of petits pois in cold Green peas with the tin into your butter. Strainer and pouring a jug of water „ Piit them into a jar (or roonf7oTrh^^^^^^ withill4e poonful of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar nd a tea-spoonful of salt with -a little bundle of mint leaves : secure the top of your jar and immerse it within arge sauce-pan (the water should half cover the jar ) steaming the peas until thorouo-hlv hot ^ silver dish. Minced ham fried in Bntf.. ^ ^ with butter and mino-led "LTa;:™’ 8—An effective and most excellent sweet dish. Pnt Prune jelly. half a pound of prunes into a sauce- slice or two of a limt^a^^HttlT^^^^^^^^ ^ claret and water, miied half andTTf suflJcient atew gently till tie Wt pan icon, the an, dn-ain off tlMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 352 pass the fruit through the sieve, and save the pulp in a basin. Crack the stones, and throve the prune kernels into the pulp. Steep about an ounce of gelatine in the liquor that you strained off, put it on the fii-e and let it dissolve, mix it with the prune pulp, and pour in a liqueur glass of cherry brandy and a glass of good red wine. Decorate a plain border mould with blanched almonds, fill the mould with the prune liquid, and set it upon ice to form. When required, turn out the pain, and fill the centre of the mould with whipped cream. Unlike ordinary jellies this one is dark tinted, and opaque, but its flavour is quite beyond question. 9.—Line a pudding mould (see Menu IV) with finger biscuits, or slices of sponge-cake. «tra^eme^*°^ Make a rich custard sufficient in quantity to nearly fill the mould ; be generous with the egg-yolks, and do not use flour if you want a creamy pudding; tint the custard a pale rosy-pink with a few drops of cochineal, strain, whip it well as soon as it is formed, and flavour it with strawberry syrup ; when ready, add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine to it, and work as described for “ iced apricot pudding,” Menu No. 1, adding crystallized strawberries to the frozen cus- tard, and a coffee-cupful of whipped cream. Note.—To adapt this menu, strike out the cJiapon d la Fran^aise, and insert, after the fish. Filet de boeuf d V Italienne, page 189. wnvcEisrxj ]sro. i-v*. —♦— For a party of eight. Consomme de poisson. Filets de pomfret a la poulette. Croquettes de canard a la bordelaise. Cotelettes de mouton au creme de fromage. Chapon au cbou-fleur. Creme de topinambours. Gelee de marasquin aux fruits. Charlotte a la Sicilienne. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—This is a clear soup flavoured with fish. A crab for Clear fish sonp. instance answers the purpose admir- ably, but any fish will do. Let us take the crab. Make ordinary clear consomme for the number you expect. One large crab or two small ones ^11 sufiice for eight basins. Boil the crab: drain and clean It : pick out the flesh, saving that of the claws for garmshmg. Pound the rest of the meat and shells in a mortar, put the whole of it into the consomme you have made, with a little bag containing a quarter ounce of dried basil, and boil gently for half an hour, strain through a fine sieve, or tamis cloth,—it should now be bright and clear,—heat it up again, and pour it into your soup tureen over some little quenelles made of the claw meat you saved.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 354 A table-spoonful of Madeira and the juice of half a lime, constitute the finishing touches of this soup. 2.—Divide one large, or two small promfrets into fillets as neatly as you can, season them on Pcwt^tetauce*^* with a very little finely minc- ed (cooked) onion, parsley, and the trimmings of the mushrooms you are about to use for the sauce. Roll them up enveloping the seasoning within each fillet. Now set them to simmer gently till done, in a coihrt bouillon, or broth made from their own bones and trimmings, assisted by a breakfast-cupful of stock, a spoon- ful of chablis and a spoonful of vinegar. Lift them out when done, strain off the broth, thicken it as carefully as you can in the bain-marie with a little flour, and butter, and the strained yolks of four eggs, add a dozen button mushrooms cut into quarters, a little white pepper and salt, and as you take it off the fire, stir in a table-spoonful of cream. Pour this over your fillets which have, of course, been kept hot in the bain-marie whilst the sauce was being made. 3.—These are croquettes made of duck and are exceed- ingly nice. Roast the bird lightly, croquettes „g^ cold, then cut off all the meat from the bones, saving every atom of skin, bone, liver, &c. Put the meat away for awhile, giving it a good dusting with black pepper and salt. Now for the sauce:—Mince an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine qua non) and stir the mince into a table- spoonful of melted butter at the bottom of a small sauce- pan, let it fry a pale brown, now throw in all your fragments of duck, having mashed the bones in a mortar, a breakfast-cupful of strong gravy, the rind of a lime; a dozen pepper corns, a pinch of sugar, and salt to taste : add water enough to cover the bones well, and let the355 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. contents of th.e sauce-pan simmer, skimming off tlie scum that rises. In half an hour you will have a well-flavoured broth. When quite satisfied with the broth, strain it off, let it cool, skim it, and thicken it plainly with flour and butter. Place the sauce-pan in the fcaw-marze-pan, and let it keep hot there. Now take a tumblerful of sauterne, put it into a small sauce-pan with a table-spoonful of minced onion, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, and a pinch of salt. Boil till the liquid has been reduced to half its original quantity. Then strain it into the previously made sauce. Give the whole a simmer for ten minutes and serve. In this instance we make our gravy or foundation of the sauce with the duck bones, &c., for the sake of eco- nomy. The basis of true Bordelaise is Espagnole. In making the croquettes of the duck meat you saved, use some minced bacon, lean and fat in equal shares, one tea-spoonful to each croquette, the bird’s liver, any truffle or mushroom parings there may be to spare, and put one olive farcie whole in the centre of each: season the pound- ed meat with pepper and salt, do'not use any spice, but dry some sage leaves in the oven, and make a powder of them, giving about half a salt-spoonful of the powder to each croquette. Bind the croquettes with egg, form them into egg-shaped balls, bread-crumb them in the usual way, and fry themapaZe golden yellow in abundance of fat. Dish them round a ring of mashed potato, filling the centre with a pyramid of petits pois verts, and sending round the Bordelaise sauce, piping hot, in a boat. 4.—A nice dish of neck cutlets trimmed neatly and grilled over a very fast fire. Bach cutlet ought to be dipped into melted ^ butter, or brushed over with salad oil ' before it is placed on the grid-iron. The sauce should beMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 356 made thus :—Parboil two, or three, fair sized Bombay onions, cut them up roughly and put them into a sauce- pan with a ladleful of butter, a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to fancy; let them cook slowly so that they do not take colour, add a table-spoonful of boiled rice, or pearl barley, and a cupful of broth and let the simmering go on till the lumps of onion are quite soft; then add a heaped up table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, stir this in well for a minute or two, then lift it up, and work the mixture through the sieve as you would a puree. Heat it up gently in the hain-marie, and at the last stir in a table-spoonful of rich cream. Serve the cutlets round a wall of ‘ savoury rice’ and fill in the centre with French beans a la maitre d'hdtel. Let the sauce go round in a boat with the entree : it ought to be a thick creamy- looking sauce of the consistency of tartare. 5.—Lard your capon, roast him with the utmost care, basting with melted butter; let a Capou witli cauli- Bombay onion be put inside the car- flower. •' r cass, and sew up the vent; be parti- cular with your stufidng; and let a curl of crisply fried streaky bacon accompany each plate. The bread sauce must be carefully composed, and the cauliflower and potatoes freshly turned out, that is to say, not ruined by being hawked about with your entrees. For this excellent entremets de legume, see page 149,—As you have ali'eady used creme de fromage in this menu, serve the monld (if hot) with a garnish of V. page 242.) if cold, with pure cream. Mould of Jerusalem artichokes. tomato puree iced. (q- 7.—Put two ounces of gelatine in an enamelled stew-pan with three quarters of a pound of sugar, beat three whites of eggs, Jelly with fruit.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 357 moisten tliem ’svitli one quart of water and tlie juice of one lime; pour tlie wliole into tlie stew-pan containing the gelatine, and put it on the fire, whisking the liquid con- tinually until it hoils. Take the pan from the fire, let the liquid cool, and strain it through a jelly hag, pouring it back and straining again until it is quite clear. When cold, flavour the jelly with maraschino, a wine-glass will be sufficient, and let it rest awhile. Now prepare a macedoine of fruits, preserved cherries, strawberries, apricots, greengages, and raspberries, and fill the jelly mould as follows :—first set it upon ice, and pour into it about one-eighth thickness of the jelly, arrange some fruit tastefully in this layer, cover it with jelly, and continue layers of fruit and of jelly until the mould is nearly full, then finish it with jelly only, cover the mould with ice, and turn it out when finally set and quite firm. Iced cream en hloc may accompany. 8.—This is an iced pudding flavoured with chocolate. First note the way in which the case Iced Charlotte d la should be made, which is applicable to Bicihenne. t ^ all iced puddmgs in cake cases. Cut the slices of cake the length of the depth of the mould, the eighth of an inch thick, and an inch and a half wide : cut a circular piece the size of the bottom of the mould. Make a cement with the whites of three eggs, and an ounce of finely sifted sugar. Arrange the slices round the side of the mould slightly overlapping one another, and cement them firmly together, fixing their ends to the circular top placed at the bottom of the mould. When the cement dries, the case will be quite firm. Choose a mould for the ice slightly smaller than this case, so that the latter may cover it nicely. When firmly set, the cake case may be turned out upon a dish, and its outside brushed over with some thin cement, and sprinkled over 36358 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. with chopped pistachio nuts, almonds, sugar plums (non pareils) or crystallized sugar. For the ice :—Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in a pint of boiling milk, when quite smooth, and cold, add half a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence and the yolks of ten eggs : make a custard of the mixture adding two ounces of sugar. Stir in half an ounce of dissolved gelatine while the custard is warm, and whip it briskly and put it into the freezer. Freeze, mixing into the half- frozen custard a coffee-cupful of whipped cream. Turn it out when ready, cover with the case, and serve. Note.—To adapt this menu, you need only insert after the fish, Boeuf a la mode, vide page 123.is/iEinsrxj 1^0. -V. For a party of eight. Potage a la Brunoise. Seer a la Napolitain. Cotelettes de mouton a leu Reforme. Cronstades de lapin a la reine. Entrecote de bceuf a la Chateaubriand. Salpicon de gibier en caisses. Tomates au gratin. Beignets de peches. “ Pudding” glace aux cerises. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Brunoise is a soup something like Julienne, but of a distinct character on account of the Brunoise soup. . i i , ,, manner in which the vegetables are prepared for it. Make consomme enough for your party. Cut some carrots, turnips and celery into dice : melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan, add pepper, salt, and a tea- spoonful of powdered loaf-sugar. First put in the dice of carrots and toss them on the fire till they begin to brown, next the celery, and lastly, the tuimips with a little chop- ped onion. Work them all together, and after a few minutes, add some of the consomme : set the sauce-pan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer; during this process the butter will be thrown up to the sui’face in the form ofMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 360 ■cum, skim this off very carefully; wken clear, add the rest of the consomme, let it come to the boil, and the soup will he ready to -serve. A dessert-spoonful of Madeira is enough vrine for the whole tureen. 2.—This is a dish of fish au gratin. Divide a good cut of seer fish into slices half an inch fa^^on thick, and cut them into portions about large enough for each guest. Boil some maccaroni till tender : slice up some nice ripe toma- toes, have your bottle of Parmesan cheese by your side, and a plate upon which you should turn out the mushrooms only (not the gravy) of a tin of black Leicestershire mushi’ooms. Now, butter a nice sized pie-dish (not too deep in the sides) 5<nd arrange the maccaroni on the bottom of it: dust over the maccaroni a little of the Parmesan: now put a layer of the sliced tomatoes, and arrange your portions of fish thereon with a piece of mushroom between each of them, and a slice of tomato in the centre of each : pour a breakfast-cupful of sauce blonde over all, give a light surface dressing of Parmesan and bake the dish for about a quarter of an hour. A little pepper and salt should be shaken gently over each layer as you pack the dish. There is so much moisture in the tomatoes, that only a very little white wine like chablis, hock, or sauterne, or gravy should be added as a finishing touch. The oven should be quite hot. 3.—Set ten nice neck chops, very neatly trimmed, in marinade all day. Towards evening Eeform cutlets. them out, wipe them di'y, and pro- ceed to bread-crumb them as laid down at page 67. In this case you must mix very finely minced ham with the crumbs at a proportion of half and half. When the time arrives, the cutlets must be very delicately fried in plenty of boiling fat, and served as soon as they reach that bright golden tint I have so often mentioned. Place the cutletsMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 361 round a ring of mashed potato, with puree de pois verts in the centre, sending round in a boat separately a sauce made as follows :— Put into a sauce-pan, one Bellary onion cut into rings, two sprigs of cux’led parsley, two ounces of pounded lean ham or bacon, a clove of garlic, a carrot cut up, and a tea-spoonful of thyme leaves ; cover them with a pint of Espagnole sauce (page 96) and add two tea-spoonfuls of anchovy vinegar, and one of chilli vinegar. Boil up, sim- mer for ten minutes, skimming carefully, then boil again reducing the sauce to the thickness of cream ; now add a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly and one of good mush- room ketchup ; stir till the jelly is dissolved, adding half a glass of Madeira ; stir again, and pass the sauce through the strainer : keep it hot in the hain-marie, and add just before serving, the following mixture :—the whites of two hard-boiled eggs, four black Leicestershire mushrooms, two gherkins, and half an ounce of lean ham, all chopped up into small dice, and dusted over with white pepper. 4.—Take eight stale dinner rolls, which have been lightly baked in cylindrical tins about wi?h rlbbiTmgoS.^®'^ diameter ; cut them so as to leave a case about an inch and a half deep : scoop out every atom of crumb, and trim the tops that you cut off neatly, so as to form a lid for the top of the hollowed rolls. Fry the cases and their lids in butter till of a golden yellow, and set them on one side to dry. Choose a small rabbit, some tongue ham or lean bacon, a few sweet-breads if you can get them, and have ready some cocks’ combs, sliced mushrooms, a little grated lime peel, and a slice of truffle for the top of each croustade. Now remove the fillets from the rabbit’s back and divide them into pieces, or cut them with a cutter about the size of a shilling. Put the rest of the rabbit into a stew-pan362 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. with the usual vegetables to yield a good broth, and with it make a rich white sauce flavoured with some milk of almonds ; butter a saw^e-pan, and cast into it your pieces of rabbit fillet with some slices of onion and carrot. Fry the rabbit gently, and then add enough gravy to cover the pieces. Stew the contents of the pan carefully. Now pack your croustades exactly like miniature vols-au- vent, with pieces of rabbit, slices, or dice of tongue or ham, the rabbit’s kidney, and the other ingredients, cut to fit the cases, moistening the whole well with your creamy veloute : put a slice of truffle on the top of each, and cover it with the cap that you cut to fit it. A few minutes in the oven will bring the croustades to perfection, when they should be quickly served on a napkin, garnished with crisply fried curly parsley. Send round dry toast with this dish. 5.—Trim a good joint of the ribs of beef by cutting the tender meat boldly in one long piece Ribs of beef with from flie bones: the tough flap, can Chateaubriand sauce. . , , , , i . either go mto the stock pot, or be set with the bones to produce a good gravy for the joint, the latter for choice. Fold and tie the long piece of meat in shape as best you can (it will look rather like “ roly-poly pudding”) and preserve all the fat you can find which should be fixed with skewers : lard it with fat bacon, wrap it in buttered paper and tie it to your spit with string. Let it be roasted over a clear fire, and served in thin slices. Chateaubriand sauce is made in this way :—Add half a tumbler of chablis or sauterne to a half a pint of Espagnole sauce, boil them together and reduce a little : then strain. Boil again, adding oS the fire two ounces of maitre dlwtel butter, let it thicken and serve it in a boat as hot as pos- sible. Potatoes, French beans, and a nice salad should accompany.363 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 6,—This is an economical dish, for you can use in it the gravy of the mushrooms saved in No. Minced game in 2, the liver of the rabbit which com- posed part of No. 4, and the remainder of the bottle of trujHes opened for No. 4. Take four snipes and four wild pigeons, or three partridges and three pigeons, or any game you can get. Roast the birds, detach the meat from their breasts and set it aside ; take the bones, and scraps, and with them, assisted by half a pint of gravy and the mushroom liquor of No. 2, some lean bacon, chopped onion, spiced pepper, sweet herbs, and grated lime peel, make the strongest game essence you can. Strain, thicken with butter and flour, and reduce this, making the thickest and richest sauce possible ; give it assistance with red currant jelly, a glass of red wine, and a little vinegar. Save the livers of the birds, and add that of the rabbit; chop them into dice with some fat bacon, and some finely minced shallot, toss all together in a frying-pan for a few minutes, then turn the contents of the pan into your mortar, and pound them to a paste, mixing with the composition a table-spoonful of truffle trimmings minced small, and some spiced pepper. Now take the breast meat you saved and cut it into dice, pack your well buttered paper or china cases with a mixture of sauce, meat, and the liver paste, dredge some crumbs over the surface of each case, place them in the oven till quite hot, and then serve. 7.—Empty a dozen large tomatoes preserving the cases . ,. as well as you can ; stufi them with lomatoesavgratin. , « . . the following composition :—To the pulp of the vegetable (q. v. page 158) add sufflcient bread-crumb to thicken it somewhat, and beat up some eggs in the proportion of one egg to two cases, mix the whole thoroughly, flavour with a couple of pounded anchovies, a tea-spoonful of minced olives, and one of364 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. capers j si}XL^ tho cSjSOSj diisl^ over witli groitcd PEir** mesan, lay them on a well-buttered dish that will stand the oven, and bake for ten minutes just before they are wanted, serving them in their own dish buried in a napkin. 8.—Be very careful with your preparation of the hat- Peacli fritters these fritters (page 195) ; cut the peaches (American ones in tin are excellent) into neat pieces; dust them with powdered sugar, and let them lie in a little maraschino, or any nice liqueur till wanted, then dip them in your batter, and fry them in abundance of boiling fat; drain them on blotting paper, and serve them dusted over with pounded loaf sugar, finely sifted. In the case of raw fruit the peaches cut in halves, peeled, and stoned, should he carefully stewed in syrup with a dash of liqueur and a little lime juice first, then set to get cold, and after being drained, dipped in hatter, &c., as above explained. All fritters should he served without delay. 9.—This iced pudding is similar to that given in Menu No, III substituting cherries for Iced pudding with strawberries. The only difference I would suggest in this:—I would first make a rich custard, retaining the pale yellow colour, and j adding the preserved cherries to the partly frozen custard, J with a liqueur-glass of kirsch. In all other respects i foUow the directions given in Menus No. I and III. | Note.—To adapt this menu, braise the entrecote and. serve it after the fish, insert pintades or cailles au cresson instead of the salpicon en caisses, and save the salad to accompany the rot.a^d[E!2srxj nsro- 'Vi- ♦— for a party of eight. Consomme an maccaroni.* Filets de pomfret aux fines lierbes. Bpig^ammes de mouton aux epinards. 'Quenelles de volaille au macedoine de legiimes. Quartier d’agneau aux petits pois. Chaud-froid de becassines. Chou-fleur au gratin. Reine-claudes a la creme. Charlotte Russe au praline. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Proceed to make a bright clear consomme in the usual way : boil till tender in milk or C tear soup with -weak stock some pieces of maccaroni : maccaroni. ^ when done, drain them, let them get cold, and cut them into thin rings, add them to your con- somme just before serving, with a dessert-spoonful of sherry to which a few drops of tabasco or chilli vinegar have been added, let a plate of grated Parmesan be hand- ed round with the soup. * If able to procure small Italian pastes such as stelle, gnioccoU, pesei, anellini ricci, ^c., treat them as explained for maccaroni and call your soup "consommi aim pAtis d' Italie, 37366 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 2. —Divide a good sized pomfret into eight nice fillets : —pnt the bones and trimmings with pomfret onion cut up, a carrot, a bit of celery, sp'rig of pai’sley and a pinch of salt into some water, and boil them at once; meanwhile spread youi' fillets on a board, brush them over on one side only with a beaten egg, now shake over them a tea- spoonful of finely minced parsley, the same of cooked onion chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of minced mush- room, and a little white pepper: roll up your fillets and pin them into shape with a small skewer. Now strain off your liquor from the bones and trimmings, give it a table- spoonful of chablis or sauterne, and set your fillets in it to simmer gently till done (they should take about twelve or fourteen minutes) take them out, draw out the skewers, set them on a very hot dish, and cover them up. Now melt a lump of butter quickly in a sauce-pan, work a spoonful of fiour into it; throw in a little salt, with a pinch of sugar, and moisten with as much of the fish broth as will make a nice white sauce to cover your fillets; add, as you take the sauce-pan off the fire, the yolk of an egg, a tea-spoonful of anchovy vinegar, a table-spoonful of very finely chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced marjoram, and a tea- spoonful of minced garden cress. Pour it over your fillets and serve. 3. —Braise a breast of mutton in a stew-pan with some white wine and water, an onion, two Epigrams of mutton tomatoes, carrots, celery, whole pep- with spinacn. ' ' ’ ^ ^ per, salt, a clove of garlic, some pars- ley, and a tea-spoonful of dried thyme. When sufficiently done to enable you to remove the bones, draw the pan from the fire, take out the breast, and pick out the bones; then place it flat on a dish with a heavy weight upon it: strain the broth and vegetables in which the meat was cooked, putting the vegetables aside, and setting the gravy to cool.367 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT These operations should he performed early in the day. When the breast has become thoroughly cold, remove the -weight, and divide the meat into eight nice collops. Brush them over -with egg, and bread-crumb them with some very finely sifted stale bread-crumbs crisped in the oven. Let them stand for an hour, and repeat the process,—^re- crumbing them again. Now fry them in boiling fat a nice golden yellow, take them out, drain them dry, and arrange them round a ring of spinach (page 145) garnished with hard-boiled eggs neatly cut up, and fried parsley. For the sauce :—skim every atom of fat from the gravy you set to get cold, put a lump of butter in a sauce-pan, work a little flour into it when melted, gradually add your gra-Ty; stir well, and let the sauce thicken, add some caramel colouring, a dessert-spoonful of cherry, and a tea- spoonfnl of red currant jelly, and put this into a hot sauce boat, and serve. The sauce should be as thick as ordinary rich cream. A few dice of sliced corniclions (gherkins) may be mingled with the sauce, or minced mushrooms if you have them. 4.—Choose a nice pullet not quite full grown; cut it up, sa-ving all the meat from the breast, Wi?h mSed ve“g?t£s = cut into dice, and throw the skin, fragments, bones, and heated up in nicely -i i ± • j j i t flavoured white sauce, ^iblcts, into n S3iTiCG-p&rn to m&ikG Drotli for the sauce. Now make a coffee- cupful of stiff paste with a little butter, flour, water, and a pinch of salt; when ready, take half the quantity of butter that you have of chicken meat, and half the amount of the paste that you have of butter; mince the chicken in the machine, and pound it in a mortar with the paste and butter; bind the mixture with three eggs, flavour it with a little spiced pepper, and from the quenelles between two table-spoons. For a dinner party, you would, no doubt, put a nice piece of truffle inside each quenelle.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 368 For the sauce:—take equal portions of carrot, peas, turnip, French beans, and cucumber, all previously boiled; cut them into dice and heat them up in a white sauce made with the water in which they were boiled, and enriched with the chicken broth, which should be slightly flavoured with almond. In this case make your socle of savoury rice instead of the usual mashed potato : that is, boiled rice, flavoured with salt, a little spice, the pulp of a tomato, and a little finely grated cheese, stirred well with melted butter, and made firm by the addition of the yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity required. This should be set in the silver dish, formed in a circle, brushed with egg, bread-crumbed, and slightly browned in the oven; the quenelles, carefully poached, should then be. arranged round it, the macedoine being poured into the centre. 5. —Order the quarter of lamb beforehand, roast it very carefully, and serve it with a nice Q u a r t e r of lamb green peas, potatoes, and mint with green peas. ° fir > sauce (hot) in a boat. 6. —The chaud-froid will require one snipe a head :— take your eight birds, and roast them over a bright fire, let them get cold, remove the breasts, forming two fillets of the breast of each bird. Next make the richest sauce you can by boiling and simmering all the bones, remnants of meat, and the trails of the snipe in as much common stock as will cover them well; dried thyme, lime peel, a pinch of spice, a tomato, one onion sliced, and some lean bacon or ham should accom- pany the bones ; after you have simmered this for half an hour, strain the liquor clear, and thicken it with butter and flour as previously described ; slice two or three truffles, toss the slices in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, adding a table-spoonful of Madeira, let the truffles simmer Fillets of suipes dressed with cold sauce.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 369 awhile, and pour the contents of the pan into the sauce, stir continually, flavour it with red currant jelly, half a glass of Madeira, and lime juice, reduce it to a firm glaze, and put it aside to get cool. Glaze the fillets. Decorate a border mould with hard-boiled egg, gherkins, and olives, fill it with aspic jelly, and set in the ice-box. As dinner hour approaches, turn out the border of jelly, and pack the hollow in the centre of it with layers of glazed fiUets, and the pieces of truffle here and there, let the whole remain as long as you can in ice, and serve with crisp, dry toast “ in waiting.” 7.—Choose a nice cauliflower and boil it carefully ; it should be under rather than over- Baked cauliflower. , on • n ■ i . done, olice the stem evenly so that the cauliflower will sit up straight. Place it in a neat dish that will stand the fire, well buttered,—the flower in the centre, and the tender leaves neatly arranged round it, —give it a dust of white pepper and a dream of salt, then pour round, so that all the crevices may be filled, a break- fast-cupful of veloute au fromage, page 242. Sprinkle a layer of grated Parmesan over the surface, and bake the dish in a quick oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour,—lastly, by passing a red hot iron just over the top, brown the surface of the cheese. 8. —Turn the greengages out into a glass dish, dissolve Greengages in cream. gelatine, and stir it with a liqueur-glass of maraschino into the syrup : set the dish in the ice-box to get firm and cold, and serve with a canopy of whipped cream resting on the surface of the congealed fruit. 9. —Line a mould with finger biscuits as described in Menu No. IV. Put a couple of ounces with bamt®almonds.° ^ coppcr-pan; melt it till it is very hot; then stir into it a quarter of a pound of blanched Jordan almonds for a fewMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 370 minutes. Now spread the almonds on a dish to cool, and when cold, pound them to a puree saving a few, which should only he minced roughly, and stirred into the ice when nearly formed. Mix a pint and a half of very rich custard, and stir the burnt almond puree into it while quite hot, strain, whip, and add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Next put the custard into the pail, adding a breakfast-cupful of whipped cream, and finishing it as explained in the menu previously quoted. Note.—The only change necessary in this menu is to send the quarter of lamb after the fish, and roast the snipes, serving them with fried potato chips, bread-crumbs, and a nice salad.nM:E3isrxj nxro- viz. —♦—• For a party of eight. Consomme a la Royale. Pomfret a la maitre d’li6tel. Filets de pigeon a la Grenevoise. Cotelettes de monton a la Maintenon. Dindon a la Perignenx. Jambon an Madere. Canapes de becassines. CEnfs anx topinambonrs. Bavaroise de cocoa a la moderne. Pndding” glace a la Nesselrode. Fromage, bors d’oenvres. Dessert. 1.—This is a bright clear sonp into which tablets of ‘Consolidated cnstard are cimninerlv in- Clear sonp with cus- + j i -r. tai’d tablets. trodnced. Proceed therefore to make consomme for eight covers, and make yonr cnstard thnsmix the yolks of fonr eggs with a little water and a pinch of salt, strain the mixtnre, and vide it into three eqnal portions; colonr one with cochi- neal, one with spinach-greening, and leave the third plain : monlds previonsly bnttered, an ip hem mto a pan of hot water; steam jnst lonff enongh to set the cnstards : take them off the fire and when cold, tnrn the monlds ont on a napkin : cnt them np into dice or any pretty shapes with yonr vegetable cntter as gently as possible, and add them to the sonp jnst beforeMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 372 serving. The colouring of the custard is obviously op- tional. I have found a slight deviation from this receipt very nice, as follows:—mix a small omelette, flavour it with parsley and shallot, and let it set rather more flrmly than you would were it required for breakfast: let it get cold, and cut it up for the soup with the vegetable cutter as described for the custard. Grated Parmesan should be handed round. 2. —Divide your pomfret into nice fillets, egg them on one side, and shake over the egg some minced curled parsley. Sim- mer the fillets, neatly rolled up and skewered, in broth made from their own bones and trim- mings, and dish them on a hot dish as soon as they are done. Now melt an ounce of butter in a small sauce-pan, work into it a table-spoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint of the liquor in which the fillets were cooked, throw in a table-spoonful of finely chopped curled parsley, and finish the sauce, of the fire, with the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of a lime; pour over the fillets and serve. 3. —Lightly roast eight young pigeons : slice the breasts of the birds off whole, and place the Mkts of pigeon eight portions so obtained en marinade in oil, vinegar, minced parsley, and shallot. Take the bones, trimmings, livers, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with a good breakfast-cupful of gravy; simmer this until you have extracted the essence of your pigeon scraps, and then strain it. Now chop up an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine qua non) very small: stir a piece of butter the size of an hen’s egg at the bottom of a sauce-pan over the fire, and throw in your chopped onion, &c., let it slightly brown, and then add the gravy you previously made, with two or three anchovies chopped into dice, pepper and salt to taste, andMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 37? tlie juice of a lime, with one glass of claret. Bring this sauce to boiling point, let it simmer awhile, and then strain it. Replace it in the sauce-pan, thicken it with butter and a little flour, colour it with caramel, and place youi- six fillets in it to gently heat up without coming to the boil; when quite hot, place the fillets in their dish, pouring the sauce round them and serve, with a crisply fried curl of bacon, between each of them. Petits pois verts should fill the centre of the dish. 4.—Put eight nicely trimmed choplets of mutton into a stew-pan with some scraps of bacon. Mutton cutlets a la carrot, dried herbs, pepper, salt, Mamteuon. . , „ , , , and a pinch of grated nutmeg, with a pint of good gravy, and a glass of sherry, and gently stew the little chops till done. Now lay them out on a large dish, covered by another with a weight upon it; when quite cold, trim them finally into shape if necessary. Meanwhile strain the gravy in which they were stewed, remove all fat, and set it on one side. Now mince an onion very small, and a few capers, with two or three trufifies also. Fry the onions a goldqp brown, add the minced capers and trufifies with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a little of the gravy, thicken it with a couple of eggs, and then put the mince away to get cold: cut some papers for your cutlets and oil or butter them: now spread your cold thick mince over yoUr cutlets liberally, roll them, or rather fold them in their papers most carefully, and broil them on the grid-iron sufificiently long to heat them thoroughly;—or if preferred, they can be just as well heated in the oven. Serve your cutlets in their papers, and let a rich sauce be handed round in a boat made of the remains of the gravy originally got from the cooking of the cutlets, slightly thickened with biitter and flour, flavoured with red currant jelly, anchovy vine- gar, and a spoonful of sherry, all judiciously applied. 38MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 374 Tlie “ Maintenon cutlets” may be placed round a ring of maslied potatoes filled with celery puree. 5.—Choose a nice turkey, prepare the bird for roasting, stuffing it very carefully as directed P(k^^eux's^c^ 109. Let sauce Perigueux, (page 97) steaming hot, be passed round in a boat, cauliflower, and potatoes accompanying. 6.—Directions for boiling a ham with Madeira will be found at page 117. If you are able to Ham with Itladeiva. , , • e . i- » t obtain a tew nice slices ot a good, well-boiled ham, I may mention (as an economical hint) that tossed in butter in a frying-pan, with a table-spoon- ful of Madeira, the slices will do very well to accompany the turkey, but take care that they pass from the pan to the plate, so to speak,—as hot as possible. 7.—Slightly roast eight snipes ; fillet them as you did the pigeons, saving the trails ; make snipe richest sauce you can of the bones, moistened with stock and helped up with vinegar, red cui'rant jelly, and a little sherry. Now prepare eight pieces of fried bread for the eight breasts, butter them, and spread the trails over them ; pepper and salt them; place a breast of snipe upon each trail toast, bake till quite hot, and just before serving, pour your thick rich sauce, reduced almost to a glaze, over them; let crisply fried bread-crumbs surround youi* toasts. Use Nepaul pepper. ■For this entremets turn to page 239. Prepare the eggs as laid down for “ CEufs farcis,” page 238, and be sure that the dish is served quite hot. Eggs with Jei’usalem artichokes. 9.—Melt three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a stew-pan over the fire, with half a Bavarian cream with pound of sugar, a pint of water, a liqueur-glass of brandy or sherry, andMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 375 a few drops of vanilla essence; strain it throngli a tamis clotli till clear, and set it to get cool. Take one ounce of cocoa powder, and stir it into a pint of toiling milk, adding two ounces of sugar; when thoroughly mixed, strain the milk through a piece of muslin. Let it get quite cold, and then add to it the strained yolks of eight eggs, making therewith a rich custard. Set the custard upon ice, having stirred an ounce of dissolved gelatine into it, and when it begins to set, add a coffee-cupful of whipped cream, mix thoroughly, and prepare the Bavaroise as follows :—place a mould on ice and pour into it a layer of the vanilla jelly half an inch thick, when set, pour in about an inch of the cream, then a layer of jelly when the cream has set, and so on until the mould is filled. Serve after it has rested on ice for an hour. 10.—Nesselrode pudding ought properly to be made of chestnuts, but as we can rarely get Nesselrode Pudding. . -m- j txi,- i them at Madras, I think we may sup- ply their place with almonds, and make our pudding in this way ;—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds (shelled) and two bitter ones. Put them into a stew-pan with a pint of syrup flavoured with vanilla. Simmer till the almonds are soft, then drain them, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a fine sieve. Put ten yolks of eggs with a quarter of a pound of sugar into a pint and a half of cream (or good milk), stir over the fire till the custard thickens, then add the almond puree, strain it into a bowl, whip it, and give the liquid a glass of maraschino. Stone two ounces of raisins, pick and wash two ounces of currants, and cut up two ounces of citron, cook them in the syrup saved from the almonds, drain and let them get cool. Now fi’eeze the custard, and work it with the spatula; when partly frozen, add a breakfast-cupful of whipped cream, and when theMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 376 cream is nearly set, work in the raisins, currants and citron: now close the mould, and bury it in ice for a couple of hours. Observe that Nesselrode pudding is not served inside a cake, or finger-biscuit case. Note.—To adapt this menu, introduce a Filet de hceuf d Vltalienne (page 189) after the fish, cut out the canapes de hecassines, and substitute flageolets d la creme as an entremets de legume with the rot. A hen turkey (dinde) may be served instead of the cock-bird, and a nice salad must, of course, accompany. Green butter with herring roes- Make a quarter of a pound of fresh butter from cream that you have set at home, and put it in ice : boil a hand- ful of spinach till tender, and then pass it through the sieve : save the pulp carefully and give it a dust of pepper. Take the roes (soft) of two herrings d la sardine from the tin, wipe them carefully to get rid of the oil, then pound them, in a mortar, and pass them through the hair sieve. Mince very finely a large bunch of curly parsley, so as to have at least a heaped up table-spOonful of it when minc- ed ; mince a dozen capers, and then mix the whole of the ingredients together with a wooden butter bat, and shape it as you like, setting it again in ice till wanted. There are numerous varieties of “ green butter” : this recipe has, however, been proved to be a nice one, and will be found useful when anchovies in oil may happen to be unobtain- able.iviEinsrxj isro. ■VIZI. For a party of eight. Consomme anx points d’asperges. Filets de pomfret sauce aux capres. Chaud-froid de volaille a la Palestine. Cdtelettes de mouton a la Valois. Dinde braisee a la jardiniere. Salmis de cailles. Aubergines a 1’ Espagnole. Gelee de Bordeaux. Parfait au chocolat. Fromage, bors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1. Prepare a clear, well-flavoured consomme, for eight. c 1 e a r S 0 V P Tvith asparagus, open it, asparagus tops. tarn the pieces out upon a dish .. .. draining from them all the liquor of it asparagus if you can, because t IS so much greener than either the French or English. _ en drained, cut the tender ends of the asparagus into pieces half an inch long using a dessert-knife. Put them WhTnl When strained, and ready to serve, add to the soup the tT “ "P Pitoh, andMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 378 Pomfrefc fillets with caper sauce. 2.—Fillet tlie pomfret, and make a fish gravy "svith the hones and trimmings, flavoured with an onion and a little celery : simmer your fillets, nicely rolled in little curls, in this gravy; drain them, and dish them on a hot dish. For the sauce, make a saiice blonde with butter, and flour, moistened with the liquor from the fish; when smooth, add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced capers, and off the fii'e, just as you serve, the yolks of two eggs, well mixed with some melted butter. Pour the sauce over the fillets. A few drops of any aromatic vinegar will improve this sauce. Chicken chaud-froid Palestine fashion. 3.—Cover the breasts of two good-sized chickens with paper, and roast them without letting them take colour : when cold, remove the breast meat as neatly as you can, also the flesh of the thighs and drumsticks. Out of the pieces thus obtained, trim a number of neat fillets as nearly the same size as possible, dredge a little flour over them and cover them up. For cJiichen chaud-froid sauce:—Take all the bones left after the above operation, skin, necks, pinions, &c., and make a strong chicken broth with them, adding an onion, some celery, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a few almonds, pepper, and salt, to flavour it well. When the broth is ready, strain it into a bowl, skim it, and proceed to make with it a rich veloute sauce, using for a pint of broth an ounce of butter and one of flour : strain it and let it get cold, and then add to its thickness by stirring into it one- third of its quantity of liquefied aspic, or plain strong meat jelly, and reducing it ovei’ the fire till it coats the spoon. Now take it from the fire, and add the yolks of three eggs, and (if available) a table-spoonful of thick cream. Pour some of this over the pieces of chicken completely coating each piece, as it were, with a thick white glaze. PutMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 379 them away so that the glaze may cool and set. Prepare a border of oreme de topinambours (page 149) decorating the top of the mould with carrots and green peas : after steaming it, let the mould get cold, and then set it in ice. When quite cold, turn it out carefully upon a cold silver dish, fill the hollow in the centre with the pieces of glazed chicken, introducing a slice of trufile here and there as you. arrange them, and garnishing the top of the chicken with cold boiled cock’s comb, and truffles : let the dish remain in the ice-box until the time arrives for it to go to table. 4.—The cutlets in this dish should be most delicately grilled, and served round a socle of Mutton cutlets with Potato mashed d la “ G. C.” (page Valois sauce. 131) the chief feature of the plat being the sauce. Boil a large sweet onion, cut up into dice, in a coffee- cupful of vinegar: let it boil till the vinegar is entirely reduced; let the onion get cold, then pound it and mix into it an ounce of butter, and the yolks of five eggs. Stir this over a low fire for a couple of minutes only. Take it off, add another ounce of butter, mix it well, and re-place the sauce-pan on the fire, adding half a pint of chicken glaze (that left from No. 3 will do), and another ounce of butter; mix thoroughly, adding finally a table-spoonful of chopped curled parsley; pour this into the centre of your ring of cutlets, and serve. This sauce should be made early, and kept hot en bain-marie, for the moment the cutlets are cooked, they must be sent up, and the sauce will spoil if allowed to get cold. 5.—Braise a hen turkey in gravy, and a little white wine, with a couple of onions, a carrot, with vogcUbles'!'^^’*'^'^ ^ joung turnip, a handful of French beans, a breakfast-cupful of peas and a head of celery; when done, dish the turkey : strain thoMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 380 gravy, thicken it, and cut up the vegetables into dice ; add them to the gravy again, heat this in a sauce-pan quickly, and pour it over the bird. Serve with potatoes d la Duchesse and a cauliflower. 6.—Choose eight nice quails, clean the birds carefully, „ , . , put a roll of boiled bacon inside each Salmis of quails. i - j j • j. m bird and sew up their vents, iruss the birds as for roasting. Melt some butter in a frying- pan, and give the quails a turn or two therein till they colour nicely. Next put them in a stew-pan, cover them with a rich gravy, and stew them till they are done. Lift them out, thicken the gravy with butter and flom’, colour it with caramel, add half a glass of Madeira, the livers of the birds pounded, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, a dash of chilli vinegar, and some finely minced mushrooms ; heat the quails up in this sauce, and serve as hot as possi- ble, diy toast accompanying. 7.—Parboil eight very young brinjals, the size of a small hen’s egg, cut them in halves Brinjals with brown lengthways, pick out the seeds with the point of a vegetable-knife, butter them, and dredge over the surface of each a layer of grated mild cheese; now arrange them neatly on a silver dish, well buttered, or any dish that will stand the oven, and bake for ten minutes; pour round them a cupful of well made thick brown gravy, and serve in the dish in which they were cooked, placed on a napkin. 8.—The ingredients for this delicious jelly are;—A bottle of sound claret, six oimces of Claiefc jelly. white sugar, a glass of brandy, tho rind of one well-washed lime, and the juice of three; ono tea-cupful of raspberry syrup or half a pound of raspberry jam. Boil all togethei’, add an ounce of isinglass, and strain through muslin. Decoi’atc a jelly mould withMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 381 crystallized clierides, set it upon ice, pour some of tire liquid jelly into the mould, and set the cherries ; after that, gradually add the liquid till the mould is completed. Thoroughly consolidate the jelly in ice, and serve with iced cream. 9.—Make a pint and a half of strong- chocolate, using boiling milk, and two ounces of the Pavfaifc of chocolate. i, , best chocolate; sweeten it to taste, and let it get cool. Now take an enamelled-pan and break into it the yolks of ten eggs, strain the made chocolate, and add it to the eggs, stirring continually over a low fire, or in the hain-marie until the custard thickens satisfac- torily. Mix half an ounce of dissolved gelatine into the custard, strain, and whip it well while warm and let it get cold. Set a mould in the ice-pail, and when the custard has cooled nicely, pour it into the mould, freeze in the usual way, using the spatula frequently, when the cus- tard seems nearly frozen, add a wine-glass of very cold syrup flavoured with vanilla, continue the working, and then pour in a pint of well-whipped cream. Finish the freezing thoroughly, close the mould securely, and bury it in ice for a couple of hours. Then turn the par fait out on a napkin, and serve. If you are fortunate enough to be able to use cream instead of milk for the making of the chocolate in the first instance, the parfait will be all the nicer. Note.—To adapt this menu, serve the hen turkey after the fish, and let the quails be roasted and sent round with the usual aeeompaniments. 39ivTEnsrxj nsro. 1:2s:, —•— For a party of eight Potage a la reine. Pomfiret a la Venitienne. Petits casseroles aux grandes-crevettes. Boudins de pigeon aux olives. Gigot braise a la chevreuil. Aspic de perdreaux. Champignons an gratin. Flan d’abricots. Riz glace a I’Imperatrice. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Prepare your stock as usual but without co'louring. , Remove the flesh from a cold roast Puree o c c e fo^l^ excluding all skin, and browned parts: add to the meat so obtained, half its bulk of bread- crumbs soaked in stock, and pound both together in a mortar, with twelve sweet, and three bitter almonds, and the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs. Mash and cast all the bones into as much uncoloured beef stock as you think you will require for eight basins, and let them simmer for two or three hours. Pass your pounded fowl and crumbs through the sieve to get rid of lumps, gristle, <fec., moisten- ing it with a spoonful or so of stock to assist the operation.383 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. When near the dinner hour, strain ofE your stock from the bones, and place it to get cool, removing all the fat that may rise to the surface. Now take a sauce-pan and melt an oimce of butter at the bottom of it, stirring in a table- spoonful of flour; add a little stock, and work the paste so obtained without ceasing, gradually pouring in stock, and adding pounded fowl, until you have exhausted your supply. Let the puree now come to the boil; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, and as you pour it into the tureen, stir into it a coffee-cupful of cream, (or that quantity of milk with which the strained yolk of an egg has been mixed) and serve. 2.—Dress your fish in fillets, and bake them in a but- tered dish with a slice of tomato laid upon each of them, and a little chop- ped parsley and shallot, sprinkled over them. When done, arrange them upon a hot silver dish, and serve with the following green sauce:—Boil a little spinach, and when done, squeeze it through a piece of muslin: save the pulp you obtain for colouring. Now make some melted butter, assisted by a little fish stock made from the trimmings of the fillets and some vege- tables, with a spoonful of chablis or sauterne; throw into it some finely minced parsley, a very little shallot, some chopped capers, and gherkins, and colour the whole with the spinach-greening. The white fish, the brilliant green sauce, and the scarlet slice of tomato with each portion, present a tasteful combination of colours, which might almost “tempt the dying anchoret to eat.” S.^Put a pound of the best table rice into a stew-pan with a quairt of water, an onion, and two ounces of clarified suet. Simmer . . is soft, yet quite whole. Drain it, and pound it to a paste in a mortar with a table- spoonful of grated Parmesan, some butter, pepper and salt Little cases of rice with prawDs.384 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. Stir into this the yolks of three eggs, and powder it witli a little spiced pepper. Pass all through the sieve, and pat it to a paste on your pastry slab, about one and a half inch thick. When quite cold, cut it into cylinders two inches long, and an inch and a half in diameter; egg and bread-crumb them, fry them, a golden yellow in butter, and let them get cold; then cut off one end, and scoop out the interior of each cylinder; fill it with a rich prawn salpicon well diluted with veloute sauce: fix the end on again with white of egg. Heat in the oven and serve upon a napkin. N.B.—A casserole is literally a sauce, or stew-pan ; the term was originally given to cases made of rice or potato which were moulded on that pattern. 4.—Roast six pigeons early in the day ; pick the meat from them, save the livers, and throw boudins with bones into a small sauce-pan with some lean bacon, as much stock as you can spare (to the extent of half filling the sauce- pan) some whole pepper, a sliced carrot, a bunch of pars- ley, and a clove of garlic, a muslin bag containing some mixed sweet herbs, and any scraps of raw meat you may have lying idle. With this make a strong gravy, by simmer- ing it slowly until almost half wasted ; now strain the liquor from the various ingredients, and set it to get cool. Meanwhile, stone a couple of dozen French olives, and par- boil them, skim the fat that may have risen on the top of your sauce, and then add the olives chopped into dice. Let the sauce rest awhile. The meat of the pigeons should now be thoroughly pounded with half its bulk of bread-crumb, to a paste, the livers incorporated with it, and some fat bacon; when you have worked this quite smooth, pass it through the sieve, season it with pepper and salt, and then fill six little buttered moulds with it, here and there slipping in a slice of truffle, and some pieces of385 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. mushroom. Having your moulds thus packed, you can set them in the hain-niarie, and steam them gently till they are done ; turn them out, and serve with the olive sauce previously described, thickened, and brought to the boil at the last moment. 5.—Remove the bone from a leg of mutton, fill its place with turkey stuffing, and tie the meat Braised leg of mut- shape, set it in a stewing-pan with tou with vegetables. ’ p as much broth (made from the bone you cut out) as will half cover it: throw in a liqueur-glass of brandy, a couple of sliced onions, a carrot cut up, a bunch of mixed sweet herbs, or two dessert-spoonfuls of dried herbs, some whole peppers, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and one glass of port; set the pan on the fire, with some live coals on the lid as well : let this stew till done, very slowly, keeping it from absolutely boiling point, and when it is ready, strain off the sauce in which it has been cooked, thicken it, stirring in a table-spoonful of red currant jelly, half one of anchovy vinegar, and a glass of port; serve the mutton garnished with balls of turkey forcemeat (page 109) fried in butter, and pour the rich brown gravy round it. Let haricots verts and mashed potato accompany this dish. 6.—Gently stew four partridges in stock with a carrot, an Partridges in jelly. ^ and a glass of Madeira. When done, set the birds to get cold and strain the gravy in which they were done. Now cut off the fillets of the partridges, and pick all the other meat from the bones as well. The fillets should be put aside. Simmer the skin, bones (pounded), and scraps, in the gravy again with a little red currant jelly and lime peel, strain, and reduce it to a glaze. Next, pound the meat you picked from the backs, and thighs, with the livers, &c., and with your glaze make a rich savoury paste of it. Prepare your aspic jelly slightlyMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 386 flavoured -witli tarragon, decorate a plain mould with white of hard-boiled egg, slices of truffle and cornichons, pour in a little jelly and set the garnish, then pack youi' mould with the fillets of partridge between layers of the paste and slices of truffle. Ice this, and present it with sauce ravigote (also iced) in a boat, and dry toast. “ Aspic Jelly.”—This requires attention; the common flavourless jelly, consolidated with isinglass, should be avoided if possible. In order to turn out an aspic, fit to present at a dinner party, you must proceed in this way— Put into a stew-pan an ox-foot cleaned and cut up, with a bacon bone, or a slice or two of ham or bacon, any scraps of raw meat, such as cutlet trimmings you may have, or, better far, a young fowl cut up as for fricassee, with a few mixed vegetables, &c., as for soup. Add a cup of cold water, cover the pan, set it on the fire, shaking it occasion- ally : when the pieces of meat begin to take colour, add a little more water, and in about half an hour, pour in enough water to cover the contents of the pan completely ; put in a tea-spoonful of caramel, and then let the vessel simmer for three hours very gently. Wlien ready, strain the liquor off into a bowl, let it get cool, skim it carefully, add a tea-spoonful of sugar, and table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, clarify it, (q. v. page 33) and sti*ain it finally through a clean cloth, producing a clear, amber-coloured liquid, which will set of its own accord without isinglass, if put in the ice-box. A couple of calf’s feet, or four sheep’s feet may be used. 7.—In wet weather excellent mushrooms are procurable at nearly every station in this Presi- dency ; assuming that on this occasion we have been fortunate enough to get a dish of a dozen nice ones, a very toothsome entremets can be made of them in this manner ;—First, be careful in cleaning them; cut Baked Mushrooms.MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 387 the stalks down, leaving only a little of them within the hollow of the mushroom, peel off the skin that covers the convex side of the fungus, brush away any particles of earth or sand that may adhere to the pink gills on the concave side, and by patting the top of each mushroom, shake out all grit. It is a very great mistake to wash a mushroom if you can possibly clean it in the way I have described. When satisfactorily prepared, clean the stalks you cut off, and chop them up. Put into a sauce-pan an ounce of buttet and stir intp it half an ounce of flour, when mixed, add half a pint of made gravy ; stir well and throw in the chopped stalks, a table-spoonful of chopped curled parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced onion, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a dusting of pepper : simmer the sauce until it is thick and rich, add a spoonful of cream, and then strain it. Now butter a silver dish liberally, place the mush- rooms upon it head downwards, fill their hollow parts with the thick sauce, and set the dish in the oven (a brisk one) for ten minutes. As soon as the mushrooms flatten themselves, as it were, they are done. Serve on the same dish wrapping a napkin round it. 8. This dish is not a difficult one. Choose a tin of Apricot custard. -A^mencan apricots, drain off their juice and place the fruit at the bottom of a glass dish ; add enough syrup to the juice of the fruit to cover them, pour into it a wine-glassful of noyeau or maraschmo, and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine j when cold, set the glass dish upon ice, and pour the syrup round the fruit by degrees, letting it congeal like jelly and embedding the fruit firmly. Leave the dish in the ice and then make enough rich custard to form a layer an inch thick on the top of the congealed fruit, mix into the custard half an ounce of dissolved gelatine, and flavour it with vanilla : when quite cold, pour the custard by degrees over the layer of fruit; it should consolidate also ; garnishMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 388 the sux’face of the custard with whipped cream in two colours, pink and white (the pink coloured with a dx-op or two of cochineal), and serve straight from the ice. 9.—Gently boil a quarter of a pound of the best rice till about half done, then drain it and trke^ ^ ^ Imp6i'a. stew-pan with a pint and a half of good boiling milk, and six ounces of sugar, add a coffee-cupful of boiling cream, stir well, and simmer till the rice is done. Let it get cold. Next mince up some mixed dessert fruits, greengages, cherries, apricots, &c., (preserved ginger, and citron if you like), moisten with, a table-spoonful of maraschino or noyeau and put the mince away upon a plate. Now strain the milk and cream from the rice, add milk enough to fill the mould you have chosen, and ttum it to a rich custard with eight eggs : next set the freezing pail in the ice, put the custard into it, and work it with the spatula till nearly frozen. You must now add the rice, with two whites of egg a la meringue, made in this way :—put two ounces of sugar into an enamelled sauce-pan, and heat it with a little water till nearly boiling, whip two whites of egg, and add them to the sugar, whipping all the time; this, when cold, is what you want for the ice. Continue working the spatula, and when the mixtui-e is all but frozen, add a coffee-cupful of whipped cream the minced fruit, and a liqueur-glass of liqueur; stir well, freeze a little loxxger, then fill your ice mould, and bury it in ice until it is required. Note.—To adapt this menu, serve the leg of mutton after the fish, and instead of the aspic of partridges give poulet au cresson with salade or roast game. A poulet, with really nice creamy bx’ead sauce, and water-cx*ess (ifMENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 389 the fowl be a plump home-fed one), makes a very accept- able rot. ■ ■ Meringues. Put the whites of seven eggs into a bowl, and whip them as stiffly as possible, add half a pound of sugar, mix well, and with a spoon set portions of the mixture at inter- vals on sheets of buttered paper : each piece should be the size and shape of an egg: dredge some pounded sugar over them, and put them in the oven upon a baking-sheet. As soon as they assume a pale yellow tint, remove them from the oven, detach them from the paper, and cut them in halves with a very sharp knife. Scoop out the inside with a spoon as carefully as you can, and return them to a moderate oven to dry. After that you can fill the pieces with any nicely flavoured whipped cream, join the halves together with white of egg cement (page 357), and serve piled up upon a napkin. 40IvlBKTXJ 3STO. :XL. ♦ For a party of eight. Potage a la tortue clair. Seer aux champignons. Crepinettes de volaille truffees. Petits pates de lievre a la financiere. Filet de boeuf anx haricots verts. Pluviers en caisses. Bouchees d’epinards. Chaud-froid de fruits. “ Pudding” glace a I’ambigu. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—This soup, which is simply the ordinary mock-tui’tle , . ,, thickened, is to my mind the nicer Clear mock-turtle. . j. ,i , , , , lorm or the two; tastes vary however, so I shall describe both methods. First, for the clear :— Procure the stock meat as usual, and either half an ox- ^ head unskinned, or a sheep’s head (a calf’s head is the g proper thing, but we must deal with fact, not fiction, a knowing that we cannot get veal here), well,—clean the 8 head thoroughly, keeping the skin on, and scalding it to 8 get rid of the hair or wool: remove every atom of brain> ■ and wash the meat in several waters, set it to soak awhile in cold water, and then place it in your soup kettle;MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 391 cover it with watet and let it simmer slowly for an hour, skimming all fatj and scnni that inay rise: take it up (it will he about half done), remove the bones and set it, with a weight upon it, on a dish tO flatten and get cOld. Now throw your shin; &c., into the soup kettle, adding to the cold head liquor already there, the bones just removed, sufficient cold water to cover the bone and meat com- pletely and an ounce of salt. Proceed now as for consomme skimming very carefully, and retarding the boiling point as much as you can by periodical additions of water : when boiling takes place, ease ofE the fire, and add two Bombay onions in quarters, a head of celery, a couple of carrots, the rind of two limes, a large bunch of parsley, a quarter ounce of dried basil, (sold in bottles) a tea- spoonful of dried thyme, and of marjoram, (the herbs in a muslin bag) a dozen pepper corns, two anchovies cut up, half a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, a table- Spoonful of sugar, and a tea-spoonful bf caramel. Simmer slowly now for about three hours, skimming the surface occasionally, and on no account permitting the vessel to boil. Now strain very carefully,' and set the soup in a bowl to cool and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head into one-and-a-half-inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and pour it into a large sauce-pan adding the pieces of head. Let the pieces cook slowly for half an hour, then drain them, and again strain the soup : clarify it if neces- sary adding a glass of Madeira, and the juice of a lime. Let this be heated up finally when required, and pour the soup into the tureen over a dozen or so carefully selected pieces of the head arranged therein. Serve, with limes cut into quarters, which should be handed round followed by the Madeira. The basil is most necessary, and the whole success of the soup depends upon strict attention to the flavouring herbs and ingredients. Select gelatinous, not meaty pieces, for the garnish.392 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. For the thick :—Go back to the period when you strain- ^ ed ^-he soup and set it to eet cool. Thick mook-turtle. m i i ° lake a large sauce-pan, and melt at the bottom of it three ounces of good butter, mix into it three ounces of flour, when it looks nice and velvety, gently add the soup, stirring it in by cupfuls. Put into it the pieces of head, a glass of Madeira, and the juice of a lime. Let the soup come to the boil to thicken properly, and let it simmer slowly immediately afterwards, constantly stir- ring to prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the pan. When ready (which you will decide by testing the meat) you can add a little more Madeira if you find it needed, and serve. Some people make small forcemeat balls of hard-boiled eggs pounded with some parsley, pepper, salt, spice, flour, and a raw egg; or of chicken, with a little ham or tongue, savoury herbs, crumb of bread and eggs; these they poach in gravy, and add to the soup when serving. I think however that the soup costs trouble enough without them, and, so many people misunderstand what they are, that making forcemeat balls is often lost labour. 2. —Choose a good deep cut of seer fish. Take about a pint of thin brown gravy, a little onion. Seer witli mush- ^ carrot cut up, a bit of celery, and rooms. ^ 1 1 some parsley; flavour it with a table- spoonful of chablis or sauterne, and one of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a little lime juice : stew the fish in this liquor very gently. When done, strain it, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, adding a dozen “ black Leicestershire” mushrooms; heat up without boiling, and serve. 3. Roast a fair sized fowl, protecting the breast from burning by a buttered paper; when Ci-fepinottes of fowl cold, carve the bird carefully, picking truffled. off all the white meat you can ; remove393 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. the skin from these pieces and pnt them aside. Break np the carcass, and throw it, with all fragments of skin and bone, and the giblets of the fowl previously saved, into a sauce-pan, with as much stock as will cover the whole : add two onions, a clove of garlic, a carrot, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt, and simmer the contents of your pan as long as you can, finally adding half a glass of sherry, and brinffinor the broth to the boil. Now strain it, remove all fat that may rise, and reduce the sauce a little ; thicken it with butter and flour, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lime. Let the sauce get cold. Next slice up four good sized truffles and toss the slices in a frying-pan in some melted butter, adding a liqueur-glass of Madeira, and a little stock ; when the liquor boils, stop, and pour the contents of the pan into a bowl. Make one or two very, thin pancakes, cut out of them eight pieces, five inches long and four wide, and put them aside. Now make the nicest mince you can of the cold fowl, diluting it with the cold sauce, and adding the liquor in which the truffles were cooked., Stir in a raw egg as it leaves the fire and let it get cold. Spread the pieces of pancake on a big dish and cover each of them with some very thinly sliced cooked bacon; dot over the bacon the cooked truffles, on the centre of each lay a good table- spoonful of the mince, fold the pancakes over, fix them with white of egg, bread-crumb, and bake them a pale brown on a well buttered dish. Serve upon a napkin. 4.—This is an effective entree :—Make enough of the best puff-paste to form eight or nine pastry cases of the usual patty shape, bake them in the oven, and put them aside when done. As serving time approaches, fill each with a share of thoughtfully composed ragout a la finan- ci'ere (the same that you would prepare for a vol-au-ventMENU FOR A PA RTF OF EIGHT. 394 only a little more minced) of hare, heat in a quick oven for a minute or two, and serve. N.B.—Touching ragouts d, la financiere and d la reine; the former is brown, the latter white. For financiere you must therefore use Espagnole, and for d la reine, bechamel. Oysters, chicken, rabbit, tongue, sweet-breads, liver, cocks- combs, truffles, mushrooms, and game, form the chief com- ponent parts of the plat. Select your ingredients ; trim the pieces of meat into small collops, and gently stew them ; that is, heat them up salmis fashion, in either the rich brown, or the delicate white sauce'I have named ; the meat having been previously dressed, of course, requires no cooking. Bearing these general rules in mind, the ragouts will not be found very difficult. Lard the fillet carefully, and tie it up into a con- venient shape for roasting. Roast it over a brisk fire, and when sufficiently done, serve it with some minced an- chovies and olives, tossed in melted butter, poured over it at the last momelit. Fillet of beef with Pieuoh beans. For the haricots verts -—Remember not to allow your cook to cut the beans into the vermicelli-like strips you see sd frequently. All that is necessary is to peel ofE the external fibre which rfins round the outside edge of the pod, leaving the pods so peeled intact. Next choose a roomy, two-pound jam jar, or any vessel that you can close securely; put the beafis into it with a table-spoonful of good butter, a dessert-Spoonful of sugar, and a salt- spoonful of salt. Cover the vessel tightly and steam it for an hour in boiling water. When done, drain the bean pods, and serve them in any of the ways mentioned at page 138. Steamed in this way the French bean of Indian gi’owth tastes exactly like its parent as eaten in France. You will never boil French beans again after cooking395 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. them in the manner I have described: a spoonful of melted maitre d'Tiotel butter, or, better still, a coffee- cupful of poulette sauce is an improvement just before serving. 6. —Roast the plovers (the grey bird will do for this dish) and proceed as you did to com- Plovers iu cases. ,, , . , pose the saLpicon ae gibier in Menu No. 5, fill your buttered cases with pieces of the plovers, and pour round, and over them your thick glaze. Bake fbr five or ten minutes, and serve. 7. —Prepare a ptiree of spinach as described at page 146, „ . . drain it very dry, and then moisten it Spinach pathes. •' with cream, adding a very little nut- meg : make eight houchees (miniature oyster patty shapes) of puff pastry, fill each bouchee with spinach puree, give them a cap of buttered egg (page 235), heat up in the oven, and serve on a napkin. 8. —Make enough plain clear jelly, flavoured with any nice liqueur, to fill a pretty border f" d-f r 01 d of mould, and get ready a mixed collec- tion of dessert fruits,—a few of each sort,—such as greengages, apricots, cherries, strawberries, pears, &c., cut them into pieces, and garnish the mould as tastefully as you can. When the garnish has set, complete the jelly with layers of the remaining fruit, and set it in ice. For the centre, to imitate a savoury chaud-froid, you must make a breakfast-cupful of vanilla hlanc-manger, dipping slices of preserved apples into it to counterfeit fillets of chicken masked in white sauce; set them on ice for the hlanc-manger to congeal, and then pack the centre of the jelly with them; garnish the white fillets with slices of prunes to represent truffles, and a few plain slices of apple cut with fretted edges to imitate cocks- combs.396 MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 9.—For this effective ice, you must have four small ice pails, and make a different ice in each deiced pudding, med- p^il^ ;—No. 1, strawberry cream (Menu No. 3) ; No. 2, creme de pistache (Menu No. 2) ; No. 3, parfait au chocolat (Menu No. 8) ; and No. 4, vanilla cream. Make half a pint of each of these, and set your mould in the ice : when the four ices are well frozen, mix them at hap-hazard by casting large spoonfuls of them one after the other into the mould ;— say, first, half the vanilla, then a quarter of the chocolate, then half the strawberry, followed by a quarter of the pistachio, some more chocolate and vanilla, and so on, till full. Work the spatula, and blend the colours without any fixed pattern, press the whole together firmly, freeze thoroughly, and serve. To adapt this menu, serve the fillet of beef after the fish, and send up the plovers nicely roasted, with bread sauce, crisp potato chips, and a salad. A curl of crisply fried bacon should accompany each bird. ♦ To make a vol-au-vent case. Make very carefully a pound of puff-paste, following the directions given at page 263. Give the paste six turns, and roll it out three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut out of this as neatly as possible an oval piece the size you wish your vol-au-vent to be. You will then have an oval piece of pastry three-quarters of an inch thick: turn it over upon a buttered baking-sheet, brush the surface and side with a beaten egg, and mark out the interior oval, leaving an inch margin all round. Let the knife cut this tracing to a depth of a quarter of an inch. Now put the sheet in the oven, and when the paste is baked, I’emovc the inner oval (for a cover) which you will fiud has risen: thenI MENU FOR A PARTY OF EIGHT. 397 scoop out the uncooked paste inside the case : brush the whole case thus formed with egg again, and bake it for about five minutes. After this the pastry will be ready. Remember that in the first baking, the oval wall will have risen three or four inches high. 41IvTEOSrXJ TsTO. ZXII •—-> For a dinner of six. Potage a la creme d’oi^e, Orlys de seer, a la Hollandaise. Poulette a la St. Lambert. Carre de mouton farci. Becassines roties. Petits pois au lard. Tartelettes de limon. Promage, hors d’ceuvrcs. Dessert. 1. —Boil half a pint of pearl barley in a quart of clear ^ , , , stock till it is reduced to a pulp ; pass Pearl barley Bonp» . , . . , ^ it through a hair sieve, and add suflS- cient additional stock uncoloured, and very well flavoured, to bring the pwree to the consistency of cream; put it now in a sauce-pan on the fire till it comes to the boil, then stir into it off the fire the yolk of an egg thoroughly beaten up with a gill of milk (or cream if you can spare it) serve with dice of bread, dipped in stock, and crisped in the oven. 2. —Divide a cut of seer-fish into six nice collops about two inches long, half an inch thick. Seer flitters with and an inch wide. Let them “mari- llollandaiee sauce. . ... nade” in a little lime juice or vinegar, pepper, salt, onion, and sweet herbs. Half fry, or bakeMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 399 them, and let them get cold. Prepare some batter as follows:—Beat up together the yolks of two eggs (save the whites) with one table-spoonful of brandy, one of salad oil, and four or five table-spoonfuls of water. Amal- gamate with this three table-spoonfuls of imported flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture well for a minute or two, and bring it to the right consistency by adding water, or flour, as the case may require. When ready, add, at the last moment, the whites you saved, whipped to a froth ; dip your collops into this, and lay them one by one in your frying basket, dipping it immediately into a deep saute-pan, filled with boiling fat; as soon as they turn a nice deep yellow, lift them out, drain them on a sheet of blotting paper, and serve them, crisp and dry on a napkin garnished with fried parsley, and slices of lime. With sauce-Hollandaise in a boat. (q. v. page 84.) 3.—Take two nice chickens, cut them up as if for fri- cassee, steep the pieces in cold water bert^f^hioB^*' hour, then drain them, and select the following pieces, viz.:— the four wings, the four legs, two breasts, and four thighs, and put them aside covered up. Take all that remains, viz. :—the backs, pinions, necks, livers, gizzards, and trimmings, and, with an onion cut up, some pepper corns, a few spoonfuls of meat gravy, a bit of lime peel, a tea- spoonful of ketchup, and salt, make as good a pint of broth as you can; when ready, fish out the livers, and strain the broth. Now put into the stew-pan the selected joints of the chickens, cover them with the strained broth, and stew them gently till done, with one carrot, and a handful of French beans. Now pick out the chicken, strain the broth, and put the vegetables aside. Proceed with the broth to make a nice veloute (rich white sauce) flavoured with a dozen sweet almonds pounded, and a blade of mace ; thicken in the bain-marie with the yolks400 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. of three eggs : Avhen satisfactory, strain and put in the pieces of chicken, heating them without boiling. Cut the carrot, and French beans, with the livers you saved, into dice, and when you dish the chicken, garnish your entree with them. A casserole of mashed potatoes, shaped like the pastry case of a voUau-vent, and nicely ornamented, can hold the chicken, and the garnish should be sprinkled over the surface. 4. —Order a shoulder of the best mutton you can get^ bone it carefully, wash it, dry it, and stuffed muttou flatten it out upon a clean board. Dust it over with pepper and salt, and lay over it a number of thin slices of cold cooked bacon. Make a good bowl of turkey stuffing (page 109) and spread it evenly over the bacon, roll the meat care- fully up, and secure it in shape with tapes. Put four ounces of butter into a stew-pan, and turn the roll of mutton over in it till it takes colour. Now pour in a pint or so of good broth made from the bones and trimmings, with two Bombay onions cut up, a clove of garlic, a caiTot sliced, six pepper corns, a blade of mace, a good piece of celery, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tumbler of chablis or sauterne, and half a glass of brandy. Braise the mutton in this until it is done. Dish it on a hot dish, and brown its surface with a hot iron. Strain off the gi'avy, remove the fat, flavour it as for game with half a glass of Madeira, a dessert-spoonful of red currant .I'elly, the juice of a lime, and a few drops of chilli vinegar; let it boil up, pour it round the mutton, and serve. Garnish the dish with small white onions (the size used for pickling) glazed, and send round potatoes la mattre d'hotel. 5. —Roast the birds properly over a bright fire (Rama- samy will bake them if he can, or fry thejn in a frving-pan) and serve them lioast snipes.401 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. on hot buttered toast, smothered with crisply fried bread- crurdhs. A nice salad, butter, and Nepanl pepper should go round. 6. —Cook the peas as recommended at page 135, cut a thick slice of bacon into small dice, .Green peas with £j,„ tdem till they are dry and crisp, fned bacon. •' j j mix them with the peas, and serve. 7. —If your cook can make really nice puff-pastry, this simple little entremets will be quite fit Lemon cheesecakes. » , . -n for a place in your menu. Jb or the mixture, proceed as follows :—melt four ounces of butter in an enamelled sauce-pan, stir into it the yolks of four eggs, and four ounces of finely pounded loaf sugar, and when dissolved, the juice of three limes; mix the syrup well, and add a liqueur-glass of noyean, or cura^oa. Now line eight or nine round patty pans with puff-paste, and fill them half full with the mixture, leaving room for it to rise in the baking : when done, dust over the cheesecakes some finely pounded loaf sugar, and serve them upon a napkin, hot. « . Salade Eusse- This is an effective dish for a luncheon party:—Boil some carrots and some turnips in salted water with a small piece of butter, but do not let them he overdone; when cold, cut out of them, with a vegetable scoop, a number of pieces the size of an olive ; cut some beetroot in the same way, and likewise some truffles. Take equal parts—say a cupful—of each of the above, and a similar quantity of fresh haricot beans ready cooked, and of asparagus points prepared in the same way. Two table-spoonfuls respec- tively of capers, of French pickled gherkins cut into the shape of capers, and of anchovies, perfectly cleaned, and cut into .small pieces; a couple of dozen or more olives stoned, one table-spoonful of parsley minced fine, and one402 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. of shallot, also minced. Mix the whole lightly together with a sauce, made with raw yolks of eggs, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, (page 190.) Ornament with hard-boiled eggs, caviare, prawns, olives farcies, pickles, truffles, &c. Sweet capsicums are a nice addition, not only for their flavour, hut on account of their brilliant colour.IvIBIsrXJ 3STO- IXLXI. For a dinner of six. Puree de grandes-crevettes. Merlans a 1’ Americaine. Cotelettes de mouton au puree d’oseille. Galantine de chapon au salade. Sarcelles au cresson. C^leri au beurre. Creme d’abricot a la Moscovite. Fronaage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Make a strong clear consomme with beef, bone, vegetables and herbs, as usual: when rawn puree. done, strain it into a bowl to be ready when wanted. Pick enough cold boiled prawns to fill a half-pint pot to the brim: pound these in a mortar with a good allowance of butter till you get them to a pulp : flavour this with salt, and a little spiced pepper to taste : now melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, and incorpo- rate therewith a table-spoonful of flour ; mix this with the prawn pulp. Next take about the same quantity of bread- crumb well soaked in stock (the consomme) that you have of prawn, and add it to the prawn pulp also, off the fire, mixing the two together by degrees thoroughly, and gradually adding the consomme till you find you have a soup a little less thick than that you want eventually to get. You now set the sauce-pan on the fire, and stir404 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. vigorously till it boils, and thickens ; take it ofE the fire then, and let it get cool, to enable you to remove any fat that may rise, after which the puree should be pressed through a hair sieve into a bowl. When wanted, it must, of course, be re-heated, and served with dice of fried bread. This soup is well worth the little trouble it requires: it is, of course, a relation of the bisque family. A coffee- cupful of boiling cream, or of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been whipped, may be added, but I think the piiree is generally rich enough without that assistance. Let my up-country friends follow this recipe, using a tin of lobster, well drained, and washed : their efforts will result in “ bisque de homard.” In this case the coral of the lobster gives the soup a rich orange colour. The Ameri- can canned lobster, prawns, and shrimps, make excellent bisques. 2.—Cut and trim three nice whitings in fillets, brush them over with egg, and bread-crumb AmTdcani\y.'“ crumbs ; fi’y them a golden yellow in boiling fat, di-ain, and serve them with this sauce :—Melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in a small sauce-pan, stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour, add half a pint of warm fish gravy, let it thicken, and finish it with the juice of a lime, a little salt, a pinch of sugar, a few drops of tabasco, and a heaped up dessert-spoonful of chopped capsicums. 3.—Choose a first rate neck of mutton, divide it into the neatest cutlets you can, give them a Mutton cutlets with of pepper and salt, and place sorrel sauce. r- i r r- them en marinade for the rest of the day. For the sauce you want one Bombay onion, two handfuls of sorrel, one lettuce, and two table-spoonfuls of butter. Take a light sauce-pan, melt the butter at the bottom of it; throAV into it the onion very finely shredded, toss this about till it turns a pale yellow, and then add405 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. the whole of the sorrel and the lettuce also finely cut up. Stir the vegetables about in the melted butter till they begin to change colour, and then pour into the sauce-pan about half a pint of gravy slightly thickened with flour; stir this well, and put in a tea-spoonful of white sugar, three salt-spoonfuls of salt, and a good dusting of black pepper. Let the vegetables boil for about five minutes, then, if you find the sauce too thick, or as cooks say, “ stodgy,” dilute it with a little more gravy, till it assumes the consistency of a rich puree, ease the fire and let the sorrel simmer for half an hour. At the end of that time it will be ready to accompany your cutlets, which should be drained from their marinade, dipped in melted butter, and grilled over a bright clear fire. Prepare a circle of mashed potato, fill it with the puree burning hot, and arrange the cutlets round the outside of the circle, with bunches of water-cress for garnish. 4.—A really tasty cold dish, garnished with blocks of . broken aspic jelly, the whole fresh from the ice-box, and accompanied by a good salad is, to my mind, a worthy piece de resistance for a little dinner party at Madras in the sultry month of May. A galantine too, is a dish that is well adapted for a Neilgherry picnic, the wedding breakfast, the luncheon, or supper, so let us discuss the following recipe : Choose a very fine fowl, capon, or hen-turkey; purchase one of Crosse and Blackwell’s “ picnic tongues” (in the round tins) and proceed as follows Having cleaned the bird, and having carefully saved the liver, heart, and gizzard, lay it breast downwards on a board, and proceed to bone it (Ramasdmy does this generally very cleverly) you may sever the pinions, legs, and neck, but draw the skin carefully over the places, and stew them up, so that the outer skin may be as whole as possible. Cut off all the meat from the pinions and legs (removing the sinew) 42406 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. and flatten the carcass before you with a cutlet bat. Make a forcemeat as follows:—five ounces stale bread-crumb, five ounces minced fat bacon, the rind of a lime minced fine, a dessert-spoonful each of thyme and marjoram, some spiced pepper, and salt, a table-spoonful of minced parsley, all bound with four eggs : mix this as previously describ- ed, and keep it by your side in a basin. Now turn out the “ picnic tongue,” straighten it, and cut a solid piece of the best meaty part to form the centre of your galantine: it should be nearly as long as the carcass of the fowl (leaving room for folding up) and nearly the full thick- ness of the tongue after the skin has been peeled off. Slice up the remainder of the tongue ; separating fat slices from lean, and keep them on a dish handy; scraps may be minced fine, and mixed with the forcemeat. To make the foundation of your woi'k as level as possible, you should trim nearly all the meat of the carcass of the fowl, with a very sharp knife, almost to the skin; the meat that is thus detached should be kept with that of the wings and legs. Lastly, mince together the liver, gizzard and heart, and “ spice-pepper,” and mince them well. First, spread a layer of the stuffing a quarter of an inch thick evenly over the fowl, upon that a layer of your slices of tongue (spice-pepper freely) upon that a layer of the meat you cut from the fowl (dust of salt) over that a second spread of forcemeat, then your minced liver, &c., and lastly, the block of tongue : fold over this the flatten- ed carcass, disturbing the layers as little as possible, and sew the galantine up securely with fine twine. Envelop this in a clean cloth, and tie it up cai'efully with cross strings to preserve the oval shape of the galantine. Set this in a deep stew-pan, cover it well with weak stock in which a claret-glass of Madeira has been introduced, and simmer gently for three or four hours. When done, lift it out, drain it, take off the cloth, wrap it in a fresh dry407 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. one, and place it on a dish with a heavy weight above it. When quite cold, take out your galantine, scrape ofi any fat that may be attached to the skin, glaze it, and set it in the ice-box, finally serving it garnished with broken lumps of aspic jelly. A galantine to be correct should, of course, contain a goodly allowance of truffles : these should be first cooked in butter and a little Madeira, and then introduced during the packing of the carcass, according to the artistic skill of the chef, in fairly large pieces; truffle trimmings should be minced fine and added to the forcemeat. Little dice of cornichons are effective if dotted about in the layer of stuffing, and pistachio nuts are an improvement. 6.—Let the teal be sent up most carefully roasted straight from the fire; garnish each w^er-orew portion with a bunch of water-cress ; and send round butter, limes cut in quarters, and Nepaul pepper. 6.—This is a very simple, yet tasty entremets de legume: especially to be recommended at Mad- Celery with butter. i i ras where Is eilgherry celery soon loses its nutty crispness, and is consequently not so nice to eat raw. Trim four heads of fine white celery very neatly, wash them carefully, and when convinced that no earth re- mains hidden in the leaves, boil them in salt and water, or in milk if you can afford it. When tender, drain, split each piece in half, and serve as hot as possible upon a silver dish like asparagus. Butter plainly melted, as for “ Dutch sauce,” page 89, should alone accompany the vegetable thus delicately dressed. Please do not spoil it by serving it with a ‘ conjee’ made of flour and milk, called by Ramasamy “ white sauce,” or with sodden toast beneath it.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 408 7.—Now here we have a very recherche sweet dish. The specialite of creams a la Moscovite con- MMoovite ^ sists in their being sent to table very cold,—not frozen as an iced pndding, but so long buried in ice as to be almost as cold. The cream is easy enough. Pass a pot of apricot jam through a fine sieve. Boil a pint and a half of milk ; mix into it when cool the yolks of ten eggs and make a rich custard. Stir into the custard when cool, an ounce and a half of dissolved gelatine, and then the strained jam. If not sweet enough, you must now add a little sugar. Set the liquid in a mould upon ice, and when you perceive that it is beginning to congeal, add half a pint of whipped cream, and a glass of noyeau. Stir the contents of the mould together, and then bury it in ice for at least two hours. Serve as cold as possible. ♦ Pickled steak, or chops. Place a steak in a deep dish with a couple of onions sliced, a clove of garlic, pepper corns, salt, some leaves of thyme, and marjoram, a bunch of parsley, and some lime peel. Add oil and vinegar (two table-spoonfuls of former to one of latter) sufficient to soak the meat well without actually covering it. Let it soak all day; lift it, when wanted, from the marinade, and fry lightly in butter: then (when coloured on both sides nicely) pour in the marinade, with a breakfast-cup of made-gi’avy, and stew the steak gently till thoroughly done.—Strain the liquor, free it from fat, reduce it a little over the fire, pour over the steak, and serve. This is just as good with a nice mutton steak, or a few juicy chops.iviEisrxj 3sro. —♦— For a dinner of six. Potage a la Gladstone. Merlans aux fines herbes. Tonrne-dos de boeuf a la Wyvern. Poulet a I’Americaine-Sauce anx liuiti’es. Rognons an surprise. Ramequins en caisses. Croutes d’ananas. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—This, I need scarcely say, is “oxtail soup !” Buy a shin and a half of beef, and make the Oxtail soup, (clear). , , , , , best gravy you can as usual: take an oxtail, and when the shin consomme is ready early in the afternoon, (you should commence boiling the shin as soon as you can) separate the tail at the joints, and throw the pieces into your stock pot with two Bombay onions, two carrots, a stick of celery, and a muslin bag containing sweet herbs, parsley, a dozen pepper corns, and a clove of garlic ; add a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, a tea- spoonful of caramel, and simmer the soup for a couple of hours skimming it carefully. If wanted clear, all that is now needed is to strain and clarify the liquor, saving a few joints of the tail as a garnish, a table-spoonful of Madeira with a squeeze of a lime, and a pinch of sugar being added to finish with.410 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. If however you desire to serve a thick oxtail, go on in 1X following manner:—Strain the Oxtail soup, (thick). . ° soup, saving all the tail joints, and leave it in a bowl for a while. Pick all the meat from the tail, pound it in a mortar, pass the paste through the sieve, and then skim the fat ofE the howl of soup. Take a roomy sauce-pan, melt an ounce of butter at the bottom of it, stir in a table-spoonful of flour, and gradually add soup and paste till all has been expended, let the puree come to the boil (by which time it will be thick enough) ; add a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, a tea-spoonful of anchovy vinegar, and a glass of Madeira, stir vigorously for a minute and serve. The common way of making this soup is simply to thicken the gravy, and to throw in the joints of the tail whole. I have tried thepwree, and con- sider the soup is vastly improved by the pounded meat, the flavour of the oxtail being far stronger. 2.—Bake the whitings very gently, and serve them with a sauce blancJie in which a bunch of hertsVaiee.®' ‘ parsley, minced fine, a very little shal- lot, a little marjoram, some garden cress, and a little green chilli (if liked) have been mixed. If fresh mushrooms happen to he available, you can make true fines herbes as follows :—equal portions (say a table- spoonful) of chopped mushroom and parsley, with a tea- spoonful of chopped shallot. 3.—Cut and trim a nice undercut of beef in slices as for grenadins: steep them all day eri WyveJrsJuL!^ marinade, drain, and either grill, or fry them very carefully in clarified drip- ping ; drain again, and serve in a circle round a ring of mashed potato, with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread between each slice of meat. The sauce should be com- posed as follows :—Melt half an ounce of butter in a small411 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. sauce-pan, mix into it half an ounce of flour; stir in, when the butter and flour have amalgamated, a breakfast-cup- ful of beef gravy, half a glass of sherxy, a tea-spoonful of caramel, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of Harvey, and one and a half of Anchovy sauce. Stir well, and pour piping hot into the centre of the potato ring. Fowl in the Ameri- can manner. This is a capital method of cooking a fowl, the pro- cess is simply that of steaming, so you will want your fish kettle, and a pan, big enough to hold the fowl, with a close fitting lid. Truss the fowl: place a big Bombay onion inside the bird, with a couple of slices of bacon; sew up the vent, pin a strip of bacon over the breast, and set the bird in the pan (without any water or gravy round it) carefully securing the lid with paste if necessary. Immerse the vessel containing the fowl in the fish kettle or any larger pan full of cold water, and set it to boil. Cook it slowly for upwards of an hour without removing the lid which should be scrupulously kept closed. In about an hour and a quarter (after the water came to the boil), you can take the fowl out, and place it at once on a hot dish well covered up. Now strain off the gravy that you will find has been drawn from the fowl, and save it for the “ oyster sauce,” which make in this way as fast as you can:— Mix an ounce of butter with an ounce of flour at the ^ , bottom of a sauce-pan, add the fowl Oyster sauce. ,i i- j- j.- t i. gravy, the liquor from a tm or oysters, and the beards of the oysters cut off : (save the oysters themselves separately) throw in some pepper corns, the peel of a lime, salt to taste, and, as the mixture boils, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce: after it has come to the boil, strain the sauce carefully, add the oysters you saved, heat it up again: take it off the fire: pour in a coffee-MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 412 cupful of boiling cream (or milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, and heated up to the consistency of thin custard) and serve poured over the fowl. Whilst this sauce is being made, it would be wise perhaps to leave the fowl in the vessel in which it was cooked, carefully cover- ed up and kept in the hot water bath. As soon as the sauce is ready, it can be dished up, upon a cradle of well boiled maccaroni. Onion stuffed witli kidneys. 5. —This is a dish of “ Bombay onions stuffed with kidneys,” a most excellent savoury entremets if carefully done. Take six large Bombay onions : have ready ten sheep’s kidneys, scalded, and skinned, but uncooked. Boil the onions till three parts done; take them out, drain them; slice off the top of each one (as you would treat an egg) and carefully remove the inside, leaving a hollow big enough to hold two small kidneys cut into eight pieces ; take two anchovies, pick out their spines and cut the fish into little squares : have some minced parsley handy, a lime, and some of the inside of the onion that yon scooped out, minced and peppered ; put a lump of butter into the onion case first, then a little of the minced onion peppered, then yoiu’ pieces of kidney, with little bits of anchovy here and there, and crown the top again with minced onion, and a pat of butter ; a drop or so of lime juice should be given during the packing, and an occasional dust of spiced pepper. Now place the cap on again, and when the six onions are stuffed, lay them in a buttered baking dish, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. When done, pour a brown sauce (separately made) over them and serve in their own dish. 6. —A recipe for these toothsome little fondues will be found at page 249. Serve the moment they rise, dished upon a nap- kin. Fondues of cheese in paper cases. 2413 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 7.—When pine-apples are in sqason, 'praij try this dish. Cut up the pine in slices a quarter of Piue apple toasts. inch thick, stew them in thin syrup, with a glass of rum, and keep them simmering en bain- marie. Take a Madeira cake of a circular shape eight inches in diameter, cut it into nice slices the same shape as those you cut of pine-apple, lightly fry them in butter, then dust them over vdth powdered sugar and set them in the oven, spreading a layer of apricot jam over each slice. At the time of serving, drain the pine-apple slices, and arrange them with the slices of cake alternately upon a very hot dish, pouring the syrup over them. This receipt can he followed exactly with American canned pine-apple slices. If the taste of rum be objected to, try brandy or any nice liqueur. To make potato flour for souflSies- Here is a recipe for potato flour which I do not think you will find in any cookery book. “ The farina of the potato, properly granulated and dried, is frequently sold as a substitute for arrowroot,” says an authority of note ; “ it may easily be prepared at home, and will be found useful for making puddings easy of digestion for children and invalids.” If kept dry, this flour keeps well for a long time. Choose some potatoes of a good mealy kind, peel and wash them (raw), and grate them to pulp with a strong bread grater, emptying the grated stuff into a large bowl of clean spring water; stir the potato and water to- gether briskly for a few minutes, and then let the former settle; after resting ten minutes, strain off tho water; repeat the process with another basinful of water, and let it rest after stirring for ten minxitcs, again straining off 43MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 414 the water; and continue the washings, so to speak, until the water remains quite clear after the sediment has set- tled at the bottom of the bowl: about three changes of water generally suffice for this. When satisfied that the grated potato has been thoroughly cleansed, take it out of the bowl, drain it, and spread it out upon dishes to dry and bleach in the sun, turning it frequently. When quite dry, pound it in a mortar, and pass the flour so obtained through a silk or hair sieve. Bottle it securely in dry bottles, and cork it down tightly. It will be white and quite flavourless.IVtEJSTTJ nSTO- IJSIZ'V- ♦ For a dinner of six. Consomme de perdreaux. Matelote d’anguilles. Poulet a la Villeroy. Longe de moutoii a la soubise. Topinambours an gratin. Canapes de caviare. “ Pudding” a 1’ Orleans. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—Buy three partridges in addition to your customary soup meat; pluck the birds, draw them, Clear partridge soup. them up, breaking all bones of any size with a mallet. Set the soup meat for consomme as usual, and when you have obtained as strong a stock as possible therefrom, strain it, and let it get cool; remove all fat that may rise to the surface, and when quite clear, pour it into a large sauce-pan, adding all the pieces of part- ridge, including the livers of the birds, &c.; set this on the fire to come slowly to the boil, skimming it very carefully ; after it has boiled, slack off the fire, and let the contents of your sauce-pan simmer slowly for an hour or more. Now strain the soup from the bones, clarify (it should be a nice, bright, clear consomme remember) and give it half a glass of Madeira, a pinch of sugar, and a few drops of chilli vinegar to finish with.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 41G Some people serve pieces of tke birds’ breasts with the soup, or quenelles made of that meat, seasoned, and formed about the size of olives. 2. —Skin a couple of eels, clean, parboil, and divide them , , into tv?o inch fillets for stewing. Put Stewed eels. ■ l , into your stew-pan two ounces of but- ter, with a Bombay onion sliced ; stir over the fire for five minutes, and add half a pint of claret, and half a pint of stock, with a clove of garlic, a carrot cut up, and a bag of sweet herbs : boil this for ten minutes, stirring it well with your wooden spoon; now throw in a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of spiced pepper, the rind of a lime, and place the pieces of eel in the midst. Simmer this for half an hour. Arrange the pieces of the fish upon the hot dish, strain the gravy rapidly, thicken it, re-heat it almost to boiling point, add a pinch of sugar, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and pour it round the fish. 3. —Out up and cook a couple of nice chickens as ex- plained for poulet d la St. Lambert. Chicken ft la Ville- After the pieces of chicken have been roy. . . stewed in their own broth, drain them, and make a rich veloute with the latter, thickening it with yolks of egg like custard. Dip the pieces of chicken in the thick sauce, and let them get cold; then bread-crumb them, and fry them a golden yellow in boiling fat. Drain them, and pile them on a napkin, garnished with small potato duchesses, and fried parsley. Send the rest of the sauce round in a boat after adding to it a heaped-up table- spoonful of minced mushrooms. 4. —Roast the loin to a turn, serve it with potatoes cook- ed in your favourite manner, red cui’- Loin of muttou with rant ielly, and a puree of Bombay onions which should go round in a boat.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 417 For onion puree d la Souhise, you must simmer three onions in sufficient stock or milk to cover them till tender, mash them, and pass them, through the sieve ; work into . the pulp that you then get, a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, with a little gravy j flavour with a little pepper, and salt, heat it up as hot as possible, and serve. Its consistency ought to be that of thick custard ; no flour please. If the onions be permitted to brown, and the pu,ree be served of that color the sauce is called a la jBretonne. Jerusalem arti- chokes baked with cheese. 5.—The Jerusalem artichoke is one of the most useful vegetables we get. This is a very simple, yet tasty dish of them; its correct name is topinamhours au gra- tte artichokes till quite tender, then mash them with a silver fork, moistenino- them With cream, (or milk with the yolk of an egg), sea- son with salt and pepper, place the artichoke in a buttered pie-dish, or in buttered coquilles, give the surface a layer of grated cheese, and bake till it takes colour. Let the vegetable rest upon its own merits for flavour : you do not want spices or sauces: the cream is, of course, a grand adjunct, and the cheese harmonizes pleasantly with the general tone of the composition. 6.—Prepare six or eight neatly shaped slices of fried Ciiviai’e toasts. bread. Take from a tin of caviare Choose a smaU sauce-pan, molt an onnoo of batter in it stir m the caviare, dust it well with Nepanl popper and add the jnicoofa lime. When piping hot, spread “e eamare over the fried bread (which should haU Lf W in the oven) and send up the ca7iapes without delay. ^ Or,-spread the caviare cold over the cold fried bread X at' mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with a turned olive upon each. Many prefer this IthodMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 418 7.—Steep an ounce of gelatine in cold water. Make a Orleans pudding. three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and a quart of boiled milk. Add the gelatine to the custard while the latter is hot, and stir it until it is dis- solved ; then strain it into a bowl. Cut up one ounce of candied orange peel, one ounce of citron, one ounce of raisins, and one ounce of currants, wash them well, dry them, and then toss the minced confitures in a frying-pan with a small tumbler of rum: as soon as the rum is absorbed, stop and take the pan off the fire. Put a mould upon ice, pour a layer of custard into it first with some of the minced fruit; when set, put a layer of crushed ratafias, then another layer of custard with fruit, again crushed ratafias, and so on till the mould is filled, cover it in ice and let it rest for an hour, then turn it out and serve. If cream be used instead of milk for the custard, a richer result may be obtained ; a good pudding is never- theless to be made with milk. Genoises an chocolat- Genoise Pastry.—Take jlb. of the freshest butter, put it in a bowl, and warm it until it can be beaten with a spoon, add to it 4 oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and beat the two together imtil a smooth white cream is obtained, then add one egg, and keep on beating the mixture till it is smooth again, then add three more eggs in the same manner. The germ of the eggs should be removed. Lastly, incorporate quickly ^-Ib. of fine flour with the mixture, and as soon as it is smooth, pour it out to the thickness of |^in. on a buttered flat tin, which must be put into the oven at once. When done (in about ten to flfteen minutes), turn out the slab of Oenoise, and put it to cool, underside uppermost, on a sieve. There is some419 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. knack needed in beating tbis paste to prevent its curdling. Should tbis happen, it can be remedied by beating as quickly as possible until the mixture is smooth again. Take a slab of Oenoise, spread on the top of it the thinnest possible coating of apricot jam, then a coating of chocolate icing. Put it into a very hot oven for rather less than a minute, take it out, and place it in a cold place to get cool. Then cut it up with a sharp knife in any shapes you like. Chocolate Icing.—Put into a sauce-pan |lb. of powder- ed loaf sugar, 2 oz. of grated chocolate, a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence, and about a gill of water; stir on the fire until the mixture assumes the consistence of a thick smooth cream. 4 The following recipe I have to acknowledge with thanks from “ Bahut Bursina”;— “ Beignets d’Avenches.—Take a new loaf and cut it into slices three quarters of an inch thick. Trim off all crust, cut into convenient slices,- marinade in milk, or in cream if available, flavoured with your favourite essence. Take up the slices, drain them, and fry them in a deep bath of boiling fat, or butter, till a golden yellow : spread apricot or any nice preserve over them, and serve hot.” It would be better perhaps to call the dish croutes d I Avenehes, as by the word beignet we generally undei’- stand that the thing to be fried is dipped in batter.JVEEKTXJ ISro. Z5CV. For a dinner of six. Potage de lievre. Merlans au sauce piquaute. Croquettes de volaille, aux points d’asperges. Fricandeau de boeuf. Ballotines de cailles. Epinards a la ‘ Wyvern.’ “ Tipsy pudding.” Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. Caf6 noir. 1.—Skin, clean, and thoroughly wash the hare, saving „ all the blood you can in a cup ; cut it Hare soup. . ^ . up into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with half pound of butter, a sliced onion, and a muslin bagful of herbs; season with pepper and salt, and fry the meat over a brisk fire for five minutes. Make a roux (brown thickening) in another stew-pan, with a pat of butter, and a table spoonful of flour : moisten this with a quart and a half of beef consomme made as usual from the shin, and add four glasses of portwine, or clai'et. When well incorporated, poui- this into the pan containing the pieces of hare, and let them stew in it very slowly till thoroughly done. Now drain off the liquor from the bones, &c., put the neatest pieces of the hare on one side for eventual serving with the soup, and set them in the bmn-MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 421 marie-puTi to keep warm. Next return the liquor in which the hare was cooked to the stew-pan, set it on the fire, and let it throw up all grease, &c., in the form of scum, which skim off carefully. Now take a small sauce-pan, and mix therein the blood you saved, and some of the soup from the stew-pan: thoroughly amalgamate these (in the hain- marie), and add the mixture slowly through the pointed tin strainer, to the gradually re-heating soup. Let it come nearly to the boil, and then serve it over the pieces of hare you preserved. This is Gouffe’s receipt simplified. There are other ways of making hare soup especially that called potage ct la puree de Uevre, which are always popular. The puree is, of course, assisted with pounded meat, red currant jelly, lime juice, and plenty of portwine. 2. —Divide three nice whitings in fillets. Dip them in hatter (according to my old receipt) them a crisp golden yellow in a bath of boiling fat. Drain them and serve with the following sauce in a boat,—fry a Bombay onion finely minced, with one clove of garlic also minced, in butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan ; when turning brown, put in a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a coffee-cupful of vinegar, and a pint of beef gravy. A tea-spoonful of red currant jelly may next be stirred in, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchujj. As soon as the mixture becomes nicely flavoured, and the juices of the various ingredients appear to be extracted, strain off the sauce. Now cut up a table-spoon- ful of minced cornichons, add the mince to the strained gravy, heat it up to concert pitch, and send it round with your fried fish in a boat. 3. —-Proceed with a nice sized chicken or small fowl as though you were going to make vitli aepiinigus poiutis. gU'enelles, viz. : Lightly roast it. Cut off the best meat, and put it aside. 44422 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. Save all bones, skin and scraps, and make a nice clear •white brotli with them. Take of the fowl meat two parts, of cold boiled tongue one part, and of trnfBes one part. Mince all very finely and mix them together. Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a table-spoonful of flour, moisten it with some stock, and then add the mince : flavour it with salt, pepper, and a little powdered thyme to taste, and stir it over the fire for tlrree or four minutes : take it off the fire, and add two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lime and strained. Spread the mince out upon a large dish (it should be pretty stiff) and let it get cold. Now divide it into six oi' eight egg-shaped croquettes, introduce in the centre of each a piece of truffle the size of a shilling, bread-crumb them and fry them a very light gold colour. Prepare a circle of mashed potato, place it neatly in the dish you intend for your entree, dis- pose the croquettes carefully round it, and between every croquette put a crispy fried curl of bacon, while a slice of truffle may repose upon each of them. For the “ asparagus points,’^ you must cut off the green ends of the stalks of a tin of asparagus. Heat them gently up in veloute, made with the chicken broth you drew from the scraps, slightly flavoured with almond, and enriched with a good spoonful of creapi; give them a few drops of anchovy vinegar, and pour them into the middle of your potato circle. 4.—A fricandeau ought, I believe, to be reserved for a fillet of veal only, but I am bold enough Fiicandeau of beef. suggest your trying one with beef, thus :—Get tioo undercuts of the sirloin, if one be too small, ti’im them into a neat shape, and attach them together by two good skewers. Lard them freely with fat bacon. If you cannot lai'd, having no needle, you must introduce a slice of bacon into each fillet by making therein a longi- tudinal incision; slip into it your slice of bacon, and pinMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 423 the lips of the incised meat together with a small skewer. The fricandeau is now ready for the stew-pan, into which please put the trimmings of the meat, two ounces of carrot sliced, two ounces of onion sliced, a pinch of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a pinch of pepper:—place your fillets upon the vegetables, and pour into the pan half a pint of good gravy; let this cook up to boiling point, and keep it on the fire till the broth has somewhat reduced and thickened: then add a pint more gravy, and let it simmer for an hour with the pan half covered. N"ow close your pan ; put some live charcoal on the lid, which lift every five minutes or so to admit of your basting the meat under it. Continue this until you have glazed the f ricandeau, then take it out, and dish it on a very hot dish. Quickly, strain the gravy from the stew-pan, skim off any grease there may be, pour it over the meat, and serve. Let a puree of sorrel, vide Menu No. XII, accompany the fricandeau, potatoes d V Americaine, and petit pois verts. 5.—A quail for each guest. These should be boned, stuffed with ■ a little cooked bacon, a o uies. some turkey forcemeat (page 108), then sewn up, rolled in little cloths, and gently sim- mered in broth. When done, let them cool, take off their cloths, let them get cold, and glaze them. Now set them on a dish which should be kept on ice, and serve them garnished with olives farcies, and hand round iced tartare. 0.—This is merely the usual puree of spinach, nicely worked up with cream, and delicately tered'e^g. Savoured, formed in a circular shape in its dish, with a layer of well made buttered-eggs,” resting on the surface of the greens. Little ^ewrojis of puff pastry should be arranged round the outside of the circle.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 424 7-—Cut up a stale Madeira cake into slices, and Avitli Tipsy pudding. bottom^ of a krge glass dish, tipsify them with wine, or any nice liqueur and spread a layer of any good jam over them, or one of preserved fruit like cherries, peaches, or apricots. Make a rich custard, and add to it an ounce of dissolved gelatine. When cold, set the dish on ice and pour a very little of the custard round the cake and fruit, letting it set by degrees. When at length the cake, &c., is firmly con- gealed in custard, complete its covering with the rest thereof, and let it consolidate. Garnish the surface with whipped cream, and serve straight from the ice. Beef Olives Cut thin slices of steak two inches wide by six inches long, put on each at one end a piece of Oxford, or Bologna sausage meat the size of a pigeon’s egg ; roll up each olive tightly and neatly, and tie it up with a piece of thread. Fry them in hot butter until they begin to take colour, then take them out, remove the string from each olive, and lay them by. Fry some onions a gold colour in but- ter, add a very little flour, sweet herbs, a few mushroom trimmings, pepper and salt quant, suff., and moisten with some very good gravy or stock ; let the sauce boil, then strain it, and carefully lay the olives in it to simmer till done and ready to be served ; the sauce should cover them in the sauce-pan. It will be observed that olives are not used in this dish at all. It is difficult to discover how the word was chosen to represent little rolls of meat containing sausage salpicon.nVTB JSrXJ ]NT O- I2S1'VZ. Fok a dinner of six. Potage a la puree de becassines. Crepinettes de poisson. Cotelettes de mouton a la Milanaise. Dinde braisee, au cbou-fleur. Pain de foie gras. Asperges en branches. Souffle au chocolat. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. l.-Make a good strong stock for six basins (at least a Snipe pur^e. quart and a half) with a shin of beef ... . good-sized chicken cut un into fragments ; flaronr it highly with sweet herbs and mmed vegetahles^ Take sin snipes, and lightly them ; pick the whole of the meat from their breasts and save It; mash the bones that remain, and pnt them’in a bowl with the trails. When the stock is ,nite ready tram it, retnm it to the pot, and throw into it the bow^ ful of mashed snipe bones, two e-lasses of -nnaf • dessert-spooirfnl of red currant jelly, and a dessert™o™ ful of crystal-vinegar. Let the contents of ? mer slowly for an hour and half, skimmino- off af that may rise, and when you have thus '"ext essence of the snipe fragments, strain the Iiquor“Lm theMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 426 bones, and set it in a bowl to cool. Now pass the snipe meat that you saved through the mincing machine, and pound it thoroughly to a paste, using a little of the soup to help that operation. When the pounded meat is ready, skim any fat that may have risen on the surface of your soup, take a roomy sauce-pan, place it on the fire, put a couple of ounces of butter into it, stir into the butter a table- spoonful of flour, work it to a smooth paste, and then add, by degrees both soup and snipe paste, keeping the spoon at work the whole time. When all is expended, let the •puree reach the boil in order to thicken properly. At the last, add a glass of port, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and the juice of a good lime. Now get your tureen ready, break a raw egg into a cup, saving the yolk carefully; mix a little of the soup with the yolk, and when well mixed, pass it through a perforated strainer into the tureen. Lift the sauce-pan from the fire, and pour it over the strained egg. Serve. Additional richness would be obtained if you were to pour into the tureen with the soup, stirring as you did so, a coffee-cupful of boiling cream. 2.—Choose any nice fish, and about an equal amount of prawns—the whole being sufficient Fish rolled in pan- £qj. portions. Boil the fish and prawns, and when cold, make a nice salpicon, or coarse mince of them, with some chopped mushrooms. Mix the mince in a sauce-pan with some rich veloute, and bind it with a couple of eggs, let it get cold again, and divide it into six nice portions, just as you would for “ kramouskys.” Now make a large pan- cake, or two small ones, and when not quite done, take them from the pan, spread them on a flat dish, and from them cut six pieces about four inches square. Place your salpicon portions in the centre of each, and wrap them up neatly, set the folded pancakes on a well-buttered flatMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 427 silver dish, egg them, bread-crumb them, pour some melt- ed butter over them, and bake until a nice golden bro'wn ; serve in the same dish, laid upon a napkin. The pan- cakes should be nice and thin, and you should season your saljjicon with “ spiced pepper.” “ Dutch sauce” (not Hollandaise you know) should accompany. Mutton cutlets, Milanaise fasbiou. 3.—This is a dish of neck chops, nicely trimmed, which have been larded with bacon and set 671 77iarinade all day, and then bread- crumbed, secu7idum artem, with finely sifted crumbs, some minced parsley, a very little shallot, and a little grated cheese, all shaken together, the crumbs and cheese in equal proportions. When nicely crumbed with this mixture, the cutlets must be fried a golden yellow in abundance of fat, and served round a hollow mould of “ savoury rice,” with some maccaroni d V Ita- lienne in the hollow in the centre, a recipe for which will be found at page 189. 4.—Truss the bird nicely, lard its breast, stuff it with very carefully made turkey stuffing as braised tuvliey explained at page 108, and place it in a deep stew-pan upon a bed of sliced bacon. Put a couple of sheep’s trotters, cut into small pieces, round it, with a sliced Bombay onion, two carrots, some chopped sweet herbs, whole pepper corns, lime peel, and a clove of garlic. Pour into the pan a good pint of gravy made from the giblets, trimmings, and any scraps you may have, with a wine-glassful of Madeira, and cook the bird gently with live coals on the stew-pan lid, as well as under the vessel, for about three hours, brown the larding on the breast by passing a red hot iron close to it, and serve. Strain the gravy, thicken it, add some minced truffles, and send it round in a boat. Potatoes and canlifilowcr accompanying.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 428 -A small tin of Pate de foie gras will do for this little party. Cut a thick slice of fat bacon into dice, and fry it with a seasoning 5.- Mould of foia gras. of spiced pepper, some minced shallot, parsley, and mar- joram : when the bacon is melted, add some finely minced liver (that of the foregoing turkey could be spared) fry it in the hot bacon, and then turn the contents of your saute- pan into a bowl to cool. Now break up the ^idte, pick out the truffles, and foie gras, and place them on one side; pound the pate forcemeat, and the cooled liver and bacon, together with the crumb of a roll, soaked in a stock, say about a quarter the bulk of the meat, and pass this through the sieve : you have now three things :—the pounded force- meat and roll, the foie gras, and the truffles : choose a nice sized plain mould, butler it, and pack it with alternate layers of forcemeat, and foie gras, dotting the truffles in according to fancy :—when packed, steam the mould in your hain-marie for three-quarters of an hour ; let it get cold, turn it out, glaze, and ice it. Serve with dry toast. 6.—One remark only here ;—Please do not spoil your asparagus by pouring an indifEerent Asparagus. -white sauce like thin “ conjee” over it. All you have to do is this : gently warm the asparagus in its own tin in the bain-marie-pan (immersed in a bath of hot water) drain it from its liquor as soon as it is hot (if you keep it longer it will be spoilt) and turn it carefully into a hot dish. Put a pat of fresh, or of the “ Denmark” tinned butter on the top of it, give it a squeeze of a lime, and serve. A pat of maitre d’hdtel or anchovy butter, may with advantage supply the place of plain butter. N.B.—For heaven’s sake, no toast. 7 Chocolate goullle. For the chocolate souffle take two ounces of chocolate, and grate it into half a pint of milk, add a few drops of vanilla essence, and429 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. boil the milk so that the chocolate may become thoroughly dissolved: ■when this has been done, the flavoured milk should be thickened 'with t"wo tea-spoonfuls of potato-flour, or corn-flour, then strained, and set to get cold. The yolks of four eggs and a glass of liqueur should then be beaten up with the cold batter, the whites of six eggs being added in the shape of a stifE froth just before baking. A proper souffle case or tin should be used to ensure success. ♦ Gateau Napolitain. Take of powdered lump sugar the weight of twelve eggs in their shells, and take half that weight of potato flour; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat up the latter -with the sugar, adding a few drops of essence of lemon. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix the two to- gether, and incorporate with the mixture, quickly and effectually, the potato flour, beating it all the time with the egg whisk. Pour into a plain mould, buttered. Bake in a quick oven until done. When ■ cold, cut the cake in horizontal slices half an inch thick. Spread half the slices of cake with apricot jam, and half with chocolate icing. Arrange the slices one over the other, so as to form the cake again. Trim the slices neatly, and ice the cake com- pletely over with chocolate icing. This must be done quickly, and the icing should be kept hot, for it soon sets. Ornament the cake with any bonbons or sweet-meats, which must be put on before the icinar has time to cool.IMIEnsrTJ 3STO. ZS.TTII. For a dinner of six. Consomme d’abatis. Darne de seer en papillote. Cotelettes de mouton an macedoine de legumes. Oie rotie aux choux de Bruxelles. Moringakai au gratin. Creme Garibaldi. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Cafe noir. Clear giblet’s soup. 1.—Take the giblets of the goose which forms part of the menu, clean them carefully, cut them up small, and put them with an ounce of butter into a stew-pan with an onion shredded finely, and fry them a pale golden colour; add a glass of Marsala, and a little beef consomme, reduce to a glaze, and then pour in the remainder of the consomme which you make daily. Now throw in an onion, a clove of garlic, a muslin bag of sweet herbs, a stick of celery, a carrot, a dozen pepper corns, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt. Simmer for two hours. When satisfied that you have extracted the flavour of the giblets, stop, strain the liquor, colour it with caramel, let it get cold, skim off all grease, clarify it if necessary, give it half a glass of Madeira, and a drop or two of tabasco, and serve very hot. For thick giblet soup, you must thicken with butter and431 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. flour, after the straining stage, and serve it with croutons of fried bread. I denounce the serving of fragments of the giblets in either the thick or clear soup. The flavour is all you require. 2. —Cut a parboiled carrot and one parboiled onion into thin slices, add some powdered Slice of seer in dried thyme and marioram and some paper* *' , ** chopped parsley; mix this up with three table-spoonfuls of salad oil and cover your slice of seer with the mixture. Now wrap the fish carefully in a sheet of buttered paper and bake it for half an hour. When done, remove the paper very carefully and place the slice upon a dish made hot to receive it. Melt a dessert- spoonful of butter, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a cupful of broth, and the vegetables, &c., in which the slice was cooked; boil this for three or four minutes, strain, and pour it over the fish. 3. —Take the eight cutlets (small chops) which you can get from a neck of mutton, trim them • clear fire: when done, arrange them round a circle of nicely mashed potato, in the centre of which, must be placed a sauce au macedoine de legumes, which I have already explained; some French beans, a carrot, a turnip, and a piece of cucumber, previously boiled, cut into small dice, and heated up in some well made satice blonde, a few green peas, and some pieces of boiled celery may be added if you can get them. 4. —Pick, draw, singe, truss, and stuff the goose (see Roast Goose. fire, and serve it with either apple or tomato sauce in a boat: potatoes and Brussels-sprouts (if in season) should accompany. A capital addition to the goose’s gi-avy is to be made in this way. After you haveMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 432 cut a slice into the breast, let the gravy run out for a moment, then add to it in the dish (tipped up) a tea- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of Nepaul pepper, a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, and a glass of portwine. Stir these ingredients into the gravy, baste the bird -well %vith it, and go on with the carving. 6.—If you summon up courage to try this homely dish, you will often order it again. Buy drumstick enough young moringa pods to yield seeds enough to fill a little pie-dish. Boil them, and scrape out the seeds, and the tender flesh inside the pods, into a basin: stir into this a table-spoon- ful of cream, or a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolks of two eggs have been well beaten; season with salt and pepper, and add a few drops of anchovy essence; pass this into a well buttered pie-dish, and grate over the sur- face a good layer of Parmesan or any nice mild dry cheese. Bake for a quarter of an hour, and serve. If you can bake and serve the mixture in silver coguille shells,—one for each guest,—the entremets will, of course, look nicer. 6.—Make a rich custard with a pint of_ cream and a pint of milk, I|oz. of isinglass, sugar to taste, and the yolks of eight eggs. Flavour it with any essence you like, strain it, and divide it into three basins ; colour the first a bright red with cochineal, the second green with spinach greening, and leave the third its original colour. Whip each separately to a froth. These operations must he done while the custard is still warm. Set according to the following process :—Lay a mould on ice, pour some of the red cream into it to the thickness of about an inch. When this is set, pour in a similar layer of the plain cream, and, when this is set, pour in a layer of the green cream. Go on pouring in layers in the same way until the mould is filled. When the cream is quite sot, tiu'ii it out, and Garibaldi cream.MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 433 serve. Care must be taken in pouring in each kind of cream to get every layer the same depth. This is best done by measuring with water how much liquid will go to make a layer of the required thickness, and then getting a cup which holds just that quantity, and using it to mea- sure the cream. » Perdreaux aux choux- This delicious dish deserves the closest attention, for it is perhaps the hest way of cooking Indian partridges :— Prepare four partridges as for boiling, with their legs tucked in : lard their breasts with bacon and put an onion inside each of them. Cut a nice cabbage into quarters, blanch them, and steep them in cold water for an hour. Now take a roomy stew-pan, line its bottom with two car- rots, and two large onions sliced in rings, a sprinkling of powdered herbs, and a dusting of salt, and pepper. Put the partridges above this lining, inserting a quarter of cabbage between each bird, a slice of bacon here and there, and some slices of Bologna or Brunswick sausage. Moisten with sufficient well made gravy to cover the birds. Boil closely covered up, and then simmer for an hour and a half if the birds are tender. Dish with the cabbage in the centre, and the birds placed neatly round it, with the sliced sausage and bacon as garnish. Serve the gravy in a boat.IVEHjKTXJ KTO. Ay~TTT For a dinner of six. Consomme de grandes crevettes. Filets de pomfret sauce au persil. Croustades de foie gras. Chapon braise au pur6e de navets. Ortolans des Indes. Bandecai au gratin. Petits “ puddings” angeliqucs. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Cafe noir. 1.—Prepare your ordinary beef consomme from your daily allowance of soup meat. Boil a dozen Clear prawn soup. ^ i good-sized prawns, save the liquor in which you have cooked them, reduce that a little, and throw into it the meat which you pick from the shells, and the shells pounded; add the beef consomme, some pepper corns, a dessert-spoonful of dried hasil tied up in a muslin bag, a bunch of parsley, and some celery leaves : let this simmer gently, strain after three hours’ simmer- ing, clarify it, and add half a glass of Madeira. Quenelles of the prawn meat may be used as garnish. 2.—Cook the fillets in milk as I have described (page 81): or, if you cannot spare the milk, trim youi* fillets, tic them in little knots, and simmer them in a liquor made from the Fillets of pomfret with parsley sauco.435 MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. bones and trimmings of the fish they were cnt from, flavom’ed with a few vegetables. Make a melted butter sauce diluted with the broth in which your fillets were boiled, and add to it a table-spoonful of finely minced parsley, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar : an onion should be boiled in the water with the fillets, and pressed into the sauce through the sieve. Choose six or eight nice rolls that have been baked in small round tins ; scoop out the Bread cases with crumb, and make hollow cases of them, foie gias. then fry them a golden yellow in butter. Open a small tin of pate de foie gras, and make a cupful of thick Espagnole sauce (brown gravy). Proceed to pack your cases in this way :—first butter them, then fill them neatly with foie gras, pouring some gravy round the layers to moisten them, put a curl of crisply fried bacon on the top of each croustade, bake them till quite hot, and dish upon a napkin. 4.—Prepare a well fed capon as if for boiling, cutting ofi all superfluous bones, the pinions. Braised capon with neck, and legs below the ioint, which, turnips. “ . . with the heart, gizzard, and liver (the giblets), throw into as much water as will cover them ; adding a carrot and an onion sliced, and some whole pep- pers. Whilst this is producing a broth, stuff, and lard the capon with strips of fat bacon, and fill the cavity of its carcass with a couple of sweet onions. When your broth is ready, choose a deep stew-pan, and place the bird therein, with a carrot cut into slices, celery leaves and stalks, two ‘onions, pepper corns, a bunch of parsley, some dried thyme in a muslin bag, and a glass of sherry. Braise the bird in this till done :—Meanwhile pound the liver you boiled in the broth, and get ready some tomato pulp (say) a tea- cupful. Lift out the capon, and dish it upon some previ- ously boiled maccaroni: strain off the gravy in which itMENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 43G was braised, thicken it, add the liver, and tomato pulp, give it a rapid boil up, and pour it over the bird. The stufiSng of the capon helps to preserve its juiciness, and lends a nice flavour to it. Servo with puree of young turnips, and potatoes a la maitre d'hotel. 5. —The ortolan of India is, I think, the “ cholum bird” , which is easily procurable late in the ludiaa ortolans. ^ , , , , • i year. Truss the cholum birds, put a slice of bacon inside them, wrap a vine leaf round each bird and a piece of bacon over the vine leaf : tie the leaf and bacon in their place with a tape. Roast over a brisk fire, serving each little bird on a square of hot buttered toast, garnished with water cress, ‘ sauce higarade’ should go round in a boat. 6. —Butter a small pie-dish liberally, then fill it with the pulp and seeds of some well boiled, Bandecai an gratm. 7 , , i i ^ •,! tender bandecais : dust the pulp with white pepper, and some grated cheese and pour a little milk in which the yolk of an egg has been beaten (or cream if you can allow it) in amongst the pulp, dust a layer of cheese over the surface, and bake for ten or twelve minutes ; or the bandecai mixture can be baked in coquille shells, which should be served on a napkin. 7. —One ounce of flour, one ounce of bread crumbs, any essence to flavour, two ounces of sugar, Angel puddings. ounces of butter melted in half pint of milk, and two eggs, well beaten up. Mix well: bake in small, buttered patty-pans till browned, then turn them out, and serve on a napkin, powdered sugar dusted over all, and sauce a la lioyale in a boat.TvTEnsrxj nsro. i2slx:2Sl. For a party of six. Pui-ee de lievre. Pomfret a la Proven^ale. Blanquette de volaille. Longe de mouton fai’cie. Turban de becassines. Mais a I’Americaine. Soupirs de nonne. Fromage, bors d’ceuvres. Dessert. Hare soup, (Puree.) -In a previous Menu I gave you a recipe for a hare soup, simplified from Gouffe. There is, however, another and a richer kind of soup, with which the pounded meat of the hare is in- corporated, which has many devoted admirers. It is composed in the following way:—Make your ordinary amount of stock from a shin and a half of beef. As the stock is being made, clean, and cut up the hare, saving the blood. Let the pieces soak for half an hour, or so, in cold water. When the beef gravy is ready, put the pieces of hare into a large stew-pan with a bacon, or ham bone, or a few lean slices of either, an anchovy, three Bombay onions cut into quarters, three carrots sliced, a bag con- taining a dessert-spoonful each of marjoram, thyme, and parsley, the rind of two limes, and a dozen pepper corns, 46438 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. and cover the ■whole with the stock. Let this simmer very gently for three hours, after it has once slowly attained boiling point. At the end of that time, strain the liquor from the meat, &c., and set it to get cool. Pick the meat out, and lay the pieces on a large dish. Choose the back fillets, pick the meat from the hones, and pound it to a paste in a mortar, moistening it with a little soup to assist the operation; as soon as you have got the meat satisfactorily pounded, work it through the sieve, and save the pulp that you get carefully. Now take another stew pan, place it on the fire, melt a couple of ounces of butter in it, and work into it a good table-spoonful of flour; when you have got a nice paste, add a little soup with which the blood has been mixed, continue stirring, and, with the aid of an assistant, go on adding soup, and pounded meat, till you have exhausted the whole, stirring without ceasing; now add half a pint of portwine, a table-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a table-spoonful of crystal vinegar, or lime juice. Let the soup come to the boil, so as to thicken properly, and become thoroughly blended. It can then be served. 2.—Boil the fish, and serve it with this sauce;—Put into a sauce-pan a coffee-cupful of the Pomfret -with Pro- ]^»est salad oil, an onion, a tomato, a Ten9ale sauce. . clove of garlic, and a table-spoonful of mushrooms, all finely chopped up; when this has been on the fire a few minutes, add a table-spoonful of flour, stir it well, and pour in a glass of chablis, sauterne, or hock, with half a pint of gravy; add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced thyme, marjoram, parsley, and lime peel, all mixed together, a pinch of sugar, with salt and pepper to taste : let the sauce simmer slowly for half an hour, then strain and serve. This can be got ready early in the day, and kept hot in the bain-viarie or re-heated when the time comes for its service.MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 439 3.—This I ■would ser've ■within a casserole of ‘ savoury rice’ garnished ■with curls of crisply Blauquetke of fowl. bacon, and bunches of cux'ly parsley. For the hlanquette:—slightly roast a "well fed fo^wl, covering the breast -with buttered paper to pi-event its burning: -when done, put it on a dish, and let it get cold. Then carve it neatly, cutting the ■white meat off in nice little round fillets, and saving the wings, merry- thought, &c. Take the bones, skin, giblets, (previously saved) trimmings, and coarser meat of the drumsticks, and beat them well with your pestle. Next throw them into a sauce-pan, with as much clear stock as will cover them, a glass of sherry, and the usual proportion of vege- tables, especially celery, a bag of savoury herbs, lime peel, and a pinch of sugar. Make with this an excellent fowl consomme, an essence as it were, adding six pounded sweet, and one bitter almond. When quite ready, strain it off, and thicken it as for veloute. Then having got a rich, creamy, delicately flavoured, white sauce, put into it all your pieces of fowl, with some pellets of tongue cut like gun wads rather thickly, some sweetbreads (if you can get them), some button mushrooms, a few oysters trimmed free from their beards, a few slices of truffle, the liver of the fowl minced, and some grated lean bacon or ham. Gently,—ever so gently mind,—heat up the hlanquette, and let it simmer for half an hour over a low fire ; the various flavours will thus be extracted, and your plat he ready to serve whenever you want it. A table-spoonful of cream, or the yolks of two raw eggs beaten in a cup with a little of the sauce should be added, and stirred well in as a finishing touch. 4.—Bone the loin, introduce a number of slices of bacon Boned loin of mut- ton, stuffed. under the flap, fill the ipside with a forcemeat made with the meat of the undercut chopped up small, with the440 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. kidney (scalded first), and some of the nicest fat, seasoned with herbs, spiced pepper, chopped bacon, a little onion, and any mushroom, or truflBe parings you may have been able to spare from the blanquette. Bind the salpicon with four eggs, and spread it thickly over the inside of the bon- ed loin, then roll the joint up, and tie it firmly into shape, —do not skewer it., Now braise the loin in a gravy made from its own bones and trimmings, with a glass of Ma- deira, a clove of garlic, and scraps of vegetables of all kinds arranged round it. When done, and nicely browned, lift up the loin, remove the string, and dish it on a layer of boiled maccaroni. Strain off the gravy, throw away the garlic, and pass all the vegetables through the sieve ; thicken the gravy, add the vegetable pulp, and when thoroughly incorporated, pour it round the loin and serve. 5.—A snipe for each head. Begin by roasting the snipes lightly, then cut off the meat of the Tuiban of snipes. |>reasts whole in fillets. Mash the rest, trails and all, and throw the debris into a large sauce- pan with a pint and a half of well made beef gravy, an onion cut up, a stick of celery, a carrot, sweet herbs in a bag, a clove of garlic, salt to taste, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and the peel of a lime. Simmer as soon as the contents of the sauce-pan have come to the boil, for an hour or more, and get the essence out of the snipe bones. When that has been done, strain off your gravy, and set it to get cool. Pick all the snipe meat from the hones of the thighs and back, with the livers, &c., and pound the whole with half its bulk of bread (soaked in stock) in a mortar, add the pounded meat of a lightly roasted chicken with its liver, and mix them thoroughly with two raw eggs ; season the mixture with spiced pepper, and dilute it with some of the gravy ; when worked sufficiently, put it into a border mould, and steam it gently. Turn it out when done,441 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. garnisli the top of the turban with the snipe heads and beaks, and with a fillet (heated separately in the gravy,) between each head and serve piping hot. The centre of the mould may contain the contents of a tin of black Leicestershire mushrooms, also heated in the gravy. The gravy itself should be treated thus :—After it has cooled, and you have skimmed it, place a sauce-pan on the fire, with a table-spoonful of butter at the bottom of it; work into the melted butter a dessert-spoonful of flour, and then add your cool gravy, stirring all the time; get an assistant to pour in a glass of portwine, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, or lime juice, and a dessert-spoonful of red cur- rant jelly; amalgamate the whole thoroughly, heat up the fillets, and heads in it, and the mushrooms strained from theii’ own gravy. Garnish the turhan quickly, as above described, and put the mushrooms inside the mould, pour the gravy over the whole composition, and serve. 6.—Choose half a dozen tender cobs of Indian corn. The cobs should be still greenish American ^vay.^'^ otherwise they will be too tough. Boil them, and then, with a silver fork, strip the com from the cob. When wanted for the table, melt a large pat of fresh butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, empty the com into the pan, stir it about add- ing butter, pepper and salt, till it is smoking hot; then serve. together in a sauce-pan four ounces of flour, and ,, , . , ... ounce of fresh butter, add a coffee- ters.) cuptul of warm milk : stir to the con- sistency of a thick batter : if too thick (it should coat the spoon well when lifted from the sauce- pan) dilute with a little more milk. Stir in one ounce of finely sifted sugar, and the rasped peel of three nice limes with a few drops of lemon essence. Stir the whole mix- ture over the fire till thoroughly heated, but on no account442 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. let it boil. Wben well mixed and hot, place the batter on one side to get cool. As serving time approaches, break four’ eggs into a bowl separating the yolks from the whites ; beat the former, and whisk the latter to a froth. Add the yolks to the cool batter, stir thoroughly and at the last add the whisked whites. Prepare a deep bath of boiling fat, set your frying basket therein, and dx’op the batter into it, by dessert-spoonfuls at a time. Each spoonful will form it- self into a ball and turn gradually a golden yellow. When they are all done, drain and serve them in a napkin, dust- ed over with well powdered sugar, and this sauce in a boat:—Make a nice syrup (not too thick) with white sugar and water, stir in a glass of brandy or Madeira, give it the juice of a lime, and serve hot. ♦—^ Gateau de pistache- The weight of eight eggs in their shells of finely- ^ . . , powdered sugar, that of two eggs of potato flour, and the same weight of pistachio nuts blanched and skinned. Beat up the sugar and the yolks of eight eggs well together with an egg whisk or with a fork, until the mixture assumes a white creamy appearance. Sprinkle in (beating the mixture all the time) half the potato floui’, and add the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Then put in, in the same manner, the rest of the flour, the remaining four whites beaten to a froth, and lastly the pistachio nuts pounded to a paste in a mortar. Bake in a slow oven. Meanwhile put the whites of two eggs into a basin with a little lime juice and six ounces of sugar, well work the mixture with a wooden spoon, and as it gets thin, keep on adding more sugar until you get a smooth paste of the consistency of batter. Lay the icing evenly on the cake with a spatula, put it into the oven for a minute to set the icing, ornamcnMENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 443 it quickly with strips of citron and preserved cherries, and put it aside to get cold. Chaud-froid a la belle alliance- This is a slight departure from the ordinary school of cliaud-fvoids. Take as many cold fonds d'artichauts as you have guests—either fresh /onds or those preserved in tins. Lightly roast a tender fowl, and cut from it when cold as many nice fillets as you have fonds, shaping them so as to fit the tops of the latter. Make a puree with the scraps of meat left after trimming the fillets, associating with it some pounded mushroom. From a cold boiled tongue cut as many round slices as • you have fillets. Make a good veloute with the hones, skin, &c., assisted by a little fresh meat, and reduce as already explained for chaud-froid satice, Now moisten the puree with a little sauce, and fill the cavities of the fonds; over that put the slices of tongue, some more puree, and then the fillets. Mask the whole with the thick chaud-froid sauce, let them get cold, trim them neatly, set them on a napkin, and garnish each with a piece of truffle. If carefully made, this makes a nice entree.ivoa^sr-cr ]sro. :521:2s:- —♦ For a party of six. Potage a la Nivernaise. Filets de soles, sauce a la pauvi’e homme. Filets de lapin a I’ltalienne. Longe de mouton braisee. Ronelles de sarcelles a la Wyvern. Tomates a I’ltalienne. “ Pudding” a la “ Queen Mab.” Souffle de vanille. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessei’t. 1.—This is a soup in the style of Julienne, of which the . flavour is exclusively restricted to that Nivernaise soup. , tt • . 01 carrots. Having set yoiu’ soup meat for stock as usual for a clear soup, you should take four good-sized carrots, wash them well, and cut out of them a number of thickish pieces the size and shape of a pigeon’s egg, or a little smaller. When you have cut a couple of dozen such pieces, throw all the scraps and trimmings of the carrots into the stock pot, to flavour the soup well. Shortly before serving time, you must cook the trimmed carrots in this way :—Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a frying-pan, put into it the carrot pieces, which should have been all but boiled till soft in the soup, and toss them aboutMENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 445 over the fire adding a salt-spoonful of powdered sugar, with a dusting of pepper and of salt, and moistening the pan with a spoonful of stock as the butter is absorb- ed ; when done, the pieces of carrot will be almost glazed. All you have then to do,—your consomme having been strained, clarified and prepared for serving,—is to put the glazed carrots into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. 2. —Fillet a couple of nice soles, brush the fillets over on one side with egg, dust over that some Sole fillets, with minced parsley and shallot, and roll up poor man a sauce. l j ' j. your fillets, securing each in shape with a tiny skewer. Simmer these fillets carefully in a broth made from their own bones and trimmings, assisted by a spoonful of chablis or sauterne, and a coffee-cupful of stock. When done (which you can find out by testing them with a pointed skewer) place the fillets on a hot dish and cover them up. For the sauce :—Fry a couple of finely minced onions in butter till they assume a golden tint, stir into this, by degrees, a coffee-cupful of the gravy in which the fillets were cooked. When boiling, sharpen this by adding a spoonful of vinegar, then strain and pour it into another sauce-pan (by degrees) in which some good sauce blanche has been made ; mix thoroughly over the fire, and serve round the fillets. 3. —I do not think that we utilize rabbits as much as we might at Madras. Those who keen Rabbit fillets in the ^ \ Italian way. ^an procure them, will find this an exceedingly nice entree for a change. Assuming that the rabbit be a full grown one, it will yield six nice fillets as follows With a sharp knife detach from either side of the back bone the deep strips of meat which run from the shoulder to the end of the loin: cut out each strip whole, and remove the small nerves or 47446 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. sinews of each, or they Avill crinkle up in cooking, and look ugly. Cut each strip into three equal portions, cross- w'ise, flatten them with a bat, trim them neatly, lard them with bacon, and lay them upon a buttered tin in the oven sufficiently long to stiffen them; take them out, place them under a weight, and when quite cold and firm, dip them into some melted butter or sweet salad oil, and roll them in a mixture of bread-crumbs, and grated mild cheese, in equal proportions, dust over them some spiced pep- per, and a little salt and let them rest to set thoroughly. Next dip them carefully in a soup plate containing an egg beaten up, and then roll them in very fine bread-crumbs. They may be left now till wanted. When that time comes, they must be fried in abundance of fat, and served, a pale golden yellow, round a circle of savoury rice, or maccaroni au parmesan. The centre of the circle may contain any nice puree of vegetable, ov petits pois. All the remains of the rabbit, shoulders, legs, &c., can be made into a pie, with a chicken, and left to be cold for break- fast, or lunch, the next day. Or the meat may be pounded, and served as quenelles, or plainly stewed with vegetables for the former meal. Sauce Milanaise (given at the bottom of page 83) should accompany this entree. 4. —Braise the loin attentively, strain and thicken the gravy in which it was cooked, and Loin of mutton serve with red currant jelly, mashed potatoes delicately browned in the oven, and French beans (properly trimmed, and cooked in the jar, remember) over which a little boiling cream has been poured. 5. —The only part of a teal which the generality of people eat at a dinner party is the Teal fillets AVyvern’e bx’cast. There is no time to pick the TVfty4 • scantily covered back, legs, and wings;MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 447 besides, by the time the game reaches you, your hunger is so far appeased that you feel inclined for a slice, rather than a whole bird. Why waste the part of the bird that is never eaten ? I propose therefore to cut off the breasts, of the teal, whole, bones and all, and to divide each in half; to marinade these pieces all day in a little oil, lime juice, sliced onion, and sweet herbs, then to grill them over a bright clear fire, and to send them up piping hot, and full of juice straight from the gridiron. Early in the day, when I trimmed the breasts, I would throw every atom of the backs, legs, giblets, &c., into a sauce-pan with the usual concomitants of gravy making’, and distil their essence by gentle simmering. This I would strain when done. I would then pick all the meat from the fragments, pound it d laptiree, and add it, with butter and flour thick- ening, to the gravy of the bones, judiciously introducing a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, a dessert-spoonful of lime juice, some caramel colouring and a glass of red wine, or Madeira, with a few drops of ‘ tabasco’ or chilli vinegar to finish with. This sauce I would send round in a boat, as hot as possible, following the grilled breasts. Totnatoea in the entremets de legumes, Italian way. please turn to page 169. 7.—Boil a pint and a half of milk with a few drops of Queen Mab pndding. ^ strain, and let it get cold. Beat up six yolks, and pour the flavoured milk upon them. Put this into the bain-marie, and stir gently over the fire until it thickens. Whip it well. Dissolve an ounce of gelatine in a little milk, add it to the above, and stir the custard until nearly cold, then pour the mixture by degrees into a buttered mould, adding two ounces of preserved cherries or finely chopped apricots and one ounce of citron peel or preserved ginger cut very small in layers, setting them carefully, and when the mould quite set, turn it out.448 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. 8.—I gave you a chocolate sowffie in Menu No. 16 ; this, is „ an eniremets sucre of the same family. Mix together in a sauce-pan one table-spoonful of flour, a small piece of fresh butter, half a pint of new milk, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar : stir this over the fire to get thoroughly warm but no more ; then put it on one side to get cool, stirring to prevent any scum forming on the surface. When quite cold, stir into it the yolks of four eggs, add a few drops of vanilla flavouring, mix this thoroughly, then throw in a table-spoonful of any liqueur you may have open, and the whites of six eggs whipped to a froth : mix the whole together, pour it into a souffle tin, and bake in an oven at moderate heat. Serve the moment your eye tells you that the souffle is ready. ♦ Potted prawns. Potted prawns, home-made, ought to be oftener seen at Madras, than they are. Whether eaten with cheese, spread on toast, or at office in the form of a sandwich, this preparation is most acceptable. Select some nice sized prawns, boil them, pick out very carefully all the grit, and that blacJc line which runs straight down the back and underneath every prawn : wash them afterwards in cold water, and pour a lot of water over them as they lie on the top of youx sieve. When satisfied that you have thoroughly cleaned them, dry them, and toss them in a little melted butter in a frying-pan until they have absorbed the butter; next pass through the mincing machine; pound them thoroughly in the mortar, and lastly press them through the wire sieve. Season the paste so obtained with salt, white and red pepper, a few drops of anchovy sauce, a little pounded mace, and work the whole together with some nice freshly made butter till thoroughly iucorpo-449 MENU FOR A PARTY OF SIX. rated : set it in an earthenware jar, and pour a spoonful of melted butter over the stu’face. Fritk de volaille- This simple dish should be noted Cut up a well grown chicken as if fovfricassee : marinade the pieces in salad oil with the juice of a lime, an onion sliced in rings, pepper and salt. Half an hour before serving take out the onion, and wipe the pieces of chicken on a cloth, then dip them in milk, flour them well, and fry in of hot fat accelerating the heat during the pro- cess. When the pieces are cooked, having been fried a go den ye low colour, pile them on a napkin garnished with crisply frmd parsley. A nice sauce should afcompany in a boat, bread sauce, poivrade, or Robert. ^ ^ Nouilles. Take half a pound of sifted Sour; put in on the naste salt, mix all into a nice smooth paste Roll a out ve^ thin, say about the sixteenth' of an inch W t p t five of these ribbons above one another, sprinklin/a little flour between each - tTiPr, „n-+i, , a then, crosswise, n.aKn; fhin T L d Lf as you would maccaroni. °3VrE33SrXJ 3STO. For a little home dinner. Potage a la Crecy. Pomfret sauce ravigote. Poitrine de mouton a la Wyvern. Puree de pommes de terre. Aubergines au gratin. Blanc-manger a la vaniHe. Fromage, bors d’oeuvres. Dessert. Cafe noir. Carrot soup. Pomfret and rari- goto sauce. 1. —For the soup, read the receipt already given, (page 48). 2. —Boil a little pomfret, and serve it with sauce ravigote, (page 85). 3.—Choose a nice breast of mutton, bone it, and put it en marinade all day in oil, vinegar, Breast of mutton a chopped parsley and shallot. When la Wyvern. wanted, take it up, dry it with a clean cloth. Parboil, and when cold again, bread-crumb it for ordinary baking, slipping a good slice of boiled bacon under the flap, or outer strip of meat. Meanwhile make a little broth with the bones, and any scraps obtained from trimming the breast into shape, set it to cool, and skim ott the fat. Boil sufficient maccaroni, or iiouilles, for twoMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 451 people, and. when done, drain ofE the water, and leave the maccaroni in the hot sauce-pan till wanted. Take a roomy sauce pan, and in it fry a sweet onion cut into shreds in an ounce of butter till it begins to turn yellow. Cut up a dozen tomatoes into quarters, and put them into the sauce-pan with the butter and onions : stew gently till done: turn them out upon a hair-sieve, work the tomatoes through the sieve; put the pulp which comes through into a sauce-pan, with a little melted butter and flour pre- viously prepared to receive it, and moisten the pulp with the broth you made from the scraps, till you have a nice creamy puree, season with a little salt and black pepper, and keep the sauce thoroughly hot after it has boiled up. Bake the breast, and dish up as follows :—place the mac- caroni first upon a very hot dish, put the baked breast of mutton upon it, and pour your hot tomato puree over the whole. Mastied potatoes. -Mash the potatoes thoroughly, and work them through a wire sieve to get them smooth, add a little milk, as much butter as you can spare, and a little salt: form with the wooden spoon, and brown the outside in the oven. Do not let your cook waste an egg in endeavouring to glaze the outside of the mould ! A well boiled sweet onion may be mashed with the potatoes if not objected to. 5.—Now this is well worthy of a trial:—Boil a couple Brinjals au gratia. till tender, cut them in halves lengthways, and scoop out the inside with a silver spoon, pass it through the sieve to get I'id of the seeds, and put it into a bowl: butter the now empty cases, or pods : stir into the inside part that you scooped out a good spoonful of cream, and season with white pepper, salt, and few drops of anchovy sauce. Mix thorough- ly, and then rc-fill your cases. Shake over the surface a452 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. layer of grated Parmesan from the bottle, or any dry mild cheese that will grate. Bake for seven or eight minutes, and serve. Under the more ostentatious name of “ Les aubergines au gratin,” this lowly dish might fine favour even at the dainty meal of an epicure. 6.—Blanch ten bitter almonds and two ounces of shelled sweet almonds ; pound them to a paste vaSla*****^”^^ with -with a little rose water, dilute with a breakfast cupful of milk, let the liquid stand for an hour and then strain it. Put into a pint of fresh milk five ounces of sugar, and vanilla essence to taste ; pour it into an enamelled sauce-pan, and boil slowly till the sugar is dissolved; then stir in an ounce of dis- solved gelatine and pour the liquid through a strainer into a basin. Add the almond liquor, and a coffee-cupful of cream, pour the mixture into a mould, set it in ice, and turn it out when firmly set. Stewed prunes (cold) or any cold stewed fruit or jam may accompany. Prunes a la Chasseur. A dish for dessert that is generally speaking popular. Buy a glass jar of the best French brandy*^ plums, (prunes) and a bottle of good cherry brandy, take out a few plums, and pour as much cherry brandy into the jar as the plums will admit: the next day you can add more, for the plums will absorb the brandy; and so on for a day or two. Finally cork it down for a fortnight or so, then serve at dessert. Never let the jar be empty, but re-fill it as the plums are eaten. If slightly stewed first, the prunes absorb the liqueur more rapidly.IVlEllSrTJ 3STO. For a little home dinner. Potage a la Palestine. Croustades de grandes crerettes. Perdreanx a la soubise. CEufs a la Suisse. “ Pudding” a la Duchesse. Fromage, bors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—Tbis is an especially favourite soup witb those wbo Jerusalem artichoke ^re fond of tbe flavour of tbe Jerusalem soup. artichoke. There are two methods of composing it: to wit, au maigre (with milk) and au gras (with stock) : I take the latter as the commoner form. Having washed, peeled, and boiled a nice dish of artichokes, pass them through the sieve; save the pulp so obtained, until your daily allowance of soup meat has yielded sufficient nice clear stock for the puree. Now proceed to amalgamate the two in the proper way, by melting an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan flrst, incorporating therewith a dessert-spoonful of flour, and after that has been done, stock, and pulp of artichoke by degrees until you have 48454. MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. while, and when the puree comes to the boil, it will be ready to serve. On its way to the table, like all purees, it may be enriched by a table-spoonful of cream, or a littlo fresh milk into which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, but the addition is not essential. An old fowl makes a good stock for this soup, if assisted by a slice or two, or a bone, of bacon, or ham. Pried croutms of bread should be handed round with it. Let those who rejoice in a dairy try the recipe au maigre thus ;—Take as much milk as you want soup, and boil in it twenty pepper corns, some parsley,and a sweet onion. When thoroughly flavoured, strain the milk, mingle the pulp of the artichoke with it, as described for stock, and finish it off in the same manner: the cream must be added in this case. 2.—Choose two or three small dinner rolls which have been baked in tins, and will stand Prawn croustades. -1.0 ^ 1 upright, bcoop out all the crumb, and fry the cases so obtained a golden yellow colour in melted butter. Drain them. Now prepare enough boiled prawns to fill them, cut them into quarter inch pieces, toss them in melted butter, with a little mace, pepper and salt; fill your cases, moistening the salpioon with a little white sauce, shake a little bread-crumb over the surface of each, place them on a buttered baking tin, and heat them for five minutes in the oven, serve as soon as the tops take colour. This recipe can be followed, substitut- ing canned prawns, shrimps, or lobster. 3.—This is a capital dish for Darby when it pleases him to dine cosily with his Joan. Prepare Partvidges with sou- partridges as for roasting : fill each bise sauce. „ , .,, , t t> i of them with a chopped Bombay onion (previously boiled in milk) seasoned with spiced pepper, salt, and rolled in a slice of boiled bacon. Make a broth with the giblets of the birds, any scraps you may have, aMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 455 slice of lean bacon, an onion cut into quarters, a few pepper corns, and a seasoning of salt and pepper : when you have got a broth to your mind, simmer the partridges therein until perfectly tender. When done, (they will take three- quarters of an hour) take them out, and drain them, replacing them in the hot pan in which they were done, with the cover on. Now strain the liquor in which the birds have been cooked, and with it make a rich souhise sauce as follows :—Simmer four large Bombay onions in milk till tender, drain them, chop them up very fine, pass them through the sieve, and proceed with melted butter, and the stock aforesaid, to make a rich puree; when boiling hot, dish the birds, pour the onion pivree over them, and serve, garnished with curls of crisply fried bacon. The onions should, of course, be prepared beforehand to prevent delay: the puree ought not to occupy more than ten minutes in preparation. A spoonful of cream should be added to it if possible. 4.—Butter a little pie-dish well, strew a good layer of mild grated cheese at the bottom of it. Eggs vfiLn cream. , i pour over the cheese a coffee-cupful of cream, break four fresh eggs very carefully, and pass them into the cream without breaking them : dust a light layer of cheese over the surface, bake for about seven minutes (till the surface slightly colours) and serve. The eggs ought not to be done hard : the dish is not a pudding, but eggs, just set, in a creamy sauce with a little delicate cheese flavouring. Some people call this dish “ (Eufs d la Suisse." 5-—Grate four ounces of fine stale crumbs, put them Duchesse pudding. ^ half a pint of boiling milk: cover the basin with a plate, and let the liquid soak into the crumbs, and get cold : now stir into the basin four ounces more of used all you have. The spoon must be kept going all the456 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. crumbs, four ounces of dry, finely minced suet, a pinch of salt, three ounces of crushed ratafias, three ounces of candied peel sliced thin, and a few drops of lemon essence. Next whisk five eggs well, with four ounces of sugar, continue to beat them together until the sugar is dissolved, then pour them into the basin with the other ingredients, and mix well; turn all into a buttered basin, and boil for two hours. This will be enough for a quart basin or mould; half of everything will be sufficient for the home dinner. Sauce a la Car erne may accompany the pudding, made in this way. Beat the yolks of three eggs with two ounces of sugar and a claret-glassful of Madeira, when well mixed, set the sauce in the hain-marie and let it thicken like a custard. When smooth and creamy, serve it in a boat, hot. This is a good sauce with any pudding. You can use Marsala instead of Madeira just as effectively. 4 Vanilla cream ice. This is a simple recipe for a delicious ice that will not be found expensive. Mix the yolks of eight eggs well with a pint ^of fresh milk, strain it, sweeten it to taste, flavour it with vanilla, and set it in a sauce-pan in your hain-marie to thicken. When you have got a nice thick custard, whip it well, let it get cold, pour it into your ice pot and freeze it. It will turn out rich and creamy, not a bit like the milk-and-water ices that one so often mouims over. A coffee-cupful of whipped cream may be added, if a superlatively nice ice be required; wait until the custard has nearly frozen, then stir the cream in, and work it well for a minute or two. Half an ounce of gelatine dissolved and added to the custard, and two ounces of chopped apri-MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 457 cot, greengage, citron, or preserved ginger stirred in with the coffee-cupful of cream, will give yon a nice iced ‘pudding. ♦ Homard a rAmericaine- Open a tin of lobster: choose all the larger pieces for the dish yon are going to make, and put all the mashed fragments aside to be used in houcliees or croquettes for some other meal. Having washed and drained the firm pieces aforesaid, dry them, and cut them up into quarter inch collops, and pile them in the centre of a dish that will stand the oven. Now cut up a good sized Bombay onion, fry it in an ounce of butter, adding off the fire a sherry glass of chablis or sauterne : when the onion seems cooked, stir in a breakfast-cupful of rich thick brown sauce, and the same quantity of tomato puree; add a strong suspi- cion of Nepaul pepper, and reduce the mixture for five minutes. When nice and thick, pour the sauce over the lobster, put the dish into the oven, and when thoroughly hot, serve.nvTEiiiNrxj nsro. —♦— For a little home dinner. Puree de rognons. Ecrevisse de mer au gratin. “ Bifteck” a la jardiniere. Pommes de terre a la duchesse. Beignets d’aubergines. “ Pudding” a la “ Sir Watkin.” Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—Take your daily allowance of soup meat as usual and , , make a strong consomme with it. Buy Kidney puree. . SIX mutton kidneys and treat them as follows:—Wash them, dry them, slit them in halves, and plunge them immediately into boiling water well salted ; let them remain in this bath for one minute only, take them out, and dry them in a napkin. This is an infallible recipe for the removal of that peculiar taste which many people dislike in kidneys; it should be followed always, no matter how you intend to cook them. Well, having thus blanched the kidneys, proceed to boil them gently with some dried thyme, marjoram, and a bag containing spice, &c., till they are very tender. Take them out, and pound them in the mortar, with one well washed anchovy: when sufficiently pounded, pass the paste through a wire sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, &c. When ready, place the consomme in a bowl handy, and keep the kidney pasteMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 459 ready in a soup plate. Take a roomy sauce-pan, melt an ounce of butter at the bottom of it over the fire, stir in a table-spoonful of flour ; when nice and creamy, add a cup- ful of consomme, stirring vigorously, and continue to add consomme and kidney paste by degrees, working them well together, till you have used them up ; now let the puree come to the boil; add a glass of port, a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, a tea-spoonful of good vinegar, and sufficient caramel coloring to give the soup a warm brown tint, stir well for a minute over the fire, and serve with croutons of fried bread.’ A coffee-cupful of boiling cream, or a coffee-cupful of milk in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, may be added to this soap off the fire iov additional richness. It will be found so like a game soup that many will doubt its having any connection with kidneys. After a day’s hard work, a rich sustaining soup of this kind is often very acceptable. 2.—Choose a nice crab, have it boiled, cleaned, and , , picked : place the meat in a soup plate. Baked crab. j- -x jxci.ii and give it a dust ot black pepper. Boil till tender sufficient maccaroni to line the bottom of a small pie-dish, and grate a tea-cupful of mild cheese. Now rub the bottom of the pie-dish with butter, place the maccaroni thereon, and pour a coffee-cupful of well made white sauce over the maccaroni. Shake a dust of grated cheese over its surface. Next place the crab meat, well worked with melted butter, over the maccaroni, and, as you arrange it, dust it with black pepper. Over the crab dredge a nice dressing of the grated cheese, about one-eighth of an inch deep, and pour a little melted butter over the surface. Bake till the top takes colour, and serve. No sauce is necessary with this, but if you like, you can send round a sauce piquante, or any plain sharp relish of that class.460 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 3.—Vegetables are sometimes scarce at Madras, -when our variety for this dish may be some- w?th vegetables®^ meagre ; but we can always get delicious Bombay onions, fair French beans, and carrots. Turnips taste too strong late in the season, so I would not advise your using them then. Choose a nice steak, fry it, to begin with in butter till it turns a nice brown colour on both sides, then put it into your stew-pan, with half a pint of water, (or broth) one Bombay onion cut into quarters, a good handful of French beans, a plant of celery and two carrots sliced, a table- spoonfnl of walnut ketchup, a salt-spoonful of sugar, a glass of Marsala, pepper, and salt. Cover the pan, and stew the steak ever so gently till the meat parts easily when tested by the fork. Then lift it out, strain the gravy, place the steak on a hot silver dish, arrange the vegetables cut up into very small dice tastefully over it, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, add a dessert-spoon- ful of Marsala, and pour it boiling hot over the steak. 4.—With the above, try your potatoes in this way:— mash them up with a little good milk. Potato duchesses. , i ii n e butter, and the yolks or two eggs; add pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, and some parsley, or celery leaves chopped fine (a few marjoram leaves are an improvement). Roll the mixture into balls the size of a pippin, brush them over with a beaten egg, set them on a buttered tin, and bake for a few minntes till they turn a golden yellow colour. They look pretty, and taste nice. They may also be formed somewhat smaller, the size of racquet balls, and fried a golden brown in melted butter. 5.—This is the American method of serving egg-plant, and is a very good dish for a change. Biinjal flitters. Parboil some young brinjals in salt and water, let them get cold, and .slice them in longitudinal461 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. pieces of a convenient size and tliickness for fiitteis two inches long, and a quarter of an inch thick. Pick out th^e seeds. Prepare the batter I have previously described, dipping the pieces of hrinjal in it, and frying them a crisp golden yellow in abundance of fat. Drain them quite dry, dust a little salt over them, and serve them with “ Dutch sauce” (q. v. page 89). 6. Mix together in a bowl two ounces of chopped candied peel, four ounces of suet Sir Watkin’s pud- finely minced, four ounces fine white crumbs, one table-spoonful of flour, three ounces of sugar, two ounces of apricot jam, a liqueur- glass of cura^oa, one dessert-spoonful of milk, and four fresh eggs.—When thoroughly mixed, put the ingredients into a buttered mould, and steam for three hours. Apricot sauce should accompany the pudding, made as follows :—Put half a pot of apricot jam into a sauce-pan with half a pint of water, and a glass of brown sherry or hladeira; boil together, stirring well, then strain, and serve. ♦ Maccaroni au gratin. Many fail to hit off this homely dish as nicely as they could wish. The following is a simple recipe :— Take two ounces of maccaroni, throw it into boiling water, with a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper, boil, and as soon as tender, drain it well; put into a sauce- pan one ounce of butter, mix it well with one table-spoon- ful of flour, moisten with four table-spoonfuls of gravy (saved from the soup gravy), and a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg; add two ounces of grated cheese, one table-spoonful of mustard, salt and pepper to taste : place the maccaroni in a shallow well buttered pie-dish, by degrees pouring your mixture, made 49462 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. as above, amongst it; dust a thick layer of grated cheese over the surface, and as soon as it browns nicely in the oven, send it to table. Maccaroni au gratin should be quite moist, and thoroughly impregnated with the flavom’ of cheese: the presence of mustard should also be per- ceptible. ♦ Chaud-froid de filets de foie gras- This is a very nice cold entree. Open a tin of foie gras, and slice it very carefully in slices about half an inch thick ; out of these slices trim some nicely shaped fillets, Cashmeer shawl patterns, or ovals. Put them on a fiat dish, and mask them with chicken chaud-froid glaze. When the glaze has set, trim each fillet neatly, and set them in a circle with their masked sides outwards upon a socle of ground rice which should be spread with butter for them to adhere to it. Points d’asperges, flageolets, or a macedoine, moistened with pure cream, should fill the centre of the circle. Serve very cold.IS/HEjIsTTJ IsTO. For a little home dinneK. ' Consomme de laitue. Pomfret a la Normande. Piece de boeuf en aspic. Conrge-a-la-moelle an gratin. Pain de groseilles. Fromage, liors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—Make a clear consomme as ostial, and treat the let- Cle„ soap w i t h one lettuce. large, or two small cabbage lettuces, . . . , .. boiling water for a few minute, take them out, cut them into quarters: tie them together again : butter a stew-pan, place a couple of sites of bacon at the botem of the pan, lay the lettuces on them and cover them with stock: add two cloves, an onion a tea-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt, and a tea-spooll of dried herbs. Simmer the lettuces until done, take them out, dram them, and when diy, cut them into shreds with a dessert-knife: put the shredded pieces at the bottom of your tureen, and pour the consomme-, boiling hot, over aem and added to the soup: se:,\'ow::“’:ln: I i464 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 2.—Clean and trim a fine pomfret; draw off the dark skin and detach the flesh from the hone mandy man" e?.® ^ ^harp knife : take the two sides so obtained, and season them on their respective inner sides (which yon must flrst brush over with a well beaten egg) with pepper, salt, a little finely chopped parsley, and some minced mushroom, lay them together again : the fish resuming its former appearance. Now butter a flat silver dish, or one that will stand the fire, strew over the butter some minced onion, place the fish thereon, moisten it with a little chablis, or a light white wine of that class, and a cupful of broth, and bake it in the oven. Whilst baking, make a good veloute, in which you should pour the liquor of a tin of oysters, and iTse the broth made from the bones and trimmings of the pomfret. When the fish is nearly done, take it out of the oven ; pour the liquor from its dish into your veloute : garnish the fish with the oysters of the tin previously mentioned, and some black Leicestershire mushrooms, over all pour your veloute—which should be nice and thick,— set the dish in the oven again for five minutes, and serve with croUtons of bread, buttered on each side, and coloured a pale brown in the oven. This will be found an excellent dish—far from diflScult: veloute remember, is a rich creamy white sauce. Eriskefc of beef ia jelly, (cold). 3.—Tie a nice piece of fresh brisket of beef into a com- pact shape and lard it with plenty of fat bacon : braise it in stock, and vege- tables with a glass of white wine : when done, take it out, remove the string, and place the meat in an oblong shape with a heavy weight upon it; when thoroughly cold, and set, trim it all round with a sharp knife, glaze it with its own gravy reduced, and set it in aspic in the ice-box. A plain oblong mould should be selected, When yoii turn it out, garnish with hard-jMENU for a little home dinner. 465 boiled eggs, and parsley, and serve with the best salad you can devise, and a good mayonnaise sauce. Or, the beef may be served hot, with its own gravy thickened, and garnished with glazed onions. This recipe may be followed with a home-cured ox- tongue : boil the tongue, of course, you cannot braise it. 4. Slice up a cold boiled (not over-boiled) vegetable V 4. u, marrow. Butter the bottom of a nie- Vegetable marrow j- i, ^ ^ ci pie- au giatin. cusn, place a layer of slices thereon, grate a little mild cheese over them p ace another layer of slices above the first and strew grated cheese over that also. Now melt some butter in a small sauce-pan, and add a little gravy to it, together with some finely powdered cheese, when you have enough to half cover your layers of marrow, pour the liquid round em, and bake for ten minutes or so in a fast oven Salt and pepper should be dusted over each layer, before the cheese gratings are added. Thia is a simple yet elfeetive entremets sucre suggested Mould o£ goo... ™‘’3' “ Madras GouSe. Turn out a berdes. bottle of gooseberries, sweeten them . *^ste in their awn syrup. Melt an LTtL fft “ r**-’ ng the fruit; now place this in a mould, and set it tn i- firm in the ice-boz. The best creamy 1 be stirred into the sy^p with manSstTdLlr^l^diBlSrXJ KTO. ♦ For Q little home dinner. Creme de riz aux haricots verts. Ragout de pomfret. Caneton aux petits pois. Pommes de terre nouvelles.* Podolong-cai au jus. “ Pudding” aux Agues. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1. —^Make your stock for soup as usual. Boil a tea-cup- ful of rice till tender, work it through Fi^ichLans!^ the sieve : amalgamate the pulp so ob- tained with the soup gravy by butter and flour as described for 'purees. Cut into dice a handful of jugged French beans, stir the dice into the soup as it thickens, and add a coSee-cupful of milk, with which the yolk of an egg has been mixed, off the Are, just before serving. The milk of a few pounded sweet almonds may be mixed with the rice pulp if the flavour be liked. 2. —This is a very useful recipe, practicable with all flsh, which I specially commend to Ragout of pomfret. Take a cold boiled pomfret (in this case) remove the skin and cut the flsh into • ” Mock new potatoes.”MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 467 fillets of a nice length, dust them with pepper and salt, and put them aside. Slice finely half a Bombay onion, and a small carrot, fry the slices, till just colouring, in an ounce of butter, now add a pint of milk and water, two- thirds milk to one-third water, all the fish hones and trimmings, a few pepper corns, an anchovy, a blade of mace, and a pinch of salt; boil this up and simmer it afterwards till you have extracted the flavour of your in- gredients : now strain the liquor, and thicken it as for a sauce blanche, gently heating your fillets of fish in the same : garnish with little bits of red chilli (cut into dice, and sprinkled over the fillets) and serve. The point here lies in the flavouring of the whito sauce in which you warm your fish : so do not omit any thing I have mentioned. 3.—“ First catch your duckling” eh ? well, I know they are not easy to get, hut let those who green J;eep ducks in their poultry yard try one before the breast-bone forms hard. The bone should be scarcely stronger than gristle if the bird be young enough. Roast, and do not stuff the duck- ling, let the basting be frequent, and froth the breast up nicely to finish with : serve, accompanied by green peas, and cook the potatoes according to any of the recipes given at page 136. N. B.—If your cook have a habit, as some have, of serv- ing the giblets of the duck in the gravy round the bird, put an end to it forthwith;—it is one of those quaint relics of barbarism which still cling to certain Indian kitchens. 4.—This vegetable, known as the “ snake vegetable,” cut into convenient lengths, boiled, drain- ed, its seeds removed, and the pieces finally heated up in a good brown gi-avy, is well worth tryiug when vegetables arc as scarce as r 0 d 01 0 n g-c a i in gravy.4G8 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. they always are in the hot weather. A dust of grated cheese over each piece may be given without fear. 5.—Take a quarter of a pound of finely grated bread- ... crumbs, half a pound of minced dried Fig pudding. c XI. c figs, three ounces ot sugar, six ounces of chopped suet, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix a tea- spoonful of Yeatman’s baking powder with an ounce of flour, add this to the other ingredients with four eggs well beaten, moisten with a little milk sufficiently to form a firm paste, turn the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Lime sauce.—Put three table-spoonfuls of sugar into a sauce-pan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and the very finely peeled rind of a lime, simmer for twenty minutes, then add the juice of two limes and a liqueur glass of any liqueur, brandy, or rum, strain and serve. A di’op or two of cochineal will improve the colour of the sauce. Nougat- Blanch a pound of almonds, and cut each lengthwise into thin nax’row pieces, lay them on a dish in front of the fire, or in the oven (with the door open), to get perfectly dry; melt in a sugar boiler |lb. of loaf sugar; when the sugar is a rich brown, put in the almonds, mix them well but carefully together, and you will have a soft paste, which will harden when cold. Dip some small moulds into some very hot-water, slightly but thoroughly oil them with melted butter; put some of the mixture in one of them, and with the handle of a tea-spoon previously but- ^ tcred, spread it out so as completely to line the mould; • 5 trim the edges, and when cold, turn out the nougat. | Having made a number of cases in the same way, servo them with whipped cream or sweetmeats inside each. ^ The nougat should bo very thin. Any kind of mould,MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 469 large or small, may be used, and many fanciful devices may be worked with this composition. The almond should be cut smaller for intricate designs, and in all cases the work must be done quickly, for the sugar soon becomes too stiff to be spread into position. ♦ Endive. Endive (chicorie,) as grown in Southern India, is per- haps better when cooked than when presented raw in salad, for it lacks the crispness which the plant acquires at home in the winter. Endives should be trimmed for cooking by picking off the outside leaves, and cutting off the green tips. The heads should then be severed by a cut across the stalk, detaching all the leaves therefrom. Thus every leaf can be examined and cleaned. When this has been done, and the leaves have been drained dry, cast them into a roomy vessel full of boiling water with half an ounce of salt. Unlike spinach, which merely takes five minutes, endives must be boiled for twenty-five. When tender, drain, press out the water, and chop fine on a clean board, finishing as explained for spinach. If you simmer the endive leaves in consomme for two hours, and then increase the fire, stirring till the leaves have absorbed the broth, and finally moistening them with some rich bechamel and a pat of butter, you will have the correct foundation for a blanquette a la Talleyrand, i.e., neat pieces of cooked chicken heated up in the endive sauce.IvIElsTXJ 3STO- ♦ For a little home dinner. Potage a la pm-ee de legumes. Darne de seer au gratin. Pintade au cresson. Haricots verts panaches. Croustades de bandecai. Beignets de bananes au rhum. Fromage, hors d’ceuvi’es. Dessert. Cafe noir. Vegetable Puree. 1.—Prepai-e early in the day the usual gravy soup, or stock, that you order daily: take it off the fire in the afternoon, and add two carrots, a turnip, an onion, a stick of celery, and a little pepper and salt. Boil together: when thoroughly done, drain off the soup and pass the boiled vegetables through the wire sieve. Now mix over the fire in a sauce- pan an ounce of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, gradually adding vegetable pulp and stock, and stirring well, until you have exhausted the whole. Let it come to the boil. After you have taken the soup off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up in a little milk: fried croutons of bread should accompany this soup.471 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 2. —Flatten out on a board a nice slice of seer fisb, hav- ing previously prepared a small cupful Slice of seer a.u q£ maccaroni boiled till tender. Now butter a small pie-disb, sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of minced shallot over the butter, place a layer of maccaroni on it, and dust over the maccaroni a couple of table-spoonfuls of grated cheese; now put the slice of seer on the top of the maccaroni, moisten with a breakfast-cupful of broth, in which a little chablis may be mixed with advantage, put a little butter on the fish, spread a piece of paper over it, and bake for twelve minutes: remove the paper and serve ; a couple of tomatoes, sliced, may be laid on the top of the fish and baked with it if available. 3. —This most capital bird ought properly speaking,—in the absence of a florican,—to take the Eoasfc Gnicearfowl place of a pheasant in our choicest with water-cress. ^ . menu. If available, however, there is no reason why a Guinea-fowl should not be served as the piece de resistance of a home dinner. Pluck, singe, draw and truss the bird for roasting, but do not allow the cook to put the liver and gizzard under the wings. Tie a few thin slices of bacon over the breast, put it to roast over a very clear fire, baste frequently, and when done, put it on a dish garnished with water-cresses. Send round the best bread sauce, fried bread crumbs, and a rich brown gravy containing the liver pounded, half a glass of red wine, a tea-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and the juice of a lime. On no account shiff a Guinea-fowl like a capon. Serve withpowwnes de terre d la mattre d’hdtel, and haricots verts •panaches, page 139. On special occasions sauce d la Perigueux should accom- pany a Guinea-fowl, and to add to its game-like flavour, it wiU be found advantageous to put a snipe rolled in bacon472 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. inside the carcass of the bird, before roasting, sewing up the vent afterwards. 4.—Line four little patty pans with pastry as laid down for “ cheese fingers,” page 220. bandecai. Bake them, and when ready, fill each case with a spoonful of bandecai puree as explained for “ bandecai toast,” page 229. Heat thoroughly in the oven dusting a little grated cheese over the surface of each croustade, and serve on a napkin. Plantain fritters. 5.—Here are our old friends “ plantain fritters.” Mix with your batter (which should be made exactly like that I have given for kramouskys, with sugar instead of salt) a goodly spoon- ful of rum, or any liqueur you may have in the house open. The addition of a little liqueur is a great improvement. All who have tried pine-apple fritters with rum will not hesitate to apply the same test to plantains. Dust over your fritters before serving them a nice coating of finely sifted white sugar. The rum or liqueur should be poured round the sliced plantains, like a marinade, an hour before they are cooked : it can be used in mixing the batter after- wards. The batter should not be too thick, and do not forget to have the bath of fat hot enough. “Pudding” a la Viennoise. The following is Francatelli’s recipe : twelve ounces of crumb of bread cut into small dice, Vienna pudding. glasses of Madeira, a dessert spoonful of minced citron, two ounces sweet, and half an ounce bitter almonds pounded, six ounces of raisins, and a burnt sugar custard made with six yolks of eggs, one pint of cream, and two ounces of burnt sugar, sweetened with six ounces loaf-sugar. Put the bread, almonds, raisinsMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 473 and citron into a basin, and pour the wine over them ; put the two ounces of sugar into a stew-pan to brown, then pour in the cream, stir it round, and add the yolks of eggs previously beaten : thicken in the bain-marie, and strain the custard into the mixture in the basin, butter a mould and ornament it with candied peel, fill it with the mixture, and steam one and a half hours ; serve with caramel custard, or sauce Royale. Half of the above will be found sufl&cient for a nice pudding.IMIBISrXJ INTO. f For a little home dinner, Croute au pot. Merlans a la remoulade chaucle. Poulette grillee, “ bread sauce.” Pommes de terre sautees a la Lyonuaise. Sarcelles sauce a la bigarade. “ Pudding” a la Reine Victoria. Fromage, bors d’ceuvres. Dessert. Cafe noir. 1. —This is an ordinary pot-au-feu with pieces of toast and vegetable introduced at the last moment. The preparation of the toast, however, demands attention. Cut off the bottom crust of a tinned loaf, with the same thickness of crumb as of crust: cut this out into squares half the size of a visiting card, or in rounds the size of a rupee; soak them in some stock (from the soup) and put them in a buttered tin into the oven where they should remain until crisp and dry, slices of carrot, turnip, onion, and pieces of celery, that have been cooked in the pot-au-feu should be added to the soup before serving, the crusts being put in at the very last moment.* 2. —Fry the whitings and serve them with the following Fried whitings with sauce in a boat:—Toss in butter a remoulade sauce (hot), couple of shallots, finely minced ; add * Some pieces of cabbage boiled separately should be added to this soup.—W.MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 4/5 a dessert-spoonful of flour and lialf a pint of chicken stock ; then take a table-spoonful of mixed marjoram, garden cress, parsley, and capers, all very finely minced, and add them to the sauce, ivith a dessertspoonful of French mus- tard, pepper, and salt to taste, and a little grated nutmeg; lastly, add a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, (optional), and when the sauce has boiled aminute or two, it is ready. 3. —Bone your fowl, and make a nice strong broth with the hones, which will, of course, form Giilled fowl. basis of the stock for the whitings’ sauce just described. Flatten out the fowl like a steak, butter it and grill it smartly over a bright fire, serve with bread sauce, and fried potatoes d la Lyonnaise (page 132), and garnish with water-cress. Do not forget the bread sauce receipt I gave at page 88. Simmer till tender a Bellary onion in Bread sauce. • . -n t a pint or milk with a dozen pepper corns, a pinch of nutmeg, and four cloves ; strain when the onion is quite pulpy, pour the strained milk over the grated bread-crumbs, and heat it up again, adding a spoonful of cream before serving. 4. —Prepare the teal, as recommended in Menu No. 20, but preserving the breast of each bird saucT.' '’‘parade entire, and make a game gravy with the bones and the giblets of the birds, proceeding as already directed to make bigarade sauce, page 351. I think, however, that as the oranges which compose this sauce in Europe are the sour Seville, a little lime juice should be added to ours to give it piquancy. Broil the teal breasts upon a gridiron, and serve them full of juice straight from the fire. Any nice vegetable may be reserved to accompany the teal. 5. —A quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, three ounces47C MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. of shredded suet, a quarter of a pound Victoria pudding. . ,1 • • j. 01 any jam, the ]uice or a lime, with the peel grated also, two ounces of sifted sugar, two eggs and a pinch of salt—mix thoroughly, place it in a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Sauce:—Mix two tea-spoonfuls of flour with half an ounce of butter, and add a cupful of boiling water. Stir in a table-spoonful of the jam you use for your pudding, the juice of a lime and a spoonful of brandy : simmer for five minutes, mix with it a little pat of butter, strain, and pour it both over, and round the pudding. Or this :—Sauce Boyale a la Ghetput:—Two ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a liqueur glass of Madeira, or sherry, and the same of brandy ; keep it quite cold, and serve in a boat. This is a specialite for plum pudding. —• Souffle de Volaille. Take the nicest meat of a full sized, cold roast chicken ; mince the meat very finely, put it in a Chicken B0ufi9e. „ . -.i , i. xo. frying-pan with two ounces of butter, and a table-spoonful of minced ham, and toss till the butter is absorbed. Make about half a pint of rich white sauce, flavour it with almonds, pepper, salt, and use a broth made of the bones and trimmings. Now throw the mince into a mortar, and pound it to a paste, moistening it with the sauce. Pass the puree through the sieve, and then stir lightly into it the yolks of four eggs, adding last of all the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Pour it into a souffle tin, with a paper round the top, to allow it to rise. Bake in a very quick oven. Serve the souffleMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 477 quickly m the tin, with a white napkin pinned round it. itabbit, or game, may be advantageously cooked in this way; petits souffles de gibier make an excellent second coimse disk A wreath of fresh parsley round the bottom ot tbe napkin gives a neat finish to the plat. ♦ Boudins de saumon. Choose as many China ramaquin cases, or small dariole moulds, as you have guests ; butter them; and place them on one side. Make a good rich custard abstaining from sugar and using a savoury seasoning of salt and pepper instead.-Emptyatinofsalmon; choose a nice piece for each mould; place the pieces in a colander, and with cold water remove all oily liquid from them; dry with a clean cloth, and then put them into the moulds, pouring the c^tord romd them. Now eteam the moulde; and Ihen He’ll d round hot, with Mollandaise sauce. 613STO. ♦ For a little home dinner. Puree de tomateis. Mulet an gratin. “ Beef-steak Pie” a la supreme. Reties a la becasse. Omelette soufflee. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. 1.—Soup meat as usual for two, six or eight good sized tomatoes. Make your stock from the Tomato Bonp. , ^ . soup meat, and as it is simmering, prepare the tomatoes as follows ;—Choose an enamel-lined sauce-pan of a fair size, throw into it the tomatoes cut into quarters, a tea-spoonful of dried basil, an onion shredded, a tea-spoonful of salt, two cloves of garlic, and a table- j spoonful of butter : cook the pieces of tomato until they | are quite soft, stirring them about lest they catch at the | bottom of the sauce-pan : as soon as they seem ready, turn them out upon a sieve, pick out the garlic, and commence ' ; working the tomatoes through the sieve and save the pulp in a bowl. When dinner time is at hand, you must amal- gamate the pulp and stock in the prescribed way:—Melt ; an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, work aMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 479 dessert-spoonful of flour into it till it looks smooth, then add a little stock, a little puree, and so on by degrees till you have exhausted your supply, let the soup come to the boil to thicken properly, and then serve it with croutons of fried bread. Baked mullet. 2. —Choose a good sized mullet, and a dozen prawns. Clean the former carefully, and boil the prawns : when the latter have been boded, shell and clean them, wash them well, dry them, and pound them thoroughly in a mortar with a lit- tle butter, and the crumb of a roll soaked in milk : pass this through the sieve, and season it with one anchovy, wiped free from oil, and chopped fine, a little curly parsley also minced, a little chopped marjoram, and a cold boiled onion shredded: give this a dust of pepper, and a little salt, and work it together thoroughly with a couple of raw eggs. Now lay your mullet on a flat dish, wipe it dry, and fill it with the prawn stuffing, sew up the fish securely. Butter a pie-dish, place the mullet therein, pour a breakfast cupful of broth round it, spread a little butter upon the top of it, and bake for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. A pat of mattre d'hotel butter should be placed on the top of the mullet before serving, and a spoonful or two of hock, or any light wine like chablis, poured round it during the baking, will be found an improvement. Baste the fish now and then during the cooking. 3. —Here is a really good recipe for a savoury pie. Buy a nice undercut of a sirloin of beef. An excellent Beef- n , - steak Pie. some coarser meat tor gravy. Slice the undercut into thin slices crosswise, not lengthwise; place the slices on a flat dish and upon each slice lay a thin one of boiled bacon ; give the whole a dusting of spiced popper. Roll them up (each separately) and give them an external dusting of480 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. spiced pepper. Take a pie-dish, rub it well with a shallot, butter it, and place a layer of the rolled slices over the bottom of it, now pour gently round the layer a cupful of strong gravy made from the coarser meat previously men- tioned ; repeat the process adding another layer of rolled beef slices, and more gravy, till the dish is packed; garnish the surface with pieces of hard boiled egg, and cover the whole with a good light crust, bake in the usual way and serve. Oysters, minced anchovies, chopped olives, and mushrooms may, of course, be mingled with the layers ; and a glass of Madeira may enrich the gravy if you desire perfection. Let me here point out that Ramasamy’s ordi- nary pie is a cruel burlesque of that dish. He first cooks the meat independently, then covers it with crust, and finally bakes it. The glory of a pie consists in the whole composition being baked together : attention is, of cotu’se, necessary to keep the oven at the proper temperature, and to avoid hurrying matters, or, of course, the crust will take colour too soon, and your pie be burnt. For savoury pie crust, see Chapter XXYI. 4.—For this excellent entremets savoureux, see page 226. • Be careful in having the toasts served Woodcock toasts. , , , as hot as possible. Omelet souffle. 6.—A little omelette souffl.ee will complete our dinner nicely. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with a table-spoonful of white sugar, flavour the mixture with lemon, vanilla, or ratafia essence : whisk the whites to a stiff froth independently; then blend the two thoroughly. Put this into a small circular souffle tin, and bake it in a very quick oven, send it to table the moment it is ready, dusted over with finely sifted sugar. A little preserve may accompany the omelette soiifflee, and a few drops of any liqueur will be found an agi-eeable addition. The groat thing is, to serve immedi- ately : you cannot therefore bake the souffle in a distantMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. kitchen : the baking should be conducted as close to the dining-room door, as possible, and the dish should be brought in the nick of time. A proper souffle tin is, of course, absolutely necessary for this dish. ♦ Pain de fromag-e. This is of mould of “ cheese cream.” Make half a pint of rich custard, season it with salt instead of sugar, and a little Nepal pepper ; whip it well, stir in three ounces of grated Parmesan or Gruyere, and half an ounce of dis- solved gelatine. Set the mixture in a plain mould on ice, and, while setting, stir in a coffee-cupful of whipped cream. Turn out the mould, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. Following the same principle very excellent pains, or cremes can be made with piorees of delicate meats, fish, and vegetables. Creme de liomard, creme de crevetfes, creme d'articliauts, pain de gibier, §'c. If required to be served hot, the contents of the mould must be steamed like a pudding, the cream being stirred into the custard in the first instance. It is essential that the purees be thoroughly pounded, and passed through the sieve. Cold savoury creams are specially nice at luncheon. These dishes are sometimes called moiisse de homard mousse de crevettes, ^o.:I^vd;H3:ls^xJ istcd. For a little home dinner. Consomme aux oeufs poclies. Pomfret au puree de grandes crevettes. Filet de boeuf au puree d’oseille. Pommes de terre a 1’ Americaine. Canard sauvage. Charlotte de pommes. Fromage, hors d’oeuvres. Dessert. Clear soup poaclied eggs. with 1.—This is a very simple method of turning an ordinaiy clear gravy soup into a recherche pot- age. The eggs (one for each person) must however be carefully poached, neither too lightly nor too hard, then trimmed neatly leaving as little margin of white as possible, and served with the soup. A few leaves of dried tarragon flavour the consomme very pleasantly, and grated Parmesan should be handed round on a separate plate. If you have no tar- ragon leaves, try a little of the vinegar. Note this:—In order to make sure of not breaking the eggs in the tureen,—order your butler to heat the soup plates and place the poached eggs in them, before he serves the soup : he can then pour the soup over the eggs, instead of having to ladle them out of the soup, which is always an operation requiring much delicacy of touch, and a broken egg spoils the appearance of the consomme.MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 483 2—Boil the pomfret. The prawn sauce that I recom- mend is not the ordinary one cora- P^fret with prawn posed of melted butter (sauce blanche) and lumps of prawn mixed with it. The composition I think very much nicer is a creamy puree of the shell-fish, a little thicker than ordinary mayonnaise sauce, made thus:—A dozen fair sized prawns, boiled, and cleaned, pounded to a paste in a mortar, flavoured with an anchovy, a little spice, pepper, and salt, and then worked with melted butter, flour, and a little broth, to the consistency I have mentioned. It should be served as hot as possible. 3.—I would stew the steak with a few nice vegetables, and dress the sorrel independently. Before you proceed to cook the steak, make some gravy with scraps and trimmings: it would be as well indeed to order a little extra meat for that purpose, when you have got this to your mind, strain it off and keep it handy. Now take a frying-pan, melt a piece of butter at the bottom of it, and shred an onion therein; lay the steak upon it, and turn it about until it is well browned on both sides ; now lift it up and place it in your stew-pan, with the gravy and vegetables, to simmer gently till done, which you can test with a fork. It ought to be as tender as possible if you are only careful enough to prevent galloping, that is, fast cooking: the slow simmering process is the thing needful. The vegetables cooked with the steak may be strained from the gravy, and cut up into neat dice, to garnish the top of the steak : the gravy must be saved for the sorrel which you must cook as follows :— Beef steak with sorrel pur^e. Put two good handfuls of carefully picked sorrel in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt, and a pinch of soda, blanch for five minutes, drain, and chop the leaves small on a board. Melt two ounces of butter in a sauce-484 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. pan to which add a little flour, 'the sorrel, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and the steak gravy stirring vigorously to prevent the leaves catching at the bottom of the pan:—When the gravy and butter are thoroughly well absorbed, turn the sorrel out, stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten up in a little milk, and pour the puree round the steak, which should have been kept hot whilst the last stage was com- pleted. The sorrel should, of course, be got ready before- hand. 4.—This way of cooking potatoes will be found at page 132:—Boil the potatoes till nearly ican'^fashion.^”'^™^’^' <3one : slice them in thick slices, and heat them, ct, la fricassee, in nice white sauce made with milk previously flavoured with onion, spice, pepper and salt. The yolk of an egg, a large spoon- ful of curly parsley minced fine, and a pat of butter the size of a rupee, should be stirred into the sauce-pan, off the fire, before serving. A few drops of lime juice are an improvement, and to those who think that they might not like the onion-flavoured milk, that of pounded almonds may be more pleasing. 6.—Order the duck to be roasted—not baked in the chatty oven, (which Ramasamy will Wild dack. . • 1 j j 4. + 1 ^ certainly do if you do not take steps to prevent the sacrilege) and let it be nice and juicy, not dried up by over-dressing. I have known an ignorant Ramasamy stuff a wild duck like a tame one! need I do more than warn you that this is erroneous ? Having served the bii’d with all the gravy that was caught during the roasting on a very hot dish, what must we do for a sauce on the spot ? This will be found a good one:— Score the breast of the bird in the direction you intend to slice it, and let the gravy run out bountifully ; to that add a table-spoonful of port, burgundy, or fruity Madeira, (the first if possible) give that a dessert-spoonful of lime-juiceMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 485 Apple Cbaiiotte. and six drops of “ tabasco," or a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar ; stir the gravy round with a spoon, and baste the breast of the duck liberally with it, then go on with your carving. If you have a little sauce-boat on a spirit lamp by your side (a beautiful modern invention) the gravy can be heated therein, on the spot admirably. 6.—An apple charlotte (practicable also with should be made in this easy way. Butter a small but deep pie-dish or plain mould: cut a thin piece of bread (to form the top of the charlotte) the size and shape of the top of the mould, butter it on both sides, and put it into the mould; now line the side of the mould with moderately thin strips of bread and butter, buttered on both sides: that is to say, cover both the inverted top and sides of the mould, mak- ing a case of bread and butter as it were. Within the case place layers of apples cut small, (or sliced ripe plantains) with apricot jam spread between each layer, some lime juice sprinkled over them all, and a good allowance of white sugar: when packed, cover the bottom of the mould with slices of bread and butter, the same as that used for the top and sides, and bake till the bread browns nicely. Use plenty of good butter please, and you will find this a simple but pleasant sweet dish ; a sprinkling of any liqueur would, of course, add to the nice flavour of the fruit. Turn it out very carefully, and let cold custards accom- pany the charlotte. Florican roti- On account of its rarity in the Madras market, I have _ ^ . accidentally forgotten to include this. Roaafc florican. . . , . , ’ —the prmce of game birds in Southern India,—among the various rots I have suggested in the menus. It should be treated like a pheasant. Pick, draw 62486 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. singe, and truss the florican placing a Bombay onion, rolled in fat boiled bacon, inside its carcass. Tie a thin slice of bacon over the breast, and roast the bird over a moderate fire, basting it frequently with melted butter. A few minutes before the florican is done, remove the slice of bacon, so as to let the breast take colour. Serve with plain gravy, fried crumbs, and bread sauce. Time, about thirty minutes. Proceed in the same way if you happen to have a wild pea-chick, a young jungle fowl, or a spur fowl. A most appropriate accompaniment to roast florican roast pheasant, guinea fowl, &c., are:— Croustades de truffes a TEspagnole. Line as many little open tartlet pans as you have guests with some carefully made short-bread paste. An oval not much larger than the bowl of a table spoon is the shape best suited to the purpose. Butter them well first to keep them from burning, and preserve their hollow centres while baking them by a piece of stale bread, to be removed afterwards. Cut up some trufldes in dice, using enough to yield a good dessert-spoonful per head. Warm the mince up gently in some rich Espagnole sauce flavoured with a dash of Madeira, and keep it en bain-marie. When want- ed, fill the crisp croustades with a spoonful each of the truffles and sauce, dish them en serviette, and send them round with the bird. Croustades de champignons, made in the same way but substituting mushrooms for truffles, may be served with roast game very effectively.iviEiJsrTJ Into, —♦— For a little home dinner. Bouillon. Sole frite a la Colbert. Bouilli a la Milanaise. Topinambours aux oeufs farcis. Demoiselles d’honneur. Fromage, hors d’ceuvres. Dessert. 1.—This soup is to be made from the joint, in the ^ foreign manner, a la pot-au-feu, so purchase a nice piece of the ribs of beef, weighing about five pounds, with two carrots, a turnip, a handful of French beans, a large Bombay onion, half a head of celery (leaves and all), two leeks, and a bunch of parsley. When the joint comes home, detach the meat from the bones en masse, roll it up compactly, and tie it firmly with a string.—See that your soup ket- tle is thoroughly clean, put in the bones (chopped up) first, and place your bundle of meat above them, pouring in cold water enough to cover the top of the meat—with one and a half ounce of salt and nothing else. Ramasamy throws in all his vegetables to begin with, which is an utterly erroneous px-oceeding. Now set the pot near the fire, and let the contents come as slowly as possible to the boil, skimming off every atom of scum as it rises, and add-488 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. ing from time to time a little cold water to retard ebulli- tion, and encourage the rising of the scum. Keep the vessel open throughout the operations, otherwise the soup Avill not be bright and clear. This having been completed, and the pot boiling with a clean surface, you may cast in your vegetables (the carrots first, followed by the turnip) all nicely washed, trimmed, and cut up. In addition, you must give the soup a tea-spoonful of caramel (burnt sugar colouring), a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a dozen pepper corns, and a bag containing mixed sweet herbs (a tea- spoonful of each). These additions will stop the boiling you will find, so watch the vessel narrowly, and as soon as boiling begins again, ease off the fire, and let the contents of the kettle simmer till the vegetables are nicely done. Now take the kettle from the fire, remove the vegetables and put the meat broth and bone back on a low fire to simmer slowly until you find that the first is nice and ten- der,—done in fact. The time of this will depend upon the size of the meat and the accuracy of the simmering : from two to three hours is the ordinary period. As soon as the meat is done, the soup is ready also ; keeping the meat overdoing will not give you a fraction more strength in the broth. So strain it from the meat, and set it to cool. Place the meat and vegetables separately on dishes. When the broth is cold, take off any fat that may have risen to its surface, and return the liquor to the sauce-pan. Cut up some of the vegetables into nice pieces and place them in the soup tureen, let the contents of your sauce- pan come almost to the boil, and pour them over the vege- tables. It will be a bright clear soup, with a capital flavour : a dessert-spoonful of Madeira and a dried leaf or two of tarragon will improve it. The colour will depend upon the amount of caramel you put into the pot. A nice golden yellow is easily obtained. 2.—Make an incision along the back-bouc on the upperMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 489 side of the sole, from and up to within Filed sole a la Col- inch of the head and tail; slip a belt. . 1 • j c knife under the flesh on each side or the cut, and loosen it from the bones ; then egg and bread-crumb the fish with finely sifted crumbs, and fry it in plenty of fat, with the side bearing the incision uppermost. The edges of this will curl outwards in the process of fiying, and the opening thus made should be filled at the time of serving with plenty of mattre dliotel butter, the sole being sprinkled with fine salt. While the fish is being drained in front of the fire, the back-bone may be removed carefully, but this is not essential. 3.—After draining the rolled rib meat mentioned in ^ No. 1, and letting it get cold, place it on a dish that will stand the oven, brush it over with egg, and dredge over it a coating of very finely grated dry cheese, and bread-crumbs, in equal proportions : set it in the oven to heat thoroughly, and brown the outside of the crumbs with a hot iron used salamander fashion. When ready, put the meat on a dish, and trim round it a circle of hot maccaroni freshly boiled, drained, and tossed in melted butter : over which pour a breakfast-cupful of rich tomato puree, with two table- spoonfuls-of grated Parmesan or Gruyere, and serve. If you are careful not to over-do the boiling of the meat as previously noted, you will find this dish,—all details being carefully carried out,—a very eatable one. A nice thick brown gravy made with butter, flour, and some of the houillon, flavoured with a spoonful of Marsala and a tea- spoonful of red currant jelly, should go round in a boat. This is also a nice way of serving a fowl. The broth being thickened d la poulette for sauce, and the vegetables worked through the sieve d la puree. 4.—Boil four eggs hard, put them into a basin of cold490 MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. water; when cold, cub them in halves Jerusalem avtichokes • , i i -i* t t ■witli stuffed eggs. crosswise with a dessert-knife dipped in melted butter. Slice ofE a piece from each rounded end, so that the halves will sit upright, and prepare the yolks as laid down at page 238. Boil four large Jerusalem artichokes : when^Msi done, and not overdone mind, lift them out of the water, and let them get cold : out of each artichoke, trim with a silver dessert- knife, two thick flat slices each capable of holding a half egg, butter the eight slices, lay them upon a flat silver dish well buttered, and set half an egg upon each of them : put on the top of each egg a little pat of anchovy butter, set the dish in the oven till the steam rises freely, and serve piping hot. If you can pour some melted maitre d'hotel, or prawn butter over them, the dish becomes quite worth serving at a dinner party. “ Maida of Honour.” 5.—These you will remember as the charming friends we met at Richmond;—Line six tart- let tins with puff paste, and fill the patties with this mixture :—Beat half pound sugar with yolks of six eggs in a basin, and pound together in a mor- tar two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, three bitter ones, two table-spoonfuls of orange flower water, the juice of four limes, and two potatoes (mealy ones) boiled, drained, and passed through a hair sieve. Mix the eggs, sugar, and almond paste. Turn a quart of milk to curd, crumble it, and beat it up with four ounces of good butter till quite smooth, then mix it thoroughly with the eggs, almonds, &c., adding a glass of brandy, and one of maraschino. Bake till thoroughly hot in a moderate oven, and servo with finely sifted sugar dusted over them. Curds ;—The richer recipes for cheese-cakes are com- posed, it will generally be found, with curds, with the method of making which some of my readers may be un- acquainted. A little lump of alum put into cold milk, andMENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 491 then set on the fire, will turn milk to a curd as quickly as anything, or two tea-spoonfuls of preserved ‘ rennet’ will turn a quart of milk ; the homely way, however, is to boil a pint of water in a stew-pan, to beat two eggs up with a pint of milk, and to add the mixture to the boiling water, with the juice of a couple of limes. As the curd rises it should be skimmed of, and laid upon a sieve to drain. When dry, it is ready. ♦ Lobster pilao a la Turque- Choose the firm pieces of a lobster from the tin, trim them neatly, set them in a buttered sawie-pan and warm them thoroughly. Arrange the pieces in a circle in a hot silver dish filling the centre with riz a la Turque (page 246). Pour some of the following sauce over the pieces of lobster, but not over the rice, and serve. Cut up a sweet onion, or half a dozen shalots, and throw the pieces into a small stew-pan with two ounces of butter. Fry till the onions begin to take color, then stir in^a table-spoonful of good curry powder or paste ; cook this for five minutes, then add a pint of plain gravy ; let the contents of the pan simmer now for a quarter of an hour while you make a coffee cupful of lait d'amandes in this way :—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds with one bitter one ; pound them in a mortar with a little milk ; when well pounded, pour some boiling water upon them ; stir well, and then squeeze the milk through muslin. Stir this into the sauce, adding the yolks of two eggs, off the fire, before serving.On Coffee-Making. ♦ N certain occasions in the course of my jottings, I have mentioned the cup of cafe noir as the finishing touch of a nice little dinner. I think, therefore, that I may as well say a few words regarding its composi- tion before I ask you to consider my vienus ended. Although few may think themselves ignorant of coffee- making, I question whether its real secrets are generally known. Indeed to judge by the stuff that we usually get, I think, we may say that the art is comparatively rare. First, to be sure, you must “ catch your coffee,” i.e.:—get really good berries, and be willing to pay a trifle over the usual price for them. That done, the next thing to learn is the roasting, an operation that should be conducted daily if you want well-flavoured coffee. The process is by no means as easy as many believe; half the coffee we drink is ruined by ignorant roasting ; a burnt berry, mark you, will spoil the whole brew. The best way, I think, to roast the berries is to do a few at a time in a frying-pan over a very low fire, passing them straight to the mill (a hand-mill is quite indispensable) from the pan. A table- spoonful of berries will be found quite enough at a time. Melt a little butter, sufficient to lubricate the berries, and stir them about until they turn a light Havannah brown ; if perchance a berry take a darker tint, throw it away as you would a reptile; grind them at once as coarsely as493 ON COFFEE-MAKING. your mill will admit,—the grains should be quite as large as those of rifle guu-powder,—and make the coffee as soon afterwards as possible. A little butter or salad oil is strongly recommended, it prevents the escape of much of the fragrance of the berry while roasting, and becomes quite dried up before the roasting is finished. The custom in the Indian kitchen is to bake, often to over-bahe, the berries and then tunny- cutcli ammali pounds them to a dull black powder as fine as flour. The result is a leaden tinted liquid, acrid in flavour, and repulsive to look upon. Having ground the coffee properly,—it should be rich in aroma, and of a beautiful pale snuff colour—the best coffee-pot to use, after all, is the percolator. Be liberal with the coffee (a table-spoonful for each person), heat the coffee-pot thoroughly, fill the upper chamber of the perco- lator according to your requirements, ram the coffee down firmly, and having previously measured the amount of coffee liquid you require, pour boiling water, according to that measurement, in tea-spoonfuls at a time, through the upper strainer upon the powder. The slower the water is added, the more thoroughly the coffee will become soaked, and, the dripping being retarded, the essence will be as strong as possible. As soon as the coffee has run through, pour the rich essence you have obtained into your cups, and for cafe au lait fill them up with boiling milk, for cafe noir with a little boiling water. As it is scarcely possible for your servant to make coffee with all this care at the end of a dinner party, I recom- mend that the essence be made just before dinner, and kept covered up. For a party of twelve, two brews will be required. At the time it is wanted, the boiling milk imparts quite enough heat to the essence in the case of cafe au lait; and, for black coffee, a gentle re-heating, plus the modicum of boiling water aforesaid, insures a good cup ; 63ON COFFEE-MAKING. 494 only, do not forget to pass round with it a flask of cognac vieil. I have confined my remarks to the method which I have followed for years successfully, but there are, of course, other ways of making good coffee. The Turkish system much praised by travellers may be thus described:—The roasting having been conducted with all the care I have already indicated, the berries are cast into a large metal mortar, and pounded to a very fine powder. This is carefully sifted through a fine sieve, all coarse particles being rejected. As much water as is wanted is then boiled in a small copper can, having a narrow top and broad bottom. When the water boils, powdered coffee is added, off the fire, according to require- ments, and the can is replaced on the fire. The liquid is now permitted to come to the boil three times, the can after each occasion of ebullition being taken off the fire for a while. After the third boiling up, the can is placed for a minute in a shallow vessel containing cold water to precipitate the “ grounds,” after which the coffee clear, black, and sparkling is poured into the cup. For this I have to thank Colonel H. M.The last, most worthy, recipe of all. —♦— “ (2bi tT is not generally known, my dear Wyvern,” writes my learned, and very kind friend C. S., “ tkat tke fumes of sulphur prevent the rapid decomposition of animal matter, and that a fine tender mutton chop can he had, even in the hottest weather, by exposing the joint from which it is cut to the fumes of burning pastiles, placed in an air tight box, for two or three hours after the meat is brought home from market. A joint thus treated will keep perfectly for thirty-six hours, even in Madras, and be found deliciously tender-4he day after it was pur- chased. The pastiles should be composed as follows ;— Eight parts of powdered sulphur. One and a half part of powdered charcoal. A quarter part of powdered saltpetre. Mix all together, and make them into pastiles, adding just enough gum water for the purpose ; shape them like pyramids, and dry them in the sun. A roomy box,—say a three-dozen case,—furnished with hooks to suspend the meat by, with a closely fitting door, and all crevices filled with putty, and pasted over with strips of strong paper, is the sort of receptacle you require for the fumigation. Suspend the meat, place two or three pastiles below it, light them, close the door securely, and leave well alone.”Our Kitchens in India. (Reprinted, by permiseion, from the Madras Mail.) EMEMBERINGr as vfe all can so well the cheerful aspect of the English kitchen, its trimness, its comfort, and its cleanliness, how comes it to pass that in India we continue year after year to be fully aware that the chamber set apart for the preparation of our food is, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, the foulest in our premises—and are not ashamed ? In the matter of uten- sils, and the general accessories of culinary work also,— knowing what things are considered essentially necessary even in the quietest establishment at home,—why are so many of us satisfied with an equipment regarding the misei’able inadequacy of which it would be as well to keep silence ? Why, in short, in the one country are we scru- pulously careful that our food shall be clean, and in the other at all times willing, apparently, to eat dii-t ? Over and over again have revolting facts been discover- ed in connection with the habits and customs of the cook- room. But instead of striking at the root of the evil, and taking vigorous action to inaugurate reform, we are abso- lutely callous enough not only to tolerate barbarisms, but even to speak of the most abominable practices as jests ! Though cognizant, that is to say, of the ingenious nastiness of our cooks, we shrug our shoulders, close our eyes, and ask no questions, accepting with resignation a state ofOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 497 things which we consider to be as inevitable as it is dis- gusting. But stop a moment;—is it inevitable ? Let us consider that point. The fans et origo inali, it seems to me, are to be detected without difficulty. Think, first of all, of the distances which as a rule separate our kitchens from our houses, and the fact that the room is part and parcel of a block of godowns—not unfrequently within easy access of the stables. Setting aside other considerations for a mo- ment, do we not at once perceive here two grave evils :— in the first place that proper supervision of the kitchen is almost out of the question ; and, in the second, that pro- miscuous gatherings of outsiders,—the friends, relations, and children (a fruitful source of dirtiness) of our servants, —can take place in it undetected ? Again : the room is generally constx’ucted with as little ventilation and light as possible, its position with regai-d to the sun is never thought of, and arrangements for its proper drainage are rare. As there is no scullery, or place for washing up, <fec., the ground in the immediate vicinity of the kitchen re- ceives the foul liquid (as well as all refused matter) which is carelessly thrown out upon it. The consequence is that hard by many a cook-room in this Presidency, there is a noisome cesspool containing an inky looking fluid, the exhalations from which can scarcely improve the more delicate articles of food which are sent from the house for preparation. Now follow me into the room. It is as black as Erebus. The pungent smoke from yonder wood fire, upon whieh some water for a bath is being boiled, penetrates every crevice. There is no chimney, you see, so the wall, up which the smoke is creeping towards an opening in the roof, is lined by an ancient coating of soot. Observe tlie mass of patriarchal looking cobAvebs depending from the493 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. I rafters, and the floor of mother-earth, greasy, black, and cruelly uneven in its surface. Pull yourself together now, for we are about to examine the kitchen table. It is, to begin with, a piece of furni- ture which it would be gross flattery to call a dresser. It is small, and very rickety. In colour it is a remarkably warm burnt umber. The legs which support it are be- grimed with dust which has become coagulated from time to time by grease, and smoked a rich sable. If you wished to do so, you could scrape off this filthy tegument with your pen-knife to the depth of the sixteenth of an inch. The top of the table is notched and scored all over with wounds inflicted by the chopper, the edges are all worn down, and there are tell-tale marks which prove that it is the custom of the chef and his assistants to mince parsley, herbs, onions, aye the meat itself of which those “ chicken cutlets” that he delights to give you are made, upon the oily, nut-brown board. What are that stone slab and roller for, with traces of last night’s spinach upon them ? 0 ! they are the pet articles de cuisine of tunny-cutch ammah to whose delicate fingers is entrusted the making of chutneys, and all pre- parations which are presented to you in the form of pulp. The boiled vegetable, or whatever it may be, is turned out upon the slab, and she rolls the pin backwards and forwards until the desired consistency is attained. How does she scrape the rolling pin, and the edges of the slab during this process, and how does she dish it ? Hush, my friend, there is not a spoon in the liitchen. Cast your eye over that meagre array of degchees and of sauce-pans nearly as black inside as they are outside, and note that there is a spit there, a chatty oven in yonder corner, and—nothing more. There is no cupboard, neither is there a rack for plates and dishes, but such small 1 •4 i499 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. etcetera as the cook uses are thrust at hap-hazard upon that shelf, which, in griminess, you see, matches the table, whilst it comes in handily for his turband, and the folded leaf containing his snuff. You have seen enough now, and look as if you wanted a brandy and soda, so let us return to the house. On our way you inveigh against native filthiness, &c., &c. Come now, be just in your condemnations, for verily this is a case in which it behoves us to remember the beam which is in our own eye, before we seek diligently to pull out the mote which is in our black brother’s eye. Who is really to blame for a great deal that I have shown you? Is it the cook’s fault that a wretchedly mean, carelessly constructed godown is given him for a kitchen ; that the place is inconveniently far from the house, and consequently open to every passer-by ; that the furniture is absolutely nothing more than one table, far too small for culinary requirements, and one shelf; that owing to faulty construction, the room ‘ smokes’ dreadfully, and that there is scarcely sufficient light in it to detect dirt ? Is it the cook’s fault that in the absence of proper ap- pliances he is forced to practise his native ingenuity, to use chatties for sauce-pans and stew-pans, to use the ‘ curry-stone’ for a mortar, his cloth for a sieve, and his fingers for a spoon or fork ? Is it the cook’s fault that, since no plates and dishes are included in his cook-room equipment, he has no alternative but to place meat, vege- tables, &c., on his table; and that being without a mincing machine, or chopping board, he uses its surface in lieu of the latter ? Why instead of denouncing the unfortunate man, I make bold to say that handicapped as he is, we have positively no reason to expect him to be clean ! Now I do not mean to say that the state of things that I have endeavoured to sketch obtains in every Madras establishment. On the contrary, I am quite sure that in500 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. some cases the utmost trouble is taken to make everything as clean and as nice as possible, that every available appliance is given to the cook with a generous hand, and that the mistress of the house prides herself upon visiting her kitchen and seeing that her orders are carried out. No: it is not to the energetic few that I dedicate these com- ments, but to the apathetic many who actually know not what they do—to themselves and to their friends—by permitting the preparation of their food to take care of itself. People who refrain from all interference, who hand everything over to their butlers, and take cleanliness for granted, do so, I know, sometimes through sheer ignorance, sometimes on account of idleness, and sometimes because they are not physically equal to the exertion. I frankly admit that the labour is frequently very disheartening. It strikes me, however, that if reform were made easier and pleasanter, many who ax’e now content to let things ‘ slide’ might wake up and become enthusiastic, while even those, who do not know what trouble means in the matter of perfecting their cuisine, would be thankful to find their daily task less irksome. Let us, therefoi’e, briefly consider how that object might be achieved. Taking the kitchen itself first: why on earth should we continue to accept as places fit for the cooking of our food the dismal hovels that are attached to our godowns, and called cook-rooms ? These places may have sufficed for the culinary necessities of our forefathers, who chiefly preyed upon curry and rice, and lived to all intents and purposes d la mode Indienne, But nous uvotis chnnge tout cela. The delicate cookery which day by day gains popu- larity in India now demands a clean airy room, propexdy furnished, with plenty of light, and many accossoi’ies bori'owed from civilized Europe. It has become essential, in fact, that to every house there should be attached a small building rcsci’vcd solelyOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 501 for kitchen work and—nothing else. It should he quite close to the house, and connected with the hack verandah hy a covered way. It should he constructed with a frontage towards the north or south so that the rays of the morning and evening sun may strike its sides. It should contain three rooms:—the work-room, the cooking-room, and the scullery, all opening into a good verandah. In the first, the food, pastry, &c., should he prepared; it should therefore he well ventilated, and have a good glass window or sky light, a large dresser, a marhle pastry slab, a rack for plates and dishes, shelves for cups, jugs, howls, &c., a cupboard for culinary stores, and a gauze meatsafe to protect meat, &c., from flies. Communication between this room and the cooking-room should he shut off so that no smoke could find its way into it: things should he carried to the kitchen via, the verandah. The cooking-room should, if possible, contain an English or American range. Failing that, a country-made range upon English principles, the construction of which I will discuss hy-and-by. It should he well ventilated, well lighted, and, in any circumstances, should contain a chimney. A table for dishing up, &c., would be required here, and also racks for ladles, di’edgers, &c., with shelves for the utensils. The scullery being merely used for washing up, the drawing, cleaning, and plucking of poultry, and work of that nature, would require a well made water-tight sink, communicating with an equally carefully made cistern, covered by a trap-door, outside the building : the cistern should be emptied every day, and well sprinkled with McDougall’s disinfecting powder. A tap of -Red Hills water in the scullery would bo a great boon at Madi’as. 54502 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. The floor of room number one might be of chunam mat- ted over, that of number two should be paved with slabs of stone, and a similar one of stone should be laid down in the scullery. The day’s work having been completed, the doors of the three rooms should be carefully locked, and the whole corps de cuisine dismissed, the keys being brought to the mistress of the house. The idea of the kitchen being used by a number of native employes as a sleeping cham- ber is obviously too horrible to need more than a passing remark. The two chief objections that will here suggest them- selves will be, I feel sure, on the one hand the difficulty of establishing the kind of kitchen I have described, and, on the other, the expense of equipping it according to the standard which obtains in England. I propose, therefore, to deal with those points independently, taking the kit- chen first. The little building that I advocate,—entirely separat- ed from the godowns, planned specially to meet culi- nary requirements, close to the house, and connected with it by a covered way,—in spite of its niceness theoretically, is, I admit, practically speaking almost an impossibility. Few owners of houses would go to the expense of a new building. I nevertheless offer the idea to those who are about to build de novo, and to such of my fellow countrymen, who, interested in houses that they have purchased, may be tempted to make their “ offices” as complete, and as home-like as possible. In what way, then, can anything be done to im- prove upon matters as they at present stand ? Well, a great deal, of course, depends upon circumstances. There are a good many houses that possess small build-OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 503 ings close to the back verandahs, which, I presume, were originally intended to be used as a “ coolers’ godowns,” or, perhaps, for the hanging of meat. They cannot be of much use for either of those purposes now-a-days, for the ancient cooler’s “ occupation’s gone,” and the modern zinc- lined safe has made us independent of a larder. It seems to me, then, that some of these little places might be easily converted into kitchens, large enough at all events to accommodate one of the small yet very excellent Anglo- American cooking ranges now procurable, together with its accessories, and such things as are necessai’y for mere cooking. A place for washing up might easily be con- trived on one side, or at the back of this room, and a light covered way might be thrown up cheaply enough to con- nect it with the house. Assuming such an arrangement feasible, the sacrifice of some small back room on the ground flour of the house, or the walling off of a portion of the back verandah would still be necessary to provide the “ working room,”—the room, that is to say, in which all food should be 'prepared prior to being conveyed to the kitchen. This I may call one of the chief points of the system I advocate, for, I maintain, that for numerous undeniable reasons, the making of pastry, the dressing of meat and vegetables, and the mixing of sauces, puddings, &c., should be per- formed in a cool place, away from the smoke and heat of fires, where wind and dust can be excluded by closing the door, and yet ample light be obtained from a good glass window, and, above all things, where the chef can be easily supervised. To illustrate the necessity of this recommendation, let us imagine that a cook, accommodated as he is at present is engaged in preparing a soujfl.e, or some equally delicate entremets. Of a sudden a blast of wind drives a cloud of dust into the cook-room through the door (which is ofOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA 504 necessity open to admit light), and blows myriads of tine particles of charcoal ashes from the open fire-places over everything. By-and-by the dish is served at dinner. Monsieur le mari cheerfully I’eceives his portion, but pre- sently encounters grit, and orders his plate to be taken away, murmuring something about the impolicy of petty economy in connection with flour. Madame la chatelaine, conscious of procuring the best of everything, replies— more in sorrow than in anger, yet withal warmly—and denies the unkind impeachment, though constrained to send her plate away also. And thus a cloud comes over what ought to he a very happy tete-X-tete, while indiges- tion, the natural result of irritation at meals, most pro- bably follows. Now the wmrst of it is that unless people happen to discover the real causes of accidents such as these themselves, they may wait until doomsday for enlighten- ment. The mental equilibrium of the native cook is in no wise disturbed by a dust storm, for he is perfectly accustomed to them; and the butler will assuredly invent a plausible excuse for the contretemps ;—“ little bit yegg- shell,” or “ sugar mistake.” It therefore comes to this, that we must insist upon a nicer appreciation of the cleanliness and care that the preparation of food demands, and to accomplish that end satisfactorily a room of the kind I have described appears to me to be essentially necessary. I am perfectly aware that, in some instances, every species of obstruction will at first be thi’ust in the way of those who try to follow my advice, and, in others, that the change will be obeyed with reluctance. But deter- mination and tact combined wiU, I think, overcome opposi- tion after a time, and the very malcontents themselve.s will end by praising the now regime.OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 505 It is downriglit nonsense to say that native cooks cannot work upon English principles. They manage very well on boardship, where their services are highly prized, yet their appliances are wholly European. The kitchen at the Madras Club, and those of several private houses, both here, and on the Hills, are fitted up entirely upon the Home system, yet the cooks do not complain. No ; it seems pretty clear that if no other alternative present it- self, Ramasamy can fall into the way of using a range readily enough. I know of a case in which a young and zealous native chef absolutely begged his mistress to permit him to pre- pare his jellies, pastry, &c., in a spare room in the house, alleging as his reason that the kitchen was too hot and smoky : and I am perfectly sure that the majority of good Madras cooks would appreciate a similar concession. The recusants would, in all probability, be gentlemen who have become wedded to practices whereof their consciences are afraid. Pilferings of all kinds would, to begin with, become far more difficult, long absences would be soon detected, work properly the cook’s could not be thrust upon the cook’s maty, and drinking and gossiping during working hours would be knocked on the head. The furnishing of this “ working room” could be man- aged without much trouble, and certainly inexpensively, in the manner already mentioned:—with a dresser of strong wood, a pastry table with marble slab, a cup-board, a rack for plates and dishes, a gauze safe, and a set of shelves. Delicate operations, such as the composition of high class sauces, the boiling of a jelly, or the simmering of fruit, could be carried on upon a mineral oil stove, or by means of a charcoal fire placed in a sheltered corner of the veran- dah close to the room; and such articles of diet need never be carried into the kitchen at all. But when pro- perly dressed, and prepared for roasting, stewing, boiling.506 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. baking, &c., savoury meats, pastry, and puddings, would, of course, be transported to the cooking-room. In cases where there is no isolated building near the house susceptible of conversion into a kitchen, the cook- room, such as it may be, would have to be utilized; but if properly ventilated, fitted up with a range, racks, tables, &c., frequently inspected, and reserved exclusively for the work I have mentioned, its evils might surely to be re- duced to a minimum. Another great thing to obtain, to my mind, is a really clean place, not only for the preparation of food, but also for its keeping during the day. Think for a moment of the dish of neck of mutton cutlets that the cook takes away to the cook-i’oom at 10 a.m., after his mistress has inspected the market supplies. The cutlets re-appear at dinner time, it is true, but dare we consider how the poor things spent their day before the hour of their cooking arrived ? In my ideal room they would be trimmed im- mediately upon a clean dresser, flattened with the cutlet bat, and then arranged neatly upon a large flat dish, dusted over with pepper and salt, lightly dredged with flour, and consigned till wanted in the gauze safe; or, if so required, they might be placed in marinade, and then put away beyond the reach of flies. The trimmings would, of course, be collected upon a plate, and sent out to the kitchen for the production of broth for sauce. And now for a few words about kitchen ranges and equipments. Until almost the other day, so to speak, an English range was regarded as too expensive a luxury for people in India of ordinary means. The expenditure of from two to three hundred rupees upon such a thing was looked upon as an extravagant freak. This strange opinion must have been born and bred in Hindustan a generation or more ago, and handed down to as together with nuraer-OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 507 OTIS otlier baseless nostrums in the usual course of things ; for people could scarcely have forgotten—even forty years ago—that dwellings built for persons of three hundred a year at home were considered uninhabitable unless equip- ped with a kitchen range that at least cost thirty pounds. Of course, there was an excuse for the economy, one indeed, that is readily pleaded, I dare say, to-day:—An English range would be thrown away upon a native cook, he could never appreciate its advantages, and would fall back upon his own way of doing things the moment he was left to himself. With this ingenious subterfuge num- bers of people have been contented, and have willingly closed theii" eyes year after year to the wastefulness, and barbarity, of the native system. The consequence is that we now find ourselves in a some- what anomalous position. Whereas our taste have under- gone a complete change for the better; whereas men of moderate means have become hypercritical in the matter of their food, and demand a class of cooking which was not even attempted in the houses of the richest twenty years ago,—our kitchens have been in no way improved, neither have their appliances or equipments undergone the change that is necessary to keep pace with the requirements of the times. Dinners of sixteen or twenty, thoughtfully composed, are de rigtieur; our tables are prettily decorated ; and our menu cards discourse of dainty fare in its native French. But what “ nerves” we all have to be sure ! Could we but raise the cxirtain, and examine our cook- rooms, and all that in them is, just before we lead the way to the banquet, should we not be actually dumb-foundered at our own audacity ? Setting aside the things which I have already enlarged upon, it is no exaggeration to say that not one Indian kitchen in twenty possesses a proper equipment. TheOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 508 hatterie de cuisine of people with incomes of two thousand rupees a month, and more, is frequently inferior to that of a “ humble cottager in Britain,” the total of whose means does not exceed four hundred pounds. But while the latter lives with consummate modesty, and thinks his establishment by no means equal to the strain of a dinner party of six, the former sits down, invites five-and-twenty people with a light heart, and expects everything to bo of the best! The nakedness of the land is easily discovered at the auctions of our highest officials, where the contrast between the “ furniture principally by Deschamps” in the drawing- room, and the “ few useful kitchen sundries” in the back verandah, is often very striking. The loan system is also eloquent of the inefficient equip- ments of our neighbours. To meet the culinary wants of a dinner party at Robsons’, the Dobsons’ ice-pail, fish- kettle, and sieves, are requisitioned ; and vice versa, when the Dobsons invite their friends, the Robsons’ kitchen is pillaged to the extent of a border mould, a ham boiler, and the pastry cutters. I need say no more about equipments : those who aro interested in the matter will find a list of kitchen neces- saries at page 21. Having, I hope, satisfactorily demonstrated that a kitch- en range should surely find a place in the category of things to be “ devoutly wished for” by all who take any interest in their cuisine, let me now point out a few of the advantages to be derived from the use of one. After having once set up a good range, the purchaser ought, in the first place, to experience a marked diminu- tion in his fuel account. The native cook’s objection “ too much fircAvood taking” is, let me observe, a downright perversion of fact. If propoi’ly understood, and utilized509 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. to its full extent, tlie English range, with its one fire, must surely consume less fuel than do the numerous open fires in an Indian cook-room. This is self-evident. According to the method that is followed in the latter system, a separate fire is required for each thing:—for the bath water, the kettle, the oven, the sauce and stew-pans, &c., &c. A range provided with a hot-plate, an oven, and a boiler, supplies with its one fire all these wants at once. Vessels, the contents of which require rapid boiling, are placed over the fire-hole, while things needing slow treat- ment, like soups, stews, &c., find a place upon the hot- plate, or fiat surface of the range. The oven is, of course, always kept hot, and the boiler, if correctly filled, must contain an unceasing supply of hot water. If however these opportunities of economy be neglected, and if the cook be permitted to make up little fires, in addition to that of the range, here and there in the kitchen in his native fashion, the saving in fuel will, I grant, be small. I know that the “ Dufi’s cooking ranges,” which are set up for the use of British soldiers in the barracks of this Presidency, are generally condemned by the men as re- quiring too much wood. But then they are not utilized in a way by which economy is attainable. T. Atkins re- quires no soup ; he is not particular regarding the tender- ness of the stew he eats ; and he rarely wants hot water. He finds the oven alone necessary, for “ Jack,” the barrack cook-boy, can use the chatty, the grid-iron, or the frying- pan, in the verandah, over a small charcoal fire, with sufficient cleverness to satisfy his many masters. Yet the ranges in the hospital kitchens are thoroughly appreciated. Hot water is in constant requisition there, soup must be made daily, and meat has to be very carefully cooked. In order, then, to find English ranges economical as fuel consumers, people who buy them must take care that they are turned to their proper and full account. 55510 OVR KITCHENS IN INDIA. The superior quality of the food cooked with a perfect appliance of this kind when compared with the best results obtainable by the native system, is another strong recom- mendation in favour of the range. Take one item of daily consumption—our soup. It is not exaggeration to say that, as a general rule, the native cook takes nearly double the amount of meat and bone necessary to produce this article of food. His doing so may be attributed, of course, in a great measure to ignorance; but he can also plead as an excuse the want of a proper kitchen equipment. His practice, if left to himself, has been explained at page 41. Now, independently of the ignorance there exposed of the elementary principles of soup-making, observe the wanton wastefulness of fuel. The extraction of the nutritive elements of meat and bone requires, we all know, that slow process of cookery called simmering—a process as readily carried out with an English range, as it is almost impossible with the open brick and mud fire-places of the cook-room. At least, it stands to reason that—be the tunny-euich never so careful —the low fire, at an even degree of temperature, which simmering requires, can scarcely be maintained for hours together by the eye and hand alone. With a range in our kitchen, therefore, all we should have to do would be to explain the simmering system, and point out how easily it can be managed. Then, as soon as the native cook discovered that all that was necessary was to pull his soup kettle so many inches back upon the hot- plate, he would do so, for the new plan would not interfere with his customary absence for “ rice.” In the end we should get a soup of superior quality extracted from about half the quantity of meat that we formerly issued. In like manner all dishes requiring slow cookery, hashes, stews, sauces,—even our curries, which are often sent up tough fi’om being too quickly cooked,—would be easilyOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 511 prepared, and certainly be far more digestible. The cleanliness of the system need not be dwelt upon, smoke would become a thing unknown, and ashes could no longer be wafted by every breeze into our food. With so much to be said in favour of the kitchen range, it seems strange that its cost should be considered pro- hibitive by so many well-to-do people in India. If pro- perly used the economies it effects must, in the end, repay its purchase, while it ought to be at all times a very sale- able article. Why, 1 repeat, should we hesitate to provide ourselves in India with an appliance that in England is regarded by people of ordinary respectability as a common necessary of life ? Ingenious and painstaking persons who hesitate to go to the expense of an English range may, as I said before, effect a material improvement in their kitchen system by putting together a fire-place upon home principles. I know of a case in which an experiment of this kind has been crowned with success. The method followed may be briefly described as follows ;— A fire grate was first contrived by iron bars in the style of a cresset, rectangular in shape, and supported on four iron props; it was made the full length and height of an English kitchen grate, but one-third less deep at back. Embedded in masonry on one side of this fire grate was an iron bazar-made boiler ; the side of it nearest the fire had no masonry, and it fitted closely to the iron bars. The boiler was furnished with a brass tap. On the other side of the grate, set firmly in masonry, with its side towards the fire exposed, and with a close fitting door was a bazar- made iron oven. The props of the cresset fire-place were set in masonry and cemented ; they were sufficiently long to sustain the fire about the average height from the ground that kitchen fires are fitted in England. Over the top of the fire a flat sheet of iron connected the surface ofOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 512 the oven with that of the boiler, forming a very fair hot- plate. This iron sheet was movable at pleasure. The topmost outer bar of the cresset was also movable to allow a space for the admission of fuel when the hot-plate was fixed. The smoke was made to pass into a flue contrived with a few feet of ready-made stove piping, which passed through the wall of the kitchen at the back of the fire grate, and was then led up the wall to the roof. But by far the best thing introduced in this locally de- signed kitchen was an English roasting “jack.” The “jack” itself was imported from home at a cost of half a sovereign; the fire screen, and dripping pan were made by the bazar tinman ; the “ jack” was hung from a beam fixed in the wall at a convenient height above the fire grate. Every joint was in this manner roasted more Anglico. Dripping, a thing previously unknown in the establish- ment, became a highly valued commodity ; and the meat was invariably sent up full of gravy, and with that crisp browning that can only be obtained by carefully roasting. A little more charcoal was used in the “ jack” system than in the old way with the spit, but the expense was more than balanced by the dripping gained, the good gravy, and the additional juiciness of the meat. Charcoal was used for roasting work, and good dry wood was found sufficient for soups, and all common boiling operations, when no roasting was needed. The strange thing was that both the butler and the cook were as delighted with the innova- tion as children with a new toy. I hope that this may encourage some of my readers to cariy out a similar scheme. I have spoken of the American cooking stoves fed by mineral oil, in Chapter XXX. The popularity of these very excellent domestic articles is increasing daily, and I need scarcely point out theii’ value in the reformed kitchen system that I have endeavoured to discuss. One of themOUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. 513 could, for instance, find a place in tlie indoor “ working- room” I have recommended, and pro^dde a handy little kitchen for all delicate operations, especially for fancy baking. Finally: with a range (if possible), and with an ar- rangement, such as I have tried to describe, giving us a clean, nicely equipped room for the preparation of our food, and a kitchen, entirely separated from godowns and stabling, easily accessible from the house, and conse- quently continually subject to scrutiny and wholesome discipline, I think that the back-bone of the evils I have spoken of would be broken, ladies would find the super- vision of their domestic economy a pleasure rather than a penance, and we should be able to congratulate our- selves upon having really laid the foundation-stone of true refoi’m at last.I :isr ID E Ds:. ♦— ^^cme stove the Do. do. working of... Aitchbone of beef, to cure... Allemande sauce Almond (burnt) Charlotte Russe of (ice) Do. milk in curries Do. do. in mulligatunny American “canned” fruits, &c. ... Anchovy cream ... Do. toast ... Do. do. made at the table ... Do. do. top-dressing for Angel puddings... Antipasto, the (hors d'oeuvres) Aperture, the necessity of, in pie-crust Apple Charlotte ... Apricot cream A la Moscovite Do. cream (icgd pudding) Do. custard ... Do. sauce Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. a la Barigoule .i. a I’Espagnole I’ltalienne a la Lyonnaise a la maitre d’h6tel a la moelle la poivrade a la Proven^ale ... au gratin au sauce blanche, or bechame PAGE. 315 316 254 99 369 300 309 29 334 223 224 224 436 212 274 486 408 340 387 462 149 151 151 151 151 150 >52 151 >52 c '50 I50& 152516 INDEX. Artichoke globe bouchees Do. do. cold to treat Do. do. en coquilles Do. do. fritters ... Do. do. on toast... Do. do. petits pal4s of Do. do. sauce for... Do. do. scallops of Do. do. to trim ... Do. do. stems a la cardon... Do. Jerusalem (topinambour) Do. do. a la Chetput... Do. do. au gratin Do. do. fritters Do. do. mould of Do. do. petits p§.t6s of Do. do. ways of cooking Do. do. with eggs ... Asparagus (asperges) Do. en brandies ... Do. peas... ••• ••• Do. points ..• ••• Do. points on toast Do. (tinned) Aspic de perdreaux Do. iellv to make Do. lelly to make ... ••• Aubergines (brinjals) k I’Espagnole Do. au gratin Australian tinned meats ... icon value of in rechauffes ... •marie pan the Baked crab Do. Drumstick seeds ... Do. Mushrooms Baking concerning Do. equipment for Do. stove a ... .•• ••• Ballotines of quails Bandecai croustades Do. in salad Do. toast ... ••• ••• Do. Wyvern’s way {au gratin) Barrie’s Madras curry powder, 8tc. Batter for frying... Do. in rdchauff^s Bain PAGE. 153 152 344 150 229 153 89 344 150 161 148 149 148 149 149 153 148 236 162 428 163 163 229 163 344 386 380 452 324 174 20 460 432 386 261 319 .. 315 338 473 .. 210 229 •• 288 195 & 35° «75INDEX. 617 Bavarian cream with cocoa Bavaroise de cocoa a la moderne ... Beans, broad {feves de marais) ... Do. country Do. do. 4 la bourgeoise Do. ¥vench (haricots verts) Bearnaise sauce Bechamel do. ... Beef and mutton Do. cl la mode Do. brisket to cure Do. fresh, boiling of Do. grenadins a la Bearnaise Do. olives ... ... ... Do. pressed ... Do. salt boiling of Do. spiced Do. steak and vegetables Do. do. and oyster pudding Do. do. and oyster pie ... Do. do. pie .. Do. do. pudding Do. do. with sorrel puree Do. suet in pastry Do. do. to clarify Beetroot (Betterave) ... Do. leaves edible Beignets d’ananas Do. d’artichaut Do. d’aubergines (brinjals) ... Do. d’avenches Do. de bananes Do. de p^ches Do. de topinambours (fritters) Do. souffles... ... Do. do. au Parmesan Bhindi, see bandecai Bigarade sauce for wild duck Binegun, see Brinjal Bisque de grandes-crevettes Do. do homard (note)... Blanc ... Blanc-manger k la vanille Blanquette of fowl Boiled chops Do. turkey ... Boiling... PAGE. 5G 374 374 165 165 165 137 337 98 102 123 254 119 337 424 255 255 461 271 277 480 271 484 262 262 157 57 & 225 201 150 462 419 473 364 148 202 202 165 351 165 403 404 160 453 439 121 119 114518 INDEX. Boiling a ham ... Do. common errors in... Do. fish Do. to improve flavour of Bombay ducks... Do. do. with curries Do. onions Do. do. au gratin Boned loin of mutton Bordelaise sauce Bouchees de bandecai (croustades^ Do. d’^pinards Do. with fish Boudins of pigeon Do. of salmon Bouillabaisse ... Bouiili Do. a la Milanaise Bouillon Do. court for fish Do. do. ^ la Nantaise Do. with bouiili Braised capon ... Do. fresh brisket Do. hen turkey Do. do. a la jardiniere Do. leg of mutton a la chevreui Do. loin of mutton Braising Brawn, a good ... Do. of ox-head Do. seasoning Brazilnut milk in curries ... Bread-cases for entrees ... Bread-crumbing cutlets, &c. Bread crumbs to store Bread-making ... ... Do. do. things required for Bread (plain loaf) Do. sauce Breads, fancy ... Breakfasts k la Fran9aise Breast of mutton a la Wyvern Brine for pickling meat ... Brinjal toast Brinjals k I’Espagnole Do. au gratin PAGE. Ii8 115 55 122 220 306 155 155 439 354 473 395 59 384 477 58 37 & 490 490 37 & 488 56 56 490 435 465 427 379 385 447 104 256 256 257 300 361 68 56 317 3>7 320 88 320 185 451 251 230 380 45INDEX. 519 Brinjals chutney Do. fritters ... Do. in salad... Broiled cutlets ... Broiled seer en papillotes... Brunoise soup ... Brussels sprouts (choux de Bruxelles) Do, do. h la creme Do. do. k la Lyonnaise ... Do. do. a la maitre d’hotel Do. do. a la poulette Do. do. au beurre Do. do. au jus Burnt almond (praline) Do. sugar colouring (caramel) ... Butter fancy Do. fancy rules for making Do. green Do. home made expense of Do. in pastry Do. maitre d’hotel Do. necessity of in cookery Do, tinned, value of ... Buttered eggs ... Do- egg toast Do. do. with anchovy toast ... Do. do. with fish toast Do. do. with spinach toast ... abbage au sauce blanche Do. in-pot-au-feu Do. leaves with forcemeat (farcis) Do. stewed... Do. with rice and gravy Cabbages (Choux) to prepare for dressing Do. to steam Do. with rice Caf4 i la Turque Do. au lait Do, noir Camp soups au maigre ... Do. do. consomm^ S, la Julienne Do. do. fowl stock for Do. do. miscellaneous stock for Do. do. tinned Canapes PAGE. 305 365 217 60 S8 359 143 144 143 143 144 143 143 369 35 216 216 217 73 262 82 73 74 235 221; 224 231 228 ... 142 143 142 141 ... 142 ... 140 ... 140 142 & 246 495 494 494 321 322 323 324 •'•no 324 188 & 215520. INDEX. PAGE. Canapes de becassines t*. 376 Do. de caviare 417 Canard sauvage • •. 485 Caneton aux petits pois ... 468 Caper sauce 81 Capon k la Fran^aise 350 Do. braised with turnip purde ... ... 435 Do. galantine of 405 Do. stuffing ... ... ... 108 Do. with cauliflower • • • 356 Careme sauce • • • 457 Caramel colouring 35 Cardes poirees ... • . • ... 161 Cardoons ^ la nioelle 161 Do. to imitate • • • 161 Carre de mouton farci 400 Carrots {carottes) 154 Do. k la Flamande. ... 154 Do. a la Nivernaise ... 154 Do. glaces ... 153 Do. soup 48 Do. to trim ... 154 Cases bread 363 Do. china ... 72 &363 Do. paper ... 363 Do. potato ... 344 Do. rice ... 383 Casseroles de riz (to make) ... 383 Do. of prawns 383 Cassolettes k la financikre ... 343 Do. to make of potatoes ... 343 Cauliflower (chou-fleur) to prepare for cooking 144 Do. au gratin (Italian) without cheese 145 Do. au gratin with cheese ... 145 Do. boiled 144 Do. different ways of serving «•* 144 Do. plain boiling of 145 Do. to trim 144 Caviare toast 417 Celery Cceleri) 159 Do. a la moelle ... ... lOI Do. a 1’ Espagnole ... 156 Do. to stew in 6/flMC J59 Do. with butter (entremets) 407 Champignons au gratin ... 380 Chapelure ... 71 Charlotte k la Sicilienne (ice) ... . ... 357INDEX. 521 Charlotte de bananes Do. de pommes Do. Russe au praline (ice) Chateaubriand sauce Chaud-froid i la belle alliance Do. de foie gras ... Do. of fowl 4 la Palestine Do. of fruit Do. of snipes Cheese-cakes, lemon Cheese biscuits ... Do. beignets souffles of Do. cream Do. fingers ... Do. fondue ... Do. sauce (Milanaise) Do. service of Do. do. with soups... Chetput sauce ... Chicken a la St. Lambert... Do. a la Villeroy Do. _and tongue-pie ... Do. chaud-froid Do. do. do. sauce Do. cream (ewifyee) ... Do. croquettes of Do. curry Do. frit6t of Do. quenelles of Do. souffle ... Chicor^e (endives) Chives, equivalent of Chocolate cream ice (parfait) Do. icing ... Do. souffle... Cholum birds (our ortolans) Chops boiled Do. pickled ... Chutney (fresh) brinjal Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. cocoanut... cucumber mango ... mashed potato mint tamarind,., tomato Chutneys Barrie’s, Madras PAGE. 486 486 369 362 443 463 378 395 368 401 146 202 482 214 248 83 214 35 477 399 416 278 378 378 336 421 294 450 477 368 147 91 381 419 428 436 121 408 305 306 305 306 306 306 306 305 288INDEX. 522 Chutneys, service of PACK. 304 Civet de lifevre (jugged hare) ... 328 Claret jelly ... 0 380 Clarified suet for pastry ... 262 Clarifying soup ... 33 Clear fish soup ... • • • ... 353 Do. giblet soup 430 Do. mock turtle ... 3QO Do. ox-tail {queue de bceuf) • •« ... 409 Do. prawn soup ... 434 Do. soup a la Royale ... 371 Do. do. of partridges ... 415 Do. do. of snipes 347 Do’, do. with asparagus points ... 377 Do. do. with carrots ... 445 Do. do. with crusts 475 Do. do. with lettuce ... ... 464 Do. do. with maccaroni • • • 366 Do. do. with poached eggs 483 Do. do. with quenelles 335 Cocoanut flower stalks a 1’ asperges ... ... 230 Do. do. toast • t • • • ^ 230 Do. chutney • .. 306 Do. milk ... 302 Cod’s roe toast ... ... 230 Code of rules for soup-making . • 39 Coffee-making ... ... 493 Cold fish, rechauffes of ... 170 Do. meat slices like cutlets ... 172 Do. vegetables, rechauffes of ... ... 176 Colouring soup ... ... 34 Conserve of tomato ... 242 Consomme ... 32 Do. a la Royale ... ... 371 Do. a I’Estragon 39 Do. au maccaroni ... ... 365 Do. aux oeufs poches ... 483 Do. aux pates d’Italie (note)... Do. aux pointes d’asperges ... 366 ... ... 377 Do. aux quenelles ... 335 Do. d’abatis (giblet) ... 430 Do. de becassines ... 347 Do. de grandes-crevettes • •* • •• 434 Do. de laitue ... • •• 464 Do. de perdreaux ... > • • 415 Do. de poisson ... ... 353 Cooked vegetables in salads » . . • »t 210523 INDEX. Coquilles (scallop shells) use of Do. d’artichauts Cotelettes a la Maintenon Do. a la Milanaise ... Do. a la Moscovite... Do. ^ la Nivernaise Do. i la Reforme ... Do. a la Valois Do. au creme de fromage Do. au macedoine ... Do. au pure d’oseille Courge a la moelle au gratin Do. do. to cook Court bouillon Do. do. ^ la Nantaise Crab au gratin Do. coral butter Do. mock Do. mock toast Cream cheese Do. Garibaldi Do. in salad ... Do. in soups ... Cr^cy soup Cr^me d’anchois Do. de fromage ... Do. de pistaches glac4e Do. de riz aux haricots verts Do. de volaille truffee... Do. d’orge Crapes (pancakes) Cr^pinettes de poisson Do. de volaille ... Cromesky, the ... Croquettes of chicken aux pointes d’asperge Do. of duck Do. to crumb Croustades de bandecai Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. CroOtes au pot Do. d’ananas Do. k I’Avenches de champignons de grandes crevettes .. de foie gras of rabbit ... de truffes a PEspagnole PAGE. 176 152 & 346 373 427 348 154 360 379 355 431 404 165 466 155 460 218 2ig 232 214 432 209 45 49 343 482 345 467 336 398 175 426 392 199 421 354 71 473 487 455 435 361 487 475 410 420524 INDEX. Cro-fttons Crumbs for cutlets Do. do. croquettes Do. to keep a supply of Crust, pie Do. French Do. do. raised Do. (pork) pie ... Cxxcnmhevs (concombres):. Do. toast Do. (to cook) Do. stewed Do. stuffed Curds to make for cheese cakes ... Cure’s omelette, the Curing tongues, &c., rules for Curries... ••• Do. almond milk in Do. butter necessity of in Do. cocoanut importance of in ... Do. do. miikfor... Do. flavouring leaves used in ... Do. gravy to assist Do. green ginger in ... Do. knotty points in ... Do. lost art of making .. Curry Ceylon (or Malay) Do. do. cocoanut milk for ... Do. do. condiments for Do. do. cucumber to prepare for Do. do. prawns to prepare for Do. chicken ... Do. dry Do. kub&b Do. paste recipe for Do. do. value of Do. powder, a stock receipt for Do. do. Barrie’s, Madras Do. do. hints for making Do. do. ingredients for Do. do. London made Do. quoorma ... Custard a la surprise (tipsy pudding) Do. apricot ... Do. savoury, as top-dressing for toast Cutlets a la Reforme Do. to bread-crumb ... PAGE. 49 67 71 28 & 56 265 268 266 267 156 229 156 300 157 491 183 2152 285 290 289 290 290 290 290 293 287 285 297 299 300 300 300 294 295 303 293 293 291 288 291 291 288 303 424 387 222 %525 INDEX. PAGE. Cutlets to grill ... • • • • • • • • • 67 Do. to marinade • ... 66 Do. to stew ... • •• 1 ■ • • •« • • • 67 Do. to trim ... « * • ... 66 Do. veal to lard • t • • 4 • «« • 68 ^^„^arnes de seer a la Perigueux Dejeuner a la fourchette ... Devilled ham Dil pussund (young) Dinde brais4e a la jardinifere Do. do. au chou-fleur Dinner rolls Domestic ‘ pasty’a Dried haricot beans Drumstick-seed toast Do. do. au gratiii Dry curry Duchesse pudding Duchesses potato Duck croquettes k la Borddaise Do. stuffing Do. wild ... ... Duckling and peas ... Dutch cheese in cookery ... Do. sauce D’Uxelles, or fines kerbes... Do. sauce... ^au de cuisson (vegetable stock) Eels stewed Do. to cook Egg and cream, a savoury custard of for toast Do. toasts to vary Eggs buttered Do. do. on toast ... ... ... Do. do. with anchovy toast... ... Do. do. with cheese ... Do. do. with fish toast Do. do. with spinach toast ... Do. in sauces for thickening ... Do. in soups Do. poached on toast with cream... Do- snow Do, to cook in various ways ... 342 ... 185 ... 220 ... 166 379 ... 427 ... 319 277 166 230 ... 432 29s 456 130 & 461 354 .. no 48s .. 468 232 .. 89 .. 100 loo *39 ... from 57 & 312 416 324 224 22s 23s 225 224 236 231 228 lOI 45 224 345 234 to 240526 INDEX. Eggs with cream • » » « • • PAGE. 236 Do. with Jerusalem artichokes • t • 230 Endive {chicoree) < « * 147 & 470 Entries, classification of ... 61 Do, garnishing of • •• ... 75 Do. iced value of ... • • • ... 63 Do. place of in the menu • • • • •• • .« 6 Do. of pastry • • • • t • .... 72 Do. selection of ... 62 Do. socle (or stand) for 75 Epigrams of mutton «.• 366 Epinards 5 la crfeme ... 146 Equipment, for baking at home 319 Do. kitchen f • « ... 21 Errors in toasting bread ... ... 222 Espagnole sauce ... ... «. . 96 Do. do. descendants of ... ... 97 Essence of fowl ... ... 98 Do. of game ... . . 99 Do. of mushrooms ... 100 Do. of truffles ... ... ... 100 J^ancy butter ... • •• ... 216 Do. do. crab coral ... 21S Do. do. fish in ... 21S Do. do. green • • f 217 Do. do. hard boil eggs in t • • ... 218 Do. do. herring" roes in • • • • • • 376 Do. do. lobster t • < t . • 218 Do. do. maitre d’ hdtel • « • . 1 . 82 Do. do. prawn • •• ... 217 Fennel sauce ... ... 81 Fig pudding ... ... • M 469 Fillets, concerning ... 64 Fillet of beef 64 Do. a la B^arnaise ... ... 337 Do. k r Italienne • « • 189 Do. aux haricots verts • • • ... 394 Do. in jelly • • • 465 Do. with anchovy cream • •• 343 Do, with sorrel purde ... ... 484 Fillets of mutton «*« ... 64 Do. of fowls and game « *« ... 64 Do. fish in curry . * • 302 Do. of hare • •• 64 Do. of partridges in jelly ■ . « t • t 385INDEX. 527 Fillets of pigeon a la Genevoise Do. of pomfret h la Venitienne Do. Do. Do. Do. Do, Do. Do. do. do. do. do. do. of rabbits, of do. of of of of of ^ la poulette aux capres aux fines herbes en ragout... with parsley sau a I’ltalienne Do. of snipe en chaud froid Do. of soles ^ la pauvre homme Do. of teal a la Wyvern Do. of whiting a 1’ Americaine Do. of do. sauce piquante Financifere sauce Fines herbes {D’Uxelles) . Do. do. sauce Do. do. vinegar Fish k la broche... Do. au bleu Do. au gratin ... Do. broiled en papillotes. Do. cold {en rechauffe) , Do. curry Do. fresh water... Do, fritters (pounded) . Do. gravies chablis with, &c. Do. Madras, description of Do. in the menu Do. jugged Do. pounded with batter Do, pktes {rechauffe) Do. pie Do. preserved, toasts of... Do. rolled in pancakes {crepes) Do. the salad not to accompany Flageolets Fleurons of pastry Florence .stove the (note),.. Florican, to roast a Flour potato to make for souffids Foie gras, croustades de ... Do. do. fillets of {chaud-froid) Do, do, forcemeat Do. do. on toast Do. do. pain de Fonds d’artichauts a la barigoule PAGE. 372 383 354 378 366 467 438 64 445 368 445 446 404 420 98 100 81, 100 206 58 56 57 58 168 299 324 175 99 333 53 121 17s 171 283 230 175 41 139 146 315 485 413 435 462 70 226 429 151528 INDEX. PAGE. Fonds d’aFtichauts a la bechamel ... le;2 Do. do. k la crkme • • • J52 Do. ■ do. a I’Espagnole ... • •• ... I5I Do. do. k I’ltalienne ... I5I Do. do. a la Lyonnaise , , , ... Do. do. k la maitre d’h^el >50 Do. do. k la moelle 552 Do. do. au gratin ... 550 Do. do. cold treatment of 152 Do. do. enliers • •« ... Do. do. to trim i5> Fondue , the 248 Do. Brillat Savarin’s ... • ••• ... 249 Forcemeats • •• ... I lO Do. for game-pie ... • • • • . • 281 Do. for galantines ... 406 Do. fn rabbit-pie • • • ... 278 Do. of liver a la foie gras 70 Fowl a I’Amdricaine ... ... • . • 411 Do. a la Villeroy 416 Do. boiled in the soup stock 116 Do. grilled ... 475 Do. iu gged with vegetables ... 121 Do. or chicken essence ... • •• 98 Do. roasting of a ... 107 French beans {haricots verts) 137 Do. do. a la crkme ... 138 Do. do. au fines herbes • •• 138 Do. do. au lard • •• 138 Do. do. au crkme de fromage 138 Do. do. au sauce blanche 138 Do. do. in the jar ... • »• 137 & 338 Do. do. panaches ... • •• 139 Do. do. tinned • •• 164 Do. do. wrong trimming of ... 137 French rolls • •• 319 Fresh chutneys ... 304 Fricandeau of beef 422 Fried bread sippets {crowtons) ... ... 49 Frit6t de volaille... 449 Fritters (beignets) ... ... >95 Do. batter for • •1 198 Do. fruit 201 Do. oyster ... ... ... 200 Do. pancake... ... 198 Do. prawn pounded ... ... 201 Do. rules for frying ... ... ... 190529 INDEX. Frying, concerning Do. fish Do. medium... Do. pans concerning ... f^alantine of capon or turkey Do. of quails Game essence ... Do. pie Do. do. forcemeat for ... Do. do. raised... Do. soup Do. toast Garibaldi cream... Garnish for pie-tops Gateau de pistache Do. Napolitian GeI6e aux fruits ... Do. de Bordeaux Do. de prunes ... Genevoise sauce... Genoises au chocolat Gherkin sauce ... Giblet soup Giblets not to be used as garnish Gigot a la Bretonne Do. brais6 a la chevreuil Glaze to make ... Glazed carrots ... Do. onions ... Do. turnips {navets glaces) Gooseberries with gelatine (cold) Goose roast Do. do. sauce for Do. stuffing ... Gouffe’s classification of sauces Do. fundamental sauces Gravy for a pie made out of scraps Do. for pies, a sine qua non Do. soup {pot-au-feu) Grenadins de boeuf k la B4arnaise Green butter Do. do. with herring roes Greengages in cream Green peas to cook variously Do. with butter PAGE. .. 196 56 196 20 & 196 405 269 & 281 281 .. 269 50 228 432 273 442 429 356 380 351 372 .. 418 .. 82 430 467 .. 116 385 254 154 155 153 465 431 431 .. III 95 95 273 273 31 337 215 376 369 •• 135. 136 135530 1 NDE X. Greens, country • • • PAGE. 166 Do. country on toast ... 228 Do. to serve in various ways ... 144 Do. on toast • • • 144 Do. puree of 144 Grilled fowl (Wyvern’s way) 475 Guinea fowl {pmtade) with watercress ... • •• 471 ^^Fam of mutton • . • 255 Do. to boil ... ... ... 116 Handing round dishes 76 Hard-boiled egg toast ... 225 Do do. with fish toast • . • 231 Hare hashed ... 328 Do. jugged [civet de lievre) . « • 328 Do. patties a la financiere • •• *. • 393 Do. pie ... 279 Do. roast 328 Do. do. sauce for ... 328 Do. do. stuffing for • •• ... io8 Do. soup ... 420 Do. do. [puree) ... ... 437 Do. to marinade ... 327 Haricots dried [Soissoiis)... • •• 166 Do. verts ... • •• ... 139 Do. do. in salad (cold) ... 210 Do. do. steamed 137 & 338 Do. do. panaches ... • •• ... 139 Do. do. to trim ... 137 & 338 Hash, concerning ... ...67 & 168 Do. gravy (at a pinch) ... ... 169 Hashed hare ... 328 Do. mutton to taste like venison 66 Hen turkey braised k la jardiniere... ... • •• 379 Do. do. do. with cauliflower • •• 427 Herbs seasoning in stuffing ... 107 Herring roes green butter of ... 376 Do. toast • • • 230 Hollandaise sauce 84 Homard a 1’ Am6ricaine 457 Do. pilao a la Turque 491 Hors d’oeuvres, service of ... 6 & 213 Do. do. combinations of ,,, ■« • 214 Do. do. garnishing • « • 215 Do. do. serving oj'sters as • • . 6 214 Do. do. things composing ... ... 14 • 214INDEX. 531 Hors d’ceuvres, to choose Horseradish sauce Hump to boil Do. to cure ... 5ce vanilla cream Iced apricot cream pudding Do. Charlotte h, la Sicilienne _Do. Charlotte Russe au praline Do. Nesselrode pudding Do. parfait au chocolat ... Do. pistacio cream Do. pudding a I’ambigu (medley) Do. pudding with cherries Do. pudding with strawberries Do. rice h, I’Imperatrice ... Icing, chocolate... Indian corn, {mais) k 1’ Americaine Do. do. a I’ltalienne... Do. do. a la Napolitaine Do. ortolans... Isinglass in soups forbidden PAGE. 215 90 115 254 456 340 357 369 375 381 345 396 364 352 388 419 441 248 248 436 38 <^ambon au Madere ... Jelly aspic to make Do. claret {de Bordeaux) Do. of prunes, a capital ... Do. with fruits ... Jerusalem artichokes (topinavtbours) Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Jugged chops Do. fish do. do. do. do. do. do. do. au gratin bouchees fritters puree {au gras) (Palestine soup) do. {au viaigre) do mousse of h la Chetput with eggs Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. fowl French beans {specialiie) hare {civet de lievre) jungle sheep peas steak Jugging a tin for »37 118 386 380 351 356 148 148 153 149 453 453 149 240 121 122 122 & 338 328 329 135 122 121INDEX. 532 Julienne, preserved tablets of Do. soup Jungle fowl Do. sheep _ -edgree (Kitchri) English way ... Kidney in onions Do. soup Do. the, cut out of a cold saddle, on toast Do. toast Do. to remove unpleasant flavour of Killing poultry ... ... ... ... Kippered seer fish Kitchen equipment Do. utensils ... ... ... Kramouskys, concerning Do. with oysters,.. Knolkhol Kubab curry ... ... l^^amb quarter of, and green peas Lang spirit lamp, the Lard in pastry ... Leg of mutton a la Breton ne ’ Do. do. braised k la chevreui Lemon cheesecakes Lettuce soup Liaison of eggs ... Do. of flour and water... Lima beans Lime sauce for puddings ... Liver forcemeat (d la foie gras) Lobster a I’Americaine ... Do. pilao a la Turque ... Do. puree (bisque) Loin of mutton a la soubise Do. do. braised Do. do. en papillote Do. do. stuffed Luncheons Luncheon, dishes suggested Do. office ... Do. party, a menu for Do. do. features of PAGE. 34» 341 486 3^9 171 412 458 227 227 459 111 184 21 20 199 350 154 303 368 317 262 116 385 401 463 101 100 166 468 70 457 491 404 416 446 >05 439 185 186 192 187 186INDEX. 533 PAGE. Luncheon, the lady’s ^ . Do. the sportsman’s Do. the traveller’s . I« • • •• accaroni Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. a foreign dish of ... ••• a 1’ Italienne... au gratin cheese, and tomatoes, with meat in soup ... >.»^ .••• . en veloute au fromage (a la milanaise) soup to treat ... ••• ••• with tomato ... ••• Macedoine de legumes ... Made dishes, component parts of ... Madeira or Marsala in soups Do. do. with ham Madras fish compared with English Maids-of-honour... Maitre d’hotel butter Do. do. do. with asparagus Do. do. do. with chops and steaks... Do. do. sauce ... ••• Maize (Indian corn. Mats) Do. a I’Americaine Do. a I’ltalienne Do. a la Napolitaine Malay curry Mango chutney .. Marinade for mock venison Do. to make Do. value of Marinading joints Do. do. au gratin Do. do. beignets Do. do. farcis... Do. do. to strain Do. do. (young) Do. with artichokes Do. do. cardoons Do. do. celery Mashed potato ... Do. do. chutney 191 193 193 ... 24.0 ... 242 ... 187 241 & 461 174 34 ... 241 36s ... 240 ... 242 ... 83 ... 70 ... 36 ... 118 333 ... 490 ... S2 163 ... 82 82 165 & 248 ... 441 ... 248 ... 248 299 306 ... 66 65 65 ... 106 15s 156 ... 156 ... 1^6 15s 163 160 152 161 ... 160 ... 129 306 58534 INDEX. Matelote d’anguilles • • • PAGE. 416 Do. the Mayonnaise a la Gouffe ... • • • « a • 58 2II Do. sauce Do. do. (W. H. H.) ... Meat, to keep fresh in hot climates • • • 91 190 495 80 Melted butter {sauce blanche) Do. do. do for sweets 82 Menu, choosing entrees for the • • • 65 Do. do. fish for the Do. for a luncheon party • . • 0 54 186 Do. the composition of... 4 Meringues 389 Milk in soups • •• ... 45 Do. to flavour for fines herbes sauce 81 Do. to prepare for bread sauce ... 88 Mince gravy at a pinch for • •• ... 169 Do. ways of serving • •• 170 Minced game in cases * • • ... 363 Minces 175 Mint chutney • •• 306 Do. sauce 369 Do. wrong use of «.« 15 Mirepoix 100 Mixed vegetable sauce {macMoine)... ... S3 Mock crab ... ... 219 Do. do. toast ... 232 Do. new potatoes ... 134 Do. turtle, clear 390 Do. do. thick ♦ .*• 392 Do. venison marinade for 66 Do. white-bait--. ... 156 Moelle {marrow) to prepare ... 160 Do. with cardoons ... 161 Do. do. cardes poirees ... ... 161 Do. do. celery ... 160 Do. do. fonds d’artichauts *52 Do. do. pieds d’artichauts ... i6r Do. do. salsify 161 Moli, the ... ... 302 Mollay-keeray (country vegetable)... ... 166 Do. do. salad ... 210 Moringa-cai (country vegetable) ... ... ... 165 Do. au gratin ... 432 Do. toast ... ... . ,, 230 Mould of chicken cream ... 336 Do. of cheese do. ... 481535 IND\EX. Mould of foie gras • • • PAGE. 428 465 Do. of gooseberries ... • • • Do. of Jerusalem artichokes • . • 149 Do. of strawberries • • • 340 Mousse, term when used ... • • • 481 Mullet au gratin... • • • • . • 479 16s 306 Mucka-cholum (maize) ... • • • • a • Mulligatunny ... ... ... Do. almond milk in 309 Do. a, made in England • • • ... 308 Do. clear • • • 310 Do. chicken (ordinary) ... ... 312 Do. chief points to observe in ... 309 Do. fish stock for ... 3“ Do. maigre 3“ Do. meat stock for ... 311 Do. on serving rice with... 309 Do. vegetable stock for ... ... 3” Murrel to cook ... ... 324 Do. stuffing for (s'j&ea’a/jVe) 324 Mushrooms au gratin ^ ... ... ... 386 Do. croustades a I’Espagnole 486 Mustard sauce ... ... 86 Mutton... ... 102 Do. breast of a la Wyvern 450 Do. chops boiled ... 121 Do. do. pickled ... 408 Do. cutlets ... • •• 66 Do. do. a la Maintenon ... 373 Do. do. a la Milanaise 427 Do. do. a la Reforme 360 Do. do. a la soubise ... • • • 83 Do. do. a la Valois 379 Do. do. au creme de fromage • « • • •• 355 Do. do. au macedoine • • • 431 Do. do. in aspic (d la Moscovite) 348 Do. do. marinade for 66 Do. do, to bread-crumb 67 Do. do. to grill • •• 67 Do, do, to jug ... ... 121 Do. do. to stew • •• • • • 67 Do. do. trimming of ... 66 Do. do. with sorrel,.. • • • • a* 404 Do. ham ... ... 255 Do. leg of a la Bretonne 166 Do. do. il la chevreuil • • t 385 Do, loin of a la soubise ff * • 416536 INDEX. Mutton loin of braised • •• PAGE. 446 439 ... 106 Do. do. stuffed ... Do. do. wrapped in paper Do. pie domestic 273 ... 266 Do. do. raised ... Do. mulligatunny • 313 Do. shoulder of rolled and stuffed ... 400 ^ J eopolitan cake Nesselrode pudding, (ice) Nivernaise soup Nougat Nouilles Nun’s sighs (fritters) 429 375 444 468 449 441 ^^at biscuit CEufs a la creme (d la Suisse) Do. a 1’ Indienne Do. k la maitre d’hotel Do. a la niege Do. a la Suisse Do. au beurre noir Do. au fromage Do. au gratin... Do. au jus ... ... Do. aux oignons Do. aux topinambours... Do. brouilles ... ]9o. farcis ... ... Do. surleplat... Oie rotie ... ... Olive sauce ... ... Olives beef Do. farcies Omelette au Parmesan ... Do. aux fines herbes Do. aux legumes ... Do. aux tomaJtes Do. . elaborate Do. making rules of Do. Materials for making Do. souffl^e.... Do. the Curb’s to make Do. the “Pennaconda” 220 455 239 239 345 23'/ 235 235 237 236 239 239 235 238 235 432 384 424 213 iS3 181 1S2 182 184 181 178 481 183 176INDEX. 537 OmelettCi varieties.of Do. with kippered fish Onions (Bombay) au gralin Do. (button) glazed Do. pur6e a la Soubise Do, do. a la Bretonne Do. stuffed with kidney Orleans pudding Orlys of seerfish... Ortolans des Indes Our vegetables classified ... Oven in pastry ... Do. temperature of, for baking pies Do, the stove concerning Ox-head brawn ... Ox-tail soup (clear) ... Do. do. (thick) ... Oyster, and beefsteak pie Do. fritters ... Do. kramouskys ... Do. sauce de foie gras de fraises de fromage • •• de groseilles devolaille ... ... Palestine soup ... ... Panaches (haricots verts) ... ... Pancake-fritters... Pancakes with chicken {crepinettes) Do. with fish ... ... Do. with mince V odnms. (papartims) Parfait au chocolat ... Parsley sauce ... Do. to mince... Parsnips (/>aMafs) Do. glacis ... Do. sautes ... Do. various ways of serving Partridges a la soubise ... Do, clear soup of ... Do. in jelly Do. quenelles of en aspic Do, with cabbage ... PAGE. ... 182 183 155 ... 1*53 ...83 &417 417 ... 412 ... 418 398 436 127 ... 261 ... 261 315 256 409 ... 410 277 199 199 411 ... 42S 340 ... 482 ... 466 336 453 139 •«fl 201 392 ... 426 172 & 326 306 381 ... 81 ... no 154 154 ^53 153 454 385 346 433538 INDEX. Paste puff Do. do. Yeatman’s powder in Pastry, beef suet for Do. butter in ... Do. classified ... Do. entries of Do. fat skimmed from soup in Do. ingredients required for Do. lard in Do. making, ‘a.b.c.’of ... Do. do. rules of Do. do. water in P^tfe de foie gras, a forcemeat of Do. do. fillets en chaud froid Do. do. mould of (pain) Do. do. en caisses Do. do. on toast Pauvre homme sauce Peach fritters Pearl barley soup Peas boiled Do. choosing of Do. in the jar (jugged) Do. old to stew Do. puree of green Perdreaux a la soubise ... Do. aspic de Do. au chou Do. consomme de ... Do. quenelles de, en aspic Perigueux sauce... Petits pois accommodes ... Do. do. la creme Do. do. au beurre Do, do, au jambon Do. do. au lard Pickled steak or chops Pie beefsteak Do. do and chicken Do. do. and oyster Do. chicken and tongue ... Do. crust Do. do. a French Do. do. French (p&te brisee) Do. do, raised (pork pie) Do. domestic, made out of a cold saddle Do. game PAGE. 261 264 262 262 259 72 263 262 263 259 260 259 70 462 428 435 226 89 201 398 134 135 135 136 136 433 415 344 97 136 137 & 351 137 137 408 480 274 277 278 265 266 268 267 275 281h INDEX. 539 Pie game raised Do. hare Do. partridge and quail ... Do. pigeon Do. rabbit Do. raised a mutton Do. do. a tin for Do. do. game... Do. do. pork ... Do. salmon (cold) Do. snipe Piece de boeuf en aspic ... Pies, savoury rules of Pickled chops, or steak ... Pigeon boudins with olive sauce .. Do. fillets with Genevoise sauce Do. pie Pilao of lobster a la Turque Pilchard toast ... Pine-apple aux croutes ... Do. fritters Pintade au cresson Pistachio cake ... Do. nut cream ice ... Plain gravy soup {pot-au-feu) Do. loaf, half pound Plantain Charlotte ... Do. fritters... Plovers n cases... ... , Podolong-cai (snake vegetable) Do in gravy Pointes d asperges Pomfret a la maitre d hotel Do. a la Normande ... Do. a la poulette Do. d la Proven$ale ... Do. aux fines herbes... Do. ragout ... Do. sauce ravigote ... Do. with caper sauce... Do. with parsley sauce Do. with prawn puree Do. with Venetian sauce (greer Pork stuffing Pot-au-feu {bouillon) ... Potage a la bonne femme... Do. alabrunoise PAGE. 269 279 280 279 278 268 267 269 269 283 280 464 272 408 384 372 279 491 230 413 201 471 442 345 31 320 485 472 396 165 467 163 372 464 354 438 366 466 450 378 434 483 383 III 32 44 359540 INDEX. PAGE. Potage k la Crecy • • • • • « • .* 49 Do. a la creme d orge ... 398 Do. k la Gladstone (Queue de bcEiif) 409 Do. k la Julienne ... 341 Do. a la Nivernaise ... • •• » . . 444 Do. a la Palestine • * ■ 453 Do. a la puree de becassines . • • 425 Do. do. de Ikgumes * « * ... 470 Do. a la reine *•• ... 382 Do. a la tortue • * . . . . 390 Do. delievre... ... 420 Potato cases for entrees ... • a • 343 Do. flour for souffles ... 413 Do. snow 130 Do. thickening in soups condemned 38 Potatoes a l’Am6ricaine ... ... ... 132 Do. a la Duchesse ... • . t • I. 130 Do. a la G.C. • * » 130 Do. a la Lyonnaise ... • •• • . a 132 Do. k la maitre d’hotel • . • 132 Do. a la Parisienne ... • • • ... >33 Do. a la ProvenQale ... • •• 132 Do. boiling • * * ... 128 Do. boulettes of ... >3> Do. chips of ... 132 Do. concerning • . « 128 Do. cones, &c„ of ... >34 Do. croquettes of ... ... 131 Do. frites ... ... 132 Do. mashed 130 Do. mock new ... >34 Do. new ... ... 129 Do. pur6e of ... >30 Do. sautees ... ... 132 Do. steamed 128 Do. time for boiling ... ... ... ... 129 Do. to vary service of ... ... 128 Do. treatment of ... 128 Do. waxy to treat ... ... >32 Potted game ... 219 ...Q Do. meats ... • •• 210 Do. prawns ... 218 & 44b Do. tongue ... ... 219 Poulet a I’Amencame . . . 41 > Do. a la St. Lambert ••• ... ... 399 Do. a la Villeroy . . . ... ... 416 Do, grilled (bread sauce) ... ... ... 475437 • it ... / r INDEX. 541 PAGE, Poulette sauce ••• • ... • 83 Poultry killing ••• ... • • • II2 Do. to roast... ... ... ... ... 106 Prawn butter ••• ... • • • • . • 216 Do. croustades ... ... »»• 454 Do. :urry (Ceylon) ... 300 Do. litters ... . * • 201 Do. kramouskys ... 200 Do. potted ... 218 Do. puree ••• ... ••• ... 403 Do. soup clear ... ... 434 Pressed beef ... * • . 25s Proportion of meat and vegetables in soup ... 41 Provenijale sauce ... ... 438 Prune jelly 351 Prunes a la chasseur (dessert) 452 Pudding beefsteak • • • 271 Do. do. and kidney 271 Do. do. and oyster 271 Do. iced a I’ambigu ... • •• 396 Do. do. apricot . »* 340 Do. do. Charlotte Sicilienne ... ... 357 Do. do. do. Russe ... 369 Do. do. cherry ... ... ... 364 Do. do. creme de pistache • « • 340 Do. do. Nesselrode ... 375 Do. do. parfait au chocolat 381 Do. do. rice ^ l’Imp6ratrice ... ... 38S Do. do. strawberry ... 356 Do. savoLirv , , 270 Do. do. of partridge 271 Do. do. with birds 271 Do. (sweet) Angel ... 436 Do. do. Duchesse ... 455 Do. do. Fig 46S Do. do. Orleans... • . . 418 Do. do. Queen Mab ... 447 Do. do. Sir Watkin’s ... 461 Do. do. tipsy ... 424 Do. do. Viennoise ... ... 472 Do. do. Victoria... 476 Puff paste ... I. * 263 Pulled bread . . • 220 Pumpkins (j'oung) ... • .« 166 Puree , concerning the • * » ... 48 Do. de legumes • » « ... 470 Do. de li^vre ...542 INDEX. Pur4e de pommes de terre Do. de tomates (soup) ... , Do. of carrots... Do. of chicken... Do. of endive (chicoree) Do. of kidneys Do. of onions a la Bretonne Do. of a la Soubise Do. of peas Do. of prawns Do. of rice with French beans Do. of snipe ... Do. of sorrel ... Do. of spinach Do. of tomatoes Purees of game, &c. Do. of vegetables on toasts PAGE. ... ... 130 478 48 382 469 458 4«7 417 136 403 ... ... 466 425 405 ... ... 146 239 50 ... ... 224 ^uails, ballotines of ... Do. gallantines of ... Do. in pies Do. salmis of Quarter of lamb and green peas .. Quenelles of chicken au macedoine Do. in soup Do. of partridge in jelly Queen Mab pudding Do. Victoria pudding... Quorma curry ... 423 338 280 380 368 367 334 344 447 476 303 abbit croustades a la reine fillets a 1’ Italienne pie i la financifere a la reine of fish ... liaised pie crust Do. do. do. Do. do. of Do. do. of Do. do. of French gamfe mutton pork Ramasamy’s awful soup Do. bread sauce d la cataplasme Do. cabbage cut up ... 361 445 278 394 394 466 266 268 269 268 269 41 S7 141543 INDEX. PAGE. Ramasamy’ 's cruel way of straightening a tongue • • • 253 Do. cutlet • • « 69 Do. difficulty about charcoal • • • 26 Do. fish pudding 170 Do. fowl plucking (?) II2 Do. habit of dishing ducks f « » 467 Do. ham garnish • • • II8 Do. hare paste ... ... 328 Do. hash • * • 168 Do, heedless use of sauces in a pie t • • 273 Do. ideas of pastry • • • 258 Do. kitchen butter ■ • • 73 Do. method of spoiling wild ducks » • • 484 Do. mistakes in cookingBouillon ... 1 • t 487 Do. do. in roasting ... 113 Do. objections to boiling fowl with soup-meat 116 Do, omelette 178 Do. onion garnish for entries «« • 75 Do. 1^16 ••• • • • 272 Do. stuffing 107 Do. tart pastry, concerning • « • 262 Do. toast for garnishing • • • 170 Do. untrustworthiness in tin opening • « • 325 Ramequins ••• ••• ••• • • • 249 Do. en caises 250 & 412 Ramequin toast ... Ravigote sauce (cold) Do. do. (hot) Rechauffes, laws of Reduced vinegar in sauces Do. wine do. ... Reform cutlets Releve the position of in the menu Remoulade sauce (cold) Do. do. green ... Do. do. (hot) ... Ribs of beef a la Chateaubriand Rice Do. boiling of ... Do. remarks on cooking Do. puree with French beans Do. savoury Risotto k la Milanaise Riz a la bonne femme Do. k rindienne Do. a ritalienne Do, k la Menagere 231 92 85 168 100 100 360 7 92 ■ 92 84 362 244 244 245 466 368 247 245 246 245 247INDEX. 544 Riz a la Milaiiaise ,,, • . « a • a PAGE. 247 Do. a la Napolitaine ... • • . • • • 245 Do. a la Turque 246 Do. au chou ... ... 246 Do. a rimp^ratrice (glac6) • •. 389 Do. casseroles de ... 384 Roasting . 4 . 106 Do. table of time taken in ”3 Roast, hare 328 Rolls, dinner 3*9 Do. French ... 319 Root vegetables en puree, &c. •« « ... *54 Rot the position of in the menu 7 Roties des oeufs k la creme • • • ... a.a 225 Do. de becasse • * a 481 Roux ... a • a 46 Rules for curing meat a .a 251 Do. do. frying... ... • . a 196 Do. do. hors d’oeuvres ... ... 214 Do. do. omelette making 181 Do. do.'pastry do. 259 Do. do. pie do. a.a 272 Do. do. rechauffes • •• a . a a.a 169 Do. do. roasting 113 Do. do. salad-making ... 205 Do. do. savory toasts ... ... ... 221 Do. do. soup-making ... a.a 39 Russian salad ... a . • a.a 401 ^^addle of mutton with French beans a a • aaa 33S Do. do. with peas • . • 344 Salad, cooked vegetables in 210 Do. do. country ... • • • a • a a.a 210 Do. dressing plain a.a 205 Do. do. principles of • *« 204 Do. do. with eggs • . • a . a ... 2o3 Do. service of... ... • . * a • a 209 Do. tomato ... ... « • « 207 Do. with hot fish condemned ... a.a 59 Salade k la ma tante • tf • a . a a.a 210 Do. Russe • . » 401 Salads, vegetables for ... 204 Salmis de cailles « . • 380 Do. observations regarding the 67 Salmon, boudins of • . • a.a 477 Do. pie (cold) • • • ... ... 283INDEX. 545 Salmon tinned to dress ... Do. toast Salpicon de gibier en caisses Salsify ... Do. au gratin ... Do. sauce Do. scallops ... Do. soup Sandwiches Sardine toast Do. fillets potted ... Sauce a I’Americaine Do. a la B4arnaise Do. k la Bretonne Do. la Careme Do. a la Chateaubriand Do. a la Chetput Do. k la Genevoise Do. a la maitre d’hotel... Do. k la matelote Do. k la poulette Do. a la RSforme Do. k la Venitienne Do. a la Valois Do. Allemande Do. apricot for pudding Do. au fenouil Do. au fromage Do. au Parmesan {milanaise) Do. au pauvre homme ... Do. au persil ... Do. auxcapres... Do. aux cornichons Do. aux fines herbes Do. aux olives ... Do. aux pointes d’asperges Do. bechamel Do. bigarade (wild fowl) Do. blanche ... Do. blonde ... ... Do. bordelaise Do. bread Do. chicken chaud-froid Do. Dutch ... Do, d’Uxelles... ... Do. Espagnole... Do. . .do. descendants, of PAGE. 323 230 364 161 161 161 161 162 192 230 213 404 337 417 456 362 476 372 82 417 83 360 383 319 96 461 81 83 & 31 89 & 4 81 & 4; 81 & 3 82 & 3( 81 & 3(INDEX. 546 • t • »• t Sauce financiere PAGE. 98 Do. fines herbes • • • 81, 100, & 410 Do- for blanquette • • • 44« Do. for roast goose • • • 431 Do. for teal fillets ... ... 446 Do. for top-dressing toasts ... 224 Do. for Victoria pudding •. * 476 Do. Hollandaise 84 Do. horseradish 90 Do. lime for puddings ... 468 Do. liver for hare ... 327 Do. macedoine 368 Do. mayonnaise (ordinary) 90 Do. do with raw eggs ... ... 190 Do. Milanaise 83 Do. mirepoix ... ... ... ... 100 Do. mushroom ... 392 Do. mustard ... 86 Do. oyster •. • . ♦. 4H Do. Peg Woffington ... •. • 348 Do. Perigueux ... 97 Do. piquante ... ... 85 & 421 Do. poivrade... ... 85 Do. Provenfale ... 438 Do. ravigote (cold) ... 92 Do. do. (hot) 85 Do. remoulade (cold) ... ... 92 Do. do. (hot) ... 85 & 474 Do. Robert ••• ... 85 Do. royale for puddings 476 Do. salad (plain) • •• ... 205 Do. do. with eggs • »• ... ... 208 Do. sorrel 405 Do. soubise ... ...83 & 417 Do. do. au parmesan (Milanaise) .*• 83 Do. tartare (cold) •. • 92 Do. do. (hot) • •• ... 85 Do. tomato ... . ... 242 Do. veloute ... 99 Do. do. au fromage . ... 240 Do. wild duck a la minute .... ... 484 Do. Wyvern’s ... 410 Sauce-making materials ... . • • • ... 79 Do. do. utensils •. • • •• 78 .Sauces, Gouff^’s classification of • • • • • • ... 79&94 Savoury pies, rules for • •• ... 272 Do. ••• ... 368INDEX. 547 Savoury toasts Scrambled eggs... Scraps of mutton trimmings to use Seakale Seasoning for pies Seer a la Napolitain Do. a la Perigueux au gratin ... en papillate Do. fish pie Do. orlys of with Hollandaise sauce kippered ... slices a la Perigueux slices with Peg Woffington sauce with cucumbers with mushrooms with truffie sauce Shoulder of mutton, rolled, and stuffed Short bread biscuits for spinach Sir Watkin’s pudding Snake vegetable in gravy Snipe, canapes of Do. chaud-froid of pi® ••• ... ... puree soup clear turban of... Socles ('stands for entrees) Soissons (dried haricots) ... Sorrel (osetlle) ... Do. pur4e Sole fillets of, a la pauvre homme ... Do. fried ^ la Colbert Souffle, chocolate Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. de volaille Do. vanilla ... Do. omelette... Soup a la bonne femme Do. 3, la Brunoise Do. d la Crecy (carrot puree) Do. d la Gladstone Do. d la Julienne Do. a la Nivernaise Do. a Voif'non (matgre),,. Do. a la Reine... Do. d la Royale Do. aux choux {maigre),.. PAGE. 222 235 68 162 ■21Z 360 342 471 58 & 431 283 398 184 342 348 336 392 342 400 146 461 467 374 368 280 425 347 440 75 I j6 147 405 445 489 428 476 448 480 44 359 49 409 341 444 32X 382 371 321548 INDEX. Soup aux oeufs poches ... Do. aux pointes d’asperges aux quenelles brunoise bouillon croute-au-pot fat skimmed from, value of ... fish (clear)... giblet (clear) do. (thick) hare do. puree in camp kidney puree maccaroni... made from tinned meat gravy Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. mock turtle clear do. do. thick mulligatunny thick ... do. clear ... oxtail (clear) do. (thick) Palestine {au gras) ... do. (au maigre) partridge (clear) pearl barley (creme d' orge) prawn (clear) do. (puree) rice puree (creme de riz) snipe (clear) do. (puree) tomato pur^e vegetable puree with lettuce Do Soup-meat, use of Soupe a I’oignon Do. aux choux Soupirs de honne Soupes maigres ... Spiced beef Do. pepper ... Do. do. in pies Do. salt Spinach (epinards) Do. k la creme Do. i la Wyvern PAGE. ... 482 377 335 359 489 474 •••33 & 263 353 430 430 ... 420 437 321 ... 458 365 325 311 & 321 390 392 312 309 409 ... 410 453 454 415 398 434 403 466 347 425 478 470 463 37 ... 321 ... 321 ... 441 3" Sc 321 ... 2^^ ... Ill ... 273 ... Ill 145 339 ... 423I INDEX. 549 Spinach fleurons of pastry with Do. greening Do. on toast... Do. plain Do. puree with cream... Do. short bread biscuits for Do. to dress... Do. with anchovy toast Do. with eggs and tomatoes spitting meat, concerning Sportsman’s luncheon, the Steak a la jardiniere Do. jugged Do. pickled .., Steamer Warren’s recommended Steaming Do. cabbage Do. French beans ... Do. potatoes Stewed artichokes ... Do. beef a la mode ... do. fillet a I’ltalienne do. pressed ... do. spiced do. steak cabbage {an jus) ... carrots a la flamande celery in blanc cucumber cutlets ... eels {maielote) fish hare {civet de lievre) joint (braised) jungle sheep peas turnips Do. Do. Do Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. Stock Do. Do. Do. blanc fish vegetable. .Stores, oilman’s selection of Strawberries, mould of Strawberry, cream ice ... Stuffing for braised fowl ... Do. for capons and turkeys Do. for ducks and geese PAGE. ... 146 50 147 145 ... 146 ... 146 ... 146 147 147 ... 106 193 460 ... 122 ... 408 141 ... 120 ... 140 137 ... 129 ... 151 ... 123 ... 189 255 255 ... 460 ... 141 ... 154 160 156 ... 67 ... 416 58 328 104 329 136 153 31 166 311 311 ... 28 8t 29 340 352 ... 108 ... 108 no& III550 INDEX. PAGE. Stuffing for pork ... • •« ... Ill Sue colorant • • • • • • 35 Syringe in salting meat, value of a • • • ... 251 ^^abasco • * • • • • 35 Tamarind chutney 306 Tarragon in aspic jelly ... • •• 386 Do. in soups • • • .»t 39 Tartare sauce (cold) 92 Do. do. (hot) 85 Teal roast, with watercress ... ... 407 Do fillets, Wyvern’s way • • • • * • 446 Do. with bigarade sauce... 475 Time in boiling ... • • • 117 Do. in roasting • • • ••• 113 Tinned butters ... 74 Do. fish (cold) • •• 323 Do. do. (hot) • ft# 323 Do. do. treatment of ... * • • • • • 323 Do. meat (Australian) 324 Do. do. a mince of ... • a • •«• 326 Do. meats generally ... • • • 326 Do. do. soup from... 325 Do. do. to treat • • • 325 Do. vegetables ... ... 163 Thick soups ... ... • • • ••• ... 43 Thickening soups ... • • • 46 Do. sauces • • • 100 Do. to increase if necessary ...46 & 100 Toast anchovy ... *»• 223 Do. do. made at the table • • • 224 Do. artichokes on, ... • • • 229 Do. asparagus on,J • • • 229 Do. bandecai. ... • • • 229 Do. beetroot leaves on. ••• 229 Do. brinjal • • • • • • 229 Do. buttered egg • •• *•« ... 224 Do. cauliflower on. 229 Do. cocoanut flower 230 Do. country greens on. 229 Do. cheese ... 231 Do. drumstick seed ... 230 Do. egg and cream ... 230 Do. eggs, ways of serving upon ... ... 230 Do. foie gras ... ... Do. game ::: . •« 220 22SINDEX. 551 Toast hard-boiled egg • • • M • PAGE. 225 Do. kidney • 11 227 Do. do. cut from a cold saddle of mutton on * • • 227 Do. making, rules for ... t • * 222 Do. mock crab » • • 232 Do. mollay-keray • • • 229 Do. with pate de foie gras ... 226 Do. purees upon 224 Do. ramequin ••• ... 232 Do. salmon ... 230 Do. sardine ... ... • • • 230 Do. spinach ... 228 Do. top-dressings for ... ff • • 224 Do. vegetable marrow, and cucumber 229 Do. Welsh rarebit • • • ... 231 Do. woodcock ... ... 226 Tomatoes (tomates) • •• ... 157 Do. a ITtalienne ... 159 Do. au gratin 158 Tomato chutney • • • ... 305 Do. conserve ... • • • 242 Do. omelette • • • 182 Do. puree (soup) • • • ... 478 Do. salad » • • 207 Do. sauce ... • • • « • . 242 Do. soup ... 478 Tongue in jelly ... • • • 465 Tongues to cure... • • • 252 Do. do. of deer and bison ... • • • ... 253 Do. to glaze... ... sjsj 254 Do. to straighten when boiled ... • • • ... 253 Topinambours ^ la creme 149 Do. aux oeufs ... • t • • . • 237 Do. do. farcis ... 238 410 Tourne-dos de boeuf • • • ... Traveller’s luncheon, the... ... 193 66 Trimming cutlets ■ * . Do. artichokes ... 150 151 282 Do. do. bottoms ... Truffles, essence of ... .... Do. to prepare for pies ... 282 Do. served in croustades 486 Turban of snipes .«. . « • 440 Turkey, boiled ... • « . II9 379 427 374 Do. hen braised a la jardiniere • » • Do. do. do. au chou-fleur... ... Do, roast a la Perigueux .• • *»«INDEX. 552 Turkey, stuffing Turnip tops 'I'urnlps C>tavets)... Do. glazed Cnavets-glaces) Do. to trim ... Twice-laid of fish Do. of meat .... W 1 • yjliy alois sauce ... Vanilla custard ice Do. souffle Veal cutlets Do. stock, a substitute for Vegetable marrow au gratin ' Do. do. fritters Ibetgnets) Do. do. mock whitebait of Do. do. toast ... Do. do. to cook Do. stock Vegetables as entremets ... Do. classified Do. not to be handed round with entries Do. proportion of to meet in soup ... Veloute sauce ... Do. do. au fromage ... Do. do. descendants of V^nitienne sauce Victoria pudding, Do. do. sauce for Viennoise pudding Vinegar aromatic Do. fines herbes Do. in salads over use of Do. reduced, in sauces Vol-au-vent pastry case to make Do. concerning the • • • • • • arren’s pot Do. steamer Water-cress (cooked like spinach) Do. with the r6t ... Welsh rarebit toast Wild duck, roast Do. sauce h la minute for Do. do. bigarade for • • • • • • PAGE. io8 >47 >53 >53 >53 i68 171 379 456 448 68 95 156 156 ... 1 ^6 ... 229 ••• >55 311 ... 126 ... 127 ... II & 74 41 99 239 99 383 476 476 472 206 206 204 100 396 72 120 I4I >47 7 231 484 4S5 351INDEX. 563 Whitebait mock... White sauce, plain Do. do. varieties of ... ... ..; Do. do. made with bechamel, &c. Whitings ^ I’Am^ricaine... Do. a la remoulade (hot) Do. aux fines herbes Do. with sharp sauce Wine in savoury pies Do. reduced in sauces ... Do. soups Wire frying basket, the ... Woodcock toast... ^^ams, to cook Yeatman’s baking powder Do. do. do. in bread making... Do. do. do. in pastry PAGE. 156 80 81 98 404 474 410 421 273 too 36 193 226 167 317 317 264 60'i