65 four-shilling dinners. Take vsome rice and boil it twenty ininntes in plenty of water to allow of the watei- draining easily, leaving each grain whole and with some degree of hardness. Stir in some butter to cause the grains to separate easily; add salt and pepper to taste. Garnish the rice with two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and a border of onions fried quite crisp. DINNER No. 16. Milk and Tapioca Soup {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Butter, 2d. 3 Cream, 4d.; Potatoes, Onions, etc., 3d.).—Put two quarts of water in an enamelled saucepan on the fire. Peel four large potatoes, and as they are peeled throw them into cold water until wanted; prepare also and cut up two small onions. When the water boils throw the potatoes and onions into it; add two ounces of butter and half an ounce of salt, and boil for one hour. Strain off the water into a bowl, rub the vegetables through a sieve, return both to the saucepan, and add one pint of boiling milk. Stir the soup until it boils ; sprinkle in gi-adually three ounces of crushed tapioca, and a little gi-ound white pepper. Boil for fifteen mmutes until the tapioca is clear. Keep stu'ring after the tapioca is added, or it will form into lumps. Add the cream just before serving. The tapioca makes what is called a liaison 3 it binds, in other words, the thickening ingi’edients with the soup and keeps all together. When the soup is too much for one person, it can be finished the next day. Ki'omeskies of Oysters {Ingredients—Six Oysters, Is. 6d. 3 One Egg, Id. 3 Cream, 2d. 3 Bacon, etc., 4d.).—Three ounces of flour, a pmch of salt, one gill of tepid watei', one tea- spoonful of salad oil, and the white of one egg well beaten. Soak the oysters in the cream with a few drops of lemon juice. Take a piece of all fat cold boiled bacon 3 wrap each oyster in a slice of it, dip in the batter, fry in boiling lard, and serve with fried parsley in the centre. Sausages and Apples {Ingredients—| lb. Sausages, 5d. 3 Apples, 2d.).—Take half a pound of sausages, wipe with a damp cloth, prick them with a fork to prevent them bursting their skin while they are frying, put them in a very 5