SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 141 Pulled Fish : a Useful Way of Dressing Cold Fish {Ingi'edients—| pint Cream, 6d.; Fish, etc., 4d.).—Any solid boiled fish; pick it clear from the bones into small pieces, and to half a pound of fish add a quarter of a pint of cream, one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, the same of made mus- tard and ketchup, a little pepper, flour and butter mixed. Make it quite hot in a saucepan, and serve. Macedoine with Cold Lamb {Ingredients—Lamb, Is. 6|d.; Macedoine, 3|d.; Lettuce, Id.).—Cut some slices from the cold roast shoulder, arrange some macfedoine of vegetables on a dish, pile the slices of meat against it, and add a border of chopped lettuce. Kentish Pudding {Ingredients—6 oz. Suet, 3d.; one pint Milk, 2d.; Gravy, etc., 2d.).—Koll six ounces of beef suet very fine; take out all the skin; mix with one pound of flour, rolling it in the hands; add salt and pepper to taste, and four gills (one pint) of milk. Stii- well together; pour into a buttered basin; tie it down with string over a wet and floured cloth; boil three hours; serve whole with rich gravy. In Suffolk this pudding is sometimes baked instead of boiled, in which case a buttered pie dish must be used. Winchilsea Rhubarb Pie : Papa’s Recipe {Ingredients— Pthubarb, 4d. ; Puff Paste, lOd.; Sugar, Butter, etc., 2d.). —Put some' rhubarb into a pie dish, cutting it into neat pieces after scraping it carefully, and one spoonful of water. Cover with puff paste, and bake in a hot oven. When the crust is baked, leave the pie on the top of the stove until the fruit is quite tender. Sift castor sugar over the top. Eat hot with a lump of butter and plenty of Demerara. If pre- ferred, custard may be substituted for the butter. Omelette a la Jeanne d’Arc {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; 3 oz. Butter, Igd.; Milk, etc., 3d.; Shrimp Paste, 2|d.).— Four eggs, a little salt and pepper, one ounce of butter cut into bits, two tablespoonsful of milk. Mix all together with a steel fork in a steel or copper omelette pan ; then- beat in the pan two ounces of butter, being very careful that it does not brown. Pour the eggs into the pan, stir with a wooden spoon the mixtiu-e until it begins to set, and then with a palette knife gradually shape the omelette into