SIX-SfllLLINO DINNERS. 117 sugar, into a stew'pan, and cover them up closely. Stew until they are quite tender, add some stock and a pinch of flour, mix thoroughly, bring to the boil, and serve very hot. Potato Meringue {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter, Milk, etc., 2d.).—Boil the potatoes until quite tender, and instead of mashing tliem in the usual way whip them up with a fork on a very hot dish, as you wi.uld an omelette. Let them get light and dry; then wliip in some melted butter, warm milk, and pepper and salt, with a dash of cayenne. Continue whipping quickly until it is a creamy mass; tlien pile as lightl}^ and imevenly as possible upon a very hot dish. It should be whijDped until it resembles a meringue. Apricot Souffle a la Boston {Inciredients,—Half a tin of Apricots, 4|d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Milk, Sugar, Potato Flour, etc., 2^d.).—Half a tin of preserved apricots; reduce them to a pulp by boiling them in their own juice with a little sugar; then pass them through a hair sieve. Take half a pint of milk ; mix a little potato flour with it; stir it over the fire until it thickens. Add off the fire the yolks of three eggs and half a tin of apricot pulp to make it the right consistency. Get it quite smooth by working it thoroughly. Add the whites of three eggs, whisked to a very stiff froth; mix them in quickly with the other in- gredients ; pour the mixture into a plain mould, and put it into the oven at once. Serve the instant the souffle is well risen : it must not stand a moment. (Eufs au Plat au Jambon {Ingredients-—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, Id.; half a pot of Ham, 2^d.).—^In a fire-proof sauce- pan (to be bought at the Army and Navy Stores or any good shop) place a lump of butter. Put it over the fire or a spirit lamp. As soon as the butter melts break into it two eggs ; let them cook until the whites are set; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve in the saucepan as hot as possible. Hand with this dish toasted and buttered bread cut into straws and covered with potted “ devilled ham.” DINNER No. 15. Potage a la Cantatrice de Londres {Ingredients—White Stock. 9d. ; two Eggs, 2d. ; Ch-eam, Tapioca, and Tarragon,