EiaHT-SHILLINQ DINNERS. 175 butter, pepper, salt, and cold fish sauce. Make the mixture into balls the size and shape of eggs; add breadcrumbs if too soft. Then dip them in well-beaten egg, then in fine breadcrumbs; fry a golden brown in boiling lard. Serve with fried parsley in the centre. If you have any tartare sauce, serve that also. Chicken and Ham Pie: Isabella’s Recipe {Ingredients —Chicken, 2s. 6d.j Ham and Paste, 9d.; White Sauce and Cream, Cd.).—Border a small pie dish with puff paste. Mince finely a cold fowl, some ham, and a little shallot; season with salt and pepper moisten with white stock; fill the dish; cover with paste. When done, add through a hole in the top a little hot cream or white sauce. Sheep’s Tongues and Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients—Three Sheep’s Tongues, Is. fid.; Potatoes, 3d.).—Boil the sheep’s tongues as you would an ox tongue (only one hour will cook them sufliciently). Brush them over with glaze, pile some hot mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish or some peas, dish the tongues up against them, and serve very hot. Marchioness Pudding {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; \ lb. Suet, 4d.; Brandy, 3d. ; Castor Sugar, etc., 3|d.).—Three eggs, two tablespoon.sful of brandy, half a pound of suet, the same of breadcrumbs, and a quaitei- of a pound of castor sugar. Chop the suet very fine ; add the breadcrumbs, sugar, and bi'andy j well beat the eggs, and add them. Mix all together thoroughly, put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and boil for twenty minutes. Custard, white wine sauce, jam, or marmalade may be served with it if liked, but it can be eaten without. DINNER No. 12. Clear Soup with Savoury Custard {Ingredients—Eggs, fid.; Cream, 3d. ; Stock, etc., 9d.).—Break six eggs into a basin; add one gill of cream and the same of stock (veal or poultry), a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Beat up until well mixed, and strain into a plain mould which has been lightly buttered. Steam gently over a slow fire (the cover of the stewpan being on) until it has become quite fii'm to the touch, which will take about half an hour. When cold.