42 evekybody’s dinner book. the same size as the a'oiltons. Any cold bacon warmed will do. An excellent soup. Pork and Apple Balls or Cutlets {Ingredients—Tho: other pound of Pork, 8d.; Eggs, Milk, Butter, 4d. ; Apple, Rice, etc., 2d.).—Take the remains of the pork (chop it finely), one apple finely minced, one cupful of boiled rice, sage and onion, salt and pepper to taste, one egg, half a cupful of milk, and two tablespoonsful of butter. Let the milk boil before adding the seasoning and meat; when almost cold, add the egg; shape into balls or cutlets; dip into egg, then breadcrumbs; fry a nice colour; put fried pansley in the centre of the dish, and serve. Golden Mount Potatoes {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Potatoes and Milk, 3d.).—Add to two cups of cold mashed potatoes, sufiicient hot milk to make the potatoes soft enough to form into shape; pile on a well-buttered plate, and smooth with the blade of a knife into a pyramid ; cover -with the yolk of one egg ; sift breadci'umbs over the whole; brown a light golden colour in a very hot oven, and serve very hot. This dish is excellent cold. Freeman’s Strawberry Pudding {Ingredients—One packet of Freeman’s Strawberry Pudding Powder, 4d.; Milk, Butter, Sugar, 3gd.).—Empty the contents of one packet of Freeman k Hildyard’s strawberry jiudding powder into a basin, and mix very smoothly with three tablespoonsful of cold mUk. Boil the remainder of one pint of mUk with two ounces of sugar and a bit of butter, and while boiling pour the cold mixture into the boiling milk. Stir quickly while pouring, and continue until perfectly smooth. Boil two minutes. If liked thinner, add more boiling milk. Excellent cold. No house should be without this excellent powder, which is also made flavoured with raspberry, peach, nectarine, vanilla, lemon, almond, and chocolate. DINNER No. 14. Duck a la Veuetienne {Ingredients—One Duck, 3s. 6d.— makes two dishes at Is. 9d.; Butter and Egg, 2d.; Maccaroni, etc., 5d.).—Roast a duck carefully; baste well. It Avill take from twenty-five minutes to half an hour to cook. Stufi; it