EIGHT-SHILLING DINNEES. 187 Mushroom Toast {Ingredients—Mushrooms, 4cl. ; Bread and Butter, 3|d.).—Fry some mushrooms in butter with a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Have ready some slices of hot buttered toast, and as soon as the mushrooms are done lay them on the toast and serve very hot. DINNER No. 20. Clear Game Soup {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Vegetables, etc., 3d.; Sherry and Beef, 4d.).—Take the remnants of any kind of game that is not high; put them into a saucepan with one onion, one carrot, two or three cloves, a small piece of mace, one bay leaf, some parsley, and whole pepper and salt to taste. Cover the whole with veal or poultry stock, and set the saucepan to boil gently for two hours. Strain off the soup and set it to boil again, then throw in one ounce of raw beef or liver coarsely chopped; let it give one boil, and strain the soup through a napkin. A small qiiantity of sherry is to be added before clarifying. If not quite clear, the process of clarifying must be repeated. Put some of the best bits of the game, cut in dice, into the soup the last thing before serving. Poulet a ITtalienne {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. 6d.; Batter, 3d.; Tomatoes, etc., 7d.).—Take the rest of the chicken; dip the pieces in batter which has mixed in it chopped tomatoes, one onion, thyme, parsley, pepper and salt; fry brown in plenty of butter, and serve with tomato sauce. Barbecued Mutton {Ingredients—Vinegar, etc., 2d.).— Fry some slices of cold mutton in a little bacon fat; I’e- move to a hot dish when done ; and add to the gravy in the frying pan two tablespoonsful of wnegar, one saltspoon- ful of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour this over the slices of mutton, and serve directly. Potatoes a la Fran^aise {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.; Butter, Lard, Stock, and Herbs, 4d.).—Chop up some onions very fine, and brown in equal quantities of lard and butter; >vhen a good colour, moisten with water or stock; add the