245 TEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. soak tbo cutlets in oil seasoned with chopped mixed herbs, mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a few di-ops of lemon juice or Aunegar; then wrap each cutlet in a sheet of well-oiled paper, and simmer in a saucepan over a slow fire with the olive oil in which they were soaked; when done, drain and dish up in the paper cases. Anna Potatoes : Delmonico’s Recipe [Ingredients-—Potn- toes, 2d. j Butter, 7d.).—Cut very thin slices right across some large potatoes; lay the .slices in flat l.ayers on a small plate that will bear the heat of the oven ■, .spread fresh butter freely over the potatoes, then add another layer of potatoes, and continue this until the potatoes are about four inches high. Half a pound of fresh butter to two large potatoes is the proper quantity. This would be enough for one or more persons, but would not m.ake the potatoes more than two inches high at the most. Bake until the potatoes are tender; about half an hour is sufficient in a quick o\mn. Filets de Boeuf Pique a la Talleyrand [Ingredients—1 lb. Fillet of Beef, Is. ; Vegetables and Bacon, 8d. ; Eggs, 4d.). —Trim and lard carefully one pound of fillet of beef ; braise until tender, then cut the fillets into slices, and ari’ange them carefully down the centre of a very hot dish ; pour brown sauce round. Garnish with carrots and turnips turned into fancy sh.apes, bits of streaky bacon, rings of fried onions, heads of braised lettuce, artichoke bottoms, and carefully poached eggs. Boil thd carrots and turnips separately. Raspberry and Strawberry Pudding [Ingredients—Butter, 4d. ; Egg.s, 3d.; Jam, 7d.; Sugar, etc., Id.).—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter and three eggs separately; then mix, and add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar and one pound jiot of jam. Butter a mould thoroughly, and put a layer of breadcrumbs and a layer of the mix- ture alternately until the mould is full. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Very good cold. Tartelettes de Cuca Cocoa [Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Milk, Butter, and Cuca Cocoa, 3d.; Lemon, Vanilla, Cin- n.amon. Salt, Cornflour, and Sugar, 4^d. ; Paste, 4|d.).— Melt some of Root’s Cuca C’ocoa in three tablespoonsful of