SEVEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 135 Matelote of Smelts {Ingredients — Six Smelts, 9d. ; Sherry, etc., 6cl.).—Put into a saucepan one wineglass of sherry and one of water, salt, pepper, and herbs to taste, and one onion. Let it all simmer gently for twelve minutes. Add the smelts, and let them boil for ten minutes. Have ready some slices of buttered toasttake out the fish and place them on the toast. Reduce the sauce by quick boil- ing ; put in a bit of butter with some floiu'. When ready pour the sauce over the smelts, and serve very hot. Howard Fish Rolls {Ingredients—Rolls, 2d. ; Lobster [Is. 6d. enough for two dishes], 9d.; Lettuce and Cress, 5d.; Milk and Cream, 3d.).—Two dinner rolls, half a lolDster. Pick out the flesh of the lobster, and chop it rather flne ; take one wineglassful of milk, and the same of cream, and a pinch of curry powder ; mix these well together ; add it to the lobster and fiU the rolls. Get one lettuce and some mustard and crass ; chop the lettuce rather finely; lay it with the mustard and cress in a plated dish ; place the rolls on it. Rump Steak a la Tappington {Ingredients—Rump Steak, 7d.; Mu-shrooms, 3d.; Potatoes, etc., 2d.; g lb. Tomatoes, Gd. ; Horseradish, 2d.) —Proceed exactly the same as for “Rump Steak li la Reine ” {see Dinner No. 5, p. 133), only dividing the groups of potatoes with slices of broiled tomatoes, and handing round with it scraped horseradish. Nottingham Rhubarb Tartlets {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; Rhubarb, 3d. ; Sugar, Butter, etc., 6d. ; rest of the Cream, Gd.).—Make some short paste as follows; One ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of castor sugar, a pinch of salt, .some flour, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one; work lightly and roll it out until it is about a quarter of an inch thick. Pill some patty pans with the mixture ; line them with uncooked rice, so that they keep their shape; bake in a moderate oven until done. Take out the rice, "fill the tartlets with i-hubarb which has been stewed witli plenty of castor sugar and some lemon juice. On the top of each tartlet put a heaped-up spoonful of the Devonshire cream. DINNER No. 7. Consomme aux Filets de Soles {Ingredients—Sole. Is.; Clear Soup, 9d.).—Remove the fillets from a .sole; cut them