FIVE-SHILLING HINNEKS. 73 mixing with a wooden spoon. Wash a quarter of a pound of currants thoroughly, and see that they are perfectly free from all stalk, drop them into the battei’, and amalgamate thoroughly. Take one spoonful of batter for each fritter ; fry in a perfectly clean frying pan in not too much fat. Fry both sides until a golden colour. Baking powder or a pinch of carbonated soda may be substituted for the eggs if preferred. Savouiy Pie {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Vegetables, 4d. ; other ingredients, 4d.).—Soak one ounce of tapioca for twenty minutes ; mix it with equal proportions of chopped onions, say two potatoes, carrots, turnips, and two hard- boiled eggs. Place these ingredients in a pie dish with a little water and one dessertspoonful of oil; cover with a light paste made of flour, dripping, and water, and a pinch of baking powder. Bake in a quick oven. DINNEPt No. 2. Potage Julienne {Ingredients—Half a bunch each of Carrots and Turnips, 4d.; Leeks and Onions, 2d. ; Celery and Lettuce, 2d. ; Herbs and Butter, 3d. ; Stock, 6d. ; Peas, Asjoaragus, and French Beans, 6d.).—Cut the vege- tables in strips two inches long, and the lettuce in rather larger pieces. Fry the carrots in the butter, and j)our boiling stock over them. Add the herbs and other vege- tables, and simmer gently for one hour. Skim oft’ the fat carefully as it rises, and if the vegetables are at all strong blanch them. Serve v&)'y hot. If fresh vegetables are scarce and expensive, Chollet’s Julienne answers perfectly. Herrings in Jelly {Ingredients—Flerrings, 2d.; Stock, etc., 6d.).—Wash and clean thoroughly two herrings (moi’e if liked); lay them in a deep pie disli; sprinkle with very finely minced shallot. Take four tablesi^oonsful of stock, to which add two tablespoon.sful of anchovy .sauce and one of vinegar, a pinch of cayenne, and a little allsprice. Heat the mixture, pour it over the fish, cover it with a flat dish, bake for twenty minutes, then .slide the fish ovtt into another cold pie dish. When quite cold and set, .serve with thin slices of bread and butter.