everybody’s dinner book. 84 the dish; lay the cutlets on them; garnish with browned potatoes and small baked tomatoes cut in two. Serve the remains of the apple sauce and clear gravy in boats. Devilled Bone [Ingredients—Sauces, etc., 5d.).—Take any bones you have—shin, rib, blade. Score the meat that remains on them ; rub in pepper and salt; place them on a gridiron and broil them. Let them do slowly, and when brown serve directly very hot. A sauce made of cayenne, pepper and salt, made mnstard, oil, vinegar, castor sugar, anchovy and Worcester sauce should be rubbed into the meat before it is broiled, and the remainder of the sauce served in a sauce boat. Hand little pats of butter witli the devilled bones. DINNER No. 11. Water Souchet {Ingredients—Slips and Floundei's, Is.; other ingredients, 4d.).—One quart of water, one teaspoonfid of salt, one blade of mace, six white peppercorns, three cloves, one bay leaf, some parsley carefully Avashed and picked from the stalks, and parsley roots and green onions when in season. Boil all together for half an hour, then strain. Add some shps and flounders, and boil up for ten minutes, which will cook the fish. Serve Avith very thin broAvn and white bread and butter cut in shces or rolled after they are cut, half a lemon, and cayenne pepper. If preferred, stock may be substituted for Avater, and shreds of carrots and turnips added to the other vegetables; also filleted sole, plaice, or salmon, but the sole and salmon are far . more expensive. Or you may pulp the fish through a sieve, and set it over the fire Avith the liquor it was boiled in, and simmer until done enough. Serve in a deep dish or a soup tureen in the place of any other soup. Roast Loin of Veal with Rashers of Ham {higredients— 6 lb. Loin of Veal, 5s. [enough for four dishes. Is. 3d. a dish]; Rashers of Ham, Is. 3d.).—Paper the kidney fat; roll in and skewer the flap, Avhich makes the joint a good shape; dredge Avell Avith flour, and put before a bright fire. Should the joint be very large, skeAver the kidney back for a little to roast thoroughly. Keep well basted, and before