TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 0 then put celery and greens shred fine, boil them tender, mash three slices of toasted bread, add them to the soup, with salt and pepper to taste and a very little vinegar. Mould of Meat, Game, or Poultry {Ingredients—Butter and Eggs, 4d.; Vegetables, etc., 6|d.).—Take any cold meat, game, or poultry you have, even the pickings off the back and bones of the two latter will do; add one small tea- cupful of breadcrumbs, two ounces of butter, two eggs, pepper, salt, cayenne, one dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce (Lea and Perrin) and one of Harvey, a little stock, and some onions, carrots, and tui'nips; cut into small dice. Butter a tin mould, put in these ingredients, steam until it is as hot as possible, turn it out of the mould, and serve with gravy. Stuffed Vegetable , Marrow {Ingredients—Marrow, etc. [enough for twice], 2d.).—Young and tender marrows are best. Boil slightly, peel and cut in half, take out the interior, chop it up with onions and breadcrumbs, and fill the hollow with the mixture. Fry or bake. / Devilled Biscuits with Potted Meat (/rcyreeZiewfe—Biscuits, Id.; Potted Meat, etc., 3d.).—Water or Captain’s biscuits answer best. Spread thickly on both sides with butter mixed with any potted meat, home made or otherwise, that you have. Spiinkle thoroughly with black, white, or cayenne pepper, according to the heat you like, and grill over a clear fire until thoroughly crisp. Serve immediately as hot as possible. If you make the Watei' biscuits at home, you may mix curry powder and pepper with the flour when you are making them; then they only requii'e buttering and grilling. J K DINNEB No. 13. 7 Plaice a la St. Mark {Ingredients—One Plaice [enough for twice], 6d.; Butter, Lemon, etc., 3d.).—Fillet a nice fresh plaice. Boil as you would a sole; dish up two fillets. Make the sauce of one ounce of butter rolled in flour, the juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and the licjuor the fish was boiled in ; let it boil, pour over the fillets, and serve very hot. If you have any cold potatoes.