250 everybody’s dinner book. WRINKLES FROM MY GRANDMOTHER’S AND OTHER STORE-ROOMS. Strengthening Jelly; Eastwell Recipe.—2 oz. of Lsin- glass, 2 oz. of white sugar candy, and 4 oz. of gum ara])ic gmted. All these to be steeped in a pint of the b&st port wine for twelve hours. The jar to he immersed in a saucepan of water, and simmered slowly over the fii’e, until the contents become a thick jelly. Barley Cream : Old Recipe op Grandmamma’s.—2 lb. of veal, ^ lb. of pearl barley, and one quart of water. Pass it through the finest sieve, and work until the thickness of cream ; add salt to taste. H.’s Chicken Broth.—Out one chicken up into small pieces put it on the fire in cold water, add a little salt, and boil gently for six hours. An excellent recipe. Beef Tea without Water.—Take 2 lb. of the leg of beef, strip off every morsel of skin and fat, cut it into bits the size of a nut, and sprinkle them with a little salt. Put the meat into a jar and tie it down closely, first with paper and then with linen. Put the jar into a saucepan with cold water that comes up to about two-thirds of the height of the jar. Then set the saucepan to boil, and keep it boiling pretty briskly for two hours. When you open the jar, there will be very strong and most delicious beef tea, such a kind as will prove quite invaluable to invalids. In cases of extreme prostration, one dessertspoonful of Liebig’s extract \vith one tablespoonful of old brandy may be added to the beef tea and given every half-hour: in less severe cases every hour or so is sufficient. Dr. Pollock’s Meat Juice.—Cut 6 oz. of beef into piecas ; place them in a jar with half a pint of cold water. Stand in a cool place for six hours. At the end of this time the meat will be perfectly white, every drop of juice being extracted from it. One or more tablespoonsful to be added to clear soup, Liebig’s extract, or beef tea. Sir William Jenner’s Cordial.—To one claret glass of the best champagne you can get add half a claret glass of the