everybody's dinner boor. 16 DINNER No. 4. Croutes aux Rognons a la Stella {Ingredients—Hwo Sheep’s Kidneys, 6d.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Out two kidneys in halves, and remove the outer skin and sinews ; mince very finely ; put into a saucepan a little butter with some chopped shallot and parsley; fry all lightly together. When cooked, add a little flour and a dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce; boil again for a few minutes to cook the flour. While boiling stir in the kidneys, adding salt and pepper to taste. Have ready some crisp, freshly made toast, butter it, and spread the mixture on it, cut into rounds; dust breadcrumbs mixed with Parmestm over the mince. Put in a quick oven for ten minutes; if this does not brown them enough, use a salamander. Serve as hot as possible with “ Baroness potatoes.” Baroness Potatoes —Potatoes, 2d.; Egg, Id.).— Boil some potatoes whole; when almast cooked put them into a stewpan with a little butter, flour them and dip them into the yolk of an egg, i-oll in fine bi'eadcrumbs, and fry crisp and of a light brown. Gateau de Noisette {Ingredients—Eggs and Milk, 2|d.; Nuts, etc., —Peut two eggs thoroughly; add to them one gill of new milk, two ounces of castor sugar, one ounce of finely shred lemon peel, and enough pounded nuts to make a .stift' paste. Bake in a well-butteied dish for one hour. Walnuts and chestnuts may be used in the same way. Excellent cold. Algy’s Scotch Woodcock {Ingredients—’Eggs, etc., 3d.). —Melt a bit of butter in a stewpan ; add one spoonful of good gra\'y, pej)per and salt to taste, break in two eggs, and stir quickly. When the mixture thickens, add a flavouring of anchovy sauce. Have ready some very hot buttered toast, pour the mixture over it, and serve immediately. DINNER No. 5. Potage Brunoise au Riz {Ingredients—Vegetables, 2d.; Stock, Rice, Butter, etc., 7d.).—One carrot, one turnip, one leek, a little cooking celery or celery seed. Peel, wash, and cut the vegetables with a cutter into very small dice. Put one