fi4 evekybody’s dinner book. Transatlantic Scrambled Eggs with Parmesan [Ingre- dients—T\wo Eggs, 2d.; Cream, 2d.; Cheese, etc., 4d.).—Put into a saiicepan a bit of butter tlie size of a nut, two egg.s, one ounce of grated Parmesan, a tablespoonful and a half of cream, salt and pepper (not too much, on account of the salt already in the cheese). Place on the fire; stir with a wooden spoon until it thickens; dish up with grated Parmesan sifted over it, or cracker dust, which is simply biscuits rasped fjuite fine, and used as a substitute for bi'eadcrumbs. DINNER No. 15. Lobster Pie [Ingredients—Lobster, Is.; Butter, 3d.; Roll, etc.. Is.).—Have a freshly boiled lobster. Cover a pie dish with crust. Separate the tail, split it, take out the inside; cut it into four pieces, lay them regularly in the dish. Bi-eak the claws and pick out the flesh, open the body and do the same, chop it all and mix well together; if liked add gi-ated nutmeg. Sea.son to taste with pej)per, salt, vinegar, and cayenne. Rub the crumb of a small I'oll to powder j mix it with the lobster, with a quarter of a pound of butter thoroughly worked in. When all this is done, lay the mixture on the tail in the dish, cover with crust, and bake half an hour. German Dumplings [hujredients—T!^\o Eggs, 2d.; j lb. Suet, 2|d.; Stock, etc., 7d.).—Chop small a quarter of a pound of any cold meat yoii have, the same of suet, five leaves of parsley, and one small onion. Mix with these half a pound of flour, one saltspoonful each of iiepper, salt, and mixed herbs, two eggs thoroughly beaten, and enough milk to make a stiff dough. Divide this into dumplings, throw them into boiling stock, and serve with brown gravy thickened with a little flour, a little Worcester sauce, and some chopped parsley. Potatoes with Celery Salt [Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Potatoes and Milk, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Mash some potatoes; add to them milk, a little celery salt, butter, one beaten egg, some finely chopped parsley. Pile up into little mounds, and bake a nice brown. Pillau [Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Onions, etc., 2|d.).—