everybody’s dinner book. 200 ready boiled vermicelli and maccaroni cut small into the tureen just before serving, j50ur the soup on to this, and serve immediately. Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber {Ingredients—Half the Salmon that is left. Is. 3d.; Vegetables, etc., lOd.; Stock, 7d.).—Remove the bone of half the salmon that is left and skin carefully. Cut it into slices half an inch thick, and flatten each on the chopping board with a cutlet bat. From these slices cut as many neatly shaped cutlets of a uniform size as possible. Place them quite flat on a well- buttered baking tin, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and ten minutes before they are wanted put them into the oven with a sheet of buttered white writing paper over them. Place all the trimmings of the salmon in a saucepan with carrots, onions, thyme, one bay leaf, parsley, pe^jper and salt, and one pint of stock. Let this boil for half an hour; melt a small piece of butter; add to it about one teaspoonful of flour; stir it until it begins to coloiu.-, then strain into it the following sauce, and add a little chojjped parsley:—Out one cucumber in rounds one inch long ; cut each round in four quarters ; remove the seeds and rind, and trim each piece to a uniform shape; then throw them into boiling water Avith a little salt; let them boil until nearly cooked; strain them and throw them into cold water; strain a second time, and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, to be kept covered up and warm until wanted. To cUsh up, pour the sauce on a dish, arranging the salmon cutlets en couronne round it, and fill the space in the centre with the cucumber. Croustades of Devilled Meat {Ingredients—Meat, etc., 8d.).—Cut the meat into dice, and grill them. Prepare some small croustades {i.e., rounds or squares of bread with a hole scooped out, which is filled with meat, etc.) ; fill them with the meat; then put one spoonful of the following mixture in each, and serve on a napkin: Devil Mixture— Take one spoonful of made mustard; mix it Avith one of salad oil, Oude sauce, anchovy sauce, and a little salt and cayenne. Roast Wild Duck {Ingredients—Wild Duck [3s., enough for twice]. Is. 6d. ; Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Roast before a quick