32 everybody’s dinner book. it all, and bake in a quick oven fifteen to twenty minutes. If you use a plated or silver dish, stand it in a baking tin half full of water when you put it into the oven, as by this means neither dish nor fish will be burnt. If preferred, the mackerel may be filleted. Sole and plaice can be done in this way, also slices of cold meat. Beefsteak a la Presidente [Ingredients—g lb. Beefsteak, 6d.; Oyster or Sausage Meat Stuffing, 9d.).—Pepper and salt the steak on both sides, spread it with oyster or sausage meat stuffing, and roast from tlu-ee-quarters of an hour to one hour. Serve with thick brown gravy. Potatoes Grilled in their Jackets [Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Thoroughly wash and parboil half a pound of potatoes in them skins, drain them on a cloth, well butte)' the skins, and place them on a gridiron over a slow clear fire. When quite done, have ready a wooden potato bowl, and serve the potatoes as hot as possible on a very hot napldn in the bowl. Drop Cakes [Ingredients—| lb. Butter, 3d.; One Egg, Id.; Currants, etc., 4d.).—Put half a pound of flour into a basin, and rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter and two ounces of ca.stor sugar; grate the peel of half a lemon and add to it; mix in a quarter of a pound of currants and one egg well beaten ; stir thoroughly ; droj) the mLxture in lumps on to a floured baking tin ; bake in a modei-ate oven from fifteen to thirty minutes. DINNER No. 3. Consomme a la Marie Christine [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Stock, Cream, etc.. Is.).—Have ready some good clear soup, and add to it custard cut in dice and .shreds of truffles. To make the custard, sea.son two whole eggs with salt, white pepper, and a dust of nutmeg; mix all this with two tablespoonsful of cream, and pour it into a biittered jam pot. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and steam until quite firm, taking care that it does not boil, or the custard will be spongy and full of holes. Let the custard get quite cold, cut it into dice, rinse in warm water, and put into your soup.