171 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNEES. alternate choux filled with white and pink cream. They should be carefully piled up in a dish. Appetising Eggs {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; Butter, Parsley, etc., 3d. ; Ham, 3d. ; Mustard and Oress, 3d.).— Three eggs, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, half a tea- spoonful of parsley freed from the stalks and chopped very fine, and the same of anchovy sauce. Boil the eggs hard; remove the shells; cut off the points ; cut each egg in half ; take out the yolks, and pound them in a mortar with a little butter, essence of anchovy (Burgess’s), pepper and salt to taste, the chopped parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, and some grated or potted ham or tongue. Fill the wliites with the above mixture, and serve on a bed of mustard and ci'ess, watercress, and a httle shred lettuce, then garnish with parsley. DINNER No. 9. Consomme a la Royal {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Cream, 2d.).—Make a custard of the whites of two eggs ; beat them up well, and add two tablespoonsful of cream; season with a little pepper and salt, and strain in buttered moulds until firm. This will take about tkree- quarters of an hour. Make a yellow custard with the yolks in the same way. Great care should be taken to steam the custards, for should the water in the pan they are in con- tinue to boil the custard will become spongy and full of holes. Let the custards remain in the moulds until cold ; then cut them up into dice or any fancy shape. Place them in a soup tureen, and pour over them gently some good, rich, clear stock. Pain aux Huitres: Isabella’s Recipe {Ingredients—Whit- ing, 4d.; Oysters, Is. 6d. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Cream, 3d.).—One pound of finely pounded whiting, twelve oysters, two eggs, and cream. Moisten with the oyster hquor, put it into a mould, and steam. Croustades of Chicken {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. 6d. ; Ham or Tongue, 3d.; Mushrooms or Truffles, 3d. ; one Egg, Id. ; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut the cruinb of a quarter or more of a loaf of bread into slices two inches thick, and then with a round paste cutter about