NINE-SHILLING DlNNEES. 205 Asparagus Salad (^Ingredients—The rest of the Asparagus, 4d.; Oil, etc., 2d.).—Cut the rest of the cold asparagus into small pieces; add to it salt, oil, and vinegar. As soon as the asparagus is boiled it should be plunged into cold vinegar and water, a very slight proportion of the former alone being necessary. Peche au Beurre {Ingredients—Four Peaches, Is.; Sherry, 4d.; Sugar and Vanilla, 3d. ; Strawberries, Is.; Pastry, lOd.).—Cut four peaches in halves, take out the kernels, place them in a stewpan with a quarter of a bottle of sherry and water, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and one stick of vanilla. Stew for thi’ee hours. When done, dish them up, and reduce the syrup until it becomes thick ; then add a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. When melted, pom- the syi’up over the peaches. When cold, serve with straws of rich puff pastry and ste'awberries (fresh or preserved) smothered in whipped cream. Anchovy Sandwiches {Ingredients—Bread and Butter, 2d. ] Eggs, 2d.; Anchovy, Lettuce, etc., 3d.).—Cut thin rounds of brown bread; cover thickly with butter, anchovy paste, a little cayenne, and thin slices of hard-boiled egg. Sprinkle on this grated ham and small salad. Dish up on shred lettuce, garnished with mustard and cress and radishes. Saumon Fumee en Surprise {Ingredients—Kippered Sal- mon, Is. 7d.).—Cut some smoked salmon in the very thinnest possible slices, lay them neatly on pieces of buttered toast, sprinkle with black ground pepper and cayenne, and put them into the oven with a piece of buttered paper over them. Keep them there just long enough to warm thoroughly. DINNER No. 13. Potage ’Bvoxen.CdXe {Ingredients—Vegetables, 7 |d. ; But- ter, Id.; three Eggs, 3d.; Forcembat Balls, 4id.).—Wash and chop up some spinach, chervil, parsley, sorrel, water- cress (when in season), and celery. Put it into a saucepan with some water and salt over a brisk fii'e j add a good lump of fresh butter. When thoroughly done, thicken with the yolks of two or three eggs, and pour it into the tureen over the forcemeat balls. Mavour to taste with pepper and salt.