EVRRYBOBy’s DINNEB BOOK. 228 the juice of one lemon; add a little stock, and simmer by the side of the lire for several hours; pass through a tammy, clear off all grease, and thicken with a little meat glaze. Before pa&sing through the tammy add a little flour; season with pepper and salt and a boxiquet of mixed herbs. Keep in a covered jar until requiied. Esjmynole smtce is made in the same way, only the veal, etc., should hrovm in the butter, and no herbs are put in. Puree of Rabbit [Ingredients—Rabbit, Is. 4d.; Butter, 3d. ; Eggs, 2d.; Pastry, 9d.).—Roast one young raljbit; cut off all the meat, chop it up, pound it in a mortar with a quarter the quantity of butter, then pass all thi-ough a a fine hair sieve. Boil the bones and trimmings of the rabbit in good white stock thickened with a little flour; stii’ suflicient of this liquid into the pounded meat to make a nice •puree., and pour it into a dish lined Avith pastiy. Garnish AAuth lightly boiled eggs, and serve very hot. The ptuvee must never be warmed after the stock has been added to it, or the flavoui’ will be entirely spoilt. Maccaroni or rice can be used in.stead of paste or mashed potatoes, and a puree of meat or poultry or fi.sh can be substituted for the rabbit. Potatoes a la Mazarin [Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d. ; Gravy, 2d.).—Bgiil some potatoes in salted w.ator; when done, peel and cut them into strips as quickly as po.ssible ; pour over them good brown gravy, and serve very hot. Mould with. Cuca Cocoa [Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Cuca Cocoa, ^d.; Sugar, Cornflour, and Vanilla, 3.|d.).—One pint of milk, h.alf an ounce of Root’s Cuca Cocoa, one ounce and a half of cornflour, two tablespoonsful of raw sugar. Mix well into a thick paste Avith cold milk. Then add the rest of the milk, mix, stir it over a gentle fire until it thickens. Just before taking it off the fire stir in one teaspoonful of Laugdale’s essence of vanilla, pour the mixture into a mould, stand it in the cool for a feAV minutes, then turn it out, and serve. Huitres a la Mephisto [Ingredients—Oystei-s, Is. 6d.; Butter, Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Open .some oysters in their deep