NINE-SHILLING DINNEES. 207 Boules a la Venetienne {Ingredients—Six Eggs, 6d. ; Pai-sley, Bread, and Butter, 3d.; Butters [average cost, 8d.]). Hard boil six eggs. Cut off the tops carefully, so that the yolks are not cut also. Kemove the yolks. If carefully done, the yolks will come clean away from the shells like large marbles. Cut a piece off the base of each egg to make them stand upright. Bill the eggs with different butters— green, shrimp, anchovy, maitre d’hdtel, lobster, egg, Mont- pellier, crab, ham, tongue, filbert, capsicum. Pimento, Gascony, garlic, fines h&rhes, prawn, arranging them so that the colours contrast prettily. Serve with a garnish of parsley and rolled bread and butter in the centre of the dish. DINNEK No. 14. Semolina Soup with Sorrel and Poached Eggs {Ingredients —Eggs, 2d. ; Stock and Semolina, 3|d.; Tarragon and Sorrel, 3d.).—Boil some semolina in stock until it swells; then add the necessary quantity of stock, and boil for ten minutes. When quite boiling, add some chopped sorrel leaves and shred tarragon. Just before serving poach two eggs lightly and slip them into the tui-een. Supreme de VolaiUe: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingre- dients—Three Chickens [7s. 6d., five dishes], Is. 6d. ; Butter, Id.; Tongue, 6d.; Peas, 9d.).—Take the fillets from two (or more) chickens. Care must be taken not to tear the flesh in dividing the minion fillet. Each chicken cuts four fillets. After trimming them to shape, put them in a saiUe pan with some clai’ified butter; place a buttei'ed paper over them ; set them on the stove to set and whiten on one side; turn them over. Be careful not to allow them to colour. When done, drain the butter and add a large spoonful of sv,2)reme sauce, tossing them over the fire without allowing them to boil or even simmer. Dish them in a close cii'cle with a scallop of tongue (warmed in a little glaze) between each fillet. Fill the centre with either peas, mushrooms, or cucumber. For economy a sitpreme may bo made with one chicken neatly cut into joints ; but care must be taken to cook it quite white. The rest of the chickens will make a pie and “ Potage il la Reine.”