136 everybody’s dinner book. out with a cutter into pieces the size of a penny. Make some strong, well-flavoured stock as hot as possible. Six minutes before serving add the pieces of sole (this time will cook them), and serve with very thin rolled slices of brown bread and butter. The Emperor’s Curry of Lobster {Ingredients—Rest of the Lobster, 9d.; Butter, Onions, Rice, etc., 5d.).—Cut the remains of the flesh of the lobster, mth the head and spawn, into neat pieces about one inch long. Slice two small onions, and fry them of a light brown in a quart stewpan with two tablespoonsful of buttei'; add the lobster, one tablespoonful of “ Cooke’s ciuTy powder,” and two of their fish curry paste, added at the same time; let it fry until lightly browned ; add two wineglasses of hot water; put the cover on, stew gently for five minutes, and the curry will be ready. Serve well-boiled rice in a separate dish. Prawns, shrimps, craw- fish, and crabs are cooked in precisely the s.sme way, by taking the same weight of meat without the shell as of lobster. Don Pedro {Ingredients—Potatoes, Onions, etc., 5d. ; Cream and Butter, 3d.).—^In a potato pasty pan, which, according to size, costs from 2s. 5d. upwards, put any pieces of meat, poultry, and game you happen to have. The poultry and game should be cut in joints, the meat into neat pieces. Make some good gi’avy (if you have game or poultry bones, they improve the stock immensely); pour the gi-avy over the meat; season -unth salt and pepper. If liked, sliced onions may be added, and any stuffing that may be left from turkeys, geese, veal, diicks, or hares. At the top of the pasty pan, which makes the lid, put potatoes mashed with cream and butter. Set the dish in the oven to cook the meat and brown the potatoes. A most excellent dish ; anything can be put into it, or it may be made entirely of poultry, game, or meat. Sussex Bacon Pudding {Ingredients—1 lb. Bacon, 9d.; Suet, Flour, Parsley, 8d.).—Make a suet crust as follows : Free the suet, say eight ounces, of skin and shr-eds, chop it exti'emely fine, and rub it well into one pound of flour; add half a pint of water; work the whole to a smooth paste, and voll it out; cover it with thin rashers of uncooked streakj’