everybody’s dinner book. 238 DINNER No. 15. Consomme aux (Eufs Files {Ingredients—^tock, 4|d.; one Egg, Id. ; Milk, Flour, etc., 2d.).—Put the stock on to boil. Mix the egg \vith one tablespoonful of milk, one dessert- spoonful of flour, and season all together like batter. Pass the batter through a very fine funnel or strainer into the soup. The soup must be boiling. The batter will look like threads of vermicelli. Filet de Sole al a Gasconne {Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Sauce, Egg, 7d.).—Fillet a sole, dip it in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a pretty colour. Make a sauce of parsley, thyme, sweet basil, and one shallot, all minced very fine; add one ladle of clear gravy, one talilespoonful of vinegar or white wine, the juice of one lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot in a tureen. Mutton Pie a la Perigord {Ingredients—2 lb. Neck of Mutton, 2s. [twodi.shes, 2s. 7d. each] ; Truffles, IsjSd.; Bacon and Butter, 6d.; Paste, Wine, etc.. Is.).—Take two pounds of neck of mutton (for a number of persons all the best end would bo necessary), cut it into rather short thick cutlets, and arrange them in your pie dish or in a raised crust. Take as many middle-sized truffles as you have cutlets, peel and place between each cutlet, season with a little salt and mixed spices (if liked), cover it with thin slices of bacon, and over that a layer of fresh butter about the thickness of a shilling, cover the whole in with pie crust, and bake for three hours. When done, raise the top of your crust, and pour in one glass of wine warmed with two tablespoonsful of cidlis. Skim off any grease with a spoon, and replace the crust. Lamb cutlets may be treated in similar fashion, with the addition of mu.shrooms. Poulets aux Nouilles de Parmesan (7?i(7mKe?ite—Chickens, 3s. [two dishes, 2s. 2d. each]; Bacon and Butter, S^d.; Vege- tables, 2d.; Nouilles, 5d.; Parmasan, 3^d.).—Clean and truss a nice chicken, put one ounce of butter inside it, and cover with fat bacon ; put it in a stewjian -with a piece of celery, one carrot, and one onion; cover with water, and bod slowly for fifty minutes. Garnish with “ Nouilles au Parmesan” (made as in Dinner No. 14, p. 147), boiled in a