85 FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. sewing remove the paper from the kidney and let it brown nicely. Serve with thick brown gravy and rashers of ham on a sejJarate dish. Some people like forcemeat balls and slices of lemon served with it; and pig’s cheek, pickled pork, or boiled bacon may be substituted for the ham if preferred. Pomines de TeiTe a la Duchesse {Ingredients—Three potatoes. Id.; one Egg, Id.; Butter and Parsley, 2d.).— Bake or boil three nice floury potatoes ; peel and pass them through a fine cullender. Mix with them half an ounce of butter, one egg, chopped parsley, and a little salt. Take some of this paste in a spoon ; make the paste into a ball by shaking it about in a tumbler which you have floured slightly; then flatten it to about one-thmd of an inch on your pasteboard with a roller, both slightly floiu-ed ; make each piece about the size of the top of an ordinary tumbler ; form as many of these flat gaieties or cakes as the paste will allow ; put them in a very clean frying pan with very hot butter. Turn them once, and serve very hot. Kromeskies of Mushi’ooms and Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Bacon, 4d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; other ingredients, 2d.).—Boil hard two eggs; take off the shells ; cut two slices of bacon (lean bacon is best), four inches long and two wide. Take half a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs minced with the same of chopped parsley and onion, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and some finely minced miLshrooms. Sprinkle this on the two slices of bacon ; place one egg in each, roll them up, tie with thread or put a plated skewer through, and place in the oven for three-quarter's of an hour. DINNER No. 12. Egg and Onion Soup {Ingredients—Eoirr Eggs, 4d. ; Milk and Butter, 2d.; two Oniorrs, etc., 4d.).—Slice the onions ; fry them in butter' rrntil a nice brown. Add three pints of water, and boil rrntil redirced to one quart. When the oniorrs are tender, strain the liquor from them and set them aside. Boil the liquor, and add to it orre tablespoonful of llorrr mixed smooth irr a qirarter of a pint of milk, a little