52 everybody’s dinner book. taste, a little finely minced parsley, and a few di'ops of lemon juice. DINNER No. 4. Fillets of Sole in Batter {^Ingredients—Sole [enougii for twice, Is. 3(1.], 7gd. j Butter, etc., 6d.).—Have a sole filleted into four fillets, and instead of dipping tbem in egg and bread- crumb dip two of tbem in batter; fry a pi-etty colour, serve with fried parsley in the centre and anchovy sauce, to which you have added chopped mushrooms, in a boat. Fried Veal Cutlets with Bacon and Potatoes {Ingredie/nls —1 lb. Veal [enough for two dishes. Is. 2d.], 7d.; Bacon and Potatoes; 5d.).—Cut some neat ciitlets about three-quarters of an inch thick, beat with a rolling pin, put them into a fi-ying pair with some hot butter in it, and fry until both sides are a nice brown. Serve with dice of fried bacon in the centre of the dish, mixed with cold potatoes cut into wafers, and also fried in the bacon fat. Marrow Dumplings {Ingredients—The other half of the Marrow Bone, fid. ; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, Parsley, Shallot, etc., 6gd).—Beat tberest of the marrow to a cream with its weight in butter. Whisk two fresh eggs well, and add them to the marrow and butter, with one teaspoonful of chopped pai'sley and half an ounce of chopped shallot. Soak half a pound of breadcrumbs in as much boiling milk as they will absorb, and add them to the other ingredients. Make the mixture with a little flour into four round dumplings. Diop them gently into boiling stock, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Serve before or after meat. When done take them out, and dish them up with a i-ich brown gravy. Flapjacks (a Sailor’s Dish) (^Ingredients—Flour and Demerara, 3d.).—Flour and water, some salt and fresh water ; mix into rather a stiff batter, and fry a little thicker than you would an ordinary pancake. Serve with Demerara. Brown Bread rolled with Mushrooms i^Imjredients—Egg, Id.; Mushrooms and Parsley, fid.).—Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, roll them up, dip one end of