56 everybody’s dinner book. etc., 2d.).—Take the two legs of the chicken; cut them in two. Make a batter of two eggs, milk, flour, and some salt. Dip the pieces of chicken into it; fry in hot lard. Scmte some French beans (that have been iiiiost carefully strung and cut in two lengthwise) in butter ; serve in the centre of the dish, with the chicken in batter arranged round them. Omelette Souffle a la Loma Doone {Tngi-edients—Tlireo Eggs, 3d.; Devonshire Cream, 3d.; one Lemon, Id.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Three eggs ; beat them thoroughly ; add a few grains of salt, a pinch of castor sugar, some gi’ated leinon peel, and a lump of lo.af sugar (or pound the fresh peel with the loaf sugar and sift it). Sffir in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Melt a lump of vei-y fresh butter in your omelette p.sn; pour in the eggs and the rest of the ingredients. When faii-ly done on one side, turn it over on to a disli, and set it in a hot oven to raise it. When well risen, glaze with a little castor sugar and a salamander, and send to table at once, or it will fall and be quite hea\y. Serve with Devonshire cream. This is an excellent dish. All omelettes should be waited for, TWt cooked until they ai-e required, as standing quite spoils them. Curried Anchovies [Ingredients—Ancho\des, 3d.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Wash some anchovies (the boned ones are best); pound them, mixing them with made mustard, butter, curry paste, a few drops of chili Aunegar, lemon juice, and a good dash of c.ayenne pepper. Have ready some hot buttered toast, both brown and white bread ; spread the mixture on alternate pieces of the two kinds, and heat all before the fire. Serve very hot. DINNER No. 8. Souchet of Salmon with Horseradish [Ingredients—1 lb. Tail of Salmon, Is. 9d. ; other ingredients, 4Jd.).—Take one pound tail of salmon, boil it, and then cut it into neat pieces about an inch and a half .squaie. Servo in broth, weak stock, clear soup, or the water the fish has been boiled in. Add about twenty .sprigs of parsley, carefully picked from the stalks, a little white pepper and salt, a lump of