137 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. bacon; sprinkle it with chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Roll and boil in a cloth for two hours and a half. If you want a very rich crust, pound the suet in a mortar with some fresh hutter, and then lay it on the paste in small pieces, as you would for puff paste. Newburg'h Salad; Delorme’s Recipe (^Ingredients—To- matoes, 6d. ; Cauliflower, 3d. ; Onion, Parsley, etc., 2d.). —Slice half a pound of ripe tomatoes. Add oil, jiepper, salt, and vinegar to taste. Chop two small onions very fine and two apples. Sprinkle them over the tomatoes with some breadcrumbs and some chopped parsley. Put a cold boiled cauliflower in the centre of the salad bowl, and arrange the tomatoes round it. Do not boil any of the vegetables except the cauliflower, and mind that is quite tender. Maidstone Cherry Sandwiches (Ingredients—1 lb. Pot Morelia Marmalade [Is., two dishes], fid. j Milk and Bread, 4d.; Butter and Milk, 3d.).—Get a one-pound pot of morella marmalade, made by Thomas Grant & Sons, Maidstone, Kent, or from 4fi, Gresham Street, London, E.C. It is made of the world-famed Kent morella cherries, and as a preserve is unrivalled. Cut some slices from a loaf of Fleck’s milk bread, carefully removing all the crust. Soak in new milk; then fry the slices in butter a pretty golden brown; cut into sandwiches ; spread with the preserve; put a second piece of fried bread as a cover. Serve very hot, piled prettily in cross bars on the dish. DINNER No. 8. Potage Sevigne (^Ingredients—Vegetables, 7d.; Cream, fid.; Stock, 9d.; Eggs, 2d.).—Cut some carrots in slices, and with a column cutter cut out of these a number of discs a quarter of an inch in diameter. Cut similar discs out of leeks, celery, and sorrel leaves. Make an equal quantity (about half a wineglassful) of each, and parboil them .separately in salted water, leaving the leeks and sorrel.discs in the water until required. Take one pint of white stock, made with poultry (if you have none of this, use veal or rabbit stock), and quite free from fat; when boiling hot put the vegetables into it; then a few tarragon leaves cut small, and a little chervil picked out leaf by leaf. Beat up the