evebybody’s dinner book. 99 hours, making seven in all. Take out the bones, pass the mixture through a hair sieve, pour into a tureen, and serve very hot with croiXtons of fried bread on a plate. This soup should taste like the liquor of Irish stew, and is an excellent soup in every way. If you happen to have any Irish stew, some of the liquor may be added to the soup with advantage. If you have no bones, buy threepenny worth at your butcher’s. Rashers of Bacon a la Marie {Ingredients—^ lb. Bacon, 4|d.; Bread or Potatoes, Id.).—Get half a pound of bacon, cut it into rashers, fry very crisp, and place the bacon on a very hot dish—one with hot water under it is best. Have ready some bread (brown or white, or some of each), cut into strips about two inches wide and four long, dip the bread into cold water, then fry in the fat from the bacon until a golden brown. As a change cold potatoes may be sub- stituted for bread, in which case the rashers must be cut in two, or they would be too long. An excellent and economical dish where there are children, as the proportion cooked is easily increased. Imperial Pudding {Ingredieids—One Egg, Id.; Milk, Butter, etc., 5|d.; Oranges and Cream, 3d.).—One ounce of butter, half a cup of castor sugar, half a cup of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one heaped one of baking powder, and enough flour to make a light dough. Bake this mixture, place on the top pieces of orange free fi'om skin and pips, cover with castor riigar, pom’ boiled custard or cream over it: the latter is most delicate. Savoui'y Cabbage and Egg {Ingredients—One Cabbage, Id. j One Egg, Id.).—Boil one cabbage until quite tender, chojj it fine, and add pepper, salt, and some of the fat from the Rashers of Bacon a la Marie. Poach one egg, place it on the top of the cabbage, and serve directly. DINNER No. 12. Hermit’s Soup {Ingredients—| lb. Butter, 3d.; Onions, Greens, Celery, etc., 5|d.).—Burn a quarter of a pound of butter in a pan, shred four onions small and fry them in it, add a little flour, stir it until it is smooth, add as much boiling watei’ as you requii'c to fill your tureen, let it boil