224 everybody’s dinner book. Glace Cult a la Ghinois {Ingredients—Ginger or Vanilla Ice, Is. 6d.; Pastry, 3d.).—Poll out some light thin paste ; cut it into small squares. Have ready some very firm ginger or vanilla ice, place one spoonful of it in the centre of each square of paste, fold it up to exclude all air, and bake. Before the ice is melted the paste will be baked. A delicious sweet, the hot paste and the cool ice combining pleasure and agreeable refre.shment. This dish, I believe, owes its origin to a visit paid to Paris by the chef of the Chinese Ambassador to his conjrere the chef of the Grand Hotel, to whom he explained the mysteries of this excellent ice. DINNER No. 6. Potage aux Choux {Ingredients—Cabbage, 3d.; Stock, 6d.).—Wash and trim one large white cabbage, shred it finely, and cut the shreds across to shorten the filaments. Throw these into one pint of boiling stock (one quart if for more than one person), and more if the cabbage is very large. Boil until tender, add pepper and salt and a large lump of sugar, boil together and serve very hot, taking care that the soup is thick with the cabbage. Saumon a la Chantilly {Ingredients—Salmon, Is. 6d. ; Aspic, 6d.; Horseradish Sauce, 6d.).—Boil one slice of salmon. When cold, put it in a dish, place aspic on the top of the salmon, and pour horseradish sauce round. Filet de Bceuf Sauce Madhre aux Haricots Verts {Ingre- dients—51b. Fillet of Beef [5s., three dishes]. Is. 8d.; Onions, Parsley, etc., 4d.; French Beans, 3d.).—Trim the fillet and lard it carefully. Soak it four hours in olive oil; season with slices of onion, parsley, salt, and pepper; wrap it up in well-buttered paper a.nd roast. Five minutes before taking off the spit remove the paper. A fillet of five pounds as a rule takes about one hour and a quarter. Garnish with French beans, and hand Madeira sauce in a boat. Madeira Sauce {Ingredients—Madeira, fid.; Glaze, Butter, etc., 8d.).—Boil two wineglassesful, of Madeira, a quarter of a pound of meat glaze, and a little coarse black pepper until reduced to one-quarter the original quantity ; brown one