i ONE-SFIILLING DINNERS. DINNER No. 11. Lentil Soup [Ingredimts—Lentils, Id.; Butter, Vegetables, Stock, 5d.).—Soak half a pint of lentils overnight; put them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, two onions, shred finely, a bunch of herbs, and a little celery; fry all together for five minutes, add one pint of any ordinary stock you have, let the soup simmer gently until the lentils are quite tender, pass all through a hair sieve, boil up again, and serve with tiny slices of fried bread. Rabbit Cutlets {Ingredients—Remains of Rabbit, 3|d. ; Egg, Id.; Parsley and Butter, Igd.).—Make a mince of the remains of the rabbit; moisten with a little butter. Shape the mixture carefully into cutlets. Whip up the yolk of one egg ; dip the cutlets in it, then into breadcrumbs ; plunge them into hot fat or lard ; when a nice golden colour, take them out, drain carefully, and serve with fried parsley in the centre. Curried cutlets can be made in the same way by adding a little curry powder and gravy to the mince. DINNER No. 12. Cheap Sheep’s Head Broth {Ingredients—One Sheep’s Head, lOd. [enough for twice]; Rice and Vegetables, 3d.).—In a digester or iron stock pot stew one sheep’s head over a slow fire for about two hours and a half. Add one gallon of water, one teacupful of well-washed rice, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, cut into pieces, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil the whole together again. Add any bones you may have to the broth, as they are an improvement. St. Michael’s Mount Pasty {Ingredients—Vegetables, etc. [no meat], 5|d.).—Chop up any scraps of cold meat, poultry, or bacon you may happen to have (do not chop too finely) ; add some cold potatoes, one onion, one turnip, one carrot; season with pepper and salt to taste, and put it aside. Make some plain dripping pastry, roll it out, cut it into srpiares ; lay a good table.spoonful of the chopped meat and vegetables on each square ; turn one side over the other, corner to corner ; jjinch the edges into a triangle ; bake in a well-heated oven. Put some fried potatoes in the centre,