114 everybody’s dinner book. quarters of an inch thick) from a brown or white loaf; re- move the crust, and cut the slices in two, trimming them so that they are all of a uniform size. Soak them thoroughly in cream or milk. Dissolve a small quantity of fresh butter in an enamelled frying pan. Take the bread out of the cream very carefully, so as not to break it: use a broad knife for this purpose. Fi-y in the butter until a light golden colour; di-aiii it. When nearly cold, put on each slice some freshly stewed fruit, which must Twt be broken in the cooking. Currants, raspberries, blackberries, cranberries, and gooseberries are best. When fresh fruit cannot be had, use Beach’s whole fruit jam instead. Cream, milk, Devon- shire cream, and castor sugar should be served with this dish. DINNER No. 13. Potage aux Choux et au Promage : French Recipe {Ingre- dients—Bacon and Butter, 2d.; Cheese, 3d.; Cabbages, 3d.; Stock and Bread, 9d.).—Line a saucepan with strips of bacon; add to it some cabbages that have been carefully blanched. , Moisten with stock, and let it all boil until the cabbage is quite tender. Butter a second saucepan tho- I'oughly with fresh butter; put in it a layer of bread cut in slices, then a thick layer of grated Gruy^re cheese, then a layer of cabbage, salt and pepper to taste, and a dash of cayenne, and continue the layers until the saucepan has enough in it for one or more persons. Pour on to it sufficient stock, and simmer for one hour. mackerel a I’Huile {Ingredients—Mackerel, etc., 9d.).— Grill the mackerel in front of the fire, or boil it in salt and water. Eat it when cold with a sauce of oil and vinegar, and rolled bread and butter made from a milk loaf. Sweet Curry of Lamb {Ingredients—Remains of the Lamb, Is. 5gd.; Butter and Stock, 3d.; Onion, Apple, etc., 6d.).—Cut up all the remains of the lamb into large dice, also one onion, and add one eggspoonfid of castor sugar. Put these into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter to brown a good colour. Add half a teacupful of stock, a small handful of raisins cut small, one apple cut into thin slices, salt and pepper to taste, and one dessertspoonful of curry powder. When thoroughly mixed, cook all together for three hours. Serve with well-boiled rice on a separate plate.