100 evebybopy’s pinneb book. etc., in dice, shred the lettuce, cut the onions in two, and then in slices. Toss them in butter ; add the lettuce, herbs, and celery j moisten with stock j simmer on a slow fire for an hour and a half until done j in one or more pints of stock. Have ready some crusts of bread, put them into the tureen, and pour the Julienne as hot as possible upon them. Julienne soup is served with and without crusts of bread; if without, a larger quantity of vegetables is necessary. Steamed Haddock (^Ingredients—One Fresh Haddock, 4d.; Batter, l|d.).—Take an enamelled pie dish and place enough water in it to nearly cover the bottom, and upon this put the haddock, carefully skinned and cut into four pieces. Spread an ounce and a half of butter on the fish, cover with a plate, and set iqson the stove. In six minutes the fish will be thoroughly steamed in its own juice. Savoury Mutton Collops {Ingredients—of the Loin, Is. 3d.; Butter, etc., 5d.).—Cut some very thin slices from the underneath and any other part of the loin that is left; sprinkle Avith pepper and salt, a little minced shallot, and mixed herbs ; fry them in butter ; stir in one des.sertspoon- ful of flour; add some gravy and one dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Simmer gently from five to seven minutes. Sei’ve very hot. Lucifer Kidneys with Mashed Potatoes {Ingredients— Two Kidneys, 7d. ; Potatoes, Id. ; other ingredients, 7d.).— Take two kidneys, trim and cut them in slices, gi-ill them, and .spread the following mixture over them. Mix in a very hot dish one dessertspoonful of made mustard, one of Sfilad oil, one of castor sugar, two tablespoonsful of Worcester, two of Harvey, a da.sh of cayenne, one mustardspoonful of salt, one tcaspoonful of vinegar, the same of ground black pepper, and two tablaspoonsful of stock. The mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne .should be put into the di.sh fir.st, then the oil and vinegar worked in, then the sauce, and the stock or gi’avy last. Finish grilling the kidneys a nice brown, place them in the centre of a very hot dish, and serve at once with a border of mashed potatoes. German Krapfel {Ingredients—3 oz. Butter, 3d.; four Eggs, 4d.; Jam, Cinnamon, Yeast, Sugar, etc., 5d.).—Three