‘^^6 EVBRYBOny^S DINNER BOOK. Swiiiborne’s gelatine dis.solvecl. Pound one pound of sweet almonds in a mortar, add tln-ee tumldersful of water, and squeeze the whole through a cloth ; pour half of this liquid on to the coHee,' and stir the other half into half a pound of of sugar and a (piarter of an ounce of the gelatine, which have been previously dissolved in one tumblerful of warm water. Place a plain or fancy mould in a pailful of ice, and pour into it alteimate layers of coffee and milk of almonds as they freeze. Turn out and serve. Fried Eggs: Lady Efeingiiam’s Pecipe {^Ingredients— 2d. ; Cheese and Butter, 24d.).—Put two slices of Gruycre (or any other cheese of a kindred sort) with a small piece of butter in a frying pan, break two eggs over them ■, add a little salt and pepper, and let the whole remain on a gentle fire until the whites are set) then sei've. DINNER No. 14. Consomme aux Nouilles {In(jredients—-^to(Ik, 4|d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Pepper, Salt, and Flour, 2d.).—Make the noidlles of the yolks of three fresh eggs and the white of one beat separately; stir in one teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful of ground white pepper, and half a pound of floui'. Mix into a smooth, thick, stiff paste; roll out very thin, and cut into strips or shavings about one inch wide ; place four of these one on the top of the other ; shred them like you do the vegetables in julienne soup ; thi-ow them on a sieve to dry ; when dry, they can be kept in a tin for three weeks. Heat one pint of stock ; add the noidlles by degrees (they will swell in the soup). Serve ten minutes after the noidlles are added. Nouilles are also used for garnishing stewed beef. Casseroles de Riz {Ingredients—Egg and Rice, 3d.; Parsley and Shallot, 2d. j Bechamel Sauce, Is.).—Bod some rice until quite tender, and let it stand until nearly cold j then make it into round rolls with a small shape, about the depth of a patty. Cover them Avith egg, dip into bread- crumbs, and fiy of an even light colour. When cold, scoop out the inside, and fdl them Avith scraps of minced game, veal, chicken, meat, eggs, or vegetables, Avell steAved with