WBINKLES FROM STORE-ROOMS. 257 richest cream, and in cases of extreme prostration fi'om fever administer this quantity every hour. It is quite marvellous in its efficacy. The Maharajah Dhnleep Singh’s Recipe for making Cur^ Powder.—Turmeric in powder, | lb.; coriander seed, also in powder, | lb.; powdered ginger, 2 oz. ; powdered cayenne and chilli pepper, 1 oz. of each; powdered cardamom seed, cummin seed, and cinnamon, g oz. of each. Mix well together in a marble mortar ; then put it into well-corked bottles for use. ^ oz. is enough for an ordinary curry or curry soup. Fried onions and a squeeze of lemon should be added when making the curry. Frozen Biscuits: Grandpapa Winchilsea’s Recipe.— Take as much biscuit flour and cream as will beat to a froth, put in sufficient moist sugar to sweeten it, one table- spoonful of brandy, and one of Maraschino. Rub the sugar on a rind of lemon; mix them in a teapot, and put them into small paper cases or trays; pour the mixture on to the top of sponge cakes; freeze them on ice before you put them into the trays. Beau Desert Ginger Beer ; Henwood’s Recipe.—Into ten gallons of water put 12 lb. of loaf sugar and 2 oz. of hops. Boil half an hour, and keep taking off the scum. Put g llj. of bruised ginger into the barrel, and pour the boiling water upon it j take a small quantity of the liquor, and add to it g oz. of isinglass, and heat it until it is dissolved ; then put it also into the barrel. When the liquor is cool, put in four spoonsful of fresh yeast. When it has done fermenting, close it well up. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle it off, and in ten days or a foi'tnight it will be fit for drinking. N.B.—The hops must oiot go into the barrel; therefore the liquor must be strained into the barrel thi-ough a sieve. Another Way.—Dissolve 2| lb. of loaf sugar in three gallons of cold spring water •, add 2 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of tartaric acid, the juice of six lemons, and four tablespoonsful of good yeast. Boil the peel of four lemons in cold water for ten minutes; add it boiling hot, strain through a flannel bag, bottle immediately, and cork it down. 17