TRN-SniLLTNG DINNERS. 227 Garnish a la Financiere {Ingredients—Foie Gras, 6d.; Cockscombs, etc., Is.; Mushrooms and Truffles, 9d. [8d.]).— Cook the rest of the foie gras (left from the “ Foie Gras a la Livonian ” : see Dinner No. 4, p. 222) with cockscombs and livers, small chicken quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms in fnancih'e sauce, and serve as a garnish. (Eufs a la Tripe: China Cupboard Recipe, Mr. Bald- win’s {Ingredients—Onion and Butter, 2gd.; Flour and Milk, l|d.; Eggs, 4d.).—Cut one onion in half, chop very fine, and simmer it with butter. Do not allow it be too highly coloured. When the onion is well done {i.e., quite soft), add one tablespoonful of flour, then half a teaspoonful of warm milk. Mix them thoroughly until it becomes a thick sauce. Strain through a sieve, so that no portion of onion remains. Have ready four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices. Simmer the eggs in the same very gently, taking care that it does not boil. DINNER No. 8. Potage Vermicelle a I’Hollandaise {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Vermicelli, 2d.; Eggs and Ci’eam, 5d.).—Boil some vermicelli in white stock made with veal or chicken, pass through a tammy, add the requisite quantity of cream or milk, stir in some yolks of eggs, warm, and serve. Cotelettes de Boeuf a la Marquise {Ingredients—Rest of the Beef, Is. 8d. ; Ham and Veal, Is. ; Egg, Id. ; Potatoes, 2d.).—Cut the fillet of beef into cutlet-sliaped pieces; lay on each a piece of ham similarly shaped, and over this put some veal stufling, whicli should be pressed with a wetted knife into a cone shape; roll the whole in egg and bread- crumbs, and broil the cutlets over a clear fire. Serve en couronne on a border of mashed potatoes ; fill the centre with peas tossed in butter; pour round velouta sauce sprinkled with chopped ham. Veloute Sauce {Ingredients—Veal and Ham, fid.; Biitter and Lemon, 3d. ; White Wine and Stock, fid. ; Glaze, fid. ; Giblets, fid.).—Cut up some trimmnigs and giblets of fowls, a little veal, and one slice of ham ; warm in butter, but do not brown ; moi.sten with one tumblerfid of white wine and