92 everybody’s dinner book. Pui-ee de Champignons : Dkloeme’s Recipe {Imjredients —One pint of Button Mushrooms, 9d.; Butter and Cream, 4d. ; Bechamel Sauce, 9d.).—Put one pint of good button mushrooms in a stewpan with some butter. Let them cook. Put with them some good bdchamel sauce. Pass all together through a hair sieve. Put back in the stewpan with a little cream. Make very hot, and serve with the cutlets. Pommes de Terre a la Provencale {Imjredients—Anchovies, 4d.; Parsley, etc., 3d. ; Potatoes, Id.).—Out some cold boiled potatoes into rather' thick slices, and put them in a pan lightly rubbed with garlic. Add some finely chopped pai'sley and onion, and a little of the best salad oil (Barto VaUe) or butter, salt and pepper to taste, a squeeze of lemon or a few drops of vinegar. Toss the whole over the fire until thoroughly done and hot. Serve garnished with fillets of anchovies, previously scalded to take the salt out. Curried Kidneys and Muffins {higredients—Two Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d. 3 Muffin, Id.; Bacon, etc., 3d.).—Make a smooth paste of one teaspoonful of fiour, one of curry powder ; add pepper and salt to taste ; moisten with a little stock. Split the kidneys, cut them in pieces; spread the paste over them, and fry in as little butter as possible. Serve very hot on buttered muffin, Avith a piece of fried bacon laid on the muffin fii-st, and the kidneys on the top of that. They can also be served on rounds of fried bread. Cup Custards {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Sugar, etc., 3d.).—Very easily and quickly macle, and therefore in- valuable in preparing a dinner in a hurry. Break one egg into each cup ; add a pinch of salt and one heaped teaspoon of castor sugar, flavoured with lemon or any flavouring you have, and fill nearly full of milk. Set the two cups in a kettle, a pan of hot water, or a steamer, and steam until done. DINNER No. 18. Potage de Legumes —Stock, 9d.; Vegetables, etc., 4d.; Butter, 3d.).—Take equal quantities of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. Cut them all in the shape of small dice; put a quarter of a pound of butter in a sauce-