kvf.rybody’s pinnkb book. 124 whole parsley leaves. Strain the fish, egg and hreadcrnmh them, and fry them a fine golden colour in salad oil. Savoury Steak {Ingredients—5 lb. Rump Steak, 7d.; Butter, 2d.; Horseradish, etc., 4d.).—Chop finely one tea- spoonful of gi'een pickled chillies ; mix it with two ounces of butter, a little mustard, one spoonful of gi-ated horseradish, and a little Pratt’s club sauce. The steak should be rather a thick one. Season with shit, and spread plenty of the mixture on each side. Put the steak on a gi’idiron over a sharp fire; turn it three or four times. Serve on a very hot dish, mth the juice of half a lemon, one dessertspoonful of walnut ketchup, ditto mushroom ketchup, and one table- spoonful each of Harvey and Worcester sauce and castor sugar, all well mixed together. Miitton cutlets can be cooked in the same way, or mutton steak. Broiled Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Boil some potatoes; skin them ; lay them on the gridiron over a clear, bri.sk fire ; turn them until they ai’e brown all ovei-. Serve with steak or cutlets. Fig Pudding {Ingredients—6 oz. Suet, .3d. ; 4 lb. Figs, 4|d. ; one Egg, Id.; Milk, Sugar, Nutmeg, etc., 2d.).—Chop six ounces of beef suet and half a pound of the be.st figs finel}’’; add three-quarters of a pound of breadcrumbs and four ounces of Demerara. Mix first the breadcrumbs and tlie suet, then the figs and the Demerara; add, if liked, a little nutmeg, one well-he.s.ten egg, and one cup of milk. Boil in a mould four hours. Vermicelli and "Eggs {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Butter, 2d. ; Vermicelli, Id. ; Bread and Milk, 2jd.).—Boil the yolks of four eggs hard ; .add two ounces of fresh butter to them ; pound all together with a sprinkling of salt. Have ready a di.sh ; lay in it some cold toast well buttered, with some vermicelli on it, previoiisly cooked in milk. Rub the eggs and butter through a coarse sieve on to the vermi- celli, and serve at once. ^ DINNER No. 20. Giblet Soup {Ingredients—One set of Goose Giblets, 6d. ; Stock, fid. ; Sheiry and H.am, 8d.; Onions, Par.slej’’, etc.. Id.).—Wash the giblets in two or three waters, and cut