251 TKIUrR HINTS FOU DAINTY HOHSKKKEPFiTlS. To prevent table salt packing together in a hard crnst in tlie salt cellars, dry it tlioronghly, mixing with it a per- centage of arrowroot or dry starch. By the seaside the percentage needed will be from eight to ten per cent.; much leas inland. Flies may be quickly got rid of by blowing Persian insect powder into the air hy the means of an insect-powder gun; cockroaches may also be exterminated by the same process. Scraps of cheese which cheesemongers and grocers sell for a few pence per pound answer perfectly for cooking pur- poses ; they ax-e simply the cuttiixgs from larger pieces. Bacon can be bought in the same way, also tiimmings of beef and mutton. Always keep aixy half bottles of wine or spirits you have, even the dregs, as they do quite well for cooking. A bottle may be opened, say of claret, which is never so good next day, yet it answers perfectly for culinaiy pui’poses. Whites of eggs left over from puddings should be put into a mould—the lid of a box will do at a pinch—and set in the oven in a baking tin full of water; they will set flat, aixd can then be cut in aixy shapes for garnishing and decoration, also for “ Outlets la Eeforme,” and exxt into “peas” they can be used as a garnish for clear soup with othei’s of vai'ied colours. The whites of hard-boiled eggs should be set aside, and used also for garnishing cut iixto fancy .shapes. The trimmings fx’om truffles should also be kept, and chopjxed or .sliced very fine, to use for a garnish, or for .saixdwichcs, etc., etc. You should always take care of your beaux restes. When the whites of eggs are used, a custard or any pudehng that requires the yolks should be made at the same time, so as to use up both. The .suet fi-om cold roast joints, if there is more than is i-ecjnired, should be chopped up and u.sed for pxxddings ; it is quite as good as the fre.sh suet bought by the pound. Crusts of bread (xvhite and brown) from tin and other loaves, broken slices of bread, pieces of toast (white or bi'own), the cuttings froixi toast, bits of Fi’ench and other