105 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. 1| pint Milk, 3d.; Flour and Sugar, 2d.).—Mix four table- spoonsful of flour with a little cold milk taken from the pint and a half ; add salt. Boil the rest of the milk, and pour it when boiling upon three well-beaten eggs and one ounce of butter. Stir all well together', and mix smoothly and by degrees with the flour and milk already mixed. Beat all together for two minutes; bake in a well-buttered pie dish for three-quarters of an hour. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish; cut it in half; serve one half with Demerara, reserving the other half to eat with rich gravy the next day. Poached Eggs in Batter {Inyrcdients—Four Eggs, 4d. ; Bacon, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2gd.).—Poach three eggs. Let them get quite cold, ti'im cai'efully, roll each egg in a thinly cut slice of bacon or ham, dip in batter, and fry. Serve with fried parsley. Spread the bacon or ham with anchovy paste pi'e\’ious to enclosing the eggs in it. Make the batter of one egg and breadcrumbs, salt and pepper. DINNER No. 7. Aspic of Soles {Imjredients—Sole, Is.; Anchovies, 3d.; Aspic Jelly, Parsley, etc., 9d.).—Take eight fillets of sole, put them in a buttered tin, with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon ; cover the tin with a sheet of well-buttered paper, and put it in the oven just long enough to cook the fish; then put them under a weight until cold. Clean aird wash some fillets of anchovies; have a little pai'sley very finely minced; cut the fillets of sole into rounds the size of a penny; make a layer in a plain mould of very pale aspic jelly, made with Swinborne’s gelatine. On this, when it begins to set, make a pattern with the fillets of sole and anchovies, sprinkling each with a little parsley; fill up the interstices with aspic jelly, and keep on adding layer upon layer of sole and anchovies until the mould is full. Turn out and serve with very thin slices of bread and butter rolled, made from milk hreml. Braised Lamb Cutlets with Onions {Ingredients—1^ lb. Neck of Lamb, Is. 9d. ; Button Onions, Id.).—Simmer the cutlets on a gentle fire, and when quite tender strain off the gravy. Leave the cutlets until cold, trimming them of