VKBtK HINTS KOH DAINTY HOUSEKEEPERS. S53 To make white sauce properly for lioiled chiclcens, etc., the Hour and butter should be fried together before the milk or stock is poured on to them ; it should be added by degrees, and the sauce -wrung through a tammy. If this is done, it will always be smooth and creamy. Hot Sauce fob Broiled Poultry or Meat.—Make a sauce of one dessertspoonful of salad oil, ditto -vdnegar, one tablespoonful of castor sugar, Worcester, Harvey, Pratt’s Club sauce, made mustard, two tablespoonsful of Liebig Company’s extract of meat, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, one small cupful of stock, and some finely chopped gherkins and mixed pickles. Make all very hot, and serve with broiled chicken or turkey, or slices of any cold meat broiled. In dishes made of fresh, not tinned, meat, when the sum per pound is too great for the One Shilling Dinners, or the butchei- will not cut the meat in sufficiently small quantities, it is a good plan to buy, say, 4 lb. of silverside at 9d. (3s.); 4 lb. of brea.st of mutton at 5d. (Is. 8d.); 4 lb. of neck of mut- ton at lOd. (3s. 4d.); 6 lb. of leg of pork at 8d. (4s.) ; 6 lb. of shoulder of veal at 7d. (3s. 6d.); 6 lb. of neck of lamb at Is. (6s.) ; and out of them make so many nice little dishes that the cost of each does not exceed the proportion of the Is,, or whatever fixed sum the dinner is to cost, and the remainder in equal proportions make other dishes. The same with bacon, fish, poultry, game, vegetables, fruit. If a chicken costs 3s. to 4s., a duck 4s. 6d., a turkey or goose 9s. to 15s., a pair of soles 2s., a brill 5s. to 6s., salmon chtto, a melon 2s., strawberries 2s., so much can be made from them that the requisite sum is not lost sight of, though the cost in the first instance exceeds it. All the prices quoted are of course subject to the fluctua- tions of the markets, but as a rule the difference is slight. If possible, when goods are reduced, people should try and buy three or six months’ (and in cases where goods will keep, such as tea, sugar, kitchen paper, etc., etc., one year’s) consumption of the things they have a constant use for, as by buying in bulk many pennies amounting to pov,tids are saved in the course of a year. In buying tea, for instance, buy 20 lb., half or whole chests; there is always a reduction