NIKE-SHILLING DINNERS. 213 person, use one large carrot, three small ones, one large onion, one pint of red wine, and two to four partridges. An excellent soup. Hare Cakes [Ingredients—The i-emains of the Hare, 2s. 6d.; Suet, etc., 4d.).—Out the meat that is left oif the roast hare, and pound it very fine in a mortar; season it with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg, and pound a little beef suet with it. When well pounded, put it in a mould that is well buttered, and bake it for half an hour ; turn it out on to a dish, and send it up to table with some rich game gi'avy. Very good cold. Creme de Cafe aux Fraises [Ingredients—Coffee, fid.; Sugar, 2d. ; Eggs, 4d.; Strawberries, Is. 3 Champagne, Is.). —Make one pint of cafe cb la a’hne with two ounces of sugar, four oxinces of the best Mocha procurable (B.V. mixtru-e, sold by Barto Valle, Haymarket, is the best), half a pint of boiling water, and boiling milk sweetened and mixed with the drawn coffee; let it cool, then add the yolks of four eggs beaten to a froth and the white of one, stir for a few minutes over the fire until thickened, pour into glasses, and sift castor sugar over them when cold. Serve with it ripe strawberries, cut in halves, made into a conifote, and flavoured with fine champagne. The cofiee and strawbenies blend together admii-ably. DINNER No. 19. Potage Solferino [Ingredients—Vegetables, Is. 3 Stock, 9d.3 Bread, Id. 3 Quenelles, 7d.).—Take equal proportions of haricot beans, young potatoes, young carrots, green peas, asparagus chopped into small pieces, French beans cut in two, chopped parsley, chives and celery, button mushrooms and onions, and four large tablespoonsful of puree of tomato. Boil all in stock. Put into the tureen crusts of bread toasted, and little quenelles of veal shaped in a teaspoon and coloured yellow and pink 3 add more stock, and pour into the tureen. Eel au Rouget de Lille [Ingredients—Eel, Is. 3 Stock, etc., fid. 3 White Wine, fid. 3 | bottle Italian Sauce, fid. 3 Potatoes, 3d.).—Skm one eel, lard it with fine lardons of fat bacon, and soak for two hours and a half in equal pro-