43 TPlRfiB-SniLLING DINNERS. with sage and onions in the proportion of two ounces of breadcrumbs, five sage leaves, two large onions, one ounce of butter, one egg, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the duck; secure both ends with string; cook some maccaroni until it is tender ; add to it some very good brown gravy; arrange round the duck, and serve very hot. Stewed Potatoes au Gratin {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Cheese, etc., 3d.).—Cut some boiled potatoes while they are still wai'm into medium-sized j)ieces; cover them with hot milk ; add white pepper and salt to taste and some butter. Simmer in the milk ten minutes. Have ready some china or paper I'amecpiin cases, or small tins ; fill them with the potatoes; cover with a thick layer of breadcrumbs, with a layer of grated Parmesan over that again. Bake a delicate brown, and serve in the cases. Bread, Toast, or Roll Pudding —Milk, Butter, and Sugar, 24d. ; Currants, Igd.).—Scraps of any or all of the above; put them into a bowl and pour boiling milk over them; stand until quite soaked, then beat the pieces up with a fork; add butter or dripping, some Demerara, and a few currants; mix well; put the mixtime into a greased bowl, tie a floured cloth over the top, and boil for one hour. DINNER No. 15. A Delicious Duck Pudding {Ingredients—The other remains of the Duck, Is. 9d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Buttei', Maccaroni, etc., 4|d.).—Take the remains of the duck, cut it into neat pieces, season to taste-; dredge with flour ; put it into a basin. Stew some mushrooms in butter; cut one onion in shreds, and also fry in butter; boil some maccaroni until tender. Place all these in the basin with the duck ; add some good gravy, salt and pepper to taste; cover-with a thin paste; steam an hour and a half; send to table in the basin it was cooked in, with a napkin pinned round it. If you have any remains of chicken or rabbit, they may be added to it. Boiled Cucumber {Ingredients—One Cucumber, 2d.).— Boil one cucumber, and serve it with the duck pudding.