IGl EIGnT-SHILLIKG DINNERS. Meanwhile heat the contents of half a bottle of fincmcih-e garnish in a little good bechamel sauce, dish the cutlets m couromie, pour the financih'e and the sauce into the centre, and serve garnished with tiny croiUtons of fried bread and crisply fried parsley. Financi^re Garnish is sold in bottles; it consists of cockscombs, truffles, mushrooms, etc. Her Ladyship’s Brown Bread Pudding {Ingredients— Four Eggs, 4d. j 6 oz. Butter, 6d.; | pot Cherry Jam, 2|d. •, Sugar, etc., 2gd.).—Four eggs (the yolks and whites whisked separately), half an ounce of ground cinnamon, half a pound of coarsest brown sugar, six ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of stale brown breadcrumbs (f.e., made from a loaf of brown bread). Cream the butter and mix well with the sugar until quite smooth ; add the eggs, well beaten; stir in gradually the other ingi'edients. Steam for two hours or even more (it cannot be done too much). When tiumed oiit serve very hot, with melted cherry jam poured over it. Very good cold or fried in slices. Turnip Tops and Poached Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; 1 oz. Butter, Id.; Turnip Tops, etc., 2d.).—Take one pound of turnip tops ; wash and pick them clean ; put them in a saucepan with a little water. When quite done, put them on a sieve to drain. When all the water is drained, pass them through a sieve. Mix in a saucepan one tablespoonfid of flour with one ounce of butter, add the puree of turnip tops, stir well, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve in a very hot dish with triangles of toast. Poach two eggs in water with a little vinegar, a few peppei-coims, and a little parslej"^ (you must never allow the water to boil). Take the eggs out, trim them, and serve on the puree. DINNER No. 3. Bread Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 6d.; Butter, Id. ; two Eggs, 2d.).—Wash and cut up any vegetables that are in season; also some herbs; put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter; cover closely, and let them stew in their own steam until quite tender ; then add a sufficient quantity of water and some toasted slices of brown or white bread 11