192 everybody’s dinner book. on a boi'der of mashed potato (sorrel or spinach can also be used); put the rice in the centre, and serve very hot with a good brown sauce round them. Maccaroni au Beurre {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 2d. ; Butter, 2d. ; Cheese, 3d.).—Put a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg in a well-warmed dish; lay on it a quarter of a pound of thoroughly boiled large pipe maccaroni (that from Barto Vall6 in the Haymarket is the best) ; drain the maccaroni well; turn it over as a salad is worked ” with two forks, adding during the process plenty of fresh grated Parmesan cheese and Gruy^re, with a dash of cayenne. Ham Toast; Swift’s House Kecipe {Ingredients—Ham, 6d.; Bread, Butter, etc., 3d.).—Grate some ham ; put it in a saucepan with a little good gravy and cayenne 3 toast some bread; butter it well; then pour the ham on it. Cover with crumbs of bread and brown it with a salamander. DINNEH No. 3. Victoria Street Oyster Soup: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients—Twenty-four Oysters, 3s. ; Cream, 6d. ; Eggs, 3d.; Stock, 4d.).—Take two dozen oysters (or more); par- boil them in them own liquor ; beard twelve and lay them aside; pound the rest and the beards with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, the oyster liquor, and as much good white stock as you want soup. Let the whole boH, and then pa.ss it through a hair sieve. Put in the whole oysters, make the soup as hot as possible, season wth ground white pepper and .salt, and just before serving stir in off the fire one gill of cream beaten up with the yolk of one raw egg. Serve with tiny crodtons of brown and white bread. Cotelettes a la Contesse: Yarlet’s Recipe {Ingredients— • Tlie rest of the Cutlets, Is. 3d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Sherry, Tomato, and Glaze, 4d. •, Sauce, 3d.).—Braise the rest of the cutlets 3 when well done, put them in press and trim the cutlets all one size. Chop six mushrooms very fine; cook them in butter 3 when almost reduced, add some brown sauce 3 stir it until it becomes very thick, and place the sauce on the cutlets 3 smooth it on them and sprinkle some bread- crumbs over them 3 place them in a saute pan with a little