everybody’s dinner book. 170 DINNEK No. 8. Isabella’s White Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, etc., 9d.; Stock, 7d.; Milk and Cream, 6d.).—Lettuce, onions, parsley, cucumber, endive, and tarragon cut very fine. Fry in butter rather dry; put in a stewpan with boiling stock or very good broth. Stew until tender. Mix a little flour with milk to thicken the stock; add a cup of cream just before serving. SoufiBle of Chicken {Ingredients—One Chicken [3s., make,s two dishes]. Is. 6d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Cream, 3d.).—Pound the white flesh of a cooked chicken or rabbit with butter, ground white pepper, salt, and cream or milk; leave until cold; add the yolks of three eggs; lastly, add the whites whipped to a stiflf froth. Put in a souflie tin, and bake. Steak a la Parisienne {Ingredients—Ig lb. Pump Steak, Is. 9d. ; Potatoes, 2d.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take fillet of beef or rump steak, about three-quarters of an inch thick and two inches square; cut as many pieces as the steak will make ; trim them neatly, and beat well; sprinkle with pepper ; dip them in salad oil or run butter ; broil over a clear fire ; turn them after they have been on the fire one minute, and keep on turning until done (eight or ten minutes is generally sufficient). Sprinkle them with a little salt, and serve very hot with the gravy poured round, and a small quantity of very finely minced parsley, mixed with a piece of fresh butter and chopped sardines, on the top of each piece of steak. Garnish with potatoes tossed in butter, and French beans in the centre of the dish. Petits Choux a la Creme {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; six Eggs, 6d. ; Potato Flour, Sugar, and Essence, 3d.).—Take the rest of the “Choux au Confiture” {see Dinner No. 7, p. 169). Imstead of jam or jelly substitute the following : One pint of milk. Mix very smoothly with a little of it one tablespoonful of potato flour, castor sugar to taste, and the yolks of six eggs; add the rest of the milk, and a few drops of Langdale’s vanilla, or any other essence you prefer. Cook it in the hain-maide. Do not cease stirring until the cream is done and quite thick. When cold, serve. If liked, a few drops of cochineal may be added to half the mixture, and