EVEKYnODY’s DINNEK BOOK. 240 Lot this stock siminor gently for one hour and a half, then strain, and clarify it with raw veal and eggs. The garnish for this soup is as follows: Take the heart of one stick of celery and cut it into very fine shreds, and put them into a stewpan. Cover them with cold water and add a little salt, then bring the water to boiling point and strain it from the celery. Einse the celery well and cook it in a little of the soup until tender; then it Ls ready to add to the soup. Make a custard with two eggs and two tablespoonsful of milk. Season with salt and ground white pepper. Butter some little darioh moulds well, and fill them half full of vegetables which are cut in small dice not larger than the liead of a good large pin. The best way to cut them in tliis fashion is to cut the vegetables in thin slices and then in fine strips, and it is then qiiite easy to cut them in dice. Carrots, turnips, leeks, and cucumber (if liked) are the best veget.ables to use. The vegetables should be cooked in the same way as the celery, using water instead of .soup before they are put into the moulds. Fill the moulds with the custard, and then place them in a stewpan containing enough boiling water to come three parts of the way up the moulds. Bring the water to boiling point again, and then put the cover on the pan and draw it to the side of the stove and let the custards steam until firm. Turn them out of the moulds, and when cold cut them in small rounds. Some of the breast of the guinea fowl cut in thin slices and then in rounds should also be served in the soup. The remainder can be made into croquettes. This is a clear soup made with white meat. A Good Way of Cooking a Slice of Salmon [Ingredients— Salmon, Is.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—Take a nice slice of .salmon, and rub both sides with the following mixture : One ghei‘- kin, one shallot chopped fine, one anchovy also chopped fine, two tablespoonsful of salad oil, one teaspoonful of minced parsley, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, and a httle minced chilli. Mix all together thoroughly. Wrap the salmon in a sheet of white writing paper well buttered, bake half an hour, and serve in the paper. Turbot can be cooked in the same way. Vol au Vent [Ingredients—Ptest of the Chicken, 2s. 2d.; Truffles and Mushrooms, 4d.; Cockscombs and Tongue, 4cl ;