74 everybody’s dinner book. Celestine Puffs with Peas {Ingredients—Chicken, Is.; Peas, 3d.; other ingredients, 8d.).—Mix in a basin about two ounces of finely chopped chicken from yesterday’s roast chicken. Add to it one ounce of breadcrumbs, one salt- spoonful of chopped par.sley, ditto pepper, castor sugar, salt, one teaspoonful of vinegar, and the s<ame of mixed herbs and minced onion, and three table-spoonsful of milk. Take one teasjjoonful of Freeman’s baking powder and a quarter of a pound of flour; make into a dough, with one ounce of lard or drijiping and a little water; roll the dough out thin, cut it into four pieces; lay some of the above mixture on each piece, wet it all round, double the paste over, pressing it down carefully. Put the puffs in a baking tin with lard or dripping, and place in the oven. Baste three or four times with the grease in the tin; when done, take them out, drain on paper, and serve very hot with peas ill the centre. Candied Peel and Currant Dumplings {Ingredients—Suet, Currants, etc., 4d.).—Make a suet crust; while making drop into the mixture well-washed currants free from the stalks and chopped mixed peel. Make the dumplings the size of a Tangerine orange. Put them in boiling water, boil half an hour, and serve with Demcrara. DINNER No. 3. Faubonne Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 8d.; Stock, etc., 7d.).—Nearly the same soup as “Potage Julienne.” Cut the vegetables into dice in.stead of strips, add sorrel or spinach, moisten with butter, and add to it “ Potage Maigre ” {see Dinner No. 17, p. 66). Leave out the peas, asparagus, and French herbs. Crimped Skate, Anchovy, and Shrimp Sauce {Ingredients —1 lb. Skate, 4d.; Shrimps, etc., 3d.).—Cleanse one pound of crimped skate in strong salt and ^yater. Boil carefully. Serve with anchovy sauce with boiled shrimps in it. Sausages and Rice {Ingredients—Sausages, 5d.; Rice, etc., 4d.).—Wash one large cupful of rice in a sieve or cullendei-. Take three pints of water with one well-filled teaspoonful of salt, and put it on to boil. When boiling add