6 everybody’s dinner book. and Onioixs, 2|d.).—Bixy a nice young rabbit, skin .and prepare it carefully; boil it for an hour and a half, taking care that it cooks very gently. Put a couple of sliced onions into the water it is boiled in, and send to table garnished with crisply fried rolls of bacon. St. Petersburg Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes and Flour, l|d.).—Cut some raw potatoes into pieces alx)ut two inches long, and as tliick as your finger; dry them thoroughly in a cloth ; shake over them a little dry salted flour; put them into a frying basket, and plunge into a pan of boiling lard or dripping; fry a golden colour. Drain well on paper, and serve as hot as po.ssible. DINNER No. 10. University Pie {Ingredients—Remains of the Rabbit, 4|d.; Corned Beef, 2|d.; Potatoes, Herbs, etc., 2d.).—Take some of the remains of the rabbit—say the two legs, or one leg and one shoulder ; cut all the meat carefully off the bones; add a quarter of a pound of tinned corned beef (Armour’s LS the best), and mince it very fine; flavour with salt, pepper, and powdered herbs; add one teacupful of bread- crumbs ; mix thoroughly with some good gravy or stock (the 1‘abbit bones can be used for this purpose); put the mixture into a small well-greased pie dish (dishes are sold that hold just enough for one person); pile mashed potatoes on the top; score with a fork, and brown in the oven. Bloater in Hiding {Ingredient—Bloater, Id.).—Oil a sheet of white notepapei-; get one bloater; fold it in the paper; broil slowly for fifteen minutes, turning several times. Serve in the paper. A nice way of cooking bloaters. Snowball {Ingredients—Apple, Id.; Rice and Sugar, Id.)— Wash a handful of rice thoroughly; take a small pudding cloth, gi’ease it, and spread over it a tliick layer of the rice. Peel and core very carefidly one large ajiple; place it in the middle of the layer of rice; draw up the ends of the cloth so that the apple is completely covered with the rice, tie tightly, and lioil. Serve with Demerara or castor sug^ar.