129 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. Eastwell Devilled Chicken {Tmjredients—Eemains of the Chicken, Is. 3d. j Sauces and Butter, IHd.).—Take the two legs and back of the chicken. (It is really best to make a devil from a hot chicken, but it is also excellent made from cold poultry. Turkey can be served in similar fashion, also capons.) Mix on a very hot dish or in an enamelled sauce- pan one dessertspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of made mustard, two of castor sugai', half a saltspoonful of cayenne, the best salad oil and French vinegar to taste, and one dessertspoonful of black pepper. Some peojde object so much to the taste of oil and vinegar that it is best not to put any special quantity, but let individual taste decide it. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly together. Then add one saltspoonful of white pepper, two tablespoonsful of Worcester sauce, Harvey, Pratt’s club sauce, Tapp, and King of Oude, one tablespoonful of Yorkshire relish, Lion Brand, and Reading sauce, one dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup and walnut ketchup, and one teaspoonful of cayenne sauce. Amalgamate thoroughly, taking care that the sauce is perfectly smooth. Add one small cup of good gravy, and mix all again. Place the chicken in the dish, score well, and pour some of the sauce over it. Bi'oil over a clear fire ; set the dish in the oven to wai-m the sauce. When the devU is ready, serve in the dish with the sauce. Hand the remainder of the sauce in a sauce boat. Send with it to table cold butter and bread. A most excellent and appe- tising devil, made from my father’s celebrated recipe. Egg Balls [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2d.). —Take two eggs; boil them hard; add a quarter of an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, salt, cayenne, white pepper, and a little milk. The yolks of the eggs must be pounded and thoroughly amalgamated with the other ingredients. Shape into balls, and serve with hot, crisp, dry toast. DINNER No. 3. The Vineyard Tomato Soup: Mrs. Dorrien’s Recipe [Imjredients—Tomatoes, lOd.; Stock, 4|d.).—Pass through a sieve one pound of cooked tomatoes. Have ready half a pint of good stock. Mix all well together, and serve very 9