everybody’s dinner book. 212 the centre of the patties ; fill with a purie of the chicken, or with it simply minced ; warm in the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Oysters, lobsters, shrimps, forcemeat, or game may be also used in this way. Roast Hare a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Hare [5s., two dishes], 2s. 6d. ; Red Currant Jelly, 3d.; Stufling, 9d.).— Place the hare at some distance from the fii’e when first laid down (a fair-sized hare takes one hour and a quarter, a large one an hour and a half). Baste it fii’st with milk, then with butter, being specially carefid that it is well basted, or it will be dry, with a hard skin, from which it is difficult to cut the meat. When it is nearly done, dredge with flour and baste lavishly Avith butter ; dish it up, remove the skewers, and pour good game gravy round it. If the liver is perfectly fresh, it should be parboiled, and then minced and mixed with the stuffing. Send red currant jelly to table with it. Croute a la Marechale {Ingredients—Shrimps, 4d. ; Butter and Curry Powder, 3d.).—Shell some shrimps very carefully •, pound them in a mortar with butter and curry powder to taste; spread on rounds of very hot buttered toast. Lobster, crab, and prawns may be used in the same way. DINNER No. 18. Hunter’s Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 3d. ; Ham, 3d. ; Butter and Flour, 3d. ; Wine, 8d. ; Partridge, Is. 9d.).— Slice thin half of a large carrot, two small ones, one medium- sized onion, one head of celery, and some rather lean ham or bacon. Fry these with some parsley in butter. When done yellow, dredge in plenty of flour and let it colour, but not a dark brown. Then add some good beef broth, give it a good stii’, and turn it into the soup cauldron. Add the quantity of bi’oth you need and half a pint of red wine. Leave it to simmer slowly. In the meantime roast one partridge basted with butter; cut the breast off in neat slices, and the other meat from the bones ; bruise the bones in a mortar, and throw them into the soup. Boil it well, strain, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and make it all hot, but do 7iot let it boil again; add the meat, and serve the soup as hot as possible. If for more than one