102 everybody’s dinner book. on the top of the vegetables, moisten them with good stock, cover with paper well buttered, cover the saucepan, and simmer on a gentle fire until done. Serve with strong gravy with a little glaze in a sauce boat. Stewed Pigeon with French Beans {Ingredients—Yigeon, Is. 4d.; one Egg, Id.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Butter, etc.. Id.; Beans, Id.).—Cut one pigeon into four pieces and lay it in a saucepan with a httle cold water and some button mush- rooms. Stew gently until quite tender. Add two table- spoonsful of milk, into which has been stiiTed the beaten yolk of one egg, and one teaspoonful of flour rubbed into a similar quantity of flour, salt, and pepper. Simmer ten minutes, and serve with French beans saihte in butter in the centre of the dish. Potatoes with Egg {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter, Cream, Cheese, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.).—Take two kidney potatoes and bake them. When quite done cut oft’ -a small piece at one end and scoop out all the mside. Hub the potatoes through a wire sieve, with one ounce of fresh butter; mix with this one egg, one ounce of grated Parmesan, and a little cream, with a dash of cayenne pepper. Fill the skins again with this mixtui-e, sprinkle with finely chopped hard-boiled egg, and bake fifteen minutes. Pudding a la Juive {Ingredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Flour and Sugar, 2d.).—Two ounces of butter; work it to a cream ; add the yolks of three eggs, tour tablespoonsful of flour well beaten, and tlie same of castor sugar; whip the whites of the eggs to a light froth, and add this to the other ingredients. Mix all thoroughly; bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. DINNER No. 5. Consomme Celestine {Ingredients—1| pint of Stock, 10|d.; one Pancake, 2d.).—Make one pancake without sugar; cut it into very thin strips ; put tliem in a soup tureen; add a pint and a half of hot consomme and serve. Rissoles of Crab with Peas {Ingredients—Crab, Is. ; three Egg.s, 3d. ; Peas, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Pick care-