kverybody’s dinner book. 128 some butter ready, pour half of it into a greased frying pan, lay in the bloater, pour the rest of the butter over it, fry, and serve very hot. DINNER No. 2. Kaiser Soup {Ingredients—1| pint Clear Soup, Is. l|d.; three Eggs, 3d.).—Beat two eggs well; add them to a quarter of a pint of clear soup, with salt and a grate of nutmeg if liked. Pour this into a well-buttered pudding basin ; set this in boiling water and let it boil one hour, taking cai-e the water does not flow into the mould. When done cut the mass into thin slices and serve in some clear soup, beating the yolk of one egg into the tureen. Fillets of Mackerel a la St. Louis {Ingredients—Mackerel, 4d.; Port, 3d. ; Shrimps, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.b—Fillet a mackerel. Melt one ounce of butter in a .stewpan with a little flour; add salt, black pepper, cayenne, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon. Place the fillets in the stewpan. Shake it before the fire for a few minutes, turning the fillets. Pour in by degrees one wineglass of port wine, with one de.ssertspoonful of Worcester sauce and the same of Harvey, and some mace if liked. Add some carefully picked boiled shrimps. Boil and pour the sauce over the fish, which should be served in a very hot plated dish. Kabobs a la ’91; Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients— 3 lb. Neck of Mutton [3s., makes two dishes]. Is. 6d.; Bacon, 2d. ; Ajjple and Potatoes, 2d.; Piccalilli, etc., 3d.).—Cut some round pieces from part of a neck of mutton, some bacon, apple, potatoes (and some add carrot), all of a uniform size; scmte the potatoes, but do not bi’own them. Thread the pieces on plated skewers—mutton, onion, bacon, potato. Make a sauce of two tablespoonsful of piccalilli sauce and one dessertspoonful of Worcester; mix well together with pepper. Steep your skewers with the kabobs on them in the above sauce, and roast them in the oven for half an hour. If they get at all dry, baste them with the remains of what they have been steeped in. Serve very hot on the skewers with or without sauce; if with sauce, prepare more as above, and serve in a sauce boat.