THREE-SHILLING DINNERS. 35 of Normandy pippins. Strew half a pound of Demerara over them and enough cider (if yon have it; if not, water will answer the purpose equally well) to cover them completely. Set them in the oven the last thing at night. Half an hour before serving add a little more cider or water and sugar. Pears may be done in the same way. Cream may be served with it if liked. Cod’s Roe on Toast {Ingredients—E-oe, etc., 2gd.).—Warm some cod’s roe, spread it carefully on buttered toast or muffin, and serve very hot. For breakfast cut it into very thin slices, and serve on fingers of brown bread toasted and buttered. DINNER No. 6. Rabbit Pie a la Celestine {Ingredients—The rest of the Rabbit, 9d.; Ham 4d.; Cream, 6d.; Maccaroni, etc., lOd.).— Take the remains of the rabbit and cut it into small neat pieces. Have ready a small pudding basin well buttered and sprinkled with a thick layer of vermicelli. Line the basin with good paste made with lard; cut two ounces of ham into large dice; add one ounce of grated Parmesan, one of hoiled maccaroni, one of vermicelli, and one of Italian paste (all these must be quite tender); pepper and salt to taste, some minced parsley and .shallot; place all these with the rabbit in the basin, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, or if prefeiTed some good stock and butter. Cover with paste, and bake one hour. Turn it out, and serve with good gravy, white sauce, or tomato sauce. Lancashire Boiled Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.). —Scrape some potatoes and put them on the fire in cold water until tender enough for a fork to pierce them. Pour off every drop of water, and sprinkle them with a little salt. Cover the saucepan, and place it by the fire untH the potatoes are sufficiently tender. Shake the saucepan occasionally to prevent the potatoes from burning. ^ Banana a la Francaise {Ingredients—Owq Banana, l|d.; Butter, etc., l^d.).—Choose.one that is not quite ripe, peel and split it down the middle, fry slightly in freslt, butter or the very best olive oil. Serve with cream. ^