everybody’s dinner book. 152 Spanish onion, after slicing it carefully, hiy crisply two rounds of bread, cutting them with a cutter. Put a good layer of the curried onion on each cvoUton. Keep very hot while you are poaching two eggs. Lay one on each round of curried o'odton^ and serve immediately. DINNEE No. 17. White Swiss Soup {Ingredients—Stock [Is. 6d., enough for twice], 9d.; three Egg.s, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 2d. ; Total, Is. 2d.).—Take one quart of good stock made from veal, and let it boil. Beat up three eggs, and stm into them three tablesjDoonsful of flour, and one breakfastcupful of sweet milk. Pour this in by degrees through a sieve into the soup, so as not to get it too much off the boil; flavour to taste with salt, and, if liked, a Httle cayenne. The stock can also be made of chicken, turkey, or rabbit. The rest of the soup makes “ Potage la Du Barry ” for the next day. Fillet of Beef a la John Bull {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Vegetables and Maccaroni, 3d.).—The fillet from the afore- said sirloin. Put it in a stewpan with some w'ater; add cai-rots, turnips, small onions, and maccaroni that has been previously boiled until quite tender. Let it simmei- (not boil) until it is thoroughly done and perfectly tender. Place the fillet in a very hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, and pour the liquor it was boiled in rouird the dish. Hanover Salad {Ingredients—Vegetables, 7d.; Saidines, 4d.; Oil, etc., 2d.).—Put in a .salad bowl half a pound of cold boiled potatoes, half a beeti-oot, one small cauliflower, two cold boiled carrots, one onion chopped fine, one small handful of French beans, and some peas, if in season. The beetroot should be cut with a cutter into rings or fancy shapes. Add a quarter of a box of Tesseyneau’s boneless sardines, two tablespoonsful of vinegar, and the same <>f salad oil. Break up the vegetables, season -with pepper and salt, pour in the oil and vinegar, cut each sardine into two pieces, place them on the top of the salad, and serve. Roast Grouse a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Grouse [2s. 6d., enough for twice]. Is. 3d.; Bread Sauce, 2d.; Potato