168 everybody’s dinner book. Eggs with Mustard Sauce {Ingredients—Tyvo Eggs, 2d.; Butter, Onion, etc., 2d.).—Two hard-boiled eggs. Melt half a teaspoonful of butter in a saucepan. Add one table spoonful of flour, mixing thoroughly and browning slightly; then a little gravy, one tablespoonful and a half of vinegar, the same of French or German mustard, and salt to taste. Boil for five minutes, stirring constantly. Out the eggs lengthwise in quarters, pour the sauce over them, and serve very hot. Sprinkle with finely chopped shallot or onion. DINNER No. 7. White Vegetable Soup {Ingredients—Vegetables, 9d. ; Cream, 6d.).—One quart of water, one white cabbage, two carrots, four turnips, four onions, two heads of celery, half a handful of thyme and parsley. Cut up the vegetables and stew them until tender (it will take four to five hours); rub them through a hair sieve, after which put the puree back into the same water in which it was stewed. At the first stewing add the thyme and parsley; now add a quarter of a pint of cream. Put the salt in first, and cayenne to taste after the vegetables are stewed. No other kind of pepper to be used except ground white pepper. Broiled Red Mullet {Ingredients—Red Mullet, Is.; To- mato Sauce, etc., 3d.).—Well butter a baking dish; lay in the fish. Add one spoonful of tomato sauce; sprinkle a little chopped parsley and some breadcrumbs; then pour over one Siwonful of dissolved butter, bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes, basting with butter. Serve very hot in the dish. Melina Pies : Isabella’s Recipe {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Paste, 6d.; Bacon, etc., 3d.).—Chop some cold veal very fine with a httle fat bacon. Add cayenne and salt, the grated rind of one small lemon and a little juice, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Line some patty pans ■vvith paste, put in the mince, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Mutton a ITtalienne {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 2d.; Sauce, 5d.).—Cut some slices of cold underdone mutton about half an hich thick. Wrap each in a piece of buttered white