TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 219 ‘Fried Potatoes a la Macaire’ j 1 liud them excellent, and hope they will often be served.” The king and princes laughed until the tears ran down their cheeks. The deed was done; “ Pomme de Terre la Macaire had received their baptism of fire. Canard Sauvage la a Salade d’Orange {Ingredients— Duck [3s., two dishes], Is. 6d.; Oranges, 2d.; Tarragon and Chervil, 2d. ; Brandy, etc, 2d.).—Boast the wild duck as in Dinner No. 9, p. 200. Serve with orange salad made as follows: Quarter some oranges, being specially careful to remove all skin and pith. Sprinkle with a little finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Pour one dessertspoonful of salad oil and the same of brandy over the oranges, and a good pinch of castor sugar. Pile it in a salad bowl, and place it on ice one hour before serving. Airy Nothings with Jam {Ingredients—The rest of the Airy Nothings, 4gd. ; Jam, 2gd.).—Take what is left of the “ Airy Nothings” {see Dinner No. 1, p. 217); cut them open ; spread thickly with jam, and serve. Souffle of Cauliflower a la Baronne: Mabel’s Becipe {Ingredients—One Cauliflowei', 4d.; Tomato&s, 6d. ; Butter and Milk, 4d. ] Eggs, 3d.; Parmesan, Parsley, etc., 4d.).— Trim one cauliflower and cook it until quite tender ; drain ; then cut it into neat pieces. Place these in a souffle dish, with alternate layers of tomatoes, sliced, but not cooked; add salt and pepper to taste, and fill up the dish with a souffle mixtm-e with a few brown breadcrumbs at the top and bits of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Serve for second course. Mixture for Souffll: Two ounces of butter, one ounce and a half of fine flour, the raw yolks of one egg and a half, a dust of cayenne, a little salt, not quite half a pint of milk ; stir over the fire until it boils ; then add three ounces of grated Parmesan, and the whites of three eggs, whipped quite stiff. DINNEB No. 3. Consomme Clair a la Colbert {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Vegetables, 7d. ; Eggs, 2d.).—Carrots, turnips, cucumber