everybody’s dinner book. 170 and aftei’ having turned it out upon a plate, cut it into neat oval pieces about the size of a filbert; place these gently in the tiireen, pour over them some clear chicken or veal consomme, and serve at once. Whitings au Gratin {Ingredients—Whitings, 8d.; White Wine and Gravy, Is. ; Mushrooms, 3d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.). —Clean two fish. Lay them in a well-buttered baking dish, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with two spoons- ful of baked breadcrumbs. Moisten the whitings with three glasses of white wine and some good gravy, arrange some whole and chopped mushrooms over the fish, pour over all a little melted butter and chopped parsley, and cover with a light coatmg of breadcrumbs. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. -*f- Chaud Froid of Pigeons {Ingredients—Pigeons, 2s. 8d.; Aspic and Trufiles, Is.; Tarragon, 2d.).—Ti-uss two pigeons, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast. When cold, cut them in two, and dip each piece in good brown chaud-froid sauce. Let them get quite cold, and dish well raised in the centre, with some pieces of clear aspic at the top, and a border of chopped aspic all round ; garnish, and decorate with truffles shred and sprigs of tarragon. Quails may be dressed in the same way, with the addition of cockscombs and chervil. Rich Bread-and-Butter Pudding {Ingredients—Bolls, 2d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Currants, etc., 3d.).—Cut two French rolls into slices about a quarter of an inch thick; butter them. Grease a small pie dish (it should be a deep one); cover with the sliced buttered roll; sprinkle with currants, sugar, and spice, and mixed peel shred very fine. Continue the layers until the dish is full. Make a light batter of half a spoonful of flour to two eggs and a quarter of a pint of milk. Pour it over and let it stand one hour or two, that the bread may be thoroughly soaked before putting it into the oven. It will take one hour to bake. DINNEB No. 13. Vegetable Marrow Soup {Ingi'edients—Vegetable Marrow, 2d. ; one pint Milk, 4d.; Onions, Sherry, etc., 3d.).—One