113 SIX-SHILLING UINNERS. “ Potage ail Pain” {see Dinner No. 11, p. Ill), pouring the stock on to bread and the contents of a marrow bone melted, passed through a tammy, and mixed with the yolks of two f^ggs. Boule d’Agneau with Walnut Sauce {Ingredients—Some of the short bones of the Neck, Is. 5|d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Walnuts, Onion, etc., 8d.).—Chop some of the meat off the short bones of the lamb which you have already roasted olf for cold. Add to it one onion, a little parsley, seasoning to taste, and, if liked, a little allspice and thyme. These should all be veiy finely chopped. Add to the mixture some breadcrumbs soaked in stock or gi’avy, one well-beaten egg, and a little flour, so as to bind all thoroughly together. Make this mixture with the hand into balls the size of large marbles, and fry in boiling fat. Cut three pickled walnuts in halves; put them in a pan on the fire with diluted vinegar; when this boils, add the balls previously fried; simmer for fifteen minutes. Serve very hot, with fried parsley in the centre,, one hard-boiled egg cut into rings and placed round the dish. Any remains of game, meat, or poultry may be used in the same way. A capital way of using up scraps. Jelly and Meat Pie {Ingredients—Eive Eggs, 5d.; Gi-avy, etc., 4d.).—Boil five eggs hard; when cold cut them into slices and put them closely round a pie dish, with sweet herbs chopped very fine and scalded and disposed in small heaps. Fill the dish with ham, chicken, veal, beef, or any other cold meat or poultry you hai^e, cut mto very thin slices. Make a very rich gravy the previous day, which will l)e a thick jelly when cold. Fill up the dish with it, and bake for half an hour. When required to be eaten cold, turn it out and serve it on a bed of cold vegetables—turnips, carrots, potatoes, etc. Stewed French Beans {Ingredients—| lb. French Beans, 14d.; Gravy, etc., 2d.).—String them very carefully and cut them straight down the middle. Put them in a sauce- pan, with half a pint of good brown gravy and pepper and salt to taste. Stew gently for ten minutes, and serve in the gi’avy. Pain Frite aux Fx’uits {Ingredients—Cream, 4d.; Fruit, 4d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Cut some thick slices (about three- 8