TEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 223 Mutton Sauce Robert [Ingredients—Rest of the Mutton, 1& l^d.).—Out the remainder of the loin into nice pieces, warm them in “ Sauce Robert ” before thickening it, and do not let it boil. Sauce Robert [Ingredients—Stock, 3d.; White Wine, 3d.; Eggs, 2d.; Onion, etc., 3d.).—Brown some slices of onion in fresh butter and add some flour. Moisten with white wine and a few drops of vinegar and stock ; boil half an hour ; skim most carefully, so that there is not a particle of grease left; season with salt and pepper; stir in one teaspoonful of mustard; thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and flavour with a few drops more of vinegar and a little more mustard. When used for “ Pork Outlets,” omit the thickening, which should only be added for warming cold meat. Quenelles de Pomme de Terre au Jambon [Ingredients— Potatoes and Parsley, 3d.; Butter and Eggs, 6d.;Ham, 3d.). —Bake some fine mealy potatoes, scoop out the centres, stir the potato meal into three-quarters the weight in fresh butter, and add a little chopped parsley. Warm in a sauce- pan; add sufficient eggs to make the paste poach when dropped into boiling water ; season with salt and pepper; poach one dessertspoonful at a time of the quenelle mixture; when cold, fry in butter a pretty golden colour. Pile on a very hot dish, and sprinkle well with gi-ated ham and hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine. They can also be served plain. VealalaBourgeoise [Ingredients—Veal,10gd.; Vegetable.s, 9d. ; Bacon and Butter, 3d.).—Cut one pound and a half of neck of veal into neat cutlets (the loin can also be used in the same way). Put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little butter, then add the cutlets, and fry them a nice brown on both sides. Add in two slices of lean bacon, half a bunch of young caiTots, the same of green onions and of savoury herbs, one blade of mace, and half a pint of boiling water. Let the whole simmer for two hours over a slow fire. Boil one pint of young gi'een peas and one pound of new potatoes. When the veal, etc., is sufficiently cooked, take out the herbs, skim olf all fat, add a little tomato sauce or ketchup to the gravy, put in the peas and potatoes, and serve very hot. Any kind of meat, game, and poultry may be cooked in the same way.