everybody’s dinner book. 210 fat and skin; simmer the pounded meat in either veal or chicken broth ; stir in some breadcrumbs soaked in stock ; pass through a tammy; if too thick, add a little veal broth ; flavour with almond cream—namely, blanched almonds pounded, mixed with cream and passed through a fine cloth— and garnish with little quenelles of chicken the size of peas. Another way is to boil one chicken in stock with a bouquet of mixed herbs, onions, carrots, salt, and pepper. When done, leave the fowl until cold, skin it, cut off all meat, pound with a lump of breadcrumbs which has been soaked in the stock, pass through a tammy, and warm in the liquor of the fowl, after squeezing it through a cloth. Do not let it boil. Add the almond cream just before serving, put the quenelles in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Chicken Pie {Ingredients—Chicken, Is. 6d.; Ham and Bacon, 9d. ; Eggs, 2d.).—Cut the chicken into neat joints ; season with salt and ground Avhite pepper. At the bottom of the dish put slices of bacon and bam, then chicken, then more bacon and ham and hard-boiled eggs. Poiu’ veal gravy or water over, cover with paste, and bake one hour and a half. Basque Recipe for Salade de Tomate: Mrs. Saver’s Recipe {Ingredients—Tomatoes, 6d. ; Onion, etc., 2d.).—: Plunge some tomatoes into boiling water for one minute, and then take them out and peel them. Out them in slices; put them into a salad bowl; season with finely chopped onion, salt, oil, and vinegar to taste, and a couple of fresh chillies cut in very thin slicas. This is a genuine recipe from the Pyi’enees, and is quite delicious. Date Pudding {Ingredients—Dates, 3d.; Eggs, 2d.; Suet, 2d.; Sugar, etc.. Id.).—Half a pound of dates, a quarter of a pound of beef suet. Chop them until very fine; then add five ounces of sugar, half a pound of finely grated bread- crumbs, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Mix up all these ingredients with two well-beaten eggs, put the mixture into a pudding mould, and boil for four hours. (Eufs de Pluvier Sauce Mayonnaise {Irujredients—Plover’s Eggs, Is. 3d.; Prawns, Is.; Mustard and Crass, etc., 2d.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 4d.; Butter, 2d.).—Cut the plovers