138 everybody’s dinner book. strained yolks of two eggs with one gill of cream; stir into them a little of the soup, and then quickly stir in the whole into the soup off the fire, and serve as hot as possible. Haddock and Egg Sauce (/wg'redfewis—Haddock, Gd,; two Eggs and Milk, 5d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Boil the haddock carefully. Serve with egg sauce and cold potatoes, cut in rounds and fried a nice golden colour in lard. Sausage Cakes (Home Made) {Ingredients—Z lb. Fore End of Pork [2s., two dishe.s]. Is.; Potatoe.s, 3d.).—Take three pounds fr rn the fore end of a loin of pork. Pass the fat and lean tnrough the mincing machine; season with salt, pepper, and sage to taste. Form the mixture into cakes; fry in boiling fat a delicate brown. Pile mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish, and place the cakes round it. They are excellent for breakfast. A Wet Devil {Ingredients—Gravy, Pickles, Sauces, etc., Gd.).—Take any cold meat you have; fry in butter a nice bro'wn. Make a devil sauce as follows : Twotablespoonsful of Hai’vey and Worcester and tomato sauce, three of good ravy or stock, one dessertspoonful of salad oil, vinegar, and ketchup, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, and one table- spoonful of made mustard, and some finely chopped mixed pickles. Amalgamate thoroughly. Take the meat out of the pan. Pour the saiice into a saucepan, and make it veiy hot. Have ready a hot-water dish; place the meat on it, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. Hand thin bread and butter with it. Cold cooked fish, game, and poultry can be cooked in a similar way. Epicurean Fruit Salad {Ingredients—Fruit and Eggs, Is. 5d.).—Put in a bowl sliced bananas, oranges, and pine- apple (tinned will do), two hard-boiled eggs, one cucumber (also sliced), and vinegar and sugar to taste. Cuca Cocoa Meringues: My Recipe {Ingredients—| lb. Castor Sugar, Id.; two Eggs, 2d.; Cream, 2d.; Vanilla and Cuca Cocoa, Id.).—Whip up the whites only of two eggs to a stiff froth ; add to this a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, mixed in lightly with a wooden spoon. Oil a baking tin very slightly ; drop the mixture on it in pieces as big as a guinea-