SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. 149 iind pepper to taste, break bits of butter the size of peas over the eggs, and cook on a very clear gentle fire. Pass the salamander or a hot shovel over them to set the whites, and serve immechately in the dish they w'ere cooked in. DINNER No. 15. Puree de Marions Chestnuts, 3d.; Stock, 7d.; 1 oz. Butter, Id.; Cream, Is.).—Peel one pound of chestnuts, see that no tainted bits are among them, put them to boil in a saucepan of boiling salted water, leave them five minutes on the fire, peel off the inner skin, put them back into the saucepan with one pint of stock, cover them up, and let them simmer until quite tender. Rub through a fine sieve, put back again into the saucepan, heat thoroughly, season to taste, and finish by adding one ounce of butter and half a pint of sweet rich cream just before serving. Hand croiUons of fried bread with this soup. Sole a la Castle Cornet [Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Milk and Cream, 3d. ; Butter, Bread, Cornflour, Potatoes, etc., 5d.). —Take a filleted sole; stew the fillets in a sauce made with milk and thickened with Brown & Poison’s cornfiour. Pre- pare yoiir sauce as follows: Put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and as it melts add salt, cayenne, and some cream. Stii’ all the time, and after it has boiled let it simmer for a few minutes; then pour over the fish, and serve very hot. Thin slices of bread and butter and fried potatoes should be served with it. Beef Fritters {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Egg, Id.; Parsley, Id.; Milk, etc., 2d.).—Take some of the top side of the siiloin, chop it fine, and season to taste. Make a nice batter of milk, egg, flour, and salt. Stir in the beef, and fry a pretty brown in very hot lard. Serve as hot as possible, piled against a bed of hot parsley fried very crisp. The lard the paisley is fried in must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour and turn it quite black. Fricandeau aux Epinards {Ingredients—2 lb. Fillet of Veal [2s. 4d., enough for twice]. Is. 2d.; Bacon and Larding Bacon, 6d.; Vegetables, 3d.; Spinach, 4d.; Stock and