TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 19 onions, fry them with two t<ablespoonsful of fresh butter until a nice brown in a two-pint stewpan, now throw in the fish and the sauce, put the cover on, set it on a very gentle fire to stew, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the fish settling. In ten minutes the curry Avill be done. Dish without breaknig the fish, serve rice separately. Cold or fresh salmon, turbot, cod, brill, crimped skate, plaice, sole, eels, sprats, haddocks, mackerel, all care- fully freed from bones, make delicious curries in this manner. The remains eaten cold make an excellent dish; the rice should be mixed with the curiy while they are both still hot, and left to get cold together. Hamburg Steak with a Poached Egg {Ingredients— Steak, 6d. ; Eggs, Butter, etc., 2d.).—Half a pound of finely chopped beef steak (rump, if preferred; but that is more expensive). In a fr3ung pan put a lump of butter, add one teaspoonful of minced onion, and fry a light brown. Shape the steak in a round form about one to one and a half inches thick ; fry it in the frying-pan with the onion, having dipped it previously in egg and breadcrumbs. When cooked, add a pinch of cayenne and salt and a little parsley. Just before serving, poach one egg and place it on the top of the steak. Any scraps of meat, game, poultry, or fish may be used in the same manner, also bacon, ham, eggs, or vegetables. DINNER No. 8. Lent Mulligatawny {Ingredients—Haddock, 3d.; Onions, Butter, Pace, etc., 5d.).—One pound of fresh haddock, cut into small pieces and washed very carefully until perfectly clean. Put them in a stewpan or saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water. Boil slowly for one hour, skimming from time to time; then take out the fish and separate it from the bones, pouzid the former in a mortar, return to the .saucepan, simmer a few minutes, then strain the whole through a coarse sieve or cullender into an earthen pan. Stir smoothly into it a tablespoonful and a half of curiy powder or paste and one teaspoonful of salt. Slice two fair-sized onions, fry them in a stewpan a golden brown in one teaspoonful and a half of fresh butter, pour the stock on directly, simmer for half an hour with the cover on, serve very hot, with boiled rice in a separate dish.