everybody’s dinner book. 154 DINNER No. 18. Potage a la Du Barry {Ingredients—rest of the White Swiss Soup, Is.; Peas, Tarragon, and Leeks, 4d.).— To the rest of the “ White Swiss Soup ” {see Dinner No. 17, p. 152) add a handful of green peas, previously boiled, and some leaves of tarragon and shreds of leeks. Hashed Grouse {Ingredients—Remains of the Grouse, Is. 3d.; 2 oz. Butter, 2d.; Stock and Madeira, 6d.; Eschalots, etc., 2d.).—Take the remains of the grouse; remove the skin and cut into neat pieces. Put the bones and trimmings into a stew2ian, with one teaspoonful c>f .salt, six 2De2523ercorus, three .eschalots cut U2i, and two ounces of butter rolled in flour. Shake the whole round until the butter is melted and looks brown ; then add half a pint of stock and one glass of sherry, and let all stew gently for one hour. Strain the gravy and put it in a stew2ian with the grouse. Set the sauce2)an at the side of the tire so as to heat the contents very slowly. Serve very hot with triangles of fried bread. Beef and Vegetable Pie {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Vege- tables, etc., lid.).—Butter a 2ue dish ; lay some slices from the cold fillet of beef at the bottom ; add salt and 2ie2i2ier to taste; then some thinly sliced fried onions (sweet herbs if liked); then more beef; then finely cho2>ped French beans, carrots and turnips (and 2i'3as if in season), some gravy, and a layer of potatoes. Cover with crust and bake half an hour. Very good cold. Primrose Pudding {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Suet, 2d.; Lemon, Flour, and Sugar, 3d. ; Cream, 2d.).—One quart of finely chopped primroses (nothing allowed for them, as we will presume they have been sent as a present from the country), half a pound of flour, a quai-ter of a 2>ound of finely minced suet, one egg, some castor sugar, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Boil one hour and a half. Serve with cream and castor sugar. Bonne Bouche Eggs {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; other ingi'edients, 9d.).—Boil hard three eggs. Cut them in halves across. Take out the yolks very carefully, so as not to break the whites. Fill the whites wth a mixture of