81 FIVE-SHILLTNG DINNERS. then put them into a steamer. Place the steamer oyer a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the potatoes, accord- ing to the size and sort, twenty to forty minutes. When a fork goes easily through them they are dor. Roast Duck with Apple Sauce and Cress {Ingredients— One Duck [enougli for three dishes, 3s.], Is.; Cress, etc., 4d.). —Cleanse and truss the duck for roasting ; stuff it with sage, onions, and breadcrumbs; rub it well with butter, and roast before a clear fire for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Mind it is kept well basted; dish ujd, garnish with watercress, and hand apple sauce and good brown gravy in sauce boats. Apple Sauce {Ingredients—Apples and Sugar, 5d.).—Peel and slice one pound of good cooking apples, and boil them in a stewpan with half a pint of water, one ounce and a half of castor sugar, and one ounce of butter. When quite tender rub them through a hair sieve, make hot again, and serve in a sauce boat. Nectarine Pudding {Ingredients—One packet of Freeman’s Nectarine Pudding Pow'der, 4d. ; Milk, Butter, Sugar, etc., 3^d.).—Take one packet of Freeman’s nectarine pudding pow'der. Make it the same way as the strawberry piidding {see Dinner 13, p. 42), and while hot mix it thoi-oughly with rice, tapioca, and maccaroni, previously boiled in milk. Bake lightly. A delicious dish. (Eufs au Plat {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2|d.). —To fry eggs. Melt a piece of butter in a small frying pan ; throw in two eggs, taldng care not to break the yolks. Sprinkle with salt and pepjoer, and seiwe on a v&t'y hot dish the moment they are set. The butter left in the pan should be poured over the eggs w’heu serving; it must not be allowed to get too hot; as soon as it is melted the eggs sliould be thrown in it, nev&i' more than two at a time. DINNER No. 9. Potage Flor-ador au Pois {Ingredients—One pint of white Stock, 9d.; 1 oz. of Florador, Id. ; Peas, 2d.).—Put one ounce of Flor-ador into one pint of good white stock; throw in some green peas that have been c.arefullj^ boiled until 6