everybody’s dinner book. 258 Appleby Ginger Beer: To make Thirty Gallons.— 2 lb. of white sugar, 12 oz. of brui-sed ginger, 2 oz. of hops, 2 oz. of isinglass, the rind of eight lemons very thinly peeled, and the juice of some of the lemons. Put all the above in a cask; fill it up with boiling Avater; add, when sufiiciently cold, a little yeast. Stir daily for a few days; keep the cask filled up. It will be fit for bottling in ten or fifteen days. Pinken’s Ginger Beer: To make Two;Gallons.—2 lb. of loaf sugar, | lb. of bruised ginger, the juice of three lemons,, eight gallons of boiling water poured over, to be added for working. Three tablespoonsful of good yeast and the white of one egg to be added when blood warm. To make Ale Cup for Sixteen People: Beau Desert Eecipe.—To two quarts of ale add from two to three table- spoonsful of Demerara, half a nutmeg grated, one tea- spoonful of ginger, and a piece of toasted bread. Pour into a silver or plated mug or tankard, and serve very hot. It should be made half an hour before it is required, and heated, at the last moment, before serving. On Christmas morning before breakfast it should be carried round the house, and each person should take a little “ for luck.” 1886 Ginger Ale.—2 lb. of Demerara, two gallons of boiling water, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, and 2 oz. of bruised ginger root. Infuse the ginger in boiling watei’, with the sugar^nd cream of tartar ; when lukewarm, strain, and add one pint of good yeast. Let it stand aU night; then bottle it. The white of one egg and one lemon may be added to fine it. Excellent Lemonade.—The rind of two lemons veiy thinly pared, also the juice and pulp. Be most careful not to alloAv even the smallest pip, or any of the Avhite, rind, or pulp, to enter the jug, as this gives a bitter taste. Add one teacupful of loaf or Demerara; poui- on this one quart of boiling water, and cover closely until it is cold. Bottled Lemonade.—4 lb. of castor sugar, 1 oz. of citric or tartaric acid, and two drachms of essence of lemon. Pour one quart of boiling water on it, and mix weU. Bottle it. Two or three teaspoonsful make a very sweet and agreeable