186 everybody’s dinner book. at the time of serving, and send up with the soup small slices of bread fi’ied in butter. Sole au Pain Bis [Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Bread and Butter, 3d. ; Bacon and Lemon, 3d.).—A cooked sole is best for this purpose. While the fish is still hot, lay it open, remove the centre and side bones, and rub the fish with butter. The next day spread the sole between two slices of brown bread and butter slightly salted. A well-toasted rasher or .some minced bacon on the top of the fish imparts a keener relLsh than the salt, and a squeeze of lemon is an improvement. Poulet ^ I’Estragon [Ingredients—Chicken [3s., two dishes]. Is. Gd.; Tarragon, 4d. ; Stock, 3d.).—Cut up a raw chicken in eight pieces, as if for a fricassee. Sprinkle four with pepper and salt, and toss them in a saute pan with plenty of olive oil until they are cooked. Pick the leaves from half a handful of tarragon, cut up the .stalks, and put them into a small saucepan with half a pint of clear stock or gi’avy perfectly free from fat; let this boil thirty or forty minutes ; then put it by to be kept warm until wanted. Blanch the tarragon leaves ; strain the gravy from the stalks ; add the leaves to it; and having dressed the pieces of chicken on a very hot dish, pour the gravy over them and serve veiy hot. Egg Patties [Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Puff Paste, etc., Gd.).—Boil .some eggs hard, let them get cold, cut them into dice as for sauce, and make a white sauce w’ith milk or stock from rice or maccaroni flavoured with lemon peel and, if liked, a blade of mace; pepper and salt, line patty pans with pulT paste, fill with the eggs and sauce, cover, and bake. Macedoine de Fruit [Ingredients—Macedoine, Is. 3d. (I bottle, 7|d.) ; Brandy, Gd. ; Cream and Savoys, Gd.).—Get a bottle of French Macedoine of Fruit. Strain off the sju’up, and reduce it if necessary. When cold, add one wine- glass or more, according to taste, of pale brandy. Put the Macedoine into a glass dish, arrange it prettily, and pour the brandied syrup over it. If liked, it may be oaten hot, and it can also be made with all kinds of fresh fruit. Cream should be handed round with it, and sponge fingers, called savoys.