07 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. “ La destinfie des nations depend de la maniere dont elles sc nourissent.”—Brillat Savaein. DINNER No. 1. Potage a la Recamier {Ingredients—Foui* Eggs, 4d.; half a pint of Cream, 6d.; Sago, Stock, etc.. Is. Id.).—Wash two ounces of best pearl tapioca very carefully. Stew it until quite tender in stock (it will require one quart, which should be poured cold on to the tapioca and gradually warmed). Stew until the tapioca is quite thick. Then mix with it half a pint of boiling cream or milk and the yolks of four new-laid eggs. Mingle all carefully with one quart of strong veal or beef stock, which should always be kept boiling. Serve at once. Croquettes of Haddock {Ingredients—Haddock, 6d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Cook a haddock; then mince it rather coarsely. Melt a bit of butter in a sauce- pan with some hot milk and a pinch of flour; stir on the Are until it thickens; add pepper, salt, a little gi’ated nutmeg (if liked), some finely chopped parsley, and then the haddock. As soon as it is quite hot turn it out on to a dish to get cold, then shape the mixture into balls, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in boiling lard. Put boikd potatoes in the centre of the cUsh, and garnish with crisply fried parsley and rings of hard-boiled egg. Turbot, salmon, brill, plaice, mackerel, eel, soles, codfish, skate, whiting, lobster, crab, prawns, shrimps, oysters, may all be cooked in the same way, with fried, sante, or mashed potatoes in place of the boiled ones ; and various sauces, such as Ilollandaise, shrimp, parsley and butter, Tartare, oyster, beurre noir, or lobster, handed round in a sauce boat. Dutch Sweetbread {Ingredients—1 oz. Suet, Id.; ^ Veal, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Tops and Bottoms, etc., 6d.).— Chop very fine two ounces of good suet and one pound of lean veal (freed from the sinews and strings). Soak two tops and bottoms (tho.se made by W. Hill & Son, 59, Bishops- gate Street Within, E.C., are by far the best that are made) 7