FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. 83 Omelette au Jus {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Fry some butter in a frying pan. When hot throw into it four eggs well beaten, and some parsley and chives chopped fine. Take care it does not burn; add salt and pepper and a few spoonsful of good gravy before it is done. Serve directly with gravy poured round. DINNER No. 10. Potagea la Colbert {Ingredients—Vegetables, Is.; Stock, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.).—Jardiniere soup, with two eggs lightly poached added to it ju.st before serving. An excellent souji. Saute Fillets of Mackerel {Ingredients — Mackerel [enough for two dishes, 6d.], Bd.; Mushrooms, 2d; other mgreclients, 6d.).—Fillet the mackerel; place two fillets in a saute pan with a little lemon juice, a bit of butter, some chopped parsley and shallot, and a glass of white wine, and so slowly saute them; add a few button mush- rooms. If preferred, or for a change, the fillets may be cooked in the oven, and cider used in the place of wine. Minced Mutton with Fried Bread {Ingredients—Milk and Butter, 3d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take the remains of any cold mutton you have, or beef; chop it into dice ; add one teaspoonful of made mustard, pepper and salt to taste, a sprinkling of cayenne, a pinch of flour, one cup of milk, a piece of butter as big as a walnut, a little chopped onion, and a spoonful of Worcester sauce. Put the mixture into a saucepan; sth* until it just boils. Arrange some large squares of fried bread in a very hot dish, and pour .some of the mince on to each square. If pi’eferred the mince may be put in the centre of the dish, and triangles of fried bread or toast placed round it. Duck Cutlets {Ingre^ents—Duck, Is. ; French Beans, Tomatoes, Potatoes, 6d.).—Bone the legs of the duck; stuff them with some of the stuffing from the roast duck, with a bit of maccaroni to repre.sent the cutlet bone; put round them cutlet frills. Egg and breadcrumb the cutlets. Have ready some French beans cooked with butter; put them on