14G kverybody’s dinner book. and add two bay leaves. Tie strong paper over the top of the dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour. They are also excellent cold. If well covered they will keep a long time, in which case a dozen or more .should be cooked, with the ingredients in pi-oportion. Mackerel or trout can be dressed in this way. Chicken Puffs with Vermicelli {Ingredients—Chicken, Is. 3d. j Butter and Milk, 2d. ; Vermicelli and Parsley, Id.; Pxiir Paste, 6d.).—Take the white from the breast of a roa.st chicken ; mince it not too finely; put it into a saucepan, with a bit of butter the size of a nut, and enough milk to moisten it, and a sprinkling of salt. Place some of the above mixture on each round of pastry ; fold it over; pinch into a triangle. Egg them and sprinkle with vermicelli. Fry a nice light brown in boiling lard; serve on a napkin or fish paper, with crisply fried p.arsley in the centre. They may also be served without vermicelli. Leonard Lodge "ReBi{Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Butter, Id.; Onions, Id.; Gravy, etc., 3d.).—Onepoiind of the cold sirloin. Cut four onions into slices and fry them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter; add one tablespoonful of flour (after the onions are well browned); mix with half a pint of good gravy, water, and ketchup; season with pepper and salt; stir over the fire. Boil for ten minutes. Pour this mixture over the slices of beef, already arranged in a fire-proof dish. Strew some breadcrumbs over the surface, bake for fifteen minutes, and serve as hot as possible. Veal, mutton, lamb, and pork may be used in the .same way; also trimmings of all kinds of meat mixed together. Liver done in this way is excellent. Brown Bread Dumplings {Ingredients—Milk, Meal, etc., —Mix one saltspoonful of good baking powder with a quai’ter of a pound of brown meal; add half a table- spoonful of treacle, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of milk. When thoroughly mixed, roll and divide into three equal parts; roll into smooth, round balls vnthout a-ucks; boil fast for half an hour. Serve rich meat gravy with them in which some of the dripping is left. Salad of French Beans, Anchovies, and Beetroot {Ingre- dients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Anchovies, 3d. ; French Beans and