220 everybody’s dinner book. cut in pea .shajje, and green peas; blanch all these separately, then rinse them, cook them until quite tender in boiling salted water, strain them, and add them to the necessary quantity of stock, with a little picked and blanched tarragon, chervil, and parsley. Poach some eggs, and hand them on a napldn with this soup, one to each person, or slip them into the soup just before serving. Eperlans a la Metropole (^Ingredients—Smelts, 9d.; Egg, Id.; Parsley, Cucumber, and Lemon, 4d.; Tartare Sauce, 8d.).—Trim off the fins from some very fine fresh smelts with a pan- of scissors, then wipe them very carefully in a perfectly clean cloth, roll them lightly in flour, and then dip them in whole beaten-up egg and roll them in freshly made white breadcrumbs; then roll very lightly on the slab or table ■with the hand to smooth the breadcrumbs, place them in the frying basket, and fry for six minutes in clean boiling fat. When quite crisp and a golden colour, take them up, drain, and dish on a fish paper. Garnish with crisply fried parsley, and thin slices of freshly cut lemon and cucumber. Serve with tai-tare sauce in a boat. Poulet a rOrly (^Ingredients—Rest of the Chicken, Is. ; Onions, Parsley, etc., 5d.; Tomato Sauce, 4d.).—Cut up the remainder of the chicken into neat joints; season with salt, pepper, parsley, laurel leaves, and lemon juice; sprinkle with flom- and fry in lard or butter. Dip some sliced onions into flour, and fiy them also; when done, dish up the chicken in a pyramid, garnish with the fried onions, and cover with tomato sauce. Loin of Mutton a la Bretonne (Ingredients—6 lb. Loin of Mutton [4s. 6d., four dishes]. Is. Igd.).—Wrap up the loin in sheets of buttered paper ; fix it on to the spit with skewers, so that it may not tuim, and roast for two or three hours, according to weight. Serve with a furee of haricot beans d la Bretonne. Puree of Haricot Beans (Ingredients—Butter, 6d.; Stock, 9d.; Haricot Beans and Onions, 4d.).—Mince half a pound of onions, blanch, and di’ain. Brown in five ounces of butter, and when a good colour add one ounce of flour, some salt, and pepper; leave on the fire for five minutes;