THRRE-SHTLLING DINNERS. 4.0 for twenty-four hours; boil in plenty of water ; when done, flake the flesh and set it aside; slice into shreds two onions ; fry them in salad oil until they begin to colour ; add a dash of pepper, half a bottle of tomato sauce, and the flsh. Shake the saucepan occasionally, and simmer two horn's over a very slow Are. Mutton Cutlets aux Oignons Glaces {Ingredients—2| lb. best end Neck of Mutton, 2s. Id. ; for two dishes = Is. |d. ; Button Onions, etc., 4d.).—Trim some small button onions, such as are used for pickling; put them into a well-buttered saucepan, and sprinkle well with castor sugar. Shake the saucepan gently, and as soon as they begin to colour moisten with a little stock; add salt, and let them stew gently until well coloured. Put them in the centre of the dish, and serve plain broiled or breadcrumbed mutton cutlets round them. M Pain au Fromage {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Cheese, 2d.; other ingredients, 3^d.).—One small cupful of milk, a little salt, pepper, cayenne, minced paT'sley, and two ounces of grated Parmesan. Mix thoroiighly; then add two well- beaten eggs. Have ready a greased baking tin ; bake ten minutes in a hot oven. Brown grar’y may be served with this dish.|^ DINNER No. 18. Rice Soup a la Conroy {higredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Onions, Id.; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Put two ounces of rice in a sufficient quantity of water; add some onions; let them boil together well; put in some butter and sliced bread, pepper and salt to taste, and a little bit of lemon peel; let all boil together until done; then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten; stir them. Do not let the soup boil after the eggs are put in. A little vinegar is an improvement. Mutton Cutlets aux Choux de Bruxelles {Ingredients— The rest of the Mutton, Is. ^d.; Sprouts, Id. ; Butter, etc., 2;|d.).—Broil the rest of the cutlets carefully; serve round Brussels sprouts, cooked as follows:—Trim some sprouts neatly and wash them ; put them to boil in plenty of salted water; when almost done, strain and dry them in a cloth ; put them in a saucepan with a good-sized piece of butter,