SEVEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 145 vinegar together imtil reduced to one tablespoonful; then add one gill of white sauce. Stir well. Add one at a time three yolks of eggs well whisked. Do not let the sauce boil. After the eggs are added remove the stewpan from the fire, and stir in gradually one ounce and a half of fresh butter, in pieces the size of a nut. Pour over the asparagus, and serve very hot, with fried croiitons round. Asparagus may also be served with melted butter, tartare, Hollandaise, Dutch, mayonnaise, and bechamel sauce, or clarified butter. All are good. Gooseberry Pudding with Kentish Sauce {Ingredients— One Egg, Id.; Goo.seberries, 4d.; Demerara and Cinnamon, 2d.; Suet Crust, 7d.).—Boiled gooseberry pudding is rendered still better if served with Kentish sauce. Tlie pudding is boiled as usual, but without any sugar, or if the gooseberries are very sour, a very little may be added and put on to boil. Beat up one egg ; then beat in about three tablespoonsful of Demerara and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When the pudding is cooked and placed on the dish in which it is to be served, cut a small round oxit of the top of it, pour in the egg and sugar, replace the top, and serve. DINNER No. 13. Potage a la Conde {Ingredients—Vegetable Stock, 2d. ; Onions, Beans, etc., 2d. ; Butter, Id.).—Take half a pint of i-ed haricot beans and soak them overnight in a little cold water Avith one salt-spoonful of salt; boil until tender ; then add tAvo sliced onions, some chervil, one ounce of creamed butter, pepper and salt, and one qxiart of vegetable stock (composed of one ounce of lentils, one ounce of split peas, half a carrot, the outside leaves of celery, and parsley—tAvo cloves, half a blade of mace, if liked—and water). Simmer for tAvo hours, and pour boiling over fried ci'oittoris. Baked Herrings with Vinegar {higredients—Herrings, 3d.; Vinegar, etc., 2d.).—Scale, Avash, and di*y tAvo herrings (more if liked) Avell in a cloth; lay them on a board; pound together some black pepper and cloves; mix them Avith tAvice the quantity of salt; rub the fish all over ; lay them straight in a deep eartheuAvare dish; coA^'er with vinegar, 10