SIX-SHILLING UINNEI5S. 125 them lip in small pieces; fry them with one slice of lean ham, and put them in a saucepan with one quart of good stock. Stew gently for one hour, carefully removing the scum; then add two small onions, pepper and salt to taste, and simmer for two hours longer. Take out the giblets ; strain the soup ; add one glass of sherry, and a little finely minced parsley, if liked. Make all quite hot, put in the sriblets, and serve with a'oittons of fried bread. Broiled Sprats {Ingredients—Sprats, 3d.).—Take one pound of perfectly fresh sprats, wipe them dry, and fasten them in rows by running a plated skewer through their eyes. Dredge them well with flour. Rub a little suet on a sprat gridiron and broil the sprats for four minutes, and serve them as hot as possible. Excellent. They can also be fried in batter. Another Way of Dressing Tripe {Ingredients—^ lb. Tripe, 4d.; Onions, Milk, etc., 3d.).—Place half a potind of tripe in a stewpan with two large onions, one eggspoonful of salt, a sprinkling of gi-ound white pepper, and a quarter of a pint of water. Simmer for two hours, as it is hardly ever thoroughly cooked when it is sent from the tripe shop. When quite tender take it up, and whilst you skim the fat off the gravy keep the tripe quite hot; allow the gravy to boil loithout the lid on the saucepan until it is reduced to half the original quantity; thicken with flour and new milk; put the tripe and onions into it; simmer for fifteen minutes, and sei've as hot as possible. Tripe may also be stewed in stock until tender, with onions drained and fried in butter until a pretty colom-, or it may be served smothered in milk and onions. Veal Pie {Ingredients—1 lb. Veal Cutlet, Is. 2d. ; Bacon, 4d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Parsley, Onions, and Stock, 2d.; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Take one pound of veal cutlet; cut it into nice pieces; season with salt and pepper. Lay in the bottom of the pie dish some slices of bacon or ham, then the veal and two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, a little minced parsley (if liked), green onions, and two spoonsful of veal stock. Cover with good puff paste, and bake an hour and a half.