194 everybody’s dinner book. Tranches de Jambon aux Cerises {Iiujredients—llAin, Is,; Cherries and Champagne, Is. 3d.).—Bi-oil some slices of ham •, send to table very hot with a sauce composed of cherries stewed in champagne poured over them. Filets de Caneton a la Delorme {Iwjredients—Duck [3s. 6d., enough for twice], Is. 9d. ; Peas, etc., 9d.).—Take a nice young duck (a duckling if you can afford it); remove the fillets; place them in a basin with carrots and onions thinly sliced, pepper, salt, and salad oil; put them over the fire in a stewpan to braise for two hom-s, then put them on a baking tin in a moderate oven. When done, place the fillets on a dish to get cold, trim them carefully, and mask with good brown chavd-froid sauce ; pile the ffllets against a centre of gi’een peas cooked in butter, pour bx’own gravy x’ound, axxd serve. Grendon Anchovy Toast {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; 2 oz. Bxxtter, 2d.; Cream, etc., 2d.; Parxnesan, 4d.).—Two eggs, two oxxnces of butter, two tablespooxisfixl of thick cream, two of axxchovy paste or some poxxxxded anchovies, axxd a little cayexxne pepper. Stii- this mixture over the fire until set, and spread it thickly over diamond-shaped pieces of hot bxxttered toast. Strew browxxed breadcrumbs over them, and a little grated Parmesan. Pixt a little half glaze x’ouxxd, and serve vexy hot. DINNER No. 5. Potage a la Parisienne {Ingredients—^tock, 6d.; Leeks, Potatoes, and Bx-ead, 3d.).—Cut some leeks into pieces one inch and a half long, warm them in bxxtter, and when brown put them into tlxe stock with slices of raw potatoes and boil well. When qxxite tender, pour into tlie soxxp tiu-een over some slices of bx-ead. Rouget Sauce Vinaigre {Ingredients—Red Mullet, Is. 4d.; Truffles, Mushrooms, etc., 5d.).—Flour axxd salt the mullet; fry crisply in oil. To the oil add an equal quantity of vinegar, a little chopped rosemax-y, a spx-inkling of flour, some garlic, and finely shx-ed truffles and mushrooms. Boil, and when cold pour over tlxe fish.