THUEE-SHILLING DINNERS. 33 Tranche de Saumon a la Carnot {Inyredients—l lb. Salmon, Is.; Mushrooms, etc., 3d.).—Get a slice of salmon about one inch thick ; iiepper and salt it, dip it into egg, and then into o. farce made of equal parts of breadcrumbs and finely minced mushrooms, mixed with a little butter ; place the salmon in well-oiled paper, and cook on the gi’id- iron in the paper. Serve with cucumber sauce in a sauce boat. Cucumber Sauce {Ingredients—Cucumber, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Take one young cucumber, slice it rather thickly, and fry it in a little butter until just coloured ; dredge with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; cover with good brown gravy, and simmer fifteen minutes, until perfectly tender. * A Good Way of Using Up Cheese {Ingredients—Cheese and Butter, 2d.).—Cut up some stale cheese into very small bits, place it in a tin with a little butter, stir until ciuite mixed, stew until the chee.se and butter are of the same con.sistency, add a dash of Worcester sauce. Serve very hot in the tin with fingers of hot toast. Shoulder of Mutton au Gratin {Ingredients—Half Shoulder of Mutton, 4 lb. [to make four dishes, 1 lb. a dish, 9d.] ; Onions, Mu.shrooms, etc., 8|d.).—Mince finely three onions ; put them into a saucepan with one and a half dessertspoonful’s of salad oil; stii' over the fire ten minutes ; add gradually one tablespoonful of flour, a little pepper, salt, and sugar, and one and a half gill of milk ; stir until the sauce is thick ; remove from the fire; add the yolk of one egg. Spread this mixture over the meat when sufficiently cooked; brush over with egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and return to the oven to brown. Thicken the gravy from the mutton; add a little butter, minced mushrooms, and chopped parsley; pour round the meat, and serve. Rabbit Cutlets {Ingredients—One Babbit, Is. 6d. [enough for two dishes], 9d.; Egg, Id.).—Skin and clean the rabbit; soak all night, and before cooking pour boiling water ovei’ it. Take out the fillets, cut them cai’efully, and shape into DINNER No. 3