WRINKLES FROM STORE-ROOMS. 259 glass of lemonade poured into a glass of water, with ice or not, as liked. Paget Barley Water.—Take | lb. of pearl barley ; boil it twice, strain it ofl', give it a third boiling, and it will be fit for use. Put barley and water in the same jug to cool (the same barley will last good for three days). Peel two or three lemons very thin. Pour one pint of boiling water into a separate jug, add the lemon peel, boil some syrup, and when cold mix with the other ingredients. Lady Efiiiighain’s Recipe for Barley Water.—Take 2 oz. of pearl barley, 4 oz. of lump sugar, and the rmd of two lemons pai'ed thin. Wash the barley well, then scald it with boil- ing water, let it stand ten minutes, and ch-ain the water from itj then put it into a large jug that will hold one gallon, add the sugar and lemon rind, fill the jug up with boiling water, and cover it up close for two hours; then put it to cool for use, and let the water remain upon the barley until wanted. It requires to be made fresh every day in warm weather; in cold it will keep two or three days. Celestial Nectar.—In a large silver-plated or china bowl place twelve large lumps of sugar and the same of ice. Pour on this two or three teaspoonsful of the flavouring called “ Mai-trauk,” made from the blossom of the sweet woodruff, to be obtained at any German chemist’s. Add one bottle of still hock, one of sauterne, one of champagne, and three bottles of soda water. Serve it out into glasses with a ladle as you do punch. Two liqueur glasses of brandy are an improvement. Iced Tea.—Prepare the tea in the morning, making it stronger and sweeter than usual, strain, pour it into a clean stone jug or glass bottle, and set it aside in the refrigerator until needed. Drink it in glasses, ivithout cream. Black and green tea mixed is best, but either alone may bo used. Broken ice should be served with it. Cold tea, with sugar to taste, a slice of lemon, and a little of the juice and some ice, make an excellent, delicious, and most refreshing summer beverage. For Indigestion.—Half a teaspoonful of Prussian liquorice in a wineglass of water.