SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. 103 fully the meat from a crab. Add to it one teaspoouful of chopped parsley, a very little salt, a sprinkling of cayenne, the yolk of two eggs, and one full teaspoonful of butter-. Mould all together; if too dry, add a little milk, cream, or water. Put the mixture in the refrigerator (if you have one ; if not, on ice) until you require it. Form into balls, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on paper; serve with fried parsley in the centre, and a border of green peas. When fresh peas are out of season, bottled or tinned ones can be used; but they are not so good. Leg of Mutton aux Legumes {IrujreAients—Leg of Mutton, [6 lb. for 5s., enough for four dishes], Is. 3d. ; Vegetables, etc., 6d.).—Out about three pounds of the thick end of the leg, have it boned by the butcher. Poll and stuff it with herb stuffing ; tie it into a good shape, and roast, basting carefully and frequently. Boil some potatoes; arrange them round a dish with alternate pieces of boiled cauliflower, carrot, turnip, sprouts, and button onions. Place the meat in the centre of the dish, pour round a good clear gravy, and serve very hot. The bones should be put in the stock pot or used for gravy. Miss Nicolas’s Pudding {Ingredients—HaK a pint of Milk, Id.; one Egg, Id. ; Sugar, Flour, Vanilla, 3d.).—One spoonful of flour mixed in a little milk (as for arrowroot), one egg, sugar to taste, and lemon, ginger, or vanilla for flavouring. Pour on it boiling milk ; stir all the time, which ■will thicken it like arrowroot. Put it into a pie dish in the oven to set. Good cold or hot, and can hardly be told from custard pudding. Tomatoes au Gratin {Ingredients—| lb. Tomatoes, 9d. ; Butter and Cream, 5|d.).—Take three-quarters of a pound of fresh tomatoes, two ounces of breadcrumbs, two ounces of butter, three tablespoonsful of cream. Butter a pie dish ; sprinkle some breadcrumbs at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of sliced tomatoes; pepper and salt to taste. Con- tinue this until the dish is full, then place some bits of butter over the top ; pour the cream over the whole, and bake in the oven twenty minutes.