203 NINE-SHILLING DINNEKS. DINNER No. 11. Eel Soup (Ingredients—Eel, Is. 3d.; Butter, Cream, etc., 8d.).—Wash one pound and a half of eel; ciit it into thin slices, and put them in a stewpan with one ounce of butter; let them simmer a few minutes ; then put in one quart of wiiter ; add half a finely sliced onion, half a bunch of sweet hei-bs, one blade and a half of mace, and six peppercorns. Simmer for .about one hour, but take care the fish does not break ; then strain the soup, put it again on the fire, and mix into it a quarter of a pint of cream, into which one tablespoonful of flour has been rubbed. Bring the soup to a boil, pour it over the flsh, and serve very hot. Grouse Pie (Ingredients—| lb. Rump Steak, 10|d.; one Grouse, Is. 9d. [average price]; Paste, 6d.).—Line the bot- tom of a pie dish with the rump steak cut into neat pieces, cut the grouse in half, season highly with salt and black pepper, pour in plenty of good grouse gravy, cover with puff paste, brush the paste over with the yolk of one egg, and bake from three-quarters to one hour. Some people like it best without the steak. Oysters a la Carlton (Ingredients—Six Oystei-s, 9d.; Lemon, Egg, and Parsley, 2|d.).—Dip each oyster in lemon juice, then in the yolk of one egg, into which .some cayenne has been mixed. Fry in batter a nice colour, and serve with crisply fried parsley. Asparagus in Ambush (Ingredients—Asparagus [8d., two dishes], 4d. ; Butter and Rolls, 2^d.; Egg and Milk, l|d.).—Cut the tops off two dinner rolls very neatly, remove all the crumb, and put the tops and hollow i-olls into the oven to get crisp. While this is going on beat up one egg, and heat a quarter of a pint of milk until it just boils ; add the egg to it very slowly, and also half an ounce of fre.sh butter cut small and floured ; then add some heads of tendei- cold boiled aspar.ngus, cut small and flavoured with pepper and salt. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, fill the empty roUs, put on the tops, and serve very hot. Osborne Sandwiches (Ingredients—Bread and Butter, 3d.; Peperium, Id.; Mustard and Cress, etc., Gd. ; Plover’s Eggs, Ls. Gd.).—Cut thin rounds of brown bread, cover them mth