everybody’s dinner book. 20 Kentish Easter Tarts {Ingredients-—and Custard, lOd.).—Line some patty pans with good pufl’ paste baked, fill with rich boiled custard, place in the oven for a short time, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and seiwe very hot. Excellent cold. In Kent, they are sent round to all relations, friends, and acquaintances, and for large families are made in earthenware pie dishes instead of patty pans. Breadcrumb Omelette {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).—One pint of breadcrumbs, one large spoonful of parsley rubbed very fine, half a small onion chopped fine. Beat two eggs light, add one teacupful of milk, pepper and salt to taste, and a lump of butter the size of a small egg. Mix iill thoroughly, bake in a slow oven on a buttered pie plate; when a light brown, turn it out of the plate, and serve at once. DINNER No. 9. Winter Pea Soup [Ingredients—Peas, Id.; Mint, Cream, etc., 3d.).—Take some liquor in which .salt pork or beef has been boiled. Soak overnight one pound of split peas, boil in the morning until tender, pass through a sieve, add them to the stock, stii* until the consistency of cream, add a little cream or milk, serve very hot with fried crodtons and powdered mint on a separate plate. Fried Steak and Onions {hxgredients—| lb. Rump Steak, 7d.; Onion and Butter, 2d.).—Fry half a pound of rump steak veiy carefully, slice one Spanish onion, fry it in a little butter, put the steak on a vexy hot dish, arrange the onions i-ound it as a border, with some good gravy. Potatoes a la Mode {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).— Take two cold boiled potatoes, cut them in rounds, fry a light golden colour in boiling lard or dripping, serve with the steak, sprinkle with a little salt. October Pie {Ingredients—Blackberries, 3d. [notliing if you are in the country]; half a pot of Apricot Jam, 2|d. ; 1 lb. Apples, 2d.; Cream, Sugar, etc., 8|d.[enough for twice] ).— Take a small deep pie dish, j^lRce a layer of fresh ripe blackberries carefully picked from the stalks, .sprinkle with castor sugar, then a layer of apricot jam, then slices of