kverybopy’s pinner book. 120 pieces of tomato round it, with two poached eggs on the top of the mince, and fried ti’iangles of bread as a garnish. Put it in the oven for ten minutes; and serve. Tinned tomatoes can be used, hut they are not nearly so nice. Any meat, game, or poultry can he done in this way. Broiled Mutton and Bacon {Ingredients—Rest of the Roast Loin, Is. l|d. ; Bacon, 2d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Cut some neat slices from the rest of {.he half loin, season them with salt and pepper, and broil five minutes over a clear fire. Cut some bacon as near as possible the size of the slices of mutton ; fry them, but not crisp. Take some whole cold potatoes; fry them in the bacon fat. Put them in the centre of the dish with the mutton and bacon alteimately. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef may be cooked in this way. Apple Fritters {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; j pint Milk, Id. ; Apples, .3d. ; Flour and Sugar, 2d.).—Make a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour. Peel the apples whole, cut them in round slices, and take out the core with an apple corer. Dip the apples into the batter, and fry in boiling lard. Di-ain on a hot dish covered with blotting paper, laying each fritter b}" itself. Serve as hot as possible, well dusted with castor sugar. Malce 'the batter a few hours before it is required ; and if you want to impi'ove the flavour of the apples, lay them iu sheny mixed with sugar and a few drops of lemon juice for three hours before using them. DINNER No. 17. Puree of Celery {Ingredients—One quart Stock, 6d.; k pint Cream, Gd. ; two heads of Celery, 3d. ; 2 oz. Flour, Id.).— Wash the celery thoroughly, cut it into pieces, and add it to one quart of stock; let the two simmer gently for about half an hotir until pei’fectly done. Add some flour, and boil all together for three minutes, stirring all the time. Pass the puree thi'ough a sieve, replace it in the saucepan, add the cream, stir, and boil up again. Serve with croiitons of filed bread. Loin of Mutton a la Moderne {Ingredients—The other half of the Loin of Mutton boned. Is. l^d.; Mushrooms and Herbs, 3d.).—Bone the other half of the loin ; stuff it with