everybody’s dinner book. 60 and bro\vncd flour; add salt to taste. Simmer for two hours. Sm.nll meat dumplings may be cooked in this soup and served with it. Whiting en Surprise (Im/redients—One Whiting, 3d.; Butter and Cream, 2d. ; Muslirooms and Truffles, 5gd.; Potatoes, etc., l^d.).—After the whiting is cleaned, scale and thoroughly dry it, and after a good dredging with flour broil over a clear fire. Then open the fish, take out the back- bone very carefully, fill the space with breadcrumbs, chopped mushrooms, and truffles, mixed with butter and a little cream, and salt and pepper to taste; close the fi.sli, and serve very hot, with potatoes cut with a cutter the size of large peas, .and fried in boiling lard. This is an excellent di.sh. When fresh mushi-ooms are out of season use tinned ones. Stewed Kidneys with Mushrooms {Ingredients — Two Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d. ; Mushrooms, etc., 4d.).—Cut two kidneys into quarters, flour them well all over, and put them into a pan with small mushrooms .and good gr.avy ; .add pepper and s.alt to taste, some herbs and minced parsley, bi’own the whole very carefully, and serve very hot. Salad of Mutton, Beef, Lamb, Pork, or Veal {Ingredients —Vegetables, etc., 6d.).—Some slices of any of the above meats that you happen to have (ro.ast or boiled meat will do ecpi.ally well), some entim cold boiled cairots .and potatoes and beetroot sliced; put it all into a salad ^owl; pour over it some good salad sauce, or oil and vinegar seasoned with pepper. Vicarage Pudding {Ingredients—Apjjle Jam, 4d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take a buttered pie dish; line it with slices of brown bread buttered; put alternate layers of apple jam and breadcrumbs until your dish is full. A little sug.ar and butter should be used, and breadcrumbs should form the last l.ayer. According to depth of dish and heat of jmer oven, bake from twenty to thirty minutes. Veiy good cold. DINNER No. 12. Salmon a la Trafalgar (7?igre(Zie?iis—Slice of Salmon, Is. Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—A slice of pl.ainly boiled salmon with a garnish of hot piccalilli and plain boiled new potatoes. It