198 everybody's dinner book. Eggs, 3(1. [half cost of dish, Is .lid.]).—Boil one chicken, and let it get cold ; cut the meat in slices; then pound half a i>ouncl of ham in a mortar, with nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste; place a layer of this at the bottom of a raised pie dish ; then a layer of chicken ; then slices of cold boiled caia-ot and hard-boiled egg. Continue this until the dish is full, egg and carrot being the last layer. Cover the whole with stock, put on the cover, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Let it get cold. Have ready some good, strong, clear stock, in which a little of Swinborne’s gelatine has been dissolved; pour it over the top, and let it get cold. Potato Rolls {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Butter, 2d.; Milk, etc.; Id. ; Egg, Id.).—Mash some cold boiled potatoes. To one teacupful and a half of mashed potatoes add a quarter of a teacupful of butter, one egg well beaten until stiff, one table.spoonful of good baking powder; three- quarters of a teacupful of milk, one saltspoonful of pepper, and a little salt. Beat together, and bake in rolls. Chicken Toast {Ingredients—Cream, etc., 3d.).—A few slices fi'om any coW roast or boiled chicken or game you may have (the breast or wing is best); mince finely ; season to taste with salt and gi'ound white pepper; mix it with two tablespoonsful of thick cream, heated in a stewpan. Spread the mixtui'e on fingers of hot buttered toast. DINNER No. 8. Potage k la Madame de Genlis {Iwjredients—Vegetables, 7d.; Cream, 6d. ; Stock, 9d.; Eggs, 2d.; Truffles and Mush- rooms, 4d.).—Prepare exactly the .same soup as “Potage Sevigne ” (see Dinner No. 8, p. 137); but jirst before adding the cream and eggs strain the vegetables from the soup, and serve the soup with croiUons of fried brown bread, and the vegetables, to which you have added some shred truffles and mushrooms, previou.sly cooked in a separate tureen. Saumon a la Norvegienne {Ingredients—Salmon, 5 lb., [5s., makes three dishes]. Is. 8d.; Horseradish Sauce, etc., 7d.).—Boil one small salmon whole. When quite cold, cover it entirely with cold hoi’seradish sauce made with cream.