177 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. pint of milk, one fair-sized vegetable marrow, one large onion, and white ground pepper and salt to taste. Boil until the marrow is quite soft, then pass it through a sieve. Add half a glass of sherry or rather less, according to taste, just before serving. Pain de Jamhon {Ingredients—Ham, Is.; Bread and Herbs, 6d.).—Take half a pound of sliced ham (if you have a ham nearly finished, use the best slices from that). Mince half the ham, leaving the rest in slices. Mix fines herbes with the minced ham. Bay a slice of soft bread in the bottom of a wooden bowl, place on it a shce of ham, and cover with the chopped ham and herbs. Continue this until the bowl is full. Reverse on a baking dish, and bake for two hours. Serve hot or cold. Entrecote a la Bordelaise {hujredients—1 lb. Beef, Is. 2d.; Marrow, 3d. [one bone, lOd. ; rest for patties]).—Cut some fillet of beef into pieces about one inch thick. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt, oil well, and grill. Serve with Bordelaise sauce and small pieces of the marrow blanched and glazed. Bordelaise Sauce (Ingredients—Wine and Claret, 1 Od.; Brown Sauce, 7d.; Glaze, Pepper, and Sugar, 4d.; Eschalot, etc., 3d. [2s., sauce enough for twice], Is.).—Take half a pint of brown sauce, two wineglasses of white wine and one of claret, one finely chopped eschalot, a pinch of mignonette pepper, one ounce of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Boil up together for twenty minutes; keep it well skimmed while boiling, then tammy, and add a little chopped tarragon or chervil, some parsley, and serve. When served with fish, add eight anchovies, boned, washed, dried, and rubbed through a fine hair sieve, or one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence. If you have no glaze, use Lieheg Company’s extract of meat. Divide the sauce, use one-half with the beef, the rest add to the anchovies, and serve next day with a broiled sole. Ragout d’Asperges (Ingred,vents—Twenty-five Asparagus,. 7|d.; Parsley, Onions, Lettuce, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).— Cut the tender parts of some boiled asparagus into len^hs of two inches. Mince finely some pai-sley, young onions, 12