71 FOUR-SHILLING DINNERS. maJce it swell in some water that is slightly salted; as it swells moisten it with milk. When it is well cooked add sufficient milk to prevent it being too thick or too thin. Serve with castor sugar and orange flower water, handed separately. Mackerel with Lobster and Truffles {Ingredients—One Mackerel, 4d.; Lobster, Is. ; t-wo Eggs, 2d. ; Truffles, Butter, etc., 6d.).—Fillet a mackerel; clean and batten it out. Pound part of a fresh lobstpr very carefully in a mortar, with white pepper, salt, cayenne, chopped truffles, one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, the yolk of one egg, and some butter. Mix thoroughly and make into a paste. Wi'ap the fillets in the mixture, beat the yolk of one egg, dip the fillets in, then into breadcrumbs, clarified buttei', and a final coat of the crumbs. Do not roll the fillets, but serve them in a flat dish with the roes fried sejxirately, and placed round the dish. Make lobster sauce with the remains of the lobster, and serve with it. Two fillets would be enough at one meal; the other two can be simply boiled, and served with parsley and butter sauce poured over them. Calcutta Dry Curry {Ingredients—Butter, 3d.; Cocoa- nut, etc., 6d.).—Cut up any cold meat you have into fair- sized pieces; mix one tablesj^wouful of curry powder or mulligatawny paste very smoothly with a quarter of a pound of butter; slice two onions; fry in the butter until they are just coloured, then fry the meat; add the milk of one cocoa-nut; simmer gently for ten minutes; stir in the juice of one small lemon and some gaidic. Serve very hot, with boiled rice in a separate dish. Semolina Pudding (Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Melt half an ounce of butter in a small saucepan; pom- in one pint of milk. When it boils sprinkle in two tablespoonsful of semolina, stii’ring with a wooden spoon. W'hen it has boiled for ten minutes, add one tablespoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg. Pour the abo^e mixtui'e into a greased pie dish, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. Tapioca, rice, ground rice, and sago may all be treated in the same way. Dundee Bloater {Ingredients—Bloater, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut the head and tail ofl* a bloater; split it open and