143 SKVEN-ST-IILLTNCt dinners. Fried Kentish Pudding (^Ingredients—Remains of Pud- ding, etc., 3d.).—The remains of the Kentish pudding cut in slices; dip them into dripping (if possible, dripping from a joint that is roasting; if not, dripping made very hot), and fry very carefully. Folkestone Pudding (Ingredients—Ig lb. Apples, 44d.; 2 oz. Butter, 2d.; Apricot Jam, 2|d. ; Vanilla and Sugar, 2d.).—Stew one pound and a half of apples with castor sugar to taste. Well butter a pie dish \ fill the bottom with breadcrumbs and a lump of butter, then a layer of the fruit; continue this , util the dish is full, taking care that the breadcrumbs are last. Put a good lump of butter on the top of the breadcrumbs, bake a golden colour in a moderate oven, turn out of the pie dish, and serve. A few drops of lemon juice or vanilla may be added, and a thick layer of apricot jam. The dishes usually hold about five layers, so the jam should come in the centre. Mushrooms a la Villeroi {Ingredients—Mushrooms, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, Cream, etc., 5gd.).—Put some mushrooms in a saucepan with a bit of butter, a bouquet of herbs, a pinch of flour; moisten with hot water; season with a little sugar and salt. When the mushrooms are quite cooked and the sauce absorbed, add the yolks of two eggs and a little cream. Fry some round erodtons of bread in butter, di-ess the mushrooms on them, and serve at once. DINNER No. 12. Water Souchet with Sole {Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Clear Soup, 6d.).—Make some strong clear soup very hot. Six minutes before serving throw in a sole, filleted and cut into pieces. Hand bread and butter with it. Gateau de Poisson {Ingredients—Fish, 4d.; 4 oz. Suet, 2d.; one Egg, Id.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Take one pound of cold fish, four ounces of suet cut very fine, a small lump of butter, one teacupful of breadcrumbs, two teaspoonsful of anchovy sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Pound all together; mix with one egg, divide it into small cakes, and fry a light bro-wn, taking care that the lard is boiling.