156 everybody’s dinner book. some large cold boiled potatoes, one beetroot, two hard-boiled eggs, two tablespoonsful of vinegar, four of Lucca oil, one of Harvey, one of Worcester, one teaspoonful of salt, one salt- spoonful of black pepper, and one of white. Put the salt and pepper into a salad bowl; add the oil gradually, so that it may amalgamate thoroughly; stir until the salt is dissolved ; add the vinegar, still stirring; then the Harvey and Worcester. Cut the potatoes into thin slices, chop the onion very fine, add the ^-essing, and place carefully in the bowl; sprinkle with parsley chopped finely, and place in the cool for one hour before serving. Roast Pigeon Larded {Inyredients—One Pigeon, etc.. Is. 3d.).—Lard the pigeon very carefully with thin pieces of larding bacon, cover the breast with a vine leaf, roast for half an hour, and serve with strong clear giuvy. Eastern Counties Spoon Pudding {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; one pint Milk, 2d.; Butter, Currants, etc., 4d.).— One pound of fine flour mixed with a little milk, add two well-beaten eggs and a few currants, beat all together, and by degrees add three-quarters of a pint of milk. Have ready a large saucepan full of water, and when boiling fast slightly grease a large table.spoon with butter. Take one spoonful of the batter (previously well stii’red), and dip the spoon into the boiling water. The heat cooks the spoon pud- dings, and, melting the butter, it will float away. Continiie this process until the batter is all used. As soon as the puddmgs are sufliciently cooked they will rise to the surface, and should then be carefully ladled out and laid on a very hot dish. Serve with Demerara and butter. Panah Roll {Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.). —Take two anchovies and one sardine; pound together until quite smooth, add a dash of cayenne and a httle finely chopped parsley, mix thoroughly with a knife on a well- buttered plate, and then carefully amalgamate the mixture with two ounces of fresh butter. Shape into a roU, put it upon ice or in a cool place to set, and serve with crisp, dry toast. It will keep some days, and only one slice from the roll need be served at a time. Useful for sandwiches ; also for suppers and luncheons and picnics.