SIX-SHILLING DINNEKS. 115 Cotelettes de Veau aux Fines Hefbes {Ingredients—| lb. Veal Outlet, 7d. 3 Mushrooms, etc., 4d.).—Melt a bit of butter in a stevvpan ; add the veal cutlets neatly trimmed, with salt and pepper to taste and a little spice 3 saute them in the butter, add some sweet herbs and mushrooms chopped in pieces, and a small quantity of vinegar just before serving. Epinards a la St. Laurent {Ingredients—§ lb. Spinach, Ud. 3 Cream, etc., 3d.).—Wash and pick the spinach very carefully (be sure that it is quite free from all ^’it). Put it into a saucepan with water to cook. Drain it 3 chop it finely 3 put it into a saucepan with butter, salt, and a pinch of flour 3 moisten it with cream, and let it cook until quite done. Serve on a very hot dish, with a garnish of triangular pieces of bread fried in butter. Muffin with Anchovy Sauce and Egg {Ingredients— Muffin, Id. 3 Butter, etc., 2d. 3 one Egg, Id.).—Put two ounces of butter into a cup 3 beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon; stir in one tablespoonful of Bux’gess’s anchovy sauce, and season with cayenne pepper 3 add the yolk and white of one egg boiled hard. Toast a muffin, split it open, put the mixture in the centre, close it again, and serve as hot as possible. DINNEE No. 14. Chestnut Soup {Ingredients—Chestnuts, 2d. 3 Stock, etc., 5d.).—Cook some chestnuts in some water slightly salted 3 pick them carefully, and pound them in a mortar ; pass them through the tammy, mixing them with sufficient stock to make a puree. Add stock until the puree is of the proper consistency 3 let it all boil a few minutes. Put some dice of bread fried in fresh butter into the soup tureen ; pour the soup over them all, adding a few cooked whole chestnuts just before serving. Merlans a la Sauce Tomate: French Eecipe {Ingredients —Whitings, 8d. 3 Tomato Sauce, 2gd.).—Wash and clean the whitings carefully 3 put back the liver 3 cut off the tail and fins; skin them ; dry them in a cloth 3 flour them thoroughly, and plunge them into boiling lard. Let them colom’ a pretty gold colour 3 drain them and serve them on