TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. ^21 moisten with one pint and a half of stock, and cook for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Then add one pint of haricot beans which have been well boiled and one ounce of butter, warm, and serve. Wild Duck with Orange Sauce {Ingredients—Remains of the Wild Duck, Is. 6d. ; Orange, Id.; Port Wine, 3d.; Gravy, etc., 4d.).—Out the remains of the wild duck into pieces, an-ange them neatly in a dish, and pour over them W'ange sauce. Garnish with fried bread. Orange Sauce; Put into a saucepan half a pint of good gravy (or espdgnole sauce if you happen to have it); add one whole onion, half the rind of a Seville orange and all the juice, one teaspoon- ful of castor sugar, the same of mustard, a quarter as much cayenne, and one glass of port wine. Simmer for ten mmutes; strain, but do not press the onion, as this sauce should be thin. Serve very hot in a sauce boat. DINNER No. 4. Puree de Riz a la Richmond {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Rice, 2d j Eggs, 2d.; Vegetables, etc., 3d.).—Boil some rice in veal broth, pass through a tammy, add the necessary quantity of stock, and season with salt and pepper. Hard bod. two eggs, pound the yolks in a mortar with butter, roll into tiny balls, dip into butter, then into breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard. Cut some rounds of carrots and turnips, from ready-cooked carrots and turnips, place them with the egg balls in the tureen, pour the soup very hot on to them, and serve with tiny dice of fried bread. Cotelettes de Mouton Sauce Poivrade {Ingredients—The rest of the Mutton Outlets, Is. 6d.).—Trim the cutlets, broil, and serve covered with poimade sauce. Poivrade Sauce {Ingredients—Yinegav, 4d.; Butter, 2d.; Herbs, etc., 2d. ; Glaze and Stock, 6d.).—Take one tum- blerful of vinegar, some fresh butter, one teaspoonful of chopped chives, a pinch of minced herbs, thyme, laurel leaves, salt, and black pepper; reduce in a saucepan ; add some meat, glaze, and a little stockj stir over the fire until quite thick, and pass through a tammy.