39 THRKK-SHILLING DINNERS. Choux aux Saucisses (^Ingredients—g lb. iSausages, 5d. ; Greens, etc., 3d.).—Boil some greens; mince them and drain well; put them into an enamelled stewpan, with enough new milk and butter to moisten them (if you have any cream, use that). Add white pepper and salt to taste. Stir well together over the fire until very hot. Have ready some sausages, nicely fried. Arrange the greens in a mound in the centre of an entree dish, and garnish with the sausages. Anchovy Sauce and Egg Toast {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Boil hard two eggs; mix with them one dessertspoonful of Biorgess’s anchovy sauce, just enough to flavour them and give them a little colour ; pass the mixture through a .sieve; serve on very hot I'ounds of buttered toast. You can also serve with the same sauce as you use for “ Scotch Woodcock. ” DINNER, No. 10. Quickly Made Oyster Soup {Ingredients—Six Oysters, 9d. ; Milk, etc., 4d.).—Take two toa.st biscuits (English), jiound finely, and mix with half a ^lint of water j add half a pint of new milk, one ounce of butter, salt and ground Avhite pepper to taste. Bring to the boil, add the oysters, and serve as hot as possible. A few drops of lemon may be added if liked. Curried Meat and Potato Rissoles {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Potatoas, etc., 4d.).—Chop any cold meat, game, or poultry you have, and mix with it half a pound of mashed jiotatoas, one hard-boiled egg minced fine ; add lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste, one dessei tspoonful of curiy powder (more if liked), chopped parsley, and shallot or onion. Mix with the yolk and white of one egg beaten separately, the white being beaten to a stiff froth. Make the mixture into ris- soles about two inches long, roll them in the yolk of one egg, and brown for three minutes before the fire in a Dutch oven. Pile ciasply fiied par.sley in the centre of the dish on a napkin, and serve at once. « Savoury Kidney {Ingredients—Spanish Onion, Id. ; Kid- ney, 3Id. ; Butter, etc., 3^d.).— Take a Spanish onion, peel