NlNR-SniLLING DINNERS. 197 yolu’ pefts, and a bouquet of herbs, chives, salt .and peppei , cook over .a slow fire, and take out the bouquet of herbs before serving. Biscuits a la Fitzhardinge {Ingredients—4 oz. Parmesan, 4d. ; 4 oz. Butter, 4d. ; 4 oz. Flour, 2d.).—Four ounces of grated Parmesan ; ditto butter ; two ounces of flour. Work all thoroughly together until well mixed. Roll out the paste ; cut it into pieces two inches long and one wide ; bake a light golden colour. An excellent savoury. DINNER No. 7. Brown Sweetbread Soup {Ingredients—The rest of the Sweetbread, 2s.; Stock, 6d.).—Prepare the soup in the same way as in “ Potage au Riz de Veau” {see Dinner No. 6, p. 196), using brown stock instead of white, and fr}dng the pieces of sweetbread quickly in butter ; then drain them in a napkin. They must only be a light yellow. Fillets of Whiting a la Conti (Ingredients—Whiting, 8d.; Lemons, 2d. ; Butter, Truffles, etc., 5d.).—Fillet a whiting. Cut each fillet into four pieces; fry them in melted butter, salt, pepper, and the juice of two lemons. When the fillets are brown on both sides, dry them on a cloth ; add some thin slices of truffles to the butter, reduce, and thicken with a little more butter. Serve on pieces of fried bread. Perdrix aux Choux : Varlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—One Partridge, Is. 9d.; Vegetables, 3d.; Sausages and Bacon, 8d.).—Blanch one or more cabbages according to the num- ber of partridges. When cold, put one or more partridges into a stewpan; add the cabbage, a small piece of streaky bacon, one onion, one carrot, and a bunch of parsley. Cover all with stock; cook for four hours. When well done take them up ; strain the cabbages; dish up the partridge (or parti’idges) upon the cabbage; cut the bacon in neat slices; put it round the cabbage, with a small sausage between. Put round the dish a good game sauce made from game bones, and serve very hot. A good way of cooking an old bird. Milford Pie: Mrs. Crowe’s Recipe {Ingredients—Chicken, 2s. Gd. [enough for twice] ; ITain, Gd. ; CaiTots, etc., 7d. ;