218 everybody’s dinner book. tiny balls of mashed potato dipped into the yolk of one egg, then into breadcrumbs, and lightly fried. Filets de Poulet a la BeauviUiers (^Ingredients—Chicken, Is.; Mayonnaise Sauce, etc., 7d.).—Cut the r&st of the breast of the cliicken into small round pieces. Fiy some tiny croiUotis, spread them thickly with anchovy paste, place the chicken on them, mask thickly with mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with watercress. Any poultry may be used like this, also game. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Jardiniere {Ingredients—3 lb. Mutton [3s., two dishes], Is. 6d.; Bacon, 3d.; Artichokes, etc., lid.).—Trim the cutlets neatly, cover them with slices of bacon, and cook them in a stewpan with a little rich stock. When cpiite tender, take out the cutlets, and boil some bottoms of artichokes, salsify, carrots, and turnips in the same stock, and leave on the fire to .simmer until the vegetables have absorljed all the gravy ; cleai- off all grease, and pour the vegetables over the cutlets, which have been kej)t hot. Pommes de Terre a la Maeaire {Ingredients—Potatoas, 2d.; Butter and Parsley, 2d.).—Throw potato trimmings into a frying pan with a large lump of butter. They will be of all shapes and sizes. Toss them lightly until a golden colour, pleasing to behold, and sprinkle with a plentiful quantity of finely chopi^ed parsley. The origin of this way of cooking potato trimmings is as follows : Louis Philippe and his family were enjoying their breakfast at the Tuileries one morning. The Prince de Joinville was of the party, and was so completely absorbed in giving an account of one of his voyages, that he refused, without thinking what he w.os doing, a magnificent dish of fried potatoes which was handed to him. His story concluded, he turned round and asked for jjotatoes ; but, alas ! not a crumb was left. A seiwant was despatched to the kitchen for more,—none were ready. “ He who hesitates is lost,” said the chef. He immediately threw the trimmings from the fried potatoes served to the king into the frying pan, and cooked them as described. When brought to the prince, he found them excellent, and promptly inquired the name of the dish. History does not say what reply ho received, as, being very deaf, he repeated, “Ah !