254 eVekybody’s dikneb Book. of Id. in the pound, sometimes more. Excullent black tea can be bought at Is. 7d. per pound, with a reduction of Id. in the pound if 20 lb. is taken. Knot’s Cuca Cocoa is the best in the market, and for people suffering from overw'ork, mental worry, nerves, and sleeplessness, it is ab.solutely unrivalled in its effects. Messrs. Harrod, Brompton Koad, sell it in tins beginning at lid.; it can be obtained at all grocers’ and chemists’, or direct from Messrs. Boot & Co., 38, Great Russell Street, Blooms- bury, W.C. My Lady’s Soup.—Have ready some very good, clear soup; put into it shreds of tarragon, truflles cut into strips, small button onions, and fresh green peas previously boiled; let it boil. Just before servmg; stu- in two dessertspoonsful of Liebig Company’s extract of meat, season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve with grated Parmesan on a plate. It is always well to have a small supply of sardines, anchovies, Patent ~La,x,A2yj)etit anchovy, and other jJastes, Osborne’s Patum Paperium, different made sauces, potted meats, a few tins of preserved vegetables, bottled fruits, some of Chollet’s Julienne, a bottle of truffles, some reforvie chips, preserved mushrooms, olives, cockscombs, marmalade, treacle, honey, jam, biscuits, preserved fruits and ginger, figs and dates, as with these and Chelsea jellies and bottles of soups you can soon improvise a dinner and dessert. In a case of mushroom poisoning, Avater, vinegar, brandy, ether, or sal volatile must never be taken; they only accele- rate the bad effects of the poison. Oil, milk, and butter are of use. Take an active aperient and an emetic, and send at once for the doctor. A few articles of use for the kitchen that should always if possible be bought: Toasted cheese dish ; potato steamer ; Don Pedro or pasty dish; curry dish ; revolving hash dish; hot-Avater plates ; cutters for paste, vegetables, and cutlets; potato mashers, from 4d. ; bread graters, 4d. to 8d.; onion knife; lemon squeezer. A Avineglass of chablis added to a potato salad is an enormous improvement.