22G T?VEIiyBODY’s DINNER BOOK. Strain the soup. Have ready some button mushrooms and shreds of truffles boiled in fi.sh stock; add them to the lobster qumdl&s; five minutes before serving add the pieces of lobster, pour the stock over all, and serve at once. Plain lobster soup is made exactly the same, with the exception of the mushrooms and truffles. Fillets of Salmon a la Grecque {Ingredients—Salmon and Sole, 2s. 3d. ; Spinach, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Cut some salmon into strips two inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. Grill them, season well with black pepper. Lay on each piece a strip of filleted sole or plaice, on that again a strip of spinach mixed with butter and sprinkled witli lobster coral. Grill all together, and serve with cucumlxjr as a border, tossed in oil and vinegar. Filet de Boeuf a la Financiere {Ingredients—Slices of Fillet of Beef, Is. 3d.).—^Cut the pieces of fillet of beef into scallops the shape of a dried pear, lard them finely with bacon, and cook in Mirepoix llavom-ed with Madeira. When done, aiTange round an entree dish, and fill the centre ■wiiYi financiere garnish. B,educe the .sauce in -which the beef ■was cooked, pass through a tammy, and add to the garnish. Mirepoix {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 2d.; Ham and Bacon, 9d. ; Vegetables, etc., Gd. [one dish. Is.]).—Chopped veal, ham and bacon, cai-rots and onions. Season with salt and popper, chopped eschalots, and laurel leaves. Simmer over a slow fire for two hours, moisten with white wine a,nd stock, pass through a tammy, season with salt and pepper, and keep in a jar until required. Sauce a la Financiere {Ingredients—Mushrooms and Herb.s, 4d.; Ham and Truffles, lOd.; White Wine and Stock, Gd.).—Boil three or four tablespoonsful of minced raw ham, some truffle trimmings, mushrooms, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and throe whole black peppercorns iu ecpial quantities of stock and white wine; reduce to half the original quantity, clear oil’ all grease, and pass through a tammy. Stir some .stock into a little brown thickening in a separate saucepan, reduce, add the previou.sly made sauce, and serve.