EIGHT-SHILLING DINNEES. 185 fresh butter, and drain them. Serve with maitre cVMtel butter or tomato sauce, and garnish with one lemon cut into slices. Potatoes a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id. ; Butter, 2d.).—Peel the potatoes and boil them in salt and water. Melt a lump of fresh butter in a saucepan, slice the potatoes, warm them in the butter, season with salt and pepper, and serve. Do not let the butter clarify. Noel Carrot Pudding {Ingredients—Carrots, 4d. ; Eggs, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Currants and Raisins, 6d.; Suet, 2d.; Demerara, etc., 2d.).—Boil some carrots until they are soft enough to pass through a sieve. Take three-quarters of a pound of the carrot pulp, three ounces of Demerara, currants, stoned raisins, six ounces of grated bread- crumbs, and foiir of finely chopped beef suet. Mix thoroughly; add one teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg (if liked), two eggs if new laid (if not, three), beat them well, and add to the rest of the ingredients, using as much milk as will bring the mixtm-e to the consistency of thick batter. Pour into a well-oiled mould, tie in a cloth, and steam or boil for two hours and a half. The mixture can be baked in a pie dish if preferred, in which case it will take almost one hour and a cpiarter to bake. Sweet sauce, brandy saeice, cream, or buttei’ may be served with it. DINNER No. 19. Puree of Broad Beans {Ingredients—Beans, 4d.; Bacon, 2d.; Spinach, 2d.; Butter and Bread, 4d. ; Stock, etc., 6d.).— Take one pint of young broad beans ready shelled, skin each bean, and boil them in plenty of salted water with two or three sprigs of savory and a small piece of bacon. When quite done, drain off the water and pass the beans thi'ough a hair seive. Mix one ounce of butter in a saucepan (not an iron one ; enamelled should be used) with one dessertspoonful of flour ; add the bean pulp, and as much common stock as may be wanted to make the soup of the desired consistency; add a dust of white pepper and castor sugar to taste ; then stir in as much spinach greening as will give the soup a good colour. Let it come to the boil; add a pat of fi-esh butter