67 t'OUR-SHILLlNG DINNERS. bacon or ham of a uniform size and thickness. Take a sheet of wliite note-paper. Sprinkle a slice of bacon with some of the following mixture : one tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, half a teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, the same of oidon and herbs, and some pepper. Lay the slice of bacon on the 23Rper; brush a slice of livei- with butter, then anchovy paste; sprinkle it with one teaspoonful of bread- crumbs, lay it on the bacon, put a second ^lice of bacon on the top, turn the other half of the paper over the whole, cut it neatly, turn up the edges round the three open sides, turn over once, and fry for fifteen minutes. Continue this until you have enough cases: the liver will make several. Vienna Pudding {Incjredients—Suet, 2d. ; Milk, Id. ; Golden Syi'up, Id. 3 Flour, etc., 2d.).—Take as much flour and breadcrumbs as will make half a pound; add one teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped very fine, one dessertspoonful of lemon rind shred very small (the rind of the lemon used for the plaice will do, and thus obviate the necessity of using a second), one small teacupful of milk, and the same of golden syrup. Mix all well together, and steam for two and a half to three hours. DINNEB No. 18. Devilled Shrimps {Lnyredients—Shrimps, etc., 64d.).— Shell the shrimps very carefully ; roll them lightly in flour. Have ready some clean hot lard. Place the shrimps in the frying basket, and fry them in the hot lard until they are a gold colour and quite ciisj). Sprinkle finely chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, black and white peppei-, on a cloth ; turn the shrimps into it, toss well, and serve on a very hot dish or a fish paper, taking care to serve them the moment they are cooked. Hand thin bread and butter with them and one lemon cut in quarters. N.B.—Prawns are excellent done in this way, but they are much more expensive. Whiting a la Bretonne (^Ingredients—Whiting, 6d. ; Butter, 2d.).—Split one whiting; leave the skin on. Put some butter in a frying pan, and let it ju.st change colour;