TKN-SniLLTNG T>TNNnBS. 237 parsley and shallot, mixed Avitli bechamel sauce. Make them hot, and serve with fried parsley. Bechamel sauce takes its name from Le Mai'quis de Bechamel, maitre d’hotel to Louis XIV.; he invented it, and immortalised him- self by this one invention. Canard aux Legumes {Ingredients—Best of the Duck, Is. 6d.; Vegetables, Is.).—Cut the rest of the duck up neatly; serve it dished up on a bed of mashed potatoes, and garni.shed with little heaps of green peas, small onions, carrots, turnips, asparagus points, and French beans. Chicken may be served in similar fashion. Filet de Veau Braise : French Eecipe {Ingredients— 1^ lb. Veal, Is. 6d.; Bacon, 6d. ; Vegetables, 5d.).—Cut some fillet of veal into very thin slices; put them into a saucepan, with bacon, parsley, small button mushrooms, onions, and chives between each layer; season with salt and pepper ; cook on a slow fire; when ready to serve, add clear gravy that has been carefully skimmed from all grease. Mutton and beef can be cooked in this way. Cuca Cocoa Blancmange {Ingredients—Gelatine, 2d. ; Sugar, Igd.; Sweet Almonds, 7gd.; Cocoa, Igd.).—Proceed exactly as in “Blancmange an Cafe” {see Dinner No. 13, p. 235), only using half the quantities to make a smaller monld, and substituting two ounces of Root’s cuca cocoa for the coffee. An excellent sweet. (Eufs a la Pompadour {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Bacon andPai’sley, 4d.).-—Poach two or more eggs; when cold, tiim them neatly and carefully, roll them in slices of thin bacon, fry them in butter, and serve gaimished with fried parsle3^ Croutes au Pate d’Anchois a la Mayonnaise {Ingredients —Anchovy Paste and Bread, 3d. ; Watercress, etc., 3d.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 9d.).—Fry some croiitons of bread (not very thick rounds). Spread on them some of Barto Valle anchovy paste. Make a thick mayonnaise sauce with chopped shallot and capers, put some over the anchovy paste, and place on the top a second sippet covered with more anchovy paste. Serve garnished with watercress.