180 everybody’s dinner book. tail into pieces ; steep them for two hours in salt and water; place them in a stewpan with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, three cloves, and a blade of whole mace. Fill the stewpan with second stock, stew until quite tender, drain the pieces of ox tail on a sieve, allow them to cool, then trim them neatly, ready to serve in the soup. Prepare some button-shaped carrots, turnips, and onions boiled in stock. Clarify the stock in the usual way, then add the pieces of ox tail and vegetables, season them, add all together, let them simmer gently for eighteen minutes, and take great care to remove all grease as it rises. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Connaught {Ingredients—1^ lb. Neck of Lamb, Is. 9d.; Peas and Mint, 6d.; Aspic Jelly, 6d.). —Braise carefully one pound and a half from the best end of a neck of lamb, and when cold cut it mto neat cutlets. Flavour some aspic rather strongly with mint, and wdiUe still liquid mix some finely chopped mint with it, in the proportion of foui’ table.spoonsful of mint to one pint of aspic. Bun a layer of tliis jelly into a baking dish (it should be well sweetened), lay the cutlets on this when well set, then cover them over with more aspic, and let all set. When quite still’, cut round each cutlet with a sharp knife, pass a cloth wrung out of hot water under the tin, and lift out the cutlets. Dish them en couronne round a pile of cold cooked peas, tossed either in mayonnaise or in plain oil and vinegar. N.B.—Mutton can be used instead of lamb, in which case substitute French beans for peas. Rabbit Roll: Mabel’s Recipe —Babbit, Is. 6d.; Eggs, 2d.; Cream, 6d.; Bacon and Truffles, 6d.; Tomatoes, 3d.; White Sauce, 3d. [two dishes. Is. 7d.].—Pass one uncooked rabbit through a sieve. Beat it in the mortar with one gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste, two whole eggs, some fat bacon scraped, and two large tomatoes. Pound it well together, put it in a mould, and steam for half an hour. Sei've with white sauce flavoured with tomatoes, and decorate the top of the roll with shred truffles. Old English Dumplings {Ingredients—Demerara, Treacle, etc., 3d. ; Milk, etc., 4d.).—A quarter of a pound of flour; put it in a basin with a pinch of salt. Boil two ounces of diipping with one cupful of water. Mix the flour