139 SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. fowl’s egg; dredge them with plenty of castor sugar ; bake in a slow oven until a nice fawn brown and quite crisp. When they are di-y remove them from the tin; scoop out the soft inside, when they are ready for use. Fill them with whipped cream, flavoured mth vanilla and Root’s Cuca Cocoa, prepared as follows: Take two tablespoonsful of new milk; boil it; pour it on to half a teaspoonful of Cuca Cocoa ; stir the milk and cocoa together until quite smooth. Return it to the saucepan, and boil a few minutes. Set it aside to get cold. When cold mix it with the whipped cream flavoured Avith vanilla. This quanjitj'-wil'l make six meringue cases; they will keep at least a month if kept in a tightly closed tin box in a dry place. The mixture is sufficient to fill two cases. Kirby Roll {Ingredients—One Roll, Id. ; one Egg, Id. ; Cress, Id.; Pickles, Id.).—Cut one French roll in two; remove the crumb. Boil one egg hard ; chop both yolk ancl Avhite ; season with salt and pepper; add some chopped mixed pickles. Put the egg and pickles back into the roll, place some mustard and cress on the top, and serve cold. DINNER No. 9. Consomme aux Haricots Verts {Ingredients—| lb. French Beans, l^d.; Stock, 9d.).—-Boil .some French beans in salted water or in stock. When quite tender take them out and cut them into lozenges or any fancy shape with a vegetable cutter. Fill the tureen with boiling hot clear soup, put in the beans, and serve. Filet de Sole a la Plantagenet {Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Shrimps, 3d.; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—Take a filleted sole or plaice; clean and batten it out. Pick some shrimps or prawns very carefully; pound them in a mortar with cayenne, white pepper, salt, some chopped onions, and two table- spoonsful of anchovy sauce. Amalgamate thoroughly, and make into a paste. Wrap each fillet in the mixture; roll them (one sole makes eight rolled fillets, four not rolled) ; tie them ; fry a golden brown in clear fat or lard. Serve with crisply fried par-sley in the centre. If not more than four fillets ai’e needed at a time, the rest can be cooked in a variety of ways.