everybody’s dinner book. 178 and a few leaves of lettuce. Put them in a saucepan with butter, a little water, salt, pepper, and a pinch of floxir. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until the onions, etc., are done. Scald the asparagus in this, and serve very hot, garnished with o’oUtons of fried bread in triangle shape. Small sprigs of cauliflower, broccoli, or peas which have been previously boiled are also good done in this way. If peas, sugar and mint should be added. Pommes de terre Soufflees {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.).— Peel some large potatoes; cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick 3 ch-y them well; then put them in a fry- ing basket. Have two pans ready of boiling lard ; plunge the basket in one ; keep shaking. In two or three minutes plunge the basket into the second pan. When the slices swell, drain them from all fat, and serve. Do not let them colour in the first pan of lard. Sweet Rolls {Ingredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d. ; two Eggs, 2d.; Lemon, Id.; Sugar, Milk, Yeast, Flour, and Peel, 3gd.; Jam, 2^d. [enough for twice, 5|d.]).—Two ounces of warmed butter, two ouncas of castor sugar, two well- beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of flour, the gi-ated peel of one lemon, some shavings of candied peel, and one tablespoon- ful of yeast stirred into half a teacup of warm milk, enough of which must be added to form a soft dough. Beat the mixture well, and mould it into long rolls about three inches long. Let them rise on the baking tin previous to baking, pile in cross-bar fashion on a dish, strew with castor sugar, and serve with strawberry jam in a separate glass dish. Oyster Fritters {Ingredients—Twelve Oysters, Is. 6d.; Parsley, etc., 4d.).—Make a light batter, dip seasoned oysters one by one into it, then toss them by means of a spoon into hoHing fat, when they will speedily a.ssume all sorts of queer shapes. Drain and set on a hot napkin with fried parsley in the centre. Cold meat, game, poultry, eggs, fish, and vegetables may be served m the same way. DINNER No. 14. Potage St. Pierre {Ingredients—Stock, 7d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Sago and Vegetables, 3d.; Cream, 6d.).—One pint of good