123 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. or put in the centre of the dish, with the slices of mutton against it, and the boiled potatoes placed to form a bordei. (Eufs a la Creme {Ingredients—Cream, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Parmesan, 5d.).—Butter thickly a shallow dish (a fire- proof one is best). Pour into it a layer of cream a quarter of an inch thick ; then one of grated Parmesan, the same depth as the cream. Slip carefully into the dish two or more eggs, and take the greatest cai e not to break the yolks. Give a dust of salt and pepper, then more cream ; cover again with Parmesan. Put the eggs in the oven until they are just set, not hard. Brown the surface with a hot salamander, and send to table very hot in the dish in which the eggs have been cooked. Very thin crisp toast well buttered should be eaten with this dish. DINNER No. 19. Potage Creme d’Orge {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Milk, Id.; 2 oz. Cr6me d’Orge, Id. ; three Eggs, 3d. ; Butter, Id. ; Cream, Is.)—Put one quart of white stock into a saucepan ; when it boils add two ounces of Creme d’Orge, which has been previously well mixed with one gill of cold milk until quite smooth. Stir the soup until it boils, then let it simmer gently for about ten minutes. Remove immediately any scum which rises to the surface. When the soup is done, mix with it gi’adually a custard made as follows:— The raw yolks of three eggs, one ounce of fresh butter broken into small pieces, and half a pint of single cream (or if that is too expensive, the same quantity of new milk), seasoned with salt and ground white pepper. Stir the soup all the time while adding the custard, and continue stirring until it thickens. On no account mtbst it hoil, or it will curdle; in fact, the soup should be made in a double .saucepan, or the saucepan placed in a second saucepan which has boiling water in it, after the custard is added. Servo with erroxLtons of filed bread. Whiting a I’ltalienne {Ingredients—Whitings, 6d.; Egg, Id.; Onion, etc., 4d.).—Wa.sh, clean, and skin two whitings. Cut off the tail anel fins. Lay the fish for four hours in a viarrnade made witli lemon juice, oil, slices of onion, and