179 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. clear stock, one ounce of sago, and four of all kiiuls of mixed vegetables. Boil all together for half an hour. Put a quarter of a pint of cream and the yolks of two eggs iato a tureen, and pour the soup iipon it. Broiled Sole Sauce Bordelaise {Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Anchovies and Sauce, Is. 3d.).—BroU a sole very carefully ; put it in a dish garnished with plainly boiled potatoes j hand the Bordelaise sauce with it, made with the anchovies. Fried Marrow Patties {Ingredients—The rest of the Marrow, 7d.; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Make a good puff paste, roll it rather thin, and cut it into round or square pieces ; season the marrow with pepper and salt, put it between two of the pieces, pinch the edges, and fry a light brown. { Kabbit a la Maintenon {Ingredients—Babbit [Is. 6d., enough for twice], 9d.; Mushrooms, Shallots, and Parsley, ^ 5d.; Bacon and Stock, 6|d.).—Cut up one young rabbit, and lay it in a stewpan with six mushrooms, two shallots, a little I' parsley, and six peppercorns. Pour over them half a pint of consovime, and stew over a slow fire for half an hour. Let them cool; then cut some pieces of white writing paper, large enough to enclose the pieces; butter the paper, lay a thin slice of bacon upon it sprinkled with pepper, then a piece of rabbit; wrap them up neatly, broil ten minutes over a clear fire, and serve in the papers. I Sweet RoUs with Cream {Ingredients—The rest of the j Rolls, 5Jd.; Cream, 6d.).—Ai’range the rest of the rolls in I a glass dish, and garnish with little heaps of the jam and f Devonshire cream placed alternately. Fromage a la Royale {Ingredients—Parmesan, etc., 6d.). —Take some pieces of custard the size and shape of small balls, and not too stiff. Fry them a golden brown in very • thin batter, sprinkle well with grated Parmesan, and serve at once. DINNER No. 15. Clear Ox Tail Soup: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe — Ox Tail, 2s. 6d. [makes clear and thick. Is. 3d.]; Vegetables and Stock, Is. 2d. [half, 7d.; total. Is. lOd.]).—Cut the ox i\