EVRRYBOPY’s mNNKR BOOK. 34 cutlets with a bit of maccaroni to repre.sent the bone. Dip them in the yolk of one egg, and then in breadcrumbs; fry a golden colour; dish up against some spinach, as in the following recipe; poui- round some clear gravy, and serve immediately. Epinards au Beurre {Ingredients—^ lb. Spinach, l|d.; Butter, etc., 2|d.).—Wash half a pound of spinach quite clean, and pick it most carefully; put some water into a saucepan; boil until quite cooked. Drain on a hair sieve, throw the water awaj^, and pass the spinach through the sieve. Take a saucepan; put into it a little fine flour, with a lump of butter; amalgamate thoroughly. Add the spinach, seasoned with salt and pepper to taste, and .some milk (cream if you have it). Stir well and serve very hot. When served as a vegetable or in the second course, triangle-shaped pieces of fried bread should be put round it as a garnish. Bamequin a la Manchester {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Jam, etc., 2|d.).—Boil together some milk, a bit of butter, castor sugar, the rind of half a lemon, and some breadcrumbs. When cold, add the eggs. Bake the mixture, fill ramequin cases -with it, with a little jam or marmalade on each. DINNER No. 5. Potage a la Constance {Ingredients—Vegetables, 4d.; Stock, Parmesan, etc., 9d.).—Make some Brunoi.se .soup as in Dinner No. 5, p. 16. Substitute vermicelli for the rice, and add .shreds of taixagon and pieces of mushroom. Serve gi-ated Parmesan with it. Mutton or Beef a la Nationale {Ingredients—1 lb. of the Shoulder, 9d.; Vegetable.s, 6d.).—Cut the re.st of the half shoulder of mutton into slices; warm it in gravy. Place the slices in the centre of a dish ; garni.sh with httle heaps of mashed green peas, potatoes, carrots, and turnips, placed alternately. Serve gravy in a boat. When beef is iised, spinach may be substituted for the peas, or both may be used. Lamb, veal, and pork can bo dressed in similar fashion. Baked Normandy Pippins {Ingredients—| lb. Normandy Pippins, 2 jd.; Sug.ar and C’ider, 3d.).—A quarter of a pound