SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. 119 batter, and fry until crisp in lard, oil, or bntter. Drain thorougbly. Garnish with crisp fried parsley in the centre of the dish. Put the fritters round it on a fish paper. Shrimps, prawns, bloaters, kippei-ed herring, haddock, smoked salmon, lobster, and crab may all be done in this way, and are all excellent. Oy.sters, too, are tempting in this fashion. DINNER No. 16. Fried Flounders (/wyrefZiejite—Flounders, 6d.; Egg, Id.). —Sprinkle two flounders with salt, and let them remain so for about three hours. Wash and clean them carefully and thoroughly, wipe them quite diy, flour them, and wipe a second time with a clean cloth. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in plenty of lard. Plaice can be cooked in similar fashion, and if beaten gently with a rolling pin before being cooked will be rendered much less watery. Garnish with fried parsley. Gras Double a la Fran^aise {Ingredients—| lb. Tiipe, 4d.; White Stock and Broth, 9d.; Mushrooms, etc., 3d.). —Put into a stewpan a few button mushrooms, one small onion, a little chopped parsley, and part of a bay leaf. Chop all together; add half a pint of good white sauce, salt and pepper to taste. The .stock should be made with veal. Stir these ingiedients over a gentle fire until the mushi’ooms are quite soft, then add half a pint of veal stock or broth. In another stewpan put half a pound of fresh tripe cut into pieces about one inch square ; cover with veal broth; simmer gently until the tripe becomes tender—^say about four to four and a half hours. Boil the sauce until smooth ; put the tripe in a deep dish, with the sauce poured over. Minced Duck with Poached Eggs {Ingredients—Rest of the Duck, Is. ; Tomatoes, 4d. ; Stock, etc., 6|d.; two Eggs, 2d.).—The rest of the duck, two ripe tomatoes, a quarter of a pint of brown'or white sauce, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, peppei-, and cayenne to taste. Mince the duck very fine, and add it to the sauce, which must be very thick. Scald and peel the tomatoes, chop them up, add them to the mince, then the pansley and seasoning. Mix thoroughly. Pile the mince on a plated dish; put the