183 EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. DINNER No. 17. Thick Mulligatawny: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe —Chicken, 2s. 6d.; Vegetables, etc., 7d.; Stock 9d. ; Curry Powder and Paste, 2d.; Apples and Rice, 2d. [enough for twice, 2s. Id.]).—Cut up a chicken in neat pieces as if for a fricassee, spread with curry powder, and fry a nice brown. Put in a stewpan carrots, onions, a sprig of thyme, celery, parsley, one bay leaf, a few peppercorns, and four cloves. Cook the chicken until tender in some good stock (veal broth is best), remove the pieces carefully to serve in the soup when finislied, strain the stock through a sieve, and well skim. Peel three medium-sized onions, three apples, one head of celery cut small, one tablespoonful of crmry powder, and one of curry paste. Fry a nice brown on a sharp fire ; then mix as much flour as is necessary to thicken it to the consistency of thin cream as you require soup; then add the chicken broth and more good stock ; stir until it boils ; then place it to simmer gently to clarify itself; remove the grease from the top ; pass through a tammy into a stewpan; jilace the pieces of chicken in it; let it simmer for one hour before dinner; add the juice of one lemon and a little castor sugar. Serve with rice on a plate. Stewed Ox Tail [Ingredients—Ox Tail [2s. 6d., enough for twice]. Is. 3d. ; Onion, Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Divide the tail into joints, soak them for one hour, boil them for one hour, then take them out, and let them cool. They will thus be blanched, and may be put into a stewpan just covered with water ; add one saltspoonful of salt, a veiy small pro- portion of cayenne, four cloves stuck in one small onion, and a bunch of parsley. Let the stew simmer for three hours, then take out the pieces, and put on a hot dish ; add one tablespoonful of lemon juice to the liquor, strain it over the tail, and serve very hot. Use only half the tail ; gi-ill the other half next day. Cold Pheasant and Ham [Ingredients—Rest of the Pheasant, Is. 9d. ; Ham, 3d. ; Bread .and Butter, 2d.).—The rest of the cold pheasant, with .slices of cold ham in a separate di.sh, and rolled bread and butter. Asparagus Pudding [Ingredients—Twenty-five Aspai'agus, 7^d. ; four Eggs, 4d. ; Buttei', Milk, etc., 4d.).—Beat four eggs