everybody’s dinner book. 260 For Digestion: From Grandpapa’s Book.—Three table- spoonsful of water to one of lemon juice. Take it at twelve o’clock, four o’clock, and at bedtime. Dr. Babington’s Dinner Pills : Grandpapa W.’s Recipe.— Ten gi-ains of rhubarb, two grains'of extract of camomile, made into pills.—Two gi-ains of rhubarb, half a grain of camomile, taken in a glass of sherry half an hour before dinner. Remedy for Burns.—Lay a piece of cold charcoal on the burnt part and the pain will immediately subside ; by leaving the charcoal on one hour, it is said the wound will be healed.—Old linen or cotton wool soaked in salad oil should be applied to burns. If you have no salad oil, di-edge with floui', and wrap up well in cotton wool. A piece of common soda dissolved in one teacupful of warm water will relieve a slight burn. For removing Stoppers from Glass Bottles.—Gently heat the neck of the bottle, which makes the glass expand before the heat reaches the stopper, thei-eby rendering it easy to extract it.—Place a drop of oil round the stopper, warm the bottle on o?ie side only (befoi-e the fire is best); if no fire is available, then use hot water. Unequal expansion and slight ujiward leverage of the thumb wdl loosen the stopper. —Place the bottle in hot water up to theineck, wit allowing the water to reach the stopper.—Put the bottle into a large jug, with two or three inches of cold water; then add hoiliny water (being careful not to poui- it on to the bottle), until, by gently tapping and ti’ying the stopper, it comes out. The neck of the bottle expands hefw'e the stopper.—Pass a piece of woollen cloth or string round the neck of the bottle, and pull it quickly by the ends backwards and forwards for a few minutes, when the glass will expand and the stopper come out. To clean Grates, Stoves, etc.—Boil a quarter of a pound oi best black lead (Nixey’s is preferable) in one pint of beer with a piece of soap the size of a walnut. "When melted, dip a painter’s brush into it, and apply to the grate or stove. Carefully remove all dust from the grate first. Then take a hard brush and rub of a beautiful brightness.