everybody’s dinner book. 150 Blitter, Sd. [half the dLsh, 2s. 0|d.]). —Take two pounds of fillet of veal. Cover it thickly on one side with bacon, and lard the top thickly and evenly with thin strips of larding bacon. It should be trimmed into an oval or oblong shape. Slice two carrots, two turnips, two onions, and put them into the centre of a stewpan with four or five slices of bacon, the trimmings from the veal, pepper and salt, two bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the fricandeau on the vegetables, and pour in one pint of good stock, or as much as will cover the bacon without touching the veal. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents come slowly to the boil; then stew very gently for two hours and a half by the side of the fire until the meat is quite tender. Baste fi’equently with its liquor. A short time before serving take it up and put it into a well-heated oven to crisp the bacon. Strain some of the gravy, skim the fat from it, boil quickly to a glaze, and baste the fricandeau until it looks quite bright and glossy. Serve with the larded part uppermost in the centre of a puree of spinach. Strain the I'est of the gi’avy, put it into a small saucepan, add a little butter rolled in flour, and .serve in a sauce boat. A puree of sorrel or mushrooms may be substituted for spinach, or a puree of tomatoes, truffles, and artichoke bottoms may also be used with it. This dish dates from the days of Pope Leo X. It was the invention of Jean de Carcme (John of Lent), who had this nickname bestowed upon him by vii-tue of a celebrated Soupe Maigre which he made for Leo X., his master, during the holy season of Lent. Jean de Carcme was the direct ancestor of the famous Carcme, who was first chef to George IV., and later on to Baron Rothschild. DINNER No. 16. Consomme aux Pointes d’Asperge {Ingredients—Small Asparagus, 7gd.; Stock and Parmesan, 8gd.).—Cut up the heads and stalks of about twenty-five heads of small asparagus called sprue. Boil them until quite tender in well-salted water, drain them thoroughly, put them into the tureen, .and pour over them as much clear, strong, well- flavoured stock as may be necessary. Hand with it gi’ated Parmesan or castor sugar.