40 everybody’s dinner book. and split it down the centre, cutting from the middle a bit the size of a sheep’s kidney. Mix some salt, pepper, cayenne, minced parsley, and butter together; spread on the kidney; put it into the onion ; tie the sides together ; place it in a dish with a small piece of butter ; bake in the oven until the onion is tender. Take the bit of onion that you cut out, shred it, brown in a little butter, and garnish with them. Serve the kidney on a round d'o^Lton of fried bi'ead. This dish is very good with the addition of a round of fried bacon on the croilton, with the kidney and onion on the to^j. Omelette aux Epinards {Ingredients—I lb. Spinach, 3d. ; 2 Eggs, 2d.; fiream and Butter, 3d.).—Pick carefully and wash one pound of spinach. Put two ounces of fre.sh butter in an omelette pan. When hot, add the spinach, a little salt and white peppei-. Beat up two eggs with one table- spoonful of .sweet cream and a pinch of salt; add this to the spinach, and finish as for an orch'nary plain omelette. DINNER No. 11. Red Mullet Fried a I’Ang'laise (/??yre(Zze?ite—Red Mullet, Is.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Flour and .salt the mullet (often called “ The Woodcock of the Sea ”), and fry ci'isply in oil. To the oil add in equal quantities chopped I’osemary, garlic, and flour, with two tables230onsful of vinegar. Boil this mixture; when cold jiour over the fish, and serve. Alexandra Pork Cutlets {Ingredients—i lb. Fore Loin of Pork at 8d. = 2s. 8d. : it makes three dishes; two at 14 lb. — Is. ; one at 1 lb. = 8d. Pork, Is.; Potatoes, etc., 3d.). .—^Divide three pounds of the pork into two pieces; cut it into neat cutlets, trim carefully, and grill them. Serve them in a very hot dish with anchovy sauce in the centre, thickened until it is the consistency of a puree. Dish the cutlets against this. Cut some cold potatoes with a cutter into balls, egg and breadcrumb them, fiy a golden brown, and .sei’ve round the cutlets. Rice k la Chasseur {Ingredients—Shrimjis, 2d. ; other ingredients, 4d.).—Shell v&ry cai-efully some shrimps; heat