eyekybody’s dinner book. 148 Pbiu’ one quart of hot clear soup into a soup tureen, and add the sticks just before serving. An Excellent Way of Dressing Cooked Fish {Ingredients —Fish, 3d.; Sherry, etc., 5d.).—Slice one onion into a stewpan, add a bit of butter, fry it quite brown, add any cold fish you have, cut into small pieces, and pepper and salt to taste. When the fish has been frying for ten minutes, add one mneglass of water, the same of brown sherry, and one tablespoonful of ketchup. Put the lid on the pan, and let it stew gently for half an hour; thicken it with a lump of floiu' made into a smooth paste with water, and serve very hot. Poulet aux Champignons {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. 3d.; Stock, 3d.; Mushrooms, etc., 6d.).—Take the remainder of the chicken; cut it into neat pieces; fry them in plenty of butter, with pepper and salt, until done. Drain off the butter into a saucepan; mix with it one table- spoonful of flour, then add enough stock to make the sauce, and twelve or more button mushrooms cut in half; let the sauce boil for ten minutes, then add the chicken to it, and let the whole be kept hot until the time of serving. Curried Beef {Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Butter, Milk, etc., 6d.).—Some slices of the sirloin cut into neat pieces. Put a good-sized piece of butter into a saucepan; put the meat into it, with two onions sliced finely, a little water, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, some milk, and a little stock. Let this simmer fifteen minutes. Put the curry in the centre of a vegetable dish, put a border of carefullj'^ boiled rice round it, pour the curry sauce over, and serve very hot. Paget Apricot Puree {Ingredients—| tin Apricots, 2|d.; Lemon and Sugar, l|d.; Cre.am, Is.).—Take a quarter of a tin of American tinned apx'icots, stew them in a little water with plenty of sugar and a little lemon juice, reduce to a pulp, pass through a sieve, stir in half a pint of cream, and sweeten to taste. Place on the ice until set, when it will be ready to serve. (Eufs au Miroir {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.).— Take a fire-proof dish and beat into it two eggs, add salt