162 everybody’s dinner book. (the rest of the brown loaf will do nicely). Let it boU well for some minutes, during which throw in a httle fresh parsley and some chives minced fine. Beat two eggs in the tureen, add salt and pepper, and serve. Fried Prawns [Ingredients—Prawns, Is. 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, Cream, etc., 3d.).—Boil one dozen large prawns (or more). When cool pick them very carefully; lay them in hatter made of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cream, a little salt, and flour. Boll the prawns in cracker dust, dip again, roll in the cracker dust a second time, and fry in very liot fresh butter. Some people consider them far superior to fried oystei's. Serve piled on a very hot napkin. Short Bones, etc., of Lamb Cold [Ingredients—Lamb, Is. llgd.; Cucumber, Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Koa,st the short bones and scrag of the neck of lamb. When cold, serve it with mint sauce, one small cucumber sliced and put as a garnish, seasoned with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Serve with a dish of steaming hot potatoes, plainly boiled. Dresden Cronstades: Isabella’s Becipe [Ingredients—One French Boll, Id.; MUk and Egg, 2d.).—Pare the crust from one or more French rolls, slice off the ends and divide into patties, hollow them in the centre, and dip them into milk. Lay on a drainer over a dish. Pour two spoonsful of milk over them at intervals, but not enough to make them break; brush with the yolk of one egg; strew some fine bread- crumbs made from the crust of the roll over them. Fry and drain them well. FiU with a mince made of any meat, game, or poultry you have. Oysters, mushrooms, fish, eggs, vegetables, and jam may all be used in the same way. B. B. Pudding [Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; 6 oz. Butter, fid.; Sugar, etc., 2|d.; Golden Sp’up, 3d.).—The same ingredients as in “ Her Ladyship’s Brown Bi-ead Pudding ” [see Dinner No. 3, Ifil p.), simply substituting treacle or golden syrup for the melted cherry jam. Some syrup should be served in a sauce boat, as well as poured round and over the pudding. Can be fried next day. Gooseberry Cream a la Muscovite [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; 1| pint Milk, 3d.; Isinglass, l^d. ; Gooseberries,