206 everybody’s dinner book. Poulet a la Fermiere : Mus. Bradban’s Becipe {Ingre- dients—Oliicken, 2s. 6d.; Stock, 3d.; Vegetn.l)les, 2d.; Glaze and Sauce, 3d.; Eggs and Tongue, 7d.).—Out up one chicken as for saute chicken in neat joints, place it in a small braising pot, moisten with one gdl of fresh stock, cut some julienne vegetables (i.e., carrots, turnips, onions, leeks), place on the chicken, close the lid tight, and put the pot in a quick oven until the contents are quite tender. Strain the gravy add to it some fresh glaze and two table- spoonsful of espagnole sauce (brown sauce). Dish the chicken in a pyramid >vith the vegetables on the top; garnish with fried eggs and slices of tongue; pour the gravy round. It will take about one hour and a half to cook. Pois au Beurre a la Parisienne {Ingredients—Peas, etc., 9d.; Eggs, Id.; Butter and Milk, etc., 2d.).—Boil one pint of peas with two or three small onions, a small bunch of herbs, and a little pepper and salt. When cooked, drain, and remove the onions, etc. Heap the peas in the saucepan over the fire, and add a small bit of butter mixed with about half as much flour ■ stir it rapidly, but carefully, to avoid beating the peas too much to a pulp. Beat the yolk of one egg with half a gill of milk; remove the saucepan from the fire, stm in the egg, arrange neatly on a vet'y hot dish, and garnish with bread cut with a small ornamental leaf cutter, and fried a light brown. Souffle de Pommes a la Zenia {Ingredients—Six Eggs, 6d.; Jam, 5d.; Sugar, etc., 2d.; Pastry, 5d.).—Take the whites only of six eggs, half a pound of apricot jam, and the same of apple jam or marmalade. Whip the whites to the utmost it is possible, whip in the jam and marmalade, pour it into a dish, have ready a broad-bladed knife, and form the mixture into a j>yramid. Sprinkle it well with castor sugar, and bake in a quick oven until it is a delicate golden brown. Make a lemon cream with lemon and the yolks of the eggs, and serve at the same time as the souffle in a silver sauce boat. It is a mast delicious dish, and not difficult to make. Orange marmalade and any other kind of jam can be substituted if preferred. It is excellent made with raspberry and plum jam and no marmalade. Fingers of rich pastry should be eaten with it