everybody’s dinner book. 174 then with puff paste. Take the meat from one boiled rabbit; put it in a mould with boiled maccaroni and grated Parmesan. Mix with some cream and a little grated ham or tongue. Potato Croquettes with Mushrooms (Ingredients—Votsutoes, 2d.; three Eggs, 3d.; Ham and Parsley, 4d.; Mushrooms, 3d.).—Pass six boiled potatoes through a sieve, three table- spoonsful of grated ham, pepper and salt to taste, chopped parsley, and the yolk of three eggs worked in. Make into balls, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot lard. Serve with fried parsley and broiled mushrooms round the dish. Golden Syrup Pudding (Ingredients—Suet Crust, 7d.; Golden Syrup, 3d.).—Line a small basin with a suet crust (a basin about the size of a large breakfast cup is lai-ge enough for one person), poiir in some golden syrup, then a layer of suet, then another of syrup, and continue this until the basin is full. Cover with a suet crust, boil and serve very hot. Spinach Fritters {Ingredients—Spinach, 4d. ; Currants, etc., 3d.).—Boil some spinach, drain the water, mince the spinach very fine, then mix a little castor sugar with it, cinnamon to taste, one or two almonds chopped finely, and some currants. Make the mixture into small, flat cakes, and fry in butter or oil. DINNER No. 11. Potage Veloute {Ingredients—Egg, Id.; Sago, |d.; Stock, Is.).—Put one pint of the above stock in a saucepan, with half a tablespoonful of large French sago, and boil slowly for half an hour. Thoroughly beat the yolk and white of one egg in a soup tureen ; pour the soup over, slowly stirring all together as quickly as possible, in order to get the egg thoroughly incorporated with the hot liquid, and serve very hot. If the soup is required to be rich, more eggs are necessary. Two eggs are generally sufficient for three pints, and half a tablespoonful of large sago for each person. Fish Croquettes {Ingredients—Butter, Parsley, etc., 3d.). —Any cold fish you have (turbot, cod, or haddock is the best). Remove the skin and bones ; pound in a mortar; add