NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. 191 Id. ; Nouilles, 3d.).—Have ready some very good consomme; also carrots, turnips, and potatoes cut previously into pretty shapes -with a fancy cutter; shred some truffles into pieces about one inch long, make some nouilles flavoured with Par- mesan, and cut some very young French beans in two and cook them in stock. When the soup is quite hot, add these ingi’edients about ten minutes before serving. At the last moment poach lightly two or more eggs, slip them into the soup, and serve. Hand with this soup grated Parmesan or castor sugar. Blanchaille a la Riviera {Ingredients—Whitebait, 9d. ; Batter, 3d.; Lemon, etc., 3d.).—Throw the whitebait into carefully prepared batter, fry the size of ordinary small fritters, season with cayenne, and serve as hot as possible, piled on a very hot dish. Hand cut lemon and very thin slices of white (also brown) bread and butter spread with anchovy butter and rolled with this dish. Fricassee de Poulet a la Sylvia [Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is. ; Aspic, 6d.; Mushrooms, etc., 6d.; Truffles, Cockscombs, etc., 6d.).—Take the rest of the chicken, cut it into neat joints, and keep the pieces separate from the sauce, which must be rather stiffly reduced ; add about one-third of its quantity of aspic jelly, stir tlie two together on the ice, and when well mixed dip the pieces of chicken in it and dish them up. Place some cockscombs, button mushrooms, truffles, peas, and French beans in the centre ; garnish the base with chopped aspic, and place a border of angular crotltons of aspic jelly round this. Serve with green mayon- naise sauce handed round in a boat. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Valencienne; Varlet’s Recipe [Ingredients—Best end Neck of Mutton, 2| lb. [two tlishes]. Is. 3d. ; Egg and Butter, 2d. ; Ham and Bacon, 4d.; Potato and Parsley, 2d.; Tomato Sauce, Stock, etc., 6d.).— Dip the cutlets after they are neatly tiimmed in egg, then in breadcrumbs and chopped ham. Fry them in butter. Cut very fine one small onion; fry it brown in butter; then add a handful of rice and some bacon cut in dice, chopped parsley, and a little tomato sauce. Stew the rice with some very good stock. When done, dish the cutlets up en couromie