8th evkrybody’s dinner boon. Rognons au Citron {Imjredimts—Two Kidneys, 7d.; Butter, etc., 2d. ; Bacon and Potatoes, 4d.).^—Out two sheep’s kidneys in half; grill on a well-greased gridiron ; when cooked sufficiently, make a mixture of pepper, salt, lemon juice, chopped jiarsley, and onion mixed with butter. Place some of the mixture in the centre of each kidney; put them in the centre of a dish with a border of mashed potatoes, -svith fried bacon at intervals. Serve at once. Bambino Pudding {Inyredients—Suet, Id.; Currants and Raisins, 2d.; Sugar, etc., 2d.).—Half a pound of well-.stewed whole oatmeal, a quarter of a pound of carefully-picked and well-washed currants, ditto of stoned raisins, two ounces of beef suet chopped very fine, sugar, salt, and nutmeg to taste, a little ginger if liked. Mix' all well together, pour into a well-greased pie dish, and bake a nice brown. Mock Caviare {Inyredients—Anchovies, 4d. ; other ingre- dients, 2d.).—A quarter of a bottle of Frejus anchovies boned and scra2)ed. Pound them in a mortar with some dried pai'sley, a sprinkling of salt and cayenne, a tiny bit of minced shallot, and two or three drops of salad oil, with the same of lemon juice. Serve on hot buttered toast. DINNER No. 8. Fish Moolie {Inyredients—1 lb. of any fish, such as Cod, Plaice [average cost, 8d.] ; Cream and Butter, 2d.; Onions and Chillies, 2d.; Piccalilli, etc., 2d.).—Fry some fish ; add to it one dessertspoonful of Ijutter, three onions, green chillies (when in season), two tablespoonsf ul of cream, two of vinegar, a bit of ginger, and a little piccalilli. Boil ten minutes and serve. Lamb Chops with Peas {Inyredients—Two Lamb Chops, lOd. ; Peas, 2d.).—Place the chops in a closed gridiron in front of a bright clear fire, and broil them carefully until a nice brown. Season with pepper and salt and a little butter. Serve between two very hot plates, without any gravy. Hand peas with them. Steamed Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Pare the potatoes; as you peel them throw them into cold water,