166 everybody’s dinner book. cayenne, and grated lemon peel; roll to the size of sweet- breads j brush over with egg • dip them into breadcrumbs, mixed with chopped parsley, pej^per, and salt; fry a pretty golden colour, and serve with highly seasoned gravy. Richelieu Pudding {Inrjredients—2 oz. Suet, 2d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Parsley, etc., 2d.).—One pound of any cold meat you happen to have, two ounces of suet chopped fine, bread soaked in milk, chopped parsley, thyme, lemon peel, pepper, salt, and two well-beaten eggs. Boil three hours in a well- buttered mould. Serve with good gravy. Braemar Biscuits (Ingredients—Devonahh-e Cream, 3d.; Sugar and Butter, 2d.).—Take the remains of the “ St. Croix Pudding ” (see Dmner No. 4, p. 164). When cold, cut it into slices, and cut these again into pretty fancy shapes with a pastry or biscuit cutter. Fry in boiling lard or butter until a Light brown, drain on paper thoroughly; pile high on a dish, put Devonshire cream in the centre, and sift castor sugar over the pieces of pudding. Duchess of Fife Sandwiches (Ingredients—Butter, 2d.; Milk and Egg, l|d.; Bread, Id. ; i tin Potted Meat, 2|d.). —Take some slices of white bread, and some of brown. Spread each slice with potted meat (bought or home made), or with chopped meat, poultry, or game; cover with a second slice, and press together. Cut each sandwich in half, place them on a plate, and soak in milk and egg until it is absorbed Put one large tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan. When it begins to brown, place the sandwiches carefully in it. When nicely browned, turn them, adding a little more butter, and let them brown quickly the other side. Serve very hot, with fired parsley in the centre. Scraps of fish, eggs, and vegetables may be used in the same way. DINNER No. 6. Puree a la Russe : Isabella’s Recipe (Ingredients— Vegetables, 3d.; Stock, 7d.; Bacon and Butter, 3d. ; Sugar and Cream, 2|d.).—Cut four onions in dice, fry them in butter over a slow fire until a light brown, then add one cabbage cut fine, fry until done, pass through a sieve.