204 evehyboby’s dinner book. fresh butter, then thickly with “ Patum Peperium ” (Os- borne’s, 10|d. a pot), a little cayenne, thin rounds of plover’s eggs, and mustard and cre.ss. Dish up on a bed of small salad and crisp, shred lettuce. DINNER No. 12. Puree of Cauliflower {Ingredients — Cauliflower, 6d.; Cream, 3d.; Stock, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Veal, etc.', 5d.).— Take the whitest of cauliflowers, boil it in salt and Avater, take up Avhen half done, and boil sufficiently in clear stock ; then break it up and save some of the best bits for the finishing. Pass the rest through a sieve. Thicken the soup to a creamy sub.stance with flour mixed Avith milk or cream ; add to it some small pieces of cliicken or veal cut up neatly and the puree of cauliflower; let it come to the boil, beat a piece of fresh butter into the tureen until it is ike cream, and stir well into it two or three eggs. Pour this soup over scakhng hot, add the bits of cauliflower, and serve. Boudins a la Reine {Ingredients—Butter, 3d.; Tongue, ITam, Mushrooms, etc., fid.; Egg, Id.).—One breakfastcupful of finely minced chicken, veal, game, or meat; three ounces of fresh buttei-. Mix all Avell together in a saucepan ; add some savoury gravy until the meat is in a fit state for rissoles; stir in shreds of ham, tongue, and mu.shrooms, all jjreviously cooked, seasoning it Avith salt, a little cayenne, and a very small piece of pounded mace. Set the mixtiire aside to get cold; then make it into the shape of a small brick. Dip it in the egg and breadcrumbs once or twice. Fry it until sufficiently done, turning it all the time. Serve very hot, garnished AAuth crisjfly fried parsley, and hand Avith it hot mushroom or bechamel sauce,—the former, if the houdin is made of mutton, lamb, or beef ; the latter, if made of game or poultry. Mushroom Sauce {Ingredients—Mushrooms, etc., fid.).— I’eel and cut up some button mushrooms, and boil them in some good, rich, broAvn graA^. Sufficient mu.shrooms must be added to make the gravy about as thick as egg sauce. If required Avhite, u.se Avhite or bechamel sauce instead of the brown gravy.