T K N-S HILL1N C DINNERS. 24 i Quenelles of Veal, 7d.; Paste, 6d.).—Half a pound of puff paste, which must only have had six turns. Cut this into one ordinaiy sized vol ctu vent case, and bake in an oven not too hot until a pretty brown. When baked, remove the centre. Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pint of supi-eme sauce, the rest of the chicken cut in neat pieces (if you have any pieces of sweetbread use them also), one ounce of tongue, two truffles, three mushrooms, two cockscombs, and some small veal or chicken quenelles. Stir this over the fire until hot, but not boiling; fill your vol au vent with it (this should be done when it is just ready to be sent to table, as filling it makes the paste damp and spoils the appearance of the dish). Oysters are also used in this way, ditto salmon, cod, soles, and any kind of game. Supreme Sauce {Ingredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d.; 1 oz. Vienna Flour, Id.; | pint White Stock [made from chicken if possible; if not, from veal], 6d. ; | pint Cream, 6d.; six White Peppercorns, Lemon, Parsley, and Salt, 2d.; Mush- rooms, 2d.).—Put the butter in a perfectly clean stewpan; when melted, add the peppercoi'ns and parsley stalks ; then stir in the flour. Cook this over the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes; then add the stock; stu’ again until it- has well boiled; add the lemon juice and salt, some trimmings of button mushrooms previously well mashed, and all water drained from them ; lastly the cream. Pass through a tammy cloth, and it is ready for use. (Eufs au Bouillon: Lady Fitzhardtnge’s Eecipe, 1875 {Ingredients—Eggs, etc., 3d.).—Poach two or more eggs very delicately, and place them very carefully in china custard cups, pouring over them some good demi-glaze. Serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 17. Potage a la Prince: Transeated by me prom “ L’Alma- NAcn des Gourmands ” {Ingredients—One Partridge, Is. 6d.; Chestnuts, Cd.}.—Roast one old partridge, freshly killed. Roast fifty chestnuts that have been veiy carefully skinned ; cook them in good stock. Skin the partridge and bone it; pound the flesh; drain the chestnuts, and put them in a moi-tar with the moat from the partridge which is already 16