26 everybody’s dinner book. butter melted by standing it over hot water, grate and mix in tlie rind of half a lemon, and the yolks only of two eggs, mix it all together, and bake for an hour and a half in not too hot an oven. When baked, spread a layer of jam over it, beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, put this on the top of the jam, and bake again .slightly. Cigarettes a la Reine {Ingredients—Mushrooms and Egg, ' 3d.).—Chop up some mushrooms (tinned will do, if fresh are out of season); mix with a little butter or milk, roll them into the length and thickness of a cigai’ctte, egg them, dip thickly in fine breadcrumbs, fry a light brown. Serve very hot. They .should be served on a silver or plated dish. Any scraps of meat, poultry, game, fish, eggs, lobsters, oysters, truffles, crab, or vegetables can be used in the same way. DINNER No. 16. Harrie’s Veal Pudding {Ingredients—| lb. Veal, 7d.; Egg, Id.; Onion and Potatoes, l^d.; Milk and Butter, l^d.). —Butter a small pie dish ; lay half a pound of veal cutlet at the bottom, sea.son with pepper .and salt and one onion finely shred; make a batter of boiled potatoes passed through a cullender and mixed with milk and one egg ; pour this over the veal, sprinkle bits of butter over the top, and bake. Serve very hot. This is good cold. Beef or rump steak or mutton steak may be used in the same way. Chopped mu.shrooms can be added. Fish Salad {Ingredients—1 lb. Fish, 3d. ; Eggs, 2d.; Let- tuce, etc., 3d.).—Take one pound of cooked fish, flake it, add an equal quantity of cooked cabbage and raw lettuce chopped fine. Make a dressing by rubbing the yollcs of two hard-boiled eggs smooth, and chopping the whites, mixing one teaspoonful of mustard, the same of salt, oil, and ground black pepper with the yolks, and adding sufficient vinegar to make the whole liquid. Bishop’s Thumbs {Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Sugar, Flour, etc., 2d.).—Have ready a flat buttered baking tin. Beat thoroughly thi'ee eggs, the whites and yolks sepai'ately ; mix with the yolks very smoothly about two ounces of castor