TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 29 in a baking disk. Take a bit of butter the size of a nut and the same of grated Parmesan; knead them into a paste. Place a small ball of this mixture on the top of each crouton; bake for five miniites (brisk heat). N.B.—This dish should be made when you have any scraps of poultry, veal, or game to use up, and the end of a knuckle of ham. DINNER No. 19. Coliseum Pie [Ingredients—Maccaroni, Vermicelli, etc., 8d.).—Take a small plain tin mould and oil it well; sprinkle with broken vermicelli and fine with very thin paste. Have ready some boiled maccaroni, cut it into bits of half an inch long, add a good dusting of grated Parmesan. Cut up any scraps of meat you have into small dice, season with salt and pepper, mix all together, add sufficient gravy to moisten the whole. If the meat is hrown, the sauce must be the same; if white, the sauce must be made with milk. Put all the ingi-edients into the lined tin mould, cover with thin paste, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Turn it out and pour good hrown or white sauce round it. Very good cold. A Pretty Dinner Dish (Ingredients—4d.; Bacon, 4d,; Potatoes, etc., l|d.).—Beat some potatoes very smooth with a little milk, mix in one egg, cover a flat dish with them, leaving a border one inch deep, glaze the border with yolk of egg, and brown it before the fire. Poach two eggs, place them on the top of the potatoes, and arrange some rashers of crisply fried hacon between the eggs. Serve vertj hot. Nun’s Tears (^Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Jelly and Cherries, 3d.; Butter, etc., Igd.).—Boil one ounce of butter in a large cup of water, add half a cup of fiour. Stir- until it leaves the side of the saucepan ; add one by one two eggs, until the dpugh is- quite firm and smooth. Butter a baking sheet and drop on to it the dough from a tablespoon. Each piece should be about the size of the top of a sherry glass. Bake for fifteen minutes. Cut a hole in each with a sharp knife and fill with apple jelly, with dried cherries on the top