no everybody’s dinner book. Blancmange of Tapioca {Ingredients—One pint of Milk, 2d.; Tapioca and Jam, 3d.).—In one pint of new milk soak one hoiu' half a pound of poaid tapioca. Boil until tender and clear, sweeten to taste, and flavour with any essence you like. Have ready a buttered mould. When nearly cold pour the mixtui-e into it. Turn it out carefully. Serve with jam, marmalade, apple jelly, custard, or cream; but if preferred it can be eaten perfectly plain. Poached Eggs in Puff Paste {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Cream, Gherkins, etc., 4d.; Puff Paste, 6d.).—Poach two eggs and let them get quite cold. Make a mixture of .a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped gherkins, capers, parsley, and olives, the same of anchovy paste worked smoothly into a little double cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a few drops of lemon juice : add the latter very slowly, so as not to curdle the cream. Work all into a cream mixture, enclose each egg in some of the cream mixture, and then in a cover of puff paste. Bake in a quick oven. _ DINNER No. 10. Buchanan Soup {Ingredients—Tomatoes, Gd.; Vegetables, 7d.; Butter, Milk, and Cream, 5d.; Cornflour, etc., 2d.).— Chop very finely three turnips, three potatoes, two carrots, two onions, one parsnip, half a head of celery, half a luttuce. 8et over the fire in two quarts of water. Simmer gently for half an hour, parboil and chop up half a cabbage, and add it to the soup. In fifteen minutes add half a pound of ripe tomatoes and a bunch of sweet herbs. Give .a good boil for twenty minutes. Pass through a cullender and return the soup to the fire. Stir in an ounce and a half of butter, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, one coffee cup of milk thickened with some of Brown & Poison’s cornflour, two tablespoonsful of cream. Let it boil up once more, and serve immediately. This is a very good soup, and quickly made, having no meat in it. Suitable for Lent, as any of the vegetables not in season can be omitted. Sole a I’Espagnol aux Champignons {Ingr&lients—Sole, Is.; four Eggs, 4d.; Onion, Lemons, Curry Powder, 6d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Ham, 2^d.).—Chop finely two onions and