51 FOim-SHILLING DINNERS. Croustades of Marrow a la Kief [Imjredients—Marrow Bone [enough for twice, lOd.], 5d.; Butter, Parsley, etc., 2d.). —Take the marrow carefully out of a bone of a silver side of beef ; before it is cooked, wa.sh the marrow in several waters, and soak it for four hours; cut two rounds of bread two and a half inches thick ; cut it with a cutter into rounds and iliamonds ; put the bread in a frying pan, and fry a delicate colour in boiling fat. When the marrow Ls thoroughly soaked, put it into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, and drain off the water. Beat up the maia-ow in the saucepan with a fork; add pepper and salt to taste, a squeeze of lemon juice, some finely minced parsley, and spread the mixture on the fried o'ottstades ; serve immediately with a little butter on the top of each. Marrow cannot be eaten too hot; if allowed to stand and get cold, it is quite uneatable. One marrow bone makes two pieces. Use one bone for the croicstades, and make marrow dumplmgs of the rest next day. Lobster Pudding [Ingredients—Lobster, Is. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Get a hen lobster ; boil the meat, pound it with the yolks of two eggs, three ounces of buttei', one handful of breadcrumbs, pej^iJer and salt to taste, and if liked some grated nutmeg. Boil in a mould for one houi-. Make a sauce of tbe coral of the lobster, bruised with one spoonfid of water, melted butter, and a little lemon juice. Turn the pudding out of the mould, pour the sauce over it, and serve very hot. Excellent cold. If liked, cutlets can be made from what is left. Dip in egg and breadci'umbs, fry a pretty gold colour, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Rhubarb a la Marine [Ingredients—Rhubarb, 3d.; Lemon, Sugar, and Macaroons, 2|d. ; a quarter of tin of Devonshire Cream, 3d.).—Put some rhubarb, which has been carefully peeled, into water ; add lemon juice, simmer until soft, and at the last add castor sugar to ta.ste. The iliubarb should be cut into pieces about an inch and a half long; grate a little of the rind of the lemon and add to it. When c:ld pour the Devonshire cream over it, and hand macaroons with it. Eggs a la Maitre d’Hotel [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Pai-sley, etc., |d.).—Cut two hard-boiled eggs in slices; toss them in butter until quite hot; add pepper and salt to