06 everybody's dinner boor. hot frying pan ovei- the fire, and fry until a good brown. Quarter and core two lai-ge tart apples; fry in the pan with the sausages until they are tender, but not broken; season with salt and peppei-; place the sausages on toast in the centre of the dish, arrange the apples round, and serve as hot as possible. Fry any cold potatoes you have and send to table with them. Dinner Eggs {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Pai’sley, etc., 3d ).—Take two eggs ; boil them hard; when quite cold take oft’ the shells j cut them in two lengthwise. Take out the yolks and beat them into a smooth paste, allowing to each half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, some cayenne, and a lumjj of butter. Mix thoroughly and fill the whites again with the mixture. Serve on a napkin, garnished with parsley, with mustard and cress, chopped lettuce, or water- cress in the centre. DINNER No. 17. Potage Maigre aux Legumes {Ingredients—Vegetables, 9d.; Buttei’, etc., 2|d.).—Cut in quarters one good crisp cabbage; put it in a saucepan with turnips, carrots, onions, leeks, parsnips, one sliced stick of celery well cleaned, a fagot of thyme, laurel leaves, parslej'^, one clove, and two ounces of butter. Let it simmer for two hours, and pass the soup through a tammy, so as to be ready for use when needed. Cut some bread in sti-ips like sti-aws as thinly as possible, fry in hot lard, and hand with the soup. Fillets of Plaice a la Marguerite {Ingredients—Plaice, 6d.; Milk and Cream, 3d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Fillet a plaice; skin and tiim it 3 put the fillets on a buttered tin ; season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice; put a buttered paper over them, and cook in the oven for seven or eight minutes. Make a fish stock out of the trimmings of the fish, and with some milk and cream make a nice white sauce ; pour this over the fish, and spiinkle a little chopped parsley over the whole. Caisse de Foie {Ingredients—i lb. Calf’s Liver, 5d. ; Bacon, 4d. ; other ingredients, 4d.).—Boil half a pound of liver until it is quite tender 3 then cut it into thin slices, with