214 everybody’s dinner book. portions of vinegar and good stock. Season with salt, pepper, and fines finely minced. Have ready a well-buttered sheet of white writing paper, put the fish into it, and roast before a slow fire ; baste with boiling lard and hot white wine, and take the paper away just before taking oft’ the spit to broAvn the eel delicately. Cover with Italian sauce. When the fish is dished up, garnish with round croUtons of fried bread, and place round the fish alternately with new potatoes that have been fried in butter. Roast Golden Plover {Imjredients—Golden Plover, 9d.).— Keep the plover thoroughly basted ; dredge lightly with flour a few minutes before serving. Serve it on buttered toast over which the trail is spread. Alexandre Dumas Salade Japonaise(/aym^ien«s—Truffles, 4d.; Potatoes, 3d.; Mus.sels, 3d. ; Champagne and Wine, Is.). —Equal quantities of truffles, potatoes, and mussels. The truffles must be cooked in champagne, the potatoes in light white wine, and the mussels in water. Excellent. Gateau de Cerises {Ingredients—Swinborne’s Gelatine, 6d,; Cherries, 6d. ; Sugar and Cream, 3d.).—Soak one ounce of Swinborne’s gelatine in one cupful of water for one hour. Remove the stalks and stones from one pound of cherries. Boil a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar m half a pint of water for ten minutes; throw in the cherries, and let them boil for ten minutes. Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the syrup, add to it the chemes, throw in a few cheriy kernels, and colour the gdteau with cochineal. Put the mixture into a damp mould which has a gallipot fixed in the centre. When wanted, turn it into a glass fflsh, and put a little cream or custard in the place which was occupied by the gallipot. Any fruit can be used in this way. DINNER No. 20. Baraquine Soup [Ingredients—Tapioca and Stock, 7d.; Truffles, etc., 7d.).-^Add a little tapioca to some rich, clear consomme. Put into the soup tureen shreds of veal, turkey, pheasant, guinea fowl, or chicken, previously cooked, and strips of truffles and tarragon. Pour the soup on to this, and serve directly as hot as possible.