evetiybopy’s pinner book. 122 square; wash and pick carefully the rice and pearl barley; peel and cut in half-inch squares the turnip, carrot, and onion ; peel the tomatoes and cut them into rings; cut two heads of celery into large dice j mince the parsley very small. Put the meat into a soup kettle with two quarts of cold water, and bring it gradually to the boil; then add the vegetables, prepared as directed, one level tablespoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper. Boil the soup very gently until all the ingredients are tender and perfectly done. By the addition of boiling water increase the soup when it is done to its original quantity of two quarts; season to taste (do oiot skim it), and serve very hot. Mutton soup may be made in the same way, with only onions, tapioca, and the other vegetables—no tomatoes, pearl barley, or lice. Kidneys en Brochette (^Ingredients—Two Kidneys, 7d.; Maitre d’Hotel Butter, etc., 3d.).—Divide two kidneys; put them on a skewer (a plated one); melt a bit of bntlei-, and with a paste brush butter them Avell all over. Set them upon the gridiron as near the fire as possible, for they cannot be done too quick. Turn them every minute, and when half done season to taste with salt, pepper, and c<ayenne. Put the skewer with the kidneys on it on a very hot dish, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over them, serve with ‘‘ Maitre d’Hotel Butter ” (see Dinner No. 9, p. 109), and send to table at once. Loin of Mutton with Puree of Onions (Ingredients—The rest of the boned Loin of Mutton, Is. Igd.; two Spanish Onions, 2d.; Potatoes, 2d.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut some slices from the remains of the aforesaid loin in such a manner that you get stufling with each slice. Warm them thoroughly. Boil some potatoes; jfiace them in the centre of a dish; pile the slices of mutton up against them. Have ready boiled two Spanish onions and their weight of boiled potatoes; }ia.ss tliem through a sieve; moisten with a little milk; put them into a saucepan with one ounce of butter, plenty of ground white pepper, s.alt to taste, and one small cup of milk (cream if you have it). Stir gently until it is quite thick; then pour the pn,ree round the slices of mutton. If preferred the sauce may be handed round in a sauce boat,