FIVE-SHILLTNG DINNERS. 0.5 oil and four of vinegar. Mix well together with some chopped parsley and some mixed pickles, and serve at once. Beignets Souffle aux Confiture {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d.; Flour, etc., 5^d.; Jam, Jelly, or Marmalade, 2|d.).— Put into a saucepan a bit of butter the size of an egg, as much sugar, with plenty of grated lemon peel, one pint of water, and a very little salt. When the water boils thi'ow in enough flour to make a thick paste ; take it off the fire, let it remain ten minutes, then woi’k in three eggs, whisk the whites of two of them into a stiff froth, and mix with the paste. Set the mixture aside for two hours, then fry in hot lard, di’opping pieces in the size of large chestnuts. Pile up on a dish ; sprinkle with castor sugar, after making an incision in each beignet and filling the incision with jam or jelly of any kind. A lemon may be cut into quarters and handed round with the beignets, and if the jam or jelly in them is not sufficient, more may be melted and handed round in a sauce boat while it is hot. Marmalade and honey can also be used in the same way; also whipped or Devonshire cream. Potted Tongue Toast {Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Potted Tongue, etc., 4|d.).—Take some potted tongue; mix with it some finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a dash of cayenne, one spoonful of cream, or the yolk of one egg. Make the mixture very hot (it must not boil). Have ready some fingers of hot buttered toast, pour the mixture on them, sprinkle thickly with fine breadcrumbs, brown before the fire, and serve at once. I do not allow for bread or bread- crumbs,—^the former would naturally be in the house, the breadcrumbs also, if care is taken of all waste pieces of bread, roll, and toast, as it should be. DINNEE No. 20. Puree de Tomate {Ingredients~¥ou.v Tomatoes, 5d.; Stock, 7d.; Bacon, etc., 3d.).—Mince one onion and one shallot finely, and fry them -with one rasher of good bacon cut small. Cut four fresh tomatoes into slices ; pass them through a hair sieve. Boil a pint and a half of well- flavoured and .sea.soned stock. When it boils add two table- spoonsful of crushed tapioca.. Keep stirring until the tapioca