everybody’s dinner book. 132 taste, and a dasli of cayenne. Drop a few bits of butter on to the top. Put the fish before a clear fire, basting very freqiiently with its own juice, which exposure to the fire will cause to flow out. When done serve at once very hot with boiled potatoes, with clarified butter poured over them. New potatoes are the best; when they are not in season use fried ones. North Country Dish of Bacon or Ham {Ingredients— Bread, Milk, etc., 3d. ; ^ lb. Bacon, 4|d.; three Eggs, 3d.). —Cut some thin slices of bacon or ham, then some thin slices of brown or white bread ; soak the bread in milk; put the bacon or ham between two slices; sprinkle them with chopped hard-boiled egg ; fry all together in butter. Garnish with parsley. Improved Curry of Game, Meat, or Poultry {Ingredients— Potatoes, Id.; Bice, Curry Paste, etc., 4d.).—Make into a hash or stew any pieces of meat, poultry, or game you have. Mix with it carefully and smoothly two tablespoonsful of Captain White’s curi-y paste, sold at one shilhiig a jar ; ten minutes before you remove the meat fi'om the fire, add a border of cold fried potatoes, cut into rounds,—these should be placed alternately with croutons of fried bi’ead, cut the same size as the potatoes, and fried like them in butter. Serve well-boded Patna rice in a separate dish. This curry is a great favourite. Cornish Potato Pie {hujredients—rVot&toQS, Id.; two Eggs, 2d.; Onions, etc.,4d.; Butter, 2d.; Paste, 4|d.).—Peel some potatoes, and slice them very thin into a pie dish ; between each layer put a little chopped onion, pepper and salt to taste, turnijDS and carrots, and any pieces of beef, mutton, veal, lamb, or pork you happen to have. Put in a little water, and on the top layer two ounces of butter, cut into bits; add two eggs, the yolks only ; cover closely with paste, and bake. When done, pour in by means of a funnel two tablespoonsful of mushroom ketchup. Mrs. Webster’s Bakewell Pudding {loujredients—2 oz. Butter, 2d.; one Egg, Id.; Castor Sugar and Peel, 2|d.; Jam, fid.; Puff Paste, Is. 4d.).—Take two ounces of butter ; melt it and run it through a fine sieve; incorporate with it two