184 evekybody’s dinner book. with one tablespoonful of oiled butter, one teaspoonful of salt and one saltspoonful of pepper. Add one teacupful of milk, with which has been smoothly mixed three tablespoonsful of flour, and the tender parts of the asparagus, boiled and cut small. Put into a well-greased pud^ng mould, tie over securely, and boil for nearly two hours. Cold Lacroix Pudding with Cream {Ingredients—Pest of the Pudding, 7d.; Devonshire Cream, 6d. ; Jam, 2|d.).— Take the rest of the pudding, cut it into neat slices, place it in a glass dish with Devonshire cream on each slice, and more strawberry jam poured over the whole. DINNER No. 18. Mulligatawny with Fish Quenelles {Ingredients—The re.st of the Mulligatawny, 2s. Id.; Whiting, 3d. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Dip .some crumbs of bread in milk or stock; dry in a saucepan; when cold, .stir in a lump of butter, or the fat from a calf’s kidney; season with salt and mixed spice ; cut up whatever fish you have into small dice; add to the breadcrumbs ; pound, and stir in one egg at a time until a thick paste. Shape your quenelles in a spoon, and poach lightly in boiling stock, or salt and water, for about ten minutes; drain, and serve. Dse equal quantities of breadcrumbs, butter, and fish for these quenelles. Grilled Ox Tail {Ingredients—The rest of the Ox Tail, Is. 3d.; Parsley, Id. ; Butter, Id.; Spinach, 3d.).—Prepare some breadcrumbs sea.soned with pepper and .salt, and mixed with finely chopped parsley; dip the pieces of tail into clarified butter, roll them in the ci'umbs until they are well covered, broil them on a gridiron imtil perfectly browned, and then dish them up on .spinach or mashed potatoes. Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 2d.; Parmesan and Lemon, 2d.; Egg and Butter, 3d.; Tomato, 3d.).—Cut your cutlets half an inch thick, and beat them as flat as possible without breaking the bone; rub them over with salt and pepper, spi-inkle with gi’ated Parmesan, dip into melted butter, and egg and breadcrumb them ; if not sufficiently covered, repeat this process, fry the cutlets in