evrrybody’s dinner book. 98 in boiling milk, and let them steep ; mix thoroughly with the veal with a silver fork; add two eggs well beaten, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and some grated lemon peel. Form the mixture into the shape of a sweetbread, roll it in egg and breadcrumb, and fry or bake it. May be served quite plain or with bechamel or tomato sauce. Roast Loin of Mutton and BroMoied Potatoes {Ingredients —Loin of Mutton [5 lb., 3s. 9d., enough for three dishes]. Is. 3d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Roast a loin of mutton carefully, taking care to baste it constantly, allowing fifteen minutes to every quarter of a pound of meat. Do not joint it. Baste with milk if you de.sire it to have a rich, dark appearance. Serve with good clear gi’avy, and browned potatoes in a separate dish. Maccaroni a la Menagere {Ingredients—| lb. Maccaroni, l^d. ; Stock and Cheese, 3^d.).—Boil a quarter of a pound of Barto Vall6’s largest pipe maccaroni; put it in a saucepan, w'ith grated Parmesan and Gruy^re mixed; moisten with well-flavoured stock, as much of the stock as the maccaroni will absorb. DINNER No. 2. Thick Brown Celeiy Soup {Ingredients—Celery, 5d.; one Egg, Id. ; Butter, Stock, etc., 6d.).—Take some outer stalks of celery, cut it into small pieces, and boil them until perfectly tender in salted water. Cut up one onion and one carrot into small dice; fry them in butter a good brown ; add the celery; moisten with a little stock, season w ith pepper and salt, then pass all through a hah* sieve. Thin the pulp W'ith more stock ; make it boiling hot. Stir in, ofF the fire, the yolk of one egg beaten up with a little cold stock. Serve with croUtons of bread fried in buttei’. Cavershed Filet de Sole {Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Vinegar, etc., lOd.).—Fillet one sole into four pieces, according to size ; flour each piece. Have ready a frying pan with some good salad oil; put it on the fire, and wdien the oil boils lay the fish in it and fry a light golden colour. Drain each fillet thoroughly ; when cold lay them on a dish. Boil half