FOim-SHTLLING PINNKTIS. 49 Salmon au Bleu {Ingredients—Ij lb. Tail of Salmon, a.t Is. 9d., 2s. 7|d. [makes two dishe.s]; Broth, Claret, Herbs, 7d.). Buy a pound and a half of tail of salmon. Gut a slice from it, and simmer until done in equal quantities of broth, flavoured with herbs and vegetables, and claret. Gallimaufi'y a la Czar {Ingredients—Egg, 1 d.; othei' in- gredients [without meat], 4d.).—Half a pound of cold meat cut into fair-sized pieces; add to it any cold vegetables, scraps of bacon and ham, pieces of batter and suet pudding, that you happen to have; add one hard-boiled egg, and salt to taste, one egg.spoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of castor sugai’, one tablespoonful of vinegar, chopped onion, pickles, parsley, and some flour. Ery all in hot lard, stir well over the fire, and serve at once as hot as possible. Lemon Pie {Ingredients—Four Eggs, 4d.; Butter, Sugar, and Lemon, 4^d.; other ingredients, 5d.).—Four ounces carstor sxigai-, four ounces butter. Melt the butter. When cold add the sugar; beat well together with the peel of one lemon pi-eviously boiled and pounded in a mortar; add four eggs, also well beaten, and a little lemon juice. The beating well is most imixn'tnnt. Partly line a pie dish with a light crust, pour m the mixtime, and bake half an hour. HINNEB No. 2. Salmon en Papilotte {Ingredients—The rest of the Salmon, Is. 34d. ; Peas, etc., 4d.).—Take the remainder of the salmon; cut it into uniform pieces ; season with pepper and chopped herbs. Lay each piece of the fish in well-buttered white writing paper, twist the ends, broil gently over a clear fire five to seven minutes; place boiled peas, that have been boiled with buttei- and mint, in the centre of the dish, arrange the papilottes against the peas, garnish with fried parsley, and seiwe with anchovy sauce in a boat. Toad in a Hole {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Milk, etc., 4d.).—Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour. Luy a little of it at the bottom of a pie dish ; add some slices of any cold meat you have, mutton, beef, veal. Limb, pork. 4