FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. 89 quarter of an hour in some thickened or well-seasoned broth or stock (about a quarter of a pint will do). Put in two hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices; mix with the onion, simmer together for a minute, and serve. DINNEPv No. 15. Souffle of Fish (Ingredients—Butter, 4d. ; six Eggs, 6d.; Whiting, 6d.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Three ounces of butter, the same of flour, the yolks of four eggs, pepper and salt to taste, three-quarters of a pint of milk, one dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence. Mix all together in a stewpan; stir over the fire until the mixture boils, when it must be brisldy stii'red until it is quite smooth. Add one table- spoonful of raw milk to prevent it cooking any further ; mix in eight or nine ounces of raw whiting freed from skin and bones and finely chopped, lastly the whites of six eggs which have been whipped very stiffly. Have ready a well- buttered souffle dish, plated or hre-proof china, which has a baud of well-buttered paper round it, stanchng about two inches above the dish. Sprinkle a few brown breadcrumbs over the top of the souffle, and one ounce of butter broken into small pieces. Bake in a modei'ate oven three-quartei's of an hour. Cotelette d’Agneau a la Princesse: Varlet’s Recipe (Ingredients—3 lb. Neck of Lamb [enough for three dishes, 3s. 3d.], Is. Id.; Aspic Jelly, 6d.; Vegetables, etc., 3d.). —Divide the lamb into three pieces ; cut some rather thick cutlets; do not flatten or trim them. Place them in a stew- pan on a bed of sliced vegetables; moisten with as much good stock as will cover the cutlets, and set them to braise on a stove fire for an hour and a half. Then put them in press between two dishes. When cold let them be trimmed. Cover the bottom of the stewpan with aspic jelly. When this has become set firm by cooking, place the cutlets flat upon it; pour some aspic over them, and place the stewpan in ice. Use a cutlet cutter dipped in hot water to stamp the cutlets out. Dish them up on a plated dish upon some aspic placed on the bottom of the dish, and toss in some of the jelly instead of sauce. A most excellent dish. Mutton may be used in the same way.