everybody’s dinner book. 116 a very hot dish; pour over them tomato sauce. Whitings are the most wholesome of aU fish. Rognons aux Oignons {Ingredients—KiAneya, 7d.; two Onions, 2d. ; one Egg, Id.; Bacon, Butter, Parsley, etc., 5d.).—Take two small Spanish onions. Make a hole in the centre of each to within half an inch from the bottom, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Remove the skin and core from two kidneys; season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice; cut them in half lengthwise, and place one kidney in each onion. Chop very finely the part you have taken from the onions, and to one spoonful of it add one ounce of brown breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, the yolk of one egg raw, and some finely chopped parsley. Place this mixture on the top of the two kidneys. Put the onions into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter and the onions left from the centres and some chopped bacon. Cover the onions with buttei-ed paper, put the cover on the stew^pan, and fry the onions for twenty minutes 3 add a little good brown gravy, and let the onions braise two and a half to three hours, according to size,—the length of time for braising entirely depending upon the size of the onions; and if they are fi'ost-bitten, which is often the case in the winter, they will take double the time to cook. They must be frequently and weU basted during the time they are braising, and more stock added as that in the pair reduces. Canard a la Prince de GaUe: a Welsh Dish {Ingredients —Duck [3s., enough for three dishes], Is.; Onions, Milk, etc., 4d.).—Salt the duck from twenty-foui- to forty-eight hours,— the warmer the weather the less hours will be needed to salt it. Put the duck on in cold water; when it boils skim care- fully. Boil for twenty or twenty-five minutes until quite tender. Have ready some large onions, tioice boiled and mashed with milk and gi'ound wdiite pejiper. Cover the duck with the onion sauce and serve. Goose may be cooked in similar fashion, but it requires to be longer salted. Both are excellent and digestible cooked in this way. Petits Pois an Beurre {Ingredients—Peas, 3d. 3 Butter, etc., 3d.).—Put the peas, with some butter, a sprig of parsley, and one of mint, tied together, and one lump of