68 everybody’s dinner book. salt, pepper, and flour your flsh, and place it in the fiying pan with the skin side itpioards. Fry for ten minutes, and serve vith anchovy butter made as follows :— Anchovy Butter (^Ingredients—Anchovies, 4d. ; Butter, 2d.; Pareley, Id.).—Four boned anchovies, a bunch of boiled pansley (cold), and two ounces of butter; pound all together, pass through a sieve, and make into pats. A Ragout of Ham (^Ingredients—| lb. Ham, 6d.; Bones, 3d.; other ingredients, 3d.).—Take some thin slices of ham; beat them well with a rolling pin, lay them care- fully in a stewpan without any addition whatevei-; cover up closely, and set over a gentle fire to stew. When they begin to stick to the pan, sprinkle in a little flour; move gently over the fire, and pour in a little veal gravy made from bones, and made intentionally without salt; add a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper, one clove, and one blade of mace broken into pieces. Cover this up and set it again over a gentle fire; when it has simmered about fifteen minutes, remove the herbs, skim off the fat, thicken, and pour it into a small dish. Send up vei’g hot. Celeiy Salad {Ingredients—Celery, etc., 6d.).—Wash and scrape two sticks of celery; lay them in ice-cold water until you are ready for them; cut them into pieces; make a dressing of two dessertsi^oonsful of salad oil, four table- spoonsful of vinegar, two teaspoonsful of castor sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Toss all together, and serve in a salad bowl. ’ Tusmore Beef Collops {Ingredients—Suet, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—One pound of any beef you have (any scraps will do), a quarter of a pound of suet chopped very fine; season with pepper and salt and one de.s.sertspoonful of flour ; heat until the ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated. Make the mixture into fiat, round-shajjed cakes of about one inch thick; fry them in hot lard for ten minutes. Serve with brown gravy and crisply fried parsley in the centre. The ]-emains of any cold joint of beef will do. Baked Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.).—Wash the potatoes (]uite clean; dry them thoroughly, put them in