261 WTIINKLES FROM STORE-ROOMS. Cherry Cheese: Percy’s Recipe.—Twelve pounds of Kentish or other cherries to one pound of sugar, made like damson cheese. Kentish Recipe for Sponge Cake.—The weight of five eggs in sugar, of three in flour. Beat well the yolks of the five eggs; add the powdered sugar and flour, .still beating well; lastly the whites, beaten to a froth. Beat all well together. Bake immediately in a quick oven. An Uxbridge.—Take one liqueur glass of the best brandy, the same of orange bitters, the same of water ; mix all well together in a claret glass. When thoroughly mixed, add the yolk of one egg whole, and swallow the mixture at one go. Jumbles.—Mix 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of castor sugar, and the grated rind, the outer one, of one lemon; add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, the whisked whites of three, and beat up the whole with 4 oz. of dissolved butter and three tablespoonsful of cream. Drop the batter on baking tins, and put the jumbles in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Kneaded or Pastry Cakes : commonly called “ Sudden Death.”—The luxury of children. They are compofned of flour, butter, fresh lard, or cream. Cream cakes : To lb. of flour add half a teaspoonful of salt and | lb. of currants, and make into a firm paste with good cream; knead it well, roll out half an inch thick, and cut in rounds no larger than the top of a wineglass; bake on a ghdle. Or, when butter is more convenient than cream, make of any of the puff or short pastes genei-ally used, and, if cm-rants are deshed, roll the paste rather thinner than half an inch, and put two rounds together, strewing currants between them, and sifting sugar over them. These cakes are well known, and always made in rural districts. Queen Cakes.—Wash 1 lb. of butter in rose water, and beat it to cream ; add the whites of eight eggs whisked to a .solid froth, and .strew in 1 lb. of sifted sugar, beating it as you proceed ; then the beaten yolks of the eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, and 12 oz. of currants ; lastly, add 1 lb. of dried flour by degrees; beat all fifteen minutes longer, half fill the small well-buttered tin shapes, sift sugar over, and bake for twenty minutes.