107 SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. clone cut it into neat squares; fiy a light golden colour in butter; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut half a jwuud of onions in slices, fry, and simmer until they are as tender as possible in some of the liquor in which the tripe was stewed. When the onions are fried, put them with the tripe into a stewpan ; add one dessertspoonful of vinegar and the same of chopped parsley; add some chopped mush- rooms ; simmer aU together for a minute, and serve imme- diately. The tripe may also be cut into collops, sprinkled with savoury herbs and onions, and fried in clarified butter. Poor Man’s Mutton {Ingredients—The rest of the Knuckle, Is. 3d. ; Gi'avy and Parsley, 4d. ; Potatoes, Id.).—^Take the remainder of the knuckle; cut it into nice slices; warm them in good gravy, to which is added some finely chopped parsley and some shreds of cooked carrots and turnips ; lay them in a very hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve with plain boiled potatoes and the following salad :— Victoria Salad {Ingredients—One Cos Lettuce, 4d. ; Shallot, Chervil, Tarragon, Parsley, 2d. ; Sugar, etc., 3d. ; box Tesseyneau’s Boneless Sardines, 4d.). — Take a fresh cos lettuce; pick it to pieces with the fingers (on no account must it be cut with a knife) ; wash each leaf separately and very carefully; dry on a soft cloth or in a wire salad basket. The greatest care should be taken that every leaf is quite free from moisture, otherwise the lettuce will be sodden instead of crisp. Rub a salad bowl with shallot; break the lettuce into fair-sized pieces. Make a mixture of two tablespoonsful of oil, two of vinegar, one teaspoonful of castor sugar, one dessertspoonful of made mustard. Amalgamate thoroughly; season with pepper and salt. Chop some chervil, tarragon, and parsley very fine; mix it well with the lettuce; pour the salad mixture over the whole. Shred a quarter of a box of Tesseyneau’s bone- less sardines (Is. 4d.), and strew them on the top of the salad. Lemon and Vanilla Custard Pie {Ingredients—2d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Sugar, etc., 2d.; Paste, 6d.).—One pint of milk; scald it, and add three eggs well beaten, two table- spoonsful of castor sugar, a pinch of salt, and a small piece of butter. Flavour with lemon and essence of vanilla.