SEVEN-SHILLING DINNERS. IS' DINNER No. 20. Consomme aux Ruenelles {Ingredients—| lb. Veal, 7d.; 2 Eggs, 2d. ; Stock, 4d.; 4 oz. Butter, 4d.; Flour, etc.. Id.; Cream, 2d.).—Put into a saucepan one gill of water, a pinch of salt, and a small bit of butter. When the water boils, stir in as much flour as will form a paste; put the •mixture away to get cold. Take half a pound of lean veal; cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar ; add three ounces of butter and two ounces of the paste, and thoroughly mix the whole in the mortar, adding during the process the yolks of two and the white of one egg ; salt and pepper to taste; pass the mixture through a sieve ; work a little ci’eam into it, and by means of two teaspoons shape it in pieces the size of an olive ; lay these carefully in a saucepan ; pour in at the side suiBcient boiling stock to cover them, and let them poach gently for a few minutes until they are quite done. Have the tureen ready filled with clear stock, boiling hot; shp the quenelles into it (with or without the stock they were boiled in), and serve. The quenelles may also be made of the breast of chicken, turkey, or game, and some may be coloured green and carmine with Mrs. Marshall’s vegetable colouring. Broiled Smelts [Ingredients—Six Smelts, 9d.; Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Draw carefully and wipe six smelts ; flour well, and lay them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When half done, turn them carefully upon the other side. When they are done enough, put them upon a hot dish ; sprinkle a little salt upon them, and serve immediately. About five minutes will cook them. Serve with a lemon cut in quarters. Fried Beef a la Paysanne [Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Egg, Id.; Onion, Id.).—The remainder of the end of the sirloin. Sprinkle the slices with the pepper and salt; dip them in the yolk of one egg; roll lightly in breadcrumbs; fiy in boiling lard; serve with onions' sliced in rings and fried, in the centre of the dish. Kidney Pudding [Ingredients—Six Sheep’s Kidneys, Is.; Stock and Wine, Gd. ; Hei'bs, etc., 5d.).—Split and soak six sheep’s kidneys; slice them and season with one teaspoonful