94 everybody’s dinner book. mth an extra minute for the side where the bone is left. Serve at once when done on a very hot dish, with plenty of butter laid on it. DINNER No. 19. Baked Sprats a la Prince de Galle {Ingredients—Sprats, 2d. ; Parsley, etc.. Id.; one Egg, Id.).—Clean and wipe the sprats carefully on a dish or plate; mix some chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip each sprat into egg, then into tliLs mixture; put them in a baking dish, with a little vinegar and a little dripping on the top. Bake for half an hour ; eat hot or cold. Tripe a la Lyonnaise {Ingredients—| lb. Tidpe, 4d.; Butter, 2d. ; Tomato, etc., 6d.).—Boil half a pound of tripe; when it is cold cut it into large dice. Put one tablespoonful of minced onion into a frying pan with two ounces of butter, and fry a delicate brown; add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little vinegar, salt, and cayenne; stir the pan to avoid burning ; put some puree^oi tomatoes at the bottom of the dish, place the contents of the pan on it, and serve very hot. Epigrams of Mutton {Ingredients—The rest of the Breast of Mutton, lOgd. ; one Egg, Id.; Spinach, 4d.; Vegetables, etc., 5d.).—Take the other half of the breast of mutton; biaise it in a stewpan with a little water; add whole black pepjjer, salt, two cloves, a little chopped parsley, a sprinkling of sweet herbs and onions, carrots, turnips, and one head of celery. When quite tender remove the bones (put them in the stock pot), place the meat between two dishes, and put a very heavy weight on it. When the breast is perfectly flat and quite cold, cut it into .small neat cutlets; egg and breadcrumb them, fry a nice brown in lard, and serve Avith spinach or sorrel in the centre, and strong clear gravy. An excellent dish. Breast of lamb or veal may be cooked in the same way. Potato and Pickle Salad {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.; Parsley, etc., 6d.).—Cut some cold potatoes into sUces about a quarter of an inch thick, and one hour before serving season with pepper and .salt; add six teaspoonsful of salad