78 everybody’s dinner book. Igd.; Tomatoes, 3d.; Butter, etc., Id.).—Stew a quarter of a pound of maccaroni, from Barto Vall6, Haymarket, London, until it is quite tender; place a layer of it in a small baking dish, then a layer of tomatoes and breadcrumbs mixed, seasoned with pepper and salt and bits of butter, and a final layer of maccaroni. Bake a nice brown and serve at once. DINNEK No. 6. Consomme a I’Estragon aux (Enfs Poches {higredients-— Stock, 6d. ; Eggs, 2d. ; Tarragon, etc., 2d.).—Into one pint of clear soup throw half a handful of shredded tarragon leaves, make very hot, and just before serving slip in two lightly poached eggs, taking special care not to break the yolks. Hand grated Parmesan with it. Fish Shells a la Colonial {higredierds—1 lb. Fish, 8d. (average price); Butter and Milk, 2d. ; Lemon, etc.. Id.).— One pound of cod, plaice, whiting, or brill; flake it carefully; .season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and if liked a little lemon; moisten with milk or stock made from the fish bones (in cooking fish the stock should always be, if possible, made from fish bones and trimmings), and stir in a piece of butter as large as a walnut. Put this mixture in plated or white china scallop shells ; put some breadcrumbs on the top ; brown a light colour in the oven or with a salamander. Serve as hot as possible. Loin of Mutton a I’Anglaise {Imjredients—The other half of the Loin, Is. 2d.; Vegetables, 3d.; | lb. Tomatoes, 5d.). —Take the other half of the loin; I'oast it carefully, poim some good clear gravy round, and garnish with fried onions, filed dice of potatoes, and broiled tomatoes, arranged in little heaps alternately, onion, tomato, potato, tomato, until you have sufficient to fill the dish. The tomatoes should be cut in two. Mock Cream {Imjredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Savoys, 3d.; other ingredients, Id.).—Two eggs, the grated rind and juice of a quarter of a lemon, one tablespoonful of milk, sugar to taste. Separate the whites of the eggs from the