25 TWO-SHILLING HINNEBS. perfectly smooth, and serve very hot, with croUtons of fried bi'ead or toast. Hungary Filleted Fish {Ingredients—Plaice, the other two Fillets, 3d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).—Take the other two fillets ; season them with oiled buttei', mixed with lemon juice, cayenne, a little chopped parsley and shallot. Dip in batter, and fry a delicate brown coloim. A most dehcious dish. Soles may be cooked in the same way. Hashed Meat a I’lndienne {Ingredients—Eed Currant Jelly, etc., 4d.).—Fry in a stewpan one small onion cut in dice ; add one table.spoonful of red currant jelly, one of Harvey, one of Worcester, and some gravy. Strain the sauce on to thin slices of any cold meat you have; add West Indian pickles cut into long strips. A Favourite Pudding {Ingredients—Eggs and Butter, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 3d.).—One tablespoonful of marmalade, five ounces of white breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, tAvo ounces of Demerara. Melt the butter over a basin of liot water, and mix it with the above ingredients, then add two well-beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of milk. Butter a mould that will just hold it, tie a floured cloth over it, boil an hour and a half. DINNER No. 15. Giblet Pie with Potatoes (Ingredients—Giblets, 6d.; Cream, etc., 8d.).—Clean thoroughly one set of giblets; .stew them Avith a little water, one onion, seasoning to taste, and if liked a feAv herbs. Cook until quite tender. Let them get cold. Put the liquor of the stew to bake Avdth the above, and when the pie is baked pour into it half a small cup of cream. Sliced potatoes added to the giblets are a gi-eat impi'ovement; and if you have any slices of beef, mutton, or veal, you may place them at the bottom of the dish to make it go further. Any tiimmings of mushrooms or truffles may also be added. Excellent cold. Scrap Pudding {Ingredients—Tavo Eggs, 2d. ; Milk, Jam, etc., 5d.).—Half a pound of sifted breadcrumbs or scraps of bread well soaked for two hours in a pint of milk, sweeten in two ounces of castor sugar and one ounce of