SEVEN-SHILLING PINNEBS. 131 pears in halves ; take out the core; place them in a stewpan with a quarter of a bottle of claret and water, a quarter of a bottle of cochineal, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, half a stick of vanilla. >Stew for three hours. When done dish them up in a glass dish. Reduce the syi-up until it becomes thick; add a piece of butter the size of a walnut; when melted pour the syrup over the pears, and serve very hot. This is a most delicious dish. Craven Sandwiches [Ingredients—Shrimps, 3d.; Cream, 4d.; Brown Bread, etc., 2|d.).—Some slices from a brown loaf cut into pieces the size and shape of sandwiches ; cut off the crust, butter the slices well, and on the top of the butter spread a thick layer of anchovy paste. Get one pint of shrimps ; pick them very carefully; pound them in a mortar, with a little cream to moisten them; put them into a saucepan with the cream, and stir until quite thick. Let it cool; then spread a good layer on the anchovy paste ; put a secsnd slice, with butter and ancliovy paste as a cover ; pile up prettily in a dish. Prawns, lobster, and crab may also be served in this way, but they are more expensive. The mixtui'e is also excellent spread hot on the bread and anchovy. DINNER No. 4. Miss Emily’s Carrot Soup [Ingredients—Carrots, 4d.; Stock, 4^d.; Butter, etc., 2d.).—Well wash one pound of carrots. Salt some water shghtly,—there must be enough to cover the carrots. Boil until tender. Mash and pass them through a sieve ; mix with them half a pint of stock (the liquor beef has been boiled in does very well); add salt and pepper to taste, a bit of butter, and a lump of sugar. Serve with eroiitons of fried bread—some of white, some of brown bread. Fillets de Sole a la Portland [Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Butter, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—Take a sole and fillet it. Have ready a flat plated dish or china fii-e-proof one; rub it over with butter; lay the fish in it; rub the fillets very lightly with some liquid butter; sprinkle over them one teaspoon- ful of minced parsley, some green onion, pepper and salt to