201 NINE-SHILLING DINNEES. fire when first put down. Let them remain five minutes without basting to keep the gravy in. Afterwards baste with plenty of butter. A few minutes before serving (underdone, twenty to twenty-five minutes; well done, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes; if too much done, the flavour is lost) dredge lightly with flour, baste thoroughly, and dish up nicely frothed. To take away the fishy taste which is so unpleasant, baste with hot water for a few minutes (to the water should be added one onion and a little salt); then take away the pan, and continue basting with butter. Hand with it a lemon cut in quarters, and cayenne, some good gravy, and the following sauce in separate boats :— Port Wine Sauce a la Danoise : Sandringham Recipe {Ingredients—1 lb. Red Currant Jelly, 7d.; Port Wine, Is. ; two Oranges, 2d.).—One pound of red currant jelly, the juice of two oranges, four glasses of port, and a little cayenne. Pass through a sieve. Good also for cold meat, game, brawn, etc. Omelette aux Fines Herbes et Champignons {Ingredients— Four Eggs, 4d.; 3 oz. Butter, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 2d.; Shrimp Paste, 2d. ; Herbs, Gravy, and Mushrooms, 4d.).—Proceed as in “Omelette k la Jeanne D’Arc ” {see Dinner No. 10, p. 141), adding finely minced herbs. Serve with a good brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms in it. DINNER No. 10. Potage a la Turenne {Ingredients—Peas, Mint, etc.. Is.; Butter, Id.; Stock, lO^d. Roll, Id.; Ham, l^d.).—Take one pint of shelled peas, and put them into half a pint of stock (or water), to which one ounce of butter has been added. Simmer for one hour; then add another pint of stock and the crumb of one French roll, one shredded lettuce, two small sliced onions, and one slice of lean ham. Simmer one hour longer. In the meantime boil half a pint more of fresh young peas. Take the soup from the fire; rub it through a sieve into a saucepan; add the other peas and one lump of sugar; let it just boil; then serve with orodtons of fried bread and powdered mint. Just before