90 everybody’s dinner book. Boule de Pommes de Terre {Ingredients—^Two Egg.s, 2cl.; Butter and Cream, 3d.; Potatoes, Ham, etc., 6d.).—Boil some large potatoes very dry, then mash half a pound of them quite smooth. While still warm mix with them two ounces of butter, two spoonsful of cream, one teaspoonful of salt, the same of white ground pejiper, the beaten and strained yolks of two eggs, then the whites thoroughly whisked, add chopped parsley and finely minced ham (potted ham will do if you have no other). Moidd the mLxture with a teaspoon and drop into boiling butter. Fry five minutes over a moderate fire. Drain thoroughly, and dish up on a dish paper or hot napkin, with fried parsley in the centre. Vanilla Mould {Ingredients—One packet of Freeman’s Vanilla PudcUng Powder, 4d.; Milk, etc., 3d.).—One packet of Freeman’s vanilla pudding powder. Proceed as for straw- berry pudding {see Dinner No. 13, p. 42). While hot pour it into a mould, previously wetted with cold water inside and left wet. Turn out when cold. DINNER No. 16. Spanish Soup {Ingredients—Two Spanish Onions, 2d. ; Stock, Is. 2d.; Oil, etc., 3d.; one Plaice, 4d.).—Cut two Spanish onions in half; slice them, and fry in a saucepan with two spoonsful of the best salad oil until they are a light brown (get the oil from Barto Valid, Haymaiket, London) ; add one teaspoonful of sweet red pepper, a little salt, and one quart of stock. Boil all together for five minutes, and add small bits of plaice ; boil for ten minutes, which will cook the fish, and serve with crodtons of fried bread. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumber {Ingredients—Lamb, Is. Id.; one Egg, Id. \ Cucumber, etc., 3d.).—Take tlmee cutlets from the neck of lamb; trim them carefully; egg and breadcrumb them and fry them a light brown in lard. Drain the cutlets; arrange them on a dish, placing the cucumber in the centre; pour round clear gravy or white sauce. The cucumber should be cut in square pieces. Remove the lind and seeds, and trim the squares a uniform