everybody’s dinner book. 118 8(1.).—Take one quart of good white .stock and pour it into a saucepan. Wlien boiling stir in one ounce of crushed tapioca, and simmer until the tapioca is perfectly clear. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with one gill of cream ; add the quart of stock very gradually to this ; keep stirring ; throw in salt and gi'ound white pepper to taste; pour the soup back into the saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. It must not boil, or it will curdle and be quite spoilt. At the last moment add a few shreds of tarragon leaves. Cutlets of Duck in Batter {Ingredients—The legs of the Duck, Is.; Mushrooms, Tomatoes, etc., 6d.).—Bone the legs of the duck; stuff them with sage and onions, with a bit of the bone for the cutlet frill. Dip the pieces in light batter ; pile some French beans in the centre of the dish, w'ith a baked tomato between each cutlet. Pour round a good clear gravy, with chopped mushrooms in it. Roast Loin of Mutton a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—Loin of Mutton [6 lb., 4s. 6d., makes four dishes], Is. IJd.; Cauli- flower, 2d.; Potatoes, Id.).—Cut the loin of mutton in two ; roa.st the half that is not boned. Boil one cauliflower until it is quite tender; break it up into neat pieces. Put the mutton on a very hot dish ; arrange the cauliflower and plain boiled potatoes alternately round it. Serve with a puree of chestnuts in a sauce boat. Puree of Chestnuts {Ingredients—Chestnuts, 2d.; Milk, Id.; Cream, 3d. ; Butter,etc., 2d.).—Take twenty-four large chestnuts, scald them, take off the biwvn skin, and put them in a saucepan with half a pint of milk; boil them gently. When quite soft strain off the milk, and rub them while hot through a sieve. Place the chestnut pulp in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, a bit of glaze, and half a gill of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Stir this over the fire until very hot, and serve with the mutton. This puree may also be served with roast or boiled turkey and with mutton cutlets. Fritters of Anchovies {Ingredients—Anchovies, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Pansley, Flour, etc., 2|d.).—Prepare some batter with two eggs, flour, and breadcrumbs. W.ash some boned unchovies; sprinkle them wdth cayenne; dip them in the