everybody’s dinner book. 202 serving throw into the tureen some shreds of cooked veal cut in strips about one inch long, and a little ready-boiled rice. Salmon with Tomato Sauce {Ingredients—Rest of the Salmon, Is. 8d.; | lb. Butter, 4d. •, Parsley, Tomato Sauce, etc., 5d.).—Cut the rest of the fish in thick slices, and lay them in a baking dish with a quarter of a pound of butter cut in pieces, and sti’ew over it half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one sliced shallot, salt and pepper to taste. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. When done, take it from the dish, and let it drain two or three minutes; then pour tomato sauce over it, and serve as hot as possible. Hashed Wild Duck {Ingredients—Rest of the Wild Buck, Is. 6d.; rest of the Sauce, 10|d.).—Cut the remains of the duck into joints ; put them into a stewpan with the “ Port Wine Sauce a la Banoise ” that Ls left; let them get hot gi’adually, and occasionally stir. When on the point of boiling, sei've, garnished with triangular crodtons of fried bread. Filets Mignons de Veau k la Russe {Ingredients—Veal, lO^d.; Marrow, etc., 3d.).—Chop up three-quarters of a pound of veal with two ounces of marrow, salt and pepper to taste, and one tablespoonful of milk; divide it into four parts, flat and round shaped; cover all over with bread- crumbs, and fry in butter. Bish up with horseradish sauce all round, and a little sent up separately in a sauce boat. Mutton, lamb, beef, pork, poultry, or game may be used in the same way. Friar’s Omelette {Ingredients—Apples, 3d.; Butter and Eggs, 3d.).—Peel, core, and quarter one pound of good cooking apples. Put them in the potato steamer, and steam until tender. Beat them to a pulp in a basin, sweeten to taste, stir in one ounce of butter, and when cold mix the whole with two well-beaten eggs. Butter a tart dish, and strew the lx)ttom and sides thickly with breadcrumbs to the depth of a quarter of an inch put some on the top, then a little di.ssolved butter, and bake for one hour in a good oven. When done, turn it out, and sift sugar over it,