1G4 kverybody’s dinner book. ready the bacon nicely fried; dish in a neat circle bacon and collops alternately, put the mushrooms in the centre, pour the glaze round, and serve. Lamb Cutlets a la Princesse : Mrs. Bradban’s Eecipe {^Ingredients—Best of the Lamb, Is. lid.; | bottle Aspic, 6d.; Vegetables, Tongue, etc., 7d.).—Trim the rest of the cutlets (if you are making a dish for several people, twelve or more cutlets would be necessary); braise them in a saute pan with a nice marinade of vegetables. After gently cooking them, place them between two dishes; press them; then trim all loose pieces away. Have ready .some good aspic (excellent aspic can be bought at llgd. a bottle); place a little in a dish large enough to take the cutlets. When set, place the cutlets all one way, and cover them with liquid aspic. Then take a sharp knife dipped in hot water, and cut them out. Dish in a circle and serve. The cutlets can be decorated with strips of truffle, tongue, and small sprigs of tarragon and chervil, according to fancy. Fricassees de Betteraves (^Ingredients—Beetroot, Igd.; Butter, etc., 3d.).—Cut one beetroot into slices; put it into a saucepan with butter, onion, parsley, chei’vil, and chives minced fine, a dash of garlic, a sprinkling of flour, a little vinegar, pepper and s.alt to taste. Stew for fifteen minutes. St. Croix Marmalade and Sultana Pudding (Ingredients —Suet, 2d.; Marmalade, 5d.; three Egg.s, 3d.; Milk, Id.; Sugar, Lemon, and Soda, 2d.; Sultanas and Brandy, 3d.).— T.ake a quarter of a pound of beef suet, the same of bread- ci'umbs, Demerara, and marmalade. Chop the suet quite fine ; add to it one teacnpful of milk, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, one teaspoon ful of carbonate of soda; then add grad\ially three well-beaten eggs. Let it stand one hoiTr. Butter a basin or pudding mould, lay one good handful of sultana raisins at the bottom, pour in the other ingredients, tie up in a well-floured cloth, and boil two hours. The water must not touch the top of the mould. One egg and Freeman’s egg powder may be used if preferred instead of the three eggs. Serve with marmalade sauce—that is to say, melted marmalade with brandy stu-red into it. Excellent cold.