EIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. 1.59 Midnight Sun Pudding (Ingredients—1 lb. Tail of Salmon, Is. 6d. [enough for twice]; Milk, Flour, and Eggs, 6d.).—Take one pound tail of salmon ; shred it into fine flakes; carefully separate from the bones; mix it with milk, flour, and two eggs; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil in a mould. Shrimp sauce, fla%’’Oiired with anchovy or lobster sauce, should be served with it. In Norway the salmon is not shred, but placed in layers alternately with cod and sometimes halibut. The variegated colours of the fish make a pretty dish when it is turned out of the moiild. Lobster Sauce {Ingredients—Lobster, Is. [enough for twice]; Butter, 2d.).—This is a delicious sauce when well made. Take a hen lobster, pick the coral from the re.st of the flesh in the tail, and with the spawn and one ounce of butter pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, and pass it through a sieve. Season with salt and cayenne to taste, and stir in half a pint of rich melted butter; cut the remainder of the flesh into squares of half an inch; heat for two minutes over the fire before you serve in a sauce boat. Fish sauce must be served in larger quantities than those for poultry, game, or meat. Comettes {Ingredients—Paste, Gd. •, Egg, Id.).—Prepare .some good mince of any scraps of meat, poultry, or game you have. Fish, egg, and vegetables can also be done in this way. Roll some puff paste as thin as a wafer ; cut it into pieces about the size of a walnut; wrap in each some of the mince ; make into triangular patties; brush over with the yolk of one egg; dip in very fine breadcrumbs or raw vermicelli; bake in the oven until a golden brown; serve on a napkin with crisply fried pai-sley. They should be quite moist and soft inside. Cutlets ala J’aiDit {Ingredients—1| lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 6d. ; Potatoes, Onioms, and Cream, 4d.).—Equal parts of ready-boiled potatoes and Spanish onions. Pass through a sieve ; season with salt and pepper •, add a little milk or cream; stir well; as soon as the mixture is quite hot serve in the centre of a dish mth plainly broiled mutton cutlets round it. Lamb, veal, and pork may be served in similai’ fashion.