TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. 21 ap[)les cut in thin rings, continue these layers until the dish is lull, covei’ with good paste, bake, and serve hot the first day, cold the next. A little cream served with it is a great improvement. N.B.—When fresh fruit is not obtainable, blackberry jam and cored American apples can be substituted. DINNER No. 10. Meat Dumpling {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. •, Butter, etc., 5d.).—Half a pound of any meat you have ; chop it very fine, and take care that it is freed fi'om all fat and sinew, mix with it two ounces of flour stirred to a cream ; add the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of soft breadcrumbs, salt to taste, a little chopped onion, and if liked some grated nutmeg. At the last add the white of one of the eggs beaten to a stifl’ froth, form into dumplings, and boil five minutes. They are very good as an addition to clear or gravy soup ; when used in this way, they should be made about the size of a marble and cooked in the soup. Fish, game, or poultry may be used in the same way, substituting chopped mushrooms or truffles with the game or poultry, and hard-boiled egg with the fish. Fricassee of Potatoes a I’Americaine {Ingredients—One Egg, Id.; Milk, etc., 3d.).—Slice thin some cold boiled potatoes; put in a saucepan half a pint of milk, one egg well beaten and thickened a little with flour, one tea- spoonful of butter, and a httle salt. Boil all well together. When boiled, add the potatoes. Serve at once. Cold October Pie with Cream {Ingredients—Cream, 5il.; Remains of Pie, 8d.).—Serve the remains of the pie with some whipped cream in a glass dish. DINNER No. 11. Potato Soup {Ingredients—Onions, Potatoes, and Bones, 7d.).—Put in a saucepan any bones you have (if you happen to have a sirloin bone, that is best of all); add to them two pints of water and five or six onions. Let this simmer seven hours. When it has simmered five hours, add five or six potatoes, according to their size; season to taste with salt and pepper; let this simmer another two