FIVE-SHILLING DINNEES. 75 the rice, and let it cook furiously with the lid off for twelve minutes, when it should be done. Pour off the water and turn the rice out into a flat dripping pan with a little tomato sauce. Put the pan high in the oven, so that it will brown the sausages well on the top; prick them well and lay them on the rice; turn the sausages until they are cpiite brown on both sides. Fried Chicken {Ingredients—The rest of the Chicken, Is.; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.; other ingi-edients, 4d.).—Cut the remains of the chicken into neat pieces; steep them for one hour in salt, vinegar, chopped shallot, and cayenne. Make a batter by mixing the flour and water smoothly together ; melt in it the butter; add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a fi'oth ; take out the pieces of chicken, dip them in the batter, and fry a pretty brown in boiling lard; pile them in the dish, and garnish with fiied parsley or rolled bacon, with clear gravy round. Celery or Lettuce with Milk {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Litttice or Celery and Milk, 2d.).—Stew .some celery or lettuce in milk, season with pejjper and salt, strain off the milk, add two eggs well beaten, and pour over the vegetable. Serve very hot. Bloaters a la St. Moritz {Ingredients—One Bloater, l|d.; one Boll, Id.; Shrimps, etc., 2|d.).—Cut the crust of one French roll into fingers; fry in boiling lard or butter a nice light brown. Take the roe finm one bloater; place half the roe between two fingers. One roll cuts four pieces. Serve very hot, with a few carefully picked .shrimps on the top of each finger. N.B.—Mackerel roes and strips of smoked haddock or kippei'ed salmon arc excellent done this way. DINNER No. 4. Potage a la Jardiniere {^Ingredients—Vegetables, Is.; Stock, 6d.).—Put in an earthenware pot cabbage, carrots, leeks, turnips, cut in long strips, onions, parsley, green onions, celery, sprays of cauliflower, a few leaves of tarragon, a small hanclful of spinach and sorrel leaves, chei’vil; toss tliem in fresh butter until slightly brown; add the clear