215 NINB-SHILLINa DINNEnS. Cod with Egg Sauce [Ingredients—Cod, Is.; Carrot, Bacon, find Potatoes, 3d. ; Butter, 2d.; Egg Sauce, 3d.).— Kemove the bone from the centre of tlie slice of cod) fill the hole with one carrot wrapped in bacon \ boil in salt and water (there should be sulhcient salt to float an egg). When done drain, and dish up covered with egg sauce ; garnish with boiled potatoes, and hand butter sauce in a separate boat. Roast Rabbit Larded [Ingredients—One Rabbit, Is. 6d.; 2 bottle Italian Sauce, 6d.).—Skin, singe, and clean out your rabbit; leave the liver, lard the back and thighs, skewer them together, and roast. Serve covered with Italian sauce. New Potatoes a la Creme d’Anchois [Ingredients— Potatoes, etc., 3d.; Cream, Butter, etc., 3d.).,—Stir a piece of fresh butter, one tablespoonful of flour, some chopped chives and parsley, salt and pepper, in a saucepan; add sufficient cream, flavoured with essence of anchovy, in which to warm the potatoes. When it boils add the potatoes, which have been previously boiled (they may be put in whole or sliced) ; warm in the sauce, and serve very hot. (Eufs ala Suisse : Victoria Street Recipe [Ingredients— Two Eggs, 2d.; Onions and Sauce, 2d.).—Boil hard two or more eggs ■, slice them about a quarter of an inch thick; slice .some onions in rings; boil until tender ; make a good white sauce, into which place the onions. Warm the eggs, dish them in a circle, and poui- the sauce over. Serve very hut. Prawn Ice a la Durand [Ingredients—Cream, Is. 6d. ; Eggs, 4d.; Prawns, Is. 6d.).—Half a pint of cream, tliree fggs. Work it over the fire until it begins to thicken ; then strain it. Take eighteen large prawns ; shell them very carefully ; pound them well in a mortar ; add a quarter of a pint of cream and one egg. Stir all together again over the fire, strain, let it gi'ow cold, then freeze it. Serve in chma ramequin cases, with some of the coral sprinkled at the top. One pint and a half of cream and three eggs for a larger quantity and thirty-six prawns.