169 EIGHT-SHILLINCx DINNERS. paper j broil over a clear fire. Heuiove the papei' as quickly as possible, pile the meat in the centre of a very hot dish, and put round it a wall of hot boiled maccaroni that is quite tender. Pour over all a sauce made of strong stock thick- ened with brown roux, flavoured with lemon peel, ketchup, cayenne, and one glass of claret. Curried Potatoes {Ingredients—Butter, 4d.; Potatoes and Onions, 3d.; Stock, etc., 2d.).—Shce one large onion, fry it with a quarter of a pound of butter. Cut up one pound of boiled potatoes, put them in a pan with the onion, and dredge well with curry powder. Add one gill of stock, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon. Shake all over the fire for ten minutes. Serve very hot. Choux au Confiture {Ingredients—Pour Eggs, 4d. ■, Jelly, 3d.; Sugar, Butter, Lemon, etc., 4d.).—Put into a saucepan a few grains of salt, with one pint of water, a bit of butter as big as an egg, the same of sugar, and plenty of grated lemon peel. Let the water boil; throw into it by degrees enough flour to form a thick paste, take it off the fire, let it remain ten minutes, and woi'k in gradually four eggs. Have ready a well-buttered baking sheet; drop the paste on to it in groups, about one teaspoonLil to each. In a moderate oven bake them a golden brown, take them out, spiinkle well Avith castor sugar, and return them to the oven for a few minutes. Make an incision in the underside of each choitx, and place in them a small piece of I’ed curiant jelly, black currant jelly, guava jelly, and blackberry jelly. If pre- feri-ed, one dessertspoonful of jam or marmalade to each may be used. Crab au Gratin {Ingredients—Crab, Is. 6d. ; Truffles, etc., 8d.).—Take all the flesh from a crab, leaving the shell quite clean; butter it. Mince the flesh, shred a truffle and some onions, slice one onion, and chop some parsley. Brown these ingi’edients in a saucepan with a very little butter; bruise the inside of the crab ; add the mince to it, cayenne and salt to taste •, stir all together; add some flour, and a little coral if you can get any. Let this simmer up. Fill the shell, strew it thickly with breadcrumbs and bits of butter the .size of peas, and brown with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. Serve with bread and butter.