EVERYBODYS DINNER BOOK. 244 pips lemoved) cut in dice, the liver of the rabbit minced, half a pint or less of bechamel sauce or melted butter. Season with salt; add a little minced parsley ; boil on a slow lire. Good also for chickens, in which case mince the chicken liver, and put tarragon instead of parsley. Cuca Cocoa Biscuits with Strawbemes {Ingredients— Cuca Cocoa and Sugar, 2d.; Eggs, 2d. ; Strawberries, 9d.). —Sprinkle some of Root’s cuca cocoa upon the whites of two (or more) eggs, as much as will give it the taste and colour of cocoa; then mingle with castor sugar until it becomes a pliable paste. Di'ojd your bisciiits upon sheets of paper in what form you please, and set them in the oven to be baked. Serve with strawberries or any kind of fruit. DINNER No. 19. Potage a la Melton Mowbray {Ingredients—Haddock, 6d.; Oysters, Is. 6d.; Stock, 7d.; Eschalot, Pansley, Mace, and Lemon, 3d.; Sherry, 3d.).—Fillet one (or more) midtiling- sized fresh haddock with the skin on ; lay the fillets on a buttered saute pan on which you have previously sprinkled two finely chopped e.schalots, one des.sertspoonful of minced parsley, and a pinch of finely powdered mace. Take the head, bones, and trimmings, and set them in a saucepan over the fire for a few minutes, and then add one quart of good stock ; simmer for half an hour. Blanch and beard twelve oysters, add the liquor to tha stock, and the oysters to the fillets; thicken the soup witli roiav, and when well slammed and claiified add it to the fillets jireviously .slightly fried. Let it boil five minutes, add a quarter of a pint of sherry or Madeira, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and season with cayenne to taste. Soles or whitings can be used imstead of haddock, .so can plaice. It is also excellent made with cod-sounds soaked and blanched, instead of fillets of fish, and cod-fish used for the stock. For more people use two haddocks, six eschalots, one tablespoonful of parsley, fifty oysters, two quarts of stock, half a pint of dry sherry or Madeira, and the juice of half a lemon. Cotelettes de Veau en Caisse {Ingredienis—1 lb. Veal, Is. 2d. ; Mushrooms, etc., 5d.).—Cut veal into neat cutlets ;