30 everybody’s dinner book. DINNER No. 20. Meiian au Citron {Ingredients — Whiting, 3d.; Egg, Lemon, Barsley, 2d.).—Skin carefully and free from all bones one whiting. Put the bones and head into the stock pot. Fillet the fish, dip it in beaten egg and then in fine breadcrumbs, tie with cotton, and fry in hot lard or fat. Serve with fried parsley and a lemon cut in quarters. If preferred the fillets can be fried in slices loithout rolling. All-the-year-round Liver {Ingredients—Liver, etc., lid.). —Take some calf’s liver and cut it into neat pieces, and put it into a dish, witli .some onions chopped tine, some sage (dried will do). Stew it until tender, thicken the gi’avy with a little flour, add a little glaze, season witii pepper and .salt, and add some pieces of bacon. Arrowroot Pudding {Ingredients—Milk, 2d.; Arrowroot, etc., 2d.).—Put two tablespoonsful of ari-owroot into a basin, add gradually a little cold milk, and stii- until it is quite smooth and the consistency of cream. Add one pint of boiling milk, stirring carefully so that there are no lumps in it, sweeten to taste, pour the mixture into a pie dish, put a few bits of butter the size of small marbles on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until a light bi’own. Potato Cake {Ingredients—Potatoes, Flour, etc., 4d.).— Half a cup of mashed potatoes, one of flour, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonfu of baking powder (Boi-wick’s), one eggspoonful of salt. Rub well together, then add sufficient milk to make a dough. Roll to the thickness of one inch, cut into diamonds. Bake on a hot, well-gi-eased griddle on the toj3 of the range over a moderately hot fire. They require to bake slowly, and should be frequently turned to prevent burning. A soapstone griddle is the best; it should be greased by cutting one white turnip into halves: the griddle should be rubbed with it 3 it leaves no taste, adhesion, or smell—is better than butter or grease, and causes no smell. Eat the potato cakes threctly, as hot as possible.