PEIME HINTS FOR DAINTY nOUSEKEKPERB. 240 vinegar, slionld be eaten after partaking of onions ; it is also said tliat a strong cup of coffee will entirely remove the unpleasant odour left from eating them, which prevents so many people partaking of this really delicious vegetable. Fruit should always be cooked in an enamelled saucepan or in eai'thenware. When stowing rhubarb, always remember to add the sugar last. This renders it more tender, and makes it a much better colour. French beans and scarlet runners should be very care- fully strung, and then cut in two lengthwise, not chojjpecl up. They should be cooked in a little butter, and the water drained from them before serving. When baking potatoes, always make a little incision with a knife in the skin before putting them into the oven ; it lets out the steam, and makes the potatoes turn out like veritable balls of flour. Walmits are easily peeled by being placed in boiling water for about five minutes, then taken out, and placed on a sheet of blotting paper to drain. The brown skin then strips off at once. Serve for dessert piled up on a glass dish. They should be eaten with salt, or dipped into a Avineglass of dry sherry. Among the many delicious preparations in the market Florador takes first rank. Florador fingers, sold in tins, are simply delicious, so are Florador biscuits and Florence w'afcrs, the latter a gi-eat addition to five-o’clock tea. No hostess should be without them. Soups, cakes, and tea- bread, cheese, fig, cocoa-nut, and other puddings, are all made from it. It is made in three gi’ades: large., for porridge, soups, fig and plum pudding ; mediimi, baked oi- boiled puddings, cakes, buns; fine, blancmange, creams. For babie.s’ food it is invaluable, and simply boiled in milk and sweetened, it is most light and nourishing for them. To make a perfect plum cake, steam three hours and bake for one hour. The disagreeable odour that arises, from the fat of chops, steaks, or ham blazing over the fire can be stopped by