160 everybody’s dinner book. Coronation Apples {Ingredients—A-piAes, 4d. ; ^ pot Api'icot Jam, 2gd. ; Cream, 3d.).—Take some medium- sized apples (Blenheim oranges are very suitable for this purpose), see that they are not bruised, peel them carefully, and take the cores out with a cutter. Let them boil in a thin syi-up without being too much done; they should not be so soft that they fall to pieces. Lay the apples on a hair sieve to drain, while the syi'up in which they were done is boiled up to thicken. Place the apples round a glass dish, put apricot jam in the centre, with some whipped cream on the top. Pour the sju-up round and eat cold. Boiled Cheese {Ingredients—Cheese, 4d.; Egg, Id.; Butter and Cream, 3d.).—Half a pound of mild cheese cut in thin sUces, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and some cream. Put all in a saucepan and keep stirring on the fire until it boils and is quite smooth; then add the yolk and white of one egg ; stir it quickly; put it in a dish, and serve it up with very hot, crisp, diy toast—some made of brown, the rest of white bread. DINNEE No. 2. Consomme aux Choufleurs {Ingredients—Cauliflower, 2d. ; Stock, 9d.).—Cut one small cauliflower in a number of small spi-igs. Boil them in stock. When done take them out, and put them in a very hot soup tureen. Pour on to them strong, well-flavoured stock, and serve as hot as possible. Boudins a la Norveg’ienne {Ingredients—Mushrooms, 2d.; Parsley, Id.; remains of Pudding, Is.).—Take the remains of the “ Midnight Sun Pudding ” {see Dinner No. 1, p. 159); cut it into slices; dip these into egg, then into finely chopped mushrooms, then into fine breadcrumbs ; fry a golden brown in boiling lard. Serve with fried parsley and the rest of the lobster sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Constance {Ingredients—Neck of Lamb [5 lb., 5s. lOd., makes three dishes]. Is. ll^d.; Bechamel Sauce, etc., 6d.; Pinanci^re Garnish, 3s. 6d. [enough for twice]).—^Trim some lamb cutlets neatly, sprinkle them with a little pepper, and broil them for a few minutes.