everybody’s dinner book. 4C pepper and salt to taste, and if lilced a few drops of lemon juice or gi-ated nutmeg; toss them gently on the fire until th^y are quite cooked. Excellent Orange Pudding {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d. ; three Oranges, 3d.; Milk, 2d.; Cornflour, Id.).—Take juicy oranges, slice and .sugar them, have one pint of good milk, boil it, add one tablespoonful of American cornflour, and the yolk.s of two well-beaten eggs. While hot pour over the oranges, mix thoroughly, beat the whites of the eggs very lightly, and pour on the toj); set in the oven to brown. To be eaten hot or cold. Broiled and Devilled Toast with Poached Egg {Ingredients —One Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Toast a round of broad a quarter of an inch thick. Mix in a vei'y hot plate one ounce of butter, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ca3’'enne (more if liked), one teaspoonful of made mustard, and the same of Yorkshire relish. Spread this mixture over the toast. Poach the egg, place it on the top of the devilled toast, and serve immediately DINNER No. 19. Pickled Halibut {Ingredients—1 lb. Halibut, 8d. ; Vine- g.ar, etc., Id.).—Take one pound of Halibut, boil it, and let it get cold; then put it in a bowl, and pour over it hot vinegar, in which a little cayenne and a blade of mace have been boiled. Let it stand tAvo days before uShag, Beef or any other Meat and Potato Shavings {Ingredients —Potatoes, etc., 5d.).—A couple of .slices of any cold roast or boiled meat you have; make a thin hatter, and season it with salt and pepper to taste; pare some potatoes as thin as possible, like wood .shavings ; fry them in the battei- until gold colour, and lay them on the .slices of meat which you have broiled. If prefeired, the meat may he egged !Uid breadcrumbed. Serve with clear graAy, with a little Worcester and Harvey mixed with it. Hai’icot Beans and Bacon {Ingredients—^ Ih. Bacon, 4|d. ; Beans, etc.. Id.).—Take a quarter of a pint of cooked haricot beans, half a pound of bacon, white pepper,