TKN-SnTLLING JHNNEKS. 247 hand \vith it in a separate tureen some very good stock made very hot for such persons as do not care for thick soup. If you have any embers to your fire, cook the cabbages in them; it will only render them more savoury and excellent. The Almanaeh des Gourmamls says : “ Ce potage savant qui lorsqii’il est bien fait, pent 6tre mis dans la classe des ragoiits les plus succulens, est un excellent comfortatif et convient aux temp4ramens epuiscs, auxquels il rendra les forces qu’ils ont perdues. Les choux ainsi brais6s out perdu leui’s principes delet^res, et n’ont conserve que leurs vertus nutritives: leur alliance avec le fromage leur communique une saveur tout k fait particuliere et digne de plaire aux vrais gourmands.” Partridge Pudding (Ingredients—One Pai-tridge, Is. Gd.; lb. Veal Outlets, 3gd. ; Mushrooms, 2d. j Suet Crust, 3|d. ; Shallot, etc., 3d.).—Grease and line a pudding basin with good suet paste; cut up the veal cutlet and place it in the bottom of the basin ; cut up the parti’idge into neat , joints ; lay them on the cutlet; sprinlde with pepper, salt, chopped shallot and mushrooms ; put in a gill of good bi’own stock; wet the edge of the paste ; put on a top crust; tie over with a cloth ; plunge into boiling watei’, and boil steadily for two hours. If you put two partridges, you will require half a pound of veal cutlet. Pommes de Terre en Escaloppes (Ingredients—Potatoes, Id. ■, Milk and Butter, 2d. ; Cheese, etc.. Id.).—Mash one pound of potatoes quite soft with a quarter of a pint of milk and one ounce and a half of melted butter; add one ounce of grated Parmesan, pepper and salt to taste. Fill some patty pans with this mixture, and brown them in the oven. While hot, glaze each over with melted butter and the rest of the cheese. Serve very hot in the patty pans. . Franco Beige: Yarlet’s Original Eecipe, 1859 (Ingredi- ents—Vanilla Ice, is. 4d.; Sherry, Rice, and Apricot Jam, 9d.).—Make a vanilla ice (see Dinner No. 15, p. 209) in a double mould. Put well-boiled rice and apricot jam reduced with sherry in the middle, and hand some of the sauce with the ice in a separate tureen. This is the most delicate, deli- cious ice possible, worthy of a front place in the Almanack des Oonrmands.