NINE-SHILLING DINNERS. 103 glaze; put them in the oven ten minutes before dishing np; pour round the cutlets some brown sauce, reduced with a little tomato, a quarter of an ounce of glaze, and a quarter of a glass of sherry. If you do as many as nine cutlets, you would require twelve mushrooms, half an ounce of glaze, and half a glass of sherry. Lamb cutlets can be served in the same way. Pintade au Vin Blanc: from a French Restaurant {In- gredients—Guinea Fowl, 2s.; Wine, Mushrooms, etc., 6d.).— Take one young and tender guinea fowl; cut it up; saute half of it in oil and butter; add one glass of white wine, a little chopped shallot, and mushrooms and truffles. Serve ■\vith little squares of bread fried in butter. Biscuits a la Diable {Ingredients—Water Biscuits, Id. ; Milk, etc., 3d.).—Steep some water biscuits in fresh milk for ten minutes; take them out, dust them over with cayenne, ground white pepper, and salt; bake them in a slow oven for twenty minutes, and serve with little balls of anchovy butter and French butter. DINNER No. 4. Purde de Tomato a la Maude {Ingredients—Tomatoes, 6d.; Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—Pass through a sieve some well- cooked ripe tomatoes; have ready some good stock made from gravy beef and bones; mix all together. Serve as hot as possible; just before serving put into the tureen some potato straws (i.e,, cold potatoes cut into pieces like straws and fried in hot lard); pour the imree upon them, and hand with the soup very thin shavings of brown bi'ead lightly coloured in fresh butter. FUet de Sole a la Cafe Riche {Ingredients—Sole, Is. ; Oy.sters, 9d. ; Lobster [Is., enough for twice], 6d. ; Egg, Butter, and Flour, etc., 6d.).—Fillet one sole, boil the bones, and add one ounce of flour and two of fresh butter to the liquor with the beaten yolk of one egg. To make the fillets pink mask them with lobster spawn pounded with butter in a mortar. Spread this mixture on each fillet with a palette knife; boil very gently ; dish up and pour sauce over, to which has been added some cut oysters and fine shreds of lobster. 13