190 evekybody’s dinner book. Boil the sauce half an hour, pass through a tammy, and add a little salt and a few sultana raisins. Put some fried pota- toes in the centre, dish the fillets against them, pour the sauce round, and serve at once very hot. Prince of Orange Pudding {Ingredients—Fvmt, Is.; Currants, Castor Sugar, and Peel, 4d. ; Paste, 6d.).—Pare some apples and pears, remove the core ; peel some peaches, remove the kernels ; cut the fruit into slices the width {not the length) of the fruit. Take a deep pie dish and lay the fruit in it in layers, placing between each layer some thin slices of orange and lemon, some grated lemon rind, currants, and castor sugar. Continue this until the dish is full. To the last layer add mixed peel shred finely. Cover with a rich paste and bake in a hot oven. American peaches and apples and Bartlett’s pears can be used at seasons when fresh fruit is not procurable. Dry Devilled Bone {Ingredients—Sauces, etc., 6d. ; Egg, Butter, Boll, 3d.).—Take the bone from a roast shoulder of lamb or mutton. Score the meat to the bone. Take a paste bru.sh, and with it put some of the following mixture into each incision. Previous to this, sprinkle the bone with a little salt. Devil mixture : One ounce of butter, salt, cayenne, black and white pepper to taste, .some of Searcy’s Oriental Salt, one dessertspoonful of made mustard, some castor sugar, a few di’ops of lemon juice and lime juice, one tablespoonful of chilli vinegar, the same of Watkin’s digestive relish, half an eschalot bruised, one teaspoonful of grated horseradish, ditto vinegar (Barto Valle’s), and half a teaspoonful of chopped fresh chillies. Mix well, and then stir in the yolk of one egg. Apply to each incision, and rub in well all over the meat. Broil slowly at first over a very clear fire. When quite hot through, let it cook quickly until well browned. Serve at once with tiny balls of iced butter and thin slices of French roll. The butter allays the heat. Beef, poultry, or turkey bones can be di'essed in the same way. DINNBB No. 2. Consomme a la Duchesse {Ingredients—Vegetables and Truffles, 6d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Stock, 6d. ; Parmesan or Sugar,