evekybody’s dinner book. 130 hot, with croiltons of filed bread. If tlie tomatoes have lost their colour, add a few drops of essence of cochineal. Skate a la Frederick {Ingredients—Skate, 6d.; Shrimps, 2d. ; Potatoes, Id.).—Get one slice of crimped skate; roll and tie it round carefully; plunge it into highly salted water; boil until sufficiently cooked. Drain thoroughly, remove the string, and send the skate up on a very hot dish, with anchovy sauce with some carefully picked shrimps in it; pour this over the fish, with baked potatoes that have been cooked in di-ipping as a garnish. Melted butter, caper, or hot maitre d’hotel sauce may also be served with it, if preferred. Berne Cutlets {^Ingredients—The rest of the Neck of Mutton, Is. 6d.; one Egg, Id.).—Take the remainder of the neck of mutton; cut it into larger and thicker cutlets than those generally used; saw off" the ends, and braise them until they are tender, taldng care that both sides are braised. Put them aside to cool. Make a thick rich onion sauce ; season well and run through a sieve; then take the braised cutlets and trim them neatly. Dip each cutlet into the onion sauce, then in breadcrumbs, afterwards in egg and breadcrumbs. Fry them a light brown, drain well, and serve with soubise or tomato sauce in the centre and more in a boat. Excellent cutlets.. Soubise Sauce: Varlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—Six large Onions, 2d. ; Milk and Cream, 3d.; Salt and Pepper, Id.). —Cut six large onions in slices; boil them for half an hour ; pour off the water; add salt and ground white pepper to taste, and then milk and cream. Serve very hot. Car’s Sausage Pudding {Ingredients—\ lb. Sausages, 5d.; Suet Crust, 7d.).—Line a small pudding basin with suet crust. Cut half a pound of sausages into rounds; place them in the basin; add a little pepper and salt and some good gravy. Cover with a suet crust. Boil with a cloth over the basin. Poires au Beurre : Yarlet’s Recipe {Ingredients—Three Stewing Pears, 6d.; Vanilla, l^d.; ^ bottle Cochineal, l|d.; Sugar and Butter, 2d. ; Claret, 3d.).—Cut three stewing