88 EVEKYBODy^S DINNER BOOK. a cutter cut the crumb of a Frendi roll into pieces the size of largo marbles, bake them a nice brown, and put them into the tiireen, with caiTot cut the same shape. Pour the soup over them, and serve with Parmesan. Kidneys a la Zingara {Ingredients—Two Sheep’s Kidneys, 7d.; Mushrooms, 2d.; Parsley, etc., 3d.).—Cut two sheep’s kidneys into four pieces ; flom* well and place in a stewpan with good gravy, mushrooms cut in pieces, and slices of cold potatoes. Add salt and pepper to taste, chopped parsley and mixed hei-bs, and a little Worcester sauce. Brown the whole vei-y carefuUy in the oven, and serve at once. Veal Cake with Bacon {Ingredients—Veal, Is. 3d.; Bacon, 4d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 4d.).—Mince the veal very fine; add to it one ounce of chopped ham or bacon, a small bit of butter, two ounces of fine white bread- crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, two tablespoonsful of gravy, one teaspoonful of chopped pai'sley, and one egg. Form the mixtime into a roll, put it on a well-buttered baking tin, tie it to keep it in shape, and place some nice rashers of streaky bacon on the top. Put it in the oven for half an hour. Serve very hot with brown sauce round. Any cold meat can be used up in this way, also the remains of game and poultry, and fish, substituting oyster sauce for the gravy. Tomato or mushroom sauce can be used Avith meat instead of broAvn gravy, and for game or poultry poivrade, sauce, game gravy, or white sauce flavoured with mushrooms or onions. 1875 Dumplings {Ingredients—| lb. Suet, 5d.; Demerara, ]-iemon. Milk, 2^d.; Marmalade, 2gd.).—A quarter of a pound of Demerara, half a j^round of beef suet, the same of breadcrumbs, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Mix the ingredients thoroughly with a little milk. Steam forty minutes, and serve with marmalade or jam. CEufs aux Oig^ons {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Stock, Onions, Butter, 3d.).—Half cpok tAvo onions by boiling them in salt and Avater. Take them up, drain them, and- cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Fry them in a little butter until nicely coloured; simmer for a