everybody’s dinner book. 112 stock, and let the bread swell in it. Above all take care that the stock boils hefoi'e it is added to the bread. Veal Cutlets a la Marie Louise {Ingredients—\ lb. Veal Cutlet, Is. 2d.; Onion, Herbs, Tomatoes, etc., 6d.).—Trim the veal into neat cutlets; fry them a nice brown in butter, but not crisp; take them out and place them in a covered saucepan. Have ready some good gravy in a second sauce- pan ; add to this four tablespoonsful of tomato sauce; stir well. Fry one onion in the fat from the cutlets after you have sliced it carefully, and add the onion and fat to the gravy, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour the whole over the cutlets, cover closely, and simmer for twenty minutes. About a small breakfast cup of gravy is enough. Serve with potatoes. Whole Cold Potatoes Fried {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.). —Sprinkle some whole cold potatoes lightly with pepper, salt, and cayenne; fiy them a pale brown in lard, and serve them in the centre of cutlets, hash, croquettes, or rissoles. Lamb Pie a la Merignan {higredients—The rest of the Cutlet part. Is. 5|d.; Parsley, Mint, Crust, etc., 9d.).— Take the remains of the cold roast neck of lamb; cut it into cutlets. Wash and pick some parsley; chop it fine with some mint; season with .sugar and vinegar and a little .salt; lay the cutlets in a small pie dish; sprinkle the parsley and mint over them ; add the vinegar and sugar and some water ; cover with a good crust, and bake an hour and a quarter. Very good cold. Baked Tomatoes {Ingredients — 1 lb. Tomatoes, Is. ; Blitter, etc., 3^d.).—Take one pound of tomatoes and put them into a small bowl. After one hour season them with half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a little pepper, and two tablespoonsful of butter cut into pieces, each piece being rolled in flour, and equally distributed among the tomatoes. Cbver with very dry breadcrumbs. Bake half an hour in a covered pudding dish on the upper grating of the oven. DINNER No. 12. Potage a la Moelle {Ingredients—One Marrow Bone, lOd.; Btock, 9d.; Egg.“, 2d. ; Bread, 1 d.).—Proceed exactly as in