NINE-SHTLLING DINNERS. 195 Poulet a la Colonial [hKjredients—Chicken [2s. 9d., two dishes], Is. 4|d. ; Mushrooms, Is. ; Oysters, 9d. ; Vegetables, 6cl.).—Take a young chicken ; cut it into joints ; pnt it into a stewpan with about one pint of water ; set it on the hob until it boils ; then let it simmer as slowly as possible for half an hour’. Then add the following vegetables : three shallots, three young carrots, three young turnips, and three peeled tomatoes. Season with spice if liked. Let all this simmer again for another half-hour; then put in one pound of mushrooms and six oysters. In ten minutes it will be ready. An excellent dish. Potato Nadels {Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.; Eggs, 3d. ; Milk, etc., 2d.).—Grate a plateful of cold potatoes ; mix them with three eggs, as many spoonsful of milk, a little salt, and flour dredged in to form a dough just stiff enough to roll out rather thin. Out it into small round cakes, put them in boihng water, boil five minutes, drain, and dry them on a napkin. Fry them a light yellow. Filet de BoeufalaBearnaise(/w^?-ecZie?iis—Fillet of Beef, Is. ; Butter and Egg, 2d. ; Shallots, Thyme, Bay Leaves, Parsley, etc., 4d.).—Cut one pound (or more) of fillet of beef into neat pieces ; cook it in the usual manner. Serve with it Bearnaise sauce as follows: Make a white sauce of which the ingredients are fresh butter, flour, shallots, thyme, bay leaves, parsley, tarragon, a little gravy, salt and pepper to taste, and the yolk of one egg. To make this sauce still better, instead of putting warm water, mix the sauce which has been made for a boiled fowl with it. Eggs au Beurre Noir: Mrs. Bradban’s Recipe {Ingredients —Butter, 4d.; Eggs and Chilli Vinegar, 2gd.).—Place a quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter in a frying pan, place it on a sharp fire until the butter is a dark brown, remove from the fire, break the eggs into it, and lightly fry. Place them in a dish, add to the butter a little chilli vinegar, and serve i^nmediately very hot. Watercress Sandwiches {Ingredients—Watercress, etc., 3d.).—Thoroughly dry and free the watercress from all weeds and giit, lay it in a cloth, and put it under heavy weights for half an hour. Cut several rounds of thin bread