BIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. 167 add good atock with small bits of bacon, boil all fifteen minutes, add a little castor sugar and cream, and serve. Saumon au Pois Vert {Ingredients—The rest of the Salmon cold. Is. 6d. ; Peas, 9d.; Cucumber and Potatoes, 4d.).—Place the cold salmon neatly in a dish. Garnish with hot boiled potatoes and shoes of cucumber seasoned with pepper. Serve with it fresh green peas boiled, with plenty of butter and mint. Excellent. Cassollettes de Riz (^Ingredients—Rice, Id. ; one Egg, Id.). —Boil some rice in water until quite absorbed; spread it two inches thick on a slab ; when cold, cut it into rounds with a two-inch pastry cutter. Beat one egg, roll each round in it, then in fine breadcrumbs (repeat this if necessary). Make an impression in the top of each -with a small cutter. Put in the frying basket with very hot lard. When a good colour, drain, lift the cover (made by the impression of the smaller cutter), and scoop out the rice from the inside with a teaspoon. Fill with savoiu’y mince—meat, fish, game, or poultry ; re- place the covers, and serve. Eggs, vegetables, and jam may be used in a similar fashion. Italian Stew : Isabella’s Recipe (Ingredients—1| lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 6d.; Stock, 6d.).—Slice two onions; fry in oil or butter; add a cut-up fowl, a neck of mutton, or veal. Fry lightly. Add pepper, salt, two tablespoonsful of conserve of tomatoes, and one pint of broth. Stew gently until quite tender. Potato Croquettes (Ingredients—Potatoes, 2d.; Ham, 3d.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Par.sley, etc., Id.).^—Pass six boiled potatoes through a sieve, three tablespoonsful of grated ham, pepper and salt to taste, chopped parsley, and the yolks of three eggs worked in ; make into balls, roll in breadcrumbs, fry in hot lard, and serve with fried parsley. Mould with Jam (Ingredients—Apricot Jam, 5d.; Cus- tard, 5d.).—Take any trimmings left from the Braemar biscuits; put a layer of apricot jam in a mould, then one of biscuits; pour in some custard, continue this until the mould is full, steam, and serve hot. The next day turn what is left into a glass dish, and eat it cold.