NINE-SIIILLTNG DINNERS. 209 Creme de Volaille au Legumes de Printemps {lugra- dients—Fillets of two Chickens, Is. 6d.; Cream, Is. 2d.; Veal Stock, 6d.; Vegetables, Is.).—Pound the fillets of the other two chickens, pass the flesh through affine sieve, and mix in one pint of thick cream, salt and ground white pepper to taste. Mould in dariohs or any fancy mould that you have (the ci'eme must not boil); let them stand on the corner of the stove until they are formed. Make with veal, and any chicken bones you have, some good white stock, flavour with mushrooms, and add some cream. Make a jmree of green peas; put it in the centre; dish the little &rhne de volaille up round it •, pour the sauce round the base, adding to it just before serving asparagus points and French beans, cut in two lengthwise and previously boiled. Epinards al’Ancienne {Ingredients—Spinach,3d. j Butter, Flour, Cream, etc., 3d.; Pastry, 3d.).—Put the spinach in a saucepan with salt butter and grated nutmeg (if liked). Add more butter, flour, castor sugar, and some cream. When quite cooked, garnish with strips or triangles of hot pastry. Glace a la Princesse de Galle {Ingredients—Apricots, 8d.; Currants or Gooseberries, 3d. j Wafers, 2d.).—Put some candied apricots in a circle round a dish. Place on them vanilla ice, broken into pieces the size and shape of the apricots, with green currants or gooseberries on the top of the ice. Serve with cherry and vanilla wafers. Glace a la Vanille {Ingredients—Cream, Is.; two Eggs, 2d.; Sugar and Vanilla, 2d.).—Cut into small pieces and pound with one tablespoonful of orange-flower water a quarter of a pod of vanilla; then rub the paste through muslin to extract the seeds, and mix with half a pint of cream, one ounce and a half of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat all well together over the fire for ten minutes, turn out, and when cool proceed to freeze as usual. DINNER No. 16. Potage a la Reine {Ingredients—Chicken, Is, 6d. ; Veal Stock, 6d.; Almond Cream, 4d.).—Pound some of the rest of the meat and bones of the chickens after removing the 14