everybody’s dinner book. 96 is quite clear ; then add the tomatoes, make all hot together, and serve with croiUom of fried bread. Lobster Scallops {Ingredients—One Lobster, Is.; Cream and Butter, 5d. ; Lemon, etc., 4d.).—One very fresh lobster, one small cup of cream (creamy milk may be substituted), a quarter of a cup of cracker crumbs, two tablespoonsful of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, cayenne, and a quarter of a cup of breadcrumbs. Cut the meat into dice with a sharp knife ; season and set aside while you heat the cream or milk in a Farina kettle, di-opping into it tlie least bit of soda. When it is hot stir in the butter cut up in one table- spoonful of flour, and as this begins to thicken add the lobster. Have ready well-buttei-('d plated or china fire- proof scallop shells, fill with the mixture, strew fine dry breadcrumbs on the top, and brown in a quick oven. Sliced lemon and cracknels should be handed wdth it. Fried Rump Steak with Mashed Potatoes and Cauliflower {Ingredients—| lb. .Rump Steak, 7d.; Cauliflower, 2d.; Potato&s, Id.).—Plunge the steak into boiling fat. This is the quicke.st way of cooking steak; it only takes a few minutes to fry, the time of course varying with the thickness of the steak. Dish up neatly on a bed of mashed potatoes. Boil one cauliflower carefully, break it into neat pieces, and ai'range round the potatoes and steak. Serve with or -with- out gravy. Veal Cutlets with Macedoine of Vegetables —I lb. Veal, 7d.; Bacon, etc., 2d. ; one Egg, Id.).—Cut the meat into neat cutlets ; dij) them into egg; season with salt and YJepper; then dip them into bre.adcrumbs; turn them in the pan, so that both sides are nicely coloured. Mind the lard is very hot. They require from ten to fifteen minutes to cook. Warm half a tin of “Chollet’s Macedoine de Legumes.” Put this in the centre of the cutlets, with rolls of crisply fried bacon between each cutlet, pour round a good brown gravy, and serve. Croutons of Shiimps {Ingredients—Shrimps, 2d. ; Roll, etc., 2d.).—Take a French roll, cut it in two ; cut the halves into .slices about the eighth of an inch thick. Fry them in butter or lard, spread some anchovy paste on each, and place a layer of picked .shrimps on the top. Serve very hot.