173 KIGHT-SHILLING DINNERS. The Bairns’ Pudding [Ingredients—1 pint Milk, 2d.; 2 oz. Bice, ^d.; Eaisins, Treacle, and Suet, 3d. ; \ lb. Bice; 1 oz. Treacle; 1 pint Milk; 1 tablespoonful Shred Suet; some Baisins).—Mix the whole together cold, pour into a buttered pudding dish, and bake in a slow oven from three to four houi-s. Eat either hot or cold. (Eufs a la Mazarine [Ingredients—Two Poached Eggs; one Tomato stuffed).—Cut one tomato in two; stuff it with breadcrumbs and chopped onions moistened with stock. Poach two eggs, place one on each piece of tomato, and serve at once. DINNER No. 10. Consomme a la Mode [Ingredients—Six Eggs, 6d.; Stock, 9d.).—Mix the yolks of six eggs with rather less than one gill of cold water, add a pinch of salt, strain the mixture, and divide it into three equal parts. Colour one with cochineal, the second with spinach greening, the third leave plain. Put them into three small, plain moulds, previously buttered ; set these in a pan of cold water; place it on the fire to boil just long enough to set the mixture. When the water in the saiicepan has become quite cold, turn out the contents of each mould on to a wet napkin, and you will have three cakes of small, firm custard—red, gi-een, and yellow. Cut the red into small dice, the green into strips, and the yellow into fancy shapes, and, handling them most carefully, spread them out on a plate to be kept until wanted. At the time of serving put some strong, well- flavoured clear soup into the soup tureen, .slip in carefully the three coloured custards, and serve as hot as possible. China Lobster [Ingredients—Lobster and Sauce, Is. 4d.; Lettuce and Truffles, 4d.).—Chop the lobster and lettuce fine; mix with good mayonnaise sauce. Fill some china ramequin cases with the mixture ; sprinkle lobster coral on one cup, and shred truffles on the next. Put some mustard and cress in the dish, place the ramequin cases on it, and serve. Roman Pudding [Ingredients—One Rabbit, Is.fid.; Mac- caroni. Vermicelli, and Parmesan, 3d.; Cream, 2d.; Liam and Paste, 9d.).—Line a plain tin mould with vermicelli,