232 evrrybody’s dinnek book. aspic; when cold, cut the aspic out into pear-shaped pieces ; dish them up against a imree of cold spinach cooked in stock ; garnish with fried crolUons. Curry; Mus. Powell’s Eecipe {Ingredients—Onions, 2d.; Lemon, Curry Powder, etc., 3d.).—One tablespoonful of curry powder, four large onions, and the trimmings of whatever meat is to be used. Stew it two hours, rub it through a tammy, add salt, and fry your meat over a gentle fire until a nice brown, add the sauce to it, and, stew all for one hour. If the sauce is not thick enough,, boil it down to the thickness you want. Before sending it to table, add the juice of half a lemon and one tablespoon- ful of ketchup. Pommes de Terre a la Provencale {Ingredients—Potatoes 2d.; Garlic, Parsley, Onion, Lemon, etc., 2d.; Anchovies 3d.).—Cut some cold boiled potatoes into rather thick slices, and put them in a pan lightly rubbed with garlic with some finely chopped parsley and onion in a little good oil or butter, salt, pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, or a few drops of vinegar. Toss it over the fire until thoroughly hot, and serve gaimished with fillets of anchovies, previou.sly scalded to heat them and extract the salt. Malted Biscuit Pudding {Ingredients—Malted Nurseiy Biscuits, 4d. [Is. 8|d. a tin at the Stores]; Jam, 2d.; Eggs, 2d. ; Cream and Milk, 3d.).—Take some Malted Nursery Biscuits, made by Messrs. Hill & Co., 59, Bishops- gate Street Within, E.C. (they are the best in the market, most nourishing, and excellent in every way ; they can also be eaten plain). Spread a little jam between every two and press them closely together. Arrange them neatly in a well-buttered mould, and pour over them a custard made with half a pint of milk, or half milk and half cream, the yolks of two eggs, and a little sugar, with any flavouring you have. Let all soak for one hour, steam the pudding, and when done enough serve on a hot dish with raspberry sauce poured round it. It will take about two hours to steam. Wine or arrowroot sauce can also be served with it. RaspbeiTy Sauce {Ingredients—Baspberries, 6d.; Sugar, and Arrowroot, Id. ; Sherry, 2d.).—Put into a jar a quarter