231 T R N - kS H f I>L 1N ri r> IN N K K S. ell seasoned; let it remain until it is thoroughly warmed. Cut off the leg of the turkey; season with a little salt and pepper ; dip in clarified butter; broil over a clear fire. Put the pulled turkey on to a dish, and lay the broiled leg upon it. Serve ven'y hot. Roast Bordeaux Pigeon [Ingredients—Pigeon, Is. 4d.). —Eoast the pigeon carefully for about half an hour. Dish on a square of fried bread; send to-table with the vine leaves still on. If liked, serve clear gravy in a tureen. Eggs with. Tomato Sauce [Ingredients—Eggs, 3d.; Tomato Sauce and Butter, 5d.).—Take an earthenware dish that will stand the fire and that can be sent to table; butter it well; sprinkle a little salt upon it; break into it as many eggs as you require, and put it on the top of the stove or in the oven for two minutes, until the eggs are set. Have ready the tomato sauce, pour it over the eggs, and serve as hot as possible. DINNER No. 11. French Ox-tail Soup [IngredietUs—Ox Tail, 2s. 6d.; Onion, Butter, and Barley, 3d.; Tomatoes, 4d.; Stock, 6d.).—Out one ox tail into small pieces, also one onion, and put in a sauce- pan with a little butter ; when they begin to colour slightly, add one pint and a half of stock, and boil gently for three hours. Skim off the grease, add one ounce of bai-ley, previously boiled, and about an eighth of a can of tomatoes ; boil ten minutes, and serve. Filets de Sole au Beurre Noir [Ingredients—Sole, Is.; Lemon, etc., 4d.).—Fillet one sole ; place the fillets in cold water for one hour; then well wash and dry them ; place them in a well-buttered saute pan. Squeeze the juice of one large lemon over them, cover -with a well-buttered papei', and cook in a moderate oven from ten to twelve minutes. Then dish them up in the form of cutlets, pour heurre noir over the fillets, and serve as hot as possible. Cotelettes de Dindon aux Epinards [Ingredients— Turkey, Is. 2|d. ; Spinach, 6d.; Aspic, Gd.).—Cut some pieces from the breast of the turkey; dip them into united