1*^8 (Everybody’s dinner book. Bake with an under crust onhj made as follows: Four ounces of flour, four of butter, a quarter of a pint of water, two tablespoonsful of castor sugar. Rub the butter lightly into the flour ; after the butter Ls rubbed in add the sugar to the flour, mix to a smooth paste with the water, and roll it out two or three times. This dish is excellent cold. Egg and Anchovy Crouton {Iiujredients—OnQ Egg, Id. ; Anchovy Paste, Id.).—One hard-boiled egg ; cut it into rings, white and yolk. Fry a round of bread in boiling lard, spread it with anchovy paste, arrange the rings of egg on the top, and serve. DINNER No. 9. Stewed Codfish with Oysters and Potatoes {In(/redients— 4 lb. Codfish, Gd. ; Potatoes and Tomatoes, 5d.; Onions, etc., 3d. ; Oysters, 9d.).—Put some .salad oil into a stewpan ; add three table-^ipoonsful of finely chopped onions and parsley and some mixed herbs; in five minutes add two large tomatoes cut small, and nine oysters blanched and bearded. Stir the contents of the pan ; add the boiled cod (hot or cold) broken into small flakes, and about one pound of I’aw potatoes cut into small bits. Stir well; add one teaspoonful of water from the fish pan ; cover the pan closely, and stew gently, but without stopping, for one hour, until all the ingredients are well cooked. The liqind must not be watery, as the potatoes should be boiled until they are quite a mash. Season to taste; serve very hot, Avith a lemon cut in half and cayenne pepper. Irish Stew {Ingredients—14 lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 3d. ; Onions, Potatoes, etc., 3d.).—Take one pound and a half of a neck of mutton from the best or cutlet end, but the scrag will do. If cutlets are used, trim them neatly ; if the scrag, cut the meat into neat pieces, removing all superfluous fat and skin. Season to taste with white ground pepper and salt, and put the cutlets in a stewp.an with a little grease in it and some button onions ; let the meat fry for fifteen minutes without browning. Add a little Hour, and cover the meat with water or stock, which is best. Add a bunch of herbs if liked, and simmer for two hours until quite