everybody’s dinner book. 9AJ‘> rolls, should be carefully put on a baking tin in the oven until quite crisp, then pounded in a mortar and sifted, so as to make them of a uniform size; put them into bottles, and j^u always have bi’eadcrumbs ready for immediate use. The larger pieces do for the coarser lands of breadcrumbs, and cut in squares and fried in lard, dripping, or butter, make the croiUotis that are served with nearly all thick .soups. This method is economic.al both in material and time, as it is 1‘uinous to use best part of the crumb of a loaf of bread or a roll every time breadcrumbs in any quantity aro needed. For fish and cutlets this w.ay answers perfectly. Fre.sh white breadcrumbs are cooked in butter and .served with pheasants, partridges, blackgamo, and grouse. These must Ido made fresh, or they are .apt to get mouldy. To prove whether tea is genuine or not, put a pinch of tea in a glass, pour upon it a little cold w.ater, and shake it up thoroughly. If the tea is pure, it will only colour the water very little; if it is advdterated, a sti-ong infusion will very quickly be the result. To make good tea rinse the teapot out with boiling water, then pour the water in first, adding wh.atever number of spoonsful of tea you I’equire at the la.st. Let it stand three minutes only Ijefore pouring it out. To m.ake tea infuse quickly put a lump of .sugar the size of a walnut into the te.apot. I^o m.ake te.a to perfection boiling water must be poured on the leaves immediately it boils. It is impo.ssible to m.ake good tea with water that has never boiled, or that which has been kept boiling .a long time. Five minutes’ fast boiling will utterly spoil w.ater for te.a-making purposes. When broken le.af te.a is xased, the w.ater should be .allowed to remain on the le.aves five or six minutes. Make te.a in an earthenware pot, then pour into a silver or china one. South Down mutton is celebr.ated for its peculiar and most per.«oias think delicious fl.avour. Fines herbes for hot dishes consist of shallots, chives, onions, and par.sley, all finely minced, with the addition sometimes of mushrooms. For cold dishes it is called fourniture, and is made of tarragon, chervil, .all kinds of cress, chives, or spring onions. For salads it is composed of basil, thyme, and mai-jor.am.