everybody’s dinner book. DINNER No. 2. Fillet of Mackerel a la Cardinal (^Ingredients—One Mackerel [to be divided into two dishes], 2d.; Shrimps, 3d. ; other ingredients. Id.).—Fillet one fresh mackerel into four long or eight curled fillets; place in a buttered baking pan or a low-rimmed stewpan. Have ready some melted butter; add one large spoonful of anchovy sauce, and some shrimps that have been ven’y carefully picked quite free from the shells. Dish up the fillets, place the shrimps in the centre, and pour the rest of the sauce, made very hot, over the whole. Julienne Potatoes (Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d.).— Peel, wash, and cut into strips, like thick matches, two medium-sized potatoes; dry them in a cloth, and put them in cold water, in which a little salt has been sprinlded, until you are ready to cook them; dry them again, then fry them in very hot lard; sprinkle a little salt over them while shaking them in the pan or frying basket; drain carefully ; serve very hot. This is an excellent way of cook- ing potatoes; they can be served with fish, cutlets, game, meat, and poultry. Rice and Currant Pudding without Milk or Eggs {Ingredients—Rice, etc., 2d.; Butter, 2d.).—Boil some rice thoroughly; mix in a lump of butter, some sugar, currants (well washed and free from stalks), and a grate of nutmeg (if Hked). Do not let the rice be too wet, only boil until it is quite soft; add a little water in the baking dish. Spread a little butter over the top of the rice before baking. DINNER No. 3. Fillets of Mackerel : Mrs. Dorrien’s Recipe {Ingre- dients—Rest of the Mackerel, 2d. ; Herbs, Id.; Butter, etc.. Id.).—Take the other two fillets, salt and pepper them, fold them up, place in a buttei-ed baking pan, cover with buttered paper; cook ten minutes. Dish them up, and pour over them the following sauce:— Sauce.—Parboil one fenny loeight of green onion tops, ditto parsley, ditto tarragon; pass through a sieve. Have ready some white sauce made from fish bones (the fishmonger