217 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. Piquante Sauce {Ingredients—Eschalots, Parsley, etc., 6(1.).—Stir a little stock into some brown thickening; add three tablespoonsful of vinegar, one of chopped eschalots, a bouquet of pai-sley, one laurel leaf, and black pepper ; add a little salt if necessary, pass through a tammy, and serve. Asperge a la Mode de Paris {Ingredients—Asparagus, 7|d.; Butter, 2d.).—Cook the asparagus until quite tender; serve it with oiled butter (i.e., butter melted and poured off quite free from sediment). Roast Snipe {Ingredients—Snipe,9d.).—Roast about fifteen minutes before a clear fii’e ; flour and froth well. Have ready a square piece of fried bread, spread the trail on it. Dish up the snipe on the crouton ; mind that it is served as hot as possible, or it will not be worth eating. Airy Nothings {Ingredients—Three Eggs, 3d. [two dishes, 4gd.], Milk, Butter, Sugar, and Flour, 6d.).—To three eggs put half an eggshell-full of sweet milk, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; work in flour until you can roll the dough into as thin a sheet as possible; cut into cakes with a cutter, and prick them as you would a biscuit; bake them quickly, but not brown; heap them up on a dish, and strew them thickly with castor sugar. N.B.—Allow one pint of flour to the above-named in gi'edients, although every bit may not be required ; always reserve some for the rolling out of cakes on the board. Croutes a la Mayonnaise {Ingredients—Bread and Pars- ley, 2gd.; Mayonnaise Sauce, 4d.; Prawns, 9d.).—Prepare some rounds of ruto bread, place on them chopped prawns, cover with a thick mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with a little finely minced parsley. Cold veal, poultry, game, meat, rabbit, lobster, shrimps, crab, any kind of fish, egg, and vegetables can all be used in the same way. DINNER No. 2. Potage Blanc k la Colbert {Ingredients—Stock, etc., 5d. ; Eggs, 5d. ; Cream, 2d. ; Potato, Id.).—Thoroughly blanch the hearts of four heads of endive; warm them in butter, and add the necessary quantity of stock, thickened with yolks of eggs and cream. Just before serving add poached eggs and