182 everybody’s dinner book. —Roast the pheasant before a brisk fire, and mind that it is thoroughly well basted, or it will be dry. Pour some game gravy round, and serve good bread sauce in a sauce boat. Hand potato chips or ribbons with it. Lacroix Pudding {Ingredients—'2 lb. Apples, 6d.; one Lemon, Id.; Strawberry Jam, 2|d. ; Peel, Castor Sugar, Demerara, and Rice, 3d.; Butter, etc., l|d. [enough for twice, 7d.]).—Peel and core two pounds of apples (if at a time of year when apples are notin season, Ameiican apples ready cored can be used; they cost sixpence a tin). Add grated lemon peel and ca.stor sugar to taste. Boil half a teacupful of rice in water until quite soft, drain and diy it over the fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of clarified drip- ping and two of Demerara, and mix well. Fill a buttered pie dish with alternate layers of apple and rice, finishing with apple; place a thick layer of strawberry jam, and then at last one of the apples, with a few drops of lemon juice. Put baked breadcrumbs on the top, with a few bits of butter. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven, sprinkle castor sugar and a few shreds of mixed peel on the top, and serve. This pudding is excellent cold. . Epiuards k la Creme {Ingredients—1 lb. Spinach, 3d.; Butter, Cream, etc., 3d.).—Pick and wash perfectly clean one pound (or more) of spinach, put it into a saucepan with a little Avater, and let it boil until quite done. A little salt .should be added. Turn it out on to a hair sieve to drain, squeeze all the water out, and pass it through a hair sieve. Put one ounce of fresh butter into a saucepan ; fry it a light brown ; add one dessertspoonful of flour; mix Avell; add the spinach, pepper and salt to taste, and some castor sugar; work it on the fire until it begins to get dry, then moisten with cream a little at a time, and keep working the .spinach Avith a spoon for fully ten minutes. Another way is to omit the sugar, substitute grated nutmeg, use good stock instead of milk or cream, and stir into it at the last moment a good-sized pat of fresh butter. Garnish Avith croUtons. This Avay of cooking spinach is excellent. You may poach eggs, and dish them up on the top of the spin.ach ; or you may boil two eggs hard, take off the shells, cut them in quartei’S, and place them round the .spinach {vlternateljf Avith the a‘oiitons,