DO fottr-shilling dinners. soft; add a little grated nutmeg. Have ready some hot lard. With a tablespoon take out pieces the size of a walnut; drop them one by one into the lard. Plenty of lard Ls necessary to allow the fritters to swim in it, but do not have the lai-d too hot, or the fritters will be brown before the inside is well warmed, and then they will be as heavy as lead ; fifteen minutes cooks them properly; then take them out, roll them in powdered sugar mix?d with a little grated cinn.amon; dish up and serve directly. Sardines and Potatoes {Ingredients—Sarchnes, 4d.; Pota- toes, etc., 4d.).—^Slice .some parboiled potatoes half an inch thick, melt a bit of butter in a stowpan, and jjut in a layer of half the potatoes. In anbther stewpan put two chopped onions, a little chopped par.sley, and .some butter; stew thoroughly. Chop some sardines or anchovies, .and stir them into the latter. Stew for a few minutes, then spread them over the potatoes in the stewpan. Cover with the remaining potatoes, stew ten minutes, or cover the dish and cook in the oven. DINNER No. 7. Semolina Soup au Pate d’ltalie {Ingredients—Semolina, etc., 3d. ; Stock, 6d.).—Make some clear soup very hot; add to it some semolina, Itahan paste, sago, and barley, premously boiled. Stir with a spoon to prevent its forming into lumps. Let it boil for half an hour, then serve at once. Baked Mackerel a la Sparta {Ingredients—One Mackerel, 4d.; Thyme, etc.. Id.).—Wash well and dry thoroughly one good-sized mackerel, sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper, a pinch of dried thyme and parsley. Wrap the fish in a sheet of white p.apei-, well buttered; double the top over and the ends underneath ; lay it in a tin ; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes or half an hour, according to size. Lay a sheet of white paper on a hot disli, and send the fish to table in its paper cradle, just cutting the top with sci.ssors at the moment of serving. Chicken in Batter with French Beans {Ingredients—Legs of the Chicken, Is.; two Eggs, 2d. ; French Beans, 2d.; Milk,