everybody’s dinker book. 222 Curried Oyster Fritters Oysters, Is. 6d.; Egg, Id. ; Milk and Flour, etc., 3d.).—Make a batter with one beaten egg, one table.spoonful of flour, a, little curry powder, and half a teacupful of milk. Dip the oy.sters in it, and fry them a nice golden brown. Serve with crisply fried parsley. Mouton a la Marcelle {Ingredients—Rest of the Mutton, Is. l|d.; Potatoes, etc., 4d.).—Cut .some nice .slices from the loin of mutton, warm them in good stock, and serve \vith potatoes warmed in melted butter, sprhikled with chopped parsley, and handed in a separate dish. Creme de The {Ingredients—Cream, Is.; Eggs, 2d.; Tea and Sugar, 3d.).—Warm half a pint of cream until reduced to one quarter the quantity ; add half a small teacupful of strong Mazawattee tea, two yolks of eggs, and a little .sugar ; stir well, pass through a fine cloth, and pour into one large or several small moulds ; cook in a bain-marie until set. Foie Gras a la Livonian {Ingredients—Foie Gras, 8d.; Aspic, 7|d.).—Cut some foie gras with a cutter into tiny cutlets, set them in aspic, cut the aspic out with a cutter, and place each cutlet on a piece of fried bread of the same shape. DINNER No. 5. Consomm6 an Pere Donillet {Ingredients—Vegetables, 6d.; Whiting, etc., 2s.; Bread, etc., 4d.; Wine, Gd.f.—Chop some parsley, thyme, celery, carrots, onions, eschalots, one head of garlic, and turnips; pepper and salt to taste ; brown them a nice colour in butter. Take three parts of water, one part of white wine, moisten the vegetables with this, boil, and skim very carefully. Add to this any fish trimmings you have, the head of a turbot, and two whitings; boil for three hours, and squeeze through a cloth. Fillet one sole; cook it in stock; put it into the tureen, with some rounds of white bread. Pour the fish soup upon this. Serve as hot as possible. Mix some butter with some carefully picked shrimps that have been pounded in a mortar. Form into little balls, and hand in a separate sauce bo.at with the soup.