5 ONE-SHILLING DINNEES. sheep’s head until quite tender ; I’emove the bones, cut the meat into neat pieces, lay them in a pie dish with some of the gravy they have been stewed in ; add pepper and salt to taste, and plenty of parsley; cover with a crust made with dripping, and bake in the oven. N.B.—This is excellent cold. Anchovy Eggs {Ingredients—Eggs and Butter, 2|d. ; An- chovy Sauce, Cayenne, Parsley, Id.).—Boil until they are hard two eggs; cut them in halves, taking care not to break the white ; take out the yolks, and pound them in a mortar with one ounce of butter, a little anchovy sauce, and cayenne. Fill the whites with this mixture ; dish up with a little parsley sprinkled over them. The eggs should be cut across, not lengthwise, and a piece cut off the base to make them stand upright. DINNER No. 8. Pot Luck Soup {Ingredients—Suet, |d.; Vegetables, 6d. ; Rice, etc., 3|d.).—Chop one ounce of suet into a frying pan; cut two carrots, two potatoes, one turnip, two onions, and some celery into pieces ; stir together until the vege- tables are slightly browned ; put into the soup kettle ; add two quarts of cold water, two spoonfuls of rice, carefully washed ; simmer gently one hour ; pass through a very fine sieve ; place it again in the soup kettle; moisten two level t.'iblespoonfuls of “ Brown & Poison’s Corn Flour ” with cold water; add to the .soup, and do not stop stirring until it boils ; flavour to taste with salt and ground white pepper ; stir to the consistency of cream; add hot Avater if, after boil- ing, it seems too thick. Just before seinung throw in a handful of peas that have been previously boiled. SerA’e AAuth croiitons of fried broad. Bloater Straws {Ingredients—Bloater Paste and Bread, 2d.).—Fry in hot fat as many pieces of bread, cut about three inches long and one broad, as you require; spread each piece Avith bloater paste, and serve immediately. DINNER No. 9. Rabbit with Bacon (The rabbit Avill cost Is. 4d., but it Avill make three dishes. Ingredients—Rabbit, Sd. ; Bacon'