everybody's dinner bOOK. 242 poundud j poLiud aud amalgamate the partridge aud chest- nuts thoi’oughly, pass the whole through a sieve, simmer some bread with the soup, and mix it with the j'est of the soup. The mixture of pounded partridge and chestnut pulp is most nourishing, savoury, and of an excellent taste; it possesses singular restorative powers. Rissoles a la Reine Victoria {Ingredients—The rest of the Guinea Fowl, 2s.; three Eggs, 3d. ; Truffles and Mush- rooms, 4d. •, Oysters, 9d.; one gill Bechamel Sauce, 6d.). —Mix all these ingredieirts into the sauce j stir in when over the fire the yolks of two eggs. Let this thicken, pour out on a dish, and when cold make into rissoles. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a irice brown in boiling lard or fat. Dish on a napkin, and serve garnished with crisply fried parsley. For variety they can be made into cutlets with a bit of maccaroni at the end to form the bone, and served with peas on a macedoine of vegetables in the centre, and any sauce you like—broAvn, mushroom, or tomato. Mutton Pie a la Perigord with Asparagus {Ingredients— The rest of the Pie, 2s. 7d. •, Asparagus, etc., 9d.).—Serve with the pie some well-boiled asparagus with sauce vinagrette {i.e., oil, tarragon, vinegar, pepper, and salt beaten well together) poured over them. Biscuits a la Sefton; Lady Fitzhardinge’s Recipe, 1875 {Ingredients—Parmesan, 2d. ; Butter and Flom-, 3d.).— Two ounces of grated Parmesan, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour; work all thoroughly until Avell mixed. Roll out the pa.ste, cut it into pieces two inches long and one broad, and bake a light golden colour. Windsor Sandwiches {Ingredients—Ham, Parmesan, Butter, and Bread, 5d.).—One ounce of lean ham, one ounce of grated Parmesan, half an ounce of butter, and some cayenne. Pound in a mortar, pass through a wii-e sieve, spread on thin rounds of broivn bread, and fry in butter. DINNER No. 18. Potage a la Camerani; Translated by me from “L’Al- MANACII DES GOURMANDS ” {Ingredients—Maccaroni, 6d. ; Parmesan, 7d.; Butter, 4d.; Vegetables, 6d.; Chickens’