144 everybody’s dinner book. Escrick Rolls: Lady W enlock’s Recipe {Ingredients— Two Penny Rolls, 2d.; Gravy, etc., 3d. ; Meat, 5d.).—4'wo penny rolls. Take out all the crumb. Chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton that has been previously cooked; add a little flour, pepper and salt and Worcester and Harvey to taste, and enough good gravy to make the mince a nice consistency (not too thick). Boil well for fifteen minutes. Before the mixture is quite cold, fill the rolls with it. Any scraps of poultry, veal, lamb, pork, game, or fish may be used in the same way. In the case of game, poultry, veal, or fish cream should be substituted for gravy. Aloyau de Boeuf a I’Anglaise {Ingredients—lb. Sirloin, 10|d. = 8s. 9d. [makes eight dishes at Is.; one at 9d.]; Horseradish, l^d.).-—Roast the sirloin two hours and a half before a clear, bright fire. When the outside is set, and it has been slightly sprinkled with flour, draw it from the fire and baste carefully until it is done, which will be the case when the steam draws towards the fire. If you want it a rich brown baste with milk; otherwise a little salt should be dusted over it, the di’ipping pan emptied of the dripping, some slightly salted water poured in, stin-ed, and strained over the meat. Serve with scraped horseradish on the top of the sirloin, horseradish sauce in a boat, and Yorkshire pudding cooked under the meat. The fillet should be taken out and cooked separately. Horseradish Sauce {Ingredients—Horseradish, 14d.; Cream, etc., 3d.).—Take three tablespoonsful of finely grated horseradish; add to this one teaspoonful of salt, ditto castor sugar, made mustard, and vinegar. Let the mixture soak about an horn and a half. When ready to serve add four tablespoonsful of rich whipped cream. Asparagus a la Pompadour {Ingredients—Twenty-five Heads of Asparagus, 7|d.; White Sauce, 3d.; Eggs, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 2^d.).—Tie "twenty-five heads of asparagus into a bundle; scrape them and plunge them into boiling water, into which one tablespoonful of salt has been previously thrown. Let it simmer fifteen or eighteen minutes (the time depends upon the size and age of the asparagus). Have ready a sauce made as follows: Boil two table- spoonsful of vinegar and one tablespoonful of tan-agon