everybody’s dinner book. 58 previously put into tlie tureen. Hand cayenne with it, one lemon cut in quarters, and strips of bread cut like straws and fried in hot fat. Veal Cutlets a la Pompadour {Ingredients—1 lb. Veal, Is. 2d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients. Id.).—One pound of veal; cut some neat cutlets about three-quarters of an inch thick; beat with a I'olling pin, egg them, then cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs, thyme, pepper, and salt; wrap each cutlet in white paper, and broil them gently until tender. Serve with clear gravy: .some people prefer melted butter. Ribbon Potatoes {Ingredients—Potatoes, Id.).—Peel .some potatoes thinly, as 3um would apples. Fiy them in hot lard, and dash a little salt and pe^iper over them. French Green Gooseberry Pudding {Ingredients—One pint Goo.sebenies, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d. ; Suet, Sugar, etc., 3|d.). —Boil one pint of green gooseberries with half a teacupful of water and four ounces of castor sugar. When tender beat up with the goo.seberries six ounces of flour, three ounces of finely chopped suet, two eggs, and if liked a little grated nutmeg. Pour the mixtiu-e into a well-greased pie dish, and bake one hour. This pudding can also be boiled ; then another egg is neces.sary, and it should be boiled two hours. When fresh fruit is out of season, bottled fruit can be used instead. Toast with Watercress and. Anchovy {Ingredients— One Egg, Id. ; Watercress, Itl.; Sardinps, etc., 4^d.).—Make a good-sized piece of toast, which must be cut about a quarter of an inch thick, butter it well, and cover thinly with anchovy paste. Chop the white and yolk of one hard-boiled egg into strips, arrange the top of the buttered toa.st with altei'nate strips of the- yolk and the white, lay some water- cre.ss and some strips of cooked sardines on the top of the egg, and serv'o immediatelj'^, wliile the to<ast is yet hot. DINNER No. 10. Ham and Veal Puffs [Ingredients—h Ib. Ham, 7^d.; one Egg, Id.; other ingredients, 7^d.).—Take a quarter of a pound of ham, one egg boiled hard and chopped, a seasoning