239 TEN-SniLLINO DINNERS. stowpan of boiling water for twenty minutes ; drain and put into a second pan witli two ounces of fresh butter • sprinkle in two ounces of grated Parmesan, and warm up for five minutes. Garnish the chicken with them, and pour over the chicken and noiiilles h.alf a pint of “ Cream Bechamel Sauce ” in which has been mixed two ounces of Parmesan. If preferred, plain nouilles stewed in gravy can be substituted. Cream Bechamel Sauce (Ingredients — Cream, Is. ; Bechamel Sauce, 8d.).—The same as “Bechamel Sauce,” u-sing half a pint of cream, instead of milk. Sardines a la St. Leger : Doncaster Pv,ecipe, 1874 {In- gredients—Saidines, 4d. ; Butter and Milk, 3d.; Flour, Sauces, etc., 3d.).—Four sardines (Tesseyneau’s are the best), one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, ditto Worcester, h.alf a tablespoonftil of cayenne pepper, one ounce of butter. Scrape the sardines (they are boned) and pound them finely with the above ingredients, and spread on very hot rounds of buttered toast. Over this pour the following sauce : Take half a breakfastcupful of milk, one wineglass of water, one dessertspoonful of flour, one ounce of fresh butter, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Boil well. The toast and sauce being very hot will sufficiently warm the rest of the above mixture. CEufs a la Newmarket {Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Onion, Potatoes, and Butter, 4|ld.).—Put a lump of fresh butter into a frying pan. When it boils, brown in it one finely chopped onion. Cut some cold boiled potatoes into slices; put them into the pan; pour over them the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; add pepper and salt to taste. Fry a golden Iji'own on both sides. DINNER No. IG. Chiffonade de Pintade {Ingredients—Guinea Fowl, Ls. 6d. [two dishes, 3s.] ; Vegetables and Herbs, lOd.; Veal, Eggs, and Milk, 7d.).—This soup may also be made with turkey, chicken, or pheasant. For the stock use any trimmings and bones of poultry you have. Take half a guinea fowl and put it into a .stewpan with three .sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, two cloves, and one pint and a half of the stock.