i5 TWO-SHILLING DINNERS. potatoes ; season with salt and ground white pepper, and stir for a minute. To this add two tablespoonsful of cream; stir five minutes, and serve. (Eufs a la Suisse {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Cheese, etc., 3d.).—Mix one ounce of grated Parmesan and one of oiled butter, with two eggs, salt and pepper, and a little finely cliopped parsley and tairagon; if in season, some spring onions. Fry lightly, brown the top, and serve very hot. DINNER No. 3. Crecy a I’AUemande {Ingredients—Cream, Milk, and Egg, lOd.; Vegetables and Butter, 3d.).—Peel four medium- sized carrots ; place them in a stewpan, with a pint and a half of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When cooked, remove the herbs and drain the carrots; rub them through a fine sieve ; add a pint and a half of boiling milk and one ounce of butter rolled in flour. In a quarter of a pint of sweet cream beat up the yolk of one egg; pour it into the soup tureen; whisk in your soup, which must be boiling ; stm thoroughly, and serve. A little gi-ated nutmeg may be added if liked. Hand croiitons ol fried bread. Croquettes de Riz au Jambon {Ingredients—Ham, 2|d. ; Butter, Cheese, etc., 4d.).—Boil a handful of rice in as much water as the rice will absorb when done. When this is accomplished, stir in a bit of fi'esh butter, some potted ham, and a little grated Parmesan; salt and pepper to taste. Have ready a plate; spread the mixture on it. When cold, make it into croquettes; egg and breadcrumb them ; fry in hot lard or fat a nice golden colour; serve on a napkin very hot, with fried parsley in the centre. Brighton Savoury Eggs {Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; other ingredients, 2|d.).—Boil two eggs; cut them in halves; mix the yolks into a paste with butter, cayenne, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Care must be taken to cut them exactly in the middle, so that all four pieces ai’e the same size. Fill the four pieces with the savoury paste ; lay them in a very hot dish ; pour over them some tluck brown gravy, well flavoured with French mustard, Worcester and Harvey sauce.