101 bIX-SHILLING DINNEHS. ounces of fresh butter, three tablespoonsful of good yeast, one pound of flour, four eggs, a little salt and castor sugai’. INIix thoroughly. Make the mixture into balls the size of large apples; fill the centre, having scooped out a piece with a sharp knife, with jam, jelly, or marmalade. Let them rise in a warm place. lioil them in hot lard. Before serving sprinkle them with powdered cinnamon (if liked) and castor sugar. Potato Scones with Potted Ham [Ingredients—Potatoes, etc., 2d. ; Potted Ham, 2|d.).—^Mash very smoothly one pound of pared potatoes, well boiled with a little salt. Take one tablespoonful out, place it on a baking tin or board, and work into it a small handful of flour until it feels firm and sticks well togethei’. Boll this out to a round thin scone, which cut in quarters; spread on the pieces potted ham ; put on a hot girdle; prick the scones all over with a fork; let them bake a few minutes; turn them over and bake for two minutes on the other side; then pile them on a plate. Good either hot or cold. DINNER No. 4. Saumon au Gratin [Ingredients—Slice of Salmon, Is.; Butter and Cheese, 3d.; Cucumber, Id.).—Take a nice slice of salmon about one inch thick, spiinkle it on both sides Avith pepper and a little salt, put a few bits of buttei’ on it, then lay over it a sheet of well-buttered paper, and place it in a buttered baking tin. Put the tin in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take out the slice, lay it on a dish, pour butter over it, sprinkle well with grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little fine baked breadcrumbs. Place the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and send to table in the same dish, with slices of cucumlaer well dusted with cayenne on a separate plate. Larded Soubise Cutlets [Ingredients—Ig lb. Neck of Mutton, Is. 3d.; Bacon, 3d.; Vegetables, etc., 4d.).—The cutlets should be cut rather thick, trimmed, and slightly pre,ssed. Lard them with equal portions of fat bacon or ham. Cover the bottom of the stewpau with the trimmings of the cutlets; add three onions, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, and chives, and season well. Arrange the cutlets