243 TEN-SHILLING DINNERS. Livers, 2s.).—-Miuce veiy liiiely tlxe livers of four chickens, some celery, cabbage, carrots, turnips, pumpkin, and parsnips. Cook these ingredients in a saucepan with some fresh buttei-. Have ready some maccai'oni already boiled and quite tender ; season it with ground white pepper and spices j then drain Avell. Take the soup tureen ; it should be one that will stand the fire. Put in it a layer of maccaroni, then one of the minced livers and vegetables, then one of gi’ated Par- mesan. Continue the layers in the same order until the top of the tm-een is nearly reached. Place on a slow fire, and let the whole simmer until thoroughly done. The Almanach cles Gourmands says of this soup : “ C’est I’inven- tion de M. Camerani, ancien scapin et semanier perpetuel de la Comedie Italienne, qui e.st aujourd’hui au Theatre de la Rue Favart, sous le nom d’Opera Comique, et Fun des plus erudits gourmands qu’il y ait en France. II en regale souvent ses amis. C’est un manger delicieux et le principe d’un tr6s-grand nombre d'indigestions! C’est ce que I’on pent manger de meilleur et de plus distingue, et, seul, il eut suifi pour etablir la reputation de M. Camerani.” Pate de Legumes a la Grimod de la Reyniere {Ingre- Vegetables, 9d.; Paste, 9d. ; Cream Bechamel Sauce, 3d.).—Cook some tender young gi’een peas, young broad beans, small carrots, and tender French beans sepa- rately in “Creme Bechamel Sauce” (see Dinner No. 15, p. 239). Place all in a baked pie case, divided into compart- ments, one vegetable in each, by thin pieces of paste, and serve. In winter preserved vegetables take the place of fresh ones. ■ This cfish is the invention of the celebrated Grimod de la Reyni6re, member of the Academies of Rome and Marseilles. Gibelotte de Lapin Sauce au Citron {Ingredients—One Rabbit, Is. 6d. 3 2 oz. Butter, 2d. j Onions, Garlic, Shallots, etc., 5d.).—Cut the rabbit in pieces; fry or saute it in the butter; add the shallots, one onion, the garlic, and the lemon sauce, made as follows : Put it in the oven for one hour, being specially careful that it does not burn; to this add some very small new potatoes and pieces of cauliflower previously cooked, and ci'oiitons of fried bread. Sauce au Citron {Ingredients—Lemon and Parsley, 2d. ; Bechamel, 8d.).—The inside of one lemon (peeled and the