FIYE-SHILLING DINNEKS. 93 pan, with a little pepper and salt and one teaspoonful of powdered lump sugar; then put in the carrots until they begin to take colour ; then add the celery, after a little time the onions, and then the turnips. When all the vegetables are equally coloured, add as much stock as you want soup, and simmer gently for two hours; then skim and serve. Yesterday’s Cold Fish Dressed (/wyrecZtejite—One Haddock, Gd. ; two Eggs, 2d. ; Shrimps, 2d. ; Butter, etc., 4d.).— Take a boiled fresh haddock or any other fish you happen to have; shred carefully from the bone. Add to it one handful of breadcrumbs, two eggs, a little anchovy sauce, two ounces of butter, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, and the juice of one lemon. Butter a tin mould, put in the mixture, and steam until it is hot all through. When done turn it out of the mould; serve with anchovy and shrimp sauce. Salmon, turbot, or any fish may be used up in the same way. Breast of Mutton with Peas (Ingredients— 3 lb. Breast of Mutton [two dishes. Is. 9d.], lOgd.; Sherry, Peas, etc., 9d.).—Take a brea.st of mutton—say three pounds; cut it in half. Skin carefully and season with pepper and salt. Lay the meat in a stewpan, pour in enough stock to cover it, and stew about an hour and a quarter until quite tender. Before dishingUip add a little flour and butter to thicken the stock, and'*©ne sinall wineglass of .sherry or two table- spoonsful of vinbgar, and after one Boil pour it over the meat. Add well-boiled peas to the gravy, and smwe as soon as possil)le. 'v Lemon Walnuts (^Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, 2d.; Flour, Lemon, etc., 2d.).—Put two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour; add half a pound of castor sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and two eggs; mix all thoroughly. Drop pieces of this mixture about the size of walnuts on to a buttered tin, and bake until a golden colour, testing them to be sure they are done in the middle. Grilled Finnan Haddock (Ingredients—Haddock and Butter, 4^d.).—Put on a hot gridiron over the fire a small Finnan haddock; turn frequently. Ten minutes will cook it.