79 FIVE-SHILLING DINNERS. yolks. . Put all the ingredients except the whites into a basin, and beat well for five minutes. Beat up the whites on a dinner plate into a stiff froth'. Put the basin with the yolks into a stewpan, with boiling water half-way up the basin ; stir the mixture constantly one way, until it begins to thicken; then stir in the whites of the eggs. Pour the ci'eam into china coffee cups or cu.stard glasses. When cold serve with savoys, sponge cakes, or biscuits. Eggs a la Wyndham [Ingredients—Two Eggs, 2d.; one quart of Milk, 4d. ; Butter, 3d. ; other ingredients, 2d.).— Boil two eggs hard ; take off the shells and mince the eggs ; melt a bit of butter the size of a walnut in a saucepan ; add one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, ditto flour, one quart of milk, half a teaspoonful of vinegar, one saltspoonful of ground white pepper. Stm the mixture over the fii-e until it boils, add the chopped eggs, and pour it on to rounds of hot buttered toast. Put into the oven until required. DINNER No. 7. Fresh Haddock Baked and Stuffed [Ingredients—Haddock, 6d. ; one Egg, Id. ; Milk and Cream, 3d.; Herbs, etc., 6d.). —Remove the bone and stew the haddock in a little stock. Dry the fish ; dip it in flour ; stuff it with a stuffing of egg, breadcrumbs, and herbs; place it in a dish and baste with melted butter. Boil down the stock made of the fish bones and a little milk ; I'cduce it; add-a little cream and some of Burgess’s anchovy sauce. Brown the fish and serve with the sauce in a sauce boat. Cold Loin of Mutton with Pickles [Ingredients—The rest of the Loin, Is. 2d.; Pickles, etc., 3d.).—The remains of the loin with pickles, and brown bread and butter thinly cut and rolled. This makes a very good dish, served with the following salad:— Hermit’s Salad [Ingredients—Beetroot, Id. ; Potatoes, etc., 2d.).—Slice some cold potatoes, also one beetroot; lay them in a salad bowl, the beetroot in the centi'e, the potatoes round it, and a little chopped shallot and onion. Pour over the whole a sauce made of oil and vinegar, pepper and salt.