SEVEN-SHILLING DINNEBS. 153 Chips 01- Kibbons, Id.; Butter, 8d.).—One grouse will require half a pound of fresh butter to baste it. The butter should be put in a basin and allowed to melt before the fire. The grouse should not be placed too near the tii-e at first, and should be basted soon after it is put down, and the basting should be continued without interruption until the gi-ouse is done. Have ready some gravy made from grouse bones (on no account must meat gravy be used). Serve the grouse with the gravy poured round, and hand with it bread sauce, brown breadcrumbs fried in butter, and crisply fried potato chips or potato ribbons. For grouse roasted in the Scotch fashion make some toast, butter it while hot, place it under the bird, and poim thin melted butter over the whole. Serve breadcrumbs and chips, but no gravy or bread sauce. Jessie’s Pudding {Ingredients—Bottle of Fruit, 8gd.; Cream, 2d.; Sugar, Sago, etc., 2|d.).—Take one bottle of damsons, cherries, black currants, gooseberries, plums, greengages, raspben-ies, raspberries and currants, cherries and currants, cranberries, or red currants, whichever you prefer. The fruit varies from 5gd. to 8|d. and Is. a bottle. Wash thoroughly in several waters one breakfastcupful of large sago, rice, or tapioca ; cover with cold water, and soak all night. In the morning add one pint of boiling water, put on the fire, and simmer until quite clear. Add to the fruit, castor sugar to taste ; stir the sweetened fruit into sago, rice, or tapioca; take it from the fire; put it in a glass dish, and set aside until quite cold. Serve with cream and castor sugar, oi' milk and castor sugar. Fresh fruit may be cooked in the same way. Toast a la Czarina {Ingredients—Cream, etc. [without meat], 3d.).—Any sci’aps of chicken, ham, tongue, or game you have, one chopped chilli, and a little parsley. Mince very fine and season highly; add cream or butter and mix to a smooth paste ; put it into a saucepan ; heat gently. Have some rounds of hot buttered toast ready, pour the mixture over them, sprinkle white of egg very finely chopped on the top, and serve arranged down the centre of a dish. Potted meat will do.