208 everybody’s dinner book. Supreme Sauce (^Ingredients—Cream, 6d.; Stock, etc., 9rl.). —Prepare some good white sauce made either with chicken or veal stock, to which is added some essence of mushrooms and a gUl of good rich cream. / Asperges a I’Ecossais (^Ingredients—Asparagus, 7^d. > Mint, 2d.; Egg and Butter, 2d.).—Out some asparagus into pieces about one inch long, and boil with mint and fresh butter like green peas. Put the heads into tlie pot after the other parts, as, being very tender, they do not need to boil so long. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. Huitres au Pain Grillier (Ingredients—Oysters, Is. 6d.; Anchovies and Cream, 4|d.; Butter, Bread, and Lax, 4|d.).— Chop roughly twelve oysters and mix them with two mashed and boned anchovies (essence of anchovies will do if you have no whole fish), mix thoroughly with some cream or the yolk of one egg, thicken with a little fresh butter rolled in fiour and some cayenne, add a little chopped “ Patent Lax,” boil up quickly, and serve on slices of well-buttered toast very hot, made from milk loaves, which make the most delicious toast procurable. DINNEP. No. 15. Pui’ee de Potiron {Ingredients—Leeks, 3d. ; Butter and Cream, 7d.; Eggs, 2d.; Elour, etc., 2d.).—Peel the leeks, cut them into small pieces, and boil in boiling salt and water. When done, pass them through a tammy; warm the in a saucepan with some fresh butter, one tumblerful of cream, a little castor sugar, and a pinch of fiour. Eeduce, thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and serve very hot with fried ci'oiltons. Fricassee of Shi’imps {Ingredients—Shrimps, 3d.; Butter, Milk, and Rice, 2d. ; Onion, etc.. Id.).—Boil and pick one pint of shrimps (or more). Put into a saucepan one heaped- up tablespoonful of butter, into which mince one small onion, one sprig of thyme, ditto of parsley, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Add the shrimps, stir until they are brown, add one cup of milk, boil up, and serve with rice. An excellent way of cooking shrimps, which is not to be excelled. Prawns may be treated in similar fashion.