28 everybody's dinner book. ao that the white is not broken, and dust a little salt over them. Beat up one raw egg, and dip the two eggs in it, add some salt to some breadcrumbs, and roll the eggs in them; fry a delicate golden colour. Serve with a good white sauce. If you have any grated or potted ham or tongue, add it to the crumbs previous to rolling the eggs in them. J DINNER No. 18. Breast of Mutton, Sauce Piquante {Iv^recUents~OnQ Breast of Mutton, 5d.; Vinegar, etc., 2|d.).—Steam a breast of mutton three hours in enough water to cover the bottom of a stewpan ; take out of the stewpan, put on a baking sheet, cover the meat with brown breadcrumbs, bake in the oven for half an hour. Make a sauce of good gi’avy thickened with a little flour and two tablespoonsful of vinegar, pour i-ound the meat, and serve at once. Omelette aux Ponunes [Ingredients—Apples, 2d. ; Apiicot Jam, 3d.; two Eggs, 2d.; Butter, etc., 2|d.).—Take three large pippins or other tart apples, one tablespoonful of butter, two eggs, three tablespoonsful of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of rosewater, and a little gia ted nutmeg. Pare, core, and stew the apples as for apple sauce ; beat them very smooth; while hot add the butter, sugar, and flavouring; when quite cold add the eggs, beaten separately very light; put in the whites last, and pour into a deep baking dish previously warmed and well buttered. Bake in a moderate oven until it is a delicate yellow. Serve directly. Hand with it apricot jam that has been melted over the fire. Adelaide Saiidwiclies [Ingredients—Ham, 4d.; Curry Powder, Cheese, etc., 3d.).—Any scraps of roast or boiled chicken, veal, or game you happen to have. Cut two ounces of cooked ham in the form of small dice, in the proportion of two-thii’ds of chicken to one-third of ham. Stii- two good tfiblespoonsful of stock with one of curry powder in a saucepan or stewpan; when it boils add the meat .and ham. Mix well. Cut some thin slices of bread free from crust, stamp with a cutter the size of crown pieces, fry in clarified butter until of a light golden colour. Between two of the croutons place a thick layer of the preparation; place them