Ill SIX-SHILLING DINNERS. put them to brown in some salad oil at the bottom of the hsh kettle. When a pretty colour take the sole, cut it into pieces about two inches broad, put the pieces into the kettle or the sti-ainer, add salt and one pint of water. Stew gently until quite done. Beat up the eggs; add to them very slowly the juice of four lemons (do not stop beating all the time, or the eggs will curdle); then stir in quickly one tablespoonful of curry powder, and throw it over the fish. Shake the pan for a few minutes, and remove from the fire (it must not cni'dle, or it will be quite spoilt); place the fish on a dish, and strain the liquor over it. This Avay of cooking fish they will keep for days, and they are best eaten cold. Salmon, plaice, turbot, may be served in the same way. Serve with small croMons of fried bread, with a broiled mushroom on each, and a little chopped onion and potted ham on the top. Roast Neck of Lamb with Mint Sauce {Ingredients— 5| lb. Neck of Lamb [enough for four dishes, 5s. lOd.], Is. 5|d.; Mint and Peas, 3gd.).—Get a neck of lamb of five pounds; cut three pounds of the best end, and roast it carefully. Serve with mint sauce and a border of peas. Biscuits de Pommes de Terre {Ingredients—Potatoes, etc.. Id.).—Make some cold mashed potatoes into round, flat biscuits; add milk if the mixture has dried up too much; dip into flour; then fry in boiling lard until a delicate brown. Poached Eggs and Curried Onions on Toast {Ingredients —Two Eggs, 2d.; Spanish Onion, etc.).—Slice one small Portugal onion carefully; then curry it. Cut two rounds of bread with a cutter; toast and well butter them. Put a good layer of the curried onions on each. Keep very hot while you are poaching two eggs; lay one on each round of toast and curried onion. Serve at once, very hot. DINNER No. 11. Potage au Pain {Ingredients—Stock, 9d.; Bread, Id.).— Place in the soup tureen some pieces of bread free from crust and cut about one inch .scpuire; put just sufficient stock to moi.sten them. At the moment of serving pour in boiling