eVerybouy’s dinner book. 234 Mutton Chop an Feu {Inyredients—Chops, lOd. ; Onion and Parsley, Id.).—Cut two rather thin chops, mince one onion and .some^ parsley leaves very fine, add some oil, ml) the chops well with this, leave them to soak in it two hours, season with pepper and salt, broil over a sharp fire, and .serve immediately. Beigiiets au Cafe {Inyredients—2d. ; Milk, Id.; Eggs, 2d. ; Sugar and Roll, 2d.).—Mix together two-thirds of a breakfastcupful of very strong coffee (B.V. mixture, from Barto Valle, 21, Haymarket, London), and one-third of rich milk boiled with seven lumps of sugar. Beat up two new-laid eggs, yolks and whites separately; then mix them up together, and put them in a soup plate. Cut into slices a rasped French roll, lay the slices in a soup plate, and pour over them the hdcewarm mixture of collee and milk. When soaked through, put them in the eggs, and turn them well over, so that they are well saturated with the eggs. Then fry them very carefully in butter, as you fry pancakes (if done in this way, they will remain soft). Sprinkle castor sugar over them before serving. French bread is much the best to use, and is never used stale. This Ls a thoroughly French and most excellent. Babas {Inyredients—Raisins, Salfi-on, Flour, 4d.; five Eggs, 5d.; I lb. Butter, Gd.).—Half a quartern of flour, a little salt, five eggs (both whites and yolks), half a pouml of butter, a little salFroii, anti a good handful of raisins. Mix well together with warm water into a light dough, place in a buttered tin, and leave it to rise for six hours in winter and two in summer. Bake in a moderately hot oven. DINNER No. 13. Potage de Dindon aux Quenelles {Inyredients—Rest of the Turkey, Is. 2|d.; Arrowi’oot, etc., 4d.; Stock, 6d.).—Cut what is left of the turkey into small pieces, and put it in the stock. Simmer slowly until the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out; pass the soup through a sieve. When cool, skim well. Mix the arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup; add it with the seasoning to the soup j give one boil, and serve. Make some pea-shaped quenelles with a