SEVEN-SHILLING DINNEKS. 155 chopped anchovies, a couple of sai'diiies, potted tongue, a lew capers, the yolk of the eggs, mushrooms, beetroot, truffles, and olives; season with salad oil and a squeeze of lemon, and gi-ate some yolk of egg over each. Cut some crisp, dry toast into squares or rounds; dish the eggs up on them, cutting a bit from the base of each to allow them to stand. DINNER No. 19. Spinach Soup [Ingredients—1| lb. Spinach, 6d. ; Stock, etc., 6d.).—Pick carefully and wash quite clean one pound and a half of spinach. Put in a saucepan with sufficient salt, and when quite done squeeze all the moisture out of it and pass it through a hair sieve. Dilute the spinach pulp with as much well-flavoured stock as will make it the consistency of cream. Make it boiling hot j add a little Avhite pepper; just before serving put a pat of fresh butter into the soup tureen. Hand fried croUtons with it. Shi’imp "SxQ [Ingredients—Shrimps, 6d.; Wine, etc., lid.). —Pick one quart of shrimps very carefully, so that no little bits of shell adhere to them. If very salt season only with two cloves and a little mace. Mince three anchovies, mix \vith the spice, and season the shrimps. Butter the bottom of the dish, lay in the shrimps with butter over them and one glass of white wine, make a light paste, bake, and serve very hot. Veiy good cold. Fried Beef and Bacon [Ingredients—Beef, Is.; Bacon, 4|d.; Potatoes, etc., 2|d.).—Cut some slices from the end of the sirloin. Sprinkle thoroughly with flour, and season each slice to your taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, mushroom ketchup, and Worcester sauce. Fry some slices of bacon; fry the beef in the bacon fat with potatoes cut in rounds, and equally fried in the bacon fat, as they cook them in Devonshire. Pile the potatoes in the centre of a very hot dish, and ari’ange the bacon and beef in alternate slices .against them. Mutton, lamb, ve.al, and pork may all be done in the same w.ay. Eiflfel Tower Salad [Ingredients—Eggs, 2d.; Vegetables, 4d.; other ingredients, 2d.).—One large onion, some p<ai'sley,