18 everybody’s dinner book. to boil -with tbe soup. Cut some crusts of bread into pieces the size and half the length of Fi*ench beans; dry them in the oven ; when ready to serve, throw them into the soup. Take the soup from the fire, and stir uito it the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little milk and strained. A Tempting Dinner Dish {Ingredients—OneEgg,etc., 3d.). —Mince finely any kind of cold meat, game, or poultry you happen to have ; season vHth salt and pepper; add a few breadcrumbs; cover the bottom of one china or plated scallop-shell (if you have it; if not, a saucer will do) with the mince, putting a bit of butter on the top. Break one fre.sh egg on the top of this; set the shell or saucer m the oven when the egg begins to cook ; sprinkle a little powdeivd cracknel over it and a pinch of salt. Serve very hot, with rissoles of potatoesleft from the Pomme de Terre la Florence of the pi’evious day. Potato Rissoles {Ingredients—Lard, Egg, and Parsley, 4d.).—Take some of the cold mashed potato, form it into rissoles, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a pretty yellow in boiling lard ; serve with a little crisply fiied parsley in the centre of the dish. Hatton Cheese Sandwiches {Ingredients—Cheese and Milk, 3d.).—Take some thin slices of brown bread, trim off the cru.st, and butter well. Put two ounces of Gruyfre in a saucepan with a little milk (cre.am if you have it). Stir until melted, then pour it on to the .slices of bread, place a second piece on the top, .stand until cold, and serve piled on a napkin. DINNER No. 7. Madras Fish Curry {Ingredients—Fish, Is. [avei’age of expensive kinds; 4d. the cheape.st] ; other ingredients, 4d.). —Take one jjound of any kind of fish (fi-esh or cooked), remove all the bones, cut into pieces one inch long, place in a deep dish, sprinkle over with one tea.spoonful of .‘••alt, add two tablespoonsful of fish curry paste and a quarter of a pint of cold water, incorporate thoroughly with the fish until perfectly smooth (use a tablespoon for the purpose), allow it to stand, slice two fair-sized